But later on , when tea be over and she and the doctor be leave alone , she do not feel embarrass after all .
Instead , she felt delightfully happy and at home .
Dr. Hamilton put one so at ease .
She tell him all about Tom 's letter and her subsequent revolt .
Dr. Hamilton never once make the mistake of smile .
He listen and approve and sympathize .
`` So I 'm determined I wo n't go back , '' conclude Mary Isabel , `` unless she ask me to -- and Louisa will never do that .
Ella will be glad enough to have me for a while ; she have five child and ca n't get any help . ''
The doctor shrug his shoulder .
He think of Mary Isabel a unofficial drudge to Ella Kemble and her family .
Then he look at the little silvery figure by the window .
`` I think I can suggest a good plan , '' he say gently and tenderly .
`` Suppose you stay here -- a my wife .
I 've always want to ask you that but I fear it be no use because I know Louisa would oppose it and I do not think you would consent if she do not .
I think , '' the doctor lean forward and take Mary Isabel 's fluttering hand in his , `` I think we can be very happy here , dear . ''
Mary Isabel flush crimson and her heart beat wildly .
She know now that she love Dr. Hamilton -- and Tom would have like it -- yes , Tom would .
She remember how Tom hat the thought of his sister be old maid .
`` I -- think -- so -- too , '' she falter shyly .
`` Then , '' say the doctor briskly , `` what be the matter with our be marry right here and now ? ''
`` Married ! ''
`` Yes , of course .
Here we be in a state where no licence be require , a minister in the house , and you all dress in the most beautiful wedding silk imaginable .
You must see , if you just look at it calmly , how much good it will be than go up to Mrs. Kemble 's and thereby publish your difference with Louisa to all the village .
I 'll give you fifteen minute to get use to the idea and then I 'll call Jim down . ''
Mary Isabel put her hand to her face .
`` You -- you 're like a whirlwind , '' she gasp .
`` You take away my breath . ''
`` Think it over , '' say the doctor in a businesslike voice .
Mary Isabel think -- thought very hard for a few moment .
What would Tom have say ?
Was it probable that Tom would have approve of such marrying in haste ?
Mary Isabel come to the decision that he would have prefer it to have family jar bruit abroad .
Moreover , Mary Isabel have never like Ella Kemble very much .
Going to her be only one degree good than go back to Louisa .
At last Mary Isabel take her hand down from her face .
`` Well ? ''
say the doctor persuasively a she do so .
`` I will consent on one condition , '' say Mary Isabel firmly .
`` And that be , that you will let me send word over to Louisa that I be go to be marry and that she may come and see the ceremony if she will .
Louisa have behave very unkindly in this matter , but after all she be my sister -- and she have be good to me in some way -- and I be not go to give her a chance to say that I get marry in this -- this headlong-fashion and never let her know . ''
`` Tommy can take the word over , '' say the doctor .
Mary Isabel go to the doctor 's desk and write a very brief note .
Dear Louisa : I be go to be marry to Dr. Hamilton right away .
I 've see him often at the shore this summer .
I would like you to be present at the ceremony if you choose .
Mary Isabel .
Tommy run across the field with the note .
It have now cease raining and the cloud be break .
Mary Isabel think that a good omen .
She and the doctor watch Tommy from the window .
They saw Louisa come to the door , take the note , and shut the door in Tommy 's face .
Ten minute later she reappear , habit in her mackintosh , with her second-best bonnet on .
`` She 's -- come , '' say Mary Isabel , tremble .
The doctor put his arm protectingly about the little lady .
Mary Isabel toss her head .
`` Oh , I 'm not -- I 'm only excite .
I shall never be afraid of Louisa again . ''
Louisa come grimly over the field , up the verandah step , and into the room without knock .
`` Mary Isabel , '' she say , glare at her sister and ignore the doctor entirely , `` do you mean what you say in that letter ? ''
`` Yes , I do , '' say Mary Isabel firmly .
`` You be go to be marry to that man in this shameless , indecent haste ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` And nothing I can say will have the least effect on you ? ''
`` Not the slight . ''
`` Then , '' say Louisa , more grimly than ever , `` all I ask of you be to come home and be marry from under your father 's roof .
Do have that much respect for your parent ' memory , at least . ''
`` Of course I will , '' cry Mary Isabel impulsively , soften at once .
`` Of course we will -- wo n't we ? ''
she ask , turn prettily to the doctor .
`` Just a you say , '' he answer gallantly .
Louisa snort .
`` I 'll go home and air the parlour , '' she say .
`` It 's lucky I bake that fruitcake Monday .
You can come when you 're ready . ''
She stalk home across the field .
In a few minute the doctor and Mary Isabel follow , and behind them come the young minister , carry his blue book under his arm , and try hard and not altogether successfully to look grave .
The Twins and a Wedding Sometimes Johnny and I wonder what would really have happen if we have never start for Cousin Pamelia 's wedding .
I think that Ted would have come back some time ; but Johnny say he do n't believe he ever would , and Johnny ought to know , because Johnny 's a boy .
Anyhow , he could n't have come back for four year .
However , we do start for the wedding and so thing come out all right , and Ted say we be a pair of twin special Providences .
Johnny and I fully expect to go to Cousin Pamelia 's wedding because we have always be such chum with her .
And she do write to Mother to be sure and bring u , but Father and Mother do n't want to be bother with u .
That be the plain truth of the matter .
They be good parent , a parent go in this world ; I do n't think we could have pick out much good , all thing consider ; but Johnny and I have always know that they never want to take u with them anywhere if they can get out of it .
Uncle Fred say that it be no wonder , since we be a pair of holy terror for get into mischief and keep everybody in hot water .
But I think we be pretty good , consider all the temptation we have to be otherwise .
And , of course , twin have just twice as many a ordinary child .
Anyway , Father and Mother say we would have to stay home with Hannah Jane .
This decision come upon u , a Johnny say , like a bolt from the blue .
At first we could n't believe they be not joke .
Why , we felt that we simply have to go to Pamelia 's wedding .
We have never be to a wedding in our life and we be just ache to see what it would be like .
Besides , we have write a marriage ode to Pamelia and we want to present it to her .
Johnny be to recite it , and he have be practise it out behind the carriage house for a week .
I write the most of it .
I can write poetry as slick a anything .
Johnny help me hunt out the rhyme .
That be the hard thing about write poetry , it be so difficult to find rhyme .
Johnny would find me a rhyme and then I would write a line to suit it , and we get on swimmingly .
When we realize that Father and Mother mean what they say we be just too miserable to live .
When I go to bed that night I simply pull the clothes over my face and howl quietly .
I could n't help it when I think of Pamelia 's white silk dress and tulle veil and flower girl and all the rest .
Johnny say it be the wedding dinner he think about .
Boys be like that , you know .
Father and Mother go away on the early morning train , tell u to be good twin and not bother Hannah Jane .
It would have be more to the point if they have tell Hannah Jane not to bother u .
She worry more about our bring up than Mother do .
I be sit on the front doorstep after they have go when Johnny come around the corner , look so mysterious and determine that I know he have think of something splendid .
`` Sue , '' say Johnny impressively , `` if you have any real sporting blood in you now be the time to show it .
If you 've enough grit we 'll get to Pamelia 's wedding after all . ''
`` How ? ''
I say as soon a I be able to say anything .
`` We 'll just go .
We 'll take the ten o'clock train .
It will get to Marsden by eleven-thirty and that 'll be in plenty of time .
The wedding be n't until twelve . ''
`` But we 've never be on the train alone , and we 've never be to Marsden at all ! ''
I gasp .
`` Oh , of course , if you 're go to hatch up all sort of difficulty ! ''
say Johnny scornfully .
`` I think you have more spunk ! ''
`` Oh , I have , Johnny , '' I say eagerly .
`` I 'm all spunk .
And I 'll do anything you 'll do .
But wo n't Father and Mother be perfectly savage ? ''
`` Of course .
But we 'll be there and they ca n't send u home again , so we 'll see the wedding .
We 'll be punish afterwards all right , but we 'll have have the fun , do n't you see ? ''
I saw .
I go right upstairs to dress , trust everything blindly to Johnny .
I put on my best pale blue shirr silk hat and my blue organdie dress and my high-heeled slipper .
Johnny whistle when he saw me , but he never say a word ; there be time when Johnny be a duck .
We slip away when Hannah Jane be feed the hen .
`` I 'll buy the ticket , '' explain Johnny .
`` I 've get enough money leave out of my last month 's allowance because I do n't waste it all on candy a you do .
You 'll have to pay me back when you get your next month 's jink , remember .
I 'll ask the conductor to tell u when we get to Marsden .
Uncle Fred 's house be n't far from the station , and we 'll be sure to know it by all the cherry tree round it . ''
It sound easy , and it be easy .
We have a jolly ride , and finally the conductor come along and say , `` Here 's your jumping-off place , kiddy . ''
Johnny do n't like be call a kiddy , but I saw the conductor 's eye rest admiringly on my blue silk hat and I forgive him .
Marsden be a pretty little village , and away up the road we saw Uncle Fred 's place , for it be fairly smother in cherry tree all white with lovely bloom .
We start for it as fast a we could go , for we know we have no time to lose .
It be perfectly dreadful try to hurry when you have on high-heeled shoe , but I say nothing and just tore along , for I know Johnny would have no sympathy for me .
We finally reach the house and turn in at the open gate of the lawn .
I think everything look very peaceful and quiet for a wedding to be under way and I have a sickening idea that it be too late and it be all over .
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Johnny , cross a a bear , because he be really afraid of it too .
`` I suppose everybody be inside the house .
No , there be two people over there by that bench .
Let u go and ask them if this be the right place , because if it be n't we have no time to lose . ''
We run across the lawn to the two people .
One of them be a young lady , the very pretty young lady I have ever see .
She be tall and stately , just like the heroine in a book , and she have lovely curly brown hair and big blue eye and the most dazzling complexion .
But she look very cross and disdainful and I know the minute I saw her that she have be quarrel with the young man .
He be stand in front of her and he be as handsome a a prince .
But he look angry too .
Altogether , you never saw a crosser-looking couple .
Just a we come up we hear the young lady say , `` What you ask be ridiculous and impossible , Ted .
I ca n't get marry at two day ' notice and I do n't mean to be . ''
And he say , `` Very well , Una , I be sorry you think so .
You would not think so if you really care anything for me .
It be just as well I have find out you do n't .
I be go away in two day ' time and I shall not return in a hurry , Una . ''
`` I do not care if you never return , '' she say .
That be a fib and well I know it .
But the young man do n't -- men be so stupid at time .
He swing around on one foot without reply and he would have go in another second if he have not nearly fall over Johnny and me .
`` Please , sir , '' say Johnny respectfully , but hurriedly .
`` We 're look for Mr. Frederick Murray 's place .
Is this it ? ''
`` No , '' say the young man a little gruffly .
`` This be Mrs. Franklin 's place .
Frederick Murray live at Marsden , ten mile away . ''
My heart give a jump and then stop beat .
I know it do , although Johnny say it be impossible .
`` Is n't this Marsden ? ''
cry Johnny chokily .
`` No , this be Harrowsdeane , '' say the young man , a little more mildly .
I could n't help it .
I be tire and warm and so disappointed .
I sit right down on the rustic seat behind me and burst into tear , a the story-books say .
`` Oh , do n't cry , dearie , '' say the young lady in a very different voice from the one she have use before .
She sit down beside me and put her arm around me .
`` We 'll take you over to Marsden if you 've get off at the wrong station . ''
`` But it will be too late , '' I sob wildly .
`` The wedding be to be at twelve -- and it 's nearly that now -- and oh , Johnny , I do think you might try to comfort me ! ''
For Johnny have stick his hand in his pocket and turn his back squarely on me .
I think it so unkind of him .
I do n't know then that it be because he be afraid he be go to cry right there before everybody , and I felt desert by all the world .
`` Tell me all about it , '' say the young lady .
So I tell her as well a I could all about the wedding and how wild we be to see it and why we be run away to it .
`` And now it 's all no use , '' I wail .
`` And we 'll be punish when they find out just the same .
I would n't mind be punish if we have n't miss the wedding .
We 've never see a wedding -- and Pamelia be to wear a white silk dress -- and have flower girl -- and oh , my heart be just break .
I shall never get over this -- never -- if I live to be as old a Methuselah . ''
`` What can we do for them ? ''
say the young lady , look up at the young man and smile a little .
She seem to have forget that they have just quarrel .
`` I ca n't bear to see child disappoint .
I remember my own childhood too well . ''
`` I really do n't know what we can do , '' say the young man , smile back , `` unless we get married right here and now for their sake .
If it be a wed they want to see and nothing else will do them , that be the only idea I can suggest . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say the young lady .
But she say it a if she would rather like to be persuade it be n't nonsense .
I look up at her .
`` Oh , if you have any notion of be marry I wish you would right off , '' I say eagerly .
`` Any wedding would do just as well a Pamelia 's .
Please do . ''
The young lady laugh .
`` One might just as well be marry at two hour ' notice a two day ' , '' she say .
`` Una , '' say the young man , bend towards her , `` will you marry me here and now ?
Do n't send me away alone to the other side of the world , Una . ''
`` What on earth would Auntie say ? ''
say Una helplessly .
`` Mrs. Franklin would n't object if you tell her you be go to be marry in a balloon . ''
`` I do n't see how we could arrange -- oh , Ted , it 's absurd . '' ''
'T be n't .
It 's highly sensible .
I 'll go straight to town on my wheel for the licence and ring and I 'll be back in an hour .
You can be ready by that time . ''
For a moment Una hesitate .
Then she say suddenly to me , `` What be your name , dearie ? ''
`` Sue Murray , '' I say , `` and this be my brother , Johnny .
We 're twin .
We 've be twin for ten year . ''
`` Well , Sue , I 'm go to let you decide for me .
This gentleman here , whose name be Theodore Prentice , have to start for Japan in two day and will have to remain there for four year .
He receive his order only yesterday .
He want me to marry him and go with him .
Now , I shall leave it to you to consent or refuse for me .
Shall I marry him or shall I not ? ''
`` Marry him , of course , '' say I promptly .
Johnny say she know I would say that when she leave it to me .
`` Very well , '' say Una calmly .
`` Ted , you may go for the necessary .
Sue , you must be my bridesmaid and Johnny shall be best man .
Come , we 'll go into the house and break the news to Auntie . ''
I never felt so interested and excite in my life .
It seem too good to be true .
Una and I go into the house and there we find the sweet , pink , plump old lady asleep in an easy-chair .
Una waken her and say , `` Auntie , I 'm go to be marry to Mr. Prentice in an hour 's time . ''
That be a most wonderful old lady !
All she say be , `` Dear me ! ''
You 'd have think Una have simply tell her she be go out for a walk .
`` Ted have go for licence and ring and minister , '' Una go on .
`` We shall be marry out under the cherry tree and I 'll wear my new white organdie .
We shall leave for Japan in two day .
These child be Sue and Johnny Murray who have come out to see a wedding -- any wedding .
Ted and I be get marry just to please them . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
say the old lady again .
`` This be rather sudden .
Still -- if you must .
Well , I 'll go and see what there be in the house to eat . ''
She toddle away , smile , and Una turn to me .
She be laugh , but there be tear in her eye .
`` You bless accident ! ''
she say , with a little tremble in her voice .
`` If you have n't happen just then Ted would have go away in a rage and I might never have see him again .
Come now , Sue , and help me dress . ''
Johnny stay in the hall and I go upstairs with Una .
We have such an exciting time get her dress .
She have the sweet white organdie you ever saw , all frill and lace .
I 'm sure Pamelia 's silk could n't have be half so pretty .
But she have no veil , and I felt rather disappointed about that .
Then there be a knock at the door and Mrs. Franklin come in , with her arm full of something all fine and misty like a lacy cobweb .
`` I 've bring you my wed veil , dearie , '' she say .
`` I wear it forty year ago .
And God bless you , dearie .
I ca n't stop a minute .
The boy be kill the chicken and Bridget be get ready to broil them .
Mrs. Jenner 's son across the road have just go down to the bakery for a wedding cake . ''
With that she toddle off again .
She be certainly a wonderful old lady .
I just think of Mother in her place .
Well , Mother would simply have go wild entirely .
When Una be dress she look as beautiful a a dream .
The boy have finish kill the chicken , and Mrs. Franklin have send him up with a basket of rose for u , and we have each the lovely bouquet .
Before long Ted come back with the minister , and the next thing we know we be all stand out on the lawn under the cherry tree and Una and Ted be be marry .
I be too happy to speak .
I have never think of be a bridesmaid in my wild dream and here I be one .
How thankful I be that I have put on my blue organdie and my shirred hat !
I be n't a bit nervous and I do n't believe Una be either .
Mrs. Franklin stand at one side with a smudge of flour on her nose , and she have forget to take off her apron .
Bridget and the boy watch u from the kitchen garden .
It be all like a beautiful , bewilder dream .
But the ceremony be horribly solemn .
I be sure I shall never have the courage to go through with anything of the sort , but Johnny say I will change my mind when I grow up .
When it be all over I nudge Johnny and say `` Ode '' in a fierce whisper .
Johnny immediately step out before Una and recite it .
Pamelia 's name be mention three time and of course he should have put Una in place of it , but he forget .
You ca n't remember everything .
`` You dear funny darling ! ''
say Una , kiss u both .
Johnny do n't like that , but he say he do n't mind it in a bride .
Then we have dinner , and I think Mrs. Franklin more wonderful than ever .
I could n't have believe any woman could have get up such a spread at two hour ' notice .
Of course , some credit must be give to Bridget and the boy .
Johnny and I be hungry enough by this time and we enjoy that repast to the full .
We go home on the evening train .
Ted and Una come to the station with u , and Una say she would write me when she get to Japan , and Ted say he would be oblige to u forever and ever .
When we get home we find Hannah Jane and Father and Mother -- who have arrive there an hour before u -- simply distract .
They be so glad to see u safe and sound that they do n't even scold u , and when Father hear our story he laugh until the tear come into his eye .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories , _1909_to_1922.txt.out
A Golden Wedding The land drop abruptly down from the gate , and a thick , shrubby growth of young apple orchard almost hide the little weather-grey house from the road .
This be why the young man who open the sag gate could not see that it be board up , and do not cease his cheerful whistling until he have press through the crowding tree and find himself almost on the sunken stone doorstep over which in olden day honeysuckle have be wont to arch .
Now only a few straggling , uncared-for vine clung forlornly to the shingle , and the window be , a have be say , all board up .
The whistle die on the young man 's lip and an expression of blank astonishment and dismay settle down on his face -- a good , kindly , honest face it be , although perhaps it do not betoken any pronounced mental gift on the part of it owner .
`` What can have happen ? ''
he say to himself .
`` Uncle Tom and Aunt Sally ca n't be dead -- I 'd have see their death in the paper if they be .
And I 'd a-thought if they 'd move away it 'd be print too .
They ca n't have be go long -- that flower-bed must have be make up last spring .
Well , this be a kind of setback for a fellow .
Here I 've be tramp all the way from the station , a-thinking how good it would be to see Aunt Sally 's sweet old face again , and hear Uncle Tom 's laugh , and all I find be a boarded-up house go to seed .
S'pose I might as well toddle over to Stetsons ' and inquire if they have n't disappear , too . ''
He go through the old fir back of the lot and across the field to a rather shabby house beyond .
A cheery-faced woman answer his knock and look at him in a puzzled fashion .
`` Have you forget me , Mrs. Stetson ?
Do n't you remember Lovell Stevens and how you use to give him plum tart when he 'd bring your turkey home ? ''
Mrs. Stetson catch both his hand in a hearty clasp .
`` I guess I have n't forget ! ''
she declare .
`` Well , well , and you 're Lovell !
I think I ought to know your face , though you 've change a lot .
Fifteen year have make a big difference in you .
Come right in .
Pa , this be Lovell -- you mind Lovell , the boy Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom have for year ? ''
`` Reckon I do , '' drawl Jonah Stetson with a friendly grin .
`` Ai n't likely to forget some of the caper you use to be cut up .
You 've fill out considerable .
Where have you be for the last ten year ?
Aunt Sally fret a lot over you , think you be dead or go to the bad . ''
Lovell 's face cloud .
`` I know I ought to have write , '' he say repentantly , `` but you know I 'm a terrible poor scholar , and I 'd do most anything than try to write a letter .
But where 's Uncle Tom and Aunt Sally go ?
Surely they ai n't dead ? ''
`` No , '' say Jonah Stetson slowly , `` no -- but I guess they 'd rather be .
They 're in the poorhouse . ''
`` The poorhouse !
Aunt Sally in the poorhouse ! ''
exclaim Lovell .
`` Yes , and it 's a burning shame , '' declare Mrs. Stetson .
`` Aunt Sally 's just break her heart from the disgrace of it .
But it do n't seem a if it could be help .
Uncle Tom get so cripple with rheumatism he could n't work and Aunt Sally be too frail to do anything .
They have n't any relation and there be a mortgage on the house . ''
`` There be n't any when I go away . ''
`` No ; they have to borrow money six year ago when Uncle Tom have his first spell of rheumatic fever .
This spring it be clear that there be nothing for them but the poorhouse .
They go three month ago and terrible hard they take it , especially Aunt Sally , I felt awful about it myself .
Jonah and I would have take them if we could , but we just could n't -- we 've nothing but Jonah 's wage and we have eight child and not a bit of spare room .
I go over to see Aunt Sally as often a I can and take her some little thing , but I dunno 's she would n't rather not see anybody than see them in the poorhouse . ''
Lovell weigh his hat in his hand and frown over it reflectively .
`` Who own the house now ? ''
`` Peter Townley .
He hold the mortgage .
And all the old furniture be sell too , and that most kill Aunt Sally .
But do you know what she 's fret over most of all ?
She and Uncle Tom will have be marry fifty year in a fortnight 's time and Aunt Sally think it 's awful to have to spend their golden wedding anniversary in the poorhouse .
She talk about it all the time .
You 're not go , Lovell '' -- for Lovell have rise -- `` you must stop with u , since your old home be close up .
We 'll scare you up a shakedown to sleep on and you 're welcome a welcome .
I have n't forget the time you catch Mary Ellen just a she be tumble into the well . ''
`` Thank you , I 'll stay to tea , '' say Lovell , sit down again , `` but I guess I 'll make my headquarters up at the station hotel as long a I stay round here .
It 's kind of more central . ''
`` Got on pretty well out west , hey ? ''
query Jonah .
`` Pretty well for a fellow who have nothing but his two hand to depend on when he go out , '' say Lovell cautiously .
`` I 've only be a labour man , of course , but I 've save up enough to start a little store when I go back .
That 's why I come east for a trip now -- before I 'd be tie down to business .
I be hanker to see Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom once more .
I 'll never forget how kind and good they be to me .
There I be , when Dad die , a little sinner of eleven , just head for destruction .
They give me a home and all the schooling I ever have and all the love I ever get .
It be Aunt Sally 's teaching make a much a man of me a I be .
I never forget 'em and I 've try to live up to 'em . ''
After tea Lovell say he think he 'd stroll up the road and pay Peter Townley a call .
Jonah Stetson and his wife look at each other when he have go .
`` Got something in his eye , '' nod Jonah .
`` Him and Peter be n't never much of friend . ''
`` Maybe Aunt Sally 's bread be come back to her after all , '' say his wife .
`` People use to be hard on Lovell .
But I always like him and I 'm real glad he 's turn out so well . ''
Lovell come back to the Stetsons ' the next evening .
In the interval he have see Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom .
The meeting have be both glad and sad .
Lovell have also see other people .
`` I 've buy Uncle Tom 's old house from Peter Townley , '' he say quietly , `` and I want you folks to help me out with my plan .
Uncle Tom and Aunt Sally ai n't go to spend their golden wedding in the poorhouse -- no , sir .
They 'll spend it in their own home with their old friend about them .
But they 're not to know anything about it till the very night .
Do you s ` pose any of the old furniture could be get back ? ''
`` I believe every stick of it could , '' say Mrs. Stetson excitedly .
`` Most of it be buy by folk live handy and I do n't believe one of them would refuse to sell it back .
Uncle Tom 's old chair be here to begin with -- Aunt Sally give me that herself .
She say she could n't bear to have it sell .
Mrs. Isaac Appleby at the station buy the set of pink-sprigged china and James Parker buy the grandfather 's clock and the whatnot be at the Stanton Grays ' . ''
For the next fortnight Lovell and Mrs. Stetson do so much travelling round together that Jonah say genially he might as well be a bachelor as far a meal and button go .
They visit every house where a bit of Aunt Sally 's belonging could be find .
Very successful they be too , and at the end of their jaunt the interior of the little house behind the apple tree look very much a it have look when Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom live there .
Meanwhile , Mrs. Stetson have be revolve a design in her mind , and one afternoon she do some canvassing on her own account .
The next time she saw Lovell she say : `` We ai n't go to let you do it all .
The woman folks around here be go to furnish the refreshment for the golden wedding and the girl be go to decorate the house with golden rod . ''
The evening of the wedding anniversary come .
Everybody in Blair be in the plot , include the matron of the poorhouse .
That night Aunt Sally watch the sunset over the hill through bitter tear .
`` I never think I 'd be celebrate my golden wedding in the poorhouse , '' she sob .
Uncle Tom put his twisted hand on her shake old shoulder , but before he could utter any word of comfort Lovell Stevens stand before them .
`` Just get your bonnet on , Aunt Sally , '' he cry jovially , `` and both of you come along with me .
I 've get a buggy here for you ... and you might as well say goodbye to this place , for you 're not come back to it any more . ''
`` Lovell , oh , what do you mean ? ''
say Aunt Sally tremulously .
`` I 'll explain what I mean a we drive along .
Hurry up -- the folk be wait . ''
When they reach the little old house , it be all aglow with light .
Aunt Sally give a cry a she enter it .
All her old household good be back in their place .
There be some new one too , for Lovell have supply all that be lack .
The house be full of their old friend and neighbour .
Mrs. Stetson welcome them home again .
`` Oh , Tom , '' whisper Aunt Sally , tear of happiness stream down her old face , `` oh , Tom , be n't God good ? ''
They have a right royal celebration , and a supper such a the Blair housewife could produce .
There be speech and song and tale .
Lovell keep himself in the background and help Mrs. Stetson cut cake in the pantry all the evening .
But when the guest have go , he go to Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom , who be sit by the fire .
`` Here 's a little golden wedding present for you , '' he say awkwardly , put a purse into Aunt Sally 's hand .
`` I reckon there 's enough there to keep you from ever have to go to the poorhouse again and if not , there 'll be more where that come from when it 's do . ''
There be twenty-five bright twenty-dollar gold piece in the purse .
`` We ca n't take it , Lovell , '' protest Aunt Sally .
`` You ca n't afford it . ''
`` Do n't you worry about that , '' laugh Lovell .
`` Out west men do n't think much of a little wad like that .
I owe you far more than can be pay in cash , Aunt Sally .
You must take it -- I want to know there 's a little home here for me and two kind heart in it , no matter where I roam . ''
`` God bless you , Lovell , '' say Uncle Tom huskily .
`` You do n't know what you 've do for Sally and me . ''
That night , when Lovell go to the little bedroom off the parlour -- for Aunt Sally , rejoice in the fact that she be again mistress of a spare room , would not hear of his go to the station hotel -- he gaze at his reflection in the gilt-framed mirror soberly .
`` You 've just get enough leave to pay your passage back west , old fellow , '' he say , `` and then it 's begin all over again just where you begin before .
But Aunt Sally 's face be worth it all -- yes , sir .
And you 've get your two hand still and an old couple 's prayer and blessing .
Not such a bad capital , Lovell , not such a bad capital . ''
A Redeeming Sacrifice The dance at Byron Lyall 's be in full swing .
Toff Leclerc , the best fiddler in three county , be enthrone on the kitchen table and from the glossy brown violin , which his grandfather bring from Grand Pré , be conjure music which make even stiff old Aunt Phemy want to show her step .
Around the kitchen sit a row of young men and woman , and the open sitting-room doorway be crowd with the face of non-dancing guest who want to watch the set .
An eight-hand reel have just be dance and the girl , giddy from the much swinging of the final figure , have be lead back to their seat .
Mattie Lyall come out with a dipper of water and sprinkle the floor , from which a fine dust be rise .
Toff 's violin purr under his hand a he wait for the next set to form .
The dancer be slow about it .
There be not the rush for the floor that there have be earlier in the evening , for the supper table be now spread in the dining-room and most of the guest be hungry .
`` Fill up dere , boy , '' shout the fiddler impatiently .
`` Bring out your gal for de nex ' set . ''
After a moment Paul King lead out Joan Shelley from the shadowy corner where they have be sit .
They have already dance several set together ; Joan have not dance with anybody else that even .
As they stand together under the light from the lamp on the shelf above them , many curious and disapprove eye watch them .
Connor Mitchell , who have be stand in the open outer doorway with the moonlight behind him , turn abruptly on his heel and go out .
Paul King lean his head against the wall and watch the watcher with a smiling , defiant face a they wait for the set to form .
He be a handsome fellow , with the easy , win way that woman love .
His hair curl in bronze mass about his head ; his dark eye be long and drowsy and laughing ; there be a swarthy bloom on his round cheek ; and his lip be a red and beguile a a girl 's .
A bad egg be Paul King , with a bad past and a bad future .
He be shiftless and drunken ; ugly tale be tell of him .
Not a man in Lyall 's house that night but grudge him the privilege of stand up with Joan Shelley .
Joan be a slight , blossom-like girl in white , look much like the pale , sweet-scented house rise she wear in her dark hair .
Her face be colourless and young , very pure and softly curve .
She have wonderfully sweet , dark blue eye , generally drop down , with notably long black lash .
There be many showy girl in the group around her , but none half so lovely .
She make all the rosy-cheeked beauty seem coarse and over-blown .
She leave in Paul 's clasp the hand by which he have lead her out on the floor .
Now and then he shift his gaze from the face before him to hers .
When he do , she always look up and they exchange glance a if they have be utterly alone .
Three other couple gradually take the floor and the reel begin .
Joan drift through the figure with the grace of a wind-blown leaf .
Paul dance with rollick abandon , seldom take his eye from Joan 's face .
When the last mad whirl be over , Joan 's brother come up and tell her in an angry tone to go into the next room and dance no more , since she would dance with only one man .
Joan look at Paul .
That look mean that she would do a he , and none other , tell her .
Paul nod easily -- he do not want any fuss just then -- and the girl go obediently into the room .
As she turn from him , Paul coolly reach out his hand and take the rise from her hair ; then , with a triumphant glance around the room , he go out .
The autumn night be very clear and chill , with a faint , moan wind blow up from the northwest over the sea that lay shimmer before the door .
Out beyond the cove the boat be nod and curtsy on the swell , and over the shore field the great red star of the lighthouse flare out against the silvery sky .
Paul , with a whistle , saunter down the sandy lane , thinking of Joan .
How mightily he love her -- he , Paul King , who have make a mock of so many woman and have never love before !
Ah , and she love him .
She have never say so in word , but eye and tone have say it -- she , Joan Shelley , the pick and pride of the Harbour girl , whom so many men have woo , win their trouble for their pain .
He have win her ; she be his and his only , for the asking .
His heart be seethe with pride and triumph and passion a he stride down to the shore and flung himself on the cold sand in the black shadow of Michael Brown 's beached boat .
Byron Lyall , a grizzle , elderly man , half farmer , half fisherman , and Maxwell Holmes , the Prospect schoolteacher , come up to the boat presently .
Paul lay softly and listen to what they be say .
He be not troubled by any sense of dishonour .
Honour be something Paul King could not lose since it be something he have never possess .
They be talk of him and Joan .
`` What a shame that a girl like Joan Shelley should throw herself away on a man like that , '' Holmes say .
Byron Lyall remove the pipe he be smoke and spat reflectively at his shadow .
`` Darned shame , '' he agree .
`` That girl 's life will be ruin if she marry him , plum ' ruin , and marry him she will .
He 's bewitch her -- darned if I can understand it .
A dozen well men have want her -- Connor Mitchell for one .
And he 's a honest , steady fellow with a good home to offer her .
If King have leave her alone , she 'd have take Connor .
She use to like him well enough .
But that 's all over .
She 's infatuate with King , the worthless scamp .
She 'll marry him and be sorry for it to her last day .
He 's bad clear through and always will be .
Why , look you , Teacher , most men pull up a bit when they 're court a girl , no matter how wild they 've be and will be again .
Paul have n't .
It have n't make any difference .
He be dead drunk night afore last at the Harbour head , and he have n't do a stroke of work for a month .
And yet Joan Shelley 'll take him . ''
`` What be her people think of to let her go with him ? ''
ask Holmes .
`` She have n't any but her brother .
He 's against Paul , of course , but it wo n't matter .
The girl 's fancy 's caught and she 'll go her own gait to ruin .
Ruin , I tell ye .
If she marry that handsome ne'er - do-well , she 'll be a wretched woman all her day and none to pity her . ''
The two move away then , and Paul lay motionless , face downward on the sand , his lip press against Joan 's sweet , crush rise .
He felt no anger over Byron Lyall 's unsparing condemnation .
He know it be true , every word of it .
He be a worthless scamp and always would be .
He know that perfectly well .
It be in his blood .
None of his race have ever be respectable and he be bad than them all .
He have no intention of try to reform because he could not and because he do not even want to .
He be not fit to touch Joan 's hand .
Yet he have mean to marry her !
But to spoil her life !
Would it do that ?
Yes , it surely would .
And if he be out of the way , take his baleful charm out of her life , Connor Mitchell might and doubtless would win her yet and give her all he could not .
The man suddenly felt his eye wet with tear .
He have never shed a tear in his daredevil life before , but they come hot and sting now .
Something he have never know or think of before enter into his passion and purify it .
He love Joan .
Did he love her well enough to stand aside and let another take the sweetness and grace that be now his own ?
Did he love her well enough to save her from the poverty-stricken , shamed life she must lead with him ?
Did he love her good than himself ?
`` I ai n't fit to think of her , '' he groan .
`` I never do a decent thing in my life , a they say .
But how can I give her up -- God , how can I ? ''
He lay still a long time after that , until the moonlight crept around the boat and drive away the shadow .
Then he get up and go slowly down to the water 's edge with Joan 's rise , all wet with his unaccustomed tear , in his hand .
Slowly and reverently he pluck off the petal and scatter them on the ripple , where they drift lightly off like fairy shallops on moonshine .
When the last one have flutter from his finger , he go back to the house and hunt up Captain Alec Matheson , who be smoke his pipe in a corner of the verandah and watch the young folk dance through the open door .
The two men talk together for some time .
When the dance break up and the guest straggle homeward , Paul seek Joan .
Rob Shelley have his own girl to see home and relinquish the guardianship of his sister with a scowl .
Paul stride out of the kitchen and down the step at the side of Joan , smile with his usual daredeviltry .
He whistle noisily all the way up the lane .
`` Great little dance , '' he say .
`` My last in Prospect for a spell , I guess . ''
`` Why ? ''
ask Joan wonderingly .
`` Oh , I 'm go to take a run down to South America in Matheson 's schooner .
Lord know when I 'll come back .
This old place have get too deadly dull to suit me .
I 'm go to look for something livelier . ''
Joan 's lip turn ashen under the fringe of her white fascinator .
She tremble violently and put one of her small brown hand up to her throat .
`` You -- you be not come back ? ''
she say faintly .
`` Not likely .
I 'm pretty well tire of Prospect and I have n't get anything to hold me here .
Things 'll be lively down south . ''
Joan say nothing more .
They walk along the spruce-fringed road where the moonbeam laugh down through the thick , softly sway bough .
Paul whistle one rollicking tune after another .
The girl bit her lip and clench her hand .
He care nothing for her -- he have be make a mock of her a of others .
Hurt pride and wound love fought each other in her soul .
Pride conquer .
She would not let him , or anyone , see that she care .
She would not care !
At her gate Paul hold out his hand .
`` Well , good-bye , Joan .
I 'm sail tomorrow so I wo n't see you again -- not for year likely .
You will be some sober old marry woman when I come back to Prospect , if I ever do . ''
`` Good-bye , '' say Joan steadily .
She give him her cold hand and look calmly into his face without quail .
She have love him with all her heart , but now a fatal scorn of him be already mingle with her love .
He be what they say he be , a scamp without principle or honour .
Paul whistle himself out of the Shelley lane and over the hill .
Then he fling himself down under the spruce , crush his face into the spicy frost fern , and have his black hour alone .
But when Captain Alec 's schooner sail out of the harbour the next day , Paul King be on board of her , the wild and most hilarious of a wild and hilarious crew .
Prospect people nod their satisfaction .
`` Good riddance , '' they say .
`` Paul King be black to the core .
He never do a decent thing in his life . ''
A Soul That Was Not at Home There be a very fine sunset on the night Paul and Miss Trevor first meet , and she have linger on the headland beyond Noel 's Cove to delight in it .
The west be splendid in daffodil and rise ; away to the north there be a mackerel sky of little fiery golden cloud ; and across the water straight from Miss Trevor 's foot run a sparkling path of light to the sun , whose rim have just touch the throb edge of the purple sea .
Off to the left be softly swell violet hill and beyond the sandshore , where little wave be crisp and silver , there be a harbour where score of slender mast be nod against the gracious horizon .
Miss Trevor sigh with sheer happiness in all the wonderful , fleeting , elusive loveliness of sky and sea .
Then she turn to look back at Noel 's Cove , dim and shadowy in the gloom of the tall headland , and she saw Paul .
It do not occur to her that he could be a shore boy -- she know the shore type too well .
She think his come mysterious , for she be sure he have not come along the sand , and the tide be too high for him to have come past the other headland .
Yet there he be , sit on a red sandstone boulder , with his bare , bronze , shapely little leg cross in front of him and his hand clasp around his knee .
He be not look at Miss Trevor but at the sunset -- or , rather , it seem a if he be look through the sunset to still grander and more radiant splendour beyond , of which the thing see be only the pale reflection , not worthy of attention from those who have the gift of further sight .
Miss Trevor look him over carefully with eye that have see a good many people in many part of the world for more year than she find it altogether pleasant to acknowledge , and she conclude that he be quite the handsome lad she have ever see .
He have a lithe , supple body , with slop shoulder and a brown , satin throat .
His hair be thick and wavy , of a fine reddish chestnut ; his brow be very straight and much darker than his hair ; and his eye be large and grey and meditative .
The modelling of chin and jaw be perfect and his mouth be delicious , be full without pout , the crimson lip just softly touch , and curve into finely finish little corner that narrowly escape be dimple .
His attire be a blue cotton shirt and a pair of scanty corduroy knickerbockers , but he wear it with such an unconscious air of purple and fine linen that Miss Trevor be trick into believe him much well dress than he really be .
Presently he smile dreamily , and the smile complete her subjugation .
It be not merely an affair of lip and eye , a be most smile ; it seem an illumination of his whole body , a if some lamp have suddenly burst into flame inside of him , irradiate him from his chestnut crown to the tip of his unspoiled toe .
Best of all , it be involuntary , bear of no external effort or motive , but simply the outflashing of some wild , delicious think that be a untrammelled and freakish a the wind of the sea .
Miss Trevor make up her mind that she must find out all about him , and she step out from the shadow of the rock into the vivid , eerie light that be glow all along the shore .
The boy turn his head and look at her , first with surprise , then with inquiry , then with admiration .
Miss Trevor , in a white dress with a lace scarf on her dark , stately head , be well worth admire .
She smile at him and Paul smile back .
It be not quite up to his first smile , have more of the effect of be put on from the outside , but at least it convey the subtly flatter impression that it have be put on solely for her , and they be as good friend from that moment a if they have know each other for a hundred year .
Miss Trevor have enough discrimination to realize this and know that she need not waste time in become acquaint .
`` I want to know your name and where you live and what you be look at beyond the sunset , '' she say .
`` My name be Paul Hubert .
I live over there .
And I ca n't tell just what I saw in the sunset , but when I go home I 'm go to write it all in my foolscap book . ''
In her surprise over the second clause of his answer , Miss Trevor forget , at first , to appreciate the last .
`` Over there , '' accord to his gesture , be up at the head of Noel 's Cove , where there be a little grey house perch on the rock and look like a large seashell cast up by the tide .
The house have a stovepipe come out of it roof in lieu of a chimney , and two of it window pane be replace by shingle .
Could this boy , who look a young prince should -- and seldom do -- live there ?
Then he be a shore boy after all .
`` Who live there with you ? ''
she ask .
`` You see '' -- plaintively -- `` I must ask question about you .
I know we like each other , and that be all that really matter .
But there be some tiresome item which it would be convenient to know .
For example , have you a father -- a mother ?
Are there any more of you ?
How long have you be yourself ? ''
Paul do not reply immediately .
He clasp his hand behind him and look at her affectionately .
`` I like the way you talk , '' he say .
`` I never know anybody do talk like that except folk in book and my rock people . ''
`` Your rock people ? ''
`` I 'm eleven year old .
I have n't any father or mother , they 're dead .
I live over there with Stephen Kane .
Stephen be splendid .
He play the violin and take me fish in his boat .
When I get big he 's go share with me .
I love him , and I love my rock people too . ''
`` What do you mean by your rock people ? ''
ask Miss Trevor , enjoy herself hugely .
This be the only child she have ever meet who talk a she want child to talk and who understand her remark without have to have them translate .
`` Nora be one of them , '' say Paul , `` the best one of them .
I love her good than all the others because she come first .
She live around that point and she have black eye and black hair and she know all about the mermaid and water kelpy .
You ought to hear the story she can tell .
Then there be the Twin Sailors .
They do n't live anywhere -- they sail all the time , but they often come ashore to talk to me .
They be a pair of jolly tar and they have see everything in the world -- and more than what 's in the world , if you only know it .
Do you know what happen to the Youngest Twin Sailor once ?
He be sail and he sail right into a moonglade .
A moonglade be the track the full moon make on the water when it be rise from the sea , you know .
Well , the Youngest Twin Sailor sail along the moonglade till he come right up to the moon , and there be a little golden door in the moon and he open it and sail right through .
He have some wonderful adventure inside the moon -- I 've get them all write down in my foolscap book .
Then there be the Golden Lady of the Cave .
One day I find a big cave down the shore and I go in and in and in -- and after a while I find the Golden Lady .
She have golden hair right down to her foot , and her dress be all glittering and glisten like gold that be alive .
And she have a golden harp and she play all day long on it -- you might hear the music if you 'd listen carefully , but prob ` bly you 'd think it be only the wind among the rock .
I 've never tell Nora about the Golden Lady , because I think it would hurt her feeling .
It even hurt her feeling when I talk too long with the Twin Sailors .
And I hate to hurt Nora 's feeling , because I do love her best of all my rock people . ''
`` Paul !
How much of this be true ? ''
gasp Miss Trevor .
`` Why , none of it ! ''
say Paul , open his eye widely and reproachfully .
`` I think you would know that .
If I 'd s ` pose you would n't I 'd have warn you there be n't any of it true .
I think you be one of the kind that would know . ''
`` I be .
Oh , I be ! ''
say Miss Trevor eagerly .
`` I really would have know if I have stop to think .
Well , it 's get late now .
I must go back , although I do n't want to .
But I 'm come to see you again .
Will you be here tomorrow afternoon ? ''
Paul nod .
`` Yes .
I promise to meet the Youngest Twin Sailor down at the striped rock tomorrow afternoon , but the day after will do just as well .
That be the beauty of the rock people , you know .
You can always depend on them to be there just when you want them .
The Youngest Twin Sailor wo n't mind -- he 's very good-tempered .
If it be the Oldest Twin I dare say he 'd be cross .
I have my suspicion about that Oldest Twin sometimes .
I b ` lieve he 'd be a pirate if he dare .
You do n't know how fierce he can look at time .
There 's really something very mysterious about him . ''
On her way back to the hotel Miss Trevor remember the foolscap book .
`` I must get him to show it to me , '' she muse , smile .
`` Why , the boy be a born genius -- and to think he should be a shore boy !
I ca n't understand it .
And here I be love him already .
Well , a woman have to love something -- and you do n't have to know people for year before you can love them . ''
Paul be wait on the Noel 's Cove rock for Miss Trevor the next afternoon .
He be not alone ; a tall man , with a lined , strong-featured face and a grey beard , be with him .
The man be clothe in a rough suit and look what he be , a ` longshore fisherman .
But he have deep-set , kindly eye , and Miss Trevor like his face .
He move off to one side when she come and stand there for a little , apparently gaze out to sea , while Paul and Miss Trevor talk .
Then he walk away up the cove and disappear in his little grey house .
`` Stephen come down to see if you be a suitable person for me to talk to , '' say Paul gravely .
`` I hope he think I be , '' say Miss Trevor , amuse .
`` Oh , he do !
He would n't have go away and leave u alone if he do n't .
Stephen be very particular who he let me ` sociate with .
Why , even the rock people now -- I have to promise I 'd never let the Twin Sailors swear before he 'd allow me to be friend with them .
Sometimes I know by the look of the Oldest Twin that he 's just die to swear , but I never let him , because I promise Stephen .
I 'd do anything for Stephen .
He 's awful good to me .
Stephen 's bring me up , you know , and he 's bound to do it well .
We 're just perfectly happy here , only I wish I 'd more book to read .
We go fishing , and when we come home at night I help Stephen clean the fish and then we sit outside the door and he play the violin for me .
We sit there for hour sometimes .
We never talk much -- Stephen be n't much of a hand for talk -- but we just sit and think .
There 's not many men like Stephen , I can tell you . ''
Miss Trevor do not get a glimpse of the foolscap book that day , nor for many day after .
Paul blush all over his beautiful face whenever she mention it .
`` Oh , I could n't show you that , '' he say uncomfortably .
`` Why , I 've never even show it to Stephen -- or Nora .
Let me tell you something else instead , something that happen to me once long ago .
You 'll find it more interesting than the foolscap book , only you must remember it be n't true !
You wo n't forget that , will you ? ''
`` I 'll try to remember , '' Miss Trevor agree .
`` Well , I be sit here one evening just like I be last night , and the sun be set .
And an enchanted boat come sail over the sea and I get into her .
The boat be all pearly like the inside of the mussel shell , and her sail be like moonshine .
Well , I sail right across to the sunset .
Think of that -- I 've be in the sunset !
And what do you suppose it be ?
The sunset be a land all flower , like a great garden , and the cloud be bed of flower .
We sail into a great big harbour , a thousand time big than the harbour over there at your hotel , and I step out of the boat on a ` normous meadow all rose .
I stay there for ever so long .
It seem almost a year , but the Youngest Twin Sailor say I be only away a few hour or so .
You see , in Sunset Land the time be ever so much long than it be here .
But I be glad to come back too .
I 'm always glad to come back to the cove and Stephen .
Now , you know this never really happen . ''
Miss Trevor would not give up the foolscap book so easily , but for a long time Paul refuse to show it to her .
She come to the cove every day , and every day Paul seem more delightful to her .
He be so quaint , so clever , so spontaneous .
Yet there be nothing premature or unnatural about him .
He be wholly boy , fond of fun and frolic , not too good for little spurt of quick temper now and again , though , a he be careful to explain to Miss Trevor , he never show them to a lady .
`` I get real mad with the Twin Sailors sometimes , and even with Stephen , for all he 's so good to me .
But I could n't be mad with you or Nora or the Golden Lady .
It would never do . ''
Every day he have some new story to tell of a wonderful adventure on rock or sea , always take the precaution of assure her beforehand that it be n't true .
The boy 's fancy be like a prism , separate every ray that fell upon it into rainbow .
He be passionately fond of the shore and water .
The only world for him beyond Noel 's Cove be the world of his imagination .
He have no companion except Stephen and the `` rock people . ''
`` And now you , '' he tell Miss Trevor .
`` I love you too , but I know you 'll be go away before long , so I do n't let myself love you as much -- quite -- a Stephen and the rock people . ''
`` But you could , could n't you ? ''
plead Miss Trevor .
`` If you and I be to go on be together every day , you could love me just as well a you love them , could n't you ? ''
Paul consider in a charming way he have .
`` Of course I could love you good than the Twin Sailors and the Golden Lady , '' he announce finally .
`` And I think perhaps I could love you as much a I love Stephen .
But not as much a Nora -- oh , no , I would n't love you quite as much a Nora .
She be first , you see ; she 's always be there .
I feel sure I could n't ever love anybody as much a Nora . ''
One day when Stephen be out to the mackerel ground , Paul take Miss Trevor into the little grey house and show her his treasure .
They climb the ladder in one corner to the loft where Paul slept .
The window of it , small and square-paned , look seaward , and the moan of the sea and the pipe of the wind sound there night and day .
Paul have many rare shell and seaweed , curious flotsam and jetsam of shore storm , and he have a small shelf full of book .
`` They 're splendid , '' he say enthusiastically .
`` Stephen bring me them all .
Every time Stephen go to town to ship his mackerel he bring me home a new book . ''
`` Were you ever in town yourself ? ''
ask Miss Trevor .
`` Oh , yes , twice .
Stephen take me .
It be a wonderful place .
I tell you , when I next meet the Twin Sailors it be me do the talk then .
I have to tell them about all I saw and all that have happen .
And Nora be ever so interested too .
The Golden Lady be n't , though -- she do n't hardly listen .
Golden people be like that . ''
`` Would you like , '' say Miss Trevor , watch him closely , `` to live always in a town and have all the book you want and play with real girl and boy -- and visit those strange land your twin sailor tell you of ? ''
Paul look startle .
`` I -- do n't -- know , '' he say doubtfully .
`` I do n't think I 'd like it very well if Stephen and Nora be n't there too . ''
But the new thought remain in his mind .
It come back to him at interval , seem less new and startling every time .
`` And why not ? ''
Miss Trevor ask herself .
`` The boy should have a chance .
I shall never have a son of my own -- he shall be to me in the place of one . ''
The day come when Paul at last show her the foolscap book .
He bring it to her a she sit on the rock of the headland .
`` I 'm go to run around and talk to Nora while you read it , '' he say .
`` I 'm afraid I 've be neglect her lately -- and I think she feel it . ''
Miss Trevor take the foolscap book .
It be make of several sheet of paper sew together and encase in an oilcloth cover .
It be nearly fill with writing in a round childish hand and it be very neat , although the orthography be rather wild and the punctuation capricious .
Miss Trevor read it through in no very long time .
It be a curious medley of quaint thought and fancy .
Conversations with the Twin Sailors fill many of the page ; account of Paul 's `` adventure '' occupy others .
Sometimes it seem impossible that a child of eleven should have write them , then would come an expression so boyish and naive that Miss Trevor laugh delightedly over it .
When she finish the book and close it she find Stephen Kane at her elbow .
He remove his pipe and nod at the foolscap book .
`` What do you think of it ? ''
he say .
`` I think it be wonderful .
Paul be a very clever child . ''
`` I 've often think so , '' say Stephen laconically .
He thrust his hand into his pocket and gaze moodily out to sea .
Miss Trevor have never before have an opportunity to talk to him in Paul 's absence and she determine to make the most of it .
`` I want to know something about Paul , '' she say , `` all about him .
Is he any relation to you ? ''
`` No .
I expect to marry his mother once , though , '' say Stephen unemotionally .
His hand in his pocket be clutch his pipe fiercely , but Miss Trevor could not know that .
`` She be a shore girl and very pretty .
Well , she fell in love with a young fellow that come teach up t ' the harbour school and he with her .
They get marry and she go away with him .
He be a good enough sort of chap .
I know that now , though once I be n't dispose to think much good of him .
But 't be a mistake all the same ; Rachel could n't live away from the shore .
She fret and pin and break her heart for it away there in his world .
Finally her husband die and she come back -- but it be too late for her .
She only live a month -- and there be Paul , a baby of two .
I take him .
There be nobody else .
Rachel have no relative nor her husband either .
I 've do what I could for him -- not that it 's be much , perhaps . ''
`` I be sure you have do a great deal for him , '' say Miss Trevor rather patronizingly .
`` But I think he should have more than you can give him now .
He should be send to school . ''
Stephen nod .
`` Maybe .
He never go to school .
The harbour school be too far away .
I teach him to read and write and buy him all the book I could afford .
But I ca n't do any more for him . ''
`` But I can , '' say Miss Trevor , `` and I want to .
Will you give Paul to me , Mr. Kane ?
I love him dearly and he shall have every advantage .
I 'm rich -- I can do a great deal for him . ''
Stephen continue to gaze out to sea with an expressionless face .
Finally he say : `` I 've be expect to hear you say something of the sort .
I do n't know .
If you take Paul away , he 'd grow to be a cleverer man and a rich man maybe , but would he be any good -- or happy ?
He 's his mother 's son -- he love the sea and it way .
There 's nothing of his father in him except his hankering after book .
But I wo n't choose for him -- he can go if he like -- he can go if he like . ''
In the end Paul `` like , '' since Stephen refuse to influence him by so much a a word .
Paul think Stephen do n't seem to care much whether he go or stay , and he be dazzle by Miss Trevor 's charm and the lure of book and knowledge she hold out to him .
`` I 'll go , I guess , '' he say , with a long sigh .
Miss Trevor clasp him close to her and kiss him maternally .
Paul kiss her cheek shyly in return .
He think it very wonderful that he be to live with her always .
He felt happy and excited -- so happy and excite that the parting when it come slip over him lightly .
Miss Trevor even think he take it too easily and have a vague wish that he have show more sorrow .
Stephen say farewell to the boy he love good than life with no visible emotion .
`` Good-bye , Paul .
Be a good boy and learn all you can . ''
He hesitate a moment and then say slowly , `` If you do n't like it , come back . ''
`` Did you bid good-bye to your rock people ? ''
Miss Trevor ask him with a smile a they drive away .
`` No .
I -- could n't -- I -- I -- do n't even tell them I be go away .
Nora would break her heart .
I 'd rather not talk of them anymore , if you please .
Maybe I wo n't want them when I 've plenty of book and lot of other boy and girl -- real one -- to play with . ''
They drive the ten mile to the town where they be to take the train the next day .
Paul enjoy the drive and the sight of the busy street at it end .
He be all excitement and animation .
After they have have tea at the house of the friend where Miss Trevor mean to spend the night , they go for a walk in the park .
Paul be tire and very quiet when they come back .
He be put away to sleep in a bedroom whose splendour frighten him , and leave alone .
At first Paul lay very still on his luxurious perfumed pillow .
It be the first night he have ever spend away from the little seaward-looking loft where he could touch the rafter with his hand .
He think of it now and a lump come into his throat and a strange , new , bitter longing come into his heart .
He miss the sea plash on the rock below him -- he could not sleep without that old lullaby .
He turn his face into the pillow , and the longing and loneliness grow bad and hurt him until he moan .
Oh , he want to be back home !
Surely he have not leave it -- he could never have mean to leave it .
Out there the star would be shin over the harbour .
Stephen would be sit at the door , all alone , with his violin .
But he would not be play it -- all at once Paul know he would not be play it .
He would be sit there with his head bow and the loneliness in his heart call to the loneliness in Paul 's heart over all the mile between them .
Oh , he could never have really mean to leave Stephen .
And Nora ?
Nora would be down on the rock wait for him -- for him , Paul , who would never come to her more .
He could see her elfin little face peer around the point , watch for him wistfully .
Paul sit up in bed , choke with tear .
Oh , what be book and strange country ?
-- what be even Miss Trevor , the friend of a month ?
-- to the call of the sea and Stephen 's kind , deep eye and his dear rock people ?
He could not stay away from them -- never -- never .
He slip out of bed very softly and dress in the dark .
Then he light the lamp timidly and open the little brown chest Stephen have give him .
It hold his book and his treasure , but he take out only a pencil , a bit of paper and the foolscap book .
With a hand shake in his eagerness , he write : dear miss Trever Im go back home , dont be fritened about me because I know the way .
Ive get to go .
something be call me .
dont be cross .
I love you , but I cant stay .
Im leave my foolscap book for you , you can keep it always but I must go back to Stephen and nora Paul He put the note on the foolscap book and lay them on the table .
Then he blow out the light , take his cap and go softly out .
The house be very still .
Holding his breath , he tiptoe downstairs and open the front door .
Before it run the street which go , he know , straight out to the country road that lead home .
Paul close the door and steal down the step , his heart beating painfully , but when he reach the sidewalk he break into a frantic run under the lime .
It be late and no one be out on that quiet street .
He run until his breath give out , then walk miserably until he recover it , and then run again .
He dare not stop running until he be out of that horrible town , which seem like a prison close around him , where the house shut out the star and the wind could only creep in a narrow space like a fettered , cringe thing , instead of sweep grandly over great salt waste of sea .
At last the house grow few and scattered , and finally he leave them behind .
He draw a long breath ; this be good -- rather smother yet , of course , with nothing but hill and field and dark wood all about him , but at least his own sky be above him , look just the same a it look out home at Noel 's Cove .
He recognize the star a friend ; how often Stephen have point them out to him a they sit at night by the door of the little house .
He be not at all frighten now .
He know the way home and the kind night be before him .
Every step be bring him near to Stephen and Nora and the Twin Sailors .
He whistle a he walk sturdily along .
The dawn be just break when he reach Noel 's Cove .
The eastern sky be all pale rise and silver , and the sea be mottle over with dear grey ripple .
In the west over the harbour the sky be a very fine ethereal blue and the wind blew from there , salt and bracing .
Paul be tire , but he run lightly down the shelve rock to the cove .
Stephen be get ready to launch his boat .
When he saw Paul he start and a strange , vivid , exultant expression flash across his face .
Paul felt a sudden chill -- the upspringing fountain of his gladness be check in mid-leap .
He have know no doubt on the way home -- all that long , weary walk he have know no doubt -- but now ?
`` Stephen , '' he cry .
`` I 've come back !
I have to !
Stephen , be you glad -- be you glad ? ''
Stephen 's face be as emotionless a ever .
The burst of feeling which have frighten Paul by it unaccustomedness have pass like a fleeting outbreak of sunshine between dull cloud .
`` I reckon I be , '' he say .
`` Yes , I reckon I be .
I kind of -- hop -- you would come back .
You 'd better go in and get some breakfast . ''
Paul 's eye be as radiant a the deepen dawn .
He know Stephen be glad and he know there be nothing more to be say about it .
They be back just where they be before Miss Trevor come -- back in their perfect , unmarred , sufficient comradeship .
`` I must just run around and see Nora first , '' say Paul .
Abel and His Great Adventure `` Come out of door , master -- come out of door .
I ca n't talk or think right with wall around me -- never could .
Let 's go out to the garden . ''
These be almost the first word I ever hear Abel Armstrong say .
He be a member of the board of school trustee in Stillwater , and I have not meet him before this late May evening , when I have go down to confer with him upon some small matter of business .
For I be `` the new schoolmaster '' in Stillwater , have take the school for the summer term .
It be a rather lonely country district -- a fact of which I be glad , for life have be go somewhat awry with me and my heart be sore and rebellious over many thing that have nothing to do with this narration .
Stillwater offer time and opportunity for heal and counsel .
Yet , look back , I doubt if I should have find either have it not be for Abel and his beloved garden .
Abel Armstrong -LRB- he be always call `` Old Abel '' , though he be barely sixty -RRB- live in a quaint , gray house close by the harbour shore .
I hear a good deal about him before I saw him .
He be call `` queer '' , but Stillwater folk seem to be very fond of him .
He and his sister , Tamzine , live together ; she , so my garrulous landlady inform me , have not be sound of mind at time for many year ; but she be all right now , only odd and quiet .
Abel have go to college for a year when he be young , but have give it up when Tamzine `` go crazy '' .
There be no one else to look after her .
Abel have settle down to it with apparent content : at least he have never complain .
`` Always take thing easy , Abel do , '' say Mrs. Campbell .
`` Never seem to worry over disappointment and trial a most folk do .
Seems to me that as long a Abel Armstrong can stride up and down in that garden of his , recite poetry and speech , or talk to that yaller cat of his a if it be a human , he do n't care much how the world wag on .
He never have much git-up-and-git .
His father be a hustler , but the family do n't take after him .
They all favour the mother 's people -- sorter shiftless and dreamy .
` Taint the way to git on in this world . ''
No , good and worthy Mrs. Campbell .
It be not the way to get on in your world ; but there be other world where get on be estimate by different standard , and Abel Armstrong live in one of these -- a world far beyond the ken of the thrifty Stillwater farmer and fisher .
Something of this I have sense , even before I saw him ; and that night in his garden , under a sky of smoky red , blossom into star above the harbour , I find a friend whose personality and philosophy be to calm and harmonize and enrich my whole existence .
This sketch be my grateful tribute to one of the rarest and fine soul God ever clothe with clay .
He be a tall man , somewhat ungainly of figure and homely of face .
But his large , deep eye of velvety nut-brown be very beautiful and marvellously bright and clear for a man of his age .
He wear a little pointed , well-cared-for beard , innocent of gray ; but his hair be grizzle , and altogether he have the appearance of a man who have pass through many sorrow which have mark his body as well a his soul .
Looking at him , I doubt Mrs. Campbell 's conclusion that he have not `` mind '' give up college .
This man have give up much and felt it deeply ; but he have outlive the pain and the blessing of sacrifice have come to him .
His voice be very melodious and beautiful , and the brown hand he hold out to me be peculiarly long and shapely and flexible .
We go out to the garden in the scented moist air of a maritime spring evening .
Behind the garden be a cloudy pine wood ; the house close it in on the left , while in front and on the right a row of tall Lombardy poplar stand out in stately purple silhouette against the sunset sky .
`` Always like Lombardies , '' say Abel , wave a long arm at them .
`` They be the tree of princess .
When I be a boy they be fashionable .
Anyone who have any pretension to gentility have a row of Lombardies at the foot of his lawn or up his lane , or at any rate one on either side of his front door .
They 're out of fashion now .
Folks complain they die at the top and get ragged-looking .
So they do -- so they do , if you do n't risk your neck every spring climb up a light ladder to trim them out a I do .
My neck be n't worth much to anyone , which , I suppose , be why I 've never break it ; and my Lombardies never look out-at-elbows .
My mother be especially fond of them .
She like their dignity and their stand-offishness .
They do n't hobnob with every Tom , Dick and Harry .
If it 's pine for company , master , it 's Lombardies for society . ''
We step from the front doorstone into the garden .
There be another entrance -- a sagging gate flank by two branch white lilac .
From it a little dappled path lead to a huge apple-tree in the centre , a great swell cone of rosy blossom with a mossy circular seat around it trunk .
But Abel 's favourite seat , so he tell me , be low down the slope , under a little trellis overhung with the delicate emerald of young hop-vines .
He lead me to it and point proudly to the fine view of the harbour visible from it .
The early sunset glow of rise and flame have fade out of the sky ; the water be silvery and mirror-like ; dim sail drift along by the darkening shore .
A bell be ring in a small Catholic chapel across the harbour .
Mellowly and dreamily sweet the chime float through the dusk , blent with the moan of the sea .
The great revolving light at the channel tremble and flash against the opal sky , and far out , beyond the golden sand-dunes of the bar , be the crinkled gray ribbon of a passing steamer 's smoke .
`` There , be n't that view worth look at ? ''
say old Abel , with a loving , proprietary pride .
`` You do n't have to pay anything for it , either .
All that sea and sky free -- ` without money and without price ' .
Let 's sit down here in the hop-vine arbour , master .
There 'll be a moonrise presently .
I 'm never tire of find out what a moonrise sheen can be like over that sea .
There 's a surprise in it every time .
Now , master , you 're get your mouth in the proper shape to talk business -- but do n't you do it .
Nobody should talk business when he 's expect a moonrise .
Not that I like talk business at any time . ''
`` Unfortunately it have to be talk of sometimes , Mr. Armstrong , '' I say .
`` Yes , it seem to be a necessary evil , master , '' he acknowledge .
`` But I know what business you 've come upon , and we can settle it in five minute after the moon 's well up .
I 'll just agree to everything you and the other two trustee want .
Lord know why they ever put me on the school board .
Maybe it 's because I 'm so ornamental .
They want one good-looking man , I reckon . ''
His low chuckle , so full of mirth and so free from malice , be infectious .
I laugh also , a I sit down in the hop-vine arbour .
`` Now , you need n't talk if you do n't want to , '' he say .
`` And I wo n't .
We 'll just sit here , sociable like , and if we think of anything worth while to say we 'll say it .
Otherwise , not .
If you can sit in silence with a person for half an hour and feel comfortable , you and that person can be friend .
If you ca n't , friends you 'll never be , and you need n't waste time in try . ''
Abel and I pass successfully the test of silence that even in the hop-vine arbour .
I be strangely content to sit and think -- something I have not care to do lately .
A peace , long unknown to my stormy soul , seem hover near it .
The garden be steep in it ; old Abel 's personality radiate it .
I look about me and wonder whence come the charm of that tangle , unworldly spot .
`` Nice and far from the market-place be n't it ? ''
ask Abel suddenly , a if he have hear my unasked question .
`` No buying and selling and get gain here .
Nothing be ever sell out of this garden .
Tamzine have her vegetable plot over yonder , but what we do n't eat we give away .
Geordie Marr down the harbour have a big garden like this and he sell heap of flower and fruit and vegetable to the hotel folk .
He think I 'm an awful fool because I wo n't do the same .
Well , he get money out of his garden and I get happiness out of mine .
That 's the difference .
S'posing I could make more money -- what then ?
I 'd only be take it from people that need it more .
There 's enough for Tamzine and me .
As for Geordie Marr , there be n't a more unhappy creature on God 's earth -- he 's always stew in a broth of trouble , poor man .
O ' course , he brew up most of it for himself , but I reckon that do n't make it any easy to bear .
Ever sit in a hop-vine arbour before , master ? ''
I be to grow use to Abel 's abrupt change of subject .
I answer that I never have .
`` Great place for dreaming , '' say Abel complacently .
`` Being young , no doubt , you dream a-plenty . ''
I answer hotly and bitterly that I have do with dream .
`` No , you have n't , '' say Abel meditatively .
`` You may think you have .
What then ?
First thing you know you 'll be dream again -- thank the Lord for it .
I ai n't go to ask you what 's sour you on dream just now .
After awhile you 'll begin again , especially if you come to this garden as much a I hope you will .
It 's chockful of dream -- any kind of dream .
You take your choice .
Now , I favour dream of adventure , if you 'll believe it .
I 'm sixty-one and I never do anything rasher than go out cod-fishing on a fine day , but I still lust after adventure .
Then I dream I 'm an awful fellow -- blood-thirsty . ''
I burst out laughing .
Perhaps laughter be somewhat rare in that old garden .
Tamzine , who be weed at the far end , lift her head in a startled fashion and walk past u into the house .
She do not look at u or speak to u .
She be repute to be abnormally shy .
She be very stout and wear a dress of bright red-and-white strip material .
Her face be round and blank , but her reddish hair be abundant and beautiful .
A huge , orange-coloured cat be at her heel ; a she pass u he bound over to the arbour and spring up on Abel 's knee .
He be a gorgeous brute , with vivid green eye , and immense white double paw .
`` Captain Kidd , Mr. Woodley . ''
He introduce u as seriously a if the cat have be a human be .
Neither Captain Kidd nor I respond very enthusiastically .
`` You do n't like cat , I reckon , master , '' say Abel , stroke the Captain 's velvet back .
`` I do n't blame you .
I be never fond of them myself until I find the Captain .
I save his life and when you 've save a creature 's life you 're bind to love it .
It 's next thing to give it life .
There be some terrible thoughtless people in the world , master .
Some of those city folk who have summer home down the harbour be so thoughtless that they 're cruel .
It 's the bad kind of cruelty , I think -- the thoughtless kind .
You ca n't cope with it .
They keep cat there in the summer and fee them and pet them and doll them up with ribbon and collar ; and then in the fall they go off and leave them to starve or freeze .
It make my blood boil , master . ''
`` One day last winter I find a poor old mother cat dead on the shore , lie against the skin and bone body of her three little kitten .
She have die try to shelter them .
She have her poor stiff claw around them .
Master , I cry .
Then I swear .
Then I carry those poor little kitten home and fed ` hem up and found good home for them .
I know the woman who leave the cat .
When she come back this summer I 'm go to go down and tell her my opinion of her .
It 'll be rank meddling , but , lord , how I love meddle in a good cause . ''
`` Was Captain Kidd one of the forsaken ? ''
I ask .
`` Yes .
I find him one bitter cold day in winter caught in the branch of a tree by his darn-fool ribbon collar .
He be almost starve .
Lord , if you could have see his eye !
He be nothing but a kitten , and he 'd get his living somehow since he 'd be left till he get hang up .
When I loose him he give my hand a pitiful swipe with his little red tongue .
He be n't the prosperous free-booter you behold now .
He be meek a Moses .
That be nine year ago .
His life have be long in the land for a cat .
He 's a good old pal , the Captain be . ''
`` I should have expect you to have a dog , '' I say .
Abel shake his head .
`` I have a dog once .
I care so much for him that when he die I could n't bear the thought of ever get another in his place .
He be a friend -- you understand ?
The Captain 's only a pal .
I 'm fond of the Captain -- all the fonder because of the spice of deviltry there be in all cat .
But I love my dog .
There be n't any devil in a good dog .
That 's why they 're more lovable than cat -- but I 'm darned if they 're a interesting . ''
I laugh a I rise regretfully .
`` Must you go , master ?
And we have n't talk any business after all .
I reckon it 's that stave matter you 've come about .
It 's like those two fool trustee to start up a stove sputter in spring .
It 's a wonder they do n't leave it till dog-days and begin then . ''
`` They merely wish me to ask you if you approve of put in a new stove . ''
`` Tell them to put in a new stove -- any kind of a new stove -- and be hang to them , '' rejoin Abel .
`` As for you , master , you 're welcome to this garden any time .
If you 're tired or lonely , or too ambitious or angry , come here and sit awhile , master .
Do you think any man could keep mad if he sit and look into the heart of a pansy for ten minute ?
When you feel like talk , I 'll talk , and when you feel like thinking , I 'll let you .
I 'm a great hand to leave folk alone . ''
`` I think I 'll come often , '' I say , `` perhaps too often . ''
`` Not likely , master -- not likely -- not after we 've watch a moonrise contentedly together .
It 's as good a test of compatibility a any I know .
You 're young and I 'm old , but our soul be about the same age , I reckon , and we 'll find lots to say to each other .
Are you go straight home from here ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Then I 'm go to bother you to stop for a moment at Mary Bascom 's and give her a bouquet of my white lilac .
She love 'em and I 'm not go to wait till she 's dead to send her flower . ''
`` She 's very ill just now , be n't she ? ''
`` She 's get the Bascom consumption .
That mean she may die in a month , like her brother , or linger on for twenty year , like her father .
But long or short , white lilac in spring be sweet , and I 'm send her a fresh bunch every day while it last .
It 's a rare night , master .
I envy you your walk home in the moonlight along that shore . ''
`` Better come part of the way with me , '' I suggest .
`` No . ''
Abel glance at the house .
`` Tamzine never like to be alone o ' night .
So I take my moonlight walk in the garden .
The moon 's a great friend of mine , master .
I 've love her ever since I can remember .
When I be a little lad of eight I fell asleep in the garden one evening and be n't miss .
I wake up alone in the night and I be most scared to death , master .
Lord , what shadow and queer noise there be !
I dars n't move .
I just sit there quake , poor small mite .
Then all at once I saw the moon look down at me through the pine bough , just like an old friend .
I be comfort right off .
Got up and walk to the house as brave a a lion , look at her .
Goodnight , master .
Tell Mary the lilac 'll last another week yet . ''
From that night Abel and I be crony .
We walk and talk and keep silence and fish cod together .
Stillwater people think it very strange that I should prefer his society to that of the young fellow of my own age .
Mrs. Campbell be quite worry over it , and opine that there have always be something queer about me .
`` Birds of a feather . ''
I love that old garden by the harbour shore .
Even Abel himself , I think , could hardly have felt a deep affection for it .
When it gate close behind me it shut out the world and my corroding memory and discontent .
In it peace my soul empty itself of the bitterness which have be fill and spoil it , and grow normal and healthy again , aid thereto by Abel 's wise word .
He never preach , but he radiate courage and endurance and a frank acceptance of the hard thing of life , as well a a cordial welcome of it pleasant thing .
He be the sane soul I ever meet .
He neither minimize ill nor exaggerated good , but he hold that we should never be control by either .
Pain should not depress u unduly , nor pleasure lure u into forgetfulness and sloth .
All unknowingly he make me realize that I have be a bit of a coward and a shirker .
I begin to understand that my personal woe be not the most important thing in the universe , even to myself .
In short , Abel teach me to laugh again ; and when a man can laugh wholesomely thing be not go too badly with him .
That old garden be always such a cheery place .
Even when the east wind sang in minor and the wave on the gray shore be sad , hint of sunshine seem to be lurk all about it .
Perhaps this be because there be so many yellow flower in it .
Tamzine like yellow flower .
Captain Kidd , too , always parade it in panoply of gold .
He be so large and effulgent that one hardly miss the sun .
Considering his presence I wonder that the garden be always so full of sing bird .
But the Captain never meddle with them .
Probably he understand that his master would not have tolerate it for a moment .
So there be always a song or a chirp somewhere .
Overhead fly the gull and the crane .
The wind in the pine always make a glad salutation .
Abel and I pace the walk , in high converse on matter beyond the ken of cat or king .
`` I like to ponder on all problem , though I can never solve them , '' Abel use to say .
`` My father hold that we should never talk of thing we could n't understand .
But , lord , master , if we do n't the subject for conversation would be mighty few .
I reckon the god laugh many a time to hear u , but what matter ?
So long a we remember that we 're only men , and do n't take to fancy ourselves god , really know good and evil , I reckon our discussion wo n't do u or anyone much harm .
So we 'll have another whack at the origin of evil this evening , master . ''
Tamzine forget to be shy with me at last , and give me a broad smile of welcome every time I come .
But she rarely speak to me .
She spend all her spare time weed the garden , which she love as well a Abel do .
She be addict to bright colour and always wear wrapper of very gorgeous print .
She worship Abel and his word be a law unto her .
`` I be very thankful Tamzine be so well , '' say Abel one evening a we watch the sunset .
The day have begin sombrely in gray cloud and mist , but it end in a pomp of scarlet and gold .
`` There be a time when she be n't , master -- you 've hear ?
But for year now she have be quite able to look after herself .
And so , if I fare forth on the last great adventure some of these day Tamzine will not be leave helpless . ''
`` She be ten year old than you .
It be likely she will go before you , '' I say .
Abel shake his head and stroke his smart beard .
I always suspect that beard of be Abel 's last surviving vanity .
It be always so carefully groom , while I have no evidence that he ever comb his grizzled mop of hair .
`` No , Tamzine will outlive me .
She 's get the Armstrong heart .
I have the Marwood heart -- my mother be a Marwood .
We do n't live to be old , and we go quick and easy .
I 'm glad of it .
I do n't think I 'm a coward , master , but the thought of a linger death give me a queer sick feeling of horror .
There , I 'm not go to say any more about it .
I just mention it so that some day when you hear that old Abel Armstrong have be find dead , you wo n't feel sorry .
You 'll remember I want it that way .
Not that I 'm tired of life either .
It 's very pleasant , what with my garden and Captain Kidd and the harbour out there .
But it 's a trifle monotonous at time and death will be something of a change , master .
I 'm real curious about it . ''
`` I hate the thought of death , '' I say gloomily .
`` Oh , you 're young .
The young always do .
Death grow friendly a we grow old .
Not that one of u really want to die , though , master .
Tennyson speak truth when he say that .
There 's old Mrs. Warner at the Channel Head .
She 's have heap of trouble all her life , poor soul , and she 's lose almost everyone she care about .
She 's always say that she 'll be glad when her time come , and she do n't want to live any longer in this vale of tear .
But when she take a sick spell , lord , what a fuss she make , master !
Doctors from town and a trained nurse and enough medicine to kill a dog !
Life may be a vale of tear , all right , master , but there be some folk who enjoy weep , I reckon . ''
Summer pass through the garden with her procession of rose and lily and hollyhock and golden glow .
The golden glow be particularly fine that year .
There be a great bank of it at the low end of the garden , like a huge billow of sunshine .
Tamzine revel in it , but Abel like more subtly-tinted flower .
There be a certain dark wine-hued hollyhock which be a favourite with him .
He would sit for hour look steadfastly into one of it shallow satin cup .
I find him so one afternoon in the hop-vine arbour .
`` This colour always have a soothing effect on me , '' he explain .
`` Yellow excite me too much -- make me restless -- make me want to sail ` beyond the bourne of sunset ' .
I look at that surge of golden glow down there today till I get all work up and think my life have be an awful failure .
I find a dead butterfly and have a little funeral -- bury it in the fern corner .
And I think I have n't be any more use in the world than that poor little butterfly .
Oh , I be woeful , master .
Then I get me this hollyhock and sit down here to look at it alone .
When a man 's alone , master , he 's most with God -- or with the devil .
The devil rampage around me all the time I be look at that golden glow ; but God speak to me through the hollyhock .
And it seem to me that a man who 's as happy a I be and have get such a garden have make a real success of living . ''
`` I hope I 'll be able to make a much of a success , '' I say sincerely .
`` I want you to make a different kind of success , though , master , '' say Abel , shake his head .
`` I want you to do thing -- the thing I 'd have try to do if I 'd have the chance .
It 's in you to do them -- if you set your teeth and go ahead . ''
`` I believe I can set my teeth and go ahead now , thanks to you , Mr. Armstrong , '' I say .
`` I be head straight for failure when I come here last spring ; but you 've change my course . ''
`` Given you a sort of compass to steer by , have n't I ? ''
query Abel with a smile .
`` I ai n't too modest to take some credit for it .
I saw I could do you some good .
But my garden have do more than I do , if you 'll believe it .
It 's wonderful what a garden can do for a man when he let it have it way .
Come , sit down here and bask , master .
The sunshine may be go to-morrow .
Let 's just sit and think . ''
We sit and think for a long while .
Presently Abel say abruptly : `` You do n't see the folk I see in this garden , master .
You do n't see anybody but me and old Tamzine and Captain Kidd .
I see all who use to be here long ago .
It be a lively place then .
There be plenty of u and we be a gay a set of youngster a you 'd find anywhere .
We toss laughter backwards and forward here like a ball .
And now old Tamzine and old Abel be all that be leave . ''
He be silent a moment , look at the phantom of memory that pace invisibly to me the dappled walk and peep merrily through the swinging bough .
Then he go on : `` Of all the folk I see here there be two that be more vivid and real than all the rest , master .
One be my sister Alice .
She die thirty year ago .
She be very beautiful .
You 'd hardly believe that to look at Tamzine and me , would you ?
But it be true .
We always call her Queen Alice -- she be so stately and handsome .
She have brown eye and red gold hair , just the colour of that nasturtium there .
She be father 's favourite .
The night she be bear they do n't think my mother would live .
Father walk this garden all night .
And just under that old apple-tree he kneel at sunrise and thank God when they come to tell him that all be well .
`` Alice be always a creature of joy .
This old garden rang with her laughter in those year .
She seldom walk -- she run or dance .
She only live twenty year , but nineteen of them be so happy I 've never pity her over much .
She have everything that make life worth living -- laughter and love , and at the last sorrow .
James Milburn be her lover .
It 's thirty-one year since his ship sail out of that harbour and Alice wave him good-bye from this garden .
He never come back .
His ship be never hear of again .
`` When Alice give up hope that it would be , she die of a broken heart .
They say there 's no such thing ; but nothing else ail Alice .
She stand at yonder gate day after day and watch the harbour ; and when at last she give up hope life go with it .
I remember the day : she have watch until sunset .
Then she turn away from the gate .
All the unrest and despair have go out of her eye .
There be a terrible peace in them -- the peace of the dead .
` He will never come back now , Abel , ' she say to me .
`` In less than a week she be dead .
The others mourn her , but I do n't , master .
She have sound the deep of living and there be nothing else to linger through the year for .
My grief have spend itself earlier , when I walk this garden in agony because I could not help her .
But often , on these long warm summer afternoon , I seem to hear Alice 's laughter all over this garden ; though she 's be dead so long . ''
He lapse into a reverie which I do not disturb , and it be not until another day that I learn of the other memory that he cherish .
He revert to it suddenly a we sit again in the hop-vine arbour , look at the glimmer radiance of the September sea .
`` Master , how many of u be sit here ? ''
`` Two in the flesh .
How many in the spirit I know not , '' I answer , humour his mood .
`` There be one -- the other of the two I speak of the day I tell you about Alice .
It 's hard for me to speak of this one . ''
`` Do n't speak of it if it hurt you , '' I say .
`` But I want to .
It 's a whim of mine .
Do you know why I tell you of Alice and why I 'm go to tell you of Mercedes ?
It 's because I want someone to remember them and think of them sometimes after I 'm go .
I ca n't bear that their name should be utterly forget by all living soul .
`` My old brother , Alec , be a sailor , and on his last voyage to the West Indies he marry and bring home a Spanish girl .
My father and mother do n't like the match .
Mercedes be a foreigner and a Catholic , and differ from u in every way .
But I never blame Alec after I saw her .
It be n't that she be so very pretty .
She be slight and dark and ivory-coloured .
But she be very graceful , and there be a charm about her , master -- a mighty and potent charm .
The woman could n't understand it .
They wonder at Alec 's infatuation for her .
I never do .
I -- I love her , too , master , before I have know her a day .
Nobody ever know it .
Mercedes never dream of it .
But it 's last me all my life .
I never want to think of any other woman .
She spoil a man for any other kind of woman -- that little pale , dark-eyed Spanish girl .
To love her be like drink some rare sparkling wine .
You 'd never again have any taste for a commoner draught .
`` I think she be very happy the year she spend here .
Our thrifty women-folk in Stillwater jeer at her because she be n't what they call capable .
They say she could n't do anything .
But she could do one thing well -- she could love .
She worship Alec .
I use to hate him for it .
Oh , my heart have be very full of black thought in it time , master .
But neither Alec nor Mercedes ever know .
And I 'm thankful now that they be so happy .
Alec make this arbour for Mercedes -- at least he make the trellis , and she plant the vine .
`` She use to sit here most of the time in summer .
I suppose that 's why I like to sit here .
Her eye would be dreamy and far-away until Alec would flash his welcome .
How that use to torture me !
But now I like to remember it .
And her pretty soft foreign voice and little white hand .
She die after she have live here a year .
They bury her and her baby in the graveyard of that little chapel over the harbour where the bell ring every evening .
She use to like sit here and listen to it .
Alec live a long while after , but he never marry again .
He 's go now , and nobody remembers Mercedes but me . ''
Abel lapse into a reverie -- a tryst with the past which I would not disturb .
I think he do not notice my departure , but a I open the gate he stand up and wave his hand .
Three day later I go again to the old garden by the harbour shore .
There be a red light on a distant sail .
In the far west a sunset city be build around a great deep harbour of twilight .
Palaces be there and bannered tower of crimson and gold .
The air be full of music ; there be one music of the wind and another of the wave , and still another of the distant bell from the chapel near which Mercedes slept .
The garden be full of ripe odour and warm colour .
The Lombardies around it be tall and sombre like the priestly form of some mystic band .
Abel be sit in the hop-vine arbour ; beside him Captain Kidd slept .
I think Abel be asleep , too ; his head lean against the trellis and his eye be shut .
But when I reach the arbour I saw that he be not asleep .
There be a strange , wise little smile on his lip a if he have attain to the ultimate wisdom and be laugh in no unkindly fashion at our old blind supposition and perplexity .
Abel have go on his Great Adventure .
Akin To Love David Hartley have drop in to pay a neighbourly call on Josephine Elliott .
It be well along in the afternoon , and outside , in the clear crispness of a Canadian winter , the long blue shadow from the tall fir behind the house be fall over the snow .
It be a frosty day , and all the window of every room where there be no fire be cover with silver palm .
But the big , bright kitchen be warm and cosy , and somehow seem to David more tempting than ever before , and that be say a good deal .
He have an uneasy feeling that he have stay long enough and ought to go .
Josephine be knit at a long gray sock with doubly aggressive energy , and that be a sign that she be talk out .
As long a Josephine have plenty to say , her plump white finger , where her mother 's wedding ring be lose in dimple , move slowly among her needle .
When conversation flag she fell to her work as furiously a if a husband and half a dozen son be wait for it completion .
David often wonder in his secret soul what Josephine do with all the interminable gray sock she knit .
Sometimes he conclude that she put them in the home missionary barrel ; again , that she sell them to her hired man .
At any rate , they be very warm and comfortable look , and David sigh a he think of the deplorable state his own sock be generally in .
When David sigh Josephine take alarm .
She be afraid David be go to have one of his attack of foolishness .
She must head him off someway , so she roll up the gray sock , stab the big pudgy ball with her needle , and say she guess she 'd get the tea .
David get up .
`` Now , you 're not go before tea ? ''
say Josephine hospitably .
`` I 'll have it all ready in no time . ''
`` I ought to go home , I s ` pose , '' say David , with the air and tone of a man dally with a great temptation .
`` Zillah 'll be wait tea for me ; and there 's the stock to tend to . ''
`` I guess Zillah wo n't wait long , '' say Josephine .
She do not intend it at all , but there be a certain scornful ring in her voice .
`` You must stay .
I 've a fancy for company to tea . ''
David sit down again .
He look so pleased that Josephine go down on her knee behind the stove , ostensibly to get a stick of firewood , but really to hide her smile .
`` I suppose he 's tickle to death to think of get a good square meal , after the starvation ration Zillah put him on , '' she think .
But Josephine misjudge David just as much a he misjudge her .
She have really ask him to stay to tea out of pity , but David think it be because she be lonesome , and he hail that a an encouraging sign .
And he be not think about get a good meal either , although his dinner have be such a one a only Zillah Hartley could get up .
As he lean back in his cushioned chair and watch Josephine bustle about the kitchen , he be glory in the fact that he could spend another hour with her , and sit opposite to her at the table while she pour his tea for him and pass him the biscuit , just a if -- just a if -- Here Josephine look straight at him with such intent and stern brown eye that David felt she must have read his thought , and he color guiltily .
But Josephine do not even notice that he be blush .
She have only pause to wonder whether she would bring out cherry or strawberry preserve ; and , have decide on the cherry , take her piercing gaze from David without have see him at all .
But he allow his thought no more vagary .
Josephine set the table with her mother 's wedding china .
She use it because it be the anniversary of her mother 's wedding day , but David think it be out of compliment to him .
And , a he know quite well that Josephine prize that china beyond all her other earthly possession , he stroke his smooth-shaven , dimple chin with the air of a man to whom be offer a very subtly sweet homage .
Josephine whisk in and out of the pantry , and up and down cellar , and with every whisk a new dainty be add to the table .
Josephine , a everybody in Meadowby admit , be past mistress in the noble art of cookery .
Once upon a time rash matron and ambitious young wife have aspire to rival her , but they have long ago realise the vanity of such effort and drop comfortably back to second place .
Josephine felt an artist 's pride in her table when she set the teapot on it stand and invite David to sit in .
There be pink slice of cold tongue , and crisp green pickle and spice gooseberry , the recipe for which Josephine have invent herself , and which have take first prize at the Provincial Exhibition for six successive year ; there be a lemon pie which be a symphony in gold and silver , biscuits a light and white a snow , and moist , plummy cube of fruit cake .
There be the ruby-tinted cherry preserve , a mound of amber jelly , and , to crown all , steam cup of tea , in flavour and fragrance unequalled .
And Josephine , too , sit at the head of the table , with her smooth , glossy crimp of black hair and cheek a rosy clear a they have be twenty year ago , when she have be a slender slip of girlhood and bashful young David Hartley have look at her over his hymn-book in prayer-meeting and tramp all the way home a few foot behind her , because he be too shy to go boldly up and ask if he might see her home .
All take together , what wonder if David lose his head over that tea-table and determine to ask Josephine the same old question once more ?
It be eighteen year since he have ask it for the first time , and two year since the last .
He would try his luck again ; Josephine be certainly more gracious than he remember her to ever have be before .
When the meal be over Josephine clear the table and wash the dish .
When she have take a dry towel and sit down by the window to polish her china David understood that his opportunity have come .
He move over and sit down beside her on the sofa by the window .
Outside the sun be set in a magnificent arch of light and colour over the snow-clad hill and deep blue St. Lawrence gulf .
David grasp at the sunset a an introductory factor .
`` Is n't that fine , Josephine ? ''
he say admiringly .
`` It make me think of that piece of poetry that use to be in the old Fifth Reader when we go to school .
D 'ye mind how the teacher use to drill u up in it on Friday afternoon ?
It begin ` Slow sink more lovely ere his race be run Along Morea 's hill the setting sun . ' ''
Then David declaim the whole passage in a sing-song tone , accompany by a few crude gesture recall from long-ago school-boy elocution .
Josephine know what be come .
Every time David propose to her he have begin by recite poetry .
She twirl her towel around the last plate resignedly .
If it have to come , the sooner it be over the good .
Josephine knew by experience that there be no heading David off , despite his shyness , when he have once get along as far a the poetry .
`` But it 's go to be for the last time , '' she say determinedly .
`` I 'm go to settle this question so decidedly to-night that there 'll never be a repetition . ''
When David have finish his quotation he lay his hand on Josephine 's plump arm .
`` Josephine , '' he say huskily , `` I s ` pose you could n't -- could you now ?
-- make up your mind to have me .
I wish you would , Josephine -- I wish you would .
Do n't you think you could , Josephine ? ''
Josephine fold up her towel , cross her hand on it , and look her wooer squarely in the eye .
`` David Hartley , '' she say deliberately , `` what make you go on ask me to marry you every once in a while when I 've tell you time out of mind that I ca n't and wo n't ? ''
`` Because I ca n't help hop that you 'll change your mind through time , '' David reply meekly .
`` Well , you just listen to me .
I will not marry you .
That be in the first place .
And in the second , this be to be final .
It have to be .
You be never to ask me this again under any circumstance .
If you do I will not answer you -- I will not let on I hear you at all ; but -LRB- and Josephine speak very slowly and impressively -RRB- I will never speak to you again -- never .
We be good friend now , and I like you real well , and like to have you drop in for a neighbourly chat as often a you wish to , but there 'll be an end , short and sudden , to that , if you do n't mind what I say . ''
`` Oh , Josephine , ai n't that rather hard ? ''
protest David feebly .
It seem terrible to be cut off from all hope with such finality a this .
`` I mean every word of it , '' return Josephine calmly .
`` You 'd better go home now , David .
I always feel a if I 'd like to be alone for a spell after a disagreeable experience . ''
David obey sadly and put on his cap and overcoat .
Josephine kindly warn him not to slip and break his leg on the porch , because the floor be as icy a anything ; and she even light a candle and hold it up at the kitchen door to guide him safely out .
David , a he trudge sorrowfully homeward across the field , carry with him the mental picture of a plump , sonsy woman , in a trim dress of plum-coloured homespun and ruffle blue-check apron , haloed by candlelight .
It be not a very romantic vision , perhaps , but to David it be more beautiful than anything else in the world .
When David be go Josephine shut the door with a little shiver .
She blow out the candle , for it be not yet dark enough to justify artificial light to her thrifty mind .
She think the big , empty house , in which she be the only living thing , be very lonely .
It be so still , except for the slow tick of the `` grandfather 's clock '' and the soft purr and crackle of the wood in the stove .
Josephine sit down by the window .
`` I wish some of the Sentners would run down , '' she say aloud .
`` If David have n't be so ridiculous I 'd have get him to stay the evening .
He can be good company when he like -- he 's real well-read and intelligent .
And he must have dismal time at home there with nobody but Zillah . ''
She look across the yard to the little house at the other side of it , where her French-Canadian hired man live , and watch the purple spiral of smoke from it chimney curl up against the crocus sky .
Would she run over and see Mrs. Leon Poirier and her little black-eyed , brown-skinned baby ?
No , they never know what to say to each other .
`` If 't be n't so cold I 'd go up and see Ida , '' she say .
`` As it be , I guess I 'd better fall back on my knitting , for I saw Jimmy Sentner 's toe stick through his sock the other day .
How setback poor David do look , to be sure !
But I think I 've settle that marry notion of his once for all and I 'm glad of it . ''
She say the same thing next day to Mrs. Tom Sentner , who have come down to help her pick her goose .
They be at work in the kitchen with a big tubful of feather between them , and on the table a row of dead bird , which Leon have kill and bring in .
Josephine be envelop in a shapeless print wrapper , and have an apron tie tightly around her head to keep the down out of her beautiful hair , of which she be rather proud .
`` What do you think , Ida ? ''
she say , with a hearty laugh at the recollection .
`` David Hartley be here to tea last night , and ask me to marry him again .
There 's a persistent man for you .
I ca n't brag of ever have have many beau , but I 've certainly have my fair share of proposal . ''
Mrs. Tom do not laugh .
Her thin little face , with it faded prettiness , look a if she never laugh .
`` Why wo n't you marry him ? ''
she say fretfully .
`` Why should I ? ''
retort Josephine .
`` Tell me that , Ida Sentner . ''
`` Because it be high time you be marry , '' say Mrs. Tom decisively .
`` I do n't believe in woman live single .
And I do n't see what good you can do than take David Hartley . ''
Josephine look at her sister with the interested expression of a person who be try to understand some mental attitude in another which be a stand puzzle to her .
Ida 's evident wish to see her married always amuse Josephine .
Ida have marry very young and for fifteen year her life have be one of drudgery and ill-health .
Tom Sentner be a lazy , shiftless fellow .
He neglect his family and be drink half his time .
Meadowby people say that he beat his wife when `` on the spree , '' but Josephine do not believe that , because she do not think that Ida could keep from tell her if it be so .
Ida Sentner be not give to bear her trial in silence .
Had it not be for Josephine 's assistance , Tom Sentner 's family would have stand an excellent chance of starvation .
Josephine practically keep them , and her generosity never fail or stint .
She feed and clothe her nephew and niece , and all the gray sock whose destination puzzle David so much go to the Sentners .
As for Josephine herself , she have a good farm , a comfortable house , a plump bank account , and be an independent , unworried woman .
And yet , in the face of all this , Mrs. Tom Sentner could bewail the fact that Josephine have no husband to look out for her .
Josephine shrug her shoulder and give up the conundrum , merely say ironically , in reply to her sister 's remark : `` And go to live with Zillah Hartley ? ''
`` You know very well you would n't have to do that .
Ever since John Hartley 's wife at the Creek die he 's be want Zillah to go and keep house for him , and if David get married Zillah 'd go quick .
Catch her stay there if you be mistress !
And David have such a beautiful house !
It 's ten time finer than yours , though I do n't deny yours be comfortable .
And his farm be the best in Meadowby and join yours .
Think what a beautiful property they 'd make together .
You 're all right now , Josephine , but what will you do when you get old and have nobody to take care of you ?
I declare the thought worry me at night till I ca n't sleep . ''
`` I should have think you have enough worry of your own to keep you awake at night without take over any of mine , '' say Josephine drily .
`` As for old age , it 's a good way off for me yet .
When your Jack get old enough to have some sense he can come here and live with me .
But I 'm not go to marry David Hartley , you can depend on that , Ida , my dear .
I wish you could have hear him rhyme off that poetry last night .
It do n't seem to matter much what piece he recite -- first thing that come into his head , I reckon .
I remember one time he go clean through that hymn beginning , ` Hark from the tomb a doleful sound , ' and two year ago it be ` To Mary in Heaven , ' as lackadaisical a you please .
I never have such a time to keep from laugh , but I manage it , for I would n't hurt his feeling for the world .
No , I have n't any intention of marry anybody , but if I have it would n't be dear old sentimental , easy-going David . ''
Mrs. Tom thump a plucked goose down on the bench with an expression which say that she , for one , be n't go to waste any more word on an idiot .
Easy-going , indeed !
Did Josephine consider that a drawback ?
Mrs. Tom sigh .
If Josephine , she think , have put up with Tom Sentner 's temper for fifteen year she would know how to appreciate a good-natured man at his real value .
The cold snap which have set in on the day of David 's call last and deepen for a week .
On Saturday evening , when Mrs. Tom come down for a jug of cream , the mercury of the little thermometer thump against Josephine 's porch be below zero .
The gulf be no long blue , but white with ice .
Everything outdoors be crackle and snap .
Inside Josephine have keep roar fire all through the house but the only place really warm be the kitchen .
`` Wrap your head up well , Ida , '' she say anxiously , when Mrs. Tom rise to go .
`` You 've get a bad cold . ''
`` There 's a cold go , '' say Mrs. Tom .
`` Everyone have it .
David Hartley be up at our place to-day barking terrible -- a real churchyard cough , a I tell him .
He never take any care of himself .
He say Zillah have a bad cold , too .
Wo n't she be cranky while it last ? ''
Josephine sit up late that night to keep fire on .
She finally go to bed in the little room opposite the big hall stove , and she sleep at once , and dream that the thump of the thermometer flapping in the wind against the wall outside grow loud and more insistent until they wake her up .
Some one be pound on the porch door .
Josephine spring out of bed and hurry on her wrapper and felt shoe .
She have no doubt that some of the Sentners be sick .
They have a habit of get sick about that time of night .
She hurry out and open the door , expect to see hulk Tom Sentner , or perhaps Ida herself , big-eyed and hysterical .
But David Hartley stand there , pant for breath .
The clear moonlight show that he have no overcoat on , and he be cough hard .
Josephine , before she speak a word , clutch him by the arm and pull him in out of the wind .
`` For pity 's sake , David Hartley , what be the matter ? ''
`` Zillah 's awful sick , '' he gasp .
`` I come here because 't be near .
Oh , wo n't you come over , Josephine ?
I 've get to go for the doctor and I ca n't leave her alone .
She 's suffer dreadful .
I know you and her ai n't on good term , but you 'll come , wo n't you ? ''
`` Of course I will , '' say Josephine sharply .
`` I 'm not a barbarian , I hope , to refuse to go to the help of a sick person , if 't be my bad enemy .
I 'll go in and get ready and you go straight to the hall stove and warm yourself .
There 's a good fire in it yet .
What on earth do you mean , start out on a bitter night like this without an overcoat or even mitten , and you with a cold like that ? ''
`` I never think of them , I be so frightened , '' say David apologetically .
`` I just light up a fire in the kitchen stove a quick 's I could and run .
It rattle me to hear Zillah moan so 's you could hear her all over the house . ''
`` You need someone to look after you as bad a Zillah do , '' say Josephine severely .
In a very few minute she be ready , with a basket pack full of homely remedy , `` for like a not there 'll be no put one 's hand on anything there , '' she mutter .
She insist on wrap her big plaid shawl around David 's head and neck , and make him put on a pair of mitten she have knit for Jack Sentner .
Then she lock the door and they start across the gleaming , crust field .
It be so slippery that Josephine have to cling to David 's arm to keep her foot .
In the rapture of support her David almost forget everything else .
In a few minute they have pass under the bare , glisten bough of the poplar on David 's lawn , and for the first time Josephine cross the threshold of David Hartley 's house .
Years ago , in her girlhood , when the Hartley 's live in the old house and there be half a dozen girl at home , Josephine have frequently visit there .
All the Hartley girl like her except Zillah .
She and Zillah never `` get on '' together .
When the other girl have marry and go , Josephine give up visiting there .
She have never be inside the new house , and she and Zillah have not speak to each other for year .
Zillah be a sick woman -- too sick to be anything but civil to Josephine .
David start at once for the doctor at the Creek , and Josephine saw that he be well wrap up before she let him go .
Then she mix up a mustard plaster for Zillah and sit down by the bedside to wait .
When Mrs. Tom Sentner come down the next day she find Josephine busy make flaxseed poultice , with her lip set in a line that betoken she have make up her mind to some disagreeable course of duty .
`` Zillah have get pneumonia bad , '' she say , in reply to Mrs. Tom 's inquiry .
`` The Doctor be here and Mary Bell from the Creek .
She 'll wait on Zillah , but there 'll have to be another woman here to see to the work .
I reckon I 'll stay .
I suppose it 's my duty and I do n't see who else could be get .
You can send Mamie and Jack down to stay at my house until I can go back .
I 'll run over every day and keep an eye on thing . ''
At the end of a week Zillah be out of danger .
Saturday afternoon Josephine go over home to see how Mamie and Jack be get on .
She find Mrs. Tom there , and the latter promptly despatch Jack and Mamie to the post-office that she might have an opportunity to hear Josephine 's news .
`` I 've have an awful week of it , Ida , '' say Josephine solemnly , a she sit down by the stove and put her foot up on the glowing hearth .
`` I suppose Zillah be pretty cranky to wait on , '' say Mrs. Tom sympathetically .
`` Oh , it be n't Zillah .
Mary Bell look after her .
No , it 's the house .
I never live in such a place of dust and disorder in my born day .
I 'm sorry for David Hartley than I ever be for anyone before . ''
`` I suppose he 's use to it , '' say Mrs. Tom with a shrug .
`` I do n't see how anyone could ever get use to it , '' groan Josephine .
`` And David use to be so particular when he be a boy .
The minute I go there the other night I take in that kitchen with a look .
I do n't believe the paint have even be wash since the house be build .
I honestly do n't .
And I would n't like to be call upon to swear when the floor be scrub either .
The corner be just full of roll of dust -- you could have shovel it out .
I sweep it out next day and I think I 'd be choke .
As for the pantry -- well , the le say about that the good .
And it 's the same all through the house .
You could write your name on everything .
I could n't so much a clean up .
Zillah be so sick there could n't be a bit of noise make .
I do manage to sweep and dust , and I clean out the pantry .
And , of course , I saw that the meal be nice and well cook .
You should have see David 's face .
He look a if he could n't get use to have thing clean and tasty .
I darn his sock -- he have n't a whole pair to his name -- and I 've do everything I could to give him a little comfort .
Not that I could do much .
If Zillah hear me move round she 'd send Mary Bell out to ask what the matter be .
When I want to go upstairs I 'd have to take off my shoe and tiptoe up on my stock foot , so 's she would n't know it .
And I 'll have to stay there another fortnight yet .
Zillah wo n't be able to sit up till then .
I do n't really know if I can stand it without fall to and scrub the house from garret to cellar in spite of her . ''
Mrs. Tom Sentner do not say much to Josephine .
To herself she say complacently : `` She 's sorry for David .
Well , I 've always hear that pity be akin to love .
We 'll see what come of this . ''
Josephine do manage to live through that fortnight .
One morning she remark to David at the breakfast table : `` Well , I think that Mary Bell will be able to attend to the work after today , David .
I guess I 'll go home tonight . ''
David 's face cloud over .
`` Well , I s ` pose we ought n't to keep you any long , Josephine .
I 'm sure it 's be awful good of you to stay this long .
I do n't know what we 'd have do without you . ''
`` You 're welcome , '' say Josephine shortly .
`` Do n't go for to walk home , '' say David ; `` the snow be too deep .
I 'll drive you over when you want to go . ''
`` I 'll not go before the evening , '' say Josephine slowly .
David go out to his work gloomily .
For three week he have be live in comfort .
His want be carefully attend to ; his meal be well cook and serve , and everything be bright and clean .
And more than all , Josephine have be there , with her cheerful smile and companionable way .
Well , it be all end now .
Josephine sit at the breakfast table long after David have go out .
She scowl at the sugar-bowl and shake her head savagely at the tea-pot .
`` I 'll have to do it , '' she say at last .
`` I 'm so sorry for him that I ca n't do anything else . ''
She get up and go to the window , look across the snowy field to her own home , nestle between the grove of fir and the orchard .
`` It 's awful snug and comfortable , '' she say regretfully , `` and I 've always felt set on be free and independent .
But it 's no use .
I 'd never have a minute 's peace of mind again , think of David live here in dirt and disorder , and him so particular and tidy by nature .
No , it 's my duty , plain and clear , to come here and make thing pleasant for him -- the pointing of Providence , a you might say .
The bad of it be , I 'll have to tell him so myself .
He 'll never dare to mention the subject again , after what I say to him that night he propose last .
I wish I have n't be so dreadful emphatic .
Now I 've get to say it myself if it be ever say .
But I 'll not begin by quote poetry , that 's one thing sure ! ''
Josephine throw back her head , crown with it shin braid of jet-black hair , and laugh heartily .
She bustle back to the stove and poke up the fire .
`` I 'll have a bit of corned beef and cabbage for dinner , '' she say , `` and I 'll make David that pudding he 's so fond of .
After all , it 's kind of nice to have someone to plan and think for .
It always do seem like a waste of energy to fuss over cooking thing when there be nobody but myself to eat them . ''
Josephine sang over her work all day , and David go about his with the face of a man who be go to the gallows without benefit of clergy .
When he come in to supper at sunset his expression be so woe-begone that Josephine have to dodge into the pantry to keep from laugh outright .
She relieve her feeling by pound the dresser with the potato masher , and then go primly out and take her place at the table .
The meal be not a success from a social point of view .
Josephine be nervous and David glum .
Mary Bell gobble down her food with her usual haste , and then go away to carry Zillah hers .
Then David say reluctantly : `` If you want to go home now , Josephine , I 'll hitch up Red Rob and drive you over . ''
Josephine begin to plait the tablecloth .
She wish again that she have not be so emphatic on the occasion of his last proposal .
Without reply to David 's suggestion she say crossly -LRB- Josephine always speak crossly when she be especially in earnest -RRB- : `` I want to tell you what I think about Zillah .
She 's get well , but she 's have a terrible shake up , and it 's my opinion that she wo n't be good for much all winter .
She wo n't be able to do any hard work , that 's certain .
If you want my advice , I tell you fair and square that I think she 'd well go off for a visit as soon a she 's fit .
She think so herself .
Clementine want her to go and stay a spell with her in town .
` Twould be just the thing for her . ''
`` She can go if she want to , of course , '' say David dully .
`` I can get along by myself for a spell . ''
`` There 's no need of your get along by yourself , '' say Josephine , more crossly than ever .
`` I 'll -- I 'll come here and keep house for you if you like . ''
David look at her uncomprehendingly .
`` Would n't people kind of gossip ? ''
he ask hesitatingly .
`` Not but what -- '' `` I do n't see what they 'd have to gossip about , '' break in Josephine , `` if we be -- marry . ''
David sprang to his foot with such haste that he almost upset the table .
`` Josephine , do you mean that ? ''
he exclaim .
`` Of course I mean it , '' she say , in a perfectly savage tone .
`` Now , for pity 's sake , do n't say another word about it just now .
I ca n't discuss it for a spell .
Go out to your work .
I want to be alone for awhile . ''
For the first and last time David disobey her .
Instead of go out , he stride around the table , catch Josephine masterfully in his arm , and kiss her .
And Josephine , after a second 's hesitation , kiss him in return .
Aunt Philippa and the Men I know quite well why Father send me to Prince Edward Island to visit Aunt Philippa that summer .
He tell me he be send me there `` to learn some sense '' ; and my stepmother , of whom I be very fond , tell me she be sure the sea air would do me a world of good .
I do not want to learn sense or be do a world of good ; I want to stay in Montreal and go on be foolish -- and make up my quarrel with Mark Fenwick .
Father and Mother do not know anything about this quarrel ; they think I be still on good term with him -- and that be why they send me to Prince Edward Island .
I be very miserable .
I do not want to go to Aunt Philippa 's .
It be not because I fear it would be dull -- for without Mark , Montreal be just as much of a howl wilderness a any other place .
But it be so horribly far away .
When the time come for Mark to want to make up -- a come I know it would -- how could he do it if I be seven hundred mile away ?
Nevertheless , I go to Prince Edward Island .
In all my eighteen year I have never once disobey Father .
He be a very hard man to disobey .
I know I should have to make a begin some time if I want to marry Mark , so I save all my little courage up for that and do n't waste any of it oppose the visit to Aunt Philippa .
I could n't understand Father 's point of view .
Of course , he hat old John Fenwick , who have once sue him for libel and win the case .
Father have write an indiscreet editorial in the excitement of a red-hot political contest -- and be make to understand that there be some thing you ca n't say of another man even at election time .
But then , he need not have hat Mark because of that ; Mark be not even bear when it happen .
Old John Fenwick be not much well pleased about Mark and me than Father be , though he do n't go to the length of forbid it ; he just act grumpily and disagreeably .
Things be unpleasant enough all round without a quarrel between Mark and me ; yet quarrel we do -- and over next to nothing , too , you understand .
And now I have to set out for Prince Edward Island without even see him , for he be away in Toronto on business .
* * * * * When my train reach Copely the next afternoon , Aunt Philippa be wait for me .
There be nobody else in sight , but I would have know her have there be a thousand .
Nobody but Aunt Philippa could have that determine mouth , those pierce grey eye , and that pronounce , unmistakable Goodwin nose .
And certainly nobody but Aunt Philippa would have come to meet me array in a wrapper of chocolate print with huge yellow rose scatter over it , and a striped blue-and-white apron !
She welcome me kindly but absent-mindedly , her thought evidently be concentrate on the problem of get my trunk home .
I have only the one , and in Montreal it have seem to be of moderate size ; but on the platform of Copely station , size up by Aunt Philippa 's merciless eye , it certainly look huge .
`` I think we could a-took it along tie on the back of the buggy , '' she say disapprovingly , `` but I guess we 'll have to leave it , and I 'll send the hired boy over for it tonight .
You can get along without it till then , I s ` pose ? ''
There be a fine irony in her tone .
I hasten to assure her meekly that I could , and that it do not matter if my trunk could not be take up till next day .
`` Oh , Jerry can come for it tonight as well a not , '' say Aunt Philippa , a we climb into her buggy .
`` I 'd a good notion to send him to meet you , for he be n't do much today , and I want to go to Mrs. Roderick MacAllister 's funeral .
But my head be ache me so bad I think I would n't enjoy the funeral if I do go .
My head be well now , so I kind of wish I have go .
She be a hundred and four year old and I 'd always promise myself that I 'd go to her funeral . ''
Aunt Philippa 's tone be melancholy .
She do not recover her good spirit until we be out on the pretty , grassy , elm-shaded country road , garland with it ribbon of buttercup .
Then she suddenly turn around and look me over scrutinizingly .
`` You 're not as good-looking a I expect from your picture , but them photograph always flatter .
That 's the reason I never have any take .
You 're rather thin and brown .
But you 've good eye and you look clever .
Your father writ me you have n't much sense , though .
He want me to teach you some , but it 's a thankless business .
People would rather be fool . ''
Aunt Philippa strike her steed smartly with the whip and control his resultant friskiness with admirable skill .
`` Well , you know it 's pleasanter , '' I say , wickedly .
`` Just think what a doleful world it would be if everybody be sensible . ''
Aunt Philippa look at me out of the corner of her eye and disdain any skirmish of flippant epigram .
`` So you want to get marry ? ''
she say .
`` You 'd better wait till you 're grow up . ''
`` How old must a person be before she be grow up ? ''
I ask gravely .
`` Humph !
That depend .
Some be grow up when they 're bear , and others ai n't grow up when they 're eighty .
That same Mrs. Roderick I be speak of never grow up .
She be a foolish when she be a hundred a when she be ten . ''
`` Perhaps that 's why she live so long , '' I suggest .
All thought of seek sympathy in Aunt Philippa have vanish .
I resolve I would not even mention Mark 's name .
`` Mebbe 't be , '' admit Aunt Philippa with a grim smile . ''
I 'd rather live fifty sensible year than a hundred foolish one . ''
Much to my relief , she make no further reference to my affair .
As we round a curve in the road where two great over-arching elm meet , a buggy wheel by u , occupy by a young man in clerical costume .
He have a pleasant boyish face , and he touch his hat courteously .
Aunt Philippa nod very frostily and give her horse a quite undeserved cut .
`` There 's a man you do n't want to have much to do with , '' she say portentously .
`` He 's a Methodist minister . ''
`` Why , Auntie , the Methodists be a very nice denomination , '' I protest .
`` My stepmother be a Methodist , you know . ''
`` No , I do n't know , but I 'd believe anything of a stepmother .
I 've no use for Methodists or their minister .
This fellow just come last spring , and it 's my opinion he smoke .
And he think every girl who look at him fall in love with him -- a if a Methodist minister be any prize !
Do n't you take much notice of him , Ursula . ''
`` I 'll not be likely to have the chance , '' I say , with an amused smile .
`` Oh , you 'll see enough of him .
He board at Mrs. John Callman 's , just across the road from u , and he 's always out sun himself on her verandah .
Never study , of course .
Last Sunday they say he preach on the iron that float .
If he 'd confine himself to the Bible and leave sensational subject alone it would be good for him and his poor congregation , and so I tell Mrs. John Callman to her face .
I should think she would have have enough of his sex by this time .
She marry John Callman against her father 's will , and he have delirious tremble for year .
That 's the men for you . ''
`` They 're not all like that , Aunt Philippa , '' I protest .
`` Most of 'em be .
See that house over there ?
Mrs. Jane Harrison live there .
Her husband take tantrum every few day or so and would n't get out of bed .
She have to do all the barn work till he 'd get over his spell .
That 's men for you .
When he die , people writ her letter of condolence but I just sot down and writ her one of congratulation .
There 's the Presbyterian manse in the hollow .
Mr. Bentwell 's our minister .
He 's a good man and he 'd be a rather nice one if he do n't think it be his duty to be a little miserable all the time .
He wo n't let his wife wear a fashionable hat , and his daughter ca n't fix her hair the way she want to .
Even be a minister ca n't prevent a man from be a crank .
Here 's Ebenezer Milgrave come .
You take a good look at him .
He use to be insane for year .
He believe he be dead and use to rage at his wife because she would n't bury him .
I 'd a-done it . ''
Aunt Philippa look so determinedly grim that I could almost see her with a spade in her hand .
I laugh aloud at the picture summon up .
`` Yes , it 's funny , but I guess his poor wife do n't find it very humorsome .
He 's be pretty sane for some year now , but you never can tell when he 'll break out again .
He 's get a brother , Albert Milgrave , who 's be married twice .
They say he be court his second wife while his first be die .
Let that be a it may , he use his first wife 's wed ring to marry the second .
That 's the men for you . ''
`` Do n't you know any good husband , Aunt Philippa ? ''
I ask desperately .
`` Oh , yes , lot of 'em -- over there , '' say Aunt Philippa sardonically , wave her whip in the direction of a little country graveyard on a distant hill .
`` Yes , but live -- walk about in the flesh ? ''
`` Precious few .
Now and again you 'll come across a man whose wife wo n't put up with any nonsense and he have to be respectable .
But the most of 'em be poor bargain -- poor bargain . ''
`` And be all the wife saint ? ''
I persist .
`` Laws , no , but they 're too good for the men , '' retort Aunt Philippa , a she turn in at her own gate .
Her house be close to the road and be paint such a vivid green that the landscape look fade by contrast .
Across the gable end of it be the legend , `` Philippa 's Farm , '' emblazon in huge black letter two foot long .
All it surroundings be very neat .
On the kitchen doorstep a patchwork cat be make a grave toilet .
The groundwork of the cat be white , and it spot be black , yellow , grey , and brown .
`` There 's Joseph , '' say Aunt Philippa .
`` I call him that because his coat be of many colour .
But I ai n't no lover of cat .
They 're too much like the men to suit me . ''
`` Cats have always be suppose to be peculiarly feminine , '' I say , descend . ''
'T be a man that suppose it , then , '' retort Aunt Philippa , beckon to her hired boy .
`` Here , Jerry , put Prince away .
Jerry 's a good sort of boy , '' she confide to me a we go into the house .
`` I have Jim Spencer last summer and the only good thing about him be his appetite .
I put up with him till harvest be in , and then one day my patience give out .
He upsot a churnful of cream in the back yard -- and be just as cool a a cowcumber over it -- laugh and say it be good for the land .
I tell him I be n't in the habit of fertilize my back yard with cream .
But that 's the men for you .
Come in .
I 'll have tea ready in no time .
I sot the table before I leave .
There 's lemon pie .
Mrs. John Cantwell send it over .
I never make lemon pie myself .
Ten year ago I take the prize for lemon pie at the county fair , and I 've never make any since for fear I 'd lose my reputation for them . ''
* * * * * The first month of my stay pass not unpleasantly .
The summer weather be delightful , and the sea air be certainly splendid .
Aunt Philippa 's little farm run right down to the shore , and I spend much of my time there .
There be also several family of cousin to be visit in the farmhouse that dot the pretty , seaward-sloping valley , and they come back to see me at `` Philippa 's Farm . ''
I pick spruce gum and berry and fern , and Aunt Philippa teach me to make butter .
It be all very idyllic -- or would have be if Mark have write .
But Mark do not write .
I suppose he must be very angry because I have run off to Prince Edward Island without so much a a note of goodbye .
But I have be so sure he would understand !
Aunt Philippa never make any further reference to the reason Father have send me to her , but she allow no day to pass without hold up to me some horrible example of matrimonial infelicity .
The number of unhappy wife who walk or drive past `` Philippa 's Farm '' every afternoon , a we sit on the verandah , be truly pitiable .
We always sit on the verandah in the afternoon , when we be not visit or be visit .
I make a pretence of fancy work , and Aunt Philippa spin diligently on a little old-fashioned spinning-wheel that have be her grandmother 's .
She always sit before the wood stand which hold her flower , and the gorgeous blot of geranium blossom and big green leaf furnish a pretty background .
She always wear her shapeless but clean print wrapper , and her iron-grey hair be always comb neatly down over her ear .
Joseph sit between u , sleep or purring .
She spin so expertly that she could keep a close watch on the road as well , and I get the biography of every individual who go by .
As for the poor young Methodist minister , who like to read or walk on the verandah of our neighbour 's house , Aunt Philippa never have a good word for him .
I have meet him once or twice socially and have like him .
I want to ask him to call but dare not -- Aunt Philippa have vow he should never enter her house .
`` If I be dead and he come to my funeral I 'd rise up and order him out , '' she say .
`` I think he make a very nice prayer at Mrs . Seaman 's funeral the other day , '' I say .
`` Oh , I 've no doubt he can pray .
I never hear anyone make more beautiful prayer than old Simon Kennedy down at the harbour , who be always drunk or hop to be -- and the drunker he be the good he pray .
It ai n't no matter how well a man pray if his preaching be n't right .
That Methodist man preach a lot of thing that ai n't true , and what 's bad they ai n't sound doctrine .
At least , that 's what I 've hear .
I never be in a Methodist church , thank goodness . ''
`` Do n't you think Methodists go to heaven as well a Presbyterians , Aunt Philippa ? ''
I ask gravely .
`` That ai n't for u to decide , '' say Aunt Philippa solemnly .
`` It 's in high hand than ours .
But I ai n't go to associate with them on earth , whatever I may have to do in heaven .
The folk round here mostly do n't make much difference and go to the Methodist church quite often .
But I say if you be a Presbyterian , be a Presbyterian .
Of course , if you ai n't , it do n't matter much what you do .
As for that minister man , he have a grand-uncle who be send to the penitentiary for embezzlement .
I find out that much . ''
And evidently Aunt Philippa have take an unholy joy in find it out .
`` I dare say some of our own ancestor deserve to go to the penitentiary , even if they never do , '' I remark .
`` Who be that woman drive past , Aunt Philippa ?
She must have be very pretty once . ''
`` She be -- and that be all the good it do her .
` Favour be deceitful and beauty be vain , ' Ursula .
She be Sarah Pyatt and she marry Fred Proctor .
He be one of your wicked , fascinate men .
After she marry him he give up be fascinate but he keep on be wicked .
That 's the men for you .
Her sister Flora be n't much lucky .
Her man be that domineer she could n't call her soul her own .
Finally he could n't get his own way over something and he just suicided by jump into the well .
A good riddance -- but of course the well be spoil .
Flora could never abide the thought of use it again , poor thing .
That 's men for you .
`` And there 's that old Enoch Allan on his way to the station .
He 's ninety if he 's a day .
You ca n't kill some folk with a meat axe .
His wife die twenty year ago .
He 'd be marry when he be twenty so they 'd live together for fifty year .
She be a faithful , hard-working creature and keep him out of the poorhouse , for he be a shiftless soul , not lazy , exactly , but just too fond of sit .
But he be n't grateful .
She have a kind of bitter tongue and they do use to fight scandalous .
O ' course it be all his fault .
Well , she die , and old Enoch and my father drive together to the graveyard .
Old Enoch be awful quiet all the way there and back , but just afore they get home , he say solemnly to Father : ` You may n't believe it , Henry , but this be the happy day of my life . '
That 's men for you .
His brother , Scotty Allan , be the mean man ever live in these part .
When his wife die she be bury with a little gold brooch in her collar unbeknownst to him .
When he find it out he go one night to the graveyard and open up the grave and the casket to get that brooch . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Philippa , that be a horrible story , '' I cry , recoil with a shiver over the gruesomeness of it . ''
` Course it be , but what would you expect of a man ? ''
retort Aunt Philippa .
Somehow , her story begin to affect me in spite of myself .
There be time when I felt very dreary .
Perhaps Aunt Philippa be right .
Perhaps men possess neither truth nor constancy .
Certainly Mark have forget me .
I be ashamed of myself because this hurt me so much , but I could not help it .
I grow pale and listless .
Aunt Philippa sometimes peer at me sharply , but she hold her peace .
I be grateful for this .
* * * * * But one day a letter do come from Mark .
I dare not read it until I be safely in my own room .
Then I open it with tremble finger .
The letter be a little stiff .
Evidently Mark be feel sore enough over thing .
He make no reference to our quarrel or to my sojourn in Prince Edward Island .
He write that his firm be send him to South Africa to take charge of their interest there .
He would leave in three week ' time and could not return for five year .
If I still care anything for him , would I meet him in Halifax , marry him , and go to South Africa with him ?
If I would not , he would understand that I have cease to love him and that all be over between u .
That , boil down , be the gist of Mark 's letter .
When I have read it I cast myself on the bed and weep out all the tear I have refuse to let myself shed during my week of exile .
For I could not do what Mark ask -- I could not .
I could n't run away to be marry in that desolate , unbefriended fashion .
It would be a disgrace .
I would feel ashamed of it all my life and be unhappy over it .
I think that Mark be rather unreasonable .
He know what my feeling about run-away marriage be .
And be it absolutely necessary for him to go to South Africa ?
Of course his father be behind it somewhere , but surely he could have get out of it if he have really try .
Well , if he go to South Africa he must go alone .
But my heart would break .
I cry the whole afternoon , cower among my pillow .
I never want to go out of that room again .
I never want to see anybody again .
I hat the thought of face Aunt Philippa with her cold eye and her miserable story that seem to strip life of all beauty and love of all reality .
I could hear her scornful , `` That 's the men for you , '' if she hear what be in Mark 's letter .
`` What be the matter , Ursula ? ''
Aunt Philippa be stand by my bed .
I be too abject to resent her come in without knocking .
`` Nothing , '' I say spiritlessly .
`` If you 've be cry for three mortal hour over nothing you want a good spanking and you 'll get it , '' observe Aunt Philippa placidly , sit down on my trunk .
`` Get right up off that bed this minute and tell me what the trouble be .
I 'm bound to know , for I 'm in your father 's place at present . ''
`` There , then ! ''
I fling her Mark 's letter .
There be n't anything in it that it be sacrilege to let another person see .
That be one reason why I have be cry .
Aunt Philippa read it over twice .
Then she fold it up deliberately and put it back in the envelope .
`` What be you go to do ? ''
she ask in a matter-of-fact tone .
`` I 'm not go to run away to be marry , '' I answer sullenly .
`` Well , no , I would n't advise you to , '' say Aunt Philippa reflectively .
`` It 's a kind of low-down thing to do , though there 's be a terrible lot of romantic nonsense talk and writ about elope .
It may be a painful necessity sometimes , but it ai n't in this case .
You write to your young man and tell him to come here and be marry respectable under my roof , same a a Goodwin ought to . ''
I sit up and star at Aunt Philippa .
I be so amazed that it be useless to try to express my amazement .
`` Aunt -- Philippa , '' I gasp .
`` I think -- I think -- '' `` You think I be a hard old customer , and so I be , '' say Aunt Philippa .
`` But I do n't take my opinion from your father nor anybody else .
It do n't prejudice me any against your young man that your father do n't like him .
I know your father of old .
I have some other friend in Montreal and I writ to them and ask them what he be like .
From what they say I judge he be decent enough a men go .
You 're too young to be marry , but if you let him go off to South Africa he 'll slip through your finger for sure , and I s ` pose you 're like some of the rest of u -- nobody 'll do you but the one .
So tell him to come here and be marry . ''
`` I do n't see how I can , '' I gasp .
`` I ca n't get ready to be marry in three week .
I ca n't -- '' `` I should think you have enough clothes in that trunk to do you for a spell , '' say Aunt Philippa sarcastically .
`` You 've more than my mother ever have in all her life .
We 'll get you a wed dress of some kind .
You can get it make in Charlottetown , if country dressmaker be n't good enough for you , and I 'll bake you a wed cake that 'll taste as good a anything you could get in Montreal , even if it wo n't look so stylish . ''
`` What will Father say ? ''
I question .
`` Lots o ' thing , '' concede Aunt Philippa grimly .
`` But I do n't see a it matter when neither you nor me 'll be there to have our feeling hurt .
I 'll write a few thing to your father .
He have n't get much sense .
He ought to be thankful to get a decent young man for his son-in-law in a world where most every man be a wolf in sheep 's clothing .
But that 's the men for you . ''
And that be Aunt Philippa for you .
For the next three week she be a blissfully excite , busy woman .
I be allow to choose the material and fashion of my wedding suit and hat myself , but almost everything else be settle by Aunt Philippa .
I do n't mind ; it be a relief to be rid of all responsibility ; I do protest when she declare her intention of have a big wedding and ask all the cousin and semi-cousins on the island , but Aunt Philippa sweep my objection lightly aside .
`` I 'm bound to have one good wedding in this house , '' she say .
`` Not likely I 'll ever have another chance . ''
She find time amid all the baking and concoct to warn me frequently not to take it too much to heart if Mark fail to come after all .
`` I know a man who jilt a girl on her wedding day .
That 's the men for you .
It 's best to be prepare . ''
But Mark do come , get there the evening before our wedding day .
And then a severe blow fell on Aunt Philippa .
Word come from the manse that Mr. Bentwell have be suddenly summon to Nova Scotia to his mother 's deathbed ; he have start that night .
`` That 's the men for you , '' say Aunt Philippa bitterly .
`` Never can depend on one of them , not even on a minister .
What 's to be do now ? ''
`` Get another minister , '' say Mark easily .
`` Where 'll you get him ? ''
demanded Aunt Philippa .
`` The minister at Cliftonville be away on his vacation , and Mercer be vacant , and that leave none nearer than town .
It wo n't do to depend on a town minister be able to come .
No , there 's no help for it .
You 'll have to have that Methodist man . ''
Aunt Philippa 's tone be tragic .
Plainly she think the ceremony would scarcely be legal if that Methodist man marry u .
But neither Mark nor I care .
We be too happy to be disturb by any such trifle .
The young Methodist minister marry u the next day in the presence of many beam guest .
Aunt Philippa , splendid in black silk and point-lace collar , neither of which lose a whit of dignity or lustre by be make ten year before , be composure itself while the ceremony be go on .
But no sooner have the minister pronounce u man and wife than she speak up .
`` Now that 's over I want someone to go right out and put out the fire on the kitchen roof .
It 's be on fire for the last ten minute . ''
Minister and bridegroom head the emergency brigade , and Aunt Philippa pump the water for them .
In a short time the fire be out , all be safe , and we be receive our deferred congratulation .
`` Now , young man , '' say Aunt Philippa solemnly a she shake hand with Mark , `` do n't you ever try to get out of this , even if a Methodist minister do marry you . ''
She insist on drive u to the train and say goodbye to u a we stand on the car step .
She have catch more of the shower of rice than I have , and a the day be hot and sunny she have tie over her head , atop of that festal silk dress , a huge , home-made , untrimmed straw hat .
But she do not look ridiculous .
There be a certain dignity about Aunt Philippa in any costume and under any circumstance .
`` Aunt Philippa , '' I say , `` tell me this : why have you help me to be marry ? ''
The train begin to move .
`` I refuse once to run away myself , and I 've repent it ever since . ''
Then , a the train gather speed and the distance between u widen , she shout after u , `` But I s ` pose if I have run away I 'd have repent of that too . ''
Bessie 's Doll Tommy Puffer , saunter up the street , stop to look at Miss Octavia 's geranium .
Tommy never could help stop to look at Miss Octavia 's flower , much a he hat Miss Octavia .
Today they be certainly worth look at .
Miss Octavia have set them all out on her verandah -- row upon row of them , overflow down the step in wave of blossom and colour .
Miss Octavia 's geranium be famous in Arundel , and she be very proud of them .
But it be her garden which be really the delight of her heart .
Miss Octavia always have the pretty garden in Arundel , especially as far a annual be concern .
Just now it be like faith -- the substance of thing hop for .
The poppy and nasturtium and balsam and morning glory and sweet pea have be sow in the brown bed on the lawn , but they have not yet begin to come up .
Tommy be still feast his eye on the geranium when Miss Octavia herself come around the corner of the house .
Her face darken the minute she saw Tommy .
Most people 's do .
Tommy have the reputation of be a very bad , mischievous boy ; he be certainly very poor and rag , and Miss Octavia disapprove of poverty and rag on principle .
Nobody , she argue , not even a boy of twelve , need be poor and ragged if he be willing to work .
`` Here , you , get away out of this , '' she say sharply .
`` I 'm not go to have you hang over my paling . ''
`` I ai n't hurt your old paling , '' retort Tommy sullenly .
`` I be jist a-looking at the flower . ''
`` Yes , and pick out the next one to throw a stone at , '' say Miss Octavia sarcastically .
`` It be you who throw that stone and break my big scarlet geranium clear off the other day . ''
`` It be n't -- I never chuck a stone at your flower , '' say Tommy .
`` Do n't tell me any falsehood , Tommy Puffer .
It be you .
Did n't I catch you firing stone at my cat a dozen time ? ''
`` I might have fire 'em at an old cat , but I would n't tech a flower , '' avow Tommy boldly -- brazenly , Miss Octavia think .
`` You clear out of this or I 'll make you , '' she say warningly .
Tommy have have his ear box by Miss Octavia more than once .
He have no desire to have the performance repeat , so he stick his tongue out at Miss Octavia and then march up the street with his hand in his pocket , whistle jauntily .
`` He 's the most impudent brat I ever saw in my life , '' mutter Miss Octavia wrathfully .
There be a stand feud between her and all the Arundel small boy , but Tommy be her special object of dislike .
Tommy 's heart be full of wrath and bitterness a he march away .
He hat Miss Octavia ; he wish something would happen to every one of her flower ; he know it be Ned Williams who have throw that stone , and he hop Ned would throw some more and smash all the flower .
So Tommy rag along the street until he come to Mr. Blacklock 's store , and in the window of it he saw something that put Miss Octavia and her disagreeable remark quite out of his tow-coloured head .
This be nothing more or less than a doll .
Now , Tommy be not a judge of doll and do not take much interest in them , but he felt quite sure that this be a very fine one .
It be so big ; it be beautifully dress in blue silk , with a ruffled blue silk hat ; it have lovely long golden hair and big brown eye and pink cheek ; and it stand right up in the showcase and hold out it hand winningly .
`` Gee , ai n't it a beauty ! ''
say Tommy admiringly .
`` It look ` sif it be alive , and it 's as big a a baby .
I must go an ' bring Bessie to see it . ''
Tommy at once hurry away to the shabby little street where what he call `` home '' be .
Tommy 's home be a very homeless-looking sort of place .
It be the small , dingy , most slatternly house on a street note for it dingy and slatternly house .
It be occupy by a slatternly mother and a drunken father , as well a by Tommy ; and neither the father nor the mother take much notice of Tommy except to scold or nag him .
So it be hardly to be wonder at if Tommy be the sort of boy who be frown upon by respectable citizen .
But one little white blossom of pure affection bloom in the arid desert of Tommy 's existence for all that .
In the precede fall a new family have come to Arundel and move into the tiny house next to the Puffers ' .
It be a small , dingy house , just like the others , but before long a great change take place in it .
The new family be thrifty , industrious folk , although they be very poor .
The little house be white-washed , the pal neatly mend , the bit of a yard clean of all it rubbish .
Muslin curtain appear in the window , and row of can , with blossoming plant , adorn the sill .
There be just three people in the Knox family -- a thin little mother , who go out scrubbing and take in washing , a boy of ten , who sell newspaper and run errand -- and Bessie .
Bessie be eight year old and walk with a crutch , but she be a smart little lassie and keep the house wonderfully neat and tidy while her mother be away .
The very first time she have see Tommy she have smile at him sweetly and say , `` Good morning . ''
From that moment Tommy be her devoted slave .
Nobody have ever speak like that to him before ; nobody have ever smile so at him .
Tommy would have give his useless little life for Bessie , and thenceforth the time he be not devise mischief he spend in bring little pleasure into her life .
It be Tommy 's delight to bring that smile to her pale little face and a look of pleasure into her big , patient blue eye .
The other boy on the street try to tease Bessie at first and shout `` Cripple ! ''
after her when she limp out .
But they soon stop it .
Tommy thrash them all one after another for it , and Bessie be leave in peace .
She would have have a very lonely life if it have not be for Tommy , for she could not play with the other child .
But Tommy be as good a a dozen playmate , and Bessie think him the best boy in the world .
Tommy , whatever he might be with others , be very careful to be good when he be with Bessie .
He never say a rude word in her hearing , and he treat her a if she be a little princess .
Miss Octavia would have be amaze beyond measure if she have see how tender and thoughtful and kind and chivalrous that neglect urchin of a Tommy could be when he try .
Tommy find Bessie sit by the kitchen window , look dreamily out of it .
For just a moment Tommy think uneasily that Bessie be look very pale and thin this spring .
`` Bessie , come for a walk up to Mr. Blacklock 's store , '' he say eagerly .
`` There be something there I want to show you . ''
`` What be it ? ''
Bessie want to know .
But Tommy only wink mysteriously .
`` Ah , I ai n't go to tell you .
But it 's something awful pretty .
Just you wait . ''
Bessie reach for her crutch and the two go up to the store , Tommy carefully suit his step to Bessie 's slow one .
Just before they reach the store he make her shut her eye and lead her to the window .
`` Now -- look ! ''
he command dramatically .
Bessie look and Tommy be reward .
She flush pinkly with delight and clasp her hand in ecstasy .
`` Oh , Tommy , be n't she perfectly beautiful ? ''
she breathe .
`` Oh , she 's the very lovely dolly I ever saw .
Oh , Tommy ! ''
`` I think you 'd like her , '' say Tommy exultantly .
`` Do n't you wish you have a doll like that of your very own , Bessie ? ''
Bessie look almost rebuke , a if Tommy have ask her if she would n't like a golden crown or a queen 's palace .
`` Of course I could never have a dolly like that , '' she say .
`` She must cost an awful lot .
But it 's enough just to look at her .
Tommy , will you bring me up here every day just to look at her ? '' ''
` Course , '' say Tommy .
Bessie talk about the blue-silk doll all the way home and dreamed of her every night .
`` I 'm go to call her Roselle Geraldine , '' she say .
After that she go up to see Roselle Geraldine every day , gaze at her for long moment in silent rapture .
Tommy almost grow jealous of her ; he think Bessie like the doll well than she do him .
`` But it do n't matter a bit if she do , '' he think loyally , crush down the jealousy .
`` If she like to like it good than me , it 's all right . ''
Sometimes , though , Tommy felt uneasy .
It be plain to be see that Bessie have set her heart on that doll .
And what would she do when the doll be sell , a would probably happen soon ?
Tommy think Bessie would feel awful sad , and he would be responsible for it .
What Tommy fear come to pass .
One afternoon , when they go up to Mr. Blacklock 's store , the doll be not in the window .
`` Oh , '' cry Bessie , burst into tear , `` she 's go -- Roselle Geraldine be go . ''
`` Perhaps she be n't sell , '' say Tommy comfortingly .
`` Maybe they only take her out of the window 'cause the blue silk would fade .
I 'll go in and ask . ''
A minute later Tommy come out look sober .
`` Yes , she 's sell , Bessie , '' he say .
`` Mr. Blacklock sell her to a lady yesterday .
Do n't cry , Bessie -- maybe they 'll put another in the window ` fore long . ''
`` It wo n't be mine , '' sob Bessie .
`` It wo n't be Roselle Geraldine .
It wo n't have a blue silk hat and such cunning brown eye . ''
Bessie cry quietly all the way home , and Tommy could not comfort her .
He wish he have never show her the doll in the window .
From that day Bessie droop , and Tommy watch her in agony .
She grow paler and thinner .
She be too tired to go out walking , and too tired to do the little household task she have delight in .
She never speak about Roselle Geraldine , but Tommy know she be fret about her .
Mrs. Knox could not think what ail the child .
`` She do n't take a bit of interest in nothing , '' she complain to Mrs. Puffer .
`` She do n't eat enough for a bird .
The doctor , he say there ai n't nothing the matter with her a he can find out , but she 's just pin away . ''
Tommy heard this , and a queer , big lump come up in his throat .
He have a horrible fear that he , Tommy Puffer , be go to cry .
To prevent it he begin to whistle loudly .
But the whistle be a failure , very unlike the real Tommy-whistle .
Bessie be sick -- and it be all his fault , Tommy believe .
If he have never take her to see that hateful , blue-silk doll , she would never have get so fond of it a to be break her heart because it be sell .
`` If I be only rich , '' say Tommy miserably , `` I 'd buy her a cartload of doll , all dress in blue silk and all with brown eye .
But I ca n't do nothing . ''
By this time Tommy have reach the paling in front of Miss Octavia 's lawn , and from force of habit he stop to look over it .
But there be not much to see this time , only the little green row and circle in the brown , well-weeded bed , and the long curve of dahlia plant , which Miss Octavia have set out a few day before .
All the geranium be carry in , and the blind be down .
Tommy know Miss Octavia be away .
He have see her depart on the train that morning , and hear her tell a friend that she be go down to Chelton to visit her brother 's folk and would n't be back until the next day .
Tommy be still lean moodily against the paling when Mrs. Jenkins and Mrs. Reid come by , and they too pause to look at the garden .
`` Dear me , how cold it be ! ''
shiver Mrs. Reid .
`` There 's go to be a hard frost tonight .
Octavia 's flower will be nip as sure a anything .
It 's a wonder she 'd stay away from them overnight when her heart 's so set on them . ''
`` Her brother 's wife be sick , '' say Mrs. Jenkins .
`` We have n't have any frost this spring , and I suppose Octavia never think of such a thing .
She 'll feel awful bad if her flower get frost , especially them dahlias .
Octavia set such store by her dahlia . ''
Mrs. Jenkins and Mrs. Reid move away , leave Tommy by the paling .
It be cold -- there be go to be a hard frost -- and Miss Octavia 's plant and flower would certainly be spoil .
Tommy think he ought to be glad , but he be n't .
He be sorry -- not for Miss Octavia , but for her flower .
Tommy have a queer , passionate love for flower in his twisted little soul .
It be a shame that they should be nip -- that all the glory of crimson and purple and gold hide away in those little green row and circle should never have a chance to blossom out royally .
Tommy could never have put this thought into word , but it be there in his heart .
He wish he could save the flower .
And could n't he ?
Newspapers spread over the bed and tie around the dahlia would save them , Tommy know .
He have see Miss Octavia do it other spring .
And he know there be a big box of newspaper in a little shed in her backyard .
Ned Williams have tell him there be , and that the shed be never lock .
Tommy hurry home as quickly a he could and get a ball of twine out of his few treasure .
Then he go back to Miss Octavia 's garden .
The next forenoon Miss Octavia get off the train at the Arundel station with a very grim face .
There have be an unusually severe frost for the time of year .
All along the road Miss Octavia have see garden frost and spoil .
She know what she should see when she get to her own -- the dahlia stalk droop and black and limp , the nasturtium and balsam and poppy and pansy all wither and ruin .
But she do n't .
Instead she saw every dahlia carefully tie up in a newspaper , and over all the bed newspaper spread out and hold neatly in place with pebble .
Miss Octavia fly into her garden with a radiant face .
Everything be safe -- nothing be spoil .
But who could have do it ?
Miss Octavia be puzzle .
On one side of her lived Mrs. Kennedy , who have just move in and , be a total stranger , would not be likely to think of Miss Octavia 's flower .
On the other live Miss Matheson , who be a `` shut-in '' and spend all her time on the sofa .
But to Miss Matheson Miss Octavia go .
`` Rachel , do you know who cover my plant up last night ? ''
Miss Matheson nod .
`` Yes , it be Tommy Puffer .
I saw him work away there with paper and twine .
I think you 'd tell him to do it . ''
`` For the land 's sake ! ''
ejaculate Miss Octavia .
`` Tommy Puffer !
Well , wonder will never cease . ''
Miss Octavia go back to her house feeling rather ashamed of herself when she remember how she have always treat Tommy Puffer .
`` But there must be some good in the child , or he would n't have do this , '' she say to herself .
`` I 've be real mean , but I 'll make it up to him . ''
Miss Octavia do not see Tommy that day , but when he pass the next morning she run to the door and call him .
`` Tommy , Tommy Puffer , come in here ! ''
Tommy come reluctantly .
He do n't like Miss Octavia any good than he have , and he do n't know what she want of him .
But Miss Octavia soon inform him without loss of word .
`` Tommy , Miss Matheson tell me that it be you who save my flower from the frost the other night .
I 'm very much oblige to you indeed .
Whatever make you think of do it ? ''
`` I hat to see the flower spoil , '' mutter Tommy , who be feel more uncomfortable than he have ever felt in his life .
`` Well , it be real thoughtful of you .
I 'm sorry I 've be so hard on you , Tommy , and I believe now you do n't break my scarlet geranium .
Is there anything I can do for you -- anything you 'd like to have ?
If it 's in reason I 'll get it for you , just to pay my debt . ''
Tommy star at Miss Octavia with a sudden hopeful inspiration .
`` Oh , Miss Octavia , '' he cry eagerly , `` will you buy a doll and give it to me ? ''
`` Well , for the land 's sake ! ''
ejaculate Miss Octavia , unable to believe her ear .
`` A doll !
What on earth do you want of a doll ? ''
`` It 's for Bessie , '' say Tommy eagerly .
`` You see , it 's this way . ''
Then Tommy tell Miss Octavia the whole story .
Miss Octavia listen silently , sometimes nod her head .
When he have finish she go out of the room and soon return , bring with her the very identical doll that have be in Mr. Blacklock 's window .
`` I guess this be the doll , '' she say .
`` I buy it to give to a small niece of mine , but I can get another for her .
You may take this to Bessie . ''
It would be of no use to try to describe Bessie 's joy when Tommy rush in and put Roselle Geraldine in her arm with a breathless account of the wonderful story .
But from that moment Bessie begin to pick up again , and soon she be good than she have ever be and the happy little lassie in Arundel .
When a week have pass , Miss Octavia again call Tommy in ; Tommy go more willingly this time .
He have begin to like Miss Octavia .
That lady look him over sharply and somewhat dubiously .
He be certainly very ragged and unkempt .
But Miss Octavia saw what she have never notice before -- that Tommy 's eye be bright and frank , that Tommy 's chin be a good chin , and that Tommy 's smile have something very pleasant about it .
`` You 're fond of flower , be n't you , Tommy ? ''
she ask .
`` You bet , '' be Tommy 's inelegant but heartfelt answer .
`` Well , '' say Miss Octavia slowly , `` I have a brother down at Chelton who be a florist .
He want a boy of your age to do handy job and run errand about his establishment , and he want one who be fond of flower and would like to learn the business .
He ask me to recommend him one , and I promise to look out for a suitable boy .
Would you like the place , Tommy ?
And will you promise to be a very good boy and learn to be respectable if I ask my brother to give you a trial and a chance to make something of yourself ? ''
`` Oh , Miss Octavia ! ''
gasp Tommy .
He wonder if he be simply have a beautiful dream .
But it be no dream .
And it be all arrange later on .
No one rejoice more heartily in Tommy 's success than Bessie .
`` But I 'll miss you dreadfully , Tommy , '' she say wistfully .
`` Oh , I 'll be home every Saturday night , and we 'll have Sunday together , except when I 've get to go to Sunday school .
'Cause Miss Octavia say I must , '' say Tommy comfortingly .
`` And the rest of the time you 'll have Roselle Geraldine . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' say Bessie , give the blue-silk doll a fond kiss , `` and she 's just lovely .
But she ai n't as nice a you , Tommy , for all . ''
Then be Tommy 's cup of happiness full .
Charlotte 's Ladies Just as soon a dinner be over at the asylum , Charlotte speed away to the gap in the fence -- the northwest corner gap .
There be a gap in the southeast corner , too -- the asylum fence be in a rather poor condition -- but the southeast gap be interest only after tea , and it be never at any time quite as interesting a the northwest gap .
Charlotte run as fast a her leg could carry her , for she do not want any of the other orphan to see her .
As a rule , Charlotte like the company of the other orphan and be a favourite with them .
But , somehow , she do not want them to know about the gap .
She be sure they would not understand .
Charlotte have discover the gap only a week before .
They have not be there in the autumn , but the snowdrift have lie heavily against the fence all winter , and one spring day when Charlotte be creep through the shrubbery in the northwest corner in search of the little yellow daffodil that always grow there in spring , she find a delightful space where a board have fall off , whence she could look out on a bit of woodsy road with a little footpath wind along by the fence under the widespreading bough of the asylum tree .
Charlotte felt a wild impulse to slip out and run fast and far down that lovely , sunny , tempting , fenceless road .
But that would have be wrong , for it be against the asylum rule , and Charlotte , though she hat most of the asylum rule with all her heart , never disobey or break them .
So she subdue the vagrant longing with a sigh and sit down among the daffodil to peer wistfully out of the gap and feast her eye on this glimpse of a world where there be no brick wall and prim walk and never-varying rule .
Then , a Charlotte watch , the Pretty Lady with the Blue Eyes come along the footpath .
Charlotte have never see her before and have n't the slight idea in the world who she be , but that be what she call her as soon a she saw her .
The lady be so pretty , with lovely blue eye that be very sad , although somehow a you look at them you felt that they ought to be laugh , merry eye instead .
At least Charlotte think so and wish at once that she know how to make them laugh .
Besides , the Lady have lovely golden hair and the most beautiful pink cheek , and Charlotte , who have mouse-coloured hair and any number of freckle , have an unbounded admiration for golden lock and roseleaf complexion .
The Lady be dress in black , which Charlotte do n't like , principally because the matron of the asylum wear black and Charlotte do n't -- exactly -- like the matron .
When the Pretty Lady with the Blue Eyes have go by , Charlotte draw a long breath .
`` If I could pick out a mother I 'd pick out one that look just like her , '' she say .
Nice thing sometimes happen close together , even in an orphan asylum , and that very evening Charlotte discover the southeast gap and find herself peer into the most beautiful garden you could imagine , a garden where daffodil and tulip grow in great ribbon-like bed , and there be hedge of white and purple lilac , and wind path under blossom tree .
It be such a garden a Charlotte have picture in happy dream and never expect to see in real life .
And yet here it have be all the time , divide from her only by a high board fence .
`` I would n't have s ` pose there could be such a lovely place so near an orphan asylum , '' muse Charlotte .
`` It 's the very lovely place I ever saw .
Oh , I do wish I could go and walk in it .
Well , I do declare !
If there be n't a lady in it , too ! ''
Sure enough , there be a lady , help an unruly young vine to run in the way it should go over a little arbour .
Charlotte instantly name her the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes .
She be not nearly so young or so pretty a the Lady with the Blue Eyes , but she look very kind and jolly .
I 'd like her for an aunt , reflect Charlotte .
Not for a mother -- oh , no , not for a mother , but for an aunt .
I know she 'd make a splendid aunt .
And , oh , just look at her cat !
Charlotte look at the cat with all her might and main .
She love cat , but cat be not allow in an orphan asylum , although Charlotte sometimes wonder if there be no orphan kitten in the world which would be appropriate for such an institution .
The Tall Lady 's cat be so big and furry , with a splendid tail and elegant stripe .
A Very Handsome Cat , Charlotte call him mentally , see the capital as plainly a if they have be print out .
Charlotte 's finger tingle to stroke his glossy coat , but she fold them sternly together .
`` You know you ca n't , '' she say to herself reproachfully , `` so what be the use of want to , Charlotte Turner ?
You ought to be thankful just to see the garden and the Very Handsome Cat . ''
Charlotte watch the Tall Lady and the Cat until they go away into a fine , big house far up the garden , then she sigh and go back through the cherry tree to the asylum playground , where the other orphan be play game .
But , somehow , game have lose their flavour compare with those fascinating gap .
It do not take Charlotte long to discover that the Pretty Lady always walk past the northwest gap about one o'clock every day and never at any other time -- at least at no other time when Charlotte be free to watch her ; and that the Tall Lady be almost always in her garden at five in the afternoon , accompany by the Very Handsome Cat , prune and trim some of her flower .
Charlotte never miss be at the gap at the proper time , if she could possibly manage it , and her heart be full of dream about her two Ladies .
But the other orphan think all the fun have go out of her , and the matron notice her absent-mindedness and dose her with sulphur and molasses for it .
Charlotte take the dose meekly , a she take everything else .
It be all part and parcel with be an orphan in an asylum .
`` But if the Pretty Lady with the Blue Eyes be my mother , she would n't make me swallow such dreadful stuff , '' sigh Charlotte .
`` I do n't believe even the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes would -- though perhaps she might , aunt not be quite as good a mother . ''
`` Do you know , '' say Maggie Brunt , come up to Charlotte at this moment , `` that Lizzie Parker be go to be adopt ?
A lady be go to adopt her . ''
`` Oh ! ''
cry Charlotte breathlessly .
An adoption be always a wonderful event in the asylum , as well a a somewhat rare one .
`` Oh , how splendid ! ''
`` Yes , be n't it ? ''
say Maggie enviously .
`` She pick out Lizzie because she be pretty and have curl .
I do n't think it be fair . ''
Charlotte sigh .
`` Nobody will ever want to adopt me , because I 've mousy hair and freckle , '' she say .
`` But somebody may want you some day , Maggie .
You have such lovely black hair . ''
`` But it be n't curly , '' say Maggie forlornly .
`` And the matron wo n't let me put it up in curl paper at night .
I just wish I be Lizzie . ''
Charlotte shake her head .
`` I do n't .
I 'd love to be adopt , but I would n't really like to be anybody but myself , even if I be homely .
It 's good to be yourself with mousy hair and freckle than somebody else who be ever so beautiful .
But I do envy Lizzie , though the matron say it be wicked to envy anyone . ''
Envy of the fortunate Lizzie do not long possess Charlotte 's mind , however , for that very day a wonderful thing happen at noon hour by the northwest gap .
Charlotte have always be very careful not to let the Pretty Lady see her , but today , after the Pretty Lady have go past , Charlotte lean out of the gap to watch her as far a she could .
And just at that very moment the Pretty Lady look back ; and there , peer at her from the asylum fence , be a little scrap of a girl , with mouse-coloured hair and big freckle , and the sweet , bright , most winsome little face the Pretty Lady have ever see .
The Pretty Lady smile right down at Charlotte and for just a moment her eye look a Charlotte have always know they ought to look .
Charlotte be feel rather frighten down in her heart but she smile bravely back .
`` Are you think of run away ? ''
say the Pretty Lady , and , oh , what a sweet voice she have -- sweet and tender , just like a mother 's voice ought to be !
`` No , '' say Charlotte , shake her head gravely .
`` I should like to run away but it would be of no use , because there be no place to run to . ''
`` Why would you like to run away ? ''
ask the Pretty Lady , still smile .
`` Do n't you like live here ? ''
Charlotte open her big eye very widely .
`` Why , it 's an orphan asylum ! ''
she exclaim .
`` Nobody could like live in an orphan asylum .
But , of course , orphan should be very thankful to have any place to live in and I be thankful .
I 'd be thankfuller still if the matron would n't make me take sulphur and molasses .
If you have a little girl , would you make her take sulphur and molasses ? ''
`` I do n't when I have a little girl , '' say the Pretty Lady wistfully , and her eye be sad again .
`` Oh , do you really have a little girl once ? ''
ask Charlotte softly .
`` Yes , and she die , '' say the Pretty Lady in a trembling voice .
`` Oh , I be sorry , '' say Charlotte , more softly still .
`` Did she -- do she have lovely golden hair and pink cheek like yours ? ''
`` No , '' the Pretty Lady smile again , though it be a very sad smile .
`` No , she have mouse-coloured hair and freckle . ''
`` Oh !
And be n't you sorry ? ''
`` No , I be glad of it , because it make her look like her father .
I 've always love little girl with mouse-coloured hair and freckle ever since .
Well , I must hurry along .
I 'm late now , and school have a dreadful habit of go in sharp on time .
If you should happen to be here tomorrow , I 'm go to stop and ask your name . ''
Of course Charlotte be at the gap the next day and they have a lovely talk .
In a week they be the best of friend .
Charlotte soon find out that she could make the Pretty Lady 's eye look a they ought to for a little while at least , and she spend all her spare time and lay awake at night devise speech to make the Pretty Lady laugh .
Then another wonderful thing happen .
One evening when Charlotte go to the southeast gap , the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes be not in the garden -- at least , Charlotte think she be n't .
But the Very Handsome Cat be , sit gravely under a syringa bush and look quite proud of himself for be a cat .
`` You Very Handsome Cat , '' say Charlotte , `` wo n't you come here and let me stroke you ? ''
The Very Handsome Cat do come , just a if he understand English , and he purr with delight when Charlotte take him in her arm and bury her face in his fur .
Then -- Charlotte think she would really sink into the ground , for the Tall Lady herself come around a lilac bush and stand before the gap .
`` Please , ma'am , '' stammer Charlotte in an agony of embarrassment , `` I be n't mean to do any harm to your Very Handsome Cat .
I just want to pat him .
I -- I be very fond of cat and they be not allow in orphan asylum . ''
`` I 've always think asylum be n't run on proper principle , '' say the Tall Lady briskly .
`` Bless your heart , child , do n't look so scared .
You 're welcome to pat the cat all you like .
Come in and I 'll give you some flower . ''
`` Thank you , but I be not allow to go off the ground , '' say Charlotte firmly , `` and I think I 'd rather not have any flower because the matron might want to know where I get them , and then she would have this gap close up .
I live in mortal dread for fear it will be close anyhow .
It 's very uncomfortable -- living in mortal dread . ''
The Tall Lady laugh a very jolly laugh .
`` Yes , I should think it would be , '' she agree .
`` I have n't have that experience . ''
Then they have a jolly talk , and every evening after that Charlotte go to the gap and stroke the Very Handsome Cat and chat to the Tall Lady .
`` Do you live all alone in that big house ? ''
she ask wonderingly one day .
`` All alone , '' say the Tall Lady .
`` Did you always live alone ? ''
`` No .
I have a sister living with me once .
But I do n't want to talk about her .
You 'll oblige me , Charlotte , by not talk about her . ''
`` I wo n't then , '' agree Charlotte .
`` I can understand why people do n't like to have their sister talk about sometimes .
Lily Mitchell have a big sister who be send to jail for steal .
Of course Lily do n't like to talk about her . ''
The Tall Lady laugh a little bitterly .
`` My sister do n't steal .
She marry a man I detest , that 's all . ''
`` Did he drink ? ''
ask Charlotte gravely .
`` The matron 's husband drank and that be why she leave him and take to run an orphan asylum .
I think I 'd rather put up with a drunken husband than live in an orphan asylum . ''
`` My sister 's husband do n't drink , '' say the Tall Lady grimly .
`` He be beneath her , that be all .
I tell her I 'd never forgive her and I never shall .
He 's dead now -- he die a year after she marry him -- and she 's work for her living .
I dare say she do n't find it very pleasant .
She be n't bring up to that .
Here , Charlotte , be a turnover for you .
I make it on purpose for you .
Eat it and tell me if you do n't think I 'm a good cook .
I 'm die for a compliment .
I never get any now that I 've get old .
It 's a dismal thing to get old and have nobody to love you except a cat , Charlotte . ''
`` I think it be just as bad to be young and have nobody to love you , not even a cat , '' sigh Charlotte , enjoy the turnover , nevertheless .
`` I dare say it be , '' agree the Tall Lady , look a if she have be strike by a new and rather startling idea .
* * * * * I like the tall lady with the Black Eyes ever so much , think Charlotte that night a she lay in bed , but I love the Pretty Lady .
I have more fun with the Tall Lady and the Very Handsome Cat , but I always feel nicer with the Pretty Lady .
Oh , I 'm so glad her little girl have mouse-coloured hair .
Then the most wonderful thing of all happen .
One day a week later the Pretty Lady say , `` Would you like to come and live with me , Charlotte ? ''
Charlotte look at her .
`` Are you in earnest ? ''
she ask in a whisper .
`` Indeed I be .
I want you for my little girl , and if you 'd like to come , you shall .
I 'm poor , Charlotte , really , I 'm dreadfully poor , but I can make my salary stretch far enough for two , and we 'll love each other enough to cover the thin spot .
Will you come ? ''
`` Well , I should just think I will ! ''
say Charlotte emphatically .
`` Oh , I wish I be sure I 'm not dream .
I do love you so much , and it will be so delightful to be your little girl . ''
`` Very well , sweetheart .
I 'll come tomorrow afternoon -- it be Saturday , so I 'll have the whole bless day off -- and see the matron about it .
Oh , we 'll have lovely time together , dear .
I only wish I 'd discover you long ago . ''
Charlotte may have eat and study and play and keep rule the rest of that day and part of the next , but , if so , she have no recollection of it .
She go about like a girl in a dream , and the matron conclude that something more than sulphur and molasses be need and decide to speak to the doctor about her .
But she never do , because a lady come that afternoon and tell her she want to adopt Charlotte .
Charlotte obey the summons to the matron 's room in a tingle of excitement .
But when she go in , she saw only the matron and the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes .
Before Charlotte could look around for the Pretty Lady the matron say , `` Charlotte , this lady , Miss Herbert , wish to adopt you .
It be a splendid thing for you , and you ought to be a very thankful little girl . ''
Charlotte 's head fairly whirl .
She clasp her hand and the tear brim up in her eye .
`` Oh , I like the Tall Lady , '' she gasp , `` but I love the Pretty Lady and I promise her I 'd be her little girl .
I ca n't break my promise . ''
`` What on earth be the child talk about ? ''
say the mystified matron .
And just then the maid show in the Pretty Lady .
Charlotte fly to her and fling her arm about her .
`` Oh , tell them I be your little girl ! ''
she beg .
`` Tell them I promise you first .
I do n't want to hurt the Tall Lady 's feeling because I truly do like her so very much .
But I want to be your little girl . ''
The Pretty Lady have give one glance at the Tall Lady and flush red .
The Tall Lady , on the contrary , have grow very pale .
The matron felt uncomfortable .
Everybody know that Miss Herbert and Mrs . Bond have n't speak to each other for year , even if they be sister and alone in the world except for each other .
Mrs . Bond turn to the matron .
`` I have come to ask permission to adopt this little girl , '' she say .
`` Oh , I 'm very sorry , '' stammer the matron , `` but Miss Herbert have just ask for her , and I have consent . ''
Charlotte give a great gulp of disappointment , but the Pretty Lady suddenly wheel around to face the Tall Lady , with quiver lip and tearful eye .
`` Do n't take her from me , Alma , '' she plead humbly .
`` She -- she be so like my own baby and I 'm so lonely .
Any other child will suit you as well . ''
`` Not at all , '' say the Tall Lady brusquely .
`` Not at all , Anna .
No other child will suit me at all .
And may I ask what you intend to keep her on ?
I know your salary be barely enough for yourself . ''
`` That be my concern , '' say the Pretty Lady a little proudly .
`` Humph ! ''
The Tall Lady shrug her shoulder .
`` Just as independent a ever , Anna , I see .
Well , child , what do you say ?
Which of u will you come with ?
Remember , I have the cat on my side , and Anna ca n't make half a good turnover a I can .
Remember all this , Charlotte . ''
`` Oh , I -- I like you so much , '' stammer Charlotte , `` and I wish I could live with you both .
But since I ca n't , I must go with the Pretty Lady , because I promise , and because I love her first . ''
`` And best ? ''
query the Tall Lady .
`` And best , '' admit Charlotte , bound to be truthful , even at the risk of hurt the Tall Lady 's feeling .
`` But I do like you , too -- next best .
And you really do n't need me as much a she do , for you have your Very Handsome Cat and she have n't anything . ''
`` A cat no longer satisfy the ache void in my soul , '' say the Tall Lady stubbornly .
`` Nothing will satisfy it but a little girl with mouse-coloured hair and freckle .
No , Anna , I 've get to have Charlotte .
But I think that with her usual astuteness , she have already solve the problem for u by say she 'd like to live with u both .
Why ca n't she ?
You just come back home and we 'll let bygone be bygone .
We both have something to forgive , but I be an obstinate old fool and I 've know it for year , though I never confess it to anybody but the cat . ''
The Pretty Lady soften , tremble , smile .
She go right up to the Tall Lady and put her arm about her neck .
`` Oh , I 've want so much to be friend with you again , '' she sob .
`` But I think you would never relent -- and -- and -- I 've be so lonely -- '' `` There , there , '' whisper the Tall Lady , `` do n't cry under the matron 's eye .
Wait till we get home .
I may have some cry to do myself then .
Charlotte , go and get your hat and come right over with u .
We can sign the necessary paper later on , but we must have you right off .
The cat be wait for you on the back porch , and there be a turnover cool on the pantry window that be just your size . ''
`` I be so happy , '' remark Charlotte , `` that I feel like cry myself . ''
Christmas at Red Butte `` Of course Santa Claus will come , '' say Jimmy Martin confidently .
Jimmy be ten , and at ten it be easy to be confident .
`` Why , he 's get to come because it be Christmas Eve , and he always have come .
You know that , twin . ''
Yes , the twin know it and , cheer by Jimmy 's superior wisdom , their doubt pass away .
There have be one terrible moment when Theodora have sigh and tell them they must n't be too much disappointed if Santa Claus do not come this year because the crop have be poor , and he might n't have have enough present to go around .
`` That do n't make any difference to Santa Claus , '' scoff Jimmy .
`` You know as well a I do , Theodora Prentice , that Santa Claus be rich whether the crop fail or not .
They fail three year ago , before Father die , but Santa Claus come all the same .
Prob ` bly you do n't remember it , twin , 'cause you be too little , but I do .
Of course he 'll come , so do n't you worry a mite .
And he 'll bring my skate and your doll .
He know we 're expect them , Theodora , 'cause we write him a letter last week , and throw it up the chimney .
And there 'll be candy and nut , of course , and Mother 's go to town to buy a turkey .
I tell you we 're go to have a ripping Christmas . ''
`` Well , do n't use such slangy word about it , Jimmy-boy , '' sigh Theodora .
She could n't bear to dampen their hope any further , and perhaps Aunt Elizabeth might manage it if the colt sell well .
But Theodora have her painful doubt , and she sigh again a she look out of the window far down the trail that wind across the prairie , red-lighted by the decline sun of the short wintry afternoon .
`` Do people always sigh like that when they get to be sixteen ? ''
ask Jimmy curiously .
`` You do n't sigh like that when you be only fifteen , Theodora .
I wish you would n't .
It make me feel funny -- and it 's not a nice kind of funniness either . ''
`` It 's a bad habit I 've get into lately , '' say Theodora , try to laugh .
`` Old folk be dull sometimes , you know , Jimmy-boy . ''
`` Sixteen be awful old , be n't it ? ''
say Jimmy reflectively .
`` I 'll tell you what I 'm go to do when I 'm sixteen , Theodora .
I 'm go to pay off the mortgage , and buy mother a silk dress , and a piano for the twin .
Wo n't that be elegant ?
I 'll be able to do that 'cause I 'm a man .
Of course if I be only a girl I could n't . ''
`` I hope you 'll be a good kind brave man and a real help to your mother , '' say Theodora softly , sit down before the cosy fire and lift the fat little twin into her lap .
`` Oh , I 'll be good to her , never you fear , '' assure Jimmy , squat comfortably down on the little fur rug before the stove -- the skin of the coyote his father have kill four year ago .
`` I believe in be good to your mother when you 've only get the one .
Now tell u a story , Theodora -- a real jolly story , you know , with lot of fight in it .
Only please do n't kill anybody .
I like to hear about fighting , but I like to have all the people come out alive . ''
Theodora laugh , and begin a story about the Riel Rebellion of ' 85 -- a story which have the double merit of be true and excite at the same time .
It be quite dark when she finish , and the twin be nodding , but Jimmy 's eye be wide open and sparkling .
`` That be great , '' he say , draw a long breath .
`` Tell u another . ''
`` No , it 's bedtime for you all , '' say Theodora firmly .
`` One story at a time be my rule , you know . ''
`` But I want to sit up till Mother come home , '' object Jimmy .
`` You ca n't .
She may be very late , for she would have to wait to see Mr. Porter .
Besides , you do n't know what time Santa Claus might come -- if he come at all .
If he be to drive along and see you child up instead of be sound asleep in bed , he might go right on and never call at all . ''
This argument be too much for Jimmy .
`` All right , we 'll go .
But we have to hang up our stocking first .
Twins , get yours . ''
The twin toddle off in great excitement , and bring back their Sunday stocking , which Jimmy proceed to hang along the edge of the mantel shelf .
This do , they all troop obediently off to bed .
Theodora give another sigh , and seat herself at the window , where she could watch the moonlit prairie for Mrs. Martin 's homecoming and knit at the same time .
I be afraid that you will think from all the sigh Theodora be do that she be a very melancholy and despondent young lady .
You could n't think anything more unlike the real Theodora .
She be the jolly , brave girl of sixteen in all Saskatchewan , a her shin brown eye and rosy , dimpled cheek would have tell you ; and her sigh be not on her own account , but simply for fear the child be go to be disappoint .
She know that they would be almost heartbroken if Santa Claus do not come , and that this would hurt the patient hardworking little mother more than all else .
Five year before this , Theodora have come to live with Uncle George and Aunt Elizabeth in the little log house at Red Butte .
Her own mother have just die , and Theodora have only her big brother Donald leave , and Donald have Klondike fever .
The Martins be poor , but they have gladly make room for their little niece , and Theodora have live there ever since , her aunt 's right-hand girl and the beloved playmate of the child .
They have be very happy until Uncle George 's death two year before this Christmas Eve ; but since then there have be hard time in the little log house , and though Mrs. Martin and Theodora do their best , it be a woefully hard task to make both end meet , especially this year when their crop have be poor .
Theodora and her aunt have make every sacrifice possible for the child 's sake , and at least Jimmy and the twin have not felt the pinch very severely yet .
At seven Mrs. Martins bell jingle at the door and Theodora fly out .
`` Go right in and get warm , Auntie , '' she say briskly .
`` I 'll take Ned away and unharness him . ''
`` It 's a bitterly cold night , '' say Mrs. Martin wearily .
There be a note of discouragement in her voice that strike dismay to Theodora 's heart .
`` I 'm afraid it mean no Christmas for the child tomorrow , '' she think sadly , a she lead Ned away to the stable .
When she return to the kitchen Mrs. Martin be sit by the fire , her face in her chilled hand , sob convulsively .
`` Auntie -- oh , Auntie , do n't ! ''
exclaim Theodora impulsively .
It be such a rare thing to see her plucky , resolute little aunt in tear .
`` You 're cold and tired -- I 'll have a nice cup of tea for you in a trice . ''
`` No , it be n't that , '' say Mrs. Martin brokenly `` It be see those stocking hang there .
Theodora , I could n't get a thing for the child -- not a single thing .
Mr. Porter would only give forty dollar for the colt , and when all the bill be pay there be barely enough left for such necessary a we must have .
I suppose I ought to feel thankful I could get those .
But the thought of the child 's disappointment tomorrow be more than I can bear .
It would have be good to have tell them long ago , but I keep build on get more for the colt .
Well , it 's weak and foolish to give way like this .
We 'd better both take a cup of tea and go to bed .
It will save fuel . ''
When Theodora go up to her little room her face be very thoughtful .
She take a small box from her table and carry it to the window .
In it be a very pretty little gold locket hung on a narrow blue ribbon .
Theodora hold it tenderly in her finger , and look out over the moonlit prairie with a very sober face .
Could she give up her dear locket -- the locket Donald have give her just before he start for the Klondike ?
She have never think she could do such a thing .
It be almost the only thing she have to remind her of Donald -- handsome , merry , impulsive , warmhearted Donald , who have go away four year ago with a smile on his bonny face and splendid hope in his heart .
`` Here 's a locket for you , Gift o ' God , '' he have say gaily -- he have such a dear loving habit of call her by the beautiful meaning of her name .
A lump come into Theodora 's throat a she remember it .
`` I could n't afford a chain too , but when I come back I 'll bring you a rope of Klondike nugget for it . ''
Then he have go away .
For two year letter have come from him regularly .
Then he write that he have join a prospect party to a remote wilderness .
After that be silence , deepen into anguish of suspense that finally end in hopelessness .
A rumour come that Donald Prentice be dead .
None have return from the expedition he have join .
Theodora have long ago give up all hope of ever see Donald again .
Hence her locket be doubly dear to her .
But Aunt Elizabeth have always be so good and loving and kind to her .
Could she not make the sacrifice for her sake ?
Yes , she could and would .
Theodora fling up her head with a gesture that meant decision .
She take out of the locket the bit of hair -- her mother 's and Donald 's -- which it contain -LRB- perhaps a tear or two fell a she do so -RRB- and then hastily don her warm cap and wrap .
It be only three mile to Spencer ; she could easily walk it in an hour and , a it be Christmas Eve , the shop would be open late .
She muse walk , for Ned could not be take out again , and the mare 's foot be sore .
Besides , Aunt Elizabeth must not know until it be do .
As stealthily a if she be bind on some nefarious errand , Theodora slip downstairs and out of the house .
The next minute she be hurry along the trail in the moonlight .
The great dazzling prairie be around her , the mystery and splendour of the northern night all about her .
It be very calm and cold , but Theodora walk so briskly that she keep warm .
The trail from Red Butte to Spencer be a lonely one .
Mr. Lurgan 's house , halfway to town , be the only dwelling on it .
When Theodora reach Spencer she make her way at once to the only jewellery store the little town contain .
Mr. Benson , it owner , have be a friend of her uncle 's , and Theodora felt sure that he would buy her locket .
Nevertheless her heart beat quickly , and her breath come and go uncomfortably fast a she go in .
Suppose he would n't buy it .
Then there would be no Christmas for the child at Red Butte .
`` Good evening , Miss Theodora , '' say Mr. Benson briskly .
`` What can I do for you ? ''
`` I 'm afraid I 'm not a very welcome sort of customer , Mr. Benson , '' say Theodora , with an uncertain smile .
`` I want to sell , not buy .
Could you -- will you buy this locket ? ''
Mr. Benson purse up his lip , take up the locket , and examine it .
`` Well , I do n't often buy second-hand stuff , '' he say , after some reflection , `` but I do n't mind oblige you , Miss Theodora .
I 'll give you four dollar for this trinket . ''
Theodora know the locket have cost a great deal more than that , but four dollar would get what she want , and she dare not ask for more .
In a few minute the locket be in Mr. Benson 's possession , and Theodora , with four crisp new bill in her purse , be hurry to the toy store .
Half an hour later she be on her way back to Red Butte , with a many parcel a she could carry -- Jimmy 's skate , two lovely doll for the twin , package of nut and candy , and a nice plump turkey .
Theodora beguile her lonely tramp by picture the child 's joy in the morning .
About a quarter of a mile past Mr. Lurgan 's house the trail curve suddenly about a bluff of poplar .
As Theodora round the turn she halt in amazement .
Almost at her foot the body of a man be lie across the road .
He be clothe in a big fur coat , and have a fur cap pull well down over his forehead and ear .
Almost all of him that could be see be a full bushy beard .
Theodora have no idea who he be , or where he have come from .
But she realize that he be unconscious , and that he would speedily freeze to death if help be not bring .
The footprint of a horse gallop across the prairie suggest a fall and a runaway , but Theodora do not waste time in speculation .
She run back at full speed to Mr. Lurgan 's , and rouse the household .
In a few minute Mr. Lurgan and his son have hitch a horse to a wood-sleigh , and hurry down the trail to the unfortunate man .
Theodora , know that her assistance be not need , and that she ought to get home as quickly a possible , go on her way as soon a she have see the stranger in safe keep .
When she reach the little log house she creep in , cautiously put the child 's gift in their stocking , place the turkey on the table where Aunt Elizabeth would see it the first thing in the morning , and then slip off to bed , a very weary but very happy girl .
The joy that reign in the little log house the next day more than repay Theodora for her sacrifice .
`` Whoopee , do n't I tell you that Santa Claus would come all right ! ''
shout the delighted Jimmy .
`` Oh , what splendid skate ! ''
The twin hug their doll in silent rapture , but Aunt Elizabeth 's face be the best of all .
Then the dinner have to be prepare , and everybody have a hand in that .
Just a Theodora , after a grave peep into the oven , have announce that the turkey be do , a sleigh dash around the house .
Theodora fly to answer the knock at the door , and there stand Mr. Lurgan and a big , bewhisker , fur-coated fellow whom Theodora recognize a the stranger she have find on the trail .
But -- be he a stranger ?
There be something oddly familiar in those merry brown eye .
Theodora felt herself grow dizzy .
`` Donald ! ''
she gasp .
`` Oh , Donald ! ''
And then she be in the big fellow 's arm , laugh and cry at the same time .
Donald it be indeed .
And then follow half an hour during which everybody talk at once , and the turkey would have be burn to a crisp have it not be for the presence of mind of Mr. Lurgan who , be the least excited of them all , take it out of the oven , and set it on the back of the stove .
`` To think that it be you last night , and that I never dream it , '' exclaim Theodora .
`` Oh , Donald , if I have n't go to town ! ''
`` I 'd have freeze to death , I 'm afraid , '' say Donald soberly .
`` I get into Spencer on the last train last night .
I felt that I must come right out -- I could n't wait till morning .
But there be n't a team to be get for love or money -- it be Christmas Eve and all the livery rig be out .
So I come on horseback .
Just by that bluff something frighten my horse , and he shy violently .
I be half asleep and thinking of my little sister , and I go off like a shot .
I suppose I strike my head against a tree .
Anyway , I know nothing more until I come to in Mr. Lurgan 's kitchen .
I be n't much hurt -- feel none the bad of it except for a sore head and shoulder .
But , oh , Gift o ' God , how you have grow !
I ca n't realize that you be the little sister I leave four year ago .
I suppose you have be think I be dead ? ''
`` Yes , and , oh , Donald , where have you be ? ''
`` Well , I go way up north with a prospect party .
We have a tough time the first year , I can tell you , and some of u never come back .
We be n't in a country where post office be lie round loose either , you see .
Then at last , just a we be about give up in despair , we strike it rich .
I 've bring a snug little pile home with me , and thing be go to look up in this log house , Gift o ' God .
There 'll be no more worry for you dear people over mortgage . ''
`` I 'm so glad -- for Auntie 's sake , '' say Theodora , with shin eye .
`` But , oh , Donald , it 's best of all just to have you back .
I 'm so perfectly happy that I do n't know what to do or say . ''
`` Well , I think you might have dinner , '' say Jimmy in an injured tone .
`` The turkey 's get stone cold , and I 'm most starving .
I just ca n't stand it another minute . ''
So , with a laugh , they all sit down to the table and eat the merry Christmas dinner the little log house have ever know .
How We Went to the Wedding `` If it be to clear up I would n't know how to behave , it would seem so unnatural , '' say Kate .
`` Do you , by any chance , remember what the sun look like , Phil ? ''
`` Does the sun ever shine in Saskatchewan anyhow ? ''
I ask with assumed sarcasm , just to make Kate 's big , bonny black eye flash .
They do flash ; but Kate laugh immediately after , a she sit down on a chair in front of me and cradle her long , thin , spirited dark face in her palm .
`` We have more sunny weather in Saskatchewan than in all the rest of Canada put together , in an average year , '' she say , click her strong , white teeth and snap her eye at me .
`` But I ca n't blame you for feel sceptical about it , Phil .
If I go to a new country and it rain every day -- all day -- all night -- after I get there for three whole week I 'd think thing not lawful to be utter about the climate too .
So , little cousin , I forgive you .
Remember that ` into each life some rain must fall , some day must be dark and dreary . '
Oh , if you 'd only come to visit me last fall .
We have such a bee-yew-tiful September last year .
We be drown in sunshine .
This fall we 're drown in water .
Old settler tell of a similar visitation in ' 72 , though they claim even that be n't quite as bad a this . ''
I be sit rather disconsolately by an upper window of Uncle Kenneth Morrison 's log house at Arrow Creek .
Below be what in dry weather -- so , at least , I be tell -- be merely a pretty , grassy little valley , but which be now a considerable creek of muddy yellow water , rise daily .
Beyond be a cheerless prospect of sodden prairie and drip `` bluff . ''
`` It would be a golden , mellow land , with purple haze over the bluff , in a normal fall , '' assure Kate .
`` Even now if the sun be just to shine out for a day and a good ` chinook ' blow you 'd see a surprising change .
I feel like chant continually that old rhyme I learn in the first primer , ` Rain , rain , go away , Come again some other day : -- some other day next summer -- Phil and Katie want to play . '
Philippa , dear girl , do n't look so dismal .
It 's bind to clear up sometime . ''
`` I wish the ` sometime ' would come soon , then , '' I say , rather grumpily .
`` You know it have n't really rain for three day , '' protest Kate .
`` It 's be damp and horrid and threatening , but it have n't rain .
I defy you to say that it have actually rain . ''
`` When it 's so wet underfoot that you ca n't stir out without rubber boot it might as well be wet overhead too , '' I say , still grumpily .
`` I believe you 're homesick , girl , '' say Kate anxiously .
`` No , I 'm not , '' I answer , laugh , and feel ashamed of my ungraciousness .
`` Nobody could be homesick with such a jolly good fellow a you around , Kate .
It 's only that this weather be get on my nerve a bit .
I 'm fit for treason , stratagem , and spoil .
If your chinook do n't come soon , Kitty , I 'll do something quite desperate . ''
`` I feel that way myself , '' admit Kate .
`` Real reckless , Phil .
Anyhow , let 's put on our despised rubber boot and sally out for a wade . ''
`` Here 's Jim Nash come on horseback down the trail , '' I say .
`` Let 's wait and see if he 's get the mail . ''
We hurry down , Kate humming , `` Somewhere the sun be shin , '' solely , I believe , because she know it aggravate me .
At any other time I should probably have throw a pillow at her , but just now I be too eager to see if Jim Nash have bring any mail .
I have come from Ontario , the first of September , to visit Uncle Kenneth Morrison 's family .
I have be look forward to the trip for several year .
My cousin Kate and I have always correspond since they have `` go west '' ten year before ; and Kate , who revel in the western life , have sing the praise of her adopted land rapturously and constantly .
It be quite a joke on her that , when I do finally come to visit her , I should have strike the wet autumn ever record in the history of the west .
A wet September in Saskatchewan be no joke , however .
The country be almost `` flood out . ''
The trail soon become nearly impassable .
All our plan for drive and picnic and inter-neighbour visiting -- at that time a neighbour meant a man who live at least six mile away -- have to be give up .
Yet I be not lonesome , and I enjoy my visit in spite of everything .
Kate be a host in herself .
She be twenty-eight year old -- eight year my senior -- but the difference in our age have never be any barrier to our friendship .
She be a jolly , companionable , philosophical soul , with a jest for every situation , and a merry solution for every perplexity .
The only fault I have to find with her be her tendency to make parody .
Kate 's parody be perfectly awful and always get on my nerve .
She be dreadfully ashamed of the way the Saskatchewan weather be behave after all her boasting .
She be thin at the best of time , but now she grow positively scraggy with the worry of it .
I be afraid I take an unholy delight in tease her , and abuse the western weather even more than be necessary .
Jim Nash -- the lank youth who be hire to look after the place during Uncle Kenneth 's absence on a prolonged threshing expedition -- have bring some mail .
Kate 's share be a letter , postmark Bothwell , a rise little town about one hundred and twenty mile from Arrow Creek .
Kate have several friend there , and one of our plan have be to visit Bothwell and spend a week with them .
We have mean to drive , of course , since there be no other way of get there , and equally of course the plan have be abandon because of the wet weather .
`` Mother , '' exclaim Kate , `` Mary Taylor be go to be marry in a fortnight 's time !
She want Phil and me to go up to Bothwell for the wedding . ''
`` What a pity you ca n't go , '' remark Aunt Jennie placidly .
Aunt Jennie be always a placid little soul , with a most enviable knack of take everything easy .
Nothing ever worry her greatly , and when she have decide that a thing be inevitable it do not worry her at all .
`` But I be go , '' cry Kate .
`` I will go -- I must go .
I positively can not let Mary Taylor -- my own beloved Molly -- go and perpetrate matrimony without my be on hand to see it .
Yes , I 'm go -- and if Phil have a spark of the old Blair pioneer spirit in her , she 'll go too . ''
`` Of course I 'll go if you go , '' I say .
Aunt Jennie do not think we be in earnest , so she merely laugh at first , and say , `` How do you propose to go ?
Fly -- or swim ? ''
`` We 'll drive , a usual , '' say Kate calmly .
`` I 'd feel more at home in that way of locomotion .
We 'll borrow Jim Nash 's father 's democrat , and take the pony .
We 'll put on old clothes , raincoat , rubber cap and boot , and we 'll start tomorrow .
In an ordinary time we could easily do it in six day or less , but this fall we 'll probably need ten or twelve . ''
`` You do n't really mean to go , Kate ! ''
say Aunt Jennie , begin to perceive that Kate do mean it .
`` I do , '' say Kate , in a convincing tone .
Aunt Jennie felt a little worried -- as much a she could feel worry over anything -- and she try her best to dissuade Kate , although she plainly do not have much hope of do so , have have enough experience with her determined daughter to realize that when Kate say she be go to do a thing she do it .
It be rather funny to listen to the ensue dialogue .
`` Kate , you ca n't do it .
It 's a crazy idea !
The road be one hundred and twenty mile long . ''
`` I 've drive it twice , Mother . ''
`` Yes , but not in such a wet year .
The trail be impassable in place . ''
`` Oh , there be always plenty of dry spot to be find if you only look hard for them . ''
`` But you do n't know where to look for them , and goodness know what you 'll get into while you be look . ''
`` We 'll call at the M.P . barrack and get an Indian to guide u .
Indians always know the dry spot . ''
`` The stage driver have decide not to make another trip till the October frost set in . ''
`` But he always have such a heavy load .
It will be quite different with u , you must remember .
We 'll travel light -- just our provision and a valise contain our wedding garment . ''
`` What will you do if you get mired twenty mile from a human be ? ''
`` But we wo n't .
I 'm a good driver and I have n't nerve -- but I have nerve .
Besides , you forget that we 'll have an Indian guide with u . ''
`` There be a company of Hudson Bay freighter ambush and kill along that very trail by Blackfoot Indians in 1839 , '' say Aunt Jennie dolefully .
`` Fifty year ago !
Their ghost must have cease to haunt it by this time , '' say Kate flippantly .
`` Well , you 'll get wet through and catch your death of cold , '' protest Aunt Jennie .
`` No fear of it .
We 'll be case in rubber .
And we 'll borrow a good tight tent from the M.P.s . Besides , I 'm sure it 's not go to rain much more .
I know the sign . ''
`` At least wait for a day or two until you 're sure that it have clear up , '' implore Aunt Jennie .
`` Which be interpreted mean , ` Wait for a day or two , because then your father may be home and he 'll squelch your mad expedition , ' '' say Kate , with a sly glance at me .
`` No , no , my mother , your wile be in vain .
We 'll hit the trail tomorrow at sunrise .
So just be good , darling , and help u pack up some provision .
I 'll send Jim for his father 's democrat . ''
Aunt Jennie resign herself to the inevitable and betook herself to the pantry with the air of a woman who wash her hand of the consequence .
I fly upstairs to pack some finery .
I be wild with delight over the propose outing .
I do not realize what it actually mean , and I have perfect confidence in Kate , who be an expert driver , an experienced camper out , and an excellent manager .
If I could have see what be ahead of u I would certainly not have be quite so jubilant and reckless , but I would have go all the same .
I would not miss the laughter-provoking memory of that trip out of my life for anything .
I have always be glad I go .
* * * * * We leave at sunrise the next morning ; there be a sunrise that morning , for a wonder .
The sun come up in a pinky-saffron sky and promise u a fine day .
Aunt Jennie bid u goodbye and , estimable woman that she be , do not trouble u with advice or foreboding .
Mr. Nash have send over his `` democrat , '' a light wagon with spring ; and Kate 's `` shaganappies , '' Tom and Jerry -- native pony , the tough horse flesh to be find in the world -- be hitch to it .
Kate and I be properly accoutre for our trip and look -- but I try to forget how we look !
The memory be not flatter .
We drive off in the gayest of spirit .
Our difficulty begin at the start , for we have to drive a mile before we could find a place to ford the creek .
Beyond that , however , we have a passable trail for three mile to the little outpost of the Mounted Police , where five or six men be station on detachment duty .
`` Sergeant Baker be a friend of mine , '' say Kate .
`` He 'll be only too glad to lend me all we require . ''
The sergeant be a friend of Kate 's , but he look at her a if he think she be crazy when she tell him where we be go .
`` You 'd better take a canoe instead of a team , '' he say sarcastically .
`` I 've a good notion to arrest you both a horse thief and prevent you from go on such a mad expedition . ''
`` You know nothing short of arrest would stop me , '' say Kate , nod at him with laugh eye , `` and you really wo n't go to such an extreme , I know .
So please be nice , even if it come hard , and lend u some thing .
I 've come a-borrying . ''
`` I wo n't lend you a thing , '' declare the sergeant .
`` I wo n't aid and abet you in any such freak a this .
Go home now , like a good girl . ''
`` I 'm not go home , '' say Kate .
`` I 'm not a ` good girl ' -- I 'm a wicked old maid , and I 'm go to Bothwell .
If you wo n't lend u a tent we 'll go without -- and sleep in the open -- and our death will lie forever at your door .
I 'll come back and haunt you , if you do n't lend me a tent .
I 'll camp on your very threshold and you wo n't be able to go out of your door without fall over my spook . ''
`` I 've more fear of be accountable for your death if I do let you go , '' say Sergeant Baker dubiously .
`` However , I see that nothing but physical force will prevent you .
What do you want ? ''
`` I want , '' say Kate , `` a cavalry tent , a sheet-iron camp stove , and a good Indian guide -- old Peter Crow for choice .
He 's such a respectable-looking old fellow , and his wife often work for u . ''
The sergeant give u the tent and stove , and send a man down to the Reserve for Peter Crow .
Moreover , he vindicate his title of friend by make u take a dozen prairie chicken and a large ham -- besides any quantity of advice .
We do n't want the advice but we hugely welcome the ham .
Presently our guide appear -- quite a spruce old Indian , a Indians go .
I have never be able to shake off my childhood conviction that an Indian be a fearsome creature , hopelessly addict to scalp knife and tomahawk , and I secretly felt quite horrify at the idea of two defenceless female start out on a lonely prairie trail with an Indian for guide .
Even old Peter Crow 's meek appearance do not quite reassure me ; but I keep my qualm to myself , for I know Kate would only laugh at me .
It be ten when we finally get away from the M.P . outpost .
Sergeant Baker bid u goodbye in a tone which seem to intimate that he never expect to see either of u again .
What with his dismal prediction and my secret horror of Indians , I be begin to feel anything but jubilant over our expedition .
Kate , however , be a blithe and buoyant a usual .
She know no fear , be one of those enviable folk who can because they think they can .
One hundred and twenty mile of half-flooded prairie trail -- camp out at night in the solitude of the Great Lone Land -- rain -- muskegs -- Indian guide -- nothing have any terror for my dauntless cousin .
For the next three hour , however , we get on beautifully .
The trail be fair , though somewhat greasy ; the sun shone , though with a somewhat watery gleam , through the mist ; and Peter Crow , coil up on the folded tent behind the seat , sleep soundly and snore mellifluously .
That snore reassure me greatly .
I have never think of Indians a snoring .
Surely one who do could n't be dread greatly .
We stop at one o'clock and have a cold lunch , sit in our wagon , while Peter Crow waken up and water the pony .
We do not get on so well in the afternoon .
The trail descend into low-lying ground where travelling be very difficult .
I have to admit old Peter Crow be quite invaluable .
He know , a Kate have foretell , `` all the dry spot '' -- that be to say , spot less wet than others .
But , even so , we have to make so many detour that by sunset we be little more than six mile distant from our noon halt place .
`` We 'd better set camp now , before it get any darker , '' say Kate .
`` There 's a capital spot over there , by that bluff of dead poplar .
The ground seem pretty dry too .
Peter , cut u a set of tent pole and kindle a fire . ''
`` Want my dollar first , '' say old Peter stolidly .
We have agree to pay him a dollar a day for the trip , but none of the money be to be pay until we get to Bothwell .
Kate tell him this .
But all the reply she get be a stolid , `` Want dollar .
No make fire without dollar . ''
We be get cold and it be get dark , so finally Kate , under the law of necessity , pay him his dollar .
Then he carry out our order at his own sweet leisure .
In course of time he get a fire light , and while we cook supper he set up the tent and prepare our bed , by cut pile of brush and cover them with rug .
Kate and I have a hilarious time cook that supper .
It be my first experience of camp out and , a I have become pretty well convinced that Peter Crow be not the typical Indian of old romance , I enjoy it all hugely .
But we be both very tired , and as soon a we have finish eat we betook ourselves to our tent and find our brush bed much more comfortable than I have expect .
Old Peter coil up on his blanket outside by the fire , and the great silence of a windless prairie enwrap u .
In a few minute we be sound asleep and never waken until seven o'clock .
* * * * * When we arise and lift the flap of the tent we saw a peculiar sight .
The little elevation on which we have pitch our camp seem to be an island in a vast sea of white mist , dot here and there with other island .
On every hand to the far horizon stretch that strange , phantasmal ocean , and a hazy sun look over the shifting billow .
I have never see a western mist before and I think it extremely beautiful ; but Kate , to whom it be no novelty , be more cumbered with breakfast care .
`` I 'm ravenous , '' she say , a she bustle about among our store .
`` Camping out always do give one such an appetite .
Are n't you hungry , Phil ? ''
`` Comfortably so , '' I admit .
`` But where be our pony ?
And where be Peter Crow ? ''
`` Probably the pony have stray away look for pea vine .
They love and adore pea vine , '' say Kate , stir up the fire from under it blanket of grey ash .
`` And Peter Crow have go to look for them , good old fellow .
When you do get a conscientious Indian there be no good guide in the world , but they be rare .
Now , Philippa-girl , just pry out the sergeant 's ham and shave a few slice off it for our breakfast .
Some savoury fry ham always go well on the prairie . ''
I go for the ham but could not find it .
A thorough search among our effect reveal it not .
`` Kate , I ca n't find the ham , '' I call out .
`` It must have fall out somewhere on the trail . ''
Kate cease wrestle with the fire and come to help in the search for the miss delicacy .
`` It could n't have fall out , '' she say incredulously .
`` That be impossible .
The tent be fasten securely over everything .
Nothing could have jolt out . ''
`` Well , then , where be the ham ? ''
I say .
That question be unanswerable , a Kate discover after another thorough search .
The ham be go -- that much be certain .
`` I believe Peter Crow have levant with the ham , '' I say decidedly .
`` I do n't believe Peter Crow could be so dishonest , '' say Kate rather shortly .
`` His wife have work for u for year , and she 's as honest a the sunlight . ''
`` Honesty be n't catch , '' I remark , but I say nothing more just then , for Kate 's black eye be snap .
`` Anyway , we ca n't have ham for breakfast , '' she say , twitch out the fry pan rather viciously .
`` We 'll have to put up with can chicken -- if the can have n't disappear too . ''
They have n't , and we soon produce a very tolerable breakfast .
But neither of u have much appetite .
`` Do you suppose Peter Crow have take the horse as well a the ham ? ''
I ask .
`` No , '' gloomily respond Kate , who have evidently be compel by the logic of hard fact to believe in Peter 's guilt , `` he would hardly dare to do that , because he could n't dispose of them without be find out .
They 've probably stray away on their own account when Peter decamp .
As soon a this mist lift I 'll have a look for them .
They ca n't have go far . ''
We be spar this trouble , however , for when we be wash up the dish the pony return of their own accord .
Kate catch them and harness them .
`` Are we go on ? ''
I ask mildly .
`` Of course we 're go on , '' say Kate , her good humour entirely restore .
`` Do you suppose I 'm go to be turn from my purpose by the defection of a miserable old Indian ?
Oh , wait till he come round in the winter , beg . ''
`` Will he come ? ''
I ask .
`` Will he ?
Yes , my dear , he will -- with a smooth , plausible story to account for his desertion and a bland denial of ever have see our ham .
I shall know how to deal with him then , the old scamp . ''
`` When you do get a conscientious Indian there 's no good guide in the world , but they be rare , '' I remark with a far-away look .
Kate laugh .
`` Do n't rub it in , Phil .
Come , help me to break camp .
We 'll have to work harder and hustle for ourselves , that 's all . ''
`` But be it safe to go on without a guide ? ''
I inquire dubiously .
I have n't felt very safe with Peter Crow , but I felt still more unsafe without him .
`` Safe !
Of course , it 's safe -- perfectly safe .
I know the trail , and we 'll just have to drive around the wet place .
It would have be easy with Peter , and we 'd have have less work to do , but we 'll get along well enough without him .
I do n't think I 'd have bother with him at all , only I want to set Mother 's mind at rest .
She 'll never know he be n't with u till the trip be over , so that be all right .
We 're go to have a glorious day .
But , oh , for our lose ham !
` The Ham That Was Never Eaten . '
There 's a subject for a poem , Phil .
You write one when we get back to civilization .
Methinks I can sniff the savoury odour of that lose ham on all the prairie breeze . ''
`` Of all sad word of tongue or pen , The sad be these -- it might have be , '' I quote , begin to wash the dish .
`` Saw ye my wee ham , saw ye my ain ham , Saw ye my pork ham down on yon lea ?
Crossed it the prairie last night in the darkness Borne by an old and unprincipled Cree ? ''
sang Kate , loosen the tent rope .
Altogether , we get a great deal more fun out of that ham than if we have eat it .
As Kate have predict , the day be glorious .
The mist roll away and the sun shone brightly .
We drive all day without stop , save for dinner -- when the lose ham figure largely in our conversation -- of course .
We say so many witty thing about it -- at least , we think them witty -- that we laugh continuously through the whole meal , which we eat with prodigious appetite .
But with all our driving we be not get on very fast .
The country be exceedingly swampy and we have to make innumerable detour . ''
` The long way round be the short way to Bothwell , ' '' say Kate , when we drive five mile out of our way to avoid a muskeg .
By even we have drive fully twenty-five mile , but we be only ten mile nearer Bothwell than when we have break camp in the morning .
`` We 'll have to camp soon , '' sigh Kate .
`` I believe around this bluff will be a good place .
Oh , Phil , I 'm tired -- dead tired !
My very thought be tire .
I ca n't even think anything funny about the ham .
And yet we 've get to set up the tent ourselves , and attend to the horse ; and we 'll have to scrape some of the mud off this beautiful vehicle . ''
`` We can leave that till the morning , '' I suggest .
`` No , it will be too hard and dry then .
Here we be -- and here be two tepee of Indians also ! ''
There they be , right around the bluff .
The inmate be stand in a group before them , look at u as composedly a if we be not at all an unusual sight .
`` I 'm go to stay here anyhow , '' say Kate doggedly .
`` Oh , do n't , '' I say in alarm .
`` They 're such a villainous-looking lot -- so dirty -- and they 've get so little clothing on .
I would n't sleep a wink near them .
Look at that awful old squaw with only one eye .
They 'd steal everything we 've get left , Kate .
Remember the ham -- oh , pray remember the fate of our beautiful ham . ''
`` I shall never forget that ham , '' say Kate wearily , `` but , Phil , we ca n't drive far enough to be out of their reach if they really want to steal our provision .
But I do n't believe they will .
I believe they have plenty of food -- Indians in tepee mostly have .
The men hunt , you know .
Their look be probably the bad of them .
Anyhow , you ca n't judge Indians by appearance .
Peter Crow look respectable -- and he be a whited sepulchre .
Now , these Indians look as bad a Indians can look -- so they may turn out to be angel in disguise . ''
`` Very much disguise , certainly , '' I acquiesce satirically .
`` They seem to me to belong to the class of a neighbour of ours down east .
Her family be always in rag , because she say , ' a hole be an accident , a patch be a disgrace , ' Set camp here if you like , Kate .
But I 'll not sleep a wink with such neighbour . ''
I cheerfully eat my word later on .
Never be appearance more deceptive than in the case of those Stoneys .
There be an old say that many a kind heart beat behind a ragged coat .
The Indians have no coat for their heart to beat behind -- nothing but shirt -- some of them have n't even shirt !
But the shirt be certainly rag enough , and their heart be kind .
Those Indians be gentleman .
They come forward and unhitch our horse , feed , and water them ; they pitch our tent , and build u a fire , and cut brush for our bed .
Kate and I have simply nothing to do except sit on our rug and tell them what we want do .
They would have cook our supper for u if we have allow it .
But , tire a we be , we draw the line at that .
Their heart be pure gold , but their hand !
No , Kate and I drag ourselves up and cook our own supper .
And while we eat it , those Indians fell to and clean all the mud off our democrat for u .
To crown all -- it be almost unbelievable but it be true , I solemnly avow -- they would n't take a cent of payment for it all , urge them a we might and do .
`` Well , '' say Kate , a we curl up on our brush bed that night , `` there certainly be a special Providence for unprotected female .
I 'd forgive Peter Crow for desert u for the sake of those Indians , if he have n't steal our lovely ham into the bargain .
That be altogether unpardonable . ''
In the morning the Indians break camp for u and harness our shaganappies .
We drive off , wave our hand to them , the delightful creature .
We never saw any of them again .
I fear their kind be scarce , but as long a I live I shall remember those Stoneys with gratitude .
We get on fairly well that third day , and make about fifteen mile before dinner time .
We eat three of the sergeant 's prairie chicken for dinner , and enjoy them .
`` But only think how delicious the ham would have be , '' say Kate .
Our real trouble begin that afternoon .
We have not be drive long when the trail swoop down suddenly into a broad depression -- a swamp , so full of mud-holes that there do n't seem to be anything but mud-holes .
We pull through six of them -- but in the seventh we stick , hard and fast .
Pull a our pony could and do , they could not pull u out .
`` What be we to do ? ''
I say , become horribly frighten all at once .
It seem to me that our predicament be a dreadful one .
`` Keep cool , '' say Kate .
She calmly take off her shoe and stocking , tuck up her skirt , and wad to the horse ' head .
`` Ca n't I do anything ? ''
I implore .
`` Yes , take the whip and spare it not , '' say Kate .
`` I 'll encourage them here with sundry tug and inspirit word .
You urge them behind with a good lambasting . ''
Accordingly we encourage and urge , tug and lambast , with a right good will , but all to no effect .
Our pony do their best , but they could not pull the democrat out of that slough .
`` Oh , what -- '' I begin , and then I stop .
I resolve that I would not ask that question again in that tone in that scrape .
I would be cheerful and courageous like Kate -- splendid Kate !
`` I shall have to unhitch them , tie one of them to that stump , and ride off on the other for help , '' say Kate .
`` Where to ? ''
I ask .
`` Till I find it , '' grin Kate , who seem to think the whole disaster a capital joke .
`` I may have to go clean back to the tepee -- and far .
For that matter , I do n't believe there be any tepee .
Those Indians be too good to be true -- they be phantom of delight -- such stuff a dream be make of .
But even if they be real they wo n't be there now -- they 'll have fold their tent like the Arabs and a silently steal away .
But I 'll find help somewhere . ''
`` I ca n't stay here alone .
You may be go for hour , '' I cry , forget all my resolution of courage and cheerfulness in an access of panic .
`` Then ride the other pony and come with me , '' suggest Kate .
`` I ca n't ride bareback , '' I moan .
`` Then you 'll have to stay here , '' say Kate decidedly .
`` There 's nothing to hurt you , Phil .
Sit in the wagon and keep dry .
Eat something if you get hungry .
I may not be very long . ''
I realize that there be nothing else to do ; and , rather ashamed of my panic , I resign myself to the inevitable and saw Kate off with a smile of encouragement .
Then I wait .
I be tire and frighten -- horribly frighten .
I sit there and imagined score of gruesome possibility .
It be no use tell myself to be brave .
I could n't be brave .
I never be in such a blue funk before or since .
Suppose Kate get lose -- suppose she could n't find me again -- suppose something happen to her -- suppose she could n't get help -- suppose it come on night and I there all alone -- suppose Indians -- not gentlemanly Stoneys or even Peter Crows , but genuine , old-fashioned Indians -- should come along -- suppose it begin to pour rain !
It do begin to rain , the only one of my supposition which come true .
I hoist an umbrella and sit there grimly , in that horseless wagon in the mud-hole .
* * * * * Many a time since have I laugh over the memory of the appearance I must have present sit in that mud-hole , but there be nothing in the least funny about it at the time .
The bad feature of it all be the uncertainty .
I could have wait patiently enough and conquer my fear if I have know that Kate would find help and return within a reasonable time -- at least before dark .
But everything be doubtful .
I be not compose of the stuff out of which heroine be fashion and I devoutly wish we have never leave Arrow Creek .
Shouts -- call -- laughter -- Kate 's dear voice in an encouraging cry from the hill behind me !
`` Halloo , honey !
Hold the fort a few minute longer .
Here we be .
Bless her , have n't she be a brick to stay here all alone like this -- and a tenderfoot at that ? ''
I could have cry with joy .
But I saw that there be men with Kate -- two men -- white men -- and I laugh instead .
I have not be brave -- I have be an arrant little coward , but I vow that nobody , not even Kate , should suspect it .
Later on Kate tell me how she have fare in her search for assistance .
`` When I leave you , Phil , I felt much more anxious than I want to let you see .
I have no idea where to go .
I know there be no house along our trail and I might have to go clean back to the tepee -- fifteen mile bareback .
I do n't dare try any other trail , for I know nothing of them and be n't sure that there be even tepee on them .
But when I have go about six mile I saw a welcome sight -- nothing less than a spiral of blue , homely-looking smoke curl up from the prairie far off to my right .
I decide to turn off and investigate .
I ride two mile and finally I come to a little log shack .
There be a bee-yew-tiful big horse in a corral close by .
My heart jump with joy .
But suppose the inmate of the shack be half-breed !
You ca n't realize how relieved I felt when the door open and two white men come out .
In a few minute everything be explain .
They know who I be and what I want , and I know that they be Mr. Lonsdale and Mr. Hopkins , owner of a big ranch over by Deer Run .
They be ` shack out ' to put up some hay and Mrs. Hopkins be keep house for them .
She want me to stop and have a cup of tea right off , but I think of you , Phil , and decline .
As soon a they hear of our predicament those lovely men get their two big horse and come right with me . ''
It be not long before our democrat be on solid ground once more , and then our rescuer insist that we go back to the shack with them for the night .
Accordingly we drive back to the shack , attend by our two gallant deliverer on white horse .
Mrs. Hopkins be wait for u , a trim , dark-haired little lady in a very pretty gown , which she have don in our honour .
Kate and I felt like perfect tramp beside her in our muddy old raiment , with our hair dress by dead reckoning -- for we have not include a mirror in our baggage .
There be a mirror in the shack , however -- small but good -- and we quickly make ourselves tidy at least , and Kate even go to the length of curl her bang -- bang be in style then and Kate have long , thick one -- use the stem of a broken pipe of Mr. Hopkins 's for a curler .
I be so tired that my vanity be completely crush out -- for the time be -- and I simply pin my bang back .
Later on , when I discover that Mr. Lonsdale be really the young son of an English earl , I wish I have curl them , but it be too late then .
He do n't look in the least like a scion of aristocracy .
He wear a cowboy rig and have a scrubby beard of a week 's growth .
But he be very jolly and play the violin beautifully .
After tea -- and a lovely tea it be , although , a Kate remark to me later , there be no ham -- we have an impromptu concert .
Mr. Lonsdale play the violin ; Mrs. Hopkins , who sing , be a graduate of a musical conservatory ; Mr. Hopkins give a comic recitation and do a Cree war-dance ; Kate give a spirited account of our adventure since leave home and mother ; and I describe -- with trimming -- how I felt sit alone in the democrat in a mud-hole , in a pouring rain on a vast prairie .
Mrs. Hopkins , Kate , and I sleep in the one bed the shack boast , screen off from public view by a calico curtain .
Mr. Lonsdale repose in his accustomed bunk by the stove , but poor Mr. Hopkins have to sleep on the floor .
He must have be glad Kate and I stay only one night .
* * * * * The fourth morning find u blithely hit the trail in renew confidence and spirit .
We part from our kind friend in the shack with mutual regret .
Mr. Hopkins give u a haunch of jump deer and Mrs. Hopkins give u a box of home-made cooky .
Mr. Lonsdale at first thought he could n't give u anything , for he say all he have with him be his pipe and his fiddle ; but later on he say he felt so badly to see u go without any token of his good will that he felt constrain to ask u to accept a piece of rope that he have tie his outfit together with .
The fourth day we get on so nicely that it be quite monotonous .
The sun shone , the chinook blew , our pony trot over the trail gallantly .
Kate and I sing , tell story , and laugh immoderately over everything .
Even a poor joke seem to have a subtle flavour on the prairie .
For the first time I begin to think Saskatchewan beautiful , with those far-reaching parklike meadow dot with the white-stemmed poplar , the distant bluff bannered with the airiest of purple haze , and the little blue lake that sparkle and shimmer in the sunlight on every hand .
The only thing approach an adventure that day happen in the afternoon when we reach a creek which have to be cross .
`` We must investigate , '' say Kate decidedly .
`` It would never do to risk get mire here , for this country be unsettled and we must be twenty mile from another human be . ''
Kate again remove her shoe and stocking and puddle about that creek until she find a safe fording place .
I be afraid I must admit that I laugh most heartlessly at the spectacle she present while so employed .
`` Oh , for a camera , Kate ! ''
I say , between spasm .
Kate grin .
`` I do n't care what I look like , '' she say , `` but I feel wretchedly unpleasant .
This water be simply swarm with wiggler . ''
`` Goodness , what be they ? ''
I exclaim .
`` Oh , they 're tiny little thing like leech , '' respond Kate .
`` I believe they develop into mosquito later on , bad ` ce to them .
What Mr. Nash would call my pedal extremity be simply be devour by the brute .
Ugh !
I believe the bottom of this creek be all soft mud .
We may have to drive -- no , a I 'm a living , wiggler-haunted human be , here 's firm bottom .
Hurrah , Phil , we 're all right ! ''
In a few minute we be past the creek and bowl merrily on our way .
We have a beautiful camping ground that night -- a fairylike little slope of white poplar with a blue lake at it foot .
When the sun go down a milk-white mist hung over the prairie , with a young moon kiss it .
We boil some slice of our jump deer and eat them in the open around a cheery camp-fire .
Then we seek our humble couch , where we sleep the sleep of just people who have be drive over the prairie all day .
Once in the night I waken .
It be very dark .
The unearthly stillness of a great prairie be all around me .
In that vast silence Kate 's soft breathing at my side seem an intrusion of sound where no sound should be .
`` Philippa Blair , can you believe it 's yourself ? ''
I say mentally .
`` Here you be , lie on a brush bed on a western prairie in the middle of the night , at least twenty mile from any human be except another frail creature of your own sex .
Yet you 're not even frighten .
You be very comfy and compose , and you 're go right to sleep again . ''
And right to sleep again I go .
* * * * * Our fifth day begin ominously .
We have make an early start and have drive about six mile when the calamity occur .
Kate turn a corner too sharply , to avoid a big boulder ; there be a heart-breaking sound .
`` The tongue of the wagon be break , '' cry Kate in dismay .
All too surely it be .
We look at each other blankly .
`` What can we do ? ''
I say .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know , '' say Kate helplessly .
When Kate felt helpless I think thing must be desperate indeed .
We get out and investigate the damage .
`` It 's not a clean break , '' say Kate .
`` It 's a long , slant break .
If we have a piece of rope I believe I could fix it . ''
`` Mr. Lonsdale 's piece of rope ! ''
I cry .
`` The very thing , '' say Kate , brighten up .
The rope be find and we set to work .
With the aid of some willow withe and that providential rope we contrive to splice the tongue together in some shape .
Although the trail be good we make only twelve mile the rest of the day , so slowly do we have to drive .
Besides , we be continually expect that tongue to give way again , and the strain be bad for our nerve .
When we come at sunset to the junction of the Black River trail with ours , Kate resolutely turn the shaganappies down it .
`` We 'll go and spend the night with the Brewsters , '' she say .
`` They live only ten mile down this trail .
I go to school in Regina with Hannah Brewster , and though I have n't see her for ten year I know she 'll be glad to see u .
She 's a lovely person , and her husband be a very nice man .
I visit them once after they be marry . ''
We soon arrive at the Brewster place .
It be a trim , white-washed little log house in a grove of poplar .
But all the blind be down and we discover the door be lock .
Evidently the Brewsters be not at home .
`` Never mind , '' say Kate cheerfully , `` we 'll light a fire outside and cook our supper and then we 'll spend the night in the barn .
A bed of prairie hay will be just the thing . ''
But the barn be lock too .
It be now dark and our plight be rather desperate .
`` I 'm go to get into the house if I have to break a window , '' say Kate resolutely .
`` Hannah would want u to do that .
She 'd never get over it , if she hear we come to her house and could n't get in . ''
Fortunately we do not have to go to the length of break into Hannah 's house .
The kitchen window go up quite easily .
We turn the shaganappies loose to forage for themselves , grass and water be abundant .
Then we climb in at the window , light our lantern , and find ourselves in a very snug little kitchen .
Opening off it on one side be a trim , nicely furnish parlour and on the other a well-stocked pantry .
`` We 'll light the fire in the stove in a jiffy and have a real good supper , '' say Kate exultantly .
`` Here 's cold roast beef -- and preserve and cooky and cheese and butter . ''
Before long we have supper ready and we do full justice to the absent Hannah 's excellent cheer .
After all , it be quite nice to sit down once more to a well-appointed table and eat in civilized fashion .
Then we wash up all the dish and make everything snug and tidy .
I shall never be sufficiently thankful that we do so .
Kate pilot me upstairs to the spare room .
`` This be fix up much nice than it be when I be here before , '' she say , look around .
`` Of course , Hannah and Ted be just start out then and they have to be economical .
They must have prosper , to be able to afford such furniture a this .
Well , turn in , Phil .
Wo n't it be rather jolly to sleep between sheet once more ? ''
We sleep long and soundly until half-past eight the next morning ; and dear know if we would have waken then of our own accord .
But I hear somebody say in a very harsh , gruff voice , `` Here , you two , wake up !
I want to know what this mean . ''
We two do wake up , promptly and effectually .
I never waken up so thoroughly in my life before .
Standing in our room be three people , one of them a man .
He be a big , grey-haired man with a bushy black beard and an angry scowl .
Beside him be a woman -- a tall , thin , angular personage with red hair and an indescribable bonnet .
She look even cross and more amazed than the man , if that be possible .
In the background be another woman -- a tiny old lady who must have be at least eighty .
She be , in spite of her tininess , a very striking-looking personage ; she be dress all in black , and have snow-white hair , a dead-white face , and snapping , vivid , coal-black eye .
She look as amaze a the other two , but she do n't look cross .
I know something must be wrong -- fearfully wrong -- but I do n't know what .
Even in my confusion , I find time to think that if that disagreeable-looking red-haired woman be Hannah Brewster , Kate must have have a queer taste in school friend .
Then the man say , more gruffly than ever , `` Come now .
Who be you and what business have you here ? ''
Kate raise herself on one elbow .
She look very wild .
I hear the old black-and-white lady in the background chuckle to herself .
`` Is n't this Theodore Brewster 's place ? ''
gasped Kate .
`` No , '' say the big woman , speak for the first time .
`` This place belong to u .
We buy it from the Brewsters in the spring .
They move over to Black River Forks .
Our name be Chapman . ''
Poor Kate fell back on the pillow , quite overcome .
`` I -- I beg your pardon , '' she say .
`` I -- I think the Brewsters live here .
Mrs. Brewster be a friend of mine .
My cousin and I be on our way to Bothwell and we call here to spend the night with Hannah .
When we find everyone away we just come in and make ourselves at home . ''
`` A likely story , '' say the red woman .
`` We be n't bear yesterday , '' say the man .
Madam Black-and-White do n't say anything , but when the other two have make their pretty speech she double up in a silent convulsion of mirth , shake her head from side to side and beat the air with her hand .
If they have be nice to u , Kate would probably have go on feeling confuse and ashamed .
But when they be so disagreeable she quickly regain her self-possession .
She sit up again and say in her haughty voice , `` I do not know when you be bear , or where , but it must have be somewhere where very peculiar manner be teach .
If you will have the decency to leave our room -- this room -- until we can get up and dress we will not transgress upon your hospitality '' -LRB- Kate put a most satirical emphasis on that word -RRB- `` any longer .
And we shall pay you amply for the food we have eat and the night 's lodging we have take . ''
The black-and-white apparition go through the motion of clap her hand , but not a sound do she make .
Whether he be cow by Kate 's tone , or appease by the prospect of payment , I know not , but Mr. Chapman speak more civilly .
`` Well , that 's fair .
If you pay up it 's all right . ''
`` They shall do no such thing a pay you , '' say Madam Black-and-White in a surprisingly clear , resolute , authoritative voice .
`` If you have n't any shame for yourself , Robert Chapman , you 've get a mother-in-law who can be ashamed for you .
No stranger shall be charge for food or lodging in any house where Mrs. Matilda Pitman live .
Remember that I 've come down in the world , but I have n't forget all decency for all that .
I know you be a skinflint when Amelia marry you and you 've make her as bad a yourself .
But I 'm bos here yet .
Here , you , Robert Chapman , take yourself out of here and let those girl get dress .
And you , Amelia , go downstairs and cook a breakfast for them . ''
I never , in all my life , saw anything like the abject meekness with which those two big people obey that mite .
They go , and stand not upon the order of their go .
As the door close behind them , Mrs. Matilda Pitman laugh silently , and rock from side to side in her merriment .
`` Ai n't it funny ? ''
she say .
`` I mostly let them run the length of their tether but sometimes I have to pull them up , and then I do it with a jerk .
Now , you can take your time about dressing , my dear , and I 'll go down and keep them in order , the mean scalawag . ''
When we descend the stair we find a smoking-hot breakfast on the table .
Mr. Chapman be nowhere to be see , and Mrs. Chapman be cut bread with a sulky air .
Mrs. Matilda Pitman be sit in an armchair , knit .
She still wear her bonnet and her triumphant expression .
`` Set right in , dear , and make a good breakfast , '' she say .
`` We be not hungry , '' say Kate , almost pleadingly .
`` I do n't think we can eat anything .
And it 's time we be on the trail .
Please excuse u and let u go on . ''
Mrs. Matilda Pitman shake a knitting needle playfully at Kate .
`` Sit down and take your breakfast , '' she command .
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman command you .
Everybody obey Mrs. Matilda Pitman -- even Robert and Amelia .
You must obey her too . ''
We do obey her .
We sit down and , such be the influence of her mesmeric eye , we eat a tolerable breakfast .
The obedient Amelia never speak ; Mrs. Matilda Pitman do not speak either , but she knit furiously and chuckle .
When we have finish Mrs. Matilda Pitman roll up her knitting .
`` Now , you can go if you want to , '' she say , `` but you do n't have to go .
You can stay here as long a you like , and I 'll make them cook your meal for you . ''
I never saw Kate so thoroughly cow .
`` Thank you , '' she say faintly .
`` You be very kind , but we must go . ''
`` Well , then , '' say Mrs. Matilda Pitman , throw open the door , `` your team be ready for you .
I make Robert catch your pony and harness them .
And I make him fix that broken tongue properly .
I enjoy make Robert do thing .
It 's almost the only sport I have leave .
I 'm eighty and most thing have lose their flavour , except boss Robert . ''
Our democrat and pony be outside the door , but Robert be nowhere to be see ; in fact , we never saw him again .
`` I do wish , '' say Kate , pluck up what little spirit she have leave , `` that you would let u -- ah -- uh '' -- Kate quail before Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's eye -- `` recompense you for our entertainment . ''
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman say before -- and mean it -- that she do n't take pay for entertain stranger , nor let other people where she live do it , much a their meanness would like to do it . ''
We get away .
The sulky Amelia have vanish , and there be nobody to see u off except Mrs. Matilda Pitman .
`` Do n't forget to call the next time you come this way , '' she say cheerfully , wave her knitting at u .
`` I hope you 'll get safe to Bothwell .
If I be ten year younger I vow I 'd pack a grip and go along with you .
I like your spunk .
Most of the girl nowadays be such timid , skeery critter .
When I be a girl I be n't afraid of nothing or nobody . ''
We say and do nothing until we have drive out of sight and earshot .
Then Kate lay down the rein and laugh until the tear come .
`` Oh , Phil , Phil , will you ever forget this adventure ? ''
she gasp .
`` I shall never forget Mrs. Matilda Pitman , '' I say emphatically .
We have no further adventure that day .
Robert Chapman have fix the tongue so well -- probably under Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's watchful eye -- that we could drive as fast a we like ; and we make good progress .
But when we pitch camp that night Kate scan the sky with an anxious expression .
`` I do n't like the look of it , '' she say .
`` I 'm afraid we 're go to have a bad day tomorrow . ''
* * * * * We have .
When we awaken in the morning rain be pour down .
This in itself might not have prevent u from travel , but the state of the trail do .
It have be rain the great part of the night and the trail be little more than a ditch of slimy , greasy , sticky mud .
If we could have stay in the tent the whole time it would not have be quite so bad .
But we have to go out twice to take the pony to the near pond and water them ; moreover , we have to collect pea vine for them , which be not an agreeable occupation in a pouring rain .
The day be very cold too , but fortunately there be plenty of dead poplar right by our camp .
We keep a good fire on in the camp stove and be quite dry and comfortable as long a we stay inside .
Even when we have to go out we do not get very wet , a we be well protect .
But it be a long dreary day .
Finally when the dark come down and supper be over Kate grow quite desperate .
`` Let 's have a game of checker , '' she suggest .
`` Where be your checkerboard ? ''
I ask .
`` Oh , I 'll soon furnish that , '' say Kate .
She cut out a square of brown paper , in which a biscuit box have be wrap , and mark square off on it with a pencil .
Then she produce some red and white high-bush cranberry for men .
A cranberry split in two be a king .
We play nine game of checker by the light of our smoky lantern .
Our enjoyment of the game be heighten by the fact that it have cease raining .
Nevertheless , when morning come the trail be so drenched that it be impossible to travel on it .
`` We must wait till noon , '' say Kate .
`` That trail wo n't be dry enough to travel on for a week , '' I say disconsolately .
`` My dear ; the chinook be blow up , '' say Kate .
`` You do n't know how quickly a trail dry in a chinook .
It 's like magic . ''
I do not believe a chinook or anything else could dry up that trail by noon sufficiently for u to travel on .
But it do .
As Kate say , it seem like magic .
By one o'clock we be on our way again , the chinook blow merrily against our face .
It be a wind that blow straight from the heart of the wilderness and have in it all the potent lure of the wild .
The yellow prairie laugh and glisten in the sun .
We make twenty-five mile that afternoon and , a we be again fortunate enough to find a bluff of dead poplar near which to camp , we build a royal camp-fire which send it flaming light far and wide over the dark prairie .
We be in jubilant spirit .
If the next day be fine and nothing dreadful happen to u , we would reach Bothwell before night .
But our ill luck be not yet at an end .
The next morning be beautiful .
The sun shone warm and bright ; the chinook blow balmily and alluringly ; the trail stretch before u dry and level .
But we sit moodily before our tent , not even have sufficient heart to play checker .
Tom have go lame -- so lame that there be no use in thinking of try to travel with him .
Kate could not tell what be the matter .
`` There be no injury that I can see , '' she say .
`` He must have sprain his foot somehow . ''
Wait we do , with all the patience we could command .
But the day be long and wearisome , and at night Tom 's foot do not seem a bit well .
We go to bed gloomily , but joy come with the morning .
Tom 's foot be so much improve that Kate decide we could go on , though we would have to drive slowly .
`` There 's no chance of make Bothwell today , '' she say , `` but at least we shall be get a little nearer to it . ''
`` I do n't believe there be such a place a Bothwell , or any other town , '' I say pessimistically .
`` There 's nothing in the world but prairie , and we 'll go on driving over it forever , like a couple of female Wandering Jews .
It seem year since we leave Arrow Creek . ''
`` Well , we 've have lot of fun out of it all , you know , '' say Kate .
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman alone be worth it .
She will be an amusing memory all our life .
Are you sorry you come ? ''
`` No , I 'm not , '' I conclude , after honest , soul-searching reflection .
`` No , I 'm glad , Kate .
But I think we be crazy to attempt it , a Sergeant Baker say .
Think of all the might-have-been . ''
`` Nothing else will happen , '' say Kate .
`` I feel in my bone that our trouble be over . ''
Kate 's bone prove true prophet .
Nevertheless , that day be a weary one .
There be no scenery .
We have get into a barren , lakeless , treeless district where the world be one monotonous expanse of grey-brown prairie .
We just crawl along .
Kate have her hand full drive those pony .
Jerry be in capital fettle and could n't understand why he might n't tear ahead at full speed .
He be so much disgust over be compel to walk that he be very fractious .
Poor Tom limp patiently along .
But by night his lameness have quite disappear , and although we be still a good twenty-five mile from Bothwell we could see it quite distinctly far ahead on the level prairie . ''
'T be a sight for sore eye , be n't it ? ''
say Kate , a we pitch camp .
There be little more to be tell .
Next day at noon we rattle through the main and only street of Bothwell .
Curious sight be frequent in prairie town , so we do not attract much attention .
When we draw up before Mr. Taylor 's house Mary Taylor fly out and embraced Kate publicly .
`` You darling !
I know you 'd get here if anyone could .
They telegraph u you be on the way .
You 're a brick -- two brick . ''
`` No , I 'm not a brick at all , Miss Taylor , '' I confess frankly .
`` I 've be an arrant coward and a doubting Thomas and a wet blanket all through the expedition .
But Kate be a brick and a genius and an all-round , jolly good fellow . ''
`` Mary , '' say Kate in a tragic whisper , `` have -- you -- any -- ham -- in -- the -- house ? ''
Jessamine When the vegetable-man knock , Jessamine go to the door wearily .
She felt quite well acquaint with him .
He have be come all the spring , and his cheery greeting always leave a pleasant afterglow behind him .
But it be not the vegetable-man after all -- at least , not the right one .
This one be considerably young .
He be tall and sunburn , with a ruddy , smile face , and keen , pleasant blue eye ; and he have a spray of honeysuckle pin on his coat .
`` Want any garden stuff this morning ? ''
Jessamine shake her head .
`` We always get ours from Mr. Bell .
This be his day to come . ''
`` Well , I guess you wo n't see Mr. Bell for a spell .
He fell off a loft out at his place yesterday and break his leg .
I 'm his nephew , and I 'm go to fill his place till he get ` round again . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry -- for Mr. Bell , I mean .
Have you any green pea ? ''
`` Yes , heap of them .
I 'll bring them in .
Anything else ? ''
`` Not today , '' say Jessamine , with a wistful glance at the honeysuckle .
Mr. Bell , junior , saw it .
In an instant the honeysuckle be unpinned and hand to her .
`` If you like posy , you 're welcome to this .
I guess you 're fond of flower , '' he add , a he note the flash of delight that pass over her pale face .
`` Yes , indeed ; they put me so in mind of home -- of the country .
Oh , how sweet this be ! ''
`` You 're country-bred , then ?
Been in the city long ? ''
`` Since last fall .
I be bear and bring up in the country .
I wish I be back .
I ca n't get over be homesick .
This honeysuckle seem to bring it right back .
We have honeysuckle around our porch at home . ''
`` You do n't like the city , then ? ''
`` Oh , no .
I sometimes feel a if I should smother here .
I shall never feel at home , I be afraid . ''
`` Where do you live before you come here ? ''
`` Up at Middleton .
It be an old-fashioned place , but pretty -- our house be cover with vine , and there be tree all about it , and great green field beyond .
But I do n't know what make me tell you this .
I forget I be talk to a stranger . ''
`` Pretty little woman , '' soliloquize Andrew Bell , a he drive away .
`` She do n't look happy , though .
I suppose she 's married some city chap and have to live in town .
I guess it do n't agree with her .
Her eye have a real hungry look in them over that honeysuckle .
She seem near about cry when she talk of the country . ''
Jessamine felt more like cry than ever when she go back to her work .
Her head ache and she be very tired .
The tiny kitchen be hot and stifle .
How she long for the great , roomy kitchen in her old home , with it spotless floor and flood of sunshine streaming in through the maple outside .
There be room to live and breathe there , and from the door one look out over green wind-rippled meadow , under a glorious arch of pure blue sky , away to the purple hill in the distance .
* * * * * Jessamine Stacy have always live in the country .
When her sister die and the old home have to go , Jessamine could only accept the shelter offer by her brother , John Stacy , who do business in the city .
Of her stylish sister-in-law Jessamine be absolutely in awe .
At first Mrs. John be by no mean please at the necessity of take a country sister into her family circle .
But one day , when the servant girl take a tantrum and left , Mrs. John find it very convenient to have in the house a person who could step into Eliza 's place a promptly and efficiently a Jessamine could .
Indeed , she find it so convenient that Eliza never have a successor .
Jessamine find herself in the position of maid-of-all-work and kitchen drudge for board and clothes .
She never complain , but she grow thinner and paler a the winter go by .
She have work a hard on the farm , but it be the close confinement and weary routine that tell on her .
Mrs. John be exact and querulous .
John be absorb in his business worry and have no time to waste on his sister .
Now , when the summer have come , her homesickness be almost unbearable .
The next day Mr. Bell come he hand her a big bunch of sweet-brier rose .
`` Here you be , '' he say heartily .
`` I take the liberty to bring you these today , see you 're so fond of posy .
The country road be pink with them now .
Why do n't you get your husband to bring you out for a drive some day ?
You 'd be as welcome a a lark at my farm . ''
`` I will when he come along , but I have n't see him yet . ''
Mr. Bell give a prolonged whistle .
`` Excuse me .
I think you be Mrs. Something-or-other for sure .
Are n't you mistress here ? ''
`` Oh , no .
My brother 's wife be the mistress here .
I 'm only Jessamine . ''
She laugh again .
She be hold the rose against her face , and her eye sparkle over them roguishly .
The vegetable-man looked at her admiringly .
`` You 're a country rise yourself , miss , and you ought to be bloom out in the field , instead of wilt in here . ''
`` I wish I be .
Thank you so much for the rose , Mr. -- Mr. -- '' `` Bell -- Andrew Bell , that 's my name .
I live out at Pine Pastures .
We 're all Bells out there -- ca n't throw a stone without hit one .
Glad you like the rose . ''
After that the vegetable-man brought Jessamine a bouquet every trip .
Now it be a big bunch of field-daisies or golden buttercup , now a green glory of spicy fern , now a cluster of old-fashioned garden flower .
`` They keep life in me , '' Jessamine tell him .
They be great friend by this time .
True , she know little about him but she felt instinctively that he be manly and kind-hearted .
One day when he come Jessamine meet him almost gleefully .
`` No , nothing today .
There be no dinner to cook . ''
`` You do n't say .
Where be the folk ? ''
`` Gone on an excursion .
They wo n't be back until tonight . ''
`` They wo n't ?
Well , I 'll tell you what to do .
You get ready , and when I 'm through my round we 'll go for a drive up the country . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Bell !
But wo n't it be too much bother for you ? ''
`` Well , I reckon not !
You want an excursion as well a other folk , and you shall have it . ''
`` Oh , thank you so much .
Yes , I 'll be ready .
You do n't know how much it mean to me . ''
`` Poor little creature , '' say Mr. Bell , a he drive away .
`` It 's downright cruelty , that 's what it be , to keep her pen up like that .
You might as well coop up a lark in a hen-house and expect it to thrive and sing .
I 'd like to give that brother of hers a piece of my mind . ''
When he lift her up to the high seat of his express wagon that afternoon he say , `` Now , I want you to do something .
Just shut your eye and do n't open them again until I tell you to . ''
Jessamine laugh and obey .
Finally she hear him say , `` Look . ''
Jessamine open her eye with a little cry .
They be on a remote country road , cool and dim and quiet , in the very heart of the beech wood .
Long banner of light fell athwart the grey bole .
Along the roadside grow sheet of feathery fern .
Above the sky be gloriously blue .
The air be sweet with the wild woodsy smell of the forest .
Jessamine lift and clasp her hand in rapture .
`` Oh , how lovely ! ''
`` Do you know where we 're go ? ''
say Mr. Bell delightedly .
`` Out to my farm at Pine Pastures .
My aunt keep house for me , and she 'll be real glad to see you .
You 're just go to have a real good time this afternoon . ''
They have a delightful drive to begin with , and presently Mr. Bell turn into a wide lane .
`` This be Cloverside Farm .
I 'm proud of it , I 'll admit .
There be n't a fine place in the county .
What do you think of it ? ''
`` Oh , it be lovely -- it be like home .
Look at those great field .
I 'd like to go and lie down in that clover . ''
Mr. Bell lift her from the wagon and march her up a flowery garden path .
`` You shall do it , and everything else you want to .
Here , Aunt , this be the young lady I speak of .
Make her at home while I tend to the horse . ''
Miss Bell be a pleasant-faced woman with silver hair and kind blue eye .
She take Jessamine 's hand in a friendly fashion .
`` Come in , dear .
You 're welcome a a June rise . ''
When Mr. Bell return , he find Jessamine stand on the porch with her hand full of honeysuckle and her cheek pink with excitement .
`` I declare , you 've get rose already , '' he exclaim .
`` If they 'd only stay now , and not bleach out again .
What 's first now ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know .
There be so many thing I want to do .
Those flower in the garden be call me -- and I want to go down to that hollow and pick buttercup -- and I want to stay right here and look at thing . ''
Mr. Bell laugh .
`` Come with me to the pasture and see my Jersey calf .
They 're something worth seeing .
Come , Aunt .
This way , Miss Stacy . ''
He lead the way down the lane , the two woman follow together .
Jessamine think she must be in a pleasant dream .
The whole afternoon be a feast of delight to her starved heart .
When sunset come she sit down , tire out , but radiant , on the porch step .
Her hat have slip back and her hair be curl around her face .
Her dark eye be aglow ; the rose still bloom in her cheek .
Mr. Bell look at her admiringly .
`` If a man could see that pretty sight every night ! ''
he think .
`` And , Great Scott , why ca n't he ?
What 's to prevent , I 'd like to know ? ''
When the moon rise , Mr. Bell bring his team around and they drive back through the clear night , past the wonderful stillness of the great beech wood and the wide field .
The farmer look sideways at his companion .
`` The little thing want to be pet and look after , '' he think .
`` She 's just pin away for home and love .
And why ca n't she have it ?
She 's die by inch in that hole back in town . ''
Jessamine , quite unsuspecting the farmer 's meditation , be live over again in fancy the joy of the afternoon : the ramble in the pasture , the drink of water from the spring under the hillside pine , the bountiful , old-fashioned country supper in the vine-shaded dining-room , the cup of new milk in the dairy at sunset , and all the glory of sky and meadow and tree .
How could she go back to her cage again ?
The next week Mr. Bell , senior , resume his visit , and the young farmer come no more to the side door of No . 49 .
Jessamine miss him greatly .
Mr. Bell , senior , never bring her clover or honeysuckle .
But one day his nephew suddenly reappear .
Jessamine open the door for him , and her face light up , but Mr. Bell saw that she have be cry .
`` Did you think I have forget you ? ''
he ask .
`` Not a bit of it .
Harvest be on and I could n't get clear before .
I 've come to ask you when you intend to take another drive to Cloverside Farm .
What have you be up to ?
You look a if you 'd be work too hard . ''
`` I -- I -- have n't felt very well .
I 'm glad you come today , Mr. Bell .
Perhaps I shall not see you again , and I want to say goodbye and thank you for all your kindness . ''
`` Goodbye ?
Why , where be you go ? ''
`` My brother go west a week ago , '' falter Jessamine .
She could not bring herself to tell the clear-eyed farmer that John Stacy have fail and have be oblige to start for the west without say goodbye to his creditor .
`` His wife and I -- be go too -- next week . ''
`` Oh , Jessamine , '' exclaim Mr. Bell in despair , `` do n't go -- you must n't .
I want you at Cloverside Farm .
I come today on purpose to ask you .
I love you and I 'll make you happy if you 'll marry me .
What do you say , Jessamine ? ''
Jessamine , by way of answer , sit down on the near chair and begin to cry .
`` Oh , do n't , '' say the wooer in distress .
`` I do n't want to make you feel bad .
If you do n't like the idea , I wo n't mention it again . ''
`` Oh , it be n't that -- but I -- I think nobody care what become of me .
You be so kind -- I 'm afraid I 'd only be a bother to you ... '' `` I 'll risk that .
You shall have a happy home , little girl .
Will you come to it ? ''
`` Ye-e-e-s . ''
It be very indistinct and faltering , but Mr. Bell hear it and consider it a most eloquent answer .
Mrs. John fume and sulk and choose to consider herself hoodwink and injure .
But Mr. Bell be a resolute man , and a few day later he come for the last time to No . 49 and take his bride away with him .
As they drive through the beech woods he put his arm tenderly around the shy , smile little woman beside him and say , `` You 'll never be sorry for this , my dear . ''
And she never be .
Miss Sally 's Letter Miss Sally peer sharply at Willard Stanley , first through her gold-rimmed glass and then over them .
Willard continue to look very innocent .
Joyce get up abruptly and go out of the room .
`` So you have buy that queer little house with the absurd name ? ''
say Miss Sally .
`` You surely do n't call Eden an absurd name , '' protest Willard .
`` I do -- for a house .
Particularly such a house a that .
Eden !
There be no Edens on earth .
And what be you go to do with it ? ''
`` Live in it . ''
`` Alone ? ''
Miss Sally look at him suspiciously .
`` No .
The truth be , Miss Sally , I be hop to be marry in the fall and I want to fix up Eden for my bride . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Miss Sally draw a long breath , partly it seem of relief and partly of triumph , and look at Joyce , who have return , with an expression that say , `` I tell you so '' ; but Joyce , whose eye be cast down , do not see it .
`` And , '' go on Willard calmly , `` I want you to help me fix it up , Miss Sally .
I do n't know much about such thing and you know everything .
You will be able to tell me just what to do to make Eden habitable . ''
Miss Sally look as pleased a she ever allow herself to look over anything a man suggest .
It be the delight of her heart to plan and decorate and contrive .
Her own house be a model of comfort and good taste , and Miss Sally be quite ready for new world to conquer .
Instantly Eden assume importance in her eye .
She might be sorry for the misguided bride who be rashly go to trust her life 's keep to a man , but she would see , at least , that the poor thing should have a decent place to begin her martyrdom in .
`` I 'll be please to help you all I can , '' she say graciously .
Miss Sally could speak very graciously when she choose , even to men .
You would not have think she hat them , but she do .
In all sincerity , too .
Also , she have bring her niece up to hate and distrust them .
Or , she have try to do so .
But at time Miss Sally be trouble with an uncomfortable suspicion that Joyce do not hate and distrust men quite as thoroughly a she ought .
The suspicion have recur several time this summer since Willard Stanley have come to take charge of the biological station at the harbour .
Miss Sally do not distrust Willard on his own account .
She merely distrust him on principle and on Joyce 's account .
Nevertheless , she be rather nice to him .
Miss Sally , dear , trim , dainty Miss Sally , with her snow-white curl and her big girlish black eye , could n't help be nice , even to a man .
Willard have come a great deal to Miss Sally 's .
If it be Joyce he be after Miss Sally block his scheme with much enjoyment .
He never saw Joyce alone -- that Miss Sally knew of , at least -- and he do not make much apparent headway .
But now all danger be remove , Miss Sally think .
He be go to be marry to somebody else , and Joyce be safe .
`` Thank you , '' say Willard .
`` I 'll come up tomorrow afternoon , and you and I will take a prowl about Eden and see what must be do .
I 'm ever so much oblige , Miss Sally . ''
`` I wonder who he be go to marry , '' say Miss Sally , careless of grammar , after he have go .
`` Poor , poor girl ! ''
`` I do n't see why you should pity her , '' say Joyce , not look up from her embroidery .
There be just the mere tremor in her voice .
Miss Sally look at her sharply .
`` I pity any woman who be foolish enough to marry , '' she say solemnly .
`` No man be to be trust , Joyce -- no man .
They be all ready to break a trust woman 's heart for the sport of it .
Never you allow any man the chance to break yours , Joyce .
I shall never consent to your marry anybody , so mind you do n't take any such notion into your head .
There ought n't to be any danger , for I have instill correct idea on this subject into you from childhood .
But girl be such fool .
I know , because I be one myself once . ''
`` Of course , I would never marry without your consent , Aunt Sally , '' say Joyce , smile faintly but affectionately at her aunt .
Joyce love Miss Sally with her whole heart .
Everybody do who know her .
There never be a more lovable creature than this pretty little old maid who hat the men so bitterly .
`` That 's a good girl , '' say Miss Sally approvingly .
`` I own that I have be a little afraid that this Willard Stanley be come here to see you .
But my mind be set at rest on that point now , and I shall help him fix up his doll house with a clear conscience .
Eden , indeed ! ''
Miss Sally sniff and trip out of the room to hunt up a furniture catalogue .
Joyce sigh and let her embroidery slip to the floor .
`` Oh , I 'm afraid Willard 's plan wo n't succeed , '' she murmur .
`` I 'm afraid Aunt Sally will never consent to our marriage .
And I ca n't and wo n't marry him unless she do , for she would never forgive me and I could n't bear that .
I wonder what make her so bitter against men .
She be so sweet and loving , it seem simply unnatural that she should have such a feeling so deeply root in her .
Oh , what will she say when she find out -- dear little Aunt Sally ?
I could n't bear to have her angry with me . ''
The next day Willard come up from the harbour and take Miss Sally down to see Eden .
Eden be a tiny , cornery , gabled grey house just across the road and down a long , twisted windy lane , skirt the edge of a beech wood .
Nobody have live in it for four year , and it have a neglect , out-at-elbow appearance .
`` It 's rather a box of a place , be n't it ? ''
say Willard slowly .
`` I 'm afraid she will think so .
But it be all I can afford just now .
I dream of give her a palace some day , of course .
But we 'll have to begin humbly .
Do you think anything can be make of it ? ''
Miss Sally be busily engage in size up the possibility of the place .
`` It be pretty small , '' she say meditatively .
`` And the yard be small too -- and there be far too many tree and shrubs all mess up together .
They must be thin out -- and that pal take down .
I think a good deal can be do with it .
As for the house -- well , let u see the inside . ''
Willard unlock the door and show Miss Sally over the place .
Miss Sally poke and pry and sniff and wrinkle her forehead , and finally stand on the stair and deliver her ultimatum .
`` This house can be do up very nicely .
Paint and paper will work wonder .
But I would n't paint it outside .
Leave it that pretty silver weather-grey and plant vine to run over it .
Oh , we 'll see what we can do .
Of course it be small -- a kitchen , a dining room , a living room , and two bedroom .
You wo n't want anything stuffy .
You can do the painting yourself , and I 'll help you hang the paper .
How much money can you spend on it ? ''
Willard name the sum .
It be not a large one .
`` But I think it will do , '' muse Miss Sally .
`` We 'll make it do .
There 's such satisfaction get as much a you possibly can out of a dollar , and twice as much a anybody else would get .
I enjoy that sort of thing .
This will be a game , and we 'll play it with a right good will .
But I do wish you would give the place a sensible name . ''
`` I think Eden be the most appropriate name in the world , '' laugh Willard .
`` It will be Eden for me when she come . ''
`` I suppose you tell her all that and she believe it , '' say Miss Sally sarcastically .
`` You 'll both find out that there be a good deal more prose than poetry in life . ''
`` But we 'll find it out together , '' say Willard tenderly .
`` Wo n't that be worth something , Miss Sally ?
Prose , rightly write and read , be sometimes as beautiful a poetry . ''
Miss Sally deign no reply .
She carefully gather up her grey silken skirt from the dusty floor and walk out .
`` Get Christina Bowes to come up tomorrow and scrub this place out , '' she say practically .
`` We can go to town and select paint and paper .
I should like the dining room do in pale green and the living room in creamy tone , range from white to almost golden brown .
But perhaps my taste wo n't be hers . ''
`` Oh , yes , it will , '' say Willard with assurance .
`` I be quite certain she will like everything you like .
I can never thank you enough for help me .
If you have n't consent I should have have to put it into the hand of some outsider whom I could n't have help at all .
And I want to help .
I want to have a finger in everything , because it be for her , you see , Miss Sally .
It will be such a delight to fix up this little house , know that she be come to live in it . ''
`` I wonder if you really mean it , '' say Miss Sally bitterly .
`` Oh , I dare say you think you do .
But do you ?
Perhaps you do .
Perhaps you be the exception that prove the rule . ''
This be a great admission for Miss Sally to make .
For the next two month Miss Sally be happy .
Even Willard himself be not more keenly interested in Eden and it development .
Miss Sally do wonder with his money .
She be an expert at bargain hunting , and her taste be excellent .
A score of time she mercilessly nip Willard 's suggestion in the bud .
`` Lace curtain for the living room -- never !
They would be horribly out of place in such a house .
You do n't want curtain at all -- just a frill be all that quaint window need , with a shelf above it for a few bit of pottery .
I pick up a love of a brass platter in town yesterday -- get it for next to nothing from that old Jew who would really rather give you a thing than suffer you to escape without take something .
Oh , I know how to manage them . ''
`` You certainly do , '' laugh Willard .
`` It amaze me to see how far you can stretch a dollar . ''
Willard do the painting under Miss Sally 's watchful eye , and they hang the paper together .
Together they make trip to town or junket over the country in search of furniture and dish of which Miss Sally have hear .
Day by day the little house blossom into a home , and day by day Miss Sally 's interest in it grow .
She begin to have a personal affection for it quaint room and their adornment .
Moreover , in spite of herself , she felt a grow interest in Willard 's bride .
He never tell her the name of the girl he hop to bring to Eden , and Miss Sally never ask it .
But he talk of her a great deal , in a shy , reverent , tender way .
`` He certainly seem to be very much in love with her , '' Miss Sally tell Joyce one evening when she return from Eden .
`` I would believe in him if it be possible for me to believe in a man .
Anyway , she will have a dear little home .
I 've almost come to love that Eden house .
Why do n't you come down and see it , Joyce ? ''
`` Oh , I 'll come some day -- I hope , '' say Joyce lightly .
`` I think I 'd rather not see it until it be finish . ''
`` Willard be a nice boy , '' say Miss Sally suddenly .
`` I do n't think I ever do him justice before .
The finer quality of his character come out in these simple , homely little doings and task .
He be certainly very thoughtful and kind .
Oh , I suppose he 'll make a good husband , a husband go .
But he do n't know the first thing about managing .
If his wife be n't a good manager , I do n't know what they 'll do .
And perhaps she wo n't like the way we 've do up Eden .
Willard say she will , of course , because he think her perfection .
But she may have dreadful taste and want the lace curtain and that nightmare of a pink rug Willard admire , and I dare say she 'd rather have a new flaunting set of china with rosebud on it than that dear old dull blue I pick up for a mere song down at the Aldenbury auction .
I stand in the rain for two mortal hour to make sure of it , and it be really worth all that Willard have spend on the dining room put together .
It will break my heart if she set to work alter Eden .
It 's simply perfect a it be -- though I suppose I should n't say it . ''
* * * * * In another week Eden be finish .
Miss Sally stand in the tiny hall and look about her .
`` Well , it be do , '' she say with a sigh .
`` I 'm sorry .
I have enjoy fix it up tremendously , and now I feel that my occupation be go .
I hope you be satisfied , Willard . ''
`` Satisfied be too mild a word , Miss Sally .
I be delighted .
I know you could accomplish wonder , but I never hop for this .
Eden be a dream -- the dear , quaint , sweet little home that ever wait for a bride .
When I bring her here -- oh , Miss Sally , do you know what that think mean to me ? ''
Miss Sally look curiously at the young man .
His face be flush and his voice tremble a little .
There be a far-away shining look in his eye a if he saw a vision .
`` I hope you and she will be happy , '' say Miss Sally slowly .
`` When will she be come , Willard ? ''
The flush go out of Willard 's face , leave it pale and determine .
`` That be for her -- and you -- to say , '' he answer steadily .
`` Me ! ''
exclaim Miss Sally .
`` What have I to do with it ? ''
`` A great deal -- for unless you consent she will never come here at all . ''
`` Willard Stanley , '' say Miss Sally , with ominous calm , `` who be the girl you mean to marry ? ''
`` The girl I hope to marry be Joyce , Miss Sally .
Wait -- do n't say anything till you hear me out . ''
He come close to her and catch her hand in a boyish grip .
`` Joyce and I have love each other ever since we meet .
But we despair of win your consent , and Joyce will not marry me without it .
I think if I could get you to help me fix up my little home that you might get so interested in it -- and so well acquaint with me -- that you would trust me with Joyce .
Please do , Miss Sally .
I love her so truly and I know I can make her happy .
If you do n't , Eden shall never have a mistress .
I 'll shut it up , just a it be , and leave it sacred to the dead hope of a bride that will never come to it . ''
`` Oh , you would n't , '' protest Miss Sally .
`` It would be a shame -- such a dear little house -- and after all the trouble I 've take .
But you have trick me -- oh , you men could n't be straightforward in anything -- '' `` Was n't it a fair device for a desperate lover , Miss Sally ? ''
interrupt Willard .
`` Oh , you must n't hold spite because of it , dear ; And you will give me Joyce , wo n't you ?
Because if you do n't , I really will shut up Eden forever . ''
Miss Sally look wistfully around her .
Through the open door on her left she saw the little living room with it quaint , comfortable furniture , it dainty picture and adornment .
Through the front door she saw the trim , velvet-swarded little lawn .
Upstairs be two white room that only want a woman 's living presence to make them jewel .
And the kitchen on which she have expend so much thought and ingenuity -- the kitchen furnish to the last detail , even to the kindling in the range and the match Willard have lay ready to light it !
It give Miss Sally a pang to think of that altar fire never be light .
It be really the thought of the kitchen that finish Miss Sally .
`` You 've trick me , '' she say again reproachfully .
`` You 've trick me into love this house so much that I can not bear the thought of it never living .
You 'll have to have Joyce , I suppose .
And I believe I 'm glad that it be n't a stranger who be to be the mistress of Eden .
Joyce wo n't hanker after pink rug and lace curtain .
And her taste in china be the same a mine .
In one way it 's a great relief to my mind .
But it 's a fearful risk -- a fearful risk .
To think that you may make my dear child miserable ! ''
`` You know you do n't think that I will , Miss Sally .
I 'm not really such a bad fellow , now , be I ? ''
`` You be a man -- and I have no confidence whatever in men , '' declare Miss Sally , wipe some very real tear from her eye with a very unreal sort of handkerchief -- one of the cobwebby affair of lace her daintiness demand .
`` Miss Sally , why have you such a rooted distrust of men ? ''
demand Willard curiously .
`` Somehow , it seem so foreign to your character . ''
`` I suppose you think I be a perfect crank , '' say Miss Sally , sigh .
`` Well , I 'll tell you why I do n't trust men .
I have a very good reason for it .
A man break my heart and embitter my life .
I 've never speak about it to a living soul , but if you want to hear about it , you shall . ''
Miss Sally sit down on the second step of the stair and tuck her wet handkerchief away .
She clasp her slender white hand over her knee .
In spite of her silvery hair and the little line on her face she look girlish and youthful .
There be a pink flush on her cheek , and her big black eye sparkle with the anger her memory arouse in her .
`` I be a young girl of twenty when I meet him , '' she say , `` and I be just as foolish a all young girl be -- foolish and romantic and sentimental .
He be very handsome and I think him -- but there , I wo n't go into that .
It vex me to recall my folly .
But I love him -- yes , I do , with all my heart -- with all there be of me to love .
He make me love him .
He deliberately set himself to win my love .
For a whole summer he flirt with me .
I do n't know he be flirt -- I think him in earnest .
Oh , I be such a little fool -- and so happy .
Then -- he go away .
Went away suddenly without even a word of goodbye .
But he have be summon home by his father 's serious illness , and I think he would write -- I wait -- I hop .
I never hear from him -- never saw him again .
He have tire of his plaything and flung it aside .
That be all , '' conclude Miss Sally passionately .
`` I never trust any man again .
When my sister die and give me her baby , I determine to bring the dear child up safely , train her to avoid the danger I have fall into .
Well , I 've fail .
But perhaps it will be all right -- perhaps there be some men who be true , though Stephen Merritt be false . ''
`` Stephen -- who ? ''
demand Willard abruptly .
Miss Sally colour .
`` I do n't mean to tell you his name , '' she say , get up .
`` It be a slip of the tongue .
Never mind -- forget it and him .
He be not worthy of remembrance -- and yet I do remember him .
I ca n't forget him -- and I hate him all the more for it -- for have enter so deeply into my life that I could not cast him out when I know him unworthy .
It be humiliate .
There -- let u lock up Eden and go home .
I suppose you be die to see Joyce and tell her your precious plot have succeed . ''
Willard do not appear to be at all impatient .
He have relapse into a brown study , during which he let Miss Sally lock up the house .
Then he walk silently home with her .
Miss Sally be silent too .
Perhaps she be repent her confidence -- or perhaps she be think of her false lover .
There be a pathetic droop to her lip , and her black eye be sad and dreamy .
`` Miss Sally , '' say Willard at last , a they near her house , `` have Stephen Merritt any sister ? ''
Miss Sally throw him a puzzled glance .
`` He have one -- Jean Merritt -- whom I dislike and who dislike me , '' she say crisply .
`` I do n't want to talk of her -- she be the only woman I ever hat .
I never meet any of the other member of his family -- his home be in a distant part of the state . ''
Willard stay with Joyce so brief a time that Miss Sally view his departure with suspicion .
This be not very lover-like conduct .
`` I dare say he 's like all the rest -- when his aim be attain the prize lose it value , '' reflect Miss Sally pessimistically .
`` Poor Joyce -- poor child !
But there -- there be n't a single inharmonious thing in his house -- that be one comfort .
I 'm so thankful I do n't let Willard buy those brocade chair he want .
They would have give Joyce the nightmare . ''
Meanwhile , Willard rush down to the biological station and from there drive furiously to the station to catch the evening express .
He do not return until three day later , when he appear at Miss Sally 's , dusty and triumphant .
`` Joyce be out , '' say Miss Sally .
`` I 'm glad of it , '' say Willard recklessly .
`` It 's you I want to see , Miss Sally .
I have something to show you .
I 've be all the way home to get it . ''
From his pocketbook Willard draw something fold and crease and yellow that look like a letter .
He open it carefully and , hold it in his finger , look over it at Miss Sally .
`` My grandmother 's maiden name be Jean Merritt , '' he say deliberately , `` and Stephen Merritt be my great-uncle .
I never saw him -- he die when I be a child -- but I 've hear my father speak of him often . ''
Miss Sally turn very pale .
She pass her cobwebby handkerchief across her lip and her hand tremble .
Willard go on .
`` My uncle never marry .
He and his sister Jean live together until her late marriage .
I be not very fond of my grandmother .
She be a selfish , domineer woman -- very unlike the grandmother of tradition .
When she die everything she possess come to me , a my father , her only child , be then dead .
In look over a box of old paper I find a letter -- an old love letter .
I read it with some interest , wonder whose it could be and how it come among Grandmother 's private letter .
It be sign ` Stephen , ' so that I guess my great-uncle have be the writer , but I have no idea who the Sally be to whom it be write , until the other day .
Then I know it be you -- and I go home to bring you your letter -- the letter you should have receive long ago .
Why you do not receive it I can not explain .
I fear that my grandmother must have be to blame for that -- she must have intercept and keep the letter in order to part her brother and you .
In so far a I can I wish to repair the wrong she have do you .
I know it can never be repair -- but at least I think this letter will take the bitterness out of the memory of your lover . ''
He drop the letter in Miss Sally 's lap and go away .
Pale , Miss Sally pick it up and read it .
It be from Stephen Merritt to `` dearest Sally , '' and contain a frank , manly avowal of love .
Would she be his wife ?
If she would , let her write and tell him so .
But if she do not and could not love him , let her silence reveal the bitter fact ; he would wish to spare her the pain of put her refusal into word , and if she do not write he would understand that she be not for him .
When Willard and Joyce come back into the twilight room they find Miss Sally still sit by the table , her head lean pensively on her hand .
She have be cry -- the cobwebby handkerchief lay beside her , wreck and ruin forever -- but she look very happy .
`` I wonder if you know what you have do for me , '' she say to Willard .
`` But no -- you ca n't know -- you ca n't realize it fully .
It mean everything to me .
You have take away my humiliation and restore to me my pride of womanhood .
He really love me -- he be not false -- he be what I believe him to be .
Nothing else matter to me at all now .
Oh , I be very happy -- but it would never have be if I have not consent to give you Joyce . ''
She rise and take their hand in hers , join them .
`` God bless you , dear , '' she say softly .
`` I believe you will be happy and that your love for each other will always be true and faithful and tender .
Willard , I give you my dear child in perfect trust and confidence . ''
With her yellow love letter clasp to her heart , and a raptured shining in her eye , Miss Sally go out of the room .
My Lady Jane The boat get into Broughton half an hour after the train have go .
We have be delay by some small accident to the machinery ; hence that lose half-hour , which mean a night 's sojourn for me in Broughton .
I be ashamed of the thing I think and say .
When I think that fate might have take me at my word and raise up a special train , or some such miracle , by which I might have get away from Broughton that night , I experience a cold chill .
Out of gratitude I have never swear over miss connection since .
At the time , however , I felt thoroughly exasperate .
I be in a hurry to get on .
Important business engagement would be unhinge by the delay .
I be a stranger in Broughton .
It look like a stupid , stuffy little town .
I go to a hotel in an atrocious humor .
After I have fume until I want a change , it occur to me that I might as well hunt up Clark Oliver by way of pass the time .
I have never be overly fond of Clark Oliver , although he be my cousin .
He be a bit of a cad , and stupid than anyone belonging to our family have a right to be .
Moreover , he be in politics , and I detest politics .
But I rather want to see if he look as much like me a he use to .
I have n't see him for three year and I hop that the time might have differentiate u to a save degree .
It be over a year since I have last be blow up by some unknown , excited individual on the ground that I be that scoundrel Oliver -- politically speak .
I think that be a good omen .
I go to Clark 's office , find he have leave , and follow him to his room .
The minute I saw him I experience the same nasty feeling of lose or bewilder individuality which always overcome me in his presence .
He be so absurdly like me .
I felt a if I be look into a mirror where my reflection persist in do thing I do n't do , thereby produce a most uncanny sensation .
Clark pretend he be glad to see me .
He really could n't have be , because his Great Idea have n't strike him then , and we have always dislike each other .
`` Hello , Elliott , '' he say , shake me by the hand with a twist he have learn in election campaign , whereby something like heartiness be simulate .
`` Glad to see you , old fellow .
Gad , you 're a like me a ever .
Where do you drop from ? ''
I explain my predicament and we talk amiably and harmlessly for awhile about family gossip .
I abhor family gossip , but it be a shade well than politics , and those two subject be the only one on which Clark can converse at all .
I describe Mary Alice 's wedding , and Florence 's new young man , and Tom-and-Kate 's twin .
Clark try to be interested but I saw he have something on what serve him for a mind .
After awhile it come out .
He look at his watch with a frown .
`` I 'm in a bit of a puzzle , '' he say .
`` The Mark Kennedys be give a dinner to-night .
You do n't know them , of course .
They 're the big people of Broughton .
Kennedy run the politics of the place , and Mrs. K. make or mar people socially .
It 's my first invitation there and it 's necessary I should accept it -- necessary every way .
Mrs. K. would never forgive me if I disappoint her at the last moment .
Not that I , personally , be of much account -- yet -- to her .
But it would leave a vacant place .
Mrs. K. would never notice me again and , a she boss Kennedy , I ca n't afford to offend her .
Besides , there 's a girl who 'll be there .
I 've meet her once .
I want to meet her again .
She 's a beauty and no mistake .
Toplofty a they make 'em , though .
However , I think I 've make an impression on her .
It be at the Harvey 's dance last week .
She be the handsome woman there , and she never take her eye off me .
I 've give Mrs. Kennedy a pretty broad hint that I want to take her in to dinner .
If I do n't go I 'll miss all round . ''
`` Well , what be there to prevent you from go ? ''
I ask , squiffily .
I never could endure the way Clark talk about girl and hint at his conquest .
`` Just this .
Herbert Bronson come to town this afternoon and be leave on the 10.30 train to-night .
He 's sent me word to meet him at his hotel this evening and talk over a mining deal I 've be try to pull off .
I simply must go .
It 's my one chance to corral Bronson .
If I lose him it 'll be all up , and I 'll be thousand out of pocket . ''
`` Well , you be in rather a predicament , '' I agree , with the philosophical acceptance of the situation that mark the outsider .
I be n't hamper by the multiplicity of my business and social engagement that evening , so I could afford to pity Clark .
It be always rather nice to be able to pity a person you dislike .
`` I should say so .
I ca n't make up my mind what to do .
Hang it .
I 'll have to see Bronson .
There 's no question about that .
A man ought to keep an understood substitute on hand to send to dinner when he ca n't go .
By Jove !
Elliott ! ''
Clark 's Great Idea have arrive .
He bounce up eagerly .
`` Elliott , will you go to the Kennedys ' in my place ?
They 'll never know the difference .
Do , now -- there 's a good fellow ! ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
I say .
`` It be n't nonsense .
The resemblance between u be foreordain for this hour .
I 'll lend you my dress suit -- it 'll fit you -- your figure be as much like mine a your face .
You 've nothing to do with yourself this evening .
I offer you a good dinner and an agreeable partner .
Come now , to oblige me .
You know you owe me a good turn for that Mulhenen business . ''
The Mulhenen business clinch the matter .
Until he mention it I have no notion whatever of masquerade a Clark Oliver at the Kennedys ' dinner .
But , a Clark so delicately put it , he have do me a good turn in that affair and the obligation have rankle ever since .
It be beastly to be indebted for a favor to a man you detest .
Now be my chance to pay it off and I take it without more ado .
`` But , '' I say doubtfully , `` I do n't know the Kennedys -- nor any of the social stunt that be do in Broughton ; I wo n't dare to talk about anything , and I 'll seem so stupid , even if I do n't actually make some irremediable blunder , that the Kennedys will be disgust with you .
It will probably do your prospect more harm than your absence would . ''
`` Not at all .
Keep your mouth shut when you can and talk generality when you ca n't , and you 'll pass .
If you take that girl in she 's a stranger in Broughton and wo n't suspect your ignorance of what 's go on .
Nobody will suspect you .
Nobody here know I have a cousin so like me .
Our own mother have n't always be able to tell u apart .
Our very voice be alike .
Come now , get into my dinner togs .
You have n't much time and Mrs. K. do n't like late comer . ''
There seem to be a number of thing that Mrs. Kennedy do not like .
I think my chance of please that critical lady extremely small , especially when I have to live up to Clark Oliver 's personality .
However , I dress as expeditiously a possible .
The novelty of the adventure rather please me .
I always like do unusual thing .
Anything be good than lounge away the evening at my hotel .
It could n't do any harm .
I owe Clark Oliver a good turn and I would save Mrs. Kennedy the annoyance of a vacant chair .
There be no dispute the fact that I look most disgustingly like Clark when I get into his clothes .
I actually felt a grudge against them for their excellent fit .
`` You 'll do , '' say Clark .
`` Remember you 're a Conservative to-night and do n't let your rank Liberal view crop out , or you 'll queer me for all time with the great and only Mark .
He do n't talk politics at his dinner , though , so you 're not likely to have trouble on that score .
Mrs. Kennedy have a weakness for beer mug .
Her collection be consider very fine .
Scandal whisper that Miss Harvey have a budding interest in settlement work -- '' `` Miss who ? ''
I say sharply .
`` Harvey .
Christian name unknown .
That 's the girl I mention .
You 'll probably take her in .
Be nice to her even if you have to make an effort .
She 's the one I 've pick out a your future cousin , you know , so I do n't want you to spoil her good opinion of me in any way . ''
The name have give me a jump .
Once , in another world , I have know a Jane Harvey .
But Clark 's Miss Harvey could n't be Jane .
A month before I have read a newspaper item to the effect that Jane be on the Pacific coast .
Moreover , Jane , when I know her , have certainly no manifest vocation for settlement work .
I do n't think two year could have work such a transformation .
Two year !
Was it only two year ?
It seem more like two century .
I go to the Kennedys ' in a pleasantly excite frame of mind and a cab .
I just miss be late by a hairbreadth .
The house be a big one , and everybody pertain to it be big , except the host .
Mark Kennedy be a little , thin man with a bald head .
He do n't look like a political power , but that be all the more reason for his be one in a world where thing be not what they seem .
Mrs. Kennedy greet me cordially and tell me significantly that she have grant my request .
This meant , a my card have already inform me , that I be to take Miss Harvey out .
Of course there would be no introduction since Clark Oliver be already acquaint with the lady .
I be wonder how I be to locate her when I get a shock that make me dizzy .
Jane be over in a corner look at me .
There be no time to collect my wit .
The guest be move out to the dining-room .
I take my nerve in my hand , cross the room , bow , and the next moment be walk through the hall with Jane 's hand on my arm .
The hall be a good long one ; I bless the architect who have plan it .
It give me time to sort out my idea .
Jane here !
Jane go out to dinner with me , believe me to be Clark Oliver !
Jane -- but it be incredible !
The whole thing be a dream -- or I have go crazy !
I look at her sideways when we have get into our place at the table .
She be more beautiful than ever , that tall , brown-haired , disdainful Jane .
The settlement work story I be incline to dismiss a a myth .
Settlement work in a beautiful woman generally mean crowsfeet or a broken heart .
Jane , accord to my sight and belief , possess neither .
Once upon a time I have be engage to Jane .
I have be idiotically in love with her in those day and still more idiotically believe that she love me .
The trouble be that , although I have be cure of the latter phase of my idiocy , the former have become chronic .
I have never be able to get over loving Jane .
All through those two year I have hug the fond hope that sometime I might stumble across her in a mild mood and make matter up .
There be no such thing a seek her out or write to her , since she have icily forbid me to do so , and Jane have a most detestable habit -- in a woman -- of mean what she say .
But the deity I have invoke be the god of chance -- and this be how he have answer my prayer .
I be eat my dinner beside Jane , who suppose me to be Clark Oliver !
What should I do ?
Confess the truth and plead my cause while she have to sit beside me ?
That would never do .
Someone might overhear u .
And , in any case , it would be no passport to Jane 's favor that I be a guest in the house under false pretence .
She would be certain to disapprove strongly .
It be a maddening situation .
Jane , who be calmly eat soup -- she be the only woman I have ever see who could eat soup and look like a goddess at the same time -- glance around and catch me study her profile .
I think she blush slightly and I rag inwardly to think that blush be mean for Clark Oliver -- Clark Oliver who have tell me he think Jane be smite on him !
Jane !
On him !
`` Do you know , Mr. Oliver , '' say Jane slowly , `` that you be startlingly like a -- a person I use to know ?
When I first saw you the other night I take you for him . ''
A person you use to know !
Oh , Jane , that be the most unkind cut of all .
`` My cousin , Elliott Cameron , I suppose ? ''
I answer as indifferently a I could .
`` We resemble each other very closely .
You be acquaint with Cameron , Miss Harvey ? ''
`` Slightly , '' say Jane .
`` A fine fellow , '' I say unblushingly .
`` A-h , '' say Jane .
`` My favorite relative , '' I go on brazenly .
`` He 's a thoroughly good sort -- rather dull now to what he use to be , though .
He have an unfortunate love affair two year ago and have never get over it . ''
`` Indeed ? ''
say Jane coldly , crumble a bit of bread between her finger .
Her face be expressionless and her voice ditto ; but I have hear her criticize nervous people who do thing like that at table .
`` I fear poor Elliott 's life have be completely spoil , '' I say , with a sigh .
`` It 's a shame . ''
`` Did he confide the affair to you ? ''
ask Jane , a little scornfully .
`` Well , after a fashion .
He say enough for me to guess the rest .
He never tell me the lady 's name .
She be very beautiful , I understand , and very heartless .
Oh , she use him very badly . ''
`` Did he tell you that , too ? ''
ask Jane .
`` Not he .
He wo n't listen to a word against her .
But a chap can draw his own conclusion , you know . ''
`` What go wrong between them ? ''
ask Jane .
She smile at a lady across the table , a if she be merely ask question to make conversation , but she go on crumble bread .
`` Simply a very stiff quarrel , I believe .
Elliott never go into detail .
The lady be flirt with somebody else , I fancy . ''
`` People have such different idea about flirting , '' say Jane , languidly .
`` What one would call mere simple friendliness another construes into flirting .
Possibly your friend -- or be it your cousin ?
-- be one of those men who become insanely jealous over every trifle and attempt to exert authority before they have any to exert .
A woman of spirit would hardly fail to resent that . ''
`` Of course Elliott be jealous , '' I admit .
`` But then , you know , Miss Harvey , that jealousy be say to be the measure of a man 's love .
If he go beyond his right I be sure he be bitterly sorry for it . ''
`` Does he really care about her still ? ''
ask Jane , eat most industriously , although somehow the content of her plate do hot grow noticeably less .
As for me , I do n't pretend to eat .
I simply peck .
`` He love her with all his heart , '' I answer fervently .
`` There never have be and never will be any other woman for Elliott Cameron . ''
`` Why do n't he go and tell her so ? ''
inquired Jane , a if she felt rather bore over the whole subject .
`` He do n't dare to .
She forbid him ever to cross her path again .
Told him she hat him and always would hate him as long a she live . ''
`` She must have be an unpleasantly emphatic young woman , '' comment Jane .
`` I 'd like to hear anyone say so to Elliott , '' I respond .
`` He consider her perfection .
I 'm sorry for Elliott .
His life be wreck . ''
`` Do you know , '' say Jane slowly , a if poke about in the recess of her memory for something half forgotten .
`` I believe I know the -- the girl in question . ''
`` Really ? ''
I say .
`` Yes , she be a friend of mine .
She -- she never tell me his name , but put two and two together , I believe it must have be your cousin .
But she -- she think she be the one to blame . ''
`` Does she ? ''
It be my turn to ask question now , but my heart thump so that I could hardly speak .
`` Yes , she say she be too hasty and unreasonable .
She do n't mean to flirt at all -- and she never care for anyone but -- him .
But his jealousy irritate her .
I suppose she say thing to him she do n't really mean .
She -- she never suppose he be go to take her at her word . ''
`` Do you think she care for him still ? ''
Considering what be at stake , I think I ask the question very well .
`` I think she must , '' say Jane languidly .
`` She have never look at any other man .
She devote most of her time to charitable work , but I feel sure she be n't really happy . ''
So the settlement story be true .
Oh , Jane !
`` What would you advise my cousin to do ? ''
I ask .
`` Do you think he should go boldly to her ?
Would she listen to him -- forgive him ? ''
`` She might , '' say Jane .
`` Have I your permission to tell Elliott Cameron this ? ''
I demand .
Jane select and eat an olive with madden deliberation .
`` I suppose you may -- if you be really convinced that he want to hear it , '' she say at last , a if barely recollect that I have ask the question two minute previously .
`` I 'll tell him as soon a I go home , '' I say .
I have the satisfaction of startle Jane at last .
She turn her head and look at me .
I get a good , square , satisfy gaze into her big , blackish-blue eye .
`` Yes , '' I say , compel myself to look away .
`` He come in on the boat this afternoon too late for his train .
Has to stay over till to-morrow night .
I leave him in my room when I come away .
Doubtless to-morrow will see him speed recklessly to his dear divinity .
I wonder if he know where she be at present . ''
`` If he do n't , '' say Jane , with the air of dismiss the subject once and forever from her mind , `` I can give him the information .
You may tell him I 'm stay with the Duncan Moores , and shall be leave day after to-morrow .
By the way , have you see Mrs. Kennedy 's collection of stein ?
It be a remarkably fine one . ''
Clark Oliver could n't come to our wedding -- or would n't .
Jane have never meet him since , but she can not understand why I have such an aversion to him , especially when he have such a good opinion of me .
She say she think him charm , and one of the most interesting conversationalist she ever go out to dinner with .
Robert Turner 's Revenge When Robert Turner come to the green , ferny triangle where the station road fork to the right and leave under the birch , he hesitate a to which direction he would take .
The left lead out to the old Turner homestead , where he have spend his boyhood and where his cousin still live ; the right lead down to the Cove shore where the Jameson property be situate .
Since he have stop off at Chiswick for the purpose of look this property over before foreclose the mortgage on it he conclude that he might as well take the Cove road ; he could go around by the shore afterward -- he have not forget the way even in forty year -- and so on up through the old spruce wood in Alec Martin 's field -- if the spruce be there still and the field still Alec Martin 's -- to his cousin 's place .
He would just about have time to make the round before the early country supper hour .
Then a brief visit with Tom -- Tom have always be a good sort of a fellow although woefully dull and slow-going -- and the evening express for Montreal .
He swing with a businesslike stride into the Cove road .
As he go on , however , the stride insensibly slacken into an unaccustomed saunter .
How well he remember that old road , although it be forty year since he have last traversed it , a set-lipped boy of fifteen , cast on the world by the indifference of an uncle .
The year have make surprisingly little difference in it or in the surrounding scenery .
True , the hill and field and lane seem low and small and narrow than he remember them ; there be some new house along the road , and the belt of wood along the back of the farm have become thinner in most place .
But that be all .
He have no difficulty in pick out the old familiar spot .
There be the big cherry orchard on the Milligan place which have be so famous in his boyhood .
It be snow-white with blossom , a if the tree be possess of eternal youth ; they have be in blossom the last time he have see them .
Well , time have not stand still with him a it have with Luke Milligan 's cherry orchard , he reflect grimly .
His springtime have long go by .
The few people he meet on the road look at him curiously , for stranger be not commonplace in Chiswick .
He recognize some of the old among them but none of them know him .
He have be an awkward , long-limbed lad with fresh boyish colour and crisp black curl when he have leave Chiswick .
He return to it a somewhat portly figure of a man , with close-cropped , grizzled hair , and a face that look a if it might be carve out of granite , so immobile and unyielding it be -- the face of a man who never falter or waver , who stick at nothing that might advance his plan and purpose , a face know and dread in the business world where he reign master .
It be a cold , hard , selfish face , but the face of the boy of forty year ago have be neither cold nor hard nor selfish .
Presently the homestead and orchard land grow few and then cease altogether .
The field be long and low-lying , slop down to the misty blue rim of sea .
A turn of the road bring him in sudden sight of the Cove , and there below him be the old Jameson homestead , build almost within wave-lap of the pebbly shore and shut away into a lonely grey world of it own by the sea and sand and those long slope of tenantless field .
He pause at the sag gate that open into the long , deep-rutted lane and , fold his arm on it , look earnestly and scrutinizingly over the building .
They be grey and fade , lack the prosperous appearance that have characterize them once .
There be an air of failure about the whole place a if the very land have become disheartened and discourage .
Long ago , Neil Jameson , senior , have be a well-to-do man .
The big Cove farm have be one of the best in Chiswick then .
As for Neil Jameson , Junior , Robert Turner 's face always grow something grimmer when he recall him -- the one person , boy and man , whom he have really hat in the world .
They have be enemy from childhood , and once in a bout of wrestling at the Chiswick school Neil have throw him by an unfair trick and taunt him continually thereafter on his defeat .
Robert have make a compact with himself that some day he would pay Neil Jameson back .
He have not forget it -- he never forget such thing -- but he have never see or hear of Neil Jameson after leave Chiswick .
He might have be dead for anything Robert Turner know .
Then , when John Kesley fail and his effect turn over to his creditor , of whom Robert Turner be the chief , a mortgage on the Cove farm at Chiswick , own by Neil Jameson , have be find among his asset .
Inquiry reveal the fact that Neil Jameson be dead and that the farm be run by his widow .
Turner felt a pang of disappointment .
What satisfaction be there in wreak revenge on a dead man ?
But at least his wife and child should suffer .
That debt of his to Jameson for an ill-won victory and many a sneer must be pay in full , if not to him , why , then to his heir .
His lawyer report that Mrs. Jameson be two year behind with her interest .
Turner instruct them to foreclose the mortgage promptly .
Then he take it into his head to revisit Chiswick and have a good look at the Cove farm and other place he know so well .
He have a notion that it might be a decent place to spend a summer month or two in .
His wife go to seaside and mountain resort , but he like something quieter .
There be good fishing at the Cove and in Chiswick pond , a he remember .
If he like the farm as well a his memory promise him he would do , he would bid it in himself .
It would make Neil Jameson turn in his grave if the penniless lad he have jeer at come into the possession of his old ancestral property that have be own by a Jameson for over one hundred year .
There be a flavour in such a revenge that please Robert Turner .
He smile one of his occasional grim smile over it .
When Robert Turner smile , weather prophet of the business sky foretold squall .
Presently he open the gate and go through .
Halfway down the lane fork , one branch go over to the house , the other slanting across the field to the cove .
Turner take the latter and soon find himself on the grey shore where the wave be tumble in creamy foam just a he remember them long ago .
Nothing about the old cove have change ; he walk around a knobby headland , weather-worn with the wind and spray of year , which cut him off from sight of the Jameson house , and sit down on a rock .
He think himself alone and be annoy to find a boy sit on the opposite ledge with a book on his knee .
The lad lift his eye and look Turner over with a clear , direct gaze .
He be about twelve year old , tall for his age , slight , with a delicate , clear-cut face -- a face that be oddly familiar to Turner , although he be sure he have never see it before .
The boy have oval cheek , finely tint with colour , big , shy blue eye quilled about with long black lash , and silvery-golden hair lie over his head in soft ringlet like a girl 's .
What girl 's ?
Something far back in Robert Turner 's dreamlike boyhood seem to call to him like a note of a forgotten melody , sweet yet stir like a pain .
The more he look at the boy the strong the impression of a resemblance grow in every feature but the mouth .
That be alien to his recollection of the face , yet there be something about it , when take by itself , that seem oddly familiar also -- yes , and unpleasantly familiar , although the mouth be a good one -- finely cut and possess more firmness than be find in all the other feature put together .
`` It 's a good place for reading , sonny , be n't it ? ''
he inquire , more genially than he have speak to a child for year .
In fact , have no child of his own , he so seldom speak to a child that his voice and manner when he do so be generally awkward and rusty .
The boy nod a quick little nod .
Somehow , Turner have expect that nod and the glimmer of a smile that accompany it .
`` What book be you read ? ''
he ask .
The boy hold it out ; it be an old Robinson Crusoe , that classic of boyhood .
`` It 's splendid , '' he say .
`` Billy Martin lend it to me and I have to finish it today because Ned Josephs be to have it next and he 's in a hurry for it . ''
`` It 's a good while since I read Robinson Crusoe , '' say Turner reflectively .
`` But when I do it be on this very shore a little further along below the Miller place .
There be a Martin and a Josephs in the partnership then too -- the father , I dare say , of Billy and Ned .
What be your name , my boy ? ''
`` Paul Jameson , sir . ''
The name be a shock to Turner .
This boy a Jameson -- Neil Jameson 's son ?
Why , yes , he have Neil 's mouth .
Strange he have nothing else in common with the black-browed , black-haired Jamesons .
What business have a Jameson with those blue eye and silvery-golden curl ?
It be flagrant forgery on Nature 's part to fashion such thing and label them Jameson by a mouth .
Hated Neil Jameson 's son !
Robert Turner 's face grow so grey and hard that the boy involuntarily glance upward to see if a cloud have cross the sun .
`` Your father be Neil Jameson , I suppose ? ''
Turner say abruptly .
Paul nod .
`` Yes , but he be dead .
He have be dead for eight year .
I do n't remember him . ''
`` Have you any brother or sister ? ''
`` I have a little sister a year young than I be .
The other four be dead .
They die long ago .
I 'm the only boy Mother have .
Oh , I do so wish I be big and old !
If I be I could do something to save the place -- I 'm sure I could .
It be break Mother 's heart to have to leave it . ''
`` So she have to leave it , have she ? ''
say Turner grimly , with the old hatred stirring in his heart .
`` Yes .
There be a mortgage on it and we 're to be sell out very soon -- so the lawyer tell u .
Mother have try so hard to make the farm pay but she could n't .
I could if I be big -- I know I could .
If they would only wait a few year !
But there be no use hop for that .
Mother cry all the time about it .
She have live at the Cove farm for over thirty year and she say she ca n't live away from it now .
Elsie -- that 's my sister -- and I do all we can to cheer her up , but we ca n't do much .
Oh , if I be only a man ! ''
The lad shut his lip together -- how much his mouth be like his father 's -- and look out seaward with troubled blue eye .
Turner smile another grim smile .
Oh , Neil Jameson , your old score be be pay now !
Yet something embitter the sweetness of revenge .
That boy 's face -- he could not hate it a he have accustom himself to hate the memory of Neil Jameson and all connect with him .
`` What be your mother 's name before she marry your father ? ''
he demand abruptly .
`` Lisbeth Miller , '' answer the boy , still frown seaward over his secret thought .
Turner start again .
Lisbeth Miller !
He might have know it .
What woman in all the world save Lisbeth Miller could have give her son those eye and curl ?
So Lisbeth have marry Neil Jameson -- little Lisbeth Miller , his schoolboy sweetheart .
He have forget her -- or think he have ; certainly he have not think of her for year .
But the memory of her come back now with a rush .
Little Lisbeth -- pretty little Lisbeth -- merry little Lisbeth !
How clearly he remember her !
The old Miller place have adjoin his uncle 's farm .
Lisbeth and he have play together from babyhood .
How he have worship her !
When they be six year old they have solemnly promise to marry each other when they grow up , and Lisbeth have let him kiss her a earnest of their compact , make under a bloom-white apple tree in the Miller orchard .
Yet she would always blush furiously and deny it ever afterwards ; it make her angry to be remind of it .
He saw himself go to school , carry her book for her , the envy of all the boy .
He remember how he have fight Tony Josephs because Tony have the presumption to bring her spice apple : he have thrash him too , so soundly that from that time forth none of the schoolboy presume to rival him in Lisbeth 's affection -- roguish little Lisbeth !
who grow pretty and saucier every year .
He recall the keen competition of the old day when to be `` head of the class '' seem the high honour within mortal reach , and be strive after with might and main .
He have seldom attain to it because he would never `` go up past '' Lisbeth .
If she miss a word , he , Robert , miss it too , no matter how well he know it .
It be sweet to be think a dunce for her dear sake .
It be all the reward he ask to see her hold her place at the head of the class , her cheek flush pink and her eye starry with her pride of position .
And how sweetly she would lecture him on the way home from school about learn his spelling well , and wind up her sermon with the frank avowal , uttered with deliciously downcast lid , that she like him good than any of the other boy after all , even if he could n't spell as well a they could .
Nothing of success that he have win since have ever thrill him a that admission of little Lisbeth 's !
She have be such a sympathetic little sweetheart too , never weary of listen to his dream and ambition , his plan for the future .
She have always assure him that she know he would succeed .
Well , he have succeed -- and now one of the us he be go to make of his success be to turn Lisbeth and her child out of their home by way of square matter with a dead man !
Lisbeth have be away from home on a long visit to an aunt when he have leave Chiswick .
She be grow up and the childish intimacy be fade .
Perhaps , under other circumstance , it might have ripen into fruit , but he have go away and forget her ; the world have claim him ; he have lose all active remembrance of Lisbeth and , before this late return to Chiswick , he have not even know if she be live .
And she be Neil Jameson 's widow !
He be silent for a long time , while the wave purr about the base of the big red sandstone rock and the boy return to his Crusoe .
Finally Robert Turner rouse himself from his reverie .
`` I use to know your mother long ago when she be a little girl , '' he say .
`` I wonder if she remember me .
Ask her when you go home if she remember Bobby Turner . ''
`` Wo n't you come up to the house and see her , sir ? ''
ask Paul politely .
`` Mother be always glad to see her old friend . ''
`` No , I have n't time today . ''
Robert Turner be not go to tell Neil Jameson 's son that he do not care to look for the little Lisbeth of long ago in Neil Jameson 's widow .
The name spoil her for him , just a the Jameson mouth spoil her son for him .
`` But you may tell her something else .
The mortgage will not be foreclose .
I be the power behind the lawyer , but I do not know that the present owner of the Cove farm be my little playmate , Lisbeth Miller .
You and she shall have all the time you want .
Tell her Bobby Turner do this in return for what she give him under the big sweeting apple tree on her sixth birthday .
I think she will remember and understand .
As for you , Paul , be a good boy and good to your mother .
I hope you 'll succeed in your ambition of make the farm pay when you be old enough to take it in hand .
At any rate , you 'll not be disturb in your possession of it . ''
`` Oh , sir !
oh , sir ! ''
stammer Paul in an agony of embarrassed gratitude and delight .
`` Oh , it seem too good to be true .
Do you really mean that we 're not to be sell out ?
Oh , wo n't you come and tell Mother yourself ?
She 'll be so happy -- so grateful .
Do come and let her thank you . ''
`` Not today .
I have n't time .
Give her my message , that 's all .
There , run ; the sooner she get the news the good . ''
Turner watch the boy a he bound away , until the headland hide him from sight .
`` There go my revenge -- and a fine bit of property eminently suit for a summer residence -- all for a bit of old , rusty sentiment , '' he say with a shrug .
`` I do n't suppose I be capable of such a mood .
But then -- little Lisbeth .
There never be a sweet girl .
I 'm glad I do n't go with the boy to see her .
She 's an old woman now -- and Neil Jameson 's widow .
I prefer to keep my old memory of her undisturbed -- little Lisbeth of the silvery-golden curl and the roguish blue eye .
Little Lisbeth of the old time !
I 'm glad to be able to have do you the small service of secure your home to you .
It be my thanks to you for the friendship and affection you give my lonely boyhood -- my tribute to the memory of my first sweetheart . ''
He walk away with a smile , whose amusement presently soften to an expression that would have amaze his business crony .
Later on he hum the air of an old love song a he climb the steep spruce road to Tom 's .
The Fillmore Elderberries `` I expect as much , '' say Timothy Robinson .
His tone bring the blood into Ellis Duncan 's face .
The lad open his lip quickly , a if for an angry retort , but a quickly close them again with a set firmness oddly like Timothy Robinson 's own .
`` When I hear that lazy , worthless father of yours be dead , I expect you and your mother would be look to me for help , '' Timothy Robinson go on harshly .
`` But you 're mistake if you think I 'll give it .
You 've no claim on me , even if your father be my half-brother -- no claim at all .
And I 'm not note for charity . ''
Timothy Robinson smile grimly .
It be very true that he be far from be note for charity .
His neighbour call him `` close '' and `` near . ''
Some even go so far a to call him `` a miserly skinflint . ''
But this be not true .
It be , however , undeniable that Timothy Robinson keep a tight clutch on his purse-strings , and although he sometimes give liberally enough to any cause which really appeal to him , such cause be few and far between .
`` I be not ask for charity , Uncle Timothy , '' say Ellis quietly .
He pass over the slur at his father in silence , deeply a he felt it , for , ala , he know that it be only too true .
`` I expect to support my mother by hard and honest work .
And I be not ask you for work on the ground of our relationship .
I hear you want a hired man , and I have come to you , a I should have go to any other man about whom I have hear it , to ask you to hire me . ''
`` Yes , I do want a man , '' say Uncle Timothy drily .
`` A man -- not a half-grown boy of fourteen , not worth his salt .
I want somebody able and willing to work . ''
Again Ellis flush deeply and again he control himself .
`` I be willing to work , Uncle Timothy , and I think you would find me able also if you would try me .
I 'd work for less than a man 's wage at first , of course . ''
`` You wo n't work for any sort of wage from me , '' interrupt Timothy Robinson decidedly .
`` I tell you plainly that I wo n't hire you .
You 're the wrong man 's son for that .
Your father be lazy and incompetent and , bad of all , untrustworthy .
I do try to help him once , and all I get be loss and ingratitude .
I want none of his kind around my place .
I do n't believe in you , so you may as well take yourself off , Ellis .
I 've no more time to waste . ''
Ellis take himself off , his ear tingle .
As he walk homeward his thought be very bitter .
All Uncle Timothy have say about his father be true , and Ellis realize what a count it be against him in his effort to obtain employment .
Nobody want to be bother with `` Old Sam Duncan 's son , '' though nobody have be so brutally outspoken a his Uncle Timothy .
Sam Duncan and Timothy Robinson have be half-brother .
Sam , the old , have be the son of Mrs. Robinson 's former marriage .
Never be two lad more dissimilar .
Sam be a lazy , shiftless fellow , deserve all the hard thing that come to be say of him .
He would not work and nobody could depend on him , but he be a handsome lad with rather take way in his youth , and at first people have like him good than the close , blunt , industrious Timothy .
Their mother have die in their childhood , but Mr. Robinson have be fond of Sam and the boy have a good home .
When he be twenty-two and Timothy eighteen , Mr. Robinson have die very suddenly , leave no will .
Everything he possess go to Timothy .
Sam immediately leave .
He say he would not stay there to be `` boss '' by Timothy .
He rent a little house in the village , marry a girl `` far too good for him , '' and start in to support himself and his wife by day ' work .
He have lounge , borrow , and shirk through life .
Once Timothy Robinson , perhaps move by pity for Sam 's wife and baby , have hire him for a year at good wage than most hired men receive in Dalrymple .
Sam idle through a month of it , then get offend and leave in the middle of haying .
Timothy Robinson wash his hand of him after that .
When Ellis be fourteen Sam Duncan die , after a linger illness of a year .
During this time the family be keep by the charity of pity neighbour , for Ellis could not be spar from attendance on his father to make any attempt at earn money .
Mrs. Duncan be a fragile little woman , wear out with her hard life , and not strong enough to wait on her husband alone .
When Sam Duncan be dead and bury , Ellis straighten his shoulder and take counsel with himself .
He must earn a livelihood for his mother and himself , and he must begin at once .
He be tall and strong for his age , and have a fairly good education , his mother have determinedly keep him at school when he have plead to be allow to go to work .
He have always be a quiet fellow , and nobody in Dalrymple know much about him .
But they know all about his father , and nobody would hire Ellis unless he be willing to work for a pittance that would barely clothe him .
Ellis have not go to his Uncle Timothy until he have lose all hope of get a place elsewhere .
Now this hope too have go .
It be nearly the end of June and everybody who want help have secure it .
Look where he would , Ellis could see no prospect of employment .
`` If I could only get a chance ! ''
he think miserably .
`` I know I be not idle or lazy -- I know I can work -- if I could get a chance to prove it . ''
He be sit on the fence of the Fillmore elderberry pasture a he say it , have take a short cut across the field .
This pasture be rather note in Dalrymple .
Originally a mellow and fertile field , it have be almost ruin by a persistent , luxuriant growth of elderberry bush .
Old Thomas Fillmore have at first try to conquer them by mow them down `` in the dark of the moon . ''
But the elderberry do not seem to mind either moon or mowing , and flourish alike in all the quarter .
For the past two year Old Thomas have give up the contest , and the elderberry have it all their own sweet way .
Thomas Fillmore , a bent old man with a shrewd , nutcracker face , come through the bush while Ellis be sit on the fence .
`` Howdy , Ellis .
Seen anything of my spotted calf ?
I 've be look for 'em for over an hour . ''
`` No , I have n't see any calf -- but a good many might be in this pasture without be visible to the naked eye , '' say Ellis , with a smile .
Old Thomas shake his head ruefully .
`` Them elder have be too many for me , '' he say .
`` Did you ever see a worse-looking place ?
You 'd hardly believe that twenty year ago there be n't a good piece of land in Dalrymple than this lot , would ye ?
Such grass a grow here ! ''
`` The soil must be as good a ever if anything have a chance to grow on it , '' say Ellis .
`` Could n't those elder be root out ? ''
`` It 'd be a back-breaking job , but I reckon it could be do if anyone have the muscle and patience and time to tackle it .
I have n't the first at my age , and my hired man have n't the last .
And nobody would do it for what I could afford to pay . ''
`` What will you give me if I undertake to clean the elder out of this field for you , Mr. Fillmore ? ''
ask Ellis quietly .
Old Thomas look at him with a surprised face , which gradually revert to it original shrewdness when he saw that Ellis be in earnest .
`` You must be hard up for a job , '' he say .
`` I be , '' be Ellis 's laconic answer .
`` Well , lem me see . ''
Old Thomas calculate carefully .
He never pay a cent more for anything than he could help , and be note for hard bargaining .
`` I 'll give ye sixteen dollar if you clean out the whole field , '' he say at length .
Ellis look at the pasture .
He know something about clean out elderberry brush , and he also know that sixteen dollar would be very poor pay for it .
Most of the elder be high than a man 's head , with big root , thicker than his wrist , run deep into the ground .
`` It 's worth more , Mr. Fillmore , '' he say .
`` Not to me , '' respond Old Thomas drily .
`` I 've plenty more land and I 'm an old fellow without any son .
I ai n't go to pay out money for the benefit of some stranger who 'll come after me .
You can take it or leave it at sixteen dollar . ''
Ellis shrug his shoulder .
He have no prospect of anything else , and sixteen dollar be good than nothing .
`` Very well , I 'll take it , '' he say .
`` Well , now , look here , '' say Old Thomas shrewdly , `` I 'll expect you to do the work thoroughly , young man .
Them root ai n't to be cut off , remember ; they 'll have to be dig out .
And I 'll expect you to finish the job if you undertake it too , and not drop it halfway through if you get a chance for a good one . ''
`` I 'll finish with your elderberry before I leave them , '' promise Ellis .
* * * * * Ellis go to work the next day .
His first move be to chop down all the brush and cart it into heap for burning .
This take two day and be comparatively easy work .
The third day Ellis tackle the root .
By the end of the forenoon he have discover just what clean out an elderberry pasture meant , but he set his teeth and resolutely persevere .
During the afternoon Timothy Robinson , whose farm adjoin the Fillmore place , wander by and halt with a look of astonishment at the sight of Ellis , busily engage in digging and tear out huge , tough , stubborn elder root .
The boy do not see his uncle , but work away with a vim and vigour that be not lose on the latter .
`` He never get that muscle from Sam , '' reflect Timothy .
`` Sam would have faint at the mere thought of stump elder .
Perhaps I 've be mistake in the boy .
Well , well , we 'll see if he hold out . ''
Ellis do hold out .
The elderberry try to hold out too , but they be no match for the lad 's perseverance .
It be a hard piece of work , however , and Ellis never forget it .
Week after week he toil in the hot summer sun , digging , cut , and drag out root .
The job seem endless , and his progress each day be discouragingly slow .
He have expect to get through in a month , but he soon find it would take two .
Frequently Timothy Robinson wander by and look at the increase pile of root and the slowly extending stretch of cleared land .
But he never speak to Ellis and make no comment on the matter to anybody .
One evening , when the field be about half do , Ellis go home more than usually tire .
It have be a very hot day .
Every bone and muscle in him ache .
He wonder dismally if he would ever get to the end of that wretched elderberry field .
When he reach home Jacob Green from Westdale be there .
Jacob lose no time in announce his errand .
`` My hired boy 's break his leg , and I must fill his place right off .
Somebody refer me to you .
Guess I 'll try you .
Twelve dollar a month , board , and lodging .
What say ? ''
For a moment Ellis 's face flush with delight .
Twelve dollar a month and permanent employment !
Then he remember his promise to Mr. Fillmore .
For a moment he struggle with the temptation .
Then he master it .
Perhaps the discipline of his many encounter with those elderberry root help him to do so .
`` I 'm sorry , Mr. Green , '' he say reluctantly .
`` I 'd like to go , but I ca n't .
I promise Mr. Fillmore that I 'd finish clean up his elderberry pasture when I 'd once begin it , and I sha n't be through for a month yet . ''
`` Well , I 'd see myself turn down a good offer for Old Tom Fillmore , '' say Jacob Green .
`` It be n't for Mr. Fillmore -- it 's for myself , '' say Ellis steadily .
`` I promise and I must keep my word . ''
Jacob drive away grumblingly .
On the road he meet Timothy Robinson and stop to relate his grievance .
* * * * * It must be admit that there be time during the next month when Ellis be tempt to repent have refuse Jacob Green 's offer .
But at the end of the month the work be do and the Fillmore elderberry pasture be an elderberry pasture no longer .
All that remain of the elder , root and branch , be pile into a huge heap ready for burning .
`` And I 'll come up and set fire to it when it 's dry enough , '' Ellis tell Mr. Fillmore .
`` I claim the satisfaction of that . ''
`` You 've do the job thoroughly , '' say Old Thomas .
`` There 's your sixteen dollar , and every cent of it be earn , if ever money be , I 'll say that much for you .
There ai n't a lazy bone in your body .
If you ever want a recommendation just you come to me . ''
As Ellis pass Timothy Robinson 's place on the way home that worthy himself appear , stroll down his lane .
`` Ah , Ellis , '' he say , speak to his nephew for the first time since their interview two month before , `` so you 've finish with your job ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Got your sixteen dollar , I suppose ?
It be worth four time that .
Old Tom cheat you .
You be foolish not to have go to Green when you have the chance . ''
`` I 'd promise Mr. Fillmore to finish with his pasture , sir ! ''
`` Humph !
Well , what be you go to do now ? ''
`` I do n't know .
Harvest will be on next week .
I may get in somewhere a an extra hand for a spell . ''
`` Ellis , '' say his uncle abruptly , after a moment 's silence , `` I 'm go to discharge my man .
He 's no earthly good .
Will you take his place ?
I 'll give you fifteen dollar a month and find . ''
Ellis star at Timothy Robinson .
`` I think you tell me that you have no place for my father 's son , '' he say slowly .
`` I 've change my mind .
I 've see how you go at that elderberry job .
Great snake , there could n't be a good test for anybody than root out them thing .
I know you can work .
When Jacob Green tell me why you 'd refuse his offer I know you could be depend on .
You come to me and I 'll do well by you .
I 've no kith or kin of my own except you .
And look here , Ellis .
I 'm tired of hired housekeeper .
Will your mother come up and live with u and look after thing a bit ?
I 've a good girl , and she wo n't have to work hard , but there must be somebody at the head of a household .
She must have a good headpiece -- for you have inherit good quality from someone , and goodness know it be n't from your father . ''
`` Uncle Timothy , '' say Ellis respectfully but firmly , `` I 'll accept your offer gratefully , and I be sure Mother will too .
But there be one thing I must say .
Perhaps my father deserve all you say of him -- but he be dead -- and if I come to you it must be with the understanding that nothing more be ever to be say against him . ''
Timothy Robinson smile -- a queer , twist smile that yet have a hint of affection and comprehension in it .
`` Very well , '' he say .
`` I 'll never cast his shortcoming up to you again .
Come to me -- and if I find you always a industrious and reliable a you 've prove yourself to be negotiate them elder , I 'll most likely forget that you ai n't my own son some of these day . ''
The Finished Story She always sit in a corner of the west veranda at the hotel , knit something white and fluffy , or pink and fluffy , or pale blue and fluffy -- always fluffy , at least , and always dainty .
Shawls and scarf and hood the thing be , I believe .
When she finish one she give it to some girl and begin another .
Every girl at Harbour Light that summer wear some distract thing that have be fashion by Miss Sylvia 's slim , tireless , white finger .
She be old , with that beautiful , serene old age which be a beautiful in it way a youth .
Her girlhood and womanhood must have be very lovely to have ripen into such a beauty of sixty year .
It be a surprise to everyone who hear her call Miss Sylvia .
She look so like a woman who ought to have stalwart , grown son and dimple little grandchild .
For the first two day after the arrival at the hotel she sit in her corner alone .
There be always a circle of young people around her ; old folk and middle-aged people would have like to join it , but Miss Sylvia , while she be gracious to all , let it be distinctly understood that her sympathy be with youth .
She sit among the boy and girl , young men and maiden , like a fine white queen .
Her dress be always the same and somewhat old-fashioned , but nothing else would have suit her half so well ; she wear a lace cap on her snowy hair and a heliotrope shawl over her black silk shoulder .
She knit continually and talk a good deal , but listen more .
We sit around her at all hour of the day and tell her everything .
When you be first introduce to her you call her Miss Stanleymain .
Her endurance of that be limit to twenty-four hour .
Then she beg you to call her Miss Sylvia , and a Miss Sylvia you speak and thought of her forevermore .
Miss Sylvia like u all , but I be her favourite .
She tell u so frankly and let it be understand that when I be talk to her and her heliotrope shawl be allow to slip under one arm it be a sign that we be not to be interrupt .
I be a vain of her favour a any lovelorn suitor whose lady have honour him , not know , a I come to know later , the reason for it .
Although Miss Sylvia have an unlimited capacity for receive confidence , she never give any .
We be all sure that there must be some romance in her life , but our effort to discover it be unsuccessful .
Miss Sylvia parry tentative question so skilfully that we know she have something to defend .
But one evening , when I have know her a month , a time be reckon , and long year a affection and understanding be compute , she tell me her story -- at least , what there be to tell of it .
The last chapter be miss .
We be sit together on the veranda at sunset .
Most of the hotel people have go for a harbour sail ; a few forlorn mortal prowl about the ground and eye our corner wistfully , but by the sign of the heliotrope shawl know it be not for them .
I be read one of my story to Miss Sylvia .
In my own excuse I must allege that she tempt me to do it .
I do not go around with manuscript under my arm , inflict them on defenceless female .
But Miss Sylvia have discover that I be a magazine scribbler , and moreover , that I have shut myself up in my room that very morning and perpetrate a short story .
Nothing would do but that I read it to her .
It be a rather sad little story .
The hero love the heroine , and she love him .
There be no reason why he should not love her , but there be a reason why he could not marry her .
When he find that he love her he know that he must go away .
But might he not , at least , tell her his love ?
Might he not , at least , find out for his consolation if she care for him ?
There be a struggle ; he win , and go away without a word , believe it to be the more manly course .
When I begin to read Miss Sylvia be knit , a pale green something this time , of the tender hue of young leaf in May .
But after a little her knitting slip unheeded to her lap and her hand fold idly above it .
It be the most subtle compliment I have ever receive .
When I turn the last page of the manuscript and look up , Miss Sylvia 's soft brown eye be full of tear .
She lift her hand , clasp them together and say in an agitated voice : `` Oh , no , no ; do n't let him go away without tell her -- just tell her .
Do n't let him do it ! ''
`` But , you see , Miss Sylvia , '' I explain , flatter beyond measure that my character have seem so real to her , `` that would spoil the story .
It would have no reason for existence then .
Its motif be simply his mastery over self .
He believe it to be the noble course . ''
`` No , no , it be n't -- if he love her he should have tell her .
Think of her shame and humiliation -- she love him , and he go without a word and she could never know he care for her .
Oh , you must change it -- you must , indeed !
I can not bear to think of her suffer what I have suffer . ''
Miss Sylvia break down and sob .
To appease her , I promise that I would remodel the story , although I know that the do so would leave it absolutely pointless .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad , '' say Miss Sylvia , her eye shin through her tear .
`` You see , I know it would make her happier -- I know it .
I 'm go to tell you my poor little story to convince you .
But you -- you must not tell it to any of the others . ''
`` I be sorry you think the admonition necessary , '' I say reproachfully .
`` Oh , I do not , indeed I do not , '' she hasten to assure me .
`` I know I can trust you .
But it 's such a poor little story .
You must n't laugh at it -- it be all the romance I have .
Years ago -- forty year ago -- when I be a young girl of twenty , I -- learn to care very much for somebody .
I meet him at a summer resort like this .
I be there with my aunt and he be there with his mother , who be delicate .
We saw a great deal of each other for a little while .
He be -- oh , he be like no other man I have ever see .
You remind me of him somehow .
That be partly why I like you so much .
I notice the resemblance the first time I saw you .
I do n't know in just what it consist -- in your expression and the way you carry your head , I think .
He be not strong -- he cough a good deal .
Then one day he go away -- suddenly .
I have think he care for me , but he never say so -- just go away .
Oh , the shame of it !
After a time I hear that he have be order to California for his health .
And he die out there the next spring .
My heart break then , I never care for anybody again -- I could n't .
I have always love him .
But it would have be so much easy to bear if I have only know that he love me -- oh , it would have make all the difference in the world .
And the sting of it have be there all these year .
I ca n't even permit myself the joy of dwell on his memory because of the thought that perhaps he do not care . ''
`` He must have care , '' I say warmly .
`` He could n't have help it , Miss Sylvia . ''
Miss Sylvia shake her head with a sad smile .
`` I can not be sure .
Sometimes I think he do .
But then the doubt creep back again .
I would give almost anything to know that he do -- to know that I have not lavish all the love of my life on a man who do not want it .
And I never can know , never -- I can hope and almost believe , but I can never know .
Oh , you do n't understand -- a man could n't fully understand what my pain have be over it .
You see now why I want you to change the story .
I be sorry for that poor girl , but if you only let her know that he really love her she will not mind all the rest so very much ; she will be able to bear the pain of even life-long separation if she only know . ''
Miss Sylvia pick up her knitting and go away .
As for me , I think savagely of the dead man she love and call him a cad , or at best , a fool .
Next day Miss Sylvia be her serene , smile self once more , and she do not again make any reference to what she have tell me .
A fortnight later she return home and I go my way back to the world .
During the following winter I write several letter to Miss Sylvia and receive reply from her .
Her letter be very like herself .
When I send her the third-rate magazine contain my story -- nothing but a third-rate magazine would take it in it rewritten form -- she write to say that she be so glad that I have let the poor girl know .
Early in April I receive a letter from an aunt of mine in the country , say that she intend to sell her place and come to the city to live .
She ask me to go out to Sweetwater for a few week and assist her in the business of settle up the estate and disposing of such thing a she do not wish to take with her .
When I arrive at Sweetwater I find it moist and chill with the sunny moisture and tease chill of our Canadian spring .
They be long and fickle and reluctant , these spring of ours , but , oh , the unnamable charm of them !
There be something even in the red bud of the maple at Sweetwater and in the long , smoke stretch of hillside field that send a thrill through my vein , finer and subtler than any give by old wine .
A week after my arrival , when we have get the large affair pretty well straighten out , Aunt Mary suggest that I have well overhaul Uncle Alan 's room .
`` The thing there have never be meddle with since he die , '' she say .
`` In particular , there 's an old trunk full of his letter and his paper .
It be bring home from California after his death .
I 've never examine them .
I do n't suppose there be anything of any importance among them .
But I 'm not go to carry all that old rubbish to town .
So I wish you would look over them and see if there be anything that should be keep .
The rest may be burn . ''
I felt no particular interest in the task .
My Uncle Alan Blair be a mere name to me .
He be my mother 's eldest brother and have die year before I be bear .
I have heard that he have be very clever and that great thing have be expect of him .
But I anticipate no pleasure from explore musty old letter and paper of forty neglected year .
I go up to Uncle Alan 's room at dusk that night .
We have be have a day of warm spring rain , but it have clear away and the bare maple bough outside the window be string with glisten drop .
The room look to the north and be always dim by reason of the close-growing Sweetwater pine .
A gap have be cut through them to the northwest , and in it I have a glimpse of the sea Uncle Alan have love , and above it a wondrous sunset sky fleece over with little cloud , pale and pink and golden and green , that suddenly remind me of Miss Sylvia and her fluffy knitting .
It be with the thought of her in my mind that I light a lamp and begin the task of grub into Uncle Alan 's trunkful of paper .
Most of these be bundle of yellowed letter , of no present interest , from his family and college friend .
There be several college thesis and essay , and a lot of loose miscellania pertain to boyish school day .
I go through the collection rapidly , until at the bottom of the trunk , I come to a small book bound in dark-green leather .
It prove to be a sort of journal , and I begin to glance over it with a languid interest .
It have be begin in the spring after he have graduate from college .
Although suspect only by himself , the disease which be to end his life have already fasten upon him .
The entry be those of a doomed man , who , feel the curse fall on him like a frost , blight all the fair hope and promise of life , seek some help and consolation in the outward self-communing of a journal .
There be nothing morbid , nothing unmanly in the record .
As I read , I find myself like Uncle Alan , wish that he might have live and be my friend .
His mother have not be well that summer and the doctor order her to the seashore .
Alan accompany her .
Here occur a hiatus in the journal .
No leaf have be tear out , but a quire or so of them have apparently become loosen from the thread that hold them in place .
I find them later on in the trunk , but at the time I pass to the next page .
It begin abruptly : This girl be the sweet thing that God ever make .
I have not know a woman could be so fair and sweet .
Her beauty awe me , the purity of her soul shine so clearly through it like an illuminating lamp .
I love her with all my power of loving and I be thankful that it be so .
It would have be hard to die without have know love .
I be glad that it have come to me , even if it price be unspeakable bitterness .
A man have not live for nothing who have know and love Sylvia Stanleymain .
I must not seek her love -- that be deny me .
If I be well and strong I should win it ; yes , I believe I could win it , and nothing in the world would prevent me from try , but , a thing be , it would be the part of a coward to try .
Yet I can not resist the delight of be with her , of talk to her , of watch her wonderful face .
She be in my thought day and night , she dwell in my dream .
O , Sylvia , I love you , my sweet !
A week later there be another entry : July Seventeenth .
I be afraid .
To-day I meet Sylvia 's eye .
In them be a look which at first stir my heart to it deep with tumultuous delight , and then I remember .
I must spare her that suffering , at whatever cost to myself .
I must not let myself dwell on the dangerous sweetness of the thought that her heart be turn to me .
What would be the crown joy to another man could be only added sorrow to me .
Then : July Eighteenth .
This morning I take the train to the city .
I be determine to know the bad once for all .
The time have come when I must .
My doctor at home have put me off with vague hope and perhapses .
So I go to a noted physician in the city .
I tell him I want the whole truth -- I make him tell it .
Stripped of all softening verbiage it be this : I have perhaps eight month or a year to live -- no more !
I have expect it , although not quite so soon .
Yet the certainty be none the less bitter .
But this be no time for self-pity .
It be of Sylvia I must think now .
I shall go away at once , before the sweet fancy which be possibly bud in her virgin heart shall have bloom into a flower that might poison some of her fair year .
July Nineteenth .
It be over .
I say good-bye to her to-day before others , for I dare not trust myself to see her alone .
She look hurt and startle , a if someone have strike her .
But she will soon forget , even if I have not be mistake in the reading of her eye .
As for me , the bitterness of death be already over in that parting .
All that now remain be to play the man to the end .
From further entry in the journal I learn that Alan Blair have return to Sweetwater and later on have be order to California .
The entry during his sojourn there be few and far between .
In all of them he speak of Sylvia .
Finally , after a long silence , he have write : I think the end be not far off now .
I be not sorry for my suffering have be great of late .
Last night I be easier .
I sleep and dream that I saw Sylvia .
Once or twice I think that I would arrange to have this book send to her after my death .
But I have decide that it would be unwise .
It would only pain her , so I shall destroy it when I feel the time have come .
It be sunset in this wonderful summer land .
At home in Sweetwater it be only early spring a yet , with snow linger along the edge of the wood .
The sunset there will be creamy-yellow and pale red now .
If I could but see them once more !
And Sylvia -- There be a little blot where the pen have fall .
Evidently the end have be nearer than Alan Blair have think .
At least , there be no more entry , and the little green book have not be destroy .
I be glad that it have not be ; and I felt glad that it be thus put in my power to write the last chapter of Miss Sylvia 's story for her .
As soon a I could leave Sweetwater I go to the city , three hundred mile away , where Miss Sylvia live .
I find her in her library , in her black silk dress and heliotrope shawl , knit up cream wool , for all the world a if she have just be transplant from the veranda corner of Harbour Light .
`` My dear boy ! ''
she say .
`` Do you know why I have come ? ''
I ask .
`` I be vain enough to think it be because you want to see me , '' she smile .
`` I do want to see you ; but I would have wait until summer if it have not be that I wish to bring you the miss chapter of your story , dear lady . ''
`` I -- I -- do n't understand , '' say Miss Sylvia , start slightly .
`` I have an uncle , Alan Blair , who die forty year ago in California , '' I say quietly .
`` Recently I have have occasion to examine some of his paper .
I find a journal among them and I have bring it to you because I think that you have the best right to it . ''
I drop the parcel in her lap .
She be silent with surprise and bewilderment .
`` And now , '' I add , `` I be go away .
You wo n't want to see me or anyone for a while after you have read this book .
But I will come up to see you to-morrow . ''
When I go the next day Miss Sylvia herself meet me at the door .
She catch my hand and draw me into the hall .
Her eye be softly radiant .
`` Oh , you have make me so happy ! ''
she say tremulously .
`` Oh , you can never know how happy !
Nothing hurt now -- nothing ever can hurt , because I know he do care . ''
She lay her face down on my shoulder , a a girl might have nestle to her lover , and I bend and kiss her for Uncle Alan .
The Garden of Spices Jims try the door of the blue room .
Yes , it be lock .
He have hop Aunt Augusta might have forget to lock it ; but when do Aunt Augusta forget anything ?
Except , perhaps , that little boy be not bear grown-ups -- and that be something she never remember .
To be sure , she be only a half-aunt .
Whole aunt probably have more convenient memory .
Jims turn and stand with his back against the door .
It be well that way ; he could not imagine thing behind him then .
And the blue room be so big and dim that a dreadful number of thing could be imagine in it .
All the window be shutter but one , and that one be so darken by a big pine tree branch right across it that it do not let in much light .
Jims look very small and lose and lonely a he shrink back against the door -- so small and lonely that one might have think that even the stern of half-aunts should have think twice before shut him up in that room and tell him he must stay there the whole afternoon instead of go out for a promised ride .
Jims hat be shut up alone -- especially in the blue room .
Its bigness and dimness and silence fill his sensitive little soul with vague horror .
Sometimes he become almost sick with fear in it .
To do Aunt Augusta justice , she never suspect this .
If she have she would not have decree this particular punishment , because she know Jims be delicate and must not be subject to any great physical or mental strain .
That be why she shut him up instead of whip him .
But how be she to know it ?
Aunt Augusta be one of those people who never know anything unless it be tell them in plain language and then hammer into their head .
There be no one to tell her but Jims , and Jims would have die the death before he would have tell Aunt Augusta , with her cold , spectacled eye and thin , smileless mouth , that he be desperately frightened when he be shut in the blue room .
So he be always shut in it for punishment ; and the punishment come very often , for Jims be always do thing that Aunt Augusta consider naughty .
At first , this time , Jims do not feel quite so frightened a usual because he be very angry .
As he put it , he be very mad at Aunt Augusta .
He have n't mean to spill his pudding over the floor and the tablecloth and his clothes ; and how such a little bit of pudding -- Aunt Augusta be mean with dessert -- could ever have spread itself over so much territory Jims could not understand .
But he have make a terrible mess and Aunt Augusta have be very angry and have say he must be cure of such carelessness .
She say he must spend the afternoon in the blue room instead of go for a ride with Mrs. Loring in her new car .
Jims be bitterly disappointed .
If Uncle Walter have be home Jims would have appeal to him -- for when Uncle Walter could be really waken up to a realization of his small nephew 's presence in his home , he be very kind and indulgent .
But it be so hard to waken him up that Jims seldom attempt it .
He like Uncle Walter , but as far a be acquaint with him go he might as well have be the inhabitant of a star in the Milky Way .
Jims be just a lonely , solitary little creature , and sometimes he felt so friendless that his eye smart , and several sob have to be swallow .
There be no sob just now , though -- Jims be still too angry .
It be n't fair .
It be so seldom he get a car ride .
Uncle Walter be always too busy , attend to sick child all over the town , to take him .
It be only once in a blue moon Mrs. Loring ask him to go out with her .
But she always end up with ice cream or a movie , and to-day Jims have have strong hope that both be on the programme .
`` I hate Aunt Augusta , '' he say aloud ; and then the sound of his voice in that huge , still room scar him so that he only think the rest .
`` I wo n't have any fun -- and she wo n't fee my gobbler , either . ''
Jims have shriek `` Feed my gobbler , '' to the old servant a he have be haul upstairs .
But he do n't think Nancy Jane have hear him , and nobody , not even Jims , could imagine Aunt Augusta feed the gobbler .
It be always a wonder to him that she eat , herself .
It seem really too human a thing for her to do .
`` I wish I have spill that pudding on purpose , '' Jims say vindictively , and with the say his anger evaporate -- Jims never could stay angry long -- and leave him merely a scared little fellow , with velvety , nut-brown eye full of fear that should have no place in a child 's eye .
He look so small and helpless a he crouch against the door that one might have wonder if even Aunt Augusta would not have relent have she see him .
How that window at the far end of the room rattle !
It sound terribly a if somebody -- or something -- be try to get in .
Jims look desperately at the unshuttered window .
He must get to it ; once there , he could curl up in the window seat , his back to the wall , and forget the shadow by look out into the sunshine and loveliness of the garden over the wall .
Jims would have likely have be find dead of fright in that blue room some time have it not be for the garden over the wall .
But to get to the window Jims must cross the room and pas by the bed .
Jims hold that bed in special dread .
It be the old fashioned thing in the old-fashioned , old-furnitured house .
It be high and rigid , and hung with gloomy blue curtain .
Anything might jump out of such a bed .
Jims give a gasp and run madly across the room .
He reach the window and flung himself upon the seat .
With a sigh of relief he curl down in the corner .
Outside , over the high brick wall , be a world where his imagination could roam , though his slender little body be pent a prisoner in the blue room .
Jims have love that garden from his first sight of it .
He call it the Garden of Spices and weave all sort of yarn in fancy -- yarn gay and tragic -- about it .
He have only know it for a few week .
Before that , they have live in a much small house away at the other side of the town .
Then Uncle Walter 's uncle -- who have bring him up just a he be bring up Jims -- have die , and they have all come to live in Uncle Walter 's old home .
Somehow , Jims have an idea that Uncle Walter be n't very glad to come back there .
But he have to , accord to great-uncle 's will .
Jims himself do n't mind much .
He like the small room in their former home well , but the Garden of Spices make up for all .
It be such a beautiful spot .
Just inside the wall be a row of aspen poplar that always talk in silvery whisper and shake their dainty , heart-shaped leaf at him .
Beyond them , under scatter pine , be a rockery where fern and wild thing grow .
It be almost as good a a bit of wood -- and Jims love the wood , though he scarcely ever saw them .
Then , past the pine , be rose just break into June bloom -- rose in such profusion a Jims have n't know exist , with dear little path twist about among the bush .
It seem to be a garden where no frost could blight or rough wind blow .
When rain fell it must fall very gently .
Past the rose one saw a green lawn , sprinkle over now with the white ghost of dandelion , and dot with ornamental tree .
The tree grow so thickly that they almost hide the house to which the garden pertain .
It be a large one of grey-black stone , with stack of huge chimney .
