Lightfoot 's heart sank .
Then he bound forward into that thicket .
He more than half expect to find no one there , but when he enter that thicket he receive the most wonderful surprise in all his life .
There stand Miss Daintyfoot , timid , bashful , but with a look in her eye which Lightfoot could not mistake .
In that instant Lightfoot understand the meaning of that longing which have keep him hunt for her and of the rage which have fill him when he have discover the presence of the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
It be love .
Lightfoot know that he love Miss Daintyfoot and , look into her soft , gentle eye , he know that Miss Daintyfoot love him .
CHAPTER XL HAPPY DAYS IN THE GREEN FOREST These be happy day in the Green Forest .
At least , they be happy for Lightfoot the Deer .
They be the happy day he have ever know .
You see , he have win beautiful , slender , young Miss Daintyfoot , and now she be no long Miss Daintyfoot but Mrs. Lightfoot .
Lightfoot be sure that there be no one anywhere so beautiful a she , and Mrs. Lightfoot know that there be no one so handsome and brave a he .
Wherever Lightfoot go , Mrs. Lightfoot go .
He show her all his favorite hiding-places .
He lead her to his favorite eating-places .
She do not tell him that she be already acquaint with every one of them , that she know the Green Forest quite as well a he do .
If he have stop to think how day after day she have manage to keep out of his sight while he hunt for her , he would have realize that there be little he could show her which she do not already know .
But he do n't stop to think and proudly lead her from place to place .
And Mrs. Lightfoot wisely express delight with all she saw quite a if it be all new .
Of course , all the little people of the Green Forest hurry to pay their respect to Mrs. Lightfoot and to tell Lightfoot how glad they felt for him .
And they really do feel glad .
You see , they all love Lightfoot and they know that now he would be happy than ever , and that there would be no danger of his leave the Green Forest because of loneliness .
The Green Forest would not be the same at all without Lightfoot the Deer .
Lightfoot tell Mrs. Lightfoot all about the terrible day of the hunting season and how glad he be that she have not be in the Green Forest then .
He tell her how the hunter with terrible gun have give him no rest and how he have have to swim the Big River to get away from the hound .
`` I know , '' reply Mrs. Lightfoot softly .
`` I know all about it .
You see , there be hunter on the Great Mountain .
In fact , that be how I happen to come down to the Green Forest .
They hunt me so up there that I do not dare stay , and I come down here think that there might be few hunter .
I would n't have believe that I could ever be thankful to hunter for anything , but I be , truly I be . ''
There be a puzzled look on Lightfoot 's face .
`` What for ? ''
he demand .
`` I ca n't imagine anybody be thankful to hunter for anything . ''
`` Oh , you stupid , '' cry Mrs. Lightfoot .
`` Do n't you see that if I have n't be drive down from the Great Mountain , I never would have find you ? ''
`` You mean , I never would have find you , '' retort Lightfoot .
`` I guess I owe these hunter more than you do .
I owe them the great happiness I have ever know , but I never would have think of it myself .
Is n't it queer how thing which seem the very bad possible sometimes turn out to be the very best possible ? ''
Blacky the Crow be one of Lightfoot 's friend , but sometimes even friend be envious .
It be so with Blacky .
He insist that he be quite as important in the Green Forest a be Lightfoot and that his doings be quite a interesting .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Mr._Mocker.txt.out
I THE LONE TRAVELER When Mistress Spring start from way down South to bring joy and gladness to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , a great many traveler start with her or follow her .
Winsome Bluebird go just a little way ahead of her , for Winsome be the herald of Mistress Spring .
Then come Honker the Goose , and all the world hear his voice from way , way , up in the blue , blue sky know that truly Mistress Spring be on her way .
And with her come Little Friend the Song Sparrow , and Cheerful Robin and Mr. and Mrs. Redwing .
Then follow other traveler , ever so many of them , all eager to get back to the beautiful Green Forest and Green Meadows .
Now there be a few feathered folk who think the far away South be quite good enough for them to live there all the year round .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard use to think that way .
Indeed , he use to think that there be no place like the dear `` Ol ' Souf , '' and it be n't until he go look for his old friend , Unc ' Billy Possum , who have come up to live in the Green Forest , that he find out how nice it be where the Laughing Brook dance down through the Green Forest to the Smiling Pool and then through the Green Meadows to the Big River .
Now , when he be sure that there be no danger that he will have cold foot or that he will catch cold in his bald head , he like to come up to spend the summer near Unc ' Billy Possum .
Of course Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have wonderful story to tell when he go back South in the fall , and all winter long he warm his toe on the chimney top while he tell his friend about the wonderful thing he have see in his travel .
Now there be a certain friend of his , and of Unc ' Billy Possum , who have listen to these story for a long time without seem in the least interested .
But he be .
Yes , Sir , he be .
He be so much interested that he begin to wish he could see for himself all these thing Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be tell about .
But he do n't say a word , not a word .
He just listen and listen and then go on about his business .
But when all the other little people in feather have fly to that far away country Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have tell about , even Ol ' Mistah Buzzard himself , then do this friend of his , and of Unc ' Billy Possum , make up his mind that he would go too .
He do n't say anything about it to any one , but he just start off by himself .
Now of course he do n't know the way , never have be that way before , but he keep on go and go , keep out of sight as much a he could , and ask no question .
Sometimes he wonder if he would know the Green Forest when he reach it , and then he would remember how Ol ' Mistah Buzzard dearly love to fly round and round high up in the blue , blue sky .
`` All Ah do get to do be to keep on go till Ah see Brer Buzzard , '' think he .
So he travel and travel without speak to any one , and always look up in the blue , blue sky .
Then one day he saw a black speck high up in the blue , blue sky , and it go round and round and round and round .
Finally it drop down , down , down until it disappear among the tree .
`` It 's Brer Buzzard and that must be the Green Forest where Unc ' Billy Possum live , '' think the lone traveler , and chuckle .
`` Ah reckon Ah 'll give Unc ' Billy a surprise .
Yes , Sah , Ah reckon so . ''
And all the time Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol ' Mistah Buzzard know nothing at all about the come of their old friend and neighbor , but think him far , far away down in Ol ' Virginny where they have leave him .
II UNC ' BILLY POSSUM GROWS EXCITED Unc ' Billy Possum sit at the foot of the great hollow tree in which his home be .
Unc ' Billy felt very fine that morning .
He have have a good breakfast , and you know a good breakfast be one of the best thing in the world to make one feel fine .
Then Unc ' Billy 's worry be at an end , for Farmer Brown 's boy no longer hunt with his dreadful gun through the Green forest or on the Green Meadows .
Then , too , old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox have move way , way off to the Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , and so Unc ' Billy felt that his eight little Possums could play about without danger .
So he sit with his back to the great hollow tree , wonder if it would n't be perfectly safe for him to slip up to Farmer Brown 's hen-house in the dark of the next night for some fresh egg .
He could hear old Mrs. Possum cleaning house and scold the little Possums who keep climb up on her back .
As he listen , Unc ' Billy grin and begin to sing in a queer crack voice : `` Mah ol ' woman be a plain ol ' dame -- ` Deed she be !
` Deed she be !
Quick with her broom , with her tongue the same -- ` Deed she be !
` Deed she be !
But she keep mah house all spick and span ; She have good vittles fo ' her ol ' man ; She spank the chillun , but she love 'em , too ; She sho ' be sharp , but she 's good and true -- ` Deed she be !
` Deed she be ! ''
`` You'all good stop lazing and hustle about fo ' something fo ' dinner , '' say old Mrs. Possum , stick her sharp little face out of the doorway .
`` Yas 'm , yas 'm , Ah be just aim to do that very thing , '' reply Unc ' Billy meekly , a he scramble to his foot .
Just then out tumble his eight child , make such a racket that Unc ' Billy clap both hand over his ear .
`` Mah goodness gracious sake alive ! ''
he exclaim .
One pull Unc ' Billy 's tail .
Two scramble up on his back .
In two minute Unc ' Billy be down on the ground , roll and tumble in the mad kind of a frolic with his eight child .
Right in the midst of it Unc ' Billy spring to his foot .
His eye be shin , and his funny little ear be prick up .
`` Hush , yo'alls ! ''
he command .
`` How do yo'alls think Ah can hear anything with yo'alls make such a racket ? ''
He box the ear of one and shake another , and then , when all be still , he stand with his right hand behind his right ear , listen and listen .
`` Ah cert ` nly think Ah hear the voice of an ol ' friend from way down Souf !
Ah cert ` nly do ! ''
he mutter , and without another word he start off into the Green Forest , more excited than he have be since his family come up from `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
III UNC ' BILLY 'S VAIN SEARCH Unc ' Billy Possum be excite .
Any one would have know it just to look at him .
He hurry off up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest without even say good-by to old Mrs. Possum and all the little Possums .
They just star after Unc ' Billy and do n't know what to make of it , for such a thing a Unc ' Billy forget to say good-by have never happen before .
Yes , indeed , Unc ' Billy certainly be excite .
Old Mrs. Possum sit in the doorway of their home in the great hollow tree and watch Unc ' Billy out of sight .
Her sharp little eye seem to grow sharper a she watch .
`` Ah do send that no-account Possum to hunt fo ' something fo ' dinner , but ` pear to me he 's plumb forget it already , '' she mutter .
`` Just look at him with his head up in the air like he think dinner fo ' we un would drap right down to him out o ' the sky !
If he 's aim to find a bird 's nest with egg in it this time o ' year , he sho ` ly be plumb foolish in his haid .
No , Sah !
That onery Possum have clean fo ` get what Ah just do tole him , and if we uns be go to have any dinner , Ah cert ` nly have get to flax ` round right smart spry mahself ! ''
Old Mrs. Possum chase the eight little Possums into the house and warn them not to so much a put their head outside the door while she be go .
Then she start out to hunt for their dinner , still mutter a she go .
Old Mrs. Possum be quite right .
Unc ' Billy have forget all about that dinner .
You see he have something else on his mind .
While he have be play with his child , he have think that he hear a voice way off in the distance , and it have sound very , very much like the voice of an old friend from way down South in `` Ol ' Virginny . ''
He have listen and listen but do n't hear it again , and yet he be sure he have hear it that once .
The very thought that that old friend of his might be somewhere in the Green Forest excite Unc ' Billy so that it fairly make him homesick .
He just have to go look for him .
So all the rest of that day Unc ' Billy Possum walk and walk through the Green Forest , peer up in the tree-tops and look into the bush until his neck ache .
But nowhere do he catch a glimpse of his old friend .
The longer he look , the more excited he grow .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk , meet Unc ' Billy on the Crooked Little Path near the top of the hill .
`` Nuffin , nuffin , Sah !
Ah 'm just walk fo ' mah health , '' reply Unc ' Billy over his shoulder , a he hurry on .
You see he do n't like to tell any one what he think he have hear , for fear that it might not be true , and then they would laugh at him .
`` Did n't suppose Unc ' Billy ever worry about his health , '' mutter Jimmy Skunk with a puzzled look , a he watch Unc ' Billy disappear .
Just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun drop out of sight behind the Purple Hills , Unc ' Billy give it up and turn toward home .
His neck ache from look up in the tree-tops , and his foot be sore from walk .
And just then Unc ' Billy for the first time thought of that dinner that old Mrs. Possum have send him to get .
Unc ' Billy sit down and mop his brow in dismay .
`` Ah ` speck Ah 'm in fo ' it this time , sho ' enough ! ''
he say .
IV UNC ' BILLY COMES HOME Unc ' Billy Possum creep along in the darkest shadow he could find a he draw near to the great hollow tree which be his home .
`` Ah ` speck Ah 'm in fo ' it .
Ah ` speck Ah sho ` ly be in fo ' it this time , '' he keep mutter .
So Unc ' Billy creep along in the black shadow until he get where he could look up and see his own doorway .
Then he sit down and watch a while .
All be still .
There be n't a sound in the great hollow tree .
`` Perhaps mah ol ' woman be out call , and Ah can slip in and go to bed before she get back , '' say Unc ' Billy hopefully to himself , a he start to climb the great hollow tree .
But at the first scratch of his toe-nails on the bark the sharp face of old Mrs. Possum appear in the doorway .
`` Good evening , mah dear , '' say Unc ' Billy , in the mild kind of a voice .
Old Mrs. Possum say nothing , but Unc ' Billy felt a if her sharp black eye be look right through him .
Unc ' Billy grin a sickly kind of grin a he say : `` Ah hop yo'alls be feel good tonight . ''
`` Where 's that dinner Ah send yo ' fo ' ? ''
demand old Mrs. Possum sharply .
Unc ' Billy fidget uneasily .
`` Ah do bring yo ' two egg from Farmer Brown 's hen-house , '' he reply meekly .
`` Two egg !
Two egg !
How do yo ' think Ah be go to fee eight hungry mouth on two egg ? ''
snap old Mrs. Possum .
Unc ' Billy hang his head .
He have n't a word to say .
He just could n't tell her that he have spend the whole day tramp through the Green Forest look for an old friend , whose voice he have think he heard , when he ought to have be help her find a dinner for the eight little Possums .
No , Sir , Unc ' Billy have n't a word to say .
My , my , my , how old Mrs. Possum do scold , a she come down the great hollow tree to get the two egg .
Unc ' Billy know that he deserve every bit of it .
He felt very miserable , and he be too tire to have a bit of spirit left .
So he just sit at the foot of the great hollow tree and say nothing , while old Mrs. Possum bite a hole in the end of one egg and begin to suck it .
All the time she be look at Unc ' Billy with those sharp eye of hers .
When she have finish the egg , she push the other over to him .
`` Yo ' eat that ! ''
she say shortly .
`` Yo ' look a if yo ' have n't have anything to eat to-day '' -LRB- which be true -RRB- .
`` Then yo ' hustle up to bed ; it 's all ready fo ' yo ' . ''
Unc ' Billy do a he be bid , and a he tuck himself into his snug , warm bed he murmur sleepily : `` Ol ' Mrs. Possum have a sharp , sharp tongue , But her bark be bad than her bite .
For Ol ' Mrs. Possum have a soft , soft heart Though she hide it way out of sight . ''
V SAMMY JAY IS INDIGNANT Sammy Jay be indignant .
Yes , Sir , Sammy Jay be very much put out .
In fact , Sammy be just plain downright mad !
It be bad enough to be find out and blame for the thing you really do , but to be blame for thing that you do n't do and do n't even know anything about be more than even Mr. Jaybird can stand .
It have begin when he meet Jimmy Skunk early in the morning .
`` Hello , Sammy Jay !
What be you do up so late last night ? ''
say Jimmy Skunk .
`` I be n't up late ; I go to bed at my usual hour , just after Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills , '' reply Sammy Jay .
`` Oh , come , Sammy Jay , be honest for once in your life !
It be a long , long , long time after Mr. Sun go to bed that I hear you scream and make a great fuss over in the Green Forest .
What be it all about ? ''
Sammy Jay stamp one foot .
He be begin to lose his temper .
You know he lose it very easily .
`` I be honest ! ''
he scream .
`` I tell you I go to bed just a I always do , and I do n't wake up until this morning . ''
`` Then you must talk something dreadful in your sleep , '' say Jimmy Skunk , turn his back on Sammy Jay , who be so mad by this time that for a few minute he could n't find his tongue .
When he do , he fly off scream at the top of his lung .
He be still scream when he fly over the Old Briar-patch where Peter Rabbit be just begin to doze off .
Peter be sleepy .
He do n't like to have his morning nap disturbed .
`` Hi , Sammy Jay !
Did n't you make racket enough last night to give honest folk a little peace and quiet to-day ? ''
shout Peter Rabbit .
Sammy Jay fly up into a young cherry tree on the edge of the Old Briar-patch , and his eye be fairly red with anger a he glare down at Peter Rabbit .
`` What 's the joke , Peter Rabbit ?
That 's the second time this morning that I 've be tell that I be scream last night , when all the time I be fast asleep , '' say Sammy Jay .
`` Then it 's a funny way you have of sleeping , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
`` Come , Sammy , be honest and tell me what you be yell ` thief ' for , over in the Green Forest ? ''
`` Peter Rabbit , you and Jimmy Skunk be crazy , just as crazy a loon ! ''
sputter Sammy Jay .
`` I tell you I be asleep , and I guess I ought to know ! ''
`` And I guess I know your voice when I hear it ! ''
reply Peter Rabbit .
`` It 's bad enough in daytime , but if I be you , I 'd quit yell in the night .
Some one of these time Hooty the Owl will hear you , and that will be the end of you and your noise .
Now go away ; I want to sleep . ''
Sammy go .
He be mad clear through , and yet he do n't know what to make of it .
Were they just try to make him mad , or have he really be scream in his sleep ?
He fly over to the Smiling Pool .
Jerry Muskrat look up and saw him .
`` What be you yell about in the night , Sammy Jay ? ''
ask Jerry .
This be too much .
Sammy Jay let his wing and his tail droop dejectedly and hang his head .
`` I do n't know .
I really do n't know anything about it , '' he say .
VI SAMMY JAY THINKS HE 'S GOING CRAZY `` Sammy Jay scream all day long , And now what do you think ?
Why , Sammy sits and yell all night And do n't sleep a wink ! ''
Everywhere he go Sammy Jay hear that shout after him .
Dozens and dozen of time a day he hear it .
At first he lose his temper and be the very mad Jaybird ever see on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest .
`` It be n't true !
It be n't true !
It be n't true ! ''
he would scream at the top of his lung .
And then everybody within hear would shout : `` It be true ! ''
Sammy would just dance up and down and scream and scream and scream , he be so angry .
And then he be sure to hear some one pipe up : `` Sammy 's mad and we be glad , And we know how to tease him !
But some dark night he 'll get a fright , For Hooty 'll come and seize him ! ''
That really begin to worry him .
At first he have think that it be all a joke on the part of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , and that they have make up the story about hear him in the night .
Then he begin to think that it might be true that he do talk in his sleep , and this worry him a whole lot .
If he do that , Hooty the Owl would surely find him sooner or later , and in the morning there would n't be anything leave of him but a few feather from his fine coat .
The more he think about it , the more worried Sammy Jay become .
He lose his appetite and begin to grow thin .
He keep out of sight whenever possible and no longer scream `` Thief !
thief ! ''
through the Green Forest .
In fact his voice be rarely hear during the day .
But it seem that he must be talk just as much a ever in the night .
At least everybody say that he be .
Worse still , different one say that they hear him in different place in the Green Forest and even down on the Green Meadows .
Could it be that he be fly about as well a talk in his sleep ?
And nobody believe him when he say that he be asleep all night .
They think that he be awake and do it purposely .
They might have know that he could n't see in the night , for his eye be make for daylight and not for darkness , like the eye of Boomer the Nighthawk and Hooty the Owl .
But they do n't seem to think of this , and insist that almost every night they hear him down in the alder along the Laughing Brook .
Yet every morning when he awake , Sammy would find himself just where he go to sleep the night before , safely hide in the thick part of a big pine-tree .
`` If they be not all crazy , then I must be , '' say .
Sammy Jay to himself , a he turn away from the breakfast which he could not eat .
Then he have a happy idea .
`` Why do n't I think of it before ?
I 'll sleep all day , and then I 'll keep awake all night and see what happen then ! ''
he exclaim .
So Sammy Jay hurry away to the dark part of the Green Forest and try to sleep through the day .
VII SAMMY JAY SITS UP ALL NIGHT Sammy Jay sit in the dark and shiver .
Sammy be lonely , more lonely than he have ever suppose anybody could be .
And to tell the truth Sammy Jay be scar .
Yes , Sir , that be just the way Sammy Jay felt -- scar .
Every time a leaf rustle , Sammy jump almost out of his skin .
His heart go pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat .
He could hear it himself , or at least he think he could , and it seem to him that if Hooty the Owl should happen to come along , he would surely hear it .
You see it be the first time in all his life that Sammy Jay have not go to sleep just as soon a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have pull his rosy night-cap on and go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
But to-night Sammy sat in the darkest , thick part of a big pine-tree and keep blink his eye to keep from go to sleep .
He have make up his mind that he would n't go to sleep at all that night , no matter how lonely and frighten he might be .
He just would keep his eye and his ear wide open .
What be he do it for ?
Why , because all the little meadow and forest people insist that every night lately Sammy Jay have spend a great part of his time scream in the harsh , unpleasant way he do during the day , and some of them be very cross , because they say that he wake them up when they want to sleep .
Now Sammy know well .
He never in his life have scream in the night unless -- well , unless he do it in his sleep and do n't know it .
So he have make up his mind to keep awake all of this night and see if in the morning any one would say that he have wake them up .
He have watch the black shadow creep through the Green Forest and grow blacker and blacker .
The blacker they grow , the lonesomer he become .
By and by it be so dark that he could n't see anything at all , and every little noise make him shiver .
It be easy to be brave in daylight , but in the dark , when you can not see a thing , every little sound seem twice as loud a it really be and give you such a creepy , creepy feeling .
Sammy Jay have it now .
He felt so creepy that it seem a if he would crawl right out of his skin .
He keep say over and over to himself : `` There 's nothing to be afraid of .
There 's nothing to be afraid of .
I 'm just as safe a if I be fast asleep . ''
But still he shiver and shook .
By and by , look up through the top of the big pine-tree , he saw the little star come out one by one .
They seem to be look right down at him and wink at him in the jolly way .
Somehow , he do n't feel quite so lonely then , and he try to wink back .
Then little , soft , silvery bar of light begin to creep through the branch of the tree and along the ground .
They be moonbeam , and Sammy could see just a little , a very little .
He begin to feel well .
`` Whooo-hoo-hoo , whooo-hoo ! ''
It be a terrible sound , fierce and hungry .
Sammy Jay nearly fell from his perch .
He open his mouth to scream with fright .
Then he remember just in time and close it without a sound .
It be the hunting-cry of Hooty the Owl .
Sammy Jay sit huddle in a little , forlorn , shiver heap , while twice more that fierce cry rang through the Green Forest .
Then a shadow float over the big pine-tree .
Hooty the Owl have fly away without see him , and Sammy breathe easy .
VIII SAMMY JAY IS GLAD HE SAT UP ALL NIGHT Sammy Jay be have no trouble in keep awake now .
Not a bit !
He could n't have go to sleep if he want to -- not since Hooty the Owl have frighten him almost out of his skin with his fierce , hungry hunting-call .
He be too frightened and shivery and creepy to sleep .
But he do n't want to , anyway .
So he sit in the thick part of the big pine-tree , shiver and creepy and miserable .
He hear Bobby Coon go down the Lone Little Path on his way to Fanner Brown 's cornfield , where the corn be just begin to get milky and sweet .
Out in a patch of bright moonlight he saw Peter Rabbit jumping and dancing and have the great kind of a time all by himself .
Pretty soon Peter be join by his cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Such antic a they do cut up !
Sammy Jay almost laugh aloud a he watch .
It be less lonely with them there , and he do want to call to them dreadfully .
But that would never , never do , for no one must know that he be sit up awake all night .
By and by along come Jimmy Skunk , walk out into the patch of bright moonlight .
He touch nose with Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , which be one way of say `` good evening '' in the Green Forest .
`` Is n't it most time for Sammy Jay to scream in his sleep ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
Sammy prick up his ear .
`` Scream in his sleep !
Nonsense !
Sammy Jay be n't any more asleep than I be .
He just scream out of pure meanness to wake up and frighten good honest folk who want to sleep .
For my part , I do n't see what any one want to sleep for on such a fine night a this , anyway .
It serve 'em right if they do get wake up , '' reply Jimmy Skunk .
`` But Sammy Jay say that he do n't do it and do n't know anything about it , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Have you ever see him scream in the night , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
`` No , I do n't have to , '' reply Jimmy Skunk .
`` I guess I know his voice when I hear it , and I 've hear it enough time the last few night , goodness know !
Tell me this , Peter Rabbit : who else be there that cry ` Thief !
thief !
thief ! '
and scream like Sammy Jay ? ''
Peter shake his head .
`` I guess you 're right , Jimmy Skunk .
I guess you 're right , '' he say .
`` Of course I 'm right .
There , now ! ''
Jimmy hold up one hand to warn Peter to keep still .
Sure enough , there be Sammy Jay 's voice , way over in the alder beside the Laughing Brook , and it be scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
They all hear it .
Sammy Jay hear it , too , and scratch himself to be sure that he be awake and sit there in the big pine-tree .
`` It 's my voice , and it be n't my voice , for I have n't make a sound , and it 's over in the alder while I 'm here in my own big pine-tree , '' mutter Sammy Jay to himself .
`` I 'm glad I keep awake , but -- `` Maybe I 'm go crazy !
My wit be get hazy !
That 's surely me , Yet here I be !
Oh , dear , I sure be crazy ! ''
IX THE MYSTERY GROWS `` Can a body be a body , Yet not a body be ?
Tell a body , anybody , Didst such a body see ? ''
Of course it be Sammy Jay who be hum such a foolish-sounding rhyme a that .
But really , it be n't so foolish in Sammy 's case , after all .
He have sit up wide awake all night just to try to find out why it be that all the little meadow and forest people have complain that he spend part of each night scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
just a he do in the daytime .
Now he know .
Sitting in the dark in his big pine-tree , he have hear his own voice , or what sound like his own voice , scream down in the alder by the Laughing Brook .
Sammy have scratch himself to be sure that he be really and truly awake and not dream , for there be his voice down in the alder , and there be himself sit in the big pine tree with his mouth close as tight a he could shut it .
Did ever a Jaybird have anything so queer a that to puzzle him ?
Anyway , Sammy Jay know that he do n't scream in his sleep , and there be a whole lot of comfort in that .
He could eat with a good appetite now .
You see , when he have be tell that he be scream in the night , Sammy have be afraid that he be do it in his sleep ; and if he be do that , why , some dark night Hooty the Owl might hear him and find him , and that would be the end of him .
Now he know that he could go to sleep in peace , just a he always have .
Sammy Jay brush and smooth out his handsome blue coat and make himself a pert and smart-appearing a possible .
He have be so worried lately that he have n't take much care of himself , which be very unusual for Sammy Jay .
Now , however , he felt so much good that he begin to think about his look .
When he have finish dressing , he start for the alder beside the Laughing Brook just to have a look around .
Of course he do n't expect to find his voice down there , for who ever saw a voice ?
Still he think that he might find something that would explain the mystery .
He hunt all around in the thicket of alder beside the Laughing Brook , but nothing unusual do he find .
Then for a long time he sit as still a still can be , study and thinking .
Finally he think to himself : `` I 'll just see how my voice really do sound down here , '' and open his mouth he scream : `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Then out pop Jenny Wren , and she be so mad that she could n't sit still a second .
My , my , my , how she do scold !
`` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , Sammy Jay !
You ought to be ashamed of yourself ! ''
she sputter .
`` Is n't it enough to keep u awake half the night without come down and scream all day ? ''
`` I have n't be down here in the night , and I have n't keep anybody awake ! ''
reply Sammy Jay indignantly .
Jenny Wren come right up in front of Sammy Jay and hop up and down .
She be so mad that with every word she jerk her funny little tail so that Sammy Jay almost have to laugh .
`` Do n't tell that to me , Sammy Jay !
Do n't tell that to me ! ''
she cry .
`` Did n't I see you with my own eye sit in that alder over there ?
Do n't tell that to me !
You ought to be ashamed of yourself ! ''
X SAMMY JAY SEEKS ADVICE Sammy Jay have a headache , such a headache !
He have think and think and think , until now it seem to him that the world surely have turn topsy-turvy .
His poor little head be all in a whirl , and that be what make it ache .
First he have be accuse of scream in the night to waken and scare the little meadow and forest people who want to sleep .
Then he have keep awake all night to find out what it mean , and he have hear what sound like his own voice scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
down by the Laughing Brook , when all the time he be sit in the dark in his own big pine-tree in the Green Forest .
That be bad enough , but to have Jenny Wren tell him that she have see him with her own eye sit in an alder tree and screaming , at the very time that he have be back there in the big pine-tree , be more than Sammy Jay could stand .
It be no wonder that his head ache .
Hardly any of the little meadow and forest people would speak to him now .
They just turn their back to him whenever he meet them .
He do n't mind this so much , because he know that none of them have ever like him very well .
You see he have play too many mean trick for any one to really like him .
But he do hate to have them blame him for something that he have n't do .
`` It 's too much for me ! ''
say Sammy Jay .
`` It 's too much for me !
I 've think and think , until my brain just go round and round and make me dizzy , and my thought turn somersault over each other .
I must get help somewhere .
Now , who can I go to , so few will have anything to do with me ? ''
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
Sammy Jay prick up his ear and spread his wing .
`` My cousin , Blacky the Crow ! ''
he cry .
`` Why do n't I think of him before ?
He 's very smart , be Blacky the Crow , and perhaps he can tell me what to do . ''
So Sammy Jay hurry a fast a he could to lay his trouble before Blacky the Crow .
Blacky 's eye twinkle a he listen to Sammy Jay 's tale of woe .
When Sammy have finish and have ask for Blacky 's advice , Blacky go into a black study .
Sammy sit and wait patiently , for he felt certain that Blacky 's shrewd head would find some plan to solve the mystery .
`` I do n't know how you can find out who it be that 's make you all this trouble , but I 'll tell you how you can prove that it be n't you that scream in the night , '' say Blacky the Crow after a while .
`` How ? ''
ask Sammy Jay eagerly .
`` Go away from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and stay away for a week , '' reply Blacky the Crow .
`` Go up to the far-away Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , where Reddy and Granny Fox be live .
Have Boomer the Nighthawk see you go to bed there , and then ask him to come straight down here and tell Peter Rabbit just where you be .
Peter will tell every one else , for he ca n't keep his tongue still , and then they 'll all know that it be n't you that scream in the night . ''
`` The very thing ! ''
cry Sammy Jay .
`` I 'll move at once ! ''
And off he hurry to prepare to move up to the Old Pasture .
XI HOW BLACKY THE CROW 'S PLAN WORKED OUT `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Old Granny Fox , trot along a cow-path in the Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , hear it and grin .
Reddy Fox , sit in the doorway of their new home under the great rock in the midst of the thick clump of bush and young tree , hear it , too , and he grin even more broadly than Granny Fox .
It sound good to him , do that harsh scream , for it be the first time he have hear the voice of a single one of the little meadow and forest people since he and Granny Fox have move up to the lonesome Old Pasture .
`` Now I wonder what have bring Sammy Jay way up here ? ''
say Reddy , a he limp out to the edge of the thick tangle of bush and young tree .
Pretty soon he catch sight of a wonderful coat of bright blue with white trimming .
`` Hi , Sammy Jay !
What be you do up here ? ''
shout Reddy Fox .
Sammy Jay hear him and hurry over to where Reddy Fox be sit .
`` Hello , Reddy Fox !
How be you feel ? ''
say Sammy Jay .
`` Better , thank you .
What be you do way up here in this lonely place ? ''
reply Reddy .
`` It 's a long story , '' say Sammy Jay .
`` Tell it to me , '' beg Reddy Fox .
So Sammy Jay tell him all about the trouble he have have on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , and how hardly any one would speak to him because they say that he keep them awake by scream in the night .
He tell how he have sit up all night and have hear what sound like his own voice , when all the time he be sit with his mouth shut as tight a tight could be .
Then he tell about Blacky the Crow 's plan , which be that Sammy should come to the Old Pasture and live for a week .
Then , if the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest heard scream in the night , they would know that it be not Sammy Jay who be wake them up .
Reddy Fox chuckle a he listen .
You know misery like company , and it tickle Reddy to think that some one else have be force to leave the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
That night Sammy Jay find a comfortable place which seem quite safe in which to go to sleep .
Just after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills , Sammy saw Boomer the Nighthawk circling round high in the air catch his dinner .
Sammy scream twice .
Boomer hear him and down he come with a rush .
`` Why , Sammy Jay , what under the sun be you do way off here ? ''
exclaim Boomer .
`` Going to bed , '' reply Sammy .
`` Say , Boomer , will you do something for me ? ''
`` That depend upon what it be , '' reply Boomer .
`` It 's just an errand , '' reply Sammy Jay , and then he ask Boomer to go down to the Green Meadows and tell Peter Rabbit how he , Boomer , have see Sammy go to bed up in the far-away Old Pasture .
Boomer promise that he would , and off he start .
He find Peter and tell him .
Of course Peter be very much surprise and , because he can not keep his tongue still , he start off at once to tell everybody he could find , just a Blacky the Crow have think he would do .
XII NO ONE BELIEVES PETER RABBIT Peter Rabbit sit in his secret place in the middle of the Old Briar-patch .
Peter be do some very hard thinking .
He ought to have be asleep , for he have be out the whole night long .
But instead of sleeping , he be wide awake and thinking and thinking .
You see early the night before Boomer the Nighthawk have tell Peter that Sammy Jay be up in the far-away Old Pasture .
Boomer have see him go to bed there and have come straight down to tell Peter .
This be great news , and Peter could hardly wait for Boomer to stop talk , he be so anxious to spread the news over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , for Peter be a great gossip and can not keep his tongue still .
So he have hurry this way and that way , tell every one he meet how Sammy Jay have move away to the Old Pasture .
But no one believe him .
`` Wait and see !
Wait and see ! ''
say Jimmy Skunk .
`` It 's just a trick , '' say Bobby Coon .
`` But Boomer the Nighthawk saw him up there go to bed and talk with him ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit .
`` Perhaps he do and then again perhaps he do n't , '' reply Bobby Coon , carefully wash an ear of sweet milky corn that he have bring down to the Laughing Brook from Farmer Brown 's corn-field , for Bobby Coon be very , very neat and always wash his food before eating .
`` For my part , '' he continue , `` I believe that Boomer the Nighthawk just make up that story to help Sammy Jay fool u . ''
`` But that would be a wrong story , and I do n't believe that Boomer would do anything like that ! ''
cry Peter .
Just then there be a shrill scream of `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
over in the alder bush .
It certainly sound like Sammy Jay 's voice .
`` What do I tell you ?
Now what do you think ? ''
cry Bobby Coon .
Peter do n't know what to think , and he say so .
He leave Bobby to eat his corn and spend the rest of the night tell every one he meet what Boomer the Nighthawk have say , but of course no one believe it , and every one laugh at him , for have n't they hear Sammy Jay scream that very night ?
So now Peter sit in the Old Briar-patch thinking and thinking , when he should have be asleep .
Finally he yawn and stretch and then start along one of his private little path .
`` I 'll just run up to the Green Forest and try to find Sammy Jay , '' he say .
So Peter hunt and hunt all through the Green Forest for Sammy Jay , and ask everybody he meet if they have see Sammy .
But no one have , though every one take pain to tell Peter that they have hear Sammy in the night .
At last Peter find Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
He be mutter and grumble to himself , and he do n't see Peter .
Peter stop to listen , which be , of course , a very wrong thing to do , and what he hear give Peter an idea .
XIII STICKY-TOES THE TREE TOAD POURS OUT HIS TROUBLES Sticky-toes be quite upset .
There be no doubt about it .
Either he have get out of the wrong side of his bed that morning , or his breakfast have disagree with him , or something have happen to make him lose his temper completely .
`` Do n't know what it mean !
Do n't know what it mean !
Do n't know what it mean ! ''
croak Sticky-toes the Tree Toad , over and over again .
`` Heard it last night and the night before that and before that and before that and before that , and I do n't know what it mean ! ''
`` Do n't know what what mean ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit , whose curiosity would not let him keep still .
`` Hello , Long-ears !
I do n't know that it 's any of your business ! ''
say Sticky-toes .
Peter allow that it be n't , but that a he have so much on his own mind he could n't help be interested when he find that Sticky-toes have trouble too .
Then he tell Sticky-toes all about how Boomer the Nighthawk have say that he have see Sammy Jay go to bed up in the far-away Old Pasture , and how that very night Sammy Jay 's voice have be heard scream down in the alder beside the Laughing Brook .
Sticky-toes nod his head .
`` I hear it , '' say he .
`` But how could Sammy Jay be down here if he go to bed way off there in the Old Pasture ?
Tell me that , Sticky-toes ? ''
say Peter Rabbit .
Sticky-toes shake his head .
`` Do n't ask me !
Do n't ask me !
Just tell me how it be that I hear my own voice when I do n't speak a word , '' say Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
`` What 's that ? ''
exclaim Peter Rabbit .
Then Sticky-toes pour out all his trouble to Peter Rabbit .
They be very much like the trouble of Sammy Jay .
Every night Sticky-toes would hear what sound like his own voice come from a tree in which he be not sit at all , and at a time when he be keep his mouth shut as tight a he know how .
In fact , he have be so worried that for several night he have n't say a word , yet his neighbor have complain that he have be very noisy .
He be get so worried that he could n't eat .
Peter Rabbit listen with his mouth wide open .
It be just the same kind of a story that Sammy Jay have tell .
What under the sun could be go on ?
Peter could n't understand it at all .
It certainly be very , very curious .
He just must find out about it !
XIV PETER RABBIT MEETS UNC ' BILLY POSSUM After Sticky-toes the Tree Toad have pour out his trouble , Peter go back to the Old Briar-patch , more puzzled than ever .
If Sammy Jay be asleep in the far-away Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , how could he be at the same time down in the Green Forest screaming ?
And if Sticky-toes the Tree Toad sit all night with his mouth shut tight , how could the voice of Sticky-toes be hear in an altogether different tree than the one Sticky-toes be spend the night in ?
Was n't it enough to drive any one crazy ?
The more Peter study over it , the more puzzle he grow .
The next night he start out for the Green Forest with a new plan in his head .
He would hide down among the alder by the Laughing Brook .
He would see for himself who be scream with the voice of Sammy Jay and talk with the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
He just have to know !
So across the Green Meadows and up the Lone Little Path hurry Peter Rabbit , so a to reach the Laughing Brook before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have wholly turn out his light , after go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
He be hurry so that he almost run into Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Yo ' seem to be in a powerful hurry , Brer Rabbit , '' say Unc ' Billy .
`` I be , '' reply Peter .
`` I must get down to the Laughing Brook before dark . '' ''
` Pears to me it must be mighty impo ` tant to make yo ' hurry this way , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` It be , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
`` It 's to keep me from go crazy . ''
Unc ' Billy look at Peter very hard for a few minute , just a if he think that Peter be crazy already .
Then he put a hand behind one ear just a if he be hard of hearing .
`` Ah beg yo ' pardon , Brer Rabbit , but Ah don ' seem to have it quite right in mah haid what yo'all be go down to the Laughing Brook for , '' say Unc ' Billy in the polite way .
Peter chuckle in spite of himself , a he once more replied : `` It 's to keep me from go crazy . ''
Then Peter tell Unc ' Billy all about Sammy Jay 's trouble and all about the trouble of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
It be the first Unc ' Billy Possum have hear about it , for Unc ' Billy have be away from the Green Forest and the Green Meadows for a visit and have just return .
He listen to all that Peter Rabbit have to say , and a funny , pleased sort of look come into his eye .
`` Ah reckon Ah will go along with yo'all , '' say he .
So Unc ' Billy Possum go with Peter Rabbit to the Laughing Brook , where they hide underneath the alder .
XV PETER RABBIT AND UNC ' BILLY POSSUM KEEP WATCH `` Now , '' say Peter Rabbit , a they settle themselves to watch , `` we 'll see for ourselves whether Sammy Jay and Sticky-toes have be tell the truth , or if they have be dream .
If we hear Sammy Jay 's voice down here in the alder to-night , we ought to be able to see who be use it , for pretty soon the moon will be up , and then we can see easily . ''
Unc ' Billy Possum do n't say anything , not a word , but if Peter Rabbit have notice Unc ' Billy 's eye , he would have see a very knowing look there .
The fact be , Unc ' Billy be think of the time when he think he have hear the voice of an old friend of his from way down South , and he be begin to suspect that he have be right , and that his old friend really be somewhere in the Green Forest .
`` Ah reckon he sho ` ly be , and he 's plumb full of his ol ' trick , just like he use to be , '' mutter Unc ' Billy .
`` What 's that ? ''
ask Peter , prick up his ear .
`` Nothing , nothing , Brer Rabbit , nothing at all .
Ah have a habit of just talk foolishness to mahself , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
Peter look at him sharply , but Unc ' Billy 's shrewd little face look so innocent that Peter be ashamed to doubt what Unc ' Billy say .
`` I guess that we better not talk any more , for fear we might be hear and have our watch for nothing , '' say Peter .
Unc ' Billy agree , and side by side they sit as still a if they be make of wood or stone .
The black shadow come early to the alder beside the Laughing Brook , and soon it be very dark , so dark that Peter and Unc ' Billy , whose eye be mean for see in the dark as well a in the light , have hard work to make out much .
It grow later and later , and still there be not a sound of the voice of either Sammy Jay or Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
Peter begin to get hungry .
The more he think about it , the hungrier he grow .
He be just about ready to give it up , when the moonbeam begin to creep in among the alder tree just a they have creep through the Green Forest the night that Sammy Jay keep awake all night .
The moonbeam creep far and far into the thicket of alder tree and bush where Peter Rabbit and Unc ' Billy Possum be hide .
Then it be that they hear the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
At any rate , Peter be sure that it be the voice of Sticky-toes until a fierce , angry whisper come down to him from the branch of an alder just over his head .
Peter look up .
There sat Sticky-toes himself , but his voice be come from an alder on the other side of the Laughing Brook .
`` Do you hear that ?
Do you hear that ?
There 's my voice over there , and here I be here !
What do you make of it ? ''
whisper Sticky-toes .
Peter do n't know what to make of it .
All he could do be to gaze at Sticky-toes a if he think Sticky-toes be a ghost .
Just then the voice of Sammy Jay , or what sound for all the world like Sammy 's voice , scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
from the very spot where they have just hear the voice of Sticky-toes .
Peter turn to ask Unc ' Billy Possum what he think , but Unc ' Billy be n't there .
XVI UNC ' BILLY POSSUM DOES A LITTLE SURPRISING HIMSELF When Unc ' Billy Possum first hear what sound like the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad , he have think , just a Peter Rabbit do , that Sticky-toes be over in an alder tree on the other side of the Laughing Brook .
But when he hear a whisper right over their head and look up to see Sticky-toes himself , Unc ' Billy almost chuckle out loud .
`` Yo ' ca n't fool Uncle Billy , So do n't go fo ' to try !
Ah know yo ' , yes , Ah know yo ' -- Ah know yo ' , Mistah Sly . ''
He say that to himself and quite under his breath , for all the time that Peter Rabbit and Sticky-toes the Tree Toad be whisper together , Unc ' Billy Possum be steal away under the alder bush .
Unc ' Billy be very soft-footed , oh , very soft-footed indeed , when he want to be .
You see one must needs be very soft-footed to steal egg in Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
So Unc ' Billy steal away without make a sound , and when Peter Rabbit turn to speak to him , there be no Unc ' Billy there .
Peter rub his eye and star all around , this way and that way , but no sign of Unc ' Billy could he see .
This so surprised Peter Rabbit that he felt queer all over .
First there be the voice of Sticky-toes over on the other side of the Laughing Brook , when all the time Sticky-toes be n't there at all .
Now here Unc ' Billy Possum have disappear , just a if the earth have swallow him up .
`` This be n't any place for me ! ''
say Peter Rabbit , and off he start for the Green Meadows as fast a he could go , lipperty-lipperty-lip !
All this time Unc ' Billy Possum have be crawl along without the tiny sound .
When he come to the Laughing Brook , he go up a way until he find a big tree with a branch stretch clear across .
Of course Unc ' Billy could have swim across , but he do n't feel like swim that night , so he climb up the big tree , run out along the branch , let himself down by the tail , and then drop .
He be across the Laughing Brook without even wet his foot .
Unc ' Billy do n't waste any time .
Just as soft-footed a before , he creep along in the darkest shadow , until he be right under the alder tree from which the complaining voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad seem to come .
Unc ' Billy listen , and the longer he listen , the broad grow the smile on Unc ' Billy 's shrewd face .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
It certainly sound for all the world like Sammy Jay 's voice , and it be right over Unc ' Billy 's head .
Unc ' Billy peer up through the alder .
The leaf be so thick that he could not see very well , but what he do see be enough .
It be a long tail , a tail of feather hang down .
It be n't Sammy Jay 's tail , either .
`` Don ' yo'all think that yo'all have joke enough ? ''
ask Unc ' Billy , try hard to keep from chuckle aloud .
A cry of `` Thief '' stop right in the middle , and two sharp eye look down in surprise at Unc ' Billy .
XVII THE MEETING OF TWO OLD FRIENDS `` Why , Unc ' Billy Possum !
What be yo'all do way up here ? ''
cry the owner of the long tail and sharp eye .
`` This be mah home now .
Ah do move up here , '' reply Unc ' Billy . ''
` Pears to me that the question be what be yo'all do way off up here ?
Ah think Ah sho ` ly do hear your voice the other day , and Ah most wore mah po ' foot out look fo ' yo ' .
Ah think Ah be mistake , but now Ah reckon that Ah be right , after all .
My , but Ah be right smart glad to see yo ' ! ''
`` Thank yo ' , Unc ' Billy , '' reply the owner of the long tail and the sharp eye .
`` Ah reckon yo ' ca n't be any more glad to see me , than Ah be to see yo ' .
Fact be , Ah be get right smart lonesome .
Ah do be lie low daytime , because , yo ' know , Ah 'm a stranger up here , and Ah be afraid that stranger might not be welcome in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows . '' ''
` Pears like if all Ah hear be true , that yo ' have n't do much lying low night .
Ah reckon yo ' do make up fo ' those lonesome feeling .
Yes , Sah , Ah reckon so .
Mah goodness , man , yo ' do set everybody to run around like they be crazy ! ''
exclaim Unc ' Billy .
The owner of the long tail and sharp eye throw back his head and laugh , and his laugh be like the most beautiful music .
It make Unc ' Billy feel good just listen to it .
`` Sammy Jay do move away to the Ol ' Pasture since thing be so unpleasant here because everybody say he scream all night , '' continue Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` He sit up all of one night just to make sho ' that he do n't scream in his sleep , and he do n't make a sound the whole night long .
The next mo ` ning everybody say that he have be scream just the same , and po ' Sammy Jay just move away .
Yo ' ought to be ashamed to play such joke . ''
Unc ' Billy grin a he say it .
`` Thief !
thief ! ''
come in Sammy Jay 's voice right out of the mouth of the owner of the long tail and sharp eye .
Then both little rascal laugh fit to kill themselves .
`` Yo ' come over to my house , '' say Unc ' Billy .
`` My ol ' woman sho ' will be right smart glad to see yo ' , and she 's gwine to be powerful surprised , deed she be !
She do be laugh at me fo ' a week , because Ah be sho ' Ah do hear yo ' that day . ''
So off the two start to see old Mrs. Possum , and for the rest of that night Sticky-toes the Tree Toad listen in vain for the sound of his own voice when his lip be closed tight .
XVIII THE MISCHIEF-MAKERS There be a dreadful time on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
Oh , dear , dear , dear !
It really be dreadful !
First Sammy Jay have be accuse of scream in the night and keep honest little meadow and forest people awake when they want to sleep .
And all the time Sammy Jay have n't make a sound .
Then Sticky-toes the Tree Toad have be accuse of be noisy , when all the time he be sit with his mouth close as tight a tight could be .
All this be bad enough , but now thing be so much bad that it be get so that no one would have anything to do with any one else .
Those who have be the very best of friend would pass without speaking .
You see , everybody on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest know everybody else by their voice .
So when Jimmy Skunk , happen along near the Smiling Pool , hear Mrs. Redwing 's voice , he do n't waste any time try to see Mrs. Redwing .
Instead , he go straight over and tell Johnny Chuck the unkind thing that he have overheard Mrs. Redwing say about Johnny .
In the same way Bobby Coon hear the voice of Blacky the Crow in Farmer Brown 's corn-field , and when Bobby listen , he hear some thing not at all nice about himself .
And so it be , all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest .
It seem a if almost everybody be hear talk about some one else , and never say nice thing .
The only one who still manage to keep on good term with everybody be Unc ' Billy Possum .
No one have ever hear him say unkind thing about others and so , because now there be so few others to talk to , everybody be glad to see Unc ' Billy come , and he soon be the best liked of all the little meadow and forest people .
He go about try to smooth out the trouble , and to see him you never , never would have guess that he have anything to do with make them .
My , my , no , indeed !
But every night when the moon be up , Unc ' Billy would have a caller , who would come and sit just outside the doorway of Unc ' Billy 's house and scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Then out would pop Unc ' Billy 's sharp little face , and then his fat little body would follow , and he and his friend with the long tail and the sharp eye , for of course you have guess that be who it be , would put their head together and laugh and chuckle a if they be enjoy the best joke ever be .
Then they would whisper and sometimes talk right out loud , when they felt sure that no one be near to hear .
What be they talk about ?
Why , about the trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , and what a joke it all be , and what be the best way to keep it up .
You see , the reason that no one heard Unc ' Billy say mean thing or hear any mean thing say about Unc ' Billy be because it be Unc ' Billy himself and his friend with the long tail and the sharp eye who be make all the trouble .
Yes , Sir , they be the mischief-maker .
It be great fun to fool everybody so .
They never once stop to think how very , very uncomfortable it keep everybody feeling .
XIX BOBBY COON MAKES A DISCOVERY Bobby Coon have oversleep .
Usually Bobby be astir shortly after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
But Bobby be very irregular in his habit .
He be very fond of travel about in the night , be Bobby Coon , and when he do that , he sleep the great part of the day .
But once in a while he take a notion to travel about by daylight , and when he do that , why of course he have to sleep part of the night , anyway .
Bobby Coon be a very lucky chap , very lucky indeed , for he can see in the dark , and yet , unlike Hooty the Owl , he have no trouble in see in the broad daylight as well .
This night Bobby Coon have oversleep because he have not go to bed until the middle of the day .
He have be prowl about and get into mischief all of the night before and have not start for home until jolly , round Mr. Sun be smile down from right overhead .
By this time Bobby Coon have stick in his eye .
He be so sleepy that it seem to him that he never , never could get home .
He be stumble along through the Green Forest when he come to a hollow log .
What do you think he do ?
Why , he crawl in there , and in two minute be fast asleep , just as comfortable a if he have be in his own hollow tree .
There Bobby sleep all the rest of the day and until long after Mr. Sun have pull on his rosy nightcap .
Perhaps he would have sleep there all night , if he have n't be wake up .
It be the cry of `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
that wake him .
It seem to come from right over his head .
`` Sammy Jay ought to be ashamed of himself , wake honest people like this ! ''
mutter Bobby Coon , a he yawn and stretch .
At first he could n't think where he be .
Then he remember .
He be just get ready to crawl out of the hollow log , when he hear something which make him stop and try to sit up so suddenly that he bump his head .
What he hear be the voice of Unc ' Billy Possum , and he know by the sound that Unc ' Billy be sit on the very log in which he himself be hide .
`` This be the great joke that ever be ! ''
say Unc ' Billy .
`` Pretty soon nobody on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest will speak to anybody else except me .
Yo ' cert ` nly have get all your ol ' trick with yo ' . ''
`` Yes , '' reply a voice which Bobby Coon have never hear before , but which he know right away must belong to some one who have come from way down South where Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have come from .
`` Yes , '' say the voice , `` Ah do get all mah ol ' trick and some more .
But it 's easy , Unc ' Billy , it 's easy to fool your new friend , because Ah reckon they never have be fool this way before .
Don ' yo ' think it be most time to stop ?
Ah do n't want to show mahself in daylight .
Besides , if Ah 'm find out , nobody ai n't gwine to have anything to do with me . ''
`` Do n't yo ' worry .
Nobody 's gwine to find yo ' out .
We 'll keep it up just a day or two long .
Yo ' cert ` nly be powerful good at imitate other people 's voice .
Ah wonder that Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have n't get his eye on yo ' before now , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum .
Bobby Coon have become wide awake a he listen .
He try hard to get a peep at the stranger with Unc ' Billy , but all he could see be a long tail of feather .
Bobby wait until Unc ' Billy and his friend have leave .
Then he crawl out of the hollow log , and he be chuckle to himself .
`` I 'll just have a little talk with Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , '' say Bobby to himself .
XX BOBBY COON AND OL ' MISTAH BUZZARD HAVE A TALK Bobby Coon have spend the large part of the forenoon sit at the foot of the tall dead tree on which Ol ' Mistah Buzzard like to roost .
All the time Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have be sail ` round and ` round in circle way up in the blue , blue sky , sometimes so high that to Bobby he look like just a tiny speck .
Bobby have watch him until his own neck ache .
Mistah Buzzard hardly ever move his wing .
He just sail and sail and sail up and down and ` round and ` round , just a if it be no work at all but pure fun , a indeed it be .
Bobby Coon have wait so long that it be almost more than he could do to be patient any longer , but if you really want a thing , it be worth wait for , and so Bobby give a great sigh and try to make himself more comfortable .
At last Mistah Buzzard come sail down straight for the tall dead tree .
With two or three flap of his great wing he settle down on his favorite perch and look down at Bobby Coon .
`` Good mo ` ning , Brer Coon , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Good morning , Mistah Buzzard ; I hope you be feel very well this morning , '' reply Bobby Coon as politely a he know how .
`` Fair to middle well , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , with a twinkle in his eye .
`` What can Ah do fo ' yo'all ? ''
`` If you please , Mistah Buzzard , you can tell me if there be anybody way down South where you come from who can make his voice sound just like the voice of other people .
Is there ? ''
Bobby be use his very polite manner .
`` Cert ` nly !
Cert ` nly ! ''
chuckle Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` It 's Mistah Mockah the Mocking-bird .
Why , that bird just like to go around make trouble ; he just naturally like to .
He just go around mock everything and everybody he hear , until sometimes it seem like yo ' could n't be sure of yo ' own voice when yo ' hear it .
Why do yo ' ask , Brer Coon ? ''
`` Because he be right here in the Green Forest now , '' reply Bobby Coon .
`` What 's that yo ' be a-saying , Brer Coon ?
What 's that ? ''
cry Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , grow very excited .
Then Bobby Coon tell Ol ' Mistah Buzzard all about the trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest ; how Sammy Jay have move away to the Old Pasture so that no one could say that he scream in the night , and yet how his voice be still hear ; how Sticky-toes the Tree Toad be almost crazy because his neighbor say he be noisy , when all the time he be sit with his mouth tight close ; and finally , how all the little meadow and forest people refuse to speak to one another because of the many unkind thing which have be overheard .
And Bobby tell what he have overheard the night before when Unc ' Billy Possum and a stranger have sit on the very log in which Bobby have be take , a nap .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard chuckle .
`` Yo ' might have know Unc ' Billy be behind all that trouble , '' say he .
`` Yes , Sah , yo ' might have know that ol ' rascal be behind it .
When Unc ' Billy Possum and Mockah get their haids together , there sho ` ly be gwine to be something do . ''
XXI BOBBY COON HAS A BUSY DAY Bobby Coon have leave Ol ' Mistah Buzzard sit on his favorite dead tree .
Every few minute Ol ' Mistah Buzzard would chuckle .
`` Brer Coon be right smart , and Ah reckon Unc ' Billy Possum be gwine to get a taste of his own medicine .
Yes , Sah , Ah reckon he be ! ''
say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Then he chuckle and chuckle , a he spread his broad wing and say : `` Ah reckon Ah well be up in the blue , blue sky where Ah can look right down and see all the fun . ''
In the meantime Bobby Coon be hurry back and forth across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , call on all the little people who live there .
He whisper a few word in the ear of one and then hurry on to whisper to the next one .
When Bobby would first begin to whisper , the one to whom he be whisper would shake his head and look a if he do n't believe a word of what Bobby be say .
Then Bobby would point to Ol ' Mistah Buzzard sail ` round and ` round high up in the blue , blue sky where everybody could see him , and whisper some more .
When he get through , he always carry away with him a promise that just what he have ask should be do .
Bobby Coon have think of a plan to turn the joke on Unc ' Billy Possum , and this be why he be hurry back and forth whispering in the ear of every one who live on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest ; that be everybody except Unc ' Billy Possum and his family .
It be the busy day that Bobby Coon could remember .
It be the very next morning that Unc ' Billy Possum be trot along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
He be just start out on his daily round of call , and he be grin a only Unc ' Billy Possum can grin .
`` Mah name be Billy Possum and mah home 's a hollow tree !
By day or night Ah wander forth -- it 's all the same to me !
Ah fill mah stomach with an egg , or sometimes it be fish ; In fact Ah always help mahself to anything Ah wish .
Fo ' mah name be Billy Possum and mah other name be Smart ; To catch yo ' Uncle Billy yo ' must make an early start . ''
Unc ' Billy be sing this to himself a he trot along the Crooked Little Path , and all the time he be think of the great joke that he and his old friend Mr. Mocker , from way down South , be play on the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
This morning he be on his way to call first on Johnny Chuck .
Half-way down the hill he meet Bobby Coon .
Unc ' Billy stop and hold out one hand a he say `` Good mo ` ning , Brer Coon .
How do yo'all do this fine mo ` ning ? ''
Bobby Coon walk right past a if he do n't see Unc ' Billy at all .
He do n't even look at him .
`` What 's the matter with yo ' this mo ` ning , Brer Coon ? ''
shout Unc ' Billy .
Bobby Coon keep right on , without so much a turn his head .
Unc ' Billy watch him , and there be a puzzled look on Unc ' Billy 's face .
`` Must be that Brer Coon have something powerful impo ` tant on his mind , '' mutter Unc ' Billy , a he start on .
Pretty soon he meet Jimmy Skunk who have always be one of Unc ' Billy 's best friend .
Jimmy be look under every stick and stone for beetle for his breakfast .
`` Good mo ` ning , Neighbor Skunk ! ''
say Unc ' Billy in his hearty voice .
Jimmy Skunk , who never hurry , keep right on pull over stick and stone just a if he do n't see or hear Unc ' Billy at all .
In fact , when he pull over one stone , he drop it right on Unc ' Billy 's tail and do n't seem to hear Unc ' Billy 's `` Ouch ! ''
a he pull his tail from under the stone .
Jimmy just go right on about his business .
Unc ' Billy sit down and scratch his head .
His face have lose the cheerful grin with which he have start out .
Pretty soon he start on , but every few minute he would stop and scratch his head thoughtfully .
He do n't know what to make of Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk .
He be so surprised that he have n't know whether to be angry or not .
`` Ah must find out what Brer Chuck know about it , '' think Unc ' Billy , a he trot on .
XXII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM SEES MANY BACKS Unc ' Billy Possum be very sober a he hurry down the Lone Little Path to Johnny Chuck 's house .
He be very sober indeed , and that be very unusual for Unc ' Billy Possum .
It be very plain to see that something be bother him .
Johnny Chuck be sit on his doorstep when Unc ' Billy Possum come in sight , trot down the Lone Little Path .
As soon a Johnny saw him , he turn his back squarely towards Unc ' Billy and pretend to be very much interested in something way off in the other direction .
Unc ' Billy come to a stop about two foot behind Johnny Chuck .
`` A-hem ! ''
say Unc ' Billy .
Johnny Chuck sit there without move , just a if he have n't hear .
`` It 's a fine mo ` ning , '' say Unc ' Billy in his pleasant voice .
Instead of reply , Johnny Chuck suddenly kick up his heel and disappear inside his house .
Unc ' Billy scratch his head with one hand and then with the other , and all the time his face grow more and more puzzled-looking .
After a while he start on .
Pretty soon he come to where Danny Meadow Mouse be play all by himself .
He do n't know that Unc ' Billy be about until Unc ' Billy say : `` Good mo ` ning , Brer Meadow Mouse . ''
Now Danny have always be delight to see Unc ' Billy Possum and to have a chat with him whenever Unc ' Billy would stop .
But this morning no sooner do Danny hear Unc ' Billy 's voice than he turn his back to Unc ' Billy .
This be more than Unc ' Billy could stand .
He reach out to take Danny Meadow Mouse by the ear to turn him around , but somehow Danny must have guess what Unc ' Billy meant to do , for without a word he duck out of sight under the long grass , and hunt a he would Unc ' Billy could n't find him .
So Unc ' Billy Possum give it up and go on down to the Smiling Pool .
There Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat be at play .
They saw Unc ' Billy come , and when he reach the bank of the Smiling Pool there sit the three little scamp on the Big Rock , but all he could see be their back .
`` Hello , yo'alls ! ''
shout Unc ' Billy .
Splash !
All three have dive into the Smiling Pool , and though Unc ' Billy wait and wait , he do n't see one of them again .
Even Grandfather Frog turn his back to him and seem very deaf that morning , though Unc ' Billy try and try to make him hear .
All day long , wherever he go , Unc ' Billy saw only the back of his friend , and none of them seem to see him at all .
So he go home to his hollow tree in the Green Forest early that day to try and study out what it all meant .
XXIII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM CONSULTS OL ' MISTAH BUZZARD Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have very sharp eye .
Nobody have sharp eye than he .
Swinging ` round and ` round and ` round and ` round in great circle way up in the blue , blue sky , so high that sometimes he look like nothing but a little speck , he look down and see everything go on in the Green Meadows and a great deal that go on in the Green Forest .
There be very little that Ol ' Mistah Buzzard miss .
So all the day that Unc ' Billy Possum have be tramp over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest and find everybody 's back turn to him , Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have be watch and laugh fit to kill himself .
You see he know all about Bobby Coon 's visit to all the little meadow and forest people , and how Bobby have whisper in the ear of each that Unc ' Billy Possum be partly to blame for all the trouble they have have lately .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard watch Unc ' Billy go home and sit down with his chin in his hand and study and study , just a if he have something on his mind .
By and by Unc ' Billy look up in the sky where Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be sail ` round and ` round .
Then Unc ' Billy hop up mighty spry .
`` Ah reckon Unc ' Billy ` low he 'll make me a visit , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard with a chuckle , a he slide down , down out of the sky to the tall dead tree in the Green Forest , which be his favorite roosting-place .
He have n't be there long when Unc ' Billy Possum come shuffle along , just a if he be out walk for his health .
`` Howdy , Mistah Buzzard !
Ah cert ` nly hop yo'all feel right smart , '' say Unc ' Billy .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard 's eye twinkle a he reply : `` Ah feel right pert , Brer Possum , thank yo ' .
Ah hop yo ' feel the same .
Yo ' look like nothing ever bother yo ' . ''
Unc ' Billy grin , but at the same time he look a little foolish a he say : `` That 's right , Mistah Buzzard , that 's right !
Nothing ever do bother me . ''
And all the time he be wonder however he should ask for Ol ' Mistah Buzzard 's advice and not let him know that something really be bother him a great deal .
`` Ah watch yo ' take a long walk this mo ` ning , Brer Possum , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Did yo ' , indeed ; yo ' have keen eye , Mistah Buzzard ! ''
reply Unc ' Billy .
`` Ah saw yo ' meet a lot of yo ' friend .
It 's fine to have a lot of friend , be n't it , Brer Possum ? ''
say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Unc ' Billy look at Ol ' Mistah Buzzard sharply .
He wonder if Mistah Buzzard have notice that all those friend have turn their back on Unc ' Billy that morning , but Mistah Buzzard look a sober and solemn a a judge .
All at once Ol ' Mistah Buzzard hop up and turn around , so that all Unc ' Billy could see of him be his back .
Unc ' Billy star , and for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
Then he hear a noise that sound very much like a chuckle .
In a few minute it be a laugh .
Finally Unc ' Billy begin to laugh too .
`` Yo ' take mah advice and bring mah ol ' friend Mockah out of his hiding-place and introduce him to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , '' say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Unc ' Billy shake his head doubtfully .
He be afraid that they might not forgive the trick that Mr. Mocker have play on them , and then of course he could n't stay in the Green Forest .
So Unc ' Billy scratch his head and thought and thought of how he could get Mr. Mocker out of the trouble he have get him into .
Finally he go home and tell all his trouble to old Mrs. Possum and ask her advice , a he should have do in the first place .
`` Serves yo'alls right !
It cert ` nly do serve yo'alls right ! ''
grunt Mrs. Possum , who be so busy look after her eight lively baby that she have little time for fooling .
`` Ah know it .
It cert ` nly do , '' reply Unc ' Billy meekly .
`` Mischief always trot ahead of grim ol ' Mistah Trouble , They look and act enough alike to be each other 's double .
Whoever fool with Mischief 's gwine to wake some day or other And find that Trouble 's just the same a Mischief 's own twin brother . ''
Unc ' Billy Possum listen to this just a if he have never hear it before , and nod his head a if he agree with every word of it .
Old Mrs. Possum grumble and scold , but all the time she be think , and Unc ' Billy know that she be .
Finally she finish sweep the doorstep and look thoughtfully at Unc ' Billy .
`` Why do n't yo ' give a party fo ' Mistah Mocking-bird ? ''
she inquire .
`` The very thing ! ''
cry Unc ' Billy , and like a flash back come his old-time grin .
XXIV UNC ' BILLY POSSUM GIVES A PARTY Unc ' Billy Possum 's party be the great event in the Green Forest since the famous surprise party which Peter Rabbit give when Unc ' Billy 's family arrive from way down in Ol ' Virginny .
At first Unc ' Billy have be afraid that no one would come .
You see , he have be the cause of a lot of the trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , and he know that now all the little meadow and forest people have find him out .
So he do n't dare send his invitation around by the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind , for fear that no one would pay any heed to them .
Of course that mean that Unc ' Billy must take them around himself .
My , but that be hard work !
It be the hard work that Unc ' Billy have ever do in all his life , for you know Unc ' Billy be happy-go-lucky and take thing easy .
But get those invitation around -- well , a Unc ' Billy say , he `` like to wear hole plumb through the sol of mah foot '' before he get all of them deliver .
It take him two whole day .
In the first place there be so many to see .
And then it be such hard work to deliver the invitation , because when his old friend saw him , they would promptly turn their back to him and pretend they do n't see him at all .
Then Unc ' Billy would take off his hat and make a sweeping bow just a if the one he be talk to be face instead of back to him , and he would say : `` Ah begs yo ' pardon , ` deed Ah do , Fo ' all the trouble Ah 've cause yo ' , And hop that Ah may sho ` ly choke If it be mean fo ' more 'n a joke .
So please fo ` give ol ' Uncle Bill And show yo ' friendship for him still By take this a an invite To join with me next Monday night Aroun ' mah famous hollow tree , And help me to full merry be , And also meet a friend of mine ; Ah 'm sho ' yo 's bound to like him fine . ''
Then Unc ' Billy would make another low bow and hurry on to the next one .
Of course he could n't tell whether or not any one would accept the invitation , but he go right on with his plan , just a if he expect everybody to be there .
And when the time come , sure enough everybody be there , even Sammy Jay , to whom Unc ' Billy have send a special invitation by Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Mistah Buzzard have find Sammy Jay in the far-away Old Pasture , and Sammy have move back to the Green Forest that very day .
Such a good time a everybody do have !
There be heap and heap of good thing to eat .
They dance and play hide and seek .
Finally Unc ' Billy climb up on a stump .
He be dress in his fine suit , and he wear his broad grin .
Everybody crowd around to hear what Unc ' Billy be about to say .
`` Mah friend and neighbor , '' say Unc ' Billy , `` Ah have a great surprise fo ' yo'alls . ''
Then he step down , and everybody begin to wonder and to guess what the surprise could be .
XXV UNC ' BILLY POSSUM 'S SURPRISE Everybody be ask everybody else what the surprise could be which Unc ' Billy have say he have for them .
After he have make his speech , he have scurry out of sight , and no one could find him .
Just about that time Billy Mink remember that the party have be give to meet a friend of Unc ' Billy Possum , but no friend have appear .
Billy Mink spoke of the matter to Little Joe Otter , and Little Joe Otter spoke of the matter to Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat spoke of the matter to Sammy Jay , and right while he be speak there come a shrill scream of `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
from a thick hemlock-tree near by , and the voice be just like the voice of Sammy Jay .
Sammy Jay become greatly excite .
`` There ! ''
he cry !
`` You hear that when you be stand right in front of me and talk to me , Jerry Muskrat .
You know that I be n't make a sound !
I tell you that I have n't be scream in the night , and this prove it ! ''
Jerry Muskrat look a if he could n't believe his own ear .
Just then the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad begin to Croak `` It 's go to rain !
It 's go to rain !
It 's go to rain ! ''
The voice seem to come out of that very same hemlock-tree .
Everybody notice it and look up at the tree , and while they be all try to see Sticky-toes , something drop plop right into their midst .
It be Sticky-toes himself , and he have drop from another tree altogether .
`` You hear it ! ''
he shriek , dance up and down he be so angry .
`` You hear it !
It be n't me , be it ?
That 's my voice , yet it be n't mine , because I 'm right here !
How can I be here and over there too ?
Tell me that ! ''
No one could tell him , and Sticky-toes continue to scold and sputter and swell himself up with anger .
But everybody forget Sticky-toes when they hear the voice of Blacky the Crow call `` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
from the very same hemlock-tree .
Now no one know that Blacky the Crow have come to the party , for Blacky never go abroad at night .
`` Come out , Blacky ! ''
they all shout .
But no Blacky appear .
Instead out of that magic hemlock-tree pour a beautiful song , so beautiful that when it end everybody clap their hand .
After that there be a perfect flood of music , a if all the singer of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows be in that hemlock-tree .
There be the song of Mr. Redwing and the song of Jenny Wren , and the sweet note of Carol the Meadowlark and the beautiful happy song of Little Friend the Song Sparrow .
No one have ever hear anything like it , and when it end every one shout for more .
Even Sticky-toes the Tree Toad forget his ill temper .
Instead of more music , out from the hemlock-tree fly a stranger .
He be about the size of Sammy Jay and wear a modest gray suit with white trimming .
He fly over to a tall stump in the moonlight , and no sooner have he alight than up beside him scramble Unc ' Billy Possum .
Unc ' Billy wear his broad grin .
`` Mah friend of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , Ah want yo'alls to know mah friend , Mistah Mocking-bird , who have come up from mah ol ' home way down in ` Ol ' Virginny . '
He have the most wonderful voice in all the world , and when he want to , he can make it sound just like the voice of any one of yo'alls .
We uns be right sorry fo ' the trouble we un have make .
It be all a joke , and now we ask yo ' pardon .
Mah friend Mistah Mockah would like to stay here and live , if yo'alls be willing , '' say Unc ' Billy .
XXVI MR. MOCKER MAKES HIMSELF AT HOME At first , when the little meadow and forest people be ask to pardon the trick that Mr. Mocker and Unc ' Billy Possum have play , a few be incline not to .
While they be talk the matter over , Mr. Mocker begin to sing again that wonderful song of his .
It be so beautiful that by the time it be end , every one be ready to grant the pardon .
They crowd around him , and because he be good-natured , he make his voice sound just like the voice of each one who speak to him .
Of course they think that be great fun , and by the time Unc ' Billy Possum 's moonlight party break up , Mr. Mocker know that he have make so many friend that he could stay in the Green Forest as long a he please .
But there be a lot of little people who be not at Unc ' Billy Possum 's party , because they go to bed instead of go out night .
Of course they hear all about the party the next morning and be very anxious indeed to see the stranger with the wonderful voice .
So Mr. Mocker go call with Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , and they visit all the little meadow and forest people who have not be at the party .
Of course Mr. Mocker have to show off his wonderful voice to each one .
When he have finish , he be tucker put , be Mr. Mocker , but he be happy , for now he have make friend and could live on the edge of the Green Forest with his old friend , Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
So he soon make himself at home and , because he be happy , he would sing all day long .
And sometimes , when the moon be shin , he wake up in the night and would sing for very joy .
Now Peter Rabbit think the newcomer 's voice such a wonderful thing that he use to follow him around just to hear him fool others by make his voice sound like theirs .
It be great fun .
Peter and Mocker become great friend , and so when Peter hear it whisper around that Mr. Mocking-bird have not come by his wonderful voice honestly , he do n't believe a word of it and be very indignant .
Of course he could n't go to Mr. Mocker himself and ask him , for he do n't want Mr. Mocker to know that such unkind thing be be say .
Finally he think of Grandfather Frog , who be very old and very wise .
`` He 'll know , '' say Peter , a off he post to the Smiling Pool .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , how do it happen that Mr. Mocker have such a wonderful voice and can make it sound like the voice of any one whom he hear ? ''
ask Peter .
Now Grandfather Frog be feel out of sort that morning .
He have n't hear the whisper that Mr. Mocker have not come by his voice honestly , and he think that Peter Rabbit be ask just to hear a story .
`` Chugarum ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog crossly .
`` Go ask Mr. Buzzard , '' And that be all that Peter could get out of him .
So , not know what else to do , off start Peter Rabbit to ask Ol ' Mistah Buzzard where his friend Mr. Mocking-bird get such a wonderful voice .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard laugh when he hear that some folk say that Mr. Mocker have not come by his voice honestly .
`` There be n't a word of truth in it , Brer Rabbit , '' he declare .
`` Yo ' go tell all your friend that Mistah Mockah be the best loved of all the bird way down Souf . ''
And this be all for the present about the adventure of Mr. Mocker the Mocking-bird .
But others have have adventure , and one be Jerry Muskrat .
The next book will tell all about them .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Paddy_the_Beaver.txt.out
CHAPTER I Paddy the Beaver Begins Work .
Work , work all the night While the star be shin bright ; Work , work all the day ; I have get no time to play .
This little rhyme Paddy the Beaver make up a he toil at build the dam which be to make the pond he so much desired deep in the Green Forest .
Of course it be n't quite true , that about work all night and all day .
Nobody could do that , you know , and keep it up .
Everybody have to rest and sleep .
Yes , and everybody have to play a little to be at their best .
So it be n't quite true that Paddy work all day after work all night .
But it be true that Paddy have no time to play .
He have too much to do .
He have have his playtime during the long summer , and now he have to get ready for the long , cold winter .
Now , of all the little worker in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , and in the Smiling Pool , none can compare with Paddy the Beaver , not even his cousin , Jerry Muskrat .
Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk store up food for the long , cold month when rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost rule , and Jerry Muskrat build a fine house wherein to keep warm and comfortable , but all this be as nothing to the work of Paddy the Beaver .
As I say before , Paddy have have a long playtime through the summer .
He have wander up and down the Laughing Brook .
He have follow it way up to the place where it start .
And all the time he have be study and study to make sure that he want to stay in the Green Forest .
In the first place , he have to be sure that there be plenty of the kind of food that he like .
Then he have to be equally sure that he could make a pond near where this particular food grow .
Last of all , he have to satisfy himself that if he do make a pond and build a home , he would be reasonably safe in it .
And all these thing he have do in his playtime .
Now he be ready to go to work , and when Paddy begin work , he stick to it until it be finish .
He say that be the only way to succeed , and you know and I know that he be right .
Now Paddy the Beaver can see at night just a Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon can , and he like the night best , because he feel safe then .
But he can see in the daytime too , and when he feel that he be perfectly safe and no one be watch , he work then too .
Of course , the first thing to do be to build a dam across the Laughing Brook to make the pond he so much need .
He choose a low , open place deep in the Green Forest , around the edge of which grow many young aspen tree , the bark of which be his favorite food .
Through the middle of this open place flow the Laughing Brook .
At the low edge be just the place for a dam .
It would not have to be very long , and when it be finish and the water be stop in the Laughing Brook , it would just have to flow over the low , open place and make a pond there .
Paddy 's eye twinkle when he first saw it .
It be right then that he make up his mind to stay in the Green Forest .
So now that he be ready to begin his dam he go up the Laughing Brook to a place where alder and willow grow , and there he begin work ; that work be the cutting of a great number of tree by mean of his big front teeth which be give him for just this purpose .
And a he work , Paddy be happy , for one can never be truly happy who do no work .
CHAPTER II Paddy Plans a Pond .
Paddy the Beaver be busy cut down tree for the dam he have plan to build .
Up in the wood of the North from which he have come to the Green Forest , he have learn all about tree-cutting and dam-building and canal-digging and house-building .
Paddy 's father and mother have be very wise in the Beaver world , and Paddy have be quick to learn .
So now he know just what to do and the best way of do it .
You know , a great many people waste time and labor do thing the wrong way , so that they have to be do over again .
They forget to be sure they be right , and so they go ahead until they find they be wrong , and all their work go for nothing .
But Paddy the Beaver be n't this kind .
Paddy would never have leap into the spring with the steep side without look , a Grandfather Frog do .
So now he carefully pick out the tree to cut .
He could not afford to waste time cut down a tree that be n't go to be just what he want when it be down .
When he be sure that the tree be right , he look up at the top to find out whether , when he have cut it , it would fall clear of other tree .
He have learn to do that when he be quite young and heedless .
He remember just how he have felt when , after work hard , oh , so hard , to cut a big tree , he have warn all his friend to get out of the way so that they would not be hurt when it fell , and then it have n't fall at all because the top have catch in another tree .
He be so mortified that he do n't get over it for a long time .
So now he make sure that a tree be go to fall clear and just where he want it .
Then he sit up on his hind leg , and with his great broad tail for a brace , begin to make the chip fly .
You know Paddy have the most wonderful teeth for cut .
They be long and broad and sharp .
He would begin by make a deep bite , and then another just a little way below .
Then he would pry out the little piece of wood between .
When he have cut very deep on one side so that the tree would fall that way , he would work around to the other side .
Just as soon a the tree begin to lean and he be sure that it be go to fall , he would scamper away so a to be out of danger .
He love to see those tall tree lean forward slowly , then faster and faster , till they strike the ground with a crash .
Just as soon a they be down , he would trim off the branch until the tree where just long pole .
This be easy work , for he could take off a good-sized branch with one bite .
On many he leave their bushy top .
When he have trim them to suit him and have cut them into the right length , he would tug and pull them down to the place where he mean to build his dam .
There he place the pole side by side , not across the Laughing Brook like a bridge , but with the big end point up the Laughing Brook , which be quite broad but shallow right there .
To keep them from float away , he roll stone and pile mud on the bushy end .
Clear across on both side he lay those pole until the water begin to rise .
Then he drag more pole and pile them on top of these and wedge short stick crosswise between them .
And all the time the Laughing Brook be have harder and harder work to run .
Its merry laugh grow less merry and finally almost stop , because , you see , the water could not get through between all those pole and stick fast enough .
It be just about that time that the little people of the Smiling Pool decide that it be time to see just what Paddy be do , and they start up the Laughing Brook , leave only Grandfather Frog and the tadpole in the Smiling Pool , which for a little while would smile no more .
CHAPTER III Paddy Has Many Visitors .
Paddy the Beaver know perfectly well that he would have visitor just as soon a he begin to build his dam .
He expect a lot of them .
You see he know that none of them ever have see a Beaver at work unless perhaps it be Prickly Porky the Porcupine , who also have come down from the North .
So a he work he keep his ear open , and he smile to himself a he hear a little rustle here and then a little rustle there .
He know just what those little rustle mean .
Each one meant another visitor .
Yes , Sir , each rustle mean another visitor , and yet not one have show himself .
Paddy chuckle .
`` Seems to me that you be dreadfully afraid to show yourselves , '' say he in a loud voice , just a if he be talk to nobody in particular .
Everything be still .
There be n't so much a a rustle after Paddy speak .
He chuckle again .
He could just feel ever so many eye watch him , though he do n't see a single pair .
And he know that the reason his visitor be hide so carefully be because they be afraid of him .
You see , Paddy be much big than most of the little meadow and forest people , and they do n't know what kind of a temper he might have .
It be always safe to be very distrustful of stranger .
That be one of the very first thing teach all little meadow and forest child .
Of course , Paddy know all about this .
He have be bring up that way .
`` Be sure , and then you 'll never be sorry '' have be one of his mother 's favorite saying , and he have always remember it .
Indeed , it have save him a great deal of trouble .
So now he be perfectly willing to go right on work and let his hidden visitor watch him until they be sure that he mean them no harm .
You see , he himself felt quite sure that none of them be big enough to do him any harm .
Little Joe Otter be the only one he have any doubt about , and he felt quite sure that Little Joe would n't try to pick a quarrel .
So he keep right on cut tree , trim off the branch , and haul the trunk down to the dam he be build .
Some of them he float down the Laughing Brook .
This be easy .
Now when the little people of the Smiling Pool , who be the first to find out that Paddy the Beaver have come to the Green Forest , have start up the Laughing Brook to see what he be do , they have tell the Merry Little Breezes where they be go .
The Merry Little Breezes have be greatly excite .
They could n't understand how a stranger could have be live in the Green Forest without their knowledge .
You see , they quite forget that they very seldom wander to the deep part of the Green Forest .
Of course they start at once , a fast a they could go , to tell all the other little people who live on or around the Green Meadows , all but Old Man Coyote .
For some reason they think it best not to tell him .
They be a little doubtful about Old Man Coyote .
He be so big and strong and so sly and smart that all his neighbor be afraid of him .
Perhaps the Merry Little Breezes have this fact in mind , and know that none would dare go to call on the stranger if they know that Old Man Coyote be go too .
Anyway , they simply pass the time of day with Old Mr. Coyote and hurry on to tell everyone else , and the very last one they meet be Sammy Jay .
CHAPTER IV Sammy Jay Speaks His Mind When Sammy Jay reach the place deep in the Green Forest Where Paddy the Beaver be so hard at work , he do n't hide a have the little four-footed people .
You see , of course , he have no reason to hide , because he felt perfectly safe .
Paddy have just cut a big tree , and it fell with a crash a Sammy come hurry up .
Sammy be so surprised that for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
He have not suppose that anybody but Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy could cut down so large a tree a that , and it quite take his breath away .
But he get it again in a minute .
He be boil with anger , anyway , to think that he should have be the last to learn that Paddy have come down from the North to make his home in the Green Forest , and here be a chance to speak his mind .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
He scream in his harsh voice .
Paddy the Beaver look up with a twinkle in his eye .
`` Hello , Mr. Jay .
I see you have n't any good manner than your cousin who live up where I come from , '' say he .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
scream Sammy , hop up and down , he be so angry .
`` Meaning yourself , I suppose , '' say Paddy .
`` I never do see an honest Jay , and I do n't suppose I ever will . ''
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laugh Peter Rabbit , who have quite forget that he be hide .
`` Oh , how do you do , Mr. Rabbit ?
I 'm very glad you have call on me this morning , '' say Paddy , just a if he have n't know all the time just where Peter be .
`` Mr. Jay seem to have get out of the wrong side of his bed this morning . ''
Peter laugh again .
`` He always do , '' say he .
`` If he do n't , he would n't be happy .
You would n't think it to look at him , but he be happy right now .
He do n't know it , but he be .
He always be happy when he can show what a bad temper he have . ''
Sammy Jay glare down at Peter .
Then he glare at Paddy .
And all the time he still shriek `` Thief ! ''
as hard a ever he could .
Paddy keep right on work , pay no attention to Sammy .
This make Sammy more angry than ever .
He keep come nearer and nearer until at last he be in the very tree that Paddy happen to be cut .
Paddy 's eye twinkle .
`` I 'm no thief ! ''
he exclaim suddenly .
`` You be !
You be !
Thief !
Thief ! ''
shriek Sammy .
`` You 're steel our tree ! ''
`` They 're not your tree , '' retort Paddy .
`` They belong to the Green Forest , and the Green Forest belongs to all who love it , and we all have a perfect right to take what we need from it .
I need these tree , and I 've just as much right to take them a you have to take the fat acorn that drop in the fall . ''
`` No such thing ! ''
scream Sammy .
You know he ca n't talk without screaming , and the more excited he get , the louder he scream .
`` No such thing !
Acorns be food .
They be mean to eat .
I have to have them to live .
But you be cut down whole tree .
You be spoil the Green Forest .
You do n't belong here .
Nobody invite you , and nobody want you .
You 're a thief ! ''
Then up spoke Jerry Muskrat who , you know , be cousin to Paddy the Beaver .
`` Do n't you mind him , '' say he , point at Sammy Jay .
`` Nobody do .
He 's the great trouble-maker in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows .
He would steal from his own relative .
Do n't mind what he say , Cousin Paddy . ''
Now all this time Paddy have be work away just a if no one be around .
Just a Jerry stop speak , Paddy thump the ground with his tail , which be his way of warn people to watch out , and suddenly scurry away as fast a he could run .
Sammy Jay be so surprised that he could n't find his tongue for a minute , and he do n't notice anything peculiar about that tree .
Then suddenly he felt himself fall .
With a frightened scream , he spread his wing to fly , but branch of the tree sweep him down with them right into the Laughing Brook .
You see , while Sammy have be speak his mind , Paddy the Beaver have cut down the very tree in which he be sit .
Sammy be n't hurt , but he be wet and muddy and terribly frighten -- the most miserable-looking Jay that ever be see .
It be too much for all the little people who be hide .
They just have to laugh .
Then they all come out to pay their respect to Paddy the Beaver .
CHAPTER V Paddy Keeps His Promise .
Paddy the Beaver keep right on work just a if he have n't any visitor .
You see , it be a big undertaking to build a dam .
And when that be do there be a house to build and a supply of food for the winter to cut and store .
Oh , Paddy the Beaver have no time for idle gossip , you may be sure !
So he keep right on build his dam .
It do n't look much like a dam at first , and some of Paddy 's visitor turn up their nose when they first saw it .
They have hear story of what a wonderful dam-builder Paddy be , and they have expect to see something like the smooth , grass-covered bank with which Farmer Brown keep the Big River from run back on his low land .
Instead , all they saw be a great pile of pole and stick which look like anything but a dam .
`` Pooh ! ''
exclaim Billy Mink , `` I guess we need n't worry about the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , if that be the best Paddy can do .
Why , the water of the Laughing Brook will work through that in no time . ''
Of course Paddy hear him , but he say nothing , just keep right on work .
`` Just look at the way he have lay those stick ! ''
continue Billy Mink .
`` Seems a if anyone would know enough to lay them across the Laughing Brook instead of just the other way .
I could build a good dam than that . ''
Paddy say nothing ; he just keep right on work .
`` Yes , Sir , '' Billy boast .
`` I could build a good dam than that .
Why , that pile of stick will never stop the water . ''
`` Is something the matter with your eyesight , Billy Mink ? ''
inquired Jerry Muskrat .
`` Of course not ! ''
retort Billy indignantly .
`` Why ? ''
`` Oh , nothing much , only you do n't seem to notice that already the Laughing Brook be over it bank above Paddy 's dam , '' reply Jerry , who have be study the dam with a great deal of interest .
Billy look a wee bit foolish , for sure enough there be a little pool just above the dam , and it be grow big .
Sammy be terribly put out to think that anything should be go on that he do n't know about first .
You know he be very fond of pry into the affair of other people , and he love dearly to boast that there be nothing go on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that he do n't know about .
So now his pride be hurt , and he be in a terrible rage a he start after the Merry Little Breezes for the place deep in the Green Forest where they say Paddy the Beaver be at work .
He do n't believe a word of it , but he would see for himself .
Paddy still keep at work , say nothing .
He be dig in front of the dam now , and the mud and grass he dig up he stuff in between the end of the stick and pat them down with his hand .
He do this all along the front of the dam and on top of it , too , wherever he think it be need .
Of course this make it hard for the water to work through , and the little pond above the dam begin to grow faster .
It be n't a great while before it be nearly to the top of the dam , which at first be very low .
Then Paddy bring more stick .
This be easy now , because he could float them down from where he be cut .
He would put them in place on the top of the dam , then hurry for more .
Wherever it be need , he would put in mud .
He even roll a few stone in to help hold the mass .
So the dam grow and grow , and so do the pond above the dam .
Of course , it take a good many day to build so big a dam , and a lot of hard work !
Every morning the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadow would visit it , and every morning they would find that it have grow a great deal in the night , for that be when Paddy like best to work .
By this time , the Laughing Brook have stop laugh , and down in the Smiling Pool there be hardly water enough for the minnow to feel safe a minute .
Billy Mink have stop make fun of the dam , and all the little people who live in the Laughing Brook and Smiling Pool be terribly worry .
To be sure , Paddy have warn them of what he be go to do , and have promise that as soon a his pond be big enough , the water would once more run in the Laughing Brook .
They try to believe him , but they could n't help have just a wee bit of fear that he might not be wholly honest .
You see , they do n't know him , for he be a stranger .
Jerry Muskrat be the only one who seem absolutely sure that everything would be all right .
Perhaps that be because Paddy be his cousin , and Jerry could n't help feel proud of such a big cousin and one who be so smart .
So day by day the dam grow , and pond grow , and one morning Grandfather Frog , down in what have once be the Smiling Pool , hear a sound that make his heart jump for joy .
It be a murmur that keep grow and grow , until at last it be the merry laugh of the Laughing Brook .
Then he know that Paddy have keep his word , and water would once more fill the Smiling Pool .
CHAPTER VI Farmer Brown 's Boy Grows Curious .
Now it happen that the very day before Paddy the Beaver decide that his pond be big enough , and so allow the water to run in the Laughing Brook once more , Farmer Brown 's boy take it into his head to go fishing in the Smiling Pool .
Just as usual he go whistle down across the Green Meadows .
Somehow , when he go fishing , he always feel like whistle .
Grandfather Frog hear him come and dive into the little bit of water remain in the Smiling Pool and stir up the mud at the bottom so that Farmer Brown 's boy should n't see him .
Nearer and nearer draw the whistle .
Suddenly it stop right short off .
Farmer Brown 's boy have come in sight of the Smiling Pool or rather , it be what use to be the Smiling Pool .
Now there be n't any Smiling Pool , for the very little pool leave be too small and sickly look to smile .
There be great bank of mud , out of which grow the bulrush .
The lily pad be forlornly stretch out toward the tiny pool of water remain .
Where the bank be steep and high , the hole that Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink know so well be plain to see .
Over at one side stand Jerry Muskrat 's house , wholly out of water .
Somehow , it seem to Farmer Brown 's boy that he must be dream .
He never , never have see anything like this before , not even in the very dry weather of the hot part of the summer .
He look this way and look that way .
The Green Meadows look just as usual .
The Green Forest look just as usual .
The Laughing Brook -- ha !
What be the matter with the Laughing Brook ?
He could n't hear it and that , you know , be very unusual .
He drop his rod and run over to the Laughing Brook .
There be n't any brook .
No , sir , there be n't any brook ; just pool of water with the tiniest of stream trickle between .
Big stone over which he have always see the water run in the prettiest of little white fall be bare and dry .
In the little pool frighten minnow be dart about .
Farmer Brown 's boy scratch his head in a puzzled way .
`` I do n't understand it , '' say he .
`` I do n't understand it at all .
Something must have go wrong with the spring that supply the water for the Laughing Brook .
They must have fail .
Yes , Sir , that be just what must have happen .
But I never heard of such a thing happen before , and I really do n't see how it could happen .
He star up into the Green Forest just as if he think he could see those spring .
Of course , he do n't think anything of the kind .
He be just turn it all over in his mind .
`` I know what I 'll do , I 'll go up to those spring this afternoon and find out what the trouble be , '' he say out loud .
`` They be way over almost on the other side of the Green Forest , and the easy way to get there will be to start from home and cut across the Old Pasture up to the edge of the Mountain behind the Green Forest .
If I try to follow up the Laughing Brook now , it will take too long , because it wind and twist so .
Besides , it be too hard work . ''
With that , Farmer Brown 's boy go back and pick up his rod .
Then he start for home across the Green Meadows , and for once he be n't whistle .
You see , he be too busy think .
In fact , he be so busy think that he do n't see Jimmy Skunk until he almost step on him , and then he give a frightened jump and ran , for without a gun he be just as much afraid of Jimmy a Jimmy be of him when he do have a gun .
Jimmy just grin and go on about his business .
It always tickle Jimmy to see people run away from him , especially people so much big than himself ; they look so silly .
`` I should think that they would have learn by this time that if they do n't bother me , I wo n't bother them , he mutter a he roll over a stone to look for fat beetle .
`` Somehow , folk never seem to understand me . ''
CHAPTER VII Farmer Brown 's Boy Gets Another Surprise .
Across the Old Pasture to the foot of the Mountain back of the Green Forest tramp Farmer Brown 's boy .
Ahead of him trot Bowser the Hound , sniff and snuff for the track of Reddy or Granny Fox .
Of course he do n't find them , for Reddy and Granny have n't be up in the Old Pasture for a long time .
But he do find old Jed Thumper , the big gray Rabbit who have make thing so uncomfortable for Peter Rabbit once upon a time and give old Jed such a fright that he do n't look where he be go and almost run head-first into Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Hi , there , you old cottontail ! ''
yell Farmer Brown 's boy , and this frighten off Jed still more , so that he actually run right past his own castle of bullbriars without see it .
Farmer Brown 's boy keep on his way , laugh at the fright of old Jed Thumper .
Presently he reach the spring from which come the water that make the very beginning of the Laughing Brook .
He expect to find them dry , for way down on the Green Meadows the Smiling Pool be nearly dry , and the Laughing Brook be nearly dry , and he have suppose that of course the reason be that the spring where the Laughing Brook start be no longer bubble .
But they be !
The clear cold water come bubble up out of the ground just a it always have , and run off down into the Green Forest in a little stream that would grow and grow a it run and become the Laughing Brook .
Farmer Brown 's boy take off his ragged old straw hat and scowl down at the bubbling water just a if it have no business to be bubble there .
Of course , he do n't think just that .
The fact be , he do n't know just what he do think .
Here be the spring bubble away just a they always have .
There be the little stream start off down into the Green Forest with a gurgle that by and by would become a laugh , just a it always have .
And yet down on the Green Meadows on the other side of the Green Forest there be no longer a Laughing Brook or a Smiling Pool .
He felt a if he ought to pinch himself to make sure that he be awake and not dream .
`` I do n't know what it mean , '' say he , talk out loud .
`` No , Sir , I do n't know what it mean at all , but I 'm go to find out .
There 's a cause for everything in this world , and when a fellow do n't know a thing , it be his business to find out all about it .
I 'm go to find out what have happen to the Laughing Brook , if it take me a year ! ''
With that he start to follow the little stream which run gurgle down into the Green Forest .
He have follow that little stream more than once , and now he find it just a he remember it .
The farther it run , the large it grow , until at last it become the Laughing Brook , merrily tumble over rock and make deep pool in which the trout love to hide .
At last he come to the edge of a little open hollow in the very heart of the Green Forest .
He know what splendid deep hole there be in the Laughing Brook here , and how the big trout love to lie in them because they be deep and cool .
He be think of these trout now and wish that he have bring along his fishing rod .
He push his way through a thicket of alder and then -- Farmer Brown 's boy stop suddenly and fairly gasp !
He have to stop because there right in front of him be a pond !
He rub his eye and look again .
Then he stoop down and put his hand in the water to see if it be real .
There be no doubt about it .
It be real water -- a real pond where there never have be a pond before .
It be very still there in the heart of the Green Forest .
It be always very still there , but it seem still than usual a he tramp around the edge of this strange pond .
He felt a if it be all a dream .
He wonder if pretty soon he would n't wake up and find it all untrue .
But he do n't , so he keep on tramp until presently he come to a dam -- a splendid dam of log and stick and mud .
Over the top of it the water be run , and down in the Green Forest below he could hear the Laughing Brook just begin to laugh once more .
Farmer Brown 's boy sit down with his elbow on his knee and his chin in his hand .
He be almost too much surprise to even think .
CHAPTER VIII Peter Rabbit Gets a Ducking .
Farmer Brown 's boy sit with his chin in his hand star at the new pond in the Green Forest and at the dam which have make it .
That dam puzzle him .
Who could have build it ?
What do they build it for ?
Why have n't he hear them chop ?
He look carelessly at the stump of one of the tree , and then a still more puzzled look make deep furrow between his eye .
It look -- yes , it look very much a if teeth , and not an axe , have cut down that tree .
Farmer Brown 's boy star and star , his mouth gap wide open .
He look so funny that Peter Rabbit , who be hide under an old pile of brush close by , nearly laugh right out .
But Peter do n't laugh .
No , Sir , Peter do n't laugh , for just that very minute something happen .
Sniff !
Sniff !
That be right behind him at the very edge of the old brushpile , and every hair on Peter stand on end with fright .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
It seem to Peter that the great voice be right in his very ear .
It frighten him so that he just have to jump .
He do n't have time to think .
And so he jump right out from under the pile of brush and of course right into plain sight .
And the very instant he jump there come another great roar behind him .
Of course it be from Bowser the Hound .
You see , Bowser have be follow the trail of his master , but a he always stop to sniff at everything he pass , he have be some distance behind .
When he come to the pile of brush under which Peter be hide he have sniff at that , and of course he have smell Peter right away .
Now when Peter jump out so suddenly , he have land right at one end of the dam .
The second roar of Bowser 's great voice frighten him still more , and he jump right up on the dam .
There be nothing for him to do now but go across , and it be n't the best of go .
No , indeed , it be n't the best of go .
You see , it be mostly a tangle of stick .
Happy Jack Squirrel or Chatterer the Red Squirrel or Striped Chipmunk would have skip across it without the least trouble .
But Peter Rabbit have no sharp little claw with which to cling to log and stick , and right away he be in a peck of trouble .
He slip down between the stick , scramble out , slip again , and then , try to make a long jump , he lose his balance and -- tumble heel over head into the water .
Poor Peter Rabbit !
He give himself up for lose this time .
He could swim , but at best he be a poor swimmer and do n't like the water .
He could n't dive and keep out of sight like Jerry Muskrat or Billy Mink .
All he could do be to paddle as fast a his leg would go .
The water have go up his nose and down his throat so that he choke , and all the time he felt sure that Bowser the Hound would plunge in after him and catch him .
And if he should n't why Farmer Brown 's boy would simply wait for him to come ashore and then catch him .
But Farmer Brown 's boy do n't do anything of the kind .
No , Sir , he do n't .
Instead he shout to Bowser and call him away .
Bowser do n't want to come , but he long ago learn to obey , and very slowly he walk over to where his master be sit .
`` You know it would n't be fair , old fellow , to try to catch Peter now .
It would n't be fair at all , and we never want to do anything unfair , do we ? ''
say he .
Perhaps Bowser do n't agree , but he wag his tail a if he do , and sit down beside his master to watch Peter swim .
It seem to Peter a if he never , never would reach the shore , though really it be only a very little distance that he have to swim .
When he do scramble out , he be a sorry-looking Rabbit .
He do n't waste any time , but start for home as fast a he could go , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
And Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound just laugh and do n't try to catch him at all .
`` Well , I never ! ''
exclaim Sammy Jay , who have see it all from the top of a pine tree .
`` Well , I never !
I guess Farmer Brown 's boy be n't so bad , after all . ''
CHAPTER IX Paddy Plans a House .
Paddy the Beaver sit on his dam , and his eye shone with happiness a he look out over the shining water of the pond he have make .
All around the edge of it grow the tall tree of the Green Forest .
It be very beautiful and very still and very lonesome .
That be , it would have seem lonesome to almost anyone but Paddy the Beaver .
But Paddy never be lonesome .
You see , he find company in the tree and flower and all the little plant .
It be still , very , very still .
Over on one side be a beautiful rosy glow in the water .
It be the reflection from jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
Paddy could n't see him because of the tall tree , but he know exactly what Mr. Sun be do .
He be go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
Pretty soon the little star would come out and twinkle down at him .
He love the little star and always watch for the first one .
Yes , Paddy the Beaver be very happy .
He would have be perfectly happy except for one thing .
Farmer Brown 's boy have find his dam and pond that very afternoon , and Paddy be n't quite sure what Farmer Brown 's boy might do .
He have keep himself snugly hide while Farmer Brown 's boy be there , and he felt quite sure that Farmer Brown 's boy do n't know who have build the dam .
But for this reason he might , he just might , try to find out all about it , and that would mean that Paddy would always have to be on the watch .
`` But what 's the use of worry over trouble that have n't come yet , and may never come ?
Time enough to worry when they do come , '' say Paddy to himself , which show that Paddy have a great deal of wisdom in his little brown head .
`` The thing for me to do now be to get ready for winter , and that mean a great deal of work , '' he continue .
`` Let me see , I 've get to build a house , a big , stout , warm house , where I will be warm and safe when my pond be freeze over .
And I 've get to lay in a supply of food , enough to last me until gentle Sister South Wind come to prepare the way for lovely Mistress Spring .
My , my , I ca n't afford to be sit here dream when there be so much to be do ! ''
With that Paddy slip into the water and swim all around his new pond to make sure of just the best place to build his house .
Now , place one 's house in just the right place be a very important matter .
Some people be dreadfully careless about this .
Jimmy Skunk , for instance , often make the mistake of dig his house -LRB- you know Jimmy make his house underground -RRB- right where everyone who happen along that way will see it .
Perhaps that be because Jimmy be so independent that he do n't care who know where he live .
But Paddy the Beaver never be careless .
He always choose just the very best place .
He make sure that it be best before he begin .
So now , although he be quite positive just where his house should be , he swim around the pond to make doubly sure .
Then , when he be quite satisfied , he swim over to the place he have choose .
It be where the water be quite deep .
`` There must n't be the least chance that the ice will ever get thick enough too close up my doorway , say he , `` and I 'm sure it never will here .
I must make the foundation strong and the wall thick .
I must have plenty of mud to plaster with , and inside , up above the water , I must have the snug , warm room where I can sleep in comfort .
This be the place to build it , and it be high time I be at work . ''
With that Paddy swam over to the place where he have cut the tree for his dam , and his heart be light , for he have long ago learn that the sure way to be happy be to be busy .
CHAPTER X Paddy Starts His House .
Jerry Muskrat be very much interested when he find that Paddy the Beaver , who you know , be his cousin , be build a house .
Jerry be a house-builder himself , and down deep in his heart he very much doubt if Paddy could build a good a house a he could .
His house be down in the Smiling Pool , and Jerry think it a very wonderful house indeed , and be very proud of it .
It be build of mud and sod and little alder and willow twig and bulrush .
Jerry have spend one winter in it , and he have decide to spend another there after he have fix it up a little .
So , as long a he do n't have to build a brand-new house , he could afford the time to watch his cousin Paddy .
Perhaps he hop that Paddy would ask his advice .
But Paddy do nothing of the kind .
He have see Jerry Muskrat 's house , and he have smile .
But he have take great pain not to let Jerry see that smile .
He would n't have hurt Jerry 's feeling for the world .
He be too polite and good-natured to do anything like that .
So Jerry sit on the end of an old log and watch Paddy work .
The first thing to build be the foundation .
This be of mud and grass with stick work into it to hold it together .
Paddy dig the mud from the bottom of his new pond .
And because the pond be new , there be a great deal of grassy sod there , which be just what Paddy need .
It be very convenient .
Jerry watch a little while and then , because Jerry be a worker himself , he just have to get busy and help .
Rather timidly he tell his big cousin that he would like to have a share in build the new house .
`` All right , '' reply Paddy , `` that will be fine .
You can bring mud while I be get the stick and grass . ''
So Jerry dive down to the bottom of the pond and dig up mud and pile it on the foundation and be happy .
The little star look down and twinkled merrily a they watch the two worker .
So the foundation grow and grow down under the water .
Jerry be very much surprise at the size of it .
It be ever and ever so much big than the foundation for his own house .
You see , he have forget how much big Paddy be .
Each night Jerry and Paddy work , rest during the daytime .
Occasionally Bobby Coon or Reddy Fox or Unc ' Billy Possum or Jimmy Skunk would come to the edge of the pond to see what be go on .
Peter Rabbit come every night .
But they could n't see much because , you know , Paddy and Jerry be work under water .
But at last Peter be reward .
There , just above the water , be a splendid platform of mud and grass and stick .
A great many stick be carefully lay as soon a the platform be above the water , for Paddy be very particular about this .
You see , it be to be the floor for the splendid room he be plan to build .
When it suit him , he begin to pile mud in the very middle .
Jerry puzzle and puzzle over this .
Where be Paddy 's room go to be , if he pile up the mud that way ?
But he do n't like to ask question , so he keep right on help .
Paddy would dive down to the bottom and then come up with double handful of mud , which he hold against his chest .
He would scramble out onto the platform and waddle over to the pile in the middle , where he would put the mud and pat it down .
Then back to the bottom for more .
And so the mud pile grow and grow , until it be quite two foot high .
`` Now , '' say Paddy , `` I 'll build the wall , and I guess you ca n't help me much with those .
I 'm go to begin them tomorrow night .
Perhaps you will like to see me do it , Cousin Jerry . ''
`` I certainly will , '' reply Jerry , still puzzle over that pile of mud in the middle .
CHAPTER XI Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat Are Puzzled .
Jerry Muskrat be more and more sure that his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver , do n't know quite so much a he might about house-building .
Jerry would have like to offer some suggestion , but he do n't quite dare .
You see , he be very anxious not to displease his big cousin .
But he felt that he simply have get to speak his mind to someone , so he swim across to where he have see Peter Rabbit almost every night since Paddy begin to build .
Sure enough , Peter be there , sit up very straight and star with big round eye at the platform of mud and stick out in the water where Paddy the Beaver be at work .
`` Well , Peter , what do you think of it ? ''
ask Jerry `` What be it ? ''
ask Peter innocently .
`` Is it another dam ? ''
Jerry throw back his head and laugh and laugh .
Peter look at him suspiciously .
`` I do n't see anything to laugh at , '' say he .
`` Why , it 's a house , you stupid .
It 's Paddy 's new house , '' reply Jerry , wipe the tear of laughter from his eye .
`` I 'm not stupid ! ''
retort Peter .
`` How be I to know that that pile of mud and stick be mean for a house ?
It certainly do n't look it .
Where be the door ? ''
`` To tell you the truth , I do n't think it be much of a house myself , '' reply Jerry .
`` It have get a door , all right .
In fact it have get three .
You ca n't see them because they be under water , and there be a passage from each right up through that platform of mud and stick , which be the foundation of the house .
It really be a very fine foundation , Peter ; it really be .
But what I ca n't understand be what Paddy be think of by building that great pile of mud right in the middle .
When he get his wall build , where will his bedroom be ?
There wo n't be any room at all .
It wo n't be a house at all -- just a big useless pile of stick and mud .
Peter scratch his head and then pull his whisker thoughtfully a he gaze out at the pile in the water where Paddy the Beaver be at work .
`` It do look foolish , that 's a fact , '' say he .
`` Why do n't you point out to him the mistake he be make , Jerry ?
You have build such a splendid house yourself that you ought to be able to help Paddy and show him his mistake . ''
Jerry have smile a very self-satisfied smile when Peter mention his fine house , but he shake his head at the suggestion that he should give Paddy advice .
`` I -- I do n't just like to , '' he confess .
`` You know , he might not like it and -- and it do n't seem a if it would be quite polite .
Peter sniffed .
`` That would n't trouble me any if he be my cousin , '' say he .
Jerry shake his head , `` No , I do n't believe it would , '' he reply , `` but it do trouble me and -- and -- well , I think I 'll wait awhile . ''
Now all this time Paddy have be hard at work .
He be bring the long branch which he have cut from the tree out of which he have build his dam , and a lot of slender willow and alder pole .
He push these ahead of him a he swim .
When he reach the foundation of his house , he would lean them against the pile of mud in the middle with their big end rest on the foundation .
So he work all the way around until by and by the mud pile in the middle could n't be see .
It be completely cover with stick , and they be cunningly fasten together at the top .
CHAPTER XII Jerry Muskrat Learns Something If you think you know it all You be rid for a fall .
Use your ear and use your eye , But hold your tongue and you 'll be wise .
Jerry Muskrat will tell you that be as true a true can be .
Jerry know .
He find it out for himself .
Now he be very careful what he say about other people or what they be do .
But he be n't so careful when his cousin , Paddy the Beaver , be build his house .
No , Sir , Jerry be n't so careful then .
He though he know more about build a house than Paddy do .
He be sure of it when he watch Paddy heap up a great pile of mud right in the middle where his room ought to be , and then build a wall of stick around it .
He say as much to Peter Rabbit .
Now it be never safe to say anything to Peter Rabbit that you do n't care to have others know .
Peter have a great deal of respect for Jerry Muskrat 's opinion on house-building .
You see , he very much admires Jerry 's snug house in the Smiling Pool .
It really be a very fine house , and Jerry may be excuse for be proud of it .
But that do n't excuse Jerry for think that he know all there be to know about house-building .
Of course Peter tell everyone he meet that Paddy the Beaver be make a foolish mistake in build his house , and that Jerry Muskrat , who ought to know , say so .
So whenever they get the chance , the little people of the Green Forest and Green Meadows would steal up to the shore of Paddy 's new pond and chuckle a they look out at the great pile of stick and mud which Paddy have build for a house , but in which he have forget to make a room .
At least they suppose that he have forget this very important thing .
He must have , for there be n't any room .
It be a great joke .
They laugh a lot about it , and they lose a great deal of the respect for Paddy which they have have since he build his wonderful dam .
Jerry and Peter sit in the moonlight talk it over .
Paddy have stop bring stick for his wall .
He have dive down out of sight , and he be go a long time .
Suddenly Jerry notice that the water have grow very , very muddy all around Paddy 's new house .
He wrinkle his brow try to think what Paddy could be do .
Presently Paddy come up for air .
Then he go down again , and the water grow muddy than ever .
This go on for a long time .
Every little while Paddy would come up for air and a few minute of rest .
Then down he would go , and the water would grow muddy and muddier .
At last Jerry could stand it no longer .
He just have to see what be go on .
He slip into the water and swam over to where the water be muddy .
Just a he get there up come Paddy .
`` Hello , Cousin Jerry ! ''
say he .
`` I be just go to invite you over to see what you think of my house inside .
Just follow me . ''
Paddy dive , and Jerry dive after him .
He follow Paddy in at one of the three doorway under water and up a smooth hall right into the big , nice bedroom Jerry have ever see in all his life .
He just gasp in sheer surprise .
He could n't do anything else .
He could n't find his tongue to say a word .
Here he be in this splendid great room up above the water , and he have be so sure that there be n't any room at all !
He just do n't know what to make of it .
Paddy 's eye twinkle .
`` Well , '' say he , `` what do you think of it ? ''
`` I -- I -- think it be splendid , just perfectly splendid !
But I do n't understand it at all , Cousin Paddy .
I -- I -- Where be that great pile of mud I help you build in the middle ? ''
Jerry look as foolish a he felt when he ask this .
`` Why , I 've dig it all away .
That 's what make the water so muddy , '' reply Paddy .
`` But what do you build it for in the first place ? ''
Jerry ask .
`` Because I have to have something solid to rest my stick against while I be build my wall , of course , '' reply Paddy .
When I get the top fasten together for a roof , they do n't need a support any long , and then I dig it away to make this room .
I could n't have build such a big room any other way .
I see you do n't know very much about house-building , Cousin Jerry . ''
`` I -- I 'm afraid I do n't , '' confess Jerry sadly .
CHAPTER XIII The Queer Storehouse .
Everybody know that Paddy the Beaver be lay up a supply of food for the winter , and everybody think it be queer food .
That be , everybody but Prickly Porky the Porcupine think so .
Prickly Porky like the same kind of food , but he never lay up a supply .
He just go out and get it when he want it , winter or summer .
What kind of food be it ?
Why , bark , to be sure .
Yes , Sir , it be just bark -- the bark of certain kind of tree .
Now Prickly Porky can climb the tree and eat the bark right there , but Paddy the Beaver can not climb , and if he would just eat the bark that he can reach from the ground , it would take such a lot of tree to keep him fill up that he would soon spoil the Green Forest .
You know , when the bark be take off a tree all the way around , the tree die .
That be because all the thing that a tree draw out of the ground to make it grow and keep it alive be carry up from the root in the sap , and the sap can not go up the tree trunk and into the branch when the bark be take off , because it be up the inside of the bark that it travel .
So when the bark be take from a tree all the way around the trunk , the tree just starve to death .
Now Paddy the Beaver love the Green Forest as dearly a you and I do , and perhaps even a little more dearly .
You see , it be his home .
Besides , Paddy never be wasteful .
So he cut down a tree so that he can get all the bark instead of kill a whole lot of tree for a very little bark , a he might do if he be lazy .
There be n't a lazy bone in him -- not one .
The bark he like best be from the aspen .
When he can not get that , he will eat the bark from the poplar , the alder , the willow , and even the birch .
But he like the aspen so much good that he will work very hard to get it .
Perhaps it taste well because he do have to work so hard for it .
There be some aspen tree grow right on the edge of the pond Paddy have make in the Green Forest .
These he cut just a he have cut the tree for his dam .
As soon a a tree be down , he would cut it into short length , and with these swim out to where the water be deep , close to his new house .
He take them one by one and carry the first one to the bottom , where he push them into the mud just enough to hold them .
Then , a fast a he bring more , he pile them on the first one .
And so the pile grow and grow .
Jerry Muskrat , Peter Rabbit , Bobby Coon , and the other little people of the Green Forest watch him with the great interest and curiosity .
They could n't quite make out what he be do .
It be almost a if he be build the foundation for another house .
`` What 's he do , Jerry ? ''
demand Peter , when he could keep still no longer .
`` I do n't exactly know , '' reply Jerry .
`` He say that he be go to lay in a supply of food for the winter , just a I tell you , and I suppose that be what he be do .
But I do n't quite understand what he be take it all out into the pond for .
I believe I 'll go ask him . ''
`` Do , and then come tell u , '' beg Peter , who be grow so curious that he could n't sit still .
So Jerry swim out to where Paddy be so busy .
`` Is this your food supply , Cousin Paddy ? ''
he ask .
`` Yes , '' reply Paddy , crawl up on the side of his house to rest .
`` Yes , this be my food supply .
Is n't it splendid ? ''
`` I guess it be , '' reply Jerry , try to be polite , `` though I like lily root and clam well .
But what be you go to do with it ?
Where be your storehouse ? ''
`` This pond be my storehouse , '' reply Paddy .
`` I will make a great pile right here close to my house , and the water will keep it nice and fresh all winter .
When the pond be freeze over , all I will have to do be to slip out of one of my doorway down there on the bottom , swim over here and get a stick , and fill my stomach .
Is n't it handy ? ''
CHAPTER XIV A Footprint in the Mud .
Very early one morning Paddy the Beaver hear Sammy Jay make a terrible fuss over in the aspen tree on the edge of the pond Paddy have make in the Green Forest .
Paddy could n't see because he be inside his house , and it have no window , but he could hear .
He wrinkle up his brow thoughtfully .
`` Seems to me that Sammy be very much excite this morning , '' say he , a way he have because he be so much alone .
`` When he scream like that , Sammy be usually try to do two thing at once -- make trouble for somebody and keep somebody else out of trouble ; and when you come to think of it , that 's rather a funny way of do .
It show that he be n't all bad , and at the same time he be a long way from be all good .
Now , I should say from the sound that Sammy have discover Reddy Fox try to steal up on someone over where my aspen tree be grow .
Reddy be afraid of me , but I suspect that he know that Peter Rabbit have be hang around here a lot lately , watch me work , and he think perhaps he can watch Peter .
I shall have to whisper in one of Peter 's long ear and tell him to watch out . ''
After a while he hear Sammy Jay 's voice grow fainter and fainter in the Green Forest .
Finally he could n't hear it at all .
`` Whoever be here have go away , and Sammy have follow just to torment them , '' think Paddy .
He be very busy make a bed .
He be very particular about his bed , be Paddy the Beaver .
He make it of fine splinter of wood which he split off with those wonderful great cut teeth of his .
This make the dry kind of a bed .
It require a great deal of patience and work , but patience be one of the first thing a little Beaver learn , and honest work well do be one of the great pleasure in the world , a Paddy long ago find out for himself .
So he keep at work on his bed for some time after all be still outside .
At last Paddy decide that he would go over to his aspen tree and look them over to decide which one he would cut the next night .
He slide down one of his long hall , out the doorway at the bottom on the pond , and then swim up to the surface , where he float for a few minute with just his head out of water .
And all the time his eye and nose and ear be busy look , smell , and listen for any sign of danger .
Everything be still .
Sure that he be quite safe , Paddy swim across to the place where the aspen tree grow , and waddle out on the shore .
Paddy look this way and look that way .
He look up in the treetop , and he look off up the hill , but most of all he look at the ground .
Yes , Sir , Paddy just study the ground .
You see , he have n't forget the fuss Sammy Jay have be make there , and he be try to find out what it be all about .
At first he do n't see anything unusual , but by and by he happen to notice a little wet place , and right in the middle of it be something that make Paddy 's eye open wide .
It be a footprint !
Someone have carelessly step in the mud .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Paddy , and the hair on his back lift ever so little , and for a minute he have a prickly feeling all over .
The footprint be very much like that of Reddy Fox , only it be large .
`` Ha ! ''
say Paddy again .
`` That certainly be the foot print of Old Man Coyote !
I see I have get to watch out more sharply than I have think for .
All right , Mr. Coyote ; now that I know you be about , you 'll have to be smart than I think you be to catch me .
You certainly will be back here tonight look for me , so I think I 'll do my cut right now in the daytime . ''
CHAPTER XV Sammy Jay Makes Paddy a Call .
Paddy the Beaver be hard at work .
He have just cut down a good - size aspen tree and now he be gnaw it into short length to put in his food pile in the pond .
As he work , Paddy be do a lot of think about the footprint of Old Man Coyote in a little patch of mud , for he know that meant that Old Man Coyote have discover his pond , and would be hang around , hop to catch Paddy off his guard .
Paddy know it just as well a if Old Man Coyote have tell him so .
That be why he be at work cut his food supply in the daytime .
Usually he work at night , and he know that Old Man Coyote know it .
`` He 'll try to catch me then , '' think Paddy , `` so I 'll do my work on land now and fool him . ''
The tree he be cut begin to sway and crack .
Paddy cut out One more big chip , then hurry away to a safe place while the tree fell with a crash .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
scream a voice just back of Paddy .
`` Hello , Sammy Jay !
I see you do n't feel any good than usual this morning , '' say Paddy .
`` Do n't you want to sit up in this tree while I cut it down ? ''
Sammy grow black in the face with anger , for he know that Paddy be laugh at him .
You remember how only a few day before he have be so intent on call Paddy bad name that he actually have n't notice that Paddy be cut the very tree in which he be sit , and so when it fell he have have a terrible fright .
`` You think you be very smart , Mr. Beaver , but you 'll think differently one of these fine day ! ''
scream Sammy .
`` If you know what I know , you would n't be so well satisfied with yourself . ''
`` What do you know ? ''
ask Paddy , pretend to be very much alarmed .
`` I 'm not go to tell you what I know , '' retort Sammy Jay .
`` You 'll find out soon enough .
And when you do find out , you 'll never steal another tree from our Green Forest .
Somebody be go to catch you , and it be n't Farmer Brown 's boy either ! ''
Paddy pretend to be terribly frighten .
`` Oh , who be it ?
Please tell me , Mr. Jay , '' he beg .
Now to be call Mr. Jay make Sammy feel very important .
Nearly everybody else call him Sammy .
He swell himself out try to look as important a he felt , and his eye snap with pleasure .
He be actually make Paddy the Beaver afraid .
At least , he think he be .
`` No , Sir , I wo n't tell you , '' he reply .
`` I would n't be you for a great deal , though !
Somebody who be smart than you be be go to catch you , and when he get through with you , there wo n't be anything left but a few bone .
No , Sir , nothing but a few bone ! ''
`` Oh , Mr. Jay , this be terrible news !
Whatever be I to do ? ''
cry Paddy , all the time keep on at work cut another tree .
`` There 's nothing you can do , '' reply Sammy , grin wickedly at Paddy 's fright .
`` There 's nothing you can do unless you go right straight back to the North where you come from .
You think you be very smart , but -- '' Sammy do n't finish .
Crack !
Over fell the tree Paddy have be cut and the top of it fell straight into the alder in which Sammy be sit .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Help ! ''
shriek Sammy , spread his wing and fly away just in time .
Paddy sit down and laugh until his side ache .
`` Come make me another call someday , Sammy ! ''
he say .
`` And when you do , please bring some real news .
I know all about Old Man Coyote .
You can tell him for me that when he be plan to catch people he should be careful not to leave footprint to give himself away . ''
Sammy do n't reply .
He just sneak off through the Green Forest , look quite as foolish a he felt .
CHAPTER XVI Old Man Coyote be Very Crafty .
Coyote have a crafty brain ; His wit be sharp his end to gain .
There be nothing in the world more true than that .
Old Man Coyote have the crafty brain of all the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows .
Sharp a be the wit of old Granny Fox , they be not quite so sharp a the wit of Old Man Coyote .
If you want to fool him , you will have to get up very early in the morning , and then it be more than likely that you will be the one fool , not he .
There be very little go on around him that he do n't know about .
But once in a while something escape him .
The come of Paddy the Beaver to the Green Forest be one of these thing .
He do n't know a thing about Paddy until Paddy have finish his dam and his house , and be cut his supply of food for the winter .
You see , it be this way : When the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind first hear what be go on in the Green Forest and hurry around over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest to spread the news , a be their way , they take the great pain not to even hint it to Old Man Coyote because they be afraid that he would make trouble and perhaps drive Paddy away .
The place that Paddy have choose to build his dam be so deep in the Green Forest that Old Man Coyote seldom go that way .
So it be that he know nothing about Paddy , and Paddy know nothing about him for some time .
But after awhile Old Man Coyote notice that the little people of the Green Meadows be not about as much a usual .
They seem to have a secret of some kind .
He mention the matter to his friend , Digger the Badger .
Digger have be so intent on his own affair that he have n't notice anything unusual , but when Old Man Coyote mention the matter he remember that Blacky the Crow head straight for the Green Forest every morning .
Several time he have see Sammy Jay fly in the same direction a if in a great hurry to get somewhere .
Old Man Coyote grin .
`` That 's all I need to know , friend Digger , '' say he .
`` When Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay visit a place more than once , something interesting be go on there .
I think I 'll take a stroll up through the Green Forest and have a look around . ''
With that , off Old Man Coyote start .
But he be too sly and crafty to go straight to the Green Forest .
He pretend to hunt around over the Green Meadows just a he usually do , all the time work nearer and nearer to the Green Forest .
When he reach the edge of it , he slip in among the tree , and when he felt that no one be likely to see him , he begin to run this way and that way with his nose to the ground .
`` Ha ! ''
he exclaim presently , `` Reddy Fox have be this way lately . ''
Pretty soon he find another trail .
`` So , '' say he , `` Peter Rabbit have be over here a good deal of late , and his trail go in the same direction a that of Reddy Fox .
I guess all I have to do now be to follow Peter 's trail , and it will lead me to what I want to find out . ''
So Old Man Coyote follow Peter 's trail , and he presently come to the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
`` Ha ! ''
say he , a he look out and saw Paddy 's new house .
`` So there be a newcomer to the Green Forest !
I have always hear that Beaver be very good eating .
My stomach begin to feel empty this very minute . ''
His mouth begin to water , and a fierce , hungry look shone in his eye .
It be just then that Sammy Jay saw him and begin to scream at the top of his lung so that Paddy the Beaver over in his house hear him .
Old Man Coyote know that it be of no use to stay longer with Sammy Jay about , so he take a hasty look at the pond and find where Paddy come ashore to cut his food .
Then , shake his fist at Sammy Jay , he start straight back for the Green Meadows .
`` I 'll just pay a visit here in the night , '' say he , `` and give Mr. Beaver a surprise while he be at work . ''
But with all his craft , Old Man Coyote do n't notice that he leave a footprint in the mud .
CHAPTER XVII Old Man Coyote be Disappointed .
Old Man Coyote lay stretch out in his favorite napping place on the Green Meadows .
He be think of what he have find out up in the Green Forest that morning -- that Paddy the Beaver be live there .
Old Man Coyote 's thought seem very pleasant to himself , though really they be very dreadful thought .
You see , he be think how easy it be go to be to catch Paddy the Beaver , and what a splendid meal he would make .
He lick his chop at the thought .
`` He do n't know I know he 's here , '' think Old Man Coyote .
`` In fact , I do n't believe heaven know that I be anywhere around .
Of course he wo n't be watch for me .
He cut his tree at night , so all I will have to do be to hide right close by where he be at work , and he 'll walk right into my mouth .
Sammy Jay know I be up there this morning , but Sammy sleep at night , so he will not give the alarm .
My , my , how good that Beaver will taste ! ''
He lick his chop once more , then yawn and close his eye for a nap .
Old Man Coyote wait until jolly , round red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows have creep out across the Green Meadows .
Then , keep in the blackest of them , and look very much like a shadow of himself , he slip into the Green Forest .
It be dark in there , and he make straight for Paddy 's new pond , trot along swiftly without make a sound .
When he be near the aspen tree which he know Paddy be plan to cut , he creep forward very slowly and carefully .
Everything be still a still could be .
`` Good ! ''
think Old Man Coyote .
`` I be here first , and now all I need do be to hide and wait for Paddy to come ashore . ''
So he stretch himself flat behind some brush close beside the little path Paddy have make up from the edge of the water and wait .
It be very still , so still that it seem almost a if he could hear his heart beat .
He could see the little star twinkle in the sky and their own reflection twinkle back at them from the water of Paddy 's pond .
Old Man Coyote wait and wait .
He be very patient when there be something to gain by it .
For such a splendid dinner a Paddy the Beaver would make , he felt that he could well afford to be patient .
So he wait and wait , and everything be as still a if no living thing but the tree where there .
Even the tree seem to be asleep .
At last , after a long , long time , he hear just the faint splash .
He prick up his ear and peep out on the pond with the hungry look in his yellow eye .
There be a little line of silver come straight toward him .
He know that it be make by Paddy the Beaver swimming .
Nearer and nearer it draw .
Old Man Coyote chuckle way down deep inside , without make a sound .
He could see Paddy 's head now , and Paddy be come straight in , a if he have n't a fear in the world .
Almost to the edge of the pond swam Paddy .
Then he stop .
In a few minute he begin to swim again , but this time it be back in the direction of his house , and he seem to be carry something .
It be one of the little food log he have cut that day , and he be take it out to his storehouse .
Then back he come for another .
And so he keep on , never once come ashore .
Old Man Coyote wait until Paddy have carry the last log to his storehouse and then , with a loud whack on the water with his broad tail , have dive and disappear in his house .
Then Old Man Coyote arise and start elsewhere to look for his dinner , and in his heart be bitter disappointment .
CHAPTER XVIII Old Man Coyote Tries Another Plan .
For three night Old Man Coyote have steal up through the green Forest with the come of the Black Shadows and have hide among the aspen tree where Paddy the Beaver cut his food , and for three night Paddy have fail to come ashore .
Each night he have seem to have enough food log in the water to keep him busy without cut more .
Old Man Coyote lay there , and the hungry look in his eye change to one of doubt and then to suspicion .
Could it be that Paddy the Beaver be smarter than he think ?
It begin to look very much a if Paddy know perfectly well that he be hide there each night .
Yes , Sir , that 's the way it look .
For three night Paddy have n't cut a single tree , and yet each night he have plenty of food log ready to take to his storehouse in the pond .
`` That mean that he come ashore in the daytime and cut his tree , '' think Old Man Coyote a , tire and with black anger in his heart , he trot home the third night .
`` He could n't have find out about me himself ; he be n't smart enough .
It must be that someone have tell him .
And nobody know that I have be over there but Sammy Jay .
It must be he who have be the tattletale .
I think I 'll visit Paddy by daylight tomorrow , and then we 'll see ! ''
Now the trouble with some smart people be that they be never able to believe that others may be as smart a they .
Old Man Coyote do n't know that the first time he have visit Paddy 's pond he have leave behind him a footprint in a little patch of soft mud .
If he have know it , he would n't have believe that Paddy would be smart enough to guess what that footprint meant .
So Old Man coyote lay all the blame at the door of Sammy Jay , and that very morning , when Sammy come fly over the Green Meadows , Old Man Coyote accuse him of be a tattletale and threaten the most dreadful thing to Sammy if ever he catch him .
Now Sammy have fly down to the green Meadows to tell Old Man Coyote how Paddy be do all his work on land in the daytime .
But when Old Man Coyote begin to call him a tattletale and accuse him of have warn Paddy , and to threaten dreadful thing , he straightway forget all his anger at Paddy and turn it all on Old Man Coyote .
He call him everything he could think of , and this be a great deal , for Sammy have a wicked tongue .
When he have n't any breath left , he fly over to the Green Forest , and there he hide where he could watch all that be go on .
That afternoon Old Man Coyote try his new plan .
He slip into the Green Forest , look this way and that way to be sure that no one saw him .
Then very , very softly , he creep up through the Green Forest toward the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
As he draw near , he hear a crash , and it make him smile .
He know what it mean .
It mean that Paddy be at work cut down tree .
With his stomach almost on the ground , he creep forward little by little , little by little , take the great care not to rustle so much a a leaf .
Presently he reach a place where he could see the aspen tree , and there , sure enough , be Paddy , sit up on his hind leg and hard at work cut another tree .
Old Man Coyote lay down for a few minute to watch .
Then he wriggle a little nearer .
Slowly and carefully he draw his leg under him and make ready for a rush .
Paddy the Beaver be his at last !
At just that very minute a harsh scream rang out right over his head : `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
It be Sammy Jay , who have follow him all the way .
Paddy the Beaver do n't stop to even look around .
He know what that meant , and he scramble down his little path to the water a he never have scramble before .
And a he dive with a great splash , Old Man Coyote land with a great jump on the very edge of the pond .
CHAPTER XIX Paddy and Sammy Jay Become Friends .
Paddy the Beaver float in his pond and grin in the most provoking way at Old Man Coyote , who have so nearly catch him .
Old Man Coyote fairly dance with anger on the bank .
He have felt so sure of Paddy that time that it be hard work to believe that Paddy have really get away from him .
He bar his long , cruel teeth , and he look very fierce and ugly .
`` Come on in ; the water 's fine ! ''
call Paddy .
Now , of course this be n't a nice thing for Paddy to do , for it only make Old Man Coyote all the angrier .
You see , Paddy know perfectly well that he be absolutely safe , and he just could n't resist the temptation to say some unkind thing .
He have have to be on the watch for day l he should be catch , and so he have n't be able to work quite so well a he could have do with nothing to fear , and he still have a lot of preparation to make for winter .
So he tell Old Man Coyote just what he think of him , and that he be n't as smart a he think he be or he never would have leave a foot print in the mud to give him away .
When Sammy Jay , who be listen and chuckle a he listen , heard that , he fly down where he would be just out of reach of Old Man Coyote , and then he just turn that tongue of his loose , and you know that some people say that Sammy 's tongue be hang in the middle and wag at both end .
Of course this be n't really so , but when he get to abuse people it seem a if it must be true .
He call Old Man Coyote every bad name he could think of .
He call him a sneak , a thief , a coward , a bully , and a lot of other thing .
`` You say I have warn Paddy that you be try to catch him and that be why you fail to find him at work at night , and all the time you have warn him yourself ! ''
scream Sammy .
`` I use to think that you be smart , but I know well now .
Paddy be twice as smart a you be .
`` Mr. Coyote be every so sly ; Mr. Coyote be clever and spry ; If you believe all you hear .
Mr. Coyote be naught of the kind ; Mr. Coyote be stupid and blind ; He ca n't catch a flea on his ear . ''
Paddy the Beaver laugh till the tear come at Sammy 's foolish verse , but it make Old Man Coyote angrier than ever .
He be angry with Paddy for escape from him , and he be angry with Sammy , terribly angry , and the bad of it be he could n't catch either one , for one be at home in the water and the other be at home in the air and he could n't follow in either place .
Finally he saw it be of no use to stay there to be laugh at , so , mutter and grumbling , he start for the Green Meadows .
As soon a he be out of sight Paddy turn to Sammy Jay .
`` Mr. Jay , '' say he , know how it please Sammy to be call mister .
`` Mr. Jay , you have do me a mighty good turn today , and I be not go to forget it .
You can call me what you please and scream at me all you please , but you wo n't get any satisfaction out of it , because I simply wo n't get angry .
I will say to myself , ` Mr. Jay save my life the other day , ' and then I wo n't mind your tongue . ''
Now this make Sammy feel very proud and very happy .
You know it be very seldom that he hear anything nice say of him .
He fly down on the stump of one of the tree Paddy have cut .
`` Let 's be friend , '' say he .
`` With all my heart ! ''
reply Paddy .
CHAPTER XX Sammy Jay Offers To Help Paddy .
Paddy sit look thoughtfully at the aspen tree he would have to cut to complete his store of food for the winter .
All those near the edge of his pond have be cut .
The others be scatter about some little distance away .
`` I do n't know , '' say Paddy out loud .
`` I do n't know . ''
`` What do n't you know ? ''
ask Sammy Jay , who , now that he and Paddy have become friend , be very much interested in what Paddy be do .
`` Why , '' reply Paddy , `` I do n't know just how I be go to get those tree .
Now that Old Man Coyote be watch for me , it be n't safe for me to go very far from my pond .
I suppose I could dig a canal up to some of the near tree and then float them down to the pond , but it be hard to work and keep watch for enemy at the same time .
I guess I 'll have to be content with some of these alder grow close to the water , but he bark of aspen be so much good that I -- I wish I could get them . ''
`` What 's a canal ? ''
ask Sammy abruptly .
`` A canal ?
Why a canal be a kind of ditch in which water can run , '' reply Paddy .
Sammy nod .
`` I 've see Farmer Brown dig one over on the Green Meadows , but it look like a great deal of work .
I do n't suppose that anyone else could do it .
Do you really mean that you can dig a canal , Paddy ? ''
`` Of course I mean it , '' reply Paddy , in a surprised tone of voice .
`` I have help dig lot of canal .
You ought to see some of them back where I come from . ''
`` I 'd like to , '' reply Sammy .
`` I think it be perfectly wonderful .
I do n't see how you do it . ''
`` It 's easy enough when you know how , '' reply Paddy .
`` If I dare to , I 'd show you . ''
Sammy have a sudden idea .
It almost make him gasp .
`` I tell you what , you work and I 'll keep watch ! ''
he cry .
`` You know my eye be very sharp . ''
`` Will you ? ''
cry Paddy eagerly .
`` That would be perfectly splendid .
You have the sharp eye of anyone whom I know , and I would feel perfectly safe with you on watch .
But I do n't want to put you to all to that trouble , Mr. Jay . ''
`` Of course I will , '' reply Sammy , `` and it wo n't be any trouble at all .
I 'll just love to do it . ''
You see , it make Sammy feel very proud to have Paddy say that he have such sharp eye .
`` When will you begin ? ''
`` Right away , if you will just take a look around and see that it be perfectly safe for me to come out on land . ''
Sammy do n't wait to hear more .
He spread his beautiful blue wing and start off over the Green Forest straight for the Green Meadows .
Paddy watch him go with a puzzled and disappointed air .
`` That 's funny , '' think he .
`` I think he really mean it , and now off he go without even say good-by . ''
In a little while back come Sammy , all out of breath .
`` It 's all right , '' he pant .
`` You can go to work just as soon a you please . ''
Paddy look more puzzled than ever .
`` How do you know ? ''
he ask .
`` I have n't see you look around . ''
`` I do good than that , '' reply Sammy .
`` If Old Man Coyote have be hide somewhere in the Green Forest , it might have take me some time to find him .
But he be n't .
You see , I fly straight over to his home in the Green Meadows to see if he be there , and he be .
He 's take a sun bath and look as cross a two stick .
I do n't think he 'll be back here this morning , but I 'll keep a sharp watch while you work . ''
Paddy make Sammy a low bow .
`` You certainly be smart , Mr. Jay , '' say he .
`` I would n't have think of go over to Old Man Coyote 's home to see if he be there .
I 'll feel perfectly safe with you on guard .
Now I 'll get to work . ''
CHAPTER XXI Paddy and Sammy Jay Work Together .
Jerry Muskrat have be home at the Smiling Pool for several day .
But he could n't stay there long .
Oh , my , no !
He just have to get back to see what his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver , be do .
So as soon a he be sure that everything be all right at the Smiling Pool he hurry back up the Laughing Brook to Paddy 's pond , deep in the Green Forest .
As soon a he be in sight of it , he look eagerly for Paddy .
At first he do n't see him .
Then he stop and gaze over at the place where Paddy have be cut aspen tree for food .
Something be go on there , something queer .
He could n't make it out .
Jus then Sammy Jay come fly over .
`` What 's Paddy do ? ''
Jerry ask .
Sammy Jay drop down to the top of an alder tree and fluff out all his feather in a very important way .
`` Oh , '' say he , `` Paddy and I be build something ! ''
`` You !
Paddy and you !
Ha , ha !
Paddy and you build something ! ''
Jerry laugh .
`` Yes , me ! ''
snap Sammy angrily .
`` That 's what I say ; Paddy and I be build something . ''
Jerry have begin to swim across the pond by this time , and Sammy be fly across .
`` Why do n't you tell the truth , Sammy , and say that Paddy be build something and you be make him all the trouble you can ? ''
call Jerry .
Sammy 's eye snap angrily , and he dart down at Jerry 's little brown head .
`` It be n't true ! ''
he shriek .
`` You ask Paddy if I 'm not help ! ''
Jerry duck under water to escape Sammy 's sharp bill .
When he come up again , Sammy be over in the little grove of aspen tree where Paddy be at work .
Then Jerry discover something .
What be it ?
Why a little water-path lead right up to the aspen tree , and there , at the end of the little water-path , be Paddy the Beaver hard at work .
He be dig and pile the earth on one side very neatly .
In fact , he be make the water-path longer .
Jerry swam right up the little water-path to where Paddy be work .
`` Good morning , Cousin Paddy , '' say he .
`` What be you do ? ''
`` Oh , '' reply Paddy , `` Sammy Jay and I be build a canal . ''
Sammy Jay look down at Jerry in triumph , and Jerry look at Paddy a if he think that he be joke .
`` Sammy Jay ?
What 's Sammy Jay get to do about it ? ''
demand Jerry .
`` A whole lot , '' reply Paddy .
`` You see , he keep watch while I work .
If he do n't , I could n't work , and there would n't be any canal .
Old Man Coyote have be try to catch me , and I would n't dare work on shore if it be n't that I be sure that the sharp eye in the Green Forest be watch for danger . ''
Sammy Jay look very much pleased indeed and very proud .
`` So you see , it take both of u to make this canal ; I dig while Sammy watch .
So we be build it together , '' conclude Paddy with a twinkle in his eye .
`` I see , '' say Jerry slowly .
Then he turn to Sammy Jay .
`` I beg your pardon , Sammy , '' say he .
`` I do indeed . ''
`` That 's all right , '' reply Sammy airily .
`` What do you think of our canal ? ''
`` I think it be wonderful , '' reply Jerry .
And indeed it be a very fine canal , straight , wide , and deep enough for Paddy to swim in and float his log out to the pond .
Yes , indeed , it be a very fine canal .
CHAPTER XXII Paddy Finishes His Harvest .
`` Sharp his tongue and sharp his eye -- Sammy guard against surprise .
If ` twere not for Sammy Jay I could do no work today . ''
When Sammy overheard Paddy the Beaver say that to Jerry Muskrat , it make him swell up all over with pure pride .
You see , Sammy be so used to hear bad thing about himself that to hear something nice like that please him immensely .
He straightway forget all the mean thing he have say to Paddy when he first saw him -- how he have call him a thief because he have cut the aspen tree he need .
He forget all this .
He forget how Paddy have make him the laughingstock of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows by cut down the very tree in which he have be sit .
He forget everything but that Paddy have trust him to keep watch and now be say nice thing about him .
He make up his mind that he would deserve all the nice thing that Paddy could say , and he think that Paddy be the fine fellow in the world .
Jerry Muskrat look doubtful .
He do n't trust Sammy , and he take care not to go far from the water when he hear that Old Man Coyote have be hang around .
But Paddy work away just a if he have n't a fear in the world .
`` The way to make people want to be trust be to trust them '' say he to himself .
`` If I show Sammy Jay that I do n't really trust him , he will think it be of no use to try and will give it up .
But if I do trust him , and he know that I do , he 'll be the best watchman in the Green Forest . ''
And this show that Paddy the Beaver have a great deal of wisdom , for it be just a he think .
Sammy be on hand bright and early every morning .
He make sure that Old Man Coyote be nowhere in the Green Forest , and then he settle himself comfortably in the top of a tall pine tree where he could see all that be go on while Paddy the Beaver work .
Paddy have finish his canal , and a beautiful canal it be , lead straight from his pond up to the aspen tree .
As soon a he have finish it , he begin to cut the tree .
As soon a one be down he would cut it into short length and roll them into the canal .
Then he would float them out to his pond and over to his storehouse .
He take the large branch , on which there be sweet , tender bark , in the same way , for Paddy be never wasteful .
After a while he go over to his storehouse , which , you know , be nothing but a great pile of aspen log and branch in his pond close by his house .
He study it very carefully .
Then he swim back and climb up on the bank of his canal .
`` Mr. Jay , '' say he , `` I think our work be about finish . ''
`` What ! ''
cry Sammy , `` Are n't you go to cut the rest of those aspen tree ? ''
`` No , '' reply Paddy .
`` Enough be always enough , and I 've get enough to last me all winter .
I want those tree for next year .
Now I be fix for the winter .
I think I 'll take it easy for a while . ''
Sammy look disappointed .
You see , he have just begin to learn that the great pleasure in the world come from do thing for other people .
For the first time since he could remember , someone want him around land it give him such a good feeling down deep inside !
Perhaps it be because he remember that good feeling that the next spring he be so willing and anxious to help poor Mrs. Quack .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Poor_Mrs._Quack.txt.out
I PETER RABBIT BECOMES ACQUAINTED WITH MRS. QUACK Make a new acquaintance every time you can ; You 'll find it interesting and a very helpful plan .
It mean more knowledge .
You can not meet any one without learn something from him if you keep your ear open and your eye open .
Every one be at least a little different from every one else , and the more people you know , the more you may learn .
Peter Rabbit know this , and that be one reason he always be so eager to find out about other people .
He have leave Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon in the Green Forest and have head for the Smiling Pool to see if Grandfather Frog be awake yet .
He have no idea of meet a stranger there , and so you can imagine just how surprised he be when he get in sight of the Smiling Pool to see some one whom he never have see before swim about there .
He know right away who it be .
He know that it be Mrs. Quack the Duck , because he have often hear about her .
And then , too , it be very clear from her look that she be a cousin of the duck he have see in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
The difference be that while they be big and white and stupid-looking , Mrs. Quack be small , brown , very trim , and look anything but stupid .
Peter be so surprised to see her in the Smiling Pool that he almost forget to be polite .
I be afraid he star in a very impolite way a he hurry to the edge of the bank .
`` I suppose , '' say Peter , `` that you be Mrs. Quack , but I never expect to see you unless I should go over to the Big River , and that be a place I never have visit and hardly expect to because it be too far from the dear Old Briar-patch .
You be Mrs. Quack , be n't you ? ''
`` Yes , '' reply Mrs. Quack , `` and you must be Peter Rabbit .
I 've hear of you very often . ''
All the time Mrs. Quack be swim back and forth and in little circle in the most uneasy way .
`` I hope you 've hear nothing but good of me , '' reply Peter .
Mrs. Quack stop her uneasy swim for a minute and almost smile a she look at Peter , `` The bad I have hear be that you be very curious about other people 's affair , '' say she .
Peter look a wee , wee bit foolish , and then he laugh right out .
`` I guess that be true enough , '' say he .
`` I like to learn all I can , and how can I learn without be curious ?
I 'm curious right now .
I 'm wonder what bring you to the Smiling Pool when you never have be here before .
It be the last place in the world I ever expect to find you . ''
`` That 's why I 'm here , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` I hope others feel the same way .
I come here because I just HAD to find some place where people would n't expect to find me and so would n't come look for me .
Little Joe Otter saw me yesterday on the Big River and tell me of this place , and so , because I just have to go somewhere , I come here . ''
Peter 's eye open very wide with surprise .
`` Why , '' he exclaim , `` I should think you would be perfectly safe on the Big River !
I do n't see how any harm can possibly come to you out there . ''
The word be no sooner out of Peter 's mouth than a faint bang sound from way off towards the Big River .
Mrs. Quack give a great start and half lift her wing a if to fly .
But she think good of it , and then Peter saw that she be tremble all over .
`` Did you hear that ? ''
she ask in a faint voice .
Peter nod .
`` That be a gun , a terrible gun , but it be a long way from here , '' say he .
`` It be over on the Big River , '' say Mrs. Quack .
`` That 's why it be n't safe for me over there .
That 's why I just have to find some other place .
Oh , dear , the very sound of a gun set me to shake and make my heart feel a if it would stop beating .
Are you sure I be perfectly safe here ? ''
`` Perfectly , '' speak up Jerry Muskrat , who have be listen from the top of the Big Rock , where he be lunch on a clam , `` unless you be not smart enough to keep out of the clutch of Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote or Hooty the Owl or Redtail the Hawk . ''
`` I 'm not afraid of THEM , '' declare Mrs. Quack .
`` It 's those two-legged creature with terrible gun I 'm afraid of , '' and she begin to swim about more uneasily than ever .
II MRS. QUACK IS DISTRUSTFUL Jerry Muskrat think there be no place in the world like the Smiling Pool .
So , for the matter of that , do Grandfather Frog and also Spotty the Turtle .
You see , they have spend their life there and know little about the rest of the Great World .
When Mrs. Quack explain that all she fear be that a two-legged creature with a terrible gun might find her there , Jerry Muskrat hasten to tell her that she have nothing to worry about on that account .
`` No one hunt here now that Farmer Brown 's boy have put away his terrible gun , '' explain Jerry .
`` There be a time when he use to hunt here and set trap , which be bad than terrible gun , but that be long ago , before he know any good . ''
`` Who be Farmer Brown 's boy ? ''
demand Mrs. Quack , look more anxious than ever .
`` Is he one of those two-legged creature ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Peter Rabbit , who have be listen with all his ear , `` but he be the best friend we Quaddies have get .
He be such a good friend that he ought to be a Quaddy himself .
Why , this last winter he feed some of u when food be scarce , and he save Mrs. Grouse when she be catch in a snare , which you know be a kind of trap .
He wo n't let any harm come to you here , Mrs. Quack . ''
`` I would n't trust him , not for one single little minute , '' declare Mrs. Quack .
`` I would n't trust one of those two-legged creature , not ONE .
You say he feed some of you last winter , but that do n't mean anything good .
Do you know what I 've know these two-legged creature to do ? ''
`` What ? ''
demand Peter and Jerry together .
`` I 've know them to scatter food where we Ducks would be sure to find it and to take the great care that nothing should frighten u while we be eat .
And then , after we have get in the habit of feed in that particular place and have grow to feel perfectly safe there , they have hide close by until a lot of u be feed together and then fire their terrible gun and kill a lot of my friend and dreadfully hurt a lot more .
I would n't trust one of them , not ONE ! ''
`` Oh , how dreadful ! ''
cry Peter , look quite as shocked a he felt .
Then he add eagerly , `` But our Farmer Brown 's boy would n't do anything like that .
You have n't the least thing to fear from him . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' say Mrs. Quack , shake her head doubtfully , `` but I would n't trust him .
I would n't trust him a far off a I could see him .
The Smiling Pool be a very nice place , although it be dreadfully small , but if Farmer Brown 's boy be likely to come over here , I guess I good look for some other place , though goodness know where I will find one where I will feel perfectly safe . ''
`` You be safe right here , if you have sense enough to stay here , '' declare Jerry Muskrat rather testily .
`` Do n't you suppose Peter and I know what we be talk about ? ''
`` I wish I could believe so , '' return Mrs. Quack sadly , `` but if you have be through what I 've be through , and suffer what I 've suffer , you would n't believe any place safe , and you certainly would n't trust one of those two-legged creature .
Why , for week they have n't give me a chance to get a square meal , and -- and -- I do n't know what have become of Mr. Quack , and I 'm all alone ! ''
There be a little sob in her voice and tear in her eye .
`` Tell u all about it , '' beg Peter .
`` Perhaps we can help you . ''
III MRS. QUACK TELLS ABOUT HER HOME `` It 's a long story , '' say Mrs. Quack , shake the tear from her eye , `` and I hardly know where to begin . ''
`` Begin at the beginning , '' say Jerry Muskrat .
`` Your home be somewhere way up in the Northland where Honker the Goose life , be n't it ? ''
Mrs. Quack nod .
`` I wish I be there this very minute , '' she reply , the tear come again .
`` But sometimes I doubt if ever I 'll get there again .
You folk who do n't have to leave your home every year do n't know how well off you be or how much you have to be thankful for . ''
`` I never could understand what people want to leave their home for , anyway , '' declare Peter .
`` We do n't leave because we want to , but because we HAVE to , '' reply Mrs. Quack , `` and we go back just as soon a we can .
What would you do if you could n't find a single thing to eat ? ''
`` I guess I 'd starve , '' reply Peter simply .
`` I guess you would , and that be just what we would do , if we do n't take the long journey south when Jack Frost freeze everything tight up there where my home be , '' return Mrs. Quack .
`` He come early up there and stay twice as long a he do here , and make ten time as much ice and snow .
We get most of our food in the water or in the mud under the water , a of course you know , and when the water be frozen , there be n't a scrap of anything we can get to eat .
We just HAVE to come south .
It be n't because we want to , but because we must !
There be nothing else for u to do . ''
`` Then I do n't see what you want to make your home in such a place for , '' say practical Peter .
`` I should think you would make it where you can live all the year around . ''
`` I be bear up there , and I love it just a you love the dear Old Briar-patch , '' reply Mrs. Quack simply .
`` It be home , and there be no place like home .
Besides , it be a very beautiful and a very wonderful place in summer .
There be everything that Ducks and Geese love .
We have all we want of the food we love best .
Everywhere be shallow water with tall grass grow in it . ''
`` Huh ! ''
interrupt Peter , `` I would n't think much of a place like that . ''
`` That 's because you do n't know what be good , '' snap Jerry Muskrat .
`` It would suit me , '' he add , with shin eye .
`` There be the dear little island just make for safe nesting-places , '' continue Mrs. Quack , without heed the interruption .
`` And the day be long , and it be easy to hide , and there be nothing to fear , for two-legged creature with terrible gun never come there . ''
`` If there be nothing to fear , why do you care about place to hide ? ''
demand Peter .
`` Well , of course , we have enemy , just a you do here , but they be natural enemy , -- Foxes and Minks and Hawks and Owls , '' explain Mrs. Quack .
`` Of course , we have to watch out for them and have place where we can hide from them , but it be our wit against their wit , and it be our own fault if we get catch .
That be perfectly fair , so we do n't mind that .
It be only men who be not fair .
They do n't know what fairness be . ''
Peter nod that he understand , and Mrs. Quack go on .
`` Last summer Mr. Quack and I have our nest on the dear little island , and no one find it .
First we have twelve egg , and then twelve of the dear baby you ever saw . ''
`` Maybe , '' say Peter doubtfully , think of his own baby .
`` They grow so fast that by the time the cold weather come , they be as big a their father and mother , '' continue Mrs. Quack .
`` And they be smart , too .
They have learn how to take care of themselves just as well a I could .
I certainly be proud of that family .
But now I do n't know where one of them be . ''
Mrs. Quack suddenly choke up with grief , and Peter Rabbit politely turn his head away .
IV MRS. QUACK CONTINUES HER STORY When Mrs. Quack told of her twelve child and how she do n't know where one of them be , Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat know just how badly she be feel , and they turn their head away and pretend that they do n't see her tear .
In a few minute she bravely go on with her story .
`` When Jack Frost come and we know it be time to begin the long journey , Mr. Quack and myself and our twelve child join with some other Duck family , and with Mr. Quack in the lead , we start for our winter home , which really be n't a home but just a place to stay .
For a while we have nothing much to fear .
We would fly by day and at night rest in some quiet lake or pond or on some river , with the Great Woods all about u or sometimes great marsh .
Perhaps you do n't know what marsh be .
If the Green Meadows here have little stream of water run every which way through them , and the ground be all soft and muddy and full of water , and the grass grow tall , they would be marsh . ''
Jerry Muskrat 's eye sparkle .
`` I would like a place like that ! ''
he exclaim .
`` You certainly would , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` We always find lot of your relative in such place . ''
`` Marshes must be something like swamp , '' venture Peter Rabbit , who have be think the matter over .
`` Very much the same , only with grass and rush in place of tree and bush , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` There be plenty to eat and the lovely hiding-places .
In some of these we stay day at a time .
In fact , we stay until Jack Frost come to drive u out .
Then a we fly , we begin to see the home of these terrible two-legged creature call men , and from that time on we never know a minute of peace , except when we be fly high in the air or far out over the water .
If we could have just keep fly all the time or never have to go near the shore , we would have be all right .
But we have to eat . ''
`` Of course , '' say Peter .
`` Everybody have to eat . ''
`` And we have to rest , '' say Mrs. Quack .
`` Certainly , '' say Peter .
`` Everybody have to do that . ''
`` And to eat we have to go in close to shore where the water be not at all deep , because it be only in such place that we can get food , '' continue Mrs. Quack .
`` It take a lot of strength to fly a we fly , and strength require plenty of food .
Mr. Quack know all the best feeding-places , for he have make the long journey several time , so every day he would lead the way to one of these .
He always choose the wild and most lonely look place he could find , as far a possible from the home of men , but even then he be never careless .
He would lead u around back and forth over the place he have choose , and we would all look with all our might for sign of danger .
If we saw none , we would drop down a little nearer and a little nearer .
But with all our watchfulness , we never could be sure , absolutely sure , that all be safe .
Sometimes those terrible two-legged creature would be hide in the very middle of the wild , most lonely look marsh .
They would be cover with grass so that we could n't see them .
Then , a we fly over them , would come the bang , bang , bang , bang of terrible gun , and always some of our flock would drop .
We would have to leave them behind , for we know if we want to live we must get beyond the reach of those terrible gun .
So we would fly our hardest .
It be awful , just simply awful ! ''
Mrs. Quack pause and shudder , and Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat shudder in sympathy .
`` Sometimes we would have to try three or four feeding-places before we find one where there be no terrible gun .
And when we do find one , we would be so tired and frighten that we could n't enjoy our food , and we do n't dare to sleep without some one on watch all the time .
It be like that every day .
The farther we get , the bad it become .
Our flock grow small and small .
Those who escape the terrible gun would be so frightened that they would forget to follow their leader and would fly in different direction and later perhaps join other flock .
So it be that when at last we reach the place in the sunny Southland for which we have start , Mr. Quack and I be alone .
What become of our twelve child I do n't know .
I be afraid the terrible gun kill some .
I hope some join other flock and escape , but I do n't know . ''
`` I hope they do too , '' say Peter .
V PETER LEARNS MORE OF MRS. QUACK 'S TROUBLES It often happen when we know The trouble that our friend pass through , Our own seem very small indeed ; You 'll always find that this be true .
`` My , you must have felt glad when you reach your winter home ! ''
exclaim Peter Rabbit when Mrs. Quack finish the account of her long , terrible journey from her summer home in the far Northland to her winter home in the far Southland .
`` I do , '' reply Mrs. Quack , `` but all the time I could n't forget those to whom terrible thing have happen on the way down , and then , too , I keep dread the long journey back . ''
`` I do n't see why you do n't stay right there .
I would have , '' say Peter , nod his head with an air of great wisdom .
`` Not if you be I , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` In the first place it be n't a proper place in which to bring up young Ducks and make them strong and healthy .
In the second place there be more danger down there for young Ducks than up in the far Northland .
In the third place there be n't room for all the Ducks to nest properly .
And lastly there be a great longing for our real home , which Old Mother Nature have put in our heart and which just MAKES u go .
We could n't be happy if we do n't . ''
`` Is the journey back as bad a the journey down ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Worse , very much bad , '' reply Mrs. Quack sadly .
`` You can see for yourself just how bad it be , for here I be all alone . ''
Tears fill Mrs. Quack 's eye .
`` It be almost too terrible to talk about , '' she continue after a minute .
`` You see , for one thing , food be n't as plentiful a it be in the fall , and we just have to go wherever it be to be find .
Those two-legged creature know where those feeding-grounds be just as well a we do , and they hide there with their terrible gun just a they do when we be come south .
But it be much bad now , very much bad .
You see , when we be go the other way , if we find them at one place we could go on to another , but when we be go north we can not always do that .
We can not go any fast than Jack Frost do .
Sometimes we be drive out of a place by the bang , bang of the terrible gun and go on , only to find that we have catch up with Jack Frost , and that the pond and the river be still cover with ice .
Then there be nothing to do but to turn back to where those terrible gun be wait for u .
We just HAVE to do it . ''
Mrs. Quack stop and shiver .
`` It seem to me I have hear nothing but the noise of those terrible gun ever since we start , '' say she .
`` I have n't have a good square meal for day and day , nor a good rest .
That be what make me so dreadfully nervous .
Sometimes , when we have be drive from place to place until we have catch up with Jack Frost , there would be nothing but ice excepting in small place in a river where the water run too swiftly to freeze .
We would just have to drop into one of these to rest a little , because we have fly so far that our wing ache a if they would drop off .
Then just a we would think we be safe for a little while , there would come the bang of a terrible gun .
Then we would have to fly again as long a we could , and finally come back to the same place because there be no other place where we could go .
Then we would have to do it all over again until night come .
Sometimes I think that those men with terrible gun must hate u and want to kill every one of u .
If they do n't , they would have a little bit of pity .
They simply have n't any heart at all . ''
`` It do seem so , '' agree Peter .
`` But wait until you know Farmer Brown 's boy !
HE 'S get a heart ! ''
he add brightly .
`` I do n't want to know him , '' retort Mrs. Quack .
`` If he come near here , you 'll see me leave in a hurry .
I would n't trust one of them , not one minute .
You do n't think he will come , do you ? ''
Peter sit up and look across the Green Meadows , and his heart sank .
`` He 's come now , but I 'm sure he wo n't hurt you , Mrs. Quack , '' say he .
But Mrs. Quack would n't wait to see .
With a hasty promise to come back when the way be clear , she jump into the air and on swift wing disappear towards the Big River .
VI FARMER BROWN 'S BOY VISITS THE SMILING POOL Farmer Brown 's boy have hear Welcome Robin singing in the Old Orchard quite as soon a Peter Rabbit have , and that song of `` Cheer up !
Cheer up !
Cheer up !
Cheer ! ''
have awaken quite as much gladness in his heart a it have in Peter 's heart .
It mean that Mistress Spring really have arrive , and that over in the Green Forest and down on the Green Meadows there would soon be shy blue , and just a shy white violet to look for , and other flower almost if not quite a sweet and lovely .
It mean that his feathered friend would soon be busy house-hunting and building .
It mean that his little friend in fur would also be do something very similar , if they have not already do so .
It mean that soon there would be a million lovely thing to see and a million joyous sound to hear .
So the sound of Welcome Robin 's voice make the heart of Farmer Brown 's boy even more happy than it be before , and a Welcome Robin just HAD to sing , so Farmer Brown 's boy just HAD to whistle .
When his work be finish , it seem to Farmer Brown 's boy that something be call him , call him to get out on the Green Meadows or over in the Green Forest and share in the happiness of all the little people there .
So presently he decide that he would go down to the Smiling Pool to find out how Jerry Muskrat be , and if Grandfather Frog be awake yet , and if the sweet singer of the Smiling Pool have begin their wonderful spring chorus .
Down the Crooked Little Path cross the Green Meadows he tramp , and a he draw near the Smiling Pool , he stop whistle l the sound should frighten some of the little people there .
He be still some distance from the Smiling Pool when out of it spring a big bird and on swift , whistle wing fly away in the direction of the Big River .
Farmer Brown 's boy stop and watch until the bird have disappear , and on his face be a look of great surprise .
`` As I live , that be a Duck ! ''
he exclaim .
`` That be the first time I 've ever know a wild Duck to be in the Smiling Pool .
I wonder what under the sun could have bring her over here . ''
Just then there be a distant bang in the direction of the Big River .
Farmer Brown 's boy scowl , and it make his face very angry-looking .
`` That 's it , '' he mutter .
`` Hunters be shoot the Ducks on their way north and have drive the poor thing to look for any little mudhole where they can get a little rest .
Probably that Duck have be shoot at so many time on the Big River that she felt safer over here in the Smiling Pool , little a it be . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy have guess exactly right , a you and I know , and a Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat know .
`` It 's a shame , a downright shame that any one should want to shoot bird on their way to their nesting-grounds and that the law should let them if they do want to .
Some people have n't any heart ; they 're all stomach .
I hope that fellow who shoot just now over there on the Big River do n't hit anything , and I wish that gun of his might have kick a little sense of what be right and fair into his head , but of course it do n't . ''
He grin at the idea , and then he continue his way towards the Smiling Pool .
He hop he might find another Duck there , and he approach the Smiling Pool very , very carefully .
But when he reach a point where he could see all over the Smiling Pool , there be no one to be see save Jerry Muskrat sit on the Big Rock and Peter Rabbit on the bank on the other side .
Farmer Brown 's boy smile when he saw them .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
say he .
`` I wonder how a bite of carrot would taste to you . ''
He felt in his pocket and bring out a couple of carrot .
One he put on a little tussock in the water where he know Jerry would find it .
The other he toss across the Smiling Pool where he felt sure Peter would find it .
Presently he notice two or three feather on the water close to the edge of the bank .
Mrs. Quack have leave them there .
`` I believe that be a Mallard Duck , '' say he , a he study them .
`` I know what I 'll do .
I 'll go straight back home and get some wheat and corn and put it here on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
Perhaps she will come back and find it . ''
And this be just what Farmer Brown 's boy do .
VII MRS. QUACK RETURNS Peter Rabbit just could n't go back to the dear Old Briar-patch .
He just HAD to know if Mrs. Quack would come back to the Smiling Pool .
He have see Farmer Brown 's boy come there a second time and scatter wheat and corn among the brown stalk of last summer 's rush , and he have guess why Farmer Brown 's boy have do this .
He have guess that they have be put there especially for Mrs. Quack , and if she should come back a she have promise to do , he want to be on hand when she find those good thing to eat and hear what she would say .
So Peter stay over near the Smiling Pool and hop with all his might that Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote would not take it into his head to come hunting over there .
As luck would have it , neither of them do , and Peter have a very pleasant time gossip with Jerry Muskrat , listen to the sweet voice of unseen singer in the Smiling Pool , -- the Hylas , which some people call peeper , -- and eat the carrot which Farmer Brown 's boy have leave for him .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be just get ready to go to bed behind the Purple Hills when Mrs. Quack return .
The first Peter knew of her coming be the whistle of her wing a she pass over him .
Several time she circle around , high over the Smiling Pool , and Peter simply star in open-mouthed admiration at the speed with which she fly .
It do n't seem possible that one so big could move through the air so fast .
Twice she set her wing and seem to just slide down almost to the surface of the Smiling Pool , only to start her stout wing in motion once more and circle around again .
It be very clear that she be terribly nervous and suspicious .
The third time she land in the water with a splash and sit perfectly still with her head stretch up , look and listen with all her might .
`` It 's all right .
There 's nothing to be afraid of , '' say Jerry Muskrat .
`` Are you sure ? ''
ask Mrs. Quack anxiously .
`` I 've be fool too often by men with their terrible gun to ever feel absolutely sure that one be n't hide and wait to shoot me . ''
As she speak she swim about nervously .
`` Peter Rabbit and I have be here ever since you leave , and I guess we ought to know , '' reply Jerry Muskrat rather shortly .
`` There have n't be anybody near here except Farmer Brown 's boy , and we tell you he would n't hurt you . ''
`` He bring u each a carrot , '' Peter Rabbit break in eagerly .
`` Just the same , I would n't trust him , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` Where be he now ? ''
`` He leave ever so long ago , and he wo n't be back to-night , '' declare Peter confidently .
`` I hope not , '' say Mrs. Quack , with a sigh .
`` Did you hear the bang of that terrible gun just after I leave here ? ''
`` Yes , '' reply Jerry Muskrat .
`` Was it fire at you ? ''
Mrs. Quack nod and hold up one wing .
Peter and Jerry could see that one of the long feather be miss .
`` I think I be fly high enough to be safe , '' say she , `` but when I reach the Big River there be a bang from the bush on the bank , and something cut that feather out of my wing , and I felt a sharp pain in my side .
It make me feel quite ill for a while , and the place be very sore now , but I guess I 'm lucky that it be no worse .
It be very hard work to know just how far those terrible gun can throw thing at you .
Next time I will fly high . ''
`` Where have you be since you leave u ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Eight in the middle of the Big River , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` It be the only safe place .
I do n't dare go near either shore , and I 'm nearly starve .
I have n't have a mouthful to eat to-day . ''
Peter open his mouth to tell her of the wheat and corn leave by Farmer Brown 's boy and then close it again .
He would let her find it for herself .
If he tell her about it , she might suspect a trick and refuse to go near the place .
He never have see any one so suspicious , not even Old Man Coyote .
But he could n't blame her , after all she have be through .
So he keep still and wait .
He be learn , be Peter Rabbit .
He be learn a great deal about Mrs. Quack .
VIII MRS. QUACK HAS A GOOD MEAL AND A REST There 's nothing like a stomach full To make the heart feel light ; To chase away the cloud of care And make the world seem bright .
That 's a fact .
A full stomach make the whole world seem different , brighter , good , and more worth living in .
It be the hard kind of hard work to be cheerful and see only the bright side of thing when your stomach be empty .
But once fill that empty stomach , and everything be change .
It be just that way with Mrs. Quack .
For day at a time she have n't have a full stomach because of the hunter with their terrible gun , and when just before dark that night she return to the Smiling Pool , her stomach be quite empty .
`` I do n't suppose I 'll find much to eat here , but a little in peace and safety be good than a feast with worry and danger , '' say she , swim over to the brown , broken-down bulrush on one side of the Smiling Pool and appear to stand on her head a she plunge it under water and search in the mud on the bottom for food .
Peter Rabbit look over at Jerry Muskrat sit on the Big Rock , and Jerry wink .
In a minute up bob the head of Mrs. Quack , and there be both a pleased and a worried look on her face .
She have find some of the corn leave there by Farmer Brown 's boy .
At once she swim out to the middle of the Smiling Pool , look suspiciously this way and that way .
`` There be corn over there , '' say she .
`` Do you know how it come there ? ''
`` I saw Farmer Brown 's boy throw something over there , '' reply Peter .
`` Did n't we tell you that he would be good to you ? ''
`` Quack , quack , quack !
I 've see that kind of kindness too often to be fool by it , '' snap Mrs. Quack .
`` He probably saw me leave in a hurry and put this corn here , hop that I would come back and find it and make up my mind to stay here a while .
He think that if I do , he 'll have a chance to hide near enough to shoot me .
I do n't believe this could be a safe place for me , and now I know it .
I 'll stay here to-night , but to-morrow I 'll try to find some other place .
Oh , dear , it 's dreadful not to have any place at all to feel safe in . ''
There be tear in her eye .
Peter thought of the dear Old Briar-patch and how safe he always felt there , and he felt a great pity for poor Mrs. Quack , who could n't feel safe anywhere .
And then right away he grow indignant that she should be so distrustful of Farmer Brown 's boy , though if he have stop to think , he would have remember that once he be just as distrustful .
`` I should think , '' say Peter with a great deal of dignity , `` that you might at least believe what Jerry Muskrat and I , who live here all the time , tell you .
We ought to know Farmer Brown 's boy if any one do , and we tell you that he wo n't harm a feather of you . ''
`` He wo n't get the chance ! ''
snap Mrs. Quack .
Jerry Muskrat sniff in disgust .
`` I do n't doubt you have suffer a lot from men with terrible gun , '' say he , `` but you do n't suppose Peter and I have live as long a we have without learn a little , do you ?
I would n't trust many of those two-legged creature myself , but Farmer Brown 's boy be different .
If all of them be like him , we would n't have a thing to fear from them .
He have a heart .
Yes , indeed , he have a heart .
Now you take my advice and eat whatever he have put there for you , be thankful , and stop worrying .
Peter and I will keep watch and warn you if there be any danger . ''
I do n't know as even this would have overcome Mrs. Quack 's fear if it have n't be for the taste of that good corn in her mouth , and her empty stomach .
She could n't , she just could n't resist these , and presently she be back among the rush , hunt out the corn and wheat as fast a ever she could .
When at last she could eat no more , she felt so comfortable that somehow the Smiling Pool do n't seem such a dangerous place after all , and she quite forget Farmer Brown 's boy .
She find a snug hiding-place among the rush too far out from the bank for Reddy Fox to surprise her , and then with a sleepy `` Good night '' to Jerry and Peter , she tuck her head under her wing and soon be fast asleep .
Peter Rabbit tiptoe away , and then he hurry lipperty-lipperty-lip to the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Mrs. Peter all about Mrs. Quack .
IX PETER RABBIT MAKES AN EARLY CALL Peter Rabbit be so full of interest in Mrs. Quack and her trouble that he be back at the Smiling Pool before Mr. Sun have kick off his rosy blanket and begin his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , he felt that he have hear only a part of Mrs. Quack 's story , and he be dreadfully afraid that she would get away before he could hear the rest .
With the first bit of daylight , Mrs. Quack swim out from her hiding-place among the brown rush .
It look to Peter a if she sit up on the end of her tail a she stretch her neck and wing just as far a she could , and he want to laugh right out .
Then she quickly duck her head under water two or three time so that the water roll down over her back , and again Peter want to laugh .
But he do n't .
He keep perfectly still .
Mrs. Quack shake herself and then begin to carefully dress her feather .
That be , she carefully put back in place every feather that have be rumple up .
She take a great deal of time for this , for Mrs. Quack be very neat and tidy and take the great pride in look as fine a she can .
Of course it be very impolite of Peter to watch her make her toilet , but he do n't think of that .
He do n't mean to be impolite .
And then it be so interesting .
`` Huh ! ''
say he to himself , `` I do n't see what any one want to waste so much time on their clothes for . ''
You know Peter do n't waste any time on his clothes .
In fact , he do n't seem to care a bit how he look .
He have n't learn yet that it always pay to be a neat and clean a possible and that you must think well of yourself if you want others to think well of you .
When at last Mrs. Quack have take a final shower bath and appear satisfy that she be look her best , Peter open his mouth to ask her the question he be so full of , but close it again a he remember people be usually well natured when their stomach be full , and Mrs. Quack have not yet breakfast .
So he wait as patiently a he could , which be n't patiently at all .
At last Mrs. Quack finish her breakfast , and then she have to make her toilet all over again .
Finally Peter hop to the edge of the bank where she would see him .
`` Good morning , Mrs. Quack , '' say he very politely .
`` I hope you have a good rest and be feel very well this morning . ''
`` Thank you , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` I 'm feel as well a could be expect .
In fact , I 'm feel good than I have felt for some time in spite of the sore place make by that terrible gun yesterday .
You see , I have have a good rest and two square meal , and these be thing I have n't have since goodness know when .
This be a very nice place .
Let me see , what be it you call it ? ''
`` The Smiling Pool , '' say Peter .
`` That 's a good name for it , '' return Mrs. Quack .
`` If only I could be sure that none of those hunter would find me here , and if only Mr. Quack be here , I would be content to stay a while . ''
At the mention of Mr. Quack , the eye of Mrs. Quack suddenly fill with tear .
Peter felt tear of sympathy in his own eye .
`` Where be Mr. Quack ? ''
he ask .
`` I do n't know , '' sob Mrs. Quack .
`` I wish I do .
I have n't see him since one of those terrible gun be fire at u over on the Big River yesterday morning a little while before Little Joe Otter tell me about the Smiling Pool .
Ever since we start for our home in the far North , I have be fear that something of this kind might happen .
I ought to be on my way there now , but what be the use without Mr. Quack ?
Without him , I would be all alone up there and would n't have any home . ''
`` Wo n't you tell me all that have happen since you start on your long journey ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Perhaps some of u can help you . ''
`` I 'm afraid you ca n't , '' reply Mrs. Quack sadly , `` but I 'll tell you all about it so that you may know just how thankful you ought to feel that you do not have to suffer what some of u do . ''
X HOW MR. AND MRS. QUACK STARTED NORTH Peter Rabbit be eager to help Mrs. Quack in her trouble , though he have n't the least idea how he could help and neither have she .
How any one who dislike water a Peter do could help one who live on the water all the time be more than either one of them could see .
And yet without know it , Peter WAS help Mrs. Quack .
He be give her his sympathy , and sympathy often help others a great deal more than we even guess .
It sometimes be a very good plan to tell your trouble to some one who will listen with sympathy .
It be so with Mrs. Quack .
She have keep her trouble lock in her own heart so long that it do her good to pour them all out to Peter .
`` Mr. Quack and I spend a very comfortable winter way down in the sunny Southland , '' say she with a far-away look .
`` It be very warm and nice down there , and there be a great many other Ducks spend the winter with u .
The place where we be be far from the home of men , and it be only once in a long while that we have to watch out for terrible gun .
Of course , we have to have our wit with u all the time , because there be Hawks and Owls and Minks down there just a there be up here , but any Duck who ca n't keep out of their way deserve to furnish one of them a dinner .
`` Then there be another fellow we have to watch out for , a queer fellow whom we never see anywhere but down there .
It be never safe to swim too near an old log float in the water or lie on the bank , because it might suddenly open a great mouth and swallow one of u whole . ''
`` What 's that ? ''
Peter Rabbit lean forward and star at Mrs. Quack with his eye pop right out .
`` What 's that ? ''
he repeat .
`` How can an old log have a mouth ? ''
Mrs. Quack just have to smile , Peter be so in earnest and look so astonished .
`` Of course , '' say she , `` no really truly log have a mouth or be alive , but this queer fellow I be speak of look so much like an old log float in the water unless you look at him very sharply , that many a heedless young Duck have discover the difference when it be too late .
Then , too , he will swim under water and come up underneath and seize you without any warning .
He have the big mouth I 've ever see , with terrible-looking teeth , and could swallow me whole . ''
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` Some folk call him Alligator and some just ` Gator . '' -RSB-
By this time Peter 's eye look a if they would fall out of his head .
`` What be his name ? ''
whisper Peter .
`` It 's Old Ally the ` Gator , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` Some folk call him Alligator and some just ` Gator , but we call him Old Ally .
He 's a very interesting old fellow .
Some time perhaps I 'll tell you more about him .
Mr. Quack and I keep out of his reach , you may be sure .
We live quietly and try to get in as good condition a possible for the long journey back to our home in the North .
When it be time to start , a lot of u get together , just a we do when we come down from the North , only this time the young Ducks felt themselves quite grow up .
In fact , before we start there be a great deal of love-making , and each one choose a mate .
That be a very happy time , a very happy time indeed , but it be a sad time too for u old Ducks , because we know what dreadful thing be likely to happen on the long journey .
It be hard enough to lose father or mother or brother or sister , but it be bad to lose a dear mate . ''
Mrs. Quack 's eye suddenly fill with tear again .
`` Oh , dear , '' she sob , `` I wish I know what become of Mr. Quack . ''
Peter say nothing , but look the sympathy he felt .
Presently Mrs. Quack go on with her story .
`` We have a splendid big flock when we start , make up wholly of pair , each pair dreaming of the home they would build when they reach the far North .
Mr. Quack be the leader a usual , and I fly right behind him .
We have n't go far before we begin to hear the terrible gun , and the farther we go , the worse they get .
Mr. Quack lead u to the safest feeding and rest ground he know of , and for a time our flock escape the terrible gun .
But the farther we go , the more gun there be . ''
Mrs. Quack pause and Peter wait .
XI THE TERRIBLE , TERRIBLE GUNS `` Bang !
Bang !
Bang !
Not a feather spare !
Kill !
Kill !
Kill !
Wound and rip and tear ! ''
That be what the terrible gun roar from morning to night at Mrs. Quack and her friend a they fly on their long journey to their home in the far North .
I do n't wonder that she be terribly uneasy and nervous a she sit in the Smiling Pool talk to Peter Rabbit ; do you ?
`` Yes , '' say she , continue her story of her long journey from the sunny Southland where she have spend the winter , `` the farther we get , the more there be of those terrible gun .
It grow so bad that as well a Mr. Quack know the place where we could find food , and no Duck that ever fly know them well , he could n't find one where we could feel perfectly sure that we be safe .
The very safest-looking place sometimes be the most dangerous .
If you saw a lot of Rabbits play together on the Green Meadows , you would feel perfectly safe in join them , would n't you ? ''
Peter nod .
`` I certainly would , '' say he .
`` If it be safe for them it certainly would be safe for me . ''
`` Well , that be just the way we felt when we saw a lot of Ducks swim about on the edge of one of those feeding-places .
We be tire , for we have fly a long distance , and we be hungry .
It be still and peaceful there and not a thing to be see that look the least bit like danger .
So we go straight in to join those Ducks , and then , just a we set our wing to drop down on the water among them , there be a terrible bang , bang , bang , bang !
My heart almost stop beating .
Then how we do fly !
When we be far out over the water where we could see that nothing be near u we stop to rest , and there we find only half a many in our flock a there have be . ''
`` Where be the others ? ''
ask Peter , although he guess .
`` Killed or hurt by those terrible gun , '' reply Mrs. Quack sadly .
`` And that be n't the bad of it .
I tell you that when we start each of u have a mate .
Now we find that of those who have escape , four have lose their mate .
They be heartbroken .
When it come time for u to move on , they would n't go .
They say that if they do reach the nesting-place in the far North , they could n't have nest or egg or young because they have no mate , so what be the use ?
Besides , they hop that if they wait around they might find their mate .
They think they might not have be kill , but just hurt , and might be able to get away from those hunter .
So they leave u and swim back towards that terrible place , call for their lose mate , and it be the sad sound .
I know now just how they felt , for I have lose Mr. Quack , and that 's why I 'm here . ''
Mrs. Quack draw a wing across her eye to wipe away the tear .
`` But what happen to those Ducks that be swim about there and make you think it be safe ? ''
ask Peter , with a puzzled look on his face .
`` Nothing , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` They have be fasten out there in the water by the hunter so a to make u think it safe , and the terrible gun be fire at u and not at them .
The hunter be hide under grass , and that be why we do n't see them . ''
Peter blink his eye rapidly a if he be have hard work to believe what he have be tell .
`` Why , '' say be at last , `` I never heard of anything so dreadfully unfair in all my life !
Do you mean to tell me that those hunter actually make other Ducks lead you into danger ? ''
`` That 's just what I mean , '' return Mrs. Quack .
`` Those two-legged creature do n't know what fairness be .
Why , some of them have learn our language and actually call u in where they can shoot u .
Just think of that !
They tell u in our own language that there be plenty to eat and all be safe , so that we will think that other Ducks be hidden and feed there , and then when we go to join them , we be shoot at !
You ought to be mighty thankful , Peter Rabbit , that you be not a Duck . ''
`` I be , '' reply Peter .
He know that not one of the meadow and forest people who be always try to catch him would do a thing like that .
`` It 's all true , '' say Mrs. Quack , `` and those hunter do other thing just a unfair .
Sometimes awful storm will come up , and we just have to find place where we can rest .
Those hunter will hide near those place and shoot at u when we be so tired that we can hardly move a wing .
It would n't be so bad if a hunter would be satisfy to kill just one Duck , just a Reddy Fox be , but he seem to want to kill EVERY Duck .
Foxes and Hawks and Owls catch a good many young Ducks , just a they do young Rabbits , but you know how we feel about that .
They only hunt when they be hungry , and they hunt fairly .
When , they have get enough to make a dinner , they stop .
They keep our wit sharp .
If we do not keep out of their way , it be our own fault .
It be a kind of game -- the game of life .
I guess it be Old Mother Nature 's way of keep u wide-awake and sharpen our wit , and so make u well fit to live .
`` With these two-legged creature with terrible gun , it be all different .
We do n't have any chance at all .
If they hunt u a Reddy Fox do , try to catch u themselves , it would be different .
But their terrible gun kill when we be a long way off , and there be n't any way for u to know of the danger .
And then , when one of them do kill a Duck , he be n't satisfied , but keep on kill and kill and kill .
I 'm sure one would make him a dinner , if that be what he want .
`` And they often simply break the wing or otherwise terribly hurt the one they shoot at , and then leave them to suffer , unable to take care of themselves .
Oh , dear , I 'm afraid that be what have happen to Mr. Quack . ''
Once more poor Mrs. Quack be quite overcome with her trouble and sorrow .
Peter wish with all his heart that he could do something to comfort her , but of course he could n't , so he just sit still and wait until she could tell him just what do happen to Mr. Quack .
XII WHAT DID HAPPEN TO MR. QUACK `` When do you last see Mr. Quack ? ''
ask Jerry Muskrat , who have be listen while Mrs. Quack tell Peter Rabbit about her terrible journey .
`` Early yesterday morning , '' reply Mrs. Quack , the tear once more filling her eye .
`` We have reach the Big River over there , just six of u out of the big flock that have start from the sunny Southland .
How we get as far a that I do n't know .
But we do , and neither Mr. Quack nor I have lose a feather from those terrible gun that have bang at u all the way up and that have kill so many of our friend .
`` We be fly up the Big River , and everything seem perfectly safe .
We be in a hurry , and when we come to a bend in the Big River , we fly quite close to shore , so a not to have to go way out and around .
That be where Mr. Quack make a mistake .
Even the smart people will make mistake sometimes , you know . ''
Peter Rabbit nod , `` I know , '' say he .
`` I 've make them myself . ''
And then he wonder why Jerry Muskrat laugh right out .
`` Yes , '' continue Mrs. Quack , `` that be where Mr. Quack make a mistake , a great mistake .
I suppose that because not a single gun have be fire at u that morning he think perhaps there be no hunter on the Big River .
So to save time he lead u close to shore .
And then it happen .
There be a bang , bang of a terrible gun , and down fell Mr. Quack just a we have see so many fall before .
It be awful .
There be Mr. Quack fly in front of me on swift , strong wing , and there never be a swifter , strong flier or a handsome Duck than Mr. Quack , and then all in the wink of an eye he be tumble helplessly down , down to the water below , and I be fly on alone , for the other Ducks turn off , and I do n't know what become of them .
I could n't stop to see what become of Mr. Quack , because if I have , that terrible gun would have kill me .
So I keep on a little way and then turn and go back , only I keep out in the middle of the Big River .
I drop down on the water and swam about , call and call , but I do n't get any answer , and so I do n't know what have become of Mr. Quack .
I be afraid he be kill , and if he be , I wish I have be kill myself . ''
Here Mrs. Quack choke up so that she could n't say another word .
Peter 's own eye be full of tear a he try to comfort her .
`` Perhaps , '' say he , `` Mr. Quack be n't kill and be hide somewhere along the Big River .
I do n't know why I feel so , but I feel sure that he be n't kill , and that you will find him yet . ''
`` That 's why I 've wait instead of go on , '' reply Mrs. Quack between sob , `` though it would n't have be of any use to go on without my dear mate .
I 'm go back to the Big River now to look for him .
The trouble be , I do n't dare go near the shore , and if he be alive , he probably be hide somewhere among the rush along the bank .
I think I 'll be go along now , but I 'll be back to-night if nothing happen to me .
You folk who can always stay at home have a great deal to be thankful for . ''
`` It 's lucky for me that Mrs. Peter be n't here to hear her say that , '' say Peter , a he and Jerry Muskrat watch Mrs. Quack fly swiftly towards the Big River .
`` Mrs. Peter be forever worrying and scold because I do n't stay in the dear Old Briar-patch .
If she have hear Mrs. Quack say that , I never would have hear the last of it .
I wish there be something we could do for Mrs. Quack .
I 'm go back to the dear Old Briar-patch to think it over , and I guess the sooner I start the good , for that look to me like Reddy Fox over there , and he 's head this way . ''
So off for home start Peter , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a he could go , and all the way there he be turn over in his mind what Mrs. Quack have tell him and try to think of some way to help her .
XIII PETER TELLS ABOUT MRS. QUACK To get thing do , if you 'll but try , You 'll always find there be a way .
What you yourself ca n't do alone The chance be another may .
When Peter Rabbit be once more safely back in the dear Old Briar-patch , he tell Mrs. Peter all about poor Mrs. Quack and her trouble .
Then for a long , long time he sit in a brown study .
A brown study , you know , be sit perfectly still and think very hard .
That be what Peter do .
He sit so still that if you have happen along , you probably would have think him asleep .
But he be n't asleep .
No , indeed !
He be just think and thinking .
He be try to think of some way to help Mrs. Quack .
At last he give a little sigh of disappointment .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` Just tuck that fact away in that empty head of yours and never say ca n't . '' -RSB-
`` It ca n't be do , '' say he .
`` There be n't any way . ''
`` What ca n't be do ? ''
demand a voice right over his head .
Peter look up .
There sat Sammy Jay .
Peter have be think so hard that he have n't see Sammy arrive .
`` What ca n't be do ? ''
repeat Sammy .
`` There be n't anything that ca n't be do .
There be plenty of thing that you ca n't do , but what you ca n't do some one else can .
Just tuck that fact away in that empty head of yours and never say ca n't . ''
You know Sammy dearly love to tease Peter .
Peter make a good-natured face at Sammy .
`` Which mean , I suppose , that what I ca n't do you can .
You always do have a pretty good opinion of yourself , Sammy , '' say he .
`` Nothing of the kind , '' retort Sammy .
`` I simply mean that nobody can do everything , and that very often two head be good than one .
It strike me that you have something on your mind , and I think I might be able to help you get rid of it .
But of course , if you do n't want my help , suppose I could and would give it to you , that be an end of the matter , and I guess I 'll be on my way .
The Old Briar-patch be rather a dull place anyway . ''
Peter start to make a sharp retort , but think good of it .
Instead he reply mildly : `` I be just try to think of some way to help poor Mrs. Quack . ''
`` Help Mrs. Quack ! ''
exclaim Sammy in surprise .
`` Where under the sun do you get acquaint with Mrs. Quack ?
What 's the matter with her ?
She always have look to me quite able to help herself . ''
`` Well , she be n't .
That be , she need others to help her just now , '' reply Peter , `` and I 've be most thinking my head off try to find a way to help her . ''
Then he tell Sammy how he have meet Mrs. Quack at the Smiling Pool and how terrible her long journey up from the sunny Southland have be , and how Mr. Quack have be shoot by a hunter with a terrible gun , and how poor Mrs. Quack be quite heartbroken , and how she have go over to the Big River to look for him but do n't dare go near the place where he might be hide if he be still alive and hurt so that he could n't fly , and how cruel and terribly unfair be the men with terrible gun , and all the other thing he have learn from Mrs. Quack .
Sammy listen with his head cock on one side , and for once he do n't interrupt Peter or try to tease him or make fun of him .
In fact , a Peter look up at him , he could see that Sammy be very serious and thoughtful , and that the more he heard of Mrs. Quack 's story the more thoughtful he look .
When Peter finish , Sammy fly down a little nearer to Peter .
`` I beg your pardon for say your head be empty , Peter , '' say he .
`` Your heart be right , anyway .
Of course , there be n't anything you can do to help Mrs. Quack , but a I tell you in the beginning , what you ca n't do others can .
Now I do n't say that I can help Mrs. Quack , but I can try .
I believe I 'll do a little thinking myself . ''
So Sammy Jay in his turn go into a brown study , and Peter watch him anxiously and a little hopefully .
XIV SAMMY JAY 'S PLAN TO HELP MRS. QUACK Sammy Jay sit on the low branch of a little tree in the dear Old Briar-patch just over Peter Rabbit 's head , think as hard a ever he could .
Peter watch him and wonder if Sammy would be able to think of any plan for help poor Mrs. Quack .
He hop so .
He himself have think and think until he felt a if his brain be all mix up and he could n't think any more .
So he watch Sammy and wait and hop .
Presently Sammy flirt his wing in a way which Peter know meant that he have make up his mind .
`` Did I understand you to say that Mrs. Quack say that if Mr. Quack be alive , he probably be hide among the rush along the bank of the Big River ? ''
he ask .
Peter nod .
`` And that she say that she do n't dare go near the bank because of fear of the terrible gun ? ''
Again Peter nod .
`` Well , if that 's the case , what be the matter with some of u who be not afraid of the terrible gun look for Mr. Quack ? ''
say Sammy .
`` I will , for one , and I 'm quite sure that my cousin , Blacky the Crow , will , for another .
He surely will if he think it will spoil the plan of any hunter .
Blacky would go a long distance to do that .
He hat terrible gun and the men who use them .
And he know all about them .
He have very sharp eye , have Blacky , and he know when a man have get a gun and when he have n't .
More than that , he can tell good than any one I know of just how near he can safely go to one of those terrible gun .
He be smart , my cousin Blacky be , and if he will help me look for Mr. Quack , we 'll find him if he be alive . ''
`` That will be splendid ! ''
cry Peter , clap his hand .
`` But be n't you afraid of those terrible gun , Sammy ? ''
`` Not when the hunter be try for Ducks , '' reply Sammy .
`` If there be a Duck anywhere in sight , they wo n't shoot at poor little me or even at Blacky , though they would shoot at him any other time .
You see , they know that shoot at u would frighten the Ducks .
Blacky know all about the Big River .
In the winter he often get considerable of his food along it bank .
I 've be over there a number of time , but I do n't know so much about it a he do .
Now here be my plan .
I 'll go find Blacky and tell him all about what we want to do for Mrs. Quack .
Then , when Mrs. Quack come back to the Smiling Pool , if she have n't find Mr. Quack , we 'll tell her what we be go to do and what she must do .
She must swim right up the Big River , keep out in the middle where she will be safe .
If there be any hunter hide along the bank , they will see her , and then they wo n't shoot at Blacky or me because they will keep hoping that Mrs. Quack will swim in near enough for them to shoot her .
Blacky will fly along over one bank of the Big River , and I will do the same over the other bank , keep a nearly opposite Mrs. Quack a we can .
Being up in the air that way and look down , we will be able to see the hunter and also Mr. Quack , if he be hide among the rush .
Are you quite sure that Mrs. Quack will come back to the Smiling Pool to-night ? ''
`` She say she would , '' reply Peter .
`` Last night she come just a little while before dark , and I think she will do the same thing to-night , to see if any more corn have be leave for her .
You know Farmer Brown 's boy put some there yesterday , and it taste so good to her that I do n't believe she will be able to stay away , even if she want to .
I think your plan be perfectly splendid , Sammy Jay .
I do hope Blacky the Crow will help . ''
`` He will .
Do n't worry about that , '' reply Sammy .
`` Hello !
There go Farmer Brown 's boy over to the Smiling Pool now . ''
`` Then there will be some more corn for Mrs. Quack .
I just know it ! ''
cry Peter .
`` He be go to see if Mrs. Quack be there , and I just know he have his pocket full of corn . ''
`` I would n't mind a little of it myself , '' say Sammy .
`` Well , I must go along to hunt up Blacky .
Good-by , Peter . ''
`` Good-by and good luck , '' reply Peter .
`` I 've always say you be not half such a bad fellow a you try to make folk think you be , Sammy Jay . ''
`` Thanks , '' say Sammy , and start for the Green Forest to look for his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
XV THE HUNT FOR MR. QUACK In spite of her hopelessness in regard to Mr. Quack , there be no doubt that Mrs. Quack felt well that night after she have eat the corn leave among the rush of the Smiling Pool by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Now she have that very comfortable feeling that go with a full stomach , she could think good .
As the Black Shadows crept across the Smiling Pool , she turn over in her mind Sammy Jay 's plan for help her the next day .
The more she think about it , the good it seem , and she begin to feel a little ashamed that she have not appear more grateful to Sammy when he tell her .
At the time she have be tire and hungry and discourage .
Now she be begin to feel rest , and she be no longer hungry .
These thing make all the difference in the world .
As she think over Sammy 's plan , she begin to feel a little hope , and when at last she put her head under her wing to go to sleep , she have make up her mind that the plan be worth try , and that she would do her part .
Bright and early the next morning , Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow be in the Big Hickory-tree near the Smiling Pool ready to start for the Big River to hunt for Mr. Quack .
Peter Rabbit have be so afraid that he would miss something that he have stay near the Smiling Pool all night , so he be on hand to see the start .
It have be agree that Mrs. Quack be to go to a certain place on the Big River and then swim up as far a she think it would be of any use .
She be to stay in the middle of the river , where she would be quite safe from hunter with terrible gun , and where also these same hunter would be sure to see her and so not be tempt to shoot at Blacky the Crow if he happen to fly over them .
You see , they would hope that Mrs. Quack would swim in near enough to be shot and so would not risk frighten her by shoot at Blacky .
When Mrs. Quack have finish her breakfast , she start for the Big River , and her stout wing move so swiftly that they make a whistling sound .
Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow follow her , but though they fly as fast a they could , Mrs. Quack have reach the Big River before they have go half the way .
When they do get there , they saw Mrs. Quack out in the middle , swim about and watch for them .
Blacky fly across the river and pretend to be hunt for food along the farther bank , just a every hunter know he often do .
Sammy Jay do the same thing on the other bank .
Mrs. Quack swam slowly up the Big River , keep in the middle , and Blacky and Sammy follow along up the two bank , all the time use their sharp eye for all they be worth to find Mr. Quack hide among the broken-down rush or under the bush in the water , for the Big River have overflow it bank , and in some place bush and tree be in the water .
Now Sammy Jay dearly love to hunt for thing .
Whenever he know that one of his neighbor in the Green Forest have hide something , he like to hunt for it .
It be n't so much that he want what have be hide , a it be that he want to feel he be smart enough to find it .
When he do find it , he usually steal it , I 'm sorry to say .
But it be the fun of hunt that Sammy enjoy most .
So now Sammy thoroughly enjoy hunt for Mr. Quack .
He peer into every likely hiding-place and become so interested that he quite forget about the hunter who might be wait along the bank .
So it happen that he do n't see a boat drawn in among the bush until he be right over it .
Sitting in it be a man with a terrible gun , very intently watch Mrs. Quack out in the middle of the Big River .
Sammy be so startled that before he think he open his mouth and scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
at the top of his lung , and fly away with all his might .
Mrs. Quack hear his scream and understood just what it mean .
A little later Blacky the Crow discover another hunter hide behind the bush on his side .
`` Caw !
caw !
caw ! ''
shout Blacky , fly out over the water far enough to be safe from that terrible gun he could see .
`` Quack !
quack ! ''
reply Mrs. Quack , which mean that she understand .
And so the hunt go on without a sign of poor Mr. Quack .
XVI SAMMY JAY SEES SOMETHING GREEN For all their peeking and peering among the broken-down rush and under the bush along the bank of the Big River , and no sharp eye ever peek and peer , Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow have find no sign of the miss Mr. Quack .
`` I guess Mrs. Quack be right and that Mr. Quack be kill when he be shoot , '' mutter Sammy to himself .
`` Probably one of those hunter have him for dinner long ago .
Hello !
There 's another hunter up where the Laughing Brook join the Big River !
I guess I wo n't take any chance .
I 'd like to find Mr. Quack , but Sammy Jay be a lot more important to me than Mr. Quack , and that fellow just might happen to take it into his head to shoot at me . ''
So Sammy silently fly around back of the hunter and stop in a tree where he could watch all that the man do .
For some time Sammy sit there watch .
The hunter be sit behind a sort of fence of bush which quite hide him from any one who might happen to be out on the Big River .
But of course Sammy could see him perfectly , because he be behind him .
Out in front of that little fence , which be on the very edge of the water , be a number of what Sammy at first take to be some of Mrs. Quack 's relative .
`` Why do n't he shoot them ? ''
think Sammy .
He puzzle over this a he watch them until suddenly it come into his head that he have n't see one of them move since he begin watch them .
The man change his position , and still those Ducks do n't move , although some of them be so near that they simply could n't have help know when the hunter move unless they be more stupid than any one of Sammy 's acquaintance .
This be very curious , very curious indeed .
Sammy fly a little nearer and then a little nearer , take the great care not to make a sound .
Pretty soon he be so near that he could see those Ducks very plainly , and he star with all his might .
He could n't see any feather !
No , Sir , he could n't see any feather !
Then he understand .
`` Huh ! ''
say he to himself .
`` Those be not Ducks at all .
They be just piece of wood make to look like Ducks .
Now I wonder what they be for . ''
In a few minute he find out .
He saw the hunter crouch down a little low and look down the Big River .
Sammy look too .
He saw a flock of real Ducks fly swiftly just above the middle of the Big River .
Suddenly the leader turn straight towards the place where the hunter be hide , and the others follow him .
He could hear Mrs. Quack call excitedly out in the middle of the Big River , but the stranger do not heed her .
They have their eye on those wooden Ducks and be come straight in to join them .
`` They think they be real Ducks and so this place be perfectly safe ! ''
think Sammy .
He saw the hunter make ready to shoot with his terrible gun and then , without stop to think what might happen to him , he open his mouth and scream at the top of his voice .
He saw the Ducks suddenly swing out towards the middle of the Big River and know that they have hear his warning .
He saw the hunter suddenly rise and point his gun at the fly Ducks .
He hear the bang , bang of the terrible gun , but not one of the flock be hit .
The distance be too great .
Sammy chuckle happily .
Then he remember that he himself be within easy reach of that terrible gun , and probably the hunter be very angry .
In great fright Sammy turn and fly , dodge behind tree and every second expecting to hear again the roar of that terrible gun .
But he do n't , and so when he think he be safe , he stop .
Now in fly away from the hunter he have follow the Laughing Brook where it wind through a sort of swamp before it join the Big River .
Because there be more water than could be keep between the bank of the Big River , it have creep over the bank , and all the tree of the swamp be stand in water .
Just beyond where Sammy be sit be a pile of brush in the water .
A Jolly Little Sunbeam , dance down through the tree top , touch something under the edge of the brush , and Sammy 's sharp eye catch a flash of green .
Idly he watch it , and presently it move .
Instantly Sammy be all curiosity .
He fly over where he could see good .
`` Now what can that be ? ''
think Sammy , a he peer down at the pile of brush and try to see under it .
XVII MR. QUACK IS FOUND AT LAST Sammy Jay 's eye sparkle a he watch that spot of green under the pile of brush in the swamp through which the Laughing Brook find it way to join the Big River .
All around be water , for you know it be spring , and the melting snow on the hill way up where the Big River have it beginning be pour more water into the Big River than it bank would hold a it hurry down to the Great Ocean .
It just could n't hurry fast enough to take all that water down as fast a it run into the Big River , and so the water have creep over the bank in place .
It have do this right here in the little swamp where Sammy be .
Sammy sit perfectly still , for he learn long ago that only by keep perfectly still may one see all that be to be see .
That green spot have move .
He be sure of that .
And if it move , it must be something alive .
If it be alive , it must be somebody , and Sammy want to know who it be .
Try a he would he could n't remember any one who wear such glossy green a that .
So he sit perfectly still , for he know that if whoever be hide under that brush should even guess that he be be watch , he would not come out .
So , his eye sparkle with excitement , Sammy watch .
He be impatiently patient .
Did you know that it be possible to be impatiently patient ?
Well , it be .
Sammy be just boil with impatience inside , but he do n't let that impatience spoil the patience of his waiting .
He sit there just as still a still , with his eye fix on that green spot , and you would never have guess that he be fairly burst with impatience to know who it be he be watch .
That be what be call self-control .
It mean the power to make yourself do a certain thing , no matter how much you may want to do something else .
It be a splendid thing to have , be self-control .
After what seem to Sammy a very long time , the green spot move again .
Little by little something reach out from under the pile of brush .
It be a head , a very beautiful green head , and it be exactly like Mrs. Quack 's head , only hers be a sober brown instead of green .
Sammy choke back a little gasp of surprise a a sudden thought pop into his head .
Could this be the lost Mr. Quack ?
He have forget that probably Mr. Quack dress differently from Mrs. Quack , and so of course he have be look for some one all in brown .
There be the bang of a gun somewhere over on the Big River , and the green head be hastily withdraw under the bush , but not before Sammy have see a look of terrible fear in his eye .
`` I believe it IS Mr. Quack ! ''
think Sammy .
`` If it be , I 'll have the best news ever to tell Mrs. Quack .
Just trust Sammy Jay to find anything he go look for . ''
This be just plain boasting , and Sammy know it .
But Sammy always do have a good opinion of himself .
It be one of his fault .
He quite lose sight of the fact that it be entirely by accident that he have come over to this swamp .
Now that he have guess who this might be , he be less impatient .
He wait as still a you please , and at last the green head be slowly stretch out again , and Sammy could see that the neck be green , too , and that around the neck be a white collar .
Sammy could keep still no longer .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` Yes , '' say he in a low voice , `` I be Mr. Quack . '' -RSB-
`` Are you Mr. Quack ? ''
he ask eagerly .
The beautiful head disappear like a flash .
Sammy wait a minute or two , before he repeat his question , add : `` You need n't be afraid .
There be n't anybody here but me , and I 'm your friend .
I just want to know if you be Mr. Quack because I 've be look for you for Mrs. Quack .
Are you ? ''
Slowly , look this way and that way with fear and suspicion in his eye , a handsome Duck come out from under the pile of brush .
`` Yes , '' say he in a low voice , `` I be Mr. Quack .
Where be Mrs. Quack ? ''
`` Safe and sound over on the Big River , '' reply Sammy joyfully .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad I 've find you ! ''
XVIII SAMMY JAY SENDS MRS. QUACK TO THE SWAMP When Sammy Jay leave Mr. Quack in the swamp over by the bank of the Big River , he fly straight back to the Smiling Pool .
At first he think of fly out over the Big River and scream the news to Mrs. Quack , who , you know , be swim about out there .
But he know that if he do , she would very likely fly right over where Mr. Quack be , and that would n't do at all .
No , indeed , that would n't do at all .
One of the hunter would be sure to see her .
So Sammy wisely fly back to the Smiling Pool to wait until Mrs. Quack should come back there for the night .
Of course he tell Peter Rabbit all about Mr. Quack , and Peter be so delighted at the thought that Mr. Quack be alive that he caper about in quite the crazy way .
`` Does Mrs. Quack know yet ? ''
ask Peter .
Sammy shake his head .
`` I 'm go to tell her when she come back here to-night , '' he explain .
`` I be afraid if I tell her before then she would fly straight to him and perhaps get them both in trouble . ''
`` Quite right , Sammy !
Quite right ! ''
Peter exclaim .
`` I would n't have think of that .
My , wo n't she be happy when you do tell her !
I wonder what she 'll say and what she 'll do .
I 'm go to stay right here so a to see her when she hear the good news .
Here come your cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Does he know yet ? ''
`` No , '' reply Sammy , `` but I 'm go to tell him as soon a he get here . ''
They watch Blacky draw nearer and nearer , and as soon a he be within hear Sammy shout the news .
`` Caw , caw , caw , '' reply Blacky , hurry a little faster .
As soon a he reach the Big Hickory-tree , Sammy tell the whole story over again , and Blacky be quite as glad a the others .
While they wait for Mrs. Quack he tell how he have hunt and hunt along the farther bank of the Big River and how he have see the hunter with their terrible gun hiding and have warn Mrs. Quack just where each one be .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be get ready to go to bed behind the Purple Hills and the Black Shadows be begin to creep out over the Green Meadows before Mrs. Quack come .
In fact , Sammy Jay and Blacky be get very uneasy .
It be almost bed-time for them , for neither of them dare stay out after dark .
They have almost make up their mind to leave Peter to tell the news when they saw Mrs. Quack come swiftly from the direction of the Big River .
She look so sad and discourage that even Blacky the Crow be sorry for her , and you know Blacky be n't much give to such feeling .
`` What 's the news , Mrs. Quack ? ''
ask Peter , his eye dance .
`` There be n't any , '' reply Mrs. Quack .
`` Oh , yes , there be ! ''
cry Sammy Jay , who could n't possibly keep still any longer .
`` What be it ? ''
demand Mrs. Quack eagerly , and it seem to Peter that there be a wee bit of hope in her voice .
`` Did you happen to notice that just before the Laughing Brook join the Big River it flow through a little swamp ? ''
ask Sammy .
Mrs. Quack nod her head rapidly .
`` What of it ? ''
she demand .
`` Nothing much , only if I be you I would go down there after dark , '' reply Sammy .
Mrs. Quack look up at Sammy sharply .
`` Why should I go down there ? ''
she ask .
`` If I tell you , will you wait until I get quite through ? ''
ask Sammy in his turn .
Mrs. Quack promise that she would .
`` Well , then , '' reply Sammy , `` this afternoon I find a stranger hiding in there , a stranger with a beautiful green head and neck and a white collar . ''
`` Mr. Quack !
Oh , it be Mr. Quack ! ''
cried Mrs. Quack joyfully and lift her wing a if she would start for the swamp at once .
`` Stop ! ''
cry Sammy sharply .
`` You say you would wait until I be through .
It wo n't do for you to go there until after dark , because there be a hunter hide very near Mr. Quack 's hiding-place .
Wait until it be dark and he have go home .
Then take my advice , and when you have find Mr. Quack , bring him right up here to the Smiling Pool .
He ca n't fly , but he can swim up the Laughing Brook , and this be the safe place for both of you .
Now good night and good luck . ''
XIX JERRY MUSKRAT 'S GREAT IDEA A friendly friend be a friend indeed When he prove a friend in the time of need .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack have be so much take up with each other and with their trouble that they have quite forget they be not alone in the Smiling Pool , which they have reach by swim up the Laughing Brook .
So it happen that when Mrs. Quack suggest that if Mr. Quack 's wing get strong they might be able to find a lonesome pond not too far away where they could make their home for the summer , they be a little startled to hear a voice say : `` I know where there be one , and you will not have to fly at all to get to it . ''
Both jump a little .
You see their nerve have be very much upset for a long time , and the least unexpected thing make them jump .
Then both laugh .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat !
We 'd forget all about you , '' say Mrs. Quack .
`` What be that you say ? ''
Jerry good-naturedly repeat what he have say .
Mrs. Quack 's face brighten .
`` Do you really mean it ? ''
she ask eagerly .
`` Do you really mean that you know of a pond where we could live and not be likely to be see by these two-legged creature call men ? ''
`` That 's what I say , '' reply Jerry briefly .
`` Oh , Jerry , you 're not joking , be you ?
Tell me you 're not joke , '' beg Mrs. Quack .
`` Of course I 'm not joke , '' return Jerry just a little bit indignantly , `` I be not the kind of a fellow to joke people who be in such trouble a you and Mr. Quack seem to be in .
The idea come to me while you be talk .
I could n't help overhear what you be say , and the minute you mention a lonesome pond , the idea come to me , and I think it 's a perfectly splendid idea .
I know of just the lonesome kind of a lonesome pond , and you wo n't have to fly a stroke to get to it .
If you be smart enough not to be catch by Reddy Fox or Hooty the Owl or Billy Mink or any of those people who hunt for a living , there be n't any reason I know of why you should n't spend the summer there in peace and comfort . ''
Mrs. Quack 's eye fairly shine with hope and eagerness .
`` Oh , Jerry , tell u where it be , and we 'll start for it right away ! ''
she cry .
Jerry 's eye twinkle .
`` Of course , the owner of that pond might not like to have neighbor .
I have n't think of that , '' say he .
`` Perhaps he ought to be ask first . ''
Mrs. Quack 's face fell .
`` Who be the owner ? ''
she ask .
`` My cousin , Paddy the Beaver .
He make it , '' reply Jerry proudly .
Mrs. Quack 's face light up again at once .
`` I 'm sure he wo n't object , '' say she .
`` We know a great many of the Beaver family .
In fact , they be very good neighbor of ours in our home in the far Northland .
I do n't suppose there be a Beaver pond anywhere around here .
Tell me where it be , Jerry , and I 'll go right up there and call on your cousin . ''
`` All you 've get to do be to follow the Laughing Brook way back into the Green Forest , and you 'll come to Paddy 's pond , '' say he .
`` He make that pond himself two year ago .
He come down from the Great Woods and build a dam across the Laughing Brook way back there in the Green Forest and give u a great scare here in the Smiling Pool by cut off the water for a few day .
He have get a very nice pond there now .
Honker the Goose and his flock spend a night in it on their way south last fall . ''
Mrs. Quack wait to hear no more .
She shoot up into the air and disappear over the top of the tree in the Green Forest .
`` What do you think of my idea ? ''
ask Jerry , a he and Mr. Quack watch her out of sight .
`` I think it be great , just simply great , '' reply Mr. Quack .
XX HAPPY DAYS FOR MR. AND MRS. QUACK Whose heart be true and brave and strong , Who ne'er give up to grim despair , Will find some day that sky be blue And all the world be bright and fair .
If you do n't believe it , just ask Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
They know .
Certainly the world never look darker for any one than it do for them when the terrible gun of a hunter break Mr. Quack 's wing on the Big River and end all their dream of a home in the far Northland .
Then , through the help of Jerry Muskrat , they find the lonely pond of Paddy the Beaver deep in the Green Forest , and there , because their secret have be well keep , presently they find peace and hope and then happiness .
You see , the heart of Mrs. Quack be true and brave and strong .
She be the kind to make the best of thing , and she at once decide that if they could n't have their home where they want it , they would have it where they could have it .
She be determine that they should have a home anyway , and Paddy the Beaver 's little pond be not such a bad place after all .
So she waste no time .
She examine every inch of the shore of that little pond .
At last , a little back from the water , she find a place to suit her , a place so well hide by bush that only the sharp eye ever would find it .
And a little late it would be still harder to find , a she well know , for all about clump of tall fern be spring up , and when they have fully unfold , not even the keen eye of Sammy Jay look down from a near-by tree would be able to discover her secret .
There she make a nest on the ground , a nest of dried grass and leaf , and line it with the softest and most beautiful of lining , down pluck from her own breast .
In it she lay ten egg .
Then come long week of patient sit on them , watch the wonder of grow thing about her , the bursting into bloom of shy wood flower , the unfolding of leaf on bush and tree , the spring up in a night of queer mushroom , which people call toadstool , and all the time dream beautiful Duck dream of the baby which would one day hatch from those precious egg .
She never leave them save to get a little food and just enough exercise to keep her well and strong , and when she do leave them , she always carefully pull soft down over them to keep them warm while she be away .
Mr. Quack know all about that nest , though he have take no part in build it and have no share in the care of those egg .
He be very willing that she should do all the work and think it quite sufficient that he should be on guard to give warning if danger should appear .
So he spend the long beautiful day lazily swim about in the little pond , gossip with Paddy the Beaver , and take the best of care of himself .
The broken wing heal and grow strong again , for it have not be so badly break , after all .
If he miss the company of others of his kind which he would have have during these long day of wait have they be able to reach their usual nesting-place in the far Northland , he never mention it .
Unknown to them , Farmer Brown 's boy discover where they be .
Later he come often to the pond and be content to sit quietly on the shore and watch Mr. Quack , so that Mr. Quack grow quite use to him and do not fear him at all .
In fact , after the first few time , he make no attempt to hide .
You see he discover that Farmer Brown 's boy be a friend .
Always after he have leave , there be something good to eat near where he have be sit , for Farmer Brown 's boy bring corn and oat and sometimes a handful of wheat .
He know , and Mr. Quack know that he know , that somewhere near be a nest , but he do not try to find it much a he long to , for he know that would frighten and worry Mrs. Quack .
So the dear , precious secret of Mr. and Mrs. Quack be keep , for not even Paddy the Beaver know just where that nest be , and in due time , early one morning , Mrs. Quack proudly lead forth for their first swim ten downy , funny duckling .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : Those be happy day indeed for Mr. and Mrs. Quack in the pond of Paddy the Beaver . -RSB-
Oh , those be happy day indeed for Mr. and Mrs. Quack in the pond of Paddy the Beaver , and in their joy they quite forgot for a time the terrible journey which have bring them there .
But finally the Ducklings grow up , and when Jack Frost come in the fall , the whole family start on the long journey to the sunny Southland .
I hope they get there safely , do n't you ?
Among those whom Mr. and Mrs. Quack come to know very well while they live in the pond of Paddy the Beaver be that funny fellow who wear ring on his tail -- Bobby Coon .
In the next book I will tell you of some of Bobby 's adventure .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Prickly_Porky.txt.out
I HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL MAKES A FIND Happy Jack Squirrel have have a wonderful day .
He have find some big chestnut-trees that he have never see before , and which promise to give him all the nut he would want for all the next winter .
Now he be think of go home , for it be get late in the afternoon .
He look out across the open field where Mr. Goshawk have nearly catch him that morning .
His home be on the other side .
`` It 's a long way ` round , '' say Happy Jack to himself , `` but it be best to be safe and sure . ''
So Happy Jack start on his long journey around the open field .
Now , Happy Jack 's eye be bright , and there be very little that Happy Jack do not see .
So , a he be jump from one tree to another , he spy something down on the ground which excite his curiosity .
`` I must stop and see what that be , '' say Happy Jack .
So down the tree he run , and in a few minute he have find the queer thing , which have catch his eye .
It be smooth and black and white , and at one end it be very sharp with a tiny little barb .
Happy Jack find it out by prick himself with it .
`` Ooch , '' he cry , and drop the queer thing .
Pretty soon he notice there be a lot more on the ground .
`` I wonder what they be , '' say Happy Jack .
`` They do n't grow , for they have n't any root .
They be not thorn , for there be no plant from which they could come .
They be not alive , so what can they be ? ''
Now , Happy Jack 's eye be bright , but sometimes he do n't use them to the very best advantage .
He be so busy examine the queer thing on the ground that he never once think to look up in the top of the tree .
If he have , perhaps he would not have be so much puzzle .
As it be he just gather up three or four of the queer thing and start on again .
On the way he meet Peter Rabbit and show Peter what he have .
Now , you know Peter Rabbit be very curious .
He just could n't sit still , but must scamper over to the place Happy Jack Squirrel tell him about .
`` You 'd well be careful , Peter Rabbit ; they 're very sharp , '' shout Happy Jack .
But a usual , Peter be in too much of a hurry to heed what be say to him .
Lipperty-lipperty-lip , lipperty-lipperty-lip , go Peter Rabbit through the wood , as fast a his long leg would take him .
Then suddenly he squeal and sit down to nurse one of his foot .
But he be up again in a flash with another squeal louder than before .
Peter Rabbit have find the queer thing that Happy Jack Squirrel have tell him about .
One be stick in his foot , and one be in the white patch on the seat of his trouser .
II THE STRANGER FROM THE NORTH The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be excite .
Yes , Sir , they certainly be excite .
They have meet Happy Jack Squirrel and Peter Rabbit , and they be full of the news of the queer thing that Happy Jack and Peter Rabbit have find over in the Green Forest .
They hurry this way and that way over the Green Meadows and tell every one they meet .
Finally they reach the Smiling Pool and excitedly tell Grandfather Frog all about it .
Grandfather Frog smooth down his white and yellow waistcoat and look very wise , for you know that Grandfather Frog be very old .
`` Pooh , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` I know what they be . ''
`` What ? ''
cry all the Merry Little Breezes together .
`` Happy Jack say he be sure they do not grow , for there be no strange plant over there . ''
Grandfather Frog open his big mouth and snap up a foolish green fly that one of the Merry Little Breezes blow over to him .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` Things do not have to be on plant in order to grow .
Now I be sure that those thing grow , and that they do not grow on a plant . ''
The Merry Little Breezes look puzzle .
`` What be there that grows and do n't grow on a plant ? ''
ask one of them .
`` How about the claw on Peter Rabbit 's toe and the hair of Happy Jack 's tail ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes look foolish .
`` Of course , '' they cry .
`` We do n't think of that .
But we be quite sure that these queer thing that prick so be not claws , and certainly they be not hair . ''
`` Do n't you be too sure , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` You go over to the Green Forest and look up in the treetop instead of down on the ground ; then come back and tell me what you find . ''
Away race the Merry Little Breezes to the Green Forest and begin to search among the treetop .
Presently , way up in the top of a big poplar , they find a stranger .
He be big than any of the little meadow people , and he have long sharp teeth with which he be strip the bark from the tree .
The hair of his coat be long , and out of it peep a thousand little spear just like the queer thing that Happy Jack and Peter Rabbit have tell them about .
`` Good morning , '' say the Merry Little Breezes politely .
`` Mornin ' , '' grunt the stranger in the treetop .
`` May we ask where you come from ? ''
say one of the Merry Little Breezes politely .
`` I come from the North Woods , '' say the stranger and then go on about his business , which seem to be to strip every bit of the bark from the tree and eat it .
III PRICKLY PORKY MAKES FRIENDS The Merry Little Breezes soon spread the news over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest that a stranger have come from the North .
At once all the little meadow people and forest folk make some excuse to go over to the big poplar tree where the stranger be so busy eating .
At first he be very shy and have nothing to say .
He be a queer fellow , and he be so big , and his teeth be so sharp and so long , that his visitor keep their distance .
Reddy Fox , who , you know , be a great boaster and like to brag of how smart he be and how brave he be , come with the rest of the little meadow people .
`` Pooh , '' exclaim Reddy Fox .
`` Who 's afraid of that fellow ? ''
Just then the stranger begin to come down the tree .
Reddy back away .
`` It look a if you be afraid , Reddy Fox , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything , '' say Reddy Fox , and swell himself up to look twice as big a he really be .
`` It seem to me I hear Bowser the Hound , '' pip up Striped Chipmunk .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Pooh , '' exclaim Reddy Fox .
`` Who 's afraid of that fellow ? ''
Page 10 .
-RSB- Now Striped Chipmunk have not hear Bowser the Hound at all when he speak , but just then there be the patter of heavy foot among the dried leaf , and sure enough there be Bowser himself .
My , how everybody do run , -- everybody but the stranger from the North .
He keep on come down the tree just the same .
Bowser saw him and stop in surprise .
He have never see anything quite like this big dark fellow .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
shout Bowser in his deep voice .
Now , when Bowser use that great deep voice of his , he be accustom to see all the little meadow people and forest folk run , but this stranger do not even hurry .
Bowser be so surprised that he just stand still and star .
Then he growl his deep growl .
Still the stranger pay no attention to him .
Bowser do not know what to make of it .
`` I 'll teach that fellow a lesson , '' say Bowser to himself .
`` I 'll shake him , and shake him and shake him until he have n't any breath leave . ''
By this time the stranger be down on the ground and start for another tree , mind his own business .
Then something happen .
Bowser make a rush at him , and instead of run , what do you suppose the stranger do ?
He just roll himself up in a tight ball with his head tuck down in his waistcoat .
When he be roll up that way , all the little spear hide in the hair of his coat stand right out until he look like a great chestnut-burr .
Bowser stop short .
Then he reach out his nose and sniff at this queer thing .
Slap !
The tail of the stranger strike Bowser the Hound right across the side of his face , and a dozen of those little spear be leave stick there just like pin in a pin-cushion .
`` Wow !
wow !
wow !
wow ! ''
yell Bowser at the top of his lung , and start for home with his tail between his leg , and yell with every jump .
Then the stranger unroll himself and smile , and all the little meadow people and forest folk who have be watch shouted aloud for joy .
And this be the way that Prickly Porky the Porcupine make friend .
IV PETER RABBIT HAS SOME STARTLING NEWS Little Mrs. Peter Rabbit , who use to be Little Miss Fuzzytail , sit at the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , anxiously look over towards the Green Forest .
She be worry .
There be no doubt about it .
Little Mrs. Peter be very much worry .
Why do n't Peter come home ?
She do wish that he would be content to stay close by the dear Old Briar-patch .
For her part , she could n't see why under the sun he want to go way over to the Green Forest .
He be always have dreadful adventure and narrow escape over there , and yet , in spite of all she could say , he would persist in go there .
She do n't feel easy in her mind one minute while he be out of her sight .
To be sure he always turn up all right , but she could n't help feeling that sometime his dreadful curiosity would get him into trouble that he could n't get out of , and so every time he go to the Green Forest , she be sure , absolutely sure , that she would never see him again .
Peter use to laugh at her and tell her that she be a foolish little dear , and that he be perfectly able to take care of himself .
Then , when he saw how worried she be , he would promise to be very , very careful and never do anything rash or foolish .
But he would n't promise not to go to the Green Forest .
No , Sir , Peter would n't promise that .
You see , he have so many friend over there , and there be always so much news to be gather that he just could n't keep away .
Once or twice he have induce Mrs. Peter to go with him , but she have be frighten almost out of her skin every minute , for it seem to her that there be danger lurk behind every tree and under every bush .
It be all very well for Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , who could jump from tree to tree , but she do n't think it a safe and proper place for a sensible Rabbit , and she say so .
This particular morning she be unusually anxious .
Peter have be go all night .
Usually he be home by the time Old Mother West Wind come down from the Purple Hills and empty her child , the Merry Little Breezes , out of her big bag to play all day on the Green Meadows , but this morning Old Mother West Wind have be a long time go about her business , and still there be no sign of Peter .
`` Something have happen .
I just know something have happen ! ''
she wail .
`` Oh , Peter , Peter , Peter Rabbit Why will you be so heedless ?
Why will you take such dreadful risk , So foolish and so needless ? ''
`` Do n't worry .
Peter be smart enough to take care of himself , '' cry one of the Merry Little Breezes , who happen along just in time to overhear her .
`` He 'll be home pretty soon .
In fact , I think I see him come now . ''
Mrs. Peter look in the direction that the Merry Little Breeze be look , and sure enough there be Peter .
He be head straight for the dear Old Briar-patch , and he be run as if he be try to show how fast he could run .
Mrs. Peter 's heart give a frightened thump .
`` It must be that Reddy or Granny Fox or Old Man Coyote be right at his heel , '' think she , but look as hard a she would , she could see nothing to make Peter run so .
In a few minute he reach her side .
His eye be very wide , and it be plain to see that he be burst with important news .
`` What be it , Peter ?
Do tell me quick !
Have you have another narrow escape ? ''
gasp little Mrs. Peter .
Peter nod while he pant for breath .
`` There 's another stranger in the Green Forest , a terrible look fellow without leg or head or tail , and he almost catch me ! ''
pant Peter .
V PETER RABBIT TELLS HIS STORY When Peter Rabbit could get his breath after his long hard run from the Green Forest to the dear Old Briar-patch , he have a wonderful story to tell .
It be all about a stranger in the Green Forest , and to have hear Peter tell about it , you would have think , a Mrs. Peter do , that it be a very terrible stranger , for it have no leg , and it have no head , and it have no tail .
At least , that be what Peter say .
`` You see , it be this way , '' declare Peter .
`` I have stop long than I mean to in the Green Forest , for you know , my dear , I always try to be home by the time jolly , round , red Mr. Sun get out of bed and Old Mother West Wind get down on the Green Meadows . ''
Mrs. Peter nod .
`` But somehow time slip away faster than I think for , or else Mr. Sun get up early than usual , '' continue Peter .
Then he stop .
That last idea be a new one , and it strike Peter a a good one .
`` I do believe that that be just what happen -- Mr. Sun must have make a mistake and crawl out of bed earlier than usual , '' he cry .
Mrs. Peter look a if she very much doubt it , but she do n't say anything , and so Peter go on with his story .
`` I have just realize how light it be and have start for home , hurry with all my might , when I hear a little noise at the top of the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine live .
Of course I think it be Prickly himself start out for his breakfast , and I look up with my mouth open to say hello .
But I do n't say hello .
No , Sir , I do n't say a word .
I be too scared .
There , just start down the hill straight towards me , be the most dreadful creature that ever have be see in the Green Forest !
It do n't have any leg , and it do n't have any head , and it do n't have any tail , and it be come straight after me so fast that I have all I could do to get out of the way ! ''
Peter 's eye grow very round and wide a he say this .
`` I take one good look , and then I jump .
My gracious , how I do jump ! ''
he continue .
`` Then I start for home just as fast a ever I could make my leg go , and here I be , and mighty glad to be here ! ''
Mrs. Peter have listen with her mouth wide open .
When Peter finish , she close it with a snap and hop over and felt of his head .
`` Are you sick , Peter ? ''
she ask anxiously .
Peter star at her .
`` Sick !
Me sick !
Not a bit of it ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Never felt well in my life , save that I be a little tired from my long run .
What a silly question !
Do I look sick ? ''
`` No-o , '' reply little Mrs. Peter slowly .
`` No-o , you do n't look sick , but you talk a if there be something the matter with your head .
I think you must be just a little light-headed , Peter , or else you have take a nap somewhere and have a bad dream .
Did I understand you to say that this dreadful creature have no leg , and yet that it chase you ? ''
`` That 's what I say ! ''
snap Peter a wee bit crossly , for he saw that Mrs. Peter do n't believe a word of his story .
`` Will you please tell me how any creature in the Green Forest or out of it , for that matter , can possibly chase any one unless it have legs or wing , and you do n't say anything about it have wing , '' demand Mrs. Peter .
Peter scratch his head in great perplexity .
Suddenly he have a happy thought .
`` Mr. Blacksnake run fast enough , but he do n't have leg , do he ? ''
he ask in triumph .
Little Mrs. Peter look a bit discomfited .
`` No-o , '' she admit slowly , `` he do n't have legs ; but I never could understand how he run without them . ''
`` Well , then , '' snap Peter , `` if he can run without leg , why ca n't other creature ?
Besides , this one do n't run exactly ; it roll .
Now I 've tell you all I 'm go to .
I need a long nap , after all I 've be through , so do n't let any one disturb me . ''
`` I wo n't , '' reply Mrs. Peter meekly .
`` But , Peter , if I be you , I would n't tell that story to any one else . ''
VI PETER HAS TO TELL HIS STORY MANY TIMES Once you start a story you can not call it back ; It travel on and on and on and ever on , alack !
That be the reason why you should always be sure that a story you repeat be a good story .
Then you will be glad to have it travel on and on and on , and will never want to call it back .
But if you tell a story that be n't true or nice , the time be almost sure to come when you will want to call it back and can not .
You see story be just like river , -- they run on and on forever .
Little Mrs. Peter Rabbit know this , and that be why she advise Peter not to tell any one else the strange story he have tell her of the dreadful creature without leg or head or tail that have chase him in the Green Forest .
Peter knew by that that she do n't believe a word of it , but he be too tired and sleepy to argue with her then , so he settle himself comfortably for a nice long nap .
When Peter awake , the first thing he think of be the terrible creature he have see in the Green Forest .
The more he think about it , the more impossible it seem , and he do n't wonder that Mrs. Peter have advise him not to repeat it .
`` I wo n't , '' say Peter to himself .
`` I wo n't repeat it to a soul .
No one will believe it .
The truth be , I can hardly believe it myself .
I 'll just keep my tongue still . ''
But unfortunately for Peter , one of the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind have hear Peter tell the story to Mrs. Peter , and it be such a wonderful and curious and unbelievable story that the Merry Little Breeze straightway repeat it to everybody he meet , and soon Peter Rabbit begin to receive caller who want to hear the story all over again from Peter himself .
So Peter be oblige to repeat it ever so many time , and every time it sound to him more foolish than before .
He have to tell it to Jimmy Skunk and to Johnny Chuck and to Danny Meadow Mouse and to Digger the Badger and to Sammy Jay and to Blacky the Crow and to Striped Chipmunk and to Happy Jack Squirrel and to Bobby Coon and to Unc ' Billy Possum and to Old Mr. Toad .
Now , strange to say , no one laugh at Peter , queer a the story sound .
You see , they all remember how they have laugh at him and make fun of him when he tell about the great footprint he have find deep in the Green Forest , and how late it have be proven that he really do see them , for they be make by Buster Bear who have come down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .
Then it have be Peter 's turn to laugh at them .
So now , impossible a this new story sound , they do n't dare laugh at it .
`` I never heard of such a creature , '' say Jimmy Skunk , `` and I ca n't quite believe that there be such a one , but it be very clear to me that Peter have see something strange .
You know the old saying that he laugh best who laugh last , and I 'm not go to give Peter another chance to have the last laugh and say , ' I tell you so . ' ''
`` That be very true , '' reply Old Mr. Toad solemnly .
`` Probably Peter have see something out of the ordinary , and in his excitement he have exaggerate it .
The thing to do be to make sure whether or not there be a stranger in the Green Forest .
Peter say that it come down the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine live .
Some one ought to go ask him what he know about it .
If there be such a terrible creature up there , he ought to have see it .
Why do n't you go up there and ask him , Jimmy Skunk ?
You 're not afraid of anybody or anything . ''
`` I will , '' reply Jimmy promptly , and off he start .
You see , he felt very much flatter by Old Mr. Toad 's remark , and he could n't very well refuse , for that would look a if he be afraid , after all .
VII JIMMY SKUNK CALLS ON PRICKLY PORKY `` A plague upon Old Mr. Toad ! ''
grumble Jimmy , a he amble up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest on his way to the hill where Prickly Porky live .
`` Of course I 'm not afraid , but just the same I do n't like meddle with thing I do n't know anything about .
I 'm not afraid of anybody I know of , because everybody have the great respect for me , but it might be different with a creature without leg or head or tail .
Whoever heard of such a thing ?
It give me a queer feeling inside . ''
However , he keep right on , and a he reach the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky live , he look sharply in every direction and listen with all his might for strange sound .
But there be nothing unusual to be see .
The Green Forest look just a it always do .
It be very still and quiet there save for the cheerful voice of Redeye the Vireo telling over and over how happy he be .
`` That do n't sound a if there be any terrible stranger around here , '' mutter Jimmy .
Then he hear a queer , grunt sound , a very queer sound , that seem to come from somewhere on the top of the hill .
Jimmy grin a he listen .
`` That 's Prickly Porky tell himself how good his dinner taste , '' laugh Jimmy .
`` Funny how some people do like to hear their own voice . ''
The contented sound of Prickly Porky 's voice make Jimmy feel very sure that there could be nothing very terrible about just then , anyway , and so he slowly amble up the hill , for you know he never hurry .
It be an easy matter to find the tree in which Prickly Porky be at work strip off bark and eat it , because he make so much noise .
`` Hello ! ''
say Jimmy Skunk .
Prickly Porky take no notice .
He be so busy eating , and make so much noise about it , that he do n't hear Jimmy at all .
`` Hello ! ''
shout Jimmy a little louder .
`` Hello , there !
Are you deaf ? ''
Of course this be n't polite at all , but Jimmy be feel a little out of sort because he have have to make this call .
This time Prickly Porky look down .
`` Hello yourself , and see how you like it , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
he cry .
`` Come on up and have some of this nice bark with me . ''
Then Prickly Porky laugh at his own joke , for he know perfectly well that Jimmy could n't climb , and that he would n't eat bark if he could .
Jimmy make a face at him .
`` Thank you , I 've just din .
Come down here where I can talk to you without strain my voice , '' he reply .
`` Wait until I get another bite , '' reply Prickly Porky , strip off a long piece of bark .
Then with this to chew on , he come half way down the tree and make himself comfortable on a big limb .
`` Now , what be it you 've get on your mind ? ''
he demand .
At once Jimmy tell him the queer story Peter Rabbit have tell .
`` I 've be send up here to find out if you have see this legless , headless , tailess creature .
Have you ? ''
he conclude .
Prickly Porky slowly shake his head .
`` No , '' say he .
`` I 've be right here all the time , and I have n't see any such creature . ''
`` That 's all I want to know , '' reply Jimmy .
`` Peter Rabbit 's get something the matter with his eye , and I 'm go straight back to the Old Briar-patch to tell him so .
Much oblige . ''
With that Jimmy start back the way he have come , grumble to himself .
VIII PRICKLY PORKY NEARLY CHOKES Hardly be Jimmy Skunk beyond sight and hearing after have make his call than Redeye the Vireo , whose home be in a tree just at the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky live , hear a very strange noise .
He be very busy , be Redeye , tell all who would listen how happy he be and what a beautiful world this be .
Redeye seem to think that this be his special mission in life , that he be put in the Green Forest for this one special purpose , -- to sing all day long , even in the hot weather when other bird forget to sing , his little song of gladness and happiness .
It never seem to enter his head that he be make other people happy just by be happy himself and say so .
At first he hardly notice the strange noise , but when he stop sing for a bit of a rest , he hear it very plainly , and it sound so very queer that he fly up the hill towards the place from which it seem to come , and there his bright eye soon discover Prickly Porky .
Right away he saw that Prickly Porky be in some kind of trouble , and that it be he who be make the queer noise .
Prickly Porky be on the ground at the foot of a tree , and he be roll over and kick and claw at his mouth , from which a little piece of bark be hang .
It be such a strange performance that Redeye simply star for a minute .
Then in a flash it come to him what it mean .
Prickly Porky be choke , and if something be n't do to help him , he might choke to death !
Now there be nothing that Redeye himself could do to help , for he be too small .
He must get help somewhere else , and he must do it quickly .
Anxiously he look this way and that way , but there be no one in sight .
Then he remember that Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree be not far away .
Perhaps Unc ' Billy could help .
He hop that Unc ' Billy be at home , and he waste no time in find out .
Unc ' Billy be at home , and when he hear that his old friend Prickly Porky be in trouble , he hurry up the hill as fast a ever he could .
He saw right away what be the trouble .
`` Yo ' keep still just a minute , Brer Porky ! ''
he command , for he do not dare go very near while Prickly Porky be roll and kick around so , for fear that he would get against some of the thousand little spear Prickly Porky carry hide in his coat .
Prickly Porky do a he be tell .
Indeed , he be so weak from his long struggle that he be glad to .
Unc ' Billy catch hold of the piece of bark hang from Prickly Porky 's mouth .
Then he brace himself and pull with all his might .
For a minute the piece of bark hold .
Then it give way so suddenly that Unc ' Billy fell over flat on his back .
Unc ' Billy scramble to his foot and look reprovingly at Prickly Porky , who lay pant for breath , and with big tear roll down his face .
-LSB- Illustration : Then he brace himself and pull with all his might .
Page 30 .
-RSB- `` Ah cert ` nly be surprised , Brer Porky ; Ah cert ` nly be surprised that yo ' should be so greedy that yo ' choke yo ` self , '' say Unc ' Billy , shake his head .
Prickly Porky grin weakly and rather foolishly .
`` It be n't greed , Unc ' Billy .
It be n't greed at all , '' he reply .
`` Then what be it , may Ah ask ? ''
demand Unc ' Billy severely .
`` I think of something funny right in the middle of my meal , and I laugh just a I start to swallow , and the piece of bark go down the wrong way , '' explain Prickly Porky .
And then , a if the mere thought of the thing that have make him laugh before be too much for him , he begin to laugh again .
He laugh and laugh and laugh , until finally Unc ' Billy quite lose patience .
`` Yo ' cert ` nly have lose your manner , Brer Porky ! ''
he snap .
Prickly Porky wipe the tear from his eye .
`` Come closer so that I can whisper , Unc ' Billy , '' say he .
A little bit suspiciously Unc ' Billy come near enough for Prickly Porky to whisper , and when he have finish , Unc ' Billy be wipe tear of laughter from his own eye .
IX JIMMY SKUNK AND UNC ' BILLY POSSUM TELL DIFFERENT STORIES The little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest do n't know what to believe .
First come Peter Rabbit with the strange kind of a story about be chase by a terrible creature without leg , head , or tail .
He say that it have come down the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine live in the Green Forest .
Jimmy Skunk have be send to call on Prickly Porky and ask him if he have see any strange creature such a Peter Rabbit have tell about .
Prickly Porky have say that he have n't see any stranger in that part of the Green Forest , and Jimmy have straightway return to the Green Meadows and tell all his friend there that Peter Rabbit must have have something the matter with his eye or else be crazy , for Prickly Porky have n't be away from home and yet have see nothing unusual .
At the same time Unc ' Billy Possum be go about in the Green Forest telling everybody whom he meet that he have call on Prickly Porky , and that Prickly Porky have tell him that Peter Rabbit undoubtedly have see something strange .
Of course Jimmy Skunk 's story soon spread through the Green Forest , and Unc ' Billy Possum 's story soon spread over the Green Meadows , and so nobody know what to believe or think .
If Jimmy Skunk be right , why Peter Rabbit 's queer story be n't to be believe at all .
If Unc ' Billy be right , why Peter 's story be n't as crazy a it sound .
Of course all this arouse a great deal of talk and curiosity , and those who have the most courage begin to make visit to the hill where Prickly Porky live to see if they could see for themselves anything out of the ordinary .
But they always find that part of the Green Forest just as usual and always , if they saw Prickly Porky at all , he seem to be fast asleep , and no one like to wake him to ask question .
Little by little they begin to think that Jimmy Skunk be right , and that Peter Rabbit 's terrible creature exist only in Peter 's imagination .
About this time Unc ' Billy tell of have just such an experience a Peter have .
It happen exactly a it do with Peter , very early in the morning , when he be pass the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky live .
`` Ah be just pass along , mind mah own business , when Ah hear a noise up on the hill behind me , '' say Unc ' Billy , `` and when Ah look up , there be something come straight down at me , and Ah could n't see any leg or head or tail . ''
`` What do you do , Unc ' Billy ? ''
ask Bobby Coon .
`` What do Ah do ?
Ah do just what yo'alls would have do , -- Ah do run ! ''
reply Unc ' Billy , look around the little circle of forest and meadow people , listen with round eye and open mouth .
`` Yes , Sah , Ah do run , and Ah do n't turn around until Ah be safe in mah holler tree . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
sneer Reddy Fox , who have be listen .
`` You 're a coward .
I would n't have run !
I would have wait and find out what it be .
You and Peter Rabbit would run away from your own shadow . ''
`` You do n't dare go there yourself at daybreak to-morrow ! ''
retort Unc ' Billy .
`` I do too ! ''
declare Reddy angrily , though he do n't have the least intention of go .
`` All right .
Ah 'm go to be in a tree where Ah can watch to-morrow mo ` ning and see if yo ' be as brave a yo ' talk , '' declare Unc ' Billy .
Then Reddy know that he would have to go or else be call a coward .
`` I 'll be there , '' he snarl angrily , a he slink away .
X UNC ' BILLY POSSUM TELLS JIMMY SKUNK A SECRET Be sure before you drop a friend That you 've do nothing to offend .
A friend be always worth keep .
Unc ' Billy Possum say so , and he know .
He ought to , for he have make a lot of them in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , in spite of the prank he have cut up and the trick he have play .
And when Unc ' Billy make a friend , he keep him .
He say that it be easy and a lot good to keep a friend than to make a new one .
And this be the way he go about it : Whenever he find that a friend be angry with him , he refuse to be angry himself .
Instead , he go to that friend , find out what the trouble be , explain it all away , and then do something nice .
Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy have be friend from the time that Unc ' Billy come up from ol ' Virginny to live in the Green Forest .
In fact , they have be partner in steal egg from the hen-house of Farmer Brown 's boy .
So when Jimmy Skunk , who have make a special call on Prickly Porky to find out if he have see the strange creature without head , tail , or leg , tell everybody that Prickly Porky have see nothing of such a creature , he be very much put out and quite offend to hear that Unc ' Billy be tell how Prickly Porky have say that Peter might really have some reason for his queer story .
It seem to him that either Prickly Porky have tell an untruth or that Unc ' Billy be tell an untruth .
It make him very angry .
The afternoon of the day when Unc ' Billy have dare Reddy Fox to go at sun-up the next morning to the hill where Prickly Porky live he meet Jimmy Skunk come down the Crooked Little Path .
Jimmy scowl and be go to pass without so much a speaking .
Unc ' Billy 's shrewd little eye twinkle , and he grin a only Unc ' Billy can grin .
`` Howdy , Brer Skunk , '' say he .
Jimmy just frown hard than ever and try to pass .
`` Howdy , Brer Skunk , '' repeat Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Yo ' must have something on your mind . ''
Jimmy Skunk stop .
`` I have ! ''
he snap .
`` I want to know whether it be you or Prickly Porky who have be tell an untruth .
He tell me that he have n't see anything like what Peter Rabbit say chase him , and you 've be tell around how he tell you that Peter may have have good ground for that foolish story .
If Peter saw that thing , Prickly Porky would know it , for he have n't be away from home this summer .
Why would he tell me that he have n't see it if he have ? ''
`` Don ' be hasty , Brer Skunk .
Don ' be hasty , '' reply Unc ' Billy soothingly .
`` Ah have n't say that Brer Porky tell me that he have see the thing that Peter say chase him .
He tell the truth when he tell you that he have n't see any stranger around his hill .
What he tell me be that -- '' Here Unc ' Billy whisper .
Jimmy Skunk 's face clear .
`` That 's different , '' say he .
`` Of course it be , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
`` Yo ' see Peter do see something strange , even if Brer Porky do n't .
Ah have see it mahself , and now Ah invite yo ' to be over at the foot of Brer Porky 's hill at sun-up to-morrow mo ` ning and see what happen when Brer Fox try to show how brave he be .
Only don ' forget that it 's a secret . ''
Jimmy be chuckle by this time .
`` I wo n't forget , and I 'll be there , '' he promise .
`` I 'm glad to know that nobody have be tell untruths , and I beg your pardon , Unc ' Billy , for think you might have be . ''
`` Don ' mention it , Brer Skunk , don ' mention it .
Ah 'll be look fo ' yo ' to-morrow mo ` ning , '' reply Unc ' Billy , with a sly wink that make Jimmy laugh aloud .
XI WHAT HAPPENED TO REDDY FOX Reddy Fox wish with all his might that he have keep his tongue still about not be afraid to meet the strange creature that have give Peter Rabbit such a fright .
When he have boast that he would stop and find out all about it if he happen to meet it , he do n't have the least intention of do anything of the kind .
He be just idly boast and nothing more .
You see , Reddy be one of the great boaster in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows .
He like to strut around and talk big .
But like most boaster , he be a coward at heart .
Unc ' Billy Possum know this , and that be why he dare Reddy to go the next morning to the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine live , and where Peter Rabbit have have his strange adventure , and where Unc ' Billy himself claim to have see the same strange creature without head , tail , or leg which have so frightened Peter .
Unc ' Billy have say that he would be there himself up in a tree where he could see whether Reddy really do come or not , and so there be nothing for Reddy to do but to go and make good his foolish boast , if the strange creature should appear .
You see , a number of little people have hear him boast and have hear Unc ' Billy dare him , and he know that if he do n't make good , he would never hear the end of it and would be call a coward by everybody .
Reddy do n't sleep at all well that afternoon , and when at dusk he start to hunt for his supper , he find that he have lose his appetite .
Instead of hunting , he spend most of the night in try to think of some good reason for not appear at Prickly Porky 's hill at daybreak .
But think a he would , he could n't think of a single excuse that would sound reasonable .
`` If only Bowser the Hound be n't chain up at night , I would get him to chase me , and then I would have the very best kind of an excuse , '' think he .
But he know that Bowser be chain .
Nevertheless he do go up to Farmer Brown 's dooryard to make sure .
It be just a he expect , -- Bowser be chain .
Reddy sneak away without even a look at Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
He do n't see that the door have carelessly be leave open , and even if he have , it would have make no difference .
He have n't a bit of appetite .
No , Sir .
Reddy Fox would n't have eat the fat chicken there if it have be right before him .
All he could think of be that queer story tell by Peter Rabbit and Unc ' Billy Possum , and the scrape he have get himself into by his foolish boasting .
He just wander about restlessly , wait for daybreak and hop that something would turn up to prevent him from go to Prickly Porky 's hill .
He do n't dare to tell old Granny Fox about it .
He know just what she would say .
It seem a if he could hear her sharp voice and the very word : `` Serves you right for boast about something you do n't know anything about .
How many time have I tell you that no good come of boast ?
A wise Fox never go near strange thing until he have find out all about them .
That be the only way to keep out of trouble and live to a ripe old age .
Wisdom be nothing but knowledge , and a wise Fox always know what he be do . ''
So Reddy wander about all the long night .
It seem a if it never would pass , and yet he wish it would last forever .
The more he think about it , the more afraid he grow .
At last he saw the first beam from jolly , round , red Mr. Sun creep through the Green Forest .
The time have come , and he must choose between make his boast good or be call a coward by everybody .
Very , very slowly , Reddy Fox begin to walk towards the hill where Prickly Porky live .
XII WHAT REDDY FOX SAW AND DID Who guard his tongue a he would keep A treasure rich and rare , Will keep himself from trouble free , And dodge both fear and care .
The trouble with a great many people be that they remember this too late .
Reddy Fox be one of these .
Reddy be smart and sly and clever in some way , but he have n't learn yet to guard his tongue , and half the trouble he get into be because of that unruly member .
You see it be a boastful tongue and an untruthful tongue and that be the bad combination for make trouble that I know of .
It have land him in all kind of scrape in the past , and here he be in another , all on account of that tongue .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have kick his rosy blanket off and be smile down on the Great World a he begin his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
The Jolly Little Sunbeams be already dance through the Green Forest , chase out the Black Shadows , and Reddy know that it be high time for him to be over by the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine live .
With lagging step he sneak along from tree to tree , peer out from behind each anxiously , afraid to go on , and still more afraid not to , for fear that he would be call a coward .
He have almost reach the foot of the hill without see anything out of the usual and without any sign of Unc ' Billy Possum .
He be just begin to hope that Unc ' Billy be n't there , a he have say he would be , when a voice right over his head say : `` Ah cert ` nly be glad to see that yo ' be as good a your word , Brer Fox , fo ' we need some one brave like yo ' to find out what this strange creature be that have be chase we-uns . ''
Reddy look up with a sickly grin .
There sat Unc ' Billy Possum in a pine tree right over his head .
He know now that there be no back out ; he have get to go on .
He try to swagger and look very bold and brave .
`` I tell you I 'm not afraid .
If there 's anything queer around here , I 'll find out what it be , '' he once more boasted , but Unc ' Billy notice that his voice sound just a wee bit trembly .
`` Keep right on to the foot of the hill ; that 's where Ah saw it yesterday .
My , Ah 'm glad that we 've get some one so truly brave ! ''
reply Unc ' Billy .
Reddy look at him sharply , but there be n't a trace of a smile on Unc ' Billy 's face , and Reddy could n't tell whether Unc ' Billy be make fun of him or not .
So , there be nothing else to do , he go on .
He reach the foot of the hill without see or hear a thing out of the usual .
The Green Forest seem just a it always have seem .
Redeye the Vireo be pour out his little song of gladness , quite a if everything be just a it should be .
Reddy 's courage begin to come back .
Nothing have happen , and nothing be go to happen .
Of course not !
It be all some of Peter Rabbit 's foolishness .
Some day he would catch Peter Rabbit and put an end to such silly tale .
`` Ah !
What be that ? ''
Reddy 's sharp ear have catch a sound up near the top of the hill .
He stop short and look up .
For just a little wee minute Reddy could n't believe that his eye saw right .
Coming down the hill straight towards him be the strange thing he ever have see .
He could n't see any leg .
He could n't see any head .
He could n't see any tail .
It be round like a ball , but it be the strange look ball that ever be .
It be cover with old leaf .
Reddy would n't have believe that it be alive but for the noise it be make .
For just a wee minute he star , and then , what do you think he do ?
Why , he give a frightened yelp , put his tail between his leg , and run just as fast a he could make his leg go .
Yes , Sir , that 's just what Reddy Fox do .
-LSB- Illustration : Reddy would n't have believe that it be alive .
Page 69 .
-RSB- XIII REDDY FOX IS VERY MISERABLE When Reddy Fox put his tail between his leg and start away from that terrible creature come down the hill where Prickly Porky live , he think of nothing but of get a far away a he could in the shortest time that he could , and so , with a little frightened yelp with every jump , he run a he seldom have run before .
He forget all about Unc ' Billy Possum watch from the safety of a big pine-tree .
He do n't see Jimmy Skunk poke his head out from behind an old stump and laugh fit to kill himself .
When he reach the edge of the Green Forest , he do n't even see Peter Rabbit jump out of his path and dodge into a hollow log .
When Reddy be safely past , Peter come out .
He sit up very straight , with his ear point right up to the sky and his eye wide open with surprise a he star after Reddy .
`` Why !
Why , my gracious , I do believe Reddy have have a fright ! ''
exclaim Peter .
Then , be Peter , he right away begin to wonder what could have frighten Reddy so , and in a minute he think of the strange creature which have frighten him a few day before .
`` I do believe that be it ! ''
he cry .
`` I do believe it be .
Reddy be come from the direction of Prickly Porky 's , and that be where I get my fright .
I -- I -- '' Peter hesitate .
The truth be he be wonder if he dare go up there and see if that strange creature without head , tail , or leg really be around again .
He know it would be a foolish thing to do , for he might walk right into danger .
He know that little Mrs. Peter be wait for him over in the dear Old Briar-patch and that she would worry , for he ought to be there this very blessed minute .
But he be very curious to know what have frighten Reddy so , and his curiosity , which have lead him into so many scrape , grow great with every passing minute .
`` It wo n't do any harm to go part way up there , '' think Peter .
`` Perhaps I will find out something without go way up there . ''
So , instead of start for home a he should have do , he turn back through the Green Forest and , stop every few hop to look and listen , make his way clear to the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky live .
There he hide under a little hemlock-tree and look in every direction for the strange creature which have frighten him so the last time he be there .
But nobody be to be see but Prickly Porky , Jimmy Skunk , and Unc ' Billy Possum roll around in the leaf at the top of the hill and laugh fit to kill themselves .
`` There 's no danger here ; that be sure , '' think Peter shrewdly , `` and I believe those fellow have be up to some trick . ''
With that he boldly hop up the hill and join them .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
he demand .
`` Did you meet Reddy Fox ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk , wipe the tear of laughter from his eye .
`` Did I meet him ?
Why , he almost run into me and do n't see me at all .
I guess he 's run yet .
Now , what 's the joke ? ''
Peter demand .
When the others could stop laugh long enough , they gather around Peter and tell him something that send Peter off into such a fit of laughter that it make his side ache , `` That 's a good one on Reddy , and it be just as good a one on me , '' he declare .
`` Now who else can we scare ? ''
All of which show that there be something very like mischief be plan on the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine live .
XIV REDDY FOX TRIES TO KEEP OUT OF SIGHT Never in all his life be Reddy Fox more uncomfortable in his mind .
He know that by this time everybody in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , around the Smiling Pool , and along the Laughing Brook , know how he have put his tail between his leg and run with all his might at the first glimpse of the strange creature which have roll down the hill of Prickly Porky .
And he be right ; everybody do know it , and everybody be laugh about it .
Unc ' Billy Possum , Jimmy Skunk , Prickly Porky , and Peter Rabbit have see him run , and you may be sure they tell everybody they meet about it , and news like that travel very fast .
It would n't have be so bad if he have n't boast beforehand that if he meet the strange creature he would wait for it and find out what it be .
As it be , he have run just a Peter Rabbit have run when he saw it , and he have be just as much frighten a Peter have .
Now , a he sneak along try to find something to eat , for he be hungry , he do his very best to keep out of sight .
Usually he be very proud of his handsome red coat , but now he wish that he could get rid of it .
It be very hard to keep out of sight when you have bright colored clothes .
Presently Sammy Jay 's sharp eye spy him a he try to crawl up on the young family of Mrs. Grouse .
At once Sammy fly over there scream at the top of his lung : `` Reddy Fox be very brave when there 's no danger near ; But where there be , ala , alack !
he run away in fear . ''
Reddy look up at Sammy and snarl .
It be of no use at all now to try to surprise and catch any of the family of Mrs. Grouse , so he turn around and hurry away , try to escape from Sammy 's sharp eye .
He have go only a little way when a sharp voice call : `` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
It be Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
No sooner have he get out out of Chatterer 's sight than he hear another voice .
It be say over and over : `` Dee , dee , dee !
Oh , me , me !
Some folk can talk so very brave And then such coward be . ''
It be Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
Reddy could n't think of a thing to say in reply , and so he hurry on , try to find a place where he would be leave in peace .
But nowhere that he could go be he free from those taunt voice .
Not even when he have crawl into his house be he free from them , for buzz around his doorway be Bumble Bee and Bumble be hum : `` Bumble , grumble , rumble , hum !
Reddy surely can run some . ''
Late that afternoon old Granny Fox call him out , and it be clear to see that Granny be very much put out about something .
`` What be this I hear everywhere I go about you be a coward ? ''
she demand sharply , as soon a he put his head out of the doorway .
Reddy hang his head , and in a very shamefaced way he tell her about the terrible fright he have have and all about the strange creature without leg , head , or tail that have roll down the hill where Prickly Porky live .
`` Serves you right for boast ! ''
snap Granny .
`` How many time have I tell you that no good come of boast ?
Probably somebody have play a trick on you .
I 've live a good many year , and I never before heard of such a creature .
If there be one , I 'd have see it before now .
You go back into the house and stay there .
You be a disgrace to the Fox family .
I be go to have a look about and find out what be go on .
If this be some trick , they 'll find that old Granny Fox be n't so easily fool . ''
XV OLD GRANNY FOX INVESTIGATES In-vest-i-gate be a great big word , but it meaning be very simple .
To in-vest-i-gate be to look into and try to find out all about something .
That be what old Granny Fox start to do after Reddy have tell her about the terrible fright he have have at the hill where Prickly Porky live .
Now old Granny Fox be very sly and smart and clever , a you all know .
Compared with her , Reddy Fox be almost stupid .
He may be a sly and smart and clever some day , but he have get a lot to learn before then .
Now if it have be Reddy who be go to investigate , he would have go straight over to Prickly Porky 's hill and look around and ask sly question , and everybody whom he meet would have know that he be try to find out something .
But old Granny Fox do nothing of the kind .
Oh , my , no !
She go about hunt her dinner just as usual and do n't appear to be pay the least attention to what be go on about her .
With her nose to the ground she run this way and run that way a if hunting for a trail .
She peer into old hollow log and look under little brush pile , and so , in course of time , she come to the hill where Prickly Porky live .
Now Reddy have tell Granny that the terrible creature that have so frightened him have roll down the hill at him , for he be at the bottom .
Granny have hear that the same thing have happen to Peter Rabbit and to Unc ' Billy Possum .
So instead of come to the hill along the hollow at the bottom , she come to it from the other way .
`` If there be anything there , I 'll be behind it instead of in front of it , '' she think shrewdly .
As she draw near where Prickly Porky live , she keep eye and ear wide open , all the time pretend to pay attention to nothing but the hunt for her dinner .
No one would ever have guess that she be think of anything else .
She run this way and that way all over the hill , but nothing out of the usual do she see or hear except one thing : she do find some queer mark down the hill a if something might have roll there .
She follow these down to the bottom , but there they disappear .
As she be trot home along the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest , she meet Unc ' Billy Possum .
No , she do n't exactly meet him , because he saw her before she saw him , and he promptly climb a tree .
`` Ah suppose yo'all heard of the terrible creature that scar Reddy almost out of his wit early this mo ` ning , '' say Unc ' Billy .
Granny stop and look up .
`` It do n't take much to scare the young and innocent , Mr. Possum , '' she reply .
`` I do n't believe all I hear .
I 've just be hunt all over the hill where Prickly Porky live , and I could n't find so much a a Wood Mouse for dinner .
Do you believe such a foolish tale , Mr. Possum ? ''
Unc ' Billy cough behind one hand .
`` Yes , Mrs. Fox , Ah confess Ah do have to believe it , '' he reply .
`` Yo ' see , Ah do see that thing mah own self , and Ah just naturally have to believe mah own eye . ''
`` Huh !
I 'd like to see it !
Maybe I 'd believe it then ! ''
snap Granny Fox .
`` The only time to see it be just at sun-up , '' reply Unc ' Billy .
`` Anybody that come along through that hollow at the foot of Brer Porky 's hill at sun-up be likely never to forget it .
Ah would n't do it again .
No , Sah , once be enough fo ' your Unc ' Billy . ''
`` Huh ! ''
snort Granny and trot on .
Unc ' Billy watch her out of sight and grin broadly .
`` As sho ' a Brer Sun get up to-morrow mo ` ning , Ol ' Granny Fox will be there , '' he chuckle .
`` Ah must get word to Brer Porky and Brer Skunk and Brer Rabbit . ''
XVI OLD GRANNY FOX LOSES HER DIGNITY Unc ' Billy Possum have pass the word along to Jimmy Skunk , Peter Rabbit , and Prickly Porky that old Granny Fox would be on hand at sun-up to see for herself the strange creature which have frighten Reddy Fox at the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky live .
How do Unc ' Billy know ?
Well , he just guess .
He be quite a shrewd and clever a Granny Fox herself , and when he tell her that the only time the strange creature everybody be talk about be see be at sun-up , he guess by the very way she sniff and pretend not to believe it at all that she would visit Prickly Porky 's hill the next morning .
`` The ol ' lady suspect that there be some trick , and we-uns have get to be very careful , '' warn Unc ' Billy , a he and his three friend put their head together in the early evening .
`` She be do bound to come snoop around before sun-up , '' he continue , `` and we-uns must be out of sight , all except Brer Porky .
She 'll come just the way she do this afternoon , -- from back of the hill instead of along the holler . ''
Unc ' Billy be quite right .
Old Granny Fox felt very sure that some one be play trick , so she do n't wait until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be out of bed .
She be at the top of the hill where Prickly Porky live a full hour before sun-up , and there she sit down to wait .
She could n't see or hear anything in the least suspicious .
You see , Unc ' Billy Possum be quite out of sight , a he sit in the thick part of a hemlock-tree , and Peter Rabbit be sit perfectly still in a hollow log , and Jimmy Skunk be n't show so much a the tip of his nose , a he lay just inside the doorway of an old house under the root of a big stump .
Only Prickly Porky be to be see , and he seem to be asleep in his favorite tree .
Everything seem to be just a old Granny Fox have see it a hundred time before .
At last the Jolly Little Sunbeams begin to dance through the Green Forest , chase out the Black Shadows .
Redeye the Vireo awoke and at once begin to sing , a be his way , not even wait to get a mouthful of breakfast .
Prickly Porky yawn and grunt .
Then he climb down from the tree he have be sit in , walk slowly over to another , start to climb it , change his mind , and begin to poke around in the dead leaf .
Old Granny Fox arise and slowly stretch .
She glance at Prickly Porky contemptuously .
She have see him act in this stupid , uncertain way dozen of time before .
Then slowly , watch out sharply on both side of her , without appear to do so , she walk down the hill to the hollow at the foot .
Now old Granny Fox can be very dignified when she want to be , and she be now .
She do n't hurry the least little bit .
She carry her big , plumey tail just so .
And she do n't once look behind her , for she felt sure that there be nothing out of the way there , and to have do so would have be quite undignified .
She have reach the bottom of the hill and be walk along the hollow , smile to herself to think how easily some people be frighten , when her sharp ear catch a sound on the hill behind her .
She turn like a flash and then -- well , for a minute old Granny Fox be too surprised to do anything but stare .
There , roll down the hill straight towards her , be the very thing Reddy have tell her about .
At first Granny decide to stay right where she be and find out what this thing be , but the nearer it get , the stranger and more terrible it seem .
It be just a great ball all cover with dried leaf , and yet somehow Granny felt sure that it be alive , although she could see no head or tail or leg .
The nearer it get , the stranger and more terrible it seem .
Then Granny forget her dignity .
Yes , Sir , she forget her dignity .
In fact , she quite lose it altogether .
Granny Fox run just a Reddy have run !
XVII GRANNY FOX CATCHES PETER RABBIT Now listen to this little tale That deal somewhat with folly , And show how sometimes one may be A little bit too jolly .
No sooner be old Granny Fox out of sight , run a if she think that every jump might be her last , than Jimmy Skunk come out from the hole under a big stump where he have be hide , Peter Rabbit come out of the hollow log from which he have be peep , and Unc ' Billy Possum drop down from the hemlock-tree in which he have so carefully keep out of sight , and all three begin to dance around Prickly Porky , laugh a if they be try to split their side .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
shout Jimmy Skunk .
`` I wonder what Reddy Fox would have say if he could have see old Granny go down that hollow ! ''
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
shout Peter Rabbit .
`` Did you see how her eye pop out ? ''
`` Hee , hee , hee ! ''
squeak Unc ' Billy Possum in his funny crack voice .
`` Ah reckons she be bound to have sore foot if she keep on run the way she start . ''
Prickly Porky do n't say a word .
He just smile in a quiet sort of way a he slowly climb up to the top of the hill .
Now old Granny Fox have be badly frighten .
Who would n't have be at see a strange creature without head , tail , or legs roll down hill straight towards them ?
But Granny be too old and wise to run very far without cause .
She be hardly out of sight of the four little scamp who have be watch her when she stop to see if that strange creature be follow her .
It do n't take her long to decide that it be n't .
Then she do some quick thinking .
`` I say beforehand that there be some trick , and now I 'm sure of it , '' she mutter .
`` I have an idea that that good-for-nothing old Billy Possum know something about it , and I 'm just go back to find out . ''
She waste no time think about it , but begin to steal back the way she have come .
Now , no one be light of foot than old Granny Fox , and no one know well how to keep out of sight .
From tree to tree she crawl , sometimes flat on her stomach , until at last she reach the foot of the hill where she have just have such a fright .
There be nothing to be see there , but up at the top of the hill she saw something that make a fierce , angry gleam come into her yellow eye .
Then she smile grimly .
`` The last laugh always be the best laugh , and this time I guess it be go to be mine , '' she say to herself .
Very slowly and carefully , so a not to so much a rustle a leaf , she begin to crawl around so a to come up on the back side of the hill .
Now what old Granny Fox have see be Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum rolling over and over in the dried leaf , turn somersault , and shout and laugh , while Prickly Porky sit look on and smile .
Granny know well enough what be tickle them so , and she know too that they do n't dream but that she be still run away in fright .
At last they be so tired with their good time that they just have to stop for a rest .
`` Oh , dear , I 'm all out of breath , '' pant Peter , a he throw himself flat on the ground .
`` That be the funny thing I ever saw .
I wonder who we -- '' Peter do n't finish .
No , Sir , Peter do n't finish .
Instead , he give a frightened shriek a something red flash out from under a low-growing hemlock-tree close behind him , and two black paw pin him down , and sharp teeth catch him by the back of the neck .
Old Granny Fox have catch Peter Rabbit at last !
XVIII A FRIEND IN NEED IS A FRIEND INDEED The friendship which be truest , best , Is that which meet the trouble test .
No one really know who his best friend be until he get in trouble .
When everything be lovely and there be no sign of trouble anywhere , one may have ever and ever so many friend .
At least , it may seem so .
But let trouble come , and all too often these seem friend disappear a if by magic , until only a few , sometimes a very few , be leave .
These be the real friend , the true friend , and they be worth more than all the others put together .
Remember that if you be a true friend to any one , you will stand by him and help him , no matter what happen .
Sometimes it be almost worth while get into trouble just to find out who your real friend be .
Peter Rabbit find out who some of his true friend be when , because of his own carelessness , old Granny Fox catch him .
Peter have be in many tight place and have many terrible fright in his life , but never do he feel quite so helpless and hopeless a when he felt the black paw of old Granny Fox pin him down and Granny 's sharp teeth in the loose skin on the back of his neck .
All he could do be to kick with all his might , and kicking be quite useless , for Granny take great care to keep out of the way of those stout hind leg of his .
Many , many time Granny Fox have try to catch Peter , and always before Peter have be too smart for her , and have just make fun of her and laugh at her .
Now it be her turn to laugh , all because he have be careless and foolish .
You see , Peter have be so sure that Granny have have such a fright when she run away from the strange creature that roll down Prickly Porky 's hill at her that she would n't think of come back , and so he have just give himself up to enjoy Granny 's fright .
At Peter 's scream of fright , Unc ' Billy Possum scamper for the near tree , and Jimmy Skunk dodge behind a big stump .
You see , it be so sudden that they really do n't know what have happen .
But Prickly Porky , whom some people call stupid , make no move to run away .
He happen to be look at Peter when Granny catch him , and so he know just what it mean .
A spark of anger flash in his usually dull eye and for once in his life Prickly Porky move quickly .
The thousand little spear hide in his coat suddenly stand on end and Prickly Porky make a fierce little rush forward .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Drop him ! ''
he grunt .
Page 89 .
-RSB- `` Drop him ! ''
he grunt .
Granny Fox just snarl and back away , drag Peter with her and keep him between Prickly Porky and herself .
By this time Jimmy Skunk have recover himself .
You know he be not afraid of anybody or anything .
He spring out from behind the stump , look a wee bit shame-faced , and start for old Granny Fox .
`` You let Peter Rabbit go ! ''
he command in a very threatening way .
Now the reason Jimmy Skunk be afraid of nobody be because he carry with him a little bag of very strong perfume which make everybody sick but himself .
Granny Fox know all about this .
For just a minute she hesitate .
Then she think that if Jimmy use it , it would be a bad for Peter a for her , and she do n't believe Jimmy would use it .
So she keep on back away , drag Peter with her .
Then Unc ' Billy Possum take a hand , and his be the brave deed of all , for he know that Granny be more than a match for him in a fight .
He slip down from the tree where he have seek safety , crept around behind Granny , and bite her sharply on one heel .
Granny let go of Peter to turn and snap at Unc ' Billy .
This be Peter 's chance .
He slip out from under Granny 's paw and in a flash be behind Prickly Porky .
XIX JIMMY SKUNK TAKES WORD TO MRS. PETER When old Granny Fox find Prickly Porky , with his thousand little spear all pointing at her , stand between her and Peter Rabbit , she be the angry old Fox ever see .
She do n't dare touch Prickly Porky , for she know well enough what it would mean to get one of those sharp , barb little spear in her skin .
To think that she actually have catch Peter Rabbit and then lose him be too provoking !
It be more than her temper , never of the best , could stand .
In her anger she dig up the leaf and earth with her hind foot , and all the time her tongue fairly fly a she call Prickly Porky , Jimmy Skunk , and Unc ' Billy Possum everything bad she could think of .
Her yellow eye snap so that it seem almost a if spark of fire flew from them .
It make Peter shiver just to look at her .
Unc ' Billy Possum , who , by slip up behind her and bite one of her heel , have make her let go of Peter , grin down at her from a safe place in a tree .
Jimmy Skunk stand grin at her in the most provoking manner , and she could n't do a thing about it , because she have no desire to have Jimmy use his little bag of perfume .
So she talk herself out and then with many part threat of what she would do , she start for home .
Unc ' Billy notice that she limp a little with the foot he have nip so hard , and he could n't help feel just a little bit sorry for her .
When she have go , the others turn to Peter Rabbit to see how badly he have be hurt .
They look him all over and find that he be n't much the worse for his rough experience .
He be rather stiff and lame , and the back of his neck be very sore where Granny Fox have seize him , but he would be quite himself in a day or two .
`` I must get home now , '' say he in a rather faint voice .
`` Mrs. Peter will be sure that something have happen to me and will be worry almost to death . ''
`` No , you do n't ! ''
declare Jimmy Skunk .
`` You be go to stay right here where we can take care of you .
It would n't be safe for you to try to go to the Old Briar-patch now , because if you should meet Old Man Coyote or Reddy Fox or Whitetail the Marshhawk , you would not be able to run fast enough to get away .
I will go down and tell Mrs. Peter , and you will make yourself comfortable in the old house behind that stump where I be hide . ''
Peter try to insist on go home , but the others would n't hear of it , and Jimmy Skunk settle the matter by start for the dear Old Briar-patch .
He find little Mrs. Peter anxiously look towards the Green Forest for some sign of Peter .
`` Oh ! ''
she cry , `` you have come to bring me bad news .
Do tell me quickly what have happen to Peter ! ''
`` Nothing much have happen to Peter , '' reply Jimmy promptly .
Then in the droll way he tell all about the fright of Granny Fox when she first saw the terrible creature roll down the hill and all that happen after , but he take great care to make light of Peter 's escape , and explain that he be just go to rest up there on Prickly Porky 's hill for that day and would be home the next night .
But little Mrs. Peter be n't wholly satisfy .
`` I 've beg him and beg him to keep away from the Green Forest , '' say she , `` but now if he be hurt so that he ca n't come home , he need me , and I 'm go straight up there myself ! ''
Nothing that Jimmy could say have the least effect , and so at last he agree to take her to Peter .
And so , hop behind Jimmy Skunk , timid little Mrs. Peter Rabbit actually go into the Green Forest of which she be so much afraid , which show how brave love can be sometimes .
XX A PLOT TO FRIGHTEN OLD MAN COYOTE Mischief lead to mischief , for it be almost sure To never , never be content without a little more .
Now you would think that after Peter Rabbit 's very , very , narrow escape from the clutch of Old Granny Fox that Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , Peter Rabbit , and Prickly Porky would have be satisfy with the prank they already have play .
No , Sir , they be not !
You see , when danger be over , it be quickly forget .
No sooner have Peter be make comfortable in the old house behind the big stump on the hill where Prickly Porky live than the four scamp begin to wonder who else they could scare with the terrible creature without head , legs , or tail which have so frightened Reddy and Old Granny Fox .
`` There be Old Man Coyote ; he be forever frighten those small and weak than himself .
I 'd just love to see him run , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` The very one ! ''
cry Jimmy Skunk .
`` I wonder if he would be afraid .
You know he be even smart than Granny Fox , and though she be frighten at first , she soon get over it .
How do you suppose we can get him over here ? ''
`` We-uns will take Brer Jay into our secret .
Brer Jay will tell Brer Coyote that Brer Rabbit be up here on Brer Porky 's hill , hurt so that he ca n't get home , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` That 's all Brer Jay need to say .
Brer Coyote be gwine to come up here hot foot with his tongue hang out fo ' that dinner he 's sho ' be wait fo ' him here . ''
`` You wo n't do anything of the kind ! ''
speak up little Mrs. Peter , who , you know , have bravely leave the dear Old Briar-patch and come up here in the Green Forest to take care of Peter .
`` Peter have have trouble enough already , and I 'm not go to let him have any more , so there ! ''
`` Peter be n't go to get into any trouble , '' speak up Jimmy Skunk .
`` Peter and you be go to be just as safe a if you be over in the Old Briar-patch , for you will be in that old house where nothing can harm you .
Now , please , Mrs. Peter , do n't be foolish .
You do n't like Old Man Coyote , do you ?
You 'd like to see him get a great scare to make up for the scare he have give Peter and you , would n't you ? ''
Little Mrs. Peter be force to admit that she would , and after a little more teasing she finally agree to let them try their plan for give Old Man Coyote a scare .
Sammy Jay happen along just a Jimmy Skunk be start out to look for him , and when he be tell what be want of him , he agree to do his part .
You know Sammy be always ready for any mischief .
Just a he start to look for Old Man Coyote , Unc ' Billy Possum make another suggestion .
`` We-uns have have a lot of fun with Reddy and Granny Fox , '' say he , `` and now it seem to me that it be no more than fair to invite them over to see Old Man Coyote and what he will do when he first see the terrible creature that have frighten them so .
Granny know now that there be nothing to be afraid of , and perhaps she will forget her anger if she have a chance to see Old Man Coyote run away .
Yo ' know she be n't waste any love on him .
What do yo ' alls say ? ''
Peter and Mrs. Peter say `` No ! ''
right away , but Jimmy Skunk and Prickly Porky think it a good idea , and of course Sammy Jay be willing .
After a little , when it be once more point out to them how they would be perfectly safe in the old house behind the big stump , Peter and Mrs. Peter agree , and Sammy start off on his errand .
XXI SAMMY JAY DELIVERS HIS MESSAGE Sammy Jay have be the bearer of so many message that no one know good than he how to deliver one .
He know when to be polite , and no one can be more polite than he .
First he go over to the home of Reddy and Granny Fox and invite them to come over to the hill where Prickly Porky live and see the terrible creature which have frighten them so give Old Man Coyote a scare .
Both Reddy and Granny promptly say they would do nothing of the kind , that probably Sammy be engage in some kind of mischief , and that anyway they know that there be no such creature without head , legs , or tail , and though they have be fool once , they do n't propose to be fool again .
`` All right , '' reply Sammy , quite a if it make no difference to him .
`` You admit that smart a you be you be fool , and we think you might like to see the same thing happen to Old Man Coyote . ''
With this he fly on his way to the Green Meadows to look for Old Man Coyote , and a he fly he chuckle to himself .
`` They 'll be there , '' he mutter .
`` I know them well enough to know that nothing would keep them away when there be a chance to see some one else frighten , especially Old Man Coyote .
They 'll try to keep out of sight , but they 'll be there . ''
Sammy find Old Man Coyote take a sun-bath .
`` Good morning , Mr. Coyote .
I hope you be feel well , '' say Sammy in his politest manner .
`` Fairly , fairly , thank you , '' reply Old Man Coyote , all the time watch Sammy sharply out of the corner of his shrewd eye .
`` What 's the news in the Green Forest ? ''
`` There be n't any , that be , none to amount to anything , '' declare Sammy .
`` I never do see such a dull summer .
Is there any news down here on the Green Meadows ?
I hear Danny Meadow Mouse have find his lose baby . ''
`` So I hear , '' reply Old Man Coyote .
`` I try to find it for him .
You know I believe in be neighborly . ''
Sammy grin , for a he say this , Old Man Coyote have wink one eye ever so little , and Sammy know very well that if he have find that lose baby , Danny Meadow Mouse would never have see him again .
`` By the way , '' say Sammy in the most matter-of-fact tone , `` a I be come through the Green Forest , I saw Peter Rabbit over on the hill where Prickly Porky live , and Peter seem to have be in some kind of trouble .
He be so lame that he say he do n't dare try to go home to the Old Briar-patch for fear that he might meet some one look for a Rabbit dinner , and he know that , feel a he do , he would n't be able to save himself .
Peter be go to come to a bad end some day if he do n't watch out . ''
`` That depend on what you call a bad end , '' reply Old Man Coyote with a sly grin .
`` It might be bad for Peter and at the same time be very good for some one else . ''
Sammy laugh right out .
`` That 's one way of look at it , '' say he .
`` Well , I should hate to have anything happen to Peter , because I have lot of fun quarrel with him and should miss him dreadfully .
I think I 'll go up to the Old Orchard and see what be go on there . ''
Off flew Sammy in the direction of the Old Orchard , and once more he chuckle a he fly .
He have see Old Man Coyote 's ear prick up ever so little when he have mention that Peter be over in the Green Forest so lame that he do n't dare go home .
`` Old Man Coyote will start for the Green Forest as soon a I be out of sight , '' think Sammy .
And that be just what Old Man Coyote do .
XXII OLD MAN COYOTE LOSES HIS APPETITE Hardly be Sammy Jay out of sight , fly towards the Old Orchard , before Old Man Coyote start for the Green Forest .
He be very sharp , be Old Man Coyote , so sharp that it be not very often that he be fool .
If Sammy Jay have go to him and tell him what a splendid chance he would have to catch Peter Rabbit if he hurry up to the Green Forest right away , Old Man Coyote would have suspect a trick of some kind .
Sammy have be clever enough to know this .
So he have just mention in the most matter-of-fact way that he have see Peter over on Prickly Porky 's hill and that Peter appear to have be in trouble , so that he be too lame to go to his home in the dear Old Briar-patch .
There be n't even a hint that Old Man Coyote should go over there .
This be what make him sure that the news about Peter be probably true .
Now as soon a Sammy be sure that Old Man Coyote could n't see him , he head straight for the Green Forest and the hill where Prickly Porky , Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , and Peter and Mrs. Peter Rabbit be wait .
As he fly , he saw Reddy Fox and old Granny Fox stretch flat behind an old log some distance away , but where they could see all that might happen .
`` I know they would be on hand , '' he chuckle .
When he reach the others , he report that he have deliver the message to Old Man Coyote , and that he be very sure , in fact he be positive , that Old Man Coyote be already on his way there in the hope that he would be able to catch Peter Rabbit .
It be decide that everybody but Peter should get out of sight at once .
So Unc ' Billy Possum climb a tree .
Jimmy Skunk crawl into a hollow log .
Sammy Jay hid in the thick part of a hemlock tree .
Prickly Porky get behind a big stump right at the top of the hill .
Little Mrs. Peter , with her heart go pit-a-pat , creep into the old house between the root of this same old stump , and only Peter be to be see when at last Old Man Coyote come tiptoe along the hollow at the foot of the hill , as noiseless a a gray shadow .
He saw Peter almost as soon a Peter saw him , and the instant he saw him , he stop as still a if he be make of stone .
Peter take a couple of step , and it be very plain to see that he be lame , just a Sammy Jay have say .
`` That good-for-nothing Jay tell the truth for once , '' think Old Man Coyote , with a hungry gleam in his eye .
Whenever Old Man Coyote think that Peter be not look his way , he would crawl on his stomach from one tree to another , always get a little nearer to Peter .
He would lie perfectly still when Peter seem to be look towards him .
Now of course Peter know just what be go on , and he take the great care not to get more than a couple of jump away from the old house under the big stump , where Mrs. Peter be hide and wish with all her might that she and Peter be back in the dear Old Briar-patch .
It be very still in the Green Forest save for the song of happiness of Redeye the Vireo who , if he know what be go on , make no sign .
My , but it be excite to those who be watch !
Old Man Coyote have creep half-way up the hill , and Peter be wonder how much nearer he could let him get with safety , when a sudden grunting break out right behind him .
Peter know what it mean and jump to one side .
Then down the hill , roll straight towards Old Man Coyote , start the strange , headless , tailess , legless creature that have so frightened Reddy and Granny Fox .
Old Man Coyote take one good look , hesitate , look again , and then turn tail and start for the Green Meadows as fast a his long leg would take him .
It be plain to see that he be afraid , very much afraid .
Quite suddenly he have lose his appetite .
XXIII BUSTER BEAR GIVES IT ALL AWAY It be very clear that Old Man Coyote be n't think about his stomach just then , but about his leg and how fast they could go .
He have be half-way up the hill when he first saw the terrible creature without head , tail , or legs roll down straight at him .
He stop only long enough for one good look and then he start for the bottom of the hill as fast a he could make his leg go .
Now , it be a very bad plan to run fast down-hill .
Yes , Sir , it be a very bad plan .
You see , once you be start , it be not the easy thing in the world to stop .
And then again , you be quite likely to stub your toe .
This be what Old Man Coyote do .
He stub his toe and turn a complete somersault .
He look so funny that the little scamps watch him have all they could do to keep from shout right out .
Old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox , look on from a safe distance , do laugh .
You know they have not be friendly with Old Man Coyote since he come to live on the Green Meadows , and a they have themselves have a terrible fright when they first saw the strange creature , they rejoice in see him frightened .
But Old Man Coyote do n't stop for a little thing like a tumble .
Oh , my , no !
He just roll over on to his foot and be off again , hard than before .
Now there be very few people who can see behind them without turn their head a Peter Rabbit can , and Old Man Coyote be not one of them .
Trying to watch behind him , he do n't see where he be go , and the first thing he know he run bump into -- guess who !
Why , Buster Bear , to be sure .
Where Buster have come from nobody knew , but there he be , as big a life .
When Old Man Coyote run into him , he growl a deep , provoked growl and whirl around with one big paw raise to cuff whoever have so nearly upset him .
Old Man Coyote , more frightened than ever , yelp and run hard than before , so that by the time Buster Bear saw who it be who have run into him , he be safely out of reach and still run .
Then it be that Buster Bear first saw , roll down the hill , the strange creature which have so frightened Old Man Coyote .
Unc ' Billy Possum , Jimmy Skunk , Sammy Jay , Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Peter , watch from safe hiding place , wonder if Buster would run too .
If he do , it would be almost too good to be true .
But he do n't .
He look first at the strange creature roll down the hill , then at Old Man Coyote run as hard a ever he could , and his shrewd little eye begin to twinkle .
Then he begin to laugh .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ho !
I see you be up to your old trick , Prickly Porky ! ''
he shout , a the strange creature roll past , almost over his toe and bring up against a little tree at the foot of the hill .
-LSB- Illustration : `` I see you be up to your old trick , Prickly Porky ! ''
he shout .
Page 114 .
-RSB- Old Man Coyote hear him and stop short and turn to see what it mean .
Very slowly the strange creature unroll and turn over .
There be a head now and a tail and four leg .
It be none other than Prickly Porky himself !
There be no doubt about it , though he still look very strange , for he be cover with dead leaf which cling to the thousand little spear hide in his coat .
Prickly Porky grin .
`` You should n't have give me away , Buster Bear , just because you have see me roll down hill before in the Great Woods where we both come from , '' say he .
`` I think it be high time I do , '' reply Buster Bear , still chuckle .
`` You might have scar somebody to death down here where they do n't know you . ''
Then everybody come out of their hiding place , laugh and talk all at once , a they tell Buster Bear of the joke they have play on Old Man Coyote , and how it have all grow out of the fright Peter Rabbit have receive when he just happen along a Prickly Porky be roll down hill just for fun .
As for Old Man Coyote , he sneak away , grind his teeth angrily .
Like a great many other people , he could n't take a joke on himself .
So Prickly Porky make himself at home in the Green Forest and take his place among the little people who live there .
In just the same way Old Man Coyote come a a stranger to the Green Meadows and establish himself there .
In the next book you may read all about how he come to the Green Meadows and of some of his adventure there and in the Green Forest .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Reddy_Fox.txt.out
I. Granny Fox Gives Reddy a Scare Reddy Fox live with Granny Fox .
You see , Reddy be one of a large family , so large that Mother Fox have hard work to fee so many hungry little mouth and so she have let Reddy go to live with old Granny Fox .
Granny Fox be the wise , sly , smart fox in all the country round , and now that Reddy have grow so big , she think it about time that he begin to learn the thing that every fox should know .
So every day she take him hunt with her and teach him all the thing that she have learn about hunting : about how to steal Farmer Brown 's chicken without awaken Bowser the Hound , and all about the thousand and one way of fool a dog which she have learn .
This morning Granny Fox have take Reddy across the Green Meadows , up through the Green Forest , and over to the railroad track .
Reddy have never be there before and he do n't know just what to make of it .
Granny trot ahead until they come to a long bridge .
Then she stop .
`` Come here , Reddy , and look down , '' she command .
Reddy do a he be tell , but a glance down make him giddy , so giddy that he nearly fell .
Granny Fox grin .
`` Come across , '' say she , and run lightly across to the other side .
But Reddy Fox be afraid .
Yes , Sir , he be afraid to take one step on the long bridge .
He be afraid that he would fall through into the water or onto the cruel rock below .
Granny Fox run back to where Reddy sit .
`` For shame , Reddy Fox ! ''
say she .
`` What be you afraid of ?
Just do n't look down and you will be safe enough .
Now come along over with me . ''
But Reddy Fox hang back and beg to go home and whimper .
Suddenly Granny Fox sprang to her foot , a if in great fright .
`` Bowser the Hound !
Come , Reddy , come ! ''
she cry , and start across the bridge as fast a she could go .
Reddy do n't stop to look or to think .
His one idea be to get away from Bowser the Hound .
`` Wait , Granny !
Wait ! ''
he cry , and start after her as fast a he could run .
He be in the middle of the bridge before he remember it at all .
When he be at last safely across , it be to find old Granny Fox sit down laugh at him .
Then for the first time Reddy look behind him to see where Bowser the Hound might be .
He be nowhere to be see .
Could he have fall off the bridge ?
`` Where be Bowser the Hound ? ''
cry Reddy .
`` Home in Farmer Brown 's dooryard , '' reply Granny Fox dryly .
Reddy star at her for a minute .
Then he begin to understand that Granny Fox have simply scar him into run across the bridge .
Reddy felt very cheap , very cheap indeed .
`` Now we 'll run back again , '' say Granny Fox .
And this time Reddy do .
II .
Granny Shows Reddy a Trick Every day Granny Fox lead Reddy Fox over to the long railroad bridge and make him run back and forth across it until he have no fear of it whatever .
At first it have make him dizzy , but now he could run across at the top of his speed and not mind it in the least .
`` I do n't see what good it do to be able to run across a bridge ; anyone can do that ! ''
exclaim Reddy one day .
Granny Fox smile .
`` Do you remember the first time you try to do it ? ''
she ask .
Reddy hang his head .
Of course he remember -- remember that Granny have have to scare him into cross that first time .
Suddenly Granny Fox lift her head .
`` Hark ! ''
she exclaim .
Reddy prick up his sharp , pointed ear .
Way off back , in the direction from which they have come , they hear the baying of a dog .
It be n't the voice of Bowser the Hound but of a young dog .
Granny listen for a few minute .
The voice of the dog grow loud a it draw nearer .
`` He certainly be follow our track , '' say Granny Fox .
`` Now , Reddy , you run across the bridge and watch from the top of the little hill over there .
Perhaps I can show you a trick that will teach you why I have make you learn to run across the bridge . ''
Reddy trot across the long bridge and up to the top of the hill , a Granny have tell him to .
Then he sit down to watch .
Granny trot out in the middle of a field and sit down .
Pretty soon a young hound break out of the bush , his nose in Granny 's track .
Then he look up and saw her , and his voice grow still more savage and eager .
Granny Fox start to run as soon a she be sure that the hound have see her , but she do not run very fast .
Reddy do not know what to make of it , for Granny seem simply to be play with the hound and not really try to get away from him at all .
Pretty soon Reddy hear another sound .
It be a long , low rumble .
Then there be a distant whistle .
It be a train .
Granny hear it , too .
As she run , she begin to work back toward the long bridge .
The train be in sight now .
Suddenly Granny Fox start across the bridge so fast that she look like a little red streak .
The dog be close at her heel when she start and he be so eager to catch her that he do n't see either the bridge or the train .
But he could n't begin to run as fast a Granny Fox .
Oh , my , no !
When she have reach the other side , he be n't halfway across , and right behind him , whistle for him to get out of the way , be the train .
The hound give one frightened yelp , and then he do the only thing he could do ; he leap down , down into the swift water below , and the last Reddy saw of him he be frantically try to swim ashore .
`` Now you know why I want you to learn to cross a bridge ; it 's a very nice way of get rid of dog , '' say Granny Fox , a she climb up beside Reddy .
III .
Bowser the Hound Is n't Fooled Reddy Fox have be teach so much by Granny Fox that he begin to feel very wise and very important .
Reddy be naturally smart and he have be very quick to learn the trick that old Granny Fox have teach him .
But Reddy Fox be a boaster .
Every day he swagger about on the Green Meadows and brag how smart he be .
Blacky the Crow grow tire of Reddy 's boasting .
`` If you 're so smart , what be the reason you always keep out of sight of Bowser the Hound ? ''
ask Blacky .
`` For my part , I do n't believe that you be smart enough to fool him . ''
A lot of little meadow people hear Blacky say this , and Reddy know it .
He also know that if he do n't prove Blacky in the wrong he would be laugh at forever after .
Suddenly he remember the trick that Granny Fox have play on the young hound at the railroad bridge .
Why not play the same trick on Bowser and invite Blacky the Crow to see him do it ?
He would .
`` If you will be over at the railroad bridge when the train come this afternoon , I 'll show you how easy it be to fool Bowser the Hound , '' say Reddy .
Blacky agree to be there , and Reddy start off to find out where Bowser be .
Blacky tell everyone he meet how Reddy Fox have promise to fool Bowser the Hound , and every time he tell it he chuckle as if he think it the best joke ever .
Blacky the Crow be on hand promptly that afternoon and with him come his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Presently they saw Reddy Fox hurry across the field , and behind him in full cry come Bowser the Hound .
Just a old Granny Fox have do with the young hound , Reddy allow Bowser to get very near him and then , a the train come roar along , he race across the long bridge just ahead of it .
He have think that Bowser would be so intent on catch him that he would not notice the train until he be on the bridge and it be too late , a have be the case with the young hound .
Then Bowser would have to jump down into the swift river or be run over .
As soon a Reddy be across the bridge , he jump off the track and turn to see what would happen to Bowser the Hound .
The train be halfway across the bridge , but Bowser be nowhere to be see .
He must have jump already .
Reddy sit down and grin in the most self-satisfied way .
The long train roar past , and Reddy close his eye to shut out the dust and smoke .
When he open them again , he look right into the wide-open mouth of Bowser the Hound , who be not ten foot away .
`` Did you think you could fool me with that old trick ? ''
roar Bowser .
Reddy do n't stop to make reply ; he just start off at the top of his speed , a badly frighten little fox .
You see , Bowser the Hound know all about that trick and he have just wait until the train have pass and then have run across the bridge right behind it .
And a Reddy Fox , out of breath and tire , run to seek the aid of Granny Fox in get rid of Bowser the Hound , he hear a sound that make him grind his teeth .
`` Haw , haw , haw !
How smart we be ! ''
It be Blacky the Crow .
IV .
Reddy Fox Grows Bold Reddy Fox be grow bold .
Everybody say so , and what everybody say must be so .
Reddy Fox have always be very sly and not bold at all .
The truth be Reddy Fox have so many time fool Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy that he have begin to think himself very smart indeed .
He have really fool himself .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox have fool himself .
He think himself so smart that nobody could fool him .
Now it be one of the bad habit in the world to think too much of one 's self .
And Reddy Fox have the habit .
Oh , my , yes !
Reddy Fox certainly do have the habit !
When anyone mention Bowser the Hound , Reddy would turn up his nose and say : `` Pooh !
It 's the easy thing in the world to fool him . ''
You see , he have forget all about the time Bowser have fool him at the railroad bridge .
Whenever Reddy saw Farmer Brown 's boy he would say with the great scorn : `` Who 's afraid of him ?
Not I ! ''
So a Reddy Fox think more and more of his own smartness , he grow bolder and bolder .
Almost every night he visit Farmer Brown 's henyard .
Farmer Brown set traps all around the yard , but Reddy always find them and keep out of them .
It get so that Unc ' Billy Possum and Jimmy Skunk do n't dare go to the henhouse for egg any more , for fear that they would get into one of the trap set for Reddy Fox .
Of course they miss those fresh egg and of course they blame Reddy Fox .
`` Never mind , '' say Jimmy Skunk , scowl down on the Green Meadows where Reddy Fox be take a sun bath , `` Farmer Brown 's boy will get him yet !
I hope he do ! ''
Jimmy say this a little spitefully and just a if he really mean it .
Now when people think that they be very , very smart , they like to show off .
You know it be n't any fun at all to feel smart unless others can see how smart you be .
So Reddy Fox , just to show off , grow very bold , very bold indeed .
He actually go up to Farmer Brown 's henyard in broad daylight , and almost under the nose of Bowser the Hound he catch the pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy .
` Ol Mistah Buzzard , sail overhead high up in the blue , blue sky , saw Reddy Fox and shake his bald head : `` Ah see Trouble on the way ; Yes , Ah do !
Yes , Ah do !
Hope it ai n't a-gwine to stay ; Yes , Ah do !
Yes , Ah do !
Trouble be a spry ol ' man , Bound to find yo ' if he can ; If he find yo ' bound to stick .
When Ah see him , Ah run quick !
Yes , Ah do !
Yes , Ah do ! ''
But Reddy Fox think himself so smart that it seem a if he really be hunt for Ol ' Mr. Trouble .
And when he catch the pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy , Ol ' Mr. Trouble be right at his heel .
V. Reddy Grows Careless Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be right .
Trouble be right at the heel of Reddy Fox , although Reddy would n't have believe it if he have be tell .
He have steal that plump pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy for no reason under the sun but to show off .
He want everyone to know how bold he be .
He think himself so smart that he could do just exactly what he please and no one could stop him .
He like to strut around through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows and brag about what he have do and what he could do .
Now people who brag and boast and who like to show off be almost sure to come to grief .
And when they do , very few people be sorry for them .
None of the little meadow and forest people like Reddy Fox , anyway , and they be get so tire of his boast that they just ache to see him get into trouble .
Yes , Sir , they just ache to see Reddy get into trouble .
Peter Rabbit , happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit , shake his head gravely when he hear how Reddy have steal that pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy , and be boast about it to everyone .
`` Reddy Fox be get so puff up that pretty soon he wo n't be able to see his own foot , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Well , what if he do n't ? ''
demand Jimmy Skunk .
Peter look at Jimmy in disgust : `` He come to grief , however fleet , Who do n't watch his fly foot .
`` Jimmy Skunk , if you do n't have that little bag of scent that everybody be afraid of , you would be a lot more careful where you step , '' reply Peter .
`` If Reddy do n't watch out , someday he 'll step right into a trap . ''
Jimmy Skunk chuckle .
`` I wish he would ! ''
say he .
Now when Farmer Brown 's boy heard about the boldness of Reddy Fox , he shut his mouth tight in a way that be unpleasant to see and reach for his gun .
`` I ca n't afford to raise chicken to fee fox ! ''
say he .
Then he whistle for Bowser the Hound , and together they start out .
It be n't long before Bowser find Reddy 's track .
`` Bow , wow , wow , wow ! ''
roar Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox , take a nap on the edge of the Green Forest , hear Bowser 's big , deep voice .
He prick up his ear , then he grin .
`` I feel just like a good run today , '' say he , and trot off along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
Now this be a beautiful summer day and Reddy know that in summer men and boy seldom hunt fox .
`` It 's only Bowser the Hound , '' think Reddy , `` and when I 've have a good run , I 'll play a trick on him so that he will lose my track . ''
So Reddy do n't use his eye a he should have do .
You see , he think himself so smart that he have grow careless .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox have grow careless .
He keep look back to see where Bowser the Hound be , but do n't look around to make sure that no other danger be near .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , sail round and round , way up in the blue , blue sky , could see everything go on down below .
He could see Reddy Fox run along the edge of the Green Forest and every few minute stop to chuckle and listen to Bowser the Hound try to pick out the trail Reddy have make so hard to follow by his twist and turn .
And he saw something else , do Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
It look to him very much like the barrel of a gun stick out from behind an old tree just ahead of Reddy .
`` Ah reckon it 's just like Ah say : Reddy Fox be gwine to meet trouble right smart soon , '' mutter Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
VI .
Drummer the Woodpecker Drums in Vain Once upon a time , before he have grow to think himself so very , very smart , Reddy Fox would never , never have think of run without watch out in every direction .
He would have see that thing that look like the barrel of a gun stick out from behind the old tree toward which he be run , and he would have be very suspicious , very suspicious indeed .
But now all Reddy could think of be what a splendid chance he have to show all the little meadow and forest people what a bold , smart fellow he be .
So once more Reddy sit down and wait until Bowser the Hound be almost up to him .
Just then Drummer the Woodpecker begin to make a tremendous noise -- rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Now everybody who hear that rat-a-tat-tat-tat know that it be a danger signal .
Drummer the Woodpecker never drum just that way for pleasure .
But Reddy Fox pay no attention to it .
He do n't notice it at all .
You see , he be so full of the idea of his own smartness that he do n't have room for anything else .
`` Stupid thing ! ''
say Drummer the Woodpecker to himself .
`` I do n't know what I be try to warn him for , anyway .
The Green Meadows and the Green Forest would be good off without him , a lot good off !
Nobody like him .
He 's a dreadful bully and be all the time try to catch or scare to death those who be small than he .
Still , he be so handsome ! ''
Drummer cock his head on one side and look over at Reddy Fox .
Reddy be laugh to see how hard Bowser the Hound be work to untangle Reddy 's mixed-up trail .
`` Yes , Sir , he certainly be handsome , '' say Drummer once more .
Then he look down at the foot of the old tree on which he be sit , and what he saw cause Drummer to make up his mind .
`` I surely would miss see that beautiful red coat of his !
I surely would ! ''
he mutter .
`` If he do n't hear and heed now , it wo n't be my fault ! ''
Then Drummer the Woodpecker begin such a furious rat-a-tat-tat-tat on the trunk of the old tree that it ring through the Green Forest and out across the Green Meadows almost to the Purple Hills .
Down at the foot of the tree a freckled face on which there be a black scowl look up .
It be the face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` What ail that pesky woodpecker ? ''
he mutter .
`` If he do n't keep still , he 'll scare that fox ! ''
He shake a fist at Drummer , but Drummer do n't appear to notice .
He keep right on , rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
VII .
Too Late Reddy Fox Hears Drummer the Woodpecker be pound out his danger signal so fast and so hard that his red head fly back and forth almost too fast to see .
Rat-a-tat-tat-a-tat-tat , beat Drummer on the old tree trunk on the edge of the Green Forest .
When he stop for breath , he look down into the scowl face of Farmer Brown 's boy , who be hide behind the old tree trunk .
Drummer do n't like the look of that scowl , not a bit .
And he do n't like the look of the gun which Farmer Brown 's boy have .
He know that Farmer Brown 's boy be hide there to shoot Reddy Fox , but Drummer be begin to be afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy might guess what all that drum meant -- that it be a warning to Reddy Fox .
And if Farmer Brown 's boy do guess that , why -- why -- anyway , on the other side of the tree there be a good place to drum .
So Drummer the Woodpecker crept around to the other side of the tree and in a minute be drum hard than ever .
Whenever he stop for breath , he look out over the Green Meadows to see if Reddy Fox have hear his warning .
But if Reddy have hear , he have n't heed .
Just to show off before all the little meadow and forest people , Reddy have wait until Bowser the Hound have almost reach him .
Then , with a saucy flirt of his tail , Reddy Fox start to show how fast he could run , and that be very fast indeed .
It make Bowser the Hound seem very slow , a , with his nose to the ground , he come race after Reddy , make a tremendous noise with his great voice .
Now Reddy Fox have grow as careless a he have grow bold .
Instead of look sharply ahead , he look this way and that way to see who be watch and admire him .
So he take no note of where he be go and start straight for the old tree trunk on which Drummer the Woodpecker be pound out his warning of danger .
Now Reddy Fox have sharp eye and very quick ear .
My , my , indeed he have !
But just now Reddy be as deaf a if he have cotton stuff in his ear .
He be chuckle to himself to think how he be go to fool Bowser the Hound and how smart everyone would think him , when all of a sudden , he hear the rat-a-tat-tata-tat-tat of Drummer the Woodpecker and know that that mean `` Danger ! ''
For just a wee little second it seem to Reddy Fox that his heart stop beat .
He could n't stop running , for he have let Bowser the Hound get too close for that .
Reddy 's sharp eye saw Drummer the Woodpecker near the top of the old tree trunk and notice that Drummer seem to be look at something down below .
Reddy Fox give one quick look at the foot of the old tree trunk and saw a gun point at him and behind the gun the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Reddy Fox give a little gasp of fright and turn so suddenly that he almost fell flat .
Then he begin to run as never in his life have he run before .
It seem a though his fly foot hardly touch the grass .
His eye be pop out with fright a with every jump he try to run just a wee bit faster .
Bang !
Bang !
Two flash of fire and two puff of smoke dart from behind the old tree trunk .
Drummer the Woodpecker give a frightened scream and flew deep into the Green Forest .
Peter Rabbit flatten himself under a friendly bramble bush .
Johnny Chuck dive headfirst down his doorway .
Reddy Fox give a yelp , a shrill little yelp of pain , and suddenly begin to go lame .
But Farmer Brown 's boy do n't know that .
He think he have miss and he growl to himself : `` I 'll get that fox yet for steal my pet chicken ! ''
VIII .
Granny Fox Takes Care of Reddy Reddy Fox be so sore and lame that he could hardly hobble .
He have have the hard kind of work to get far enough ahead of Bowser the Hound to mix his trail up so that Bowser could n't follow it .
Then he have limp home , big tear run down his nose , although he try hard not to cry .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Oh ! ''
moan Reddy Fox , a he creep in at the doorway of his home .
`` What 's the matter now ? ''
snap old Granny Fox , who have just wake up from a sun nap .
`` I -- I 've get hurt , '' say Reddy Fox , and begin to cry harder .
Granny Fox look at Reddy sharply .
`` What have you be do now -- tear your clothes on a barbed-wire fence or try to crawl through a bull-briar thicket ?
I should think you be big enough by this time to look out for yourself ! ''
say Granny Fox crossly , a she come over to look at Reddy 's hurt .
`` Please do n't scold , please do n't , Granny Fox , '' beg Reddy , who be begin to feel sick to his stomach as well a lame , and to smart dreadfully .
Granny Fox take one look at Reddy 's wound , and know right away what have happen .
She make Reddy stretch himself out at full length and then she go to work on him , wash his wound with the great care and bind them up .
She be very gentle , be old Granny Fox , a she touch the sore place , but all the time she be at work her tongue flew , and that be n't gentle at all .
Oh , my , no !
There be nothing gentle about that !
You see , old Granny Fox be wise and very , very sharp and shrewd .
Just as soon a she saw Reddy 's hurt , she know that they be make by shot from a gun , and that mean that Reddy Fox have be careless or he never , never would have be where he be in danger of be shot .
`` I hope this will teach you a lesson ! ''
say Granny Fox .
`` What be your eye and your ear and your nose for ?
To keep you out of just such trouble a this .
`` A little Fox must use his eye Or get someday a sad surprise .
`` A little Fox must use his ear And know what make each sound he hear .
`` A little Fox must use his nose And try the wind where'er he go .
`` A little Fox must use all three To live to grow as old a me .
`` Now tell me all about it , Reddy Fox .
This be summer and men do n't hunt foxes now .
I do n't see how it happen that Farmer Brown 's boy be wait for you with a gun . ''
So Reddy Fox tell Granny Fox all about how he have run too near the old tree trunk behind which Farmer Brown 's boy have be hide , but Reddy do n't tell how he have be try to show off , or how in broad daylight he have steal the pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy .
You may be sure he be very careful not to mention that .
And so old Granny Fox pucker up her brow and thought and thought , try to find some good reason why Farmer Brown 's boy should have be hunt in the summertime .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky the Crow .
The face of Granny Fox clear .
`` Blacky the Crow have be steal , and Farmer Brown 's boy be out after him when Reddy come along , '' say Granny Fox , talk out loud to herself .
Reddy Fox grow very red in the face , but he never say a word .
IX .
Peter Rabbit Hears the News Johnny Chuck come run up to the edge of the Old Briarpatch quite out of breath .
You see , he be so round and fat and roly-poly that to run make him puff and blow .
Johnny Chuck 's eye dance with excitement a he peer into the Old Briar-patch , try to see Peter Rabbit .
`` Peter !
Peter Rabbit !
Oh , Peter ! ''
he call .
No one answer .
Johnny Chuck look disappointed .
It be the middle of the morning , and he have think that Peter would surely be at home then .
He would try once more .
`` Oh , you Peter Rabbit ! ''
he shout in such a high-pitched voice that it be almost a squeal .
`` What you want ? ''
ask a sleepy voice from the middle of the Old Briar-patch .
Johnny Chuck 's face light up .
`` Come out here , Peter , where I can look at you , '' cry Johnny .
`` Go away , Johnny Chuck !
I 'm sleepy , '' say Peter Rabbit , and his voice sound just a wee bit cross , for Peter have be out all night , a habit which Peter have .
`` I 've get some news for you , Peter , '' call Johnny Chuck eagerly .
`` How do you know it 's news to me ? ''
ask Peter , and Johnny notice that his voice be n't quite so cross .
`` I 'm almost sure it be , for I 've just hear it myself , and I 've hurry right down here to tell you because I think you 'll want to know it , '' reply Johnny Chuck .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Peter Rabbit , `` it 's probably as old a the hill to me .
You folk who go to bed with the sun do n't hear the news until it 's old .
What be it ? ''
`` It 's about Reddy Fox , '' begin Johnny Chuck , but Peter Rabbit interrupt him .
`` Shucks , Johnny Chuck !
You be slow !
Why , it be all over Green Meadows last night how Reddy Fox have be shoot by Farmer Brown 's boy ! ''
jeered Peter Rabbit .
`` That 's no news .
And here you 've wake me up to tell me something I know before you go to bed last night !
Serves Reddy Fox right .
Hope he 'll be lame for a week , '' add Peter Rabbit .
`` He ca n't walk at all ! ''
cry Johnny Chuck in triumph , sure now that Peter Rabbit have n't hear the news .
`` What 's that ? ''
demand Peter , and Johnny Chuck could hear him begin to hop along one of his little private path in the heart of the Old Briar-patch .
He know now that Peter Rabbit 's curiosity be arouse , and he smile to himself .
In a few minute Peter thrust a sleepy-looking face out from the Old Briar-patch and grin rather sheepishly .
`` What be that you be say about Reddy Fox ? ''
he ask again .
`` I 've a good mind not to tell you , Mr. Know-it-all , '' exclaim Johnny Chuck .
`` Oh , please , Johnny Chuck , '' plead Peter Rabbit .
Finally Johnny give in .
`` I say that Reddy Fox ca n't walk .
Are n't you glad , Peter ? ''
`` How do you know ? ''
ask Peter , for Peter be very suspicious of Reddy Fox , and have to watch out for his trick all the time .
`` Jimmy Skunk tell me .
He be up by Reddy 's house early this morning and saw Reddy try to walk .
He try and tried and could n't .
You wo n't have to watch out for Reddy Fox for some time , Peter .
Serves him right , do n't it ? ''
`` Let 's go up and see if it really be true ! ''
say Peter suddenly .
`` All right , '' say Johnny Chuck , and off they start .
X . Poor Reddy Fox Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck steal up the hill toward the home of Reddy Fox .
As they draw near , they creep from one bunch of grass to another and from bush to bush , stop behind each to look and listen .
They be not take any chance .
Johnny Chuck be not much afraid of Reddy Fox , for he have whip him once , but he be afraid of old Granny Fox .
Peter Rabbit be afraid of both .
The nearer he get to the home of Reddy Fox , the more anxious and nervous he grow .
You see , Reddy Fox have play so many trick to try and catch Peter that Peter be not quite sure that this be not another trick .
So he keep a sharp watch in every direction , ready to run at the least sign of danger .
When they have tiptoe and crawl to a point where they could see the doorstep of the Fox home , Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck lay down in a clump of bush and watch .
Pretty soon they saw old Granny Fox come out .
She sniff the wind and then she start off at a quick run down the Lone Little Path .
Johnny Chuck give a sigh of relief , for he be n't afraid of Reddy and now he felt safe .
But Peter Rabbit be just as watchful a ever .
`` I 've get to see Reddy for myself before I 'll go a step nearer , '' he whisper .
Just then Johnny Chuck put a hand on his lip and point with the other hand .
There be Reddy Fox crawl out of his doorway into the sun .
Peter Rabbit lean forward to see good .
Was Reddy Fox really so badly hurt , or be he only pretend ?
Reddy Fox crawl painfully out onto his doorstep .
He try to stand and walk , but he could n't because he be too stiff and sore .
So he just crawl .
He do n't know that anyone be watch him , and with every movement he make a face .
That be because it hurt so .
Peter Rabbit , watch from the clump of bush , know then that Reddy be not pretend .
He know that he have nothing , not the least little thing , to fear from Reddy Fox .
So Peter give a whoop of joy and spring out into view .
Reddy look up and try to grin , but make a face of pain instead .
You see , it hurt so to move .
`` I suppose you 're tickle to death to see me like this , '' he growl to Peter Rabbit .
Now Peter have every reason to be glad , for Reddy Fox have try his best to catch Peter Rabbit to give to old Granny Fox for her dinner , and time and again Peter have just barely escape .
So at first Peter Rabbit have whoop with joy .
But a he saw how very helpless Reddy really be and how much pain he felt , suddenly Peter Rabbit 's big , soft eye fill with tear of pity .
He forget all about the threat of Reddy Fox and how Reddy have try to trick him .
He forget all about how mean Reddy have be .
`` Poor Reddy Fox , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Poor Reddy Fox . ''
XI .
Granny Fox Returns Up over the hill trot old Granny Fox .
She be on her way home with a tender young chicken for Reddy Fox .
Poor Reddy !
Of course , it be his own fault , for he have be show off and he have be careless or he never would have go so near to the old tree trunk behind which Farmer Brown 's boy be hide .
But old Granny Fox do n't know this .
She never make such mistake herself .
Oh , my , no !
So now , a she come up over the hill to a place where she could see her home , she lay the chicken down and then she creep behind a little bush and look all over the Green Meadows to see if the way be clear .
She know that Bowser the Hound be chain up .
She have see Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy hoeing in the cornfield , so she have nothing to fear from them .
Looking over to her doorstep , she saw Reddy Fox lie in the sun , and then she saw something else , something that make her eye flash and her teeth come together with a snap .
It be Peter Rabbit sit up very straight , not ten foot from Reddy Fox .
`` So that 's that young scamp of a Peter Rabbit whom Reddy be go to catch for me when I be sick and could n't !
I 'll just show Reddy Fox how easily it can be do , and he shall have tender young rabbit with his chicken ! ''
say Granny Fox to herself .
So first she study and study every clump of grass and every bush behind which she could creep .
She saw that she could get almost to where Peter Rabbit be sit and never once show herself to him .
Then she look this way and look that way to make sure that no one be watch her .
No one do she see on the Green Meadows who be look her way .
Then Granny Fox begin to crawl from one clump of grass to another and from bush to bush .
Sometimes she wriggle along flat on her stomach .
Little by little she be draw nearer and nearer to Peter Rabbit .
Now with all her smartness old Granny Fox have forget one thing .
Yes , Sir , she have forget one thing .
Never once have she think to look up in the sky .
And there be Ol ' Mistah Buzzard sail round and round and look down and see all that be go on below .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be sharp .
He know just what old Granny Fox be plan to do -- know it as well a if he have read her thought .
His eye twinkle .
`` Ah cert ` nly ca n't allow li'l ' Brer Rabbit to be hurt , Ah cert ` nly ca n't ! ''
mutter Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , and chuckle .
Then he slant his broad wing downward and without a sound slide down out of the sky till he be right behind Granny Fox .
`` Do yo ' always crawl home , Granny Fox ? ''
ask Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Granny Fox be so startled , for she have n't hear a sound , that she jump almost out of her skin .
Of course Peter Rabbit saw her then , and be off like a shot .
Granny Fox show all her teeth .
`` I wish you would mind your own business , Mistah Buzzard ! ''
she snarl .
`` Cert ` nly , cert ` nly , Ah sho ` ly will ! ''
reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , and sail up into the blue , blue sky .
XII .
The Lost Chicken When old Granny Fox have lay down the chicken she be bring home to Reddy Fox to try to catch Peter Rabbit , she have mean to go right back and get it as soon a she have catch Peter .
Now she saw Peter go across the Green Meadows , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a he could go .
She be so angry that she hop up and down .
She tear up the grass and ground her long , white teeth .
She glare up at Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , who have warn Peter Rabbit , but all she could do be to scold , and that do n't do her much good , for in a few minute Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be so far up in the blue , blue sky that he could n't hear a word she be say .
My , my , but old Granny Fox certainly be angry !
If she have n't be so angry she might have see Johnny Chuck lie as flat a he could make himself behind a big clump of grass .
Johnny Chuck be scar .
Yes , indeed , Johnny Chuck be dreadfully scar .
He have fight Reddy Fox and whip him , but he know that old Granny Fox would be too much for him .
So it be with great relief that Johnny Chuck saw her stop tearing up the grass and trot over to see how Reddy Fox be get along .
Then Johnny Chuck creep along until he be far enough away to run .
How he do run !
He be so fat and roly-poly that he be all out of breath when he reach home , and so tire that he just drop down on his doorstep and pant .
`` Serves me right for have so much curiosity , '' say Johnny Chuck to himself .
Reddy Fox look up a old Granny Fox come hurry home .
He be weak and very , very hungry .
But he felt sure that old Granny Fox would bring him something nice for his breakfast , and as soon a he hear her footsteps his mouth begin to water .
`` Did you bring me something nice , Granny ? ''
ask Reddy Fox .
Now old Granny Fox have be so put out by the scare she have have and by her failure to catch Peter Rabbit that she have forget all about the chicken she have leave up on the hill .
When Reddy speak , she remember it , and the thought of have to go way back after it do n't improve her temper a bit .
`` No ! ''
she snap .
`` I have n't !
-- You do n't deserve any breakfast anyway .
If you have any gumption '' -- that 's the word Granny Fox use , gumption -- `` if you have any gumption at all , you would n't have get in trouble , and could get your own breakfast . ''
Reddy Fox do n't know what gumption meant , but he do know that he be very , very hungry , and do what he would , he could n't keep back a couple of big tear of disappointment .
Granny Fox saw them .
`` There , there , Reddy !
Do n't cry .
I 've get a fine fat chicken for you up on the hill , and I 'll run back and get it , '' say Granny Fox .
So off she start up the hill to the place where she have leave the chicken when she start to try to catch Peter Rabbit .
When she get there , there be n't any chicken .
No , Sir , there be no chicken at all -- just a few feather .
Granny Fox could hardly believe her own eye .
She look this way and she look that way , but there be no chicken , just a few feather .
Old Granny Fox fly into a great rage than before .
XIII .
Granny Fox Calls Jimmy Skunk Names Granny Fox could n't believe her own eye .
No , Sir , she could n't believe her own eye , and she rub them two or three time to make sure that she be see right .
That chicken certainly have disappear , and leave no trace of where it have go .
It be very queer .
Old Granny Fox sit down to think who would dare steal anything from her .
Then she walk in a big circle with her nose to the ground , sniff and sniff .
What be she do that for ?
Why , to see if she could find the track of anyone who might have steal her chicken .
`` Aha ! ''
exclaim old Granny Fox , start to run along the top of the hill , her nose to the ground .
`` Aha !
I 'll catch him this time ! ''
In a few minute she begin to run more slowly , and every two or three step she would look ahead .
Suddenly her eye snap , and she begin to creep almost flat on her stomach , just a she have crept for Peter Rabbit .
But it be n't Peter Rabbit this time .
It be -- who do you think ?
Jimmy Skunk !
Yes , Sir , it be Jimmy Skunk .
He be slowly amble along , for Jimmy Skunk never hurry .
Every big stick or stone that he could move , he would pull over or look under , for Jimmy Skunk be hunt for beetle .
Old Granny Fox watch him .
`` He must have a tremendous appetite to be hunt for beetle after eat my chicken ! ''
mutter she .
Then she jump out in front of Jimmy Skunk , her eye snapping , her teeth showing , and the hair on her back stand on end so a to make her look very fierce .
But all the time old Granny Fox take the great care not to get too near to Jimmy Skunk .
`` Where 's my chicken ? ''
snarl old Granny Fox , and she look very , very fierce .
Jimmy Skunk look up a if very much surprise .
`` Hello , Granny Fox ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Have you lose a chicken ? ''
`` You 've steal it !
You 're a thief , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
snap Granny Fox .
`` Words can never make black white ; Before you speak be sure you 're right , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` I 'm not a thief . ''
`` You be ! ''
cry Granny work herself into a great rage .
`` I 'm not ! ''
`` You be ! ''
All the time Jimmy Skunk be chuckle to himself , and the more he chuckle the angrier grow old Granny Fox .
And all the time Jimmy Skunk keep move toward old Granny Fox and Granny Fox keep back away , for , like all the other little meadow and forest people , she have very great respect for Jimmy Skunk 's little bag of scent .
Now , back off that way , she could n't see where she be go , and the first thing she know she have back into a bramble bush .
It tear her skirt and scratch her leg .
`` Ooch ! ''
cry old Granny Fox .
`` Ha !
ha !
ha ! ''
laugh Jimmy Skunk .
`` That 's what you get for call me name . ''
XIV .
Granny Fox Finds What Became of the Chicken Old Granny Fox be in a terrible temper .
Dear , dear , it certainly be a dreadful temper !
Jimmy Skunk laugh at her , and that make it bad .
When he saw this , Jimmy Skunk just roll over and over on the ground and shout , he be so tickled .
Of course , it be n't the least bit nice of Jimmy Skunk , but you know that Granny Fox have be call Jimmy a thief .
Then Jimmy do n't like Granny Fox anyway , nor do any of the other little meadow and forest people , for most of them be very much afraid of her .
When old Granny Fox finally get out of the bramble bush , she do n't stop to say anything more to Jimmy Skunk , but hurry away , mutter and grumble and grind her teeth .
Old Granny Fox be n't pleasant to meet just then , and when Bobby Coon saw her coming , he just think it best to get out of her way , so he climb a tree .
It be n't that Bobby Coon be afraid of old Granny Fox .
Bless you , no !
Bobby Coon be n't a bit afraid of her .
It be because he have a full stomach and be feel too good-natured and lazy to quarrel .
`` Good morning , Granny Fox .
I hope you be feel well this morning , '' say Bobby Coon , a old Granny Fox come trot under the tree he be sit in .
Granny Fox look up and glare at him with yellow eye .
`` It be n't a good morning and I 'm not feel fine ! ''
she snap .
`` My goodness , how you have tear your skirt ! ''
exclaim Bobby Coon .
Old Granny Fox start to say something unpleasant .
Then she change her mind and instead she sit down and tell Bobby Coon all her trouble .
As she talk , Bobby Coon keep duck his head behind a branch of the tree to hide a smile .
Finally Granny Fox notice it .
`` What do you keep duck your head for , Bobby Coon ? ''
she ask suspiciously .
`` I 'm just look to see if I can see any feather from that chicken , '' reply Bobby Coon gravely , though his eye be twinkle with mischief .
`` Well , do you ? ''
demand old Granny Fox .
And just then Bobby Coon do .
They be not on the ground , however , but float in the air .
Bobby Coon lean out to see where they come from , and Granny Fox turn to look , too .
What do you think they saw ?
Why , sit on a tall , dead tree be Mr. Goshawk , just then swallow the last of Granny 's chicken .
`` Thief !
thief !
robber !
robber ! ''
shriek old Granny Fox .
But Mr. Goshawk say nothing , just wink at Bobby Coon , puff out his feather , and settle himself for a comfortable nap .
XV .
Reddy Fox Has a Visitor Hardly be old Granny Fox out of sight on her way to hunt for the chicken she have leave on the hill , when Unc ' Billy Possum come stroll along the Lone Little Path .
He be hum to himself , for he have just have a good breakfast .
One of the Merry Little Breezes spy him and hurry to meet him and tell him about how Reddy Fox have be shoot .
Unc ' Billy listen , and the grin with which he have greet the Merry Little Breeze grow into a broad smile .
`` Are yo ' all sure about that ? ''
he ask .
The Merry Little Breeze be sure .
Unc ' Billy Possum stop for a few minute and consider .
`` Serves that no ` count Reddy Fox right , '' chuckle Unc ' Billy .
`` He do spoil mah hunt at Farmer Brown 's , he raise such a fuss among the hen up there .
'T be n't safe to go there any mo ' !
No , Suh , 't be n't safe , and it wo n't be safe for a right smart while .
Did yo ' say that Granny Fox be home ? ''
The Merry Little Breeze have n't say anything about Granny Fox , but now remember that she have go up the hill .
`` Ah believe Ah will just tote my sympathy over to Reddy Fox , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum , a he start in the direction of Reddy Fox 's house .
But he make sure that old Granny Fox be not at home before he show himself .
Reddy Fox lay on his doorstep .
He be sick and sore and stiff .
Indeed , he be so stiff he could n't walk at all .
And he be weak -- weak and hungry , dreadfully hungry .
When he hear footstep , he think old Granny Fox be bring him the chicken after which she have go .
He felt too ill even to turn his head .
`` Did you get the chicken , Granny ? ''
he ask weakly .
No one answer .
`` I say , do you get the chicken , Granny ? ''
Reddy 's voice sound a little sharp and cross a he ask this time .
Still there be no reply , and Reddy begin to be a little bit suspicious .
He turn over and raise his head to look .
Instead of old Granny Fox , there be Unc ' Billy Possum grin at him .
`` Smarty , Smarty be a thief !
Smarty , Smarty come to grief !
Tried to show off just for fun And run too near a loaded gun .
`` Yo ' all certainly have get just what yo ' deserve , and Ah 'm glad of it !
Ah 'm glad of it , Suh ! ''
say Unc ' Billy Possum severely .
An angry light come into the eye of Reddy Fox and make them an ugly yellow for just a minute .
But he felt too sick to quarrel .
Unc ' Billy Possum saw this .
He saw how Reddy be really suffering , and down deep in his heart Unc ' Billy be truly sorry for him .
But he do n't let Reddy know it .
No , indeed !
He just pretend to be tickle to death to see Reddy Fox so helpless .
He do n't dare stay long , for fear Granny Fox would return .
So , after say a few more thing to make Reddy feel uncomfortable , Unc ' Billy start off up the Lone Little Path toward the Green Forest .
`` Too bad !
Too bad ! ''
he mutter to himself .
`` If ol ' Granny Fox be n't smart enough to get Reddy enough to eat , Ah 'll have to see what we-alls can do .
Ah cert ` nly will . ''
XVI .
Unc ' Billy Possum Visits the Smiling Pool Joe Otter and Billy Mink be sit on the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool .
Because they have nothing else to do , they be plan mischief .
Jerry Muskrat be busy fill his new house with food for the winter .
He be too busy to get into mischief .
Suddenly Billy Mink put a finger on his lip a a warning to Little Joe Otter to keep perfectly still .
Billy 's sharp eye have see something move over in the bulrush .
Together he and Little Joe Otter watch , ready to dive into the Smiling Pool at the first sign of danger .
In a few minute the rush part and a sharp little old face peer out .
Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink each sigh with relief , and their eye begin to dance .
`` Hi , Unc ' Billy Possum ! ''
shout Billy Mink .
A grin crept over the sharp little old face peer out from the bulrush .
`` Hi , yo ` self ! ''
he shout , for it really be Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` What be you do over here ? ''
call Little Joe Otter .
`` Just a-looking round , '' reply Unc ' Billy Possum , his eye twinkle .
`` Have you hear about Reddy Fox ? ''
shout Billy Mink .
`` Ah do jes ' come from his home , '' reply Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` How be he ? ''
ask Little Joe Otter .
`` Po ` ly , he sho ` ly be po ` ly , '' reply Unc ' Billy Possum , shake his head soberly .
Then Unc ' Billy tell Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter how Reddy Fox be so stiff and sore and sick that he could n't get anything to eat for himself , and how old Granny Fox have lose a chicken which she have catch for him .
`` Serves him right ! ''
exclaim Billy Mink , who have never forget how Reddy Fox fool him and catch the most fish once upon a time .
Unc ' Billy nod his head .
`` Yo ' be right .
Yo ' cert ` nly be right .
Yes , Suh , Ah reckons yo ' be right .
Was yo ' ever hungry , Billy Mink -- real hungry ? ''
ask Unc ' Billy Possum .
Billy Mink thought of the time when he go without his dinner because Mr. Night Heron have gobble it up , when Billy have leave it in a temper .
He nod his head .
`` Ah be just a-wondering , '' continue Une ' Billy Possum , `` how it would seem to be right smart powerful hungry and not be able to hunt fo ' anything to eat . ''
For a few minute no one say a word .
Then Billy Mink stand up and stretch .
`` Good-by , '' say Billy Mink .
`` Where be you go so suddenly ? ''
demand Little Joe Otter .
`` I 'm go to catch a fish and take it up to Reddy Fox , if you must know ! ''
snap Billy Mink .
`` Good ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter .
`` You need n't think that you can have all the fun to yourself either , Billy Mink .
I 'm go with you . ''
There be a splash in the Smiling Pool , and Unc ' Billy Possum be leave look out on nothing but the Smiling Pool and the Big Rock .
He smile to himself a he turn away .
`` Ah reckon Ah 'll sho ' have to do my share , too , '' say he .
And so it happen that when old Granny Fox finally reach home with nothing but a little wood mouse for Reddy , she find him take a nap , his stomach as full a it could be .
And just a little way off be two fish tail and the feather of a little duck .
XVII .
Farmer Brown 's Boy Is Determined Farmer Brown 's boy have make up his mind .
When he shut his teeth with a click and draw his lip together into a thin , straight line , those who know him be sure that Farmer Brown 's boy have make up his mind .
That be just what he have do now .
He be clean his gun , and a he work he be think of his pet chicken and of all the other chicken that Reddy Fox have take .
`` I 'm go to get that fox if it take all summer ! ''
exclaim Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` I ought to have get him the other day when I have a shot at him .
Next time well , we 'll see , Mr. Fox , what will happen next time . ''
Now someone hear Farmer Brown 's boy , heard everything he say , though Farmer Brown 's boy do n't know it .
It be Unc ' Billy Possum , who be hide in the very pile of wood on which Farmer Brown 's boy be sit .
Unc ' Billy prick up his ear .
He do n't like the tone of voice in which Farmer Brown 's boy spoke .
He think of Reddy Fox still so stiff and sore and lame that he could hardly walk , all from the shot which Farmer Brown 's boy thought have miss .
`` There be n't gwine to be any next time .
No , Suh , there be n't gwine to be any next time .
Ah sho ` ly doan love Reddy Fox , but Ah ca n't nohow let him be shoot again .
Ah cert ` nly ca n't ! ''
mutter Unc ' Billy Possum to himself .
Of course , Farmer Brown 's boy do n't hear him .
He do n't hear him and he do n't see him when Unc ' Billy Possum creep out of the back side of the woodpile and scurry under the henhouse .
He be too intent on his plan to catch Reddy Fox .
`` I 'm just go to hunt over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest until I get that fox ! ''
say Farmer Brown 's boy , and a he say it he look very fierce , a if he really mean it .
`` I 'm not go to have my chicken steal any more !
No , Sir-e-e !
That fox have get a home somewhere on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest , and I 'm go to find it .
Then watch out , Mr. Fox ! ''
Farmer Brown 's boy whistle for Bowser the Hound and start for the Green Forest .
Unc ' Billy Possum poke his sharp little old face out from under the henhouse and watch them go .
Usually Unc ' Billy be grin , but now there be n't any grin , not the least sign of one .
Instead Unc ' Billy Possum look worried .
`` There go that boy with a gun , and nobody know what 'll happen when it go off .
If he ca n't find Reddy Fox , just as likely a not he 'll point it at somebody else just fo ' fun .
Ah hope he doan meet up with mah ol ' woman or any of mah li'l ' pickaninny .
Ah 'm plumb afraid of a boy with a gun , Ah be .
` Pears like he doan have any sense .
Ah reckon Ah well be move along right smart and tell mah family to stay right close in the ol ' hollow tree , '' mutter Unc ' Billy Possum , slip out from his hide place .
Then Unc ' Billy begin to run as fast a he could toward the Green Forest .
XVIII .
The Hunt for Reddy Fox `` Trouble , trouble , trouble , I feel it in the air ; Trouble , trouble , trouble , it 's round me everywhere . ''
Old Granny Fox mutter this over and over , a she keep walk around uneasily and sniff the air .
`` I do n't see any trouble and I do n't feel any trouble in the air .
It 's all in the sore place where I be shoot , '' say Reddy Fox , who be stretch out on the doorstep of their home .
`` That 's because you have n't get any sense .
When you do get some and learn to look where you be go , you wo n't get shot from behind old tree trunk and you will be able to feel trouble when it be near , without wait for it to show itself .
Now I feel trouble .
You go down into the house and stay there ! ''
Granny Fox stop to test the air with her nose , just a she have be test it for the last ten minute .
`` I do n't want to go in , '' whine Reddy Fox .
`` It 's nice and warm out here , and I feel a lot good than when I be curl up way down there in the dark . ''
Old Granny Fox turn , and her eye blaze a she look at Reddy Fox .
She do n't say a word .
She do n't have to .
Reddy just crawl into his house , mutter to himself .
Granny stick her head in at the door .
`` Do n't you come out until I come back , '' she order .
Then she add : `` Farmer Brown 's boy be come with his gun . ''
Reddy Fox shiver when he hear that .
He do n't believe Granny Fox .
He think she be say that just to scare him and make him stay inside .
But he shiver just the same .
You see , he know now what it mean to be shoot , for he be still too stiff and sore to run , all because he have go too near Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun .
But old Granny Fox have not be fool when she tell Reddy Fox that Farmer Brown 's boy be come with a gun .
It be true .
He be come down the Lone Little Path , and ahead of him be trot Bowser the Hound .
How do old Granny Fox know it ?
She just felt it !
She do n't hear them , she do n't see them , and she do n't smell them ; she just felt that they be come .
So as soon a she saw that Reddy Fox have obey her , she be off like a little red flash .
`` It wo n't do to let them find our home , '' say Granny to herself , a she disappear in the Green Forest .
First she hurry to a little point on the hill where she could look down the Lone Little Path .
Just a she expect , she saw Farmer Brown 's boy , and ahead of him , sniff at every bush and all along the Lone Little Path , be Bowser the Hound .
Old Granny Fox wait to see no more .
She run as fast a she could in a big circle which bring her out on the Lone Little Path below Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound , but where they could n't see her , because of a turn in the Lone Little Path .
She trot down the Lone Little Path a very little way and then turn into the wood and hurry back up the hill , where she sit down and wait .
In a few minute she hear Bowser 's great voice .
He have smell her track in the Lone Little Path and be follow it .
Old Granny Fox grin .
You see , she be plan to lead them far , far away from the home where Reddy Fox be hide , for it would not do to have them find it .
And Farmer Brown 's boy also grin , a he hear the voice of Bowser the Hound .
`` I 'll hunt that fox until I get him , '' he say .
You see , he do n't know anything about old Granny Fox ; he think Bowser be follow Reddy Fox .
XIX Unc ' Billy Possum Gives Warning `` What 's the matter with you , Unc ' Billy ?
You look a if you have lose your last friend . ''
It be Jimmy Skunk who speak .
Unc ' Billy Possum stop short .
He have be hurry so fast that he have n't see Jimmy Skunk at all .
`` Matter enuff , Suh !
Matter enuff ! ''
say Unc ' Billy Possum , when he could get his breath .
`` Do you hear that noise ? ''
`` Sure , I hear that noise .
That 's only Bowser the Hound chase old Granny Fox .
When she get tired she 'll lose him , '' reply Jimmy Skunk .
`` What be you worry about Bowser the Hound for ? ''
`` Bowser the Hound will have to be smart than he be now befo ' he can worry me , Ah reckon , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum scornfully .
`` It be n't Bowser the Hound ; it 's Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun ! ''
Then Unc ' Billy tell Jimmy Skunk how he have be hide in the woodpile at Farmer Brown 's and have hear Farmer Brown 's boy say that he be go to hunt over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest until he get Reddy Fox .
`` What of it ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk .
`` If he get Reddy Fox , so much the good .
Reddy always do make trouble for other people .
I do n't see what you 're worry about Reddy Fox for .
He 's big enough to take care of himself . ''
`` Yo ' cert ` nly be plumb slow in your wit this morning , Jimmy Skunk , yo ' cert ` nly be plumb slow !
Supposing yo ' should meet up with Farmer Brown 's boy with that gun in his hand and suppose he have grow tire of watch fo ' Reddy Fox .
That gun might go off , Jimmy Skunk ; it might go off when it be point right straight at yo ' ! ''
say Unc ' Billy Possum .
Jimmy Skunk look serious .
`` That 's so , Unc ' Billy , that 's so ! ''
he say .
`` Boys with gun do get dreadfully careless , dreadfully careless .
They do n't seem to think anything about the feeling of those likely to get hurt when the gun go off .
What be you thinking of do , Unc ' Billy ? ''
`` Just pass the word along so everybody in the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest will keep out of the way of Farmer Brown 's boy , '' reply Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Good idea , Unc ' Billy !
I 'll help you , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
So Unc ' Billy Possum go one way , and Jimmy Skunk go another way .
And everyone they tell hurry to tell someone else .
Happy Jack Squirrel tell Chatterer the Red Squirrel ; Chatterer tell Striped Chipmunk , and Striped Chipmunk tell Danny Meadow Mouse .
Danny Meadow Mouse tell Johnny Chuck ; Johnny Chuck tell Peter Rabbit ; Peter Rabbit tell Jumper the Hare ; Jumper the Hare tell Prickly Porky ; Prickly Porky tell Bobby Coon ; Bobby Coon tell Billy Mink ; Billy Mink tell Little Joe Otter ; Little Joe Otter tell Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat tell Grandfather Frog .
And everybody hasten to hide from Farmer Brown 's boy and his terrible gun .
By and by Farmer Brown 's boy notice how still it be in the Green Forest .
Nowhere do he see or hear a bird .
Nowhere could he catch a glimpse of anybody who wear fur .
`` That fox must have scar away all the other animal and drive away all the bird .
I 'll get him !
See if I do n't ! ''
mutter Farmer Brown 's boy , and never once guess that they be hide from him .
XX .
Old Granny Fox Makes a Mistake Old Granny Fox be run through the overgrown old pasture , way up back of Farmer Brown 's .
She be cross and tired and hot , for it be a very warm day .
Behind her come Bowser the Hound , his nose in Granny 's track , and make a great noise with his big voice .
Granny Fox be cross because she be tire .
She have n't do much running lately .
She do n't mind run when the weather be cold , but now -- `` Oh dear , it be hot ! ''
sigh old Granny Fox , a she stop a minute to rest .
Now old Granny Fox be very , very smart and very , very wise .
She know all the trick with which foxes fool those who try to catch them .
She know that she could fool Bowser the Hound and puzzle him so that he would n't be able to follow her track at all .
But she be n't ready to do that yet .
No , indeed !
Old Granny Fox be take great care to see that her track be easy to follow .
She want Bowser the Hound to follow them , although it make her tired and hot and cross .
Why do she ?
Well , you see , she be try to lead him , and with him Farmer Brown 's boy , far , far away from the home where Reddy Fox be nurse the wound that he have receive when Farmer Brown 's boy have shoot at him a few day before .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
roar Bowser the Hound , follow every twist and turn which Granny Fox make , just a she want him to .
Back and forth across the old pasture and way up among the rock on the edge of the mountain Granny Fox lead Bowser the Hound .
It be a long , long , long way from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Granny Fox have make it a long way purposely .
She be willing to be tire herself if she could also tire Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy .
She want to tire them so that when she finally puzzle and fool them and leave them there , they would be too tired to go back to the Green Meadows .
By and by Granny Fox come to a hole in the ground , an old house that have once belong to her grandfather .
Now this old house have a back door hidden close beside the hollow trunk of a fall tree .
Old Granny Fox just run through the house , out the back door , through the hollow tree , and then jump into a little brook where there be hardly more than enough water to wet her foot .
Walking in the water , she leave no scent in her track .
Bowser the Hound come roar up to the front door of the old house .
Granny 's track lead right inside , and Bowser grow so excited that he make a tremendous noise .
At last he have find where Granny Fox live ; at least he think he have .
He be sure that she be inside , for there be her fresh track go inside and none come out .
Bowser the Hound never once think of look for a back door .
If he have , he would n't have be any the wiser , because , you know , old Granny Fox have slip away through the hollow tree trunk .
Granny Fox grin a she listen to the terrible fuss Bowser be make .
Then , when she have rest a little , she steal up on the hill where she could look down and see the entrance to the old deserted house .
She watch Bowser digging and barking .
After a while a worried look creep into the face of old Granny Fox .
`` Where 's Farmer Brown 's boy ?
I think surely he would follow Bowser the Hound , '' she mutter .
XXI .
Reddy Fox Disobeys When old Granny Fox have send Reddy Fox into the house and tell him to stay there until she return home , he have not want to mind , but he know that Granny Fox meant just what she say , and so he have crawl slowly down the long hall to the bedroom , way underground .
Pretty soon Reddy Fox hear a voice .
It be very faint , for you know Reddy be in his bedroom way underground , but he know it .
He prick up his ear and listen .
It be the voice of Bowser the Hound , and Reddy know by the sound that Bowser be chase Granny Fox .
Reddy grin .
He be n't at all worried about Granny Fox , not the least little bit .
He know how smart she be and that whenever she want to , she could get rid of Bowser the Hound .
Then a sudden thought pop into Reddy 's head , and he grow sober .
`` Granny do feel trouble come , just a she say , '' he think .
Then Reddy Fox curl himself up and try to sleep .
He intend to mind and not put his little black nose outside until old Granny Fox return .
But somehow Reddy could n't get to sleep .
His bedroom be small , and he be so stiff and sore that he could not get comfortable .
He twist and turn and fidget .
The more he fidget , the more uncomfortable he grow .
He think of the warm sunshine outside and how comfortable he would be , stretch out full length on the doorstep .
It would take the soreness out of his leg .
Something must have happen to Granny to keep her so long .
If she have know that she be go to be go such a long time , she would n't have tell him to stay until she come back , think Reddy .
By and by Reddy Fox creep a little way up the long , dark hall .
He could just see the sunlight on the doorstep .
Pretty soon he go a little bit nearer .
He be n't go to disobey old Granny Fox .
Oh , no !
No , indeed !
She have tell him to stay in the house until she return .
She have n't say that he could n't look out !
Reddy crawl a little nearer to the open door and the sunlight .
`` Granny Fox be get old and timid .
Just a if my eye be n't as sharp a hers !
I 'd like to see Farmer Brown 's boy get near me when I be really on the watch , '' say Reddy Fox to himself .
And then he creep a little nearer to the open door .
How bright and warm and pleasant it do look outside !
Reddy just know that he would feel ever and ever so much good if he could stretch out on the doorstep .
He could hear Jenny Wren fussing and scolding at someone or something , and he wonder what it could be .
He creep just a wee bit nearer .
He could hear Bowser 's voice , but it be so faint that he have to prick up his sharp little ear and listen with all his might to hear it at all .
`` Granny 's lead them way off on the mountain .
Good old Granny ! ''
think Reddy Fox .
Then he crawl right up to the very doorway .
He could still hear Jenny Wren scolding and fussing .
`` What do ail her ?
`` If it 's hot or if it 's cold , Jenny Wren will always scold .
From morn till night the whole day long Her limber tongue be go strong .
`` I 'm go to find out what it mean , '' say Reddy , talk to himself .
Reddy Fox poke his head out and -- look straight into the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy and the muzzle of that dreadful gun !
XXII .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard 's Keen Sight Old Granny Fox have think that when she fool Bowser the Hound up in the old pasture on the edge of the mountain she could take her time go home .
She be tire and hot , and she have plan to pick out the shady path go back .
She have think that Farmer Brown 's boy would soon join Bowser the Hound , when Bowser make such a fuss about have find the old house into which Granny Fox have run .
But Farmer Brown 's boy have not yet appear , and Granny Fox be get worried .
Could it be that he have not follow Bowser the Hound , after all ?
Granny Fox go out on a high point and look , but she could see nothing of Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun .
Just then Ol ' Mistah Buzzard come sail down out of the blue , blue sky and settle himself on a tall , dead tree .
Now Granny Fox have n't forget how Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have warn Peter Rabbit just a she be about to pounce on him , but she suddenly think that Ol ' Mistah Buzzard might be of use to her .
So old Granny Fox smooth out her skirt and walk over to the foot of the tree where Ol ' Mistah Buzzard sit .
`` How do you do today , neighbor Buzzard ? ''
inquired Granny Fox , smile up at Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Ah 'm so a to be up and about , thank yo ' , '' reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , spread his wing out so that air could blow under them .
`` My ! ''
exclaim old Granny Fox , `` what splendid great wing you have , Mistah Buzzard !
It must be grand to be able to fly .
I suppose you can see a great deal from way up there in the blue , blue sky , Mistah Buzzard . ''
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard felt flatter .
`` Yes , '' say he , `` Ah can see all that 's go on on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest . ''
`` Oh , Mistah Buzzard , you do n't really mean that ! ''
exclaim old Granny Fox , just a if she want to believe it , but could n't .
`` Yes , Ah can ! ''
reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Really , Mistah Buzzard ?
Really ?
Oh , I ca n't believe that your eye be so sharp a all that !
Now I know where Bowser the Hound be and where Farmer Brown 's boy be , but I do n't believe you can see them , '' say Granny Fox .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard never say a word but spread his broad wing and in a few minute he have sail up , up , up until he look like just a tiny speck to old Granny Fox .
Now old Granny Fox have not tell the truth when she say she know where Farmer Brown 's boy be .
She think she would trick Ol ' Mistah Buzzard into tell her .
In a few minute down come Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Bowser the Hound be up in the old back pasture , '' say he .
`` Right ! ''
cry old Granny Fox , clap her hand .
`` And where be Farmer Brown 's boy ? ''
`` Farmer Brown 's boy be ... '' Ol ' Mistah Buzzard pause .
`` Where ?
Where ? ''
ask Granny Fox , so eagerly that Ol ' Mistah Buzzard look at her sharply .
`` Yo ' say you know , so what 's the use of tell yo ' ? ''
say Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Then he add : `` But if Ah be yo ' , Ah cert ` nly would get home right smart soon . ''
`` Why ?
Do , do tell me what you saw , Mistah Buzzard ! ''
beg Granny Fox .
But Ol ' Mistah Buzzard would n't say another word , so old Granny Fox start for home as fast a she could run .
`` Oh dear , I do hope Reddy Fox mind me and stay in the house , '' she mutter .
XXII Granny Fox Has a Terrible Scare Old Granny Fox felt her heart sink way down to her toe , for she felt sure Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have see Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun over near the house where Reddy Fox be nurse his wound , or he would n't have advise her to hurry home .
She be already very tired and hot from the long run to lead Bowser the Hound away from the Green Meadows .
She have think to walk home along shady path and cool off , but now she must run faster than ever , for she must know if Farmer Brown 's boy have find her house .
`` It 's lucky I tell Reddy Fox to go inside and not come out till I return ; it 's very lucky I do that , '' think Granny Fox a she run .
Presently she hear voice sing .
They seem to be in the treetop over her head .
`` Happily we dance and play All the livelong sunny day !
Happily we run and race And win or lose with smile face ! ''
Granny Fox know the voice , and she look up .
Just a she expect , she saw the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind play among the leaf .
Just then one of them look down and saw her .
`` There 's old Granny Fox !
Just see how hot and tired she look .
Let 's go down and cool her off ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breeze .
In a flash they be all down out of the treetop and dance around old Granny Fox , cool her off .
Of course , Granny Fox keep right on run .
She be too worried not to .
But the Merry Little Breezes keep right beside her , and it be not nearly as hard run now a it have be .
`` Have you see Farmer Brown 's boy ? ''
pant Granny Fox .
`` Oh , yes !
We saw him just a little while ago over near your house , Granny Fox .
We pull his hat off , just to hear him scold , '' shout the Merry Little Breezes , and then they tickle and laugh a if they have have a good time with Farmer Brown 's boy .
But old Granny Fox do n't laugh -- oh , my , no , indeed !
Her heart go low still , and she do her best to run faster .
Pretty soon she come out on the top of the hill where she could look , and then it seem a if her heart come right up in her mouth and stop beating .
Her eye pop almost out of her head .
There be Farmer Brown 's boy stand right in front of the door of her home .
And while she be watch , what should Reddy Fox do but stick his head out the door .
Old Granny Fox saw the gun of Farmer Brown 's boy point right at Reddy and she clap both hand over her eye to shut out the dreadful sight .
Then she wait for the bang of the gun .
It do n't come .
Then Granny peep through her finger .
Farmer Brown 's boy be still there , but Reddy Fox have disappear inside the house .
Granny Fox sigh in relief .
It have be a terrible scare , the bad she could remember .
XXIV .
Granny and Reddy Have To Move `` I do n't want to move , '' whine Reddy Fox .
`` I 'm too sore to walk . ''
Old Granny Fox give him a shove .
`` You go along and do a I say ! ''
she snap .
`` If you have mind me , we would n't have to move .
It 's all your own fault .
The wonder be that you be n't kill when you poke your head out right in front of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Now that he know where we live , he will give u no peace .
Move along lively now !
This be the best home I have ever have , and now I 've get to leave it .
Oh dear !
Oh dear ! ''
Reddy Fox hobble along up the long hall and out the front door .
He be walk on three leg , and at every step he make a face because , you know , it hurt so to walk .
The little star , look down from the sky , saw Reddy Fox limp out the door of the house he have live in so long , and right behind him come old Granny Fox .
Granny sigh and wipe away a tear , a she say good-by to her old home .
Reddy Fox be think too much of his own trouble to notice how badly Granny Fox be feel .
Every few step he have to sit down and rest because it hurt him so to walk .
`` I do n't see the use of move tonight , anyway .
It would be a lot easy and pleasanter when the sun be shin .
This night air make me so stiff that I know I never will get over it , '' grumble Reddy Fox .
Old Granny Fox listen to him for a while , and then she lose patience .
Yes , Sir , Granny Fox lose patience .
She box Reddy Fox first on one ear and then on the other .
Reddy begin to snivel .
`` Stop that ! ''
say Granny Fox sharply .
`` Do you want all the neighbor to know that we have get to move ?
They 'll find it out soon enough .
Now come along without any more fuss .
If you do n't , I 'll just go off and leave you to shift for yourself .
