Then the bear laugh beneath the table and mutter to itself .
And the prince continue : ' I be tire to death .
Order some soup to be make for me , but I do n't want that bear to meddle with it .
Every time I speak of my love the brute mutter and laugh , and seem to mock at me .
I hate the sight of the creature ! '
When the soup be ready , the bear bring it to the prince ; but before hand it to him , she drop into the plate the ring the prince have give her the night before at the ball .
The prince begin to eat his soup very slowly and languidly , for he be sad at heart , and all his thought be busy , wonder how and where he could see the lovely stranger again .
Suddenly he notice the ring at the bottom of the plate .
In a moment he recognise it , and be dumb with surprise .
Then he saw the bear standing beside him , look at him with gentle , beseech eye , and something in the eye of the bear make him say : ` Take off that skin , some mystery be hidden beneath it . '
And the bear 's skin drop off , and the beautiful girl stand before him , in the dress weave out of the starlight , and he saw that she be the stranger with whom he have fall so deeply in love .
And now she appear to him a thousand times more beautiful than ever , and he lead her to his mother .
And the princess tell them her story , and how she have be keep shut up by her father in his palace , and how she have weary of her imprisonment .
And the prince 's mother love her , and rejoice that her son should have so good and beautiful a wife .
So they be marry , and live happily for many year , and reign wisely over their kingdom .
THE SUNCHILD Once there be a woman who have no child , and this make her very unhappy .
So she speak one day to the Sunball , say : ` Dear Sunball , send me only a little girl now , and when she be twelve year old you may take her back again . '
So soon after this the Sunball send her a little girl , whom the woman call Letiko , and watch over with great care till she be twelve year old .
Soon after that , while Letiko be away one day gather herb , the Sunball come to her , and say : ` Letiko , when you go home , tell your mother that she must bethink herself of what she promise me . '
Then Letiko go straight home , and say to her mother : ` While I be gather herb a fine tall gentleman come to me and charge me to tell you that you should remember what you promise him . '
When the woman hear that she be sore afraid , and immediately shut all the door and window of the house , stop up all the chink and hole , and keep Letiko hide away , that the Sunball should not come and take her away .
But she forget to close up the keyhole , and through it the Sunball send a ray into the house , which take hold of the little girl and carry her away to him .
One day , the Sunball have send her to the straw shed to fetch straw , the girl sit down on the pile of straw and bemoan herself , save : ` As sigh this straw under my foot so sighs my heart after my mother . '
And this cause her to be so long away that the Sunball ask her , when she come back : ` Eh , Letiko , where have you be so long ? '
She answer : ` My slipper be too big , and I could not go faster . '
Then the Sunball make the slipper shorter .
Another time he send her to fetch water , and when she come to the spring , she sit down and lamented , say : ` As flow the water even so flows my heart with longing for my mother . '
Thus she again remain so long away that the Sunball ask her : ` Eh , Letiko , why have you remain so long away ? '
And she answer : ` My petticoat be too long and hinders me in walk . '
Then the Sunball cut her petticoat to make it short .
Another time the Sunball send her to bring him a pair of sandal , and a the girl carry these in her hand she begin to lament , say : ` As creak the leather so creaks my heart after my little mother . '
When she come home the Sunball ask her again : ` Eh , Letiko , why do you come home so late ? '
` My red hood be too wide , and fall over my eye , therefore I could not go fast . '
Then he make the hood narrower .
At last , however , the Sunball become aware how sad Letiko be .
He send her a second time to bring straw , and , slip in after her , he hear how she lament for her mother .
Then he go home , call two fox to him , and say : ` Will you take Letiko home ? '
` Yes , why not ? '
` But what will you eat and drink if you should become hungry and thirsty by the way ? '
` We will eat her flesh and drink her blood . '
When the Sunball heard that , he say : ` You be not suit for this affair . '
Then he send them away , and call two hare to him , and say : ` Will you take Letiko home to her mother ? '
` Yes , why not ? '
` What will you eat and drink if you should become hungry and thirsty by the way ? '
` We will eat grass and drink from streamlet . '
` Then take her , and bring her home . '
Then the hare set out , take Letiko with them , and because it be a long way to her home they become hungry by the way .
Then they say to the little girl : ` Climb this tree , dear Letiko , and remain there till we have finish eating . '
So Letiko climb the tree , and the hare go graze .
It be not very long , however , before a lamia come under the tree and call out : ` Letiko , Letiko , come down and see what beautiful shoe I have on . '
` Oh !
my shoe be much fine than yours . '
` Come down .
I be in a hurry , for my house be not yet sweep . '
` Go home and sweep it then , and come back when you be ready . '
Then the lamia go away and sweep her house , and when she be ready she come back and call out : ` Letiko , Letiko , come down and see what a beautiful apron I have . '
-LSB- Illustration : LETIKO , LETIKO , COME DOWN AND SEE WHAT A BEAUTIFUL APRON I HAVE -RSB- ` Oh !
my apron be much fine than yours . '
` If you will not come down I will cut down the tree and eat you . '
` Do so , and then eat me . '
Then the lamia hew with all her strength at the tree , but could not cut it down .
And when she saw that , she call out : ` Letiko , Letiko , come down , for I must fee my child . '
` Go home then and fee them , and come back when you be ready . '
When the lamia be go away , Letiko call out : ` Little hare !
little hare ! '
Then say one hare to the other : ` Listen , Letiko be call ; ' and they both run back to her as fast a they could go .
Then Letiko come down from the tree , and they go on their way .
The lamia run as fast a she could after them , to catch them up , and when she come to a field where people be work she ask them : ` Have you see any one pas this way ? '
They answer : ` We be plant bean . '
` Oh !
I do not ask about that ; but if any one have pass this way . '
But the people only answer the louder : ` Are you deaf ?
It be bean , bean , bean we be plant . '
When Letiko have nearly reach her home the dog know her , and call out , ` Bow wow !
see here come Letiko ! '
And the mother say , ` Hush !
thou beast of ill-omen !
wilt thou make me burst with misery ? '
Next the cat on the roof saw her , and call out ` Miaouw !
miaouw !
see here come Letiko ! '
And the mother say , ` Keep silence !
thou beast of ill-omen !
wilt thou make me burst with misery ? '
Then the cock spy , and call out : ` Cock-a-doodle-do !
see here come Letiko ! '
And the mother say again : ` Be quiet !
thou bird of ill-omen !
wilt thou make me burst with misery ? '
The nearer Letiko and the two hare come to the house the nearer also come the lamia , and when the hare be about to slip in by the house door she catch it by it little tail and tear it out .
-LSB- Illustration : Letiko GETS HOME SAFE AFTER ALL -RSB- When the hare come in the mother stand up and say to it : ` Welcome , dear little hare ; because you have bring me back Letiko I will silver your little tail . '
And she do so ; and live ever after with her daughter in happiness and content .
THE DAUGHTER OF BUK ETTEMSUCH Once upon a time there live a man who have seven daughter .
For a long time they dwell quite happily at home together , then one morning the father call them all before him and say : ` Your mother and I be go on a journey , and a we do not know how long we may be away , you will find enough provision in the house to last you three year .
But see you do not open the door to any one till we come home again . '
` Very well , dear father , ' reply the girl .
For two year they never leave the house or unlock the door ; but one day , when they have wash their clothes , and be spread them out on the roof to dry , the girl look down into the street where people be walk to and fro , and across to the market , with it stall of fresh meat , vegetable , and other nice thing .
` Come here , ' cry one .
` It make me quite hungry !
Why should not we have our share ?
Let one of u go to the market , and buy meat and vegetable . '
` Oh , we must n't do that ! '
say the young .
` You know our father forbid u to open the door till he come home again . '
Then the eldest sister sprang at her and strike her , the second spit at her , the third abuse her , the fourth push her , the fifth fling her to the ground , and the sixth tore her clothes .
Then they leave her lie on the floor , and go out with a basket .
In about an hour they come back with the basket full of meat and vegetable , which they put in a pot , and set on the fire , quite forget that the house door stand wide open .
The young sister , however , take no part in all this , and when dinner be ready and the table laid , she steal softly out to the entrance hall , and hide herself behind a great cask which stand in one corner .
Now , while the other sister be enjoy their feast , a witch pass by , and catch sight of the open door , she walk in .
She go up to the eldest girl , and say : ` Where shall I begin on you , you fat bolster ? '
` You must begin , ' answer she ` with the hand which strike my little sister . '
So the witch gobble her up , and when the last scrap have disappear , she come to the second and ask : ` Where shall I begin on you , my fat bolster ? '
And the second answered , ` You must begin on my mouth , which spat on my sister . '
And so on to the rest ; and very soon the whole six have disappear .
And a the witch be eat the last mouthful of the last sister , the young , who have be crouch , frozen with horror , behind the barrel , run out through the open door into the street .
Without look behind her , she hasten on and on , a fast a her foot would carry her , till she saw an ogre 's castle standing in front of her .
In a corner near the door she spy a large pot , and she creep softly up to it and pull the cover over it , and go to sleep .
By-and-by the ogre come home .
` Fee , Fo , Fum , ' cry he , ' I smell the smell of a man .
What ill fate have bring him here ? '
And he look through all the room , and find nobody .
` Where be you ? '
he call .
` Do not be afraid , I will do you no harm . '
But the girl be still silent .
` Come out , I tell you , ' repeat the ogre .
` Your life be quite safe .
If you be an old man , you shall be my father .
If you be a boy , you shall be my son .
If your year be as many a mine , you shall be my brother .
If you be an old woman , you shall be my mother .
If you be a young one , you shall be my daughter .
If you be middle-aged , you shall be my wife .
So come out , and fear nothing . '
Then the maiden come out of her hiding-place , and stand before him .
-LSB- Illustration : The Maiden creep out of the Pot . -RSB-
` Fear nothing , ' say the ogre again ; and when he go away to hunt he leave her to look after the house .
In the evening he return , bring with him hare , partridge , and gazelle , for the girl 's supper ; for himself he only care for the flesh of men , which she cook for him .
He also give into her charge the key of six room , but the key of the seventh he keep himself .
And time pass on , and the girl and the ogre still live together .
She call him ` Father , ' and he call her ` Daughter , ' and never once do he speak roughly to her .
One day the maiden say to him , ` Father , give me the key of the upper chamber . '
` No , my daughter , ' reply the ogre .
` There be nothing there that be any use to you . '
` But I want the key , ' she repeat again .
However the ogre take no notice , and pretend not to hear .
The girl begin to cry , and say to herself : ` To-night , when he think I be asleep , I will watch and see where he hide it ' ; and after she and the ogre have sup , she bid him good-night , and leave the room .
In a few minute she steal quietly back , and watch from behind a curtain .
In a little while she saw the ogre take the key from his pocket , and hide it in a hole in the ground before he go to bed .
And when all be still she take out the key , and go back to the house .
The next morning the ogre awoke with the first ray of light , and the first thing he do be to look for the key .
It be go , and he guess at once what have become of it .
But instead of get into a great rage , a most ogre would have do , he say to himself , ` If I wake the maiden up I shall only frighten her .
For to-day she shall keep the key , and when I return to-night it will be time enough to take it from her . '
So he go off to hunt .
The moment he be safe out of the way , the girl run upstairs and open the door of the room , which be quite bare .
The one window be close , and she throw back the lattice and look out .
Beneath lay a garden which belong to the Prince , and in the garden be an ox , who be draw up water from the well all by himself -- for there be nobody to be see anywhere .
The ox raise his head at the noise the girl make in open the lattice , and say to her , ` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch !
Your father be feed you up till you be nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '
These word so frighten the maiden that she burst into tear and run out of the room .
All day she weep , and when the ogre come home at night , no supper be ready for him .
` What be you cry for ? '
say he .
` Where be my supper , and be it you who have open the upper chamber ? '
` Yes , I open it , ' answer she .
` And what do the ox say to you ? '
` He say , `` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch .
Your father be feed you up till you be nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '' '
` Well , to-morrow you can go to the window and say , `` My father be feed me up till I be nice and fat , but he do not mean to eat me .
If I have one of your eye I would use it for a mirror , and look at myself before and behind ; and your girth should be loosen , and you should be blind -- seven day and seven night . '' '
` All right , ' reply the girl , and the next morning , when the ox speak to her , she answer him a she have be tell , and he fell down straight upon the ground , and lay there seven day and seven night .
But the flower in the garden wither , for there be no one to water them .
When the prince come into his garden he find nothing but yellow stalk ; in the midst of them the ox be lie .
With a blow from his sword he kill the animal , and , turn to his attendant , he say , ` Go and fetch another ox ! '
And they bring in a great beast , and he draw the water out of the well , and the flower revive , and the grass grow green again .
Then the prince call his attendant and go away .
The next morning the girl hear the noise of the water-wheel , and she open the lattice and look out of the window .
` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch ! '
say the new ox .
` Your father be feed you up till you be nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '
And the maiden answer : ` My father be feed me up till I be nice and fat , but he do not mean to eat me .
If I have one of your eye I would use it for a mirror , and look at myself before and behind ; and your girth should be loosen , and you should be blind -- seven day and seven night . '
Directly she utter these word the ox fell to the ground and lay there , seven day and seven night .
Then he arise and begin to draw the water from the well .
He have only turn the wheel once or twice , when the prince take it into his head to visit his garden and see how the new ox be get on .
When he enter the ox be work busily ; but in spite of that the flower and grass be dry up .
And the prince draw his sword , and rush at the ox to slay him , a he have do the other .
But the ox fell on his knee and say : ` My lord , only spare my life , and let me tell you how it happen . '
` How what happen ? '
ask the prince .
` My lord , a girl look out of that window and speak a few word to me , and I fell to the ground .
For seven day and seven night I lay there , unable to move .
But , O my lord , it be not give to u twice to behold beauty such a hers . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` It be a lie , ' say the prince .
` An ogre dwell there .
Is it likely that he keep a maiden in his upper chamber ? '
` Why not ? '
reply the ox .
` But if you come here at dawn to-morrow , and hide behind that tree , you will see for yourself . '
` So I will , ' say the prince ; ` and if I find that you have not speak truth , I will kill you . '
The prince leave the garden , and the ox go on with his work .
Next morning the prince come early to the garden , and find the ox busy with the water-wheel .
` Has the girl appear yet ? '
he ask .
` Not yet ; but she will not be long .
Hide yourself in the branch of that tree , and you will soon see her . '
The prince do a he be tell , and scarcely be he seat when the maiden throw open the lattice .
` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch ! '
say the ox .
` Your father be feed you up till you be nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '
` My father be feed me up till I be nice and fat , but he do not mean to eat me .
If I have one of your eye I would use it for a mirror , and look at myself before and behind ; and your girth should be loosen , and you should be blind -- seven day and seven night . '
And hardly have she speak when the ox fell on the ground , and the maiden shut the lattice and go away .
But the prince know that what the ox have say be true , and that she have not her equal in the whole world .
And he come down from the tree , his heart burn with love .
` Why have the ogre not eat her ? '
thought he .
` This night I will invite him to supper in my palace and question him about the maiden , and find out if she be his wife . '
So the prince order a great ox to be slay and roast whole , and two huge tank to be make , one fill with water and the other with wine .
And towards even he call his attendant and go to the ogre 's house to wait in the courtyard till he come back from hunting .
The ogre be surprise to see so many people assemble in front of his house ; but he bow politely and say , ` Good morning , dear neighbour !
To what do I owe the pleasure of this visit ?
I have not offend you , I hope ? '
` Oh , certainly not ! '
answer the prince .
` Then , ' continue the ogre , ` what have bring you to my house to-day for the first time ? '
` We should like to have supper with you , ' say the prince .
` Well , supper be ready , and you be welcome , ' reply the ogre , lead the way into the house , for he have have a good day , and there be plenty of game in the bag over his shoulder .
A table be quickly prepared , and the prince have already take his place , when he suddenly exclaim , ` After all , Buk Ettemsuch , suppose you come to supper with me ? '
` Where ? '
ask the ogre .
` In my house .
I know it be all ready . '
` But it be so far off -- why not stay here ? '
` Oh , I will come another day ; but this evening I must be your host . '
So the ogre accompany the prince and his attendant back to the palace .
After a while the prince turn to the ogre and say : ` It be a a wooer that I appear before you .
I seek a wife from an honourable family . '
` But I have no daughter , ' reply the ogre .
` Oh , yes you have , I saw her at the window . '
` Well , you can marry her if you wish , ' say he .
So the prince 's heart be glad a he and his attendant ride back with the ogre to his house .
And a they part , the prince say to his guest , ` You will not forget the bargain we have make ? ' '
I be not a young man , and never break my promise , ' say the ogre , and go in and shut the door .
Upstairs he find the maiden , wait till he return to have her supper , for she do not like eat by herself . '
I have have my supper , ' say the ogre , ` for I have be spend the evening with the prince . '
` Where do you meet him ? '
ask the girl .
` Oh , we be neighbours , and grow up together , and to-night I promise that you should be his wife . ' '
I do n't want to be any man 's wife , ' answer she ; but this be only pretence , for her heart too be glad .
Next morning early come the prince , bring with him bridal gift , and splendid wedding garment , to carry the maiden back to his palace .
But before he let her go the ogre call her to him , and say , ` Be careful , girl , never to speak to the prince ; and when he speak to you , you must be dumb , unless he swear `` by the head of Buk Ettemsuch . ''
Then you may speak . '
` Very well , ' answer the girl .
They set out ; and when they reach the palace , the prince lead his bride to the room he have prepare for her , and say ` Speak to me , my wife , ' but she be silent ; and by-and-by he leave her , think that perhaps she be shy .
The next day the same thing happen , and the next .
At last he say , ` Well , if you wo n't speak , I shall go and get another wife who will . '
And he do .
Now when the new wife be bring to the palace the daughter of Buk Ettemsuch rise , and speak to the lady who have come to attend on the second bride .
` Go and sit down .
I will make ready the feast . '
And the lady sit down a they be tell , and wait .
The maiden sit down too , and call out , ` Come here , firewood , ' and the firewood come .
` Come here , fire , ' and the fire come and kindle the wood .
` Come here , pot . '
` Come here , oil ; ' and the pot and the oil come .
` Get into the pot , oil ! '
say she , and the oil do it .
When the oil be boil , the maiden dip all her finger in it , and they become ten fried fish .
` Come here , oven , ' she cry next , and the oven come .
` Fire , heat the oven . '
And the fire heat it .
When it be hot enough , the maiden jump in , just a she be , with her beautiful silver and gold dress , and all her jewel .
In a minute or two she have turn into a snow-white loaf , that make your mouth water .
Said the loaf to the lady , ` You can eat now ; do not stand so far off ; ' but they only star at each other , speechless with surprise .
` What be you star at ? '
ask the new bride .
` At all these wonder , ' reply the lady .
` Do you call these wonder ? '
say she scornfully ; ' I can do that too , ' and she jump straight into the oven , and be burn up in a moment .
Then they run to the prince and say : ` Come quickly , your wife be dead ! '
` Bury her , then ! '
return he .
` But why do she do it ?
I be sure I say nothing to make her throw herself into the oven . '
Accordingly the burnt woman be bury , but the prince would not go to the funeral a all his thought be still with the wife who would not speak to him .
The next night he say to her , ` Dear wife , be you afraid that something dreadful will happen if you speak to me ?
If you still persist in be dumb , I shall be force to get another wife . '
The poor girl long to speak , but dread of the ogre keep her silent , and the prince do a he have say , and bring a fresh bride into the palace .
And when she and her lady be seat in state , the maiden plant a sharp stake in the ground , and sit herself down comfortably on it , and begin to spin .
` What be you star at so ? '
say the new bride to her lady .
` Do you think that be anything wonderful ?
Why , I can do as much myself ! ' '
I be sure you ca n't , ' say they , much too surprised to be polite .
Then the maid spring off the stake and leave the room , and instantly the new wife take her place .
But the sharp stake run through , and she be dead in a moment .
So they send to the prince and say , ` Come quickly , and bury your wife . '
` Bury her yourselves , ' he answer .
` What do she do it for ?
It be not by my order that she impale herself on the stake . '
So they bury her ; and in the even the prince come to the daughter of Buk Ettemsuch , and say to her , ` Speak to me , or I shall have to take another wife . '
But she be afraid to speak to him .
The following day the prince hid himself in the room and watch .
And soon the maiden woke , and say to the pitcher and to the water-jug , ` Quick !
go down to the spring and bring me some water ; I be thirsty . '
And they go .
But a they be fill themselves at the spring , the water-jug knock against the pitcher and break off it spout .
And the pitcher burst into tear , and run to the maiden , and say : ` Mistress , beat the water-jug , for he have break my spout ! '
` By the head of Buk Ettemsuch , I implore you not to beat me ! '
` Ah , ' she reply , ` if only my husband have swear by that oath , I could have speak to him from the beginning , and he need never have take another wife .
But now he will never say it , and he will have to go on marry fresh one . '
And the prince , from his hiding-place , hear her word , and he jump up and run to her and say , ` By the head of Buk Ettemsuch , speak to me . '
So she speak to him , and they live happily to the end of their day , because the girl keep the promise she have make to the ogre .
-LSB- Märchen und Gedichte au der Stadt Tripolis .
Von Hans Stumme . -RSB-
LAUGHING EYE AND WEEPING EYE , OR THE LIMPING FOX -LRB- SERVIAN STORY -RRB- Once upon a time there live a man whose right eye always smile , and whose leave eye always cry ; and this man have three son , two of them very clever , and the third very stupid .
Now these three son be very curious about the peculiarity of their father 's eye , and a they could not puzzle out the reason for themselves , they determine to ask their father why he do not have eye like other people .
So the eldest of the three go one day into his father 's room and put the question straight out ; but , instead of answer , the man fly into a fearful rage , and sprang at him with a knife .
The young fellow run away in a terrible fright , and take refuge with his brother , who be await anxiously the result of the interview .
` You have good go yourselves , ' be all the reply they get , ` and see if you will fare any good . '
Upon hear this , the second son enter his father 's room , only to be treat in the same manner a his brother ; and back he come tell the young , the fool of the family , that it be his turn to try his luck .
Then the young son march boldly up to his father and say to him , ` My brother would not let me know what answer you have give to their question .
But now , do tell me why your right eye always laugh and your left eye always weeps . '
As before , the father grow purple with fury , and rush forward with his knife .
But the simpleton do not stir a step ; he know that he have really nothing to fear from his father .
` Ah , now I see who be my true son , ' exclaim the old man ; ` the others be mere coward .
And a you have show me that you be brave , I will satisfy your curiosity .
My right eye laugh because I be glad to have a son like you ; my leave eye weeps because a precious treasure have be steal from me .
I have in my garden a vine that yield a tun of wine every hour -- someone have manage to steal it , so I weep it loss . '
The simpleton return to his brother and tell them of their father 's loss , and they all make up their mind to set out at once in search of the vine .
They travel together till they come to some cross road , and there they part , the two elder one take one road , and the simpleton the other .
` Thank goodness we have get rid of that idiot , ' exclaim the two elder .
` Now let u have some breakfast . '
And they sit down by the roadside and begin to eat .
They have only half finish , when a lame fox come out of a wood and beg them to give him something to eat .
But they jump up and chase him off with their stick , and the poor fox limp away on his three pad .
As he run he reach the spot where the young son be get out the food he have bring with him , and the fox ask him for a crust of bread .
The simpleton have not very much for himself , but he gladly give half of his meal to the hungry fox .
` Where be you go , brother ? '
say the fox , when he have finish his share of the bread ; and the young man tell him the story of his father and the wonderful vine .
` Dear me , how lucky ! '
say the fox . '
I know what have become of it .
Follow me ! '
So they go on till they come to the gate of a large garden .
` You will find here the vine that you be seek , but it will not be at all easy to get it .
You must listen carefully to what I be go to say .
Before you reach the vine you will have to pass twelve outpost , each consist of two guard .
If you see these guard look straight at you , go on without fear , for they be asleep .
But if their eye be shut then beware , for they be wide awake .
If you once get to the vine , you will find two shovel , one of wood and the other of iron .
Be sure not to take the iron one ; it will make a noise and rouse the guard , and then you be lose . '
The young man get safely through the garden without any adventure till he come to the vine which yield a tun of wine an hour .
But he think he should find it impossible to dig the hard earth with only a wooden shovel , so pick up the iron one instead .
The noise it make soon awaken the guard .
They seize the poor simpleton and carry him to their master .
` Why do you try to steal my vine ? '
demand he ; ` and how do you manage to get past the guard ? '
` The vine be not yours ; it belong to my father , and if you will not give it to me now , I will return and get it somehow . '
` You shall have the vine if you will bring me in exchange an apple off the golden apple-tree that flower every twenty-four hour , and bear fruit of gold . '
So say , he give order that the simpleton should be release , and this do , the youth hurry off to consult the fox .
` Now you see , ' observe the fox , ` this come of not follow my advice .
However , I will help you to get the golden apple .
It grow in a garden that you will easily recognise from my description .
Near the apple-tree be two pole , one of gold , the other of wood .
Take the wooden pole , and you will be able to reach the apple . '
Master Simpleton listen carefully to all that be tell him , and after cross the garden , and escape a before from the men who be watch it , soon arrive at the apple-tree .
But he be so dazzle by the sight of the beautiful golden fruit , that he quite forget all that the fox have say .
He seize the golden pole , and strike the branch a sounding blow .
The guard at once awoke , and conduct him to their master .
Then the simpleton have to tell his story . '
I will give you the golden apple , ' say the owner of the garden , ` if you will bring me in exchange a horse which can go round the world in four-and-twenty hour . '
And the young man depart , and go to find the fox .
This time the fox be really angry , and no wonder .
` If you have listen to me , you would have be home with your father by this time .
However I be willing to help you once more .
Go into the forest , and you will find the horse with two halter round his neck .
One be of gold , the other of hemp .
Lead him by the hempen halter , or else the horse will begin to neigh , and will waken the guard .
Then all be over with you . '
So Master Simpleton search till he find the horse , and be strike dumb at it beauty .
` What ! '
he say to himself , ` put the hempen halter on an animal like that ?
Not I , indeed ! '
Then the horse neigh loudly ; the guard seize our young friend and conduct him before their master . '
I will give you the golden horse , ' say he , ` if you will bring me in exchange a golden maiden who have never yet see either sun or moon . '
` But if I be to bring you the golden maiden you must lend me first the golden steed with which to seek for her . '
` Ah , ' reply the owner of the golden horse , ` but who will undertake that you will ever come back ? ' '
I swear on the head of my father , ' answer the young man , ` that I will bring back either the maiden or the horse . '
And he go away to consult the fox .
Now , the fox who be always patient and charitable to other people 's fault , lead him to the entrance of a deep grotto , where stand a maiden all of gold , and beautiful a the day .
He place her on his horse and prepared to mount .
-LSB- Illustration : LIMPING FOX ADVISES THE SIMPLETON TO KEEP THE GOLDEN GIRL HIMSELF -RSB- ` Are you not sorry , ' say the fox , ` to give such a lovely maiden in exchange for a horse ?
Yet you be bind to do it , for you have swear by the head of your father .
But perhaps I could manage to take her place . '
So say , the fox transform himself into another golden maiden , so like the first that hardly anyone could tell the difference between them .
The simpleton take her straight to the owner of the horse , who be enchant with her .
And the young man get back his father 's vine and marry the real golden maiden into the bargain .
-LSB- Contes Populaires Slaves .
Traduits par Louis Léger .
Paris : Ernest Leroux , éditeur . -RSB-
THE UNLOOKED-FOR PRINCE -LRB- POLISH STORY -RRB- A long time ago there live a king and queen who have no child , although they both wish very much for a little son .
They try not to let each other see how unhappy they be , and pretend to take pleasure in hunt and hawk and all sort of other sport ; but at length the king could bear it no longer , and declare that he must go and visit the furthest corner of his kingdom , and that it would be many month before he should return to his capital .
By that time he hop he would have so many thing to think about that he would have forget to trouble about the little son who never come .
The country the king reign over be very large , and full of high , stony mountain and sandy desert , so that it be not at all easy to go from one place to another .
One day the king have wander out alone , mean to go only a little distance , but everything look so alike he could not make out the path by which he have come .
He walk on and on for hour , the sun beat hotly on his head , and his legs tremble under him , and he might have die of thirst if he have not suddenly stumble on a little well , which look a if it have be newly dig .
On the surface float a silver cup with a golden handle , but a it bob about whenever the king try to seize it , he be too thirsty to wait any long and kneel down and drink his fill .
When he have finish he begin to rise from his knee , but somehow his beard seem to have stick fast in the water , and with all his effort he could not pull it out .
After two or three jerk to his head , which only hurt him without do any good , he call out angrily , ` Let go at once !
Who be hold me ? '
` It be I , the King Kostieï , ' say a voice from the well , and look up through the water be a little man with green eye and a big head .
` You have drink from my spring , and I shall not let you go until you promise to give me the most precious thing your palace contains , which be not there when you leave it . '
Now the only thing that the king much care for in his palace be the queen herself , and a she be weep bitterly on a pile of cushion in the great hall when he have ride away , he know that Kostieï 's word could not apply to her .
So he cheerfully give the promise ask for by the ugly little man , and in the twinkling of an eye , man , spring , and cup have disappear , and the king be leave kneel on the dry sand , wonder if it be all a dream .
But a he felt much strong and well he make up his mind that this strange adventure must really have happen , and he spring on his horse and ride off with a light heart to look for his companion .
In a few week they begin to set out on their return home , which they reach one hot day , eight month after they have all leave .
The king be greatly beloved by his people , and crowd line the road , shout and wave their hat a the procession pass along .
On the step of the palace stand the queen , with a splendid golden cushion in her arm , and on the cushion the most beautiful boy that ever be see , wrap about in a cloud of lace .
In a moment Kostieï 's word rush into the king 's mind , and he begin to weep bitterly , to the surprise of everybody , who have expect him nearly to die of joy at the sight of his son .
But try a he would and work as hard a he might he could never forget his promise , and every time he let the baby out of his sight he think that he have see it for the last time .
However , year pass on and the prince grow first into a big boy , and then into a fine young man .
Kostieï make no sign , and gradually even the anxious king thought less and less about him , and in the end forget him altogether .
There be no family in the whole kingdom happy than the king and queen and prince , until one day when the youth meet a little old man a he be hunt in a lonely part of the wood .
` How be you , my unlooked-for Prince ? '
he say .
` You keep them wait a good long time ! '
` And who be you ? '
ask the prince .
` You will know soon enough .
When you go home give my compliment to your father and tell him that I wish he would square account with me .
If he neglect to pay his debt he will bitterly repent it . '
So say the old man disappear , and the prince return to the palace and tell his father what have happen .
The king turn pale and explain to his son the terrible story .
` Do not grieve over it , father , ' answer the prince .
` It be nothing so dreadful after all !
I will find some way to force Kostieï to give up his right over me .
But if I do not come back in a year 's time , you must give up all hope of ever see me . '
Then the prince begin to prepare for his journey .
His father give him a complete suit of steel armour , a sword , and a horse , while his mother hung round his neck a cross of gold .
So , kiss him tenderly , with many tear they let him go .
He ride steadily on for three day , and at sunset on the fourth day he find himself on the seashore .
On the sand before him lay twelve white dress , dazzle a the snow , yet as far a his eye could reach there be no one in sight to whom they could belong .
Curious to see what would happen , he take up one of the garment , and leave his horse loose , to wander about the adjoining field , he hide himself among some willow and wait .
In a few minute a flock of geese which have be paddle about in the sea approach the shore , and put on the dress , strike the sand with their foot and be transform in the twinkling of an eye into eleven beautiful young girl , who fly away as fast a they could .
The twelfth and young remain in the water , stretch out her long white neck and look about her anxiously .
Suddenly , among the willow , she perceive the king 's son , and call out to him with a human voice : ` Oh Prince , give me back my dress , and I shall be for ever grateful to you . '
The Prince hasten to lay the dress on the sand , and walk away .
When the maiden have throw off the goose-skin and quickly put on her proper clothes , she come towards him and he saw that none have ever see or tell of such beauty a hers .
She blush and hold out her hand , say to him in a soft voice : ' I thank you , noble Prince , for have grant my request .
I be the young daughter of Kostieï the immortal , who have twelve daughter and rule over the kingdom under the earth .
Long time my father have wait for you , and great be his anger .
But trouble not yourself and fear nothing , only do a I bid you .
When you see the King Kostieï , fall straightway upon your knee and heed neither his threat nor his cry , but draw near to him boldly .
That which will happen after , you will know in time .
Now let u go . '
At these word she strike the ground with her foot and a gulf open , down which they go right into the heart of the earth .
In a short time they reach Kostieï 's palace , which give light , with a light brighter than the sun , to the dark kingdom below .
And the prince , a he have be bid , enter boldly into the hall .
Kostieï , with a shin crown upon his head , sit in the centre upon a golden throne .
His green eye glitter like glass , his hand be a the claw of a crab .
When he catch sight of the prince he utter pierce yell , which shake the wall of the palace .
The prince take no notice , but continue his advance on his knee towards the throne .
When he have almost reach it , the king break out into a laugh and say : ` It have be very lucky for you that you have be able to make me laugh .
Stay with u in our underground empire , only first you will have to do three thing .
To-night it be late .
Go to sleep ; to-morrow I will tell you . '
Early the following morning the prince receive a message that Kostieï be ready to see him .
He get up and dress , and hasten to the presence chamber , where the little king be seat on his throne .
When the prince appear , bow low before him , Kostieï begin : ` Now , Prince , this be what you have to do .
By to-night you must build me a marble palace , with window of crystal and a roof of gold .
It be to stand in the middle of a great park , full of stream and lake .
If you be able to build it you shall be my friend .
If not , off with your head . '
The prince listen in silence to this startle speech , and then return to his room set himself to think about the certain death that await him .
He be quite absorb in these thought , when suddenly a bee flew against the window and tap , say , ` Let me come in . '
He rise and open the window , and there stand before him the young princess .
` What be you dream about , Prince ? ' '
I be dream of your father , who have plan my death . '
` Fear nothing .
You may sleep in peace , and to-morrow morning when you awake you will find the palace all ready . '
What she say , she do .
The next morning when the prince leave his room he saw before him a palace more beautiful than his fancy have ever picture .
Kostieï for his part could hardly believe his eye , and ponder deeply how it have get there .
` Well , this time you have certainly win ; but you be not go to be let off so easily .
To-morrow all my twelve daughter shall stand in a row before you , and if you can not tell me which of them be the young , off go your head . '
` What !
Not recognise the young princess ! '
say the Prince to himself , a he enter his room , ' a likely story ! '
` It be such a difficult matter that you will never be able to do it without my help , ' reply the bee , who be buzz about the ceiling .
` We be all so exactly alike , that even our father scarcely know the difference between u . '
` Then what must I do ? '
` This .
The young be she who will have a ladybird on her eyelid .
Be very careful .
Now good-bye . '
Next morning King Kostieï again send for the prince .
The young princess be all draw up in a row , dress precisely in the same manner , and with their eye all cast down .
As the prince look at them , he be amaze at their likeness .
Twice he walk along the line , without be able to detect the sign agree upon .
The third time his heart beat fast at the sight of a tiny speck upon the eyelid of one of the girl .
` This one be the young , ' he say .
` How in the world do you guess ? '
cry Kostieï in a fury .
` There be some jugglery about it !
But you be not go to escape me so easily .
In three hour you shall come here and give me another proof of your cleverness .
I shall set alight a handful of straw , and before it be burn up you will have turn it into a pair of boot .
If not , off go your head . '
So the prince return sadly into his room , but the bee be there before him .
` Why do you look so melancholy , my handsome Prince ? '
` How can I help look melancholy when your father have order me to make him a pair of boot ?
Does he take me for a shoemaker ? '
` What do you think of do ? '
` Not of make boot , at any rate !
I be not afraid of death .
One can only die once after all . '
` No , Prince , you shall not die .
I will try to save you .
And we will fly together or die together . '
As she speak she spat upon the ground , and then draw the prince after her out of the room , she lock the door behind her and throw away the key .
Holding each other tight by the hand , they make their way up into the sunlight , and find themselves by the side of the same sea , while the prince 's horse be still quietly feed in the neighbouring meadow .
The moment he saw his master , the horse whinny and gallop towards him .
Without lose an instant the prince sprang into the saddle , swing the princess behind him , and away they go like an arrow from a bow .
When the hour arrive which Kostieï have fix for the prince 's last trial , and there be no sign of him , the king send to his room to ask why he delay so long .
The servant , find the door lock , knock loudly and receive for answer , ` In one moment . '
It be the spittle , which be imitate the voice of the prince .
The answer be take back to Kostieï .
He wait ; still no prince .
He send the servant back again , and the same voice reply , ` Immediately . '
` He be make fun of me ! '
shriek Kostieï in a rage .
` Break in the door , and bring him to me ! '
The servant hurry to do his bidding .
The door be break open .
Nobody inside ; but just the spittle in fit of laughter !
Kostieï be beside himself with rage , and command his guard to ride after the fugitive .
If the guard return without the fugitive , their head should pay for it .
By this time the prince and princess have get a good start , and be feel quite happy , when suddenly they hear the sound of a gallop far behind them .
The prince sprang from the saddle , and lay his ear to the ground .
` They be pursue u , ' he say .
` Then there be no time to be lose , ' answer the princess ; and a she speak she change herself into a river , the prince into a bridge , the horse into a crow , and divide the wide road beyond the bridge into three little one .
When the soldier come up to the bridge , they pause uncertainly .
How be they to know which of the three road the fugitive have take ?
They give it up in despair and return in tremble to Kostieï .
` Idiots ! '
he exclaim , in a passion .
` They be the bridge and the river , of course !
Do you mean to say you never think of that ?
Go back at once ! '
and off they gallop like lightning .
But time have be lose , and the prince and princess be far on their way . '
I hear a horse , ' cry the princess .
The prince jump down and lay his ear to the ground .
` Yes , ' he say , ` they be not far off now . '
In an instant prince , princess , and horse have all disappear , and instead be a dense forest , cross and recrossed by countless path .
Kostieï 's soldier dash hastily into the forest , believe they saw before them the fly horse with it double burden .
They seem close upon them , when suddenly horse , wood , everything disappear , and they find themselves at the place where they start .
There be nothing for it but to return to Kostieï , and tell him of this fresh disaster . '
A horse !
a horse ! '
cry the king . '
I will go after them myself .
This time they shall not escape . '
And he gallop off , foam with anger . '
I think I hear someone pursue u , ' say the princess .
` Yes , so do I. ' ` And this time it be Kostieï himself .
But his power only reach as far a the first church , and he can go no farther .
Give me your golden cross . '
So the prince unfasten the cross which be his mother 's gift , and the princess hastily change herself into a church , the prince into a priest , and the horse into a belfry .
It be hardly do when Kostieï come up .
` Greeting , monk .
Have you see some traveller on horseback pas this way ? '
` Yes , the prince and Kostieï 's daughter have just go by .
They have enter the church , and tell me to give you their greeting if I meet you . '
Then Kostieï know that he have be hopelessly beat , and the prince and princess continue their journey without any more adventure .
-LSB- Contes Populaires Slaves .
Traduits par Louis Léger .
Paris : Leroux , éditeur . -RSB-
THE SIMPLETON There live , once upon a time , a man who be as rich a he could be ; but a no happiness in this world be ever quite complete , he have an only son who be such a simpleton that he could barely add two and two together .
At last his father determine to put up with his stupidity no longer , and give him a purse full of gold , he send him off to seek his fortune in foreign land , mindful of the adage : How much a fool that 's send to roam Excels a fool that stay at home .
Moscione , for this be the youth 's name , mount a horse , and set out for Venice , hop to find a ship there that would take him to Cairo .
After he have ride for some time he saw a man stand at the foot of a poplar tree , and say to him : ` What 's your name , my friend ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? '
The man reply , ` My name be Quick-as-Thought , I come from Fleet-town , and I can run like lightning . ' '
I should like to see you , ' return Moscione .
` Just wait a minute , then , ' say Quick-as-Thought , ` and I will soon show you that I be speak the truth . '
The word be hardly out of his mouth when a young doe run right across the field they be stand in .
Quick-as-Thought let her run on a short distance , in order to give her a start , and then pursue her so quickly and so lightly that you could not have track his footstep if the field have be strew with flour .
In a very few spring he have overtake the doe , and have so impressed Moscione with his fleetness of foot that he beg Quick-as-Thought to go with him , promise at the same time to reward him handsomely .
Quick-as-Thought agree to his proposal , and they continue on their journey together .
They have hardly go a mile when they meet a young man , and Moscione stop and ask him : ` What 's your name , my friend ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? '
The man thus address answer promptly , ' I be call Hare 's - ear , I come from Curiosity Valley , and if I lay my ear on the ground , without move from the spot , I can hear everything that go on in the world , the plot and intrigue of court and cottage , and all the plan of mouse and men . '
` If that 's the case , ' reply Moscione , ` Just tell me what 's go on in my own home at present . '
The youth lay his ear to the ground and at once report : ` An old man be say to his wife , `` Heaven be praise that we have get rid of Moscione , for perhaps , when he have be out in the world a little , he may gain some common sense , and return home less of a fool than when he set out . '' '
` Enough , enough , ' cry Moscione .
` You speak the truth , and I believe you .
Come with u , and your fortune 's make . '
The young man consent ; and after they have go about ten mile , they meet a third man , to whom Moscione say : ` What 's your name , my brave fellow ; where be you bear , and what can you do ? '
The man reply , ' I be call Hit-the-Point , I come from the city of Perfect-aim , and I draw my bow so exactly that I can shoot a pea off a stone . ' '
I should like to see you do it , if you 've no objection , ' say Moscione .
The man at once place a pea on a stone , and , draw his bow , he shoot it in the middle with the great possible ease .
When Moscione saw that he have speak the truth , he immediately ask Hit-the-Point to join his party .
After they have all travel together for some day , they come upon a number of people who be dig a trench in the blazing sun .
Moscione felt so sorry for them , that he say : ` My dear friend , how can you endure work so hard in heat that would cook an egg in a minute ? '
But one of the workman answer : ` We be as fresh a daisy , for we have a young man among u who blow on our back like the west wind . '
` Let me see him , ' say Moscione .
The youth be call , and Moscione ask him : ` What 's your name ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? '
He answer : ' I be call Blow-Blast , I come from Wind-town , and with my mouth I can make any wind you please .
If you wish a west wind I can raise it for you in a second , but if you prefer a north wind I can blow these house down before your eye . '
` Seeing be believe , ' return the cautious Moscione .
Blow-Blast at once begin to convince him of the truth of his assertion .
First he blow so softly that it seem like the gentle breeze at evening , and then he turn round and raise such a mighty storm , that he blow down a whole row of oak tree .
When Moscione saw this he be delight , and beg Blow-Blast to join his company .
And a they go on their way they meet another man , whom Moscione address a usual : ` What 's your name ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? ' '
I be call Strong-Back ; I come from Power-borough , and I possess such strength that I can take a mountain on my back , and it seem a feather to me . '
` If that 's the case , ' say Moscione , ` you be a clever fellow ; but I should like some proof of your strength . '
Then Strong-Back load himself with great boulder of rock and trunk of tree , so that a hundred waggon could not have take away all that he carry on his back .
When Moscione saw this he prevail on Strong-Back to join his troop , and they all continue their journey till they come to a country call Flower Vale .
Here there reign a king whose only daughter run as quickly a the wind , and so lightly that she could run over a field of young oat without bend a single blade .
The king have give out a proclamation that anyone who could beat the princess in a race should have her for a wife , but that all who fail in the competition should lose their head .
As soon a Moscione heard of the Royal Proclamation , he hasten to the king and challenge the princess to race with him .
But on the morning appoint for the trial he send word to the king that he be not feel well , and that a he could not run himself he would supply someone to take his place .
` It 's just the same to me , ' say Canetella , the princess ; ` let anyone come forward that like , I be quite prepared to meet him . '
At the time appoint for the race the whole place be crowd with people anxious to see the contest , and , punctual to the moment , Quick-as-Thought , and Canetella dress in a short skirt and very lightly shod , appear at the starting-point .
Then a silver trumpet sound , and the two rival start on their race , look for all the world like a greyhound chase a hare .
But Quick-as-Thought , true to his name , outrun the princess , and when the goal be reach the people all clap their hand and shout , ` Long live the stranger ! '
-LSB- Illustration : The Princess beat by Quick-as-Thought -RSB- Canetella be much depress by her defeat ; but , a the race have to be run a second time , she determine she would not be beat again .
Accordingly she go home and send Quick-as-Thought a magic ring , which prevent the person who wear it , not only from run , but even from walk , and beg that he would wear it for her sake .
Early next morning the crowd assemble on the race-course , and Canetella and Quick-as-Thought begin their trial afresh .
The princess run as quickly a ever , but poor Quick-as-Thought be like an overloaded donkey , and could not go a step .
Then Hit-the-Point , who have hear all about the princess 's deception from Hare 's - ear , when he saw the danger his friend be in , seize his bow and arrow and shoot the stone out of the ring Quick-as-Thought be wear .
In a moment the youth 's leg become free again , and in five bound he have overtake Canetella and win the race .
The king be much disgust when he saw that he must acknowledge Moscione a his future son-in-law , and summon the wise men of his court to ask if there be no way out of the difficulty .
The council at once decide that Canetella be far too dainty a morsel for the mouth of such a travelling tinker , and advise the king to offer Moscione a present of gold , which no doubt a beggar like him would prefer to all the wife in the world .
The king be delight at this suggestion , and call Moscione before him , he ask him what sum of money he would take instead of his promised bride .
Moscione first consult with his friend , and then answer : ' I demand as much gold and precious stone a my follower can carry away . '
The king think he be be let off very easily , and produce coffer of gold , sack of silver , and chest of precious stone ; but the more Strong-Back be load with the treasure the straighter he stand .
At last the treasury be quite exhaust , and the king have to send his courtier to his subject to collect all the gold and silver they possess .
But nothing be of any avail , and Strong-Back only ask for more .
When the king 's counsellor saw the unexpected result of their advice , they say it would be more than foolish to let some stroll thief take so much treasure out of the country , and urge the king to send a troop of soldier after them , to recover the gold and precious stone .
So the king send a body of arm men on foot and horse , to take back the treasure Strong-Back be carry away with him .
But Hare 's - ear , who have hear what the counsellor have advise the king , tell his companion just a the dust of their pursuer be visible on the horizon .
No sooner have Blow-Blast take in their danger than he raise such a mighty wind that all the king 's army be blow down like so many nine-pins , and a they be quite unable to get up again , Moscione and his companion proceed on their way without further let or hindrance .
As soon a they reach his home , Moscione divide his spoil with his companion , at which they be much delight .
He , himself , stay with his father , who be oblige at last to acknowledge that his son be not quite such a fool a he look .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
THE STREET MUSICIANS A man once possess a donkey which have serve him faithfully for many year , but at last the poor beast grow old and feeble , and every day his work become more of a burden .
As he be no long of any use , his master make up his mind to shoot him ; but when the donkey learn the fate that be in store for him , he determine not to die , but to run away to the near town and there to become a street musician .
When he have trot along for some distance he come upon a greyhound lie on the road , and pant for dear life .
` Well , brother , ' say the donkey , ` what 's the matter with you ?
You look rather tire . '
` So I be , ' reply the dog , ` but because I be get old and be grow weak every day , and can not go out hunt any longer , my master want to poison me ; and , a life be still sweet , I have take leave of him .
But how I be to earn my own livelihood I have n't a notion . '
` Well , ' say the donkey , ' I be on my way to the near big town , where I mean to become a street musician .
Why do n't you take up music a a profession and come along with me ?
I 'll play the flute and you can play the kettle-drum . '
The greyhound be quite pleased at the idea , and the two set off together .
When they have go a short distance they meet a cat with a face as long a three rainy day .
` Now , what have happen to upset your happiness , friend pus ? '
inquire the donkey .
` It 's impossible to look cheerful when one feel depress , ' answer the cat . '
I be well up in year now , and have lose most of my teeth ; consequently I prefer sit in front of the fire to catch mouse , and so my old mistress want to drown me .
I have no wish to die yet , so I run away from her ; but good advice be expensive , and I do n't know where I be to go to , or what I be to do . '
` Come to the near big town with u , ' say the donkey , ` and try your fortune a a street musician .
I know what sweet music you make at night , so you be sure to be a success . '
The cat be delight with the donkey 's proposal , and they all continue their journey together .
In a short time they come to the courtyard of an inn , where they find a cock crow lustily .
` What in the world be the matter with you ? '
ask the donkey .
` The noise you be make be enough to break the drum of our ear . ' '
I be only prophesy good weather , ' say the cock ; ` for to-morrow be a feast day , and just because it be a holiday and a number of people be expect at the inn , the landlady have give order for my neck to be wrung to-night , so that I may be make into soup for to-morrow 's dinner . '
` I 'll tell you what , redcap , ' say the donkey ; ` you have much well come with u to the near town .
You have get a good voice , and could join a street band we be get up . '
The cock be much please with the idea , and the party proceed on their way .
But the near big town be a long way off , and it take them more than a day to reach it .
In the evening they come to a wood , and they make up their mind to go no far , but to spend the night there .
The donkey and the greyhound lay down under a big tree , and the cat and the cock get up into the branch , the cock fly right up to the topmost twig , where he think he would be safe from all danger .
Before he go to sleep he look round the four point of the compass , and saw a little spark burning in the distance .
He call out to his companion that he be sure there must be a house not far off , for he could see a light shining .
When he hear this , the donkey say at once : ` Then we must get up , and go and look for the house , for this be very poor shelter . '
And the greyhound add : ` Yes ; I feel I 'd be all the good for a few bone and a scrap or two of meat . '
So they set out for the spot where the light be to be see shin faintly in the distance , but the nearer they approach it the brighter it grow , till at last they come to a brilliantly light house .
The donkey be the big of the party , go to the window and look in .
` Well , greyhead , what do you see ? '
ask the cock . '
I see a well-covered table , ' reply the donkey , ` with excellent food and drink , and several robber be sit round it , enjoy themselves highly . ' '
I wish we be do the same , ' say the cock .
` So do I , ' answer the donkey .
` Ca n't we think of some plan for turn out the robber , and take possession of the house ourselves ? '
So they consult together what they be to do , and at last they arrange that the donkey should stand at the window with his fore-feet on the sill , that the greyhound should get on his back , the cat on the dog 's shoulder , and the cock on the cat 's head .
When they have group themselves in this way , at a give signal , they all begin their different form of music .
The donkey bray , the greyhound bark , the cat miawed , and the cock crew .
Then they all scramble through the window into the room , break the glass into a thousand piece a they do so .
The robber be all startle by the dreadful noise , and think that some evil spirit at the least be enter the house , they rush out into the wood , their hair stand on end with terror .
The four companion , delight with the success of their trick , sit down at the table , and ate and drink all the food and wine that the robber have leave behind them .
When they have finish their meal they put out the light , and each animal choose a suitable sleeping-place .
The donkey lay down in the courtyard outside the house , the dog behind the door , the cat in front of the fire , and the cock fly up on to a high shelf , and , a they be all tire after their long day , they soon go to sleep .
Shortly after midnight , when the robber saw that no light be burn in the house and that all seem quiet , the captain of the band say : ` We be fool to let ourselves be so easily frighten away ; ' and , turn to one of his men , he order him to go and see if all be safe .
The man find everything in silence and darkness , and go into the kitchen he think he have well strike a light .
He take a match , and mistake the fiery eye of the cat for two glowing coal , he try to light his match with them .
But the cat do n't see the joke , and sprang at his face , spit and scratch him in the most vigorous manner .
The man be terrify out of his life , and try to run out by the back door ; but he stumble over the greyhound , which bite him in the leg .
Yelling with pain he run across the courtyard only to receive a kick from the donkey 's hind leg a he pass him .
In the meantime the cock have be rouse from his slumber , and feel very cheerful he call out , from the shelf where he be perch , ` Kikeriki ! '
Then the robber hasten back to his captain and say : ` Sir , there be a dreadful witch in the house , who spat at me and scratch my face with her long finger ; and before the door there stand a man with a long knife , who cut my leg severely .
In the courtyard outside lie a black monster , who fell upon me with a huge wooden club ; and that be not all , for , sit on the roof , be a judge , who call out : `` Bring the rascal to me . ''
So I flee for dear life . '
After this the robber dare not venture into the house again , and they abandon it for ever .
But the four street musician be so delighted with their lodging that they determine to take up their abode in the robber ' house , and , for all I know to the contrary , they may be live there to this day .
-LSB- From the German , Kletke . -RSB-
THE TWIN BROTHERS Once there be a fisherman who have plenty of money but no child .
One day an old woman come to his wife and say : ` What use be all your prosperity to you when you have no child ? '
` It be God 's will , ' answer the fisherman 's wife .
` Nay , my child , it be not God 's will , but the fault of your husband ; for if he would but catch the little gold-fish you would surely have child .
To-night , when he come home , tell him he must go back and catch the little fish .
He must then cut it in six piece -- one of these you must eat , and your husband the second , and soon after you will have two child .
The third piece you must give to the dog , and she will have two puppy .
The fourth piece give to the mare , and she will have two foal .
The fifth piece bury on the right of the house door , and the sixth on the left , and two cypress tree will spring up there . '
When the fisherman come home at even his wife tell him all that the old woman have advise , and he promise to bring home the little gold-fish .
Next morning , therefore , he go very early to the water , and catch the little fish .
Then they do a the old woman have order , and in due time the fisherman 's wife have two son , so like each other that no one could tell the difference .
The dog have two puppy exactly alike , the mare have two foal , and on each side of the front door there spring up two cypress tree precisely similar .
When the two boy be grow up , they be not content to remain at home , though they have wealth in plenty ; but they wish to go out into the world , and make a name for themselves .
Their father would not allow them both to go at once , a they be the only child he have .
He say : ` First one shall travel , and when he be come back then the other may go . '
So the one take his horse and his dog , and go , say to his brother : ` So long a the cypress tree be green , that be a sign that I be alive and well ; but if one begin to wither , then make haste and come to me . '
So he go forth into the world .
One day he stop at the house of an old woman , and a at even he sit before the door , he perceive in front of him a castle stand on a hill .
He ask the old woman to whom it belong , and her answer be : ` My son , it be the castle of the Fairest in the Land ! '
` And I be come here to woo her ! '
` That , my son , many have seek to do , and have lose their life in the attempt ; for she have cut off their head and stick them on the post you see stand there . '
` And the same will she do to me , or else I shall be victor , for to-morrow I go there to court her . '
Then he take his zither and play upon it so beautifully that no one in all that land have ever hear the like , and the princess herself come to the window to listen .
The next morning the Fairest in the Land send for the old woman and ask her , ` Who be it that live with you , and play the zither so well ? '
` It be a stranger , princess , who arrive yesterday evening , ' answer the old woman .
And the princess then command that the stranger should be bring to her .
When he appear before the princess she question him about his home and his family , and about this and that ; and confess at length that his zither-playing give her great pleasure , and that she would take him for her husband .
The stranger reply that it be with that intent he have come .
The princess then say : ` You must now go to my father , and tell him you desire to have me to wife , and when he have put the three problem before you , then come back and tell me . '
The stranger then go straight to the king , and tell him that he wish to wed his daughter .
And the king answer : ' I shall be well pleased , provide you can do what I impose upon you ; if not you will lose your head .
Now , listen ; out there on the ground , there lie a thick log , which measure more than two fathom ; if you can cleave it in two with one stroke of your sword , I will give you my daughter to wife .
If you fail , then it will cost you your head . '
Then the stranger withdraw , and return to the house of the old woman sore distress , for he could believe nothing but that next day he must atone to the king with his head .
And so full be he of the idea of how to set about cleave the log that he forget even his zither .
In the evening come the princess to the window to listen to his playing , and behold all be still .
Then she call to him : ` Why be you so cast down this evening , that you do not play on your zither ? '
And he tell her his trouble .
But she laugh at it , and call to him : ` And you grieve over that ?
Bring quickly your zither , and play something for my amusement , and early to-morrow come to me . '
Then the stranger take his zither and play the whole evening for the amusement of the princess .
Next morning she take a hair from her lock and give it to him , say : ` Take this hair , and wind it round your sword , then you will be able to cleave the log in two . '
Then the stranger go forth , and with one blow cleave the log in two .
But the king say : ' I will impose another task upon you , before you can wed my daughter . '
` Speak on , ' say the stranger .
` Listen , then , ' answer the king ; ` you must mount a horse and ride three mile at full gallop , hold in each hand a goblet full of water .
If you spill no drop then I shall give you my daughter to wife , but should you not succeed then I will take your life . '
Then the stranger return to the house of the old woman , and again he be so troubled a to forget his zither .
In the even the princess come to the window a before to listen to the music , but again all be still ; and she call to him : ` What be the matter that you do not play on your zither ? '
Then he relate all that the king have order him to do , and the princess answer : ` Do not let yourself be disturb , only play now , and come to me to-morrow morning . '
Then next morning he go to her , and she give him her ring , say : ` Throw this ring into the water and it will immediately freeze , so that you will not spill any . '
The stranger do a the princess bid him , and carry the water all the way .
Then the king say : ` Now I will give you a third task , and this shall be the last .
I have a negro who will fight with you to-morrow , and if you be the conqueror you shall wed my daughter . '
The stranger return , full of joy , to the house of the old woman , and that evening be so merry that the princess call to him : ` You seem very cheerful this evening ; what have my father tell you that make you so glad ? '
He answer : ` Your father have tell me that to-morrow I must fight with his negro .
He be only another man like myself , and I hope to subdue him , and to gain the contest . '
But the princess answer : ` This be the hard of all .
I myself be the black man , for I swallow a drink that change me into a negro of unconquerable strength .
Go to-morrow morning to the market , buy twelve buffalo hide and wrap them round your horse ; fasten this cloth round you , and when I be let loose upon you to-morrow show it to me , that I may hold myself back and may not kill you .
Then when you fight me you must try to hit my horse between the eye , for when you have kill it you have conquer me . '
Next morning , therefore , he go to the market and buy the twelve buffalo hide which he wrap round his horse .
Then he begin to fight with the black man , and when the combat have already last a long time , and eleven hide be tear , then the stranger hit the negro 's horse between the eye , so that it fell dead , and the black man be defeat .
Then say the king : ` Because you have solve the three problem I take you for my son-in-law . '
But the stranger answer : ' I have some business to conclude first ; in fourteen day I will return and bring the bride home . '
So he arise and go into another country , where he come to a great town , and alight at the house of an old woman .
When he have have supper he beg of her some water to drink , but she answer : ` My son , I have no water ; a giant have take possession of the spring , and only let u draw from it once a year , when we bring him a maiden .
He eat her up , and then he let u draw water ; just now it be the lot of the king 's daughter , and to-morrow she will be lead forth . '
The next day accordingly the princess be lead forth to the spring , and bound there with a golden chain .
After that all the people go away and she be leave alone .
When they have go the stranger go to the maiden and ask her what ail her that she lament so much , and she answer that the reason be because the giant would come and eat her up .
And the stranger promise that he would set her free if she would take him for her husband , and the princess joyfully consent .
When the giant appear the stranger set his dog at him , and it take him by the throat and throttle him till he die ; so the princess be set free .
Now when the king heard of it he gladly consent to the marriage , and the wedding take place with great rejoicing .
The young bridegroom abode in the palace one hundred and one week .
Then he begin to find it too dull , and he desire to go out hunting .
The king would fain have prevent it , but in this he could not succeed .
Then he beg his son-in-law at least to take sufficient escort with him , but this , too , the young man evade , and take only his horse and his dog .
He have ride already a long way , when he saw in the distance a hut , and ride straight towards it in order to get some water to drink .
There he find an old woman from whom he beg the water .
She answer that first he should allow her to beat his dog with her little wand , that it might not bite her while she fetch the water .
The hunter consent ; and as soon a she have touch the dog with her wand it immediately turn to stone .
Thereupon she touch the hunter and also his horse , and both turn to stone .
As soon a that have happen , the cypress tree in front of his father 's house begin to wither .
And when the other brother saw this , he immediately set out in search of his twin .
He come first to the town where his brother have slay the giant , and there fate lead him to the same old woman where his brother have lodge .
When she saw him she take him for his twin brother , and say to him : ` Do not take it amiss of me , my son , that I do not come to wish you joy on your marriage with the king 's daughter . '
The stranger perceive what mistake she have make , but only say : ` That do not matter , old woman , ' and ride on , without further speech , to the king 's palace , where the king and the princess both take him for his twin brother , and call out : ` Why have you tarry so long away ?
We think something evil have befall you . '
When night come and he sleep with the princess , who still believe him to be her husband , he lay his sword between them , and when morning come he rise early and go out to hunt .
Fate lead him by the same way which his brother have take , and from a distance he saw him and know that he be turn to stone .
Then he enter the hut and order the old woman to disenchant his brother .
But she answer : ` Let me first touch your dog with my wand , and then I will free your brother . '
He order the dog , however , to take hold of her , and bite her up to the knee , till she cry out : ` Tell your dog to let me go and I will set your brother free ! '
But he only answer : ` Tell me the magic word that I may disenchant him myself ; ' and a she would not he order his dog to bite her up to the hip .
Then the old woman cry out : ' I have two wand , with the green one I turn to stone , and with the red one I bring to life again . '
So the hunter take the red wand and disenchant his brother , also his brother 's horse , and his dog , and order his own dog to eat the old woman up altogether .
While the brother go on their way back to the castle of the king , the one brother relate to the other how the cypress tree have all at once dry up and wither , how he have immediately set out in search of his twin , and how he have come to the castle of his father-in-law , and have claim the princess a his wife .
But the other brother become furious on hear this , and smite him over the forehead till he die , and return alone to the house of his father-in-law .
-LSB- Illustration : THE TWIN BROTHERS THE BROTHER COMES TO THE RESCUE -RSB- When night come and he be in bed the princess ask him : ` What be the matter with you last night , that you never speak a word to me ? '
Then he cry out : ` That be not me , but my brother , and I have slay him , because he tell me by the way that he have claim you for his wife ! '
` Do you know the place where you slew him ? '
ask the princess , ` and can you find the body ? ' '
I know the place exactly . '
` Then to-morrow we shall ride thither , ' say the princess .
Next morning accordingly they set out together , and when they have come to the place , the princess draw forth a small bottle that she have bring with her , and sprinkle the body with some drop of the water so that immediately he become alive again .
When he stand up , his brother say to him : ` Forgive me , dear brother , that I slew you in my anger . '
Then they embrace and go together to the Fairest in the Land , whom the unmarried brother take to wife .
Then the brother bring their parent to live with them , and all dwell together in joy and happiness .
CANNETELLA There be once upon a time a king who reign over a country call ` Bello Puojo . '
He be very rich and powerful , and have everything in the world he could desire except a child .
But at last , after he have be marry for many year , and be quite an old man , his wife Renzolla present him with a fine daughter , whom they call Cannetella .
She grow up into a beautiful girl , and be a tall and straight a a young fir-tree .
When she be eighteen year old her father call her to him and say : ` You be of an age now , my daughter , to marry and settle down ; but a I love you more than anything else in the world , and desire nothing but your happiness , I be determine to leave the choice of a husband to yourself .
Choose a man after your own heart , and you be sure to satisfy me . '
Cannetella thank her father very much for his kindness and consideration , but tell him that she have not the slight wish to marry , and be quite determine to remain single .
The king , who felt himself grow old and feeble , and long to see an heir to the throne before he die , be very unhappy at her word , and beg her earnestly not to disappoint him .
When Cannetella saw that the king have set his heart on her marriage , she say : ` Very well , dear father , I will marry to please you , for I do not wish to appear ungrateful for all your love and kindness ; but you must find me a husband handsomer , cleverer , and more charming than anyone else in the world . '
The king be overjoy by her word , and from early in the morning till late at night he sit at the window and look carefully at all the passer-by , in the hope of find a son-in-law among them .
One day , see a very good-looking man cross the street , the king call his daughter and say : ` Come quickly , dear Cannetella , and look at this man , for I think he might suit you a a husband . '
They call the young man into the palace , and set a sumptuous feast before him , with every sort of delicacy you can imagine .
In the middle of the meal the youth let an almond fall out of his mouth , which , however , he pick up again very quickly and hide under the table-cloth .
When the feast be over the stranger go away ' , and the king ask Cannetella : ` Well , what do you think of the youth ? ' '
I think he be a clumsy wretch , ' reply Cannetella .
` Fancy a-man of his age let an almond fall out of his mouth ! '
When the king hear her answer he return to his watch at the window , and shortly afterwards a very handsome young man pass by .
The king instantly call his daughter to come and see what she think of the new comer .
` Call him in , ' say Cannetella , ` that we may see him close . '
Another splendid feast be prepare , and when the stranger have eat and drink as much a he be able , and have take his departure , the king ask Cannetella how she like him .
` Not at all , ' reply his daughter ; ` what could you do with a man who require at least two servant to help him on with his cloak , because he be too awkward to put it on properly himself ? '
` If that 's all you have against him , ' say the king , ' I see how the land lie .
You be determine not to have a husband at all ; but marry someone you shall , for I do not mean my name and house to die out . '
` Well , then , my dear parent , ' say Cannetella , ' I must tell you at once that you have good not count upon me , for I never mean to marry unless I can find a man with a gold head and gold teeth . '
The king be very angry at find his daughter so obstinate ; but a he always give the girl her own way in everything , he issue a proclamation to the effect that any man with a gold head and gold teeth might come forward and claim the princess a his bride , and the kingdom of Bello Puojo a a wedding gift .
Now the king have a deadly enemy call Scioravante , who be a very powerful magician .
No sooner have this man heard of the proclamation than he summon his attendant spirit and command them to gild his head and teeth .
The spirit say , at first , that the task be beyond their power , and suggest that a pair of golden horn attach to his forehead would both be easy to make and more comfortable to wear ; but Scioravante would allow no compromise , and insist on have a head and teeth make of the fine gold .
When it be fix on his shoulder he go for a stroll in front of the palace .
And the king , see the very man he be in search of , call his daughter , and say : ` Just look out of the window , and you will find exactly what you want . '
Then , a Scioravante be hurry past , the king shout out to him : ` Just stop a minute , brother , and do n't be in such desperate haste .
If you will step in here you shall have my daughter for a wife , and I will send attendant with her , and a many horse and servant a you wish . ' '
A thousand thanks , ' return Scioravante ; ' I shall be delight to marry your daughter , but it be quite unnecessary to send anyone to accompany her .
Give me a horse and I will carry off the princess in front of my saddle , and will bring her to my own kingdom , where there be no lack of courtier or servant , or , indeed , of anything your daughter can desire . '
At first the king be very much against Cannetella 's departing in this fashion ; but finally Scioravante get his way , and place the princess before him on his horse , he set out for his own country .
Towards even he dismount , and enter a stable he place Cannetella in the same stall a his horse , and say to her : ` Now listen to what I have to say .
I be go to my home now , and that be a seven year ' journey from here ; you must wait for me in this stable , and never move from the spot , or let yourself be see by a living soul .
If you disobey my command , it will be the bad for you . '
-LSB- Illustration : SCIORAVANTE LEAVES CANNETELLA IN THE STABLE -RSB- The princess answer meekly : ` Sir I be your servant , and will do exactly a you bid me ; but I should like to know what I be to live on till you come back ? '
` You can take what the horse leave , ' be Scioravante 's reply .
When the magician have leave her Cannetella felt very miserable , and bitterly curse the day she be bear .
She spend all her time weeping and bemoan the cruel fate that have drive her from a palace into a stable , from soft , down cushion to a bed of straw , and from the dainty of her father 's table to the food that the horse leave .
She lead this wretched life for a few month , and during that time she never saw who feed and water the horse , for it be all do by invisible hand .
One day , when she be more than usually unhappy , she perceive a little crack in the wall , through which she could see a beautiful garden , with all manner of delicious fruit and flower grow in it .
The sight and smell of such delicacy be too much for poor Cannetella , and she say to herself , ' I will slip quietly out , and pick a few orange and grape , and I do n't care what happen .
Who be there to tell my husband what I do ?
and even if he should hear of my disobedience , he can not make my life more miserable than it be already . '
So she slip out and refresh her poor , starve body with the fruit she pluck in the garden .
But a short time afterwards her husband return unexpectedly , and one of the horse instantly tell him that Cannetella have go into the garden , in his absence , and have steal some orange and grape .
Scioravante be furious when he hear this , and seize a huge knife from his pocket he threaten to kill his wife for her disobedience .
But Cannetella throw herself at his foot and implore him to spare her life , say that hunger drive even the wolf from the wood .
At last she succeed in so far soften her husband 's heart that he say , ' I will forgive you this time , and spare your life ; but if you disobey me again , and I hear , on my return , that you have as much a move out of the stall , I will certainly kill you .
So , beware ; for I be go away once more , and shall be absent for seven year . '
With these word he take his departure , and Cannetella burst into a flood of tear , and , wring her hand , she moan : ` Why be I ever bear to such a hard fate ?
Oh !
father , how miserable you have make your poor daughter !
But , why should I blame my father ?
for I have only myself to thank for all my suffering .
I get the cursed head of gold , and it have bring all this misery on me .
I be indeed punish for not do a my father wish ! '
When a year have go by , it chance , one day , that the king 's cooper pass the stable where Cannetella be keep prisoner .
She recognise the man , and call him to come in .
At first he do not know the poor princess , and could not make out who it be that call him by name .
But when he hear Cannetella 's tale of woe , he hide her in a big empty barrel he have with him , partly because he be sorry for the poor girl , and , even more , because he wish to gain the king 's favour .
Then he sling the barrel on the mule 's back , and in this way the princess be carry to her own home .
They arrive at the palace about four o'clock in the morning , and the cooper knock loudly at the door .
When the servant come in haste and saw only the cooper standing at the gate , they be very indignant , and scold him soundly for come at such an hour and wake them all out of their sleep .
The king hear the noise and the cause of it , send for the cooper , for he felt certain the man must have some important business , to have come and disturb the whole palace at such an early hour .
The cooper ask permission to unload his mule , and Cannetella creep out of the barrel .
At first the king refuse to believe that it be really his daughter , for she have change so terribly in a few year , and have grow so thin and pale , that it be pitiful to see her .
At last the princess show her father a mole she have on her right arm , and then he saw that the poor girl be indeed his long-lost Cannetella .
He kiss her a thousand time , and instantly have the choice food and drink set before her .
-LSB- Illustration : CANNETELLA COMES OUT OF THE CASK -RSB- After she have satisfy her hunger , the king say to her : ` Who would have think , my dear daughter , to have find you in such a state ?
What , may I ask , have bring you to this pas ? '
Cannetella reply : ` That wicked man with the gold head and teeth treat me bad than a dog , and many a time , since I leave you , have I long to die .
But I could n't tell you all that I have suffer , for you would never believe me .
It be enough that I be once more with you , and I shall never leave you again , for I would rather be a slave in your house than queen in any other . '
In the meantime Scioravante have return to the stable , and one of the horse tell him that Cannetella have be take away by a cooper in a barrel .
When the wicked magician heard this he be beside himself with rage , and , hasten to the kingdom of Bello Puojo , he go straight to an old woman who live exactly opposite the royal palace , and say to her : ` If you will let me see the king 's daughter ' , I will give you whatever reward you like to ask for . '
The woman demand a hundred ducat of gold , and Scioravante count them out of his purse and give them to her without a murmur .
Then the old woman lead him to the roof of the house , where he could see Cannetella comb out her long hair in a room in the top story of the palace .
The princess happen to look out of the window , and when she saw her husband gaze at her , she get such a fright that she fly downstairs to the king , and say : ` My lord and father , unless you shut me up instantly in a room with seven iron door , I be lose . '
` If that 's all ' say the king , ` it shall be do at once . '
And he give order for the door to be close on the spot .
When Scioravante saw this he return to the old woman , and say : ' I will give you whatever you like if you will go into the palace , hide under the princess 's bed , and slip this little piece of paper beneath her pillow , say , a you do so : `` May everyone in the palace , except the princess , fall into a sound sleep . '' '
The old woman demand another hundred golden ducat , and then proceed to carry out the magician 's wish .
No sooner have she slip the piece of paper under Cannetella 's pillow , than all the people in the palace fell fast asleep , and only the princess remain awake .
Then Scioravante hurry to the seven door and open them one after the other .
Cannetella scream with terror when she saw her husband , but no one come to her help , for all in the palace lay a if they be dead .
The magician seize her in the bed on which she lay , and be go to carry her off with him , when the little piece of paper which the old woman have place under her pillow fell on the floor .
In an instant all the people in the palace wake up , and a Cannetella be still scream for help , they rush to her rescue .
They seize Scioravante and put him to death ; so he be catch in the trap which he have lay for the princess -- and , a be so often the case in this world , the biter himself be bit .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
THE OGRE There live , once upon a time , in the land of Marigliano , a poor woman call Masella , who have six pretty daughter , all as upright a young fir-trees , and an only son call Antonio , who be so simple a to be almost an idiot .
Hardly a day pass without his mother say to him ; ` What be you do , you useless creature ?
If you be n't too stupid to look after yourself , I would order you to leave the house and never to let me see your face again . '
Every day the youth commit some fresh piece of folly , till at last Masella , lose all patience , give him a good beating , which so startle Antonio that he take to his heel and never stop run till it be dark and the star be shin in the heaven .
He wander on for some time , not know where to go , and at last he come to a cave , at the mouth of which sit an ogre , ugly than anything you can conceive .
He have a huge head and wrinkled brow -- eyebrows that meet , squint eye , a flat broad nose , and a great gash of a mouth from which two huge tusk stick out .
His skin be hairy , his arm enormous , his leg like sword blade , and his foot as flat a duck ' .
In short , he be the most hideous and laughable object in the world .
But Antonio , who , with all his fault , be no coward , and be moreover a very civil-spoken lad , take off his hat , and say : ` Good-day , sir ; I hope you be pretty well .
Could you kindly tell me how far it be from here to the place where I wish to go ? '
-LSB- Illustration : ANTONIO · IS · NOT · AFRAID · OF · THE · OGRE -RSB- When the ogre heard this extraordinary question he burst out laughing , and a he like the youth 's polite manner he say to him : ` Will you enter my service ? '
` What wag do you give ? '
reply Antonio .
` If you serve me faithfully , ' return the ogre , ` I 'll be bind you 'll get enough wage to satisfy you . '
So the bargain be strike , and Antonio agree to become the ogre 's servant .
He be very well treat , in every way , and he have little or no work to do , with the result that in a few day he become as fat a a quail , as round a a barrel , as red a a lobster , and as impudent a a bantam-cock .
But , after two year , the lad get weary of this idle life , and long desperately to visit his home again .
The ogre , who could see into his heart and know how unhappy he be , say to him one day : ` My dear Antonio , I know how much you long to see your mother and sister again , and because I love you a the apple of my eye , I be willing to allow you to go home for a visit .
Therefore , take this donkey , so that you may not have to go on foot ; but see that you never say `` Bricklebrit '' to him , for if you do you 'll be sure to regret it . '
Antonio take the beast without as much a say thank you , and jump on it back he ride away in great haste ; but he have n't go two hundred yard when he dismount and call out ` Bricklebrit . '
No sooner have he pronounce the word than the donkey open it mouth and pour forth ruby , emerald , diamond and pearl , as big a walnut .
Antonio gaze in amazement at the sight of such wealth , and joyfully fill a huge sack with the precious stone , he mount the donkey again and ride on till he come to an inn .
Here he get down , and go straight to the landlord , he say to him : ` My good man , I must ask you to stable this donkey for me .
Be sure you give the poor beast plenty of oat and hay , but beware of say the word `` Bricklebrit '' to him , for if you do I can promise you will regret it .
Take this heavy sack , too , and put it carefully away for me . '
The landlord , who be no fool , on receive this strange warning , and see the precious stone sparkle through the canvas of the sack , be most anxious to see what would happen if he use the forbidden word .
So he give Antonio an excellent dinner , with a bottle of fine old wine , and prepare a comfortable bed for him .
As soon a he saw the poor simpleton close his eye and have hear his lusty snore , he hurry to the stable and say to the donkey ` Bricklebrit , ' and the animal a usual pour out any number of precious stone .
When the landlord saw all these treasure he long to get possession of so valuable an animal , and determine to steal the donkey from his foolish guest .
As soon a it be light next morning Antonio awoke , and have rub his eye and stretch himself about a hundred time he call the landlord and say to him : ` Come here , my friend , and produce your bill , for short reckoning make long friend . '
When Antonio have pay his account he go to the stable and take out his donkey , a he think , and fasten a sack of gravel , which the landlord have substitute for his precious stone , on the creature 's back , he set out for his home .
No sooner have he arrive there than he call out : ` Mother , come quickly , and bring table-cloths and sheet with you , and spread them out on the ground , and you will soon see what wonderful treasure I have bring you . '
His mother hurry into the house , and open the linen-chest where she keep her daughter ' wed outfit , she take out table-cloths and sheet make of the fine linen , and spread them flat and smooth on the ground .
Antonio place the donkey on them , and call out ` Bricklebrit . '
But this time he meet with no success , for the donkey take no more notice of the magic word than he would have do if a lyre have be twang in his ear .
Two , three , and four time do Antonio pronounce ` Bricklebrit , ' but all in vain , and he might as well have speak to the wind .
Disgusted and furious with the poor creature , he seize a thick stick and begin to beat it so hard that he nearly break every bone in it body .
The miserable donkey be so distract at such treatment that , far from pour out precious stone , it only tear and dirty all the fine linen .
When poor Masella saw her table-cloths and sheet be destroy , and that instead of become rich she have only be make a fool of , she seize another stick and belabour Antonio so unmercifully with it , that he flee before her , and never stop till he reach the ogre 's cave .
When his master saw the lad return in such a sorry plight , he understand at once what have happen to him , and make no bone about the matter , he tell Antonio what a fool he have be to allow himself to be so impose upon by the landlord , and to let a worthless animal be palm off on him instead of his magic donkey .
Antonio listen humbly to the ogre 's word , and vow solemnly that he would never act so foolishly again .
And so a year pass , and once more Antonio be overcome by a fit of home-sickness , and felt a great longing to see his own people again .
Now the ogre , although he be so hideous to look upon , have a very kind heart , and when he saw how restless and unhappy Antonio be , he at once give him leave to go home on a visit .
At part he give him a beautiful table-cloth , and say : ` Give this to your mother ; but see that you do n't lose it a you lose the donkey , and till you be safely in your own house beware of say `` Table-cloth , open , '' and `` Table-cloth , shut . ''
If you do , the misfortune be on your own head , for I have give you fair warn . '
Antonio set out on his journey , but hardly have he get out of sight of the cave than he lay the table-cloth on the ground and say , ` Table-cloth , open . '
In an instant the table-cloth unfold itself and disclose a whole mass of precious stone and other treasure .
When Antonio perceive this he say , ` Table-cloth , shut , ' and continue his journey .
He come to the same inn again , and call the landlord to him , he tell him to put the table-cloth carefully away , and whatever he do not to say ` Table-cloth , open , ' or ` Table-cloth , shut , ' to it .
The landlord , who be a regular rogue , answer , ` Just leave it to me , I will look after it a if it be my own . '
After he have give Antonio plenty to eat and drink , and have provide him with a comfortable bed , he go straight to the table-cloth and say , ` Table-cloth , open . '
It open at once , and display such costly treasure that the landlord make up his mind on the spot to steal it .
When Antonio awake next morning , the host hand him over a table-cloth exactly like his own , and carry it carefully over his arm , the foolish youth go straight to his mother 's house , and say : ` Now we shall be rich beyond the dream of avarice , and need never go about in rag again , or lack the best of food . '
With these word he spread the table-cloth on the ground and say , ` Table-cloth , open . '
But he might repeat the injunction as often a he please , it be only waste of breath , for nothing happen .
When Antonio saw this he turn to his mother and say : ` That old scoundrel of a landlord have do me once more ; but he will live to repent it , for if I ever enter his inn again , I will make him suffer for the loss of my donkey and the other treasure he have rob me of . '
Masella be in such a rage over her fresh disappointment that she could not restrain her impatience , and , turn on Antonio , she abuse him soundly , and tell him to get out of her sight at once , for she would never acknowledge him a a son of hers again .
The poor boy be very depressed by her word , and slink back to his master like a dog with his tail between his leg .
When the ogre saw him , he guess at once what have happen .
He give Antonio a good scolding , and say , ' I do n't know what prevent me smash your head in , you useless ne'er - do-well !
You blurt everything out , and your long tongue never cease wag for a moment .
If you have remain silent in the inn this misfortune would never have overtake you , so you have only yourself to blame for your present suffering . '
Antonio listen to his master 's word in silence , look for all the world like a whipped dog .
When he have be three more year in the ogre 's service he have another bad fit of home-sickness , and long very much to see his mother and sister again .
So he ask for permission to go home on a visit , and it be at once grant to him .
Before he set out on his journey the ogre present him with a beautifully carve stick and say , ` Take this stick a a remembrance of me ; but beware of say , `` Rise up , Stick , '' and `` Lie down , Stick , '' for if you do , I can only say I would n't be in your shoe for something . '
Antonio take the stick and say , ` Do n't be in the least alarmed , I 'm not such a fool a you think , and know good than most people what two and two make . '
` I 'm glad to hear it , ' reply the ogre , ` but word be woman , deed be men .
You have hear what I say , and forewarn be forearm . '
This time Antonio thank his master warmly for all his kindness , and start on his homeward journey in great spirit ; but he have not go half a mile when he say ` Rise up , Stick . '
The word be hardly out of his mouth when the stick rise and begin to rain down blow on poor Antonio 's back with such lightning-like rapidity that he have hardly strength to call out , ` Lie down , Stick ' ; but as soon a he utter the word the stick lay down , and cease beat his back black and blue .
Although he have learnt a lesson at some cost to himself , Antonio be full of joy , for he saw a way now of revenge himself on the wicked landlord .
Once more he arrive at the inn , and be receive in the most friendly and hospitable manner by his host .
Antonio greet him cordially , and say : ` My friend , will you kindly take care of this stick for me ?
But , whatever you do , do n't say `` Rise up , Stick . ''
If you do , you will be sorry for it , and you need n't expect any sympathy from me . '
The landlord , think he be come in for a third piece of good fortune , give Antonio an excellent supper ; and after he have see him comfortably to bed , he run to the stick , and call to his wife to come and see the fun , he lose no time in pronounce the word ` Rise up , Stick . '
The moment he speak the stick jump up and beat the landlord so unmercifully that he and his wife run scream to Antonio , and , wake him up , plead for mercy .
When Antonio saw how successful his trick have be he say : ' I refuse to help you , unless you give me all that you have steal from me , otherwise you will be beat to death . '
The landlord , who felt himself at death 's door already , cry out : ` Take back your property , only release me from this terrible stick ; ' and with these word he order the donkey , the table-cloth , and other treasure to be restore to their rightful owner .
As soon a Antonio have recover his belonging he say ` Stick , lie down , ' and it stop beat the landlord at once .
Then he take his donkey and table-cloth and arrive safely at his home with them .
This time the magic word have the desired effect , and the donkey and table-cloth provide the family with treasure untold .
Antonio very soon marry off his sister , make his mother rich for life , and they all live happily for ever after .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
A FAIRY 'S BLUNDER Once upon a time there live a fairy whose name be Dindonette .
She be the best creature in the world , with the kind heart ; but she have not much sense , and be always do thing , to benefit people , which generally end in cause pain and distress to everybody concern .
No one know this good than the inhabitant of an island far off in the midst of the sea , which , accord to the law of fairyland , she have take under her special protection , think day and night of what she could do to make the isle the pleasant place in the whole world , a it be the most beautiful .
Now what happen be this : As the fairy go about , unseen , from house to house , she hear everywhere child long for the time when they would be ` grown-up , ' and able , they think , to do a they like ; and old people talk about the past , and sigh to be young again .
` Is there no way of satisfy these poor thing ? '
she think .
And then one night an idea occur to her .
` Oh , yes , of course !
It have be try before ; but I will manage good than the rest , with their old Fountain of Youth , which , after all , only make people young again .
I will enchant the spring that bubble up in the middle of the orchard , and the child that drink of it shall at once become grown men and woman , and the old people return to the day of their childhood . '
And without stop to consult one single other fairy , who might have give her good advice , off rush Dindonette , to cast her spell over the fountain .
It be the only spring of fresh water in the island , and at dawn be crowd with people of all age , come to drink at it source .
Delighted at her plan for make them all happy , the fairy hid herself behind a thicket of rose , and peep out whenever footstep come that way .
It be not long before she have ample proof of the success of her enchantment .
Almost before her eye the child put on the size and strength of adult , while the old men and woman instantly become helpless , tiny baby .
Indeed , so pleased be she with the result of her work , that she could no longer remain hidden , and go about tell everybody what she have do , and enjoy their gratitude and thanks .
But after the first outburst of delight at their wish be grant , people begin to be a little frighten at the rapid effect of the magic water .
It be delicious to feel yourself at the height of your power and beauty , but you would wish to keep so always !
Now this be exactly what the fairy have be in too much of a hurry to arrange , and no sooner have the child become grow up , and the men and woman become baby , than they all rush on to old age at an appal rate !
The fairy only find out her mistake when it be too late to set it right .
When the inhabitant of the island saw what have befall them , they be fill with despair , and do everything they could think of to escape from such a dreadful fate .
They dig well in their place , so that they should no longer need to drink from the magic spring ; but the sandy soil yield no water , and the rainy season be already past .
They store up the dew that fell , and the juice of fruit and of herb , but all this be a a drop in the ocean of their want .
Some throw themselves into the sea , trust that the current might carry them to other shore -- they have no boat -- and a few , still more impatient , put themselves to death on the spot .
The rest submit blindly to their destiny .
Perhaps the bad part of the enchantment be , that the change from one age to another be so rapid that the person have no time to prepare himself for it .
It would not have matter so much if the man who stand up in the assembly of the nation , to give his advice a to peace or war , have look like a baby , as long a he speak with the knowledge and sense of a full-grown man .
But , ala !
with the outward form of an infant , he have take on it helplessness and foolishness , and there be no one who could train him to good thing .
The end of it all be , that before a month have pass the population have die out , and the fairy Dindonette , ashamed and grieve at the effect of her folly , have leave the island for ever .
Many century after , the fairy Selnozoura , who have fall into bad health , be order by her doctor to make the tour of the world twice a week for change of air , and in one of these journey she find herself at Fountain Island .
Selnozoura never make these trip alone , but always take with her two child , of whom she be very fond -- Cornichon , a boy of fourteen , buy in his childhood at a slave-market , and Toupette , a few month younger , who have be entrust to the care of the fairy by her guardian , the genius Kristopo .
Cornichon and Toupette be intend by Selnozoura to become husband and wife , as soon a they be old enough .
Meanwhile , they travel with her in a little vessel , whose speed through the air be just a thousand nine hundred and fifty time great than that of the swift of our ship .
Struck with the beauty of the island , Selnozoura run the vessel to ground , and leave it in the care of the dragon which live in the hold during the voyage , step on shore with her two companion .
Surprised at the sight of a large town whose street and house be absolutely desolate , the fairy resolve to put her magic art in practice to find out the cause .
While she be thus engage , Cornichon and Toupette wander away by themselves , and by-and-by arrive at the fountain , whose bubble water look cool and delicious on such a hot day .
Scarcely have they each drink a deep draught , when the fairy , who by this time have discover all she wish to know , hasten to the spot .
` Oh , beware !
beware ! '
she cry , the moment she saw them .
` If you drink that deadly poison you will be ruin for ever ! '
` Poison ? '
answer Toupette .
` It be the most refreshing water I have ever taste , and Cornichon will say so too ! '
` Unhappy child , then I be too late !
Why do you leave me ?
Listen , and I will tell you what have befall the wretched inhabitant of this island , and what will befall you too .
The power of fairy be great , ' she add , when she have finish her story , ` but they can not destroy the work of another fairy .
Very shortly you will pass into the weakness and silliness of extreme old age , and all I can do for you be to make it a easy to you a possible , and to preserve you from the death that others have suffer , from have no one to look after them .
But the charm be work already !
Cornichon be tall and more manly than he be an hour ago , and Toupette no longer look like a little girl . '
It be true ; but this fact do not seem to render the young people as miserable a it do Selnozoura .
` Do not pity u , ' say Cornichon .
` If we be fat to grow old so soon , let u no longer delay our marriage .
What matter if we anticipate our decay , if we only anticipate our happiness too ? '
The fairy felt that Cornichon have reason on his side , and see by a glance at Toupette 's face that there be no opposition to be fear from her , she answer , ` Let it be so , then .
But not in this dreadful place .
We will return at once to Bagota , and the festivity shall be the most brilliant ever see . '
They all return to the vessel , and in a few hour the four thousand five hundred mile that lay between the island and Bagota be pass .
Everyone be surprise to see the change which the short absence have make in the young people , but a the fairy have promise absolute silence about the adventure , they be none the wiser , and busy themselves in prepare their dress for the marriage , which be fix for the next night .
Early on the following morning the genius Kristopo arrive at the Court , on one of the visit he be in the habit of pay his ward from time to time .
Like the rest , he be astonish at the sudden improvement in the child .
He have always be fond of her , and in a moment he fell violently in love .
Hastily demand an audience of the fairy , he lay his proposal before her , never doubt that she would give her consent to so brilliant a match .
But Selnozoura refuse to listen , and even hint that in his own interest Kristopo have well turn his thought elsewhere .
The genius pretend to agree , but , instead , he go straight to Toupette 's room , and fly away with her through the window , at the very instant that the bridegroom be await her below .
When the fairy discover what have happen , she be furious , and send messenger after messenger to the genius in his palace at Ratibouf , command him to restore Toupette without delay , and threaten to make war in case of refusal .
Kristopo give no direct answer to the fairy 's envoy , but keep Toupette closely guard in a tower , where the poor girl use all her power of persuasion to induce him to put off their marriage .
All would , however , have be quite in vain if , in the course of a few day , sorrow , join to the spell of the magic water , have not alter her appearance so completely that Kristopo be quite alarmed , and declare that she need amusement and fresh air , and that , a his presence seem to distress her , she should be leave her own mistress .
But one thing he decline to do , and that be to send her back to Bagota .
In the meantime both side have be busily collect army , and Kristopo have give the command of his to a famous general , while Selnozoura have place Cornichon at the head of her force .
But before war be actually declare , Toupette 's parent , who have be summon by the genius , arrive at Ratibouf .
They have never see their daughter since they part from her a a baby , but from time to time traveller to Bagota have bring back account of her beauty .
What be their amazement , therefore , at find , instead of a lovely girl , a middle-aged woman , handsome indeed , but quite fade -- look , in fact , old than themselves .
Kristopo , hardly less astonish than they be at the sudden change , think that it be a joke on the part of one of his courtier , who have hide Toupette away , and put this elderly lady in her place .
Bursting with rage , he send instantly for all the servant and guard of the town , and inquire who have the insolence to play him such a trick , and what have become of their prisoner .
They reply that since Toupette have be in their charge she have never leave her room unveil , and that during her walk in the surrounding garden , her food have be bring in and place on her table ; a she prefer to eat alone no one have ever see her face , or know what she be like .
The servant be clearly speak the truth , and Kristopo be oblige to believe them .
` But , ' think he , ` if they have not have a hand in this , it must be the work of the fairy , ' and in his anger he order the army to be ready to march .
On her side , Selnozoura of course know what the genius have to expect , but be deeply offend when she hear of the base trick which she be believe to have invent .
Her first desire be to give battle to Kristopo at once , but with great difficulty her minister induce her to pause , and to send an ambassador to Kristopo to try to arrange matter .
So the Prince Zeprady depart for the court of Ratibouf , and on his way he meet Cornichon , who be encamp with his army just outside the gate of Bagota .
The Prince show him the fairy 's write order that for the present peace must still be keep , and Cornichon , fill with longing to see Toupette once more , beg to be allow to accompany Zeprady on his mission to Ratibouf .
By this time the genius 's passion for Toupette , which have cause all these trouble , have die out , and he willingly accept the term of peace offer by Zeprady , though he inform the prince that he still believe the fairy to be guilty of the dreadful change in the girl .
To this the prince only reply that on that point he have a witness who could prove , good than anyone else , if it be Toupette or not , and desire that Cornichon should be send for .
When Toupette be tell that she be to see her old lover again , her heart leapt with joy ; but soon the recollection come to her of all that have happen , and she remember that Cornichon would be change as well a she .
The moment of their meeting be not all happiness , especially on the part of Toupette , who could not forget her lose beauty , and the genius , who be present , be at last convince that he have not be deceive , and go out to sign the treaty of peace , follow by his attendant .
` Ah , Toupette : my dear Toupette ! '
cry Cornichon , as soon a they be leave alone ; ` now that we be once more united , let our past trouble be forget . '
` Our past trouble ! '
answer she , ` and what do you call our lose beauty and the dreadful future before u ?
You be look fifty year old than when I saw you last , and I know too well that fate have treat me no good ! '
` Ah , do not say that , ' reply Cornichon , clasp her hand , ` You be different , it be true ; but every age have it grace , and surely no woman of sixty be ever handsome than you !
If your eye have be as bright a of yore they would have match badly with your faded skin .
The wrinkle which I notice on your forehead explain the increased fulness of your cheek , and your throat in withering be elegant in decay .
Thus the harmony show by your feature , even a they grow old , be the best proof of their former beauty .
` Oh , monster , ' cry Toupette , burst into tear , ` be that all the comfort you can give me ? '
` But , Toupette , ' answered Cornichon ; ` you use to declare that you do not care for beauty , as long a you have my heart . '
` Yes , I know , ' say she , ` but how can you go on care for a person who be a old and plain a I ? '
` Toupette , Toupette , ' reply Cornichon , ` you be only talk nonsense .
My heart be as much yours a ever it be , and nothing in the world can make any difference . '
At this point of the conversation the Prince Zeprady enter the room , with the news that the genius , full of regret for his behaviour , have give Cornichon full permission to depart for Bagota as soon a he like , and to take Toupette with him ; add that , though he beg they would excuse his take leave of them before they go , he hop , before long , to visit them at Bagota .
Neither of the lover sleep that night -- Cornichon from joy at return home , Toupette from dread of the blow to her vanity which await her at Bagota .
It be hopeless for Cornichon to try to console her during the journey with the reason he have give the day before .
She only grow bad and bad , and when they reach the palace go straight to her old apartment , entreat the fairy to allow both herself and Cornichon to remain concealed , and to see no one .
For some time after their arrival the fairy be take up with the preparation for the rejoicing which be to celebrate the peace , and with the reception of the genius , who be determine to do all in his power to regain Selnozoura 's lose friendship .
Cornichon and Toupette be therefore left entirely to themselves , and though this be only what they want , still , they begin to feel a little neglected .
At length , one morning , they saw from the window that the fairy and the genius be approach , in state , with all their courtier in attendance .
Toupette instantly hide herself in the dark corner of the room , but Cornichon , forget that he be now no longer a boy of fourteen , run to meet them .
In so do he trip and fell , bruise one of his eye severely .
At the sight of her lover lie helpless on the floor , Toupette hasten to his side ; but her feeble leg give way under her , and she fell almost on top of him , knock out three of her loosened teeth against his forehead .
The fairy , who enter the room at this moment , burst into tear , and listen in silence to the genius , who hint that by-and-by everything would be put right .
` At the last assembly of the fairy , ' he say , ` when the doings of each fairy be examine and discuss , a proposal be make to lessen , as far a possible , the mischief cause by Dindonette by enchant the fountain .
And it be decide that , a she have mean nothing but kindness , she should have the power of undo one half of the spell .
Of course she might always have destroy the fatal fountain , which would have be best of all ; but this she never think of .
Yet , in spite of this , her heart be so good , that I be sure that the moment she hear that she be want she will fly to help .
Only , before she come , it be for you , Madam , to make up your mind which of the two shall regain their former strength and beauty . '
At these word the fairy 's soul sank .
Both Cornichon and Toupette be equally dear to her , and how could she favour one at the cost of the other ?
As to the courtier , none of the men be able to understand why she hesitate a second to declare for Toupette ; while the lady be equally strong on the side of Cornichon .
But , however undecided the fairy might be , it be quite different with Cornichon and Toupette .
` Ah , my love , ' exclaim Cornichon , ` at length I shall be able to give you the best proof of my devotion by show you how I value the beauty of your mind above those of your body !
While the most charming woman of the court will fall victim to my youth and strength , I shall think of nothing but how to lay them at your foot , and pay heart-felt homage to your age and wrinkle . '
` Not so fast , ' interrupted Toupette , ' I do n't see why you should have it all .
Why do you heap such humiliation upon me ?
But I will trust to the justice of the fairy , who will not treat me so . '
Then she enter her own room , and refuse to leave them , in spite of the prayer of Cornichon , who beg her to let him explain .
No one at the court think or spoke of any other subject during the few day before the arrival of Dindonette , whom everybody expect to set thing right in a moment .
But , ala !
she have no idea herself what be best to be do , and always adopt the opinion of the person she be talk to .
At length a thought struck her , which seem the only way of satisfy both party , and she ask the fairy to call together all the court and the people to hear her decision .
` Happy be he , ' she begin , ` who can repair the evil he have cause , but happy he who have never cause any . '
As nobody contradict this remark , she continue : ` To me it be only allow to undo one half of the mischief I have work .
I could restore you your youth , ' she say to Cornichon , ` or your beauty , ' turn to Toupette . '
I will do both ; and I will do neither . '
A murmur of curiosity arise from the crowd , while Cornichon and Toupette tremble with astonishment .
` No , ' go on Dindonette , ` never should I have the cruelty to leave one of you to decay , while the other enjoy the glory of youth .
And a I can not restore you both at once to what you be , one half of each of your body shall become young again , while the other half go on it way to decay .
I will leave it to you to choose which half it shall be -- if I shall draw a line round the waist , or a line straight down the middle of the body . '
She look about her proudly , expect applause for her clever idea .
But Cornichon and Toupette be shake with rage and disappointment , and everyone else break into shout of laughter .
In pity for the unhappy lover , Selnozoura come forward .
` Do you not think , ' she say , ` that instead of what you propose , it would be good to let them take it in turn to enjoy their former youth and beauty for a fixed time ?
I be sure you could easily manage that . '
` What an excellent notion ! '
cry Dindonette .
` Oh , yes , of course that be best !
Which of you shall I touch first ? '
` Touch her , ' reply Cornichon , who be always ready to give way to Toupette . '
I know her heart too well to fear any change . '
So the fairy bent forward and touch her with her magic ring , and in one instant the old woman be a girl again .
The whole court weep with joy at the sight , and Toupette run up to Cornichon , who have fall down in his surprise , promise to pay him long visit , and tell him of all her ball and water party .
The two fairy go to their own apartment , where the genius follow them to take his leave .
` Oh , dear ! '
suddenly cry Dindonette , break in to the farewell speech of the genius . '
I quite forget to fix the time when Cornichon should in his turn grow young .
How stupid of me !
And now I fear it be too late , for I ought to have declare it before I touch Toupette with the ring .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear !
why do nobody warn me ? '
` You be so quick , ' reply Selnozoura , who have long be aware of the mischief the fairy have again do , ` and we can only wait now till Cornichon shall have reach the utmost limit of his decay , when he will drink of the water , and become a baby once more , so that Toupette will have to spend her life a a nurse , a wife , and a caretaker . '
After the anxiety of mind and the weakness of body to which for so long Toupette have be a prey , it seem a if she could not amuse herself enough , and it be seldom indeed that she find time to visit poor Cornichon , though she do not cease to be fond of him , or to be kind to him .
Still , she be perfectly happy without him , and this the poor man do not fail to see , almost blind and deaf from age though he be .
But it be leave to Kristopo to undo at last the work of Dindonette , and give Cornichon back the youth he have lose , and this the genius do all the more gladly , a he discover , quite by accident , that Cornichon be in fact his son .
It be on this plea that he attend the great yearly meeting of the fairy , and pray that , in consideration of his service to so many of the member , this one boon might be grant him .
Such a request have never before be hear in fairyland , and be object to by some of the old fairy ; but both Kristopo and Selnozoura be hold in such high honour that the murmur of disgust be set aside , and the late victim to the enchant fountain be pronounce to be free of the spell .
All that the genius ask in return be that he might accompany the fairy back to Bagota , and be present when his son assume his proper shape .
They make up their mind they would just tell Toupette that they have find a husband for her , and give her a pleasant surprise at her wedding , which be fix for the following night .
She hear the news with astonishment , and many pang for the grief which Cornichon would certainly feel at his place be take by another ; but she do not dream of disobey the fairy , and spend the whole day wonder who the bridegroom could be .
At the appointed hour , a large crowd assemble at the fairy 's palace , which be decorate with the sweet flower , know only to fairyland .
Toupette have take her place , but where be the bridegroom ?
` Fetch Cornichon ! '
say the fairy to her chamberlain .
But Toupette interpose : ` Oh , Madam , spare him , I entreat you , this bitter pain , and let him remain hidden and in peace . '
` It be necessary that he should be here , ' answer the fairy , ` and he will not regret it . '
And , a she speak , Cornichon be lead in , smile with the foolishness of extreme old age at the sight of the gay crowd .
` Bring him here , ' command the fairy , wave her hand towards Toupette , who start back from surprise and horror .
Selnozoura then take the hand of the poor old man , and the genius come forward and touch him three time with his ring , when Cornichon be transform into a handsome young man .
` May you live long , ' the genius say , ` to enjoy happiness with your wife , and to love your father . '
And that be the end of the mischief wrought by the fairy Dindonette !
-LSB- Cabinet de Fées . -RSB-
LONG , BROAD , AND QUICKEYE -LRB- BOHEMIAN STORY -RRB- Once upon a time there live a king who have an only son whom he love dearly .
Now one day the king sent for his son and say to him : ` My dearest child , my hair be grey and I be old , and soon I shall feel no more the warmth of the sun , or look upon the tree and flower .
But before I die I should like to see you with a good wife ; therefore marry , my son , as speedily a possible . '
` My father , ' reply the prince , ` now and always , I ask nothing well than to do your bidding , but I know of no daughter-in-law that I could give you . '
On hear these word the old king drew from his pocket a key of gold , and give it to his son , say : ` Go up the staircase , right up to the top of the tower .
Look carefully round you , and then come and tell me which you like best of all that you see . '
So the young man go up .
He have never before be in the tower , and have no idea what it might contain .
The staircase wound round and round and round , till the prince be almost giddy , and every now and then he catch sight of a large room that open out from the side .
But he have be tell to go to the top , and to the top he go .
Then he find himself in a hall , which have an iron door at one end .
This door he unlock with his golden key , and he pass through into a vast chamber which have a roof of blue sprinkle with golden star , and a carpet of green silk soft a turf .
Twelve windows frame in gold let in the light of the sun , and on every window be paint the figure of a young girl , each more beautiful than the last .
While the prince gaze at them in surprise , not know which he like best , the girl begin to lift their eye and smile at him .
He wait , expect them to speak , but no sound come .
Suddenly he notice that one of the window be cover by a curtain of white silk .
He lift it , and saw before him the image of a maiden beautiful a the day and sad a the tomb , clothe in a white robe , have a girdle of silver and a crown of pearl .
The prince stand and gaze at her , a if he have be turn into stone , but a he look the sadness which be on her face seem to pass into his heart , and he cry out : ` This one shall be my wife .
This one and no other . '
-LSB- Illustration : the sadness of her face seem to pass into his heart . -RSB-
As he say the word the young girl blush and hang her head , and all the other figure vanish .
The young prince go quickly back to his father , and tell him all he have see and which wife he have choose .
The old man listen to him full of sorrow , and then he speak : ` You have do ill , my son , to search out that which be hide , and you be run to meet a great danger .
This young girl have fall into the power of a wicked sorcerer , who live in an iron castle .
Many young men have try to deliver her , and none have ever come back .
But what be do be do !
You have give your word , and it can not be break .
Go , dare your fate , and return to me safe and sound . '
So the prince embrace his father , mount his horse , and set forth to seek his bride .
He ride on gaily for several hour , till he find himself in a wood where he have never be before , and soon lose his way among it wind path and deep valley .
He try in vain to see where he be : the thick tree shut out the sun , and he could not tell which be north and which be south , so that he might know what direction to make for .
He felt in despair , and have quite give up all hope of get out of this horrible place , when he hear a voice call to him .
` Hey !
hey !
stop a minute ! '
The prince turn round and saw behind him a very tall man , run as fast a his leg would carry him .
` Wait for me , ' he pant , ` and take me into your service .
If you do , you will never be sorry . '
` Who be you ? '
ask the prince , ` and what can you do ? '
` Long be my name , and I can lengthen my body at will .
Do you see that nest up there on the top of that pine-tree ?
Well , I can get it for you without take the trouble of climb the tree , ' and Long stretch himself up and up and up , till he be very soon as tall a the pine itself .
He put the nest in his pocket , and before you could wink your eyelid he have make himself small again , and stand before the prince .
` Yes ; you know your business , ' say he , ` but bird ' nest be no use to me .
I be too old for them .
Now if you be only able to get me out of this wood , you would indeed be good for something . '
` Oh , there 's no difficulty about that , ' reply Long , and he stretch himself up and up and up till he be three time as tall a the tall tree in the forest .
Then he look all round and say , ` We must go in this direction in order to get out of the wood , ' and shorten himself again , he take the prince 's horse by the bridle , and lead him along .
Very soon they get clear of the forest , and saw before them a wide plain end in a pile of high rock , cover here and there with tree , and very much like the fortification of a town .
As they leave the wood behind Long turn to the prince and say , ` My lord , here come my comrade .
You should take him into your service too , a you will find him a great help . '
` Well , call him then , so that I can see what sort of a man he be . '
` He be a little too far off for that , ' reply Long .
` He would hardly hear my voice , and he could n't be here for some time yet , a he have so much to carry .
I think I have well go and bring him myself , ' and this time he stretch himself to such a height that his head be lose in the cloud .
He make two or three stride , take his friend on his back , and set him down before the prince .
The new-comer be a very fat man , and as round a a barrel .
` Who be you ? '
ask the prince , ` and what can you do ? '
` Your worship , Broad be my name , and I can make myself as wide a I please . '
` Let me see how you manage it . '
` Run , my lord , as fast a you can , and hide yourself in the wood , ' cry Broad , and he begin to swell himself out .
-LSB- Illustration : BROAD PUFFS HIMSELF OUT -RSB- The prince do not understand why he should run to the wood , but when he saw Long fly towards it , he think he have well follow his example .
He be only just in time , for Broad have so suddenly inflate himself that he very nearly knock over the prince and his horse too .
He cover all the space for acre round .
You would have think he be a mountain !
At length Broad cease to expand , draw a deep breath that make the whole forest tremble , and shrink into his usual size .
` You have make me run away , ' say the prince .
` But it be not every day one meet with a man of your sort .
I will take you into my service . '
So the three companion continue their journey , and when they be draw near the rock they meet a man whose eye be cover by a bandage .
` Your excellency , ' say Long , ` this be our third comrade .
You will do well to take him into your service , and , I assure you , you will find him worth his salt . '
` Who be you ? '
ask the prince .
` And why be your eye bandage ?
You can never see your way ! '
` It be just the contrary , my lord !
It be because I see only too well that I be force to bandage my eye .
Even so I see as well a people who have no bandage .
When I take it off my eye pierce through everything .
Everything I look at catch fire , or , if it can not catch fire , it fall into a thousand piece .
They call me Quickeye . '
And so say he take off his bandage and turn towards the rock .
As he fix his eye upon it a crack be hear , and in a few moment it be nothing but a heap of sand .
In the sand something might be detect glitter brightly .
Quickeye pick it up and bring it to the prince .
It turn out to be a lump of pure gold .
` You be a wonderful creature , ' say the prince , ` and I should be a fool not to take you into my service .
But since your eye be so good , tell me if I be very far from the Iron Castle , and what be happen there just now . '
` If you be travel alone , ' reply Quickeye , ` it would take you at least a year to get to it ; but a we be with you , we shall arrive there to-night .
Just now they be prepare supper . '
` There be a princess in the castle .
Do you see her ? ' '
A wizard keep her in a high tower , guard by iron bar . '
` Ah , help me to deliver her ! '
cry the prince .
And they promise they would .
Then they all set out through the grey rock , by the breach make by the eye of Quickeye , and pass over great mountain and through deep wood .
And every time they meet with any obstacle the three friend contrive somehow to put it aside .
As the sun be set , the prince behold the tower of the Iron Castle , and before it sink beneath the horizon he be cross the iron bridge which lead to the gate .
He be only just in time , for no sooner have the sun disappear altogether , than the bridge draw itself up and the gate shut themselves .
There be no turn back now !
The prince put up his horse in the stable , where everything look a if a guest be expect , and then the whole party march straight up to the castle .
In the court , in the stable , and all over the great hall , they saw a number of men richly dress , but every one turn into stone .
They cross an endless set of room , all opening into each other , till they reach the dining-hall .
It be brilliantly light ; the table be cover with wine and fruit , and be lay for four .
They wait a few minute expect some one to come , but a nobody do , they sit down and begin to eat and drink , for they be very hungry .
When they have do their supper they look about for some place to sleep .
But suddenly the door burst open , and the wizard enter the hall .
He be old and hump-backed , with a bald head and a grey beard that fell to his knee .
He wear a black robe , and instead of a belt three iron circlet clasp his waist .
He lead by the hand a lady of wonderful beauty , dress in white , with a girdle of silver and a crown of pearl , but her face be pale and sad a death itself .
The prince know her in an instant , and move eagerly forward ; but the wizard give him no time to speak , and say : ' I know why you be here .
Very good ; you may have her if for three night follow you can prevent her make her escape .
If you fail in this , you and your servant will all be turn into stone , like those who have come before you . '
And offer the princess a chair , he leave the hall .
The prince could not take his eye from the princess , she be so lovely !
He begin to talk to her , but she neither answer nor smile , and sit a if she be make of marble .
He seat himself by her , and determine not to close his eye that night , for fear she should escape him .
And in order that she should be doubly guard , Long stretch himself like a strap all round the room , Broad take his stand by the door and puff himself out , so that not even a mouse could slip by , and Quickeye leant against a pillar which stand in the middle of the floor and support the roof .
But in half a second they be all sound asleep , and they sleep sound the whole night long .
In the morning , at the first peep of dawn , the prince awoke with a start .
But the princess be go .
He arouse his servant and implore them to tell him what he must do .
` Calm yourself , my lord , ' say Quickeye . '
I have find her already .
A hundred mile from here there be a forest .
In the middle of the forest , an old oak , and on the top of the oak , an acorn .
This acorn be the princess .
If Long will take me on his shoulder , we shall soon bring her back . '
And sure enough , in less time than it take to walk round the cottage , they have return from the forest , and Long present the acorn to the prince .
` Now , your excellency , throw it on the ground . '
The prince obey , and be enchant to see the princess appear at his side .
But when the sun peep for the first time over the mountain , the door burst open a before , and the wizard enter with a loud laugh .
Suddenly he catch sight of the princess ; his face darken , he utter a low growl , and one of the iron circlet give way with a crash .
He seize the young girl by the hand and bore her away with him .
All that day the prince wander about the castle , study the curious treasure it contain , but everything look a if life have suddenly come to a standstill .
In one place he saw a prince who have be turn into stone in the act of brandish a sword round which his two hand be clasp .
In another , the same doom have fall upon a knight in the act of run away .
In a third , a serve man be stand eternally try to convey a piece of beef to his mouth , and all around them be others , still preserve for evermore the attitude they be in when the wizard have command ` From henceforth be turn into marble . '
In the castle , and round the castle , all be dismal and desolate .
Trees there be , but without leaf ; field there be , but no grass grow on them .
There be one river , but it never flow and no fish live in it .
No flower blossom , and no bird sang .
Three time during the day food appear , a if by magic , for the prince and his servant .
And it be not until supper be end that the wizard appear , a on the previous evening , and deliver the princess into the care of the prince .
All four determine that this time they would keep awake at any cost .
But it be no use .
Off they go a they have do before , and when the prince awake the next morning the room be again empty .
With a pang of shame , he rush to find Quickeye .
` Awake !
Awake !
Quickeye !
Do you know what have become of the princess ? '
Quickeye rub his eye and answer : ` Yes , I see her .
Two hundred mile from here there be a mountain .
In this mountain be a rock .
In the rock , a precious stone .
This stone be the princess .
Long shall take me there , and we will be back before you can turn round . '
So Long take him on his shoulder and they set out .
At every stride they cover twenty mile , and a they draw near Quickeye fix his burn eye on the mountain ; in an instant it split into a thousand piece , and in one of these sparkle the precious stone .
They pick it up and bring it to the prince , who fling it hastily down , and a the stone touch the floor the princess stand before him .
When the wizard come , his eye shoot forth flame of fury .
Cric-crac be hear , and another of his iron band broke and fell .
He seize the princess by the hand and lead her off , growl louder than ever .
All that day thing go on exactly a they have do the day before .
After supper the wizard bring back the princess , and look him straight in the eye he say , ` We shall see which of u two will gain the prize after all ! '
That night they struggle their very hard to keep awake , and even walk about instead of sit down .
But it be quite useless .
One after another they have to give in , and for the third time the princess slip through their finger .
When morning come , it be a usual the prince who awake the first , and a usual , the princess be go , he rush to Quickeye .
-LSB- Illustration : THE GUARDIANS CAUGHT NAPPING -RSB- ` Get up , get up , Quickeye , and tell me where be the princess ? '
Quickeye look about for some time without answer .
` Oh , my lord , she be far , very far .
Three hundred mile away there lie a black sea .
In the middle of this sea there be a little shell , and in the middle of the shell be fix a gold ring .
That gold ring be the princess .
But do not vex your soul ; we will get her .
Only to-day , Long must take Broad with him .
He will be want badly . '
So Long take Quickeye on one shoulder , and Broad on the other , and they set out .
At each stride they leave thirty mile behind them .
When they reach the black sea , Quickeye show them the spot where they must seek the shell .
But though Long stretch down his hand as far a it would go , he could not find the shell , for it lay at the bottom of the sea .
` Wait a moment , comrade , it will be all right .
I will help you , ' say Broad .
Then he swell himself out so that you would have think the world could hardly have hold him , and stoop down he drink .
He drink so much at every mouthful , that only a minute or so pass before the water have sink enough for Long to put his hand to the bottom .
He soon find the shell , and pull the ring out .
But time have be lose , and Long have a double burden to carry .
The dawn be break fast before they get back to the castle , where the prince be wait for them in an agony of fear .
Soon the first ray of the sun be see peep over the top of the mountain .
The door burst open , and find the prince stand alone the wizard break into peal of wicked laughter .
But a he laugh a loud crash be hear , the window fell into a thousand piece , a gold ring glitter in the air , and the princess stand before the enchanter .
For Quickeye , who be watch from afar , have tell Long of the terrible danger now threaten the prince , and Long , summon all his strength for one gigantic effort , have throw the ring right through the window .
The wizard shriek and howl with rage , till the whole castle tremble to it foundation .
Then a crash be hear , the third band split in two , and a crow fly out of the window .
Then the princess at length break the enchanted silence , and blush like a rise , give the prince her thanks for her unlooked-for deliverance .
But it be not only the princess who be restore to life by the flight of the wicked black crow .
The marble figure become men once more , and take up their occupation just a they have leave them off .
The horse neigh in the stable , the flower blossom in the garden , the bird fly in the air , the fish dart in the water .
Everywhere you look , all be life , all be joy !
And the knight who have be turn into stone come in a body to offer their homage to the prince who have set them free .
` Do not thank me , ' he say , ` for I have do nothing .
Without my faithful servant , Long , Broad , and Quickeye , I should even have be a one of you . '
With these word he bid them farewell , and depart with the princess and his faithful companion for the kingdom of his father .
The old king , who have long since give up all hope , wept for joy at the sight of his son , and insist that the wedding should take place as soon a possible .
All the knight who have be enchant in the Iron Castle be invite to the ceremony , and after it have take place , Long , Broad , and Quickeye take leave of the young couple , say that they be go to look for more work .
The prince offer them all their heart could desire if they would only remain with him , but they reply that an idle life would not please them , and that they could never be happy unless they be busy , so they go away to seek their fortune , and for all I know be seek still .
-LSB- Contes populaires .
Traduits par Louis Léger .
Paris : Leroux , éditeur . -RSB-
PRUNELLA There be once upon a time a woman who have an only daughter .
When the child be about seven year old she use to pass every day , on her way to school , an orchard where there be a wild plum tree , with delicious ripe plum hang from the branch .
Each morning the child would pick one , and put it into her pocket to eat at school .
For this reason she be call Prunella .
Now , the orchard belong to a witch .
One day the witch notice the child gather a plum , a she pass along the road .
Prunella do it quite innocently , not know that she be do wrong in take the fruit that hang close to the roadside .
But the witch be furious , and next day hide herself behind the hedge , and when Prunella come past , and put out her hand to pluck the fruit , she jump out and seize her by the arm .
` Ah !
you little thief ! '
she exclaim . '
I have catch you at last .
Now you will have to pay for your misdeed . '
The poor child , half dead with fright , implore the old woman to forgive her , assure her that she do not know she have do wrong , and promise never to do it again .
But the witch have no pity , and she drag Prunella into her house , where she keep her till the time should come when she could have her revenge .
As the year pass Prunella grow up into a very beautiful girl .
Now her beauty and goodness , instead of soften the witch 's heart , arouse her hatred and jealousy .
One day she call Prunella to her , and say : ` Take this basket , go to the well , and bring it back to me fill with water .
If you do n't I will kill you . '
The girl take the basket , go and let it down into the well again and again .
But her work be lose labour .
Each time , a she draw up the basket , the water stream out of it .
At last , in despair , she give it up , and lean against the well she begin to cry bitterly , when suddenly she hear a voice at her side say ` Prunella , why be you cry ? '
Turning round she behold a handsome youth , who look kindly at her , a if he be sorry for her trouble .
` Who be you , ' she ask , ` and how do you know my name ? ' '
I be the son of the witch , ' he reply , ` and my name be Bensiabel .
I know that she be determine that you shall die , but I promise you that she shall not carry out her wicked plan .
Will you give me a kiss , if I fill your basket ? '
` No , ' say Prunella , ' I will not give you a kiss , because you be the son of a witch . '
` Very well , ' reply the youth sadly .
` Give me your basket and I will fill it for you . '
And he dip it into the well , and the water stay in it .
Then the girl return to the house , carry the basket fill with water .
When the witch saw it , she become white with rage , and exclaim ` Bensiabel must have help you . '
And Prunella look down , and say nothing .
` Well , we shall see who will win in the end , ' say the witch , in a great rage .
The following day she call the girl to her and say : ` Take this sack of wheat .
I be go out for a little ; by the time I return I shall expect you to have make it into bread .
If you have not do it I will kill you . '
Having say this she leave the room , close and lock the door behind her .
Poor Prunella do not know what to do .
It be impossible for her to grind the wheat , prepare the dough , and bake the bread , all in the short time that the witch would be away .
At first she set to work bravely , but when she saw how hopeless her task be , she throw herself on a chair , and begin to weep bitterly .
She be rouse from her despair by hear Bensiabel 's voice at her side say : ` Prunella , Prunella , do not weep like that .
If you will give me a kiss I will make the bread , and you will be save . ' '
I will not kiss the son of a witch , ' reply Prunella .
But Bensiabel take the wheat from her , and ground it , and make the dough , and when the witch return the bread be ready bake in the oven .
Turning to the girl , with fury in her voice , she say : ` Bensiabel must have be here and help you ; ' and Prunella look down , and say nothing .
` We shall see who will win in the end , ' say the witch , and her eye blaze with anger .
Next day she call the girl to her and say : ` Go to my sister , who live across the mountain .
She will give you a casket , which you must bring back to me . '
This she say know that her sister , who be a still more cruel and wicked witch than herself , would never allow the girl to return , but would imprison her and starve her to death .
But Prunella do not suspect anything , and set out quite cheerfully .
On the way she meet Bensiabel .
` Where be you go , Prunella ? '
he ask . '
I be go to the sister of my mistress , from whom I be to fetch a casket . '
` Oh poor , poor girl ! '
say Bensiabel .
` You be be send straight to your death .
Give me a kiss , and I will save you . '
But again Prunella answer a before , ' I will not kiss the son of a witch . '
` Nevertheless , I will save your life , ' say Bensiabel , ` for I love you good than myself .
Take this flagon of oil , this loaf of bread , this piece of rope , and this broom .
When you reach the witch 's house , oil the hinge of the door with the content of the flagon , and throw the loaf of bread to the great fierce mastiff , who will come to meet you .
When you have pass the dog , you will see in the courtyard a miserable woman try in vain to let down a bucket into the well with her plaited hair .
You must give her the rope .
In the kitchen you will find a still more miserable woman try to clean the hearth with her tongue ; to her you must give the broom .
You will see the casket on the top of a cupboard , take it as quickly a you can , and leave the house without a moment 's delay .
If you do all this exactly a I have tell you , you will not be kill . '
So Prunella , have listen carefully to his instruction , do just what he have tell her .
She reach the house , oil the hinge of the door , throw the loaf to the dog , give the poor woman at the well the rope , and the woman in the kitchen the broom , catch up the casket from the top of the cupboard , and flee with it out of the house .
But the witch hear her a she run away , and rush to the window call out to the woman in the kitchen : ` Kill that thief , I tell you ! '
But the woman reply : ' I will not kill her , for she have give me a broom , whereas you force me to clean the hearth with my tongue . '
Then the witch call out in fury to the woman at the well ; ` Take the girl , I tell you , and fling her into the water , and drown her ! '
But the woman answer ; ` No , I will not drown her , for she give me this rope , whereas you force me to use my hair to let down the bucket to draw water . '
Then the witch shout to the dog to seize the girl and hold her fast ; but the dog answer ; ` No , I will not seize her , for she give me a loaf of bread , whereas you let me starve with hunger . '
The witch be so angry that she nearly choke , a she call out ; ` Door , bang upon her , and keep her a prisoner . '
But the door answer ; ' I wo n't , for she have oil my hinge , so that they move quite easily , whereas you leave them all rough and rusty . '
And so Prunella escape , and , with the casket under her arm , reach the house of her mistress who , a you may believe , be as angry a she be surprised to see the girl stand before her , look more beautiful than ever .
Her eye flash , a in furious tone she ask her , ` Did you meet Bensiabel ? '
But Prunella look down , and say nothing .
` We shall see , ' say the witch , ` who will win in the end .
Listen , there be three cock in the hen-house ; one be yellow , one black , and the third be white .
If one of them crow during the night you must tell me which one it be .
Woe to you if you make a mistake .
I will gobble you up in one mouthful . '
Now Bensiabel be in the room next to the one where Prunella slept .
At midnight she awake hear a cock crow .
` Which one be that ? '
shout the witch .
Then , tremble , Prunella knock on the wall and whisper : ` Bensiabel , Bensiabel , tell me , which cock crow ? '
` Will you give me a kiss if I tell you ? '
he whisper back through the wall .
But she answer ` No . '
Then he whisper back to her ; ` Nevertheless , I will tell you .
It be the yellow cock that crow . '
The witch , who have notice the delay in Prunella 's answer , approach her door call angrily : ` Answer at once , or I will kill you . '
So Prunella answer : ` It be the yellow cock that crow . '
And the witch stamp her foot and gnash her teeth .
Soon after another cock crow .
` Tell me now which one it be , ' call the witch .
And , prompt by Bensiabel , Prunella answer : ` That be the black cock . '
A few minute after the crowing be heard again , and the voice of the witch demand ` Which one be that ? '
And again Prunella implore Bensiabel to help her .
But this time he hesitate , for he hop that Prunella might forget that he be a witch 's son , and promise to give him a kiss .
And a he hesitate he hear an agonised cry from the girl : ` Bensiabel , Bensiabel , save me !
The witch be come , she be close to me , I hear the gnashing of her teeth ! '
With a bound Bensiabel open his door and flung himself against the witch .
He pull her back with such force that she stumble , and fall headlong , drop down dead at the foot of the stair .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___The_Golden_Road.txt.out
CHAPTER I .
A NEW DEPARTURE `` I 've think of something amuse for the winter , '' I say a we draw into a half-circle around the glorious wood-fire in Uncle Alec 's kitchen .
It have be a day of wild November wind , close down into a wet , eerie twilight .
Outside , the wind be shrill at the window and around the eaves , and the rain be play on the roof .
The old willow at the gate be writhe in the storm and the orchard be a place of weird music , bear of all the tear and fear that haunt the hall of night .
But little we care for the gloom and the loneliness of the outside world ; we keep them at bay with the light of the fire and the laughter of our young lip .
We have be have a splendid game of Blind-Man 's Buff .
That be , it have be splendid at first ; but later the fun go out of it because we find that Peter be , of malice prepense , allow himself to be catch too easily , in order that he might have the pleasure of catch Felicity -- which he never fail to do , no matter how tightly his eye be bind .
What remarkable goose say that love be blind ?
Love can see through five fold of closely-woven muffler with ease !
`` I 'm get tire , '' say Cecily , whose breath be come rather quickly and whose pale cheek have bloom into scarlet .
`` Let 's sit down and get the Story Girl to tell u a story . ''
But a we drop into our place the Story Girl shoot a significant glance at me which intimate that this be the psychological moment for introduce the scheme she and I have be secretly develop for some day .
It be really the Story Girl 's idea and none of mine .
But she have insist that I should make the suggestion a come wholly from myself .
`` If you do n't , Felicity wo n't agree to it .
You know yourself , Bev , how contrary she 's be lately over anything I mention .
And if she go against it Peter will too -- the ninny !
-- and it would n't be any fun if we be n't all in it . ''
`` What be it ? ''
ask Felicity , draw her chair slightly away from Peter 's .
`` It be this .
Let u get up a newspaper of our own -- write it all ourselves , and have all we do in it .
Do n't you think we can get a lot of fun out of it ? ''
Everyone look rather blank and amazed , except the Story Girl .
She know what she have to do , and she do it .
`` What a silly idea ! ''
she exclaim , with a contemptuous toss of her long brown curl .
`` Just a if WE could get up a newspaper ! ''
Felicity fire up , exactly a we have hop .
`` I think it 's a splendid idea , '' she say enthusiastically .
`` I 'd like to know why we could n't get up as good a newspaper a they have in town !
Uncle Roger say the Daily Enterprise have go to the dog -- all the news it print be that some old woman have put a shawl on her head and go across the road to have tea with another old woman .
I guess we could do good than that .
You need n't think , Sara Stanley , that nobody but you can do anything . ''
`` I think it would be great fun , '' say Peter decidedly .
`` My Aunt Jane help edit a paper when she be at Queen 's Academy , and she say it be very amusing and help her a great deal . ''
The Story Girl could hide her delight only by drop her eye and frowning .
`` Bev want to be editor , '' she say , `` and I do n't see how he can , with no experience .
Anyhow , it would be a lot of trouble . ''
`` Some people be so afraid of a little bother , '' retort Felicity .
`` I think it would be nice , '' say Cecily timidly , `` and none of u have any experience of be editor , any more than Bev , so that would n't matter . ''
`` Will it be print ? ''
ask Dan .
`` Oh , no , '' I say .
`` We ca n't have it print .
We 'll just have to write it out -- we can buy foolscap from the teacher . ''
`` I do n't think it will be much of a newspaper if it be n't print , '' say Dan scornfully .
`` It do n't matter very much what YOU think , '' say Felicity .
`` Thank you , '' retort Dan .
`` Of course , '' say the Story Girl hastily , not wish to have Dan turn against our project , `` if all the rest of you want it I 'll go in for it too .
I daresay it would be real good fun , now that I come to think of it .
And we 'll keep the copy , and when we become famous they 'll be quite valuable . ''
`` I wonder if any of u ever will be famous , '' say Felix .
`` The Story Girl will be , '' I say .
`` I do n't see how she can be , '' say Felicity skeptically .
`` Why , she 's just one of u . ''
`` Well , it 's decide , then , that we 're to have a newspaper , '' I resume briskly .
`` The next thing be to choose a name for it .
That 's a very important thing . ''
`` How often be you go to publish it ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Once a month . ''
`` I think newspaper come out every day , or every week at least , '' say Dan .
`` We could n't have one every week , '' I explain .
`` It would be too much work . ''
`` Well , that 's an argument , '' admit Dan .
`` The less work you can get along with the good , in my opinion .
No , Felicity , you need n't say it .
I know exactly what you want to say , so save your breath to cool your porridge .
I agree with you that I never work if I can find anything else to do . '' ''
` Remember it be hard still To have no work to do , '' ' quote Cecily reprovingly .
`` I do n't believe THAT , '' rejoin Dan .
`` I 'm like the Irishman who say he wish the man who begin work have stay and finish it . ''
`` Well , be it decide that Bev be to be editor ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Of course it be , '' Felicity answer for everybody .
`` Then , '' say Felix , `` I move that the name be The King Monthly Magazine . ''
`` That sound fine , '' say Peter , hitch his chair a little near Felicity 's .
`` But , '' say Cecily timidly , `` that will leave out Peter and the Story Girl and Sara Ray , just a if they do n't have a share in it .
I do n't think that would be fair . ''
`` You name it then , Cecily , '' I suggest .
`` Oh ! ''
Cecily throw a deprecating glance at the Story Girl and Felicity .
Then , meet the contempt in the latter 's gaze , she raise her head with unusual spirit .
`` I think it would be nice just to call it Our Magazine , '' she say .
`` Then we 'd all feel a if we have a share in it . ''
`` Our Magazine it will be , then , '' I say .
`` And a for have a share in it , you bet we 'll all have a share in it .
If I 'm to be editor you 'll all have to be sub-editors , and have charge of a department . ''
`` Oh , I could n't , '' protest Cecily .
`` You must , '' I say inexorably . ''
` England expect everyone to do his duty . '
That 's our motto -- only we 'll put Prince Edward Island in place of England .
There must be no shirking .
Now , what department will we have ?
We must make it a much like a real newspaper a we can . ''
`` Well , we ought to have an etiquette department , then , '' say Felicity .
`` The Family Guide have one . ''
`` Of course we 'll have one , '' I say , `` and Dan will edit it . ''
`` Dan ! ''
exclaim Felicity , who have fondly expect to be ask to edit it herself .
`` I can run an etiquette column as well a that idiot in the Family Guide , anyhow , '' say Dan defiantly .
`` But you ca n't have an etiquette department unless question be ask .
What be I to do if nobody ask any ? ''
`` You must make some up , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Uncle Roger say that be what the Family Guide man do .
He say it be impossible that there can be a many hopeless fool in the world a that column would stand for otherwise . ''
`` We want you to edit the household department , Felicity , '' I say , see a cloud lower on that fair lady 's brow .
`` Nobody can do that as well a you .
Felix will edit the joke and the Information Bureau , and Cecily must be fashion editor .
Yes , you must , Sis .
It 's easy a wink .
And the Story Girl will attend to the personal .
They 're very important .
Anyone can contribute a personal , but the Story Girl be to see there be some in every issue , even if she have to make them up , like Dan with the etiquette . ''
`` Bev will run the scrap book department , besides the editorial , '' say the Story Girl , see that I be too modest to say it myself .
`` Are n't you go to have a story page ? ''
ask Peter .
`` We will , if you 'll be fiction and poetry editor , '' I say .
Peter , in his secret soul , be dismay , but he would not blanch before Felicity .
`` All right , '' he say , recklessly .
`` We can put anything we like in the scrap book department , '' I explain , `` but all the other contribution must be original , and all must have the name of the writer sign to them , except the personal .
We must all do our best .
Our Magazine be to be ' a feast of reason and flow of soul . '' '
I felt that I have work in two quotation with striking effect .
The others , with the exception of the Story Girl , look suitably impressed .
`` But , '' say Cecily , reproachfully , `` have n't you anything for Sara Ray to do ?
She 'll feel awful bad if she be leave out . ''
I have forget Sara Ray .
Nobody , except Cecily , ever do remember Sara Ray unless she be on the spot .
But we decide to put her in a advertising manager .
That sound well and really mean very little .
`` Well , we 'll go ahead then , '' I say , with a sigh of relief that the project have be so easily launch .
`` We 'll get the first issue out about the first of January .
And whatever else we do we must n't let Uncle Roger get hold of it .
He 'd make such fearful fun of it . ''
`` I hope we can make a success of it , '' say Peter moodily .
He have be moody ever since he be entrap into be fiction editor .
`` It will be a success if we be determine to succeed , '' I say . ''
` Where there be a will there be always a way . ' ''
`` That 's just what Ursula Townley say when her father lock her in her room the night she be go to run away with Kenneth MacNair , '' say the Story Girl .
We prick up our ear , scent a story .
`` Who be Ursula Townley and Kenneth MacNair ? ''
I ask .
`` Kenneth MacNair be a first cousin of the Awkward Man 's grandfather , and Ursula Townley be the belle of the Island in her day .
Who do you suppose tell me the story -- no , read it to me , out of his brown book ? ''
`` Never the Awkward Man himself ! ''
I exclaim incredulously .
`` Yes , he do , '' say the Story Girl triumphantly .
`` I meet him one day last week back in the maple wood when I be look for fern .
He be sit by the spring , write in his brown book .
He hide it when he saw me and look real silly ; but after I have talk to him awhile I just ask him about it , and tell him that the gossip say he write poetry in it , and if he do would he tell me , because I be die to know .
He say he write a little of everything in it ; and then I beg him to read me something out of it , and he read me the story of Ursula and Kenneth . ''
`` I do n't see how you ever have the face , '' say Felicity ; and even Cecily look a if she think the Story Girl have go rather far .
`` Never mind that , '' cry Felix , `` but tell u the story .
That 's the main thing . ''
`` I 'll tell it just a the Awkward Man read it , as far a I can , '' say the Story Girl , `` but I ca n't put all his nice poetical touch in , because I ca n't remember them all , though he read it over twice for me . ''
CHAPTER II .
A WILL , A WAY AND A WOMAN `` One day , over a hundred year ago , Ursula Townley be wait for Kenneth MacNair in a great beechwood , where brown nut be fall and an October wind be make the leaf dance on the ground like pixy-people . ''
`` What be pixy-people ? ''
demand Peter , forget the Story Girl 's dislike of interruption .
`` Hush , '' whisper Cecily .
`` That be only one of the Awkward Man 's poetical touch , I guess . ''
`` There be cultivate field between the grove and the dark blue gulf ; but far behind and on each side be wood , for Prince Edward Island a hundred year ago be not what it be today .
The settlement be few and scattered , and the population so scanty that old Hugh Townley boast that he know every man , woman and child in it .
`` Old Hugh be quite a noted man in his day .
He be note for several thing -- he be rich , he be hospitable , he be proud , he be masterful -- and he have for daughter the handsome young woman in Prince Edward Island .
`` Of course , the young men be not blind to her good look , and she have so many lover that all the other girl hat her -- '' `` You bet ! ''
say Dan , aside -- `` But the only one who find favour in her eye be the very last man she should have pitch her fancy on , at least if old Hugh be the judge .
Kenneth MacNair be a dark-eyed young sea-captain of the next settlement , and it be to meet him that Ursula steal to the beechwood on that autumn day of crisp wind and ripe sunshine .
Old Hugh have forbid his house to the young man , make such a scene of fury about it that even Ursula 's high spirit quail .
Old Hugh have really nothing against Kenneth himself ; but year before either Kenneth or Ursula be bear , Kenneth 's father have beat Hugh Townley in a hotly contest election .
Political feeling run high in those day , and old Hugh have never forgive the MacNair his victory .
The feud between the family date from that tempest in the provincial teapot , and the surplus of vote on the wrong side be the reason why , thirty year after , Ursula have to meet her lover by stealth if she meet him at all . ''
`` Was the MacNair a Conservative or a Grit ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` It do n't make any difference what he be , '' say the Story Girl impatiently .
`` Even a Tory would be romantic a hundred year ago .
Well , Ursula could n't see Kenneth very often , for Kenneth live fifteen mile away and be often absent from home in his vessel .
On this particular day it be nearly three month since they have meet .
`` The Sunday before , young Sandy MacNair have be in Carlyle church .
He have rise at dawn that morning , walk bare-footed for eight mile along the shore , carry his shoe , hire a harbour fisherman to row him over the channel , and then walk eight mile more to the church at Carlyle , less , it be to be fear , from a zeal for holy thing than that he might do an errand for his adored brother , Kenneth .
He carry a letter which he contrive to pass into Ursula 's hand in the crowd a the people come out .
This letter ask Ursula to meet Kenneth in the beechwood the next afternoon , and so she steal away there when suspicious father and watchful stepmother think she be spin in the granary loft . ''
`` It be very wrong of her to deceive her parent , '' say Felicity primly .
The Story Girl could n't deny this , so she evade the ethical side of the question skilfully .
`` I be not tell you what Ursula Townley ought to have do , '' she say loftily .
`` I be only tell you what she DID do .
If you do n't want to hear it you need n't listen , of course .
There would n't be many story to tell if nobody ever do anything she should n't do .
`` Well , when Kenneth come , the meeting be just what might have be expect between two lover who have take their last kiss three month before .
So it be a good half-hour before Ursula say , '' ` Oh , Kenneth , I can not stay long -- I shall be miss .
You say in your letter that you have something important to talk of .
What be it ? ' ''
` My news be this , Ursula .
Next Saturday morning my vessel , The Fair Lady , with her captain on board , sail at dawn from Charlottetown harbour , bound for Buenos Ayres .
At this season this mean a safe and sure return -- next May . ' ''
` Kenneth ! '
cry Ursula .
She turn pale and burst into tear .
` How can you think of leave me ?
Oh , you be cruel ! ' ''
` Why , no , sweetheart , ' laugh Kenneth .
` The captain of The Fair Lady will take his bride with him .
We 'll spend our honeymoon on the high sea , Ursula , and the cold Canadian winter under southern palm . ' ''
` You want me to run away with you , Kenneth ? '
exclaim Ursula . ''
` Indeed , dear girl , there 's nothing else to do ! ' ''
` Oh , I can not ! '
she protest .
` My father would -- ' '' ` We 'll not consult him -- until afterward .
Come , Ursula , you know there 's no other way .
We 've always know it must come to this .
YOUR father will never forgive me for MY father .
You wo n't fail me now .
Think of the long parting if you send me away alone on such a voyage .
Pluck up your courage , and we 'll let Townleys and MacNairs whistle their mouldy feud down the wind while we sail southward in The Fair Lady .
I have a plan . ' ''
` Let me hear it , ' say Ursula , begin to get back her breath . ''
` There be to be a dance at The Springs Friday night .
Are you invite , Ursula ? ' ''
` Yes . ' ''
` Good .
I be not -- but I shall be there -- in the fir grove behind the house , with two horse .
When the dancing be at it height you 'll steal out to meet me .
Then 't be but a fifteen mile ride to Charlottetown , where a good minister , who be a friend of mine , will be ready to marry u .
By the time the dancer have tire their heel you and I will be on our vessel , able to snap our finger at fate . ' ''
` And what if I do not meet you in the fir grove ? '
say Ursula , a little impertinently . ''
` If you do not , I 'll sail for South America the next morning , and many a long year will pass ere Kenneth MacNair come home again . '
`` Perhaps Kenneth do n't mean that , but Ursula think he do , and it decide her .
She agree to run away with him .
Yes , of course that be wrong , too , Felicity .
She ought to have say , ` No , I shall be marry respectably from home , and have a wedding and a silk dress and bridesmaid and lot of present . '
But she do n't .
She be n't as prudent a Felicity King would have be . ''
`` She be a shameless hussy , '' say Felicity , vent on the long-dead Ursula that anger she dare not visit on the Story Girl .
`` Oh , no , Felicity dear , she be just a lass of spirit .
I 'd have do the same .
And when Friday night come she begin to dress for the dance with a brave heart .
She be to go to The Springs with her uncle and aunt , who be come on horseback that afternoon , and would then go on to The Springs in old Hugh 's carriage , which be the only one in Carlyle then .
They be to leave in time to reach The Springs before nightfall , for the October night be dark and the wooded road rough for travelling .
`` When Ursula be ready she look at herself in the glass with a good deal of satisfaction .
Yes , Felicity , she be a vain baggage , that same Ursula , but that kind do n't all die out a hundred year ago .
And she have good reason for be vain .
She wear the sea-green silk which have be bring out from England a year before and worn but once -- at the Christmas ball at Government House .
A fine , stiff , rustle silk it be , and over it shine Ursula 's crimson cheek and gleam eye , and mass of nut brown hair .
`` As she turn from the glass she hear her father 's voice below , loud and angry .
Growing very pale , she run out into the hall .
Her father be already half way upstairs , his face red with fury .
In the hall below Ursula saw her step-mother , look troubled and vexed .
At the door stand Malcolm Ramsay , a homely neighbour youth who have be court Ursula in his clumsy way ever since she grow up .
Ursula have always hat him . ''
` Ursula ! '
shout old Hugh , ` come here and tell this scoundrel he lie .
He say that you meet Kenneth MacNair in the beechgrove last Tuesday .
Tell him he lie !
Tell him he lie ! '
`` Ursula be no coward .
She look scornfully at poor Ramsay . ''
` The creature be a spy and a tale-bearer , ' she say , ` but in this he do not lie .
I DID meet Kenneth MacNair last Tuesday . ' ''
` And you dare to tell me this to my face ! '
roar old Hugh .
` Back to your room , girl !
Back to your room and stay there !
Take off that finery .
You go to no more dance .
You shall stay in that room until I choose to let you out .
No , not a word !
I 'll put you there if you do n't go .
In with you -- ay , and take your knit with you .
Occupy yourself with that this even instead of kick your heel at The Springs ! '
`` He snatch a roll of gray stock from the hall table and fling it into Ursula 's room .
Ursula know she would have to follow it , or be pick up and carry in like a naughty child .
So she give the miserable Ramsay a look that make him cringe , and sweep into her room with her head in the air .
The next moment she hear the door lock behind her .
Her first proceeding be to have a cry of anger and shame and disappointment .
That do no good , and then she take to march up and down her room .
It do not calm her to hear the rumble of the carriage out of the gate a her uncle and aunt depart . ''
` Oh , what 's to be do ? '
she sob .
` Kenneth will be furious .
He will think I have fail him and he will go away hot with anger against me .
If I could only send a word of explanation I know he would not leave me .
But there seem to be no way at all -- though I have hear that there 's always a way when there 's a will .
Oh , I shall go mad !
If the window be not so high I would jump out of it .
But to break my leg or my neck would not mend the matter . '
`` The afternoon pass on .
At sunset Ursula hear hoof-beats and ran to the window .
Andrew Kinnear of The Springs be tie his horse at the door .
He be a dashing young fellow , and a political crony of old Hugh .
No doubt he would be at the dance that night .
Oh , if she could get speech for but a moment with him !
`` When he have go into the house , Ursula , turn impatiently from the window , trip and almost fell over the big ball of homespun yarn her father have fling on the floor .
For a moment she gaze at it resentfully -- then , with a gay little laugh , she pounce on it .
The next moment she be at her table , write a brief note to Kenneth MacNair .
When it be write , Ursula unwound the gray ball to a considerable depth , pin the note on it , and rewound the yarn over it .
A gray ball , the color of the twilight , might escape observation , where a white missive flutter down from an upper window would surely be see by someone .
Then she softly open her window and wait .
`` It be dusk when Andrew go away .
Fortunately old Hugh do not come to the door with him .
As Andrew untie his horse Ursula throw the ball with such good aim that it strike him , a she have mean it to do , squarely on the head .
Andrew look up at her window .
She lean out , put her finger warningly on her lip , point to the ball , and nod .
Andrew , look somewhat puzzle , pick up the ball , sprang to his saddle , and gallop off .
`` So far , well , think Ursula .
But would Andrew understand ?
Would he have wit enough to think of explore the big , knobby ball for it delicate secret ?
And would he be at the dance after all ?
`` The evening drag by .
Time have never seem so long to Ursula .
She could not rest or sleep .
It be midnight before she hear the patter of a handful of gravel on her window-panes .
In a trice she be lean out .
Below in the darkness stand Kenneth MacNair . ''
` Oh , Kenneth , do you get my letter ?
And be it safe for you to be here ? ' ''
` Safe enough .
Your father be in bed .
I 've wait two hour down the road for his light to go out , and an extra half-hour to put him to sleep .
The horse be there .
Slip down and out , Ursula .
We 'll make Charlottetown by dawn yet . ' ''
` That 's easy say than do , lad .
I 'm lock in .
But do you go out behind the new barn and bring the ladder you will find there . '
`` Five minute later , Miss Ursula , hood and cloak , scramble soundlessly down the ladder , and in five more minute she and Kenneth be rid along the road . ''
` There 's a stiff gallop before u , Ursula , ' say Kenneth . '' '
I would ride to the world 's end with you , Kenneth MacNair , ' say Ursula .
Oh , of course she should n't have say anything of the sort , Felicity .
But you see people have no etiquette department in those day .
And when the red sunlight of a fair October dawn be shin over the gray sea The Fair Lady sail out of Charlottetown harbour .
On her deck stand Kenneth and Ursula MacNair , and in her hand , a a most precious treasure , the bride carry a ball of gray homespun yarn . ''
`` Well , '' say Dan , yawning , `` I like that kind of a story .
Nobody go and die in it , that 's one good thing . ''
`` Did old Hugh forgive Ursula ? ''
I ask .
`` The story stop there in the brown book , '' say the Story Girl , `` but the Awkward Man say he do , after awhile . ''
`` It must be rather romantic to be run away with , '' remark Cecily , wistfully .
`` Do n't you get such silly notion in your head , Cecily King , '' say Felicity , severely .
CHAPTER III .
THE CHRISTMAS HARP Great be the excitement in the house of King a Christmas draw nigh .
The air be simply charge with secret .
Everybody be very penurious for week beforehand and hoard be count scrutinizingly every day .
Mysterious piece of handiwork be smuggle in and out of sight , and whisper consultation be hold , about which nobody thought of be jealous , a might have happen at any other time .
Felicity be in her element , for she and her mother be deep in preparation for the day .
Cecily and the Story Girl be exclude from these doings with indifference on Aunt Janet 's part and what seem ostentatious complacency on Felicity 's .
Cecily take this to heart and complain to me about it .
`` I 'm one of this family just as much a Felicity be , '' she say , with as much indignation a Cecily could feel , `` and I do n't think she need shut me out of everything .
When I want to stone the raisin for the mince-meat she say , no , she would do it herself , because Christmas mince-meat be very particular -- a if I could n't stone raisin right !
The airs Felicity put on about her cooking just make me sick , '' conclude Cecily wrathfully .
`` It 's a pity she do n't make a mistake in cook once in a while herself , '' I say .
`` Then maybe she would n't think she know so much more than other people . ''
All parcel that come in the mail from distant friend be take charge of by Aunts Janet and Olivia , not to be open until the great day of the feast itself .
How slowly the last week pass !
But even watch pot will boil in the fulness of time , and finally Christmas day come , gray and dour and frost-bitten without , but full of revelry and rose-red mirth within .
Uncle Roger and Aunt Olivia and the Story Girl come over early for the day ; and Peter come too , with his shining , morning face , to be hail with joy , for we have be afraid that Peter would not be able to spend Christmas with u .
His mother have want him home with her .
`` Of course I ought to go , '' Peter have tell me mournfully , `` but we wo n't have turkey for dinner , because ma ca n't afford it .
And ma always cry on holiday because she say they make her think of father .
Of course she ca n't help it , but it ai n't cheerful .
Aunt Jane would n't have cry .
Aunt Jane use to say she never saw the man who be worth spoil her eye for .
But I guess I 'll have to spend Christmas at home . ''
At the last moment , however , a cousin of Mrs. Craig 's in Charlottetown invite her for Christmas , and Peter , be give his choice of go or stay , joyfully elect to stay .
So we be all together , except Sara Ray , who have be invite but whose mother would n't let her come .
`` Sara Ray 's mother be a nuisance , '' snap the Story Girl .
`` She just live to make that poor child miserable , and she wo n't let her go to the party tonight , either . ''
`` It be just break Sara 's heart that she ca n't , '' say Cecily compassionately .
`` I 'm almost afraid I wo n't enjoy myself for thinking of her , home there alone , most likely read the Bible , while we 're at the party . ''
`` She might be bad occupy than read the Bible , '' say Felicity rebukingly .
`` But Mrs. Ray make her read it a a punishment , '' protest Cecily .
`` Whenever Sara cry to go anywhere -- and of course she 'll cry tonight -- Mrs. Ray make her read seven chapter in the Bible .
I would n't think that would make her very fond of it .
And I 'll not be able to talk the party over with Sara afterwards -- and that 's half the fun go . ''
`` You can tell her all about it , '' comfort Felix .
`` Telling be n't a bit like talk it over , '' retort Cecily .
`` It 's too one-sided . ''
We have an exciting time open our present .
Some of u have more than others , but we all receive enough to make u feel comfortably that we be not unduly neglect in the matter .
The content of the box which the Story Girl 's father have send her from Paris make our eye stick out .
It be full of beautiful thing , among them another red silk dress -- not the bright , flame-hued tint of her old one , but a rich , dark crimson , with the most distracting flounce and bow and ruffle ; and with it be little red satin slipper with gold buckle , and heel that make Aunt Janet hold up her hand in horror .
Felicity remark scornfully that she would have think the Story Girl would get tired wearing red so much , and even Cecily comment apart to me that she think when you get so many thing all at once you do n't appreciate them as much a when you only get a few .
`` I 'd never get tire of red , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I just love it -- it 's so rich and glowing .
When I 'm dress in red I always feel ever so much clever than in any other colour .
Thoughts just crowd into my brain one after the other .
Oh , you darling dress -- you dear , sheeny , red-rosy , glistening , silky thing ! ''
She fling it over her shoulder and dance around the kitchen .
`` Do n't be silly , Sara , '' say Aunt Janet , a little stimy .
She be a good soul , that Aunt Janet , and have a kind , love heart in her ample bosom .
But I fancy there be time when she think it rather hard that the daughter of a roving adventurer -- a she consider him -- like Blair Stanley should disport herself in silk dress , while her own daughter must go clad in gingham and muslin -- for those be the day when a feminine creature get one silk dress in her lifetime , and seldom more than one .
The Story Girl also get a present from the Awkward Man -- a little , shabby , worn volume with a great many mark on the leaf .
`` Why , it be n't new -- it 's an old book ! ''
exclaim Felicity .
`` I do n't think the Awkward Man be mean , whatever else he be . ''
`` Oh , you do n't understand , Felicity , '' say the Story Girl patiently .
`` And I do n't suppose I can make you understand .
But I 'll try .
I 'd ten time rather have this than a new book .
It 's one of his own , do n't you see -- one that he have read a hundred time and love and make a friend of .
A new book , just out of a shop , would n't be the same thing at all .
It would n't MEAN anything .
I consider it a great compliment that he have give me this book .
I 'm prouder of it than of anything else I 've get . ''
`` Well , you 're welcome to it , '' say Felicity .
`` I do n't understand and I do n't want to .
I would n't give anybody a Christmas present that be n't new , and I would n't thank anybody who give me one . ''
Peter be in the seventh heaven because Felicity have give him a present -- and , moreover , one that she have make herself .
It be a bookmark of perforated cardboard , with a gorgeous red and yellow worst goblet work on it , and below , in green letter , the solemn warning , `` Touch Not The Cup . ''
As Peter be not addict to habit of intemperance , not even to look on dandelion wine when it be pale yellow , we do not exactly see why Felicity should have select such a device .
But Peter be perfectly satisfy , so nobody cast any blight on his happiness by carp criticism .
Later on Felicity tell me she have work the bookmark for him because his father use to drink before he run away .
`` I think Peter ought to be warn in time , '' she say .
Even Pat have a ribbon of blue , which he claw off and lose half an hour after it be tie on him .
Pat do not care for vain adornment of the body .
We have a glorious Christmas dinner , fit for the hall of Lucullus , and eat far more than be good for u , none daring to make u afraid on that one day of the year .
And in the evening -- oh , rapture and delight !
-- we go to Kitty Marr 's party .
It be a fine December evening ; the sharp air of morning have mellow until it be as mild a autumn .
There have be no snow , and the long field , slop down from the homestead , be brown and mellow .
A weird , dreamy stillness have fall on the purple earth , the dark fir wood , the valley rim , the sere meadow .
Nature seem to have fold satisfied hand to rest , know that her long wintry slumber be come upon her .
At first , when the invitation to the party have come , Aunt Janet have say we could not go ; but Uncle Alec intercede in our favour , perhaps influence thereto by Cecily 's wistful eye .
If Uncle Alec have a favourite among his child it be Cecily , and he have grow even more indulgent towards her of late .
Now and then I saw him look at her intently , and , follow his eye and think , I have , somehow , see that Cecily be paler and thinner than she have be in the summer , and that her soft eye seem large , and that over her little face in moment of repose there be a certain languor and weariness that make it very sweet and pathetic .
And I hear him tell Aunt Janet that he do not like to see the child get so much the look of her Aunt Felicity .
`` Cecily be perfectly well , '' say Aunt Janet sharply .
`` She 's only grow very fast .
Do n't be foolish , Alec . ''
But after that Cecily have cup of cream where the rest of u get only milk ; and Aunt Janet be very particular to see that she have her rubber on whenever she go out .
On this merry Christmas evening , however , no fear or dim foreshadowing of any come event cloud our heart or face .
Cecily look brighter and pretty than I have ever see her , with her softly shin eye and the nut brown gloss of her hair .
Felicity be too beautiful for word ; and even the Story Girl , between excitement and the crimson silk array , blossom out with a charm and allurement more potent than any regular loveliness -- and this in spite of the fact that Aunt Olivia have taboo the red satin slipper and mercilessly decree that stout shoe should be wear .
`` I know just how you feel about it , you daughter of Eve , '' she say , with gay sympathy , `` but December road be damp , and if you be go to walk to Marrs ' you be not go to do it in those frivolous Parisian concoction , even with overboots on ; so be brave , dear heart , and show that you have a soul above little red satin shoe . ''
`` Anyhow , '' say Uncle Roger , `` that red silk dress will break the heart of all the feminine small fry at the party .
You 'd break their spirit , too , if you wear the slipper .
Do n't do it , Sara .
Leave them one wee loophole of enjoyment . ''
`` What do Uncle Roger mean ? ''
whispered Felicity .
`` He mean you girl be all die of jealousy because of the Story Girl 's dress , '' say Dan .
`` I be not of a jealous disposition , '' say Felicity loftily , `` and she 's entirely welcome to the dress -- with a complexion like that . ''
But we enjoy that party hugely , every one of u .
And we enjoy the walk home afterwards , through dim , enshadowed field where silvery star-beams lay , while Orion tread his stately march above u , and a red moon climb up the black horizon 's rim .
A brook go with u part of the way , sing to u through the dark -- a gay , irresponsible vagabond of valley and wilderness .
Felicity and Peter walk not with u .
Peter 's cup must surely have brim over that Christmas night .
When we leave the Marr house , he have boldly say to Felicity , `` May I see you home ? ''
And Felicity , much to our amazement , have take his arm and march off with him .
The primness of her be indescribable , and be not at all ruffle by Dan 's hoot of derision .
As for me , I be consume by a secret and burn desire to ask the Story Girl if I might see HER home ; but I could not screw my courage to the sticking point .
How I envy Peter his easy , insouciant manner !
I could not emulate him , so Dan and Felix and Cecily and the Story Girl and I all walk hand in hand , huddle a little close together a we go through James Frewen 's wood -- for there be strange harp in a fir grove , and who shall say what finger sweep them ?
Mighty and sonorous be the music above our head a the wind of the night stir the great bough toss athwart the starlit sky .
Perhaps it be that aeolian harmony which recall to the Story Girl a legend of elder day .
`` I read such a pretty story in one of Aunt Olivia 's book last night , '' she say .
`` It be call ` The Christmas Harp . '
Would you like to hear it ?
It seem to me it would just suit this part of the road . ''
`` There be n't anything about -- about ghost in it , be there ? ''
say Cecily timidly .
`` Oh , no , I would n't tell a ghost story here for anything .
I 'd frighten myself too much .
This story be about one of the shepherd who saw the angel on the first Christmas night .
He be just a youth , and he love music with all his heart , and he long to be able to express the melody that be in his soul .
But he could not ; he have a harp and he often try to play on it ; but his clumsy finger only make such discord that his companion laugh at him and mock him , and call him a madman because he would not give it up , but would rather sit apart by himself , with his arm about his harp , look up into the sky , while they gather around their fire and tell tale to wile away their long night vigil a they watch their sheep on the hill .
But to him the thought that come out of the great silence be far sweet than their mirth ; and he never give up the hope , which sometimes leave his lip a a prayer , that some day he might be able to express those thought in music to the tire , weary , forgetful world .
On the first Christmas night he be out with his fellow shepherd on the hill .
It be chill and dark , and all , except him , be glad to gather around the fire .
He sit , a usual , by himself , with his harp on his knee and a great longing in his heart .
And there come a marvellous light in the sky and over the hill , a if the darkness of the night have suddenly blossom into a wonderful meadow of flowery flame ; and all the shepherd saw the angel and hear them sing .
And a they sing , the harp that the young shepherd hold begin to play softly by itself , and a he listen to it he realize that it be play the same music that the angel sang and that all his secret longing and aspiration and striving be express in it .
From that night , whenever he take the harp in his hand , it play the same music ; and he wander all over the world carry it ; wherever the sound of it music be hear hate and discord flee away and peace and good-will reign .
No one who hear it could think an evil thought ; no one could feel hopeless or despair or bitter or angry .
When a man have once hear that music it enter into his soul and heart and life and become a part of him for ever .
Years go by ; the shepherd grow old and bent and feeble ; but still he roam over land and sea , that his harp might carry the message of the Christmas night and the angel song to all mankind .
At last his strength fail him and he fell by the wayside in the darkness ; but his harp play a his spirit pass ; and it seem to him that a Shining One stood by him , with wonderful starry eye , and say to him , ` Lo , the music thy harp have play for so many year have be but the echo of the love and sympathy and purity and beauty in thine own soul ; and if at any time in the wandering thou hadst open the door of that soul to evil or envy or selfishness thy harp would have cease to play .
Now thy life be end ; but what thou hast give to mankind have no end ; and as long a the world last , so long will the heavenly music of the Christmas harp ring in the ear of men . '
When the sun rise the old shepherd lay dead by the roadside , with a smile on his face ; and in his hand be a harp with all it string break . ''
We leave the fir wood a the tale be end , and on the opposite hill be home .
A dim light in the kitchen window betoken that Aunt Janet have no idea of go to bed until all her young fry be safely house for the night .
`` Ma 's wait up for u , '' say Dan .
`` I 'd laugh if she happen to go to the door just a Felicity and Peter be strut up .
I guess she 'll be cross .
It 's nearly twelve . ''
`` Christmas will soon be over , '' say Cecily , with a sigh .
`` Has n't it be a nice one ?
It 's the first we 've all spent together .
Do you suppose we 'll ever spend another together ? ''
`` Lots of 'em , '' say Dan cheerily .
`` Why not ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know , '' answer Cecily , her footstep lag somewhat .
`` Only thing seem just a little too pleasant to last . ''
`` If Willy Fraser have have a much spunk a Peter , Miss Cecily King might n't be so low spirit , '' quoth Dan , significantly .
Cecily toss her head and disdain reply .
There be really some remark a self-respecting young lady must ignore .
CHAPTER IV .
NEW YEAR RESOLUTIONS If we do not have a white Christmas we have a white New Year .
Midway between the two come a heavy snowfall .
It be winter in our orchard of old delight then , -- so truly winter that it be hard to believe summer have ever dwell in it , or that spring would ever return to it .
There be no bird to sing the music of the moon ; and the path where the apple blossom have fall be heap with less fragrant drift .
But it be a place of wonder on a moonlight night , when the snowy arcades shine like avenue of ivory and crystal , and the bare tree cast fairy-like tracery upon them .
Over Uncle Stephen 's Walk , where the snow have fall smoothly , a spell of white magic have be weave .
Taintless and wonderful it seem , like a street of pearl in the new Jerusalem .
On New Year 's Eve we be all together in Uncle Alec 's kitchen , which be tacitly give over to our revel during the winter evening .
The Story Girl and Peter be there , of course , and Sara Ray 's mother have allow her to come up on condition that she should be home by eight sharp .
Cecily be glad to see her , but the boy never hail her arrival with over-much delight , because , since the dark begin to come down early , Aunt Janet always make one of u walk down home with her .
We hat this , because Sara Ray be always so maddeningly self-conscious of have an escort .
We know perfectly well that next day in school she would tell her chum a a `` dead '' secret that `` So-and-So King saw her home '' from the hill farm the night before .
Now , see a young lady home from choice , and be send home with her by your aunt or mother be two entirely different thing , and we think Sara Ray ought to have sense enough to know it .
Outside there be a vivid rise of sunset behind the cold hill of fir , and the long reach of snowy field glow fairily pink in the western light .
The drift along the edge of the meadow and down the lane look a if a series of break wave have , by the lifting of a magician 's wand , be suddenly transform into marble , even to their toppling curl of foam .
Slowly the splendour die , give place to the mystic beauty of a winter twilight when the moon be rise .
The hollow sky be a cup of blue .
The star come out over the white glen and the earth be cover with a kingly carpet for the foot of the young year to press .
`` I 'm so glad the snow come , '' say the Story Girl .
`` If it have n't the New Year would have seem just a dingy and wear out a the old .
There 's something very solemn about the idea of a New Year , be n't there ?
Just think of three hundred and sixty-five whole day , with not a thing happen in them yet . ''
`` I do n't suppose anything very wonderful will happen in them , '' say Felix pessimistically .
To Felix , just then , life be flat , stale and unprofitable because it be his turn to go home with Sara Ray .
`` It make me a little frightened to think of all that may happen in them , '' say Cecily .
`` Miss Marwood say it be what we put into a year , not what we get out of it , that count at last . ''
`` I 'm always glad to see a New Year , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I wish we could do a they do in Norway .
The whole family sit up until midnight , and then , just a the clock be strike twelve , the father open the door and welcome the New Year in .
Is n't it a pretty custom ? ''
`` If ma would let u stay up till twelve we might do that too , '' say Dan , `` but she never will .
I call it mean . ''
`` If I ever have child I 'll let them stay up to watch the New Year in , '' say the Story Girl decidedly .
`` So will I , '' say Peter , `` but other night they 'll have to go to bed at seven . ''
`` You ought to be ashamed , speak of such thing , '' say Felicity , with a scandalized face .
Peter shrink into the background abash , no doubt believe that he have break some Family Guide precept all to piece .
`` I do n't know it be n't proper to mention child , '' he mutter apologetically .
`` We ought to make some New Year resolution , '' suggest the Story Girl .
`` New Year 's Eve be the time to make them . ''
`` I ca n't think of any resolution I want to make , '' say Felicity , who be perfectly satisfy with herself .
`` I could suggest a few to you , '' say Dan sarcastically .
`` There be so many I would like to make , '' say Cecily , `` that I 'm afraid it would n't be any use try to keep them all . ''
`` Well , let 's all make a few , just for the fun of it , and see if we can keep them , '' I say .
`` And let 's get paper and ink and write them out .
That will make them seem more solemn and binding . ''
`` And then pin them up on our bedroom wall , where we 'll see them every day , '' suggest the Story Girl , `` and every time we break a resolution we must put a cross opposite it .
That will show u what progress we be make , as well a make u ashamed if we have too many cross . ''
`` And let 's have a Roll of Honour in Our Magazine , '' suggest Felix , `` and every month we 'll publish the name of those who keep their resolution perfect . ''
`` I think it 's all nonsense , '' say Felicity .
But she join our circle around the table , though she sit for a long time with a blank sheet before her .
`` Let 's each make a resolution in turn , '' I say .
`` I 'll lead off . ''
And , recall with shame certain unpleasant difference of opinion I have lately have with Felicity , I write down in my best hand , `` I shall try to keep my temper always . ''
`` You 'd better , '' say Felicity tactfully .
It be Dan 's turn next .
`` I ca n't think of anything to start with , '' he say , gnaw his penholder fiercely .
`` You might make a resolution not to eat poison berry , '' suggest Felicity .
`` You 'd better make one not to nag people everlastingly , '' retort Dan .
`` Oh , do n't quarrel the last night of the old year , '' implore Cecily .
`` You might resolve not to quarrel any time , '' suggest Sara Ray .
`` No , sir , '' say Dan emphatically .
`` There 's no use make a resolution you CA N'T keep .
There be people in this family you 've just GOT to quarrel with if you want to live .
But I 've think of one -- I wo n't do thing to spite people . ''
Felicity -- who really be in an unbearable mood that night -- laugh disagreeably ; but Cecily give her a fierce nudge , which probably restrain her from speaking .
`` I will not eat any apple , '' write Felix .
`` What on earth do you want to give up eat apple for ? ''
ask Peter in astonishment .
`` Never mind , '' return Felix .
`` Apples make people fat , you know , '' say Felicity sweetly .
`` It seem a funny kind of resolution , '' I say doubtfully .
`` I think our resolution ought to be give up wrong thing or do right one . ''
`` You make your resolution to suit yourself and I 'll make mine to suit myself , '' say Felix defiantly .
`` I shall never get drunk , '' write Peter painstakingly .
`` But you never do , '' say the Story Girl in astonishment .
`` Well , it will be all the easy to keep the resolution , '' argue Peter .
`` That be n't fair , '' complain Dan .
`` If we all resolve not to do the thing we never do we 'd all be on the Roll of Honour . ''
`` You let Peter alone , '' say Felicity severely .
`` It 's a very good resolution and one everybody ought to make . ''
`` I shall not be jealous , '' write the Story Girl .
`` But be you ? ''
I ask , surprise .
The Story Girl colour and nod .
`` Of one thing , '' she confess , `` but I 'm not go to tell what it be . ''
`` I 'm jealous sometimes , too , '' confess Sara Ray , `` and so my first resolution will be ' I shall try not to feel jealous when I hear the other girl in school describe all the sick spell they 've have . ' ''
`` Goodness , do you want to be sick ? ''
demand Felix in astonishment .
`` It make a person important , '' explain Sara Ray .
`` I be go to try to improve my mind by read good book and listen to old people , '' write Cecily .
`` You get that out of the Sunday School paper , '' cry Felicity .
`` It do n't matter where I get it , '' say Cecily with dignity .
`` The main thing be to keep it . ''
`` It 's your turn , Felicity , '' I say .
Felicity toss her beautiful golden head .
`` I tell you I be n't go to make any resolution .
Go on yourself . ''
`` I shall always study my grammar lesson , '' I write -- I , who loathe grammar with a deadly loathing .
`` I hate grammar too , '' sigh Sara Ray .
`` It seem so unimportant . ''
Sara be rather fond of a big word , but do not always get hold of the right one .
I rather suspect that in the above instance she really mean uninteresting .
`` I wo n't get mad at Felicity , if I can help it , '' write Dan .
`` I 'm sure I never do anything to make you mad , '' exclaim Felicity .
`` I do n't think it 's polite to make resolution about your sister , '' say Peter .
`` He ca n't keep it anyway , '' scoff Felicity .
`` He 's get such an awful temper . ''
`` It 's a family failing , '' flash Dan , break his resolution ere the ink on it be dry .
`` There you go , '' taunt Felicity .
`` I 'll work all my arithmetic problem without any help , '' scribble Felix .
`` I wish I could resolve that , too , '' sigh Sara Ray , `` but it would n't be any use .
I 'd never be able to do those compound multiplication sum the teacher give u to do at home every night if I do n't get Judy Pineau to help me .
Judy be n't a good reader and she ca n't spell AT ALL , but you ca n't stick her in arithmetic as far a she go herself .
I feel sure , '' conclude poor Sara , in a hopeless tone , `` that I 'll NEVER be able to understand compound multiplication . '' ''
` Multiplication be vexation , Division be a bad , The rule of three perplexes me , And fraction drive me mad , ' '' quote Dan .
`` I have n't get as far a fraction yet , '' sigh Sara , `` and I hope I 'll be too big to go to school before I do .
I hate arithmetic , but I be PASSIONATELY fond of geography . ''
`` I will not play tit-tat-x on the fly leave of my hymn book in church , '' write Peter .
`` Mercy , do you ever do such a thing ? ''
exclaim Felicity in horror .
Peter nod shamefacedly .
`` Yes -- that Sunday Mr. Bailey preach .
He be so long-winded , I get awful tire , and , anyway , he be talk about thing I could n't understand , so I play tit-tat-x with one of the Markdale boy .
It be the day I be sit up in the gallery . ''
`` Well , I hope if you ever do the like again you wo n't do it in OUR pew , '' say Felicity severely .
`` I ai n't go to do it at all , '' say Peter .
`` I felt sort of mean all the rest of the day . ''
`` I shall try not to be vex when people interrupt me when I 'm tell story , '' write the Story Girl .
`` but it will be hard , '' she add with a sigh .
`` I never mind be interrupt , '' say Felicity .
`` I shall try to be cheerful and smile all the time , '' write Cecily .
`` You be , anyway , '' say Sara Ray loyally .
`` I do n't believe we ought to be cheerful ALL the time , '' say the Story Girl .
`` The Bible say we ought to weep with those who weep . ''
`` But maybe it mean that we 're to weep cheerfully , '' suggest Cecily .
`` Sorter a if you be think , ` I 'm very sorry for you but I 'm mighty glad I 'm not in the scrape too , ' '' say Dan .
`` Dan , do n't be irreverent , '' rebuke Felicity .
`` I know a story about old Mr. and Mrs. Davidson of Markdale , '' say the Story Girl .
`` She be always smile and it use to aggravate her husband , so one day he say very crossly , ` Old lady , what ARE you grin at ? '
` Oh , well , Abiram , everything 's so bright and pleasant , I 've just get to smile . '
`` Not long after there come a time when everything go wrong -- the crop fail and their best cow die , and Mrs. Davidson have rheumatism ; and finally Mr. Davidson fell and break his leg .
But still Mrs. Davidson smile .
` What in the dickens be you grin about now , old lady ? '
he demand .
` Oh , well , Abiram , ' she say , ` everything be so dark and unpleasant I 've just get to smile . '
` Well , ' say the old man crossly , ' I think you might give your face a rest sometimes . ' ''
`` I shall not talk gossip , '' write Sara Ray with a satisfied air .
`` Oh , do n't you think that 's a little TOO strict ? ''
ask Cecily anxiously .
`` Of course , it 's not right to talk MEAN gossip , but the harmless kind do n't hurt .
If I say to you that Emmy MacPhail be go to get a new fur collar this winter , THAT be harmless gossip , but if I say I do n't see how Emmy MacPhail can afford a new fur collar when her father ca n't pay my father for the oat he get from him , that would be MEAN gossip .
If I be you , Sara , I 'd put MEAN gossip . ''
Sara consent to this amendment .
`` I will be polite to everybody , '' be my third resolution , which pass without comment .
`` I 'll try not to use slang since Cecily do n't like it , '' write Dan .
`` I think some slang be real cute , '' say Felicity .
`` The Family Guide say it 's very vulgar , '' grin Dan .
`` Does n't it , Sara Stanley ? ''
`` Do n't disturb me , '' say the Story Girl dreamily .
`` I 'm just think a beautiful thought . ''
`` I 've think of a resolution to make , '' cry Felicity .
`` Mr. Marwood say last Sunday we should always try to think beautiful thought and then our life would be very beautiful .
So I shall resolve to think a beautiful thought every morning before breakfast . ''
`` Can you only manage one a day ? ''
queried Dan .
`` And why before breakfast ? ''
I ask .
`` Because it 's easy to think on an empty stomach , '' say Peter , in all good faith .
But Felicity shoot a furious glance at him .
`` I select that time , '' she explain with dignity , `` because when I 'm brush my hair before my glass in the morning I 'll see my resolution and remember it . ''
`` Mr. Marwood mean that ALL our thought ought to be beautiful , '' say the Story Girl .
`` If they be , people would n't be afraid to say what they think . ''
`` They ought n't to be afraid to , anyhow , '' say Felix stoutly .
`` I 'm go to make a resolution to say just what I think always . ''
`` And do you expect to get through the year alive if you do ? ''
ask Dan .
`` It might be easy enough to say what you think if you could always be sure just what you DO think , '' say the Story Girl .
`` So often I ca n't be sure . ''
`` How would you like it if people always say just what they think to you ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` I 'm not very particular what SOME people think of me , '' rejoin Felix .
`` I notice you do n't like to be tell by anybody that you 're fat , '' retort Felicity .
`` Oh , dear me , I do wish you would n't all say such sarcastic thing to each other , '' say poor Cecily plaintively .
`` It sound so horrid the last night of the old year .
Dear know where we 'll all be this night next year .
Peter , it 's your turn . ''
`` I will try , '' write Peter , `` to say my prayer every night regular , and not twice one night because I do n't expect to have time the next , -- like I do the night before the party , '' he add .
`` I s ` pose you never say your prayer until we get you to go to church , '' say Felicity -- who have have no hand in induce Peter to go to church , but have stoutly oppose it , a record in the first volume of our family history .
`` I do , too , '' say Peter .
`` Aunt Jane teach me to say my prayer .
Ma have n't time , be a father have run away ; ma have to wash at night same a in day-time . ''
`` I shall learn to cook , '' write the Story Girl , frowning .
`` You 'd better resolve not to make pudding of -- '' begin Felicity , then stop as suddenly a if she have bite off the rest of her sentence and swallow it .
Cecily have nudge her , so she have probably remember the Story Girl 's threat that she would never tell another story if she be ever twit with the pudding she have make from sawdust .
But we all know what Felicity have start to say and the Story Girl deal her a most uncousinly glance .
`` I will not cry because mother wo n't starch my apron , '' write Sara Ray .
`` Better resolve not to cry about anything , '' say Dan kindly .
Sara Ray shake her head forlornly .
`` That would be too hard to keep .
There be time when I HAVE to cry .
It 's a relief . ''
`` Not to the folk who have to hear you , '' mutter Dan aside to Cecily .
`` Oh , hush , '' whisper Cecily back .
`` Do n't go and hurt her feeling the last night of the old year .
Is it my turn again ?
Well , I 'll resolve not to worry because my hair be not curly .
But , oh , I 'll never be able to help wish it be . ''
`` Why do n't you curl it a you use to do , then ? ''
ask Dan .
`` You know very well that I 've never put my hair up in curl paper since the time Peter be die of the measles , '' say Cecily reproachfully .
`` I resolve then I would n't because I be n't sure it be quite right . ''
`` I will keep my finger-nails neat and clean , '' I write .
`` There , that 's four resolution .
I 'm not go to make any more .
Four 's enough . ''
`` I shall always think twice before I speak , '' write Felix .
`` That 's an awful waste of time , '' comment Dan , `` but I guess you 'll need to if you 're always go to say what you think . ''
`` I 'm go to stop with three , '' say Peter .
`` I will have all the good time I can , '' write the Story Girl .
`` THAT 'S what I call sensible , '' say Dan .
`` It 's a very easy resolution to keep , anyhow , '' comment Felix .
`` I shall try to like read the Bible , '' write Sara Ray .
`` You ought to like read the Bible without try to , '' exclaim Felicity .
`` If you have to read seven chapter of it every time you be naughty I do n't believe you would like it either , '' retort Sara Ray with a flash of spirit .
`` I shall try to believe only half of what I hear , '' be Cecily 's conclude resolution .
`` But which half ? ''
scoffed Dan .
`` The best half , '' say sweet Cecily simply .
`` I 'll try to obey mother ALWAYS , '' write Sara Ray , with a tremendous sigh , a if she fully realize the difficulty of keep such a resolution .
`` And that 's all I 'm go to make . ''
`` Felicity have only make one , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I think it good to make just one and keep it than make a lot and break them , '' say Felicity loftily .
She have the last word on the subject , for it be time for Sara Ray to go , and our circle break up .
Sara and Felix depart and we watch them down the lane in the moonlight -- Sara walk demurely in one runner track , and Felix stalk grimly along in the other .
I fear the romantic beauty of that silver shin night be entirely throw away on my mischievous brother .
And it be , a I remember it , a most exquisite night -- a white poem , a frosty , starry lyric of light .
It be one of those night on which one might fall asleep and dream happy dream of garden of mirth and song , feel all the while through one 's sleep the soft splendour and radiance of the white moon-world outside , a one hear soft , far-away music sound through the thought and word that be bear of it .
As a matter of fact , however , Cecily dream that night that she saw three full moon in the sky , and waken up cry with the horror of it .
CHAPTER V .
THE FIRST NUMBER OF `` OUR MAGAZINE '' The first number of Our Magazine be ready on New Year 's Day , and we read it that even in the kitchen .
All our staff have work nobly and we be enormously proud of the result , although Dan still continue to scoff at a paper that be n't print .
The Story Girl and I read it turnabout while the others , except Felix , ate apple .
It open with a short EDITORIAL With this number Our Magazine make it first bow to the public .
All the editor have do their best and the various department be full of valuable information and amusement .
The tastefully design cover be by a famous artist , Mr. Blair Stanley , who send it to u all the way from Europe at the request of his daughter .
Mr. Peter Craig , our enterprising literary editor , contribute a touching love story .
-LRB- Peter , aside , in a gratified pig 's whisper : `` I never be call ` Mr. ' before . '' -RRB-
Miss Felicity King 's essay on Shakespeare be none the worse for be an old school composition , a it be new to most of our reader .
Miss Cecily King contribute a thrilling article of adventure .
The various department be ably edit , and we feel that we have reason to be proud of Our Magazine .
But we shall not rest on our oar .
`` Excelsior '' shall ever be our motto .
We trust that each succeed issue will be good than the one that go before .
We be well aware of many defect , but it be easy to see them than to remedy them .
Any suggestion that would tend to the improvement of Our Magazine will be thankfully receive , but we trust that no criticism will be make that will hurt anyone 's feeling .
Let u all work together in harmony , and strive to make Our Magazine an influence for good and a source of innocent pleasure , and let u always remember the word of the poet .
`` The height by great men reach and kept Were not attain by sudden flight , But they , while their companion sleep , Were toil upwards in the night . ''
-LRB- Peter , IMPRESSIVELY : -- `` I 've read many a bad editorial in the Enterprise . '' -RRB-
ESSAY ON SHAKESPEARE Shakespeare 's full name be William Shakespeare .
He do not always spell it the same way .
He live in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and write a great many play .
His play be write in dialogue form .
Some people think they be not write by Shakespeare but by another man of the same name .
I have read some of them because our school teacher say everybody ought to read them , but I do not care much for them .
There be some thing in them I can not understand .
I like the story of Valeria H. Montague in the Family Guide ever so much good .
They be more exciting and truer to life .
Romeo and Juliet be one of the play I read .
It be very sad .
Juliet dy and I do n't like story where people die .
I like it well when they all get marry especially to duke and earl .
Shakespeare himself be marry to Anne Hatheway .
They be both dead now .
They have be dead a good while .
He be a very famous man .
FELICITY KING .
-LRB- PETER , MODESTLY : `` I do n't know much about Shakespeare myself but I 've get a book of his play that belong to my Aunt Jane , and I guess I 'll have to tackle him as soon a I finish with the Bible . '' -RRB-
THE STORY OF AN ELOPEMENT FROM CHURCH This be a true story .
It happen in Markdale to an uncle of my mother .
He want to marry Miss Jemima Parr .
Felicity say Jemima be not a romantic name for a heroin of a story but I cant help it in this case because it be a true story and her name realy be Jemima .
My mother uncle be name Thomas Taylor .
He be poor at that time and so the father of Miss Jemima Parr do not want him for a soninlaw and tell him he be not to come near the house or he would set the dog on him .
Miss Jemima Parr be very pretty and my mother uncle Thomas be just crazy about her and she want him too .
She cry almost every night after her father forbid him to come to the house except the night she have to sleep or she would have die .
And she be so frightened he might try to come for all and get tore up by the dog and it be a bull-dog too that would never let go .
But mother uncle Thomas be too cute for that .
He wait till one day there be preach in the Markdale church in the middle of the week because it be sacrament time and Miss Jemima Parr and her family all go because her father be an elder .
My mother uncle Thomas go too and set in the pew just behind Miss Jemima Parrs family .
When they all bow their head at prayer time Miss Jemima Parr didnt but set bolt uprite and my mother uncle Thomas bent over and wispered in her ear .
I dont know what he say so I cant right it but Miss Jemima Parr blush that be turn red and nod her head .
Perhaps some people may think that my mother uncle Thomas shouldent of wispered at prayer time in church but you must remember that Miss Jemima Parrs father have thretened to set the dog on him and that be hard line when he be a respektable young man though not rich .
Well when they be sing the last sam my mother uncle Thomas get up and go out very quitely and as soon a church be out Miss Jemima Parr walk out too real quick .
Her family never suspekted anything and they hang round talk to folk and shake hand while Miss Jemima Parr and my mother uncle Thomas be elope outside .
And what do you suppose they elope in .
Why in Miss Jemima Parrs father slay .
And when he go out they be go and his slay be go also his horse .
Of course my mother uncle Thomas didnt steal the horse .
He just borroed it and send it home the next day .
But before Miss Jemima Parrs father could get another rig to follow them they be so far away he couldent catch them before they get marry .
And they live happy together forever afterwards .
Mothers uncle Thomas live to be a very old man .
He die very suddent .
He felt quite well when he go to sleep and when he wake up he be dead .
PETER CRAIG .
MY MOST EXCITING ADVENTURE The editor say we must all write up our most exciting adventure for Our Magazine .
My most exciting adventure happen a year ago last November .
I be nearly frighten to death .
Dan say he would n't of be scar and Felicity say she would of know what it be but it 's easy to talk .
It happen the night I go down to see Kitty Marr .
I think when I go that Aunt Olivia be visit there and I could come home with her .
But she be n't there and I have to come home alone .
Kitty come a piece of the way but she would n't come any further than Uncle James Frewen 's gate .
She say it be because it be so windy she be afraid she would get the tooth-ache and not because she be frighten of the ghost of the dog that haunt the bridge in Uncle James ' hollow .
I do wish she have n't say anything about the dog because I might n't of think about it if she have n't .
I have to go on alone thinking of it .
I 'd hear the story often but I 'd never believe in it .
They say the dog use to appear at one end of the bridge and walk across it with people and vanish when he get to the other end .
He never try to bite anyone but one would n't want to meet the ghost of a dog even if one do n't believe in him .
I know there be no such thing a ghost and I keep say a paraphrase over to myself and the Golden Text of the next Sunday School lesson but oh , how my heart beat when I get near the hollow !
It be so dark .
You could just see thing dim-like but you could n't see what they be .
When I get to the bridge I walk along sideways with my back to the rail so I could n't think the dog be behind me .
And then just in the middle of the bridge I meet something .
It be right before me and it be big and black , just about the size of a Newfoundland dog , and I think I could see a white nose .
And it keep jump about from one side of the bridge to the other .
Oh , I hope none of my reader will ever be so frightened a I be then .
I be too frighten to run back because I be afraid it would chase me and I could n't get past it , it move so quick , and then it just make one spring right on me and I felt it claw and I scream and fell down .
It roll off to one side and laid there quite quiet but I do n't dare move and I do n't know what would have become of me if Amos Cowan have n't come along that very minute with a lantern .
And there be me sit in the middle of the bridge and that awful thing beside me .
And what do you think it be but a big umbrella with a white handle ?
Amos say it be his umbrella and it have blow away from him and he have to go back and get the lantern to look for it .
I felt like ask him what on earth he be go about with an umbrella open when it wasent rain .
But the Cowans do such queer thing .
You remember the time Jerry Cowan sell u God 's picture .
Amos take me right home and I be thankful for I do n't know what would have become of me if he have n't come along .
I could n't sleep all night and I never want to have any more adventure like that one .
CECILY KING .
PERSONALS Mr. Dan King felt somewhat indisposed the day after Christmas -- probably a the result of too much mince pie .
-LRB- DAN , INDIGNANTLY : -- `` I be n't .
I only et one piece ! '' -RRB-
Mr. Peter Craig think he saw the Family Ghost on Christmas Eve .
But the rest of u think all he saw be the white calf with the red tail .
-LRB- PETER , MUTTERING SULKILY : -- `` It 's a queer calf that would walk up on end and wring it hand . '' -RRB-
Miss Cecily King spend the night of Dec. 20th with Miss Kitty Marr .
They talk most of the night about new knit lace pattern and their beau and be very sleepy in school next day .
-LRB- CECILY , SHARPLY : -- `` We never mention such thing ! '' -RRB-
Patrick Grayfur , Esq . , be indispose yesterday , but seem to be enjoy his usual health to-day .
The King family expect their Aunt Eliza to visit them in January .
She be really our great-aunt .
We have never see her but we be told she be very deaf and do not like child .
So Aunt Janet say we must make ourselves scarece when she come .
Miss Cecily King have undertake to fill with name a square of the missionary quilt which the Mission Band be make .
You pay five cent to have your name embroider in a corner , ten cent to have it in the centre , and a quarter if you want it leave off altogether .
-LRB- CECILY , INDIGNANTLY : -- `` That be n't the way at all . '' -RRB-
ADS .
WANTED -- A remedy to make a fat boy thin .
Address , `` Patient Sufferer , care of Our Magazine . ''
-LRB- FELIX , SOURLY : -- `` Sara Ray never get that up .
I 'll bet it be Dan .
He 'd better stick to his own department . '' -RRB-
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Mrs. Alexander King kill all her geese the twentieth of December .
We all help pick them .
We have one Christmas Day and will have one every fortnight the rest of the winter .
The bread be sour last week because mother would n't take my advice .
I tell her it be too warm for it in the corner behind the stove .
Miss Felicity King invent a new recete for date cooky recently , which everybody say be excelent .
I be not go to publish it though , because I do n't want other people to find it out .
ANXIOUS INQUIRER : -- If you want to remove inkstains place the stain over steam and apply salt and lemon juice .
If it be Dan who send this question in I 'd advise him to stop wipe his pen on his shirt sleeve and then he would n't have so many stain .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT F-l-x : -- Yes , you should offer your arm to a lady when see her home , but do n't keep her stand too long at the gate while you say good night .
-LRB- FELIX , ENRAGED : -- `` I never ask such a question . '' -RRB-
C-c-l-y : -- No , it be not polite to use `` Holy Moses '' or `` dodgasted '' in ordinary conversation .
-LRB- Cecily have go down cellar to replenish the apple plate , so this pass without protest . -RRB-
S-r-a : -- No , it be n't polite to cry all the time .
As to whether you should ask a young man in , it all depend on whether he go home with you of his own accord or be send by some elderly relative .
F-l-t-y : -- It do not break any rule of etiquette if you keep a button off your best young man 's coat for a keepsake .
But do n't take more than one or his mother might miss them .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Knitted muffler be much more stylish than crochet one this winter .
It be nice to have one the same colour a your cap .
Red mitten with a black diamond pattern on the back be much run after .
Em Frewen 's grandma knit hers for her .
She can knit the double diamond pattern and Em put on such air about it , but I think the single diamond be in good taste .
The new winter hat at Markdale be very pretty .
It be so exciting to pick a hat .
Boys ca n't have that fun .
Their hat be so much alike .
CECILY KING .
FUNNY PARAGRAPHS This be a true joke and really happen .
There be an old local preacher in New Brunswick one time whose name be Samuel Clask .
He use to preach and pray and visit the sick just like a regular minister .
One day he be visit a neighbour who be die and he pray the Lord to have mercy on him because he be very poor and have work so hard all his life that he have n't much time to attend to religion .
`` And if you do n't believe me , O Lord , '' Mr. Clask finish up with , `` just take a look at his hand . ''
FELIX KING .
GENERAL INFORMATION BUREAU DAN : -- Do porpoise grow on tree or vine ?
Ans .
Neither .
They inhabit the deep sea .
FELIX KING .
-LRB- DAN , AGGRIEVED : -- `` Well , I 'd never hear of porpoise and it sound like something that grow .
But you need n't have go and put it in the paper . ''
FELIX : -- `` It be n't any bad than the thing you put in about me that I never ask at all . ''
CECILY , SOOTHINGLY : -- `` Oh , well , boys , it 's all in fun , and I think Our Magazine be perfectly elegant . ''
FELICITY , FAILING TO SEE THE STORY GIRL AND BEVERLEY EXCHANGING WINKS BEHIND HER BACK : -- `` It certainly be , though SOME PEOPLE be so oppose to start it . '' -RRB-
What harmless , happy fool it all be !
How we laugh a we read and listen and devour apple !
Blow high , blow low , no wind can ever quench the ruddy glow of that faraway winter night in our memory .
And though Our Magazine never make much of a stir in the world , or be the mean of hatch any genius , it continue to be capital fun for u throughout the year .
CHAPTER VI .
GREAT-AUNT ELIZA 'S VISIT It be a diamond winter day in February -- clear , cold , hard , brilliant .
The sharp blue sky shone , the white field and hill glitter , the fringe of icicle around the eaves of Uncle Alec 's house sparkle .
Keen be the frost and crisp the snow over our world ; and we young fry of the King household be all agog to enjoy life -- for be it not Saturday , and be we not leave all alone to keep house ?
Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia have have their last big `` kill '' of market poultry the day before ; and early in the morning all our grown-ups set forth to Charlottetown , to be go the whole day .
They leave u many charge a usual , some of which we remember and some of which we forget ; but with Felicity in command none of u dare stray far out of line .
The Story Girl and Peter come over , of course , and we all agree that we would haste and get the work do in the forenoon , that we might have an afternoon of uninterrupted enjoyment .
A taffy-pull after dinner and then a jolly hour of coast on the hill field before supper be on our programme .
But disappointment be our portion .
We do manage to get the taffy make but before we could sample the result satisfactorily , and just a the girl be finish with the washing of the dish , Felicity glance out of the window and exclaim in tone of dismay , `` Oh , dear me , here 's Great-aunt Eliza come up the lane !
Now , be n't that too mean ? ''
We all look out to see a tall , gray-haired lady approach the house , look about her with the slightly puzzle air of a stranger .
We have be expect Great-aunt Eliza 's advent for some week , for she be visit relative in Markdale .
We know she be liable to pounce down on u any time , be one of those delightful folk who like to `` surprise '' people , but we have never think of her come that particular day .
It must be confess that we do not look forward to her visit with any pleasure .
None of u have ever see her , but we know she be very deaf , and have very decided opinion a to the way in which child should behave .
`` Whew ! ''
whistle Dan .
`` We 're in for a jolly afternoon .
She 's deaf a a post and we 'll have to split our throat to make her hear at all .
I 've a notion to skin out . ''
`` Oh , do n't talk like that , Dan , '' say Cecily reproachfully .
`` She 's old and lonely and have have a great deal of trouble .
She have bury three husband .
We must be kind to her and do the best we can to make her visit pleasant . ''
`` She 's come to the back door , '' say Felicity , with an agitated glance around the kitchen .
`` I tell you , Dan , that you should have shovel the snow away from the front door this morning .
Cecily , set those pot in the pantry quick -- hide those boot , Felix -- shut the cupboard door , Peter -- Sara , straighten up the lounge .
She 's awfully particular and ma say her house be always as neat a wax . ''
To do Felicity justice , while she issue order to the rest of u , she be fly busily about herself , and it be amaze how much be accomplish in the way of put the kitchen in perfect order during the two minute in which Great-aunt Eliza be cross the yard .
`` Fortunately the sitting-room be tidy and there 's plenty in the pantry , '' say Felicity , who could face anything undauntedly with a well-stocked larder behind her .
Further conversation be cut short by a decided rap at the door .
Felicity open it .
`` Why , how do you do , Aunt Eliza ? ''
she say loudly .
A slightly bewilder look appear on Aunt Eliza 's face .
Felicity perceive she have not speak loudly enough .
`` How do you do , Aunt Eliza , '' she repeat at the top of her voice .
`` Come in -- we be glad to see you .
We 've be look for you for ever so long . ''
`` Are your father and mother at home ? ''
ask Aunt Eliza , slowly .
`` No , they go to town today .
But they 'll be home this evening . ''
`` I 'm sorry they 're away , '' say Aunt Eliza , come in , `` because I can stay only a few hour . ''
`` Oh , that 's too bad , '' shout poor Felicity , dart an angry glance at the rest of u , a if to demand why we do n't help her out .
`` Why , we 've be think you 'd stay a week with u anyway .
You MUST stay over Sunday . ''
`` I really ca n't .
I have to go to Charlottetown tonight , '' return Aunt Eliza .
`` Well , you 'll take off your thing and stay to tea , at least , '' urge Felicity , as hospitably a her strained vocal chord would admit .
`` Yes , I think I 'll do that .
I want to get acquaint with my -- my nephew and niece , '' say Aunt Eliza , with a rather pleasant glance around our group .
If I could have associate the thought of such a thing with my preconception of Great-aunt Eliza I could have swear there be a twinkle in her eye .
But of course it be impossible .
`` Wo n't you introduce yourselves , please ? ''
Felicity shout our name and Great-aunt Eliza shake hand all round .
She perform the duty grimly and I conclude I must have be mistake about the twinkle .
She be certainly very tall and dignified and imposing -- altogether a great-aunt to be respect .
Felicity and Cecily take her to the spare room and then leave her in the sitting-room while they return to the kitchen , to discuss the matter in family conclave .
`` Well , and what do you think of dear Aunt Eliza ? ''
ask Dan .
`` S-s-s-sh , '' warn Cecily , with a glance at the half-open hall door .
`` Pshaw , '' scoff Dan , `` she ca n't hear u .
There ought to be a law against anyone be as deaf a that . ''
`` She 's not so old-looking a I expect , '' say Felix .
`` If her hair be n't so white she would n't look much old than your mother . ''
`` You do n't have to be very old to be a great-aunt , '' say Cecily .
`` Kitty Marr have a great-aunt who be just the same age a her mother .
I expect it be bury so many husband turn her hair white .
But Aunt Eliza do n't look just a I expect she would either . ''
`` She 's dress more stylishly than I expect , '' say Felicity .
`` I think she 'd be real old-fashioned , but her clothes be n't too bad at all . ''
`` She would n't be bad-looking if ` twere n't for her nose , '' say Peter .
`` It 's too long , and crook besides . ''
`` You need n't criticize our relation like that , '' say Felicity tartly .
`` Well , be n't you do it yourselves ? ''
expostulate Peter .
`` That 's different , '' retort Felicity .
`` Never you mind Great-aunt Eliza 's nose . ''
`` Well , do n't expect me to talk to her , '' say Dan , '' 'cause I wo n't . ''
`` I 'm go to be very polite to her , '' say Felicity .
`` She 's rich .
But how be we to entertain her , that 's the question . ''
`` What do the Family Guide say about entertain your rich , deaf old aunt ? ''
queried Dan ironically .
`` The Family Guide say we should be polite to EVERYBODY , '' say Cecily , with a reproachful look at Dan .
`` The bad of it be , '' say Felicity , look worry , `` that there be n't a bit of old bread in the house and she ca n't eat new , I 've hear father say .
It give her indigestion .
What will we do ? ''
`` Make a pan of rusk and apologize for have no old bread , '' suggest the Story Girl , probably by way of tease Felicity .
The latter , however , take it in all good faith .
`` The Family Guide say we should never apologize for thing we ca n't help .
It say it 's add insult to injury to do it .
But you run over home for a loaf of stale bread , Sara , and it 's a good idea about the rusk .
I 'll make a panful . ''
`` Let me make them , '' say the Story Girl , eagerly .
`` I can make real good rusk now . ''
`` No , it would n't do to trust you , '' say Felicity mercilessly .
`` You might make some queer mistake and Aunt Eliza would tell it all over the country .
She 's a fearful old gossip .
I 'll make the rusk myself .
She hat cat , so we must n't let Paddy be see .
And she 's a Methodist , so mind nobody say anything against Methodists to her . ''
`` Who 's go to say anything , anyhow ? ''
ask Peter belligerently .
`` I wonder if I might ask her for her name for my quilt square ? ''
speculate Cecily .
`` I believe I will .
She look so much friendly than I expect .
Of course she 'll choose the five-cent section .
She 's an estimable old lady , but very economical . ''
`` Why do n't you say she 's so mean she 'd skin a flea for it hide and tallow ? ''
say Dan .
`` That 's the plain truth . ''
`` Well , I 'm go to see about get tea , '' say Felicity , `` so the rest of you will have to entertain her .
You good go in and show her the photograph in the album .
Dan , you do it . ''
`` Thank you , that 's a girl 's job , '' say Dan .
`` I 'd look nice sit up to Aunt Eliza and yell out that this be Uncle Jim and ` tother Cousin Sarah 's twin , would n't I ?
Cecily or the Story Girl can do it . ''
`` I do n't know all the picture in your album , '' say the Story Girl hastily .
`` I s ` pose I 'll have to do it , though I do n't like to , '' sigh Cecily .
`` But we ought to go in .
We 've leave her alone too long now .
She 'll think we have no manner . ''
Accordingly we all file in rather reluctantly .
Great-aunt Eliza be toast her toe -- clad , a we note , in very smart and shapely shoe -- at the stove and look quite at her ease .
Cecily , determine to do her duty even in the face of such fearful odds a Great-aunt Eliza 's deafness , drag a ponderous , plush-covered album from it corner and proceed to display and explain the family photograph .
She do her brave best but she could not shout like Felicity , and half the time , a she confide to me later on , she felt that Great-aunt Eliza do not hear one word she say , because she do n't seem to take in who the people be , though , just like all deaf folk , she would n't let on .
Great-aunt Eliza certainly do n't talk much ; she look at the photograph in silence , but she smile now and then .
That smile bother me .
It be so twinkly and so very un-great-aunt-Elizaish .
But I felt indignant with her .
I think she might have show a little more appreciation of Cecily 's gallant effort to entertain .
It be very dull for the rest of u .
The Story Girl sit rather sulkily in her corner ; she be angry because Felicity would not let her make the rusk , and also , perhaps , a little vexed because she could not charm Great-aunt Eliza with her golden voice and story-telling gift .
Felix and I look at each other and wish ourselves out in the hill field , career gloriously adown it gleaming crust .
But presently a little amusement come our way .
Dan , who be sit behind Great-aunt Eliza , and consequently out of her view , begin make comment on Cecily 's explanation of this one and that one among the photograph .
In vain Cecily implore him to stop .
It be too good fun to give up .
For the next half-hour the dialogue ran after this fashion , while Peter and Felix and I , and even the Story Girl , suffer agony try to smother our burst of laughter -- for Great-aunt Eliza could see if she could n't hear : CECILY , SHOUTING : -- `` That be Mr. Joseph Elliott of Markdale , a second cousin of mother 's . ''
DAN : -- `` Do n't brag of it , Sis .
He 's the man who be ask if somebody else say something in sincerity and old Joe say ` No , he say it in my cellar . ' ''
CECILY : -- `` This be n't anybody in our family .
It 's little Xavy Gautier who use to be hire with Uncle Roger . ''
DAN : -- `` Uncle Roger send him to fix a gate one day and scold him because he do n't do it right , and Xavy be mad a hop and say ` How you ` spect me to fix dat gate ?
I never learn jogerfy . ' ''
CECILY , WITH AN ANGUISHED GLANCE AT DAN : -- `` This be Great-uncle Robert King . ''
DAN : -- `` He 's be married four time .
Do n't you think that 's often enough , dear great-aunty ? ''
CECILY : -- '' -LRB- Dan ! ! -RRB-
This be a nephew of Mr. Ambrose Marr 's .
He live out west and teaches school . ''
DAN : -- `` Yes , and Uncle Roger say he do n't know enough not to sleep in a field with the gate open . ''
CECILY : -- `` This be Miss Julia Stanley , who use to teach in Carlisle a few year ago . ''
DAN : -- `` When she resign the trustee have a meeting to see if they 'd ask her to stay and raise her supplement .
Old Highland Sandy be alive then and he get up and say , ` If she for go let her for go .
Perhaps she for marry . ' ''
CECILY , WITH THE AIR OF A MARTYR : -- `` This be Mr. Layton , who use to travel around sell Bibles and hymn book and Talmage 's sermon . ''
DAN : -- `` He be so thin Uncle Roger use to say he always mistake him for a crack in the atmosphere .
One time he stay here all night and go to prayer meeting and Mr. Marwood ask him to lead in prayer .
It have be rain ` most every day for three week , and it be just in haymaking time , and everybody think the hay be go to be ruin , and old Layton get up and pray that God would send gentle shower on the grow crop , and I hear Uncle Roger whisper to a fellow behind me , ` If somebody do n't choke him off we wo n't get the hay make this summer . ' ''
CECILY , IN EXASPERATION : -- '' -LRB- Dan , shame on you for tell such irreverent story . -RRB-
This be Mrs. Alexander Scott of Markdale .
She have be very sick for a long time . ''
DAN : -- `` Uncle Roger say all that keep her alive be that she 's scar her husband will marry again . ''
CECILY : -- `` This be old Mr. James MacPherson who use to live behind the graveyard . ''
DAN : -- `` He 's the man who tell mother once that he always make his own iodine out of strong tea and baking soda . ''
CECILY : -- `` This be Cousin Ebenezer MacPherson on the Markdale road . ''
DAN : -- `` Great temperance man !
He never taste rum in his life .
He take the measles when he be forty-five and be crazy a a loon with them , and the doctor order them to give him a dose of brandy .
When he swallow it he look up and say , solemn a an owl , ` Give it to me oftener and more at a time . ' ''
CECILY , IMPLORINGLY : -- '' -LRB- Dan , do stop .
You make me so nervous I do n't know what I 'm do . -RRB-
This be Mr. Lemuel Goodridge .
He be a minister . ''
DAN : -- `` You ought to see his mouth .
Uncle Roger say the draw string have fell out of it .
It just hang loose -- so fashion . ''
Dan , whose own mouth be far from be beautiful , here give an imitation of the Rev . Lemuel 's , to the utter undoing of Peter , Felix , and myself .
Our wild guffaw of laughter penetrate even Great-aunt Eliza 's deafness , and she glance up with a startled face .
What we would have do I do not know have not Felicity at that moment appear in the doorway with panic-stricken eye and exclaim , `` Cecily , come here for a moment . ''
Cecily , glad of even a temporary respite , flee to the kitchen and we hear her demand what be the matter .
`` Matter ! ''
exclaim Felicity , tragically .
`` Matter enough !
Some of you leave a soup plate with molasses in it on the pantry table and Pat get into it and what do you think ?
He go into the spare room and walk all over Aunt Eliza 's thing on the bed .
You can see his track plain a plain .
What in the world can we do ?
She 'll be simply furious . ''
I look apprehensively at Great-aunt Eliza ; but she be gaze intently at a picture of Aunt Janet 's sister 's twin , a most stolid , uninteresting pair ; but evidently Great-aunt Eliza find them amuse for she be smile widely over them .
`` Let u take a little clean water and a soft bit of cotton , '' come Cecily 's clear voice from the kitchen , `` and see if we ca n't clean the molasses off .
The coat and hat be both cloth , and molasses be n't like grease . ''
`` Well , we can try , but I wish the Story Girl would keep her cat home , '' grumble Felicity .
The Story Girl here fly out to defend her pet , and we four boy sit on , miserably conscious of Great-aunt Eliza , who never say a word to u , despite her previously express desire to become acquainted with u .
She keep on look at the photograph and seem quite oblivious of our presence .
Presently the girl return , have , a transpire later , be so successful in remove the trace of Paddy 's mischief that it be not deem necessary to worry Great-aunt Eliza with any account of it .
Felicity announce tea and , while Cecily convey Great-aunt Eliza out to the dining-room , linger behind to consult with u for a moment .
`` Ought we to ask her to say grace ? ''
she want to know .
`` I know a story , '' say the Story Girl , `` about Uncle Roger when he be just a young man .
He go to the house of a very deaf old lady and when they sit down to the table she ask him to say grace .
Uncle Roger have never do such a thing in his life and he turn as red a a beet and look down and mutter , ` E-r-r , please excuse me -- I -- I 'm not accustom to do that . '
Then he look up and the old lady say ` Amen , ' loudly and cheerfully .
She think Uncle Roger be say grace all the time . ''
`` I do n't think it 's right to tell funny story about such thing , '' say Felicity coldly .
`` And I ask for your opinion , not for a story . ''
`` If we do n't ask her , Felix must say it , for he 's the only one who can , and we must have it , or she 'd be shock . ''
`` Oh , ask her -- ask her , '' advise Felix hastily .
She be ask accordingly and say grace without any hesitation , after which she proceed to eat heartily of the excellent supper Felicity have provide .
The rusk be especially good and Great-aunt Eliza eat three of them and praise them .
Apart from that she say little and during the first part of the meal we sit in embarrassed silence .
Towards the last , however , our tongue be loosen , and the Story Girl tell u a tragic tale of old Charlottetown and a governor 's wife who have die of a broken heart in the early day of the colony .
`` They say that story be n't true , '' say Felicity .
`` They say what she really die of be indigestion .
The Governor 's wife who live there now be a relation of our own .
She be a second cousin of father 's but we 've never see her .
Her name be Agnes Clark .
And mind you , when father be a young man he be dead in love with her and so be she with him . ''
`` Who ever tell you that ? ''
exclaim Dan .
`` Aunt Olivia .
And I 've hear ma tease father about it , too .
Of course , it be before father get acquaint with mother . ''
`` Why do n't your father marry her ? ''
I ask .
`` Well , she just simply would n't marry him in the end .
She get over be in love with him .
I guess she be pretty fickle .
Aunt Olivia say father felt awful about it for awhile , but he get over it when he meet ma .
Ma be twice as good-looking a Agnes Clark .
Agnes be a sight for freckle , so Aunt Olivia say .
But she and father remain real good friend .
Just think , if she have marry him we would have be the child of the Governor 's wife . ''
`` But she would n't have be the Governor 's wife then , '' say Dan .
`` I guess it 's just as good be father 's wife , '' declare Cecily loyally .
`` You might think so if you saw the Governor , '' chuckle Dan .
`` Uncle Roger say it would be no harm to worship him because he do n't look like anything in the heaven above or on the earth beneath or the water under the earth . ''
`` Oh , Uncle Roger just say that because he 's on the opposite side of politics , '' say Cecily .
`` The Governor be n't really so very ugly .
I saw him at the Markdale picnic two year ago .
He 's very fat and bald and red-faced , but I 've see far worse look men . ''
`` I 'm afraid your seat be too near the stove , Aunt Eliza , '' shout Felicity .
Our guest , whose face be certainly very much flush , shake her head .
`` Oh , no , I 'm very comfortable , '' she say .
But her voice have the effect of make u uncomfortable .
There be a queer , uncertain little sound in it .
Was Great-aunt Eliza laugh at u ?
We look at her sharply but her face be very solemn .
Only her eye have a suspicious appearance .
Somehow , we do not talk much more the rest of the meal .
When it be over Great-aunt Eliza say she be very sorry but she must really go .
Felicity politely urge her to stay , but be much relieve when Great-aunt Eliza adhere to her intention of go .
When Felicity take her to the spare room Cecily slip upstairs and presently come back with a little parcel in her hand .
`` What have you get there ? ''
demand Felicity suspiciously .
`` A -- a little bag of rose-leaves , '' falter Cecily .
`` I think I 'd give them to Aunt Eliza . ''
`` The idea !
Do n't you do such a thing , '' say Felicity contemptuously .
`` She 'd think you be crazy . ''
`` She be awfully nice when I ask her for her name for the quilt , '' protest Cecily , `` and she take a ten-cent section after all .
So I 'd like to give her the rose-leaves -- and I 'm go to , too , Miss Felicity . ''
Great-aunt Eliza accept the little gift quite graciously , bid u all good-bye , say she have enjoy herself very much , leave message for father and mother , and finally betook herself away .
We watch her cross the yard , tall , stately , erect , and disappear down the lane .
Then , a often aforetime , we gather together in the cheer of the red hearth-flame , while outside the wind of a winter twilight sing through fair white valley brim with a reddening sunset , and a faint , serene , silver-cold star glimmer over the willow at the gate .
`` Well , '' say Felicity , draw a relieved breath , `` I 'm glad she 's go .
She certainly be queer , just a mother say . ''
`` It 's a different kind of queerness from what I expect , though , '' say the Story Girl meditatively .
`` There 's something I ca n't quite make out about Aunt Eliza .
I do n't think I altogether like her . ''
`` I 'm precious sure I do n't , '' say Dan .
`` Oh , well , never mind .
She 's go now and that 's the last of it , '' say Cecily comfortingly .
But it be n't the last of it -- not by any manner of mean be it !
When our grown-ups return almost the first word Aunt Janet say be , `` And so you have the Governor 's wife to tea ? ''
We all star at her .
`` I do n't know what you mean , '' say Felicity .
`` We have nobody to tea except Great-aunt Eliza .
She come this afternoon and -- '' `` Great-aunt Eliza ?
Nonsense , '' say Aunt Janet .
`` Aunt Eliza be in town today .
She have tea with u at Aunt Louisa 's .
But be n't Mrs . Governor Lesley here ?
We meet her on her way back to Charlottetown and she tell u she be .
She say she be visit a friend in Carlisle and think she 'd call to see father for old acquaintance sake .
What in the world be all you child star like that for ?
Your eye be like saucer . ''
`` There be a lady here to tea , '' say Felicity miserably , `` but we think it be Great-aunt Eliza -- she never SAID she be n't -- I think she act queer -- and we all yell at her a if she be deaf -- and say thing to each other about her nose -- and Pat running over her clothes -- '' `` She must have hear all you say while I be show her the photograph , Dan , '' cry Cecily .
`` And about the Governor at tea time , '' chuckle unrepentant Dan .
`` I want to know what all this mean , '' say Aunt Janet sternly .
She know in due time , after she have piece the story together from our disjointed account .
She be horrify , and Uncle Alec be mildly disturbed , but Uncle Roger roar with laughter and Aunt Olivia echo it .
`` To think you should have so little sense ! ''
say Aunt Janet in a disgusted tone .
`` I think it be real mean of her to pretend she be deaf , '' say Felicity , almost on the verge of tear .
`` That be Agnes Clark all over , '' chuckle Uncle Roger .
`` How she must have enjoy this afternoon ! ''
She have enjoy it , a we learn the next day , when a letter come from her .
`` Dear Cecily and all the rest of you , '' write the Governor 's wife , `` I want to ask you to forgive me for pretend to be Aunt Eliza .
I suspect it be a little horrid of me , but really I could n't resist the temptation , and if you will forgive me for it I will forgive you for the thing you say about the Governor , and we will all be good friend .
You know the Governor be a very nice man , though he have the misfortune not to be handsome .
`` I have just a splendid time at your place , and I envy your Aunt Eliza her nephew and niece .
You be all so nice to me , and I do n't dare to be a bit nice to you l I should give myself away .
But I 'll make up for that when you come to see me at Government House , a you all must the very next time you come to town .
I 'm so sorry I do n't see Paddy , for I love pussy cat , even if they do track molasses over my clothes .
And , Cecily , thank you ever so much for that little bag of pot-pourri .
It smell like a hundred rise garden , and I have put it between the sheet for my very spare room bed , where you shall sleep when you come to see me , you dear thing .
And the Governor want you to put his name on the quilt square , too , in the ten-cent section .
`` Tell Dan I enjoy his comment on the photographs very much .
They be quite a refreshing contrast to the usual explanation of ` who 's who . '
And Felicity , your rusk be perfection .
Do send me your recipe for them , there 's a darling .
`` Yours most cordially , AGNES CLARK LESLEY .
`` Well , it be decent of her to apologize , anyhow , '' comment Dan .
`` If we only have n't say that about the Governor , '' moan Felicity .
`` How do you make your rusk ? ''
ask Aunt Janet .
`` There be no baking-powder in the house , and I never could get them right with soda and cream of tartar . ''
`` There be plenty of baking-powder in the pantry , '' say Felicity .
`` No , there be n't a particle .
I use the last making those cooky Thursday morning . ''
`` But I find another can nearly full , away back on the top shelf , ma , -- the one with the yellow label .
I guess you forget it be there . ''
Aunt Janet star at her pretty daughter blankly .
Then amazement give place to horror .
`` Felicity King ! ''
she exclaim .
`` You do n't mean to tell me that you raise those rusk with the stuff that be in that old yellow can ? ''
`` Yes , I do , '' falter Felicity , begin to look scared .
`` Why , ma , what be the matter with it ? ''
`` Matter !
That stuff be TOOTH-POWDER , that 's what it be .
Your Cousin Myra break the bottle her tooth-powder be in when she be here last winter and I give her that old can to keep it in .
She forget to take it when she go away and I put it on that top shelf .
I declare you must all have be bewitch yesterday . ''
Poor , poor Felicity !
If she have not always be so horribly vain over her cooking and so scornfully contemptuous of other people 's aspiration and mistake along that line , I could have find it in my heart to pity her .
The Story Girl would have be more than human if she have not betray a little triumphant amusement , but Peter stand up for his lady manfully .
`` The rusk be splendid , anyhow , so what difference do it make what they be raise with ? ''
Dan , however , begin to taunt Felicity with her tooth-powder rusk , and keep it up for the rest of his natural life .
`` Do n't forget to send the Governor 's wife the recipe for them , '' he say .
Felicity , with eye tearful and cheeks crimson from mortification , rush from the room , but never , never do the Governor 's wife get the recipe for those rusk .
CHAPTER VII .
WE VISIT COUSIN MATTIE 'S One Saturday in March we walk over to Baywater , for a long-talked-of visit to Cousin Mattie Dilke .
By the road , Baywater be six mile away , but there be a short cut across hill and field and wood which be scantly three .
We do not look forward to our visit with any particular delight , for there be nobody at Cousin Mattie 's except grown-ups who have be grow up so long that it be rather hard for them to remember they have ever be child .
But , a Felicity tell u , it be necessary to visit Cousin Mattie at least once a year , or else she would be `` huffed , '' so we conclude we might as well go and have it over .
`` Anyhow , we 'll get a splendiferous dinner , '' say Dan .
`` Cousin Mattie 's a great cook and there 's nothing stingy about her . ''
`` You be always think of your stomach , '' say Felicity pleasantly .
`` Well , you know I could n't get along very well without it , darling , '' respond Dan who , since New Year 's , have adopt a new method of deal with Felicity -- whether by way of keep his resolution or because he have discover that it annoy Felicity far more than angry retort , deponent sayeth not .
He invariably meet her criticism with a good-natured grin and a flippant remark with some tender epithet tag on to it .
Poor Felicity use to get hopelessly furious over it .
Uncle Alec be dubious about our go that day .
He look abroad on the general dourness of gray earth and gray air and gray sky , and say a storm be brew .
But Cousin Mattie have be send word that we be come , and she do not like to be disappoint , so he let u go , warn u to stay with Cousin Mattie all night if the storm come on while we be there .
We enjoy our walk -- even Felix enjoy it , although he have be appoint to write up the visit for Our Magazine and be rather weigh down by the responsibility of it .
What matter it though the world be gray and wintry ?
We walk the golden road and carry spring time in our heart , and we beguile our way with laughter and jest , and the tale the Story Girl tell u -- myth and legend of elder time .
The walking be good , for there have lately be a thaw and everything be frozen .
We go over field , cross by spidery trail of gray fence , where the withered grass stick forlornly up through the snow ; we linger for a time in a group of hill pine , great , majestic tree-creatures , friend of even star ; and finally strike into the belt of fir and maple which intervene between Carlisle and Baywater .
It be in this locality that Peg Bowen live , and our way lay near her house though not directly in sight of it .
We hop we would not meet her , for since the affair of the bewitchment of Paddy we do not know quite what to think of Peg ; the bold of u hold his breath a we pass her haunt , and draw it again with a sigh of relief when they be safely leave behind .
The wood be full of the brooding stillness that often precede a storm , and the wind crept along their white , cone-sprinkled floor with a low , wail cry .
Around u be solitude of snow , arcade pick out in pearl and silver , long avenue of untrodden marble whence spring the cathedral column of the fir .
We be all sorry when we be through the wood and find ourselves look down into the snug , commonplace , farmstead-dotted settlement of Baywater .
`` There 's Cousin Mattie 's house -- that big white one at the turn of the road , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I hope she have that dinner ready , Dan .
I 'm hungry a a wolf after our walk . ''
`` I wish Cousin Mattie 's husband be still alive , '' say Dan .
`` He be an awful nice old man .
He always have his pocket full of nut and apple .
I use to like go there well when he be alive .
Too many old woman do n't suit me . ''
`` Oh , Dan , Cousin Mattie and her sister-in-law be just a nice and kind a they can be , '' reproach Cecily .
`` Oh , they 're kind enough , but they never seem to see that a fellow get over be five year old if he only live long enough , '' retort Dan .
`` I know a story about Cousin Mattie 's husband , '' say the Story Girl .
`` His name be Ebenezer , you know -- '' `` Is it any wonder he be thin and stunt look ? ''
say Dan .
`` Ebenezer be just a nice a name a Daniel , '' say Felicity .
`` Do you REALLY think so , my angel ? ''
inquired Dan , in honey-sweet tone .
`` Go on .
Remember your second resolution , '' I whisper to the Story Girl , who be stalk along with an outraged expression .
The Story Girl swallow something and go on .
`` Cousin Ebenezer have a horror of borrowing .
He think it be simply a dreadful disgrace to borrow ANYTHING .
Well , you know he and Cousin Mattie use to live in Carlisle , where the Rays now live .
This be when Grandfather King be alive .
One day Cousin Ebenezer come up the hill and into the kitchen where all the family be .
Uncle Roger say he look a if he have be steal sheep .
He sit for a whole hour in the kitchen and hardly speak a word , but just look miserable .
At last he get up and say in a desperate sort of way , ` Uncle Abraham , can I speak with you in private for a minute ? '
` Oh , certainly , ' say grandfather , and take him into the parlour .
Cousin Ebenezer shut the door , look all around him and then say imploringly , ` MORE PRIVATE STILL . '
So grandfather take him into the spare room and shut that door .
He be get frighten .
He think something terrible must have happen Cousin Ebenezer .
Cousin Ebenezer come right up to grandfather , take hold of the lapel of his coat , and say in a whisper , ` Uncle Abraham , CAN -- YOU -- LEND -- ME -- AN -- AXE ? ' ''
`` He need n't have make such a mystery about it , '' say Cecily , who have miss the point entirely , and could n't see why the rest of u be laugh .
But Cecily be such a darling that we do not mind her lack of a sense of humour .
`` It 's kind of mean to tell story like that about people who be dead , '' say Felicity .
`` Sometimes it 's safe than when they 're alive though , sweetheart , '' comment Dan .
We have our expect good dinner at Cousin Mattie 's -- may it be count unto her for righteousness .
She and her sister-in-law , Miss Louisa Jane and Miss Caroline , be very kind to u .
We have quite a nice time , although I understand why Dan object to them when they pat u all on the head and tell u whom we resemble and give u peppermint lozenge .
CHAPTER VIII .
WE VISIT PEG BOWEN We leave Cousin Mattie 's early , for it still look like a storm , though no more so than it have in the morning .
We intend to go home by a different path -- one lead through clear land overgrow with scrub maple , which have the advantage of be farther away from Peg Bowen 's house .
We hop to be home before it begin to storm , but we have hardly reach the hill above the village when a fine , drive snow begin to fall .
It would have be wise to have turn back even then ; but we have already come a mile and we think we would have ample time to reach home before it become really bad .
We be sadly mistake ; by the time we have go another half-mile we be in the thick of a bewildering , blind snowstorm .
But it be by now just a far back to Cousin Mattie 's a it be to Uncle Alec 's , so we struggle on , grow more frightened at every step .
We could hardly face the stinging snow , and we could not see ten foot ahead of u .
It have turn bitterly cold and the tempest howl all around u in white desolation under the fast-darkening night .
The narrow path we be try to follow soon become entirely obliterate and we stumble blindly on , hold to each other , and try to peer through the furious whirl that fill the air .
Our plight have come upon u so suddenly that we could not realize it .
Presently Peter , who be lead the van because he be suppose to know the path best , stop .
`` I ca n't see the road any long , '' he shout .
`` I do n't know where we be . ''
We all stop and huddle together in a miserable group .
Fear fill our heart .
It seem age ago that we have be snug and safe and warm at Cousin Mattie 's .
Cecily begin to cry with cold .
Dan , in spite of her protest , drag off his overcoat and make her put it on .
`` We ca n't stay here , '' he say .
`` We 'll all freeze to death if we do .
Come on -- we 've get to keep moving .
The snow ai n't so deep yet .
Take hold of my hand , Cecily .
We must all hold together .
Come , now . ''
`` It wo n't be nice to be frozen to death , but if we get through alive think what a story we 'll have to tell , '' say the Story Girl between her chatter teeth .
In my heart I do not believe we would ever get through alive .
It be almost pitch dark now , and the snow grow deep every moment .
We be chill to the heart .
I think how nice it would be to lie down and rest ; but I remember hear that that be fatal , and I endeavour to stumble on with the others .
It be wonderful how the girl keep up , even Cecily .
It occur to me to be thankful that Sara Ray be not with u .
But we be wholly lose now .
All around u be a horror of great darkness .
Suddenly Felicity fell .
We drag her up , but she declare she could not go on -- she be do out .
`` Have you any idea where we be ? ''
shout Dan to Peter .
`` No , '' Peter shout back , `` the wind be blow every which way .
I have n't any idea where home be . ''
Home !
Would we ever see it again ?
We try to urge Felicity on , but she only repeat drowsily that she must lie down and rest .
Cecily , too , be reel against me .
The Story Girl still stand up staunchly and counsel struggle on , but she be numb with cold and her word be hardly distinguishable .
Some wild idea be in my mind that we must dig a hole in the snow and all creep into it .
I have read somewhere that people have thus save their life in snowstorm .
Suddenly Felix give a shout .
`` I see a light , '' he cry .
`` Where ?
Where ? ''
We all look but could see nothing .
`` I do n't see it now but I saw it a moment ago , '' shout Felix .
`` I 'm sure I do .
Come on -- over in this direction . ''
Inspired with fresh hope we hurry after him .
Soon we all saw the light -- and never shine a fairer beacon .
A few more step and , come into the shelter of the woodland on the further side , we realize where we be .
`` That 's Peg Bowen 's house , '' exclaim Peter , stop short in dismay .
`` I do n't care whose house it be , '' declare Dan .
`` We 've get to go to it . ''
`` I s ` pose so , '' acquiesce Peter ruefully .
`` We ca n't freeze to death even if she be a witch . ''
`` For goodness ' sake do n't say anything about witch so close to her house , '' gasp Felicity .
`` I 'll be thankful to get in anywhere . ''
We reach the house , climb the flight of step that lead to that mysterious second story door , and Dan rap .
The door open promptly and Peg Bowen stand before u , in what seem exactly the same costume she have wear on the memorable day when we have come , bear gift , to propitiate her in the matter of Paddy .
`` Behind her be a dim room scantly illumine by the one small candle that have guide u through the storm ; but the old Waterloo stove be colour the gloom with tremulous , rose-red whorl of light , and warm and cosy indeed seem Peg 's retreat to u snow-covered , frost-chilled , benighted wanderer .
`` Gracious goodness , where do yez all come from ? ''
exclaim Peg .
`` Did they turn yez out ? ''
`` We 've be over to Baywater , and we get lose in the storm come back , '' explain Dan .
`` We do n't know where we be till we saw your light .
I guess we 'll have to stay here till the storm be over -- if you do n't mind . ''
`` And if it wo n't inconvenience you , '' say Cecily timidly .
`` Oh , it 's no inconvenience to speak of .
Come in .
Well , yez HAVE get some snow on yez .
Let me get a broom .
You boys stomp your foot well and shake your coat .
You girls give me your thing and I 'll hang them up .
Guess yez be most froze .
Well , sit up to the stove and git het up . ''
Peg bustle away to gather up a dubious assortment of chair , with back and rung miss , and in a few minute we be in a circle around her roaring stove , get dry and thaw out .
In our wild flight of fancy we have never picture ourselves a guest at the witch 's hearth-stone .
Yet here we be ; and the witch herself be actually brew a jorum of ginger tea for Cecily , who continue to shiver long after the rest of u be roast to the marrow .
Poor Sis drink that scald draught , be in too great awe of Peg to do aught else .
`` That 'll soon fix your shiver , '' say our hostess kindly .
`` And now I 'll get yez all some tea . ''
`` Oh , please do n't trouble , '' say the Story Girl hastily . ''
` Tai n't any trouble , '' say Peg briskly ; then , with one of the sudden change to fierceness which make her such a terrifying personage , `` Do yez think my vittels ai n't clean ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' cry Felicity quickly , before the Story Girl could speak , `` none of u would ever think THAT .
Sara only mean she do n't want you to go to any bother on our account . ''
`` It ai n't any bother , '' say Peg , mollify .
`` I 'm spry a a cricket this winter , though I have the realagy sometimes .
Many a good bite I 've have in your ma 's kitchen .
I owe yez a meal . ''
No more protest be make .
We sit in awed silence , gaze with timid curiosity about the room , the stain , plaster wall of which be well-nigh cover with a motley assortment of picture , chromos , and advertisement , paste on without much regard for order or character .
We have hear much of Peg 's pet and now we saw them .
Six cat occupy various cosy corner ; one of them , the black goblin which have so terrified u in the summer , blink satirically at u from the centre of Peg 's bed .
Another , a dilapidated , strip beastie , with both ear and one eye go , glare at u from the sofa in the corner .
A dog , with only three leg , lay behind the stove ; a crow sit on a roost above our head , in company with a matronly old hen ; and on the clock shelf be a stuffed monkey and a grinning skull .
We have hear that a sailor have give Peg the monkey .
But where have she get the skull ?
And whose be it ?
I could not help puzzle over these gruesome question .
Presently tea be ready and we gather around the festal board -- a board literally as well a figuratively , for Peg 's table be the work of her own unskilled hand .
The le say about the viand of that meal , and the dish they be serve in , the good .
But we eat them -- bless you , yes !
-- a we would have eat any witch 's banquet set before u .
Peg might or might not be a witch -- common sense say not ; but we know she be quite capable of turn every one of u out of door in one of her sudden fierce fit if we offend her ; and we have no mind to trust ourselves again to that wild forest where we have fight a lose fight with the demon force of night and storm .
But it be not an agreeable meal in more way than one .
Peg be not at all careful of anybody 's feeling .
She hurt Felix 's cruelly a she pass him his cup of tea .
`` You 've go too much to flesh , boy .
So the magic seed do n't work , hey ? ''
How in the world have Peg find out about that magic seed ?
Felix look uncommonly foolish .
`` If you 'd come to me in the first place I 'd soon have tell you how to get thin , '' say Peg , nod wisely .
`` Wo n't you tell me now ? ''
ask Felix eagerly , his desire to melt his too solid flesh overcome his dread and shame .
`` No , I do n't like be second fiddle , '' answer Peg with a crafty smile .
`` Sara , you 're too scrawny and pale -- not much like your ma .
I know her well .
She be count a beauty , but she make no great thing of a match .
Your father have some money but he be a tramp like meself .
Where be he now ? ''
`` In Rome , '' say the Story Girl rather shortly .
`` People think your ma be crazy when she take him .
But she 'd a right to please herself .
Folks be too ready to call other folk crazy .
There 's people who say I 'M not in my right mind .
Did yez ever '' -- Peg fix Felicity with a piercing glance -- `` hear anything so ridiculous ? ''
`` Never , '' say Felicity , white to the lip .
`` I wish everybody be as sane a I be , '' say Peg scornfully .
Then she look poor Felicity over critically .
`` You 're good-looking but proud .
And your complexion wo n't wear .
It 'll be like your ma 's yet -- too much red in it . ''
`` Well , that 's good than be the colour of mud , '' mutter Peter , who be n't go to hear his lady traduce , even by a witch .
All the thanks he get be a furious look from Felicity , but Peg have not hear him and now she turn her attention to Cecily .
`` You look delicate .
I daresay you 'll never live to grow up . ''
Cecily 's lip tremble and Dan 's face turn crimson .
`` Shut up , '' he say to Peg .
`` You 've no business to say such thing to people . ''
I think my jaw drop .
I know Peter 's and Felix 's do .
Felicity break in wildly .
`` Oh , do n't mind him , Miss Bowen .
He 's get SUCH a temper -- that 's just the way he talk to u all at home .
PLEASE excuse him . ''
`` Bless you , I do n't mind him , '' say Peg , from whom the unexpected seem to be the thing to expect .
`` I like a lad of spurrit .
And so your father run away , do he , Peter ?
He use to be a beau of mine -- he see me home three time from sing school when we be young .
Some folk say he do it for a dare .
There 's such a lot of jealousy in the world , ai n't there ?
Do you know where he be now ? ''
`` No , '' say Peter .
`` Well , he 's come home before long , '' say Peg mysteriously .
`` Who tell you that ? ''
cry Peter in amazement .
`` Better not ask , '' respond Peg , look up at the skull .
If she mean to make the flesh creep on our bone she succeed .
But now , much to our relief , the meal be over and Peg invite u to draw our chair up to the stove again .
`` Make yourselves at home , '' she say , produce her pipe from her pocket .
`` I ai n't one of the kind who think their house too good to live in .
Guess I wo n't bother wash the dish .
They 'll do yez for breakfast if yez do n't forget your place .
I s ` pose none of yez smoke . ''
`` No , '' say Felicity , rather primly .
`` Then yez do n't know what 's good for yez , '' retort Peg , rather grumpily .
But a few whiff of her pipe placate her and , observe Cecily sigh , she ask her kindly what be the matter .
`` I 'm think how worried they 'll be at home about u , '' explain Cecily .
`` Bless you , dearie , do n't be worry over that .
I 'll send them word that yez be all snug and safe here . ''
`` But how can you ? ''
cry amazed Cecily .
`` Better not ask , '' say Peg again , with another glance at the skull .
An uncomfortable silence follow , finally break by Peg , who introduce her pet to u and tell how she have come by them .
The black cat be her favourite .
`` That cat know more than I do , if yez 'll believe it , '' she say proudly .
`` I 've get a rat too , but he 's a bit shy when stranger be round .
Your cat get all right again that time , do n't he ? ''
`` Yes , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Thought he would , '' say Peg , nod sagely .
`` I see to that .
Now , do n't yez all be star at the hole in my dress . ''
`` We be n't , '' be our chorus of protest .
`` Looked a if yez be .
I tear that yesterday but I do n't mend it .
I be bring up to believe that a hole be an accident but a patch be a disgrace .
And so your Aunt Olivia be go to be marry after all ? ''
This be news to u .
We felt and look daze .
`` I never hear anything of it , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Oh , it 's true enough .
She 's a great fool .
I 've no faith in husband .
But one good thing be she ai n't go to marry that Henry Jacobs of Markdale .
He want her bad enough .
Just like his presumption , -- think himself good enough for a King .
His father be the bad man alive .
He chase me off his place with his dog once .
But I 'll get even with him yet . ''
Peg look very savage , and vision of burn barn float through our mind .
`` He 'll be punish in hell , you know , '' say Peter timidly .
`` But I wo n't be there to see that , '' rejoin Peg .
`` Some folk say I 'll go there because I do n't go to church oftener .
But I do n't believe it . ''
`` Why do n't you go ? ''
ask Peter , with a temerity that border on rashness .
`` Well , I 've get so sunburned I 'm afraid folk might take me for an Injun , '' explain Peg , quite seriously .
`` Besides , your minister make such awful long prayer .
Why do he do it ? ''
`` I suppose he find it easy to talk to God than to people , '' suggest Peter reflectively .
`` Well , anyway , I belong to the round church , '' say Peg comfortably , `` and so the devil ca n't catch ME at the corner .
I have n't be to Carlisle church for over three year .
I think I 'd a-died laugh the last time I be there .
Old Elder Marr take up the collection that day .
He 'd on a pair of new boot and they squeak all the way up and down the aisle .
And every time the boot squeak the elder make a face , like he have toothache .
It be awful funny .
How 's your missionary quilt come on , Cecily ? ''
Was there anything Peg do n't know ?
`` Very well , '' say Cecily .
`` You can put my name on it , if you want to . ''
`` Oh , thank you .
Which section -- the five-cent one or the ten-cent one ? ''
ask Cecily timidly .
`` The ten-cent one , of course .
The best be none too good for me .
I 'll give you the ten cent another time .
I 'm short of change just now -- not be as rich a Queen Victory .
There 's her picture up there -- the one with the blue sash and diamint crown and the lace curting on her head .
Can any of yez tell me this -- be Queen Victory a married woman ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but her husband be dead , '' answer the Story Girl .
`` Well , I s ` pose they could n't have call her an old maid , see she be a queen , even if she 'd never get marry .
Sometimes I sez to myself , ` Peg , would you like to be Queen Victory ? '
But I never know what to answer .
In summer , when I can roam anywhere in the wood and the sunshine -- I would n't be Queen Victory for anything .
But when it 's winter and cold and I ca n't git nowhere -- I feel a if I would n't mind change place with her . ''
Peg put her pipe back in her mouth and begin to smoke fiercely .
The candle wick burn long , and be top by a little cap of fiery red that seem to wink at u like an impish gnome .
The most grotesque shadow of Peg flicker over the wall behind her .
The one-eyed cat remit his grim watch and go to sleep .
Outside the wind scream like a ravening beast at the window .
Suddenly Peg remove her pipe from her mouth , bent forward , grip my wrist with her sinewy finger until I almost cry out with pain , and gazed straight into my face .
I felt horribly frighten of her .
She seem an entirely different creature .
A wild light be in her eye , a furtive , animal-like expression be on her face .
When she speak it be in a different voice and in different language .
`` Do you hear the wind ? ''
she ask in a thrilling whisper .
`` What IS the wind ?
What IS the wind ? ''
`` I -- I -- do n't know , '' I stammer .
`` No more do I , '' say Peg , `` and nobody know .
Nobody know what the wind be .
I wish I could find out .
I might n't be so afraid of the wind if I know what it be .
I be afraid of it .
When the blast come like that I want to crouch down and hide me .
But I can tell you one thing about the wind -- it 's the only free thing in the world -- THE -- ONLY -- FREE -- THING .
Everything else be subject to some law , but the wind be FREE .
It bloweth where it listeth and no man can tame it .
It 's free -- that 's why I love it , though I 'm afraid of it .
It 's a grand thing to be free -- free free -- free ! ''
Peg 's voice rise almost to a shriek .
We be dreadfully frighten , for we know there be time when she be quite crazy and we fear one of her `` spell '' be come on her .
But with a swift movement she turn the man 's coat she wear up over her shoulder and head like a hood , completely hide her face .
Then she crouch forward , elbow on knee , and relapse into silence .
None of u dared speak or move .
We sit thus for half an hour .
Then Peg jump up and say briskly in her usual tone , `` Well , I guess yez be all sleepy and ready for bed .
You girls can sleep in my bed over there , and I 'll take the sofy .
Yez can put the cat off if yez like , though he wo n't hurt yez .
You boys can go downstairs .
There 's a big pile of straw there that 'll do yez for a bed , if yez put your coat on .
I 'll light yez down , but I ai n't go to leave yez a light for fear yez 'd set fire to the place . ''
Saying good-night to the girl , who look a if they think their last hour be come , we go to the low room .
It be quite empty , save for a pile of fire wood and another of clean straw .
Casting a stealthy glance around , ere Peg withdraw the light , I be relieve to see that there be no skull in sight .
We four boy snuggle down in the straw .
We do not expect to sleep , but we be very tired and before we know it our eye be shut , to open no more till morning .
The poor girl be not so fortunate .
They always aver they never close an eye .
Four thing prevent them from sleep .
In the first place Peg snore loudly ; in the second place the fitful gleam of firelight kept flicker over the skull for half the night and make gruesome effect on it ; in the third place Peg 's pillow and bedclothes smell rankly of tobacco smoke ; and in the fourth place they be afraid the rat Peg have speak of might come out to make their acquaintance .
Indeed , they be sure they hear him skirmish about several time .
When we waken in the morning the storm be over and a young morning be look through rosy eyelid across a white world .
The little clearing around Peg 's cabin be heap with dazzling drift , and we boys fell to and shovel out a road to her well .
She give u breakfast -- stiff oatmeal porridge without milk , and a boiled egg apiece .
Cecily could NOT eat her porridge ; she declare she have such a bad cold that she have no appetite ; a cold she certainly have ; the rest of u choke our mess down and after we have do so Peg ask u if we have notice a soapy taste .
`` The soap fell into the porridge while I be make it , '' she say .
`` But , '' -- smack her lip , -- `` I 'm go to make yez an Irish stew for dinner .
It 'll be fine . ''
An Irish stew concoct by Peg !
No wonder Dan say hastily , `` You be very kind but we 'll have to go right home . ''
`` Yez ca n't walk , '' say Peg .
`` Oh , yes , we can .
The drift be so hard they 'll carry , and the snow will be pretty well blow off the middle of the field .
It 's only three-quarters of a mile .
We boys will go home and get a pung and come back for you girls . ''
But the girl would n't listen to this .
They must go with u , even Cecily .
`` Seems to me yez be n't in such a hurry to leave last night , '' observe Peg sarcastically .
`` Oh , it 's only because they 'll be so anxious about u at home , and it 's Sunday and we do n't want to miss Sunday School , '' explain Felicity .
`` Well , I hope your Sunday School will do yez good , '' say Peg , rather grumpily .
But she relent again at the last and give Cecily a wishbone .
`` Whatever you wish on that will come true , '' she say .
`` But you only have the one wish , so do n't waste it . ''
`` We 're so much oblige to you for all your trouble , '' say the Story Girl politely .
`` Never mind the trouble .
The expense be the thing , '' retort Peg grimly .
`` Oh ! ''
Felicity hesitate .
`` If you would let u pay you -- give you something -- '' `` No , thank yez , '' respond Peg loftily .
`` There be people who take money for their hospitality , I 've heerd , but I 'm thankful to say I do n't associate with that class .
Yez be welcome to all yez have have here , if yez ARE in a big hurry to get away . ''
She shut the door behind u with something of a slam , and her black cat follow u so far , with stealthy , furtive footstep , that we be frighten of it .
Eventually it turn back ; then , and not till then , do we feel free to discuss our adventure .
`` Well , I 'm thankful we 're out of THAT , '' say Felicity , draw a long breath .
`` Has n't it just be an awful experience ? ''
`` We might all have be find frozen stark and stiff this morning , '' remark the Story Girl with apparent relish .
`` I tell you , it be a lucky thing we get to Peg Bowen 's , '' say Dan .
`` Miss Marwood say there be no such thing a luck , '' protest Cecily .
`` We ought to say it be Providence instead . ''
`` Well , Peg and Providence do n't seem to go together very well , somehow , '' retort Dan .
`` If Peg be a witch it must be the Other One she 's in co. .
with . ''
`` Dan , it 's get to be simply scandalous the way you talk , '' say Felicity .
`` I just wish ma could hear you . ''
`` Is soap in porridge any bad than tooth-powder in rusk , lovely creature ? ''
ask Dan .
`` Dan , Dan , '' admonish Cecily , between her cough , `` remember it 's Sunday . ''
`` It seem hard to remember that , '' say Peter .
`` It do n't seem a mite like Sunday and it seem awful long since yesterday . ''
`` Cecily , you 've get a dreadful cold , '' say the Story Girl anxiously .
`` In spite of Peg 's ginger tea , '' add Felix .
`` Oh , that ginger tea be AWFUL , '' exclaim poor Cecily .
`` I think I 'd never get it down -- it be so hot with ginger -- and there be so much of it !
But I be so frightened of offend Peg I 'd have try to drink it all if there have be a bucketful .
Oh , yes , it 's very easy for you all to laugh !
You do n't have to drink it . ''
`` We have to eat two meal , though , '' say Felicity with a shiver .
`` And I do n't know when those dish of hers be wash .
I just shut my eye and take gulp . ''
`` Did you notice the soapy taste in the porridge ? ''
ask the Story Girl .
`` Oh , there be so many queer taste about it I do n't notice one more than another , '' answer Felicity wearily .
`` What bother me , '' remark Peter absently , `` be that skull .
Do you suppose Peg really find thing out by it ? ''
`` Nonsense !
How could she ? ''
scoffed Felix , bold a a lion in daylight .
`` She do n't SAY she do , you know , '' I say cautiously .
`` Well , we 'll know in time if the thing she say be go to happen do , '' muse Peter .
`` Do you suppose your father be really come home ? ''
queried Felicity .
`` I hope not , '' answer Peter decidedly .
`` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , '' say Felicity severely .
`` No , I ought n't .
Father get drunk all the time he be home , and would n't work and be bad to mother , '' say Peter defiantly .
`` She have to support him as well a herself and me .
I do n't want to see any father come home , and you 'd better believe it .
Of course , if he be the right sort of a father it 'd be different . ''
`` What I would like to know be if Aunt Olivia be go to be marry , '' say the Story Girl absently .
`` I can hardly believe it .
But now that I think of it -- Uncle Roger have be tease her ever since she be in Halifax last summer . ''
`` If she do get marry you 'll have to come and live with u , '' say Cecily delightedly .
Felicity do not betray so much delight and the Story Girl remark with a weary little sigh that she hop Aunt Olivia would n't .
We all felt rather weary , somehow .
Peg 's prediction have be unsettling , and our nerve have all be more or less strain during our sojourn under her roof .
We be glad when we find ourselves at home .
The folk have not be at all troubled about u , but it be because they be sure the storm have come up before we would think of leave Cousin Mattie 's and not because they have receive any mysterious message from Peg 's skull .
We be relieve at this , but on the whole , our adventure have not do much towards clear up the vexed question of Peg 's witchcraft .
CHAPTER IX .
EXTRACTS FROM THE FEBRUARY AND MARCH NUMBERS OF `` OUR MAGAZINE '' RESOLUTION HONOUR ROLL Miss Felicity King .
HONOURABLE MENTION Mr. Felix King .
Mr. Peter Craig .
Miss Sara Ray .
EDITORIAL The editor wish to make a few remark about the Resolution Honour Roll .
As will be see , only one name figure on it .
Felicity say she have think a beautiful thought every morning before breakfast without miss one morning , not even the one we be at Peg Bowen 's .
Some of our number think it not fair that Felicity should be on the honour roll -LRB- FELICITY , ASIDE : `` That 's Dan , of course . '' -RRB-
when she only make one resolution and wo n't tell u what any of the thought be .
So we have decide to give honourable mention to everybody who have keep one resolution perfect .
Felix have work all his arithmetic problem by himself .
He complain that he never get more than a third of them right and the teacher have mark him away down ; but one can not keep resolution without some inconvenience .
Peter have never play tit-tat-x in church or get drunk and say it be n't as bad a he expect .
-LRB- PETER , INDIGNANTLY : `` I never say it . ''
CECILY , SOOTHINGLY : `` Now , Peter , Bev only mean that a a joke . '' -RRB-
Sara Ray have never talk any mean gossip , but do not find conversation as interesting a it use to be .
-LRB- SARA RAY , WONDERINGLY : `` I do n't remember of say that . '' -RRB-
Felix do not eat any apple until March , but forget and eat seven the day we be at Cousin Mattie 's .
-LRB- FELIX : `` I only eat five ! '' -RRB-
He soon give up try to say what he think always .
He get into too much trouble .
We think Felix ought to change to old Grandfather King 's rule .
It be , `` Hold your tongue when you can , and when you ca n't tell the truth . ''
Cecily feel she have not read all the good book she might , because some she try to read be very dull and the Pansy book be so much more interesting .
And it be no use try not to feel bad because her hair be n't curly and she have mark that resolution out .
The Story Girl come very near to keep her resolution to have all the good time possible , but she say she miss two , if not three , she might have have .
Dan refuse to say anything about his resolution and so do the editor .
PERSONALS We regret that Miss Cecily King be suffer from a severe cold .
Mr. Alexander Marr of Markdale die very suddenly last week .
We never hear of his death till he be dead .
Miss Cecily King wish to state that she do not ask the question about `` Holy Moses '' and the other word in the January number .
Dan put it in for a mean joke .
The weather have be cold and fine .
We have only have one bad storm .
The coasting on Uncle Roger 's hill continue good .
Aunt Eliza do not favour u with a visit after all .
She take cold and have to go home .
We be sorry that she have a cold but glad that she have to go home .
Cecily say she think it wicked of u to be glad .
But when we ask her `` cross her heart '' if she be n't glad herself she have to say she be .
Miss Cecily King have get three very distinguished name on her quilt square .
They be the Governor and his wife and a witch 's .
The King family have the honour of entertain the Governor 's wife to tea on February the seventeenth .
We be all invite to visit Government House but some of u think we wo n't go .
A tragic event occur last Tuesday .
Mrs. James Frewen come to tea and there be no pie in the house .
Felicity have not yet fully recover .
A new boy be come to school .
His name be Cyrus Brisk and his folk move up from Markdale .
He say he be go to punch Willy Fraser 's head if Willy keep on think he be Miss Cecily King 's beau .
-LRB- CECILY : `` I have n't ANY beau !
I do n't mean to think of such a thing for at least eight year yet ! '' -RRB-
Miss Alice Reade of Charlottetown Royalty have come to Carlisle to teach music .
She board at Mr. Peter Armstrong 's .
The girl be all go to take music lesson from her .
Two description of her will be find in another column .
Felix write one , but the girl think he do not do her justice , so Cecily write another one .
She admit she copy most of the description out of Valeria H. Montague 's story Lord Marmaduke 's First , Last , and Only Love ; or the Bride of the Castle by the Sea , but say they fit Miss Reade good than anything she could make up .
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Always keep the kitchen tidy and then you need n't mind if company come unexpectedly .
ANXIOUS INQUIRER : We do n't know anything that will take the stain out of a silk dress when a soft-boiled egg be drop on it .
Better not wear your silk dress so often , especially when boil egg .
Ginger tea be good for cold .
OLD HOUSEKEEPER : Yes , when the baking-powder give out you can use tooth-powder instead .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` I never write that !
I do n't care , I do n't think it 's fair for other people to be put thing in my department ! '' -RRB-
Our apple be not keep well this year .
They be rot ; and besides father say we eat an awful lot of them .
PERSEVERANCE : I will give you the recipe for dumpling you ask for .
But remember it be not everyone who can make dumpling , even from the recipe .
There 's a knack in it .
If the soap fall into the porridge do not tell your guest about it until they have finish eat it because it might take away their appetite .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT P-r C-g : -- Do not criticize people 's nose unless you be sure they ca n't hear you , and do n't criticize your best girl 's great-aunt 's nose in any case .
-LRB- FELICITY , TOSSING HER HEAD : `` Oh , my !
I s ` pose Dan think that be extra smart . '' -RRB-
C-y K-g : -- When my most intimate friend walk with another girl and exchange lace pattern with her , what ought I to do ?
Ans .
Adopt a dignified attitude .
F-y K-g : -- It be well not to wear your second best hat to church , but if your mother say you must it be not for me to question her decision .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` Dan just copy that word for word out of the Family Guide , except about the hat part . '' -RRB-
P-r C-g : -- Yes , it would be quite proper to say good evening to the family ghost if you meet it .
F-x K-g : -- No , it be not polite to sleep with your mouth open .
What 's more , it be n't safe .
Something might fall into it .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Crocheted watch pocket be all the rage now .
If you have n't a watch they do to carry your pencil in or a piece of gum .
It be stylish to have hair ribbon to match your dress .
But it be hard to match gray drugget .
I like scarlet for that .
It be stylish to pin a piece of ribbon on your coat the same colour a your chum wear in her hair .
Mary Martha Cowan saw them do it in town and start u do it here .
I always wear Kitty 's ribbon and Kitty wear mine , but the Story Girl think it be silly .
CECILY KING .
AN ACCOUNT OF OUR VISIT TO COUSIN MATTIE 'S We all walk over to Cousin Mattie 's last week .
They be all well there and we have a fine dinner .
On our way back a snow-storm come up and we get lose in the wood .
We do n't know where we be or nothing .
If we have n't see a light I guess we 'd all have be frozen and snow over , and they would never have find u till spring and that would be very sad .
But we saw a light and make for it and it be Peg Bowen 's .
Some people think she be a witch and it 's hard to tell , but she be real hospitable and take u all in .
Her house be very untidy but it be warm .
She have a skull .
I mean a loose skull , not her own .
She let on it tell her thing , but Uncle Alec say it could n't because it be only an Indian skull that old Dr. Beecham have and Peg steal it when he die , but Uncle Roger say he would n't trust himself with Peg 's skull for anything .
She give u supper .
It be a horrid meal .
The Story Girl say I must not tell what I find in the bread and butter because it would be too disgust to read in Our Magazine but it do n't matter because we be all there , except Sara Ray , and know what it be .
We stay all night and u boys slept in straw .
None of u have ever sleep on straw before .
We get home in the morning .
That be all I can write about our visit to Cousin Mattie 's .
FELIX KING .
MY WORST ADVENTURE It 's my turn to write it so I suppose I must .
I guess my bad adventure be two year ago when a whole lot of u be coast on Uncle Rogers hill .
Charlie Cowan and Fred Marr have start , but half-way down their sled get stuck and I run down to shove them off again .
Then I stand there just a moment to watch them with my back to the top of the hill .
While I be stand there Rob Marr start Kitty and Em Frewen off on his sled .
His sled have a wooden tongue in it and it slant back over the girl ' head .
I be right in the way and they yell to me to get out , but just a I hear them it strike me .
The sled take me between the leg and I be histed back over the tongue and drop in a heap behind before I know what have happen to me .
I think a tornado have strike me .
The girl could n't stop though they think I be kill , but Rob come tear down and help me up .
He be awful scared but I be n't kill nor my back be n't break but my nose bleed something awful and keep on bleeding for three day .
Not all the time but by spell .
DAN KING .
THE STORY OF HOW CARLISLE GOT ITS NAME This be a true story to .
Long ago there be a girl live in charlotte town .
I dont know her name so I cant right it and maybe it be just as well for Felicity might think it wasnt romantik like Miss Jemima Parrs .
She be awful pretty and a young englishman who have come out to make his fortune fell in love with her and they be engage to be marry the next spring .
His name be Mr. Carlisle .
In the winter he start off to hunt cariboo for a spell .
Cariboos live on the island then .
There aint any here now .
He get to where it be Carlisle now .
It be n't anything then only wood and a few indian .
He get awful sick and be sick for ever so long in a indian camp and only an old micmac squaw to wait on him .
Back in town they all think he be dead and his girl felt bad for a little while and then get over it and take up with another beau .
The girl say that wasnt romantik but I think it be sensible but if it have be me that die I 'd have felt bad if she forget me so soon .
But he hadnt die and when he get back to town he go right to her house and walk in and there she be stand up to be marry to the other fellow .
Poor Mr. Carlisle felt awful .
He be sick and week and it go to his head .
He just turn and run and run till he get back to the old micmac 's camp and fell in front of it .
But the indian have go because it be spring and it didnt matter because he really be dead this time and people come look for him from town and find him and bury him there and call the place after him .
They say the girl be never happy again and that be hard line on her but maybe she deserve it .
PETER CRAIG .
MISS ALICE READE Miss Alice Reade be a very pretty girl .
She have kind of curly blackish hair and big gray eye and a pale face .
She be tall and thin but her figure be pretty fair and she have a nice mouth and a sweet way of speaking .
The girl be crazy about her and talk about her all the time .
FELIX KING .
BEAUTIFUL ALICE That be what we girls call Miss Reade among ourselves .
She be divinely beautiful .
Her magnificent wealth of raven hair flow back in glisten wave from her sun-kissed brow .
-LRB- DAN : `` If Felix have say she be sunburn you 'd have all jump on him . ''
-LRB- CECILY , COLDLY : `` Sun-kissed do n't mean sunburn . ''
DAN : `` What do it mean then ? ''
CECILY , EMBARRASSED : `` I -- I do n't know .
But Miss Montague say the Lady Geraldine 's brow be sun-kissed and of course an earl 's daughter would n't be sunburn .
`` THE STORY GIRL : `` Oh , do n't interrupt the reading like this .
It spoil it . '' -RRB-
Her eye be gloriously dark and deep , like midnight lake mirror the star of heaven .
Her feature be like sculpture marble and her mouth be a trembling , curve Cupid 's bow .
-LRB- PETER , ASIDE : `` What kind of a thing be that ? '' -RRB-
Her creamy skin be a fair and flawless a the petal of a white lily .
Her voice be like the ripple of a woodland brook and her slender form be matchless in it symmetry .
-LRB- DAN : `` That 's Valeria 's way of put it , but Uncle Roger say she do n't show her feed much . ''
FELICITY : `` Dan !
if Uncle Roger be vulgar you need n't be ! '' -RRB-
Her hand be like a poet 's dream .
She dress so nicely and look so stylish in her clothes .
Her favourite colour be blue .
Some people think she be stiff and some say she be stuck-up , but she be n't a bit .
It 's just that she be different from them and they do n't like it .
She be just lovely and we adore her . -RRB-
CECILY KING .
CHAPTER X . DISAPPEARANCE OF PADDY As I remember , the spring come late that year in Carlisle .
It be May before the weather begin to satisfy the grown-ups .
But we child be more easily pleased , and we think April a splendid month because the snow all go early and left gray , firm , freeze ground for our ramble and game .
As the day slip by they grow more gracious ; the hillside begin to look a if they be think of mayflower ; the old orchard be wash in a bath of tingle sunshine and the sap stir in the big tree ; by day the sky be veil with delicate cloud drift , fine and filmy a woven mist ; in the evening a full , low moon look over the valley , a pallid and holy a some aureoled saint ; a sound of laughter and dream be on the wind and the world grow young with the mirth of April breeze .
`` It 's so nice to be alive in the spring , '' say the Story Girl one twilight a we swing on the bough of Uncle Stephen 's walk .
`` It 's nice to be alive any time , '' say Felicity , complacently .
`` But it 's nicer in the spring , '' insist the Story Girl .
`` When I 'm dead I think I 'll FEEL dead all the rest of the year , but when spring come I 'm sure I 'll feel like get up and be alive again . ''
`` You do say such queer thing , '' complain Felicity .
`` You wo n't be really dead any time .
You 'll be in the next world .
And I think it 's horrid to talk about people be dead anyhow . ''
`` We 've all get to die , '' say Sara Ray solemnly , but with a certain relish .
It be a if she enjoy look forward to something in which nothing , neither an unsympathetic mother , nor the cruel fate which have make her a colourless little nonentity , could prevent her from be the chief performer .
`` I sometimes think , '' say Cecily , rather wearily , `` that it be n't so dreadful to die young a I use to suppose . ''
She preface her remark with a slight cough , a she have be all too apt to do of late , for the remnant of the cold she have catch the night we be lose in the storm still cling to her .
`` Do n't talk such nonsense , Cecily , '' cry the Story Girl with unwonted sharpness , a sharpness we all understood .
All of u , in our heart , though we never speak of it to each other , think Cecily be not as well a she ought to be that spring , and we hat to hear anything say which seem in any way to touch or acknowledge the tiny , faint shadow which now and again show itself dimly athwart our sunshine .
`` Well , it be you begin talk of be dead , '' say Felicity angrily .
`` I do n't think it 's right to talk of such thing .
Cecily , be you sure your foot ai n't damp ?
We ought to go in anyhow -- it 's too chilly out here for you . ''
`` You girls have well go , '' say Dan , `` but I ai n't go in till old Isaac Frewen go .
I 've no use for him . ''
`` I hate him , too , '' say Felicity , agree with Dan for once in her life .
`` He chew tobacco all the time and spit on the floor -- the horrid pig ! ''
`` And yet his brother be an elder in the church , '' say Sara Ray wonderingly .
`` I know a story about Isaac Frewen , '' say the Story Girl .
`` When he be young he go by the name of Oatmeal Frewen and he get it this way .
He be note for do outlandish thing .
He live at Markdale then and he be a great , overgrown , awkward fellow , six foot tall .
He drive over to Baywater one Saturday to visit his uncle there and come home the next afternoon , and although it be Sunday he bring a big bag of oatmeal in the wagon with him .
When he come to Carlisle church he saw that service be go on there , and he conclude to stop and go in .
But he do n't like to leave his oatmeal outside for fear something would happen to it , because there be always mischievous boy around , so he hoist the bag on his back and walk into church with it and right to the top of the aisle to Grandfather King 's pew .
Grandfather King use to say he would never forget it to his die day .
The minister be preach and everything be quiet and solemn when he hear a snicker behind him .
Grandfather King turn around with a terrible frown -- for you know in those day it be think a dreadful thing to laugh in church -- to rebuke the offender ; and what do he see but that great , hulk young Isaac stalk up the aisle , bend a little forward under the weight of a big bag of oatmeal ?
Grandfather King be so amazed he could n't laugh , but almost everyone else in the church be laugh , and grandfather say he never blame them , for no funny sight be ever see .
Young Isaac turn into grandfather 's pew and thump the bag of oatmeal down on the seat with a thud that crack it .
Then he plump down beside it , take off his hat , wipe his face , and settle back to listen to the sermon , just a if it be all a matter of course .
When the service be over he hoist his bag up again , march out of church , and drive home .
He could never understand why it make so much talk ; but he be know by the name of Oatmeal Frewen for year . ''
Our laughter , a we separate , rang sweetly through the old orchard and across the far , dim meadow .
Felicity and Cecily go into the house and Sara Ray and the Story Girl go home , but Peter decoy me into the granary to ask advice .
`` You know Felicity have a birthday next week , '' he say , `` and I want to write her an ode . ''
`` A -- a what ? ''
I gasp .
`` An ode , '' repeat Peter , gravely .
`` It 's poetry , you know .
I 'll put it in Our Magazine . ''
`` But you ca n't write poetry , Peter , '' I protest .
`` I 'm go to try , '' say Peter stoutly .
`` That be , if you think she wo n't be offend at me . ''
`` She ought to feel flattered , '' I reply .
`` You never can tell how she 'll take thing , '' say Peter gloomily .
`` Of course I ai n't go to sign my name , and if she ai n't pleased I wo n't tell her I write it .
Do n't you let on . ''
I promise I would n't and Peter go off with a light heart .
He say he mean to write two line every day till he get it do .
Cupid be play his world-old trick with others than poor Peter that spring .
Allusion have be make in these chronicle to one , Cyrus Brisk , and to the fact that our brown-haired , soft-voiced Cecily have find favour in the eye of the say Cyrus .
Cecily do not regard her conquest with any pride .
On the contrary , it annoy her terribly to be tease about Cyrus .
She declare she hat both him and his name .
She be as uncivil to him a sweet Cecily could be to anyone , but the gallant Cyrus be nothing daunt .
He lay determine siege to Cecily 's young heart by all the method know to love-lorn swain .
He place delicate tribute of spruce gum , molasses taffy , `` conversation '' candy and decorate slate pencil on her desk ; he persistently `` chose '' her in all school game call for a partner ; he entreat to be allow to carry her basket from school ; he offer to work her sum for her ; and rumour have it that he have make a wild statement to the effect that he mean to ask if he might see her home some night from prayer meeting .
Cecily be quite frightened that he would ; she confide to me that she would rather die than walk home with him , but that if he ask her she would be too bashful to say no .
So far , however , Cyrus have not molest her out of school , nor have he a yet thump Willy Fraser -- who be report to be very low in his spirit over the whole affair .
And now Cyrus have write Cecily a letter -- a love letter , mark you .
Moreover , he have send it through the post-office , with a real stamp on it .
Its arrival make a sensation among u .
Dan bring it from the office and , recognize the handwriting of Cyrus , give Cecily no peace until she show u the letter .
It be a very sentimental and rather ill-spelled epistle in which the inflammable Cyrus reproach her in heart-rending word for her coldness , and beg her to answer his letter , say that if she do he would keep the secret `` in violet . ''
Cyrus probably mean `` inviolate '' but Cecily think it be intend for a poetical touch .
He sign himself `` your troo lover , Cyrus Brisk '' and add in a postcript that he could n't eat or sleep for thinking of her .
`` Are you go to answer it ? ''
ask Dan .
`` Certainly not , '' say Cecily with dignity .
`` Cyrus Brisk want to be kick , '' growl Felix , who never seem to be any particular friend of Willy Fraser 's either .
`` He 'd better learn how to spell before he take to write love letter . ''
`` Maybe Cyrus will starve to death if you do n't , '' suggest Sara Ray .
`` I hope he will , '' say Cecily cruelly .
She be truly vexed over the letter ; and yet , so contradictory a thing be the feminine heart , even at twelve year old , I think she be a little flatter by it also .
It be her first love letter and she confide to me that it give you a very queer feeling to get it .
At all event -- the letter , though unanswered , be not tear up .
I feel sure Cecily preserve it .
But she walk past Cyrus next morning at school with a frozen countenance , evince not the slight pity for his pang of unrequited affection .
Cecily wince when Pat catch a mouse , visit a school chum the day the pig be kill that she might not hear their squealing , and would not have step on a caterpillar for anything ; yet she do not care at all how much she make the brisk Cyrus suffer .
Then , suddenly , all our spring gladness and Maytime hop be blight a by a kill frost .
Sorrow and anxiety pervade our day and embitter our dream by night .
Grim tragedy hold sway in our life for the next fortnight .
Paddy disappear .
One night he lap his new milk a usual at Uncle Roger 's dairy door and then sit blandly on the flat stone before it , give the world assurance of a cat , sleek side glisten , plumy tail gracefully fold around his paw , brilliant eye watch the stir and flicker of bare willow bough in the twilight air above him .
That be the last see of him .
In the morning he be not .
At first we be not seriously alarm .
Paddy be no rove Thomas , but occasionally he vanish for a day or so .
But when two day pass without his return we become anxious , the third day worry u greatly , and the fourth find u distract .
`` Something have happen to Pat , '' the Story Girl declare miserably .
`` He never stay away from home more than two day in his life . ''
`` What could have happen to him ? ''
ask Felix .
`` He 's be poison -- or a dog have kill him , '' answer the Story Girl in tragic tone .
Cecily begin to cry at this ; but tear be of no avail .
Neither be anything else , apparently .
We search every nook and cranny of barn and out-buildings and wood on both the King farm ; we inquire far and wide ; we rove over Carlisle meadow call Paddy 's name , until Aunt Janet grow exasperate and declare we must stop make such exhibition of ourselves .
But we find and hear no trace of our lose pet .
The Story Girl mop and refuse to be comfort ; Cecily declare she could not sleep at night for thinking of poor Paddy die miserably in some corner to which he have drag his fail body , or lie somewhere mangle and tear by a dog .
We hat every dog we saw on the ground that he might be the guilty one .
`` It 's the suspense that 's so hard , '' sob the Story Girl .
`` If I just know what have happen to him it would n't be QUITE so hard .
But I do n't know whether he 's dead or alive .
He may be live and suffering , and every night I dream that he have come home and when I wake up and find it 's only a dream it just break my heart . ''
`` It 's ever so much bad than when he be so sick last fall , '' say Cecily drearily .
`` Then we know that everything be do for him that could be do . ''
We could not appeal to Peg Bowen this time .
In our desperation we would have do it , but Peg be far away .
With the first breath of spring she be up and off , answer to the lure of the long road .
She have not be see in her accustomed haunt for many a day .
Her pet be gain their own living in the wood and her house be lock up .
CHAPTER XI .
THE WITCH 'S WISHBONE When a fortnight have elapse we give up all hope .
`` Pat be dead , '' say the Story Girl hopelessly , a we return one evening from a bootless quest to Andrew Cowan 's where a strange gray cat have be report -- a cat which turn out to be a yellowish brown nondescript , with no tail to speak of .
`` I 'm afraid so , '' I acknowledge at last .
`` If only Peg Bowen have be at home she could have find him for u , '' assert Peter .
`` Her skull would have tell her where he be . ''
`` I wonder if the wishbone she give me would have do any good , '' cry Cecily suddenly .
`` I 'd forget all about it .
Oh , do you suppose it 's too late yet ? ''
`` There 's nothing in a wishbone , '' say Dan impatiently .
`` You ca n't be sure .
She TOLD me I 'd get the wish I make on it .
I 'm go to try whenever I get home . ''
`` It ca n't do any harm , anyhow , '' say Peter , `` but I 'm afraid you 've leave it too late .
If Pat be dead even a witch 's wishbone ca n't bring him back to life . ''
`` I 'll never forgive myself for not think about it before , '' mourn Cecily .
As soon a we get home she fly to the little box upstairs where she keep her treasure , and bring therefrom the dry and brittle wishbone .
`` Peg tell me how it must be do .
I 'm to hold the wishbone with both hand , like this , and walk backward , repeat the wish nine time .
And when I 've finish the ninth time I 'm to turn around nine time , from right to leave , and then the wish will come true right away . ''
`` Do you expect to see Pat when you finish turn ? ''
say Dan skeptically .
None of u have any faith in the incantation except Peter , and , by infection , Cecily .
You never could tell what might happen .
Cecily take the wishbone in her trembling little hand and begin her backward pacing , repeat solemnly , `` I wish that we may find Paddy alive , or else his body , so that we can bury him decently . ''
By the time Cecily have repeat this nine time we be all slightly infect with the desperate hope that something might come of it ; and when she have make her nine gyration we look eagerly down the sunset lane , half expect to see our lose pet .
But we saw only the Awkward Man turn in at the gate .
This be almost as surprising a the sight of Pat himself would have be ; but there be no sign of Pat and hope flicker out in every breast but Peter 's .
`` You 've get to give the spell time to work , '' he expostulate .
`` If Pat be mile away when it be wish it would n't be reasonable to expect to see him right off . ''
But we of little faith have already lose that little , and it be a very disconsolate group which the Awkward Man presently join .
He be smile -- his rare , beautiful smile which only child ever saw -- and he lift his hat to the girl with no trace of the shyness and awkwardness for which he be notorious .
`` Good evening , '' he say .
`` Have you little people lose a cat lately ? ''
We star .
Peter say `` I know it ! ''
in a triumphant pig 's whisper .
The Story Girl start eagerly forward .
`` Oh , Mr. Dale , can you tell u anything of Paddy ? ''
she cry .
`` A silver gray cat with black point and very fine marking ? ''
`` Yes , yes ! ''
`` Alive ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Well , do n't that beat the Dutch ! ''
mutter Dan .
But we be all crowd about the Awkward Man , demand where and when he have find Paddy .
`` You 'd better come over to my place and make sure that it really be your cat , '' suggest the Awkward Man , `` and I 'll tell you all about find him on the way .
I must warn you that he be pretty thin -- but I think he 'll pull through . ''
We obtain permission to go without much difficulty , although the spring evening be wear late , for Aunt Janet say she suppose none of u would sleep a wink that night if we do n't .
A joyful procession follow the Awkward Man and the Story Girl across the gray , star-litten meadow to his home and through his pine-guarded gate .
`` You know that old barn of mine back in the wood ? ''
say the Awkward Man .
`` I go to it only about once in a blue moon .
There be an old barrel there , upside down , one side rest on a block of wood .
This morning I go to the barn to see about have some hay haul home , and I have occasion to move the barrel .
I notice that it seem to have be move slightly since my last visit , and it be now rest wholly on the floor .
I lift it up -- and there be a cat lie on the floor under it .
I have hear you have lose yours and I take it this be your pet .
I be afraid he be dead at first .
He be lie there with his eye close ; but when I bend over him he open them and give a pitiful little mew ; or rather his mouth make the motion of a mew , for he be too weak to utter a sound . ''
`` Oh , poor , poor Paddy , '' say tender-hearted Cecily tearfully .
`` He could n't stand , so I carry him home and give him just a little milk .
Fortunately he be able to lap it .
I give him a little more at interval all day , and when I leave he be able to crawl around .
I think he 'll be all right , but you 'll have to be careful how you fee him for a few day .
Do n't let your heart run away with your judgment and kill him with kindness . ''
`` Do you suppose any one put him under that barrel ? ''
ask the Story Girl .
`` No .
The barn be lock .
Nothing but a cat could get in .
I suppose he go under the barrel , perhaps in pursuit of a mouse , and somehow knock it off the block and so imprisoned himself . ''
Paddy be sit before the fire in the Awkward Man 's clean , bare kitchen .
Thin !
Why , he be literally skin and bone , and his fur be dull and lustreless .
It almost break our heart to see our beautiful Paddy bring so low .
`` Oh , how he must have suffer ! ''
moan Cecily .
`` He 'll be as prosperous a ever in a week or two , '' say the Awkward Man kindly .
The Story Girl gather Paddy up in her arm .
Most mellifluously do he purr a we crowd around to stroke him ; with friendly joy he lick our hand with his little red tongue ; poor Paddy be a thankful cat ; he be no long lose , starve , imprison , helpless ; he be with his comrade once more and he be go home -- home to his old familiar haunt of orchard and dairy and granary , to his daily ration of new milk and cream , to the cosy corner of his own fireside .
We troop home joyfully , the Story Girl in our midst carry Paddy hug against her shoulder .
Never do April star look down on a happy band of traveller on the golden road .
There be a little gray wind out in the meadow that night , and it dance along beside u on viewless , fairy foot , and sing a delicate song of the lovely , wait year , while the night lay her beautiful hand of blessing over the world .
`` You see what Peg 's wishbone do , '' say Peter triumphantly .
`` Now , look here , Peter , do n't talk nonsense , '' expostulate Dan .
`` The Awkward Man find Paddy this morning and have start to bring u word before Cecily ever think of the wishbone .
Do you mean to say you believe he would n't have come walk up our lane just when he do if she have never think of it ? ''
`` I mean to say that I would n't mind if I have several wishbone of the same kind , '' retort Peter stubbornly .
`` Of course I do n't think the wishbone have really anything to do with our get Paddy back , but I 'm glad I try it , for all that , '' remark Cecily in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Well , anyhow , we 've get Pat and that 's the main thing , '' say Felix .
`` And I hope it will be a lesson to him to stay home after this , '' comment Felicity .
`` They say the barren be full of mayflower , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Let u have a mayflower picnic tomorrow to celebrate Paddy 's safe return . ''
CHAPTER XII .
FLOWERS O ' MAY Accordingly we go a-maying , follow the lure of dance wind to a certain westward slop hill lie under the spirit-like blue of spring sky , feather over with lisp young pine and fir , which cup little hollow and corner where the sunshine get in and never get out again , but stay there and grow mellow , coax dear thing to bloom long before they would dream of wake up elsewhere .
'T be there we find our mayflower , after faithful seek .
Mayflowers , you must know , never flaunt themselves ; they must be seek a becomes them , and then they will yield up their treasure to the seeker -- cluster of star-white and dawn-pink that have in them the very soul of all the spring that ever be , re-incarnated in something it seem gross to call perfume , so exquisite and spiritual be it .
We wander gaily over the hill , call to each other with laughter and jest , get part and delightfully lose in that little pathless wilderness , and find each other unexpectedly in nook and dip and sunny silence , where the wind purr and gentle and go softly .
When the sun begin to hang low , send great fan-like streamer of radiance up to the zenith , we foregather in a tiny , sequestered valley , full of young green fern , lie in the shadow of a wooded hill .
In it be a shallow pool -- a glimmering green sheet of water on whose bank nymphs might dance as blithely a ever they do on Argive hill or in Cretan dale .
There we sit and strip the faded leaf and stem from our spoil , make up the blossom into bouquet to fill our basket with sweetness .
The Story Girl twist a spray of divine pink in her brown curl , and tell u an old legend of a beautiful Indian maiden who die of a broken heart when the first snow of winter be fall , because she believe her long-absent lover be false .
But he come back in the spring time from his long captivity ; and when he hear that she be dead he seek her grave to mourn her , and lo , under the dead leaf of the old year he find sweet spray of a blossom never see before , and know that it be a message of love and remembrance from his dark-eyed sweet-heart .
`` Except in story Indian girl be call squaw , '' remark practical Dan , tie his mayflower together in one huge , solid , cabbage-like bunch .
Not for Dan the bother of fill his basket with the loose spray , mingle with feathery elephant 's - ear and trail of creep spruce , a the rest of u , follow the Story Girl 's example , do .
Nor would he admit that ours look any good than his .
`` I like thing of one kind together .
I do n't like them mixed , '' he say .
`` You have no taste , '' say Felicity .
`` Except in my mouth , best beloved , '' respond Dan .
`` You do think you be so smart , '' retort Felicity , flush with anger .
`` Do n't quarrel this lovely day , '' implore Cecily .
`` Nobody 's quarrelling , Sis .
I ai n't a bit mad .
It 's Felicity .
What on earth be that at the bottom of your basket , Cecily ? ''
`` It 's a History of the Reformation in France , '' confess poor Cecily , `` by a man name D-a-u-b-i-g-n-y .
I ca n't pronounce it .
I hear Mr. Marwood say it be a book everyone ought to read , so I begin it last Sunday .
I bring it along today to read when I get tired picking flower .
I 'd ever so much rather have bring Ester Reid .
There 's so much in the history I ca n't understand , and it be so dreadful to read of people be burn to death .
But I felt I OUGHT to read it . ''
`` Do you really think your mind have improve any ? ''
ask Sara Ray seriously , wreathe the handle of her basket with creep spruce .
`` No , I 'm afraid it have n't one bit , '' answer Cecily sadly .
`` I feel that I have n't succeed very well in keep my resolution . ''
`` I 've keep mine , '' say Felicity complacently .
`` It 's easy to keep just one , '' retort Cecily , rather resentfully .
`` It 's not so easy to think beautiful thought , '' answer Felicity .
`` It 's the easy thing in the world , '' say the Story Girl , tiptoe to the edge of the pool to peep at her own arch reflection , a some nymph leave over from the golden age might do .
`` Beautiful thought just crowd into your mind at time . ''
`` Oh , yes , AT TIMES .
But that 's different from think one REGULARLY at a give hour .
And mother be always call up the stair for me to hurry up and get dress , and it 's VERY hard sometimes . ''
`` That 's so , '' concede the Story Girl .
`` There ARE time when I ca n't think anything but gray thought .
Then , other day , I think pink and blue and gold and purple and rainbow thought all the time . ''
`` The idea !
As if thought be colour , '' giggle Felicity .
`` Oh , they be ! ''
cry the Story Girl .
`` Why , I can always SEE the colour of any thought I think .
Ca n't you ? ''
`` I never heard of such a thing , '' declare Felicity , `` and I do n't believe it .
I believe you be just make that up . ''
`` Indeed I 'm not .
Why , I always suppose everyone think in colour .
It must be very tiresome if you do n't . ''
`` When you think of me what colour be it ? ''
ask Peter curiously .
`` Yellow , '' answer the Story Girl promptly .
`` And Cecily be a sweet pink , like those mayflower , and Sara Ray be very pale blue , and Dan be red and Felix be yellow , like Peter , and Bev be strip . ''
`` What colour be I ? ''
ask Felicity , amid the laughter at my expense .
`` You 're -- you 're like a rainbow , '' answer the Story Girl rather reluctantly .
She have to be honest , but she would rather not have compliment Felicity .
`` And you need n't laugh at Bev .
His stripe be beautiful .
It be n't HE that be strip .
It 's just the THOUGHT of him .
Peg Bowen be a queer sort of yellowish green and the Awkward Man be lilac .
Aunt Olivia be pansy-purple mixed with gold , and Uncle Roger be navy blue . ''
`` I never hear such nonsense , '' declare Felicity .
The rest of u be rather incline to agree with her for once .
We think the Story Girl be make fun of u .
But I believe she really have a strange gift of thinking in colour .
In late year , when we be grow up , she tell me of it again .
She say that everything have colour in her thought ; the month of the year run through all the tint of the spectrum , the day of the week be array a Solomon in his glory , morning be golden , noon orange , even crystal blue , and night violet .
Every idea come to her mind robed in it own especial hue .
Perhaps that be why her voice and word have such a charm , convey to the listener ' perception such fine shading of meaning and tint and music .
`` Well , let 's go and have something to eat , '' suggest Dan .
`` What colour be eat , Sara ? ''
`` Golden brown , just the colour of a molasses cooky , '' laugh the Story Girl .
We sit on the ferny bank of the pool and ate of the generous basket Aunt Janet have provide , with appetite sharpen by the keen spring air and our wilderness roving .
Felicity have make some very nice sandwich of ham which we all appreciate except Dan , who declare he do n't like thing mince up and dig out of the basket a chunk of boil pork which he proceed to saw up with a jack-knife and devour with gusto .
`` I tell ma to put this in for me .
There 's some CHEW to it , '' he say .
`` You be not a bit refined , '' comment Felicity .
`` Not a morsel , my love , '' grin Dan .
`` You make me think of a story I hear Uncle Roger tell about Cousin Annetta King , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Great-uncle Jeremiah King use to live where Uncle Roger live now , when Grandfather King be alive and Uncle Roger be a boy .
In those day it be think rather coarse for a young lady to have too hearty an appetite , and she be more admired if she be delicate about what she eat .
Cousin Annetta set out to be very refined indeed .
She pretend to have no appetite at all .
One afternoon she be invite to tea at Grandfather King 's when they have some special company -- people from Charlottetown .
Cousin Annetta say she could hardly eat anything .
` You know , Uncle Abraham , ' she say , in a very affected , fine-young-lady voice , ' I really hardly eat enough to keep a bird alive .
Mother say she wonder how I continue to exist . '
And she pick and peck until Grandfather King declare he would like to throw something at her .
After tea Cousin Annetta go home , and just about dark Grandfather King go over to Uncle Jeremiah 's on an errand .
As he pass the open , lighted pantry window he happen to glance in , and what do you think he saw ?
Delicate Cousin Annetta stand at the dresser , with a big loaf of bread beside her and a big platterful of cold , boil pork in front of her ; and Annetta be hack off great chunk , like Dan there , and gobble them down a if she be starve .
Grandfather King could n't resist the temptation .
He step up to the window and say , ` I 'm glad your appetite have come back to you , Annetta .
Your mother need n't worry about your continue to exist as long a you can tuck away fat , salt pork in that fashion . '
`` Cousin Annetta never forgive him , but she never pretend to be delicate again . ''
`` The Jews do n't believe in eat pork , '' say Peter .
`` I 'm glad I 'm not a Jew and I guess Cousin Annetta be too , '' say Dan .
`` I like bacon , but I can never look at a pig without wonder if they be ever intend to be eat , '' remark Cecily naively .
When we finish our lunch the barren be already wrap themselves in a dim , blue dusk and fall upon rest in dell and dingle .
But out in the open there be still much light of a fine emerald-golden sort and the robin whistle u home in it .
`` Horns of Elfland '' never sound more sweetly around hoary castle and ruin fane than those vesper call of the robin from the twilight spruce wood and across green pasture lie under the pale radiance of a young moon .
When we reach home we find that Miss Reade have be up to the hill farm on an errand and be just leave .
The Story Girl go for a walk with her and come back with an important expression on her face .
`` You look a if you have a story to tell , '' say Felix .
`` One be grow .
It be n't a whole story yet , '' answer the Story Girl mysteriously .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Cecily .
`` I ca n't tell you till it 's fully grow , '' say the Story Girl .
`` But I 'll tell you a pretty little story the Awkward Man tell u -- tell me -- tonight .
He be walk in his garden a we go by , look at his tulip bed .
His tulip be up ever so much high than ours , and I ask him how he manage to coax them along so early .
And he say HE do n't do it -- it be all the work of the pixy who live in the wood across the brook .
There be more pixy baby than usual this spring , and the mother be in a hurry for the cradle .
The tulip be the pixy baby ' cradle , it seem .
The mother pixies come out of the wood at twilight and rock their tiny little brown baby to sleep in the tulip cup .
That be the reason why tulip bloom last so much long than other blossom .
The pixy baby must have a cradle until they be grow up .
They grow very fast , you see , and the Awkward Man say on a spring evening , when the tulip be out , you can hear the sweet , soft , clear , fairy music in his garden , and it be the pixy folk sing a they rock the pixy baby to sleep . ''
`` Then the Awkward Man say what be n't true , '' say Felicity severely .
CHAPTER XIII .
A SURPRISING ANNOUNCEMENT `` Nothing exciting have happen for ever so long , '' say the Story Girl discontentedly , one late May evening , a we linger under the wonderful white bloom of the cherry tree .
There be a long row of them in the orchard , with a Lombardy poplar at either end , and a hedge of lilac behind .
When the wind blew over them all the spicy breeze of Ceylon 's isle be never sweet .
It be a time of wonder and marvel , of the soft touch of silver rain on green field , of the incredible delicacy of young leaf , of blossom in field and garden and wood .
The whole world bloom in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the evasive , fleeting charm of spring and girlhood and young morning .
We felt and enjoy it all without understand or analyze it .
It be enough to be glad and young with spring on the golden road .
`` I do n't like excitement very much , '' say Cecily .
`` It make one so tired .
I 'm sure it be excite enough when Paddy be miss , but we do n't find that very pleasant . ''
`` No , but it be interest , '' return the Story Girl thoughtfully .
`` After all , I believe I 'd rather be miserable than dull . ''
`` I would n't then , '' say Felicity decidedly .
`` And you need never be dull when you have work to do .
` Satan find some mischief still for idle hand to do ! ' ''
`` Well , mischief be interesting , '' laugh the Story Girl .
`` And I think you do n't think it lady-like to speak of that person , Felicity ? ''
`` It 's all right if you call him by his polite name , '' say Felicity stiffly .
`` Why do the Lombardy poplar hold it branch straight up in the air like that , when all the other poplar hold theirs out or hang them down ? ''
interject Peter , who have be gaze intently at the slender spire show darkly against the fine blue eastern sky .
`` Because it grow that way , '' say Felicity .
`` Oh I know a story about that , '' cry the Story Girl .
`` Once upon a time an old man find the pot of gold at the rainbow 's end .
There IS a pot there , it be say , but it be very hard to find because you can never get to the rainbow 's end before it vanish from your sight .
But this old man find it , just at sunset , when Iris , the guardian of the rainbow gold , happen to be absent .
As he be a long way from home , and the pot be very big and heavy , he decide to hide it until morning and then get one of his son to go with him and help him carry it .
So he hide it under the bough of the sleep poplar tree .
`` When Iris come back she miss the pot of gold and of course she be in a sad way about it .
She send Mercury , the messenger of the god , to look for it , for she do n't dare leave the rainbow again , l somebody should run off with that too .
Mercury ask all the tree if they have see the pot of gold , and the elm , oak and pine point to the poplar and say , '' ` The poplar can tell you where it be . ' ''
` How can I tell you where it be ? '
cry the poplar , and she hold up all her branch in surprise , just a we hold up our hand -- and down tumble the pot of gold .
The poplar be amaze and indignant , for she be a very honest tree .
She stretch her boughs high above her head and declare that she would always hold them like that , so that nobody could hide steal gold under them again .
And she teach all the little poplar she know to stand the same way , and that be why Lombardy poplar always do .
But the aspen poplar leaf be always shake , even on the very calm day .
And do you know why ? ''
And then she tell u the old legend that the cross on which the Saviour of the world suffer be make of aspen poplar wood and so never again could it poor , shake , shiver leaf know rest or peace .
There be an aspen in the orchard , the very embodiment of youth and spring in it litheness and symmetry .
Its little leaf be hang tremulously , not yet so fully blow a to hide it development of bough and twig , make poetry against the spiritual tint of a spring sunset .
`` It do look sad , '' say Peter , `` but it be a pretty tree , and it be n't it fault . ''
`` There 's a heavy dew and it 's time we stop talk nonsense and go in , '' decreed Felicity .
`` If we do n't we 'll all have a cold , and then we 'll be miserable enough , but it wo n't be very exciting . ''
`` All the same , I wish something excite would happen , '' finish the Story Girl , a we walk up through the orchard , people with it nun-like shadow .
`` There 's a new moon tonight , so may be you 'll get your wish , '' say Peter .
`` My Aunt Jane do n't believe there be anything in the moon business , but you never can tell . ''
The Story Girl do get her wish .
Something happen the very next day .
She join u in the afternoon with a quite indescribable expression on her face , compound of triumph , anticipation , and regret .
Her eye betray that she have be cry , but in them shine a chastened exultation .
Whatever the Story Girl mourn over it be evident she be not without hope .
`` I have some news to tell you , '' she say importantly .
`` Can you guess what it be ? ''
We could n't and would n't try .
`` Tell u right off , '' implore Felix .
`` You look a if it be something tremendous . ''
`` So it be .
Listen -- Aunt Olivia be go to be marry . ''
We star in blank amazement .
Peg Bowen 's hint have fade from our mind and we have never put much faith in it .
`` Aunt Olivia !
I do n't believe it , '' cry Felicity flatly .
`` Who tell you ? ''
`` Aunt Olivia herself .
So it be perfectly true .
I 'm awfully sorry in one way -- but oh , wo n't it be splendid to have a real wedding in the family ?
She 's go to have a big wedding -- and I be to be bridesmaid . ''
`` I should n't think you be old enough to be a bridesmaid , '' say Felicity sharply .
`` I 'm nearly fifteen .
Anyway , Aunt Olivia say I have to be . ''
`` Who 's she go to marry ? ''
ask Cecily , gather herself together after the shock , and find that the world be go on just the same .
`` His name be Dr. Seton and he be a Halifax man .
She meet him when she be at Uncle Edward 's last summer .
They 've be engage ever since .
The wedding be to be the third week in June . ''
`` And our school concert come off the next week , '' complain Felicity .
`` Why do thing always come together like that ?
And what be you go to do if Aunt Olivia be go away ? ''
`` I 'm come to live at your house , '' answer the Story Girl rather timidly .
She do not know how Felicity might like that .
But Felicity take it rather well .
`` You 've be here most of the time anyhow , so it 'll just be that you 'll sleep and eat here , too .
But what 's to become of Uncle Roger ? ''
`` Aunt Olivia say he 'll have to get married , too .
But Uncle Roger say he 'd rather hire a housekeeper than marry one , because in the first case he could turn her off if he do n't like her , but in the second case he could n't . ''
`` There 'll be a lot of cook to do for the wedding , '' reflect Felicity in a tone of satisfaction .
`` I s ` pose Aunt Olivia will want some rusk make .
I hope she have plenty of tooth-powder laid in , '' say Dan .
`` It 's a pity you do n't use some of that tooth-powder you 're so fond of talk about yourself , '' retort Felicity .
`` When anyone have a mouth the size of yours the teeth show so plain . ''
`` I brush my teeth every Sunday , '' asseverate Dan .
`` Every Sunday !
You ought to brush them every DAY . ''
`` Did anyone ever hear such nonsense ? ''
demand Dan sincerely .
`` Well , you know , it really do say so in the Family Guide , '' say Cecily quietly .
`` Then the Family Guide people must have lot more spare time than I have , '' retort Dan contemptuously .
`` Just think , the Story Girl will have her name in the paper if she 's bridesmaid , '' marvel Sara Ray .
`` In the Halifax paper , too , '' add Felix , `` since Dr. Seton be a Halifax man .
What be his first name ? ''
`` Robert . ''
`` And will we have to call him Uncle Robert ? ''
`` Not until he 's married to her .
Then we will , of course . ''
`` I hope your Aunt Olivia wo n't disappear before the ceremony , '' remark Sara Ray , who be surreptitiously read `` The Vanquished Bride , '' by Valeria H. Montague in the Family Guide .
`` I hope Dr. Seton wo n't fail to show up , like your cousin Rachel Ward 's beau , '' say Peter .
`` That make me think of another story I read the other day about Great-uncle Andrew King and Aunt Georgina , '' laugh the Story Girl .
`` It happen eighty year ago .
It be a very stormy winter and the road be bad .
Uncle Andrew live in Carlisle , and Aunt Georgina -- she be Miss Georgina Matheson then -- live away up west , so he could n't get to see her very often .
They agree to be marry that winter , but Georgina could n't set the day exactly because her brother , who live in Ontario , be come home for a visit , and she want to be marry while he be home .
So it be arrange that she be to write Uncle Andrew and tell him what day to come .
She do , and she tell him to come on a Tuesday .
But her writing be n't very good and poor Uncle Andrew think she write Thursday .
So on Thursday he drive all the way to Georgina 's home to be marry .
It be forty mile and a bitter cold day .
But it be n't any cold than the reception he get from Georgina .
She be out in the porch , with her head tie up in a towel , pick goose .
She have be all ready Tuesday , and her friend and the minister be there , and the wedding supper prepare .
But there be no bridegroom and Georgina be furious .
Nothing Uncle Andrew could say would appease her .
She would n't listen to a word of explanation , but tell him to go , and never show his nose there again .
So poor Uncle Andrew have to go ruefully home , hop that she would relent later on , because he be really very much in love with her . ''
`` And do she ? ''
queried Felicity .
`` She do .
Thirteen year exactly from that day they be marry .
It take her just that long to forgive him . ''
`` It take her just that long to find out she could n't get anybody else , '' say Dan , cynically .
CHAPTER XIV .
A PRODIGAL RETURNS Aunt Olivia and the Story Girl live in a whirlwind of dressmaking after that , and enjoy it hugely .
Cecily and Felicity also have to have new dress for the great event , and they talk of little else for a fortnight .
Cecily declare that she hat to go to sleep because she be sure to dream that she be at Aunt Olivia 's wedding in her old faded gingham dress and a ragged apron .
`` And no shoe or stocking , '' she add , `` and I ca n't move , and everyone walk past and look at my foot . ''
`` That 's only in a dream , '' mourn Sara Ray , `` but I may have to wear my last summer 's white dress to the wedding .
It 's too short , but ma say it 's plenty good for this summer .
I 'll be so mortified if I have to wear it . ''
`` I 'd rather not go at all than wear a dress that be n't nice , '' say Felicity pleasantly .
`` I 'd go to the wedding if I have to go in my school dress , '' cry Sara Ray .
`` I 've never be to anything .
I would n't miss it for the world . ''
`` My Aunt Jane always say that if you be neat and tidy it do n't matter whether you be dress fine or not , '' say Peter .
`` I 'm sick and tired of hear about your Aunt Jane , '' say Felicity crossly .
Peter look grieve but hold his peace .
Felicity be very hard on him that spring , but his loyalty never waver .
Everything she say or do be right in Peter 's eye .
`` It 's all very well to be neat and tidy , '' say Sara Ray , `` but I like a little style too . ''
`` I think you 'll find your mother will get you a new dress after all , '' comfort Cecily .
`` Anyway , nobody will notice you because everyone will be look at the bride .
Aunt Olivia will make a lovely bride .
Just think how sweet she 'll look in a white silk dress and a floating veil . ''
`` She say she be go to have the ceremony perform out here in the orchard under her own tree , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Wo n't that be romantic ?
It almost make me feel like get marry myself . ''
`` What a way to talk , '' rebuke Felicity , `` and you only fifteen . ''
`` Lots of people have be marry at fifteen , '' laugh the Story Girl .
`` Lady Jane Gray be . ''
`` But you be always say that Valeria H. Montague 's story be silly and not true to life , so that be no argument , '' retort Felicity , who know more about cooking than about history , and evidently imagine that the Lady Jane Gray be one of Valeria 's title heroine .
The wedding be a perennial source of conversation among u in those day ; but presently it interest pal for a time in the light of another quite tremendous happen .
One Saturday night Peter 's mother call to take him home with her for Sunday .
She have be work at Mr. James Frewen 's , and Mr. Frewen be drive her home .
We have never see Peter 's mother before , and we look at her with discreet curiosity .
She be a plump , black-eyed little woman , neat a a pin , but with a rather tired and care-worn face that look a if it should have be rosy and jolly .
Life have be a hard battle for her , and I rather think that her curly-headed little lad be all that have keep heart and spirit in her .
Peter go home with her and return Sunday evening .
We be in the orchard sit around the Pulpit Stone , where we have , accord to the custom of the household of King , be learn our golden text and memory verse for the next Sunday School lesson .
Paddy , grown sleek and handsome again , be sit on the stone itself , wash his jowl .
Peter join u with a very queer expression on his face .
He seem burst with some news which he want to tell and yet hardly like to .
`` Why be you look so mysterious , Peter ? ''
demand the Story Girl .
`` What do you think have happen ? ''
ask Peter solemnly .
`` What have ? ''
`` My father have come home , '' answer Peter .
The announcement produce all the sensation he could have wish .
We crowd around him in excitement .
`` Peter !
When do he come back ? ''
`` Saturday night .
He be there when ma and I get home .
It give her an awful turn .
I do n't know him at first , of course . ''
`` Peter Craig , I believe you be glad your father have come back , '' cry the Story Girl . ''
` Course I 'm glad , '' retort Peter .
`` And after you say you do n't want ever to see him again , '' say Felicity .
`` You just wait .
You have n't hear my story yet .
I would n't have be glad to see father if he 'd come back the same a he go away .
But he be a changed man .
He happen to go into a revival meeting one night this spring and he get convert .
And he 's come home to stay , and he say he 's never go to drink another drop , but he 's go to look after his family .
Ma be n't to do any more washing for nobody but him and me , and I 'm not to be a hired boy any long .
He say I can stay with your Uncle Roger till the fall 'cause I promise I would , but after that I 'm to stay home and go to school right along and learn to be whatever I 'd like to be .
I tell you it make me feel queer .
Everything seem to be upset .
But he give ma forty dollar -- every cent he have -- so I guess he really be convert . ''
`` I hope it will last , I 'm sure , '' say Felicity .
She do not say it nastily , however .
We be all glad for Peter 's sake , though a little dizzy over the unexpectedness of it all .
`` This be what I 'D like to know , '' say Peter .
`` How do Peg Bowen know my father be come home ?
Do n't you tell me she be n't a witch after that . ''
`` And she know about your Aunt Olivia 's wedding , too , '' add Sara Ray .
`` Oh , well , she likely hear that from some one .
Grown up folk talk thing over long before they tell them to child , '' say Cecily .
`` Well , she could n't have hear father be come home from any one , '' answer Peter .
`` He be convert up in Maine , where nobody know him , and he never tell a soul he be come till he get here .
No , you can believe what you like , but I 'm satisfy at last that Peg be a witch and that skull of hers do tell her thing .
She tell me father be come home and he come ! ''
`` How happy you must be , '' sigh Sara Ray romantically .
`` It 's just like that story in the Family Guide , where the miss earl come home to his family just a the Countess and Lady Violetta be go to be turn out by the cruel heir . ''
Felicity sniffed .
`` There 's some difference , I guess .
The earl have be imprison for year in a loathsome dungeon . ''
Perhaps Peter 's father have too , if we but realize it -- imprison in the dungeon of his own evil appetite and habit , than which none could be more loathsome .
But a Power , mighty than the force of evil , have strike off his fetter and lead him back to his long-forfeited liberty and light .
And no countess or lady of high degree could have welcome a long-lost earl home more joyfully than the tired little washerwoman have welcome the err husband of her youth .
But in Peter 's ointment of joy there be a fly or two .
So very , very few thing be flawless in this world , even on the golden road .
`` Of course I 'm awful glad that father have come back and that ma wo n't have to wash any more , '' he say with a sigh , `` but there be two thing that kind of worry me .
My Aunt Jane always say that it do n't do any good to worry , and I s ` pose it do n't , but it 's kind of a relief . ''
`` What 's worry you ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Well , for one thing I 'll feel awful bad to go away from you all .
I 'll miss you just dreadful , and I wo n't even be able to go to the same school .
I 'll have to go to Markdale school . ''
`` But you must come and see u often , '' say Felicity graciously .
`` Markdale be n't so far away , and you could spend every other Saturday afternoon with u anyway . ''
Peter 's black eye fill with adore gratitude .
`` That 's so kind of you , Felicity .
I 'll come as often a I can , of course ; but it wo n't be the same a be around with you all the time .
The other thing be even bad .
You see , it be a Methodist revival father get convert in , and so of course he join the Methodist church .
He be n't anything before .
He use to say he be a Nothingarian and live up to it -- kind of brag like .
But he 's a strong Methodist now , and be go to go to Markdale Methodist church and pay to the salary .
Now what 'll he say when I tell him I 'm a Presbyterian ? ''
`` You have n't tell him , yet ? ''
ask the Story Girl .
`` No , I do n't dare .
I be scar he 'd say I 'd have to be a Methodist . ''
`` Well , Methodists be pretty near as good a Presbyterians , '' say Felicity , with the air of one make a great concession .
`` I guess they 're every bit a good , '' retort Peter .
`` But that ai n't the point .
I 've get to be a Presbyterian , 'cause I stick to a thing when I once decide it .
But I expect father will be mad when he find out . ''
`` If he 's convert he ought n't to get mad , '' say Dan .
`` Well , lot o ' people do .
But if he be n't mad he 'll be sorry , and that 'll be even bad , for a Presbyterian I 'm bound to be .
But I expect it will make thing unpleasant . ''
`` You need n't tell him anything about it , '' advise Felicity .
`` Just keep quiet and go to the Methodist church until you get big , and then you can go where you please . ''
`` No , that would n't be honest , '' say Peter sturdily .
`` My Aunt Jane always say it be best to be open and above board in everything , and especially in religion .
So I 'll tell father right out , but I 'll wait a few week so a not to spoil thing for ma too soon if he act up . ''
Peter be not the only one who have secret care .
Sara Ray be begin to feel worried over her look .
I hear her and Cecily talk over their trouble one even while I be weed the onion bed and they be behind the hedge knit lace .
I do not mean to eavesdrop .
I suppose they know I be there until Cecily overwhelm me with indignation later on .
`` I 'm so afraid , Cecily , that I 'm go to be homely all my life , '' say poor Sara with a tremble in her voice .
`` You can stand be ugly when you be young if you have any hope of be well look when you grow up .
But I 'm get bad .
Aunt Mary say I 'm go to be the very image of Aunt Matilda .
And Aunt Matilda be as homely a she can be .
It be n't '' -- and poor Sara sigh -- `` a very cheerful prospect .
If I be ugly nobody will ever want to marry me , and , '' conclude Sara candidly , `` I do n't want to be an old maid . ''
`` But plenty of girl get marry who be n't a bit pretty , '' comfort Cecily .
`` Besides , you be real nice look at time , Sara .
I think you be go to have a nice figure . ''
`` But just look at my hand , '' moan Sara .
`` They 're simply cover with wart . ''
`` Oh , the wart will all disappear before you grow up , '' say Cecily .
`` But they wo n't disappear before the school concert .
How be I to get up there and recite ?
You know there be one line in my recitation , ` She wave her lily-white hand , ' and I have to wave mine when I say it .
Fancy wave a lily-white hand all cover with wart .
I 've try every remedy I ever heard of , but nothing do any good .
Judy Pineau say if I rub them with toad-spit it would take them away for sure .
But how be I to get any toad-spit ? ''
`` It do n't sound like a very nice remedy , anyhow , '' shudder Cecily .
`` I 'd rather have the wart .
But do you know , I believe if you do n't cry so much over every little thing , you 'd be ever so much good look .
Crying spoil your eye and make the end of your nose red . ''
`` I ca n't help cry , '' protest Sara .
`` My feeling be so very sensitive .
I 've give up try to keep THAT resolution . ''
`` Well , men do n't like cry-babies , '' say Cecily sagely .
Cecily have a good deal of Mother Eve 's wisdom tuck away in that smooth , brown head of hers .
`` Cecily , do you ever intend to be marry ? ''
ask Sara in a confidential tone .
`` Goodness ! ''
cry Cecily , quite shock .
`` It will be time enough when I grow up to think of that , Sara . ''
`` I should think you 'd have to think of it now , with Cyrus Brisk a crazy after you a he be . ''
`` I wish Cyrus Brisk be at the bottom of the Red Sea , '' exclaim Cecily , goad into a spurt of temper by mention of the detested name .
`` What have Cyrus be do now ? ''
ask Felicity , come around the corner of the hedge .
`` Doing NOW !
It 's ALL the time .
He just worry me to death , '' return Cecily angrily .
`` He keep write me letter and put them in my desk or in my reader .
I never answer one of them , but he keep on .
And in the last one , mind you , he say he 'd do something desperate right off if I would n't promise to marry him when we grow up . ''
`` Just think , Cecily , you 've have a proposal already , '' say Sara Ray in an awe-struck tone .
`` But he have n't do anything desperate yet , and that be last week , '' comment Felicity , with a toss of her head .
`` He send me a lock of his hair and want one of mine in exchange , '' continue Cecily indignantly .
`` I tell you I send his back to him pretty quick . ''
`` Did you never answer any of his letter ? ''
ask Sara Ray .
`` No , indeed !
I guess not ! ''
`` Do you know , '' say Felicity , `` I believe if you write him just once and tell him your exact opinion of him in good plain English it would cure him of his nonsense . ''
`` I could n't do that .
I have n't enough spunk , '' confess Cecily with a blush .
`` But I 'll tell you what I do do once .
He write me a long letter last week .
It be just awfully SOFT , and every other word be spell wrong .
He even spell bake soda , ` bacon soda ! ' ''
`` What on earth have he to say about bake soda in a love-letter ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` Oh , he say his mother send him to the store for some and he forget it because he be think about me .
Well , I just take his letter and write in all the word , spell right , above the wrong one , in red ink , just a Mr. Perkins make u do with our dictation exercise , and send it back to him .
I think maybe he 'd feel insulted and stop writing to me . ''
`` And do he ? ''
`` No , he do n't .
It be my opinion you ca n't insult Cyrus Brisk .
He be too thick-skinned .
He write another letter , and thank me for correct his mistake , and say it make him feel glad because it show I be begin to take an interest in him when I want him to spell good .
Did you ever ?
Miss Marwood say it be wrong to hate anyone , but I do n't care , I hate Cyrus Brisk . ''
`` Mrs. Cyrus Brisk WOULD be an awful name , '' giggle Felicity .
`` Flossie Brisk say Cyrus be ruin all the tree on his father 's place cut your name on them , '' say Sara Ray .
`` His father tell him he would whip him if he do n't stop , but Cyrus keep right on .
He tell Flossie it relieve his feeling .
Flossie say he cut yours and his together on the birch tree in front of the parlour window , and a row of heart around them . ''
`` Just where every visitor can see them , I suppose , '' lament Cecily .
`` He just worry my life out .
And what I mind most of all be , he sit and look at me in school with such melancholy , reproachful eye when he ought to be work sum .
I wo n't look at him , but I FEEL him star at me , and it make me so nervous . ''
`` They say his mother be out of her mind at one time , '' say Felicity .
I do not think Felicity be quite well pleased that Cyrus should have pass over her rose-red prettiness to set his affection on that demure elf of a Cecily .
She do not want the allegiance of Cyrus in the least , but it be something of a slight that he have not want her to want it .
`` And he send me piece of poetry he cut out of the paper , '' Cecily go on , `` with lot of the line mark with a lead pencil .
Yesterday he put one in his letter , and this be what he mark : '' ` If you will not relent to me Then must I learn to know Darkness alone till life be fly .
Here -- I have the piece in my sewing-bag -- I 'll read it all to you . ''
Those three graceless girl read the sentimental rhyme and giggle over it .
Poor Cyrus !
His young affection be sadly misplace .
But after all , though Cecily never relent towards him , he do not condemn himself to darkness alone till life be fly .
Quite early in life he wed a stout , rosy , buxom lass , the very antithesis of his first love ; he prosper in his undertaking , raise a large and respectable family , and be eventually appoint a Justice of the Peace .
Which be all very sensible of Cyrus .
CHAPTER XV .
THE RAPE OF THE LOCK June be crowd full of interest that year .
We gather in with it sheaf of fragrant day the choice harvest of childhood .
Things happen right along .
Cecily declare she hat to go to sleep for fear she might miss something .
There be so many dear delight along the golden road to give u pleasure -- the earth dapple with new blossom , the dance of shadow in the field , the rustling , rain-wet way of the wood , the faint fragrance in meadow lane , liltings of bird and croon of bee in the old orchard , windy piping on the hill , sunset behind the pine , limpid dew fill primrose cup , crescent moon through darklings bough , soft night alight with blink star .
We enjoy all these boon , unthinkingly and light-heartedly , a child do .
And besides these , there be the absorb little drama of human life which be be enact all around u , and in which each of u play a satisfying part -- the gay preparation for Aunt Olivia 's mid-June wedding , the excitement of practise for the concert with which our school-teacher , Mr. Perkins , have elect to close the school year , and Cecily 's trouble with Cyrus Brisk , which furnish unholy mirth for the rest of u , though Cecily could not see the funny side of it at all .
Matters go from bad to worse in the case of the irrepressible Cyrus .
He continue to shower Cecily with note , the spelling of which show no improvement ; he worry the life out of her by constantly threaten to fight Willy Fraser -- although , a Felicity sarcastically point out , he never do it .
`` But I 'm always afraid he will , '' say Cecily , `` and it would be such a DISGRACE to have two boy fight over me in school . ''
`` You must have encourage Cyrus a little in the beginning or he 'd never have be so persevering , '' say Felicity unjustly .
`` I never do ! ''
cry outrage Cecily .
`` You know very well , Felicity King , that I hat Cyrus Brisk ever since the very first time I saw his big , fat , red face .
So there ! ''
`` Felicity be just jealous because Cyrus do n't take a notion to her instead of you , Sis , '' say Dan .
`` Talk sense ! ''
snap Felicity .
`` If I do you would n't understand me , sweet little sister , '' rejoin aggravate Dan .
Finally Cyrus crown his iniquity by steal the denied lock of Cecily 's hair .
One sunny afternoon in school , Cecily and Kitty Marr ask and receive permission to sit out on the side bench before the open window , where the cool breeze sweep in from the green field beyond .
To sit on this bench be always consider a treat , and be only allow a a reward of merit ; but Cecily and Kitty have another reason for wish to sit there .
Kitty have read in a magazine that sun-baths be good for the hair ; so both she and Cecily toss their long braid over the window-sill and let them hang there in the broiling sun-shine .
And while Cecily sit thus , diligently work a fraction sum on her slate , that base Cyrus ask permission to go out , have previously borrow a pair of scissors from one of the big girl who do fancy work at the noon recess .
Outside , Cyrus sneak up close to the window and cut off a piece of Cecily 's hair .
This rape of the lock do not produce quite such terrible consequence a the more famous one in Pope 's poem , but Cecily 's soul be no less agitate than Belinda 's .
She cry all the way home from school about it , and only check her tear when Dan declare he 'd fight Cyrus and make him give it up .
`` Oh , no , You must n't . ''
say Cecily , struggle with her sob .
`` I wo n't have you fight on my account for anything .
And besides , he 'd likely lick you -- he 's so big and rough .
And the folk at home might find out all about it , and Uncle Roger would never give me any peace , and mother would be cross , for she 'd never believe it be n't my fault .
It would n't be so bad if he 'd only take a little , but he cut a great big chunk right off the end of one of the braid .
Just look at it .
I 'll have to cut the other to make them fair -- and they 'll look so awful stubby . ''
But Cyrus ' acquirement of the chunk of hair be his last triumph .
His downfall be near ; and , although it involve Cecily in a most humiliating experience , over which she cry half the following night , in the end she confess it be worth undergoing just to get rid of Cyrus .
Mr. Perkins be an exceedingly strict disciplinarian .
No communication of any sort be permit between his pupil during school hour .
Anyone catch violate this rule be promptly punish by the infliction of one of the weird penance for which Mr. Perkins be famous , and which be generally far bad than ordinary whipping .
One day in school Cyrus send a letter across to Cecily .
Usually he leave his effusion in her desk , or between the leaf of her book ; but this time it be pass over to her under cover of the desk through the hand of two or three scholar .
Just a Em Frewen hold it over the aisle Mr. Perkins wheel around from his station before the blackboard and catch her in the act .
`` Bring that here , Emmeline , '' he command .
Cyrus turn quite pale .
Em carry the note to Mr. Perkins .
He take it , hold it up , and scrutinize the address .
`` Did you write this to Cecily , Emmeline ? ''
he ask .
`` No , sir . ''
`` Who write it then ? ''
Em say quite shamelessly that she do n't know -- it have just be pass over from the next row .
`` And I suppose you have no idea where it come from ? ''
say Mr. Perkins , with his frightful , sardonic grin .
`` Well , perhaps Cecily can tell u .
You may take your seat , Emmeline , and you will remain at the foot of your spell class for a week a punishment for pass the note .
Cecily , come here . ''
Indignant Em sit down and poor , innocent Cecily be hale forth to public ignominy .
She go with a crimson face .
`` Cecily , '' say her tormentor , `` do you know who write this letter to you ? ''
Cecily , like a certain renowned personage , could not tell a lie .
`` I -- I think so , sir , '' she murmur faintly .
`` Who be it ? ''
`` I ca n't tell you that , '' stammer Cecily , on the verge of tear .
`` Ah ! ''
say Mr. Perkins politely .
`` Well , I suppose I could easily find out by open it .
But it be very impolite to open other people 's letter .
I think I have a good plan .
Since you refuse to tell me who write it , open it yourself , take this chalk , and copy the content on the blackboard that we may all enjoy them .
And sign the writer 's name at the bottom . ''
`` Oh , '' gasp Cecily , choose the less of two evil , `` I 'll tell you who write it -- it be -- `` Hush ! ''
Mr. Perkins check her with a gentle motion of his hand .
He be always most gentle when most inexorable .
`` You do not obey me when I first order you to tell me the writer .
You can not have the privilege of do so now .
Open the note , take the chalk , and do a I command you . ''
Worms will turn , and even meek , mild , obedient little soul like Cecily may be goad to the point of wild , sheer rebellion .
`` I -- I wo n't ! ''
she cry passionately .
Mr. Perkins , martinet though he be , would hardly , I think , have inflict such a punishment on Cecily , who be a favourite of his , have he know the real nature of that luckless missive .
But , a he afterwards admit , he think it be merely a note from some other girl , of such trifle sort a school-girls be wont to write ; and moreover , he have already commit himself to the decree , which , like those of Mede and Persian , must not alter .
To let Cecily off , after her mad defiance , would be to establish a revolutionary precedent .
`` So you really think you wo n't ? ''
he query smilingly .
`` Well , on second thought , you may take your choice .
Either you will do a I have bid you , or you will sit for three day with '' -- Mr. Perkins ' eye skim over the school-room to find a boy who be sit alone -- `` with Cyrus Brisk . ''
This choice of Mr. Perkins , who know nothing of the little drama of emotion that go on under the routine of lesson and exercise in his domain , be purely accidental , but we take it at the time a a stroke of diabolical genius .
It leave Cecily no choice .
She would have do almost anything before she would have sit with Cyrus Brisk .
With flashing eye she tear open the letter , snatch up the chalk , and dash at the blackboard .
In a few minute the content of that letter grace the expanse usually sacred to more prosaic composition .
I can not reproduce it verbatim , for I have no after opportunity of refresh my memory .
But I remember that it be exceedingly sentimental and exceedingly ill-spelled -- for Cecily mercilessly copy down poor Cyrus ' mistake .
He write her that he wear her hare over his hart -- `` and he steal it , '' Cecily throw passionately over her shoulder at Mr. Perkins -- that her eye be so sweet and lovely that he could n't find word nice enuf to describ them , that he could never forget how butiful she have look in prar meeting the evening before , and that some meels he could n't eat for thinking of her , with more to the same effect and he sign it `` yours till deth u do part , Cyrus Brisk . ''
As the writing proceed we scholar explode into smothered laughter , despite our awe of Mr. Perkins .
Mr. Perkins himself could not keep a straight face .
He turn abruptly away and look out of the window , but we could see his shoulder shake .
When Cecily have finish and have throw down the chalk with bitter vehemence , he turn around with a very red face .
`` That will do .
You may sit down .
Cyrus , since it seem you be the guilty person , take the eraser and wipe that off the board .
Then go stand in the corner , face the room , and hold your arm straight above your head until I tell you to take them down . ''
Cyrus obey and Cecily flee to her seat and wept , nor do Mr. Perkins meddle with her more that day .
She bore her burden of humiliation bitterly for several day , until she be suddenly comfort by a realization that Cyrus have cease to persecute her .
He write no more letter , he gaze no longer in rapt adoration , he bring no more votive offering of gum and pencil to her shrine .
At first we think he have be cure by the unmerciful chaffing he have to undergo from his mate , but eventually his sister tell Cecily the true reason .
Cyrus have at last be drive to believe that Cecily 's aversion to him be real , and not merely the defence of maiden coyness .
If she hat him so intensely that she would rather write that note on the blackboard than sit with him , what use be it to sigh like a furnace longer for her ?
Mr. Perkins have blight love 's young dream for Cyrus with a kill frost .
Thenceforth sweet Cecily keep the noiseless tenor of her way unvexed by the attention of enamoured swain .
CHAPTER XVI .
AUNT UNA 'S STORY Felicity , and Cecily , Dan , Felix , Sara Ray and I be sit one evening on the mossy stone in Uncle Roger 's hill pasture , where we have sit the morning the Story Girl tell u the tale of the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess .
But it be even now and the valley beneath u be brim up with the glow of the afterlight .
Behind u , two tall , shapely spruce tree rise up against the sunset , and through the dark oriel of their sundered branch an evening star look down .
We sit on a little strip of emerald grassland and before u be a sloping meadow all white with daisy .
We be wait for Peter and the Story Girl .
Peter have go to Markdale after dinner to spend the afternoon with his reunited parent because it be his birthday .
He have leave u grimly determine to confess to his father the dark secret of his Presbyterianism , and we be anxious to know what the result have be .
The Story Girl have go that morning with Miss Reade to visit the latter 's home near Charlottetown , and we expect soon to see her come gaily along over the field from the Armstrong place .
Presently Peter come jauntily step along the field path up the hill .
`` Has n't Peter get tall ? ''
say Cecily .
`` Peter be grow to be a very fine look boy , '' decreed Felicity .
`` I notice he 's get ever so much handsomer since his father come home , '' say Dan , with a kill sarcasm that be wholly lose on Felicity , who gravely respond that she suppose it be because Peter felt so much freer from care and responsibility .
`` What luck , Peter ? ''
yell Dan , as soon a Peter be within earshot .
`` Everything 's all right , '' he shout jubilantly .
`` I tell father right off , licketty-split , as soon a I get home , '' he add when he reach u .
`` I be anxious to have it over with .
I say , solemn-like , ` Dad , there 's something I 've get to tell you , and I do n't know how you 'll take it , but it ca n't be help , ' I say .
Dad look pretty sober , and he say , say he , ` What have you be up to , Peter ?
Do n't be afraid to tell me .
I 've be forgive to seventy time seven , so surely I can forgive a little , too ? '
` Well , ' I say , desperate-like , ` the truth be , father , I 'm a Presbyterian .
I make up my mind last summer , the time of the Judgment Day , that I 'd be a Presbyterian , and I 've get to stick to it .
I 'm sorry I ca n't be a Methodist , like you and mother and Aunt Jane , but I ca n't and that 's all there be to it , ' I say .
Then I wait , scared-like .
But father , he just look relieved and he say , say he , ` Goodness , boy , you can be a Presbyterian or anything else you like , so long a it 's Protestant .
I 'm not care , ' he say .
` The main thing be that you must be good and do what 's right . '
I tell you , '' conclude Peter emphatically , `` father be a Christian all right . ''
`` Well , I suppose your mind will be at rest now , '' say Felicity .
`` What 's that you have in your buttonhole ? ''
`` That 's a four-leaved clover , '' answer Peter exultantly .
`` That mean good luck for the summer .
I find it in Markdale .
There ai n't much clover in Carlisle this year of any kind of leaf .
The crop be go to be a failure .
Your Uncle Roger say it 's because there ai n't enough old maid in Carlisle .
There 's lot of them in Markdale , and that 's the reason , he say , why they always have such good clover crop there . ''
`` What on earth have old maid to do with it ? ''
cry Cecily .
`` I do n't believe they 've a single thing to do with it , but Mr. Roger say they have , and he say a man call Darwin prove it .
This be the rigmarole he get off to me the other day .
The clover crop depend on there be plenty of bumble-bees , because they be the only insect with tongue long enough to -- to -- fer -- fertilize -- I think he call it the blossom .
But mice eat bumble-bees and cat eat mouse and old maid keep cat .
So your Uncle Roger say the more old maids the more cat , and the more cat the few field-mice , and the few field-mice the more bumble-bees , and the more bumble-bees the good clover crop . ''
`` So do n't worry if you do get to be old maid , girl , '' say Dan .
`` Remember , you 'll be help the clover crop . ''
`` I never hear such stuff a you boys talk , '' say Felicity , `` and Uncle Roger be no good . ''
`` There come the Story Girl , '' cry Cecily eagerly .
`` Now we 'll hear all about Beautiful Alice 's home . ''
The Story Girl be bombard with eager question as soon a she arrive .
Miss Reade 's home be a dream of a place , it appear .
The house be just cover with ivy and there be a most delightful old garden -- `` and , '' add the Story Girl , with the joy of a connoisseur who have find a rare gem , `` the sweet little story connect with it .
And I saw the hero of the story too . ''
`` Where be the heroine ? ''
query Cecily .
`` She be dead . ''
`` Oh , of course she 'd have to die , '' exclaim Dan in disgust .
`` I 'd like a story where somebody live once in awhile . ''
`` I 've tell you heap of story where people live , '' retort the Story Girl .
`` If this heroine have n't die there would n't have be any story .
She be Miss Reade 's aunt and her name be Una , and I believe she must have be just like Miss Reade herself .
Miss Reade tell me all about her .
When we go into the garden I saw in one corner of it an old stone bench arch over by a couple of pear tree and all grow about with grass and violet .
And an old man be sit on it -- a bent old man with long , snow-white hair and beautiful sad blue eye .
He seem very lonely and sorrowful and I wonder that Miss Reade do n't speak to him .
But she never let on she saw him and take me away to another part of the garden .
After awhile he get up and go away and then Miss Reade say , ` Come over to Aunt Una 's seat and I will tell you about her and her lover -- that man who have just go out . ' ''
` Oh , be n't he too old for a lover ? '
I say .
`` Beautiful Alice laugh and say it be forty year since he have be her Aunt Una 's lover .
He have be a tall , handsome young man then , and her Aunt Una be a beautiful girl of nineteen .
`` We go over and sit down and Miss Reade tell me all about her .
She say that when she be a child she have hear much of her Aunt Una -- that she seem to have be one of those people who be not soon forgotten , whose personality seem to linger about the scene of their life long after they have pass away . ''
`` What be a personality ?
Is it another word for ghost ? ''
ask Peter .
`` No , '' say the Story Girl shortly .
`` I ca n't stop in a story to explain word . ''
`` I do n't believe you know what it be yourself , '' say Felicity .
The Story Girl pick up her hat , which she have throw down on the grass , and place it defiantly on her brown curl .
`` I 'm go in , '' she announce .
`` I have to help Aunt Olivia ice a cake tonight , and you all seem more interested in dictionary than story . ''
`` That 's not fair , '' I exclaim .
`` Dan and Felix and Sara Ray and Cecily and I have never say a word .
It 's mean to punish u for what Peter and Felicity do .
We want to hear the rest of the story .
Never mind what a personality be but go on -- and , Peter , you young as , keep still . ''
`` I only want to know , '' mutter Peter sulkily .
`` I DO know what personality be , but it 's hard to explain , '' say the Story Girl , relent .
`` It 's what make you different from Dan , Peter , and me different from Felicity or Cecily .
Miss Reade 's Aunt Una have a personality that be very uncommon .
And she be beautiful , too , with white skin and night-black eye and hair -- a ` moonlight beauty , ' Miss Reade call it .
She use to keep a kind of a diary , and Miss Reade 's mother use to read part of it to her .
She write verse in it and they be lovely ; and she write description of the old garden which she love very much .
Miss Reade say that everything in the garden , plot or shrub or tree , recall to her mind some phrase or verse of her Aunt Una 's , so that the whole place seem full of her , and her memory haunt the walk like a faint , sweet perfume .
`` Una have , a I 've tell you , a lover ; and they be to have be marry on her twentieth birthday .
Her wedding dress be to have be a gown of white brocade with purple violet in it .
But a little while before it she take ill with fever and die ; and she be bury on her birthday instead of be marry .
It be just in the time of open rose .
Her lover have be faithful to her ever since ; he have never marry , and every June , on her birthday , he make a pilgrimage to the old garden and sit for a long time in silence on the bench where he use to woo her on crimson eve and moonlight night of long ago .
Miss Reade say she always love to see him sit there because it give her such a deep and lasting sense of the beauty and strength of love which can thus outlive time and death .
And sometimes , she say , it give her a little eerie feeling , too , a if her Aunt Una be really sit there beside him , keep tryst , although she have be in her grave for forty year . ''
`` It would be real romantic to die young and have your lover make a pilgrimage to your garden every year , '' reflect Sara Ray .
`` It would be more comfortable to go on living and get marry to him , '' say Felicity .
`` Mother say all those sentimental idea be bosh and I expect they be .
It 's a wonder Beautiful Alice have n't a beau herself .
She be so pretty and lady-like . ''
`` The Carlisle fellows all say she be too stick up , '' say Dan .
`` There 's nobody in Carlisle half good enough for her , '' cry the Story Girl , `` except -- ex-cept -- '' `` Except who ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Never mind , '' say the Story Girl mysteriously .
CHAPTER XVII .
AUNT OLIVIA 'S WEDDING What a delightful , old-fashioned , wholesome excitement there be about Aunt Olivia 's wedding !
The Monday and Tuesday precede it we do not go to school at all , but be all keep home to do chore and run errand .
The cooking and decorating and arranging that go on those two day be amazing , and Felicity be so happy over it all that she do not even quarrel with Dan -- though she narrowly escape it when he tell her that the Governor 's wife be come to the wedding .
`` Mind you have some of her favourite rusk for her , '' he say .
`` I guess , '' say Felicity with dignity , `` that Aunt Olivia 's wed supper will be good enough for even a Governor 's wife . ''
`` I s ` pose none of u except the Story Girl will get to the first table , '' say Felix , rather gloomily .
`` Never mind , '' comfort Felicity .
`` There 's a whole turkey to be keep for u , and a freezerful of ice cream .
Cecily and I be go to wait on the table , and we 'll put away a little of everything that 's extra nice for our supper . ''
`` I do so want to have my supper with you , '' sigh Sara Ray , `` but I s ` pose ma will drag me with her wherever she go .
She wo n't trust me out of her sight a minute the whole evening -- I know she wo n't . ''
`` I 'll get Aunt Olivia to ask her to let you have your supper with u , '' say Cecily .
`` She ca n't refuse the bride 's request . ''
`` You do n't know all ma can do , '' return Sara darkly .
`` No , I feel that I 'll have to eat my supper with her .
But I suppose I ought to be very thankful I 'm to get to the wedding at all , and that ma do get me a new white dress for it .
Even yet I 'm so scared something will happen to prevent me from get to it . ''
Monday evening shroud itself in cloud , and all night long the voice of the wind answer to the voice of the rain .
Tuesday the downpour continue .
We be quite frantic about it .
Suppose it keep on raining over Wednesday !
Aunt Olivia could n't be marry in the orchard then .
That would be too bad , especially when the late apple tree have most obligingly keep it store of blossom until after all the other tree have fade and then burst lavishly into bloom for Aunt Olivia 's wedding .
That apple tree be always very late in blooming , and this year it be a week later than usual .
It be a sight to see -- a great tree-pyramid with high , far-spreading bough , over which a wealth of rosy snow seem to have be fling .
Never have bride a more magnificent canopy .
To our rapture , however , it clear up beautifully Tuesday evening , and the sun , before set in purple pomp , pour a flood of wonderful radiance over the whole great , green , diamond-dripping world , promise a fair morrow .
Uncle Alec drive off to the station through it to bring home the bridegroom and his best man .
Dan be full of a wild idea that we should all meet them at the gate , arm with cowbell and tin-pans , and `` charivari '' them up the lane .
Peter side with him , but the rest of u vote down the suggestion .
`` Do you want Dr. Seton to think we be a pack of wild Indians ? ''
ask Felicity severely .
`` A nice opinion he 'd have of our manner ! ''
`` Well , it 's the only chance we 'll have to chivaree them , '' grumble Dan .
`` Aunt Olivia would n't mind .
SHE can take a joke . ''
`` Ma would kill you if you do such a thing , '' warn Felicity .
`` Dr. Seton live in Halifax and they NEVER chivaree people there .
He would think it very vulgar . ''
`` Then he should have stay in Halifax and get marry there , '' retort Dan , sulkily .
We be very curious to see our uncle-elect .
When he come and Uncle Alec take him into the parlour , we be all crowd into the dark corner behind the stair to peep at him .
Then we flee to the moonlight world outside and discuss him at the dairy .
`` He 's bald , '' say Cecily disappointedly .
`` And RATHER short and stout , '' say Felicity .
`` He 's forty , if he 's a day , '' say Dan .
`` Never you mind , '' cry the Story Girl loyally , `` Aunt Olivia love him with all her heart . ''
`` And more than that , he 's get lot of money , '' add Felicity .
`` Well , he may be all right , '' say Peter , `` but it 's my opinion that your Aunt Olivia could have do just as well on the Island . ''
`` YOUR opinion do n't matter very much to our family , '' say Felicity crushingly .
But when we make the acquaintance of Dr. Seton next morning we like him enormously , and vote him a jolly good fellow .
Even Peter remark aside to me that he guess Miss Olivia have n't make much of a mistake after all , though it be plain he think she be run a risk in not stick to the Island .
The girl have not much time to discuss him with u .
They be all exceedingly busy and whisk about at such a rate that they seem to possess the power of be in half a dozen place at once .
The importance of Felicity be quite terrible .
But after dinner come a lull .
`` Thank goodness , everything be ready at last , '' breathe Felicity devoutly , a we foregather for a brief space in the fir wood .
`` We 've nothing more to do now but get dress .
It 's really a serious thing to have a wedding in the family . ''
`` I have a note from Sara Ray , '' say Cecily .
`` Judy Pineau bring it up when she bring Mrs. Ray 's spoon .
Just let me read it to you : -- DEAREST CECILY : -- A DREADFUL MISFORTUNE have happen to me .
Last night I go with Judy to water the cow and in the spruce bush we find a WASPS ' NEST and Judy think it be AN OLD ONE and she POKED IT WITH A STICK .
And it be a NEW ONE , full of wasp , and they all fly out and STUNG US TERRIBLY , on the face and hand .
My face be all swell up and I can HARDLY SEE out of one eye .
The SUFFERING be awful but I do n't mind that as much a be scar ma would n't take me to the wedding .
But she say I can go and I 'm go .
I know that I be a HARD-LOOKING SIGHT , but it be n't anything catch .
I be write this so that you wo n't get a shock when you see me .
Is n't it SO STRANGE to think your dear Aunt Olivia be go away ?
How you will miss her !
But your loss will be her gain . ''
` Au revoir , '' ` Your loving chum , SARA RAY . ' ''
`` That poor child , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Well , all I hope be that stranger wo n't take her for one of the family , '' remark Felicity in a disgusted tone .
Aunt Olivia be marry at five o'clock in the orchard under the late apple tree .
It be a pretty scene .
The air be full of the perfume of apple bloom , and the bee blunder foolishly and delightfully from one blossom to another , half drunken with perfume .
The old orchard be full of smile guest in wed garment .
Aunt Olivia be most beautiful amid the frost of her bridal veil , and the Story Girl , in an unusually long white dress , with her brown curl club up behind , look so tall and grown-up that we hardly recognize her .
After the ceremony -- during which Sara Ray cry all the time -- there be a royal wedding supper , and Sara Ray be permit to eat her share of the feast with u .
`` I 'm glad I be sting by the wasp after all , '' she say delightedly .
`` If I have n't be ma would never have let me eat with you .
She just get tired explain to people what be the matter with my face , and so she be glad to get rid of me .
I know I look awful , but , oh , be n't the bride a dream ? ''
We miss the Story Girl , who , of course , have to have her supper at the bridal table ; but we be a hilarious little crew and the girl have nobly keep their promise to save tid-bits for u .
By the time the last table be clear away Aunt Olivia and our new uncle be ready to go .
There be an orgy of tear and leavetakings , and then they drive away into the odorous moonlight night .
Dan and Peter pursue them down the lane with a fiendish din of bell and pan , much to Felicity 's wrath .
But Aunt Olivia and Uncle Robert take it in good part and wave their hand back to u with peal of laughter .
`` They 're just that pleased with themselves that they would n't mind if there be an earthquake , '' say Felix , grinning .
`` It 's be splendid and exciting , and everything go off well , '' sigh Cecily , `` but , oh dear , it 's go to be so queer and lonesome without Aunt Olivia .
I just believe I 'll cry all night . ''
`` You 're tire to death , that 's what 's the matter with you , '' say Dan , return .
`` You girls have work like slave today . ''
`` Tomorrow will be even hard , '' say Felicity comfortingly .
`` Everything will have to be clean up and put away . ''
Peg Bowen pay u a call the next day and be regale with a feast of fat thing leave over from the supper .
`` Well , I 've have all I can eat , '' she say , when she have finish and bring out her pipe .
`` And that do n't happen to me every day .
There ai n't be as much marrying a there use to be , and half the time they just sneak off to the minister , a if they be ashamed of it , and get marry without any wedding or supper .
That ai n't the King way , though .
And so Olivia 's go off at last .
She be n't in any hurry but they tell me she 's do well .
Time 'll show . ''
`` Why do n't you get marry yourself , Peg ? ''
queried Uncle Roger teasingly .
We hold our breath over his temerity .
`` Because I 'm not so easy to please a your wife will be , '' retort Peg .
She depart in high good humour over her repartee .
Meeting Sara Ray on the doorstep she stop and ask her what be the matter with her face .
`` Wasps , '' stammer Sara Ray , laconic from terror .
`` Humph !
And your hand ? ''
`` Warts . ''
`` I 'll tell you what 'll take them away .
You get a pertater and go out under the full moon , cut the pertater in two , rub your wart with one half and say , ` One , two , three , wart , go away from me . '
Then rub them with the other half and say , ` One , two , three , four , wart , never trouble me more . '
Then bury the pertater and never tell a living soul where you bury it .
You wo n't have no more wart .
Mind you bury the pertater , though .
If you do n't , and anyone pick it up , she 'll get your wart . ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
SARA RAY HELPS OUT We all miss Aunt Olivia greatly ; she have be so merry and companionable , and have possess such a knack of understand small fry .
But youth quickly adapt itself to change condition ; in a few week it seem a if the Story Girl have always be live at Uncle Alec 's , and a if Uncle Roger have always have a fat , jolly housekeeper with a double chin and little , twinkle blue eye .
I do n't think Aunt Janet ever quite get over miss Aunt Olivia , or look upon Mrs. Hawkins a anything but a necessary evil ; but life resume it even tenor on the King farm , break only by the ripple of excitement over the school concert and letter from Aunt Olivia describe her trip through the land of Evangeline .
We incorporate the letter in Our Magazine under the head `` From Our Special Correspondent '' and be very proud of them .
At the end of June our school concert come off and be a great event in our young life .
It be the first appearance of most of u on any platform , and some of u be very nervous .
We all have recitation , except Dan , who have refuse flatly to take any part and be consequently care-free .
`` I 'm sure I shall die when I find myself up on that platform , face people , '' sigh Sara Ray , a we talk the affair over in Uncle Stephen 's Walk the night before the concert .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll faint , '' be Cecily 's more moderate foreboding .
`` I 'm not one single bit nervous , '' say Felicity complacently .
`` I 'm not nervous this time , '' say the Story Girl , `` but the first time I recite I be . ''
`` My Aunt Jane , '' remark Peter , `` use to say that an old teacher of hers tell her that when she be go to recite or speak in public she must just get it firmly into her mind that it be only a lot of cabbage head she have before her , and she would n't be nervous . ''
`` One might n't be nervous , but I do n't think there would be much inspiration in recite to cabbage head , '' say the Story Girl decidedly .
`` I want to recite to PEOPLE , and see them look interested and thrill . ''
`` If I can only get through my piece without break down I do n't care whether I thrill people or not , '' say Sara Ray .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll forget mine and get stick , '' forebode Felix .
`` Some of you fellows be sure and prompt me if I do -- and do it quick , so 's I wo n't get bad rattle . ''
`` I know one thing , '' say Cecily resolutely , `` and that be , I 'm go to curl my hair for to-morrow night .
I 've never curl it since Peter almost die , but I simply must tomorrow night , for all the other girl be go to have theirs in curl . ''
`` The dew and heat will take all the curl out of yours and then you 'll look like a scarecrow , '' warn Felicity .
`` No , I wo n't .
I 'm go to put my hair up in paper tonight and wet it with a curling-fluid that Judy Pineau use .
Sara bring me up a bottle of it .
Judy say it be great stuff -- your hair will keep in curl for day , no matter how damp the weather be .
I 'll leave my hair in the paper till tomorrow evening , and then I 'll have beautiful curl . ''
`` You 'd better leave your hair alone , '' say Dan gruffly .
`` Smooth hair be good than a lot of fly-away curl . ''
But Cecily be not to be persuade .
Curls she crave and curl she mean to have .
`` I 'm thankful my wart have all go , any-way , '' say Sara Ray .
`` So they have , '' exclaim Felicity .
`` Did you try Peg 's recipe ? ''
`` Yes .
I do n't believe in it but I try it .
For the first few day afterwards I keep watch my wart , but they do n't go away , and then I give up and forget them .
But one day last week I just happen to look at my hand and there be n't a wart to be see .
It be the most amazing thing . ''
`` And yet you 'll say Peg Bowen be n't a witch , '' say Peter .
`` Pshaw , it be just the potato juice , '' scoff Dan .
`` It be a dry old potato I have , and there be n't much juice in it , '' say Sara Ray .
`` One hardly know what to believe .
But one thing be certain -- my wart be go . ''
Cecily put her hair up in curl-papers that night , thoroughly soak in Judy Pineau 's curling-fluid .
It be a nasty job , for the fluid be very sticky , but Cecily persevere and get it do .
Then she go to bed with a towel tie over her head to protect the pillow .
She do not sleep well and have uncanny dream , but she come down to breakfast with an expression of triumph .
The Story Girl examine her head critically and say , `` Cecily , if I be you I 'd take those paper out this morning . ''
`` Oh , no ; if I do my hair will be straight again by night .
I mean to leave them in till the last minute . ''
`` I would n't do that -- I really would n't , '' persist the Story Girl .
`` If you do your hair will be too curly and all bushy and fuzzy . ''
Cecily finally yield and go upstairs with the Story Girl .
Presently we hear a little shriek -- then two little shriek -- then three .
Then Felicity come fly down and call her mother .
Aunt Janet go up and presently come down again with a grim mouth .
She fill a large pan with warm water and carry it upstairs .
We dare ask her no question , but when Felicity come down to wash the dish we bombard her .
`` What on earth be the matter with Cecily ? ''
demand Dan .
`` Is she sick ? ''
`` No , she be n't .
I warn her not to put her hair in curl but she would n't listen to me .
I guess she wish she have now .
When people have n't natural curly hair they should n't try to make it curly .
They get punish if they do . ''
`` Look here , Felicity , never mind all that .
Just tell u what have happen Sis . ''
`` Well , this be what have happen her .
That ninny of a Sara Ray bring up a bottle of mucilage instead of Judy 's curling-fluid , and Cecily put her hair up with THAT .
It 's in an awful state . ''
`` Good gracious ! ''
exclaim Dan .
`` Look here , will she ever get it out ? ''
`` Goodness know .
She 's get her head in soak now .
Her hair be just mat together hard a a board .
That 's what come of vanity , '' say Felicity , than whom no vainer girl exist .
Poor Cecily pay dearly enough for HER vanity .
She spend a bad forenoon , make no easier by her mother 's severe rebuke .
For an hour she `` soaked '' her head ; that be , she stand over a panful of warm water and keep dip her head in with tightly shut eye .
Finally her hair soften sufficiently to be disentangle from the curl paper ; and then Aunt Janet subject it to a merciless shampoo .
Eventually they get all the mucilage wash out of it and Cecily spend the remainder of the forenoon sit before the open oven door in the hot kitchen dry her ill-used tress .
She felt very down-hearted ; her hair be of that order which , glossy and smooth normally , be dry and harsh and lustreless for several day after be shampooed .
`` I 'll look like a fright tonight , '' say the poor child to me with tremble voice .
`` The end will be stick out all over my head . ''
`` Sara Ray be a perfect idiot , '' I say wrathfully `` Oh , do n't be hard on poor Sara .
She do n't mean to bring me mucilage .
It 's really all my own fault , I know .
I make a solemn vow when Peter be die that I would never curl my hair again , and I should have keep it .
It be n't right to break solemn vow .
But my hair will look like dried hay tonight . ''
Poor Sara Ray be quite overwhelmed when she come up and find what she have do .
Felicity be very hard on her , and Aunt Janet be coldly disapproving , but sweet Cecily forgive her unreservedly , and they walk to the school that night with their arm about each other 's waist a usual .
The school-room be crowd with friend and neighbour .
Mr. Perkins be fly about , get thing into readiness , and Miss Reade , who be the organist of the evening , be sit on the platform , look her sweetest and prettiest .
She wear a delightful white lace hat with a fetching little wreath of tiny forget-me-not around the brim , a white muslin dress with spray of blue violet scatter over it , and a black lace scarf .
`` Does n't she look angelic ? ''
say Cecily rapturously .
`` Mind you , '' say Sara Ray , `` the Awkward Man be here -- in the corner behind the door .
I never remember see him at a concert before . ''
`` I suppose he come to hear the Story Girl recite , '' say Felicity .
`` He be such a friend of hers . ''
The concert go off very well .
Dialogues , chorus and recitation follow each other in rapid succession .
Felix get through his without `` get stuck , '' and Peter do excellently , though he stuff his hand in his trouser pocket -- a habit of which Mr. Perkins have vainly try to break him .
Peter 's recitation be one greatly in vogue at that time , begin , `` My name be Norval ; on the Grampian hill My father feed his flock . ''
At our first practice Peter have start gaily in , rush through the first line with no thought whatever of punctuation -- `` My name be Norval on the Grampian Hills . ''
`` Stop , stop , Peter , '' quoth Mr. Perkins , sarcastically , `` your name might be Norval if you be never on the Grampian Hills .
There 's a semi-colon in that line , I wish you to remember . ''
Peter do remember it .
Cecily neither faint nor fail when it come her turn .
She recite her little piece very well , though somewhat mechanically .
I think she really do much good than if she have have her desired curl .
The miserable conviction that her hair , alone among that glossy-tressed bevy , be look badly , quite blot out all nervousness and self-consciousness from her mind .
Her hair apart , she look very pretty .
The prevailing excitement have make bright her eye and flush her cheeks rosily -- too rosily , perhaps .
I hear a Carlisle woman behind me whisper that Cecily King look consumptive , just like her Aunt Felicity ; and I hat her fiercely for it .
Sara Ray also manage to get through respectably , although she be pitiably nervous .
Her bow be naught but a short nod -- `` a if her head work on wire , '' whisper Felicity uncharitably -- and the wave of her lily-white hand more nearly resemble an agonized jerk than a wave .
We all felt relieve when she finish .
She be , in a sense , one of `` our crowd , '' and we have be afraid she would disgrace u by break down .
Felicity follow her and recite her selection without haste , without rest , and absolutely without any expression whatever .
But what matter it how she recite ?
To look at her be sufficient .
What with her splendid fleece of golden curl , her great , brilliant blue eye , her exquisitely tinted face , her dimpled hand and arm , every member of the audience must have felt it be worth the ten cent he have pay merely to see her .
The Story Girl follow .
An expectant silence fell over the room , and Mr. Perkins ' face lose the look of tense anxiety it have wear all the evening .
Here be a performer who could be depend on .
No need to fear stage fright or forgetfulness on her part .
The Story Girl be not look her best that night .
White never become her , and her face be pale , though her eye be splendid .
But nobody think about her appearance when the power and magic of her voice caught and hold her listener spellbound .
Her recitation be an old one , figure in one of the School Readers , and we scholars all know it off by heart .
Sara Ray alone have not hear the Story Girl recite it .
The latter have not be drill at practice a have the other pupil , Mr. Perkins choose not to waste time teach her what she already know far good than he do .
The only time she have recite it have be at the `` dress rehearsal '' two night before , at which Sara Ray have not be present .
In the poem a Florentine lady of old time , wed to a cold and cruel husband , have die , or be suppose to have die , and have be carry to `` the rich , the beautiful , the dreadful tomb '' of her proud family .
In the night she waken from her trance and make her escape .
Chilled and terrify , she have make her way to her husband 's door , only to be drive away brutally a a restless ghost by the horror-stricken inmate .
A similar reception await her at her father 's .
Then she have wander blindly through the street of Florence until she have fall exhaust at the door of the lover of her girlhood .
He , unafraid , have take her in and care for her .
On the morrow , the husband and father , have discover the empty tomb , come to claim her .
She refuse to return to them and the case be carry to the court of law .
The verdict give be that a woman who have be `` to burial borne '' and leave for dead , who have be driven from her husband 's door and from her childhood home , `` must be adjudge a dead in law and fact , '' be no more daughter or wife , but be set free to form what new tie she would .
The climax of the whole selection come in the line , `` The court pronounce the defendant -- DEAD ! ''
and the Story Girl be wont to render it with such dramatic intensity and power that the veriest dullard among her listener could not have miss it force and significance .
She sweep along through the poem royally , play on the emotion of her audience a she have so often play on ours in the old orchard .
Pity , terror , indignation , suspense , possess her hearer in turn .
In the court scene she surpass herself .
She be , in very truth , the Florentine judge , stern , stately , impassive .
Her voice drop into the solemnity of the all-important line , '' ` The court pronounce the defendant -- ' '' She pause for a breathless moment , the good to bring out the tragic import of the last word .
`` DEAD , '' pip up Sara Ray in her shrill , plaintive little voice .
The effect , to use a hackneyed but convenient phrase , can well be imagine than described .
Instead of the sigh of relieved tension that should have sweep over the audience at the conclusion of the line , a burst of laughter greet it .
The Story Girl 's performance be completely spoil .
She deal the luckless Sara a glance that would have slay her on the spot could glance kill , stumble lamely and impotently through the few remain line of her recitation , and flee with crimson cheek to hide her mortification in the little corner that have be curtain off for a dressing-room .
Mr. Perkins look thing not lawful to be utter , and the audience titter at interval for the rest of the performance .
Sara Ray alone remain serenely satisfy until the close of the concert , when we surround her with a whirlwind of reproach .
`` Why , '' she stammer aghast , `` what do I do ?
I -- I think she be stick and that I ought to prompt her quick . ''
`` You little fool , she just pause for effect , '' cry Felicity angrily .
Felicity might be rather jealous of the Story Girl 's gift , but she be furious at behold `` one of our family '' make ridiculous in such a fashion .
`` You have less sense than anyone I ever heard of , Sara Ray . ''
Poor Sara dissolve in tear .
`` I do n't know .
I think she be stick , '' she wail again .
She cry all the way home , but we do not try to comfort her .
We felt quite out of patience with her .
Even Cecily be seriously annoy .
This second blunder of Sara 's be too much even for her loyalty .
We saw her turn in at her own gate and go sob up her lane with no relenting .
The Story Girl be home before u , have flee from the schoolhouse as soon a the programme be over .
We try to sympathize with her but she would not be sympathize with .
`` Please do n't ever mention it to me again , '' she say , with compress lip .
`` I never want to be remind of it .
Oh , that little IDIOT ! ''
`` She spoil Peter 's sermon last summer and now she 's spoil your recitation , '' say Felicity .
`` I think it 's time we give up associate with Sara Ray . ''
`` Oh , do n't be quite so hard on her , '' plead Cecily .
`` Think of the life the poor child have to live at home .
I know she 'll cry all night . ''
`` Oh , let 's go to bed , '' growl Dan .
`` I 'm good and ready for it .
I 've have enough of school concert . ''
CHAPTER XIX .
BY WAY OF THE STARS But for two of u the adventure of the night be not yet over .
Silence settle down over the old house -- the eerie , whisperful , creep silence of night .
Felix and Dan be already sound asleep ; I be drift near the coast o ' dream when I be arouse by a light tap on the door .
`` Bev , be you asleep ? ''
come in the Story Girl 's whisper .
`` No , what be it ? ''
`` S-s-h .
Get up and dress and come out .
I want you . ''
With a good deal of curiosity and some misgiving I obey .
What be in the wind now ?
Outside in the hall I find the Story Girl , with a candle in her hand , and her hat and jacket .
`` Where be you go ? ''
I whisper in amazement .
`` Hush .
I 've get to go to the school and you must come with me .
I leave my coral necklace there .
The clasp come loose and I be so afraid I 'd lose it that I take it off and put it in the bookcase .
I be feel so upset when the concert be over that I forget all about it . ''
The coral necklace be a very handsome one which have belong to the Story Girl 's mother .
She have never be permit to wear it before , and it have only be by dint of much coaxing that she have induce Aunt Janet to let her wear it to the concert .
`` But there 's no sense in go for it in the dead of night , '' I object .
`` It will be quite safe .
You can go for it in the morning . ''
`` Lizzie Paxton and her daughter be go to clean the school tomorrow , and I hear Lizzie say tonight she mean to be at it by five o'clock to get through before the heat of the day .
You know perfectly well what Liz Paxton 's reputation be .
If she find that necklace I 'll never see it again .
Besides , if I wait till the morning , Aunt Janet may find out that I leave it there and she 'd never let me wear it again .
No , I 'm go for it now .
If you 're afraid , '' add the Story Girl with delicate scorn , `` of course you need n't come . ''
Afraid !
I 'd show her !
`` Come on , '' I say .
We slip out of the house noiselessly and find ourselves in the unutterable solemnity and strangeness of a dark night .
It be a new experience , and our heart thrill and our nerve tingle to the charm of it .
Never have we be abroad before at such an hour .
The world around u be not the world of daylight .
'T be an alien place , full of weird , evasive enchantment and magicry .
Only in the country can one become truly acquainted with the night .
There it have the solemn calm of the infinite .
The dim wide field lie in silence , wrap in the holy mystery of darkness .
A wind , loosen from wild place far away , steal out to blow over dewy , star-lit , immemorial hill .
The air in the pasture be sweet with the hush of dream , and one may rest here like a child on it mother 's breast .
`` Is n't it wonderful ? ''
breathe the Story Girl a we go down the long hill .
`` Do you know , I can forgive Sara Ray now .
I think tonight I never could -- but now it do n't matter any more .
I can even see how funny it be .
Oh , be n't it funny ?
` DEAD ' in that squeaky little voice of Sara 's !
I 'll just behave to her tomorrow a if nothing have happen .
It seem so long ago now , here in the night . ''
Neither of u ever forget the subtle delight of that steal walk .
A spell of glamour be over u .
The breeze whisper strange secret of elf-haunted glen , and the hollow where the fern grow be brim with mystery and romance .
Ghostlike scent creep out of the meadow to meet u , and the fir wood before we come to the church be a living sweetness of Junebells grow in abundance .
Junebells have another and more scientific name , of course .
But who could desire a good name than Junebells ?
They be so perfect in their way that they seem to epitomize the very scent and charm of the forest , a if the old wood 's dainty thought have materialize in blossom ; and not all the rose by Bendameer 's stream be as fragrant a a shallow sheet of Junebells under the bough of fir .
There be firefly abroad that night , too , increase the gramarye of it .
There be certainly something a little supernatural about firefly .
Nobody pretend to understand them .
They be akin to the tribe of fairy , survival of the elder time when the wood and hill swarm with the little green folk .
It be still very easy to believe in fairy when you see those goblin lantern glimmer among the fir tassel .
`` Is n't it beautiful ? ''
say the Story Girl in rapture .
`` I would n't have miss it for anything .
I 'm glad I leave my necklace .
And I be glad you be with me , Bev .
The others would n't understand so well .
I like you because I do n't have to talk to you all the time .
It 's so nice to walk with someone you do n't have to talk to .
Here be the graveyard .
Are you frighten to pass it , Bev ? ''
`` No , I do n't think I 'm frightened , '' I answer slowly , `` but I have a queer feeling . ''
`` So have I .
But it be n't fear .
I do n't know what it be .
I feel a if something be reach out of the graveyard to hold me -- something that want life -- I do n't like it -- let 's hurry .
But be n't it strange to think of all the dead people in there who be once alive like you and me .
I do n't feel a if I could EVER die .
Do you ? ''
`` No , but everybody must .
Of course we go on living afterwards , just the same .
Do n't let 's talk of such thing here , '' I say hurriedly .
When we reach the school I contrive to open a window .
We scramble in , light a lamp and find the miss necklace .
The Story Girl stand on the platform and give an imitation of the catastrophe of the evening that make me shout with laughter .
We prowl around for sheer delight over be there at an unearthly hour when everybody suppose we be sound asleep in our bed .
It be with regret that we leave , and we walk home as slowly a we could to prolong the adventure .
`` Let 's never tell anyone , '' say the Story Girl , a we reach home .
`` Let 's just have it a a secret between u for ever and ever -- something that nobody else know a thing about but you and me . ''
`` We 'd well keep it a secret from Aunt Janet anyhow , '' I whisper , laugh .
`` She 'd think we be both crazy . ''
`` It 's real jolly to be crazy once in a while , '' say the Story Girl .
CHAPTER XX .
EXTRACTS FROM `` OUR MAGAZINE '' EDITORIAL As will be see there be no Honour Roll in this number .
Even Felicity have think all the beautiful thought that can be think and can not think any more .
Peter have never get drunk but , under exist circumstance , that be not greatly to his credit .
As for our write resolution they have silently disappear from our chamber wall and the place that once know them know them no more for ever .
-LRB- PETER , PERPLEXEDLY : `` Seems to me I 've hear something like that before . '' -RRB-
It be very sad but we will all make some new resolution next year and maybe it will be easy to keep those .
THE STORY OF THE LOCKET THAT WAS BAKED This be a story my Aunt Jane tell me about her granma when she be a little girl .
Its funny to think of bake a locket , but it be n't to eat .
She be my great granma but Ill call her granma for short .
It happen when she be ten year old .
Of course she wasent anybodys granma then .
Her father and mother and her be live in a new settlement call Brinsley .
Their near naybor be a mile away .
One day her Aunt Hannah from Charlottetown come and want her ma to go visit with her .
At first granma 's ma think she couldent go because it be bake day and granma 's pa be away .
But granma wasent afraid to stay alone and she know how to bake the bread so she make her ma go and her Aunt Hannah take off the handsome gold locket and chain she be war round her neck and hung it on granmas and tell her she could ware it all day .
Granma be awful pleased for she have never have any jewelry .
She do all the chore and then be need the loaf when she look up and saw a tramp come in and he be an awful villenus look tramp .
He dident even pass the time of day but just set down on a chair .
Poor granma be awful fritened and she turn her back on him and go on need the loaf cold and trembling -- that be , granma be tremble not the loaf .
She be worry about the locket .
She do n't know how she could hide it for to get anywhere she would have to turn round and pas him .
All of a suddent she think she would hide it in the bread .
She put her hand up and pull it hard and quick and break the fastening and need it right into the loaf .
Then she put the loaf in the pan and set it in the oven .
The tramp hadent see her do it and then he ask for something to eat .
Granma get him up a meal and when hed et it he begin prowl about the kitchen look into everything and open the cubbord door .
Then he go into granma 's ma room and turn the buro drawer and trunk inside out and throw the thing in them all about .
All he find be a purse with a dollar in it and he swore about it and take it and go away .
When granma be sure he be really go she break down and cry .
She forget all about the bread and it burn as black a coal .
When she smell it burn granma run and pull it out .
She be awful scar the locket be spoil but she saw open the loaf and it be there safe and sound .
When her Aunt Hannah come back she say granma deserve the locket because she have save it so clever and she give it to her and grandma always wear it and be very proud of it .
And granma use to say that be the only loaf of bread she ever spoil in her life .
PETER CRAIG .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` Those story be all very well but they be only true story .
It 's easy enough to write true story .
I think Peter be appoint fiction editor , but he have never write any fiction since the paper start .
That 's not MY idea of a fiction editor .
He ought to make up story out of his own head . ''
PETER , SPUNKILY : `` I can do it , too , and I will next time .
And it ai n't easy to write true story .
It 's hard , 'cause you have to stick to fact . ''
FELICITY : `` I do n't believe you could make up a story . ''
PETER : `` I 'll show you ! '' -RRB-
MY MOST EXCITING ADVENTURE It 's my turn to write it but I 'm SO NERVOUS .
My bad adventure happen TWO YEARS AGO .
It be an awful one .
I have a striped ribbon , strip brown and yellow and I LOST IT .
I be very sorry for it be a handsome ribbon and all the girl in school be jealous of it .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` I be n't .
I do n't think it one bit pretty . ''
CECILY : `` Hush ! '' -RRB-
I hunt everywhere but I could n't find it .
Next day be Sunday and I be run into the house by the front door and I saw SOMETHING LYING ON THE STEP and I think it be my ribbon and I make a grab at it a I pass .
But , oh , it be A SNAKE !
Oh , I can never describe how I felt when I felt that awful thing WRIGGLING IN MY HAND .
I let it go and SCREAMED AND SCREAMED , and ma be cross at me for yell on Sunday and make me read seven chapter in the Bible but I do n't mind that much after what I have come through .
I would rather DIE than have SUCH AN EXPERIENCE again .
SARA RAY .
TO FELICITY ON HER BERTHDAY Oh maiden fair with golden hair And brow of pure white , Id fight for you I 'd die for you Let me be your faithful knite .
This be your berthday bless day You be thirteen year old today May you be happy and fair a you be now Until your hair be gray .
I gaze into your shin eye , They be so blue and bright .
Id fight for you Id die for you Let me be your faithful knite .
A FRIEND .
-LRB- DAN : `` Great snake , who get that up ?
I 'll bet it be Peter . ''
FELICITY , WITH DIGNITY : `` Well , it 's more than YOU could do .
YOU could n't write poetry to save your life . ''
PETER , ASIDE TO BEVERLEY : `` She seem quite pleased .
I 'm glad I write it , but it be awful hard work . '' -RRB-
PERSONALS Patrick Grayfur , Esq . , cause his friend great anxiety recently by a prolonged absence from home .
When find he be very thin but be now a fat and conceited a ever .
On Wednesday , June 20th , Miss Olivia King be unite in the bond of holy matrimony to Dr. Robert Seton of Halifax .
Miss Sara Stanley be bridesmaid , and Mr. Andrew Seton attend the groom .
The young couple receive many handsome present .
Rev . Mr. Marwood tie the nuptial knot .
After the ceremony a substantial repast be serve in Mrs. Alex King 's well-known style and the happy couple leave for their new home in Nova Scotia .
Their many friend join in wish them a very happy and prosperous journey through life .
A precious one from u be go , A voice we love be still .
A place be vacant in our home That never can be fill .
-LRB- THE STORY GIRL : `` Goodness , that sound a if somebody have die .
I 've see that verse on a tombstone .
WHO write that notice ? ''
FELICITY , WHO WROTE IT : `` I think it be just as appropriate to a wedding a to a funeral ! '' -RRB-
Our school concert come off on the evening of June 29th and be a great success .
We make ten dollar for the library .
We regret to chronicle that Miss Sara Ray meet with a misfortune while take some violent exercise with a wasp ' nest recently .
The moral be that it be well not to monkey with a wasp ' nest , new or old .
Mrs. C. B. Hawkins of Baywater be keep house for Uncle Roger .
She be a very large woman .
Uncle Roger say he have to spend too much time walk round her , but otherwise she be an excellent housekeeper .
It be report that the school be haunt .
A mysterious light be see there at two o'clock one night recently .
-LRB- THE STORY GIRL AND I EXCHANGE KNOWING SMILES BEHIND THE OTHERS ' BACKS . -RRB-
Dan and Felicity have a fight last Tuesday -- not with fist but with tongue .
Dan come off best -- a usual .
-LRB- FELICITY LAUGHS SARCASTICALLY . -RRB-
Mr. Newton Craig of Markdale return home recently after a somewhat prolonged visit in foreign part .
We be glad to welcome Mr. Craig back to our midst .
Billy Robinson be hurt last week .
A cow kick him .
I suppose it be wicked of u to feel glad but we all do feel glad because of the way he cheat u with the magic seed last summer .
On April 1st Uncle Roger send Mr. Peter Craig to the manse to borrow the biography of Adam 's grandfather .
Mr. Marwood tell Peter he do n't think Adam have any grandfather and advise him to go home and look at the almanac .
-LRB- PETER , SOURLY : `` Your Uncle Roger think he be pretty smart . ''
FELICITY , SEVERELY : `` Uncle Roger IS smart .
It be so easy to fool you . '' -RRB-
A pair of blue bird have build a nest in a hole in the side of the well , just under the fern .
We can see the egg when we look down .
They be so cunning .
Felix sit down on a tack one day in May .
Felix think house-cleaning be great foolishness .
ADS .
LOST -- STOLEN -- OR STRAYED -- A HEART .
Finder will be reward by return same to Cyrus E. Brisk , Desk 7 , Carlisle School .
LOST OR STOLEN .
A piece of brown hair about three inch long and one inch thick .
Finder will kindly return to Miss Cecily King , Desk 15 , Carlisle School .
-LRB- CECILY : `` Cyrus keep my hair in his Bible for a bookmark , so Flossie tell me .
He say he mean to keep it always for a remembrance though he have give up hope . ''
DAN : `` I 'll steal it out of his Bible in Sunday School . ''
CECILY , BLUSHING : `` Oh , let him keep it if it be any comfort to him .
Besides , it be n't right to steal . ''
DAN : `` He steal it . ''
CECILY : `` But Mr. Marwood say two wrong never make a right . '' -RRB-
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Aunt Olivia 's wed cake be say to be the best one of it kind ever taste in Carlisle .
Me and mother make it .
ANXIOUS INQUIRER : -- It be not advisable to curl your hair with mucilage if you can get anything else .
Quince juice be well .
-LRB- CECILY , BITTERLY : `` I suppose I 'll never hear the last of that mucilage . ''
DAN : `` Ask her who use tooth-powder to raise biscuit ? '' -RRB-
We have rhubarb pie for the first time this spring last week .
They be fine but hard on the cream .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT PATIENT SUFFERER : -- What will I do when a young man steal a lock of my hair ?
Ans . : -- Grow some more .
No , F-l-x , a little caterpillar be not call a kittenpillar .
-LRB- FELIX , ENRAGED : `` I never ask that !
Dan just make that etiquette column up from begin to end ! ''
FELICITY : `` I do n't see what that kind of a question have to do with etiquette anyhow . '' -RRB-
Yes , P-t-r , it be quite proper to treat a lady friend to ice cream twice if you can afford it .
No , F-l-c-t-y , it be not ladylike to chew tobacco .
Better stick to spruce gum .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Frilled muslin apron will be much worn this summer .
It be no longer fashionable to trim them with knit lace .
One pocket be consider smart .
Clam-shells be fashionable keepsake .
You write your name and the date inside one and your friend write hers in the other and you exchange .
CECILY KING .
FUNNY PARAGRAPHS MR. PERKINS : -- `` Peter , name the large island of the world . ''
PETER : -- `` The Island , the British Isles and Australia . ''
-LRB- PETER , DEFIANTLY : `` Well , Mr. Perkins say he guess I be right , so you need n't laugh . '' -RRB-
This be a true joke and really happen .
It 's about Mr. Samuel Clask again .
He be once lead a prayer meeting and he look through the window and saw the constable driving up and guess he be after him because he be always in debt .
So in a great hurry he call on Brother Casey to lead in prayer and while Brother Casey be pray with his eye shut and everybody else have their head bow Mr. Clask get out of the window and get away before the constable got in because he do n't like to come in till the prayer be finish .
Uncle Roger say it be a smart trick on Mr. Clask 's part , but I do n't think there be much religion about it .
FELIX KING .
CHAPTER XXI .
PEG BOWEN COMES TO CHURCH When those of u who be still leave of that band of child who play long year ago in the old orchard and walk the golden road together in joyous companionship , foregather now and again in our busy life and talk over the event of those many merry moon -- there be some of our adventure that gleam out more vividly in memory than the others , and be oftener discuss .
The time we buy God 's picture from Jerry Cowan -- the time Dan eat the poison berry -- the time we hear the ghostly bell ring -- the bewitchment of Paddy -- the visit of the Governor 's wife -- and the night we be lose in the storm -- all awaken reminiscent jest and laughter ; but none more than the recollection of the Sunday Peg Bowen come to church and sat in our pew .
Though goodness know , a Felicity would say , we do not think it any matter for laughter at the time -- far from it .
It be one Sunday evening in July .
Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet , have be out to the morning service , do not attend in the evening , and we small fry walk together down the long hill road , wear Sunday attire and try , more or less successfully , to wear Sunday face also .
Those walk to church , through the golden completeness of the summer evening , be always very pleasant to u , and we never hurry , though , on the other hand , we be very careful not to be late .
This particular evening be particularly beautiful .
It be cool after a hot day , and wheat field all about u be ripen to their harvestry .
The wind gossip with the grass along our way , and over them the buttercup dance , goldenly-glad .
Waves of sinuous shadow go over the ripe hayfield , and plunder bee sing a freebooting lilt in wayside garden .
`` The world be so lovely tonight , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I just hate the thought of go into the church and shut all the sunlight and music outside .
I wish we could have the service outside in summer . ''
`` I do n't think that would be very religious , '' say Felicity .
`` I 'd feel ever so much more religious outside than in , '' retort the Story Girl .
`` If the service be outside we 'd have to sit in the graveyard and that would n't be very cheerful , '' say Felix .
`` Besides , the music be n't shut out , '' add Felicity .
`` The choir be inside . '' ''
` Music have charm to soothe a savage breast , ' '' quote Peter , who be get into the habit of adorn his conversation with similar gem .
`` That 's in one of Shakespeare 's play .
I 'm read them now , since I get through with the Bible .
They 're great . ''
`` I do n't see when you get time to read them , '' say Felicity .
`` Oh , I read them Sunday afternoon when I 'm home . ''
`` I do n't believe they 're fit to read on Sundays , '' exclaim Felicity .
`` Mother say Valeria Montague 's story ai n't . ''
`` But Shakespeare 's different from Valeria , '' protest Peter .
`` I do n't see in what way .
He write a lot of thing that be n't true , just like Valeria , and he write swear word too .
Valeria never do that .
Her character all talk in a very refined fashion . ''
`` Well , I always skip the swear word , '' say Peter .
`` And Mr. Marwood say once that the Bible and Shakespeare would furnish any library well .
So you see he put them together , but I 'm sure that he would never say that the Bible and Valeria would make a library . ''
`` Well , all I know be , I shall never read Shakespeare on Sunday , '' say Felicity loftily .
`` I wonder what kind of a preacher young Mr. Davidson be , '' speculate Cecily .
`` Well , we 'll know when we hear him tonight , '' say the Story Girl .
`` He ought to be good , for his uncle before him be a fine preacher , though a very absent-minded man .
But Uncle Roger say the supply in Mr. Marwood 's vacation never amount to much .
I know an awfully funny story about old Mr. Davidson .
He use to be the minister in Baywater , you know , and he have a large family and his child be very mischievous .
One day his wife be iron and she iron a great big nightcap with a frill round it .
One of the child take it when she be n't look and hide it in his father 's best beaver hat -- the one he wear on Sundays .
When Mr. Davidson go to church next Sunday he put the hat on without ever look into the crown .
He walk to church in a brown study and at the door he take off his hat .
The nightcap just slip down on his head , a if it have be put on , and the frill stand out around his face and the string hang down his back .
But he never notice it , because his thought be far away , and he walk up the church aisle and into the pulpit , like that .
One of his elder have to tiptoe up and tell him what he have on his head .
He pluck it off in a dazed fashion , hold it up , and look at it .
` Bless me , it be Sally 's nightcap ! '
he exclaim mildly . '
I do not know how I could have get it on . '
Then he just stuff it into his pocket calmly and go on with the service , and the long string of the nightcap hang down out of his pocket all the time . ''
`` It seem to me , '' say Peter , amid the laughter with which we greet the tale , `` that a funny story be funny when it be about a minister than it be about any other man .
I wonder why . ''
`` Sometimes I do n't think it be right to tell funny story about minister , '' say Felicity .
`` It certainly be n't respectful . ''
`` A good story be a good story -- no matter who it 's about , '' say the Story Girl with ungrammatical relish .
There be a yet no one in the church when we reach it , so we take our accustomed ramble through the graveyard surround it .
The Story Girl have bring flower for her mother 's grave a usual , and while she arrange them on it the rest of u read for the hundredth time the epitaph on Great-Grandfather King 's tombstone , which have be compose by Great-Grandmother King .
That epitaph be quite famous among the little family tradition that entwine every household with mingled mirth and sorrow , smile and tear .
It have a perennial fascination for u and we read it over every Sunday .
Cut deeply in the upright slab of red Island sandstone , the epitaph run a follow : -- SWEET DEPARTED SPIRIT Do receive the vow a grateful widow pay , Each future day and night shall hear her speak her Isaac 's praise .
Though thy beloved form must in the grave decay Yet from her heart thy memory no time , no change shall steal away .
Do thou from mansion of eternal bliss Remember thy distress relict .
Look on her with an angel 's love -- Soothe her sad life and cheer her end Through this world 's danger and it grief .
Then meet her with thy well-known smile and welcome At the last great day .
`` Well , I ca n't make out what the old lady be drive at , '' say Dan .
`` That 's a nice way to speak of your great-grandmother , '' say Felicity severely .
`` How do The Family Guide say you ought to speak of your great-grandma , sweet one ? ''
ask Dan .
`` There be one thing about it that puzzle me , '' remark Cecily .
`` She call herself a GRATEFUL widow .
Now , what be she grateful for ? ''
`` Because she be rid of him at last , '' say graceless Dan .
`` Oh , it could n't have be that , '' protest Cecily seriously .
`` I 've always hear that Great-Grandfather and Great-Grandmother be very much attach to each other . ''
`` Maybe , then , it mean she be grateful that she 'd have him as long a she do , '' suggest Peter .
`` She be grateful to him because he have be so kind to her in life , I think , '' say Felicity .
`` What be a ` distressed relict ' ? ''
ask Felix . ''
` Relict ' be a word I hate , '' say the Story Girl .
`` It sound so much like relic .
Relict mean just the same a widow , only a man can be a relict , too . ''
`` Great-Grandmother seem to run short of rhyme at the last of the epitaph , '' comment Dan .
`` Finding rhyme be n't as easy a you might think , '' avow Peter , out of his own experience .
`` I think Grandmother King intend the last of the epitaph to be in blank verse , '' say Felicity with dignity .
There be still only a sprinkling of people in the church when we go in and take our place in the old-fashioned , square King pew .
We have just get comfortably settle when Felicity say in an agitated whisper , `` Here be Peg Bowen ! ''
We all star at Peg , who be pace composedly up the aisle .
We might be excuse for so do , for seldom be the decorous aisle of Carlisle church invade by such a figure .
Peg be dress in her usual short drugget skirt , rather worn and fray around the bottom , and a waist of brilliant turkey red calico .
She wear no hat , and her grizzled black hair stream in elf lock over her shoulder .
Face , arm and foot be bare -- and face , arm and foot be liberally powder with FLOUR .
Certainly no one who saw Peg that night could ever forget the apparition .
Peg 's black eye , in which shine a more than usually wild and fitful light , rove scrutinizingly over the church , then settle on our pew .
`` She 's come here , '' whisper Felicity in horror .
`` Ca n't we spread out and make her think the pew be full ? ''
But the manoeuvre be too late .
The only result be that Felicity and the Story Girl in move over leave a vacant space between them and Peg promptly plump down in it .
`` Well , I 'm here , '' she remark aloud .
`` I do say once I 'd never darken the door of Carlisle church again , but what that boy there '' -- nod at Peter -- `` say last winter set me thinking , and I conclude maybe I 'd well come once in a while , to be on the safe side . ''
Those poor girl be in an agony .
Everybody in the church be look at our pew and smiling .
We all felt that we be terribly disgrace ; but we could do nothing .
Peg be enjoy herself hugely , beyond all doubt .
From where she sit she could see the whole church , include pulpit and gallery , and her black eye dart over it with restless glance .
`` Bless me , there 's Sam Kinnaird , '' she exclaim , still aloud .
`` He 's the man that dun Jacob Marr for four cent on the church step one Sunday .
I hear him . '
I think , Jacob , you owe me four cent on that cow you buy last fall .
Rec ` llect you could n't make the change ? '
Well , you know , ` twould a-made a cat laugh .
The Kinnairds be all mighty close , I can tell you .
That 's how they get rich . ''
What Sam Kinnaird felt or think during this speech , which everyone in the church must have hear , I know not .
Gossip have it that he change colour .
We wretched occupant of the King pew be concern only with our own outraged feeling .
