A single glance be sufficient to show the prince that it be indeed Desiree ; and how another have come to the palace bear her name , at that instant he neither know nor care .
Stealing on tip-toe from the room , he knock at the next door , which be open by Eglantine , who think it be the old woman bear their supper .
She start back at the sight of the prince , whom this time she also recognise .
But he thrust her aside , and fling himself at the foot of Desiree , to whom he pour out all his heart !
Dawn find them still converse ; and the sun be high in the heaven before the princess perceive that she retain her human form .
Ah !
how happy she be when she know that the day of her punishment be over ; and with a glad voice she tell the prince the tale of her enchantment .
So the story end well after all ; and the fairy Tulip , who turn out to be the old woman of the hut , make the young couple such a wedding feast a have never be see since the world begin .
And everybody be delight , except Cerisette and her mother , who be put in a boat and carry to a small island , where they have to work hard for their living .
The Girl-Fish -LSB- Contes des Fees , par Madame d'Aulnoy . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live , on the bank of a stream , a man and a woman who have a daughter .
As she be an only child , and very pretty besides , they never could make up their mind to punish her for her fault or to teach her nice manner ; and a for work -- she laugh in her mother 's face if she ask her to help cook the dinner or to wash the plate .
All the girl would do be to spend her day in dance and play with her friend ; and for any use she be to her parent they might as well have no daughter at all .
However , one morning her mother look so tired that even the selfish girl could not help see it , and ask if there be anything she be able to do , so that her mother might rest a little .
The good woman look so surprised and grateful for this offer that the girl felt rather ashamed , and at that moment would have scrub down the house if she have be request ; but her mother only beg her to take the fishing-net out to the bank of the river and mend some hole in it , a her father intend to go fishing that night .
The girl take the net and work so hard that soon there be not a hole to be find .
She felt quite pleased with herself , though she have have plenty to amuse her , a everybody who pass by have stop and have a chat with her .
But by this time the sun be high overhead , and she be just fold her net to carry it home again , when she hear a splash behind her , and look round she saw a big fish jump into the air .
Seizing the net with both hand , she fling it into the water where the circle be spread one behind the other , and , more by luck than skill , draw out the fish .
` Well , you be a beauty ! '
she cry to herself ; but the fish look up to her and say : ` You have good not kill me , for , if you do , I will turn you into a fish yourself ! '
The girl laugh contemptuously , and run straight in to her mother .
` Look what I have catch , ' she say gaily ; ` but it be almost a pity to eat it , for it can talk , and it declare that , if I kill it , it will turn me into a fish too . '
` Oh , put it back , put it back ! '
implore the mother .
` Perhaps it be skilled in magic .
And I should die , and so would your father , if anything should happen to you . '
` Oh , nonsense , mother ; what power could a creature like that have over me ?
Besides , I be hungry , and if I do n't have my dinner soon , I shall be cross . '
And off she go to gather some flower to stick in her hair .
About an hour later the blowing of a horn tell her that dinner be ready .
` Did n't I say that fish would be delicious ? '
she cry ; and plunge her spoon into the dish the girl help herself to a large piece .
But the instant it touch her mouth a cold shiver run through her .
Her head seem to flatten , and her eye to look oddly round the corner ; her leg and her arm be stick to her side , and she gasp wildly for breath .
With a mighty bound she spring through the window and fell into the river , where she soon felt well , and be able to swim to the sea , which be close by .
No sooner have she arrive there than the sight of her sad face attract the notice of some of the other fish , and they press round her , beg her to tell them her story . '
I be not a fish at all , ' say the new-comer , swallow a great deal of salt water a she speak ; for you can not learn how to be a proper fish all in a moment . '
I be not a fish at all , but a girl ; at least I be a girl a few minute ago , only -- ' And she duck her head under the wave so that they should not see her cry .
` Only you do not believe that the fish you catch have power to carry out it threat , ' say an old tunny .
` Well , never mind , that have happen to all of u , and it really be not a bad life .
Cheer up and come with u and see our queen , who live in a palace that be much more beautiful than any your queen can boast of . '
The new fish felt a little afraid of take such a journey ; but a she be still more afraid of be leave alone , she wave her tail in token of consent , and off they all set , hundred of them together .
The people on the rock and in the ship that saw them pas say to each other : ` Look what a splendid shoal ! '
and have no idea that they be hasten to the queen 's palace ; but , then , dweller on land have so little notion of what go on in the bottom of the sea !
Certainly the little new fish have none .
She have watch jelly-fish and nautilus swim a little way below the surface , and beautiful colour sea-weeds float about ; but that be all .
Now , when she plunge deep her eye fell upon strange thing .
Wedges of gold , great anchor , heap of pearl , inestimable stone , unvalued jewel -- all scatter in the bottom of the sea !
Dead men 's bone be there also , and long white creature who have never see the light , for they mostly dwell in the cleft of rock where the sun 's ray could not come .
At first our little fish felt a if she be blind also , but by-and-by she begin to make out one object after another in the green dimness , and by the time she have swum for a few hour all become clear .
` Here we be at last , ' cry a big fish , go down into a deep valley , for the sea have it mountain and valley just as much a the land .
` That be the palace of the queen of the fish , and I think you must confess that the emperor himself have nothing so fine . '
` It be beautiful indeed , ' gasp the little fish , who be very tired with try to swim as fast a the rest , and beautiful beyond word the palace be .
The wall be make of pale pink coral , wear smooth by the water , and round the window be row of pearl ; the great door be stand open , and the whole troop float into the chamber of audience , where the queen , who be half a woman after all , be seat on a throne make of a green and blue shell .
` Who be you , and where do you come from ? '
say she to the little fish , whom the others have push in front .
And in a low , trembling voice , the visitor tell her story . '
I be once a girl too , ' answer the queen , when the fish have end ; ` and my father be the king of a great country .
A husband be find for me , and on my wedding-day my mother place her crown on my head and tell me that as long a I wear it I should likewise be queen .
For many month I be as happy a a girl could be , especially when I have a little son to play with .
But , one morning , when I be walk in my garden , there come a giant and snatch the crown from my head .
Holding me fast , he tell me that he intend to give the crown to his daughter , and to enchant my husband the prince , so that he should not know the difference between u .
Since then she have fill my place and be queen in my stead .
As for me , I be so miserable that I throw myself into the sea , and my lady , who love me , declare that they would die too ; but , instead of die , some wizard , who pity my fate , turn u all into fish , though he allow me to keep the face and body of a woman .
And fish we must remain till someone bring me back my crown again ! ' '
I will bring it back if you tell me what to do ! '
cry the little fish , who would have promise anything that be likely to carry her up to earth again .
And the queen answer : ` Yes , I will tell you what to do . '
She sit silent for a moment , and then go on : ` There be no danger if you will only follow my counsel ; and first you must return to earth , and go up to the top of a high mountain , where the giant have build his castle .
You will find him sit on the step weep for his daughter , who have just die while the prince be away hunt .
At the last she send her father my crown by a faithful servant .
But I warn you to be careful , for if he see you he may kill you .
Therefore I will give you the power to change yourself into any creature that may help you best .
You have only to strike your forehead , and call out it name . '
This time the journey to land seem much short than before , and when once the fish reach the shore she strike her forehead sharply with her tail , and cry : ` Deer , come to me ! '
In a moment the small , slimy body disappear , and in it place stand a beautiful beast with branch horn and slender leg , quiver with longing to be go .
Throwing back her head and snuff the air , she break into a run , leap easily over the river and wall that stand in her way .
It happen that the king 's son have be hunt since daybreak , but have kill nothing , and when the deer cross his path a he be rest under a tree he determine to have her .
He fling himself on his horse , which go like the wind , and a the prince have often hunt the forest before , and know all the short cut , he at last come up with the pant beast .
` By your favour let me go , and do not kill me , ' say the deer , turn to the prince with tear in her eye , ` for I have far to run and much to do . '
And a the prince , strike dumb with surprise , only look at her , the deer clear the next wall and be soon out of sight .
` That ca n't really be a deer , ' think the prince to himself , rein in his horse and not attempt to follow her .
` No deer ever have eye like that .
It must be an enchanted maiden , and I will marry her and no other . '
So , turn his horse 's head , he ride slowly back to his palace .
The deer reach the giant 's castle quite out of breath , and her heart sank a she gaze at the tall , smooth wall which surround it .
Then she pluck up courage and cry : ` Ant , come to me ! '
And in a moment the branching horn and beautiful shape have vanish , and a tiny brown ant , invisible to all who do not look closely , be climb up the wall .
It be wonderful how fast she go , that little creature !
The wall must have appear mile high in comparison with her own body ; yet , in less time than would have seem possible , she be over the top and down in the courtyard on the other side .
Here she pause to consider what have best be do next , and look about her she saw that one of the wall have a tall tree grow by it , and in the corner be a window very nearly on a level with the high branch of the tree .
` Monkey , come to me ! '
cry the ant ; and before you could turn round a monkey be swing herself from the topmost branch into the room where the giant lay snoring .
` Perhaps he will be so frighten at the sight of me that he may die of fear , and I shall never get the crown , ' think the monkey . '
I have well become something else . '
And she call softly : ` Parrot , come to me ! '
Then a pink and grey parrot hop up to the giant , who by this time be stretch himself and give yawn which shake the castle .
The parrot wait a little , until he be really awake , and then she say boldly that she have be send to take away the crown , which be not his any long , now his daughter the queen be dead .
On hear these word the giant leapt out of bed with an angry roar , and sprang at the parrot in order to wring her neck with his great hand .
But the bird be too quick for him , and , fly behind his back , beg the giant to have patience , a her death would be of no use to him .
` That be true , ' answer the giant ; ` but I be not so foolish a to give you that crown for nothing .
Let me think what I will have in exchange ! '
And he scratch his huge head for several minute , for giant ' mind always move slowly .
` Ah , yes , that will do ! '
exclaim the giant at last , his face brightening .
` You shall have the crown if you will bring me a collar of blue stone from the Arch of St. Martin , in the Great City . '
Now when the parrot have be a girl she have often hear of this wonderful arch and the precious stone and marble that have be let into it .
It sound a if it would be a very hard thing to get them away from the building of which they form a part , but all have go well with her so far , and at any rate she could but try .
So she bow to the giant , and make her way back to the window where the giant could not see her .
Then she call quickly : ` Eagle , come to me ! '
Before she have even reach the tree she felt herself bear up on strong wing ready to carry her to the cloud if she wish to go there , and seem a mere speck in the sky , she be sweep along till she behold the Arch of St. Martin far below , with the ray of the sun shin on it .
Then she swoop down , and , hide herself behind a buttress so that she could not be detect from below , she set herself to dig out the near blue stone with her beak .
It be even hard work than she have expect ; but at last it be do , and hope arose in her heart .
She next draw out a piece of string that she have find hang from a tree , and sit down to rest strung the stone together .
When the necklace be finish she hang it round her neck , and call : ` Parrot , come to me ! '
And a little later the pink and grey parrot stand before the giant .
` Here be the necklace you ask for , ' say the parrot .
And the eye of the giant glisten a he take the heap of blue stone in his hand .
But for all that he be not mind to give up the crown .
` They be hardly as blue a I expect , ' he grumble , though the parrot know as well a he do that he be not speak the truth ; ` so you must bring me something else in exchange for the crown you covet so much .
If you fail it will cost you not only the crown but you life also . '
` What be it you want now ? '
ask the parrot ; and the giant answer : ` If I give you my crown I must have another still more beautiful ; and this time you shall bring me a crown of star . '
The parrot turn away , and as soon a she be outside she murmur : ` Toad , come to me ! '
And sure enough a toad she be , and off she set in search of the starry crown .
She have not go far before she come to a clear pool , in which the star be reflect so brightly that they look quite real to touch and handle .
Stooping down she fill a bag she be carry with the shining water and , return to the castle , weave a crown out of the reflected star .
Then she cry a before : ` Parrot , come to me ! '
And in the shape of a parrot she enter the presence of the giant .
` Here be the crown you ask for , ' she say ; and this time the giant could not help cry out with admiration .
He know he be beat , and still hold the chaplet of star , he turn to the girl .
` Your power be great than mine : take the crown ; you have win it fairly ! '
The parrot do not need to be tell twice .
Seizing the crown , she spring on to the window , cry : ` Monkey , come to me ! '
And to a monkey , the climb down the tree into the courtyard do not take half a minute .
When she have reach the ground she say again : ` Ant , come to me ! '
And a little ant at once begin to crawl over the high wall .
How glad the ant be to be out of the giant 's castle , hold fast the crown which have shrunk into almost nothing , a she herself have do , but grow quite big again when the ant exclaim : ` Deer , come to me ! '
Surely no deer ever run so swiftly a that one !
On and on she go , bound over river and crash through tangle till she reach the sea .
Here she cry for the last time : ` Fish , come to me ! '
And , plunge in , she swim along the bottom as far a the palace , where the queen and all the fish gather together await her .
The hour since she have leave have go very slowly -- a they always do to people that be wait -- and many of them have quite give up hope . '
I be tire of stay here , ' grumble a beautiful little creature , whose colour change with every movement of her body , ' I want to see what be go on in the upper world .
It must be month since that fish go away . '
` It be a very difficult task , and the giant must certainly have kill her or she would have be back long ago , ' remark another .
` The young fly will be come out now , ' murmur a third , ` and they will all be eat up by the river fish !
It be really too bad ! '
When , suddenly , a voice be hear from behind : ` Look !
look !
what be that bright thing that be move so swiftly towards u ? '
And the queen start up , and stand on her tail , so excited be she .
A silence fell on all the crowd , and even the grumbler hold their peace and gaze like the rest .
On and on come the fish , hold the crown tightly in her mouth , and the others move back to let her pas .
On she go right up to the queen , who bend and , take the crown , place it on her own head .
Then a wonderful thing happen .
Her tail drop away or , rather , it divide and grow into two leg and a pair of the pretty foot in the world , while her maiden , who be group around her , shed their scale and become girl again .
They all turn and look at each other first , and next at the little fish who have regain her own shape and be more beautiful than any of them .
` It be you who have give u back our life ; you , you ! '
they cry ; and fell to weep from very joy .
So they all go back to earth and the queen 's palace , and quite forget the one that lay under the sea .
But they have be so long away that they find many change .
The prince , the queen 's husband , have die some year since , and in his place be her son , who have grow up and be king !
Even in his joy at see his mother again an air of sadness clung to him , and at last the queen could bear it no longer , and beg him to walk with her in the garden .
Seated together in a bower of jessamine -- where she have pass long hour a a bride -- she take her son 's hand and entreat him to tell her the cause of his sorrow .
` For , ' say she , ` if I can give you happiness you shall have it . '
` It be no use , ' answer the prince ; ` nobody can help me .
I must bear it alone . '
` But at least let me share your grief , ' urge the queen .
` No one can do that , ' say he . '
I have fall in love with what I can never marry , and I must get on a best I can . '
` It may not be as impossible a you think , ' answer the queen .
` At any rate , tell me . '
There be silence between them for a moment , then , turn away his head , the prince answer gently : ' I have fall in love with a beautiful deer ! '
` Ah , if that be all , ' exclaim the queen joyfully .
And she tell him in broken word that , a he have guess , it be no deer but an enchanted maiden who have win back the crown and bring her home to her own people .
` She be here , in my palace , ' add the queen . '
I will take you to her . '
But when the prince stand before the girl , who be so much more beautiful than anything he have ever dream of , he lose all his courage , and stand with bent head before her .
Then the maiden draw near , and her eye , a she look at him , be the eye of the deer that day in the forest .
She whisper softly : ` By your favour let me go , and do not kill me . '
And the prince remember her word , and his heart be fill with happiness .
And the queen , his mother , watch them and smile .
The Owl and the Eagle -LSB- From Cuentos Populars Catalans , por lo Dr. D. Francisco de S. Maspons y Labros . -RSB-
Once upon a time , in a savage country where the snow lie deep for many month in the year , there live an owl and an eagle .
Though they be so different in many way they become great friend , and at length set up house together , one pass the day in hunting and the other the night .
In this manner they do not see very much of each other -- and perhaps agree all the good for that ; but at any rate they be perfectly happy , and only want one thing , or , rather , two thing , and that be a wife for each . '
I really be too tired when I come home in the evening to clean up the house , ' say the eagle .
` And I be much too sleepy at dawn after a long night 's hunting to begin to sweep and dust , ' answer the owl .
And they both make up their mind that wive they must have .
They fly about in their spare moment to the young lady of their acquaintance , but the girl all declare they prefer one husband to two .
The poor bird begin to despair , when , one evening , after they have be for a wonder hunt together , they find two sister fast asleep on their two bed .
The eagle look at the owl and the owl look at the eagle .
` They will make capital wife if they will only stay with u , ' say they .
And they fly off to give themselves a wash , and to make themselves smart before the girl awake .
For many hour the sister sleep on , for they have come a long way , from a town where there be scarcely anything to eat , and felt weak and tired .
But by-and-by they open their eye and saw the two bird watch them . '
I hope you be rest ? '
ask the owl politely .
` Oh , yes , thank you , ' answer the girl .
` Only we be so very hungry .
Do you think we could have something to eat ? '
` Certainly ! '
reply the eagle .
And he fly away to a farmhouse a mile or two off , and bring back a nest of egg in his strong beak ; while the owl , catch up a tin pot , go to a cottage where live an old woman and her cow , and enter the shed by the window dip the pot into the pail of new milk that stand there .
The girl be so much delight with the kindness and cleverness of their host that , when the bird inquire if they would marry them and stay there for ever , they accept without so much a give it a second thought .
So the eagle take the young sister to wife , and the owl the elder , and never be a home more peaceful than theirs !
All go well for several month , and then the eagle 's wife have a son , while , on the same day , the owl 's wife give birth to a frog , which she place directly on the bank of a stream near by , a he do not seem to like the house .
The child both grow quickly , and be never tire of play together , or want any other companion .
One night in the spring , when the ice have melt , and the snow be go , the sister sit spin in the house , await their husband ' return .
But long though they watch , neither the owl nor the eagle ever come ; neither that day nor the next , nor the next , nor the next .
At last the wife give up all hope of their return ; but , be sensible woman , they do not sit down and cry , but call their child , and set out , determine to seek the whole world over till the miss husband be find .
Now the woman have no idea in which direction the lose bird have go , but they know that some distance off be a thick forest , where good hunting be to be find .
It seem a likely place to find them , or , at any rate , they might hear something of them , and they walk quickly on , cheer by the thought that they be do something .
Suddenly the young sister , who be a little in front , give a cry of surprise .
` Oh !
look at that lake ! '
she say , ` we shall never get across it . '
` Yes we shall , ' answer the elder ; ' I know what to do . '
And take a long piece of string from her pocket , fasten it into the frog 's mouth , like a bit .
` You must swim across the lake , ' she say , stoop to put him in , ` and we will walk across on the line behind you . '
And so they do , till they get to about the middle of the lake , when the frog boy stop . '
I do n't like it , and I wo n't go any far , ' cry he sulkily .
And his mother have to promise him all sort of nice thing before he would go on again .
When at last they reach the other side , the owl 's wife untie the line from the frog 's mouth and tell him he might rest and play by the lake till they get back from the forest .
Then she and her sister and the boy walk on , with the great forest loom before them .
But they have by this time come far and be very tired , and felt glad enough to see some smoke curl up from a little hut in front of them .
` Let u go in and ask for some water , ' say the eagle 's wife ; and in they go .
The inside of the hut be so dark that at first they could see nothing at all ; but presently they hear a feeble croak from one corner .
But sister turn to look , and there , tie by wing and foot , and their eye sink , be the husband that they seek .
Quick a lightning the wife cut the deer-thongs which bind them ; but the poor bird be too weak from pain and starvation to do more than utter soft sound of joy .
Hardly , however , be they set free , than a voice of thunder make the two sister jump , while the little boy clung tightly round his mother 's neck .
` What be you do in my house ? '
cry she .
And the wife answer boldly that now they have find their husband they mean to save them from such a wicked witch .
` Well , I will give you your chance , ' answer the ogress , with a hideous grin ; ` we will see if you can slide down this mountain .
If you can reach the bottom of the cavern , you shall have your husband back again . '
And a she speak she push them before her out of the door to the edge of a precipice , which go straight down several hundred of foot .
Unseen by the witch , the frog 's mother fasten one end of the magic line about her , and whisper to the little boy to hold fast the other .
She have scarcely do so when the witch turn round .
` You do n't seem to like your bargain , ' say she ; but the girl answer : ` Oh , yes , I be quite ready .
I be only wait for you ! '
And sit down she begin her slide .
On , on , she go , down to such a depth that even the witch 's eye could not follow her ; but she take for grant that the woman be dead , and tell the sister to take her place .
At that instant , however , the head of the elder appear above the rock , bring upwards by the magic line .
The witch give a howl of disgust , and hide her face in her hand ; thus give the young sister time to fasten the cord to her waist before the ogress look up .
` You ca n't expect such luck twice , ' she say ; and the girl sit down and slide over the edge .
But in a few minute she too be back again , and the witch saw that she have fail , and fear l her power be go .
Trembling with rage though she be , she dare not show it , and only laugh hideously . '
I sha 'n ' t let my prisoner go as easily a all that ! '
she say .
` Make my hair grow a thick and as black a yours , or else your husband shall never see daylight again . '
` That be quite simple , ' reply the elder sister ; ` only you must do a we do -- and perhaps you wo n't like the treatment . '
` If you can bear it , of course I can , ' answer the witch .
And so the girl tell her they have first smear their head with pitch and then lay hot stone upon them .
` It be very painful , ' say they , ` but there be no other way that we know of .
And in order to make sure that all will go right , one of u will hold you down while the other pours on the pitch . '
And so they do ; and the elder sister let down her hair till it hang over the witch 's eye , so that she might believe it be her own hair grow .
Then the other bring a huge stone , and , in short , there be an end of the witch .
The sister be savage who have never see a missionary .
So when the sister saw that she be dead they go to the hut , and nurse their husband till they grow strong .
Then they pick up the frog , and all go to make another home on the other side of the great lake .
The Frog and the Lion Fairy -LSB- From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live a king who be always at war with his neighbour , which be very strange , a he be a good and kind man , quite content with his own country , and not want to seize land belong to other people .
Perhaps he may have try too much to please everybody , and that often end in please nobody ; but , at any rate , he find himself , at the end of a hard struggle , defeat in battle , and oblige to fall back behind the wall of his capital city .
Once there , he begin to make preparation for a long siege , and the first thing he do be to plan how best to send his wife to a place of security .
The queen , who love her husband dearly , would gladly have remain with him to share his danger , but he would not allow it .
So they part , with many tear , and the queen set out with a strong guard to a fortified castle on the outskirt of a great forest , some two hundred mile distant .
She cry nearly all the way , and when she arrive she cry still more , for everything in the castle be dusty and old , and outside there be only a gravelled courtyard , and the king have forbid her to go beyond the wall without at least two soldier to take care of her .
Now the queen have only be marry a few month , and in her own home she have be use to walk and ride all over the hill without any attendant at all ; so she felt very dull at her be shut up in this way .
However , she bore it for a long while because it be the king 's wish , but when time pass and there be no sign of the war drifting in the direction of the castle , she grow bolder , and sometimes strayed outside the wall , in the direction of the forest .
Then come a dreadful period , when news from the king cease entirely .
` He must surely be ill or dead , ' think the poor girl , who even now be only sixteen . '
I can bear it no longer , and if I do not get a letter from him soon I shall leave this horrible place and go back to see what be the matter .
Oh !
I do wish I have never come away ! '
So , without tell anyone what she intend to do , she order a little low carriage to be build , something like a sledge , only it be on two wheel -- just big enough to hold one person . '
I be tire of be always in the castle , ' she say to her attendant ; ` and I mean to hunt a little .
Quite close by , of course , ' she add , see the anxious look on their face .
` And there be no reason that you should not hunt too . '
All the face brighten at that , for , to tell the truth , they be nearly as dull a their mistress ; so the queen have her way , and two beautiful horse be bring from the stable to draw the little chariot .
At first the queen take care to keep near the rest of the hunt , but gradually she stay away longer and longer , and at last , one morning , she take advantage of the appearance of a wild boar , after which her whole court instantly gallop , to turn into a path in the opposite direction .
Unluckily , it do not happen to lead towards the king 's palace , where she intend to go , but she be so afraid her flight would be notice that she whip up her horse till they run away .
When she understand what be happen the poor young queen be terribly frighten , and , drop the rein , clung to the side of the chariot .
The horse , thus leave without any control , dash blindly against a tree , and the queen be fling out on the ground , where she lay for some minute unconscious .
A rustle sound near her at length cause her to open her eye ; before her stood a huge woman , almost a giantess , without any clothes save a lion 's skin , which be throw over her shoulder , while a dried snake 's skin be plait into her hair .
In one hand she hold a club on which she lean , and in the other a quiver full of arrow .
At the sight of this strange figure the queen think she must be dead , and gaze on an inhabitant of another world .
So she murmur softly to herself : ' I be not surprised that people be so loth to die when they know that they will see such horrible creature . '
But , low a she speak , the giantess catch the word , and begin to laugh .
` Oh , do n't be afraid ; you be still alive , and perhaps , after all , you may be sorry for it .
I be the Lion Fairy , and you be go to spend the rest of your day with me in my palace , which be quite near this .
So come along . '
But the queen shrank back in horror .
` Oh , Madam Lion , take me back , I pray you , to my castle ; and fix what ransom you like , for my husband will pay it , whatever it be .
But the giantess shake her head . '
I be rich enough already , ' she answer , ` but I be often dull , and I think you may amuse me a little . '
And , so say , she change her shape into that of a lion , and throw the queen across her back , she go down the ten thousand step that lead to her palace .
The lion have reach the centre of the earth before she stop in front of a house , light with lamp , and build on the edge of a lake of quicksilver .
In this lake various huge monster might be see play or fight -- the queen do not know which -- and around flew rook and raven , utter dismal croak .
In the distance be a mountain down whose side water slowly course -- these be the tear of unhappy lover -- and nearer the gate be tree without either fruit of flower , while nettle and bramble cover the ground .
If the castle have be gloomy , what do the queen feel about this ?
For some day the queen be so much shake by all she have go through that she lay with her eye close , unable either to move or speak .
When she get well , the Lion Fairy tell her that if she like she could build herself a cabin , a she would have to spend her life in that place .
At these word the queen burst into tear , and implore her gaoler to put her to death rather than condemn her to such a life ; but the Lion Fairy only laugh , and counsel her to try to make herself pleasant , a many bad thing might befall her .
` Is there no way in which I can touch your heart ? '
ask the poor girl in despair .
` Well , if you really wish to please me you will make me a pasty out of the sting of bee , and be sure it be good . '
` But I do n't see any bee , ' answer the queen , look round .
` Oh , no , there be n't any , ' reply her tormentor ; ` but you will have to find them all the same . '
And , so say , she go away .
` After all , what do it matter ? '
think the queen to herself , ' I have only one life , and I can but lose it . '
And not care what she do , she leave the palace and seat herself under a yew tree , pour out all her grief .
` Oh , my dear husband , ' wept she , ` what will you think when you come to the castle to fetch me and find me go ?
Rather a thousand time that you should fancy me dead than imagine that I have forget you !
Ah , how fortunate that the broken chariot should be lie in the wood , for then you may grieve for me a one devour by wild beast .
And if another should take my place in your heart -- Well , at least I shall never know it . '
She might have continue for long in this fashion have not the voice of a crow directly overhead attract her attention .
Looking up to see what be the matter she behold , in the dim light , a crow hold a fat frog in his claw , which he evidently intend for his supper .
The queen rise hastily from the seat , and strike the bird sharply on the claw with the fan which hung from her side , she force him to drop the frog , which fell to the round more dead than alive .
The crow , furious at his disappointment , fly angrily away .
As soon a the frog have recover her sens she hop up to the queen , who be still sit under the yew .
Standing on her hind leg , and bow low before her , she say gently : ` Beautiful lady , by what mischance do you come here ?
You be the only creature that I have see do a kind deed since a fatal curiosity lure me to this place . '
` What sort of a frog can you be that know the language of mortal ? '
ask the queen in her turn .
` But if you do , tell me , I pray , if I alone be a captive , for hitherto I have behold no one but the monster of the lake . '
` Once upon a time they be men and woman like yourself , ' answer the frog , ` but have power in their hand , they use it for their own pleasure .
Therefore fate have send them here for a while to bear the punishment of their misdoings . '
` But you , friend frog , you be not one of these wicked people , I be sure ? '
ask the queen . '
I be half a fairy , ' reply the frog ; ` but , although I have certain magic gift , I be not able to do all I wish .
And if the Lion Fairy be to know of my presence in her kingdom she would hasten to kill me . '
` But if you be a fairy , how be it that you be so nearly slain by the crow ? '
say the queen , wrinkle her forehead .
` Because the secret of my power lie in my little cap that be make of rise leaf ; but I have lay it aside for the moment , when that horrible crow pounce upon me .
Once it be on my head I fear nothing .
But let me repeat ; have it not be for you I could not have escape death , and if I can do anything to help you , or soften your hard fate , you have only to tell me . '
` Alas , ' sigh the queen , ' I have be command by the Lion Fairy to make her a pasty out of the sting of bee , and , as far a I can discover , there be none here ; a how should there be , see there be no flower for them to fee on ?
And , even if there be , how could I catch them ? '
` Leave it to me , ' say the frog , ' I will manage it for you . '
And , utter a strange noise , she strike the ground thrice with her foot .
In an instant six thousand frog appear before her , one of them bear a little cap .
` Cover yourselves with honey , and hop round by the beehive , ' command the frog , put on the cap which her friend be hold in her mouth .
And turn to the queen , he add : ` The Lion Fairy keep a store of bee in a secret place near to the bottom of the ten thousand step lead into the upper world .
Not that she want them for herself , but they be sometimes useful to her in punish her victim .
However , this time we will get the good of her . '
Just a she have finish speak the six thousand frog return , look so strange with bee stick to every part of them that , sad a she felt , the poor queen could not help laughing .
The bee be all so stupefy with what they have eat that it be possible to draw their sting without hunt them .
So , with the help of her friend , the queen soon make ready her pasty and carry it to the Lion Fairy .
` Not enough pepper , ' say the giantess , gulp down large morsel , in order the hide the surprise she felt .
` Well , you have escape this time , and I be glad to find I have get a companion a little more intelligent than the others I have try .
Now , you have good go and build yourself a house . '
So the queen wander away , and pick up a small axe which lay near the door she begin with the help of her friend the frog to cut down some cypress tree for the purpose .
And not content with that the six thousand froggy servant be tell to help also , and it be not long before they have build the pretty little cabin in the world , and make a bed in one corner of dry fern which they fetch from the top of the ten thousand step .
It look soft and comfortable , and the queen be very glad to lie down upon it , so tired be she with all that have happen since the morning .
Scarcely , however , have she fall asleep when the lake monster begin to make the most horrible noise just outside , while a small dragon crept in and terrify her so that she run away , which be just what the dragon want !
The poor queen crouch under a rock for the rest of the night , and the next morning , when she wake from her troubled dream , she be cheer at see the frog watching by her . '
I hear we shall have to build you another palace , ' say she .
` Well , this time we wo n't go so near the lake . '
And she smile with her funny wide mouth , till the queen take heart , and they go together to find wood for the new cabin .
The tiny palace be soon ready , and a fresh bed make of wild thyme , which smelt delicious .
Neither the queen nor the frog say anything about it , but somehow , a always happen , the story come to the ear of the Lion Fairy , and she send a raven to fetch the culprit .
` What god or men be protect you ? '
she ask , with a frown .
` This earth , dry up by a constant rain of sulphur and fire , produce nothing , yet I hear that YOUR bed be make of sweet smell herb .
However , a you can get flower for yourself , of course you can get them for me , and in an hour 's time I must have in my room a nosegay of the rare flower .
If not -- !
Now you can go . '
The poor queen return to her house look so sad that the frog , who be wait for her , notice it directly .
` What be the matter ? '
say she , smile .
` Oh , how can you laugh ! '
reply the queen .
` This time I have to bring her in an hour a posy of the rare flower , and where be I to find them ?
If I fail I know she will kill me . '
` Well , I must see if I ca n't help you , ' answer the frog .
` The only person I have make friend with here be a bat .
She be a good creature , and always do what I tell her , so I will just lend her my cap , and if she put it on , and fly into the world , she will bring back all we want .
I would go myself , only she will be quicker . '
Then the queen dry her eye , and wait patiently , and long before the hour have go by the bat fly in with all the most beautiful and sweet flower that grow on the earth .
The girl spring up overjoy at the sight , and hurry with them to the Lion Fairy , who be so astonished that for once she have nothing to say .
Now the smell and touch of the flower have make the queen sick with longing for her home , and she tell the frog that she would certainly die if she do not manage to escape somehow .
` Let me consult my cap , ' say the frog ; and take it off she lay it in a box , and throw in after it a few sprig of juniper , some caper , and two pea , which she carry under her right leg ; she then shut down the lid of the box , and murmur some word which the queen do not catch .
In a few moment a voice be hear speak from the box .
` Fate , who rule u all , ' say the voice , ` forbid your leave this place till the time shall come when certain thing be fulfil .
But , instead , a gift shall be give you , which will comfort you in all your trouble . '
And the voice speak truly , for , a few day after , when the frog peep in at the door she find the most beautiful baby in the world lying by the side of the queen .
` So the cap have keep it word , ' cry the frog with delight .
` How soft it cheek be , and what tiny foot it have get !
What shall we call it ? '
This be a very important point , and need much discussion .
A thousand name be propose and reject for a thousand silly reason .
One be another remind the queen of somebody she do not like ; but at length an idea flash into the queen 's head , and she call out : ' I know !
We will call her Muffette . '
` That be the very thing , ' shout the frog , jump high into the air ; and so it be settle .
The princess Muffette be about six month old when the frog notice that the queen have begin to grow sad again .
` Why do you have that look in your eye ? '
she ask one day , when she have come in to play with the baby , who could now crawl .
The way they play their game be to let Muffette creep close to the frog , and then for the frog to bind high into the air and alight on the child 's head , or back , or leg , when she always send up a shout of pleasure .
There be no play fellow like a frog ; but then it must be a fairy frog , or else you might hurt it , and if you do something dreadful might happen to you .
Well , a I have say , our frog be strike with the queen 's sad face , and lose no time in ask her what be the reason . '
I do n't see what you have to complain of now ; Muffette be quite well and quite happy , and even the Lion Fairy be kind to her when she see her .
What be it ? '
` Oh !
if her father could only see her ! '
break forth the queen , clasp her hand .
` Or if I could only tell him all that have happen since we part .
But they will have bring him tidings of the broken carriage , and he will have think me dead , or devour by wild beast .
And though he will mourn for me long -- I know that well -- yet in time they will persuade him to take a wife , and she will be young and fair , and he will forget me . '
And in all this the queen guess truly , save that nine long year be to pass before he would consent to put another in her place .
The frog answer nothing at the time , but stop her game and hop away among the cypress tree .
Here she sit and think and think , and the next morning she go back to the queen and say : ' I have come , madam , to make you an offer .
Shall I go to the king instead of you , and tell him of your suffering , and that he have the most charming baby in the world for his daughter ?
The way be long , and I travel slowly ; but , sooner or later , I shall be sure to arrive .
Only , be you not afraid to be leave without my protection ?
Ponder the matter carefully ; it be for you to decide . '
` Oh , it need no pondering , ' cry the queen joyfully , hold up her clasped hand , and make Muffette do likewise , in token of gratitude .
But in order that he may know that you have come from me I will send him a letter . '
And prick her arm , she write a few word with her blood on the corner of her handkerchief .
Then tear it off , she give it to the frog , and they bid each other farewell .
It take the frog a year and four day to mount the ten thousand step that lead to the upper world , but that be because she be still under the spell of a wicked fairy .
By the time she reach the top , she be so tired that she have to remain for another year on the bank of a stream to rest , and also to arrange the procession with which she be to present herself before the king .
For she know far too well what be due to herself and her relation , to appear at Court a if she be a mere nobody .
At length , after many consultation with her cap , the affair be settle , and at the end of the second year after her parting with the queen they all set out .
First walk her bodyguard of grasshopper , follow by her maid of honour , who be those tiny green frog you see in the field , each one mount on a snail , and seat on a velvet saddle .
Next come the water-rats , dress a page , and lastly the frog herself , in a litter borne by eight toad , and make of tortoiseshell .
Here she could lie at her ease , with her cap on her head , for it be quite large and roomy , and could easily have hold two egg when the frog be not in it .
The journey last seven year , and all this time the queen suffer torture of hope , though Muffette do her best to comfort her .
Indeed , she would most likely have die have not the Lion Fairy take a fancy that the child and her mother should go hunt with her in the upper world , and , in spite of her sorrow , it be always a joy to the queen to see the sun again .
As for little Muffette , by the time she be seven her arrow seldom miss their mark .
So , after all , the year of wait pass more quickly than the queen have dare to hope .
The frog be always careful to maintain her dignity , and nothing would have persuade her to show her face in public place , or even along the high road , where there be a chance of meet anyone .
But sometimes , when the procession have to cross a little stream , or go over a piece of marshy ground , order would be give for a halt ; fine clothes be throw off , bridle be flung aside , and grasshopper , water-rats , even the frog herself , spend a delightful hour or two playing in the mud .
But at length the end be in sight , and the hardship be forget in the vision of the tower of the king 's palace ; and , one bright morning , the cavalcade enter the gate with all the pomp and circumstance of a royal embassy .
And surely no ambassador have ever create such a sensation !
Door and window , even the roof of house , be fill with people , whose cheer reach the ear of the king .
However , he have no time to attend to such matter just then , a , after nine year , he have at last consented to the entreaty of his courtier , and be on the eve of celebrate his second marriage .
The frog 's heart beat high when her litter draw up before the step of the palace , and lean forward she beckon to her side one of the guard who be stand in his doorway . '
I wish to see his Majesty , ' say he .
` His Majesty be engage , and can see no one , ' answer the soldier .
` His Majesty will see ME , ' return the frog , fix her eye upon him ; and somehow the man find himself lead the procession along the gallery into the Hall of Audience , where the king sit surround by his noble arrange the dress which everyone be to wear at his marriage ceremony .
All star in surprise a the procession advance , and still more when the frog give one bound from the litter on to the floor , and with another land on the arm of the chair of state . '
I be only just in time , sire , ' begin the frog ; ` have I be a day later you would have break your faith which you swear to the queen nine year ago . '
` Her remembrance will always be dear to me , ' answer the king gently , though all present expect him to rebuke the frog severely for her impertinence .
But know , Lady Frog , that a king can seldom do a he wish , but must be bind by the desire of his subject .
For nine year I have resist them ; now I can do so no long , and have make choice of the fair young maiden playing at ball yonder . '
` You can not wed her , however fair she may be , for the queen your wife be still alive , and send you this letter write in her own blood , ' say the frog , hold out the square of handkerchief a she speak .
` And , what be more , you have a daughter who be nearly nine year old , and more beautiful than all the other child in the world put together . '
The king turn pale when he hear these word , and his hand tremble so that he could hardly read what the queen have write .
Then he kiss the handkerchief twice or thrice , and burst into tear , and it be some minute before he could speak .
When at length he find his voice he tell his councillor that the writing be indeed that of the queen , and now that he have the joy of know she be alive he could , of course , proceed no further with his second marriage .
This naturally displease the ambassador who have conduct the bride to court , and one of them inquire indignantly if he mean to put such an insult on the princess on the word of a mere frog . '
I be not a `` mere frog , '' and I will give you proof of it , ' retort the angry little creature .
And put on her cap , she cry : Fairies that be my friend , come hither ! '
And in a moment a crowd of beautiful creature , each one with a crown on her head , stand before her .
Certainly none could have guess that they be the snail , water-rats , and grasshopper from which she have choose her retinue .
At a sign from the frog the fairy dance a ballet , with which everyone be so delighted that they beg to have to repeat ; but now it be not youths and maiden who be dance , but flower .
Then these again melt into fountain , whose water interlace and , rush down the side of the hall , pour out in a cascade down the step , and form a river find the castle , with the most beautiful little boat upon it , all paint and gild .
` Oh , let u go in them for a sail ! '
cry the princess , who have long ago leave her game of ball for a sight of these marvel , and , a she be bent upon it , the ambassador , who have be charge never to lose sight of her , be oblige to go also , though they never enter a boat if they could help it .
But the moment they and the princess have seat themselves on the soft cushion , river and boat vanish , and the princess and the ambassador vanish too .
Instead the snail and grasshopper and water-rats stand round the frog in their natural shape .
` Perhaps , ' say she , ` your Majesty may now be convince that I be a fairy and speak the truth .
Therefore lose no time in set in order the affair of your kingdom and go in search of your wife .
Here be a ring that will admit you into the presence of the queen , and will likewise allow you to address unharmed the Lion Fairy , though she be the most terrible creature that ever exist . '
By this time the king have forget all about the princess , whom he have only choose to please his people , and be as eager to depart on his journey a the frog be for him to go .
He make one of his minister regent of the kingdom , and give the frog everything her heart could desire ; and with her ring on his finger he ride away to the outskirt of the forest .
Here he dismount , and bid his horse go home , he push forward on foot .
Having nothing to guide him a to where he be likely to find the entrance of the under-world , the king wander hither and thither for a long while , till , one day , while he be rest under a tree , a voice speak to him .
` Why do you give yourself so much trouble for nought , when you might know what you want to know for the asking ?
Alone you will never discover the path that lead to your wife . '
Much startle , the king look about him .
He could see nothing , and somehow , when he think about it , the voice seem a if it be part of himself .
Suddenly his eye fell on the ring , and he understand .
` Fool that I be ! '
cry he ; ` and how much precious time have I waste ?
Dear ring , I beseech you , grant me a vision of my wife and my daughter ! '
And even a he speak there flash past him a huge lioness , follow by a lady and a beautiful young maid mount on fairy horse .
Almost fainting with joy he gaze after them , and then sink back tremble on the ground .
` Oh , lead me to them , lead me to them ! '
he exclaim .
And the ring , bid him take courage , conduct him safely to the dismal place where his wife have live for ten year .
Now the Lion Fairy know beforehand of his expect presence in her dominion , and she order a palace of crystal to be build in the middle of the lake of quicksilver ; and in order to make it more difficult of approach she let it float whither it would .
Immediately after their return from the chase , where the king have see them , she convey the queen and Muffette into the palace , and put them under the guard of the monster of the lake , who one and all have fall in love with the princess .
They be horribly jealous , and ready to eat each other up for her sake , so they readily accept the charge .
Some station themselves round the floating palace , some sat by the door , while the small and light perch themselves on the roof .
Of course the king be quite ignorant of these arrangement , and boldly enter the palace of the Lion Fairy , who be wait for him , with her tail lashing furiously , for she still keep her lion 's shape .
With a roar that shake the wall she fling herself upon him ; but he be on the watch , and a blow from his sword cut off the paw she have put forth to strike him dead .
She fell back , and with his helmet still on and his shield up , he set his foot on her throat .
` Give me back the wife and the child you have steal from me , ' he say , ` or you shall not live another second ! '
But the fairy answer : ` Look through the window at that lake and see if it be in my power to give them to you . '
And the king look , and through the crystal wall he behold his wife and daughter float on the quicksilver .
At that sight the Lion Fairy and all her wickedness be forget .
Flinging off his helmet , he shout to them with all his might .
The queen know his voice , and she and Muffette run to the window and hold out their hand .
Then the king swear a solemn oath that he would never leave the spot without take them if it should cost him his life ; and he mean it , though at the moment he do not know what he be undertake .
Three year pass by , and the king be no nearer to obtain his heart 's desire .
He have suffer every hardship that could be imagine -- nettle have be his bed , wild fruit more bitter than gall his food , while his day have be spend in fight the hideous monster which keep him from the palace .
He have not advanced one single step , nor gain one solitary advantage .
Now he be almost in despair , and ready to defy everything and throw himself into the lake .
It be at this moment of his black misery that , one night , a dragon who have long watch him from the roof crept to his side .
` You think that love would conquer all obstacle , ' say he ; ` well , you have find it have n't !
But if you will swear to me by your crown and sceptre that you will give me a dinner of the food that I never grow tire of , whenever I choose to ask for it , I will enable you to reach your wife and daughter . '
Ah , how glad the king be to hear that !
What oath would he not have take so a to clasp his wife and child in be arm ?
Joyfully he swear whatever the dragon ask of him ; then he jump on his back , and in another instant would have be carry by the strong wing into the castle if the near monster have not happen to awake and hear the noise of talk and swum to the shore to give battle .
The fight be long and hard , and when the king at last beat back his foe another struggle await him .
At the entrance gigantic bat , owl , and crow set upon him from all side ; but the dragon have teeth and claw , while the queen break off sharp bit of glass and stab and cut in her anxiety to help her husband .
At length the horrible creature fly away ; a sound like thunder be hear , the palace and the monster vanish , while , at the same moment -- no one know how -- the king find himself stand with his wife and daughter in the hall of his own home .
The dragon have disappear with all the rest , and for some year no more be hear or think of him .
Muffette grow every day more beautiful , and when she be fourteen the king and emperor of the neighbouring country send to ask her in marriage for themselves or their son .
For a long time the girl turn a deaf ear to all their prayer ; but at length a young prince of rare gift touch her heart , and though the king have leave her free to choose what husband she would , he have secretly hop that out of all the wooer this one might be his son-in-law .
So they be betroth that some day with great pomp , and then with many tear , the prince set out for his father 's court , bear with him a portrait of Muffette .
The day pass slowly to Muffette , in spite of her brave effort to occupy herself and not to sadden other people by her complaint .
One morning she be play on her harp in the queen 's chamber when the king burst into the room and clasp his daughter in his arm with an energy that almost frighten her .
` Oh , my child !
my dear child !
why be you ever bear ? '
cry he , as soon a he could speak .
` Is the prince dead ? '
falter Muffette , grow white and cold .
` No , no ; but -- oh , how can I tell you ! '
And he sink down on a pile of cushion while his wife and daughter kneel beside him .
At length he be able to tell his tale , and a terrible one it be !
There have just arrive at court a huge giant , a ambassador from the dragon by whose help the king have rescue the queen and Muffette from the crystal palace .
The dragon have be very busy for many year past , and have quite forget the princess till the news of her betrothal reach his ear .
Then he remember the bargain he have make with her father ; and the more he hear of Muffette the more he felt sure she would make a delicious dish .
So he have order the giant who be his servant to fetch her at once .
No word would paint the horror of both the queen and the princess a they listen to this dreadful doom .
They rush instantly to the hall , where the giant be await them , and fling themselves at his foot implore him to take the kingdom if he would , but to have pity on the princess .
The giant look at them kindly , for he be not at all hard-hearted , but say that he have no power to do anything , and that if the princess do not go with him quietly the dragon would come himself .
Several day go by , and the king and queen hardly cease from entreat the aid of the giant , who by this time be get weary of wait .
` There be only one way of help you , ' he say at last , ` and that be to marry the princess to my nephew , who , besides be young and handsome , have be train in magic , and will know how to keep her safe from the dragon . '
` Oh , thank you , thank you ! '
cry the parent , clasp his great hand to their breast .
` You have indeed lift a load from u .
She shall have half the kingdom for her dowry . '
But Muffette stand up and thrust them aside . '
I will not buy my life with faithlessness , ' she say proudly ; ` and I will go with you this moment to the dragon 's abode . '
And all her father 's and mother 's tear and prayer avail nothing to move her .
The next morning Muffette be put into a litter , and , guard by the giant and follow by the king and queen and the weeping maid of honour , they start for the foot of the mountain where the dragon have his castle .
The way , though rough and stony , seem all too short , and when they reach the spot appoint by the dragon the giant order the men who bore the litter to stand still .
` It be time for you to bid farewell to your daughter , ' say he ; ` for I see the dragon come to u . '
It be true ; a cloud appear to pass over the sun , for between them and it they could all discern dimly a huge body half a mile long approach nearer and nearer .
At first the king could not believe that this be the small beast who have seem so friendly on the shore of the lake of quicksilver but then he know very little of necromancy , and have never study the art of expand and contract his body .
But it be the dragon and nothing else , whose six wing be carry him forward as fast a might be , consider his great weight and the length of his tail , which have fifty twist and a half .
He come quickly , yes ; but the frog , mount on a greyhound , and wear her cap on her head , go quicker still .
Entering a room where the prince be sit gaze at the portrait of his betrothed , she cry to him : ` What be you do linger here , when the life of the princess be near it last moment ?
In the courtyard you will find a green horse with three head and twelve foot , and by it side a sword eighteen yard long .
Hasten , l you should be too late ! '
The fight last all day , and the prince 's strength be well-nigh spent , when the dragon , think that the victory be win , open his jaw to give a roar of triumph .
The prince saw his chance , and before his foe could shut his mouth again have plunge his sword far down his adversary 's throat .
There be a desperate clutching of the claw to the earth , a slow flagging of the great wing , then the monster roll over on his side and move no more .
Muffette be deliver .
After this they all go back to the palace .
The marriage take place the following day , and Muffette and her husband live happy for ever after .
The Adventures of Covan the Brown-Haired -LSB- From Les Contes de Fees , par Madame d'Aulnoy . -RSB-
On the shore of the west , where the great hill stand with their foot in the sea , dwell a goatherd and his wife , together with their three son and one daughter .
All day long the young men fish and hunt , while their sister take out the kid to pasture on the mountain , or stay at home help her mother and mend the net .
For several year they all live happily together , when one day , a the girl be out on the hill with the kid , the sun grow dark and an air cold a a thick white mist come creep , creep up from the sea .
She rise with a shiver , and try to call to her kid , but the voice die away in her throat , and strong arm seem to hold her .
Loud be the wail in the hut by the sea when the hour pass on and the maiden come not .
Many time the father and brother jump up , think they hear her step , but in the thick darkness they could scarcely see their own hand , nor could they tell where the river lay , nor where the mountain .
One by one the kid come home , and at every bleat someone hurry to open the door , but no sound break the stillness .
Through the night no one slept , and when morning break and the mist roll back , they seek the maiden by sea and by land , but never a trace of her could be find anywhere .
Thus a year and a day slip by , and at the end of it Gorla of the Flocks and his wife seem suddenly to have grow old .
Their son too be sad than before , for they love their sister well , and have never cease to mourn for her .
At length Ardan the eldest spoke and say : ` It be now a year and a day since our sister be take from u , and we have wait in grief and patience for her to return .
Surely some evil have befall her , or she would have send u a token to put our heart at rest ; and I have vow to myself that my eye shall not know sleep till , live or dead , I have find her . '
` If you have vow , then must you keep your vow , ' answer Gorla .
` But good have it be if you have first ask your father 's leave before you make it .
Yet , since it be so , your mother will bake you a cake for you to carry with you on your journey .
Who can tell how long it may be ? '
So the mother arose and bake not one cake but two , a big one and a little one .
` Choose , my son , ' say she .
` Will you have the little cake with your mother 's blessing , or the big one without it , in that you have set aside your father and take on yourself to make a vow ? ' '
I will have the large cake , ' answer the youth ; ` for what good would my mother 's blessing do for me if I be die of hunger ? '
And take the big cake he go his way .
Straight on he stride , let neither hill nor river hinder him .
Swiftly he walk -- swiftly a the wind that blow down the mountain .
The eagle and the gull look on from their nest a he pass , leave the deer behind him ; but at length he stop , for hunger have seize on him , and he could walk no more .
Trembling with fatigue he sit himself on a rock and break a piece off his cake .
` Spare me a morsel , Ardan son of Gorla , ' ask a raven , flutter down towards him .
` Seek food elsewhere , O bearer of ill-news , ' answered Ardan son of Gorla ; ` it be but little I have for myself . '
And he stretch himself out for a few moment , then rise to his foot again .
On and on go he till the little bird fly to their nest , and the brightness die out of the sky , and a darkness fell over the earth .
On and on , and on , till at last he saw a beam of light stream from a house and hasten towards it .
The door be open and he enter , but pause when he behold an old man lie on a bench by the fire , while seat opposite him be a maiden combing out the lock of her golden hair with a comb of silver .
` Welcome , fair youth , ' say the old man , turn his head .
` Sit down and warm yourself , and tell me how fare the outer world .
It be long since I have see it . '
` All my news be that I be seek service , ' answered Ardan son of Gorla ; ' I have come from far since sunrise , and glad be I to see the ray of your lamp stream into the darkness . ' '
I need someone to herd my three dun cow , which be hornless , ' say the old man .
` If , for the space of a year , you can bring them back to me each even before the sun set , I will make you payment that will satisfy your soul . '
But here the girl look up and answer quickly : ` Ill will come of it if he listen to your offer . '
` Counsel unsought be worth nothing , ' reply , rudely , Ardan son of Gorla .
` It would be little indeed that I be fit for if I can not drive three cow out to pasture and keep them safe from the wolf that may come down from the mountain .
Therefore , good father , I will take service with you at daybreak , and ask no payment till the new year dawn . '
Next morning the bell of the deer be not hear amongst the fern before the maiden with the hair of gold have milk the cow , and lead them in front of the cottage where the old man and Ardan son of Gorla await them .
` Let them wander where they will , ' he say to his servant , ` and never seek to turn them from their way , for well they know the field of good pasture .
But take heed to follow always behind them , and suffer nothing that you see , and nought that you hear , to draw you into leave them .
Now go , and may wisdom go with you . '
As he cease speak he touch one of the cow on her forehead , and she step along the path , with the two others one on each side .
As he have be bid , behind them come Ardan son of Gorla , rejoice in his heart that work so easy have fall to his lot .
At the year 's end , think he , enough money would lie in his pocket to carry him into far country where his sister might be , and , in the meanwhile , someone might come past who could give him tidings of her .
Thus he speak to himself , when his eye fell on a golden cock and a silver hen run swiftly along the grass in front of him .
In a moment the word that the old man have utter vanish from his mind and he give chase .
They be so near that he could almost seize their tail , yet each time he felt sure he could catch them his finger close on the empty air .
At length he could run no more , and stop to breathe , while the cock and hen go on a before .
Then he remember the cow , and , somewhat frighten , turn back to seek them .
Luckily they have not stray far , and be quietly feed on the thick green grass .
Ardan son of Gorla be sit under a tree , when he behold a staff of gold and a staff of silver double themselves in strange way on the meadow in front of him , and start up he hasten towards them .
He follow them till he be tire , but he could not catch them , though they seem ever within his reach .
When at last he give up the quest his knee tremble beneath him for very weariness , and glad be he to see a tree grow close by lade with fruit of different sort , of which he eat greedily .
The sun be by now low in the heaven , and the cow leave off feeding , and turn their face home again , follow by Ardan son of Gorla .
At the door of their stable the maiden stood await them , and say nought to their herd , she sit down and begin to milk .
But it be not milk that flow into her pail ; instead it be fill with a thin stream of water , and a she rise up from the last cow the old man appear outside .
` Faithless one , you have betray your trust ! '
he say to Ardan son of Gorla .
` Not even for one day could you keep true !
Well , you shall have your reward at once , that others may take warn from you . '
And wave his wand he touch with it the chest of the youth , who become a pillar of stone .
Now Gorla of the Flocks and his wife be full of grief that they have lose a son as well a a daughter , for no tidings have come to them of Ardan their eldest bear .
At length , when two year and two day have pass since the maiden have lead her kid to fee on the mountain and have be see no more , Ruais , second son of Gorla , rise up one morning , and say : ` Time be long without my sister and Ardan my brother .
So I have vow to seek them wherever they may be . '
And his father answer : ` Better it have be if you have first ask my consent and that of your mother ; but a you have vow so must you do . '
Then he bid his wife make a cake , but instead she make two , and offer Ruais his choice , a she have do to Ardan .
Like Ardan , Ruais choose the large , unblessed cake , and set forth on his way , do always , though he know it not , that which Ardan have do ; so , needle be it to tell what befall him till he too stand , a pillar of stone , on the hill behind the cottage , so that all men might see the fate that await those who break their faith .
Another year and a day pass by , when Covan the Brown-haired , young son of Gorla of the Flocks , one morning spake to his parent , say : ` It be more than three year since my sister leave u .
My brother have also go , no one know whither , and of u four none remain but I . No , therefore , I long to seek them , and I pray you and my mother to place no hindrance in my way . '
And his father answer : ` Go , then , and take our bless with you . '
So the wife of Gorla of the Flocks bake two cake , one large and one small ; and Covan take the small one , and start on his quest .
In the wood he felt hungry , for he have walk far , and he sit down to eat .
Suddenly a voice behind him cry : ' A bit for me !
a bit for me ! '
And look round he behold the black raven of the wilderness .
` Yes , you shall have a bit , ' say Covan the Brown-haired ; and break off a piece he stretch it upwards to the raven , who eat it greedily .
Then Covan arose and go forward , till he saw the light from the cottage stream before him , and glad be he , for night be at hand .
` Maybe I shall find some work there , ' he think , ` and at least I shall gain money to help me in my search ; for who know how far my sister and my brother may have wander ? '
The door stand open and he enter , and the old man give him welcome , and the golden-haired maiden likewise .
As happen before , he be offer by the old man to herd his cow ; and , a she have do to his brother , the maiden counsel him to leave such work alone .
But , instead of answer rudely , like both Ardan and Ruais , he thank her , with courtesy , though he have no mind to heed her ; and he listen to the warning and word of his new master .
Next day he set forth at dawn with the dun cow in front of him , and follow patiently wherever they might lead him .
On the way he saw the gold cock and silver hen , which run even closer to him than they have do to his brother .
Sorely tempt , he long to give them chase ; but , remember in time that he have be bid to look neither to the right nor to the left , with a mighty effort he turn his eye away .
Then the gold and silver staff seem to spring from the earth before him , but this time also he overcame ; and though the fruit from the magic tree almost touch his mouth , he brush it aside and go steadily on .
That day the cow wander father than ever they have do before , and never stop till they have reach a moor where the heather be burn .
The fire be fierce , but the cow take no heed , and walk steadily through it , Covan the Brown-haired follow them .
Next they plunge into a foaming river , and Covan plunge in after them , though the water come high above his waist .
On the other side of the river lay a wide plain , and here the cow lay down , while Covan look about him .
Near him be a house built of yellow stone , and from it come sweet song , and Covan listen , and his heart grow light within him .
While he be thus wait there run up to him a youth , scarcely able to speak so swiftly have he speed ; and he cry aloud : ` Hasten , hasten , Covan the Brown-haired , for your cow be in the corn , and you must drive them out ! '
` Nay , ' say Covan smiling , ` it have be easier for you to have drive them out than to come here to tell me . '
And he go on listen to the music .
Very soon the same youth return and cry with pant breath : ` Out upon you , Covan son of Gorla , that you stand there agape .
For our dog be chase your cow , and you must drive them off ! '
` Nay , then , ' answered Covan a before , ` it have be easier for you to call off your dog than to come here to tell me . '
And he stay where he be till the music cease .
Then he turn to look for the cow , and find them all lie in the place where he have leave them ; but when they saw Covan they rise up and walked homewards , take a different path to that they have tread in the morning .
This time they pass over a plain so bare that a pin could not have lain there unnoticed , yet Covan beheld with surprise a foal and it mother feeding there , both as fat a if they have pasture on the rich grass .
Further on they cross another plain , where the grass be thick and green , but on it be feed a foal and it mother , so lean that you could have count their rib .
And far again the path lead them by the shore of a lake whereon be float two boat ; one full of gay and happy youth , journey to the land of the Sun , and another with grim shape clothe in black , travel to the land of Night .
` What can these thing mean ? '
say Covan to himself , a he follow his cow .
Darkness now fell , the wind howl , and torrent of rain pour upon them .
Covan know not how far they might yet have to go , or indeed if they be on the right road .
He could not even see his cow , and his heart sank l , after all , he should have fail to bring them safely back .
What be he to do ?
He wait thus , for he could go neither forward nor backwards , till he felt a great friendly paw lay on his shoulder .
` My cave be just here , ' say the Dog of Maol-mor , of whom Covan son of Gorla have hear much .
` Spend the night here , and you shall be feed on the flesh of lamb , and shall lay aside three-thirds of thy weariness . '
And Covan enter , and sup , and slept , and in the morning rise up a new man .
` Farewell , Covan , ' say the Dog of Maol-mor .
` May success go with you , for you take what I have to give and do not mock me .
So , when danger be your companion , wish for me , and I will not fail you . '
At these word the Dog of Maol-mor disappear into the forest , and Covan go to seek his cow , which be stand in the hollow where the darkness have come upon them .
At the sight of Covan the Brown-haired they walk onwards , Covan follow ever behind them , and look neither to the right nor to the left .
All that day they walk , and when night fell they be in a barren plain , with only rock for shelter .
` We must rest here as best we can , ' speak Covan to the cow .
And they bow their head and lay down in the place where they stand .
Then come the black raven of Corri-nan-creag , whose eye never close , and whose wing never tire ; and he flutter before the face of Covan and tell him that he know of a cranny in the rock where there be food in plenty , and soft moss for a bed .
` Go with me thither , ' he say to Covan , ` and you shall lay aside three-thirds of your weariness , and depart in the morning refresh , ' and Covan listen thankfully to his word , and at dawn he rise up to seek his cow .
` Farewell ! '
cry the black raven .
` You trust me , and take all I have to offer in return for the food you once give me .
So if in time to come you need a friend , wish for me , and I will not fail you . '
As before , the cow be stand in the spot where he have leave them , ready to set out .
All that day they walk , on and on , and on , Covan son of Gorla walk behind them , till night fell while they be on the bank of a river .
` We can go no far , ' spake Covan to the cow .
And they begin to eat the grass by the side of the stream , while Covan listen to them and long for some supper also , for they have travel far , and his limb be weak under him .
Then there be a swish of water at his foot , and out peep the head of the famous otter Doran-donn of the stream .
` Trust to me and I will find you warmth and shelter , ' say Doran-donn ; ` and for food fish in plenty . '
And Covan go with him thankfully , and ate and rest , and lay aside three-thirds of his weariness .
At sunrise he leave his bed of dried sea-weed , which have float up with the tide , and with a grateful heart bade farewell to Doran-donn .
` Because you trust me and take what I have to offer , you have make me your friend , Covan , ' say Doran-donn .
` And if you should be in danger , and need help from one who can swim a river or dive beneath a wave , call to me and I will come to you . '
Then he plunge into the stream , and be see no more .
The cow be stand ready in the place where Covan have leave them , and they journey on all that day , till , when night fell , they reach the cottage .
Joyful indeed be the old man a the cow go into their stable , and he behold the rich milk that flow into the pail of the golden-haired maiden with the silver comb .
` You have do well indeed , ' he say to Covan son of Gorla .
` And now , what would you have a a reward ? ' '
I want nothing for myself , ' answer Covan the Brown-haired ; ` but I ask you to give me back my brother and my sister who have be lose to u for three year past .
You be wise and know the lore of fairy and of witch ; tell me where I can find them , and what I must do to bring them to life again . '
The old man look grave at the word of Covan .
` Yes , truly I know where they be , ' answer he , ` and I say not that they may not be bring to life again .
But the peril be great -- too great for you to overcome . '
` Tell me what they be , ' say Covan again , ` and I shall know good if I may overcome them . '
` Listen , then , and judge .
In the mountain yonder there dwell a roe , white of foot , with horn that branch like the antler of a deer .
On the lake that lead to the land of the Sun float a duck whose body be green and whose neck be of gold .
In the pool of Corri-Bui swim a salmon with a skin that shin like silver , and whose gill be red -- bring them all to me , and then you shall know where dwell your brother and your sister ! '
` To-morrow at cock-crow I will begone ! '
answer Covan .
The way to the mountain lay straight before him , and when he have climb high he catch sight of the roe with the white foot and the spotted side , on the peak in front .
Full of hope he set out in pursuit of her , but by the time he have reach that peak she have leave it and be to be see on another .
And so it always happen , and Covan 's courage have well-nigh fail him , when the thought of the Dog of Maol-mor dart into his mind .
` Oh , that he be here ! '
he cry .
And look up he saw him .
` Why do you summon me ? '
ask the Dog of Maol-mor .
And when Covan have tell him of his trouble , and how the roe always lead him far and far , the Dog only answer : ` Fear nothing ; I will soon catch her for you . '
And in a short while he lay the roe unhurt at Covan 's foot .
` What will you wish me to do with her ? '
say the Dog .
And Covan answer : ` The old man bid me bring her , and the duck with the golden neck , and the salmon with the silver side , to his cottage ; if I shall catch them , I know not .
But carry you the roe to the back of the cottage , and tether her so that she can not escape . '
` It shall be do , ' say the Dog of Maol-mor .
Then Covan speed to the lake which lead to the land of the Sun , where the duck with the green body and the golden neck be swim among the water-lilies .
` Surely I can catch him , good swimmer a I be , ' to himself .
But , if he could swim well , the duck could swim good , and at length his strength fail him , and he be force to seek the land .
` Oh that the black raven be here to help me ! '
he think to himself .
And in a moment the black raven be perch on his shoulder .
` How can I help you ? '
ask the raven .
And Covan answer : ` Catch me the green duck that float on the water . '
And the raven fly with his strong wing and pick him up in his strong beak , and in another moment the bird be lay at the foot of Covan .
This time it be easy for the young man to carry his prize , and after give thanks to the raven for his aid , he go on to the river .
In the deep dark pool of which the old man have speak the silver-sided salmon be lie under a rock .
` Surely I , good fisher a I be , can catch him , ' say Covan son of Gorla .
And cut a slender pole from a bush , he fasten a line to the end of it .
But cast with what skill he might , it avail nothing , for the salmon would not even look at the bait . '
I be beat at last , unless the Doran-donn can deliver me , ' he cry .
And a he speak there be a swish of the water , and the face of the Doran-donn look up at him . '
O catch me , I pray you , that salmon under the rock ! '
say Covan son of Gorla .
And the Doran-donn dive , and lay hold of the salmon by his tail , bore it back to the place where Covan be stand .
` The roe , and the duck , and the salmon be here , ' say Covan to the old man , when he reach the cottage .
And the old man smile on him and bid him eat and drink , and after he hunger no more , he would speak with him .
And this be what the old man say : ` You begin well , my son , so thing have go well with you .
You set store by your mother 's blessing , therefore you have be blest .
You give food to the raven when it hunger , you be true to the promise you have make to me , and do not suffer yourself to be turn aside by vain show .
You be skilled to perceive that the boy who tempt you to leave the temple be a teller of false tale , and take with a grateful heart what the poor have to offer you .
Last of all , difficulty give you courage , instead of lending you despair .
And now , a to your reward , you shall in truth take your sister home with you , and your brother I will restore to life ; but idle and unfaithful a they be their lot be to wander for ever .
And so farewell , and may wisdom be with you . '
` First tell me your name ? '
ask Covan softly . '
I be the Spirit of Age , ' say the old man .
The Princess Bella-Flor -LSB- Taken from a Celtic Story .
Translated by Doctor Macleod Clarke . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live a man who have two son .
When they grow up the elder go to seek his fortune in a far country , and for many year no one heard anything about him .
Meanwhile the young son stay at home with his father , who die at last in a good old age , leave great rich behind him .
For some time the son who stay at home spend his father 's wealth freely , believe that he alone remain to enjoy it .
But , one day , a he be come down stairs , he be surprised to see a stranger enter the hall , look about a if the house belong to him .
` Have you forget me ? '
ask the man . '
I ca n't forget a person I have never know , ' be the rude answer . '
I be your brother , ' reply the stranger , ` and I have return home without the money I hop to have make .
And , what be bad , they tell me in the village that my father be dead .
I would have count my lose gold a nothing if I could have see him once more . '
` He die six month ago , ' say the rich brother , ` and he leave you , a your portion , the old wooden chest that stand in the loft .
You have good go there and look for it ; I have no more time to waste . '
And he go his way .
So the wanderer turn his step to the loft , which be at the top of the storehouse , and there he find the wooden chest , so old that it look a if it be drop to piece .
` What use be this old thing to me ? '
he say to himself .
` Oh , well , it will serve to light a fire at which I can warm myself ; so thing might be bad after all . '
Placing the chest on his back , the man , whose name be Jose , set out for his inn , and , borrow a hatchet , begin to chop up the box .
In do so he discover a secret drawer , and in it lay a paper .
He open the paper , not know what it might contain , and be astonish to find that it be the acknowledgment of a large debt that be owe to his father .
Putting the precious writing in his pocket , he hastily inquire of the landlord where he could find the man whose name be write inside , and he run out at once in search of him .
The debtor prove to be an old miser , who live at the other end of the village .
He have hop for many month that the paper he have write have be lose or destroy , and , indeed , when he saw it , be very unwilling to pay what he owe .
However , the stranger threaten to drag him before the king , and when the miser saw that there be no help for it he count out the coin one by one .
The stranger pick them up and put them in his pocket , and go back to his inn feeling that he be now a rich man .
A few week after this he be walk through the street of the near town , when he meet a poor woman cry bitterly .
He stop and ask her what be the matter , and she answer between her sob that her husband be die , and , to make matter bad , a creditor whom he could not pay be anxious to have him take to prison .
` Comfort yourself , ' say the stranger kindly ; ` they shall neither send your husband to prison nor sell your good .
I will not only pay his debt but , if he die , the cost of his burial also .
And now go home , and nurse him as well a you can . '
And so she do ; but , in spite of her care , the husband die , and be bury by the stranger .
But everything cost more than he expect , and when all be pay he find that only three gold piece be leave .
` What be I to do now ? '
say he to himself . '
I think I have well go to court , and enter into the service of the king . '
At first he be only a servant , who carry the king the water for his bath , and saw that his bed be make in a particular fashion .
But he do his duty so well that his master soon take notice of him , and in a short time he rise to be a gentleman of the bedchamber .
Now , when this happen the young brother have spend all the money he have inherit , and do not know how to make any for himself .
He then bethink him of the king 's favourite , and go whine to the palace to beg that his brother , whom he have so ill-used , would give him his protection , and find him a place .
The elder , who be always ready to help everyone spoke to the king on his behalf , and the next day the young man take up be work at court .
Unfortunately , the new-comer be by nature spiteful and envious , and could not bear anyone to have good luck than himself .
By dint of spy through keyhole and listen at door , he learn that the king , old and ugly though he be , have fall in love with the Princess Bella-Flor , who would have nothing to say to him , and have hide herself in some mountain castle , no one knew where .
` That will do nicely , ' think the scoundrel , rub his hand .
` It will be quite easy to get the king to send my brother in search of her , and if he return without find her , his head will be the forfeit .
Either way , he will be out of MY path . '
So he go at once to the Lord High Chamberlain and crave an audience of the king , to whom he declare he wish to tell some news of the high importance .
The king admit him into the presence chamber without delay , and bid him state what he have to say , and to be quick about it .
` Oh , sire !
the Princess Bella-Flor -- ' answer the man , and then stop a if afraid .
` What of the Princess Bella-Flor ? '
ask the king impatiently . '
I have hear -- it be whisper at court -- that your majesty desire to know where she lie in hide . ' '
I would give half my kingdom to the man who will bring her to me , ' cry the king , eagerly .
` Speak on , knave ; have a bird of the air reveal to you the secret ? '
` It be not I , but my brother , who know , ' reply the traitor ; ` if your majesty would ask him -- ' But before the word be out of his mouth the king have strike a blow with his sceptre on a golden plate that hung on the wall .
` Order Jose to appear before me instantly , ' he shout to the servant who run to obey his order , so great be the noise his majesty have make ; and when Jose enter the hall , wonder what in the world could be the matter , the king be nearly dumb from rage and excitement .
` Bring me the Princess Bella-Flor this moment , ' stammer he , ` for if you return without her I will have you drown ! '
And without another word he leave the hall , leave Jose star with surprise and horror .
` How can I find the Princess Bella-Flor when I have never even see her ? '
thought he .
` But it be no use stay here , for I shall only be put to death . '
And he walk slowly to the stable to choose himself a horse .
There be row upon row of fine beast with their name write in gold above their stall , and Jose be look uncertainly from one to the other , wonder which he should choose , when an old white horse turn it head and sign to him to approach .
` Take me , ' it say in a gentle whisper , ` and all will go well . '
Jose still felt so bewilder with the mission that the king have give him that he forget to be astonish at hear a horse talk .
Mechanically he lay his hand on the bridle and lead the white horse out of the stable .
He be about to mount on his back , when the animal spoke again : ` Pick up those three loaf of bread which you see there , and put them in your pocket . '
Jose do a he be tell , and be in a great hurry to get away , ask no question , but swing himself into the saddle .
They ride far without meet any adventure , but at length they come to an ant-hill , and the horse stop .
` Crumble those three loaf for the ant , ' he say .
But Jose hesitate .
` Why , we may want them ourselves ! '
answer he .
` Never mind that ; give them to the ant all the same .
Do not lose a chance of help others . '
And when the loaf lay in crumb on the road , the horse gallop on .
By-and-by they enter a rocky pas between two mountain , and here they saw an eagle which have be catch in a hunter 's net .
` Get down and cut the mesh of the net , and set the poor bird free , ' say the horse .
` But it will take so long , ' object Jose , ` and we may miss the princess . '
` Never mind that ; do not lose a chance of help others , ' answer the horse .
And when the mesh be cut , and the eagle be free , the horse gallop on .
The have ride many mile , and at last they come to a river , where they behold a little fish lie gasp on the sand , and the horse say : ` Do you see that little fish ?
It will die if you do not put it back in the water . '
` But , really , we shall never find the Princess Bella-Flor if we waste our time like this ! '
cry Jose .
` We never waste time when we be help others , ' answer the horse .
And soon the little fish be swim happily away .
A little while after they reach a castle , which be build in the middle of a very thick wood , and right in front be the Princess Bella-Flor feed her hen .
` Now listen , ' say the horse . '
I be go to give all sort of little hop and skip , which will amuse the Princess Bella-Flor .
Then she will tell you that she would like to ride a little way , and you must help her to mount .
When she be seat I shall begin to neigh and kick , and you must say that I have never carry a woman before , and that you have good get up behind so a to be able to manage me .
Once on my back we will go like the wind to the king 's palace . '
Jose do exactly a the horse tell him , and everything fell out a the animal prophesy ; so that it be not until they be gallop breathlessly towards the palace that the princess know that she be take captive .
She say nothing , however , but quietly open her apron which contain the bran for the chicken , and in a moment it lay scatter on the ground .
` Oh , I have let fall my bran ! '
cry she ; ` please get down and pick it up for me . '
But Jose only answer : ` We shall find plenty of bran where we be go . '
And the horse gallop on .
They be now pass through a forest , and the princess take out her handkerchief and throw it upwards , so that it stick in one of the topmost branch of a tree .
` Dear me ; how stupid !
I have let my handkerchief blow away , ' say she .
` Will you climb up and get it for me ? '
But Jose answer : ` We shall find plenty of handkerchief where we be go . '
And the horse gallop on .
After the wood they reach a river , and the princess slip a ring off her finger and let it roll into the water .
` How careless of me , ' gasp she , begin to sob . '
I have lose my favourite ring ; DO stop for a moment and look if you can see it . '
But Jose answer : ` You will find plenty of ring where you be go . '
And the horse gallop on .
At last they enter the palace gate , and the king 's heart bound with joy at behold his beloved Princess Bella-Flor .
But the princess brush him aside a if he have be a fly , and lock herself into the near room , which she would not open for all his entreaty .
` Bring me the three thing I lose on the way , and perhaps I may think about it , ' be all she would say .
And , in despair , the king be drive to take counsel of Jose .
` There be no remedy that I can see , ' say his majesty , ` but that you , who know where they be , should go and bring them back .
And if you return without them I will have you drown . '
Poor Jose be much trouble at these word .
He think that he have do all that be require of him , and that his life be safe .
However , he bow low , and go out to consult his friend the horse .
` Do not vex yourself , ' say the horse , when he have hear the story ; ` jump up , and we will go and look for the thing . '
And Jose mount at once .
They ride on till they come to the ant-hill , and then the horse ask : ` Would you like to have the bran ? '
` What be the use of like ? '
answer Jose .
` Well , call the ant , and tell them to fetch it for you ; and , if some of it have be scatter by the wind , to bring in it stead the grain that be in the cake you give them . '
Jose listen in surprise .
He do not much believe in the horse 's plan ; but he could not think of anything well , so he call to the ant , and bid them collect the bran as fast a they could .
Then he saw under a tree and wait , while his horse crop the green turf .
` Look there ! '
say the animal , suddenly raise it head ; and Jose look behind him and saw a little mountain of bran , which he put into a bag that be hang over his saddle .
` Good deed bear fruit sooner or later , ' observe the horse ; ` but mount again , a we have far to go . '
When they arrive at the tree , they saw the handkerchief flutter like a flag from the topmost branch , and Jose 's spirit sink again .
` How be I to get that handkerchief ? '
cry he ; ` why I should need Jacob 's ladder ! '
But the horse answer : ` Do not be frighten ; call to the eagle you set free from the net , he will bring it to you . '
So Jose call to the eagle , and the eagle fly to the top of the tree and bring back the handkerchief in it beak .
Jose thank him , and vault on his horse they ride on to the river .
A great deal of rain have fall in the night , and the river , instead of be clear a it be before , be dark and troubled .
` How be I to fetch the ring from the bottom of this river when I do not know exactly where it be drop , and can not even see it ? '
ask Jose .
But the horse answer : ` Do not be frighten ; call the little fish whose life you save , and she will bring it to you . '
So he call to the fish , and the fish dive to the bottom and slip behind big stone , and move little one with it tail till it find the ring , and bring it to Jose in it mouth .
Well pleased with all he have do , Jose return to the palace ; but when the king take the precious object to Bella-Flor , she declare that she would never open her door till the bandit who have carry her off have be fry in oil . '
I be very sorry , ' say the king to Jose , ' I really would rather not ; but you see I have no choice . '
While the oil be be heat in the great caldron , Jose go to the stable to inquire of his friend the horse if there be no way for him to escape .
` Do not be frighten , ' say the horse .
` Get on my back , and I will gallop till my whole body be wet with perspiration , then rub it all over your skin , and no matter how hot the oil may be you will never feel it . '
Jose do not ask any more question , but do a the horse bid him ; and men wonder at his cheerful face a they lower him into the caldron of boil oil .
He be leave there till Bella-Flor cry that he must be cook enough .
Then out come a youth so young and handsome , that everyone fell in love with him , and Bella-Flor most of all .
As for the old king , he saw that he have lose the game ; and in despair he fling himself into the caldron , and be fry instead of Jose .
Then Jose be proclaim king , on condition that he marry Bella-Flor which he promise to do the next day .
But first he go to the stable and seek out the horse , and say to him : ` It be to you that I owe my life and my crown .
Why have you do all this for me ? '
And the horse answer : ' I be the soul of that unhappy man for whom you spend all your fortune .
And when I saw you in danger of death I beg that I might help you , a you have help me .
For , a I tell you , Good deed bear their own fruit ! '
The Bird of Truth -LSB- From Cuentos , Oraciones , y Adivinas , por Fernan Caballero . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live a poor fisher who build a hut on the bank of a stream which , shun the glare of the sun and the noise of the town , flow quietly past tree and under bush , listen to the song of the bird overhead .
One day , when the fisherman have go out as usual to cast his net , he saw borne towards him on the current a cradle of crystal .
Slipping his net quickly beneath it he draw it out and lift the silk coverlet .
Inside , lie on a soft bed of cotton , be two baby , a boy and a girl , who open their eye and smile at him .
The man be fill with pity at the sight , and throw down his line he take the cradle and the baby home to his wife .
The good woman fling up her hand in despair when she behold the content of the cradle .
` Are not eight child enough , ' she cry , ` without bring u two more ?
How do you think we can fee them ? '
` You would not have have me leave them to die of hunger , ' answer he , ` or be swallow up by the wave of the sea ?
What be enough for eight be also enough for ten . '
The wife say no more ; and in truth her heart yearn over the little creature .
Somehow or other food be never lack in the hut , and the child grow up and be so good and gentle that , in time , their foster-parent love them as well or good than their own , who be quarrelsome and envious .
It do not take the orphan long to notice that the boy do not like them , and be always play trick on them , so they use to go away by themselves and spend whole hour by the bank of the river .
Here they would take out the bit of bread they have save from their breakfast and crumble them for the bird .
In return , the bird teach them many thing : how to get up early in the morning , how to sing , and how to talk their language , which very few people know .
But though the little orphan do their best to avoid quarrel with their foster-brother , it be very difficult always to keep the peace .
Matters get bad and bad till , one morning , the eldest boy say to the twin : ` It be all very well for you to pretend that you have such good manner , and be so much good than we , but we have at least a father and mother , while you have only get the river , like the toad and the frog . '
The poor child do not answer the insult ; but it make them very unhappy .
And they tell each other in whisper that they could not stay there any long , but must go into the world and seek their fortune .
So next day they arise as early a the bird and stole downstairs without anybody hear them .
One window be open , and they creep softly out and run to the side of the river .
Then , feel a if they have find a friend , they walk along it bank , hop that by-and-by they should meet some one to take care of them .
The whole of that day they go steadily on without see a living creature , till , in the evening , weary and footsore , they saw before them a small hut .
This raise their spirit for a moment ; but the door be shut , and the hut seem empty , and so great be their disappointment that they almost cry .
However , the boy fight down his tear , and say cheerfully : ` Well , at any rate here be a bench where we can sit down , and when we be rest we will think what be best to do next . '
Then they sit down , and for some time they be too tired even to notice anything ; but by-and-by they saw that under the tile of the roof a number of swallow be sit , chatter merrily to each other .
Of course the swallow have no idea that the child understand their language , or they would not have talk so freely ; but , a it be , they say whatever come into their head .
` Good evening , my fine city madam , ' remark a swallow , whose manner be rather rough and countryfied to another who look particularly distinguish .
` Happy , indeed , be the eye that behold you !
Only think of your have return to your long-forgotten country friend , after you have live for year in a palace ! ' '
I have inherit this nest from my parent , ' reply the other , ` and a they leave it to me I certainly shall make it my home .
But , ' she add politely , ' I hope that you and all your family be well ? '
` Very well indeed , I be glad to say .
But my poor daughter have , a short time ago , such bad inflammation in her eye that she would have go blind have I not be able to find the magic herb , which cure her at once . '
` And how be the nightingale singing ?
Does the lark soar as high a ever ?
And do the linnet dress herself a smartly ? '
But here the country swallow draw herself up . '
I never talk gossip , ' she say severely .
` Our people , who be once so innocent and well-behaved , have be corrupt by the bad example of men .
It be a thousand pity . '
` What !
innocence and good behaviour be not to be meet with among bird , nor in the country !
My dear friend , what be you say ? '
` The truth and nothing more .
Imagine , when we return here , we meet some linnet who , just a the spring and the flower and the long day have come , be set out for the north and the cold ?
Out of pure compassion we try to persuade them to give up this folly ; but they only reply with the utmost insolence . '
` How shocking ! '
exclaim the city swallow .
` Yes , it be .
And bad than that , the crested lark , that be formerly so timid and shy , be now no good than a thief , and steal maize and corn whenever she can find them . ' '
I be astonish at what you say . '
` You will be more astonished when I tell you that on my arrival here for the summer I find my nest occupy by a shameless sparrow !
`` This be my nest , '' I say .
`` Yours ? ''
he answer , with a rude laugh .
`` Yes , mine ; my ancestor be bear here , and my son will be bear here also . ''
And at that my husband set upon him and throw him out of the nest .
I be sure nothing of this sort ever happen in a town . '
` Not exactly , perhaps .
But I have see a great deal -- if you only know ! '
` Oh !
do tell u !
do tell u ! '
cry they all .
And when they have settle themselves comfortably , the city swallow begin : ` You must know , then that our king fell in love with the young daughter of a tailor , who be as good and gentle a she be beautiful .
His noble hop that he would have choose a queen from one of their daughter , and try to prevent the marriage ; but the king would not listen to them , and it take place .
Not many month later a war break out , and the king ride away at the head of his army , while the queen remain behind , very unhappy at the separation .
When peace be make , and the king return , he be tell that his wife have have two baby in his absence , but that both be dead ; that she herself have go out of her mind and be oblige to be shut up in a tower in the mountain , where , in time , the fresh air might cure her . '
` And be this not true ? '
ask the swallow eagerly .
` Of course not , ' answer the city lady , with some contempt for their stupidity .
` The child be alive at that very moment in the gardener 's cottage ; but at night the chamberlain come down and put them in a cradle of crystal , which he carry to the river .
` For a whole day they float safely , for though the stream be deep it be very still , and the child take no harm .
In the morning -- so I be tell by my friend the kingfisher -- they be rescue by a fisherman who live near the river bank . '
The child have be lie on the bench , listen lazily to the chatter up to this point ; but when they hear the story of the crystal cradle which their foster-mother have always be fond of tell them , they sit upright and look at each other .
` Oh , how glad I be I learn the bird ' language ! '
say the eye of one to the eye of the other .
Meanwhile the swallow have speak again .
` That be indeed good fortune ! '
cry they .
` And when the child be grow up they can return to their father and set their mother free . '
` It will not be so easy a you think , ' answer the city swallow , shake her head ; ` for they will have to prove that they be the king 's child , and also that their mother never go mad at all .
In fact , it be so difficult that there be only one way of prove it to the king . '
` And what be that ? '
cry all the swallow at once .
` And how do you know it ? ' '
I know it , ' answer the city swallow , ` because , one day , when I be pass through the palace garden , I meet a cuckoo , who , a I need not tell you , always pretend to be able to see into the future .
We begin to talk about certain thing which be happen in the palace , and of the event of past year .
`` Ah , '' say he , `` the only person who can expose the wickedness of the minister and show the king how wrong he have be , be the Bird of Truth , who can speak the language of men . '' '
`` And where can this bird be find ? ''
I ask . '
`` It be shut up in a castle guard by a fierce giant , who only sleep one quarter of an hour out of the whole twenty-four , '' reply the cuckoo .
` And where be this castle ? '
inquire the country swallow , who , like all the rest , and the child most of all , have be listen with deep attention .
` That be just what I do n't know , ' answer her friend .
` All I can tell you be that not far from here be a tower , where dwell an old witch , and it be she who know the way , and she will only teach it to the person who promise to bring her the water from the fountain of many colour , which she use for her enchantment .
But never will she betray the place where the Bird of Truth be hide , for she hat him , and would kill him if she could ; know well , however , that this bird can not die , a he be immortal , she keep him closely shut up , and guard night and day by the Birds of Bad Faith , who seek to gag him so that his voice should not be hear . '
` And be there no one else who can tell the poor boy where to find the bird , if he should ever manage to reach the tower ? '
ask the country swallow .
` No one , ' reply the city swallow , ` except an owl , who live a hermit 's life in that desert , and he know only one word of man 's speech , and that be `` cross . ''
So that even if the prince do succeed in get there , he could never understand what the owl say .
But , look , the sun be sink to his nest in the depth of the sea , and I must go to mine .
Good-night , friends , good-night ! '
Then the swallow fly away , and the child , who have forget both hunger and weariness in the joy of this strange news , rise up and follow in the direction of her flight .
After two hour ' walking , they arrive at a large city , which they felt sure must be the capital of their father 's kingdom .
Seeing a good-natured look woman stand at the door of a house , they ask her if she would give them a night 's lodging , and she be so pleased with their pretty face and nice manner that she welcome them warmly .
It be scarcely light the next morning before the girl be sweep out the room , and the boy water the garden , so that by the time the good woman come downstairs there be nothing left for her to do .
This so delighted her that she beg the child to stay with her altogether , and the boy answer that he would leave his sister with her gladly , but that he himself have serious business on hand and must not linger in pursuit of it .
So he bid them farewell and set out .
For three day he wander by the most out-of-the-way path , but no sign of a tower be to be see anywhere .
On the fourth morning it be just the same , and , fill with despair , he fling himself on the ground under a tree and hide his face in his hand .
In a little while he hear a rustling over his head , and look up , he saw a turtle dove watch him with her bright eye .
` Oh dove ! '
cry the boy , address the bird in her own language , ` Oh dove !
tell me , I pray you , where be the castle of Come-and-never-go ? '
` Poor child , ' answer the dove , ` who have send you on such a useless quest ? '
` My good or evil fortune , ' reply the boy , ' I know not which . '
` To get there , ' say the dove , ` you must follow the wind , which to-day be blow towards the castle . '
The boy thank her , and follow the wind , fear all the time that it might change it direction and lead him astray .
But the wind seem to feel pity for him and blow steadily on .
With each step the country become more and more dreary , but at nightfall the child could see behind the dark and bare rock something darker still .
This be the tower in which dwell the witch ; and seize the knocker he give three loud knock , which be echo in the hollow of the rock around .
The door open slowly , and there appear on the threshold an old woman hold up a candle to her face , which be so hideous that the boy involuntarily step backwards , almost a frighten by the troop of lizard , beetle and such creature that surround her , a by the woman herself .
` Who be you who dare to knock at my door and wake me ? '
cry she .
` Be quick and tell me what you want , or it will be the bad for you . '
` Madam , ' answer the child , ' I believe that you alone know the way to the castle of Come-and-never-go , and I pray you to show it to me . '
` Very good , ' reply the witch , with something that she mean for a smile , ` but to-day it be late .
To-morrow you shall go .
Now enter , and you shall sleep with my lizard . ' '
I can not stay , ' say he . '
I must go back at once , so a to reach the road from which I start before day dawn . '
` If I tell you , will you promise me that you will bring me this jar full of the many-coloured water from the spring in the court-yard of the castle ? '
ask she .
` If you fail to keep your word I will change you into a lizard for ever . ' '
I promise , ' answer the boy .
Then the old woman call to a very thin dog , and say to him : ` Conduct this pig of a child to the castle of Come-and-never-go , and take care that you warn my friend of his arrival . '
And the dog arose and shake itself , and set out .
At the end of two hour they stop in front of a large castle , big and black and gloomy , whose door stand wide open , although neither sound nor light give sign of any presence within .
The dog , however , seem to know what to expect , and , after a wild howl , go on ; but the boy , who be uncertain whether this be the quarter of an hour when the giant be asleep , hesitate to follow him , and pause for a moment under a wild olive that grow near by , the only tree which he have behold since he have part from the dove .
` Oh , heaven , help me ! '
cry he .
` Cross !
cross ! '
answer a voice .
The boy leapt for joy a he recognise the note of the owl of which the swallow have speak , and he say softly in the bird 's language : ` Oh , wise owl , I pray you to protect and guide me , for I have come in search of the Bird of Truth .
And first I must fill this far with the many-coloured water in the courtyard of the castle . '
` Do not do that , ' answer the owl , ` but fill the jar from the spring which bubble close by the fountain with the many-coloured water .
Afterwards , go into the aviary opposite the great door , but be careful not to touch any of the bright-plumaged bird contain in it , which will cry to you , each one , that he be the Bird of Truth .
Choose only a small white bird that be hide in a corner , which the others try incessantly to kill , not know that it can not die .
And , be quick !
-- for at this very moment the giant have fall asleep , and you have only a quarter of an hour to do everything . '
The boy run as fast a he could and enter the courtyard , where he saw the two spring close together .
He pass by the many-coloured water without cast a glance at it , and fill the jar from the fountain whose water be clear and pure .
He next hasten to the aviary , and be almost deafen by the clamour that rise a he shut the door behind him .
Voices of peacock , voice of raven , voice of magpie , each claiming to be the Bird of Truth .
With steadfast face the boy walk by them all , to the corner , where , hem in by a hand of fierce crow , be the small white bird he seek .
Putting her safely in his breast , he pass out , follow by the scream of the bird of Bad Faith which he leave behind him .
Once outside , he run without stop to the witch 's tower , and hand to the old woman the jar she have give him .
` Become a parrot ! '
cry she , fling the water over him .
But instead of lose his shape , a so many have do before , he only grow ten time handsomer ; for the water be enchant for good and not ill .
Then the creep multitude around the witch hasten to roll themselves in the water , and stand up , human being again .
When the witch saw what be happen , she take a broomstick and fly away .
Who can guess the delight of the sister at the sight of her brother , bear the Bird of Truth ?
But although the boy have accomplish much , something very difficult yet remain , and that be how to carry the Bird of Truth to the king without her be seize by the wicked courtier , who would be ruin by the discovery of their plot .
Soon -- no one know how -- the news spread abroad that the Bird of Truth be hover round the palace , and the courtier make all sort of preparation to hinder her reach the king .
They get ready weapon that be sharpen , and weapon that be poison ; they send for eagle and falcon to hunt her down , and construct cage and box in which to shut her up if they be not able to kill her .
They declare that her white plumage be really put on to hide her black feather -- in fact there be nothing they do not do in order to prevent the king from see the bird or from pay attention to her word if he do .
As often happen in these case , the courtier bring about that which they fear .
They talk so much about the Bird of Truth that at last the king heard of it , and express a wish to see her .
The more difficulty that be put in his way the strong grow his desire , and in the end the king publish a proclamation that whoever find the Bird of Truth should bring her to him without delay .
As soon a he saw this proclamation the boy call his sister , and they hasten to the palace .
The bird be button inside his tunic , but , a might have be expect , the courtier bar the way , and tell the child that he could not enter .
It be in vain that the boy declare that he be only obey the king 's command ; the courtier only reply that his majesty be not yet out of bed , and it be forbid to wake him .
They be still talk , when , suddenly , the bird settle the question by fly upwards through an open window into the king 's own room .
Alighting on the pillow , close to the king 's head , she bow respectfully , and say : ` My lord , I be the Bird of Truth whom you wish to see , and I have be oblige to approach you in the manner because the boy who bring me be keep out of the palace by your courtier . '
` They shall pay for their insolence , ' say the king .
And he instantly order one of his attendant to conduct the boy at once to his apartment ; and in a moment more the prince enter , hold his sister by the hand .
` Who be you ? '
ask the king ; ` and what have the Bird of Truth to do with you ? '
` If it please your majesty , the Bird of Truth will explain that herself , ' answer the boy .
And the bird do explain ; and the king heard for the first time of the wicked plot that have be successful for so many year .
He take his child in his arm , with tear in his eye , and hurry off with them to the tower in the mountain where the queen be shut up .
The poor woman be as white a marble , for she have be live almost in darkness ; but when she saw her husband and child , the colour come back to her face , and she be as beautiful a ever .
They all return in state to the city , where great rejoicing be hold .
The wicked courtier have their head cut off , and all their property be take away .
As for the good old couple , they be give rich and honour , and be love and cherish to the end of their life .
The Mink and the Wolf -LSB- From Cuentos , Oraciones y Adivinas , por Fernan Caballero . -RSB-
In a big forest in the north of America live a quantity of wild animal of all sort .
They be always very polite when they meet ; but , in spite of that , they keep a close watch one upon the other , a each be afraid of be kill and eat by somebody else .
But their manner be so good that no one would ever have guess that .
One day a smart young wolf go out to hunt , promise his grandfather and grandmother that he would be sure to be back before bedtime .
He trot along quite happily through the forest till he come to a favourite place of his , just where the river run into the sea .
There , just a he have hop , he saw the chief mink fishing in a canoe . '
I want to fish too , ' cry the wolf .
But the mink say nothing and pretend not to hear . '
I wish you would take me into your boat ! '
shout the wolf , loud than before , and he continue to beseech the mink so long that at last he grow tire of it , and paddle to the shore close enough for the wolf to jump in .
` Sit down quietly at that end or we shall be upset , ' say the mink ; ` and if you care about sea-urchins ' egg , you will find plenty in that basket .
But be sure you eat only the white one , for the red one would kill you . '
So the wolf , who be always hungry , begin to eat the egg greedily ; and when he have finish he tell the mink he think he would have a nap .
` Well , then , stretch yourself out , and rest your head on that piece of wood , ' say the mink .
And the wolf do a he be bid , and be soon fast asleep .
Then the mink creep up to him and stab him to the heart with his knife , and he die without move .
After that he land on the beach , skin the wolf , and take the skin to his cottage , he hang it up before the fire to dry .
Not many day later the wolf 's grandmother , who , with the help of her relation , have be search for him everywhere , enter the cottage to buy some sea-urchins ' egg , and saw the skin , which she at once guess to be that of her grandson . '
I know he be dead -- I know it !
I know it ! '
she cry , weep bitterly , till the mink tell her rudely that if she want to make so much noise she have well do it outside a he like to be quiet .
So , half-blinded by her tear , the old woman go home the way she have come , and run in at the door , she fling herself down in front of the fire .
` What be you cry for ? '
ask the old wolf and some friend who have be spend the afternoon with him . '
I shall never see my grandson any more ! '
answer she .
` Mink have kill him , oh !
oh ! '
And put her head down , she begin to weep as loudly a ever .
` There !
there ! '
say her husband , lay his paw on her shoulder .
` Be comfort ; if he IS dead , we will avenge him . '
And call to the others they proceed to talk over the best plan .
It take them a long time to make up their mind , a one wolf propose one thing and one another ; but at last it be agree that the old wolf should give a great feast in his house , and that the mink should be invite to the party .
And in order that no time should be lose it be far agree that each wolf should bear the invitation to the guest that live near to him .
Now the wolf think they be very cunning , but the mink be more cunning still ; and though he send a message by a white hare , that be go that way , say he should be delight to be present , he determine that he would take his precaution .
So he go to a mouse who have often do him a good turn , and greet her with his best bow . '
I have a favour to ask of you , friend mouse , ' say he , ` and if you will grant it I will carry you on my back every night for a week to the patch of maize right up the hill . '
` The favour be mine , ' answer the mouse .
` Tell me what it be that I can have the honour of do for you . '
` Oh , something quite easy , ' reply the mink . '
I only want you -- between to-day and the next full moon -- to gnaw through the bow and paddle of the wolf people , so that directly they use them they will break .
But of course you must manage it so that they notice nothing . '
` Of course , ' answer the mouse , ` nothing be easy ; but a the full moon be to-morrow night , and there be not much time , I have well begin at once . '
Then the mink thank her , and go his way ; but before he have go far he come back again .
` Perhaps , while you be about the wolf 's house seeing after the bow , it would do no harm if you be to make that knot-hole in the wall a little big , ' say he .
` Not large enough to draw attention , of course ; but it might come in handy . '
And with another nod he leave her .
The next evening the mink wash and brush himself carefully and set out for the feast .
He smile to himself a he look at the dusty track , and perceive that though the mark of wolf ' foot be many , not a single guest be to be see anywhere .
He know very well what that meant ; but he have take his precaution and be not afraid .
The house door stand open , but through a crack the mink could see the wolf crowd in the corner behind it .
However , he enter boldly , and as soon a he be fairly inside the door be shut with a bang , and the whole herd sprang at him , with their red tongue hang out of their mouth .
Quick a they be they be too late , for the mink be already through the knot-hole and race for his canoe .
The knot-hole be too small for the wolf , and there be so many of them in the hut that it be some time before they could get the door open .
Then they seize the bow and arrow which be hang on the wall and , once outside , aim at the fly mink ; but a they pull the bow break in their paw , so they throw them away , and bound to the shore , with all their speed , to the place where their canoe be draw up on the beach .
Now , although the mink could not run as fast a the wolf , he have a good start , and be already afloat when the swift among them throw themselves into the near canoe .
They push off , but a they dip the paddle into the water , they snap a the bow have do , and be quite useless . '
I know where there be some new one , ' cry a young fellow , leap on shore and rush to a little cave at the back of the beach .
And the mink 's heart smite him when he hear , for he have not know of this secret store .
After a long chase the wolf manage to surround their prey , and the mink , see it be no good resist any more , give himself up .
Some of the elder wolf bring out some cedar band , which they always carry wound round their body , but the mink laugh scornfully at the sight of them .
` Why I could snap those in a moment , ' say he ; ` if you want to make sure that I can not escape , good take a line of kelp and bind me with that . '
` You be right , ' answer the grandfather ; ` your wisdom be great than ours . '
And he bid his servant gather enough kelp from the rock to make a line , a they have bring none with them .
` While the line be be make you might as well let me have one last dance , ' remark the mink .
And the wolf reply : ` Very good , you may have your dance ; perhaps it may amuse u as well a you . '
So they bring two canoe and place them one beside the other .
The mink stand up on his hind leg and begin to dance , first in one canoe and then in the other ; and so graceful be he , that the wolf forget they be go to put him to death , and howl with pleasure .
` Pull the canoe a little apart ; they be too close for this new dance , ' he say , pause for a moment .
And the wolf separate them while he give a series of little spring , sometime pirouette while he stand with one foot on the prow of both .
` Now near , now far apart , ' he would cry a the dance go on .
` No !
far still . '
And spring into the air , amidst howl of applause , he come down head-foremost , and dive to the bottom .
And through the wolf , whose howl have now change into those of rage , seek him everywhere , they never find him , for he hide behind a rock till they be out of sight , and then make his home in another forest .
Adventures of an Indian Brave -LSB- From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute . -RSB-
A long , long way off , right away in the west of America , there once live an old man who have one son .
The country round be cover with forest , in which dwell all kind of wild beast , and the young man and his companion use to spend whole day in hunt them , and he be the fine hunter of all the tribe .
One morning , when winter be come on , the youth and his companion set off a usual to bring back some of the mountain goat and deer to be salt down , a he be afraid of a snow-storm ; and if the wind blew and the snow drift the forest might be impassable for some week .
The old man and the wife , however , would not go out , but remain in the wigwam making bow and arrow .
It soon grow so cold in the forest that at last one of the men declare they could walk no more , unless they could manage to warm themselves .
` That be easily do , ' say the leader , give a kick to a large tree .
Flames break out in the trunk , and before it have burn up they be as hot a if it have be summer .
Then they start off to the place where the goat and deer be to be find in the great number , and soon have kill as many a they want .
But the leader kill most , a he be the best shot .
` Now we must cut up the game and divide it , ' say he ; and so they do , each one take his own share ; and , walk one behind the other , set out for the village .
But when they reach a great river the young man do not want the trouble of carry his pack any further , and leave it on the bank . '
I be go home another way , ' he tell his companion .
And take another road he reach the village long before they do .
` Have you return with empty hand ? '
ask the old man , a his son open the door .
` Have I ever do that , that you put me such a question ? '
ask the youth .
` No ; I have slay enough to feast u for many moon , but it be heavy , and I leave the pack on the bank of the great river .
Give me the arrow , I will finish make them , and you can go to the river and bring home the pack ! '
So the old man rise and go , and strap the meat on his shoulder ; but a he be cross the ford the strap break and the pack fell into the river .
He stoop to catch it , but it swirl past him .
He clutch again ; but in do so he over-balanced himself and be hurry into some rapid , where he be knock against some rock , and he sink and be drown , and his body be carry down the stream into smooth water when it rise to the surface again .
But by this time it have lose all likeness to a man , and be change into a piece of wood .
The wood float on , and the river get big and big and enter a new country .
There it be bear by the current close to the shore , and a woman who be down there wash her clothes catch it a it pass , and draw it out , say to herself : ` What a nice smooth plank !
I will use it a a table to put my food upon . '
And gather up her clothes she take the plank with her into her hut .
When her supper time come she stretch the board across two string which hang from the roof , and set upon it the pot contain a stew that smelt very good .
The woman have be work hard all day and be very hungry , so she take her big spoon and plunge it into the pot .
But what be her astonishment and disgust when both pot and food vanished instantly before her !
` Oh , you horrid plank , you have bring me ill-luck ! '
she cry .
And take it up she fling it away from her .
The woman have be surprise before at the disappearance of her food , but she be more astonished still when , instead of the plank , she behold a baby .
However , she be fond of child and have none of her own , so she make up her mind that she would keep it and take care of it .
The baby grow and thrive a no baby in that country have ever do , and in four day he be a man , and a tall and strong a any brave of the tribe .
` You have treat me well , ' he say , ` and meat shall never fail to your house .
But now I must go , for I have much work to do . '
Then he set out for his home .
It take him many day to get there , and when he saw his son sit in his place his anger be kindle , and his heart be stir to take vengeance upon him .
So he go out quickly into the forest and shed tear , and each tear become a bird .
` Stay there till I want you , ' say he ; and he return to the hut . '
I saw some pretty new bird , high up in a tree yonder , ' he remark .
And the son answer : ` Show me the way and I will get them for dinner . '
The two go out together , and after walk for about half an hour they old man stop .
` That be the tree , ' he say .
And the son begin to climb it .
Now a strange thing happen .
The high the young man climb the high the bird seem to be , and when he look down the earth below appear no big than a star .
Sill he try to go back , but he could not , and though he could not see the bird any longer he felt a if something be drag him up and up .
He think that he have be climb that tree for day , and perhaps he have , for suddenly a beautiful country , yellow with field of maize , stretch before him , and he gladly leave the top of the tree and enter it .
He walk through the maize without know where he be go , when he hear a sound of knocking , and saw two old blind woman crush their food between two stone .
He creep up to them on tiptoe , and when one old woman pass her dinner to the other he hold out his hand and take it and eat if for himself .
` How slow you be knead that cake , ' cry the other old woman at last .
` Why , I have give you your dinner , and what more do you want ? '
reply the second .
` You do n't ; at least I never get it , ' say the other . '
I certainly think you take it from me ; but here be some more . '
And again the young man stretch out his hand ; and the two old woman fell to quarrel afresh .
But when it happen for the third time the old woman suspect some trick , and one of them exclaim : ' I be sure there be a man here ; tell me , be you not my grandson ? '
` Yes , ' answer the young man , who wish to please her , ` and in return for your good dinner I will see if I can not restore your sight ; for I be teach in the art of healing by the best medicine man in the tribe . '
And with that he leave them , and wander about till he find the herb which he want .
Then he hasten back to the old woman , and beg them to boil him some water , he throw the herb in .
As soon a the pot begin to sing he take off the lid , and sprinkle the eye of the woman , and sight come back to them once more .
There be no night in that country , so , instead of go to bed very early , a he would have do in his own hut , the young man take another walk .
A splash noise near by drew him down to a valley through which run a large river , and up a waterfall some salmon be leap .
How their silver side glisten in the light , and how he long to catch some of the great fellow !
But how could he do it ?
He have behold no one except the old woman , and it be not very likely that they would be able to help him .
So with a sigh he turn away and go back to them , but , a he walk , a thought struck him .
He pull out one of his hair which hang nearly to his waist , and it instantly become a strong line , nearly a mile in length .
` Weave me a net that I may catch some salmon , ' say he .
And they weave him the net he ask for , and for many week he watch by the river , only go back to the old woman when he want a fish cooked .
At last , one day , when he be eat his dinner , the old woman who always speak first , say to him : ` We have be very glad to see you , grandson , but now it be time that you go home . '
And push aside a rock , he saw a deep hole , so deep that he could not see to the bottom .
Then they drag a basket out of the house , and tie a rope to it .
` Get in , and wrap this blanket round your head , ' say they ; ` and , whatever happen , do n't uncover it till you get to the bottom . '
Then they bid him farewell , and he curl himself up in the basket .
Down , down , down he go ; would he ever stop go ?
But when the basket do stop , the young man forget what he have be tell , and put his head out to see what be the matter .
In an instant the basket move , but , to his horror , instead of go down , he felt himself be draw upwards , and shortly after he behold the face of the old woman .
` You will never see your wife and son if you will not do a you be bid , ' say they .
` Now get in , and do not stir till you hear a crow call . '
This time the young man be wise , and though the basket often stop , and strange creature seem to rest on him and to pluck at his blanket , he hold it tight till he hear the crow call .
Then he fling off the blanket and sprang out , while the basket vanish in the sky .
He walk on quickly down the track that lead to the hut , when , before him , he saw his wife with his little son on her back .
` Oh !
there be father at last , ' cry the boy ; but the mother bid him cease from idle talk .
` But , mother , it be true ; father be come ! '
repeat the child .
And , to satisfy him , the woman turn round and perceive her husband .
Oh , how glad they all be to be together again !
And when the wind whistle through the forest , and the snow stood in great bank round the door , the father use to take the little boy on his knee and tell him how he catch salmon in the Land of the Sun .
How the Stalos Were Tricked -LSB- From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute . -RSB-
` Mother , I have see such a wonderful man , ' say a little boy one day , a he enter a hut in Lapland , bearing in his arm the bundle of stick he have be send out to gather .
` Have you , my son ; and what be he like ? '
ask the mother , a she take off the child 's sheepskin coat and shake it on the doorstep .
` Well , I be tire of stoop for the stick , and be lean against a tree to rest , when I hear a noise of ` sh - ` sh , among the dead leaf .
I think perhaps it be a wolf , so I stand very still .
But soon there come past a tall man -- oh !
twice as tall a father -- with a long red beard and a red tunic fasten with a silver girdle , from which hang a silver-handled knife .
Behind him follow a great dog , which look strong than any wolf , or even a bear .
But why be you so pale , mother ? '
` It be the Stalo , ' reply she , her voice tremble ; ` Stalo the man-eater !
You do well to hide , or you might never have come back .
But , remember that , though he be so tall and strong , he be very stupid , and many a Lapp have escape from his clutch by play him some clever trick . '
Not long after the mother and son have hold this talk , it begin to be whisper in the forest that the child of an old man call Patto have vanish one by one , no one know whither .
The unhappy father search the country for mile round without be able to find as much a a shoe or a handkerchief , to show him where they have pass , but at length a little boy come with news that he have see the Stalo hiding behind a well , near which the child use to play .
The boy have wait behind a clump of bush to see what would happen , and by-and-by he notice that the Stalo have lay a cunning trap in the path to the well , and that anybody who fell over it would roll into the water and drown there .
And , a he watch , Patto 's young daughter run gaily down the path , till her foot caught in the string that be stretch across the steep place .
She slip and fell , and in another instant have roll into the water within reach of the Stalo .
As soon a Patto hear this tale his heart be fill with rage , and he vow to have his revenge .
So he straightway take an old fur coat from the hook where it hang , and put it on go out into the forest .
When he reach the path that lead to the well he look hastily round to be sure that no one be watch him , then lay himself down as if he have be catch in the snare and have roll into the well , though he take care to keep his head out of the water .
Very soon he hear a ` sh - ` sh of the leaf , and there be the Stalo push his way through the undergrowth to see what chance he have of a dinner .
At the first glimpse of Patto 's head in the well he laugh loudly , cry : ` Ha !
ha !
This time it be the old as !
I wonder how he will taste ? '
And draw Patto out of the well , he fling him across his shoulder and carry him home .
Then he tie a cord round him and hang him over the fire to roast , while he finish a box that he be make before the door of the hut , which he mean to hold Patto 's flesh when it be cook .
In a very short time the box be so nearly do that it only want a little more chip out with an axe ; but this part of the work be easy accomplished indoors , and he call to one of his son who be lounge inside to bring him the tool .
The young man look everywhere , but he could not find the axe , for the very good reason that Patto have manage to pick it up and hide it in his clothes .
` Stupid fellow !
what be the use of you ? '
grumble his father angrily ; and he bid first one and then another of his son to fetch him the tool , but they have no good success than their brother . '
I must come myself , I suppose ! '
say Stalo , put aside the box .
But , meanwhile , Patto have slip from the hook and conceal himself behind the door , so that , a Stalo step in , his prisoner raise the axe , and with one blow the ogre 's head be roll on the ground .
His son be so frighten at the sight that they all run away .
And in this manner Patto avenge his dead child .
But though Stalo be dead , his three son be still live , and not very far off either .
They have go to their mother , who be tend some reindeer on the pasture , and tell her that by some magic , they know not what , their father 's head have roll from his body , and they have be so afraid that something dreadful would happen to them that they have come to take refuge with her .
The ogress say nothing .
Long ago she have find out how stupid her son be , so she just send them out to milk the reindeer , while she return to the other house to bury her husband 's body .
Now , three day ' journey from the hut on the pasture two brother Sodno dwelt in a small cottage with their sister Lyma , who tend a large herd of reindeer while they be out hunting .
Of late it have be whisper from one to another that the three young Stalos be to be see on the pasture , but the Sodno brother do not disturb themselves , the danger seem too far away .
Unluckily , however , one day , when Lyma be leave by herself in the hut , the three Stalos come down and carry her and the reindeer off to their own cottage .
The country be very lonely , and perhaps no one would have know in which direction she have go have not the girl manage to tie a ball of thread to the handle of a door at the back of the cottage and let it trail behind her .
Of course the ball be not long enough to go all the way , but it lay on the edge of a snowy track which lead straight to the Stalos ' house .
When the brother return from their hunting they find both the hut and the shed empty .
Loudly they cry : ` Lyma !
Lyma ! '
But no voice answer them ; and they fell to search all about , l perchance their sister might have drop some clue to guide them .
At length their eye drop on the thread which lay on the snow , and they set out to follow it .
On and on they go , and when at length the thread stop the brother know that another day 's journey would bring them to the Stalos ' dwelling .
Of course they do not dare to approach it openly , for the Stalos have the strength of giant , and besides , there be three of them ; so the two Sodnos climb into a big bushy tree which overhang a well .
` Perhaps our sister may be send to draw water here , ' they say to each other .
But it be not till the moon have rise that the sister come , and a she let down her bucket into the well , the leaf seem to whisper ` Lyma !
Lyma ! '
The girl start and look up , but could see nothing , and in a moment the voice come again .
` Be careful -- take no notice , fill your bucket , but listen carefully all the while , and we will tell you what to do so that you may escape yourself and set free the reindeer also . '
So Lyman bent over the well low than before , and seem busy than ever .
` You know , ' say her brother , ` that when a Stalo find that anything have be drop into his food he will not eat a morsel , but throw it to his dog .
Now , after the pot have be hang some time over the fire , and the broth be nearly cook , just rake up the log of wood so that some of the ash fly into the pot .
The Stalo will soon notice this , and will call you to give all the food to the dog ; but , instead , you must bring it straight to u , a it be three day since we have eat or drink .
That be all you need do for the present . '
Then Lyma take up her bucket and carry them into the house , and do a her brother have tell her .
They be so hungry that they eat the food up greedily without speaking , but when there be nothing left in the pot , the eldest one say : ` Listen carefully to what I have to tell you .
After the eldest Stalo have cook and eat a fresh supper , he will go to bed and sleep so soundly that not even a witch could wake him .
You can hear him snore a mile off , and then you must go into his room and pull off the iron mantle that cover him , and put it on the fire till it be almost red hot .
When that be do , come to u and we will give you further direction . ' '
I will obey you in everything , dear brother , ' answered Lyman ; and so she do .
It have happen that on this very even the Stalos have drive in some of the reindeer from the pasture , and have tie them up to the wall of the house so that they might be handy to kill for next day 's dinner .
The two Sodnos have see what they be do , and where the beast be secure ; so , at midnight , when all be still , they creep down from their tree and seize the reindeer by the horn which be lock together .
The animal be frighten , and begin to neigh and kick , a if they be fight together , and the noise become so great that even the eldest Stalo be awaken by it , and that be a thing which have never occur before .
Raising himself in his bed , he call to his young brother to go out and separate the reindeer or they would certainly kill themselves .
The young Stalo do a he be bid , and leave the house ; but no sooner be he out of the door than he be stab to the heart by one of the Sodnos , and fell without a groan .
Then they go back to worry the reindeer , and the noise become as great a ever , and a second time the Stalo awoke .
` The boy do not seem to be able to part the beast , ' he cry to his second brother ; ` go and help him , or I shall never get to sleep . '
So the brother go , and in an instant be strike dead a he leave the house by the sword of the eldest Sodno .
The Stalo wait in bed a little long for thing to get quiet , but a the clatter of the reindeer 's horn be as bad a ever , he rise angrily from his bed mutter to himself : ` It be extraordinary that they can not unlock themselves ; but a no one else seem able to help them I suppose I must go and do it . '
Rubbing his eye , he stand up on the floor and stretch his great arm and give a yawn which shake the wall .
The Sodnos hear it below , and post themselves , one at the big door and one at the little door at the back , for they do not know what their enemy would come out at .
The Stalo put out his hand to take his iron mantle from the bed , where it always lay , but the mantle be no there .
He wonder where it could be , and who could have move it , and after search through all the room , he find it hang over the kitchen fire .
But the first touch burnt him so badly that he let it alone , and go with nothing , except a stick in his hand , through the back door .
The young Sodno be stand ready for him , and a the Stalo pass the threshold strike him such a blow on the head that he roll over with a crash and never stir again .
The two Sodnos do not trouble about him , but quickly strip the young Stalos of their clothes , in which they dress themselves .
Then they sit still till the dawn should break and they could find out from the Stalos ' mother where the treasure be hide .
With the first ray of the sun the young Sodno go upstairs and enter the old woman 's room .
She be already up and dress , and sit by the window knitting , and the young man crept in softly and crouch down on the floor , lay his head on her lap .
For a while he keep silence , then he whisper gently : ` Tell me , dear mother , where do my eldest brother conceal his rich ? '
` What a strange question !
Surely you must know , ' answer she .
` No , I have forget ; my memory be so bad . '
` He dig a hole under the doorstep and place it there , ' say she .
And there be another pause .
By-and-by the Sodno ask again : ` And where may my second brother 's money be ? '
` Do n't you know that either ? '
cry the mother in surprise .
` Oh , yes ; I do once .
But since I fell upon my head I can remember nothing . '
` It be behind the oven , ' answer she .
And again be silence .
` Mother , dear mother , ' say the young man at last , ' I be almost afraid to ask you ; but I really have grow so stupid of late .
Where do I hide my own money ? '
But at this question the old woman fly into a passion , and vow that if she could find a rod she would bring his memory back to him .
Luckily , no rod be within her reach , and the Sodno manage , after a little , to coax her back into good humour , and at length she tell him that the young Stalo have bury his treasure under the very place where she be sit .
` Dear mother , ' say Lyman , who have come in unseen , and be kneel in front of the fire .
` Dear mother , do you know who it be you have be talk with ? '
The old woman start , but answer quietly : ` It be a Sodno , I suppose ? '
` You have guess right , ' reply Lyma .
The mother of the Stalos look round for her iron cane , which she always use to kill her victim , but it be not there , for Lyma have put it in the fire .
` Where be my iron cane ? '
ask the old woman .
` There ! '
answer Lyma , point to the flame .
The old woman sprang forward and seize it , but her clothes catch fire , and in a few minute she be burn to ash .
So the Sodno brother find the treasure , and they carry it , and their sister and the reindeer , to their own home , and be the rich men in all Lapland .
Andras Baive -LSB- From Lapplandische Marchen , J. C. Poestion . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live in Lapland a man who be so very strong and swift of foot that nobody in his native town of Vadso could come near him if they be run race in the summer evening .
The people of Vadso be very proud of their champion , and think that there be no one like him in the world , till , by-and-by , it come to their ear that there dwell among the mountain a Lapp , Andras Baive by name , who be say by his friend to be even strong and swift than the bailiff .
Of course not a creature in Vadso believe that , and declare that if it make the mountaineer happier to talk such nonsense , why , let them !
The winter be long and cold , and the thought of the villager be much busy with wolf than with Andras Baive , when suddenly , on a frosty day , he make his appearance in the little town of Vadso .
The bailiff be delight at this chance of try his strength , and at once go out to seek Andras and to coax him into give proof of his vigour .
As he walk along his eye fell upon a big eight-oared boat that lay upon the shore , and his face shone with pleasure .
` That be the very thing , ' laugh he , ' I will make him jump over that boat . '
Andras be quite ready to accept the challenge , and they soon settle the term of the wager .
He who could jump over the boat without so much a touch it with his heel be to be the winner , and would get a large sum of money a the prize .
So , follow by many of the villager , the two men walk down to the sea .
An old fisherman be choose to stand near the boat to watch fair play , and to hold the stake , and Andras , a the stranger be tell to jump first .
Going back to the flag which have be stick into the sand to mark the starting place , he run forward , with his head well throw back , and clear the boat with a mighty bound .
The lookers-on cheer him , and indeed he well deserve it ; but they wait anxiously all the same to see what the bailiff would do .
On he come , taller than Andras by several inch , but heavy of build .
He too sprang high and well , but a he come down his heel just graze the edge of the boat .
Dead silence reign amidst the townsfolk , but Andras only laugh and say carelessly : ` Just a little too short , bailiff ; next time you must do good than that . '
The bailiff turn red with anger at his rival 's scornful word , and answer quickly : ` Next time you will have something hard to do . '
And turn his back on his friend , he go sulkily home .
Andras , put the money he have earn in his pocket , go home also .
The following spring Andras happen to be drive his reindeer along a great fiord to the west of Vadso .
A boy who have meet him hasten to tell the bailiff that his enemy be only a few mile off ; and the bailiff , disguise himself a a Stalo , or ogre , call his son and his dog and row away across the fiord to the place where the boy have meet Andras .
Now the mountaineer be lazily walk along the sand , thinking of the new hut that he be build with the money that he have win on the day of his lucky jump .
He wander on , his eye fix on the sand , so that he do not see the bailiff drive his boat behind a rock , while he change himself into a heap of wreckage which float in on the wave .
A stumble over a stone recall Andras to himself , and look up he behold the mass of wreckage .
` Dear me !
I may find some use for that , ' he say ; and hasten down to the sea , wait till he could lay hold of some stray rope which might float towards him .
Suddenly -- he could not have tell why -- a nameless fear seize upon him , and he flee away from the shore a if for his life .
As he run he hear the sound of a pipe , such a only ogre of the Stalo kind be wont to use ; and there flash into his mind what the bailiff have say when they jump the boat : ` Next time you will have something hard to do . '
So it be no wreckage after all that he have see , but the bailiff himself .
It happen that in the long summer night up in the mountain , where the sun never set , and it be very difficult to get to sleep , Andras have spend many hour in the study of magic , and this stand him in good stead now .
The instant he hear the Stalo music he wish himself to become the foot of a reindeer , and in this guise he gallop like the wind for several mile .
Then he stop to take breath and find out what his enemy be do .
Nothing he could see , but to his ear the note of a pipe float over the plain , and ever , a he listen , it draw nearer .
A cold shiver shook Andras , and this time he wish himself the foot of a reindeer calf .
For when a reindeer calf have reach the age at which he begin first to lose his hair he be so swift that neither beast nor bird can come near him .
A reindeer calf be the swift of all thing live .
Yes ; but not so swift a a Stalo , a Andras find out when he stop to rest , and hear the pipe playing !
For a moment his heart sank , and he give himself up for dead , till he remember that , not far off , be two little lake join together by a short though very broad river .
In the middle of the river lay a stone that be always cover by water , except in dry season , and a the winter rain have be very heavy , he felt quite sure that not even the top of it could be see .
The next minute , if anyone have be look that way , he would have behold a small reindeer calf speeding northward , and by-and-by give a great spring , which land him in the midst of the stream .
But , instead of sink to the bottom , he pause a second to steady himself , then give a second spring which land him on the further shore .
He next ran on to a little hill where he saw down and begin to neigh loudly , so that the Stalo might know exactly where he be .
` Ah !
There you be , ' cry the Stalo , appear on the opposite bank ; ` for a moment I really think I have lose you . '
` No such luck , ' answered Andras , shake his head sorrowfully .
By this time he have take his own shape again .
` Well , but I do n't see how I be to get to you , ' say the Stalo , look up and down .
` Jump over , a I do , ' answered Andras ; ` it be quite easy . '
` But I could not jump this river ; and I do n't know how you do , ' reply the Stalo . '
I should be ashamed to say such thing , ' exclaim Andras .
` Do you mean to tell me that a jump , which the weak Lapp boy would make nothing of , be beyond your strength ? '
The Stalo grow red and angry when he hear these word , just a Andras mean him to do .
He bound into the air and fell straight into the river .
Not that that would have matter , for he be a good swimmer ; but Andras draw out the bow and arrow which every Lapp carry , and take aim at him .
His aim be good , but the Stalo sprang so high into the air that the arrow fly between his foot .
A second shot , direct at his forehead , fare no good , for this time the Stalo jump so high to the other side that the arrow pass between his finger and thumb .
Then Andras aim his third arrow a little over the Stalo 's head , and when he spring up , just an instant too soon , it hit him between the rib .
Mortally wound a he be , the Stalo be not yet dead , and manage to swim to the shore .
Stretching himself on the sand , he say slowly to Andras : ` Promise that you will give me an honourable burial , and when my body be lay in the grave go in my boat across the fiord , and take whatever you find in my house which belong to me .
My dog you must kill , but spare my son , Andras . '
Then he die ; and Andras sail in his boat away across the fiord and find the dog and boy .
The dog , a fierce , wicked-looking creature , he slew with one blow from his fist , for it be well know that if a Stalo 's dog lick the blood that flow from his dead master 's wound the Stalo come to life again .
That be why no REAL Stalo be ever see without his dog ; but the bailiff , be only half a Stalo , have forget him , when he go to the little lake in search of Andras .
Next , Andras put all the gold and jewel which he find in the boat into his pocket , and bid the boy get in , push it off from the shore , leave the little craft to drift a it would , while he himself run home .
With the treasure he possess he be able to buy a great herd of reindeer ; and he soon marry a rich wife , whose parent would not have him a a son-in-law when he be poor , and the two live happy for ever after .
The White Slipper -LSB- From Lapplandische Mahrchen , J. C. Poestion . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live a king who have a daughter just fifteen year old .
And what a daughter !
Even the mother who have daughter of their own could not help allow that the princess be much more beautiful and graceful than any of them ; and , a for the father , if one of them ever behold her by accident he could talk of nothing else for a whole day afterwards .
Of course the king , whose name be Balancin , be the complete slave of his little girl from the moment he lift her from the arm of her dead mother ; indeed , he do not seem to know that there be anyone else in the world to love .
Now Diamantina , for that be her name , do not reach her fifteenth birthday without proposal for marriage from every country under heaven ; but be the suitor who he might , the king always say him nay .
Behind the palace a large garden stretch away to the foot of some hill , and more than one river flow through .
Hither the princess would come each evening towards sunset , attend by her lady , and gather herself the flower that be to adorn her room .
She also bring with her a pair of scissors to cut off the dead bloom , and a basket to put them in , so that when the sun rise next morning he might see nothing unsightly .
When she have finish this task she would take a walk through the town , so that the poor people might have a chance of speak with her , and tell her of their trouble ; and then she would seek out her father , and together they would consult over the best mean of give help to those who need it .
But what have all this to do with the White Slipper ?
my reader will ask .
Have patience , and you will see .
Next to his daughter , Balancin love hunting , and it be his custom to spend several morning every week chase the boar which abound in the mountain a few mile from the city .
One day , rush downhill as fast a he could go , he put his foot into a hole and fell , roll into a rocky pit of bramble .
The king 's wound be not very severe , but his face and hand be cut and tear , while his foot be in a bad plight still , for , instead of proper hunt boot , he only wear sandal , to enable him to run more swiftly .
In a few day the king be as well a ever , and the sign of the scratch be almost go ; but one foot still remain very sore , where a thorn have pierce deeply and have fester .
The best doctor in the kingdom treat it with all their skill ; they bath , and poultice , and bandage , but it be in vain .
The foot only grow bad and bad , and become daily more swollen and painful .
After everyone have try his own particular cure , and find it fail , there come news of a wonderful doctor in some distant land who have heal the most astonishing disease .
On inquiring , it be find that he never leave the wall of his own city , and expect his patient to come to see him ; but , by dint of offer a large sum of money , the king persuade the famous physician to undertake the journey to his own court .
On his arrival the doctor be lead at once into the king 's presence , and make a careful examination of his foot .
` Alas !
your majesty , ' he say , when he have finish , ` the wound be beyond the power of man to heal ; but though I can not cure it , I can at least deaden the pain , and enable you to walk without so much suffering . '
` Oh , if you can only do that , ' cry the king , ' I shall be grateful to you for life !
Give your own order ; they shall be obey . '
` Then let your majesty bid the royal shoemaker make you a shoe of goat-skin very loose and comfortable , while I prepare a varnish to paint over it of which I alone have the secret ! '
So say , the doctor bow himself out , leave the king more cheerful and hopeful than he have be for long .
The day pass very slowly with him during the making of the shoe and the preparation of the varnish , but on the eighth morning the physician appear , bring with him the shoe in a case .
He draw it out to slip on the king 's foot , and over the goat-skin he have rub a polish so white that the snow itself be not more dazzling .
` While you wear this shoe you will not feel the slight pain , ' say the doctor .
` For the balsam with which I have rub it inside and out have , besides it healing balm , the quality of strengthen the material it touch , so that , even be your majesty to live a thousand year , you would find the slipper just a fresh at the end of that time a it be now . '
The king be so eager to put it on that he hardly give the physician time to finish .
He snatch it from the case and thrust his foot into it , nearly weep for joy when he find he could walk and run as easily a any beggar boy .
` What can I give you ? '
he cry , hold out both hand to the man who have work this wonder .
` Stay with me , and I will heap on you riches great than ever you dream of . '
But the doctor say he would accept nothing more than have be agree on , and must return at once to his own country , where many sick people be await him .
So king Balancin have to content himself with order the physician to be treat with royal honour , and desire that an escort should attend him on his journey home .
For two year everything go smoothly at court , and to king Balancin and his daughter the sun no sooner rise than it seem time for it to set .
Now , the king 's birthday fell in the month of June , and a the weather happen to be unusually fine , he tell the princess to celebrate it in any way that please her .
Diamantina be very fond of be on the river , and she be delight at this chance of delight her taste .
She would have a merry-making such a never have be see before , and in the evening , when they be tire of sailing and rowing , there should be music and dancing , play and firework .
At the very end , before the people go home , every poor person should be give a loaf of bread and every girl who be to be marry within the year a new dress .
The great day appear to Diamantina to be long in coming , but , like other day , it come at last .
Before the sun be fairly up in the heaven the princess , too full of excitement to stay in the palace , be walk about the street so covered with precious stone that you have to shade your eye before you could look at her .
By-and-by a trumpet sound , and she hurry home , only to appear again in a few moment walk by the side of her father down to the river .
Here a splendid barge be wait for them , and from it they watch all sort of race and feat of swimming and diving .
When these be over the barge proceed up the river to the field where the dancing and concert be to take place , and after the prize have be give away to the winner , and the loaf and the dress have be distribute by the princess , they bid farewell to their guest , and turn to step into the barge which be to carry them back to the palace .
Then a dreadful thing happen .
As the king step on board the boat one of the sandal of the white slipper , which have get loose , catch in a nail that be stick out , and cause the king to stumble .
The pain be great , and unconsciously he turn and shake his foot , so that the sandal give way , and in a moment the precious shoe be in the river .
It have all occur so quickly that nobody have notice the loss of the slipper , not even the princess , whom the king 's cry speedily bring to his side .
` What be the matter , dear father ? '
ask she .
But the king could not tell her ; and only manage to gasp out : ` My shoe !
my shoe ! '
While the sailor stand round staring , think that his majesty have suddenly go mad .
Seeing her father 's eye fix on the stream , Diamantina look hastily in that direction .
There , dance on the current , be the point of something white , which become more and more distant the longer they watch it .
The king could bear the sight no more , and , besides , now that the heal ointment in the shoe have be remove the pain in his foot be as bad a ever ; he give a sudden cry , stagger , and fell over the bulwark into the water .
In an instant the river be cover with bob head all swim their fast towards the king , who have be carry far down by the swift current .
At length one swimmer , strong than the rest , seize hold of his tunic , and draw him to the bank , where a thousand eager hand be ready to haul him out .
He be carry , unconscious , to the side of his daughter , who have faint with terror on see her father disappear below the surface , and together they be place in a coach and driven to the palace , where the best doctor in the city be await their arrival .
In a few hour the princess be as well a ever ; but the pain , the wetting , and the shock of the accident , all tell severely on the king , and for three day he lay in a high fever .
Meanwhile , his daughter , herself nearly mad with grief , give order that the white slipper should be seek for far and wide ; and so it be , but even the clever diver could find no trace of it at the bottom of the river .
When it become clear that the slipper must have be carry out to sea by the current , Diamantina turn her thought elsewhere , and send messenger in search of the doctor who have bring relief to her father , beg him to make another slipper as fast a possible , to supply the place of the one which be lose .
But the messenger return with the sad news that the doctor have die some week before , and , what be bad , his secret have die with him .
In his weakness this intelligence have such an effect on the king that the physician fear he would become as ill a before .
He could hardly be persuade to touch food , and all night long he lay moan , partly with pain , and partly over his own folly in not have beg the doctor to make him several dozen of white slipper , so that in case of accident he might always have one to put on .
However , by-and-by he saw that it be no use weep and wailing , and command that they should search for his lost treasure more diligently than ever .
What a sight the river bank present in those day !
It seem a if all the people in the country be gather on them .
But this second search be no more fortunate than the first , and at last the king issue a proclamation that whoever find the miss slipper should be make heir to the crown , and should marry the princess .
Now many daughter would have rebel at be dispose of in the manner ; and it must be admit that Diamantina 's heart sank when she hear what the king have do .
Still , she love her father so much that she desire his comfort more than anything else in the world , so she say nothing , and only bow her head .
Of course the result of the proclamation be that the river bank become more crowded than before ; for all the princess 's suitor from distant land flock to the spot , each hoping that he might be the lucky finder .
Many time a shin stone at the bottom of the stream be take for the slipper itself , and every evening saw a band of drip downcast men return homewards .
But one youth always linger long than the rest , and night would still see him engage in the search , though his clothes stick to his skin and his teeth chatter .
One day , when the king be lie on his bed rack with pain , he hear the noise of a scuffle go on in his antechamber , and ring a golden bell that stood by his side to summon one of his servant .
` Sire , ' answer the attendant , when the king inquire what be the matter , ` the noise you hear be cause by a young man from the town , who have have the impudence to come here to ask if he may measure your majesty 's foot , so a to make you another slipper in place of the lost one . '
` And what have you do to the youth ? '
say the king .
` The servant push him out of the palace , and , add a few blow to teach him not to be insolent , ' reply the man .
` Then they do very ill , ' answer the king , with a frown .
` He come here from kindness , and there be no reason to maltreat him . '
` Oh , my lord , he have the audacity to wish to touch your majesty 's sacred person -- he , a good-for-nothing boy , a mere shoemaker 's apprentice , perhaps !
And even if he could make shoe to perfection they would be no use without the soothing balsam . '
The king remain silent for a few moment , then he say : ` Never mind .
Go and fetch the youth and bring him to me .
I would gladly try any remedy that may relieve my pain . '
So , soon afterwards , the youth , who have not go far from the palace , be catch and usher into the king 's presence .
He be tall and handsome and , though he profess to make shoe , his manner be good and modest , and he bow low a he beg the king not only to allow him to take the measure of his foot , but also to suffer him to place a healing plaster over the wound .
Balancin be pleased with the young man 's voice and appearance , and think that he look a if he know what he be do .
So he stretch out his bad foot which the youth examine with great attention , and then gently lay on the plaster .
Very shortly the ointment begin to soothe the sharp pain , and the king , whose confidence increase every moment , beg the young man to tell him his name . '
I have no parent ; they die when I be six , sire , ' reply the youth , modestly .
` Everyone in the town call me Gilguerillo , because , when I be little , I go sing through the world in spite of my misfortune .
Luckily for me I be bear to be happy . '
` And you really think you can cure me ? '
ask the king .
` Completely , my lord , ' answer Gilguerillo .
` And how long do you think it will take ? '
` It be not an easy task ; but I will try to finish it in a fortnight , ' reply the youth .
A fortnight seem to the king a long time to make one slipper .
But he only say : ` Do you need anything to help you ? '
` Only a good horse , if your majesty will be kind enough to give me one , ' answer Gilguerillo .
And the reply be so unexpected that the courtier could hardly restrain their smile , while the king star silently .
` You shall have the horse , ' he say at last , ` and I shall expect you back in a fortnight .
If you fulfil your promise you know your reward ; if not , I will have you flog for your impudence . '
Gilguerillo bow , and turn to leave the palace , follow by the jeer and scoff of everyone he meet .
But he pay no heed , for he have get what he want .
He wait in front of the gate till a magnificent horse be lead up to him , and vault into the saddle with an ease which rather surprise the attendant , ride quickly out of the town amidst the jest of the assembled crowd , who have heard of his audacious proposal .
And while he be on his way let u pause for a moment and tell who he be .
Both father and mother have die before the boy be six year old ; and he have live for many year with his uncle , whose life have be pass in the study of chemistry .
He could leave no money to his nephew , a he have a son of his own ; but he teach him all he know , and at his dead Gilguerillo enter an office , where he work for many hour daily .
In his spare time , instead of play with the other boy , he pass hour pore over book , and because he be timid and like to be alone he be hold by everyone to be a little mad .
Therefore , when it become known that he have promise to cure the king 's foot , and have ride away -- no one knew where -- a roar of laughter and mockery rang through the town , and jeer and scoff word be send after him .
But if they have only know what be Gilguerillo 's thought they would have think him madder than ever .
The real truth be that , on the morning when the princess have walk through the street before make holiday on the river Gilguerillo have see her from his window , and have straightway fall in love with her .
Of course he felt quite hopeless .
It be absurd to imagine that the apothecary 's nephew could ever marry the king 's daughter ; so he do his best to forget her , and study hard than before , till the royal proclamation suddenly fill him with hope .
When he be free he no longer spend the precious moment pore over book , but , like the rest , he might have be see wander along the bank of the river , or dive into the stream after something that lay glisten in the clear water , but which turn out to be a white pebble or a bit of glass .
And at the end he understand that it be not by the river that he would win the princess ; and , turn to his book for comfort , he study hard than ever .
There be an old proverb which say : ` Everything come to him who know how to wait . '
It be not all men who know hot to wait , any more than it be all men who can learn by experience ; but Gilguerillo be one of the few and instead of think his life waste because he could not have the thing he want most , he try to busy himself in other direction .
So , one day , when he expect it least , his reward come to him .
He happen to be read a book many hundred of year old , which tell of remedy for all kind of disease .
Most of them , he know , be merely invent by old woman , who seek to prove themselves wise than other people ; but at length he come to something which cause him to sit up straight in his chair , and make his eye brighten .
This be the description of a balsam -- which would cure every kind of sore or wound -- distil from a plant only to be find in a country so distant that it would take a man on foot two month to go and come back again .
When I say that the book declare that the balsam could heal every sort of sore or wound , there be a few against which it be powerless , and it give certain sign by which these might be know .
This be the reason why Gilguerillo demand to see the king 's foot before he would undertake to cure it ; and to obtain admittance he give out that he be a shoemaker .
However , the dreaded sign be absent , and his heart bound at the thought that the princess be within his reach .
Perhaps she be ; but a great deal have to be accomplish yet , and he have allow himself a very short time in which to do it .
He spar his horse only so much a be needful , yet it take him six day to reach the spot where the plant grow .
A thick wood lay in front of him , and , fasten the bridle tightly to a tree , he fling himself on his hand and knee and begin to hunt for the treasure .
Many time he fancy it be close to him , and many time it turn out to be something else ; but , at last , when light be fading , and he have almost give up hope , he come upon a large bed of the plant , right under his foot !
Trembling with joy , he pick every scrap he could see , and place it in his wallet .
Then , mount his horse , he gallop quickly back towards the city .
It be night when he enter the gate , and the fifteen day allot be not up till the next day .
His eye be heavy with sleep , and his body ache with the long strain , but , without pause to rest , he kindle a fire on be hearth , and quickly fill a pot with water , throw in the herb and leave them to boil .
After that he lay down and slept soundly .
The sun be shin when he awake , and he jump up and run to the pot .
The plant have disappear and in it stead be a thick syrup , just a the book have say there would be .
He lift the syrup out with a spoon , and after spread it in the sun till it be partly dry , pour it into a small flask of crystal .
He next wash himself thoroughly , and dress himself , in his best clothes , and put the flask in his pocket , set out for the palace , and beg to see the king without delay .
Now Balancin , whose foot have be much less painful since Gilguerillo have wrap it in the plaster , be count the day to the young man 's return ; and when he be tell Gilguerillo be there , order him to be admit at once .
As he enter , the king raise himself eagerly on his pillow , but his face fell when he saw no sign of a slipper .
` You have fail , then ? '
he say , throw up his hand in despair . '
I hope not , your majesty ; I think not , ' answer the youth .
And draw the flask from his pocket , he pour two or three drop on the wound .
` Repeat this for three night , and you will find yourself cure , ' say he .
And before the king have time to thank him he have bow himself out .
Of course the news soon spread through the city , and men and woman never tire of call Gilguerillo an impostor , and prophesy that the end of the three day would see him in prison , if not on the scaffold .
But Gilguerillo pay no heed to their hard word , and no more do the king , who take care that no hand but his own should put on the healing balsam .
On the fourth morning the king awoke and instantly stretch out his wounded foot that he might prove the truth or falsehood of Gilguerillo 's remedy .
The wound be certainly cure on that side , but how about the other ?
Yes , that be cure also ; and not even a scar be leave to show where it have be !
Was ever any king so happy a Balancin when he satisfy himself of this ?
Lightly a a deer he jump from his bed , and begin to turn head over heel and to perform all sort of antic , so a to make sure that his foot be in truth as well a it look .
And when he be quite tired he send for his daughter , and bid the courtier bring the lucky young man to his room .
` He be really young and handsome , ' say the princess to herself , heave a sigh of relief that it be not some dreadful old man who have heal her father ; and while the king be announce to his courtier the wonderful cure that have be make , Diamantina be think that if Gilguerillo look so well in his common dress , how much improve by the splendid garment of a king ' son .
However , she hold her peace , and only watch with amusement when the courtier , know there be no help for it , do homage and obeisance to the chemist 's boy .
Then they bring to Gilguerillo a magnificent tunic of green velvet border with gold , and a cap with three white plume stick in it ; and at the sight of him so arrayed , the princess fell in love with him in a moment .
The wedding be fix to take place in eight day , and at the ball afterwards nobody dance so long or so lightly a king Balancin .
The Magic Book -LSB- From Capullos de Rosa , por D. Enrique Ceballos Quintana . -RSB-
-LSB- From AEventyr fra Zylland samlede og optegnede af Tang Kristensen .
Translated from the Danish by Mrs. Skavgaard-Pedersen . -RSB-
There be once an old couple name Peder and Kirsten who have an only son call Hans .
From the time he be a little boy he have be tell that on his sixteenth birthday he must go out into the world and serve his apprenticeship .
So , one fine summer morning , he start off to seek his fortune with nothing but the clothes he wear on his back .
For many hour he trudge on merrily , now and then stop to drink from some clear spring or to pick some ripe fruit from a tree .
The little wild creature peep at him from beneath the bush , and he nod and smile , and wish them ` Good-morning . '
After he have be walk for some time he meet an old white-bearded man who be come along the footpath .
The boy would not step aside , and the man be determine not to do so either , so they run against one another with a bump .
` It seem to me , ' say the old fellow , ` that a boy should give way to an old man . '
` The path be for me as well a for you , ' answered young Hans saucily , for he have never be taught politeness .
` Well , that 's true enough , ' answer the other mildly .
` And where be you go ? ' '
I be go into service , ' say Hans .
` Then you can come and serve me , ' reply the man .
Well , Hans could do that ; but what would his wage be ?
` Two pound a year , and nothing to do but keep some room clean , ' say the new-comer .
This seem to Hans to be easy enough ; so he agree to enter the old man 's service , and they set out together .
On their way they cross a deep valley and come to a mountain , where the man open a trapdoor , and bidding Hans follow him , he creep in and begin to go down a long flight of step .
When they get to the bottom Hans saw a large number of room light by many lamp and full of beautiful thing .
While he be look round the old man say to him : ` Now you know what you have to do .
You must keep these room clean , and strew sand on the floor every day .
Here be a table where you will always find food and drink , and there be your bed .
You see there be a great many suit of clothes hang on the wall , and you may wear any you please ; but remember that you be never to open this locked door .
If you do ill will befall you .
Farewell , for I be go away again and can not tell when I may return .
No sooner have the old man disappear than Hans sit down to a good meal , and after that go to bed and slept until the morning .
At first he could not remember what have happen to him , but by-and-by he jump up and go into all the room , which he examine carefully .
` How foolish to bid me to put sand on the floor , ' he think , ` when there be nobody here by myself !
I shall do nothing of the sort . '
And so he shut the door quickly , and only clean and set in order his own room .
And after the first few day he felt that that be unnecessary too , because no one come there to see if the room where clean or not .
At last he do no work at all , but just sit and wonder what be behind the locked door , till he determine to go and look for himself .
The key turn easily in the lock .
Hans enter , half frighten at what he be do , and the first thing he behold be a heap of bone .
That be not very cheerful ; and he be just go out again when his eye fell on a shelf of book .
Here be a good way of pass the time , he think , for he be fond of reading , and he take one of the book from the shelf .
It be all about magic , and tell you how you could change yourself into anything in the world you like .
Could anything be more exciting or more useful ?
So he put it in his pocket , and run quickly away out of the mountain by a little door which have be leave open .
When he get home his parent ask him what he have be do and where he have get the fine clothes he wear .
` Oh , I earn them myself , ' answer he .
` You never earn them in this short time , ' say his father .
` Be off with you ; I wo n't keep you here .
I will have no thief in my house ! '
` Well I only come to help you , ' reply the boy sulkily .
` Now I 'll be off , a you wish ; but to-morrow morning when you rise you will see a great dog at the door .
Do not drive it away , but take it to the castle and sell it to the duke , and they will give you ten dollar for it ; only you must bring the strap you lead it with , back to the house . '
Sure enough the next day the dog be stand at the door wait to be let in .
The old man be rather afraid of get into trouble , but his wife urge him to sell the dog a the boy have bid him , so he take it up to the castle and sell it to the duke for ten dollar .
But he do not forget to take off the strap with which he have lead the animal , and to carry it home .
When he get there old Kirsten meet him at the door .
` Well , Peder , and have you sell the dog ? '
ask she .
` Yes , Kirsten ; and I have bring back ten dollar , a the boy tell u , ' answered Peder .
` Ay !
but that 's fine ! '
say his wife .
` Now you see what one get by do a one be bid ; if it have not be for me you would have drive the dog away again , and we should have lose the money .
After all , I always know what be best . '
` Nonsense ! '
say her husband ; ` woman always think they know best .
I should have sell the dog just the same whatever you have tell me .
Put the money away in a safe place , and do n't talk so much . '
The next day Hans come again ; but though everything have turn out a he have foretell , he find that his father be still not quite satisfied .
` Be off with you ! '
say he , ` you 'll get u into trouble . ' '
I have n't help you enough yet , ' reply the boy .
` To-morrow there will come a great fat cow , as big a the house .
Take it to the king 's palace and you 'll get as much a a thousand dollar for it .
Only you must unfasten the halter you lead it with and bring it back , and do n't return by the high road , but through the forest . '
The next day , when the couple rise , they saw an enormous head look in at their bedroom window , and behind it be a cow which be nearly as big a their hut .
Kirsten be wild with joy to think of the money the cow would bring them .
` But how be you go to put the rope over her head ? '
ask she .
` Wait and you 'll see , mother , ' answer her husband .
Then Peder take the ladder that lead up to the hayloft and set it against the cow 's neck , and he climb up and slip the rope over her head .
When he have make sure that the noose be fast they start for the palace , and meet the king himself walk in his ground . '
I hear that the princess be go to be marry , ' say Peder , ` so I 've bring your majesty a cow which be big than any cow that be ever see .
Will your majesty deign to buy it ? '
The king have , in truth , never see so large a beast , and he willingly pay the thousand dollar , which be the price demand ; but Peder remember to take off the halter before he leave .
After he be go the king sent for the butcher and tell him to kill the animal for the wedding feast .
The butcher get ready his pole-axe ; but just a he be go to strike , the cow change itself into a dove and fly away , and the butcher stand star after it a if he be turn to stone .
However , a the dove could not be find , he be oblige to tell the king what have happen , and the king in his turn despatch messenger to capture the old man and bring him back .
But Peder be safe in the wood , and could not be find .
When at last he felt the danger be over , and he might go home , Kirsten nearly faint with joy at the sight of all the money he bring with him .
` Now that we be rich people we must build a big house , ' cry she ; and be vex to find that Peder only shake his head and say : ` No ; if they do that people would talk , and say they have get their wealth by ill-doing . '
A few morning later Hans come again .
` Be off before you get u into trouble , ' say his father .
` So far the money have come right enough , but I do n't trust it . '
` Do n't worry over that , father , ' say Hans .
` To-morrow you will find a horse outside by the gate .
Ride it to market and you will get a thousand dollar for it .
Only do n't forget to loosen the bridle when you sell it . '
Well , in the morning there be the horse ; Kirsten have never see so find an animal .
` Take care it do n't hurt you , Peder , ' say she .
` Nonsense , wife , ' answer he crossly .
` When I be a lad I live with horse , and could ride anything for twenty mile round . '
But that be not quite the truth , for he have never mount a horse in his life .
Still , the animal be quiet enough , so Peder get safely to market on it back .
There he meet a man who offer nine hundred and ninety-nine dollar for it , but Peder would take nothing less than a thousand .
At last there come an old , grey-bearded man who look at the horse and agree to buy it ; but the moment he touch it the horse begin to kick and plunge . '
I must take the bridle off , ' say Peder .
` It be not to be sell with the animal a be usually the case . '
` I 'll give you a hundred dollar for the bridle , ' say the old man , take out his purse .
` No , I ca n't sell it , ' reply Hans 's father .
` Five hundred dollar ! '
` No . ' '
A thousand ! '
At this splendid offer Peder 's prudence give way ; it be a shame to let so much money go .
So he agree to accept it .
But he could hardly hold the horse , it become so unmanageable .
So he give the animal in charge to the old man , and go home with his two thousand dollar .
Kirsten , of course , be delight at this new piece of good fortune , and insist that the new house should be build and land buy .
This time Peder consent , and soon they have quite a fine farm .
Meanwhile the old man ride off on his new purchase , and when he come to a smithy he ask the smith to forge shoe for the horse .
The smith propose that they should first have a drink together , and the horse be tie up by the spring whilst they go indoors .
The day be hot , and both men be thirsty , and , besides , they have much to say ; and so the hour slip by and find them still talk .
Then the servant girl come out to fetch a pail of water , and , be a kind-hearted lass , she give some to the horse to drink .
What be her surprise when the animal say to her : ` Take off my bridle and you will save my life . ' '
I dare not , ' say she ; ` your master will be so angry . '
` He can not hurt you , ' answer the horse , ` and you will save my life . '
At that she take off the bridle ; but nearly faint with astonishment when the horse turn into a dove and fly away just a the old man come out of the house .
Directly he saw what have happen he change himself into a hawk and flew after the dove .
Over the wood and field they go , and at length they reach a king 's palace surround by beautiful garden .
The princess be walk with her attendant in the rise garden when the dove turn itself into a gold ring and fell at her foot .
` Why , here be a ring ! '
she cry , ` where could it have come from ? '
And pick it up she put it on her finger .
As she do so the hill-man lose his power over Hans -- for of course you understand that it be he who have be the dog , the cow , the horse and the dove .
` Well , that be really strange , ' say the princess .
` It fit me a though it have be make for me ! '
Just at that moment up come the king .
` Look at what I have find ! '
cry his daughter .
` Well , that be not worth much , my dear , ' say he .
` Besides , you have ring enough , I should think . '
` Never mind , I like it , ' reply the princess .
But as soon a she be alone , to her amazement , the ring suddenly leave her finger and become a man .
You can imagine how frightened she be , a , indeed , anybody would have be ; but in an instant the man become a ring again , and then turn back to a man , and so it go on for some time until she begin to get use to these sudden change . '
I be sorry I frighten you , ' say Hans , when he think he could safely speak to the princess without make her scream . '
I take refuge with you because the old hill-man , whom I have offend , be try to kill me , and here I be safe . '
` You have good stay here then , ' say the princess .
So Hans stay , and he and she become good friend ; though , of course , he only become a man when no one else be present .
This be all very well ; but , one day , a they be talk together , the king happen to enter the room , and although Hans quickly change himself into a ring again it be too late .
The king be terribly angry .
` So this be why you have refuse to marry all the king and prince who have seek your hand ? '
he cry .
And , without wait for her to speak , he command that his daughter should be wall up in the summer-house and starve to death with her lover .
That even the poor princess , still wear her ring , be put into the summer-house with enough food to last for three day , and the door be bricked up .
But at the end of a week or two the king think it be time to give her a grand funeral , in spite of her bad behaviour , and he have the summer-house open .
He could hardly believe his eye when he find that the princess be not there , nor Hans either .
Instead , there lay at his foot a large hole , big enough for two people to pass through .
Now what have happen be this .
When the princess and Hans have give up hope , and cast themselves down on the ground to die , they fell down this hole , and right through the earth as well , and at last they tumble into a castle built of pure gold at the other side of the world , and there they live happily .
But of this , of course , the king know nothing .
` Will anyone go down and see where the passage lead to ? '
he ask , turn to his guard and courtier . '
I will reward splendidly the man who be brave enough to explore it . '
For a long time nobody answer .
The hole be dark and deep , and if it have a bottom no one could see it .
At length a soldier , who be a careless sort of fellow , offer himself for the service , and cautiously lower himself into the darkness .
But in a moment he , too , fell down , down , down .
Was he go to fall for ever , he wonder !
Oh , how thankful he be in the end to reach the castle , and to meet the princess and Hans , look quite well and not at all a if they have be starve .
They begin to talk , and the soldier tell them that the king be very sorry for the way he have treat his daughter , and wish day and night that he could have her back again .
Then they all take ship and sail home , and when they come to the princess 's country , Hans disguise himself a the sovereign of a neighbouring kingdom , and go up to the palace alone .
He be give a hearty welcome by the king , who pride himself on his hospitality , and a banquet be command in his honour .
That evening , whilst they sit drink their wine , Hans say to the king : ' I have hear the fame of your majesty 's wisdom , and I have travel from far to ask your counsel .
A man in my country have bury his daughter alive because she love a youth who be bear a peasant .
How shall I punish this unnatural father , for it be leave to me to give judgment ? '
The king , who be still truly grieve for his daughter 's loss , answer quickly : ` Burn him alive , and strew his ash all over the kingdom . '
Hans look at him steadily for a moment , and then throw off his disguise .
` You be the man , ' say he ; ` and I be he who love your daughter , and become a gold ring on her finger .
She be safe , and wait not far from here ; but you have pronounce judgment on yourself . '
Then the king fell on his knee and beg for mercy ; and a he have in other respect be a good father , they forgive him .
The wedding of Hans and the princess be celebrate with great festivity which last a month .
As for the hill-man he intend to be present ; but whilst he be walk along a street which lead to the palace a loose stone fell on his head and kill him .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Pink_Fairy_Book.txt.out
The Cat 's Elopement -LSB- From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen , von David Brauns -LRB- Leipzig : Wilhelm Friedrich -RRB- . -RSB-
Once upon a time there live a cat of marvellous beauty , with a skin a soft and shin a silk , and wise green eye , that could see even in the dark .
His name be Gon , and he belong to a music teacher , who be so fond and proud of him that he would not have part with him for anything in the world .
Now not far from the music master 's house there dwell a lady who possess a most lovely little pussy cat call Koma .
She be such a little dear altogether , and blink her eye so daintily , and eat her supper so tidily , and when she have finish she lick her pink nose so delicately with her little tongue , that her mistress be never tire of say , ` Koma , Koma , what should I do without you ? '
Well , it happen one day that these two , when out for an evening stroll , meet under a cherry tree , and in one moment fell madly in love with each other .
Gon have long felt that it be time for him to find a wife , for all the lady in the neighbourhood pay him so much attention that it make him quite shy ; but he be not easy to please , and do not care about any of them .
Now , before he have time to think , Cupid have entangle him in his net , and he be fill with love towards Koma .
She fully return his passion , but , like a woman , she saw the difficulty in the way , and consult sadly with Gon a to the mean of overcome them .
Gon entreat his master to set matter right by buy Koma , but her mistress would not part from her .
Then the music master be ask to sell Gon to the lady , but he decline to listen to any such suggestion , so everything remain a before .
At length the love of the couple grow to such a pitch that they determine to please themselves , and to seek their fortune together .
So one moonlight night they steal away , and venture out into an unknown world .
All day long they march bravely on through the sunshine , till they have leave their home far behind them , and towards even they find themselves in a large park .
The wanderer by this time be very hot and tired , and the grass look very soft and inviting , and the tree cast cool deep shadow , when suddenly an ogre appear in this Paradise , in the shape of a big , big dog !
He come spring towards them show all his teeth , and Koma shriek , and rush up a cherry tree .
Gon , however , stand his ground boldly , and prepare to give battle , for he felt that Koma 's eye be upon him , and that he must not run away .
But , ala !
his courage would have avail him nothing have his enemy once touch him , for he be large and powerful , and very fierce .
From her perch in the tree Koma saw it all , and scream with all her might , hop that some one would hear , and come to help .
Luckily a servant of the princess to whom the park belong be walk by , and he drive off the dog , and pick up the trembling Gon in his arm , carry him to his mistress .
So poor little Koma be leave alone , while Gon be bear away full of trouble , not in the least know what to do .
Even the attention pay him by the princess , who be delight with his beauty and pretty way , do not console him , but there be no use in fight against fate , and he could only wait and see what would turn up .
The princess , Gon 's new mistress , be so good and kind that everybody love her , and she would have lead a happy life , have it not be for a serpent who have fall in love with her , and be constantly annoy her by his presence .
Her servant have order to drive him away as often a he appear ; but a they be careless , and the serpent very sly , it sometimes happen that he be able to slip past them , and to frighten the princess by appear before her .
One day she be seat in her room , play on her favourite musical instrument , when she felt something glide up her sash , and saw her enemy make his way to kiss her cheek .
She shriek and throw herself backwards , and Gon , who have be curl up on a stool at her foot , understand her terror , and with one bound seize the snake by his neck .
He give him one bite and one shake , and fling him on the ground , where he lay , never to worry the princess any more .
Then she take Gon in her arm , and praise and caress him , and saw that he have the nice bit to eat , and the soft mat to lie on ; and he would have have nothing in the world to wish for if only he could have see Koma again .
Time pass on , and one morning Gon lay before the house door , bask in the sun .
He look lazily at the world stretch out before him , and saw in the distance a big ruffian of a cat teasing and ill-treating quite a little one .
He jump up , full of rage , and chase away the big cat , and then he turn to comfort the little one , when his heart nearly burst with joy to find that it be Koma .
At first Koma do not know him again , he have grow so large and stately ; but when it dawn upon her who it be , her happiness knew no bound .
And they rub their head and their nose again and again , while their purring might have be hear a mile off .
Paw in paw they appear before the princess , and tell her the story of their life and it sorrow .
The princess wept for sympathy , and promise that they should never more be part , but should live with her to the end of their day .
By-and-bye the princess herself get marry , and bring a prince to dwell in the palace in the park .
And she tell him all about her two cat , and how brave Gon have be , and how he have deliver her from her enemy the serpent .
And when the prince heard , he swear they should never leave them , but should go with the princess wherever she go .
So it all fell out a the princess wish ; and Gon and Koma have many child , and so have the princess , and they all play together , and be friend to the end of their life .
How the Dragon Was Tricked From Griechtsche und Albanesische Marchen , von J. G. von Hahn .
-LRB- Leipzig : Engelmann .
1864 . -RRB-
Once upon a time there live a man who have two son but they do not get on at all well together , for the younger be much handsome than his elder brother who be very jealous of him .
When they grow old , thing become bad and bad , and at last one day a they be walk through a wood the elder youth seize hold of the other , tie him to a tree , and go on his way hop that the boy might starve to death .
However , it happen that an old and humpbacked shepherd pass the tree with his flock , and see the prisoner , he stop and say to him , ` Tell me , my son why be you tie to that tree ? '
` Because I be so crooked , ' answer the young man ; ` but it have quite cure me , and now my back be as straight a can be . ' '
I wish you would bind me to a tree , ' exclaim the shepherd , ` so that my back would get straight . '
` With all the pleasure in life , ' reply the youth .
` If you will loosen these cord I will tie you up with them as firmly a I can . '
This be soon do , and then the young man drive off the sheep , leave their real shepherd to repent of his folly ; and before he have go very far he meet with a horse boy and a driver of ox , and he persuade them to turn with him and to seek for adventure .
By these and many other trick he soon become so celebrate that his fame reach the king 's ear , and his majesty be fill with curiosity to see the man who have manage to outwit everybody .
So he command his guard to capture the young man and bring him before him .
And when the young man stand before the king , the king speak to him and say , ` By your trick and the prank that you have play on other people , you have , in the eye of the law , forfeit your life .
But on one condition I will spare you , and that be , if you will bring me the fly horse that belong to the great dragon .
Fail in this , and you shall be hew in a thousand piece . '
` If that be all , ' say the youth , ` you shall soon have it . '
So he go out and make his way straight to the stable where the fly horse be tether .
He stretch his hand cautiously out to seize the bridle , when the horse suddenly begin to neigh as loud a he could .
Now the room in which the dragon slept be just above the stable , and at the sound of the neighing he wake and cry to the horse , ` What be the matter , my treasure ?
be anything hurt you ? '
After wait a little while the young man try again to loose the horse , but a second time it neigh so loudly that the dragon wake up in a hurry and call out to know why the horse be make such a noise .
But when the same thing happen the third time , the dragon lose his temper , and go down into the stable and take a whip and give the horse a good beating .
This offend the horse and make him angry , and when the young man stretch out his hand to untie his head , he make no further fuss , but suffer himself to be lead quietly away .
Once clear of the stable the young man sprang on his back and gallop off , call over his shoulder , ` Hi !
dragon !
dragon !
if anyone ask you what have become of your horse , you can say that I have get him ! '
But the king say , ` The fly horse be all very well , but I want something more .
You must bring me the cover with the little bell that lie on the bed of the dragon , or I will have you hew into a thousand piece . '
` Is that all ? '
answer the youth .
` That be easily do . '
And when night come he go away to the dragon 's house and climb up on to the roof .
Then he open a little window in the roof and let down the chain from which the kettle usually hang , and try to hook the bed cover and to draw it up .
But the little bell all begin to ring , and the dragon woke and say to his wife , ` Wife , you have pull off all the bed-clothes ! '
and draw the covering towards him , pull , a he do so , the young man into the room .
Then the dragon flung himself on the youth and bind him fast with cord say a he tie the last knot , ` To-morrow when I go to church you must stay at home and kill him and cook him , and when I get back we will eat him together . '
So the following morning the dragoness take hold of the young man and reach down from the shelf a sharp knife with which to kill him .
But a she untie the cord the good to get hold of him , the prisoner catch her by the leg , throw her to the ground , seize her and speedily cut her throat , just a she have be about to do for him , and put her body in the oven .
Then he snatch up the covering and carry it to the king .
The king be seat on his throne when the youth appear before him and spread out the cover with a deep bow .
` That be not enough , ' say his majesty ; ` you must bring me the dragon himself , or I will have you hew into a thousand piece . '
` It shall be do , ' answer the youth ; ` but you must give me two year to manage it , for my beard must grow so that he may not know me . '
` So be it , ' say the king .
And the first thing the young man do when his beard be grow be to take the road to the dragon 's house and on the way he meet a beggar , whom he persuade to change clothes with him , and in the beggar 's garment he go fearlessly forth to the dragon .
He find his enemy before his house , very busy make a box , and address him politely , ` Good morning , your worship .
Have you a morsel of bread ? '
` You must wait , ' reply the dragon , 'till I have finish my box , and then I will see if I can find one . '
` What will you do with the box when it be make ? '
inquire the beggar .
` It be for the young man who kill my wife , and steal my fly horse and my bed cover , ' say the dragon .
` He deserve nothing well , ' answer the beggar , ` for it be an ill deed .
Still that box be too small for him , for he be a big man . '
` You be wrong , ' say the dragon .
` The box be large enough even for me . '
` Well , the rogue be nearly as tall a you , ' reply the beggar , ` and , of course , if you can get in , he can .
But I be sure you would find it a tight fit . '
` No , there be plenty of room , ' say the dragon , tuck himself carefully inside .
But no sooner be he well in , than the young man clap on the lid and call out , ` Now press hard , just to see if he will be able to get out . '
The dragon press as hard a he could , but the lid never move .
` It be all right , ' he cry ; ` now you can open it . '
But instead of open it , the young man drive in long nail to make it tight still ; then he take the box on his back and bring it to the king .
And when the king heard that the dragon be inside , he be so excited that he would not wait one moment , but break the lock and lift the lid just a little way to make sure he be really there .
He be very careful not to leave enough space for the dragon to jump out , but unluckily there be just room for his great mouth , and with one snap the king vanish down his wide red jaw .
Then the young man marry the king 's daughter and rule over the land , but what he do with the dragon nobody know .
The Goblin and the Grocer Translated from the German of Hans Andersen .
There be once a hard-working student who live in an attic , and he have nothing in the world of his own .
There be also a hard-working grocer who live on the first floor , and he have the whole house for his own .
The Goblin belong to him , for every Christmas Eve there be wait for him at the grocer 's a dish of jam with a large lump of butter in the middle .
The grocer could afford this , so the Goblin stay in the grocer 's shop ; and this teach u a good deal .
One even the student come in by the back door to buy a candle and some cheese ; he have no one to send , so he come himself .
He get what he want , pay for it , and nod a good evening to the grocer and his wife -LRB- she be a woman who could do more than nod ; she could talk -RRB- .
When the student have say good night he suddenly stand still , read the sheet of paper in which the cheese have be wrap .
It be a leaf tear out of an old book -- a book of poetry ` There 's more of that over there ! '
say the grocer ' I give an old woman some coffee for the book .
If you like to give me twopence you can have the rest . '
` Yes , ' say the student , ` give me the book instead of the cheese .
I can eat my bread without cheese .
It would be a shame to leave the book to be tear up .
You be a clever and practical man , but about poetry you understand as much a that old tub over there ! '
And that sound rude as far a the tub be concern , but the grocer laugh , and so do the student .
It be only say in fun .
But the Goblin be angry that anyone should dare to say such a thing to a grocer who own the house and sell the best butter .
When it be night and the shop be shut , and everyone be in bed except the student , the Goblin go upstairs and take the grocer 's wife 's tongue .
She do not use it when she be asleep , and on whatever object in the room he put it that thing begin to speak , and speak out it thought and feeling just as well a the lady to whom it belong .
But only one thing at a time could use it , and that be a good thing , or they would have all speak together .
The Goblin lay the tongue on the tub in which be the old newspaper .
` Is it true , ' he ask , ' that you know nothing about poetry ? '
` Certainly not ! '
answer the tub .
` Poetry be something that be in the paper , and that be frequently cut out .
I have a great deal more in me than the student have , and yet I be only a small tub in the grocer 's shop . '
And the Goblin put the tongue on the coffee-mill , and how it begin to grind !
He put it on the butter-cask , and on the till , and all be of the same opinion a the waste-paper tub .
and one must believe the majority .
` Now I will tell the student ! '
and with these word he creep softly up the stair to the attic where the student live .
There be a light burning , and the Goblin peep through the key-hole and saw that he be read the torn book that he have buy in the shop .
But how bright it be !
Out of the book shot a streak of light which grow into a large tree and spread it branch far above the student .
Every leaf be alive , and every flower be a beautiful girl 's head , some with dark and shining eye , others with wonderful blue one .
Every fruit be a glittering star , and there be a marvellous music in the student 's room .
The little Goblin have never even dreamt of such a splendid sight , much less see it .
He stand on tiptoe gazing and gazing , till the candle in the attic be put out ; the student have blow it out and have go to bed , but the Goblin remain stand outside listen to the music , which very softly and sweetly be now sing the student a lullaby . '
I have never see anything like this ! '
say the Goblin . '
I never expect this !
I must stay with the student . '
The little fellow think it over , for he be a sensible Goblin .
Then he sigh , ` The student have no jam ! '
And on that he go down to the grocer again .
And it be a good thing that he do go back , for the tub have nearly wear out the tongue .
It have read everything that be inside it , on the one side , and be just go to turn itself round and read from the other side when the Goblin come in and return the tongue to it owner .
But the whole shop , from the till down to the shaving , from that night change their opinion of the tub , and they look up to it , and have such faith in it that they be under the impression that when the grocer read the art and drama critique out of the paper in the evening , it all come from the tub .
But the Goblin could no longer sit quietly listen to the wisdom and intellect downstairs .
No , as soon a the light shone in the evening from the attic it seem to him a though it beam be strong rope drag him up , and he have to go and peep through the key-hole .
There he felt the sort of feeling we have look at the great roll sea in a storm , and he burst into tear .
He could not himself say why he weep , but in spite of his tear he felt quite happy .
How beautiful it must be to sit under that tree with the student , but that he could not do ; he have to content himself with the key-hole and be happy there !
There he stand out on the cold landing , the autumn wind blow through the crack of the floor .
It be cold -- very cold , but he first find it out when the light in the attic be put out and the music in the wood die away .
Ah !
then it freeze him , and he creep down again into his warm corner ; there it be comfortable and cosy .
When Christmas come , and with it the jam with the large lump of butter , ah !
then the grocer be first with him .
But in the middle of the night the Goblin awoke , hear a great noise and knock against the shutter -- people hammer from outside .
The watchman be blow his horn : a great fire have break out ; the whole town be in flame .
Was it in the house ?
or be it at a neighbour 's ?
Where be it ?
The alarm increase .
The grocer 's wife be so terrified that she take her gold earrings out of her ear and put them in her pocket in order to save something .
The grocer seize his account book .
and the maid her black silk dress .
Everyone want to save his most valuable possession ; so do the Goblin , and in a few leap he be up the stair and in the student 's room .
He be stand quietly by the open window look at the fire that be burn in the neighbour 's house just opposite .
The Goblin seize the book lie on the table , put it in his red cap , and clasp it with both hand .
The best treasure in the house be save , and he climb out on to the roof with it -- on to the chimney .
There he sit , light up by the flame from the burning house opposite , both hand hold tightly on his red cap , in which lay the treasure ; and now he know what his heart really value most -- to whom he really belong .
But when the fire be put out , and the Goblin think it over -- then -- ' I will divide myself between the two , ' he say . '
I can not quite give up the grocer , because of the jam ! '
And it be just the same with u .
We also can not quite give up the grocer -- because of the jam .
The House in the Wood From the German of Grimm .
A poor woodcutter live with his wife and three daughter in a little hut on the border of a great forest .
One morning a he be go to his work , he say to his wife , ` Let our eldest daughter bring me my lunch into the wood ; and so that she shall not lose her way , I will take a bag of millet with me , and sprinkle the seed on the path . '
When the sun have rise high over the forest , the girl set out with a basin of soup .
But the field and wood sparrow , the lark and finch , blackbird and green finch have pick up the millet long ago , and the girl could not find her way .
She go on and on , till the sun set and night come on .
The tree rustle in the darkness , the owl hoot , and she begin to be very much frighten .
Then she saw in tile distance a light that twinkle between the tree .
` There must be people live yonder , ' she think , ` who will take me in for the night , ' and she begin walk towards it .
Not long afterwards she come to a house with light in the window .
She knock at the door , and a gruff voice call , ` Come in ! '
The girl step into the dark entrance , and tap at the door of the room .
` Just walk in , ' cry the voice , and when she open the door there sit an old gray-haired man at the table .
His face be rest on his hand , and his white beard flow over the table almost down to the ground .
By the stove lay three beast , a hen , a cock , and a brindled cow .
The girl tell the old man her story , and ask for a night 's lodging .
The man say : Pretty cock , Pretty hen , And you , pretty brindled cow , What do you say now ?
` Duks , ' answer the beast ; and that must have mean , ` We be quite willing , ' for the old man go on , ` Here be abundance ; go into the back kitchen and cook u a supper . '
The girl find plenty of everything in the kitchen , and cook a good meal , but she do not think of the beast .
She place the full dish on the table , sit down opposite the gray-haired man , and ate till her hunger be appease .
When she be satisfied , she say , ` But now I be so tired , where be a bed in which I can sleep ? '
The beast answer : You have eat with him , You have drink with him , Of u you have not think , Sleep then a you ought !
Then the old man say , ` Go upstairs , and there you will find a bedroom ; shake the bed , and put clean sheet on , and go to sleep . '
The maiden go upstairs , and when she have make the bed , she lay down .
After some time the gray-haired man come , look at her by the light of his candle , and shake his head .
And when he saw that she be sound asleep , he open a trapdoor and let her fall into the cellar .
The woodcutter come home late in the evening , and reproach his wife for leave him all day without food .
` No , I do not , ' she answer ; ` the girl go off with your dinner .
She must have lose her way , but will no doubt come back to-morrow . '
But at daybreak the woodcutter start off into the wood , and this time ask his second daughter to bring his food . '
I will take a bag of lentil , ' say he ; ` they be large than millet , and the girl will see them good and be sure to find her way . '
At midday the maiden take the food , but the lentil have all go ; a on the previous day , the wood bird have eat them all .
The maiden wander about the wood till nightfall , when she come in the same way to the old man 's house , and ask for food and a night 's lodging .
The man with the white hair again ask the beast : Pretty cock , Pretty hen , And you , pretty brindled cow , What do you say now ?
The beast answer , ` Duks , ' and everything happen a on the former day .
The girl cook a good meal , ate and drank with the old man , and do not trouble herself about the animal .
And when she ask for a bed , they reply : You have eat with him You have drink with him , Of u you have not think , Now sleep a you ought !
And when she be asleep , the old man shake his head over her , and let her fall into the cellar .
On the third morning the woodcutter say to his wife , ` Send our young child to-day with my dinner .
She be always good and obedient , and will keep to the right path , and not wander away like her sister , idle drone ! '
But the mother say , ` Must I lose my dear child too ? '
` Do not fear , ' he answer ; ` she be too clever and intelligent to lose her way .
I will take plenty of pea with me and strew them along ; they be even large than lentil , and will show her the way . '
But when the maiden start off with the basket on her arm , the wood pigeon have eat up the pea , and she do not know which way to go .
She be much distress , and think constantly of her poor hungry father and her anxious mother .
At last , when it grow dark , she saw the little light , and come to the house in the wood .
She ask prettily if she might stay there for the night , and the man with the white beard ask his beast again : Pretty cock , Pretty hen , And you , pretty brindled cow , What do you say now ?
` Duks , ' they say .
Then the maiden step up to the stove where the animal be lie , and stroke the cock and the hen , and scratch the brindled cow between it horn .
And when at the bidding of the old man she have prepare a good supper , and the dish be stand on the table , she say , ` Shall I have plenty while the good beast have nothing ?
There be food to spare outside ; I will attend to them first . '
Then she go out and fetch barley and strew it before the cock and hen , and bring the cow an armful of sweet-smelling hay .
` Eat that , dear beast , ' she say , ' and when you be thirsty you shall have a good drink . '
Then she fetch a bowl of water , and the cock and hen fly on to the edge , put their beak in , and then hold up their head a bird do when they drink , and the brindled cow also drink her fill .
When the beast be satisfied , the maiden sit down beside the old man at the table and eat what be leave for her .
Soon the cock and hen begin to tuck their head under their wing , and the brindled cow blink it eye , so the maiden say , ` Shall we not go to rest now ? '
Pretty cock , Pretty hen , And you , pretty brindled cow , What do you say now ?
The animal say , ` Duks : You have eat with u , You have drink with u , You have tend u right , So we wish you good night . '
The maiden therefore go upstairs , make the bed and put on clean sheet and fell asleep .
She sleep peacefully till midnight , when there be such a noise in the house that she awake .
Everything tremble and shake ; the animal spring up and dash themselves in terror against the wall ; the beam sway a if they would be tear from their foundation , it seem a if the stair be tumble down , and then the roof fell in with a crash .
Then all become still , and a no harm come to the maiden she lay down again and fell asleep .
But when she awake again in broad daylight , what a sight meet her eye !
She be lie in a splendid room furnish with royal splendour ; the wall be cover with golden flower on a green ground ; the bed be of ivory and the counterpane of velvet , and on a stool near by lay a pair of slipper stud with pearl .
The maiden think she must be dream , but in come three servant richly dress , who ask what be her command .
` Go , ' say the maiden , ' I will get up at once and cook the old man 's supper for him , and then I will fee the pretty cock and hen and the brindled cow . '
But the door open and in come a handsome young man , who say , ' I be a king 's son , and be condemn by a wicked witch to live a an old man in this wood with no company but that of my three servant , who be transform into a cock , a hen , and a brindled cow .
The spell could only be break by the arrival of a maiden who should show herself kind not only to men but to beast .
You be that maiden , and last night at midnight we be free , and this poor house be again transform into my royal palace .
As they stand there the king 's son tell his three servant to go and fetch the maiden 's parent to be present at the wedding feast .
` But where be my two sister ? '
ask the maid . '
I shut them up in the cellar , but in the morning they shall be lead forth into the forest and shall serve a charcoal burner until they have improve , and will never again suffer poor animal to go hungry . '
Uraschimataro and the Turtle From the Japanische Marchen und Sagen , von David Brauns -LRB- Leipzig : Wilhelm Friedrich -RRB- .
There be once a worthy old couple who live on the coast , and support themselves by fish .
They have only one child , a son , who be their pride and joy , and for his sake they be ready to work hard all day long , and never felt tired or discontent with their lot .
This son 's name be Uraschimataro , which mean in Japanese , ` Son of the island , ' and he be a fine well-grown youth and a good fisherman , mind neither wind nor weather .
Not the brave sailor in the whole village dare venture so far out to sea a Uraschimataro , and many a time the neighbour use to shake their head and say to his parent , ` If your son go on be so rash , one day he will try his luck once too often , and the wave will end by swallow him up . '
But Uraschimataro pay no heed to these remark , and a he be really very clever in manage a boat , the old people be very seldom anxious about him .
One beautiful bright morning , a he be haul his well-filled net into the boat , he saw lie among the fish a tiny little turtle .
He be delight with his prize , and throw it into a wooden vessel to keep till he get home , when suddenly the turtle find it voice , and tremblingly beg for it life .
` After all , ' it say , ` what good can I do you ?
I be so young and small , and I would so gladly live a little long .
Be merciful and set me free , and I shall know how to prove my gratitude . '
Now Uraschimataro be very good-natured , and besides , he could never bear to say no , so he pick up the turtle , and put it back into the sea .
Years fly by , and every morning Uraschimataro sail his boat into the deep sea .
But one day a he be make for a little bay between some rock , there arise a fierce whirlwind , which shatter his boat to piece , and she be suck under by the wave .
Uraschimataro himself very nearly share the same fate .
But he be a powerful swimmer , and struggle hard to reach the shore .
Then he saw a large turtle come towards him , and above the howling of the storm he hear what it say : ' I be the turtle whose life you once save .
I will now pay my debt and show my gratitude .
The land be still far distant , and without my help you would never get there .
Climb on my back , and I will take you where you will . '
Uraschimataro do not wait to be ask twice , and thankfully accept his friend 's help .
But scarcely be he seat firmly on the shell , when the turtle propose that they should not return to the shore at once , but go under the sea , and look at some of the wonder that lay hidden there .
Uraschimataro agree willingly , and in another moment they be deep , deep down , with fathom of blue water above their head .
Oh , how quickly they dart through the still , warm sea !
The young man hold tight , and marvel where they be go and how long they be to travel , but for three day they rush on , till at last the turtle stop before a splendid palace , shin with gold and silver , crystal and precious stone , and deck here and there with branch of pale pink coral and glitter pearl .
But if Uraschimataro be astonish at the beauty of the outside , he be strike dumb at the sight of the hall within , which be light by the blaze of fish scale .
` Where have you bring me ? '
he ask his guide in a low voice .
` To the palace of Ringu , the house of the sea god , whose subject we all be , ' answer the turtle . '
I be the first wait maid of his daughter , the lovely princess Otohime , whom you will shortly see . '
Uraschimataro be still so puzzled with the adventure that have befall him , that he wait in a dazed condition for what would happen next .
But the turtle , who have talk so much of him to the princess that she have express a wish to see him , go at once to make know his arrival .
And directly the princess behold him her heart be set on him , and she beg him to stay with her , and in return promise that he should never grow old , neither should his beauty fade .
` Is not that reward enough ? '
she ask , smile , look all the while as fair a the sun itself .
And Uraschimataro say ` Yes , ' and so he stay there .
For how long ?
That he only know later .
His life pass by , and each hour seem happy than the last , when one day there rush over him a terrible longing to see his parent .
He fought against it hard , know how it would grieve the princess , but it grow on him strong and strong , till at length he become so sad that the princess inquire what be wrong .
Then he tell her of the longing he have to visit his old home , and that he must see his parent once more .
The princess be almost frozen with horror , and implore him to stay with her , or something dreadful would be sure to happen .
` You will never come back , and we shall meet again no more , ' she moan bitterly .
But Uraschimataro stand firm and repeat , ` Only this once will I leave you , and then will I return to your side for ever . '
Sadly the princess shake her head , but she answer slowly , ` One way there be to bring you safely back , but I fear you will never agree to the condition of the bargain . ' '
I will do anything that will bring me back to you , ' exclaim Uraschimataro , look at her tenderly , but the princess be silent : she know too well that when he leave her she would see his face no more .
Then she take from a shelf a tiny golden box , and give it to Uraschimataro , pray him to keep it carefully , and above all thing never to open it .
` If you can do this , ' she say a she bid him farewell , ` your friend the turtle will meet you at the shore , and will carry you back to me . '
Uraschimataro thank her from his heart , and swore solemnly to do her bidding .
He hide the box safely in his garment , seat himself on the back of the turtle , and vanish in the ocean path , wave his hand to the princess .
Three day and three night they swim through the sea , and at length Uraschimataro arrive at the beach which lay before his old home .
The turtle bid him farewell , and be go in a moment .
Uraschimataro draw near to the village with quick and joyful step .
He saw the smoke curl through the roof , and the thatch where green plant have thickly sprout .
He hear the child shout and call , and from a window that he pass come the twang of the koto , and everything seem to cry a welcome for his return .
Yet suddenly he felt a pang at his heart a he wander down the street .
After all , everything be change .
Neither men nor house be those he once know .
Quickly he saw his old home ; yes , it be still there , but it have a strange look .
Anxiously he knock at the door , and ask the woman who open it after his parent .
But she do not know their name , and could give him no news of them .
Still more disturbed , he rush to the burying ground , the only place that could tell him what he wish to know .
Here at any rate he would find out what it all meant .
And he be right .
In a moment he stand before the grave of his parent , and the date write on the stone be almost exactly the date when they have lose their son , and he have forsake them for the Daughter of the Sea .
And so he find that since he have deft his home , three hundred year have pass by .
Shuddering with horror at his discovery he turn back into the village street , hop to meet some one who could tell him of the day of old .
But when the man speak , he know he be not dream , though he felt a if he have lose his sens .
In despair he bethink him of the box which be the gift of the princess .
Perhaps after all this dreadful thing be not true .
He might be the victim of some enchanter 's spell , and in his hand lay the counter-charm .
Almost unconsciously he open it , and a purple vapour come pour out .
He hold the empty box in his hand , and a he look he saw that the fresh hand of youth have grow suddenly shrivel , like the hand of an old , old man .
He run to the brook , which flow in a clear stream down from the mountain .
and saw himself reflect a in a mirror .
It be the face of a mummy which look back at him .
Wounded to death , he creep back through the village , and no man know the old , old man to be the strong handsome youth who have run down the street an hour before .
So he toil wearily back , till he reach the shore , and here he sit sadly on a rock , and call loudly on the turtle .
But she never come back any more , but instead , death come soon , and set him free .
But before that happen , the people who saw him sit lonely on the shore have hear his story , and when their child be restless they use to tell them of the good son who from love to his parent have give up for their sake the splendour and wonder of the palace in the sea , and the most beautiful woman in the world besides .
The Slaying of the Tanuki From the Japanische Murchen und Sagen .
Near a big river , and between two high mountain , a man and his wife live in a cottage a long , long time ago .
A dense forest lay all round the cottage , and there be hardly a path or a tree in the whole wood that be not familiar to the peasant from his boyhood .
In one of his wandering he have make friend with a hare , and many an hour the two pass together , when the man be rest by the roadside , eat his dinner .
Now this strange friendship be observe by the Tanuki , a wicked , quarrelsome beast , who hat the peasant , and be never tire of do him an ill turn .
Again and again he have creep to the hut , and find some choice morsel put away for the little hare , have either eat it if he think it nice , or trample it to piece so that no one else should get it , and at last the peasant lose patience , and make up his mind he would have the Tanuki 's blood .
So for many day the man lay hidden , wait for the Tanuki to come by , and when one morning he march up the road thinking of nothing but the dinner he be go to steal , the peasant throw himself upon him and bind his four leg tightly , so that he could not move .
Then he drag his enemy joyfully to the house , feel that at length he have get the good of the mischievous beast which have do him so many ill turn .
` He shall pay for them with his skin , ' he say to his wife .
` We will first kill him , and then cook him . '
So say , he hang the Tanuki , head downwards , to a beam , and go out to gather wood for a fire .
Meanwhile the old woman be stand at the mortar pound the rise that be to serve them for the week with a pestle that make her arm ache with it weight .
Suddenly she hear something whining and weeping in the corner , and , stop her work , she look round to see what it be .
That be all that the rascal want , and he put on directly his most humble air , and beg the woman in his soft voice to loosen his bond , which her hurt him sorely .
She be fill with pity for him , but do not dare to set him free , a she know that her husband would be very angry .
The Tanuki , however , do not despair , and see that her heart be soften , begin his prayer anew .
` He only ask to have his bond take from him , ' he say .
` He would give his word not to attempt to escape , and if he be once set free he could soon pound her rice for her . '
` Then you can have a little rest , ' he go on , ` for rice pounding be very tiring work , and not at all fit for weak woman . '
These last word melt the good woman completely , and she unfasten the bond that hold him .
Poor foolish creature !
In one moment the Tanuki have seize her , strip off all her clothes , and pop her in the mortar .
In a few minute more she be pound as fine a the rice ; and not content with that , the Tanuki place a pot on the hearth and make ready to cook the peasant a dinner from the flesh of his own wife !
When everything be complete he look out of the door , and saw the old man come from the forest carry a large bundle of wood .
Quick a lightning the Tanuki not only put on the woman 's clothes , but , a he be a magician , assume her form as well .
Then he take the wood , kindle the fire , and very soon set a large dinner before the old man , who be very hungry , and have forget for the moment all about his enemy .
But when the Tanuki saw that he have eat his fill and would be think about his prisoner , he hastily shake off the clothes behind a door and take his own shape .
Then he say to the peasant , ` You be a nice sort of person to seize animal and to talk of kill them !
You be catch in your own net .
It be your own wife that you have eat , and if you want to find her bone you have only to look under the floor . '
With these word he turn and make for the forest .
The old peasant grow cold with horror a he listen , and seem frozen to the place where he stand .
When he have recover himself a little , he collect the bone of his dead wife , bury them in the garden , and swore over the grave to be avenge on the Tanuki .
After everything be do he sit himself down in his lonely cottage and weep bitterly , and the bitter thought of all be that he would never be able to forget that he have eat his own wife .
While he be thus weep and wail his friend the hare pass by , and , hear the noise , prick up his ear and soon recognise the old man 's voice .
He wonder what have happen , and put his head in at the door and ask if anything be the matter .
With tear and groan the peasant tell him the whole dreadful story , and the hare , fill with anger and compassion , comfort him a best he could , and promise to help him in his revenge .
` The false knave shall not go unpunished , ' say he .
So the first thing he do be to search the house for material to make an ointment , which he sprinkle plentifully with pepper and then put in his pocket .
Next he take a hatchet , bade farewell to the old man , and depart to the forest .
He bend his step to the dwelling of the Tanuki and knock at the door .
The Tanuki , who have no cause to suspect the hare , be greatly pleased to see him , for he notice the hatchet at once , and begin to lay plot how to get hold of it .
To do this he think he have well offer to accompany the hare , which be exactly what the hare wish and expect , for he know all the Tanuki 's cunning , and understand his little way .
So he accept the rascal 's company with joy , and make himself very pleasant a they stroll along .
When they be wander in this manner through the forest the hare carelessly raise his hatchet in passing , and cut down some thick bough that be hang over the path , but at length , after cut down a good big tree , which cost him many hard blow , he declare that it be too heavy for him to carry home , and he must just leave it where it be .
This delight the greedy Tanuki , who say that they would be no weight for him , so they collect the large branch , which the hare bound tightly on his back .
Then he trot gaily to the house , the hare follow after with his lighter bundle .
By this time the hare have decide what he would do , and as soon a they arrive , he quietly set on fire the wood on the back of the Tanuki .
The Tanuki , who be busy with something else , observe nothing , and only call out to ask what be the meaning of the crackling that he hear .
` It be just the rattle of the stone which be roll down the side of the mountain , ' the hare say ; and the Tanuki be content , and make no further remark , never notice that the noise really spring from the burn bough on his back , until his fur be in flame , and it be almost too late to put it out .
Shrieking with pain , he let fall the burn wood from his back , and stamp and howl with agony .
But the hare comfort him , and tell him that he always carry with him an excellent plaster in case of need , which would bring him instant relief , and take out his ointment he spread it on a leaf of bamboo , and lay it on the wound .
No sooner do it touch him than the Tanuki leapt yell into the air , and the hare laugh , and run to tell his friend the peasant what a trick he have play on their enemy .
But the old man shake his head sadly , for he know that the villain be only crush for the moment , and that he would shortly be revenge himself upon them .
No , the only way every to get any peace and quiet be to render the Tanuki harmless for ever .
Long do the old man and the hare puzzle together how this be to be do , and at last they decide that they would make two boat , a small one of wood and a large one of clay .
Then they fell to work at once , and when the boat be ready and properly paint , the hare go to the Tanuki , who be still very ill , and invite him to a great fish-catching .
The Tanuki be still feel angry with the hare about the trick he have play him , but he be weak and very hungry , so he gladly accept the proposal , and accompany the hare to the bank of the river , where the two boat be moor , rock by the wave .
They both look exactly alike , and the Tanuki only saw that one be big than the other , and would hold more fish , so he spring into the large one , while the hare climb into the one which be make of wood .
They loosen their mooring , and make for the middle of the stream , and when they be at some distance from the bank , the hare take his oar , and strike such a heavy blow at the other boat , that it break in two .
The Tanuki fell straight into the water , and be hold there by the hare till he be quite dead .
Then he put the body in his boat and row to land , and tell the old man that his enemy be dead at last .
And the old man rejoice that his wife be avenge , and he take the hare into his house , and they live together all their day in peace and quietness upon the mountain .
The Flying Trunk Translated from the German of Hans Andersen .
There be once a merchant who be so rich that he could have pave the whole street , and perhaps even a little side-street besides , with silver .
But he do not do that ; he know another way of spend his money .
If he spend a shilling he get back a florin-such an excellent merchant he be till he die .
Now his son inherit all this money .
He live very merrily ; he go every night to the theatre , make paper kit out of five-pound note , and play duck and drake with sovereigns instead of stone .
In this way the money be likely to come soon to an end , and so it do .
At last he have nothing leave but four shilling , and he have no clothes except a pair of slipper and an old dressing-gown .
His friend do not trouble themselves any more about him ; they would not even walk down the street with him .
But one of them who be rather good-natured send him an old trunk with the message , ` Pack up ! ''
That be all very well , but he have nothing to pack up , so he get into the trunk himself .
It be an enchanted trunk , for as soon a the lock be press it could fly .
He press it , and away he fly in it up the chimney , high into the cloud , further and further away .
But whenever the bottom give a little creak he be in terror lest the trunk should go to piece , for then he would have turn a dreadful somersault-just think of it !
In this way he arrive at the land of the Turks .
He hide the trunk in a wood under some dry leaf , and then walk into the town .
He could do that quite well , for all the Turks be dress just a he was-in a dressing-gown and slipper .
He meet a nurse with a little child .
` Halloa !
you Turkish nurse , ' say he , ` what be that great castle there close to the town ?
The one with the window so high up ? '
` The sultan 's daughter live there , ' she reply .
` It be prophesy that she will be very unlucky in her husband , and so no one be allow to see her except when the sultan and sultana be by . '
` Thank you , ' say the merchant 's son , and he go into the wood , sit himself in his trunk , fly on to the roof , and creep through the window into the princess 's room .
She be lie on the sofa asleep , and be so beautiful that the young merchant have to kiss her .
Then she wake up and be very much frighten , but he say he be a Turkish god who have come through the air to see her , and that please her very much .
They sit close to each other , and he tell her a story about her eye .
They be beautiful dark lake in which her thought swim about like mermaid .
And her forehead be a snowy mountain , grand and shin .
These be lovely story .
Then he ask the princess to marry him , and she say yes at once .
` But you must come here on Saturday , ' she say , ` for then the sultan and the sultana be come to tea with me .
They will be indeed proud that I receive the god of the Turks .
But mind you have a really good story ready , for my parent like them immensely .
My mother like something rather moral and high-flown , and my father like something merry to make him laugh . '
` Yes , I shall only bring a fairy story for my dowry , ' say he , and so they part .
But the princess give him a sabre set with gold piece which he could use .
Then he fly away , buy himself a new dressing-gown , and sit down in the wood and begin to make up a story , for it have to be ready by Saturday , and that be no easy matter .
When he have it ready it be Saturday .
The sultan , the sultana , and the whole court be at tea with the princess .
He be most graciously receive .
` Will you tell u a story ? '
say the sultana ; ` one that be thoughtful and instructive ? '
` But something that we can laugh at , ' say the sultan .
` Oh , certainly , ' he reply , and begin : ` Now , listen attentively .
There be once a box of match which lay between a tinder-box and an old iron pot , and they tell the story of their youth . '
`` We use to be on the green fir-boughs .
Every morning and evening we have diamond-tea , which be the dew , and the whole day long we have sunshine , and the little bird use to tell u story .
We be very rich , because the other tree only dress in summer , but we have green dress in summer and in winter .
Then the woodcutter come , and our family be split up .
We have now the task of make light for the low people .
That be why we grand people be in the kitchen . '' '
`` My fate be quite different , '' say the iron pot , near which the match lay . '
`` Since I come into the world I have be many time scour , and have cook much .
My only pleasure be to have a good chat with my companion when I be lie nice and clean in my place after dinner . '' '
`` Now you be talk too fast , '' splutter the fire . '
`` Yes , let u decide who be the grandest ! ''
say the match . '
`` No , I do n't like talk about myself , '' say the pot . '
`` Let u arrange an evening 's entertainment .
I will tell the story of my life . '
`` On the Baltic by the Danish shore - '' ` What a beautiful beginning ! ''
say all the plate .
`` That 's a story that will please u all . ''
` And the end be just as good a the beginning .
All the plate clatter for joy . '
`` Now I will dance , '' say the tongs , and she dance .
Oh !
how high she could kick !
` The old chair-cover in the corner split when he saw her .
` The urn would have sing but she say she have a cold ; she could not sing unless she boil .
` In the window be an old quill pen .
There be nothing remarkable about her except that she have be dip too deeply into the ink .
But she be very proud of that . '
`` If the urn will not sing , '' say she , `` outside the door hang a nightingale in a cage who will sing . '' '
`` I do n't think it 's proper , '' say the kettle , `` that such a foreign bird should be hear . '' '
`` Oh , let u have some acting , '' say everyone .
`` Do let u ! ''
` Suddenly the door open and the maid come in .
Everyone be quite quiet .
There be not a sound .
But each pot know what he might have do , and how grand he be .
` The maid take the match and light the fire with them .
How they splutter and flame , to be sure !
`` Now everyone can see , '' they think , `` that we be the grandest !
How we sparkle !
What a light - '' ` But here they be burn out . '
` That be a delightful story ! '
say the sultana . '
I quite feel myself in the kitchen with the match .
Yes , now you shall marry our daughter . '
` Yes , indeed , ' say the sultan , ` you shall marry our daughter on Monday . '
And they treat the young man a one of the family .
The wedding be arrange , and the night before the whole town be illuminate .
Biscuits and gingerbread be throw among the people , the street boys stand on tiptoe cry hurrah and whistle through their finger .
It be all splendid .
` Now I must also give them a treat , ' think the merchant 's son .
And so he buy rocket , cracker , and all the kind of firework you can think of , put them in his trunk , and fly up with them into the air .
Whirr-r-r , how they fizz and blaze !
All the Turks jump so high that their slipper fly above their head ; such a splendid glitter they have never see before .
Now they could quite well understand that it be the god of the Turks himself who be to marry the princess .
As soon a the young merchant come down again into the wood with his trunk he think , ` Now I will just go into the town to see how the show have take . '
And it be quite natural that he should want to do this .
Oh !
what stories the people have to tell !
Each one whom he ask have see it differently , but they have all find it beautiful . '
I saw the Turkish god himself , ' say one .
` He have eye like glitter star , and a beard like foam water . '
` He fly away in a cloak of fire , ' say another .
They be splendid thing that he hear , and the next day be to be his wed day .
Then he go back into the wood to sit in his trunk ; but what have become of it ?
The trunk have be burnt .
A spark of the firework have set it alight , and the trunk be in ash .
He could no longer fly , and could never reach his bride .
She stand the whole day long on the roof and wait ; perhaps she be wait there still .
But he wander through the world and told story ; though they be not so merry a the one he tell about the match .
The Snow-man Translated from the German of Hans Andersen .
` How astonishingly cold it be !
My body be crack all over ! '
say the Snow-man .
` The wind be really cut one 's very life out !
And how that fiery thing up there glare ! '
He mean the sun , which be just set .
` It sha 'n ' t make me blink , though , and I shall keep quite cool and collect . '
Instead of eye he have two large three-cornered piece of slate in his head ; his mouth consist of an old rake , so that he have teeth as well .
He be bear amidst the shout and laughter of the boy , and greet by the jingling bell and crack whip of the sledge .
The sun go down , the full moon rise , large , round , clear and beautiful , in the dark blue sky .
` There it be again on the other side ! '
say the Snow-man , by which he mean the sun be appear again . '
I have become quite accustomed to it glaring .
I hope it will hang there and shine , so that I may be able to see myself .
I wish I know , though , how one ought to see about change one 's position .
I should very much like to move about .
If I only could , I would glide up and down the ice there , a I saw the boy do ; but somehow or other , I do n't know how to run . '
` Bow-wow ! '
bark the old yard-dog ; he be rather hoarse and could n't bark very well .
His hoarseness come on when he be a house-dog and use to lie in front of the stove .
` The sun will soon teach you to run !
I saw that last winter with your predecessor , and far back still with his predecessor !
They have all run away ! ' '
I do n't understand you , my friend , ' say the Snow-man .
` That thing up there be to teach me to run ? '
He mean the moon .
` Well , it certainly do run just now , for I saw it quite plainly over there , and now here it be on this side . '
` You know nothing at all about it , ' say the yard-dog .
` Why , you have only just be make .
The thing you see there be the moon ; the other thing you saw go down the other side be the sun .
He will come up again tomorrow morning , and will soon teach you how to run away down the gutter .
The weather be go to change ; I feel it already by the pain in my left hind-leg ; the weather be certainly go to change . ' '
I ca n't understand him , ' say the Snow-man ; ` but I have an idea that he be speak of something unpleasant .
That thing that glare so , and then disappears , the sun , a he call it , be not my friend .
I know that by instinct . '
` Bow-wow ! '
bark the yard-dog , and walk three time round himself , and then creep into his kennel to sleep .
The weather really do change .
Towards morning a dense damp fog lay over the whole neighbourhood ; later on come an icy wind , which send the frost packing .
But when the sun rise , it be a glorious sight .
The tree and shrub be cover with rime , and look like a wood of coral , and every branch be thick with long white blossom .
The most delicate twig , which be lose among the foliage in summer-time , come now into prominence , and it be like a spider 's web of glisten white .
The lady-birches wave in the wind ; and when the sun shone , everything glitter and sparkle a if it be sprinkle with diamond dust , and great diamond be lie on the snowy carpet .
` Is n't it wonderful ? '
exclaim a girl who be walk with a young man in the garden .
They stop near the Snow-man , and look at the glistening tree .
` Summer can not show a more beautiful sight , ' she say , with her eye shin .
` And one ca n't get a fellow like this in summer either , ' say the young man , point to the Snow-man .
` He 's a beauty ! '
The girl laugh , and nod to the Snow-man , and then they both dance away over the snow .
` Who be those two ? '
ask the Snow-man of the yard-dog .
` You have be in this yard long than I have .
Do you know who they be ? '
` Do I know them indeed ? '
answer the yard-dog .
` She have often stroke me , and he have give me bone .
I do n't bite either of them ! '
` But what be they ? '
ask the Snow-man .
` Lovers ! '
reply the yard-dog .
` They will go into one kennel and gnaw the same bone ! '
` Are they the same kind of being that we be ? '
ask the Snow-man .
` They be our master , ' answer the yard-dog .
` Really people who have only be in the world one day know very little . '
That 's the conclusion I have come to .
Now I have age and wisdom ; I know everyone in the house , and I can remember a time when I be not lie here in a cold kennel .
Bow-wow ! '
` The cold be splendid , ' say the Snow-man .
` Tell me some more .
But do n't rattle your chain so , it make me crack ! '
` Bow-wow ! '
bark the yard-dog .
` They use to say I be a pretty little fellow ; then I lay in a velvet-covered chair in my master 's house .
My mistress use to nurse me , and kiss and fondle me , and call me her dear , sweet little Alice !
But by-and-by I grow too big , and I be give to the housekeeper , and I go into the kitchen .
You can see into it from where you be stand ; you can look at the room in which I be master , for so I be when I be with the housekeeper .
Of course it be a small place than upstairs , but it be more comfortable , for I be n't chase about and tease by the child a I have be before .
My food be just as good , or even good .
I have my own pillow , and there be a stove there , which at this time of year be the most beautiful thing in the world .
I use to creep right under that stove .
Ah me !
I often dream of that stove still !
Bow-wow ! '
` Is a stove so beautiful ? '
ask the Snow-man .
` Is it anything like me ? '
` It be just the opposite of you !
It be coal-black , and have a long neck with a brass pipe .
It eat firewood , so that fire spout out of it mouth .
One have to keep close beside it-quite underneath be the nice of all .
You can see it through the window from where you be stand . '
And the Snow-man look in that direction , and saw a smooth polished object with a brass pipe .
The flicker from the fire reach him across the snow .
The Snow-man felt wonderfully happy , and a feeling come over him which he could not express ; but all those who be not snow-men know about it .
` Why do you leave her ? '
ask the Snow-man .
He have a feeling that such a be must be a lady .
` How could you leave such a place ? ' '
I have to ! '
say the yard-dog .
` They turn me out of door , and chain me up here .
I have bite the young boy in the leg , because he take away the bone I be gnaw ; a bone for a bone , I think !
But they be very angry , and from that time I have be chain here , and I have lose my voice .
Do n't you hear how hoarse I be ?
Bow-wow !
I ca n't speak like other dog .
Bow-wow !
That be the end of happiness ! '
The Snow-man , however , be not listen to him any more ; he be look into the room where the housekeeper live , where the stove stand on it four iron leg , and seem to be just the same size a the Snow-man .
` How something be crack inside me ! '
he say .
` Shall I never be able to get in there ?
It be certainly a very innocent wish , and our innocent wish ought to be fulfil .
I must get there , and lean against the stove , if I have to break the window first ! '
` You will never get inside there ! '
say the yard-dog ; ` and if you be to reach the stove you would disappear .
Bow-wow ! '
` I 'm as good a go already ! '
answer the Snow-man . '
I believe I 'm break up ! '
The whole day the Snow-man look through the window ; towards dusk the room grow still more inviting ; the stove give out a mild light , not at all like the moon or even the sun ; no , a only a stove can shine , when it have something to fee upon .
When the door of the room be open , it flare up-this be one of it peculiarity ; it flicker quite red upon the Snow-man 's white face . '
I ca n't stand it any longer ! '
he say .
` How beautiful it look with it tongue stretch out like that ! '
It be a long night , but the Snow-man do not find it so ; there he stand , wrapt in his pleasant thought , and they freeze , so that he crack .
Next morning the pane of the kitchen window be cover with ice , and the most beautiful ice-flowers that even a snow-man could desire , only they blot out the stove .
The window would not open ; he could n't see the stove which he think be such a lovely lady .
There be a cracking and crack inside him and all around ; there be just such a frost a a snow-man would delight in .
But this Snow-man be different : how could he feel happy ?
` Yours be a bad illness for a Snow-man ! '
say the yard-dog . '
I also suffer from it , but I have get over it .
Bow-wow ! '
he bark .
` The weather be go to change ! '
he add .
The weather do change .
There come a thaw .
When this set in the Snow-man set off .
He do not say anything , and he do not complain , and those be bad sign .
One morning he break up altogether .
And lo !
where he have stand there remain a broomstick stand upright , round which the boy have build him !
` Ah !
now I understand why he love the stove , ' say the yard-dog .
` That be the raker they use to clean out the stove !
The Snow-man have a stove-raker in his body !
That 's what be the matter with him !
And now it 's all over with him !
Bow-wow ! '
And before long it be all over with the winter too !
` Bow-wow ! '
bark the hoarse yard-dog .
But the young girl sang : Woods , your bright green garment don !
Willows , your woolly glove put on !
Lark and cuckoo , daily sing -- February have bring the spring !
My heart join in your song so sweet ; Come out , dear sun , the world to greet !
And no one thought of the Snow-man .
The Shirt-collar Translated from the German of Hans Andersen .
There be once a fine gentleman whose entire worldly possession consist of a boot-jack and a hair-brush ; but he have the most beautiful shirt-collar in the world , and it be about this that we be go to hear a story .
The shirt-collar be so old that he begin to think about marrying ; and it happen one day that he and a garter come into the wash-tub together .
` Hulloa ! '
say the shirt-collar , ` never before have I see anything so slim and delicate , so elegant and pretty !
May I be permit to ask your name ? ' '
I sha n't tell you , ' say the garter .
` Where be the place of your abode ? '
ask the shirt-collar .
But the garter be of a bashful disposition , and do not think it proper to answer .
` Perhaps you be a girdle ? '
say the shirt-collar , ` an under girdle ?
for I see that you be for use as well a for ornament , my pretty miss ! '
` You ought not to speak to me ! '
say the garter ' ` I 'm sure I have n't give you any encouragement ! '
` When anyone be as beautiful a you , ' say the shirt-collar , ` be not that encouragement enough ? '
` Go away , do n't come so close ! '
say the garter .
` You seem to be a gentleman ! '
` So I be , and a very fine one too ! '
say the shirt-collar ; ' I possess a boot-jack and a hair-brush ! '
That be not true ; it be his master who own these thing ; but he be a terrible boaster .
` Do n't come so close , ' say the garter .
` I 'm not accustom to such treatment ! '
` What affectation ! '
say the shirt-collar .
And then they be take out of the wash-tub , starch , and hung on a chair in the sun to dry , and then lay on the ironing-board .
Then come the glowing iron .
` Mistress widow ! '
say the shirt-collar , ` dear mistress widow !
I be become another man , all my crease be come out ; you be burn a hole in me !
Ugh !
Stop , I implore you ! '
` You rag ! '
say the iron , travel proudly over the shirt-collar , for it think it be a steam engine and ought to be at the station draw truck .
` Rag ! '
it say .
The shirt-collar be rather fray out at the edge , so the scissors come to cut off the thread .
` Oh ! '
say the shirt-collar , ` you must be a dancer !
How high you can kick !
That be the most beautiful thing I have ever see !
No man can imitate you ! ' '
I know that ! '
say the scissors .
` You ought to be a duchess ! '
say the shirt-collar .
` My worldly possession consist of a fine gentleman , a boot-jack , and a hair-brush .
If only I have a duchy ! '
` What !
He want to marry me ? '
say the scissors , and she be so angry that she give the collar a sharp snip , so that it have to be cast aside a good for nothing .
` Well , I shall have to propose to the hair-brush ! '
think the shirt-collar .
` It be really wonderful what fine hair you have , madam !
Have you never think of marry ? '
` Yes , that I have ! '
answer the hair-brush ; ` I 'm engage to the boot-jack ! '
` Engaged ! '
exclaim the shirt-collar .
And now there be no one he could marry , so he take to despise matrimony .
Time pass , and the shirt-collar come in a rag-bag to the paper-mill .
There be a large assortment of rag , the fine one in one heap , and the coarse one in another , a they should be .
They have all much to tell , but no one more than the shirt-collar , for he be a hopeless braggart . '
I have have a terrible number of love affair ! '
he say .
` They give me no peace .
I be such a fine gentleman , so stiff with starch !
I have a boot-jack and a hair-brush , which I never use !
You should just have see me then !
Never shall I forget my first love !
She be a girdle , so delicate and soft and pretty !
She throw herself into a wash-tub for my sake !
Then there be a widow , who glow with love for me .
But I leave her alone , till she become black .
Then there be the dancer , who inflict the wound which have cause me to be here now ; she be very violent !
My own hair-brush be in love with me , and lose all her hair in consequence .
Yes , I have experience much in that line ; but I grieve most of all for the garter , -I mean , the girdle , who throw herself into a wash-tub .
I have much on my conscience ; it be high time for me to become white paper ! '
And so he do !
he become white paper , the very paper on which this story be print .
And that be because he have boast so terribly about thing which be not true .
We should take this to heart , so that it may not happen to u , for we can not indeed tell if we may not some day come to the rag-bag , and be make into white paper , on which will be print our whole history , even the most secret part , so that we too go about the world relate it , like the shirt-collar .
The Princess in the Chest Translated from the Danish .
There be once a king and a queen who live in a beautiful castle , and have a large , and fair , and rich , and happy land to rule over .
From the very first they love each other greatly , and live very happily together , but they have no heir .
They have be marry for seven year , but have neither son nor daughter , and that be a great grief to both of them .
More than once it happen that when the king be in a bad temper , he let it out on the poor queen , and say that here they be now , get old , and neither they nor the kingdom have an heir , and it be all her fault .
This be hard to listen to , and she go and cry and vex herself .
Finally , the king say to her one day , ` This ca n't be borne any longer .
I go about childless , and it 's your fault .
I be go on a journey and shall be away for a year .
If you have a child when I come back again , all will be well , and I shall love you beyond all measure , and never more say an angry word to you .
But if the nest be just a empty when I come home , then I must part with you . '
After the king have set out on his journey , the queen go about in her loneliness , and sorrow and vex herself more than ever .
At last her maid say to her one day , ' I think that some help could be find , if your majesty would seek it . '
Then she tell about a wise old woman in that country , who have help many in trouble of the same kind , and could no doubt help the queen as well , if she would send for her .
The queen do so , and the wise woman come , and to her she confide her sorrow , that she , be childless , and the king and his kingdom have no heir .
The wise woman know help for this .
` Out in the king 's garden , ' say she , ` under the great oak that stand on the left hand , just a one go out from the castle , be a little bush , rather brown than green , with hairy leaf and long spike .
On that bush there be just at this moment three bud .
If your majesty go out there alone , fast , before sunrise , and take the middle one of the three bud , and eat it , then in six month you will bring a princess into the world .
As soon a she be bear , she must have a nurse , whom I shall provide , and this nurse must live with the child in a secluded part of the palace ; no other person must visit the child ; neither the king nor the queen must see it until it be fourteen year old , for that would cause great sorrow and misfortune . '
The queen reward the old woman richly , and next morning , before the sun rise , she be down in the garden , find at once the little bush with the three bud , pluck the middle one and eat it .
It be sweet to taste , but afterwards be as bitter a gall .
Six month after this , she bring into the world a little girl .
There be a nurse in readiness , whom the wise woman have provide , and preparation be make for her living with the child , quite alone , in a secluded wing of the castle , look out on the pleasure-park .
The queen do a the wise woman have tell her ; she give up the child immediately , and the nurse take it and live with it there .
When the king come home and heard that a daughter have be bear to him , he be of course very pleased and happy , and want to see her at once .
The queen have then to tell him this much of the story , that it have be foretell that it would cause great sorrow and misfortune if either he or she get a sight of the child until it have complete it fourteenth year .
This be a long time to wait .
The king long so much to get a sight of his daughter , and the queen no less than he , but she know that it be not like other child , for it could speak immediately after it be bear , and be as wise a old folk .
This the nurse have tell her , for with her the queen have a talk now and again , but there be no one who have ever see the princess .
The queen have also see what the wise woman could do , so she insist strongly that her warning should be obey .
The king often lose his patience , and be determine to see his daughter , but the queen always put him off the idea , and so thing go on , until the very day before the princess complete her fourteenth year .
The king and the queen be out in the garden then , and the king say , ` Now I ca n't and I wo n't wait any long .
I must see my daughter at once .
A few hour , more or less , ca n't make any difference . '
The queen beg him to have patience till the morning .
When they have wait so long , they could surely wait a single day more .
But the king be quite unreasonable .
` No nonsense , ' say he ; ` she be just as much mine a yours , and I will see her , ' and with that he go straight up to her room .
He burst the door open , and push aside the nurse , who try to stop him , and there he saw his daughter .
She be the lovely young princess , red and white , like milk and blood , with clear blue eye and golden hair , but right in the middle of her forehead there be a little tuft of brown hair .
The princess go to meet her father , fell on his neck and kiss him , but with that she say , ' O father , father !
what have you do now ?
to-morrow I must die , and you must choose one of three thing : either the land must be smite with the black pestilence , or you must have a long and bloody war , or you must as soon a I be dead , lay me in a plain wooden chest , and set it in the church , and for a whole year place a sentinel beside it every night . '
The king be frighten indeed , and think she be rave , but in order to please her , he say , ` Well , of these three thing I shall choose the last ; if you die , I shall lay you at once in a plain wooden chest , and have it set in the church , and every night I shall place a sentinel beside it .
But you shall not die , even if you be ill now . '
He immediately summon all the best doctor in the country , and they come with all their prescription and their medicine bottle , but next day the princess be stiff and cold in death .
All the doctor could certify to that and they all put their name to this and append their seal , and then they have do all they could .
The king keep his promise .
The princess 's body be lain the same day in a plain wooden chest , and set in the chapel of the castle , and on that night and every night after it , a sentinel be post in the church , to keep watch over the chest .
The first morning when they come to let the sentinel out , there be no sentinel there .
They think he have just get frighten and run away , and next even a new one be post in the church .
In the morning he be also go .
So it go every night .
When they come in the morning to let the sentinel out , there be no one there , and it be impossible to discover which way he have go if he have run away .
And what should they run away for , every one of them , so that nothing more be over heard or see of them , from the hour that they be set on guard beside the princess 's chest ?
It become now a general belief that the princess 's ghost walk , and eat up all those who be to guard her chest , and very soon there be no one left who would be place on this duty , and the king 's soldier desert the service , before their turn come to be her bodyguard .
The king then promise a large reward to the soldier who would volunteer for the post .
This do for some time , a there be find a few reckless fellow , who wish to earn this good payment .
But they never get it , for in the morning , they too have disappear like the rest .
So it have go on for something like a whole year ; every night a sentinel have be place beside the chest , either by compulsion or of his own free will , but not a single one of the sentinel be to be see , either on the following day or any time thereafter .
And so it have also go with one , on the night before a certain day , when a merry young smith come wander to the town where the king 's castle stood .
It be the capital of the country , and people of every king come to it to get work .
This smith , whose name be Christian , have come for that same purpose .
There be no work for him in the place he belong to , and he want now to seek a place in the capital .
There he enter an inn where he sit down in the public room , and get something to eat .
Some under-officers be sit there , who be out to try to get some one enlist to stand sentry .
They have to go in this way , day after day , and hitherto they have always succeed in find one or other reckless fellow .
But on this day they have , a yet , find no one .
It be too well know how all the sentinel disappear , who be set on that post , and all that they have get hold of have refuse with thanks .
These sit down beside Christian , and order drink , and drink along with him .
Now Christian be a merry fellow who like good company ; he could both drink and sing , and talk and boast as well , when he get a little drop in his head .
He tell these under-officers that he be one of that kind of folk who never be afraid of anything .
Then he be just the kind of man they like , say they , and he might easily earn a good penny , before he be a day old , for the king pay a hundred dollar to anyone who would stand a sentinel in the church all night , beside his daughter 's chest .
Christian be not afraid of that he be n't afraid of anything , so they drink another bottle of wine on this , and Christian go with them up to the colonel , where he be put into uniform with musket , and all the rest , and be then shut up in the church , to stand a sentinel that night .
It be eight o'clock when he take up his post , and for the first hour he be quite proud of his courage ; during the second hour he be well pleased with the large reward that he would get , but in the third hour , when it be get near eleven , the effect of the wine pass off , and he begin to get uncomfortable , for he have hear about this post ; that no one have ever escape alive from it , so far a be know .
But neither do anyone know what have become of all the sentinel .
The thought of this ran in his head so much , after the wine be out of it , that he search about everywhere for a way of escape , and finally , at eleven o'clock , he find a little postern in the steeple which be not lock , and out at this he creep , intend to run away .
At the same moment a he put his foot outside the church door , he saw stand before him a little man , who say , ` Good evening , Christian , where be you go ? '
With that he felt a if he be root to the spot and could not move .
` Nowhere , ' say he .
` Oh , yes , ' say the little man , ` You be just about to run away , but you have take upon you to stand sentinel in the church to-night , and there you must stay . '
Christian say , very humbly , that he dare not , and therefore want to get away , and beg to be let go .
` No , ' say the little one , ` you must remain at your post , but I shall give you a piece of good advice ; you shall go up into the pulpit , and remain stand there .
You need never mind what you see or hear , it will not be able to do you any harm , if you remain in your place until you hear the lid of the chest slam down again behind the dead ; then all danger be past , and you can go about the church , wherever you please . '
The little man then push him in at the door again , and lock it after him .
Christian make haste to get up into the pulpit , and stand there , without notice anything , until the clock strike twelve .
Then the lid of the princess 's chest spring up , and out of it there come something like the princess , dress a you see in the picture .
It shriek and howl , ` Sentry , where be you ?
Sentry , where be you ?
If you do n't come , you shall get the most cruel death anyone have ever get . '
It go all round the church , and when it finally catch sight of the smith , up in the pulpit , it come rush thither and mount the step .
But it could not get up the whole way , and for all that it stretch and strain , it could not touch Christian , who meanwhile stand and tremble up in the pulpit .
When the clock strike one , the appearance have to go back into the chest again , and Christian hear the lid slam after it .
After this there be dead silence in the church .
He lay down where he be and fell asleep , and do not awake before it be bright daylight , and he hear step outside , and the noise of the key be put into the lock .
Then he come down from the pulpit , and stand with his musket in front of the princess 's chest .
It be the colonel himself who come with the patrol , and he be not a little surprised when he find the recruit safe and sound .
He want to have a report , but Christian would give him none , so he take him straight up to the king , and announce for the first time that here be the sentinel who have stand guard in the church over-night .
The king immediately get out of bed , and lay the hundred dollar for him on the table , and then want to question him .
` Have you see anything ? '
say he .
` Have you see my daughter ? ' '
I have stand at my post , ' say the young smith , ` and that be quite enough ; I undertake nothing more . '
He be not sure whether he dare tell what he have see and hear , and besides he be also a little conceited because he have do what no other man have be able to do , or have have courage for .
The king profess to be quite satisfied , and ask him whether he would engage himself to stand on guard again the following night .
` No , thank you , ' say Christian , ' I will have no more of that ! '
` As you please , ' say the king , ` you have behave like a brave fellow , and now you shall have your breakfast .
You must be need something to strengthen you after that turn . '
The king have breakfast lay for him , and sit down at the table with him in person ; he keep constantly fill his glass for him and praise him , and drink his health .
Christian need no pressing , but do full justice both to the food and drink , and not least to the latter .
Finally he grow bold , and say that if the king would give him two hundred dollar for it , he be his man to stand sentry next night as well .
When this be arrange , Christian bid him ` Good-day , ' and go down among the guard , and then out into the town along with other soldier and under-officers .
He have his pocket full of money , and treat them , and drank with them and boast and make game of the good-for-nothing who be afraid to stand on guard , because they be frighten that the dead princess would eat them .
See whether she have eat him !
So the day pass in mirth and glee , but when eight o'clock come , Christian be again shut up in the church , all alone .
Before he have be there two hour , he get tire of it , and think only of get away .
He find a little door behind the altar which be not lock , and at ten o'clock he slip out at it , and take to his heel and make for the beach .
He have get half-way thither , when all at once the same little man stand in front of him and say , ` Good evening , Christian , where be you go ? '
` I 've leave to go where I please , ' say the smith , but at the same time he notice that he could not move a foot .
` No , you have undertake to keep guard to-night a well , ' say the little man , ` and you must attend to that . '
He then take hold of him , and however unwilling he be , Christian have to go with him right back to the same little door that he have creep out at .
When they get there , the little man say to him , ` Go in front of the altar now , and take in your hand the book that be lie there .
There you shall stay till you hear the lid of the chest slam down over the dead .
In that way you will come to no harm . '
With that the little man shove him in at the door , and lock it .
Christian then immediately go in front of the altar , and take the book in his hand , and stand thus until the clock strike twelve , and the appearance spring out of the chest .
` Sentry , where be you ?
Sentry , where be you ? '
it shriek , and then rush to the pulpit , and right up into it .
But there be no one there that night .
Then it howl and shriek again , My father have set no sentry in , War and Pest this night begin .
At the same moment , it notice the smith standing in front of the altar , and come rush towards him .
` Are you there ? '
it scream ; ` now I 'll catch you . '
But it could not come up over the step in front of the altar , and there it continue to howl , and scream , and threaten , until the clock strike one , when it have to go into the chest again , and Christian hear the lid slam above it .
That night , however , it have not the same appearance a on the previous one ; it be less ugly .
When all be quiet in the church , the smith lay down before the altar and sleep calmly till the following morning , when the colonel come to fetch him .
He be take up to the king again , and thing go on a the day before .
He get his money , but would give no explanation whether he have see the king 's daughter , and he would not take the post again , he say .
But after he have get a good breakfast , and taste well of the king 's wine , he undertake to go on guard again the third night , but he would not do it for less than the half of the kingdom , he say , for it be a dangerous post , and the king have to agree , and promise him this .
The remainder of the day go like the previous one .
He play the boastful soldier , and the merry smith , and he have comrade and boon-companions in plenty .
At eight o'clock he have to put on his uniform again , and be shut up in the church .
He have not be there for an hour before he have come to his sens , and think , ` It 's best to stop now , while the game be go well . '
The third night , he be sure , would be the bad ; he have be drunk when he promise it , and the half of the kingdom , the king could never have be in earnest about that !
So he decide to leave , without wait so long a on the previous night .
In that way he would escape the little man who have watch him before .
All the door and postern be lock , but he finally though of creep up to a window , and open that , and a the clock strike nine , he creep out there .
It be fairly high in the wall , but he get to the ground with no bone break , and start to run .
He get down to the shore without meet anyone , and there he get into a boat , and push off from land .
He laugh immensely to himself at the thought of how cleverly he have manage and how he have cheat the little man .
Just then he hear a voice from the shore , ` Good evening , Christian , where be you go ? '
He give no answer .
` To-night your leg will be too short , ' he think , and pull at the oar .
But he then felt something lay hold of the boat , and drag it straight in to shore , for all that he sit and struggle with the oar .
The man then lay hold of him , and say , ` You must remain at your post , a you have promise , ' and whether he like it or not , Christian have just to go back with him the whole way to the church .
He could never get in at that window again , Christian say ; it be far too high up .
` You must go in there , and you shall go in there , ' say the little man , and with that he lift him up on to the window-sill .
Then he say to him : ` Notice well now what you have to do .
This evening you must stretch yourself out on the left-hand side of her chest .
The lid open to the right , and she come out to the left .
When she have get out of the chest and pass over you , you must get into it and lie there , and that in a hurry , without her seeing you .
There you must remain lying until day dawn , and whether she threaten you or entreat you , you must not come out of it , or give her any answer .
Then she have no power over you , and both you and she be freed . '
The smith then have to go in at the window , just a he come out , and go and lay himself all his length on the left side of the princess 's chest , close up to it , and there he lay stiff a a rock until the clock strike twelve .
Then the lid spring up to the right , and the princess come out , straight over him , and rush round the church , howl and shriek ` Sentry , where be you ?
Sentry , where be you ? '
She go towards the altar , and right up to it , but there be no one there ; then she scream again , My father have set no sentry in , War and Pest will now begin .
Then she go round the whole church , both up and down , sigh and weep , My father have set no sentry in , War and Pest will now begin .
Then she go away again , and at the same moment the clock in the tower strike one .
Then the smith heard in the church a soft music , which grow louder and louder , and soon fill the whole building .
He hear also a multitude of footstep , a if the church be be fill with people .
He hear the priest go through the service in front of the altar , and there be sing more beautiful than he have ever hear before .
Then he also hear the priest offer up a prayer of thanksgiving because the land have be free from war and pestilence , and from all misfortune , and the king 's daughter deliver from the evil one .
Many voice join in , and a hymn of praise be sing ; then he hear the priest again , and hear his own name and that of the princess , and think that he be be wed to her .
The church be pack full , but he could see nothing .
Then he hear again the many footstep a ol ' folk leave the church , while the music sound fainter and fainter , until it altogether die away .
When it be silent , the light of day begin to break in through the window .
The smith spring up out of the chest and fell on his knee and thank God .
The church be empty , but up in front of the altar lay the princess , white and red , like a human be , but sob and cry , and shake with cold in her white shroud .
The smith take his sentry coat and wrap it round her ; then she dry her tear , and take his hand and thank him , and say that he have now free her from all the sorcery that have be in her from her birth , and which have come over her again when her father break the command against see her until she have complete her fourteenth year .
She say far , that if he who have deliver her would take her in marriage , she would be his .
If not , she would go into a nunnery , and he could marry no other as long a she live , for he be wed to her with the service of the dead , which he have hear .
She be now the most beautiful young princess that anyone could wish to see , and he be now lord of half the kingdom , which have be promise him for stand on guard the third nigh .
So they agree that they would have each other , and love each other all their day .
With the first sunbeam the watch come and open the church , and not only be the colonel there , but the king in person , come to see what have happen to the sentinel .
He find them both sit hand in hand on the step in front of the altar , and immediately know his daughter again , and take her in his arm , thank God and her deliverer .
He make no objection to what they have arrange , and so Christian the smith hold his wedding with the princess , and get half the kingdom at once , and the whole of it when the king die .
As for the other sentry , with so many door and window open , no doubt they have run away , and go into the Prussian service .
And a for what Christian say he saw , he have be drink more wine than be good for him .
The Three Brothers Translated from the German of the Brothers Grimm .
There be once a man who have three son , and no other possession beyond the house in which he live .
Now the father love his three son equally , so that he could not make up his mind which of them should have the house after his death , because he do not wish to favour any one more than the others .
And he do not want to sell the house , because it have belong to his family for generation ; otherwise he could have divide the money equally amongst them .
At last an idea strike him , and he say to his son : ` You must all go out into the world , and look about you , and each learn a trade , and then , when you return , whoever can produce the best masterpiece shall have the house . '
The son be quite satisfied .
The eldest wish to be a blacksmith , the second a barber , and the third a fencing-master .
They appoint a time when they be to return home , and then they all set out .
It so happen that each find a good master , where he learn all that be necessary for his trade in the best possible way .
The blacksmith have to shoe the king 's horse , and think to himself , ` Without doubt the house will be yours ! '
The barber shave the best men in the kingdom , and he , too , make sure that the house would be his .
The fencing-master receive many a blow , but he set his teeth , and would not allow himself to be trouble by them , for he think to himself , ` If you be afraid of a blow you will never get the house . '
When the appoint time have come the three brother meet once more , and they sit down and discuss the best opportunity of show off their skill .
Just then a hare come run across the field towards them .
` Look ! '
say the barber , ` here come something in the nick of time ! '
seize basin and soap , make a lather whilst the hare be approach , and then , a it run at full tilt , shave it moustache , without cut it or injure a single hair on it body . '
I like that very much indeed , ' say the father .
` Unless the others exert themselves to the utmost , the house will be yours . '
Soon after they saw a man drive a carriage furiously towards them .
` Now , father , you shall see what I can do ! '
say the blacksmith , and he sprang after the carriage , tear off the four shoe of the horse a it be go at the top of it speed , and shoe it with four new one without check it pace .
` You be a clever fellow ! '
say the father , ` and know your trade as well a your brother .
I really do n't know to which of you I shall give the house . '
Then the third son say , ` Father , let me also show you something ; ' and , a it be begin to rain , he draw his sword and swung it in cross cut above his head , so that not a drop fell on him , and the rain fell heavy and heavy , till at last it be come down like a waterspout , but he swing his sword faster and faster , and keep as dry a if he be under cover .
When the father saw this he be astonish , and say , ` You have produce the great masterpiece : the house be yours . '
Both the other brother be quite satisfied , and praise him too , and a they be so fond of each other they all three remain at home and ply their trade : and a they be so experienced and skilful they earn a great deal of money .
So they live happily together till they be quite old , and when one be take ill and die the two others be so deeply grieve that they be also take ill and die too .
And so , because they have all be so clever , and so fond of each other , they be all lay in one grave .
The Snow-queen Translated from the German of Hans Andersen by Miss Alma Alleyne .
There be once a dreadfully wicked hobgoblin .
One day he be in capital spirit because he have make a looking-glass which reflect everything that be good and beautiful in such a way that it dwindle almost to nothing , but anything that be bad and ugly stand out very clearly and look much bad .
The most beautiful landscape look like boil spinach , and the best people look repulsive or seem to stand on their head with no body ; their face be so change that they could not be recognise , and if anyone have a freckle you might be sure it would be spread over the nose and mouth .
That be the best part of it , say the hobgoblin .
But one day the looking-glass be drop , and it break into a million-billion and more piece .
And now come the great misfortune of all , for each of the piece be hardly as large a a grain of sand and they fly about all over the world , and if anyone have a bit in his eye there it stay , and then he would see everything awry , or else could only see the bad side of a case .
For every tiny splinter of the glass possess the same power that the whole glass have .
Some people get a splinter in their heart , and that be dreadful , for then it begin to turn into a lump of ice .
The hobgoblin laugh till his side ache , but still the tiny bit of glass fly about .
And now we will hear all about it .
In a large town , where there be so many people and house that there be not room enough for everybody to have garden , live two poor child .
They be not brother and sister , but they love each other just as much a if they be .
Their parent live opposite one another in two attic , and out on the lead they have put two box fill with flower .
There be sweet pea in it , and two rise tree , which grow beautifully , and in summer the two child be allow to take their little chair and sit out under the rose .
Then they have splendid game .
In the winter they could not do this , but then they put hot penny against the frozen window-panes , and make round hole to look at each other through .
His name be Kay , and hers be Gerda .
Outside it be snow fast .
` Those be the white bee swarm , ' say the old grandmother .
` Have they also a queen bee ? '
ask the little boy , for he know that the real bee have one .
` To be sure , ' say the grandmother .
` She fly wherever they swarm the thickest .
She be large than any of them , and never stay upon the earth , but fly again up into the black cloud .
Often at midnight she fly through the street , and peep in at all the window , and then they freeze in such pretty pattern and look like flower . '
` Yes , we have see that , ' say both child ; they know that it be true .
` Can the Snow-queen come in here ? '
ask the little girl .
` Just let her ! '
cry the boy , ' I would put her on the stove , and melt her ! '
But the grandmother stroke his hair , and tell some more story .
In the evening , when little Kay be go to bed , he jump on the chair by the window , and look through the little hole .
A few snow-flakes be fall outside , and one of the , the large , lay on the edge of one of the window-boxes .
The snow-flake grow large and large till it take the form of a maiden , dress in fine white gauze .
She be so beautiful and dainty , but all of ice , hard bright ice .
Still she be alive ; her eye glitter like two clear star , but there be no rest or peace in them .
She nod at the window , and beckon with her hand .
The little boy be frighten , and spring down from the chair .
It seem a if a great white bird have fly past the window .
The next day there be a hard frost than before .
Then come the spring , then the summer , when the rose grow and smelt more beautifully than ever .
Kay and Gerda be look at one of their picture-books -- the clock in the great church-tower have just strike five , when Kay exclaim , ` Oh !
something have sting my heart , and I 've get something in my eye ! '
The little girl throw her arm round his neck ; he wink hard with both his eye ; no , she could see nothing in them . '
I think it be go now , ' say he ; but it have not go .
It be one of the tiny splinter of the glass of the magic mirror which we have hear about , that turn everything great and good reflect in it small and ugly .
And poor Kay have also a splinter in his heart , and it begin to change into a lump of ice .
It do not hurt him at all , but the splinter be there all the same .
` Why be you cry ? '
he ask ; ` it make you look so ugly !
There 's nothing the matter with me .
Just look !
that rise be all slug-eaten , and this one be stunt !
What ugly roses they be ! '
And he begin to pull them to piece .
` Kay , what be you do ? '
cry the little girl .
And when he saw how frightened she be , he pull off another rise , and run in at his window away from dear little Gerda .
When she come later on with the picture book , he say that it be only fit for baby , and when his grandmother tell them story , he be always interrupt with , ` But -- ' and then he would get behind her and put on her spectacle , and speak just a she do .
This he do very well , and everybody laugh .
Very soon he could imitate the way all the people in the street walk and talk .
His game be now quite different .
On a winter 's day he would take a burning glass and hold it out on his blue coat and let the snow-flakes fall on it .
` Look in the glass , Gerda !
Just see how regular they be !
They be much more interesting than real flower .
Each be perfect ; they be all make accord to rule .
If only they do not melt ! '
One morning Kay come out with his warm glove on , and his little sledge hung over his shoulder .
He shout to Gerda , ' I be go to the market-place to play with the other boy , ' and away he go .
In the market-place the bold boy use often to fasten their sledge to the cart of the farmer , and then they get a good ride .
When they be in the middle of their game there drive into the square a large sledge , all white , and in it sit a figure dress in a rough white fur pelisse with a white fur cap on .
The sledge drive twice round the square , and Kay fasten his little sledge behind it and drive off .
It go quicker and quicker into the next street .
The driver turn round , and nod to Kay ina friendly way a if they have know each other before .
Every time that Kay try to unfasten his sledge the driver nod again , and Kay sit still once more .
Then they drive out of the town , and the snow begin to fall so thickly that the little boy could not see his hand before him , and on and on they go .
He quickly unfasten the cord to get loose from the big sledge , but it be of no use ; his little sledge hung on fast , and it go on like the wind .
Then he cry out , but nobody hear him .
He be dreadfully frighten .
The snowflake grow large and large till they look like great white bird .
All at once they fly aside , the large sledge stand still , and the figure who be drive stand up .
The fur cloak and cap be all of snow .
It be a lady , tall and slim , and glittering .
It be the Snow-queen .
` We have come at a good rate , ' she say ; ` but you be almost frozen .
Creep in under my cloak . '
And she set him close to her in the sledge and draw the cloak over him .
He felt a though he be sink into a snow-drift .
` Are you cold now ? '
she ask , and kiss his forehead .
The kiss be cold a ice and reach down to his heart , which be already half a lump of ice .
` My sledge !
Do n't forget my sledge ! '
He think of that first , and it be fasten to one of the great white bird who fly behind with the sledge on it back .
The Snow-queen kiss Kay again , and then he forget all about little Gerda , his grandmother , and everybody at home .
` Now I must not kiss you any more , ' she say , ` or else I should kiss you to death . '
Then away they fly over forest and lake , over sea and land .
Round them whistle the cold wind , the wolf howl , and the snow hiss ; over them fly the black shrieking crow .
But high up the moon shone large and bright , and thus Kay pass the long winter night .
In the day he sleep at the Snow-queen 's foot .
But what happen to little Gerda when Kay do not come back ?
What have become of him ?
Nobody know .
The other boy tell how they have see him fasten his sledge on to a large one which have drive out of the town gate .
Gerda cry a great deal .
The winter be long and dark to her .
Then the spring come with warm sunshine . '
I will go and look for Kay , ' say Gerda .
So she go down to the river and get into a little boat that be there .
Presently the stream begin to carry it away .
` Perhaps the river will take me to Kay , ' think Gerda .
She glide down , past tree and field , till she come to a large cherry garden , in which stand a little house with strange red and blue window and a straw roof .
Before the door stand two wooden soldier , who be shoulder arm .
Gerda call to them , but they naturally do not answer .
The river carry the boat on to the land .
Gerda call out still louder , and there come out of the house a very old woman .
She lean upon a crutch , and she wear a large sun-hat which be paint with the most beautiful flower .
` You poor little girl ! '
say the old woman .
And then she step into the water , bring the boat in close with her crutch , and lift little Gerda out .
` And now come and tell me who you be , and how you come here , ' she say .
Then Gerda tell her everything , and ask her if she have see Kay .
But she say he have not pass that way yet , but he would soon come .
She tell Gerda not to be sad , and that she should stay with her and take of the cherry tree and flower , which be good than any picture-bok , a they could each tell a story .
She then take Gerda 's hand and lead her into the little house and shut the door .
The window be very high , and the pane be red , blue , and yellow , so that the light come through in curious colour .
On the table be the most delicious cherry , and the old woman let Gerda eat as many a she like , while she comb her hair with a gold comb a she eat .
The beautiful sunny hair ripple and shone round the dear little face , which be so soft and sweet . '
I have always long to have a dear little girl just like you , and you shall see how happy we will be together . '
And a she comb Gerda 's hair , Gerda think less and less about Kay , for the old woman be a witch , but not a wicked witch , for she only enchant now and then to amuse herself , and she do want to keep little Gerda very much .
So she go into the garden and wave her stick over all the rise bush and blossom and all ; they sink down into the black earth , and no one could see where they have be .
The old woman be afraid that if Gerda saw the rose she would begin to think about her own , and then would remember Kay and run away .
Then she lead Gerda out into the garden .
How glorious it be , and what lovely scent fill the air !
All the flower you can think of blossom there all the year round .
Gerda jump for joy and play there till the sun set behind the tall cherry tree , and then she sleep in a beautiful bed with red silk pillow fill with violet , and she sleep soundly and dream a a queen do on her wedding day .
The next day she play again with the flower in the warm sunshine , and so many day pass by .
Gerda know every flower , but although there be so many , it seem to her a if one be not there , though she could not remember which .
She be look one day at the old woman 's sun-hat which have hte paint flower on it , and there she saw a rise .
The witch have forget to make that vanish when she have make the other rose disappear under the earth .
it be so difficult to think of everything .
` Why , there be no rose here ! '
cry Gerda , , and she hunt amongst all the flower , but not one be to be find .
Then she sit down and cried , but her tear fell just on the spot where a rise bush have sink , and when her warm tear water the earth , the bush come up in full bloom just a it have be before .
Gerda kiss the rose and thought of the lovely rose at home , and with them come the thought of little Kay .
` Oh , what have I be do ! '
say the little girl . '
I want to look for Kay . '
She run to the end of the garden .
The gate be shut , but she push against the rusty lock so that it come open .
She run out with her little bare foot .
No one come after her .
At last she could not run any long , and she sit down on a large stone .
When she look round she saw that the summer be over ; it be late autumn .
It have not change in the beautiful garden , where be sunshine and flower all the year round .
` Oh , dear , how late I have make myself ! '
say Gerda .
` It 's autumn already !
I can not rest ! '
And she spring up to run on .
Oh , how tired and sore her little foot grow , and it become colder and colder .
She have to rest again , and there on the snow in front of her be a large crow .
It have be look at her for some time , and it nod it head and say , ` Caw !
caw !
good day . '
Then it ask the little girl why she be alone in the world .
She tell the crow her story , and ask if he have see Kay .
The crow nod very thoughtfully and say , ` It might be !
It might be ! '
` What !
Do you think you have ? '
cry the little girl , and she almost squeeze the crow to death a she kiss him .
` Gently , gently ! '
say the crow . '
I think -- I know I think -- it might be little Kay , but now he have forget you for the princess ! '
` Does he live with a princess ? '
ask Gerda .
` Yes , listen , ' say the crow .
Then he tell her all he know .
` In the kingdom in which we be now sit live a princess who be dreadfully clever .
She have read all the newspaper in the world and have forget them again .
She be as clever a that .
The other day she come to the throne , and that be not so pleasant a people think .
Then she begin to say , `` Why should I not marry ? ''
But she want a husband who could answer when he be speak to , not one who would stand up stiffly and look respectable -- that would be too dull .
` When she tell all the Court lady , they be delight .
You can believe every word I say , ' say the crow , ' I have a tame sweetheart in the palace , and she tell me everything . '
Of course his sweetheart be a crow .
` The newspaper come out next morning with a border of heart round it , and the princess 's monogram on it , and inside you could read that every good-looking young man might come into the palace and speak to the princess , and whoever should speak loud enough to be hear would be well feed and look after , and the one who speak best should become the princess 's husband .
Indeed , ' say the crow , ` you can quite believe me .
It be as true a that I be sit here .
` Young men come in stream , and there be such a crowding and a mixing together !
But nothing come of it on the first nor on the second day .
They could all speak quite well when they be in the street , but as soon a they come inside the palace door , and saw the guard in silver , and upstairs the footman in gold , and the great hall all light up , then their wit leave them !
And when they stand in front of the throne where the princess be sit , then they could not think of anything to say except to repeat the last word she have speak , and she do not much care to hear that again .
It seem a if they be walk in their sleep until they come out into the street again , when they could speak once more .
There be a row stretch from the gate of the town up to the castle .
` They be hungry and thirsty , but in the palace they do not even get a glass of water . '
A few of the cleverest have bring some slice of bread and butter with them , but they do not share them with their neighbour , for they think , `` If he look hungry , the princess will not take him ! '' '
` But what about Kay ? '
ask Gerda .
` When do he come ?
Was he in the crowd ? '
` Wait a bit ; we be come to him !
On the third day a little figure come without horse or carriage and walk jauntily up to the palace .
His eye shone a yours do ; he have lovely curl hair , but quite poor clothes . '
` That be Kay ! '
cry Gerda with delight .
` Oh , then I have find him ! '
and she clap her hand .
` He have a little bundle on his back , ' say the crow .
` No , it must have be his skate , for he go away with his skate ! '
` Very likely , ' say the crow , ' I do not see for certain .
But I know this from my sweetheart , that when he come to the palace door and saw the royal guard in silver , and on the stair the footman in gold , he be not the least bit put out .
He nod to them , say , `` It must be rather dull stand on the stair ; I would rather go inside ! ''
` The hall blaze with light ; councillor and ambassador be walk about in noiseless shoe carry gold dish .
It be enough to make one nervous !
His boot creak dreadfully loud , but he be not frighten . '
` That must be Kay ! '
say Gerda . '
I know he have new boot on ; I have hear them creak in his grandmother 's room ! '
` They do creak , certainly ! '
say the crow .
` And , not one bit afraid , up he go to the princess , who be sit on a large pearl as round a a spinning wheel .
All the ladies-in-waiting be stand round , each with their attendant , and the lords-in-waiting with their attendant .
The nearer they stand to the door the prouder they be . '
` It must have be dreadful ! '
say little Gerda .
` And Kay do win the princess ? ' '
I hear from my tame sweetheart that he be merry and quick-witted ; he have not come to woo , he say , but to listen to the princess 's wisdom .
And the end of it be that they fell in love with each other . '
` Oh , yes ; that be Kay ! '
say Gerda .
` He be so clever ; he could do sum with fraction .
Oh , do lead me to the palace ! '
` That 's easily say ! '
answer the crow , ` but how be we to manage that ?
I must talk it over with my tame sweetheart .
She may be able to advise u , for I must tell you that a little girl like you could never get permission to enter it . '
` Yes , I will get it ! '
say Gerda .
` When Kay hear that I be there he will come out at once and fetch me ! '
` Wait for me by the railing , ' say the crow , and he nod his head and fly away .
It be late in the evening when he come back .
` Caw , caw ! '
he say , ' I be to give you her love , and here be a little roll for you .
She take it out of the kitchen ; there 's plenty there , and you must be hungry .
You can not come into the palace .
The guard in silver and the footman in gold would not allow it .
But do n't cry !
You shall get in all right .
My sweetheart know a little back-stairs which lead to the sleeping-room , and she know where to find the key . '
They go into the garden , and when the light in the palace be put out one after the other , the crow lead Gerda to a back-door .
Oh , how Gerda 's heart beat with anxiety and longing !
It seem a if she be go to do something wrong , but she only want to know if it be little Kay .
Yes , it must be he !
She remember so well his clever eye , his curly hair .
She could see him smile a he do when they be at home under the rise tree !
He would be so pleased to see her , and to hear how they all be at home .
Now they be on the stair ; a little lamp be burn , and on the landing stand the tame crow .
She put her head on one side and look at Gerda , who bow a her grandmother have teach her .
` My betrothed have tell me many nice thing about you , my dear young lady , ' she say .
` Will you take the lamp while I go in front ?
We go this way so a to meet no one . '
Through beautiful room they come to the sleeping-room .
In the middle of it , hang on a thick rod of gold , be two bed , shape like lily , one all white , in which lay the princess , and the other red , in which Gerda hop to find Kay .
She push aside the curtain , and saw a brown neck .
Oh , it be Kay !
She call his name out loud , hold the lamp towards him .
He wake up , turn his head and -- it be not Kay !
It be only his neck that be like Kay 's , but he be young and handsome .
The princess sit up in her lily-bed and ask who be there .
Then Gerda cry , and tell her story and all that the crow have do .
` You poor child ! '
say the prince and princess , and they praise the crow , and say that they be not angry with them , but that they must not do it again .
Now they should have a reward .
` Would you like to fly away free ? '
say the princess , ` or will you have a permanent place a court crow with what you can get in the kitchen ? '
And both crow bow and ask for a permanent appointment , for they think of their old age .
And they put Gerda to bed , and she fold her hand , think , a she fell asleep , ` How good people and animal be to me ! '
The next day she be dress from head to foot in silk and satin .
They want her to stay on in the palace , but she beg for a little carriage and a horse , and a pair of shoe so that she might go out again into the world to look for Kay .
They give her a muff as well a some shoe ; she be warmly dress , and when she be ready , there in front of the door stand a coach of pure gold , with a coachman , footman and postilion with gold crown on .
The prince and princess help her into the carriage and wish her good luck .
The wild crow who be now marry drove with her for the first three mile ; the other crow could not come because she have a bad headache .
` Good-bye , good-bye ! '
call the prince and princess ; and little Gerda cry , and the crow cry .
When he say good-bye , he fly on to a tree and wave with his black wing as long a the carriage , which shine like the sun , be in sight .
They come at last to a dark wood , but the coach light it up like a torch .
When the robber saw it , they rush out , exclaim , ` Gold !
gold ! '
They seize the horse , kill the coachman , footman and postilion , and drag Gerda out of the carriage .
` She be plump and tender !
I will eat her ! '
say the old robber-queen , and she draw her long knife , which glitter horribly .
` You shall not kill her ! '
cry her little daughter .
` She shall play with me .
She shall give me her muff and her beautiful dress , and she shall sleep in my bed . '
The little robber-girl be as big a Gerda , but be strong , broad , with dark hair and black eye .
She throw her arm round Gerda and say , ` They shall not kill you , so long a you be not naughty .
Are n't you a princess ? '
` No , ' say Gerda , and she tell all that have happen to her , and how dearly she love little Kay .
The robber-girl look at her very seriously , and nod her head , say , ` They shall not kill you , even if you be naughty , for then I will kill you myself ! '
And she dry Gerda 's eye , and stick both her hand in the beautiful warm muff .
The little robber-girl take Gerda to a corner of the robber ' camp where she sleep .
All round be more than a hundred wood-pigeons which seem to be asleep , but they move a little when the two girl come up .
There be also , near by , a reindeer which the robber-girl tease by tickle it with her long sharp knife .
Gerda lay awake for some time .
` Coo , coo ! '
say the wood-pigeons .
` We have see little Kay .
A white bird carry his sledge ; he be sit in the Snow-queen 's carriage which drive over the forest when our little one be in the nest .
She breathe on them , and all except we two die .
Coo , coo ! '
` What be you say over there ? '
cry Gerda .
` Where be the Snow-queen go to ?
Do you know at all ? '
` She be probably travel to Lapland , where there be always ice and snow .
Ask the reindeer . '
` There be capital ice and snow there ! '
say the reindeer .
` One can jump about there in the great sparkling valley .
There the Snow-queen have her summer palace , but her best palace be up by the North Pole , on the island call Spitzbergen . ' '
O Kay , my little Kay ! '
sob Gerda .
` You must lie still , ' say the little robber-girl , ` or else I shall stick my knife into you ! '
In the morning Gerda tell her all that the wood-pigeons have say .
She nod .
` Do you know where Lapland be ? '
she ask the reindeer .
` Who should know good than I ? '
say the beast , and his eye sparkle . '
I be bear and breed there on the snow-fields . '
` Listen ! '
say the robber-girl to Gerda ; ` you see that all the robber have go ; only my mother be leave , and she will fall asleep in the afternoon -- then I will do something for you ! '
When her mother have fall asleep , the robber-girl go up to the reindeer and say , ' I be go to set you free so that you can run to Lapland .
But you must go quickly and carry this little girl to the Snow-queen 's palace , where her playfellow be .
You must have hear all that she tell about it , for she speak loud enough ! '
The reindeer sprang high for joy .
The robber-girl lift little Gerda up , and have the foresight to tie her on firmly , and even give her a little pillow for a saddle .
` You must have your fur boot , ' she say , ` for it will be cold ; but I shall keep your muff , for it be so cosy !
But , so that you may not freeze , here be my mother 's great fur glove ; they will come up to your elbow .
Creep into them ! '
And Gerda cry for joy .
` Do n't make such face ! '
say the little robber-girl .
` You must look very happy .
And here be two loaf and a sausage ; now you wo n't be hungry ! '
They be tie to the reindeer , the little robber-girl open the door , make all the big dog come away , cut through the halter with her sharp knife , and say to the reindeer , ` Run now !
But take great care of the little girl . '
And Gerda stretch out her hand with the large fur glove towards the little robber-girl and say , ` Good-bye ! '
Then the reindeer fly over the ground , through the great forest , as fast a he could .
The wolf howl , the raven scream , the sky seem on fire .
` Those be my dear old northern light , ' say the reindeer ; ` see how they shine ! '
And then he run faster still , day and night .
The loaf be eat , and the sausage also , and then they come to Lapland .
They stop by a wretched little house ; the roof almost touch the ground , and the door be so low that you have to creep in and out .
There be no one in the house except an old Lapland woman who be cook fish over an oil-lamp .
The reindeer tell Gerda 's whole history , but first he tell his own , for that seem to him much more important , and Gerda be so cold that she could not speak .
` Ah , you poor creature ! '
say the Lapland woman ; ` you have still far to go !
You must go over a hundred mile into Finland , for there the Snow-queen life , and every night she burn Bengal light .
I will write some word on a dried stock-fish , for I have no paper , and you must give it to the Finland woman , for she can give you good advice than I can . '
And when Gerda be warm and have have something to eat and drink , the Lapland woman write on a dried stock-fish , and beg Gerda to take care of it , tie Gerda securely on the reindeer 's back , and away they go again .
The whole night be ablaze with northern light , and then they come to Finland and knock at the Finland woman 's chimney , for door she have none .
Inside it be so hot that the Finland woman wear very few clothes ; she loosen Gerda 's clothes and draw off her fur glove and boot .
She lay a piece of ice on the reindeer 's head , and then read what be write on the stock-fish .
She read it over three time till she know it by heart , and then put the fish in the saucepan , for she never waste anything .
Then the reindeer tell his story , and afterwards little Gerda 's and the Finland woman blink her eye but say nothing .
` You be very clever , ' say the reindeer . '
I know .
Can not you give the little girl a drink so that she may have the strength of twelve men and overcome the Snow-queen ? '
` The strength of twelve men ! '
say the Finland woman ; ` that would not help much .
Little Kay be with the Snow-queen and he like everything there very much and think it the best place in the world .
But that be because he have a splinter of glass in his heart and a bit in his eye .
If these do not come out , he will never be free , and the Snow-queen will keep her power over him . '
` But can not you give little Gerda something so that she can have power over her ? ' '
I can give her no great power than she have already ; do n't you see how great it be ?
Do n't you see how men and beast must help her when she wander into the wide world with her bare foot ?
She be powerful already , because she be a dear little innocent child .
If she can not by herself conquer the Snow-queen and take away the glass splinter from little Kay , we can not help her !
The Snow-queen 's garden begin two mile from here .
You can carry the little maiden so far ; put her down by the large bush with red berry grow in the snow .
Then you must come back here as fast a you can . '
Then the Finland woman lift little Gerda on the reindeer and away he speed .
` Oh , I have leave my glove and boot behind ! '
cry Gerda .
She miss them in the piercing cold , but the reindeer do not dare to stop .
On he run till he come to the bush with red berry .
Then he set Gerda down and kiss her mouth , and great big tear run down his cheek , and then he run back .
There stand poor Gerda , without shoe or glove in the middle of the bitter cold of Finland .
She run on a fast a she could .
A regiment of gigantic snowflake come against her , but they melt when they touch her , and she go on with fresh courage .
And now we must see what Kay be do .
He be not think of Gerda , and never dreamt that she be stand outside the palace .
The wall of the palace be build of driven snow , and the door and window of pierce wind .
There be more than a hundred hall in it all of frozen snow .
The large be several mile long ; the bright Northern light light them up , and very large and empty and cold and glitter they be !
In the middle of the great hall be a frozen lake which have crack in a thousand piece ; each piece be exactly like the other .
Here the Snow-queen use to sit when she be at home .
Little Kay be almost blue and black with cold , but he do not feel it , for she have kiss away his feeling and his heart be a lump of ice .
He be pull about some sharp , flat piece of ice , and try to fit one into the other .
He think each be most beautiful , but that be because of the splinter of glass in his eye .
He fit them into a great many shape , but he want to make them spell the word ` Love . '
The Snow-queen have say , ` If you can spell out that word you shalt be your own master .
I will give you the whole world and a new pair of skate . '
But he could not do it .
` Now I must fly to warmer country , ' say the Snow-queen . '
I must go and powder my black kettle ! '
-LRB- This be what she call Mount Etna and Mount Vesuvius . -RRB-
` It do the lemon and grape good . '
And off she fly , and Kay sit alone in the great hall try to do his puzzle .
He sit so still that you would have think he be frozen .
Then it happen that little Gerda step into the hall .
The biting cold wind become quiet a if they have fall asleep when she appear in the great , empty , freeze hall .
She catch sight of Kay ; she recognise him , and run and put her arm round his neck , cry , ` Kay !
dear little Kay !
I have find you at last ! '
But he sit quite still and cold .
Then Gerda weep hot tear which fell on his neck and thaw his heart and sweep away the bit of the looking-glass .
He look at her and then he burst into tear .
He cry so much that the glass splinter swim out of his eye ; then he know her , and cry out , ` Gerda !
dear little Gerda !
Where have you be so long ?
and where have I be ? '
And he look round him .
` How cold it be here !
How wide and empty ! '
and he throw himself on Gerda , and she laugh and weep for joy .
It be such a happy time that the piece of ice even dance round them for joy , and when they be tire and lay down again they form themselves into the letter that the Snow-queen have say he must spell in order to become his own master and have the whole world and a new pair of skate .
And Gerda kiss his cheek and they grow rosy ; she kiss his eye and they sparkle like hers ; she kiss his hand and foot and he become warm and glowing .
The Snow-queen might come home now ; his release -- the word ` Love ' -- stand write in sparkle ice .
They take each other 's hand and wander out of the great palace ; they talk about the grandmother and the rose on the lead , wherever they come the wind hush and the sun come out .
When they reach the bush with red berry there stand the reindeer wait for them .
He carry Kay and Gerda first to the Finland woman , who warm them in her hot room and give them advice for their journey home .
Then they go to the Lapland woman , who give them new clothes and mend their sleigh .
The reindeer ran with them until they come to the green field fresh with the spring green .
Here he say good-bye .
They come to the forest , which be burst into bud , and out of it come a splendid horse which Gerda know ; it be the one which have draw the gold coach ridden by a young girl with a red cap on and pistol in her belt .
It be the little robber girl who be tire of be at home and want to go out into the world .
She and Gerda know each other at once .
` You be a nice fellow ! '
she say to Kay . '
I should like to know if you deserve to be run all over the world ! '
But Gerda pat her cheek and ask after the prince and princess .
` They be travel about , ' say the robber girl .
` And the crow ? '
ask Gerda .
` Oh , the crow be dead ! '
answer the robber-girl .
` His tame sweetheart be a widow and hop about with a bit of black crape round her leg .
She make a great fuss , but that 's all nonsense .
But tell me what happen to you , and how you catch him . '
And Kay and Gerda tell her all .
` Dear , dear ! '
say the robber-girl , shake both their hand , and promise that if she come to their town she would come and see them .
Then she ride on .
But Gerda and Kay go home hand in hand .
There they find the grandmother and everything just a it have be , but when they go through the doorway they find they be grown-up .
There be the rose on the lead ; it be summer , warm , glorious summer .
The Fir-tree Translated from the German of Hans Christian Andersen .
There be once a pretty little fir-tree in a wood .
It be in a capital position , for it could get sun , and there be enough air , and all around grow many tall companion , both pine and fir .
It do not heed the warm sun and the fresh air , or notice the little peasant child who run about chatter when they come out to gather wild strawberry and raspberry .
Often they find a whole basketful and strung strawberry on a straw ; they would sit down by the little fir-tree and say , ` What a pretty little one this be ! '
The tree do not like that at all .
By the next year it have grow a whole ring taller , and the year after that another ring more , for you can always tell a fir-tree 's age from it ring .
` Oh !
if I be only a great tree like the others ! '
sigh the little fir-tree , ` then I could stretch out my branch far and wide and look out into the great world !
The bird would build their nest in my branch , and when the wind blew I would bow to it politely just like the others ! '
It take no pleasure in the sunshine , nor in the bird , nor in the rose-coloured cloud that sail over it at dawn and at sunset .
Then the winter come , and the snow lay white and sparkle all around , and a hare would come and spring right over the little fir-tree , which annoy it very much .
But when two more winter have pass the fir-tree be so tall that the hare have to run round it .
` Ah !
to grow and grow , and become great and old !
that be the only pleasure in life , ' think the tree .
In the autumn the woodcutter use to come and hew some of the tall tree ; this happen every year , and the young fir-tree would shiver a the magnificent tree fell crash and crackle to the ground , their branch hew off , and the great trunk leave bare , so that they be almost unrecognisable .
But then they be lay on waggon and drag out of the wood by horse .
` Where be they go ?
What will happen to them ? '
In spring , when the swallow and stork come , the fir-tree ask them , ` Do you know where they be take ?
Have you meet them ? '
The swallow know nothing of them , but the stork nod his head thoughtfully , say , ' I think I know .
I meet many new ship a I fly from Egypt ; there be splendid mast on the ship .
I 'll wager those be they !
They have the scent of fir-trees .
Ah !
those be grand , grand ! '
` Oh !
if I be only big enough to sail away over the sea too !
What sort of thing be the sea ?
what do it look like ? '
` Oh !
it would take much too long to tell you all that , ' say the stork , and off he go .
` Rejoice in your youth , ' say the sunbeam , ` rejoice in the sweet growing time , in the young life within you . '
And the wind kiss it and the dew wept tear over it , but the fir-tree do not understand .
Towards Christmas-time quite little tree be cut down , some not as big a the young fir-tree , or just the same age , and now it have no peace or rest for long to be away .
These little tree , which be choose for their beauty , keep all their branch ; they be put in cart and draw out of the wood by horse .
` Whither be those go ? '
ask the fir-tree ; ` they be no big than I , and one there be much small even !
Why do they keep their branch ?
Where be they take to ? '
` We know !
we know ! '
twitter the sparrow .
` Down there in the city we have peep in at the window , we know where they go !
They attain to the great splendour and magnificence you can imagine !
We have look in at the window and see them plant in the middle of the warm room and adorn with the most beautiful things-golden apple , sweet-meats , toy and hundred of candle . '
` And then ? '
ask the fir-tree , tremble in every limb with eagerness , ` and then ?
what happen then ? '
` Oh , we have n't see anything more than that .
That be simply matchless ! '
` Am I too destine to the same brilliant career ? '
wonder the fir-tree excitedly .
` That be even good than sailing over the sea !
I be sick with longing .
If it be only Christmas !
Now I be tall and grown-up like those which be take away last year .
Ah , if I be only in the cart !
If I be only in the warm room with all the splendour and magnificence !
And then ?
Then come something well , something still more beautiful , else why should they dress u up ?
There must be something great , something grander to come -- but what ?
Oh !
I be pin away !
I really do n't know what 's the matter with me ! '
` Rejoice in u , ' say the air and sunshine , ` rejoice in your fresh youth in the free air ! '
But it take no notice , and just grow and grow ; there it stand fresh and green in winter and summer , and all who saw it say , ` What a beautiful tree ! '
And at Christmas-time it be the first to be cut down .
The axe go deep into the pith ; the tree fell to the ground with a groan ; it felt bruise and faint .
It could not think of happiness , it be sad at leave it home , the spot where it have spring up ; it know , too , that it would never see again it dear old companion , or the little shrub and flower , perhaps not even the bird .
Altogether the parting be not pleasant .
When the tree come to itself again it be pack in a yard with other tree , and a man be say , ` This be a splendid one , we shall only want this . '
Then come two footman in livery and carry the fir-tree to a large and beautiful room .
There be picture hang on the wall , and near the Dutch stove stand great Chinese vas with lion on their lid ; there be armchair , silk-covered sofa , big table laden with picture-books and toy , worth hundred of pounds-at least , so the child say .
The fir-tree be place in a great tub fill with sand , but no one could see that it be a tub , for it be all hung with greenery and stand on a gay carpet .
How the tree tremble !
What be come now ?
On it branch they hang little net cut out of coloured paper , each full of sugarplum ; gild apple and nut hang down as if they be grow , over a hundred red , blue , and white taper be fasten among the branch .
Dolls as life-like a human being -- the fir-tree have never see any before be suspend among the green , and right up at the top be fix a gold tinsel star ; it be gorgeous , quite unusually gorgeous !
` To-night , ' they all say , ` to-night it will be light ! '
` Ah ! '
think the tree , ` if it be only even !
Then the taper would soon be light .
What will happen then ?
I wonder whether the tree will come from the wood to see me , or if the sparrow will fly against the window pane ?
Am I to stand here deck out thus through winter and summer ? '
It be not a bad guess , but the fir-tree have real bark-ache from sheer longing , and bark-ache in tree be just as bad a head-ache in human being .
Now the taper be light .
What a glitter !
What splendour !
The tree quiver in all it branch so much , that one of the candle catch the green , and sing it .
` Take care ! '
cry the young lady , and they extinguish it .
Now the tree do not even dare to quiver .
It be really terrible !
It be so afraid of lose any of it ornament , and it be quite bewilder by all the radiance .
And then the folding door be open , and a crowd of child rush in , a though they want to knock down the whole tree , whilst the old people follow soberly .
The child stand quite silent , but only for a moment , and then they shout again , and dance round the tree , and snatch off one present after another .
` What be they do ? '
think the tree .
` What be go to happen ? '
And the taper burn low on the branch , and be put out one by one , and then the child be give permission to plunder the tree .
They rush at it so that all it bough creak ; if it have not be fasten by the gold star at the top to the ceiling , it would have be overthrow .
The child dance about with their splendid toy , and no one look at the tree , except the old nurse , who come and peep amongst the bough , just to see if a fig or an apple have be forget . '
A story !
a story ! '
cry the child , and drag a little stout man to the tree ; he sit down beneath it , say , ` Here we be in the greenwood , and the tree will be delight to listen !
But I be only go to tell one story .
Shall it be Henny Penny or Humpty Dumpty who fell downstairs , and yet gain great honour and marry a princess ? '
` Henny Penny ! '
cry some ; ` Humpty Dumpty ! '
cried others ; there be a perfect babel of voice !
Only the fir-tree kept silent , and think , ` Am I not to be in it ?
Am I to have nothing to do with it ? '
But it have already be in it , and play out it part .
And the man tell them about Humpty Dumpty who fell downstairs and marry a princess .
The child clap their hand and cry , ` Another !
another ! '
They want the story of Henny Penny also , but they only get Humpty Dumpty .
The fir-tree stood quite astonished and thoughtful ; the bird in the wood have never relate anything like that .
` Humpty Dumpty fell downstairs and yet marry a princess !
yes , that be the way of the world ! '
think the tree , and be sure it must be true , because such a nice man have tell the story .
` Well , who know ?
Perhaps I shall fall downstairs and marry a princess . '
And it rejoice to think that next day it would be deck out again with candle , toy , glitter ornament , and fruit .
` To-morrow I shall quiver again with excitement .
I shall enjoy to the full all my splendour .
To-morrow I shall hear Humpty Dumpty again , and perhaps Henny Penny too . '
And the tree stand silent and lose in thought all through the night .
Next morning the servant come in .
` Now the dress up will begin again , ' think the tree .
But they drag it out of the room , and up the stair to the lumber-room , and put it in a dark corner , where no ray of light could penetrate .
` What do this mean ? '
think the tree .
` What be I to do here ?
What be there for me to hear ? '
And it leant against the wall , and think and think .
And there be time enough for that , for day and night go by , and no one come ; at last when some one do come , it be only to put some great box into the corner .
Now the tree be quite cover ; it seem a if it have be quite forget .
` Now it be winter out-doors , ' think the fir-tree .
` The ground be hard and cover with snow , they ca n't plant me yet , and that be why I be stay here under cover till the spring come .
How thoughtful they be !
Only I wish it be not so terribly dark and lonely here ; not even a little hare !
It be so nice out in the wood , when the snow lay all around , and the hare leapt past me ; yes , even when he leap over me : but I do n't like it then .
It 's so dreadfully lonely up here . '
` Squeak , squeak ! '
say a little mouse , steal out , follow by a second .
They sniff at the fir-tree , and then creep between it bough .
` It 's frightfully cold , ' say the little mouse .
` How nice it be to be here !
Do n't you think so too , you old fir-tree ? '
` I 'm not at all old , ' say the tree ; ` there be many much old than I be . '
` Where do you come from ? '
ask the mouse , ` and what do you know ? '
They be extremely inquisitive .
` Do tell u about the most beautiful place in the world .
Is that where you come from ?
Have you be in the storeroom , where cheese lie on the shelf , and ham hang from the ceiling , where one dance on tallow candle , and where one go in thin and come out fat ? ' '
I know nothing about that , ' say the tree .
` But I know the wood , where the sun shine , and the bird sing . '
And then it tell them all about it young day , and the little mouse have never hear anything like that before , and they listen with all their ear , and say : ` Oh , how much you have see !
How lucky you have be ! '
` I ? '
say the fir-tree , and then it think over what it have tell them .
` Yes , on the whole those be very happy time . '
But then it go on to tell them about Christmas Eve , when it have be adorn with sweet-meats and taper .
` Oh ! '
say the little mouse , ` how lucky you have be , you old fir-tree ! '
` I 'm not at all old ' say the tree . '
I only come from the wood this winter .
I be only a little backward , perhaps , in my growth . '
` How beautifully you tell story ! '
say the little mouse .
And next evening they come with four others , who want to hear the tree 's story , and it tell still more , for it remember everything so clearly and think : ` Those be happy time !
But they may come again .
Humpty dumpty fell downstairs , and yet he marry a princess ; perhaps I shall also marry a princess ! '
And then it think of a pretty little birch-tree that grow out in the wood , and seem to the fir-tree a real princess , and a very beautiful one too .
` Who be Humpty Dumpty ? '
ask the little mouse .
And then the tree tell the whole story ; it could remember every single word , and the little mouse be ready to leap on to the topmost branch out of sheer joy !
Next night many more mouse come , and on Sunday even two rat ; but they do not care about the story , and that trouble the little mouse , for now they think less of it too .
` Is that the only story you know ? '
ask the rat .
` The only one , ' answer the tree . '
I hear that on my happy evening , but I do not realise then how happy I be . '
` That 's a very poor story .
Do n't you know one about bacon or tallow candle ?
a storeroom story ? '
` No , ' say the tree .
` Then we be much oblige to you , ' say the rat , and they go back to their friend .
At last the little mice go off also , and the tree say , sigh : ` Really it be very pleasant when the lively little mice sit round and listen whilst I tell them story .
But now that 's over too .
But now I will think of the time when I shall be bring out again , to keep up my spirit . '
But when do that happen ?
Well , it be one morning when they come to tidy up the lumber-room ; they throw it really rather roughly on the floor , but a servant drag it off at once downstairs , where there be daylight once more .
` Now life begin again ! '
think the tree .
It felt the fresh air , the first ray of the sun , and there it be out in the yard !
Everything pass so quickly ; the tree quite forget to notice itself , there be so much to look at all around .
The yard open on a garden full of flower ; the rose be so fresh and sweet , hang over a little trellis , the lime-trees be in blossom , and the swallow fly about , say : ` Quirre-virre-vil , my husband have come home ; ' but it be not the fir-tree they mean .
` Now I shall live , ' think the tree joyfully , stretch out it branch wide ; but , ala !
they be all wither and yellow ; and it be lie in a corner among weed and nettle .
The golden star be still on it high bough , and it glitter in the bright sunlight .
In the yard some of the merry child be play , who have dance so gaily round the tree at Christmas .
One of the little one run up , and tear off the gold star .
` Look what be leave on the ugly old fir-tree ! '
he cry , and stamp on the bough so that they crack under his foot .
And the tree look at all the splendour and freshness of the flower in the garden , and then look at itself , and wish that it have be leave lie in the dark corner of the lumber-room ; it think of it fresh youth in the wood , of the merry Christmas Eve , and of the little mouse who have listen so happily to the story of Humpty Dumpty .
` Too late !
Too late ! '
think the old tree .
` If only I have enjoy myself whilst I could .
Now all be over and go . '
And a servant come and cut the tree into small piece , there be quite a bundle of them ; they flicker brightly under the great copper in the brew-house ; the tree sigh deeply , and each sigh be like a pistol-shot ; so the child who be play there run up , and sit in front of the fire , gaze at it , and cry , ` Piff !
puff !
bang ! '
But for each report , which be really a sigh , the tree be think of a summer 's day in the wood , or of a winter 's night out there , when the star be shin ; it think of Christmas Eve , and of Humpty Dumpty , which be the only story it have hear , or could tell , and then the tree have burn away .
The child play on in the garden , and the young have the golden star on his breast , which the tree have wear on the happy evening of it life ; and now that be past -- and the tree have pass away -- and the story too , all end and do with .
And that 's the way with all story !
Here our Danish author end .
This be what people call sentiment , and I hope you enjoy it !
Hans , the Mermaid 's Son Translated from the Danish .
In a village there once live a smith call Basmus , who be in a very poor way .
He be still a young man , and a strong handsome fellow to boot , but he have many little child and there be little to be earn by his trade .
He be , however , a diligent and hard-working man , and when he have no work in the smithy he be out at sea fishing , or gather wreckage on the shore .
It happen one time that he have go out to fish in good weather , all alone in a little boat , but he do not come home that day , nor the follow one , so that all believe he have perish out at sea .
On the third day , however , Basmus come to shore again and have his boat full of fish , so big and fat that no one have ever see their like .
There be nothing the matter with him , and he complain neither of hunger or thirst .
He have get into a fog , he say , and could not find land again .
What he do not tell , however , be where he have be all the time ; that only come out six year later , when people get to know that he have be catch by a mermaid out on the deep sea , and have be her guest during the three day that he be miss .
From that time forth he go out no more to fish ; nor , indeed , do he require to do so , for whenever he go down to the shore it never fail that some wreckage be wash up , and in it all kind of valuable thing .
In those day everyone take what they find and get leave to keep it , so that the smith grow more prosperous day by day .
When seven year have pass since the smith go out to sea , it happen one morning , a he stand in the smithy , mend a plough , that a handsome young lad come in to him and say , ` Good-day , father ; my mother the mermaid send her greeting , and say that she have have me for six year now , and you can keep me for a long . '
He be a strange enough boy to be six year old , for he look a if he be eighteen , and be even big and strong than lad commonly be at that age .
` Will you have a bite of bread ? '
say the smith .
` Oh , yes , ' say Hans , for that be his name .
The smith then tell his wife to cut a piece of bread for him .
She do so , and the boy swallow it at one mouthful and go out again to the smithy to his father .
` Have you get all you can eat ? '
say the smith .
` No , ' say Hans , ` that be just a little bit . '
The smith go into the house and take a whole loaf , which he cut into two slice and put butter and cheese between them , and this he give to Hans .
In a while the boy come out to the smithy again .
` Well , have you get as much a you can eat ? '
say the smith .
` No , not nearly , ' say Hans ; ' I must try to find a good place than this , for I can see that I shall never get my fill here . '
Hans wish to set off at once , as soon a his father would make a staff for him of such a kind a he want .
` It must be of iron , ' say he , ` and one that can hold out . '
The smith bring him an iron rod as thick a an ordinary staff , but Hans take it and twist it round his finger , so that would n't do .
Then the smith come drag one as thick a a waggon-pole , but Hans bend it over his knee and break it like a straw .
The smith then have to collect all the iron he have , and Hans hold it while his father forge for him a staff , which be heavy than the anvil .
When Hans have get this he say , ` Many thanks , father ; now I have get my inheritance . '
With this he set off into the country , and the smith be very pleased to be rid of that son , before he eat him out of house and home .
Hans first arrive at a large estate , and it so happen that the squire himself be stand outside the farmyard .
` Where be you go ? '
say the squire . '
I be look for a place , ' say Hans , ` where they have need of strong fellow , and can give them plenty to eat . '
` Well , ' say the squire , ' I generally have twenty-four men at this time of the year , but I have only twelve just now , so I can easily take you on . '
` Very well , ' say Hans , ' I shall easily do twelve men 's work , but then I must also have as much to eat a the twelve would . '
All this be agree to , and the squire take Hans into the kitchen , and tell the servant girl that the new man be to have as much food a the other twelve .
It be arrange that he should have a pot to himself , and he could then use the ladle to take his food with .
It be in the evening that Hans arrive there , so he do nothing more that day than eat his supper -- a big pot of buck-wheat porridge , which he clean to the bottom and be then so far satisfied that he say he could sleep on that , so he go off to bed .
He sleep both well and long , and all the rest be up and at their work while he be still sleep soundly .
The squire be also on foot , for he be curious to see how the new man would behave who be both to eat and work for twelve .
But a yet there be no Hans to be see , and the sun be already high in the heaven , so the squire himself go and call on him .
` Get up , Hans , ' he cry ; ` you be sleep too long . '
Hans wake up and rub his eye .
` Yes , that 's true , ' he say , ' I must get up and have my breakfast . '
So he rise and dress himself , and go into the kitchen , where he get his pot of porridge ; he swallow all of this , and then ask what work he be to have .
He be to thresh that day , say the squire ; the other twelve men be already busy at it .
There be twelve threshing-floors , and the twelve men be at work on six of them -- two on each .
Hans must thresh by himself all that be lie upon the other six floor .
He go out to the barn and get hold of a flail .
Then he look to see how the others do it and do the same , but at hte first stroke he smash the flail in piece .
There be several flail hang there , and Hans take the one after the other , but they all go the same way , every one flying in splinter at the first stroke .
He then look round for something else to work with , and find a pair of strong beam lie near .
Next he catch sight of a horse-hide nail up on the barn-door .
With the beam he make a flail , use the skin to tie them together .
The one beam he use a a handle , and the other to strike with , and now that be all right .
But the barn be too low , there be no room to swing the flail , and the floor be too small .
Hans , however , find a remedy for this -- he simply lift the whole roof off the barn , and set it down in the field beside .
He then empty down all the corn that he could lay his hand on and thresh away .
He go through one lot after another , and it be ll the same to him what he get hold of , so before midday he have thresh all the squire 's grain , his rye and wheat and barley and oat , all mixed through each other .
When he be finish with this , he lift the roof up on the barn again , like set a lid on a box , and go in and tell the squire that the job be do .
The squire open his eye at this announcement ; and come out to see if it be really true .
It be true , sure enough , but he be scarcely delight with the mixed grain that he get from all his crop .
However , when he saw the flail that Hans have use , and learn how he have make room for himself to swing it , he be so afraid of the strong fellow , that he dare not say anything , except that it be a good thing he have get it thresh ; but it have still to be clean .
` What do that mean ? '
ask Hans .
It be explain to him that the corn and the chaff have to be separate ; a yet both be lie in one heap , right up to the roof .
Hans begin to take up a little and sift it in his hand , but he soon saw that this would never do .
He soon think of a plan , however ; he open both barn-doors , and then lay down at one end and blew , so that all the chaff fly out and lay like a sand-bank at the other end of the barn , and the grain be as clean a it could be .
Then he report to the squire that that job also be do .
The squire say that that be well ; there be nothing more for him to do that day .
Off go Hans to the kitchen , and get as much a he could eat ; then he go and take a midday nap which last till supper-time .
Meanwhile the squire be quite miserable , and make his moan to his wife , say that she must help him to find some mean to get rid of this strong fellow , for he durst not give him his leave .
She send for the steward , and it be arrange that next day all the men should go to the forest for fire-wood , and that they should make a bargain among them , that the one who come home last with his load should be hang .
They think they could easily manage that it would be Hans who would lose his life , for the others would be early on the road , while Hans would certainly oversleep himself .
In the evening , therefore , the men sit and talk together , say that next morning they must set out early to the forest , and a they have a hard day 's work and a long journey before them , they would , for their amusement , make a compact , that whichever of them come home last with his load should lose his life on the gallows .
So Hans have no objection to make .
Long before the sun be up next morning , all the twelve men be on foot .
They take all the best horse and cart , and drive off to the forest .
Hans , however , lay and sleep on , and the squire say , ` Just let him lie . '
At last , Hans think it be time to have his breakfast , so he get up and put on his clothes .
He take plenty of time to his breakfast , and then go out to get his horse and cart ready .
The others have take everything that be any good , so that he have a difficulty in scrap together four wheel of different size and fix them to an old cart , and he could find no other horse than a pair of old hack .
He do not know where it lay , but he follow the track of the other cart , and in that way come to it all right .
On come to the gate lead into the forest , he be unfortunate enough to break it in piece , so he take a huge stone that be lie on the field , seven ell long , and seven ell broad , and set this in the gap , then he go on and join the others .
These laugh at him heartily , for they have labour as hard a they could since daybreak , and have help each other to fell tree and put them on the cart , so that all of these be now load except one .
Hans get hold of a woodman 's axe and proceed to fell a tree , but he destroy the edge and break the shaft at the first blow .
He therefore lay down the axe , put his arm round the tree , and pull it up by the root .
This he throw upon his cart , and then another and another , and thus he go on while all the others forget their work , and stand with open mouth , gaze at this strange woodcraft .
All at once they begin to hurry ; the last cart be load , and they whip up their horse , so a to be the first to arrive home .
When Hans have finish his work , he again put his old hack into the cart , but they could not move it from the spot .
He be annoy at this , and take them out again , twist a rope round the cart , and all the tree , lift the whole affair on his back , and set off home , lead the horse behind him by the rein .
When he reach the gate , he find the whole row of cart stand there , unable to get any further for the stone which lay in the gap .
` What ! '
say Hans , ` can twelve men not move that stone ? '
With that he lift it and throw it out of hte way , and go on with his burden on his back , and the horse behind him , and arrive at the farm long before any of the others .
The squire be walk about there , look and look , for he be very curious to know what have happen .
Finally , he catch sight of Hans come along in this fashion , and be so frightened that he do not know what to do , but he shut the gate and put on the bar .
When Hans reach the gate of the courtyard , he lay down the tree and hammer at it , but no one come to open it .
He then take the tree and toss them over the barn into the yard , and the cart after them , so that every wheel fly off in a different direction .
When the squire saw this , he think to himself , ` The horse will come the same way if I do n't open the door , ' so he do this .
` Good day , master , ' say Hans , and put the horse into the stable , and go into the kitchen , to get something to eat .
At length the other men come home with their load .
When they come in , Hans say to them , ` Do you remember the bargain we make last night ?
Which of you be it that 's go to be hang ? '
` Oh , ' say they , ` that be only a joke ; it do n't mean anything . '
` Oh well , it do n't matter , ` say Hans , and there be no more about it .
The squire , however , and his wife and the steward , have much to say to each other about the terrible man they have get , and all be agree that they must get rid of him in some way or other .
The steward say that he would manage this all right .
Next morning they be to clean the well , and they would use of that opportunity .
They would get him down into the well , and then have a big mill-stone ready to throw down on top of him -- that would settle him .
After that they could just fill in the well , and then escape be at any expense for his funeral .
Both the squire and his wife think this a splendid idea , and go about rejoice at the thought that now they would get rid of Hans .
But Hans be hard to kill , a we shall see .
He sleep long next morning , a he always do , and finally , a he would not waken by himself , the squire have to go and call him .
` Get up , Hans , you be sleep too long , ' he cry .
Hans wake up and rub his eye .
` That 's so , ' say he , ' I shall rise and have my breakfast . '
He get up then and dress himself , while the breakfast stand wait for him .
When he have finish the whole of this , he ask what he be to do that day .
He be tell to help the other men to clean out the well .
That be all right , and he go out and find the other men wait for him .
To these he say that they could choose whichever task they like -- either to go down into the well and fill the bucket while he pull them up , or pull them up , and he alone would go down to the bottom of the well .
They answer that they would rather stay above-ground , a there would be no room for so many of them down in the well .
Hans therefore go down alone , and begin to clean out the well , but the men have arrange how they be to act , and immediately each of them seize a stone from a heap of huge block , and throw them down above him , think to kill him with these .
Hans , however , give no more heed to this than to shout up to them , to keep the hen away from the well , for they be scrap gravel down on the top of him .
They then saw that they could not kill him with little stone , but they have still the big one left .
The whole twelve of them set to work with pole and roller and roll the big mill-stone to the brink of the well .
It be with the great difficulty that they get it thrown down there , and now they have no doubt that he have get all that he want .
But the stone happen to fall so luckily that his head go right through the hole in the middle of the mill-stone , so that it sit round his neck like a priest 's collar .
At this , Hans would stay down no longer .
He come out of the well , with the mill-stone round his neck , ad go straight to the squire and complain that the other men be try to make a fool of him .
He would not be their priest , he say ; he have too little learn for that .
Saying this , he bend down his head and shake the stone off , so that it crush one of the squire 's big toe .
The squire go limp in to his wife , and the steward be send for .
He be tell that he must devise some plan for get rid of this terrible person .
The scheme he have devise before have be of no use , and now good counsel be scarce .
` Oh , no ' say the steward , ` there be good enough way yet .
The squire can send him this evening to fish in Devilmoss Lake : he will never escape alive from there , for no one can go there by night for Old Eric . '
That be a grand idea , both the squire and his wife think , and so he limp out again to Hans , and say that he would punish his men for have try to make a fool of him .
Meanwhile , Hans could do a little job where he would be free from these rascal .
He should go out on the lake and fish there that night , and would then be free from all work on the following day .
` All right , ' say Hans ; ' I be well content with that , but I must have something with me to eat -- a baking of bread , a cask of butter , a barrel of ale , and a keg of brandy .
I ca n't do with less than that . '
The squire say that he could easily get all that , so Hans get all of these tie up together , hang them over his shoulder on his good staff , and tramp away to Devilmoss Lake .
There he get into the boat , row out upon the lake , and get everything ready to fish .
As he now lay out there in the middle of the lake , and it be pretty late in the evening , he think he would have something to eat first , before start to work .
Just a he be at his busiest with this , Old Eric rise out of the lake , catch him by the cuff of the neck , whip him out of the boat , and drag him down to the bottom .
It be a lucky thing that Hans have his walking-stick with him that day , and have just time to catch hold of it when he felt Old Eric 's claw in his neck , so when they get down to the bottom he say , ` Stop now , just wait a little ; here be solid ground . '
With that he catch Old Eric by the back of the neck with one hand , and hammer away on his back with the staff , till he beat him out as flat a a pancake .
Old Eric then begin to lament and howl , beg him just to let him go , and he would never come back to the lake again .
` No , my good fellow , ' say Hans , ` you wo n't get off until you promise to bring all the fish in the lake up to the squire 's courtyard , before to-morrow morning . '
Old Eric eagerly promise this , if Hans would only let him go ; so Hans row ashore , eat up the rest of his provision , and go home to bed .
Next morning , when the squire rise and open his front door , the fish come tumble into the porch , and the whole yard be cram full of them .
He run in again to his wife , for he could never devise anything himself , and say to her , ` What shall we do with him now ?
Old Eric have n't take him .
I be certain that all the fish be out of the lake , for the yard be just fill with them . '
` Yes , that 's a bad business , ' say she ; ` you must see if you ca n't get him send to Purgatory , to demand tribute . '
The squire therefore make his way to the men 's quarter , to speak to Hans , and it take him all his time to push his way along the wall , under the eaves , on account of the fish that fill the yard .
He thank Hans for have fish so well , and say that now he have an errand for him , which he could only give to a trusty servant , and that be to journey to Purgatory , and demand three year tribute , which , he say , be owe to him from that quarter .
` Willingly , ' say Hans ; ` but what road do I go , to get there ? '
The squire stand , and do not know what to say , and have first to go in to his wife to ask her .
` Oh , what a fool you be ! '
say she , ` ca n't you direct him straight forward , south through the wood ?
Whether he get there or not , we shall be quit of him . '
Out go the squire again to Hans .
` The way lie straight forward , south through the wood , ' say he .
Hans then must have his provision for the journey ; two baking of bread , two cask of butter , two barrel of ale , and two keg of brandy .
He tie all these up together , and get them on his shoulder hang on his good walking-stick , and off he tramp southward .
After he have get through the wood , there be more than one road , and he be in doubt which of them be the right one , so he sit down and open up his bundle of provision .
He find he have leave his knife at home , but by good chance , there be a plough lying close at hand , so he take the coulter of this to cut the bread with .
As he sit there and take his bite , a man come rid past him .
` Where be you from ? '
say Hans .
` From Purgatory , ' say the man .
` Then stop and wait a little , ' say Hans ; but the man be in a hurry , and would not stop , so Hans run after him and catch the horse by the tail .
This bring it down on it hind leg , and the man go fly over it head into a ditch .
` Just wait a little , ' say Hans ; ' I be go the same way . '
He get his provision tie up again , and lay them on the horse 's back ; then he take hold of the rein and say to the man , ` We two can go along together on foot . '
As they go on their way Hans tell the stranger both about the errand he have on hand and the fun he have have with Old Eric .
The other say but little but he be well acquaint with the way , and it be no long time before they arrive at the gate .
There both horse and rider disappear , and Hans be leave alone outside .
` They will come and let me in presently , ' he think to himself ; but no one come .
He hammer at the gate ; still no one appear .
Then he get tired of wait , and smash at the gate with his staff until he knock it in piece and get inside .
A whole troop of little demon come down upon him and ask what he want .
His master 's compliment , say Hans , and he want three year ' tribute .
At this they howl at him , and be about to lay hold of him and drag him off ; but when they have get some rap from his walking-stick they let go again , howl still loud than before , and run in to Old Eric , who be still in bed , after his adventure in the lake .
They tell him that a messenger have come from the squire at Devilmoss to demand three year ' tribute .
He have knock the gate to piece and bruise their arm and leg with his iron staff .
` Give him three year ' !
give him ten ! '
shout Old Eric , ` only do n't let him come near me . '
So all the little demon come drag so much silver and gold that it be something awful .
Hans fill his bundle with gold and silver coin , put it on his neck , and tramp back to his master , who be scar beyond all measure at see him again .
But Hans be also tire of service now .
Of all the gold and silver he bring with him he let the squire keep one half , and he be glad enough , both for the money and at get rid of Hans .
The other half he take home to his father the smith in Furreby .
To him also he say , ` Farewell ; ' he be now tire of living on shore among mortal men , and prefer to go home again to his mother .
Since that time no one have ever see Hans , the Mermaid 's son .
Peter Bull From the Danish .
There once live in Denmark a peasant and his wife who own a very good farm , but have no child .
They often lament to each other that they have no one of their own to inherit all the wealth that they possess .
They continue to prosper , and become rich people , but there be no heir to it all .
One year it happen that they own a pretty little bull-calf , which they call Peter .
It be the pretty little creature they have ever see -- so beautiful and so wise that it understand everything that be say to it , and so gentle and so full of play that both the man and his wife come to be a fond of it a if it have be their own child .
One day the man say to his wife , ' I wonder , now , whether our parish clerk could teach Peter to talk ; in that case we could not do good than adopt him a our son , and let him inherit all that we possess . '
` Well , I do n't know , ' say his wife , ` our clerk be tremendously learn , and know much more than his Paternoster , and I could almost believe that he might be able to teach Peter to talk , for Peter have a wonderfully good head too .
You might at least ask him about it . '
Off go the man to the clerk , and ask him whether he think he could teach a bull-calf that they have to speak , for they wish so much to have it a their heir .
The clerk be no fool ; he look round about to see that no one could overhear them , and say , ` Oh , yes , I can easily do that , but you must not speak to anyone about it .
It must be do in all secrecy , and the priest must not know of it , otherwise I shall get into trouble , a it be forbidden .
It will also cost you something , a some very expensive book be require . '
That do not matter at all , the man say ; they would not care so very much what it cost .
The clerk could have a hundred dollar to begin with to buy the book .
He also promise to tell no one about it , and to bring the calf round in the evening .
He give the clerk the hundred dollar on the spot , and in the evening take the calf round to him , and the clerk promise to do his best with it .
In a week 's time he come back to the clerk to hear about the calf and see how it be thrive .
The clerk , however , say that he could not get a sight of it , for then Peter would long after him and forget all that he have already learn .
He be get on well with his learning , but another hundred dollar be need , a they must have more book .
The peasant have the money with him , so he give it to the clerk , and go home again with high hope .
In another week the man come again to learn what progress Peter have make now .
` He be get on very well , ' say the clerk . '
I suppose he ca n't say anything yet ? '
say the man .
` Oh , yes , ' say the clerk , ` he can say `` Moo '' now . '
` Do you think he will get on with his learn ? '
ask the peasant .
` Oh , yes , ' say the clerk , ` but I shall want another hundred dollar for book .
Peter ca n't learn well out of the one that he have get . '
` Well , well , ' say the man , ` what must be spend shall be spend . '
So he give the clerk the third hundred dollar for book , and a cask of good old ale for Peter .
The clerk drink the ale himself , and give the calf milk , which he think would be good for it .
Some week pass , during which the peasant do not come round to ask after the calf , be frighten lest it should cost him another hundred dollar , for he have begin to squirm a bit at have to part with so much money .
Meanwhile the clerk decide that the calf be as fat a it could be , so he kill it .
After he have get all the beef out of the way he go inside , put on his black clothes , and make his way to the peasant 's house .
As soon a he have say ` Good-day ' he ask , ` Has Peter come home here ? '
` No , indeed , he have n't , ' say the man ; ` surely he have n't run away ? ' '
I hope , ' say the clerk , ` that he would not behave so contemptibly after all the trouble I have have to teach him , and all that I have spend upon him .
I have have to spend at least a hundred dollar of my own money to buy book for him before I get him so far on .
He could say anything he like now , so he say to-day that he long to see his parent again .
I be willing to give him that pleasure , but I be afraid that he would n't be able to find the way here by himself , so I make myself ready to go with him .
When we have get outside the house I remember that I have leave my stick inside , and go in again to get it .
When I come out again Peter have go off on his own account .
I think he would be here , and if he be n't I do n't know where he be . '
The peasant and his wife begin to lament bitterly that Peter have run away in this fashion just when they be to have so much joy of him , and after they have spend so much on his education .
The bad of it be that now they have no heir after all .
The clerk comfort them a best he could ; he also be greatly distressed that Peter should have behave in such a way just when he should have gain honour from his pupil .
Perhaps he have only go astray , and he would advertise him at church next Sunday , and find out where anyone have see him .
Then he bid them ` Good-bye , ' and go home nad din on a good fat veal roast .
Now it so happen that the clerk take in a newspaper , and one day he chance to read in it column of a new merchant who have settle in a town at some distance , and whose name be ` Peter Bull . '
He put the newspaper in his pocket , and go round to the sorrow couple who have lose their heir .
He read the paragraph to them , and add , ' I wonder , now , whether that could be your bull-calf Peter ? '
` Yes , of course it be , ' say the man ; ` who else would it be ? '
His wife then speak up and say , ` You must set out , good man , and see about him , for it be him , I be perfectly certain .
Take a good sum of money with you , too ; for who know but what he may want some cash now that he have turn a merchant ! '
Next day the man get a bag of money on his back and a sandwich in his pocket , and his pipe in his mouth , and set out for the town where the new merchant live .
It be no short way , and he travel for many day before he finally arrive there .
He reach it one morning , just at daybreak , find out the right place , and ask if the merchant be at home .
Yes , he be , say the people , but he be not up yet .
` That do n't matter , ' say the peasant , ` for I be his father .
Just show me up to his bedroom . '
He be show up to the room , and as soon a he enter it , ad catch sight of the merchant , he recognise him at once .
He have the same broad forehead , the same thick neck , and same red hair , but in other respect he be now like a human be .
The peasant rush straight up to him and take a firm hold of him . '
O Peter , ' say he , ` what a sorrow you have cause u , both myself and your mother , by run off like this just a we have get you well educate !
Get up , now , so that I can see you properly , and have a talk with you . '
The merchant think that it be a lunatic who have make his way in to him , and think it best to take thing quietly .
` All right , ' say he , ' I shall do so at once . '
He get out of bed and make haste to dress himself .
` Ay , ' say the peasant , ` now I can see how clever our clerk be .
He have do well by you , for now you look just like a human be .
If one do n't know it , one would never think that it be you we get from the red cow ; will you come home with me now ? '
` No , ' say the merchant , ' I ca n't find time just now .
I have a big business to look after . '
` You could have the farm at once , you know , ' say the peasant , ` and we old people would retire .
But if you would rather stay in business , of course you may do so .
Are you in want of anything ? '
` Oh , yes , ' say the merchant ; ' I want nothing so much a money .
A merchant have always a use for that . ' '
I can well believe that , ' say the peasant , ` for you have nothing at all to start with .
I have bring some with me for that very end . '
With that he empty his bag of money out upon the table , so that it be all cover with bright dollar .
When the merchant saw what kind of man he have before him he begin to speak him fair , and invite him to stay with him for some day , so that they might have some more talk together .
` Very well , ' say the peasant , ` but you must call me `` Father . '' ' '
I have neither father nor mother alive , ' say Peter Bull . '
I know that , ' say the man ; ` your real father be sell at Hamburg last Michaelmas , and your real mother die while calve in spring ; but my wife and I have adopt you a our own , and you be our only heir , so you must call me `` Father . '' '
Peter Bull be quite willing to do so , and it be settle that he should keep the money , while the peasant make his will and leave to him all that he have , before he go home to his wife , and tell her the whole story .
She be delighted to hear that it be true enough about Peter Bull -- that he be no other than their own bull-calf .
` You must go at once and tell the clerk , ' say she , ` and pay him the hundred dollar of his own money that he spend upon our son .
He have earn them well , and more besides , for all the joy he have give u in have such a son and heir . '
The man agree with this , and thank the clerk for all he have do , and give him two hundred dollar .
Then he sell the farm , and remove with his wife to the town where their dear son and heir be live .
To him they give all their wealth , and live with him till their dying day .
The Bird ` Grip ' Translated from the Swedish .
It happen once that a king , who have a great kingdom and three son , become blind , and no human skill or art could restore to him his sight .
At last there come to the palace an old woman , who tell him that in the whole world there be only one thing that could give him back his sight , and that be to get the bird Grip ; his song would open the King 's eye .
When the king 's eldest son heard this he offer to bring the bird Grip , which be keep in a cage by a king in another country , and carefully guard a his great treasure .
The blind king be greatly rejoice at his son 's resolve , fit him out in the best way he could , and let him go .
When the prince have ride some distance he come to an inn , in which there be many guest , all of whom be merry , and drank and sang and play at dice .
This joyous life please the prince so well that he stay in the inn , take part in the playing and drinking , and forget both his blind father and the bird Grip .
Meanwhile the king wait with both hope and anxiety for his son 's return , but a time go on and nothing be hear of him , the second prince ask leave to go in search of his brother , as well a to bring the bird Grip .
The king grant his request , and fit him out in the fine fashion .
But when the prince come to the inn and find his brother among his merry companion , he also remain there and forget both the bird Grip and his blind father .
When the king notice that neither of his son return , although a long time have pass since the second one set out , he be greatly distressed , for not only have he lose all hope of get back his sight , but he have also lose his two eldest son .
The young now come to him , and offer to go in search of his brother and to bring the bird Grip ; he be quite certain that he would succeed in this .
The king be unwilling to risk his third son on such an errand , but he beg so long that his father have at last to consent .
This prince also be fit out in the fine manner , like his brother , and so ride away .
He also turn into the same inn a his brother , and when these saw him they assail him with many entreaty to remain with them and share their merry life .
But he answer that now , when he have find them , his next task be to get the bird Grip , for which his blind father be long , and so he have not a single hour to spare with them in the inn .
He then say farewell to his brother , and rode on to find another inn in which to pass the night .
When he have ride a long way , and it begin to grow dark , he come to a house which lay deep in the forest .
Here he be receive in a very friendly manner by the host , who put his horse into the stable , and lead the prince himself into the guest-chamber , where he order a maid-servant to lay the cloth and set down the supper .
It be now dark , and while the girl be lay the cloth and set down the dish , and the prince have begin to appease his hunger , he hear the most piteous shriek and cry from the next room .
He spring up from the table and ask the girl what those cry be , and whether he have fall into a den of robber .
The girl answer that these shriek be hear every night , but it be no living be who utter them ; it be a dead man , who life the host have take because he could not pay for the meal he have have in the inn .
The host far refuse to bury the dead man , a he have leave nothing to pay the expense of the funeral , and every night he go and scourge the dead body of his victim .
When she have say this she lift the cover off one of the dish , and the prince saw that there lay on it a knife and an axe .
He understand then that the host meant to ask him by this what kind of death he prefer to die , unless he be willing to ransom his life with his money .
He then summon the host , give him a large sum for his own life , and pay the dead man 's debt as well , besides pay him for bury the body , which the murderer now promise to attend to .
The prince , however , felt that his life be not safe in this murderer 's den , and ask the maid to help him to escape that night .
She reply that the attempt to do so might cost her her own life , a the key of the stable in which the prince 's horse stand lay under the host 's pillow ; but , a she herself be a prisoner there , she would help him to escape if he would take her along with him .
He promise to do so , and they succeed in get away from the inn , and rode on until they come to another far away from it , where the prince get a good place for the girl before proceed on his journey .
As he now ride all alone through a forest there meet him a fox , who greet him in a friendly fashion , and ask him where he be go , and on what errand he be bent .
The prince answer that his errand be too important to be confide to everyone that he meet .
` You be right in that , ' say the fox , ` for it relate to the bird Grip , which you want to take and bring home to your blind father ; I could help you in this , but in that case you must follow my counsel . '
The prince think that this be a good offer , especially a the fox be ready to go with him and show him the way to the castle , where the bird Grip sit in his cage , and so he promise to obey the fox 's instruction .
When they have traverse the forest together they saw the castle at some distance .
Then the fox give the prince three grain of gold , one of which he be to throw into the guard-room , another into the room where the bird Grip sat , and the third into it cage .
He could then take the bird , but he must beware of stroke it ; otherwise it would go ill with him .
The prince take the grain of gold , and promise to follow the fox 's direction faithfully .
When he come to the guard-room of the castle he throw one of the grain in there , and the guard at once fell asleep .
The same thing happen with those who keep watch in the room beside the bird Grip , and when he throw the third grain into it cage the bird also fell asleep .
When the prince get the beautiful bird into his hand he could not resist the temptation to stroke it , whereupon it awake and begin to scream .
At this the whole castle wake up , and the prince be take prisoner .
As he now sit in his prison , and bitterly lament that his own disobedience have bring himself into trouble , and deprive his father of the chance of recover his sight , the fox suddenly stand in front of him .
The prince be very pleased to see it again , and receive with great meekness all it reproach , as well a promise to be more obedient in the future , if the fox would only help him out of his fix .
The fox say that he have come to assist him , but he could do no more than advise the prince , when he be bring up for trial , to answer ` yes ' to all the judge 's question , and everything would go well .
The prince faithfully follow his instruction , so that when the judge ask him whether he have mean to steal the bird Grip he say ` Yes , ' and when the judge ask him if he be a master-thief he again answer ` Yes . '
When the king heard that he admit be a master-thief , he say that he would forgive him the attempt to steal the bird if he would go to the next kingdom and carry off the world 's most beautiful princess , and bring her to him .
To this also the prince say ` Yes . '
When he leave the castle he meet the fox , who go along with him to the next kingdom , and when they come near the castle there , give him three grain of gold -- one to throw into the guard-room , another into the princess 's chamber , and the third into her bed .
At the same time he strictly warn him not to kiss the princess .
The prince go into the castle , and do with the grain of gold a the fox have tell him , so that sleep fell upon everyone there ; but when he have take the princess into his arm he forget the fox 's warning , at the sight of her beauty , and kiss her .
Then both she and all the others in the castle woke ; the prince be take prisoner , and put into a strong dungeon .
Here the fox again come to him and reproach him with his disobedience , but promise to help him out of this trouble also if he would answer ` yes ' to everything they ask him at his trial .
The prince willingly agree to this , and admit to the judge that he have mean to steal the princess , and that he be a master-thief .
When the king learn this he say he would forgive his offence if he would go to the next kingdom and steal the horse with the four golden shoe .
To this also the prince say ` Yes . '
When he have go a little way from the castle he meet the fox , and they continue on their journey together .
When they reach the end of it the prince for the third time receive three grain of gold from the fox , with direction to throw one into the guard-chamber , another into the stable , and the third into the horse 's stall .
But the fox tell him that above the horse 's stall hang a beautiful golden saddle , which he must not touch , if he do not want to bring himself into new trouble bad than those he have escape from , for then the fox could help him no longer .
The prince promise to be firm this time .
He throw the grain of gold in the proper place , and untie the horse , but with that he catch sight of the golden saddle , and think that none but it could suit so beautiful a horse , especially a it have golden shoe .
But just a he stretch out his hand to take it he receive from some invisible be so hard a blow on the arm that it be make quite numb .
This recall to him his promise and his danger , so he lead out the horse without look at the golden saddle again .
The fox be wait for him outside the castle , and the prince confess to him that he have very nearly give way to temptation this time as well . '
I know that , ' say the fox , ` for it be I who strike you over the arm . '
As they now go on together the prince say that he could not forget the beautiful princess , and ask the fox whether he do not think that she ought to ride home to his father 's palace on this horse with the golden shoe .
The fox agree that this would be excellent ; if the prince would now go and carry her off he would give him three grain of gold for that purpose .
The prince be quite ready , and promise to keep good command of himself this time , and not kiss her .
He get the grain of gold and enter the castle , where he carry off the princess , set her on the beautiful horse , and hold on his way .
When they come near to the castle where the bird Grip sit in his cage he again ask the fox for three grain of gold .
These he get , and with them he be successful in carry off the bird .
He be now full of joy , for his blind father would now recover his sight , while he himself own the world 's most beautiful princess and the horse with the golden shoe .
The prince and princess travel on together with mirth and happiness , and the fox follow them until they come to the forest where the prince first meet with him .
` Here our way part , ' say the fox .
` You have now get all that your heart desire , and you will have a prosperous journey to your father 's palace if only you do not ransom anyone 's life with money . '
The prince thank the fox for all his help , promise to give heed to his warning , say farewell to him , and rode on , with the princess by his side and the bird Grip on his wrist .
They soon arrive at the inn where the two eldest brother have stay , forget their errand .
But now no merry song or noise of mirth be hear from it .
When the prince come nearer he saw two gallows erect , and when he enter the inn along with the princess he saw that all the room be hang with black , and that everything inside forebode sorrow and death .
He ask the reason of this , and be tell that two prince be to be hang that day for debt ; they have spend all their money in feast and playing , and be now deeply in debt to the host , and a no one could be find to ransom their life they be about to be hang accord to the law .
The prince know that it be his two brother who have thus forfeit their life and it cut him to the heart to think that two prince should suffer such a shameful death ; and , a he have sufficient money with him , he pay their debt , and so ransom their life .
At first the brother be grateful for their liberty , but when they saw the young brother 's treasure they become jealous of his good fortune , and plan how to bring him to destruction , and then take the bird Grip , the princess , and the horse with the golden shoe , and convey them to their blind father .
After they have agree on how to carry out their treachery they entice the prince to a den of lion and throw him down among them .
Then they set the princess on horseback , take the bird Grip , and ride homeward .
The princess weep bitterly , but they tell her that it would cost her her life if she do not say that the two brother have win all the treasure .
When they arrive at their father 's palace there be great rejoicing , and everyone praise the two prince for their courage and bravery .
When the king inquire after the young brother they answer that he have lead such a life in the inn that he have be hang for debt .
The king sorrow bitterly over this , because the young prince be his dear son , and the joy over the treasure soon die away , for the bird Grip would not sing so that the king might recover his sight , the princess weep night and day , and no one dare to venture so close to the horse a to have a look at his golden shoe .
Now when the young prince be throw down into the lion ' den he find the fox sit there , and the lion , instead of tear him to piece , show him the great friendliness .
Nor be the fox angry with him for have forget his last warning .
He only say that son who could so forget their old father and disgrace their royal birth a those have do would not hesitate to betray their brother either .
Then he take the prince up out of the lion 's den and give him directions what to do now so a to come by his right again .
The prince thank the fox with all his heart for his true friendship , but the fox answer that if he have be of any use to him he would now for his own part ask a service of him .
The prince reply that he would do him any service that be in his power . '
I have only one thing to ask of you , ' say the fox , ` and that be , that you should cut off my head with your sword . '
The prince be astonish , and say that he could not bring himself to cut the have off his truest friend , and to this he stick in spite of all the fox 's declaration that it be the great service he could do him .
At this the fox become very sorrowful , and declare that the prince 's refusal to grant his request now compel him to do a deed which he be very unwilling to do -- if the prince would not cut off his head , then he must kill the prince himself .
Then at last the prince draw his good sword and cut off the fox 's head , and the next moment a youth stand before him .
` Thanks , ' say he , ` for this service , which have free me from a spell that not even death itself could loosen .
I be the dead man who lay unburied in the robber 's inn , where you ransom me and give me honourable burial , and therefore I have help you in your journey . '
With this they part and the prince , disguise himself a a horse-shoer , go up to his father 's palace and offer his service there .
The king 's men tell him that a horse-shoer be indeed want at the palace , but he must be one who could lift up the foot of the horse with the golden shoe , and such a one they have not yet be able to find .
The prince ask to see the horse , and as soon a he enter the stable the steed begin to neigh in a friendly fashion , and stand a quiet and still a a lamb while the prince lift up his hoof , one after the other , and show the king 's men the famous golden shoe .
After this the king 's men begin to talk about the bird Grip , and how strange it be that he would not sing , however well he be attend to .
The horse-shoer then say that he know the bird very well ; he have see it when it sit in it cage in another king 's palace , and if it do not sing now it must be because it do not have all that it want .
He himself know so much about the bird 's way that if he only get to see it he could tell at once what it lack .
The king 's men now take counsel whether they ought to take the stranger in before the king , for in his chamber sit the bird Grip along with the weep princess .
It be decide to risk do so , and the horse-shoer be lead into the king 's chamber , where he have no sooner call the bird by it name than it begin to sing and the princess to smile .
Then the darkness clear away from the king 's eye , and the more the bird sing the more clearly do he see , till at last in the strange horse-shoer he recognise his young son .
Then the princess tell the king how treacherously his eldest son have act , and he have them banish from his kingdom ; but the young prince marry the princess , and get the horse with the golden shoe and half the kingdom from his father , who keep for himself so long a he live the bird Grip , which now sing with all it heart to the king and all his court .
Snowflake Slavonic story .
Contes Populaires Slaves , traduits par Louis Leger .
Paris : Leroux , Editeur .
Once upon a time there live a peasant call Ivan , and he have a wife whose name be Marie .
They would have be quite happy except for one thing : they have no child to play with , and a they be now old people they do not find that watch the child of their neighbour at all make up to them for have one of their own .
One winter , which nobody living will ever forget , the snow lay so deep that it come up to the knee of even the tall man .
When it have all fall , and the sun be shin again , the child run out into the street to play , and the old man and his wife sit at their window and gaze at them .
The child first make a sort of little terrace , and stamp it hard and firm , and then they begin to make a snow woman .
Ivan and Marie watch them , the while think about many thing .
Suddenly Ivan 's face brighten , and , look at his wife , he say , ` Wife , why should n't we make a snow woman too ? '
` Why not ? '
reply Marie , who happen to be in a very good temper ; ` it might amuse u a little .
But there be no use make a woman .
Let u make a little snow child , and pretend it be a live one . '
` Yes , let u do that , ' say Ivan , and he take down his cap and go into the garden with his old wife .
Then the two set to work with all their might to make a doll out of the snow .
They shape a little body and two little hand and two little foot .
On top of all they place a ball of snow , out of which the head be to be .
` What in the world be you do ? '
ask a passer-by .
` Ca n't you guess ? '
return Ivan .
` Making a snow-child , ' reply Marie .
They have finish the nose and the chin .
Two hole be leave for the eye , and Ivan carefully shape out the mouth .
No sooner have he do so than he felt a warm breath upon his cheek .
He start back in surprise and look -- and behold !
the eye of the child meet his , and it lip , which be as red a raspberry , smile at him !
` What be it ? '
cry Ivan , cross himself .
` Am I mad , or be the thing bewitch ? '
The snow-child bent it head a if it have be really alive .
It move it little arm and it little leg in the snow that lay about it just a the living child do theirs .
` Ah !
Ivan , Ivan , ' exclaim Marie , tremble with joy , ` heaven have send u a child at last ! '
And she throw herself upon Snowflake -LRB- for that be the snow-child 's name -RRB- and cover her with kiss .
And the loose snow fell away from Snowflake a an egg shell do from an egg , and it be a little girl whom Marie hold in her arm .
` Oh !
my darling Snowflake ! '
cry the old woman , and lead her into the cottage .
And Snowflake grow fast ; each hour as well a each day make a difference , and every day she become more and more beautiful .
The old couple hardly know how to contain themselves for joy , and thought of nothing else .
The cottage be always full of village child , for they amuse Snowflake , and there be nothing in the world they would not have do to amuse her .
She be their doll , and they be continually invent new dress for her , and teach her song or play with her .
Nobody know how clever she be !
She notice everything , and could learn a lesson in a moment .
Anyone would have take her for thirteen at least !
And , besides all that , she be so good and obedient ; and so pretty , too !
Her skin be as white a snow , her eye a blue a forget-me-nots , and her hair be long and golden .
Only her cheek have no colour in them , but be as fair a her forehead .
So the winter go on , till at last the spring sun mount higher in the heaven and begin to warm the earth .
The grass grow green in the field , and high in the air the lark be heard sing .
The village girl meet and dance in a ring , singing , ` Beautiful spring , how come you here ?
How come you here ?
Did you come on a plough , or be it a harrow ? '
Only Snowflake sit quite still by the window of the cottage .
` What be the matter , dear child ? '
ask Marie .
` Why be you so sad ?
Are you ill ?
or have they treat you unkindly ? '
` No , ' reply Snowflake , ` it be nothing , mother ; no one have hurt me ; I be well . '
The spring sun have chase away the last snow from it hide place under the hedge ; the field be full of flower ; nightingale sing in the tree , and all the world be gay .
But the gayer grow the bird and the flower the sadder become Snowflake .
She hide herself from her playmate , and curl herself up where the shadow be deepest , like a lily amongst it leaf .
Her only pleasure be to lie amid the green willow near some sparkling stream .
At the dawn and at twilight only she seem happy .
When a great storm break , and the earth be white with hail , she become bright and joyous a the Snowflake of old ; but when the cloud pass , and the hail melt beneath the sun , Snowflake would burst into tear and weep a a sister would weep over her brother .
The spring pass , and it be the eve of St. John , or Midsummer Day .
This be the great holiday of the year , when the young girl meet in the wood to dance and play .
They go to fetch Snowflake , and say to Marie : ` Let her come and dance with u . '
But Marie be afraid ; she could not tell why , only she could not bear the child to go .
Snowflake do not wish to go either , but they have no excuse ready .
So Marie kiss the girl and say : ` Go , my Snowflake , and be happy with your friend , and you , dear child , be careful of her .
You know she be the light of my eye to me . '
` Oh , we will take care of her , ' cry the girl gaily , and they run off to the wood .
There they wear wreath , gather nosegay , and sing song some sad , some merry .
And whatever they do Snowflake do too .
When the sun set they light a fire of dry grass , and place themselves in a row , Snowflake be the last of all .
` Now , watch u , ' they say , ` and run just a we do . '
And they all begin to sing and to jump one after another across the fire .
Suddenly , close behind them , they hear a sigh , then a groan .
` Ah ! '
They turn hastily and look at each other .
There be nothing .
They look again .
Where be Snowflake ?
She have hide herself for fun , they think , and search for her everywhere .
` Snowflake !
Snowflake ! '
But there be no answer .
` Where can she be ?
Oh , she must have go home . '
They return to the village , but there be no Snowflake .
For day after that they seek her high and low .
They examine every bush and every hedge , but there be no Snowflake .
And long after everyone else have give up hope Ivan and Marie would wander through the wood cry ` Snowflake , my dove , come back , come back ! '
And sometimes they think they hear a call , but it be never the voice of Snowflake .
And what have become of her ?
Had a fierce wild beast seize her and drag her into his lair in the forest ?
Had some bird carry her off across the wide blue sea ?
No , no beast have touch her , no bird have bear her away .
With the first breath of flame that sweep over her when she run with her friend Snowflake have melt away , and a little soft haze float upwards be all that remain of her .
I Know What I Have Learned From the Danish .
There be once a man who have three daughter , and they be all marry to troll , who live underground .
One day the man think that he would pay them a visit , and his wife give him some dry bread to eat by the way .
After he have walk some distance he grow both tired and hungry , so he sit down on the east side of a mound and begin to eat his dry bread .
The mound then open , and his young daughter come out of it , and say , ` Why , father !
why be you not come in to see me ? '
` Oh , ' say he , ` if I have know that you live here , and have see any entrance , I would have come in . '
Then he enter the mound along with her .
The troll come home soon after this , and his wife tell him that her father be come , and ask him to go and buy some beef to make broth with .
` We can get it easy than that ! '
say the troll .
He fix an iron spike into one of the beam of the roof , and run his head against this till he have knock several large piece off his head .
He be just as well a ever after do this , and they get their broth without further trouble .
The troll then give the old man a sackful of money , and laden with this he betook himself homewards .
When he come near his home he remember that he have a cow about to calve , so he lay down the money on the ground , run home as fast a he could , and ask his wife whether the cow have calve yet .
` What kind of a hurry be this to come home in ? '
say she .
` No , the cow have not calve yet . '
` Then you must come out and help me in with a sackful of money , ' say the man . '
A sackful of money ? '
cry his wife .
` Yes , a sackful of money , ' say he .
` Is that so very wonderful ? '
His wife do not believe very much what he tell her , but she humour him , and go out with him .
When they come to the spot where he have leave it there be no money there ; a thief have come along and steal it .
His wife then grow angry and scold him heartily .
` Well , well ! '
say he , ` hang the money !
I know what I have learn . '
` What have you learn ? '
say she .
` Ah !
I know that , ' say the man .
After some time have pass the man have a mind to visit his second eldest daughter .
His wife again give him some dry bread to eat , and when he grow tired and hungry he sit down on the east side of a mound and begin to eat it .
As he sit there his daughter come up out of the mound , and invite him to come inside , which he do very willingly .
Soon after this the troll come home .
It be dark by that time , and his wife bid him go and buy some candle .
` Oh , we shall soon get a light , ' say the troll .
With that he dip his finger into the fire , and they then give light without be burn in the least .
The old man get two sack of money here , and plod away homewards with these .
When he be very nearly home he again think of the cow that be with calf , so he lay down the money , run home , and ask his wife whether the cow have calve yet .
` Whatever be the matter with you ? '
say she .
` You come hurry a if the whole house be about to fall .
You may set your mind at rest : the cow have not calve yet . '
The man now ask her to come and help him home with the two sack of money .
She do not believe him very much , but he continue to assure her that it be quite true , till at last she give in and go with him .
When they come to the spot there have again be a thief there and take the money .
It be no wonder that the woman be angry about this , but the man only say , ` Ah , if you only know what I have learn . '
A third time the man set out -- to visit his eldest daughter .
When he come to a mound he sit down on the east side of it and eat the dry bread which his wife have give him to take with him .
The daughter then come out of the mound and invite her father to come inside .
In a little the troll come home , and his wife ask him to go and buy some fish .
` We can get them much more easily than that , ' say the troll .
` Give me your dough trough and your ladle . '
They seat themselves in the trough , and row out on the lake which be beside the mound .
When they have get out a little way the troll say to his wife , ` Are my eye green ? '
` No , not yet , ' say she .
He row on a little further and ask again , ` Are my eye not green yet ? '
` Yes , ' say his wife , ` they be green now . '
Then the troll sprang into the water and ladle up so many fish that in a short time the trough could hold no more .
They then row home again , and have a good meal off the fish .
The old man now get three sack full of money , and set off home with them .
When he be almost home the cow again come into his head , and he lay down the money .
This time , however , he take his wooden shoe and lay them above the money , think that no one would take it after that .
Then he run home and ask his wife whether the cow have calve .
It have not , and she scold him again for behave in this way , but in the end he persuade her to go with him to help him with the three sack of money .
When they come to the spot they find only the wooden shoe , for a thief have come along in the meantime and take all the money .
The woman be very angry , and break out upon her husband ; but he take it all very quietly , and only say , ` Hang the money !
I know what I have learn . '
` What have you learn I should like to know ? '
say his wife .
` You will see that yet , ' say the man .
One day his wife take a fancy for broth , and say to him , ` Oh , go to the village , and buy a piece of beef to make broth . '
` There 's no need of that , ' say he ; ` we can get it an easy way . '
With that he drive a spike into a beam , and run his head against it , and in consequence have to lie in bed for a long time afterwards .
After he have recover from this his wife ask him one day to go and buy candle , a they have none .
` No , ' he say , ` there 's no need for that ; ' and he stick his hand into the fire .
This also make him take to bed for a good while .
When he have get well again his wife one day want fish , and ask him to go and buy some .
The man , however , wish again to show what he have learn , so he ask her to come along with him and bring her dough trough and a ladle .
They both seat themselves in this , and row upon the lake .
When they have get out a little way the man say , ` Are my eye green ? '
` No , ' say his wife ; ` why should they be ? '
They row a little further out , and he ask again , ` Are my eye not green yet ? '
` What nonsense be this ? '
say she ; ` why should they be green ? '
` Oh , my dear , ' say he , ` ca n't you just say that they be green ? '
` Very well , ' say she , ` they be green . '
As soon a he hear this he spring out into the water with the ladle for the fish , but he just get leave to stay there with them !
The Cunning Shoemaker Sicilianische Mahrchen .
Once upon a time there live a shoemaker who could get no work to do , and be so poor that he and his wife nearly die of hunger .
At last he say to her , ` It be no use wait on here -- I can find nothing ; so I shall go down to Mascalucia , and perhaps there I shall be more lucky . '
So down he go to Mascalucia , and walk through the street cry , ` Who want some shoe ? '
And very soon a window be push up , and a woman 's head be thrust out of it .
` Here be a pair for you to patch , ' she say .
And he sit down on her doorstep and set about patch them .
` How much do I owe you ? '
she ask when they be do . '
A shilling . '
` Here be eighteen penny , and good luck to you . '
And he go his way .
He turn into the next street and set up his cry again , and it be not long before another window be push up and another head appear .
` Here be some shoe for you to patch . '
And the shoemaker sit down on the doorstep and patch them .
` How much do I owe you ? '
ask the woman when the shoe be finish . '
A florin . '
` Here be a crown piece , and good luck to you . '
And she shut the window .
` Well , ' think the shoemaker , ' I have do finely .
But I will not go back to my wife just yet , a , if I only go on at this rate , I shall soon have enough money to buy a donkey . '
Having make up his mind what be best to do , he stay in the town a few day longer till he have four gold piece safe in his purse .
Then he go to the market and for two of them he buy a good strong donkey , and , mount on it back , he ride home to Catania .
But a he enter a thick wood he saw in the distance a band of robber who be come quickly towards him . '
I be lose , ' think he ; ` they be sure to take from me all the money that I have earn , and I shall be as poor a ever I be .
What can I do ? '
However , be a clever little man and full of spirit , he do not lose heart , but , take five florin , he fasten them out of sight under the donkey 's thick mane .
Then he ride on .
Directly the robber come up to him they seize him exactly a he have foretell and take away all his money .
` Oh , dear friend ! '
he cry , wring his hand , ' I be only a poor shoemaker , and have nothing but this donkey leave in the world . '
As he speak the donkey give himself a shake , and down fell the five florin .
` Where do that come from ? '
ask the robber .
` Ah , ' reply the shoemaker , ` you have guess my secret .
The donkey be a golden donkey , and supply me with all my money . '
` Sell him to u , ' say the robber .
` We will give you any price you like . '
The shoemaker at first declare that nothing would induce him to sell him , but at last he agree to hand him over to the robber for fifty gold piece .
` But listen to what I tell you , ' say he .
` You must each take it in turn to own him for a night and a day , or else you will all be fight over the money . '
With these word they part , the robber drive the donkey to their cave in the forest and the shoemaker return home , very pleased with the success of his trick .
He just stop on the way to pick up a good dinner , and the next day spend most of his gain in buy a small vineyard .
Meanwhile the robber have arrive at the cave where they live , and the captain , call them all round him , announce that it a his right to have the donkey for the first night .
His companion agree , and then he tell his wife to put a mattress in the stable .
She ask if he have go out of his mind , but he answer crossly , ` What be that to you ?
Do a you be bid , and to-morrow I will bring you some treasure . '
Very early the captain awoke and search the stable , but could find nothing , and guess that Master Joseph have be make fun of them .
` Well , ' he say to himself , ` if I have be take in , the others shall not come off any good . '
So , when one of his men arrive and ask him eagerly how much money he have get , he answer gaily , ` Oh , comrade , if you only know !
But I shall say nothing about it till everyone have have his turn ! '
One after another they all take the donkey , but no money be forthcoming for anybody .
At length , when all the band have be trick , they hold a council , and resolve to march to the shoemaker 's house and punish him well for his cunning .
Just a before , the shoemaker saw them a long way off , and begin to think how he could outwit them again .
When he have hit upon a plan he call his wife , and say to her , ` Take a bladder and fill it with blood , and bind it round your neck .
When the robber come and demand the money they give me for the donkey I shall shout to you and tell you to get it quickly .
You must argue with me , and decline to obey me , and then I shall plunge my knife into the bladder , and you must fall to the ground a if you be dead .
There you must lie till I play on my guitar ; then get up and begin to dance . '
The wife make haste to do a she be bid , and there be no time to lose , for the robber be draw very near the house .
They enter with a great noise , and overwhelm the shoemaker with reproach for have deceive them about the donkey .
` The poor beast must have lose it power owing to the change of master , ' say he ; ` but we will not quarrel about it .
You shall have back the fifty gold piece that you give for him .
` Aite , ' he cry to his wife , ` go quickly to the chest upstairs , and bring down the money for these gentleman . '
` Wait a little , ' answer she ; ' I must first bake this fish .
It will be spoilt if I leave it now . '
` Go this instant , a you be bid , ' shout the shoemaker , stamp a if he be in a great passion ; but , a she do not stir , he draw his knife , and stab her in the neck .
The blood spurt out freely , and she fell to the ground a if she be dead .
` What have you do ? '
ask the robber , look at him in dismay .
` The poor woman be do nothing . '
` Perhaps I be hasty , but it be easily set right , ' reply the shoemaker , take down his guitar and beginning to play .
Hardly have he strike the first note than his wife sit up ; then get on her foot and dance .
The robber star with open mouth , and at last they say , ` Master Joseph , you may keep the fifty gold piece .
But tell u what you will take for your guitar , for you must sell it to u ? '
` Oh , that be impossible ! '
reply the shoemaker , ` for every time I have a quarrel with my wife I just strike her dead , and so give vent to my anger .
This have become such a habit with me that I do n't think I could break myself of it ; and , of course , if I get rid of the guitar I could never bring her back to life again . '
However , the robber would not listen to him , and at last he consent to take forty gold piece for the guitar .
Then they all return to their cave in the forest , delight with their new purchase , and long for a chance of try it power .
But the captain declare that the first trial belong to him , and after that the others might have their turn .
That evening he call to his wife and say , ` What have you get for supper ? '
` Macaroni , ' answer she .
` Why have you not boil a fish ? '
he cry , and stabber in the neck so that she fell dead .
The captain , who be not in the least angry , seize the guitar and begin to play ; but , let him play as loud a he would , the dead woman never stir .
` Oh , lie shoemaker !
Oh , abominable knave !
Twice have he get the good of me .
But I will pay him out ! '
So he rag and swore , but it do him no good .
The fact remain that he have kill his wife and could not bring her back again .
The next morning come one of the robber to fetch the guitar , and to hear what have happen .
` Well , how have you get on ? '
` Oh , splendidly !
I stab my wife , and then begin to play , and now she be as well a ever . '
` Did you really ?
Then this evening I will try for myself . '
Of course the same thing happen over again , till all the wife have be kill secretly , and when there be no more leave they whisper to each other the dreadful tale , and swore to be avenge on the shoemaker .
The band lose no time in set out for his house , and , a before , the shoemaker saw them come from afar .
He call to his wife , who be wash in the kitchen : ` Listen , Aita : when the robber come and ask for me say I have go to the vineyard .
Then tell the dog to call me , and chase him from the house . '
When he have give these direction he run out of the back door and hid behind a barrel .
A few minute later the robber arrive , and call loudly for the shoemaker .
` Alas !
good gentleman , he be up in the vineyard , but I will send the dog after him at once .
Here !
now quickly to the vineyard , and tell your master some gentleman be here who wish to speak to him .
Go as fast a you can . '
And she open the door and let the dog out .
` You can really trust the dog to call your husband ? '
ask the robber .
` Dear me , yes !
He understand everything , and will always carry any message I give him . '
By-and-bye the shoemaker come in and say , ` Good morning , gentleman ; the dog tell me you wish to speak to me . '
` Yes , we do , ' reply the robber ; ` we have come to speak to you about that guitar .
It be your fault that we have murder all our wife ; and , though we play a you tell u , none of them ever come back to life . '
` You could not have play properly , ' say the shoemaker .
` It be your own fault . '
` Well , we will forget all about it , ' answer the robber , ` if you will only sell u your dog . '
` Oh , that be impossible !
I should never get on without him . '
But the robber offer him forty gold piece , and at last he agree to let them have the dog .
So they depart , take the dog with them , and when they get back to their cave the captain declare that it be his right to have the first trial .
He then call his daughter , and say to her , ' I be go to the inn ; if anybody want me , loose the dog , and send him to call me . '
About an hour after some one arrive on business , and the girl untie the dog and say , ` Go to the inn and call my father ! '
The dog bound off , but run straight to the shoemaker .
When the robber get home and find no dog he think ` He must have go back to his old master , ' and , though night have already fall , he go off after him .
` Master Joseph , be the dog here ? '
ask he .
` Ah !
yes , the poor beast be so fond of me !
You must give him time to get accustom to new way . '
So the captain bring the dog back , and the following morning hand him over to another of the band , just say that the animal really could do what the shoemaker have say .
The second robber carefully keep his own counsel , and fetch the dog secretly back from the shoemaker , and so on through the whole band .
At length , when everybody have suffer , they meet and tell the whole story , and next day they all march off in fury to the man who have make game of them .
After reproach him with have deceive them , they tie him up in a sack , and tell him they be go to throw him into the sea .
The shoemaker lay quite still , and let them do a they would .
They go on till they come to a church , and the robber say , ` The sun be hot and the sack be heavy ; let u leave it here and go in and rest . '
So they put the sack down by the roadside , and go into the church .
Now , on a hill near by there be a swineherd look after a great herd of pig and whistle merrily .
When Master Joseph hear him he cry out as loud a he could , ' I wo n't ; I wo n't , I say . '
` What wo n't you do ? '
ask the swineherd .
` Oh , ' reply the shoemaker .
` They want me to marry the king 's daughter , and I wo n't do it . '
` How lucky you be ! '
sigh the swineherd .
` Now , if it be only me ! '
` Oh , if that 's all ! '
reply the cunning shoemaker , ` get you into this sack , and let me out . '
Then the swineherd open the sack and take the place of the shoemaker , who go gaily off , drive the pig before him .
When the robber be rest they come out of the church , take up the sack , and carry it to the sea , where they throw it in , and it sink directly .
As they come back they meet the shoemaker , and star at him with open mouth .
` Oh , if you only know how many pig live in the sea , ' he cry .
` And the deeper you go the more there be .
I have just bring up these , and mean to return for some more . '
` There be still some left there ? '
` Oh , more than I could count , ' reply the shoemaker . '
I will show you what you must do . '
Then he lead the robber back to the shore .
` Now , ' say he , ` you must each of you tie a stone to your neck , so that you may be sure to go deep enough , for I find the pig that you saw very deep down indeed . '
Then the robber all tie stone round their neck , and jump in , and be drown , and Master Joseph drive his pig home , and be a rich man to the end of his day .
The King Who Would Have a Beautiful Wife Sicilianische Mahrchen .
Fifty year ago there live a king who be very anxious to get married ; but , a he be quite determine that his wife should be as beautiful a the sun , the thing be not so easy a it seem , for no maiden come up to his standard .
Then he command a trusty servant to search through the length and breadth of the land till he find a girl fair enough to be queen , and if he have the good luck to discover one he be to bring her back with him .
The servant set out at once on his journey , and seek high and low-in castle and cottage ; but though pretty maiden be plentiful a blackberry , he felt sure that none of them would please the king .
One day he have wander far and wide , and be feel very tired and thirsty .
By the roadside stand a tiny little house , and here he knock and ask for a cup of water .
Now in this house dwell two sister , and one be eighty and the other ninety year old .
They be very poor , and earn their living by spin .
This have keep their hand very soft and white , like the hand of a girl , and when the water be pass through the lattice , and the servant saw the small , delicate finger , he say to himself : ' A maiden must indeed be lovely if she have a hand like that . '
And he make haste back , and tell the king .
` Go back at once , ' say his majesty , ` and try to get a sight of her . '
The faithful servant depart on his errand without lose any time , and again he knock at the door of the little house and beg for some water .
As before , the old woman do not open the door , but pass the water through the lattice .
` Do you live here alone ? '
ask the man .
` No , ' reply she , ` my sister live with me .
We be poor girl , and have to work for our bread . '
` How old be you ? ' '
I be fifteen , and she be twenty . '
Then the servant go back to the king , and tell him all he know .
And his majesty answer : ' I will have the fifteen-year-old one .
Go and bring her here . '
The servant return a third time to the little house and knock at the door .
In reply to his knock the lattice window be push open , and a voice inquire what it be he want .
` The king have desire me to bring back the young of you to become his queen , ' he reply .
` Tell his majesty I be ready to do his bidding , but since my birth no ray of light have fall upon my face .
If it should ever do so I shall instantly grow black .
Therefore beg , I pray you , his most gracious majesty to send this even a shut carriage , and I will return in it to the castle .
When the king heard this he order his great golden carriage to be prepare , and in it to be place some magnificent robe ; and the old woman wrap herself in a thick veil , and be drive to the castle .
The king be eagerly await her , and when she arrive he beg her politely to raise her veil and let him see her face .
But she answer : ` Here the taper be too bright and the light too strong .
Would you have me turn black under your very eyes ? '
And the king believe her word , and the marriage take place without the veil be once lift .
Afterwards , when they be alone , he raise the corner , and know for the first time that he have wed a wrinkled old woman .
And , in a furious burst of anger , he dash open the window and fling her out .
But , luckily for her , her clothes catch on a nail in the wall , and keep her hanging between heaven and earth .
While she be thus suspend , expect every moment to be dash to the ground , four fairy happen to pass by .
` Look , sister , ' cry one , ` surely that be the old woman that the king sent for .
Shall we wish that her clothes may give way , and that she should be dash to the ground ? '
` Oh no !
no ! '
exclaim another .
` Let u wish her something good .
I myself will wish her youth . '
` And I beauty . '
` And I wisdom . '
` And I a tender heart . '
So spake the fairy , and go their way , leave the most beautiful maiden in the world behind them .
The next morning when the king look from his window he saw this lovely creature hang on the nail .
` Ah !
what have I do ?
Surely I must have be blind last night ! '
And he order long ladder to be bring and the maiden to be rescue .
Then he fell on his knee before her , and pray her to forgive him , and a great feast be make in her honour .
Some day after come the ninety-year-old sister to the palace and ask for the queen .
` Who be that hideous old witch ? '
say the king .
` Oh , an old neighbour of mine , who be half silly , ' she reply .
But the old woman look at her steadily , and know her again , and say : ` How have you manage to grow so young and beautiful ?
I should like to be young and beautiful too . '
This question she repeat the whole day long , till at length the queen lose patience and say : ' I have my old head cut off , and this new head grow in it place . '
Then the old woman go to a barber , and speak to him , say , ' I will give you all you ask if you will only cut off my head , so that I may become young and lovely . '
` But , my good woman , if I do that you will die ! '
But the old woman would listen to nothing ; and at last the barber take out his knife and strike the first blow at her neck .
` Ah ! '
she shriek a she felt the pain .
` Il faut souffrir pour etre belle , ' say the barber , who have be in France .
And at the second blow her head roll off , and the old woman be dead for good and all .
Catherine and Her Destiny Sicilianische Mahrchen von Laura Gonzenbach .
Leipzig , Engelmann , 1870 .
Long ago there live a rich merchant who , besides possess more treasure than any king in the world , have in his great hall three chair , one of silver , one of gold , and one of diamond .
But his great treasure of all be his only daughter , who be call Catherine .
One day Catherine be sit in her own room when suddenly the door fly open , and in come a tall and beautiful woman hold in her hand a little wheel .
` Catherine , ' she say , go up to the girl , ` which would you rather have-a happy youth or a happy old age ? '
Catherine be so take by surprise that she do not know what to answer , and the lady repeat again , ` Which would you rather have-a happy youth or a happy old age ? '
Then Catherine think to herself , ` If I say a happy youth , then I shall have to suffer all the rest of my life .
No , I would bear trouble now , and have something well to look forward to . '
So she look up and reply , ` Give me a happy old age . '
` So be it , ' say the lady , and turn her wheel a she speak , vanish the next moment as suddenly a she have come .
Now this beautiful lady be the Destiny of poor Catherine .
Only a few day after this the merchant hear the news that all his fine ship , laden with the rich merchandise , have be sink in a storm , and he be leave a beggar .
The shock be too much for him .
He take to his bed , and in a short time he be dead of his disappointment .
So poor Catherine be leave alone in the world without a penny or a creature to help her .
But she be a brave girl and full of spirit , and soon make up her mind that the best thing she could do be to go to the near town and become a servant .
She lose no time in get herself ready , and do not take long over her journey ; and a she be pass down the chief street of the town a noble lady saw her out of the window , and , strike by her sad face , say to her : ` Where be you go all alone , my pretty girl ? '
` Ah , my lady , I be very poor , and must go to service to earn my bread . ' '
I will take you into my service , ' say she ; and Catherine serve her well .
Some time after her mistress say to Catherine , ' I be oblige to go out for a long while , and must lock the house door , so that no thief shall get in . '
So she go away , and Catherine take her work and sit down at the window .
Suddenly the door burst open , and in come her Destiny .
` Oh !
so here you be , Catherine !
Did you really think I be go to leave you in peace ? '
And a she speak she walk to the linen press where Catherine 's mistress keep all her fine sheet and underclothes , tear everything in piece , and fling them on the floor .
Poor Catherine wring her hand and wept , for she think to herself , ` When my lady come back and see all this ruin she will think it be my fault , ' and start up , she flee through the open door .
Then Destiny take all the piece and make them whole again , and put them back in the press , and when everything be tidy she too leave the house .
When the mistress reach home she call Catherine , but no Catherine be there .
` Can she have rob me ? '
think the old lady , and look hastily round the house ; but nothing be miss .
She wonder why Catherine should have disappear like this , but she hear no more of her , and in a few day she fill her place .
Meanwhile Catherine wander on and on , without know very well where she be go , till at last she come to another town .
Just a before , a noble lady happen to see her pass her window , and call out to her , ` Where be you go all alone , my pretty girl ? '
And Catherine answer , ` Ah , my lady , I be very poor , and must go to service to earn my bread . ' '
I will take you into my service , ' say the lady ; and Catherine serve her well , and hop she might now be leave in peace .
But , exactly a before , one day that Catherine be leave in the house alone her Destiny come again and speak to her with hard word : ` What !
be you here now ? '
And in a passion she tear up everything she saw , till in sheer misery poor Catherine rush out of the house .
And so it befall for seven year , and directly Catherine find a fresh place her Destiny come and force her to leave it .
After seven year , however , Destiny seem to get tire of persecute her , and a time of peace set in for Catherine .
When she have be chase away from her last house by Destiny 's wicked prank she have take service with another lady , who tell her that it would be part of her daily work to walk to a mountain that overshadow the town , and , climb up to the top , she be to lay on the ground some loaf of freshly bake bread , and cry with a loud voice , ' O Destiny , my mistress , ' three time .
Then her lady 's Destiny would come and take away the offering .
` That will I gladly do , ' say Catherine .
So the year go by , and Catherine be still there , and every day she climb the mountain with her basket of bread on her arm .
She be happy than she have be , but sometimes , when no one saw her , she would weep a she think over her old life , and how different it be to the one she be now lead .
One day her lady saw her , and say , ` Catherine , what be it ?
Why be you always weep ? '
And then Catherine tell her story . '
I have get an idea , ' exclaim the lady .
` To-morrow , when you take the bread to the mountain , you shall pray my Destiny to speak to yours , and entreat her to leave you in peace .
Perhaps something may come of it ! '
At these word Catherine dry her eye , and next morning , when she climb the mountain , she tell all she have suffer , and cry , ' O Destiny , my mistress , pray , I entreat you , of my Destiny that she may leave me in peace . '
And Destiny answer , ` Oh , my poor girl , know you not your Destiny lie bury under seven coverlids , and can hear nothing ?
But if you will come to-morrow I will bring her with me . '
And after Catherine have go her way her lady 's Destiny go to find her sister , and say to her , ` Dear sister , have not Catherine suffer enough ?
It be surely time for her good day to begin ? '
And the sister answer , ` To-morrow you shall bring her to me , and I will give her something that may help her out of her need . '
The next morning Catherine set out early than usual for the mountain , and her lady 's Destiny take the girl by the hand and lead her to her sister , who lay under the seven coverlids .
And her Destiny hold out to Catherine a ball of silk , say , ` Keep this -- it may be useful some day ; ' then pull the covering over her head again .
But Catherine walk sadly down the hill , and go straight to her lady and show her the silken ball , which be the end of all her high hope .
` What shall I do with it ? '
she ask .
` It be not worth sixpence , and it be no good to me ! '
` Take care of it , ' reply her mistress .
` Who can tell how useful it may be ? '
A little while after this grand preparation be make for the king 's marriage , and all the tailor in the town be busy embroider fine clothes .
The wedding garment be so beautiful nothing like it have ever be see before , but when it be almost finish the tailor find that he have no more silk .
The colour be very rare , and none could be find like it , and the king make a proclamation that if anyone happen to possess any they should bring it to the court , and he would give them a large sum .
` Catherine ! '
exclaim the lady , who have be to the tailor and see the wedding garment , ` your ball of silk be exactly the right colour .
Bring it to the king , and you can ask what you like for it . '
Then Catherine put on her best clothes and go to the court , and look more beautiful than any woman there .
` May it please your majesty , ' she say , ' I have bring you a ball of silk of the colour you ask for , a no one else have any in the town . '
` Your majesty , ' ask one of the courtier , ` shall I give the maiden it weight in gold ? '
The king agree , and a pair of scale be bring ; and a handful of gold be place in one scale and the silken ball in the other .
But lo !
let the king lay in the scale a many gold piece a he would , the silk be always heavy still .
Then the king take some large scale , and heap up all his treasure on one side , but the silk on the other outweigh them all .
At last there be only one thing leave that have not be put in , and that be his golden crown .
And he take it from his head and set it on top of all , and at last the scale move and the ball have found it balance .
` Where got you this silk ? '
ask the king .
` It be give me , royal majesty , by my mistress , ' reply Catherine .
` That be not true , ' say the king , ` and if you do not tell me the truth I will have your head cut off this instant . '
So Catherine tell him the whole story , and how she have once be as rich a he .
Now there live at the court a wise woman , and she say to Catherine , ` You have suffer much , my poor girl , but at length your luck have turn , and I know by the weighing of the scale through the crown that you will die a queen . '
` So she shall , ' cry the king , who overheard these word ; ` she shall die my queen , for she be more beautiful than all the lady of the court , and I will marry no one else . '
And so it fell out .
The king send back the bride he have promise to wed to her own country , and the same Catherine be queen at the marriage feast instead , and live happy and content to the end of her life .
How the Hermit Helped to Win the King 's Daughter Sicilianische Mahrchen Long ago there live a very rich man who have three son .
When he felt himself to be die he divide his property between them , make them share alike , both in money and land .
Soon after he die the king set forth a proclamation through the whole country that whoever could build a ship that should float both on land and sea should have his daughter to wife .
The eldest brother , when he hear it , say to the other , ' I think I will spend some of my money in try to build that ship , a I should like to have the king for my father-in-law . '
So he call together all the shipbuilder in the land , and give them order to begin the ship without delay .
And tree be cut down , and great preparation make , and in a few day everybody know what it be all for ; and there be a crowd of old people press round the gate of the yard , where the young man spend the most of his day .
` Ah , master , give u work , ' they say , ` so that we may earn our bread . '
But he only give them hard word , and speak roughly to them .
` You be old , and have lose your strength ; of what use be you ? '
And he drive them away .
Then come some boy and pray him , `` master , give u work , ' but he answer them , ` Of what use can you be , weakling a you be !
Get you go ! '
And if any presented themselves that be not skilled workman he would have none of them .
At last there knock at the gate a little old man with a long white beard , and say , ` Will you give me work , so that I may earn my bread ? '
But he be only driven away like the rest .
The ship take a long while to build , and cost a great deal of money , and when it be launch a sudden squall rise , and it fell to piece , and with it all the young man 's hope of win the princess .
By this time he have not a penny left , so he go back to his two brother and tell his tale .
And the second brother say to himself a he listen , ` Certainly he have manage very badly , but I should like to see if I ca n't do good , and win the princess for my own self . '
So he call together all the shipbuilder throughout the country , and give them order to build a ship which should float on the land as well a on the sea .
But his heart be no soft than his brother 's , and every man that be not a skilled workman be chase away with hard word .
Last come the white-bearded man , but he fare no good than the rest .
When the ship be finish the launch take place , and everything seem go smoothly when a gale sprang up , and the vessel be dash to piece on the rock .
The young man have spend his whole fortune on it , and now it be all swallow up , be force to beg shelter from his young brother .
When he tell his story the young say to himself , ' I be not rich enough to support u all three .
I have well take my turn , and if I manage to win the princess there will be her fortune as well a my own for u to live on . '
So he call together all the shipbuilder in the kingdom , and give order that a new ship should be build .
Then all the old people come and ask for work , and he answer cheerfully , ` Oh , yes , there be plenty for everybody ; ' and when the boy beg to be allow to help he find something that they could do .
And when the old man with the long white beard stand before him , pray that he might earn his bread , he reply , ` Oh , father , I could not suffer you to work , but you shall be overseer , and look after the rest . '
Now the old man be a holy hermit , and when he saw how kind-hearted the youth be he determine to do all he could for him to gain the wish of his heart .
By-and-bye , when the ship be finish , the hermit say to his young friend , ` Now you can go and claim the king 's daughter , for hte ship will float both by land and sea . '
` Oh , good father , ' cry the young man , ` you will not forsake me ?
Stay with me , I pray you , and lead me to the king ! '
` If you wish it , I will , ' say the hermit , ` on condition that you will give me half of anything you get . '
` Oh , if that be all , ' answer he , ` it be easily promise ! '
And they set out together on the ship .
After they have go some distance they saw a man stand in a thick fog , which he be try to put into a sack .
` Oh , good father , ' exclaim the youth , ` what can he be do ? '
` Ask him , ' say the old man .
` What be you do , my fine fellow ? ' '
I be put the fog into my sack .
That be my business . '
` Ask him if he will come with u , ' whisper the hermit .
And the man answer : ` If you will give me enough to eat and drink I will gladly stay with you . '
So they take him on their ship , and the youth say , a they start off again , ` Good father , before we be two , and now we be three ! '
After they have travel a little further they meet a man who have tear up half the forest , and be carry all the tree on his shoulder .
` Good father , ' exclaim the youth , ` only look !
What can he have do that for ? '
` Ask him why he have tear up all those tree . '
And the man reply , ` Why , I 've merely be gather a handful of brushwood . '
` Beg him to come with u , ' whisper the hermit .
And the strong man answer : ` Willingly , as long a you give me enough to eat and drink . '
And he come on the ship .
And the youth say to the hermit , ` Good father , before we be three , and now we be four . '
The ship travel on again , and some mile far on they saw a man drink out of a stream till he have nearly drunk it dry .
` Good father , ' say the youth , ` just look at that man !
Did you ever see anybody drink like that ? '
` Ask him why he do it , ' answer the hermit .
` Why , there be nothing very odd in take a mouthful of water ! '
reply the man , stand up .
` Beg him to come with u . '
And the youth do so .
` With pleasure , as long a you give me enough to eat and drink . '
And the youth whisper to the hermit , ` Good father , before we be four , and now we be five . '
A little way along they notice another man in the middle of a stream , who be shoot into the water .
` Good father , ' say the youth , ` what can he be shoot at ? '
` Ask him , ' answer the hermit .
` Hush , hush ! '
cry the man ; ` now you have frighten it away .
In the Underworld sit a quail on a tree , and I want to shoot it .
That be my business .
I hit everything I aim at . '
` Ask him if he will come with u . '
And the man reply , ` With all my heart , as long a I get enough to eat and drink . '
So they take him into the ship , and the young man whisper , ` Good father , before we be five , and now we be six . '
Off they go again , and before they have go far they meet a man stride towards them whose step be so long that while one foot be on the north of the island the other be right down in the south .
` Good father , look at him !
What long step he take ! '
` Ask him why he do it , ' reply the hermit .
` Oh , I be only go out for a little walk , ' answer he .
` Ask him if he will come with u . '
` Gladly , if you will give me as much a I want to eat and drink , ' say he , climb up into the ship .
And the young man whisper , ` Good father , before we be six , and now we be seven . '
But the hermit know what he be about , and why he gather these strange people into the ship .
After many day , at last they reach the town where live the king and his daughter .
They stop the vessel right in front of the palace , and the young man go in and bow low before the king . '
O Majesty , I have do your bidding , and now be the ship build that can travel over land and sea .
Give me my reward , and let me have your daughter to wife . '
But the king say to himself , ` What !
be I to wed my daughter to a man of whom I know nothing .
Not even whether he be rich or poor -- a knight or a beggar . '
And aloud he spake : It be not enough that you have manage to build the ship .
You must find a runner who shall take this letter to the ruler of the Underworld , and bring me the answer back in an hour . '
` That be not in the bond , ' answer the young man .
` Well , do a you like , ' reply the king , ` only you will not get my daughter . '
The young man go out , sorely troubled , to tell his old friend what have happen .
` Silly boy ! '
cry the hermit , ` Accept his term at once .
And send off the long-legged man with the letter .
He will take it in no time at all . '
So the youth 's heard leapt for joy , and he return to the king .
` Majesty , I accept your term .
HEre be the messenger who will do what you wish . '
The king have no choice but to give the man the letter , and he stride off , make short work of the distance that lay between the palace and the Underworld .
He soon find the ruler , who look at the letter , and say to him , ` Wait a little while i write the answer ; ' but the man be soo tire with his quick walk that he go sound asleep and forget all about his errand .
All this time the youth be anxiously count the minute till he could get back , and stand with his eye fix on the road down which his messenger must come .
` What can be keep him , ' he say to the hermit when the hour be nearly up .
Then the hermit send for the man who could hit everything he aim at , and say to him , ` Just see why the messenger stay so long . '
` Oh , he be sound asleep in the palace of the Underworld .
However , I can wake him . '
Then he draw his bow , and shoot an arrow straight into the man 's knee .
The messenger awake with such a start , and when he saw that the hour have almost run out he snatch up the answer and rush back with such speed that the clock have not yet strike when he enter the palace .
Now the young man think he be sure of his bride , but the king say , `` Still you have not do enough .
Before I give you my daughter you must find a man who can drink half the content of my cellar in one day . '
` That be not in the bond , ' complain the poor youth .
` Well , do a you like , only you will not get my daughter . '
The young man go sadly out , and ask the hermit what he be to do .
` Silly boy ! '
say he .
` Why , tell the man to do it who drink up everything . '
So they send for the man and say , ` Do you think you be able to drink half the royal cellar in one day ? '
` Dear me , yes , and as much more a you want , ' answer he . '
I be never satisfy . '
The king be not please at the young man agree so readily , but he have no choice , and order the servant to be take downstairs .
Oh , how he enjoy himself !
All day long he drink , and drank , and drank , till instead of half the cellar , he have drink the whole , and there be not a cask but what stand empty .
And when the king saw this he say to the youth , ` You have conquer , and I can no longer withhold my daughter .
But , a her dowry , I shall only give so much a one man can carry away . '
` But , ' answer he , ` let a man be ever so strong , he can not carry more than a hundredweight , and what be that for a king 's daughter ? '
` Well , do a you like ; I have say my say .
It be your affair -- not mine . '
The young man be puzzle , and do not know what to reply , for , though he would gladly have marry the princess without a sixpence , he have spend all his money in build the ship , and know he could not give her all she want .
So he go to the hermit and say to him , ` The king will only give for her dowry as much a a man can carry .
I have no money of my own left , and my brother have none either . '
` Silly boy !
Why , you have only get to fetch the man who carry half the forest on his shoulder . '
And the youth be glad , and call the strong man , and tell him what he must do .
` Take everything you can , till you be bent double .
Never mind if you leave the palace bare . '
The strong man promise , and nobly keep his word .
He pile all he could see on his back -- chair , table , wardrobe , chest of gold and silver -- till there be nothing leave to pile .
At last he take the king 's crown , and put it on the top .
He carry his burden to the ship and stow his treasure away , and the youth follow , lead the king 's daughter .
But the king be leave rag in his empty palace , and he call together his army , and get ready his ship of war , in order that he might go after the vessel and bring back what have be take away .
And the king 's ship sail very fast , and soon catch up the little vessel , and the sailor all shout for joy .
Then the hermit look out and saw how near they be , and he say to the youth , ` Do you see that ? '
The youth shriek and cry , ` Ah , good father , it be a fleet of ship , and they be chase u , and in a few moment they will be upon u . '
But the hermit bid him call the man who have the fog in his sack , and the sack be open and the fog fly out , and hung right round the king 's ship , so that they could see nothing .
So they sail back to the palace , and tell the king what strange thing have happen .
Meanwhile the young man 's vessel reach home in safety .
` Well , here you be once more ' say the hermit ; ` and now you can fulfil the promise you make me to give me the half of all you have . '
` That will I do with all my heart , ' answer the youth , and begin to divide all his treasure , put part on one side for himself and set aside the other for his friend .
` Good father , it be finish , ' say he at length ; ` there be nothing more left to divide . '
` Nothing more left ! '
cry the hermit .
` Why , you have forget the best thing of all ! '
` What can that be ? '
ask he .
` We have divide everything . '
` And the king 's daughter ? '
say the hermit .
Then the young man 's heart stand still , for he love her dearly .
But he answer , ` It be well ; I have swear , and I will keep my word , ' and draw his sword to cut her in piece .
When the hermit saw that he hold his honour dearer than his wife he lift his hand and cry , ` Hold !
she be yours , and all the treasure too .
I give you my help because you have pity on those that be in need .
And when you be in need yourself , call upon me , and I will come to you . '
As he speak he softly touch their head and vanished .
The next day the wedding take place , and the two brother come to the house , and they all live happily together , but they never forget the holy man who have be such a good friend .
The Water of Life Cuentos Populars Catalans , per lo Dr. D. Francisco de S. Maspous y Labros .
Barcelona , 1885 .
Three brother and one sister live together in a small cottage , and they love one another dearly .
One day the eldest brother , who have never do anything but amuse himself from sunrise to sunset , say to the rest , ` Let u all work hard , and perhaps we shall grow rich , and be able to build ourselves a palace . '
And his brother and sister answer joyfully , ` Yes , we will all work ! '
So they fell to work with all their might , till at last they become rich , and be able to build themselves a beautiful palace ; and everyone come from mile round to see it wonder , and to say how splendid it be .
No one thought of find any fault , till at length an old woman , who have be walk through the room with a crowd of people , suddenly exclaim , ` Yes , it be a splendid palace , but there be still something it need ! '
` And what may that be ? ' '
A church . '
When they hear this the brother set to work again to earn some more money , and when they have get enough they set about build a church , which should be a large and beautiful a the palace itself .
And after the church be finish great number of people than ever flock to see the palace and the church and vast garden and magnificent hall .
But one day , a the brother be as usual do the honour to their guest , an old man turn to them and say , ` Yes , it be all most beautiful , but there be still something it need ! '
` And what may that be ? ' '
A pitcher of the water of life , a branch of the tree the smell of whose flower give eternal beauty , and the talk bird . '
` And where be I to find all those ? '
` Go to the mountain that be far off yonder , and you will find what you seek . '
After the old man have bow politely and take farewell of them the eldest brother say to the rest , ' I will go in search of the water of life , and the talk bird , and the tree of beauty . '
` But suppose some evil thing befalls you ? '
ask his sister .
` How shall we know ? '
` You be right , ' he reply ; ' I have not think of that ! '
Then they follow the old man , and say to him , ` My eldest brother wish to seek for the water of life , and the tree of beauty , and the talk bird , that you tell him be needful to make our palace perfect .
But how shall we know if any evil thing befall him ? '
So the old man take them a knife , and give it to them , say , ` Keep this carefully , and as long a the blade be bright all be well ; but if the blade be bloody , then know that evil have befall him . '
The brother thank him , and depart , and go straight to the palace , where they find the young man make ready to set out for the mountain where the treasure he long for lay hid .
And he walk , and he walk , and he walk , till he have go a great way , and there he meet a giant .
` Can you tell me how much further I have still to go before I reach that mountain yonder ? '
` And why do you wish to go there ? ' '
I be seek the water of life , the talk bird , and a branch of the tree of beauty . '
` Many have pass by seek those treasure , but none have ever come back ; and you will never come back either , unless you mark my word .
Follow this path , and when you reach the mountain you will find it covered with stone .
Do not stop to look at them , but keep on your way .
As you go you will hear scoff and laugh behind you ; it will be the stone that mock .
Do not heed them ; above all , do not turn round .
If you do you will become a one of them .
Walk straight on till you get to the top , and then take all you wish for . '
The young man thank him for his counsel , and walk , and walk , and walk , till he reach the mountain .
And a he climb he hear behind him scoff and jeer , but he keep his ear steadily close to them .
At last the noise grow so loud that he lose patience , and he stoop to pick up a stone to hurl into the midst of the clamour , when suddenly his arm seem to stiffen , and the next moment he be a stone himself !
That day his sister , who think her brother 's step be long in returning , take out the knife and find the blade be red a blood .
Then she cry out to her brother that something terrible have come to pass . '
I will go and find him , ' say the second .
And he go .
And he walk , and he walk , and he walk , till he meet the giant , and ask him if he have see a young man travel towards the mountain .
And the giant answer , ` Yes , I have see him pas , but I have not see him come back .
The spell must have work upon him . '
` Then what can I do to disenchant him , and find the water of life , the talk bird , and a branch of the tree of beauty ? '
` Follow this path , and when you reach the mountain you will find it covered with stone .
Do not stop to look at them , but climb steadily on .
Above all , heed not the laugh and scoff that will arise on all side , and never turn round .
And when you reach the top you can then take all you desire . '
The young man thank him for his counsel , and set out for the mountain .
But no sooner do he reach it than loud jest and gibe break out on every side , and almost deafen him .
For some time he let them rail , and push boldly on , till he have pass the place which his brother have gain ; then suddenly he think that among the scoff sound he hear his brother 's voice .
He stop and look back ; and another stone be add to the number .
Meanwhile the sister leave at home be count the day when her two brother should return to her .
The time seem long , and it would be hard to say how often she take out the knife and look at it polished blade to make sure that this one at least be still safe .
The blade be always bright and clear ; each time she look she have the happiness of know that all be well , till one evening , tire and anxious , a she frequently be at the end of the day , she take it from it drawer , and behold !
the blade be red with blood .
Her cry of horror bring her young brother to her , and , unable to speak , she hold out the knife ! '
I will go , ' he say .
So he walk , and he walk , and he walk , until he meet the giant , and he ask , ` Have two young men , make for yonder mountain , pass this way ? '
And the giant answer , ` Yes , they have pass by , but they never come back , and by this I know that the spell have fall upon them . '
` Then what must I do to free them , and to get the water of life , and the talk bird , and the branch of the tree of beauty ? '
` Go to the mountain , which you will find so thickly cover with stone that you will hardly be able to place your foot , and walk straight forward , turn neither to the right hand nor to the left , and pay no heed to the laugh and scoff which will follow you , till you reach the top , and then you may take all that you desire . '
The young man thank the giant for his counsel , and set forth to the mountain .
And when he begin to climb there burst forth all around him a storm of scoff and jeer ; but he think of the giant 's word , and look neither to the right hand nor to the left , till the mountain top lay straight before him .
A moment now and he would have gain it , when , through the groan and yell , he hear his brother ' voice .
He turn , and there be one stone the more .
And all this while his sister be pace up and down the palace , hardly let the knife out of her hand , and dread what she know she would see , and what she do see .
The blade grow red before her eye , and she say , ` Now it be my turn . '
So she walk , and she walk , and she walk till she come to the giant , and pray him to tell her if he have see three young men pass that way seek the distant mountain . '
I have see them pas , but they have never return , and by this I know that the spell have fall upon them . '
` And what must I do to set them free , and to find the water of life , and the talk bird , and a branch of the tree of beauty ? '
` You must go to that mountain , which be so full of stone that your foot will hardly find a place to tread , and a you climb you will hear a noise a if all the stone in the world be mock you ; but pay no heed to anything you may hear , and , once you gain the top , you have gain everything . '
The girl thank him for his counsel , and set out for the mountain ; and scarcely have she go a few step upwards when cry and scream break forth around her , and she felt a if each stone she tread on be a living thing .
But she remember the word of the giant , and know not what have befall her brother , and keep her face steadily towards the mountain top , which grow near and near every moment .
But a she mount the clamour increase sevenfold : high above them all ring the voice of her three brother .
But the girl take no heed , and at last her foot stand upon the top .
Then she look round , and saw , lie in a hollow , the pool of the water of life .
And she take the brazen pitcher that she have bring with her , and fill it to the brim .
By the side of the pool stand the tree of beauty , with the talk bird on one of it bough ; and she catch the bird , and place it in a cage , and break off one of the branch .
After that she turn , and go joyfully down the hill again , carry her treasure , but her long climb have tire her out , and the brazen pitcher be very heavy , and a she walk a few drop of the water spilt on the stone , and a it touch them they change into young men and maiden , crowd about her to give thanks for their deliverance .
So she learn by this how the evil spell might be break , and she carefully sprinkle every stone till there be not one left -- only a great company of youth and girl who follow her down the mountain .
When they arrive at the palace she do not lose a moment in plant the branch of the tree of beauty and water it with the water of life .
And the branch shot up into a tree , and be heavy with flower , and the talk bird nestle in it branch .
Now the fame of these wonder be noise abroad , and the people flock in great number to see the three marvel , and the maiden who have win them ; and among the sightseer come the king 's son , who would not go till everything be show him , and till he have hear how it have all happen .
And the prince admire the strangeness and beauty of the treasure in the palace , but more than all he admire the beauty and courage of the maiden who have bring them there .
So he go home and tell his parent , and gain their consent to wed her for his wife .
Then the marriage be celebrate in the church adjoin the palace .
Then the bridegroom take her to his own home , where they live happy for ever after .
The Wounded Lion Cuentos Populars Catalans .
There be once a girl so poor that she have nothing to live on , and wander about the world ask for charity .
One day she arrive at a thatched cottage , and inquire if they could give her any work .
The farmer say he want a cowherd , a his own have leave him , and if the girl like the place she might take it .
So she become a cowherd .
One morning she be drive her cow through the meadow when she hear near by a loud groan that almost sound human .
She hasten to the spot from which the noise come , and find it proceed from a lion who lay stretch upon the ground .
You can guess how frightened she be !
But the lion seem in such pain that she be sorry for him , and draw near and near till she saw he have a large thorn in one foot .
She pull out the thorn and bind up the place , and the lion be grateful , and lick her hand by way of thanks with his big rough tongue .
When the girl have finish she go back to find the cow , but they have go , and though she hunt everywhere she never find them ; and she have to return home and confess to her master , who scold her bitterly , and afterwards beat her .
Then he say , ` Now you will have to look after the ass . '
So every day she have to take the ass to the wood to fee , until one morning , exactly a year after she have find the lion , she hear a groan which sound quite human .
She go straight to the place from which the noise come , and , to her great surprise , behold the same lion stretch on the ground with a deep wound across his face .
This time she be not afraid at all , and run towards him , wash the wound and lay soothe herb upon it ; and when she have bound it up the lion thank her in the same manner a before .
After that she return to her flock , but they be nowhere to be see .
She search here and she search there , but they have vanish completely !
Then she have to go home and confess to her master , who first scold her and afterwards beat her .
` Now go , ' he end , ` and look after the pig ! '
So the next day she take out the pig , and find them such good feeding ground that they grow fat every day .
Another year pass by , and one morning when the maiden be out with her pig she hear a groan which sound quite human .
She run to see what it be , and find her old friend the lion , wound through and through , fast die under a tree .
She fell on her knee before him and wash his wound one by one , and lay heal herb upon them .
And the lion lick her hand and thank her , and ask if she would not stay and sit by him .
But the girl say she have her pig to watch , and she must go and see after them .
So she run to the place where she have leave them , but they have vanish a if the earth have swallow them up .
She whistle and call , but only the bird answer her .
Then she sink down on the ground and weep bitterly , not dare to return home until some hour have pass away .
And when she have have her cry out she get up and search all up and down the wood .
But it be no use ; there be not a sign of the pig .
At last she think that perhaps if she climb a tree she might see far .
But no sooner be she seat on the high branch than something happen which put the pig quite out of her head .
This be a handsome young man who be come down the path ; and when he have almost reach the tree he pull aside a rock and disappear behind it .
The maiden rub her eye and wonder if she have be dream .
Next she think , ' I will not stir from here till I see him come out , and discover who he be . '
Accordingly she wait , and at dawn the next morning the rock move to one side and a lion come out .
When he have go quite out of sight the girl climb down from the tree and go to the rock , which she push aside , and enter the opening before her .
The path lead to a beautiful house .
She go in , swept and dust the furniture , and put everything tidy .
Then she eat a very good dinner , which be on a shelf in the corner , and once more clamber up to the top of her tree .
As the sun set she saw the same young man walk gaily down the path , and , a before , he push aside the rock and disappear behind it .
Next morning out come the lion .
He look sharply about him on all side , but saw no one , and then vanish into the forest .
The maiden then come down from the tree and do exactly a she have do the day before .
Thus three day go by , and every day she go and tidy up the palace .
At length , when the girl find she be no nearer to discover the secret , she resolve to ask him , and in the evening when she catch sight of him come through the wood she come down from the tree and beg him to tell her his name .
The young man look very pleased to see her , and say he think it must be she who have secretly keep his house for so many day .
And he add that he be a prince enchant by a powerful giant , but be only allow to take his own shape at night , for all day he be force to appear a the lion whom she have so often help ; and , more than this , it be the giant who have steal the ox and the ass and the pig in revenge for her kindness .
And the girl ask him , ` What can I do to disenchant you ? '
But he say he be afraid it be very difficult , because the only way be to get a lock of hair from the head of a king 's daughter , to spin it , and to make from it a cloak for the giant , who live up on the top of a high mountain .
` Very well , ' answer the girl , ' I will go to the city , and knock at the door of the king 's palace , and ask the princess to take me a a servant . '
So they part , and when she arrive at the city she walk about the street cry , ` Who will hire me for a servant ?
Who will hire me for a servant ? '
But , though many people like her look , for she be clean and neat , the maiden would listen to none , and still continue cry , ` Who will hire me for a servant ?
Who will hire me for a servant ? '
At last there come the waiting-maid of the princess .
` What can you do ? '
she say ; and the girl be force to confess that she could do very little .
` Then you will have to do scullion 's work , and wash up dish , ' say she ; and they go straight back to the palace .
Then the maiden dress her hair afresh , and make herself look very neat and smart , and everyone admire and praise her , till by-and-bye it come to the ear of the princess .
And she send for the girl , and when she saw her , and how beautifully she have dress her hair , the princess tell her she be to come and comb out hers .
Now the hair of the princess be very thick and long , and shone like the sun .
And the girl comb it and comb it till it be brighter than ever .
And the princess be pleased , and bid her come every day and comb her hair , till at length the girl take courage , and beg leave to cut off one of the long , thick lock .
The princess , who be very proud of her hair , do not like the idea of part with any of it , so she say no .
But the girl could not give up hope , and each day she entreat to be allow to cut off just one tress .
At length the princess lose patience , and exclaim , ` You may have it , then , on condition that you shall find the handsome prince in the world to be my bridegroom ! '
And the girl answer that she would , and cut off the lock , and weave it into a coat that glitter like silk , and bring it to the young man , who tell her to carry it straight to the giant .
But that she must be careful to cry out a long way off what she have with her , or else he would spring upon her and run her through with his sword .
So the maiden depart and climb up the mountain , but before she reach the top the giant heard her footstep , and rush out breathe fire and flame , have a sword in one hand and a club in the other .
But she cry loudly that she have bring him the coat , and then he grow quiet , and invite her to come into his house .
He try on the coat , but it be too short , and he throw it off , and declare it be no use .
And the girl pick it up sadly , and return quite in despair to the king 's palace .
The next morning , when she be comb the princess 's hair , she beg leave to cut off another lock .
At first the princess say no , but the girl beg so hard that at length she give in on condition that she should find her a prince a bridegroom .
The maiden tell her that she have already find him , and spin the lock into shin stuff , and fasten it on to the end of the coat .
And when it be finish she carry it to the giant .
This time it fit him , and he be quite pleased , and ask her what he could give her in return .
And she say that the only reward he could give her be to take the spell off the lion and bring him back to his own shape .
For a long time the giant would not hear of it , but in the end he give in , and tell her exactly how it must all be do .
She be to kill the lion herself and cut him up very small ; then she must burn him , and cast his ash into the water , and out of the water the prince would come free from enchantment for ever .
But the maiden go away weep , l the giant should have deceive her , and that after she have kill the lion she would find she have also slay the prince .
Weeping she come down the mountain , and weep she join the prince , who be await her at the bottom ; and when he have hear her story he comfort her , and bid her be of good courage , and to do the bidding of the giant .
And the maiden believe what the prince tell her ; and in the morning when he put on his lion 's form she take a knife and slew him , and cut him up very small , and burn him , and cast his ash into the water , and out of the water come the prince , beautiful a the day , and a glad to look upon a the sun himself .
Then the young man thank the maiden for all she have do for him , and say she should be his wife and none other .
But the maiden only weep sore , and answer that that she could never be , for she have give her promise to the princess when she cut off her hair that the prince should wed her and her only .
But the prince reply , ` If it be the princess , we must go quickly .
Come with me . '
So they go together to the king 's palace .
And when the king and queen and princess saw the young man a great joy fill their heart , for they know him for the eldest son , who have long ago be enchant by a giant and lose to them .
And he ask his parent ' consent that he might marry the girl who have save him , and a great feast be make , and the maiden become a princess , and in due time a queen , and she richly deserve all the honour shower upon her .
The Man Without a Heart Once upon a time there be seven brother , who be orphan , and have no sister .
Therefore they be oblige to do all their own housework .
This they do not like at all ; so after much deliberation they decide to get marry .
There be , unfortunately , no young girl to be find in the place where they live ; but the elder brother agree to go out into the world and seek for bride , promise to bring back a very pretty wife for the young also if he would meanwhile stay at home and take care of the house .
He consent willingly , and the six young men set off in good spirit .
On their way they come to a small cottage stand quite by itself in a wood ; and before the door stand an old , old man , who accost the brother say , ` Hullo , you young fellow !
Whither away so fast and cheerily ? '
` We be go to find bonny bride for ourselves , and one for our young brother at home , ' they reply .
` Oh !
dear youth , ' say the old man , ' I be terribly lonely here ; pray bring a bride for me also ; only remember , she must be young and pretty . '
` What do a shrivelled old grey thing like that want with a pretty young bride ? '
think the brother , and go on their way .
Presently they come to a town where be seven sister , a young and as lovely a anyone could wish .
Each brother choose one , and the young they keep for their brother at home .
Then the whole party set out on the return journey , and again their path lead through the wood and past the old man 's cottage .
There he stand before the door , and cry : ` Oh !
you fine fellow , what a charming bride you have bring me ! '
` She be not for you , say the young men .
` She be for our young brother , a we promise . '
` What ! '
say the old man , ` promise !
I 'll make you eat your promise ! '
And with that he take his magic wand , and , murmur a charm , he touch both brother and bride , and immediately they be turn into grey stone .
Only the young sister he have not bewitch .
He take her into the cottage , and from that time she be oblige to keep house for him .
She be not very unhappy , but one thought trouble her .
What if the old man should die and leave her here alone in the solitary cottage deep in the heart of the wood !
She would be a ` terribly lonely ' a he have formerly be .
One day she tell him of her fear .
` Do n't be anxious , ' he say .
` You need neither fear my death nor desire it , for I have no heart in my breast !
However , if I should die , you will find my wand above the door , and with it you can set free your sister and their lover .
Then you will surely have company enough . '
` Where in all the world do you keep your heart , if not in your breast ? '
ask the girl .
` Do you want to know everything ? '
her husband say .
` Well , if you must know , my heart be in the bed-cover . '
When the old man have go out about his business his bride pass her time in embroider beautiful flower on the bed quilt to make his heart happy .
The old man be much amuse .
He laugh , and say to her : ` You be a good child , but I be only joke .
My heart be really in -- in -- ' ` Now where be it , dear husband ? '
` It be in the doorway , ' he reply .
Next day , while he be out , the girl decorate the door with gay feather and fresh flower , and hung garland upon it .
And on his return the old fellow ask what it all mean . '
I do it to show my love for your heart , ' say the girl .
And again the old man smile , say , ` You be a dear child , but my heart be not in the doorway . '
Then the poor young bride be very vexed , and say , ` Ah , my dear !
you really have a heart somewhere , so you may die and leave me all alone . '
The old man do his best to comfort her by repeat all he have say before , but she beg him afresh to tell her truly where his heart be and at last he tell her .
` Far , far from here , ' say he , ` in a lonely spot , stand a great church , as old a old can be .
Its door be of iron , and round it run a deep moat , span by no bridge .
Within that church be a bird which fly up and down ; it never eat , and never drink , and never dy .
No one can catch it , and while that bird live so shall I , for in it be my heart . '
It make the little bride quite sad to think she could do nothing to show her love for the old man 's heart .
She use to think about it a she sit all alone during the long day , for her husband be almost always out .
One day a young traveller come past the house , and see such a pretty girl he wish her ` Good day . '
She return his greeting , and a he draw near she ask him whence he come and where he be go .
` Alas ! '
sigh the youth , ' I be very sorrowful .
I have six brother , who go away to find bride for themselves and one for me ; but they have never come home , so now I be go to look for them . '
` Oh , good friend , ' say the girl , ` you need go no farther .
Come , sit down , eat and drink , and afterwards I 'll tell you all about it . '
She give him food , and when he have finish his meal she tell him how his brother have come to the town where she live with her sister , how they have each choose a bride , and , take herself with them , have start for home .
She weep a she tell how the others be turn to stone , and how she be keep a the old man 's bride .
She leave out nothing , even tell him the story of her husband 's heart .
When the young man heard this he say : ' I shall go in search of the bird .
It may be that God will help me to find and catch it . '
` Yes , do go , ' she say ; ` it will be a good deed , for then you can set your brother and my sister free . '
Then she hide the young man , for it be now late , and her husband would soon be home .
Next morning , when the old man have go out , she prepare a supply of provision for her guest , and send him off on his travel , wish him good luck and success .
He walk on and on till he think it must be time for breakfast ; so he open his knapsack , and be delight to find such a store of good thing .
` What a feast ! '
he exclaim ; ` will anyone come and share it ? '
` Moo-oo , ' sound close behind him , and look round he saw a great red ox , which say , ' I have much pleasure in accept your kind invitation . '
` I 'm delighted to see you .
Pray help yourself .
All I have be at your service , ' say the hospitable youth .
And the ox lay down comfortably , lick his lip , and make a hearty meal .
` Many thanks to you , ' say the animal a it rise up .
` When you be in danger or necessity call me , even if only by a thought , ' and it disappear among the bush .
The young man pack up all the food that be leave , and wander on till the shortening shadow and his own hunger warn him that it be midday .
he lay the cloth on the ground and spread out his provision , say at the same time : ` Dinner be ready , and anyone who wish to share it be welcome . '
Then there be a great rustling in the undergrowth , and out run a wild boar , grunt , ` Umph , umph , umph ; someone say dinner be ready .
Was it you ?
and do you mean me to come ? '
` By all mean .
Help yourself to what I have , ' say the young traveller .
And the two enjoy their meal together .
Afterwards the boar get up , say , ` Thank you ; when in need you be you must quickly call for me , ' and he roll off .
For a long time the youth walk on .
By even he be mile away .
He felt hungry again , and , have still some provision leave , think he have well make ready his supper .
When it be all spread out he cry a before , ` Anyone who care to share my meal be welcome . '
He hear a sound overhead like the flapping of wing , and a shadow be cast upon the ground .
Then a huge griffin appear , say : ' I hear someone give an invitation to eat ; be there anything for me ? '
` Why not ? '
say the youth .
` Come down and take all you want .
There wo n't be much leave after this . '
So the griffin alight and eat his fill , say , a he fly away , ` Call me if you need me . '
` What a hurry he be in ! '
the youth say to himself .
` He might have be able to direct me to the church , for I shall never find it alone . '
He gather up his thing , and start to walk a little farther before rest .
He have not go far when all of a sudden he saw the church !
He soon come to it , or rather to the wide and deep moat which surround it without a single bridge by which to cross .
It be too late to attempt anything now ; and , besides , the poor youth be very tired , so he lay down on the ground and fell fast asleep .
Next morning , when he awake , he begin to wish himself over the moat ; and the thought occur to him that if only the red ox be there , and thirsty enough to drink up all the water in the moat , he might walk across it dry shod .
Scarcely have the thought cross his brain before the ox appear and begin to drink up the water .
The grateful youth hasten across as soon a the moat be dry , but find it impossible to penetrate the thick wall and strong iron door of the church . '
I believe that big boar would be of more use here than I be , ' he think , and lo !
at the wish the wild boar come and begin to push hard against the wall .
He manage to loosen one stone with his tusk , and , have make a beginning , stone after stone be poke out till he have make quite a large hole , big enough to let a man go through .
The young man quickly enter the church , and saw a bird fly about , but he could not catch it .
` Oh ! '
he exclaim , ` if only the griffin be here , he would soon catch it . '
At these word the griffin appear , and , seize the bird , give it to the youth , who carry it off carefully , while the griffin fly away .
The young man hurry home as fast a possible , and reach the cottage before evening .
He tell his story to the little bride , who , after give him some food and drink , hide him with his bird beneath the bed .
Presently the old man come home , and complain of feeling ill .
Nothing , he say , would go well with him any more : his ` heart bird ' be catch .
The youth under the bed heard this , and think , ` This old fellow have do me no particular harm , but then he have bewitch my brother and their bride , and have keep my bride for himself , and that be certainly bad enough . '
So he pinch the bird , and the old man cry , ` Ah !
I feel death grip me !
Child , I be die ! '
With these word he fell faint from his chair , and a the youth , before he know what he be do , have squeeze the bird to death , the old man die also .
Out crept the young man from under the bed , and the girl take the magic wand -LRB- which she find where the old man have tell her -RRB- , and , touch the twelve grey stone , transform them at once into the six brother and their bride .
Then there be great joy , and kiss and embrace .
And there lay the old man , quite dead , and no magic wand could restore him to life , even have they wish it .
After that they all go away and be marry , and live many year happily together .
The Two Brothers Sicilianische Malirchen .
L. Gonzenbach .
Long ago there live two brother , both of them very handsome , and both so very poor that they seldom have anything to eat but the fish which they catch .
One day they have be out in their boat since sunrise without a single bite , and be just think of put up their line and go home to bed when they felt a little feeble tug , and , draw in hastily , they find a tiny fish at the end of the hook .
` What a wretched little creature ! '
cry one brother .
` However , it be well than nothing , and I will bake him with bread crumb and have him for supper . '
` Oh , do not kill me yet ! '
beg the fish ; ' I will bring you good luck -- indeed I will ! '
` You silly thing ! '
say the young man ; ` I 've catch you , and I shall eat you . '
But his brother be sorry for the fish , and put in a word for him .
` Let the poor little fellow live .
He would hardly make one bite , and , after all , how do we know we be not throw away our luck !
Put him back into the sea .
It will be much well . '
` If you will let me live , ' say the fish , ` you will find on the sand to-morrow morning two beautiful horse splendidly saddle and bridle , and on them you can go through the world a knight seek adventure . '
` Oh dear , what nonsense ! '
exclaim the elder ; ` and , besides , what proof have we that you be speak the truth ? '
But again the young brother interpose : ` Oh , do let him live !
You know if he be lie to u we can always catch him again .
It be quite worth while try . '
At last the young man give in , and throw the fish back into the sea ; and both brother go supperless to bed , and wonder what fortune the next day would bring .
At the first streak of dawn they be both up , and in a very few minute be run down to the shore .
And there , just a the fish have say , stand two magnificent horse , saddle and bridle , and on their back lay suit of armour and under-dresses , two sword , and two purse of gold .
` There ! '
say the young brother .
` Are you not thankful you do not eat that fish ?
He have bring u good luck , and there be no know how great we may become !
Now , we will each seek our own adventure .
If you will take one road I will go the other . '
` Very well , ' reply the elder ; ` but how shall we let each other know if we be both live ? '
` Do you see this fig-tree ? '
say the younger .
` Well , whenever we want news of each other we have only to come here and make a slit with our sword in the back .
If milk flow , it be a sign that we be well and prosperous ; but if , instead of milk , there be blood , then we be either dead or in great danger . '
Then the two brother put on their armour , buckle their sword , and pocket their puree ; and , after take a tender farewell of each other , they mount their horse and go their various way .
The elder brother rode straight on till he reach the border of a strange kingdom .
He cross the frontier , and soon find himself on the bank of a river ; and before him , in the middle of the stream , a beautiful girl sit chain to a rock and weep bitterly .
For in this river dwell a serpent with seven head , who threaten to lay waste the whole land by breathe fire and flame from his nostril unless the king send him every morning a man for his breakfast .
This have go on so long that now there be no men leave , and he have be oblige to send his own daughter instead , and the poor girl be wait till the monster get hungry and felt incline to eat her .
When the young man saw the maiden weeping bitterly he say to her , ` What be the matter , my poor girl ? '
` Oh ! '
she answer , ' I be chain here till a horrible serpent with seven head come to eat me .
Oh , sir , do not linger here , or he will eat you too . ' '
I shall stay , ' reply the young man , ` for I mean to set you free . '
` That be impossible .
You do not know what a fearful monster the serpent be ; you can do nothing against him . '
` That be my affair , beautiful captive , ' answer he ; ` only tell me , which way will the serpent come ? '
` Well , if you be resolve to free me , listen to my advice .
Stand a little on one side , and then , when the serpent rise to the surface , I will say to him , `` O serpent , to-day you can eat two people .
But you have good begin first with the young man , for I be chain and can not run away . ''
When he hear this most likely he will attack you . '
So the young man stand carefully on one side , and by-and-bye he hear a great rushing in the water ; and a horrible monster come up to the surface and look out for the rock where the king 's daughter be chain , for it be get late and he be hungry .
But she cry out , ' O serpent , to-day you can eat two people .
And you have good begin with the young man , for I be chain and can not run away . '
Then the serpent make a rush at the youth with wide open jaw to swallow him at one gulp , but the young man leap aside and draw his sword , and fought till he have cut off all the seven head .
And when the great serpent lay dead at his foot he loose the bond of the king 's daughter , and she fling herself into his arm and say , ` You have save me from that monster , and now you shall be my husband , for my father have make a proclamation that whoever could slay the serpent should have his daughter to wife . '
But he answer , ' I can not become your husband yet , for I have still far to travel .
But wait for me seven year and seven month .
Then , if I do not return , you be free to marry whom you will .
And in case you should have forget , I will take these seven tongue with me so that when I bring them forth you may know that I be really he who slew the serpent . '
So say he cut out the seven tongue , and the princess give him a thick cloth to wrap them in ; and he mount his horse and ride away .
Not long after he have go there arrive at the river a slave who have be send by the king to learn the fate of his beloved daughter .
And when the slave saw the princess stand free and safe before him , with the body of the monster lie at her foot , a wicked plan come into his head , and he say , ` Unless you promise to tell your father it be I who slew the serpent , I will kill you and bury you in this place , and no one will ever know what befell . '
What could the poor girl do ?
This time there be no knight to come to her aid .
So she promise to do a the slave wish , and he take up the seven head and bring the princess to her father .
Oh , how enchant the king be to see her again , and the whole town share his joy !
And the slave be call upon to tell how he have slay the monster , and when he have end the king declare that he should have the princess to wife .
But she fling herself at her father 's foot , and pray him to delay .
` You have pass your royal word , and can not go back from it Yet grant me this grace , and let seven year and seven month go by before you wed me .
When they be over , then I will marry the slave . '
And the king listen to her , and seven year and seven month she look for her bridegroom , and weep for him night and day .
All this time the young man be rid through the world , and when the seven year and seven month be over he come back to the town where the princess live -- only a few day before the wedding .
And he stand before the king , and say to him : ` Give me your daughter , O king , for I slew the seven-headed serpent .
And a a sign that my word be true , look on these seven tongue , which I cut from his seven head , and on this embroidered cloth , which be give me by your daughter . '
Then the princess lift up her voice and say , ` Yes , dear father , he have speak the truth , and it be he who be my real bridegroom .
Yet pardon the slave , for he be sorely tempt . '
But the king answer , ` Such treachery can no man pardon .
Quick , away with him , and off with his head ! '
So the false slave be put to death , that none might follow in his footstep , and the wedding feast be hold , and the heart of all rejoice that the true bridegroom have come at last .
These two live happy and contentedly for a long while , when one evening , a the young man be look from the window , he saw on a mountain that lay out beyond the town a great bright light .
` What can it be ? '
he say to his wife .
` Ah !
do not look at it , ' she answer , ` for it come from the house of a wicked witch whom no man can manage to kill . '
But the princess have well have keep silence , for her word make her husband 's heart burn within him , and he long to try his strength against the witch 's cunning .
And all day long the feeling grow strong , till the next morning he mount his horse , and in spite of his wife 's tear , he ride off to the mountain .
The distance be great than he think , and it be dark before he reach the foot of the mountain ; indeed , he could not have find the road at all have it not be for the bright light , which shine like the moon on his path .
At length he come to the door of a fine castle , which have a blaze stream from every window .
He mount a flight of step and enter a hall where a hideous old woman be sit on a golden chair .
She scowl at the young man and say , ` With a single one of the hair of my head I can turn you into stone . '
` Oh , what nonsense ! '
cry he .
` Be quiet , old woman .
What could you do with one hair ? '
But the witch pull out a hair and lay it on his shoulder , and his limb grow cold and heavy , and he could not stir .
Now at this very moment the young brother be think of him , and wonder how he have get on during all the year since they have part . '
I will go to the fig-tree , ' he say to himself , ` to see whether he be alive or dead . '
So he ride through the forest till he come where the fig-tree stood , and cut a slit in the bark , and wait .
In a moment a little gurgling noise be hear , and out come a stream of blood , run fast .
` Ah , woe be me ! '
he cry bitterly .
` My brother be dead or die !
Shall I ever reach him in time to save his life ? '
Then , leap on his horse , he shout , ` Now , my steed , fly like the wind ! '
and they ride right through the world , till one day they come to the town where the young man and his wife live .
Here the princess have be sit every day since the morning that her husband have leave her , weep bitter tear , and listen for his footstep .
And when she saw his brother ride under the balcony she mistake him for her own husband , for they be so alike that no man might tell the difference , and her heart bound , and , lean down , she call to him , ` At last !
