On Saturday the headline be `` Even Berlin Admits Offensive Checked , '' and for the first time in that terrible week the Ingleside folk dare to draw a long breath .
`` Well , we have get one week over -- now for the next , '' say Susan staunchly .
`` I feel like a prisoner on the rack when they stop turn it , '' Miss Oliver say to Rilla , a they go to church on Easter morning .
`` But I be not off the rack .
The torture may begin again at any time . ''
`` I doubt God last Sunday , '' say Rilla , `` but I do n't doubt him today .
Evil can not win .
Spirit be on our side and it be bind to outlast flesh . ''
Nevertheless her faith be often try in the dark spring that follow .
Armageddon be not , a they have hop , a matter of a few day .
It stretch out into week and month .
Again and again Hindenburg strike his savage , sudden blow , with alarming , though futile success .
Again and again the military critic declare the situation extremely perilous .
Again and again Cousin Sophia agree with the military critic .
`` If the Allies go back three mile more the war be lose , '' she wail .
`` Is the British navy anchor in those three mile ? ''
demand Susan scornfully .
`` It be the opinion of a man who know all about it , '' say Cousin Sophia solemnly .
`` There be no such person , '' retort Susan .
`` As for the military critic , they do not know one blessed thing about it , any more than you or I .
They have be mistake time out of number .
Why do you always look on the dark side , Sophia Crawford ? ''
`` Because there ai n't any bright side , Susan Baker . ''
`` Oh , be there not ?
It be the twentieth of April , and Hindy be not in Paris yet , although he say he would be there by April first .
Is that not a bright spot at least ? ''
`` It be my opinion that the Germans will be in Paris before very long and more than that , Susan Baker , they will be in Canada . ''
`` Not in this part of it .
The Huns shall never set foot in Prince Edward Island as long a I can handle a pitchfork , '' declare Susan , look , and feel quite equal to rout the entire German army single-handed .
`` No , Sophia Crawford , to tell you the plain truth I be sick and tired of your gloomy prediction .
I do not deny that some mistake have be make .
The Germans would never have get back Passchendaele if the Canadians have be leave there ; and it be bad business trust to those Portuguese at the Lys River .
But that be no reason why you or anyone should go about proclaim the war be lose .
I do not want to quarrel with you , least of all at such a time a this , but our morale must be keep up , and I be go to speak my mind out plainly and tell you that if you can not keep from such croak your room be good than your company . ''
Cousin Sophia march home in high dudgeon to digest her affront , and do not reappear in Susan 's kitchen for many week .
Perhaps it be just as well , for they be hard week , when the Germans continue to strike , now here , now there , and seemingly vital point fell to them at every blow .
And one day in early May , when wind and sunshine frolic in Rainbow Valley and the maple grove be golden-green and the harbour all blue and dimpled and white-capped , the news come about Jem .
There have be a trench raid on the Canadian front -- a little trench raid so insignificant that it be never even mention in the dispatch and when it be over Lieutenant James Blythe be report `` wounded and miss . ''
`` I think this be even bad than the news of his death would have be , '' moan Rilla through her white lip , that night .
`` No -- no -- ` miss ' leave a little hope , Rilla , '' urge Gertrude Oliver .
`` Yes -- torturing , agonize hope that keep you from ever become quite resign to the bad , '' say Rilla .
`` Oh , Miss Oliver -- must we go for week and month -- not know whether Jem be alive or dead ?
Perhaps we will never know .
I -- I can not bear it -- I can not .
Walter -- and now Jem .
This will kill mother -- look at her face , Miss Oliver , and you will see that .
And Faith -- poor Faith -- how can she bear it ? ''
Gertrude shiver with pain .
She look up at the picture hang over Rilla 's desk and felt a sudden hatred of Mona Lisa 's endless smile .
`` Will not even this blot it off your face ? ''
she think savagely .
But she say gently , `` No , it wo n't kill your mother .
She 's make of finer mettle than that .
Besides , she refuse to believe Jem be dead ; she will cling to hope and we must all do that .
Faith , you may be sure , will do it . ''
`` I can not , '' moan Rilla , `` Jem be wound -- what chance would he have ?
Even if the Germans find him -- we know how they have treat wounded prisoner .
I wish I could hope , Miss Oliver -- it would help , I suppose .
But hope seem dead in me .
I ca n't hope without some reason for it -- and there be no reason . ''
When Miss Oliver have go to her own room and Rilla be lie on her bed in the moonlight , pray desperately for a little strength , Susan step in like a gaunt shadow and sit down beside her .
`` Rilla , dear , do not you worry .
Little Jem be not dead . ''
`` Oh , how can you believe that , Susan ? ''
`` Because I know .
Listen you to me .
When that word come this morning the first thing I think of be Dog Monday .
And tonight , as soon a I get the supper dish wash and the bread set , I go down to the station .
There be Dog Monday , wait for the train , just as patient a usual .
Now , Rilla , dear , that trench raid be four day ago -- last Monday -- and I say to the station-agent , ` Can you tell me if that dog howl or make any kind of a fuss last Monday night ? '
He think it over a bit , and then he say , ` No , he do not . '
` Are you sure ? '
I say .
` There 's more depends on it than you think ! '
` Dead sure , ' he say . '
I be up all night last Monday night because my mare be sick , and there be never a sound out of him .
I would have hear if there have be , for the stable door be open all the time and his kennel be right across from it ! '
Now Rilla dear , those be the man 's very word .
And you know how that poor little dog howl all night after the battle of Courcelette .
Yet he do not love Walter as much a he love Jem .
If he mourn for Walter like that , do you suppose he would sleep sound in his kennel the night after Jem have be kill ?
No , Rilla dear , little Jem be not dead , and that you may tie to .
If he be , Dog Monday would have know , just a he know before , and he would not be still wait for the train . ''
It be absurd -- and irrational -- and impossible .
But Rilla believe it , for all that ; and Mrs. Blythe believe it ; and the doctor , though he smile faintly in pretended derision , felt an odd confidence replace his first despair ; and foolish and absurd or not , they all pluck up heart and courage to carry on , just because a faithful little dog at the Glen station be still watch with unbroken faith for his master to come home .
Common sense might scorn -- incredulity might mutter `` Mere superstition '' -- but in their heart the folk of Ingleside stood by their belief that Dog Monday know .
CHAPTER XXX THE TURNING OF THE TIDE Susan be very sorrowful when she saw the beautiful old lawn of Ingleside plough up that spring and plant with potato .
Yet she make no protest , even when her beloved peony bed be sacrifice .
But when the Government pass the Daylight Saving law Susan balk .
There be a Higher Power than the Union Government , to which Susan owe allegiance .
`` Do you think it right to meddle with the arrangement of the Almighty ? ''
she demand indignantly of the doctor .
The doctor , quite unmoved , respond that the law must be observe , and the Ingleside clock be move on accordingly .
But the doctor have no power over Susan 's little alarm .
`` I buy that with my own money , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she say firmly , `` and it shall go on God 's time and not Borden 's time . ''
Susan get up and go to bed by `` God 's time , '' and regulate her own going and coming by it .
She serve the meal , under protest , by Borden 's time , and she have to go to church by it , which be the crowning injury .
But she say her prayer by her own clock , and feed the hen by it ; so that there be always a furtive triumph in her eye when she look at the doctor .
She have get the good of him by so much at least .
`` Whiskers-on-the-moon be very much delight with this daylight saving business , '' she tell him one evening .
`` Of course he naturally would be , since I understand that the Germans invent it .
I hear he come near lose his entire wheat-crop lately .
Warren Mead 's cow break into the field one day last week -- it be the very day the Germans capture the Chemang-de-dam , which may have be a coincidence or may not -- and be make fine havoc of it when Mrs. Dick Clow happen to see them from her attic window .
At first she have no intention of let Mr. Pryor know .
She tell me she have just gloat over the sight of those cow pasture on his wheat .
She felt it serve him exactly right .
But presently she reflect that the wheat-crop be a matter of great importance and that ` save and serve ' meant that those cow must be rout out as much a it mean anything .
So she go down and phone over to Whiskers about the matter .
All the thanks she get be that he say something queer right out to her .
She be not prepared to state that it be actually swear for you can not be sure just what you hear over the phone ; but she have her own opinion , and so have I , but I will not express it for here come Mr. Meredith , and Whiskers be one of his elder , so we must be discreet . ''
`` Are you look for the new star ? ''
ask Mr. Meredith , join Miss Oliver and Rilla , who be stand among the blossoming potato gaze skyward .
`` Yes -- we have find it -- see , it be just above the tip of the tall old pine . ''
`` It 's wonderful to be look at something that happen three thousand year ago , be n't it ? ''
say Rilla .
`` That be when astronomer think the collision take place which produce this new star .
It make me feel horribly insignificant , '' she add under her breath .
`` Even this event can not dwarf into what may be the proper perspective in star system the fact that the Germans be again only one leap from Paris , '' say Gertrude restlessly .
`` I think I would like to have be an astronomer , '' say Mr. Meredith dreamily , gaze at the star .
`` There must be a strange pleasure in it , '' agree Miss Oliver , `` an unearthly pleasure , in more sens than one .
I would like to have a few astronomer for my friend . ''
`` Fancy talk the gossip of the host of heaven , '' laugh Rilla .
`` I wonder if astronomer feel a very deep interest in earthly affair ? ''
say the doctor .
`` Perhaps student of the canal of Mars would not be so keenly sensitive to the significance of a few yard of trench lose or win on the western front . ''
`` I have read somewhere , '' say Mr. Meredith , `` that Ernest Renan write one of his book during the siege of Paris in 1870 and ` enjoy the writing of it very much . '
I suppose one would call him a philosopher . ''
`` I have read also , '' say Miss Oliver , `` that shortly before his death he say that his only regret in die be that he must die before he have see what that ` extremely interesting young man , the German Emperor , ' would do in his life .
If Ernest Renan ` walk ' today and saw what that interest young man have do to his beloved France , not to speak of the world , I wonder if his mental detachment would be as complete a it be in 1870 . ''
`` I wonder where Jem be tonight , '' think Rilla , in a sudden bitter inrush of remembrance .
It be over a month since the news have come about Jem .
Nothing have be discover concern him , in spite of all effort .
Two or three letter have come from him , write before the trench raid , and since then there have be only unbroken silence .
Now the Germans be again at the Marne , press nearer and near Paris ; now rumour be come of another Austrian offensive against the Piave line .
Rilla turn away from the new star , sick at heart .
It be one of the moment when hope and courage fail her utterly -- when it seem impossible to go on even one more day .
If only they know what have happen to Jem -- you can face anything you know .
But a beleaguerment of fear and doubt and suspense be a hard thing for the morale .
Surely , if Jem be alive , some word would have come through .
He must be dead .
Only -- they would never know -- they could never be quite sure ; and Dog Monday would wait for the train until he die of old age .
Monday be only a poor , faithful , rheumatic little dog , who know nothing more of his master 's fate than they do .
Rilla have a `` white night '' and do not fall asleep until late .
When she waken Gertrude Oliver be sit at her window lean out to meet the silver mystery of the dawn .
Her clever , strike profile , with the mass of black hair behind it , come out clearly against the pallid gold of the eastern sky .
Rilla remember Jem 's admiration of the curve of Miss Oliver 's brow and chin , and she shudder .
Everything that remind her of Jem be begin to give intolerable pain .
Walter 's death have inflict on her heart a terrible wound .
But it have be a clean wound and have heal slowly , a such wound do , though the scar must remain for ever .
But the torture of Jem 's disappearance be another thing : there be a poison in it that keep it from heal .
The alternation of hope and despair , the endless watch each day for the letter that never come -- that might never come -- the newspaper tale of ill-usage of prisoner -- the bitter wonder a to Jem 's wound -- all be increasingly hard to bear .
Gertrude Oliver turn her head .
There be an odd brilliancy in her eye .
`` Rilla , I 've have another dream . ''
`` Oh , no -- no , '' cry Rilla , shrink .
Miss Oliver 's dream have always foretell coming disaster .
`` Rilla , it be a good dream .
Listen -- I dream just a I do four year ago , that I stand on the veranda step and look down the Glen .
And it be still cover by wave that lap about my foot .
But a I look the wave begin to ebb -- and they ebb as swiftly a , four year ago , they roll in -- ebb out and out , to the gulf ; and the Glen lay before me , beautiful and green , with a rainbow span Rainbow Valley -- a rainbow of such splendid colour that it dazzle me -- and I wake .
Rilla -- Rilla Blythe -- the tide have turn . ''
`` I wish I could believe it , '' sigh Rilla .
`` Sooth be my prophecy of fear Believe it when it augur cheer , '' quote Gertrude , almost gaily .
`` I tell you I have no doubt . ''
Yet , in spite of the great Italian victory at the Piave that come a few day later , she have doubt many a time in the hard month that follow ; and when in mid-July the Germans cross the Marne again despair come sickeningly .
It be idle , they all felt , to hope that the miracle of the Marne would be repeat .
But it be : again , a in 1914 , the tide turn at the Marne .
The French and the American troop strike their sudden smashing blow on the exposed flank of the enemy and , with the almost inconceivable rapidity of a dream , the whole aspect of the war change .
`` The Allies have win two tremendous victory , '' say the doctor on 20th July .
`` It be the beginning of the end -- I feel it -- I feel it , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` Thank God , '' say Susan , fold her tremble old hand , Then she add , under her breath , `` but it wo n't bring our boy back . ''
Nevertheless she go out and run up the flag , for the first time since the fall of Jerusalem .
As it catch the breeze and swell gallantly out above her , Susan lift her hand and salute it , a she have see Shirley do .
`` We 've all give something to keep you fly , '' she say .
`` Four hundred thousand of our boy go overseas -- fifty thousand of them kill .
But -- you be worth it ! ''
The wind whip her grey hair about her face and the gingham apron that shroud her from head to foot be cut on line of economy , not of grace ; yet , somehow , just then Susan make an imposing figure .
She be one of the woman -- courageous , unquailing , patient , heroic -- who have make victory possible .
In her , they all salute the symbol for which their dearest have fight .
Something of this be in the doctor 's mind a he watch her from the door .
`` Susan , '' he say , when she turn to come in , `` from first to last of this business you have be a brick ! ''
CHAPTER XXXI MRS. MATILDA PITTMAN Rilla and Jims be stand on the rear platform of their car when the train stop at the little Millward siding .
The August evening be so hot and close that the crowded car be stifle .
Nobody ever know just why train stop at Millward side .
Nobody be ever know to get off there or get on .
There be only one house nearer to it than four mile , and it be surround by acre of blueberry barren and scrub spruce-trees .
Rilla be on her way into Charlottetown to spend the night with a friend and the next day in Red Cross shopping ; she have take Jims with her , partly because she do not want Susan or her mother to be bother with his care , partly because of a hungry desire in her heart to have as much of him a she could before she might have to give him up forever .
James Anderson have write to her not long before this ; he be wound and in the hospital ; he would not be able to go back to the front and as soon a he be able he would be come home for Jims .
Rilla be heavy-hearted over this , and worry also .
She love Jims dearly and would feel deeply give him up in any case ; but if Jim Anderson be a different sort of a man , with a proper home for the child , it would not be so bad .
But to give Jims up to a roving , shiftless , irresponsible father , however kind and good-hearted he might be -- and she know Jim Anderson be kind and good-hearted enough -- be a bitter prospect to Rilla .
It be not even likely Anderson would stay in the Glen ; he have no tie there now ; he might even go back to England .
She might never see her dear , sunshiny , carefully brought-up little Jims again .
With such a father what might his fate be ?
Rilla meant to beg Jim Anderson to leave him with her , but , from his letter , she have not much hope that he would .
`` If he would only stay in the Glen , where I could keep an eye on Jims and have him often with me I would n't feel so worried over it , '' she reflect .
`` But I feel sure he wo n't -- and Jims will never have any chance .
And he be such a bright little chap -- he have ambition , wherever he get it -- and he be n't lazy .
But his father will never have a cent to give him any education or start in life .
Jims , my little war-baby , whatever be go to become of you ? ''
Jims be not in the least concerned over what be to become of him .
He be gleefully watch the antic of a striped chipmunk that be frisk over the roof of the little siding .
As the train pull out Jims lean eagerly forward for a last look at Chippy , pull his hand from Rilla 's .
Rilla be so engrossed in wonder what be to become of Jims in the future that she forget to take notice of what be happen to him in the present .
What do happen be that Jims lose his balance , shot headlong down the step , hurtle across the little siding platform , and land in a clump of bracken fern on the other side .
Rilla shriek and lose her head .
She spring down the step and jump off the train .
Fortunately , the train be still go at a comparatively slow speed ; fortunately also , Rilla retain enough sense to jump the way it be go ; nevertheless , she fell and sprawl helplessly down the embankment , land in a ditch full of a rank growth of golden-rod and fireweed .
Nobody have see what have happen and the train whisk briskly away round a curve in the barren .
Rilla pick herself up , dizzy but unhurt , scramble out of the ditch , and fly wildly across the platform , expect to find Jims dead or break in piece .
But Jims , except for a few bruise , and a big fright , be quite uninjured .
He be so badly scar that he do n't even cry , but Rilla , when she find that he be safe and sound , burst into tear and sob wildly .
`` Nasty old twain , '' remark Jims in disgust .
`` And nasty old God , '' he add , with a scowl at the heaven .
A laugh broke into Rilla 's sobbing , produce something very like what her father would have call hysteric .
But she catch herself up before the hysteria could conquer her .
`` Rilla Blythe , I 'm ashamed of you .
Pull yourself together immediately .
Jims , you should n't have say anything like that . ''
`` God frew me off the twain , '' declare Jims defiantly .
`` Somebody frew me ; you do n't frow me ; so it be God . ''
`` No , it be n't .
You fell because you let go of my hand and bent too far forward .
I tell you not to do that .
So that it be your own fault . ''
Jims look to see if she mean it ; then glance up at the sky again .
`` Excuse me , then , God , '' he remark airily .
Rilla scan the sky also ; she do not like it appearance ; a heavy thundercloud be appear in the northwest .
What in the world be to be do ?
There be no other train that night , since the nine o'clock special run only on Saturdays .
Would it be possible for them to reach Hannah Brewster 's house , two mile away , before the storm break ?
Rilla think she could do it alone easily enough , but with Jims it be another matter .
Were his little legs good for it ?
`` We 've get to try it , '' say Rilla desperately .
`` We might stay in the siding until the thunderstorm be over ; but it may keep on rain all night and anyway it will be pitch dark .
If we can get to Hannah 's she will keep u all night . ''
Hannah Brewster , when she have be Hannah Crawford , have live in the Glen and go to school with Rilla .
They have be good friend then , though Hannah have be three year the old .
She have marry very young and have go to live in Millward .
What with hard work and baby and a ne'er - do-well husband , her life have not be an easy one , and Hannah seldom revisit her old home .
Rilla have visit her once soon after her marriage , but have not see her or even heard of her for year ; she know , however , that she and Jims would find welcome and harbourage in any house where rosy-faced , open-hearted , generous Hannah live .
For the first mile they get on very well but the second one be hard .
The road , seldom use , be rough and deep-rutted .
Jims grow so tired that Rilla have to carry him for the last quarter .
She reach the Brewster house , almost exhaust , and drop Jims on the walk with a sigh of thankfulness .
The sky be black with cloud ; the first heavy drop be begin to fall ; and the rumble of thunder be grow very loud .
Then she make an unpleasant discovery .
The blind be all down and the door lock .
Evidently the Brewsters be not at home .
Rilla run to the little barn .
It , too , be lock .
No other refuge present itself .
The bare whitewash little house have not even a veranda or porch .
It be almost dark now and her plight seem desperate .
`` I 'm go to get in if I have to break a window , '' say Rilla resolutely .
`` Hannah would want me to do that .
She 'd never get over it if she hear I come to her house for refuge in a thunderstorm and could n't get in . ''
Luckily she do not have to go to the length of actual housebreaking .
The kitchen window go up quite easily .
Rilla lift Jims in and scramble through herself , just a the storm break in good earnest .
`` Oh , see all the little piece of thunder , '' cry Jims in delight , a the hail dance in after them .
Rilla shut the window and with some difficulty find and light a lamp .
They be in a very snug little kitchen .
Opening off it on one side be a trim , nicely furnished parlour , and on the other a pantry , which prove to be well stock .
`` I 'm go to make myself at home , '' say Rilla .
`` I know that be just what Hannah would want me to do .
I 'll get a little snack for Jims and me , and then if the rain continue and nobody come home I 'll just go upstairs to the spare room and go to bed .
There be nothing like act sensibly in an emergency .
If I have not be a goose when I saw Jims fall off the train I 'd have rush back into the car and get some one to stop it .
Then I would n't have be in this scrape .
Since I be in it I 'll make the best of it .
`` This house , '' she add , look around , `` be fix up much nice than when I be here before .
Of course Hannah and Ted be just begin housekeep then .
But somehow I 've have the idea that Ted have n't be very prosperous .
He must have do good than I 've be lead to believe , when they can afford furniture like this .
I 'm awfully glad for Hannah 's sake . ''
The thunderstorm pass , but the rain continue to fall heavily .
At eleven o'clock Rilla decide that nobody be come home .
Jims have fall asleep on the sofa ; she carry him up to the spare room and put him to bed .
Then she undress , put on a nightgown she find in the washstand drawer , and scramble sleepily in between very nice lavender-scented sheet .
She be so tired , after her adventure and exertion , that not even the oddity of her situation could keep her awake ; she be sound asleep in a few minute .
Rilla sleep until eight o'clock the next morning and then waken with startle suddenness .
Somebody be say in a harsh , gruff voice , `` Here , you two , wake up .
I want to know what this mean . ''
Rilla do wake up , promptly and effectually .
She have never in all her life waken up so thoroughly before .
Standing in the room be three people , one of them a man , who be absolute stranger to her .
The man be a big fellow with a bushy black beard and an angry scowl .
Beside him be a woman -- a tall , thin , angular person , with violently red hair and an indescribable hat .
She look even cross and more amazed than the man , if that be possible .
In the background be another woman -- a tiny old lady who must have be at least eighty .
She be , in spite of her tinyness , a very striking-looking personage ; she be dress in unrelieved black , have snow-white hair , a dead-white face , and snapping , vivid , coal-black eye .
She look as amaze a the other two , but Rilla realize that she do n't look cross .
Rilla also be realize that something be wrong -- fearfully wrong .
Then the man say , more gruffly than ever , `` Come now .
Who be you and what business have you here ? ''
Rilla raise herself on one elbow , look and feel hopelessly bewilder and foolish .
She hear the old black-and-white lady in the background chuckle to herself .
`` She must be real , '' Rilla think .
`` I ca n't be dream her . ''
Aloud she gasp , `` Is n't this Theodore Brewster 's place ? ''
`` No , '' say the big woman , speak for the first time , `` this place belong to u .
We buy it from the Brewsters last fall .
They move to Greenvale .
Our name be Chapley . ''
Poor Rilla fell back on her pillow , quite overcome .
`` I beg your pardon , '' she say .
`` I -- I -- think the Brewsters live here .
Mrs. Brewster be a friend of mine .
I be Rilla Blythe -- Dr. Blythe 's daughter from Glen St. Mary .
I -- I be go to town with my -- my -- this little boy -- and he fell off the train -- and I jump off after him -- and nobody knew of it .
I know we could n't get home last night and a storm be come up -- so we come here and when we find nobody at home -- we -- we -- just get in through the window and -- and -- make ourselves at home . ''
`` So it seem , '' say the woman sarcastically .
`` A likely story , '' say the man .
`` We be n't bear yesterday , '' add the woman .
Madam Black-and-White do n't say anything ; but when the other two make their pretty speech she double up in a silent convulsion of mirth , shake her head from side to side and beat the air with her hand .
Rilla , stung by the disagreeable attitude of the Chapleys , regain her self-possession and lose her temper .
She sit up in bed and say in her haughty voice , `` I do not know when you be bear , or where , but it must have be somewhere where very peculiar manner be teach .
If you will have the decency to leave my room -- er -- this room -- until I can get up and dress I shall not transgress upon your hospitality '' -- Rilla be killingly sarcastic -- `` any longer .
And I shall pay you amply for the food we have eat and the night 's lodging I have take . ''
The black-and-white apparition go through the motion of clap her hand , but not a sound do she make .
Perhaps Mr. Chapley be cow by Rilla 's tone -- or perhaps he be appease at the prospect of payment ; at all event , he speak more civilly .
`` Well , that 's fair .
If you pay up it 's all right . ''
`` She shall do no such thing a pay you , '' say Madam Black-and-White in a surprisingly clear , resolute , authoritative tone of voice .
`` If you have n't get any shame for yourself , Robert Chapley , you 've get a mother-in-law who can be ashamed for you .
No stranger shall be charge for room and lodging in any house where Mrs. Matilda Pitman live .
Remember that , though I may have come down in the world , I have n't quite forget all decency for all that .
I know you be a skinflint when Amelia marry you , and you 've make her as bad a yourself .
But Mrs. Matilda Pitman have be boss for a long time , and Mrs. Matilda Pitman will remain bos .
Here you , Robert Chapley , take yourself out of here and let that girl get dress .
And you , Amelia , go downstairs and cook a breakfast for her . ''
Never , in all her life , have Rilla see anything like the abject meekness with which those two big people obey that mite .
They go without word or look of protest .
As the door close behind them Mrs. Matilda Pitman laugh silently , and rock from side to side in her merriment .
`` Ai n't it funny ? ''
she say .
`` I mostly let them run the length of their tether , but sometimes I have to pull them up , and then I do it with a jerk .
They do n't dast aggravate me , because I 've get considerable hard cash , and they 're afraid I wo n't leave it all to them .
Neither I will .
I 'll leave 'em some , but some I wo n't , just to vex 'em .
I have n't make up my mind where I will leave it but I 'll have to , soon , for at eighty a body be live on borrowed time .
Now , you can take your time about dressing , my dear , and I 'll go down and keep them mean scallawags in order .
That 's a handsome child you have there .
Is he your brother ? ''
`` No , he 's a little war-baby I 've be take care of , because his mother die and his father be overseas , '' answer Rilla in a subdued tone .
`` War-baby !
Humph !
Well , I 'd better skin out before he wake up or he 'll likely start cry .
Children do n't like me -- never do .
I ca n't recollect any youngster ever come near me of it own accord .
Never have any of my own .
Amelia be my step-daughter .
Well , it 's save me a world of bother .
If kid do n't like me I do n't like them , so that 's an even score .
But that certainly be a handsome child . ''
Jims choose this moment for wake up .
He open his big brown eye and look at Mrs. Matilda Pitman unblinkingly .
Then he sit up , dimple deliciously , point to her and say solemnly to Rilla , `` Pwitty lady , Willa , pwitty lady . ''
Mrs. Matilda Pitman smile .
Even eighty-odd be sometimes vulnerable in vanity .
`` I 've hear that child and fool tell the truth , '' she say .
`` I be use to compliment when I be young -- but they 're scarcer when you get a far along a I be .
I have n't have one for year .
It taste good .
I s ` pose now , you monkey , you would n't give me a kiss . ''
Then Jims do a quite surprising thing .
He be not a demonstrative youngster and be chary with kiss even to the Ingleside people .
But without a word he stand up in bed , his plump little body encase only in his undershirt , run to the footboard , fling his arm about Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's neck , and give her a bear hug , accompany by three or four hearty , ungrudging smack .
`` Jims , '' protest Rilla , aghast at this liberty .
`` You leave him be , '' order Mrs. Matilda Pitman , set her bonnet straight .
`` Laws I like to see some one that be n't skeered of me .
Everybody be -- you be , though you 're try to hide it .
And why ?
Of course Robert and Amelia be because I make 'em skeered on purpose .
But folk always be -- no matter how civil I be to them .
Are you go to keep this child ? ''
`` I 'm afraid not .
His father be come home before long . ''
`` Is he any good -- the father , I mean ? ''
`` Well -- he 's kind and nice -- but he 's poor -- and I 'm afraid he always will be , '' falter Rilla .
`` I see -- shiftless -- ca n't make or keep .
Well , I 'll see -- I 'll see .
I have an idea .
It 's a good idea , and besides it will make Robert and Amelia squirm .
That 's it main merit in my eye , though I like that child , mind you , because he ai n't skeered of me .
He 's worth some bother .
Now , you get dress , a I say before , and come down when you 're good and ready . ''
Rilla be stiff and sore after her tumble and walk of the night before but she be not long in dress herself and Jims .
When she go down to the kitchen she find a smoking hot breakfast on the table .
Mr. Chapley be nowhere in sight and Mrs. Chapley be cut bread with a sulky air .
Mrs. Matilda Pitman be sit in an armchair , knit a grey army sock .
She still wear her bonnet and her triumphant expression .
`` Set right in , dear , and make a good breakfast , '' she say .
`` I be not hungry , '' say Rilla almost pleadingly .
`` I do n't think I can eat anything .
And it be time I be start for the station .
The morning train will soon be along .
Please excuse me and let u go -- I 'll take a piece of bread and butter for Jims . ''
Mrs. Matilda Pitman shake a knitting-needle playfully at Rilla .
`` Sit down and take your breakfast , '' she say .
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman command you .
Everybody obey Mrs. Matilda Pitman -- even Robert and Amelia .
You must obey her too . ''
Rilla do obey her .
She sit down and , such be the influence of Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's mesmeric eye , she eat a tolerable breakfast .
The obedient Amelia never speak ; Mrs. Matilda Pitman do not speak either ; but she knit furiously and chuckle .
When Rilla have finish , Mrs. Matilda Pitman roll up her sock .
`` Now you can go if you want to , '' she say , `` but you do n't have to go .
You can stay here as long a you want to and I 'll make Amelia cook your meal for you . ''
The independent Miss Blythe , whom a certain clique of Junior Red Cross girl accuse of be domineering and `` bossy , '' be thoroughly cow .
`` Thank you , '' she say meekly , `` but we must really go . ''
`` Well , then , '' say Mrs. Matilda Pitman , throw open the door , `` your conveyance be ready for you .
I tell Robert he must hitch up and drive you to the station .
I enjoy make Robert do thing .
It 's almost the only sport I have leave .
I 'm over eighty and most thing have lose their flavour except boss Robert . ''
Robert sit before the door on the front seat of a trim , double-seated , rubber-tired buggy .
He must have hear every word his mother-in-law say but he give no sign .
`` I do wish , '' say Rilla , pluck up what little spirit she have leave , `` that you would let me -- oh -- ah -- '' then she quail again before Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's eye -- `` recompense you for -- for -- '' `` Mrs. Matilda Pitman say before -- and mean it -- that she do n't take pay for entertain stranger , nor let other people where she live do it , much a their natural meanness would like to do it .
You go along to town and do n't forget to call the next time you come this way .
Do n't be scar .
Not that you be scar of much , I reckon , consider the way you sass Robert back this morning .
I like your spunk .
Most girl nowadays be such timid , skeery creeturs .
When I be a girl I be n't afraid of nothing nor nobody .
Mind you take good care of that boy .
He ai n't any common child .
And make Robert drive round all the puddle in the road .
I wo n't have that new buggy splash . ''
As they drive away Jims throw kiss at Mrs. Matilda Pitman as long a he could see her , and Mrs. Matilda Pitman wave her sock back at him .
Robert speak no word , either good or bad , all the way to the station , but he remember the puddle .
When Rilla get out at the side she thank him courteously .
The only response she get be a grunt a Robert turn his horse and start for home .
`` Well '' -- Rilla draw a long breath -- `` I must try to get back into Rilla Blythe again .
I 've be somebody else these past few hour -- I do n't know just who -- some creation of that extraordinary old person 's .
I believe she hypnotize me .
What an adventure this will be to write the boy . ''
And then she sigh .
Bitter remembrance come that there be only Jerry , Ken , Carl and Shirley to write it to now .
Jem -- who would have appreciate Mrs. Matilda Pitman keenly -- where be Jem ?
CHAPTER XXXII WORD FROM JEM 4th August 1918 `` It be four year tonight since the dance at the lighthouse -- four year of war .
It seem like three time four .
I be fifteen then .
I be nineteen now .
I expect that these past four year would be the most delightful year of my life and they have be year of war -- year of fear and grief and worry -- but I humbly hope , of a little growth in strength and character as well .
`` Today I be go through the hall and I hear mother say something to father about me .
I do n't mean to listen -- I could n't help hear her a I go along the hall and upstairs -- so perhaps that be why I hear what listener be say never to hear -- something good of myself .
And because it be mother who say it I 'm go to write it here in my journal , for my comforting when day of discouragement come upon me , in which I feel that I be vain and selfish and weak and that there be no good thing in me . ''
` Rilla have develop in a wonderful fashion these past four year .
She use to be such an irresponsible young creature .
She have change into a capable , womanly girl and she be such a comfort to me .
Nan and Di have grow a little away from me -- they have be so little at home -- but Rilla have grow closer and close to me .
We be chum .
I do n't see how I could have get through these terrible year without her , Gilbert . '
`` There , that be just what mother say -- and I feel glad -- and sorry -- and proud -- and humble !
It 's beautiful to have my mother think that about me -- but I do n't deserve it quite .
I 'm not as good and strong a all that .
There be heap of time when I have felt cross and impatient and woeful and despairing .
It be mother and Susan who have be this family 's backbone .
But I have help a little , I believe , and I be so glad and thankful .
`` The war news have be good right along .
The French and Americans be push the Germans back and back and back .
Sometimes I be afraid it be too good to last -- after nearly four year of disaster one have a feeling that this constant success be unbelievable .
We do n't rejoice noisily over it .
Susan keep the flag up but we go softly .
The price pay have be too high for jubilation .
We be just thankful that it have not be pay in vain .
`` No word have come from Jem .
We hope -- because we dare not do anything else .
But there be hour when we all feel -- though we never say so -- that such hoping be foolishness .
These hour come more and more frequently a the week go by .
And we may never know .
That be the most terrible thought of all .
I wonder how Faith be bear it .
To judge from her letter she have never for a moment give up hope , but she must have have her dark hour of doubt like the rest of u . ''
20th August 1918 `` The Canadians have be in action again and Mr. Meredith have a cable today say that Carl have be slightly wound and be in the hospital .
It do not say where the wound be , which be unusual , and we all feel worried .
There be news of a fresh victory every day now . ''
30th August 1918 `` The Merediths have a letter from Carl today .
His wound be `` only a slight one '' -- but it be in his right eye and the sight be go for ever ! ''
` One eye be enough to watch bug with , ' Carl write cheerfully .
And we know it might have be oh so much bad !
If it have be both eye !
But I cry all the afternoon after I saw Carl 's letter .
Those beautiful , fearless blue eye of his !
`` There be one comfort -- he will not have to go back to the front .
He be come home as soon a he be out of the hospital -- the first of our boy to return .
When will the others come ?
`` And there be one who will never come .
At least we will not see him if he do .
But , oh , I think he will be there -- when our Canadian soldier return there will be a shadow army with them -- the army of the fallen .
We will not see them -- but they will be there ! ''
1st September 1918 `` Mother and I go into Charlottetown yesterday to see the move picture , `` Hearts of the World . ''
I make an awful goose of myself -- father will never stop tease me about it for the rest of my life .
But it all seem so horribly real -- and I be so intensely interested that I forget everything but the scene I saw enact before my eye .
And then , quite near the last come a terribly excite one .
The heroine be struggle with a horrible German soldier who be try to drag her away .
I know she have a knife -- I have see her hide it , to have it in readiness -- and I could n't understand why she do n't produce it and finish the brute .
I think she must have forget it , and just at the tense moment of the scene I lose my head altogether .
I just stand right up on my foot in that crowded house and shriek at the top of my voice -- ` The knife be in your stocking -- the knife be in your stocking ! '
`` I create a sensation !
`` The funny part be , that just a I say it , the girl do snatch out the knife and stab the soldier with it !
`` Everybody in the house laugh .
I come to my sens and fell back in my seat , overcome with mortification .
Mother be shake with laughter .
I could have shake her .
Why have n't she pull me down and choke me before I have make such an idiot of myself .
She protest that there be n't time .
`` Fortunately the house be dark , and I do n't believe there be anybody there who know me .
And I think I be become sensible and self-controlled and womanly !
It be plain I have some distance to go yet before I attain that devoutly desire consummation . ''
20th September 1918 `` In the east Bulgaria have ask for peace , and in the west the British have smash the Hindenburg line ; and right here in Glen St. Mary little Bruce Meredith have do something that I think wonderful -- wonderful because of the love behind it .
Mrs. Meredith be here tonight and tell u about it -- and mother and I cry , and Susan get up and clatter the thing about the stove .
`` Bruce always love Jem very devotedly , and the child have never forget him in all these year .
He have be a faithful in his way a Dog Monday be in his .
We have always tell him that Jem would come back .
But it seem that he be in Carter Flagg 's store last night and he hear his Uncle Norman flatly declare that Jem Blythe would never come back and that the Ingleside folk might as well give up hop he would .
Bruce go home and cry himself to sleep .
This morning his mother saw him go out of the yard , with a very sorrowful and determined look , carry his pet kitten .
She do n't think much more about it until later on he come in , with the most tragic little face , and tell her , his little body shake with sob , that he have drown Stripey . ''
` Why do you do that ? '
Mrs. Meredith exclaim . ''
` To bring Jem back , ' sob Bruce . '
I think if I sacrifice Stripey God would send Jem back .
So I drownded him -- and , oh mother , it be awful hard -- but surely God will send Jem back now , 'cause Stripey be the dear thing I have .
I just tell God I would give Him Stripey if He would send Jem back .
And He will , wo n't He , mother ? '
`` Mrs. Meredith do n't know what to say to the poor child .
She just could not tell him that perhaps his sacrifice would n't bring Jem back -- that God do n't work that way .
She tell him that he must n't expect it right away -- that perhaps it would be quite a long time yet before Jem come back .
`` But Bruce say , ` It ought n't to take long 'n a week , mother .
Oh , mother , Stripey be such a nice little cat .
He purr so pretty .
Do n't you think God ought to like him enough to let u have Jem ? ''
`` Mr. Meredith be worry about the effect on Bruce 's faith in God , and Mrs. Meredith be worry about the effect on Bruce himself if his hope be n't fulfil .
And I feel a if I must cry every time I think of it .
It be so splendid -- and sad -- and beautiful .
The dear devote little fellow !
He worship that kitten .
And if it all go for nothing -- a so many sacrifice seem to go for nothing -- he will be brokenhearted , for he be n't old enough to understand that God do n't answer our prayer just a we hope -- and do n't make bargain with u when we yield something we love up to Him . ''
24th September 1918 `` I have be kneel at my window in the moonshine for a long time , just thank God over and over again .
The joy of last night and today have be so great that it seem half pain -- a if our heart be n't big enough to hold it .
`` Last night I be sit here in my room at eleven o'clock write a letter to Shirley .
Every one else be in bed , except father , who be out .
I hear the telephone ring and I run out to the hall to answer it , before it should waken mother .
It be long-distance call , and when I answer it say ` This be the telegraph Company 's office in Charlottetown .
There be an overseas cable for Dr. Blythe . '
`` I think of Shirley -- my heart stand still -- and then I hear him say , ` It 's from Holland . '
`` The message be , ` Just arrive .
Escaped from Germany .
Quite well .
Writing .
James Blythe . '
`` I do n't faint or fall or scream .
I do n't feel glad or surprised .
I do n't feel anything .
I felt numb , just a I do when I hear Walter have enlist .
I hang up the receiver and turn round .
Mother be stand in her doorway .
She wear her old rise kimono , and her hair be hang down her back in a long thick braid , and her eye be shin .
She look just like a young girl . ''
` There be word from Jem ? '
she say .
`` How do she know ?
I have n't say a word at the phone except ` Yes -- yes -- yes . '
She say she do n't know how she know , but she do know .
She be awake and she hear the ring and she know that there be word from Jem . ''
` He 's alive -- he 's well -- he 's in Holland , ' I say .
`` Mother come out into the hall and say , ' I must get your father on the ` phone and tell him .
He be in the Upper Glen . '
`` She be very calm and quiet -- not a bit like I would have expect her to be .
But then I be n't either .
I go and wake up Gertrude and Susan and tell them .
Susan say ` Thank God , ' firstly , and secondly she say ` Did I not tell you Dog Monday know ? '
and thirdly , ` I 'll go down and make a cup of tea ' -- and she stalk down in her nightdress to make it .
She do make it -- and make mother and Gertrude drink it -- but I go back to my room and shut my door and lock it , and I kneel by my window and cry -- just a Gertrude do when her great news come .
`` I think I know at last exactly what I shall feel like on the resurrection morning . ''
4th October 1918 `` Today Jem 's letter come .
It have be in the house only six hour and it be almost read to piece .
The post-mistress told everybody in the Glen it have come , and everybody come up to hear the news .
`` Jem be badly wound in the thigh -- and he be pick up and take to prison , so delirious with fever that he do n't know what be happen to him or where he be .
It be week before he come to his sens and be able to write .
Then he do write -- but it never come .
He be n't treat at all badly at his camp -- only the food be poor .
He have nothing to eat but a little black bread and boil turnip and now and then a little soup with black pea in it .
And we sit down every one of those day to three good square luxurious meal !
He write u as often a he could but he be afraid we be not get his letter because no reply come .
As soon a he be strong enough he try to escape , but be catch and bring back ; a month later he and a comrade make another attempt and succeed in reach Holland .
`` Jem ca n't come home right away .
He be n't quite so well a his cable say , for his wound have not heal properly and he have to go into a hospital in England for further treatment .
But he say he will be all right eventually , and we know he be safe and will be back home sometime , and oh , the difference it make in everything !
`` I have a letter from Jim Anderson today , too .
He have marry an English girl , get his discharge , and be come right home to Canada with his bride .
I do n't know whether to be glad or sorry .
It will depend on what kind of a woman she be .
I have a second letter also of a somewhat mysterious tenor .
It be from a Charlottetown lawyer , ask me to go in to see him at my early convenience in regard to a certain matter connect with the estate of the ` late Mrs. Matilda Pitman . '
`` I read a notice of Mrs. Pitman 's death -- from heart failure -- in the Enterprise a few week ago .
I wonder if this summons have anything to do with Jims . ''
5th October 1918 `` I go into town this morning and have an interview with Mrs. Pitman 's lawyer -- a little thin , wispy man , who speak of his late client with such a profound respect that it be evident that he a be much under her thumb a Robert and Amelia be .
He draw up a new will for her a short time before her death .
She be worth thirty thousand dollar , the bulk of which be leave to Amelia Chapley .
But she leave five thousand to me in trust for Jims .
The interest be to be use a I see fit for his education , and the principal be to be pay over to him on his twentieth birthday .
Certainly Jims be bear lucky .
I save him from slow extinction at the hand of Mrs. Conover -- Mary Vance save him from death by diptheritic croup -- his star save him when he fell off the train .
And he tumble not only into a clump of bracken , but right into this nice little legacy .
`` Evidently , a Mrs. Matilda Pitman say , and a I have always believe , he be no common child and he have no common destiny in store for him .
`` At all event he be provide for , and in such a fashion that Jim Anderson ca n't squander his inheritance if he want to .
Now , if the new English stepmother be only a good sort I shall feel quite easy about the future of my war-baby .
`` I wonder what Robert and Amelia think of it .
I fancy they will nail down their window when they leave home after this ! ''
CHAPTER XXXIII VICTORY !
`` A day ` of chill wind and gloomy sky , ' '' Rilla quote one Sunday afternoon -- the sixth of October to be exact .
It be so cold that they have light a fire in the living-room and the merry little flame be do their best to counteract the outside dourness .
`` It 's more like November than October -- November be such an ugly month . ''
Cousin Sophia be there , have again forgiven Susan , and Mrs. Martin Clow , who be not visit on Sunday but have drop in to borrow Susan 's cure for rheumatism -- that be cheap than get one from the doctor .
`` I 'm afeared we 're go to have an airly winter , '' forebode Cousin Sophia .
`` The muskrat be build awful big house round the pond , and that 's a sign that never fail .
Dear me , how that child have grow ! ''
Cousin Sophia sigh again , a if it be an unhappy circumstance that a child should grow .
`` When do you expect his father ? ''
`` Next week , '' say Rilla .
`` Well , I hope the stepmother wo n't abuse the pore child , '' sigh Cousin Sophia , `` but I have my doubt -- I have my doubt .
Anyhow , he 'll be sure to feel the difference between his usage here and what he 'll get anywhere else .
You 've spoil him so , Rilla , wait on him hand and foot the way you 've always do . ''
Rilla smile and press her cheek to Jims ' curl .
She know sweet-tempered , sunny , little Jims be not spoil .
Nevertheless her heart be anxious behind her smile .
She , too , think much about the new Mrs. Anderson and wonder uneasily what she would be like .
`` I ca n't give Jims up to a woman who wo n't love him , '' she think rebelliously .
`` I b ` lieve it 's go to rain , '' say Cousin Sophia .
`` We have have an awful lot of rain this fall already .
It 's go to make it awful hard for people to get their root in .
It be n't so in my young day .
We gin ` rally have beautiful Octobers then .
But the season be altogether different now from what they use to be . ''
Clear across Cousin Sophia 's doleful voice cut the telephone bell .
Gertrude Oliver answer it .
`` Yes -- what ?
What ?
Is it true -- be it official ?
Thank you -- thank you . ''
Gertrude turn and face the room dramatically , her dark eye flash , her dark face flush with feeling .
All at once the sun break through the thick cloud and pour through the big crimson maple outside the window .
Its reflect glow envelop her in a weird immaterial flame .
She look like a priestess perform some mystic , splendid rite .
`` Germany and Austria be sue for peace , '' she say .
Rilla go crazy for a few minute .
She spring up and dance around the room , clap her hand , laugh , cry .
`` Sit down , child , '' say Mrs. Clow , who never get excite over anything , and so have miss a tremendous amount of trouble and delight in her journey through life .
`` Oh , '' cry Rilla , `` I have walk the floor for hour in despair and anxiety in these past four year .
Now let me walk in joy .
It be worth living long dreary year for this minute , and it would be worth live them again just to look back to it .
Susan , let 's run up the flag -- and we must phone the news to every one in the Glen . ''
`` Can we have as much sugar a we want to now ? ''
ask Jims eagerly .
It be a never-to-be-forgotten afternoon .
As the news spread excite people run about the village and dash up to Ingleside .
The Merediths come over and stay to supper and everybody talk and nobody listen .
Cousin Sophia try to protest that Germany and Austria be not to be trust and it be all part of a plot , but nobody pay the least attention to her .
`` This Sunday make up for that one in March , '' say Susan .
`` I wonder , '' say Gertrude dreamily , apart to Rilla , `` if thing wo n't seem rather flat and insipid when peace really come .
After be feed for four year on horror and fear , terrible revers , amaze victory , wo n't anything less be tame and uninteresting ?
How strange -- and bless -- and dull it will be not to dread the come of the mail every day . ''
`` We must dread it for a little while yet , I suppose , '' say Rilla .
`` Peace wo n't come -- ca n't come -- for some week yet .
And in those week dreadful thing may happen .
My excitement be over .
We have win the victory -- but oh , what a price we have pay ! ''
`` Not too high a price for freedom , '' say Gertrude softly .
`` Do you think it be , Rilla ? ''
`` No , '' say Rilla , under her breath .
She be see a little white cross on a battlefield of France .
`` No -- not if those of u who live will show ourselves worthy of it -- if we ` keep faith . ' ''
`` We will keep faith , '' say Gertrude .
She rise suddenly .
A silence fell around the table , and in the silence Gertrude repeat Walter 's famous poem `` The Piper . ''
When she finish Mr. Meredith stand up and hold up his glass .
`` Let u drink , '' he say , `` to the silent army -- to the boy who follow when the Piper summon .
` For our tomorrow they give their today ' -- theirs be the victory ! ''
CHAPTER XXXIV MR. HYDE GOES TO HIS OWN PLACE AND SUSAN TAKES A HONEYMOON Early in November Jims leave Ingleside .
Rilla saw him go with many tear but a heart free from bode .
Mrs. Jim Anderson , Number Two , be such a nice little woman that one be rather inclined to wonder at the luck which bestow her on Jim .
She be rosy-faced and blue-eyed and wholesome , with the roundness and trigness of a geranium leaf .
Rilla saw at first glance that she be to be trust with Jims .
`` I 'm fond of child , miss , '' she say heartily .
`` I 'm use to them -- I 've leave six little brother and sister behind me .
Jims be a dear child and I must say you 've do wonder in bring him up so healthy and handsome .
I 'll be as good to him a if he be my own , miss .
And I 'll make Jim toe the line all right .
He 's a good worker -- all he need be some one to keep him at it , and to take charge of his money .
We 've rent a little farm just out of the village , and we 're go to settle down there .
Jim want to stay in England but I say ` No . '
I hanker to try a new country and I 've always think Canada would suit me . ''
`` I 'm so glad you be go to live near u .
You 'll let Jims come here often , wo n't you ?
I love him dearly . ''
`` No doubt you do , miss , for a lovabler child I never do see .
We understand , Jim and me , what you 've do for him , and you wo n't find u ungrateful .
He can come here whenever you want him and I 'll always be glad of any advice from you about his bring up .
He be more your baby than anyone else 's I should say , and I 'll see that you get your fair share of him , miss . ''
So Jims go away -- with the soup tureen , though not in it .
Then the news of the Armistice come , and even Glen St. Mary go mad .
That night the village have a bonfire , and burn the Kaiser in effigy .
The fishing village boy turn out and burn all the sandhills off in one grand glorious conflagration that extend for seven mile .
Up at Ingleside Rilla run laugh to her room .
`` Now I 'm go to do a most unladylike and inexcusable thing , '' she say , a she pull her green velvet hat out of it box .
`` I 'm go to kick this hat about the room until it be without form and void ; and I shall never as long a I live wear anything of that shade of green again . ''
`` You 've certainly keep your vow pluckily , '' laugh Miss Oliver .
`` It be n't pluck -- it be sheer obstinacy -- I 'm rather ashamed of it , '' say Rilla , kick joyously .
`` I want to show mother .
It 's mean to want to show your own mother -- most unfilial conduct !
But I have show her .
And I 've show myself a few thing !
Oh , Miss Oliver , just for one moment I 'm really feel quite young again -- young and frivolous and silly .
Did I ever say November be an ugly month ?
Why it 's the most beautiful month in the whole year .
Listen to the bell ring in Rainbow Valley !
I never hear them so clearly .
They 're ring for peace -- and new happiness -- and all the dear , sweet , sane , homey thing that we can have again now , Miss Oliver .
Not that I be sane just now -- I do n't pretend to be .
The whole world be have a little crazy spell today .
Soon we 'll sober down -- and ` keep faith ' -- and begin to build up our new world .
But just for today let 's be mad and glad . ''
Susan come in from the outdoor sunlight look supremely satisfy .
`` Mr. Hyde be go , '' she announce .
`` Gone !
Do you mean he be dead , Susan ? ''
`` No , Mrs. Dr. dear , that beast be not dead .
But you will never see him again .
I feel sure of that . ''
`` Do n't be so mysterious , Susan .
What have happen to him ? ''
`` Well , Mrs. Dr. dear , he be sit out on the back step this afternoon .
It be just after the news come that the Armistice have be sign and he be look his Hydest .
I can assure you he be an awesome look beast .
All at once , Mrs. Dr. dear , Bruce Meredith come around the corner of the kitchen walk on his stilt .
He have be learn to walk on them lately and come over to show me how well he could do it .
Mr. Hyde just take a look and one bound carry him over the yard fence .
Then he go tear through the maple grove in great leap with his ear lay back .
You never saw a creature so terrified , Mrs. Dr. dear .
He have never return . ''
`` Oh , he 'll come back , Susan , probably chasten in spirit by his fright . ''
`` We will see , Mrs. Dr. dear -- we will see .
Remember , the Armistice have be sign .
And that remind me that Whiskers-on-the-moon have a paralytic stroke last night .
I be not say it be a judgment on him , because I be not in the counsel of the Almighty , but one can have one 's own thought about it .
Neither Whiskers-on-the-moon or Mr. Hyde will be much more heard of in Glen St. Mary , Mrs. Dr. dear , and that you may tie to . ''
Mr. Hyde certainly be hear of no more .
As it could hardly have be his fright that keep him away the Ingleside folk decide that some dark fate of shot or poison have descend on him -- except Susan , who believe and continue to affirm that he have merely `` go to his own place . ''
Rilla lament him , for she have be very fond of her stately golden pussy , and have like him quite as well in his weird Hyde mood a in his tame Jekyll one .
`` And now , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , `` since the fall house-cleaning be over and the garden truck be all safe in cellar , I be go to take a honeymoon to celebrate the peace . ''
`` A honeymoon , Susan ? ''
`` Yes , Mrs. Dr. dear , a honeymoon , '' repeat Susan firmly .
`` I shall never be able to get a husband but I be not go to be cheat out of everything and a honeymoon I intend to have .
I be go to Charlottetown to visit my married brother and his family .
His wife have be ail all the fall , but nobody know whether she be go to die not .
She never do tell anyone what she be go to do until she do it .
That be the main reason why she be never like in our family .
But to be on the safe side I feel that I should visit her .
I have not be in town for over a day for twenty year and I have a feeling that I might as well see one of those move picture there be so much talk of , so a not to be wholly out of the swim .
But have no fear that I shall be carry away with them , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I shall be away a fortnight if you can spare me so long . ''
`` You certainly deserve a good holiday , Susan .
Better take a month -- that be the proper length for a honeymoon . ''
`` No , Mrs. Dr. dear , a fortnight be all I require .
Besides , I must be home for at least three week before Christmas to make the proper preparation .
We will have a Christmas that be a Christmas this year , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Do you think there be any chance of our boy be home for it ? ''
`` No , I think not , Susan .
Both Jem and Shirley write that they do n't expect to be home before spring -- it may be even midsummer before Shirley come .
But Carl Meredith will be home , and Nan and Di , and we will have a grand celebration once more .
We 'll set chair for all , Susan , a you do our first war Christmas -- yes , for all -- for my dear lad whose chair must always be vacant , as well a for the others , Susan . ''
`` It be not likely I would forget to set his place , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , wipe her eye a she depart to pack up for her `` honeymoon . ''
CHAPTER XXXV `` RILLA-MY-RILLA ! ''
Carl Meredith and Miller Douglas come home just before Christmas and Glen St. Mary meet them at the station with a brass band borrow from Lowbridge and speech of home manufacture .
Miller be brisk and beam in spite of his wooden leg ; he have develop into a broad-shouldered , impose look fellow and the D. C. Medal he wear reconciled Miss Cornelia to the shortcoming of his pedigree to such a degree that she tacitly recognize his engagement to Mary .
The latter put on a few air -- especially when Carter Flagg take Miller into his store a head clerk -- but nobody grudge them to her .
`` Of course farming 's out of the question for u now , '' she tell Rilla , `` but Miller think he 'll like storekeeping fine once he get use to a quiet life again , and Carter Flagg will be a more agreeable bos than old Kitty .
We 're go to be marry in the fall and live in the old Mead house with the bay window and the mansard roof .
I 've always think that the handsome house in the Glen , but never do I dream I 'd ever live there .
We 're only rent it , of course , but if thing go a we expect and Carter Flagg take Miller into partnership we 'll own it some day .
Say , I 've get on some in society , have n't I , consider what I come from ?
I never aspire to be a storekeeper 's wife .
But Miller 's real ambitious and he 'll have a wife that 'll back him up .
He say he never saw a French girl worth look at twice and that his heart beat true to me every moment he be away . ''
Jerry Meredith and Joe Milgrave come back in January , and all winter the boy from the Glen and it environs come home by two and three .
None of them come back just a they go away , not even those who have be so fortunate a to escape injury .
One spring day , when the daffodil be blow on the Ingleside lawn , and the bank of the brook in Rainbow Valley be sweet with white and purple violet , the little , lazy afternoon accommodation train pull into the Glen station .
It be very seldom that passenger for the Glen come by that train , so nobody be there to meet it except the new station agent and a small black-and-yellow dog , who for four and a half year have meet every train that have steam into Glen St. Mary .
Thousands of train have Dog Monday meet and never have the boy he wait and watch for return .
Yet still Dog Monday watch on with eye that never quite lose hope .
Perhaps his dog-heart fail him at time ; he be grow old and rheumatic ; when he walk back to his kennel after each train have go his gait be very sober now -- he never trot but go slowly with a droop head and a depressed tail that have quite lose it old saucy uplift .
One passenger step off the train -- a tall fellow in a faded lieutenant 's uniform , who walk with a barely perceptible limp .
He have a bronze face and there be some grey hair in the ruddy curl that cluster around his forehead .
The new station agent look at him anxiously .
He be use to see the khaki-clad figure come off the train , some meet by a tumultuous crowd , others , who have send no word of their coming , step off quietly like this one .
But there be a certain distinction of bearing and feature in this soldier that catch his attention and make him wonder a little more interestedly who he be .
A black-and-yellow streak shot past the station agent .
Dog Monday stiff ?
Dog Monday rheumatic ?
Dog Monday old ?
Never believe it .
Dog Monday be a young pup , go clean mad with rejuvenate joy .
He fling himself against the tall soldier , with a bark that choke in his throat from sheer rapture .
He fling himself on the ground and writhe in a frenzy of welcome .
He try to climb the soldier 's khaki leg and slip down and grovel in an ecstasy that seem a if it must tear his little body in piece .
He lick his boot and when the lieutenant have , with laughter on his lip and tear in his eye , succeed in gather the little creature up in his arm Dog Monday lay his head on the khaki shoulder and lick the sunburned neck , make queer sound between bark and sob .
The station agent have hear the story of Dog Monday .
He know now who the return soldier be .
Dog Monday 's long vigil be end .
Jem Blythe have come home .
`` We be all very happy -- and sad -- and thankful , '' write Rilla in her diary a week later , `` though Susan have not yet recover -- never will recover , I believe -- from the shock of have Jem come home the very night she have , owe to a strenuous day , prepare a ` pick up ' supper .
I shall never forget the sight of her , tear madly about from pantry to cellar , hunt out store away goody .
Just a if anybody care what be on the table -- none of u could eat , anyway .
It be meat and drink just to look at Jem .
Mother seem afraid to take her eye off him l he vanish out of her sight .
It be wonderful to have Jem back -- and little Dog Monday .
Monday refuse to be separate from Jem for a moment .
He sleep on the foot of his bed and squat beside him at meal-times .
And on Sunday he go to church with him and insist on go right into our pew , where he go to sleep on Jem 's foot .
In the middle of the sermon he wake up and seem to think he must welcome Jem all over again , for he bound up with a series of bark and would n't quiet down until Jem take him up in his arm .
But nobody seem to mind , and Mr. Meredith come and pat his head after the service and say , '' ` Faith and affection and loyalty be precious thing wherever they be find .
That little dog 's love be a treasure , Jem . '
`` One night when Jem and I be talk thing over in Rainbow Valley , I ask him if he have ever felt afraid at the front .
`` Jem laugh . ''
` Afraid !
I be afraid score of time -- sick with fear -- I who use to laugh at Walter when he be frighten .
Do you know , Walter be never frighten after he get to the front .
Realities never scar him -- only his imagination could do that .
His colonel tell me that Walter be the brave man in the regiment .
Rilla , I never realize that Walter be dead till I come back home .
You do n't know how I miss him now -- you folks here have get use to it in a sense -- but it 's all fresh to me .
Walter and I grow up together -- we be chum as well a brother -- and now here , in this old valley we love when we be child , it have come home to me that I 'm not to see him again . '
`` Jem be go back to college in the fall and so be Jerry and Carl .
I suppose Shirley will , too .
He expect to be home in July .
Nan and Di will go on teaching .
Faith do n't expect to be home before September .
I suppose she will teach then too , for she and Jem ca n't be marry until he get through his course in medicine .
Una Meredith have decide , I think , to take a course in Household Science at Kingsport -- and Gertrude be to be marry to her Major and be frankly happy about it -- ` shamelessly happy ' she say ; but I think her attitude be very beautiful .
They be all talk of their plan and hope -- more soberly than they use to do long ago , but still with interest , and a determination to carry on and make good in spite of lose year . ''
` We 're in a new world , ' Jem say , ` and we 've get to make it a well one than the old .
That be n't do yet , though some folk seem to think it ought to be .
The job be n't finish -- it be n't really begin .
The old world be destroy and we must build up the new one .
It will be the task of year .
I 've see enough of war to realize that we 've get to make a world where war ca n't happen .
We 've give Prussianism it mortal wound but it be n't dead yet and it be n't confine to Germany either .
It be n't enough to drive out the old spirit -- we 've get to bring in the new . '
`` I 'm write down those word of Jem 's in my diary so that I can read them over occasionally and get courage from them , when mood come when I find it not so easy to ` keep faith . ' ''
Rilla close her journal with a little sigh .
Just then she be not find it easy to keep faith .
All the rest seem to have some special aim or ambition about which to build up their life -- she have none .
And she be very lonely , horribly lonely .
Jem have come back -- but he be not the laugh boy-brother who have go away in 1914 and he belong to Faith .
Walter would never come back .
She have not even Jims leave .
All at once her world seem wide and empty -- that be , it have seem wide and empty from the moment yesterday when she have read in a Montreal paper a fortnight-old list of returned soldier in which be the name of Captain Kenneth Ford .
So Ken be home -- and he have not even write her that he be come .
He have be in Canada two week and she have not have a line from him .
Of course he have forget -- if there be ever anything to forget -- a handclasp -- a kiss -- a look -- a promise ask under the influence of a passing emotion .
It be all absurd -- she have be a silly , romantic , inexperienced goose .
Well , she would be wiser in the future -- very wise -- and very discreet -- and very contemptuous of men and their way .
`` I suppose I 'd well go with Una and take up Household Science too , '' she think , a she stand by her window and look down through a delicate emerald tangle of young vine on Rainbow Valley , lie in a wonderful lilac light of sunset .
There do not seem anything very attractive just then about Household Science , but , with a whole new world wait to be build , a girl must do something .
The door bell rang , Rilla turn reluctantly stairwards .
She must answer it -- there be no one else in the house ; but she hat the idea of caller just then .
She go downstairs slowly , and open the front door .
A man in khaki be stand on the step -- a tall fellow , with dark eye and hair , and a narrow white scar run across his brown cheek .
Rilla star at him foolishly for a moment .
Who be it ?
She ought to know him -- there be certainly something very familiar about him -- `` Rilla-my-Rilla , '' he say .
`` Ken , '' gasp Rilla .
Of course , it be Ken -- but he look so much old -- he be so much change -- that scar -- the line about his eye and lip -- her thought go whirl helplessly .
Ken take the uncertain hand she hold out , and look at her .
The slim Rilla of four year ago have round out into symmetry .
He have leave a school girl , and he find a woman -- a woman with wonderful eye and a dented lip , and rose-bloom cheek -- a woman altogether beautiful and desirable -- the woman of his dream .
`` Is it Rilla-my-Rilla ? ''
he ask , meaningly .
Emotion shake Rilla from head to foot .
Joy -- happiness -- sorrow -- fear -- every passion that have wrung her heart in those four long year seem to surge up in her soul for a moment a the deep of be be stir .
She have try to speak ; at first voice would not come .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___The_Story_Girl.txt.out
CHAPTER I .
THE HOME OF OUR FATHERS `` I do like a road , because you can be always wonder what be at the end of it . ''
The Story Girl say that once upon a time .
Felix and I , on the May morning when we leave Toronto for Prince Edward Island , have not then hear her say it , and , indeed , be but barely aware of the existence of such a person a the Story Girl .
We do not know her at all under that name .
We know only that a cousin , Sara Stanley , whose mother , our Aunt Felicity , be dead , be live down on the Island with Uncle Roger and Aunt Olivia King , on a farm adjoin the old King homestead in Carlisle .
We suppose we should get acquaint with her when we reach there , and we have an idea , from Aunt Olivia 's letter to father , that she would be quite a jolly creature .
Further than that we do not think about her .
We be more interested in Felicity and Cecily and Dan , who live on the homestead and would therefore be our roofmates for a season .
But the spirit of the Story Girl 's yet unuttered remark be thrill in our heart that morning , a the train pull out of Toronto .
We be fare forth on a long road ; and , though we have some idea what would be at the end of it , there be enough glamour of the unknown about it to lend a wonderful charm to our speculation concern it .
We be delight at the thought of see father 's old home , and living among the haunt of his boyhood .
He have talk so much to u about it , and describe it scene so often and so minutely , that he have inspire u with some of his own deep-seated affection for it -- an affection that have never wan in all his year of exile .
We have a vague feeling that we , somehow , belong there , in that cradle of our family , though we have never see it .
We have always look forward eagerly to the promise day when father would take u `` down home , '' to the old house with the spruce behind it and the famous `` King orchard '' before it -- when we might ramble in `` Uncle Stephen 's Walk , '' drink from the deep well with the Chinese roof over it , stand on `` the Pulpit Stone , '' and eat apple from our `` birthday tree . ''
The time have come sooner than we have dare to hope ; but father could not take u after all .
His firm ask him to go to Rio de Janeiro that spring to take charge of their new branch there .
It be too good a chance to lose , for father be a poor man and it meant promotion and increase of salary ; but it also mean the temporary break up of our home .
Our mother have die before either of u be old enough to remember her ; father could not take u to Rio de Janeiro .
In the end he decide to send u to Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet down on the homestead ; and our housekeeper , who belong to the Island and be now return to it , take charge of u on the journey .
I fear she have an anxious trip of it , poor woman !
She be constantly in a quite justifiable terror lest we should be lose or kill ; she must have felt great relief when she reach Charlottetown and hand u over to the keep of Uncle Alec .
Indeed , she say as much .
`` The fat one be n't so bad .
He be n't so quick to move and get out of your sight while you 're wink a the thin one .
But the only safe way to travel with those young one would be to have 'em both tie to you with a short rope -- a MIGHTY short rope . ''
`` The fat one '' be Felix , who be very sensitive about his plumpness .
He be always take exercise to make him thin , with the dismal result that he become fatter all the time .
He vow that he do n't care ; but he DID care terribly , and he glower at Mrs. MacLaren in a most undutiful fashion .
He have never like her since the day she have tell him he would soon be as broad a he be long .
For my own part , I be rather sorry to see her go ; and she cry over u and wish u well ; but we have forget all about her by the time we reach the open country , drive along , one on either side of Uncle Alec , whom we love from the moment we saw him .
He be a small man , with thin , delicate feature , close-clipped gray beard , and large , tired , blue eye -- father 's eye over again .
We know that Uncle Alec be fond of child and be heart-glad to welcome `` Alan 's boy . ''
We felt at home with him , and be not afraid to ask him question on any subject that come uppermost in our mind .
We become very good friend with him on that twenty-four mile drive .
Much to our disappointment it be dark when we reach Carlisle -- too dark to see anything very distinctly , a we drive up the lane of the old King homestead on the hill .
Behind u a young moon be hang over southwestern meadow of spring-time peace , but all about u be the soft , moist shadow of a May night .
We peer eagerly through the gloom .
`` There 's the big willow , Bev , '' whisper Felix excitedly , a we turn in at the gate .
There it be , in truth -- the tree Grandfather King have plant when he return one evening from plough in the brook field and stick the willow switch he have use all day in the soft soil by the gate .
It have take root and grown ; our father and our uncle and aunt have play in it shadow ; and now it be a massive thing , with a huge girth of trunk and great spread bough , each of them as large a a tree in itself .
`` I 'm go to climb it to-morrow , '' I say joyfully .
Off to the right be a dim , branch place which we know be the orchard ; and on our left , among sibilant spruce and fir , be the old , whitewashed house -- from which presently a light gleam through an open door , and Aunt Janet , a big , bustling , sonsy woman , with full-blown peony cheek , come to welcome u .
Soon after we be at supper in the kitchen , with it low , dark , rafter ceiling from which substantial ham and flitch of bacon be hang .
Everything be just a father have describe it .
We felt that we have come home , leave exile behind u .
Felicity , Cecily , and Dan be sit opposite u , star at u when they think we would be too busy eat to see them .
We try to stare at them when THEY be eat ; and a a result we be always catch each other at it and feel cheap and embarrassed .
Dan be the old ; he be my age -- thirteen .
He be a lean , freckle fellow with rather long , lank , brown hair and the shapely King nose .
We recognize it at once .
His mouth be his own , however , for it be like to no mouth on either the King or the Ward side ; and nobody would have be anxious to claim it , for it be an undeniably ugly one -- long and narrow and twisted .
But it could grin in friendly fashion , and both Felix and I felt that we be go to like Dan .
Felicity be twelve .
She have be call after Aunt Felicity , who be the twin sister of Uncle Felix .
Aunt Felicity and Uncle Felix , a father have often tell u , have die on the same day , far apart , and be bury side by side in the old Carlisle graveyard .
We have know from Aunt Olivia 's letter , that Felicity be the beauty of the connection , and we have be curious to see her on that account .
She fully justify our expectation .
She be plump and dimple , with big , dark-blue , heavy-lidded eye , soft , feathery , golden curl , and a pink and white skin -- `` the King complexion . ''
The Kings be note for their nose and complexion .
Felicity have also delightful hand and wrist .
At every turn of them a dimple show itself .
It be a pleasure to wonder what her elbow must be like .
She be very nicely dress in a pink print and a frilled muslin apron ; and we understand , from something Dan say , that she have `` dress up '' in honour of our come .
This make u feel quite important .
So far a we know , no feminine creature have ever go to the pain of dress up on our account before .
Cecily , who be eleven , be pretty also -- or would have be have Felicity not be there .
Felicity rather take the colour from other girl .
Cecily look pale and thin beside her ; but she have dainty little feature , smooth brown hair of satin sheen , and mild brown eye , with just a hint of demureness in them now and again .
We remember that Aunt Olivia have write to father that Cecily be a true Ward -- she have no sense of humour .
We do not know what this meant , but we think it be not exactly complimentary .
Still , we be both incline to think we would like Cecily good than Felicity .
To be sure , Felicity be a stunning beauty .
But , with the swift and unerring intuition of childhood , which feel in a moment what it sometimes take maturity much time to perceive , we realize that she be rather too well aware of her good look .
In brief , we saw that Felicity be vain .
`` It 's a wonder the Story Girl be n't over to see you , '' say Uncle Alec .
`` She 's be quite wild with excitement about your come . ''
`` She have n't be very well all day , '' explain Cecily , `` and Aunt Olivia would n't let her come out in the night air .
She make her go to bed instead .
The Story Girl be awfully disappointed . ''
`` Who be the Story Girl ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Oh , Sara -- Sara Stanley .
We call her the Story Girl partly because she 's such a hand to tell story -- oh , I ca n't begin to describe it -- and partly because Sara Ray , who live at the foot of the hill , often come up to play with u , and it be awkward to have two girl of the same name in the same crowd .
Besides , Sara Stanley do n't like her name and she 'd rather be call the Story Girl . ''
Dan speaking for the first time , rather sheepishly volunteer the information that Peter have also be intend to come over but have to go home to take some flour to his mother instead .
`` Peter ? ''
I question .
I have never hear of any Peter .
`` He be your Uncle Roger 's handy boy , '' say Uncle Alec .
`` His name be Peter Craig , and he be a real smart little chap .
But he 's get his share of mischief , that same lad . ''
`` He want to be Felicity 's beau , '' say Dan slyly .
`` Do n't talk silly nonsense , Dan , '' say Aunt Janet severely .
Felicity toss her golden head and shot an unsisterly glance at Dan .
`` I would n't be very likely to have a hire boy for a beau , '' she observe .
We saw that her anger be real , not affect .
Evidently Peter be not an admirer of whom Felicity be proud .
We be very hungry boy ; and when we have eat all we could -- and oh , what suppers Aunt Janet always spread !
-- we discover that we be very tired also -- too tired to go out and explore our ancestral domain , a we would have like to do , despite the dark .
We be quite willing to go to bed ; and presently we find ourselves tuck away upstairs in the very room , look out eastward into the spruce grove , which father have once occupy .
Dan share it with u , sleep in a bed of his own in the opposite corner .
The sheet and pillow-slips be fragrant with lavender , and one of Grandmother King 's noted patchwork quilt be over u .
The window be open and we hear the frog sing down in the swamp of the brook meadow .
We have hear frog sing in Ontario , of course ; but certainly Prince Edward Island frog be more tuneful and mellow .
Or be it simply the glamour of old family tradition and tale which be over u , lend it magic to all sight and sound around u ?
This be home -- father 's home -- OUR home !
We have never live long enough in any one house to develop a feeling of affection for it ; but here , under the roof-tree build by Great-Grandfather King ninety year ago , that feel sweep into our boyish heart and soul like a flood of living sweetness and tenderness .
`` Just think , those be the very frogs father listen to when he be a little boy , '' whisper Felix .
`` They can hardly be the SAME frog , '' I object doubtfully , not feel very certain about the possible longevity of frog .
`` It 's twenty year since father leave home . ''
`` Well , they 're the descendant of the frog he hear , '' say Felix , `` and they 're sing in the same swamp .
That 's near enough . ''
Our door be open and in their room across the narrow hall the girl be prepare for bed , and talk rather more loudly than they might have do have they realize how far their sweet , shrill voice carry .
`` What do you think of the boy ? ''
ask Cecily .
`` Beverley be handsome , but Felix be too fat , '' answer Felicity promptly .
Felix twitch the quilt rather viciously and grunt .
But I begin to think I would like Felicity .
It might not be altogether her fault that she be vain .
How could she help it when she look in the mirror ?
`` I think they 're both nice and nice look , '' say Cecily .
Dear little soul !
`` I wonder what the Story Girl will think of them , '' say Felicity , a if , after all , that be the main thing .
Somehow , we , too , felt that it be .
We felt that if the Story Girl do not approve of u it make little difference who else do or do not .
`` I wonder if the Story Girl be pretty , '' say Felix aloud .
`` No , she be n't , '' say Dan instantly , from across the room .
`` But you 'll think she be while she 's talk to you .
Everybody do .
It 's only when you go away from her that you find out she be n't a bit pretty after all . ''
The girl ' door shut with a bang .
Silence fell over the house .
We drift into the land of sleep , wonder if the Story Girl would like u .
CHAPTER II .
A QUEEN OF HEARTS I waken shortly after sunrise .
The pale May sunshine be shower through the spruce , and a chill , inspire wind be toss the bough about .
`` Felix , wake up , '' I whisper , shake him .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
he murmur reluctantly .
`` It 's morning .
Let 's get up and go down and out .
I ca n't wait another minute to see the place father have tell u of . ''
We slip out of bed and dress , without arouse Dan , who be still slumber soundly , his mouth wide open , and his bed-clothes kick off on the floor .
I have hard work to keep Felix from try to see if he could `` shy '' a marble into that tempt open mouth .
I tell him it would waken Dan , who would then likely insist on get up and accompany u , and it would be so much nicer to go by ourselves for the first time .
Everything be very still a we creep downstairs .
Out in the kitchen we hear some one , presumably Uncle Alec , light the fire ; but the heart of house have not yet begin to beat for the day .
We pause a moment in the hall to look at the big `` Grandfather '' clock .
It be not go , but it seem like an old , familiar acquaintance to u , with the gilt ball on it three peak ; the little dial and pointer which would indicate the change of the moon , and the very dent in it wooden door which father have make when he be a boy , by kick it in a fit of naughtiness .
Then we open the front door and step out , rapture swell in our bosom .
There be a rare breeze from the south blowing to meet u ; the shadow of the spruce be long and clear-cut ; the exquisite sky of early morning , blue and wind-winnowed , be over u ; away to the west , beyond the brook field , be a long valley and a hill purple with fir and lace with still leafless beech and maple .
Behind the house be a grove of fir and spruce , a dim , cool place where the wind be fond of purring and where there be always a resinous , woodsy odour .
On the further side of it be a thick plantation of slender silver birch and whisper poplar ; and beyond it be Uncle Roger 's house .
Right before u , gird about with it trim spruce hedge , be the famous King orchard , the history of which be weave into our early recollection .
We know all about it , from father 's description , and in fancy we have roam in it many a time and oft .
It be now nearly sixty year since it have have it beginning , when Grandfather King bring his bride home .
Before the wedding he have fence off the big south meadow that slop to the sun ; it be the fine , most fertile field on the farm , and the neighbour tell young Abraham King that he would raise many a fine crop of wheat in that meadow .
Abraham King smile and , be a man of few word , say nothing ; but in his mind he have a vision of the year to be , and in that vision he saw , not ripple acre of harvest gold , but great , leafy avenue of wide-spreading tree lade with fruit to gladden the eye of child and grandchild yet unborn .
It be a vision to develop slowly into fulfilment .
Grandfather King be in no hurry .
He do not set his whole orchard out at once , for he wish it to grow with his life and history , and be bind up with all of good and joy that should come to his household .
So the morning after he have bring his young wife home they go together to the south meadow and plant their bridal tree .
These tree be no longer living ; but they have be when father be a boy , and every spring bedeck themselves in blossom a delicately tint a Elizabeth King 's face when she walk through the old south meadow in the morn of her life and love .
When a son be bear to Abraham and Elizabeth a tree be plant in the orchard for him .
They have fourteen child in all , and each child have it `` birth tree . ''
Every family festival be commemorate in like fashion , and every beloved visitor who spend a night under their roof be expect to plant a tree in the orchard .
So it come to pass that every tree in it be a fair green monument to some love or delight of the vanished year .
And each grandchild have it tree , there , also , set out by grandfather when the tidings of it birth reach him ; not always an apple tree -- perhaps it be a plum , or cherry or pear .
But it be always know by the name of the person for whom , or by whom , it be plant ; and Felix and I know as much about `` Aunt Felicity 's pear , '' and `` Aunt Julia 's cherry , '' and `` Uncle Alec 's apple , '' and the `` Rev . Mr. Scott 's plum , '' a if we have be bear and breed among them .
And now we have come to the orchard ; it be before u ; we have only to open that little whitewashed gate in the hedge and we might find ourselves in it storied domain .
But before we reach the gate we glance to our left , along the grassy , spruce-bordered lane which lead over to Uncle Roger 's ; and at the entrance of that lane we saw a girl standing , with a gray cat at her foot .
She lift her hand and beckon blithely to u ; and , the orchard forgotten , we follow her summons .
For we know that this must be the Story Girl ; and in that gay and graceful gesture be an allurement not to be gainsay or deny .
We look at her a we draw near with such interest that we forget to feel shy .
No , she be not pretty .
She be tall for her fourteen year , slim and straight ; around her long , white face -- rather too long and too white -- fell sleek , dark-brown curl , tie above either ear with rosette of scarlet ribbon .
Her large , curve mouth be as red a a poppy , and she have brilliant , almond-shaped , hazel eye ; but we do not think her pretty .
Then she speak ; she say , `` Good morning . ''
Never have we hear a voice like hers .
Never , in all my life since , have I hear such a voice .
I can not describe it .
I might say it be clear ; I might say it be sweet ; I might say it be vibrant and far-reaching and bell-like ; all this would be true , but it would give you no real idea of the peculiar quality which make the Story Girl 's voice what it be .
If voice have colour , hers would have be like a rainbow .
It make word LIVE .
Whatever she say become a breathing entity , not a mere verbal statement or utterance .
Felix and I be too young to understand or analyze the impression it make upon u ; but we instantly felt at her greeting that it WAS a good morning -- a surpassingly good morning -- the very best morning that have ever happen in this most excellent of world .
`` You be Felix and Beverley , '' she go on , shake our hand with an air of frank comradeship , which be very different from the shy , feminine advance of Felicity and Cecily .
From that moment we be as good friend a if we have know each other for a hundred year .
`` I be glad to see you .
I be so disappointed I could n't go over last night .
I get up early this morning , though , for I felt sure you would be up early , too , and that you 'd like to have me tell you about thing .
I can tell thing so much good than Felicity or Cecily .
Do you think Felicity be VERY pretty ? ''
`` She 's the pretty girl I ever saw , '' I say enthusiastically , remember that Felicity have call me handsome .
`` The boy all think so , '' say the Story Girl , not , I fancy , quite well pleased .
`` And I suppose she be .
She be a splendid cook , too , though she be only twelve .
I ca n't cook .
I be try to learn , but I do n't make much progress .
Aunt Olivia say I have n't enough natural gumption ever to be a cook ; but I 'd love to be able to make a good cake and pie a Felicity can make .
But then , Felicity be stupid .
It 's not ill-natured of me to say that .
It 's just the truth , and you 'd soon find it out for yourselves .
I like Felicity very well , but she IS stupid .
Cecily be ever so much cleverer .
Cecily 's a dear .
So be Uncle Alec ; and Aunt Janet be pretty nice , too . ''
`` What be Aunt Olivia like ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Aunt Olivia be very pretty .
She be just like a pansy -- all velvety and purply and goldy . ''
Felix and I SAW , somewhere inside of our head , a velvet and purple and gold pansy-woman , just a the Story Girl speak .
`` But be she NICE ? ''
I ask .
That be the main question about grown-ups .
Their look matter little to u .
`` She be lovely .
But she be twenty-nine , you know .
That 's pretty old .
She do n't bother me much .
Aunt Janet say that I 'd have no bring up at all , if it be n't for her .
Aunt Olivia say child should just be let COME up -- that everything else be settle for them long before they be bear .
I do n't understand that .
Do you ? ''
No , we do not .
But it be our experience that grown-ups have a habit of say thing hard to understand .
`` What be Uncle Roger like ? ''
be our next question .
`` Well , I like Uncle Roger , '' say the Story Girl meditatively .
`` He be big and jolly .
But he tease people too much .
You ask him a serious question and you get a ridiculous answer .
He hardly ever scold or get cross , though , and THAT be something .
He be an old bachelor . ''
`` Does n't he ever mean to get marry ? ''
ask Felix .
`` I do n't know .
Aunt Olivia wish he would , because she 's tired keep house for him , and she want to go to Aunt Julia in California .
But she say he 'll never get marry , because he be look for perfection , and when he find her she wo n't have HIM . ''
By this time we be all sit down on the gnarled root of the spruce , and the big gray cat come over and make friend with u .
He be a lordly animal , with a silver-gray coat beautifully mark with darker stripe .
With such colour most cat would have have white or silver foot ; but he have four black paw and a black nose .
Such point give him an air of distinction , and mark him out a quite different from the common or garden variety of cat .
He seem to be a cat with a tolerably good opinion of himself , and his response to our advance be slightly ting with condescension .
`` This be n't Topsy , be it ? ''
I ask .
I know at once that the question be a foolish one .
Topsy , the cat of which father have talk , have flourish thirty year before , and all her nine life could scarcely have last so long .
`` No , but it be Topsy 's great-great-great-great-grandson , '' say the Story Girl gravely .
`` His name be Paddy and he be my own particular cat .
We have barn cat , but Paddy never associate with them .
I be very good friend with all cat .
They be so sleek and comfortable and dignified .
And it be so easy to make them happy .
Oh , I 'm so glad you boy have come to live here .
Nothing ever happen here , except day , so we have to make our own good time .
We be short of boy before -- only Dan and Peter to four girl . ''
`` FOUR girl ?
Oh , yes , Sara Ray .
Felicity mention her .
What be she like ?
Where do she live ? ''
`` Just down the hill .
You ca n't see the house for the spruce bush .
Sara be a nice girl .
She 's only eleven , and her mother be dreadfully strict .
She never allow Sara to read a single story .
JUST you fancy !
Sara 's conscience be always trouble her for do thing she 's sure her mother wo n't approve , but it never prevent her from do them .
It only spoil her fun .
Uncle Roger say that a mother who wo n't let you do anything , and a conscience that wo n't let you enjoy anything be an awful combination , and he do n't wonder Sara be pale and thin and nervous .
But , between you and me , I believe the real reason be that her mother do n't give her half enough to eat .
Not that she 's mean , you know -- but she think it be n't healthy for child to eat much , or anything but certain thing .
Is n't it fortunate we be n't bear into that sort of a family ? ''
`` I think it 's awfully lucky we be all bear into the same family , '' Felix remark .
`` Is n't it ?
I 've often think so .
And I 've often think what a dreadful thing it would have be if Grandfather and Grandmother King have never get marry to each other .
I do n't suppose there would have be a single one of u child here at all ; or if we be , we would be part somebody else and that would be almost a bad .
When I think it all over I ca n't feel too thankful that Grandfather and Grandmother King happen to marry each other , when there be so many other people they might have marry . ''
Felix and I shiver .
We felt suddenly that we have escape a dreadful danger -- the danger of have be bear somebody else .
But it take the Story Girl to make u realize just how dreadful it be and what a terrible risk we have run year before we , or our parent either , have exist .
`` Who live over there ? ''
I ask , point to a house across the field .
`` Oh , that belong to the Awkward Man .
His name be Jasper Dale , but everybody call him the Awkward Man .
And they do say he write poetry .
He call his place Golden Milestone .
I know why , because I 've read Longfellow 's poem .
He never go into society because he be so awkward .
The girl laugh at him and he do n't like it .
I know a story about him and I 'll tell it to you sometime . ''
`` And who live in that other house ? ''
ask Felix , look over the westering valley where a little gray roof be visible among the tree .
`` Old Peg Bowen .
She 's very queer .
She live there with a lot of pet animal in winter , and in summer she roam over the country and beg her meal .
They say she be crazy .
People have always try to frighten u child into good behaviour by tell u that Peg Bowen would catch u if we do n't behave .
I 'm not so frightened of her a I once be , but I do n't think I would like to be catch by her .
Sara Ray be dreadfully scared of her .
Peter Craig say she be a witch and that he bet she 's at the bottom of it when the butter wo n't come .
But I do n't believe THAT .
Witches be so scarce nowadays .
There may be some somewhere in the world , but it 's not likely there be any here right in Prince Edward Island .
They use to be very plenty long ago .
I know some splendid witch story I 'll tell you some day .
They 'll just make your blood freeze in your vein . ''
We have n't a doubt of it .
If anybody could freeze the blood in our vein this girl with the wonderful voice could .
But it be a May morning , and our young blood be run blithely in our vein .
We suggest a visit to the orchard would be more agreeable .
`` All right .
I know story about it , too , '' she say , a we walk across the yard , follow by Paddy of the wave tail .
`` Oh , be n't you glad it be spring ?
The beauty of winter be that it make you appreciate spring . ''
The latch of the gate click under the Story Girl 's hand , and the next moment we be in the King orchard .
CHAPTER III .
LEGENDS OF THE OLD ORCHARD Outside of the orchard the grass be only begin to grow green ; but here , shelter by the spruce hedge from uncertain wind and slop to southern sun , it be already like a wonderful velvet carpet ; the leaf on the tree be begin to come out in woolly , grayish cluster ; and there be purple-pencilled white violet at the base of the Pulpit Stone .
`` It 's all just a father describe it , '' say Felix with a blissful sigh , `` and there 's the well with the Chinese roof . ''
We hurry over to it , tread on the spear of mint that be begin to shoot up about it .
It be a very deep well , and the curb be of rough , undressed stone .
Over it , the queer , pagoda-like roof , build by Uncle Stephen on his return from a voyage to China , be cover with yet leafless vine .
`` It 's so pretty , when the vine leaf out and hang down in long festoon , '' say the Story Girl .
`` The bird build their nest in it .
A pair of wild canary come here every summer .
And fern grow out between the stone of the well a far down a you can see .
The water be lovely .
Uncle Edward preach his fine sermon about the Bethlehem well where David 's soldier go to get him water , and he illustrate it by describe his old well at the homestead -- this very well -- and how in foreign land he have long for it sparkling water .
So you see it be quite famous . ''
`` There 's a cup just like the one that use to be here in father 's time , '' exclaim Felix , point to an old-fashioned shallow cup of clouded blue ware on a little shelf inside the curb .
`` It be the very same cup , '' say the Story Girl impressively .
`` Is n't it an amazing thing ?
That cup have be here for forty year , and hundred of people have drink from it , and it have never be break .
Aunt Julia drop it down the well once , but they fish it up , not hurt a bit except for that little nick in the rim .
I think it be bind up with the fortune of the King family , like the Luck of Edenhall in Longfellow 's poem .
It be the last cup of Grandmother King 's second best set .
Her best set be still complete .
Aunt Olivia have it .
You must get her to show it to you .
It 's so pretty , with red berry all over it , and the funny little pot-bellied cream jug .
Aunt Olivia never use it except on a family anniversary . ''
We take a drink from the blue cup and then go to find our birthday tree .
We be rather disappointed to find them quite large , sturdy one .
It seem to u that they should still be in the sapling stage correspond to our boyhood .
`` Your apple be lovely to eat , '' the Story Girl say to me , `` but Felix 's be only good for pie .
Those two big tree behind them be the twin ' tree -- my mother and Uncle Felix , you know .
The apple be so dead sweet that nobody but u child and the French boy can eat them .
And that tall , slender tree over there , with the branch all grow straight up , be a seedling that come up of itself , and NOBODY can eat it apple , they be so sour and bitter .
Even the pig wo n't eat them .
Aunt Janet try to make pie of them once , because she say she hat to see them go to waste .
But she never try again .
She say it be well to waste apple alone than apple and sugar too .
And then she try give them away to the French hire men , but they would n't even carry them home . ''
The Story Girl 's word fell on the morning air like pearl and diamond .
Even her preposition and conjunction have untold charm , hint at mystery and laughter and magic bound up in everything she mention .
Apple pie and sour seedling and pig become straightway invest with a glamour of romance .
`` I like to hear you talk , '' say Felix in his grave , stodgy way .
`` Everybody do , '' say the Story Girl coolly .
`` I 'm glad you like the way I talk .
But I want you to like ME , too -- AS WELL a you like Felicity and Cecily .
Not BETTER .
I want that once but I 've get over it .
I find out in Sunday School , the day the minister teach our class , that it be selfish .
But I want you to like me AS WELL . ''
`` Well , I will , for one , '' say Felix emphatically .
I think he be remember that Felicity have call him fat .
Cecily now joined u .
It appear that it be Felicity 's morning to help prepare breakfast , therefore she could not come .
We all go to Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
This be a double row of apple tree , run down the western side of the orchard .
Uncle Stephen be the first born of Abraham and Elizabeth King .
He have none of grandfather 's abide love for wood and meadow and the kindly way of the warm red earth .
Grandmother King have be a Ward , and in Uncle Stephen the blood of the seafaring race claim it own .
To sea he must go , despite the pleading and tear of a reluctant mother ; and it be from the sea he come to set out his avenue in the orchard with tree bring from a foreign land .
Then he sail away again -- and the ship be never hear of more .
The gray first come in grandmother 's brown hair in those month of wait .
The , for the first time , the orchard hear the sound of weep and be consecrate by a sorrow .
`` When the blossom come out it 's wonderful to walk here , '' say the Story Girl .
`` It 's like a dream of fairyland -- a if you be walk in a king 's palace .
The apple be delicious , and in winter it 's a splendid place for coast . ''
From the Walk we go to the Pulpit Stone -- a huge gray boulder , as high a a man 's head , in the southeastern corner .
It be straight and smooth in front , but slop down in natural step behind , with a ledge midway on which one could stand .
It have play an important part in the game of our uncle and aunt , be fortify castle , Indian ambush , throne , pulpit , or concert platform , a occasion require .
Uncle Edward have preach his first sermon at the age of eight from that old gray boulder ; and Aunt Julia , whose voice be to delight thousand , sing her early madrigal there .
The Story Girl mount to the ledge , sit on the rim , and look at u .
Pat sit gravely at it base and daintily wash his face with his black paw .
`` Now for your story about the orchard , '' say I . `` There be two important one , '' say the Story Girl .
`` The story of the Poet Who Was Kissed , and the Tale of the Family Ghost .
Which one shall I tell ? ''
`` Tell them both , '' say Felix greedily , `` but tell the ghost one first . ''
`` I do n't know . ''
The Story Girl look dubious .
`` That sort of story ought to be tell in the twilight among the shadow .
Then it would frighten the soul out of your body . ''
We think it might be more agreeable not to have the soul frighten out of our body , and we vote for the Family Ghost .
`` Ghost story be more comfortable in daytime , '' say Felix .
The Story Girl begin it and we listen avidly .
Cecily , who have hear it many time before , listen just as eagerly a we do .
She declare to me afterwards that no matter how often the Story Girl tell a story it always seem a new and exciting a if you have just hear it for the first time .
`` Long , long ago , '' begin the Story Girl , her voice give u an impression of remote antiquity , `` even before Grandfather King be bear , an orphan cousin of his live here with his parent .
Her name be Emily King .
She be very small and very sweet .
She have soft brown eye that be too timid to look straight at anybody -- like Cecily 's there -- and long , sleek , brown curl -- like mine ; and she have a tiny birthmark like a pink butterfly on one cheek -- right here .
`` Of course , there be no orchard here then .
It be just a field ; but there be a clump of white birch in it , right where that big , spread tree of Uncle Alec 's be now , and Emily like to sit among the fern under the birch and read or sew .
She have a lover .
His name be Malcolm Ward and he be as handsome a a prince .
She love him with all her heart and he love her the same ; but they have never speak about it .
They use to meet under the birch and talk about everything except love .
One day he tell her he be come the next day to ask A VERY IMPORTANT QUESTION , and he want to find her under the birch when he come .
Emily promise to meet him there .
I be sure she stay awake that night , think about it , and wonder what the important question would be , although she know perfectly well .
I would have .
And the next day she dress herself beautifully in her best pale blue muslin and sleek her curl and go smile to the birch .
And while she be wait there , think such lovely thought , a neighbour 's boy come run up -- a boy who do n't know about her romance -- and cry out that Malcolm Ward have be kill by his gun go off accidentally .
Emily just put her hand to her heart -- so -- and fell , all white and broken among the fern .
And when she come back to life she never cry or lament .
She be CHANGED .
She be never , never like herself again ; and she be never content unless she be dress in her blue muslin and wait under the birch .
She get paler and paler every day , but the pink butterfly grow red , until it look just like a stain of blood on her white cheek .
When the winter come she die .
But next spring '' -- the Story Girl drop her voice to a whisper that be a audible and thrill a her louder tone -- `` people begin to tell that Emily be sometimes see wait under the birch still .
Nobody know just who tell it first .
But more than one person saw her .
Grandfather saw her when he be a little boy .
And my mother saw her once . ''
`` Did YOU ever see her ? ''
ask Felix skeptically .
`` No , but I shall some day , if I keep on believing in her , '' say the Story Girl confidently .
`` I would n't like to see her .
I 'd be afraid , '' say Cecily with a shiver .
`` There would n't be anything to be afraid of , '' say the Story Girl reassuringly .
`` It 's not a if it be a strange ghost .
It 's our own family ghost , so of course it would n't hurt u . ''
We be not so sure of this .
Ghosts be unchancy folk , even if they be our family ghost .
The Story Girl have make the tale very real to u .
We be glad we have not hear it in the evening .
How could we ever have get back to the house through the shadow and sway branch of a darken orchard ?
As it be , we be almost afraid to look up it , lest we should see the waiting , blue-clad Emily under Uncle Alec 's tree .
But all we saw be Felicity , tear over the green sward , her curl streaming behind her in a golden cloud .
`` Felicity 's afraid she 's missed something , '' remark the Story Girl in a tone of quiet amusement .
`` Is your breakfast ready , Felicity , or have I time to tell the boy the Story of the Poet Who Was Kissed ? ''
`` Breakfast be ready , but we ca n't have it till father be through attend to the sick cow , so you will likely have time , '' answer Felicity .
Felix and I could n't keep our eye off her .
Crimson-cheeked , shining-eyed from her haste , her face be like a rise of youth .
But when the Story Girl speak , we forget to look at Felicity .
`` About ten year after Grandfather and Grandmother King be marry , a young man come to visit them .
He be a distant relative of grandmother 's and he be a Poet .
He be just begin to be famous .
He be VERY famous afterward .
He come into the orchard to write a poem , and he fell asleep with his head on a bench that use to be under grandfather 's tree .
Then Great-Aunt Edith come into the orchard .
She be not a Great-Aunt then , of course .
She be only eighteen , with red lip and black , black hair and eye .
They say she be always full of mischief .
She have be away and have just come home , and she do n't know about the Poet .
But when she saw him , sleep there , she think he be a cousin they have be expect from Scotland .
And she tiptoe up -- so -- and bent over -- so -- and kiss his cheek .
Then he open his big blue eye and look up into Edith 's face .
She blush as red a a rise , for she know she have do a dreadful thing .
This could not be her cousin from Scotland .
She know , for he have write so to her , that he have eye as black a her own .
Edith run away and hid ; and of course she felt still bad when she find out that he be a famous poet .
But he write one of his most beautiful poem on it afterwards and send it to her -- and it be publish in one of his book . ''
We have SEEN it all -- the sleeping genius -- the roguish , red-lipped girl -- the kiss drop as lightly a a rose-petal on the sunburned cheek .
`` They should have get marry , '' say Felix .
`` Well , in a book they would have , but you see this be in real life , '' say the Story Girl .
`` We sometimes act the story out .
I like it when Peter play the poet .
I do n't like it when Dan be the poet because he be so freckled and screw his eye up so tight .
But you can hardly ever coax Peter to be the poet -- except when Felicity be Edith -- and Dan be so obliging that way . ''
`` What be Peter like ? ''
I ask .
`` Peter be splendid .
His mother live on the Markdale road and wash for a living .
Peter 's father run away and leave them when Peter be only three year old .
He have never come back , and they do n't know whether he be alive or dead .
Is n't that a nice way to behave to your family ?
Peter have work for his board ever since he be six .
Uncle Roger send him to school , and pay him wage in summer .
We all like Peter , except Felicity . ''
`` I like Peter well enough in his place , '' say Felicity primly , `` but you make far too much of him , mother say .
He be only a hired boy , and he have n't be well bring up , and have n't much education .
I do n't think you should make such an equal of him a you do . ''
Laughter ripple over the Story Girl 's face a shadow wave go over ripe wheat before a wind .
`` Peter be a real gentleman , and he be more interesting than YOU could ever be , if you be bring up and educate for a hundred year , '' she say .
`` He can hardly write , '' say Felicity .
`` William the Conqueror could n't write at all , '' say the Story Girl crushingly .
`` He never go to church , and he never say his prayer , '' retort Felicity , uncrushed .
`` I do , too , '' say Peter himself , suddenly appear through a little gap in the hedge .
`` I say my prayer sometimes . ''
This Peter be a slim , shapely fellow , with laughing black eye and thick black curl .
Early in the season a it be , he be barefooted .
His attire consist of a faded , gingham shirt and a scanty pair of corduroy knickerbockers ; but he wear it with such an unconscious air of purple and fine linen that he seem to be much good dress than he really be .
`` You do n't pray very often , '' insist Felicity .
`` Well , God will be all the more likely to listen to me if I do n't pester Him all the time , '' argue Peter .
This be rank heresy to Felicity , but the Story Girl look a if she think there might be something in it .
`` You NEVER go to church , anyhow , '' continue Felicity , determine not to be argue down .
`` Well , I ai n't go to church till I 've make up my mind whether I 'm go to be a Methodist or a Presbyterian .
Aunt Jane be a Methodist .
My mother ai n't much of anything but I mean to be something .
It 's more respectable to be a Methodist or a Presbyterian , or SOMETHING , than not to be anything .
When I 've settle what I 'm to be I 'm go to church same a you . ''
`` That 's not the same a be BORN something , '' say Felicity loftily .
`` I think it 's a good deal well to pick your own religion than have to take it just because it be what your folk have , '' retort Peter .
`` Now , never mind quarrelling , '' say Cecily .
`` You leave Peter alone , Felicity .
Peter , this be Beverley King , and this be Felix .
And we 're all go to be good friend and have a lovely summer together .
Think of the game we can have !
But if you go squabble you 'll spoil it all .
Peter , what be you go to do to-day ? ''
`` Harrow the wood field and dig your Aunt Olivia 's flower bed . ''
`` Aunt Olivia and I plant sweet pea yesterday , '' say the Story Girl , `` and I plant a little bed of my own .
I be NOT go to dig them up this year to see if they have sprout .
It be bad for them .
I shall try to cultivate patience , no matter how long they be come up . ''
`` I be go to help mother plant the vegetable garden to-day , '' say Felicity .
`` Oh , I never like the vegetable garden , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Except when I be hungry .
Then I DO like to go and look at the nice little row of onion and beet .
But I love a flower garden .
I think I could be always good if I live in a garden all the time . ''
`` Adam and Eve live in a garden all the time , '' say Felicity , `` and THEY be far from be always good . ''
`` They might n't have keep good as long a they do if they have n't live in a garden , '' say the Story Girl .
We be now summon to breakfast .
Peter and the Story Girl slip away through the gap , follow by Paddy , and the rest of u walk up the orchard to the house .
`` Well , what do you think of the Story Girl ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` She 's just fine , '' say Felix , enthusiastically .
`` I never hear anything like her to tell story . ''
`` She ca n't cook , '' say Felicity , `` and she have n't a good complexion .
Mind you , she say she 's go to be an actress when she grow up .
Is n't that dreadful ? ''
We do n't exactly see why .
`` Oh , because actress be always wicked people , '' say Felicity in a shocked tone .
`` But I daresay the Story Girl will go and be one just as soon a she can .
Her father will back her up in it .
He be an artist , you know . ''
Evidently Felicity think artist and actress and all such poor trash be member one of another .
`` Aunt Olivia say the Story Girl be fascinate , '' say Cecily .
The very adjective !
Felix and I recognize it beautiful fitness at once .
Yes , the Story Girl WAS fascinate and that be the final word to be say on the subject .
Dan do not come down until breakfast be half over , and Aunt Janet talk to him after a fashion which make u realize that it would be well to keep , a the piquant country phrase go , from the rough side of her tongue .
But all thing consider , we like the prospect of our summer very much .
Felicity to look at -- the Story Girl to tell u tale of wonder -- Cecily to admire u -- Dan and Peter to play with -- what more could reasonable fellow want ?
CHAPTER IV .
THE WEDDING VEIL OF THE PROUD PRINCESS When we have live for a fortnight in Carlisle we belong there , and the freedom of all it small fry be confer on u .
With Peter and Dan , with Felicity and Cecily and the Story Girl , with pale , gray-eyed little Sara Ray , we be boon companion .
We go to school , of course ; and certain home chore be assign to each of u for the faithful performance of which we be hold responsible .
But we have long hour for play .
Even Peter have plenty of spare time when the planting be over .
We get along very well with each other in the main , in spite of some minor difference of opinion .
As for the grown-up denizen of our small world , they suit u also .
We adore Aunt Olivia ; she be pretty and merry and kind ; and , above all , she have master to perfection the rare art of let child alone .
If we keep ourselves tolerably clean , and refrain from quarrel or talk slang , Aunt Olivia do not worry u .
Aunt Janet , on the contrary , give u so much good advice and be so constantly tell u to do this or not to do the other thing , that we could not remember half her instruction , and do not try .
Uncle Roger be , a we have be inform , quite jolly and fond of teasing .
We like him ; but we have an uncomfortable feeling that the meaning of his remark be not always that which meet the ear .
Sometimes we believe Uncle Roger be make fun of u , and the deadly seriousness of youth in u resent that .
The Uncle Alec we give our warm love .
We felt that we always have a friend at court in Uncle Alec , no matter what we do or leave undone .
And we never have to turn HIS speech inside out to discover their meaning .
The social life of juvenile Carlisle centre in the day and Sunday Schools .
We be especially interested in our Sunday School , for we be fortunate enough to be assign to a teacher who make our lesson so interesting that we no longer regard Sunday School attendance a a disagreeable weekly duty ; but instead look forward to it with pleasure , and try to carry out our teacher 's gentle precept -- at least on Mondays and Tuesdays .
I be afraid the remembrance grow a little dim the rest of the week .
She be also deeply interested in mission ; and one talk on this subject inspire the Story Girl to do a little home missionary work on her own account .
The only thing she could think of , along this line , be to persuade Peter to go to church .
Felicity do not approve of the design , and say so plainly .
`` He wo n't know how to behave , for he 's never be inside a church door in his life , '' she warn the Story Girl .
`` He 'll likely do something awful , and then you 'll feel ashamed and wish you 'd never ask him to go , and we 'll all be disgrace .
It 's all right to have our mite box for the heathen , and send missionary to them .
They 're far away and we do n't have to associate with them .
But I do n't want to have to sit in a pew with a hired boy . ''
But the Story Girl undauntedly continue to coax the reluctant Peter .
It be not an easy matter .
Peter do not come of a churchgoing stock ; and besides , he allege , he have not yet make up his mind whether to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
`` It be n't a bit of difference which you be , '' plead the Story Girl .
`` They both go to heaven . ''
`` But one way must be easy or good than the other , or else they 'd all be one kind , '' argue Peter .
`` I want to find the easy way .
And I 've get a hankering after the Methodists .
My Aunt Jane be a Methodist . ''
`` Is n't she one still ? ''
ask Felicity pertly .
`` Well , I do n't know exactly .
She 's dead , '' say Peter rebukingly .
`` Do people go on be just the same after they 're dead ? ''
`` No , of course not .
They 're angel then -- not Methodists or anything , but just angel .
That be , if they go to heaven . ''
`` S'posen they go to the other place ? ''
But Felicity 's theology break down at this point .
She turn her back on Peter and walk disdainfully away .
The Story Girl return to the main point with a new argument .
`` We have such a lovely minister , Peter .
He look just like the picture of St. John my father send me , only he be old and his hair be white .
I know you 'd like him .
And even if you be go to be a Methodist it wo n't hurt you to go to the Presbyterian church .
The near Methodist church be six mile away , at Markdale , and you ca n't attend there just now .
Go to the Presbyterian church until you 're old enough to have a horse . ''
`` But s ` posen I get too fond of be Presbyterian and could n't change if I want to ? ''
object Peter .
Altogether , the Story Girl have a hard time of it ; but she persevere ; and one day she come to u with the announcement that Peter have yield .
`` He 's go to church with u to-morrow , '' she say triumphantly .
We be out in Uncle Roger 's hill pasture , sit on some smooth , round stone under a clump of birch .
Behind u be an old gray fence , with violet and dandelion thick in it corner .
Below u be the Carlisle valley , with it orchard-embowered homestead , and fertile meadow .
Its upper end be dim with a delicate spring mist .
Winds blow up the field like wave upon wave of sweet savour -- spice of bracken and balsam .
We be eat little jam `` turnover , '' which Felicity have make for u .
Felicity 's turnover be perfection .
I look at her and wonder why it be not enough that she should be so pretty and capable of make such turnover .
If she be only more interesting !
Felicity have not a particle of the nameless charm and allurement which hung about every motion of the Story Girl , and make itself manifest in her light word and most careless glance .
Ah well , one can not have every good gift !
The Story Girl have no dimple at her slim , brown wrist .
We all enjoy our turnover except Sara Ray .
She eat hers but she know she should not have do so .
Her mother do not approve of snack between meal , or of jam turnover at any time .
Once , when Sara be in a brown study , I ask her what she be think of .
`` I 'm try to think of something ma have n't forbid , '' she answer with a sigh .
We be all glad to hear that Peter be go to church , except Felicity .
She be full of gloomy foreboding and warning .
`` I 'm surprised at you , Felicity King , '' say Cecily severely .
`` You ought to be glad that poor boy be go to get start in the right way . ''
`` There 's a great big patch on his best pair of trouser , '' protest Felicity .
`` Well , that 's good than a hole , '' say the Story Girl , address herself daintily to her turnover .
`` God wo n't notice the patch . ''
`` No , but the Carlisle people will , '' retort Felicity , in a tone which imply that what the Carlisle people think be far more important .
`` And I do n't believe that Peter have get a decent stocking to his name .
What will you feel like if he go to church with the skin of his legs showing through the hole , Miss Story Girl ? ''
`` I 'm not a bit afraid , '' say the Story Girl staunchly .
`` Peter know good than that . ''
`` Well , all I hope be that he 'll wash behind his ear , '' say Felicity resignedly .
`` How be Pat to-day ? ''
ask Cecily , by way of change the conversation .
`` Pat be n't a bit well .
He just mop about the kitchen , '' say the Story Girl anxiously .
`` I go out to the barn and I saw a mouse .
I have a stick in my hand and I fetch a swipe at it -- so .
I kill it stone dead .
Then I take it in to Paddy .
Will you believe it ?
He would n't even look at it .
I 'm so worried .
Uncle Roger say he need a dose of physic .
But how be he to be make take it , that 's the question .
I mix a powder in some milk and try to pour it down his throat while Peter hold him .
Just look at the scratch I get !
And the milk go everywhere except down Pat 's throat . ''
`` Would n't it be awful if -- if anything happen to Pat ? ''
whisper Cecily .
`` Well , we could have a jolly funeral , you know , '' say Dan .
We look at him in such horror that Dan hasten to apologize .
`` I 'd be awful sorry myself if Pat die .
But if he DID , we 'd have to give him the right kind of a funeral , '' he protest .
`` Why , Paddy just seem like one of the family . ''
The Story Girl finish her turnover , and stretch herself out on the grass , pillow her chin in her hand and look at the sky .
She be bare head , a usual , and her scarlet ribbon be bind filletwise about her head .
She have twin freshly plucked dandelion around it and the effect be that of a crown of brilliant golden star on her sleek , brown curl .
`` Look at that long , thin , lacy cloud up there , '' she say .
`` What do it make you think of , girl ? ''
`` A wedding veil , '' say Cecily .
`` That be just what it be -- the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess .
I know a story about it .
I read it in a book .
Once upon a time '' -- the Story Girl 's eye grow dreamy , and her accent float away on the summer air like wind-blown rise petal -- `` there be a princess who be the most beautiful princess in the world , and king from all land come to woo her for a bride .
But she be as proud a she be beautiful .
She laugh all her suitor to scorn .
And when her father urge her to choose one of them a her husband she draw herself up haughtily -- so -- '' The Story Girl sprang to her foot and for a moment we saw the proud princess of the old tale in all her scornful loveliness -- `` and she say , '' ' I will not wed until a king come who can conquer all king .
Then I shall be the wife of the king of the world and no one can hold herself high than I. ' `` So every king go to war to prove that he could conquer every one else , and there be a great deal of bloodshed and misery .
But the proud princess laugh and sang , and she and her maiden work at a wonderful lace veil which she mean to wear when the king of all king come .
It be a very beautiful veil ; but her maiden whisper that a man have die and a woman 's heart have break for every stitch set in it .
`` Just when a king thought he have conquer everybody some other king would come and conquer HIM ; and so it go on until it do not seem likely the proud princess would ever get a husband at all .
But still her pride be so great that she would not yield , even though everybody except the king who want to marry her , hat her for the suffering she have cause .
One day a horn be blow at the palace gate ; and there be one tall man in complete armor with his visor down , rid on a white horse .
When he say he have come to marry the princess every one laugh , for he have no retinue and no beautiful apparel , and no golden crown . ''
` But I be the king who conquer all king , ' he say . ''
` You must prove it before I shall marry you , ' say the proud princess .
But she tremble and turn pale , for there be something in his voice that frighten her .
And when he laugh , his laughter be still more dreadful . '' '
I can easily prove it , beautiful princess , ' he say , ` but you must go with me to my kingdom for the proof .
Marry me now , and you and I and your father and all your court will ride straightway to my kingdom ; and if you be not satisfied then that I be the king who conquer all king you may give me back my ring and return home free of me forever more . '
`` It be a strange wooing and the friend of the princess beg her to refuse .
But her pride whisper that it would be such a wonderful thing to be the queen of the king of the world ; so she consent ; and her maiden dress her , and put on the long lace veil that have be so many year a-making .
Then they be marry at once , but the bridegroom never lift his visor and no one saw his face .
The proud princess hold herself more proudly than ever , but she be as white a her veil .
And there be no laughter or merry-making , such a should be at a wedding , and every one look at every one else with fear in his eye .
`` After the wed the bridegroom lift his bride before him on his white horse , and her father and all the member of his court mount , too , and rode after them .
On and on they ride , and the sky grow darker and the wind blew and wail , and the shade of even come down .
And just in the twilight they ride into a dark valley , fill with tomb and graf . ''
` Why have you bring me here ? '
cry the proud princess angrily . ''
` This be my kingdom , ' he answer .
` These be the tomb of the king I have conquer .
Behold me , beautiful princess .
I be Death ! '
`` He lift his visor .
All saw his awful face .
The proud princess shriek . ''
` Come to my arm , my bride , ' he cry . '
I have win you fairly .
I be the king who conquer all king ! '
`` He clasp her faint form to his breast and spur his white horse to the tomb .
A tempest of rain break over the valley and blot them from sight .
Very sadly the old king and courtier ride home , and never , never again do human eye behold the proud princess .
But when those long , white cloud sweep across the sky , the country people in the land where she live say , ` Look you , there be the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess . ' ''
The weird spell of the tale rest on u for some moment after the Story Girl have finish .
We have walk with her in the place of death and grown cold with the horror that chill the heart of the poor princess .
Dan presently break the spell .
`` You see it do n't do to be too proud , Felicity , '' he remark , give her a poke .
`` You 'd better not say too much about Peter 's patch . ''
CHAPTER V. PETER GOES TO CHURCH There be no Sunday School the next afternoon , a superintendent and teacher wish to attend a communion service at Markdale .
The Carlisle service be in the evening , and at sunset we be wait at Uncle Alec 's front door for Peter and the Story Girl .
None of the grown-ups be go to church .
Aunt Olivia have a sick headache and Uncle Roger stay home with her .
Aunt Janet and Uncle Alec have go to the Markdale service and have not yet return .
Felicity and Cecily be wear their new summer muslin for the first time -- and be acutely conscious of the fact .
Felicity , her pink and white face shadow by her drooping , forget-me-not-wreathed , leghorn hat , be as beautiful a usual ; but Cecily , have torture her hair with curl paper all night , have a rampant bush of curl all about her head which quite destroy the sweet , nun-like expression of her little feature .
Cecily cherish a grudge against fate because she have not be give naturally curly hair a have the other two girl .
But she attain the desire of her heart on Sundays at least , and be quite well satisfied .
It be impossible to convince her that the satin smooth lustre of her week-day tress be much more become to her .
Presently Peter and the Story Girl appear , and we be all more or less relieve to see that Peter look quite respectable , despite the indisputable patch on his trouser .
His face be rosy , his thick black curl be smoothly comb , and his tie be neatly bow ; but it be his legs which we scrutinize most anxiously .
At first glance they seem well enough ; but close inspection reveal something not altogether customary .
`` What be the matter with your stocking , Peter ? ''
ask Dan bluntly .
`` Oh , I have n't a pair without hole in the leg , '' answer Peter easily , `` because ma have n't time to darn them this week .
So I put on two pair .
The hole do n't come in the same place , and you 'd never notice them unless you look right close . ''
`` Have you get a cent for collection ? ''
demand Felicity .
`` I 've get a Yankee cent .
I s ` pose it will do , wo n't it ? ''
Felicity shake her head vehemently .
`` Oh , no , no .
It may be all right to pass a Yankee cent on a store keeper or an egg peddler , but it would never do for church . ''
`` I 'll have to go without any , then , '' say Peter .
`` I have n't another cent .
I only get fifty cent a week and I give it all to ma last night . ''
But Peter must have a cent .
Felicity would have give him one herself -- and she be none too lavish of her copper -- rather than have him go without one .
Dan , however , lend him one , on the distinct understanding that it be to be repay the next week .
Uncle Roger wander by at this moment and , behold Peter , say , '' ` Is Saul also among the prophet ? '
What can have induce you to turn church-goer , Peter , when all Olivia 's gentle persuasion be of no avail ?
The old , old argument I suppose -- ` beauty draw u with a single hair . ' ''
Uncle Roger look quizzically at Felicity .
We do not know what his quotation mean , but we understand he think Peter be go to church because of Felicity .
Felicity toss her head .
`` It be n't my fault that he 's go to church , '' she say snappishly .
`` It 's the Story Girl 's doings . ''
Uncle Roger sit down on the doorstep , and give himself over to one of the silent , inward paroxysm of laughter we all find so very aggravate .
He shake his big , blond head , shut his eye , and murmur , `` Not her fault !
Oh , Felicity , Felicity , you 'll be the death of your dear Uncle yet if you do n't watch out . ''
Felicity start off indignantly , and we follow , pick up Sara Ray at the foot of the hill .
The Carlisle church be a very old-fashioned one , with a square , ivy-hung tower .
It be shade by tall elm , and the graveyard surround it completely , many of the graf be directly under it window .
We always take the corner path through it , pass the King plot where our kindred of four generation sleep in a green solitude of waver light and shadow .
There be Great-grandfather King 's flat tombstone of rough Island sandstone , so overgrown with ivy that we could hardly read it lengthy inscription , record his whole history in brief , and finish with eight line of original verse compose by his widow .
I do not think that poetry be Great-grandmother King 's strong point .
When Felix read it , on our first Sunday in Carlisle , he remark dubiously that it LOOKED like poetry but do n't SOUND like it .
There , too , sleep the Emily whose faithful spirit be suppose to haunt the orchard ; but Edith who have kiss the poet lay not with her kindred .
She have die in a far , foreign land , and the murmur of an alien sea sound about her grave .
White marble tablet , ornament with weep willow tree , mark where Grandfather and Grandmother King be bury , and a single shaft of red Scotch granite stand between the graf of Aunt Felicity and Uncle Felix .
The Story Girl linger to lay a bunch of wild violet , misty blue and faintly sweet , on her mother 's grave ; and then she read aloud the verse on the stone . ''
` They be lovely and pleasant in their life and in their death they be not divide . ' ''
The tone of her voice bring out the poignant and immortal beauty and pathos of that wonderful old lament .
The girl wipe their eye ; and we boys felt a if we might have do so , too , have nobody be look .
What good epitaph could any one wish than to have it say that he be lovely and pleasant in his life ?
When I hear the Story Girl read it I make a secret compact with myself that I would try to deserve such an epitaph .
`` I wish I have a family plot , '' say Peter , rather wistfully .
`` I have n't ANYTHING you fellows have .
The Craigs be just bury anywhere they happen to die . ''
`` I 'd like to bury here when I die , '' say Felix .
`` But I hope it wo n't be for a good while yet , '' he add in a lively tone , a we move onward to the church .
The interior of the church be as old-fashioned a it exterior .
It be furnish with square box pew ; the pulpit be a `` wine-glass '' one , and be reach by a steep , narrow flight of step .
Uncle Alec 's pew be at the top of the church , quite near the pulpit .
Peter 's appearance do not attract a much attention a we have fondly expect .
Indeed , nobody seem to notice him at all .
The lamp be not yet light and the church be fill with a soft twilight and hush .
Outside , the sky be purple and gold and silvery green , with a delicate tangle of rosy cloud above the elm .
`` Is n't it awful nice and holy in here ? ''
whisper Peter reverently .
`` I do n't know church be like this .
It 's nice . ''
Felicity frown at him , and the Story Girl touch her with her slippered foot to remind him that he must not talk in church .
Peter stiffen up and sit at attention during the service .
Nobody could have behave well .
But when the sermon be over and the collection be be take up , he make the sensation which his entrance have not produce .
Elder Frewen , a tall , pale man , with long , sandy side-whiskers , appear at the door of our pew with the collection plate .
We know Elder Frewen quite well and like him ; he be Aunt Janet 's cousin and often visit her .
The contrast between his week-day jollity and the unearthly solemnity of his countenance on Sundays always strike u a very funny .
It seem so to strike Peter ; for a Peter drop his cent into the plate he laugh aloud !
Everybody look at our pew .
I have always wonder why Felicity do not die of mortification on the spot .
The Story Girl turn white , and Cecily turn red .
As for that poor , unlucky Peter , the shame of his countenance be pitiful to behold .
He never lift his head for the remainder of the service ; and he follow u down the aisle and across the graveyard like a beaten dog .
None of u utter a word until we reach the road , lie in the white moonshine of the May night .
Then Felicity break the tense silence by remark to the Story Girl , `` I tell you so ! ''
The Story Girl make no response .
Peter sidle up to her .
`` I 'm awful sorry , '' he say contritely .
`` I never mean to laugh .
It just happen before I could stop myself .
It be this way -- '' `` Do n't you ever speak to me again , '' say the Story Girl , in a tone of cold concentrate fury .
`` Go and be a Methodist , or a Mohammedan , or ANYTHING !
I do n't care what you be !
You have HUMILIATED me ! ''
She march off with Sara Ray , and Peter drop back to u with a frightened face .
`` What be it I 've do to her ? ''
he whisper .
`` What do that big word mean ? ''
`` Oh , never mind , '' I say crossly -- for I felt that Peter HAD disgrace u -- `` She 's just mad -- and no wonder .
Whatever make you act so crazy , Peter ? ''
`` Well , I do n't mean to .
And I want to laugh twice before that and DID N'T .
It be the Story Girl 's story make me want to laugh , so I do n't think it 's fair for her to be mad at me .
She have n't ought to tell me story about people if she do n't want me to laugh when I see them .
When I look at Samuel Ward I think of him get up in meet one night , and pray that he might be guide in his upsetting and downrising .
I remember the way she take him off , and I want to laugh .
And then I look at the pulpit and thought of the story she tell about the old Scotch minister who be too fat to get in at the door of it , and have to h ` ist himself by his two hand over it , and then whisper to the other minister so that everybody hear him . '' '
This pulpit door be make for speerits ' -- and I want to laugh .
And then Mr. Frewen come -- and I think of her story about his sidewhiskers -- how when his first wife die of information of the lung he go court Celia Ward , and Celia tell him she would n't marry him unless he shave them whisker off .
And he would n't , just to be stubborn .
And one day one of them catch fire , when he be burn brush , and burn off , and every one thought he 'd HAVE to shave the other off then .
But he do n't and just go round with one whisker till the burned one grow out .
And then Celia give in and take him , because she saw there be n't no hope of HIM ever give in .
I just remember that story , and I think I could see him , take up the cent so solemn , with one long whisker ; and the laugh just laugh itself before I could help it . ''
We all explode with laughter on the spot , much to the horror of Mrs. Abraham Ward , who be just drive past , and who come up the next day and tell Aunt Janet we have `` act scandalous '' on the road home from church .
We felt ashamed ourselves , because we know people should conduct themselves decently and in order on Sunday farings-forth .
But , a with Peter , it `` have laugh itself . ''
Even Felicity laugh .
Felicity be not nearly so angry with Peter a might have be expect .
She even walk beside him and let him carry her Bible .
They talk quite confidentially .
Perhaps she forgive him the more easily , because he have justify her in her prediction , and thus afford her a decided triumph over the Story Girl .
`` I 'm go to keep on go to church , '' Peter tell her .
`` I like it .
Sermons be more int ` rest than I think , and I like the singing .
I wish I could make up my mind whether to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
I s ` pose I might ask the minister about it . ''
`` Oh , no , no , do n't do that , '' say Felicity in alarm .
`` Ministers would n't want to be bother with such question . ''
`` Why not ?
What be minister for if they ai n't to tell people how to get to heaven ? ''
`` Oh , well , it 's all right for grown-ups to ask them thing , of course .
But it be n't respectful for little boy -- especially hired boy . ''
`` I do n't see why .
But anyhow , I s ` pose it would n't be much use , because if he be a Presbyterian minister he 'd say I ought to be a Presbyterian , and if he be a Methodist he 'd tell me to be one , too .
Look here , Felicity , what IS the difference between them ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , '' say Felicity reluctantly .
`` I s ` pose child ca n't understand such thing .
There must be a great deal of difference , of course , if we only know what it be .
Anyhow , I be a Presbyterian , and I 'm glad of it . ''
We walk on in silence for a time , think our own young thought .
Presently they be scatter by an abrupt and startle question from Peter .
`` What do God look like ? ''
he say .
It appear that none of u have any idea .
`` The Story Girl would prob ` ly know , '' say Cecily .
`` I wish I know , '' say Peter gravely .
`` I wish I could see a picture of God .
It would make Him seem lots more real . ''
`` I 've often wonder myself what he look like , '' say Felicity in a burst of confidence .
Even in Felicity , so it would seem , there be depth of thought unplumbed .
`` I 've see picture of Jesus , '' say Felix meditatively .
`` He look just like a man , only well and kinder .
But now that I come to think of it , I 've never see a picture of God . ''
`` Well , if there be n't one in Toronto it be n't likely there 's one anywhere , '' say Peter disappointedly .
`` I saw a picture of the devil once , '' he add .
`` It be in a book my Aunt Jane have .
She get it for a prize in school .
My Aunt Jane be clever . ''
`` It could n't have be a very good book if there be such a picture in it , '' say Felicity .
`` It be a real good book .
My Aunt Jane would n't have a book that be n't good , '' retort Peter sulkily .
He refuse to discuss the subject far , somewhat to our disappointment .
For we have never see a picture of the person refer to , and we be rather curious regard it .
`` We 'll ask Peter to describe it sometime when he 's in a good humour , '' whisper Felix .
Sara Ray have turn in at her own gate , I run ahead to join the Story Girl , and we walk up the hill together .
She have recover her calmness of mind , but she make no reference to Peter .
When we reach our lane and pass under Grandfather King 's big willow the fragrance of the orchard strike u in the face like a wave .
We could see the long row of tree , a white gladness in the moonshine .
It seem to u that there be in the orchard something different from other orchard that we have know .
We be too young to analyze the vague sensation .
In late year we be to understand that it be because the orchard blossom not only apple blossom but all the love , faith , joy , pure happiness and pure sorrow of those who have make it and walk there .
`` The orchard do n't seem the same place by moonlight at all , '' say the Story Girl dreamily .
`` It 's lovely , but it 's different .
When I be very small I use to believe the fairy dance in it on moonlight night .
I would like to believe it now but I ca n't . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` Oh , it 's so hard to believe thing you know be not true .
It be Uncle Edward who tell me there be no such thing a fairy .
I be just seven .
He be a minister , so of course I know he speak the truth .
It be his duty to tell me , and I do not blame him , but I have never felt quite the same to Uncle Edward since . ''
Ah , do we ever `` feel quite the same '' towards people who destroy our illusion ?
Shall I ever be able to forgive the brutal creature who first tell me there be no such person a Santa Claus ?
He be a boy , three year old than myself ; and he may now , for aught I know , be a most useful and respectable member of society , beloved by his kind .
But I know what he must ever seem to me !
We wait at Uncle Alec 's door for the others to come up .
Peter be by way of skulk shamefacedly past into the shadow ; but the Story Girl 's brief , bitter anger have vanish .
`` Wait for me , Peter , '' she call .
She go over to him and hold out her hand .
`` I forgive you , '' she say graciously .
Felix and I felt that it would really be worth while to offend her , just to be forgive in such an adorable voice .
Peter eagerly grasp her hand .
`` I tell you what , Story Girl , I 'm awfully sorry I laugh in church , but you need n't be afraid I ever will again .
No , sir !
And I 'm go to church and Sunday School regular , and I 'll say my prayer every night .
I want to be like the rest of you .
And look here !
I 've think of the way my Aunt Jane use to give medicine to a cat .
You mix the powder in lard , and spread it on his paw and his side and he 'll lick it off , 'cause a cat ca n't stand be messy .
If Paddy be n't any good to-morrow , we 'll do that . ''
They go away together hand in hand , children-wise , up the lane of spruce cross with bar of moonlight .
And there be peace over all that fresh and flowery land , and peace in our little heart .
CHAPTER VI .
THE MYSTERY OF GOLDEN MILESTONE Paddy be smear with medicated lard the next day , all of u assist at the rite , although the Story Girl be high priestess .
Then , out of regard for mat and cushion , he be keep in durance vile in the granary until he have lick his fur clean .
This treatment be repeat every day for a week , Pat recover his usual health and spirit , and our mind be set at rest to enjoy the next excitement -- collect for a school library fund .
Our teacher think it would be an excellent thing to have a library in connection with the school ; and he suggest that each of the pupil should try to see how much money he or she could raise for the project during the month of June .
We might earn it by honest toil , or gather it in by contribution levy on our friend .
The result be a determined rivalry a to which pupil should collect the large sum ; and this rivalry be especially intense in our home coterie .
Our relative start u with a quarter apiece .
For the rest , we know we must depend on our own exertion .
Peter be handicap at the beginning by the fact that he have no family friend to finance him .
`` If my Aunt Jane 'd be live she 'd have give me something , '' he remark .
`` And if my father have n't run away he might have give me something too .
But I 'm go to do the best I can anyhow .
Your Aunt Olivia say I can have the job of gather the egg , and I 'm to have one egg out of every dozen to sell for myself . ''
Felicity make a similar bargain with her mother .
The Story Girl and Cecily be each to be pay ten cent a week for wash dish in their respective home .
Felix and Dan contract to keep the garden free from weed .
I catch brook trout in the westering valley of spruce and sell them for a cent apiece .
Sara Ray be the only unhappy one among u .
She could do nothing .
She have no relative in Carlisle except her mother , and her mother do not approve of the school library project , and would not give Sara a cent , or put her in any way of earn one .
To Sara , this be humiliation indescribable .
She felt herself an outcast and an alien to our busy little circle , where each member count every day , with miserly delight , his slowly increase hoard of small cash .
`` I 'm just go to pray to God to send me some money , '' she announce desperately at last .
`` I do n't believe that will do any good , '' say Dan .
`` He give lot of thing , but he do n't give money , because people can earn that for themselves . ''
`` I ca n't , '' say Sara , with passionate defiance .
`` I think He ought to take that into account . ''
`` Do n't worry , dear , '' say Cecily , who always pour balm .
`` If you ca n't collect any money everybody will know it be n't your fault . ''
`` I wo n't ever feel like read a single book in the library if I ca n't give something to it , '' mourn Sara .
Dan and the girl and I be sit in a row on Aunt Olivia 's garden fence , watch Felix weed .
Felix work well , although he do not like weed -- `` fat boy never do , '' Felicity inform him .
Felix pretend not to hear her , but I know he do , because his ear grow red .
Felix 's face never blush , but his ear always give him away .
As for Felicity , she do not say thing like that out of malice prepense .
It never occur to her that Felix do not like to be call fat .
`` I always feel so sorry for the poor weed , '' say the Story Girl dreamily .
`` It must be very hard to be root up . ''
`` They should n't grow in the wrong place , '' say Felicity mercilessly .
`` When weed go to heaven I suppose they will be flower , '' continue the Story Girl .
`` You do think such queer thing , '' say Felicity .
`` A rich man in Toronto have a floral clock in his garden , '' I say .
`` It look just like the face of a clock , and there be flower in it that open at every hour , so that you can always tell the time . ''
`` Oh , I wish we have one here , '' exclaim Cecily .
`` What would be the use of it ? ''
ask the Story Girl a little disdainfully .
`` Nobody ever want to know the time in a garden . ''
I slip away at this point , suddenly remember that it be time to take a dose of magic seed .
I have buy it from Billy Robinson three day before in school .
Billy have assure me that it would make me grow fast .
I be begin to feel secretly worry because I do not grow .
I have overhear Aunt Janet say I be go to be short , like Uncle Alec .
Now , I love Uncle Alec , but I want to be tall than he be .
So when Billy confide to me , under solemn promise of secrecy , that he have some `` magic seed , '' which would make boy grow , and would sell me a box of it for ten cent , I jump at the offer .
Billy be taller than any boy of his age in Carlisle , and he assure me it all come from take magic seed .
`` I be a regular runt before I begin , '' he say , `` and look at me now .
I get it from Peg Bowen .
She 's a witch , you know .
I would n't go near her again for a bushel of magic seed .
It be an awful experience .
I have n't much leave , but I guess I 've enough to do me till I 'm as tall a I want to be .
You must take a pinch of the seed every three hour , walk backward , and you must never tell a soul you 're take it , or it wo n't work .
I would n't spare any of it to any one but you . ''
I felt deeply grateful to Billy , and sorry that I have not like him good .
Somehow , nobody do like Billy Robinson over and above .
But I vow I WOULD like him in future .
I pay him the ten cent cheerfully and take the magic seed a direct , measure myself carefully every day by a mark on the hall door .
I could not see any advance in growth yet , but then I have be take it only three day .
One day the Story Girl have an inspiration .
`` Let u go and ask the Awkward Man and Mr. Campbell for a contribution to the library fund , '' she say .
`` I be sure no one else have ask them , because nobody in Carlisle be relate to them .
Let u all go , and if they give u anything we 'll divide it equally among u . ''
It be a daring proposition , for both Mr. Campbell and the Awkward Man be regard a eccentric personage ; and Mr. Campbell be suppose to detest child .
But where the Story Girl lead we would follow to the death .
The next day be Saturday , we start out in the afternoon .
We take a short cut to Golden Milestone , over a long , green , dewy land full of placid meadow , where sunshine have fall asleep .
At first all be not harmonious .
Felicity be in an ill humour ; she have want to wear her second best dress , but Aunt Janet have decree that her school clothes be good enough to go `` traipse about in the dust . ''
Then the Story Girl arrive , array not in any second best but in her very best dress and hat , which her father have send her from Paris -- a dress of soft , crimson silk , and a white leghorn hat encircle by flame-red poppy .
Neither Felicity nor Cecily could have wear it ; but it become the Story Girl perfectly .
In it she be a thing of fire and laughter and glow , a if the singular charm of her temperament be visible and tangible in it vivid colouring and silken texture .
`` I should n't think you 'd put on your best clothes to go beg for the library in , '' say Felicity cuttingly .
`` Aunt Olivia say that when you be go to have an important interview with a man you ought to look your very best , '' say the Story Girl , give her skirt a lustrous swirl and enjoy the effect .
`` Aunt Olivia spoil you , '' say Felicity .
`` She do n't either , Felicity King !
Aunt Olivia be just sweet .
She kiss me good-night every night , and your mother NEVER kiss you . ''
`` My mother do n't make kiss so common , '' retort Felicity .
`` But she give u pie for dinner every day . ''
`` So do Aunt Olivia . ''
`` Yes , but look at the difference in the size of the piece !
And Aunt Olivia only give you skim milk .
My mother give u cream . ''
`` Aunt Olivia 's skim milk be as good a your mother 's cream , '' cry the Story Girl hotly .
`` Oh , girl , do n't fight , '' say Cecily , the peacemaker .
`` It 's such a nice day , and we 'll have a nice time if you do n't spoil it by fight . ''
`` We 're NOT fight , '' say Felicity .
`` And I like Aunt Olivia .
But my mother be just as good a Aunt Olivia , there now ! ''
`` Of course she be .
Aunt Janet be splendid , '' agree the Story Girl .
They smile at each other amicably .
Felicity and the Story Girl be really quite fond of each other , under the queer surface friction that commonly result from their intercourse .
`` You say once you know a story about the Awkward Man , '' say Felix .
`` You might tell it to u . ''
`` All right , '' agree the Story Girl .
`` The only trouble be , I do n't know the whole story .
But I 'll tell you all I do know .
I call it ` The Mystery of the Golden Milestone . ' ''
`` Oh , I do n't believe that story be true , '' say Felicity .
`` I believe Mrs. Griggs be just romance .
She DOES romance , mother say . ''
`` Yes ; but I do n't believe she could ever have think of such a thing a this herself , so I believe it must be true , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Anyway , this be the story , boy .
You know the Awkward Man have live alone ever since his mother die , ten year ago .
Abel Griggs be his hired man , and he and his wife live in a little house down the Awkward Man 's lane .
Mrs. Griggs make his bread for him , and she clean up his house now and then .
She say he keep it very neat .
But till last fall there be one room she never saw .
It be always lock -- the west one , look out over his garden .
One day last fall the Awkward Man go to Summerside , and Mrs. Griggs scrub his kitchen .
Then she go over the whole house and she try the door of the west room .
Mrs. Griggs be a VERY curious woman .
Uncle Roger say all woman have as much curiosity a be good for them , but Mrs. Griggs have more .
She expect to find the door lock a usual .
It be NOT lock .
She open it and go in .
What do you suppose she find ? ''
`` Something like -- like Bluebeard 's chamber ? ''
suggest Felix in a scared tone .
`` Oh , no , NO !
Nothing like THAT could happen in Prince Edward Island .
But if there HAD be beautiful wife hang up by their hair all round the wall I do n't believe Mrs. Griggs could have be much more astonished .
The room have never be furnish in his mother 's time , but now it be ELEGANTLY furnish , though Mrs. Griggs say SHE do n't know when or how that furniture be bring there .
She say she never saw a room like it in a country farmhouse .
It be like a bed-room and sitting-room combine .
The floor be cover with a carpet like green velvet .
There be fine lace curtain at the window and beautiful picture on the wall .
There be a little white bed , and a dressing-table , a bookcase full of book , a stand with a work basket on it , and a rocking-chair .
There be a woman 's picture above the bookcase .
Mrs. Griggs say she think it be a coloured photograph , but she do n't know who it be .
Anyway , it be a very pretty girl .
But the most amazing thing of all be that A WOMAN 'S DRESS be hang over a chair by the table .
Mrs. Griggs say it NEVER belong to Jasper Dale 's mother , for she think it a sin to wear anything but print and drugget ; and this dress be of PALE BLUE silk .
Besides that , there be a pair of blue satin slipper on the floor beside it -- HIGH-HEELED slipper .
And on the fly-leaves of the book the name ` Alice ' be write .
Now , there never be an Alice in the Dale connection and nobody ever heard of the Awkward Man have a sweetheart .
There , be n't that a lovely mystery ? ''
`` It 's a pretty queer yarn , '' say Felix .
`` I wonder if it be true -- and what it mean . ''
`` I intend to find out what it mean , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I be go to get acquaint with the Awkward Man sometime , and then I 'll find out his Alice-secret . ''
`` I do n't see how you 'll ever get acquaint with him , '' say Felicity .
`` He never go anywhere except to church .
He just stay home and read book when he be n't work .
Mother say he be a perfect hermit . ''
`` I 'll manage it somehow , '' say the Story Girl -- and we have no doubt that she would .
`` But I must wait until I 'm a little old , for he would n't tell the secret of the west room to a little girl .
And I must n't wait till I 'm TOO old , for he be frighten of grown-up girl , because he think they laugh at his awkwardness .
I know I will like him .
He have such a nice face , even if he be awkward .
He look like a man you could tell thing to . ''
`` Well , I 'd like a man who could move around without fall over his own foot , '' say Felicity .
`` And then the look of him !
Uncle Roger say he be long , lank , lean , narrow , and contract . ''
`` Things always sound bad than they be when Uncle Roger say them , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Uncle Edward say Jasper Dale be a very clever man and it 's a great pity he be n't able to finish his college course .
He go to college two year , you know .
Then his father die , and he stay home with his mother because she be very delicate .
I call him a hero .
I wonder if it be true that he write poetry .
Mrs. Griggs say it be .
She say she have see him write it in a brown book .
She say she could n't get near enough to read it , but she know it be poetry by the shape of it . ''
`` Very likely .
If that blue silk dress story be true , I 'd believe ANYTHING of him , '' say Felicity .
We be near Golden Milestone now .
The house be a big , weather-gray structure , overgrown with vine and climb rose .
Something about the three square window in the second story give it an appearance of wink at u in a friendly fashion through it vine -- at least , so the Story Girl say ; and , indeed , we could see it for ourselves after she have once point it out to u .
We do not get into the house , however .
We meet the Awkward man in his yard , and he give u a quarter apiece for our library .
He do not seem awkward or shy ; but then we be only child , and his foot be on his native heath .
He be a tall , slender man , who do not look his forty year , so unwrinkled be his high , white forehead , so clear and lustrous his large , dark-blue eye , so free from silver thread his rather long black hair .
He have large hand and foot , and walk with a slight stoop .
I be afraid we star at him rather rudely while the Story Girl talk to him .
But be not an Awkward Man , who be also a hermit and keep blue silk dress in a locked room , and possibly write poetry , a legitimate object of curiosity ?
I leave it to you .
When we get away we compare note , and find that we all like him -- and this , although he have say little and have appear somewhat glad to get rid of u .
`` He give u the money like a gentleman , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I felt he do n't grudge it .
And now for Mr. Campbell .
It be on HIS account I put on my red silk .
I do n't suppose the Awkward Man notice it at all , but Mr. Campbell will , or I 'm much mistaken . ''
CHAPTER VII .
HOW BETTY SHERMAN WON A HUSBAND The rest of u do not share the Story Girl 's enthusiasm regard our call on Mr. Campbell .
We secretly dread it .
If , a be say , he detest child , who know what sort of a reception we might meet ?
Mr. Campbell be a rich , retired farmer , who take life easily .
He have visit New York and Boston , Toronto and Montreal ; he have even be as far a the Pacific coast .
Therefore he be regard in Carlisle a a much travel man ; and he be know to be `` well read '' and intelligent .
But it be also know that Mr. Campbell be not always in a good humour .
If he like you there be nothing he would not do for you ; if he dislike you -- well , you be not leave in ignorance of it .
In short , we have the impression that Mr. Campbell resemble the famous little girl with the curl in the middle of her forehead .
`` When he be good , he be very , very good , and when he be bad he be horrid . ''
What if this be one of his horrid day ?
`` He ca n't DO anything to u , you know , '' say the Story Girl .
`` He may be rude , but that wo n't hurt any one but himself . ''
`` Hard word break no bone , '' observe Felicity philosophically .
`` But they hurt your feeling .
I be afraid of Mr. Campbell , '' say Cecily candidly .
`` Perhaps we 'd well give up and go home , '' suggest Dan .
`` You can go home if you like , '' say the Story Girl scornfully .
`` But I be go to see Mr. Campbell .
I know I can manage him .
But if I have to go alone , and he give me anything , I 'll keep it all for my own collection , mind you . ''
That settle it .
We be not go to let the Story Girl get ahead of u in the manner of collect .
Mr. Campbell 's housekeeper usher u into his parlour and leave u .
Presently Mr. Campbell himself be stand in the doorway , look u over .
We take heart of grace .
It seem to be one of his good day , for there be a quizzical smile on his broad , clean-shaven , strongly-featured face .
Mr. Campbell be a tall man , with a massive head , well thatch with thick , black hair , gray-streaked .
He have big , black eye , with many wrinkle around them , and a thin , firm , long-lipped mouth .
We think him handsome , for an old man .
His gaze wander over u with uncomplimentary indifference until it fell on the Story Girl , lean back in an arm-chair .
She look like a slender red lily in the unstudied grace of her attitude .
A spark flash into Mr. Campbell 's black eye .
`` Is this a Sunday School deputation ? ''
he inquire rather ironically .
`` No .
We have come to ask a favour of you , '' say the Story Girl .
The magic of her voice work it will on Mr. Campbell , a on all others .
He come in , sit down , hook his thumb into his vest pocket , and smile at her .
`` What be it ? ''
he ask .
`` We be collect for our school library , and we have call to ask you for a contribution , '' she reply .
`` Why should I contribute to your school library ? ''
demand Mr. Campbell .
This be a poser for u .
Why should he , indeed ?
But the Story Girl be quite equal to it .
Leaning forward , and throw an indescribable witchery into tone and eye and smile , she say , `` Because a lady ask you . ''
Mr. Campbell chuckle .
`` The best of all reason , '' he say .
`` But see here , my dear young lady , I 'm an old miser and curmudgeon , a you may have heard .
I HATE to part with my money , even for a good reason .
And I NEVER part with any of it , unless I be to receive some benefit from the expenditure .
Now , what earthly good could I get from your three by six school library ?
None whatever .
But I shall make you a fair offer .
I have hear from my housekeeper 's urchin of a son that you be a ` master hand ' to tell story .
Tell me one , here and now .
I shall pay you in proportion to the entertainment you afford me .
Come now , and do your prettiest . ''
There be a fine mockery in his tone that put the Story Girl on her mettle instantly .
She spring to her foot , an amazing change come over her .
Her eye flash and burn ; crimson spot glow in her cheek .
`` I shall tell you the story of the Sherman girl , and how Betty Sherman win a husband , '' she say .
We gasp .
Was the Story Girl crazy ?
Or have she forget that Betty Sherman be Mr. Campbell 's own great-grandmother , and that her method of win a husband be not exactly in accordance with maidenly tradition .
But Mr. Campbell chuckle again .
`` An excellent test , '' he say .
`` If you can amuse ME with that story you must be a wonder .
I 've hear it so often that it have no more interest for me than the alphabet . ''
`` One cold winter day , eighty year ago , '' begin the Story Girl without further parley , `` Donald Fraser be sit by the window of his new house , play his fiddle for company , and look out over the white , frozen bay before his door .
It be bitter , bitter cold , and a storm be brew .
But , storm , or no storm , Donald mean to go over the bay that even to see Nancy Sherman .
He be think of her a he play ` Annie Laurie , ' for Nancy be more beautiful than the lady of the song .
` Her face , it be the fair that e'er the sun shone on , ' hum Donald -- and oh , he think so , too !
He do not know whether Nancy care for him or not .
He have many rival .
But he know that if she would not come to be the mistress of his new house no one else ever should .
So he sit there that afternoon and dreamed of her , a he play sweet old song and rollick jig on his fiddle .
`` While he be play a sleigh drive up to the door , and Neil Campbell come in .
Donald be not overly glad to see him , for he suspect where he be go .
Neil Campbell , who be Highland Scotch and live down at Berwick , be court Nancy Sherman , too ; and , what be far bad , Nancy 's father favour him , because he be a rich man than Donald Fraser .
But Donald be not go to show all he think -- Scotch people never do -- and he pretend to be very glad to see Neil and make him heartily welcome .
`` Neil sit down by the roaring fire , look quite well satisfied with himself .
It be ten mile from Berwick to the bay shore , and a call at a half way house be just the thing .
Then Donald bring out the whisky .
They always do that eighty year ago , you know .
If you be a woman , you could give your visitor a dish of tea ; but if you be a man and do not offer them a ` taste ' of whisky , you be think either very mean or very ignorant . ''
` You look cold , ' say Donald , in his great , hearty voice .
` Sit nearer the fire , man , and put a bit of warmth in your vein .
It 's bitter cold the day .
And now tell me the Berwick news .
Has Jean McLean make up with her man yet ?
And be it true that Sandy McQuarrie be to marry Kate Ferguson ?
` Twill be a match now !
Sure , with her red hair , Sandy will not be like to lose his bride past find . '
`` Neil have plenty of news to tell .
And the more whisky he drink the more he tell .
He do n't notice that Donald be not take much .
Neil talk on and on , and of course he soon begin to tell thing it would have be much wiser not to tell .
Finally he tell Donald that he be go over the bay to ask Nancy Sherman that very night to marry him .
And if she would have him , then Donald and all the folk should see a wedding that WAS a wedding .
`` Oh , be n't Donald take aback !
This be more than he have expect .
Neil have n't be court Nancy very long , and Donald never dream he would propose to her QUITE so soon .
`` At first Donald do n't know what to do .
He felt sure deep down in his heart , that Nancy like HIM .
She be very shy and modest , but you know a girl can let a man see she like him without go out of her way .
But Donald know that if Neil propose first he would have the best chance .
Neil be rich and the Shermans be poor , and old Elias Sherman would have the most to say in the matter .
If he tell Nancy she must take Neil Campbell she would never dream of disobey him .
Old Elias Sherman be a man who have to be obey .
But if Nancy have only promise some one else first her father would not make her break her word .
`` Was n't it a hard plight for poor Donald ?
But he be a Scotchman , you know , and it 's pretty hard to stick a Scotchman long .
Presently a twinkle come into his eye , for he remember that all be fair in love and war .
So he say to Neil , oh , so persuasively , '' ` Have some more , man , have some more .
` Twill keep the heart in you in the teeth of that wind .
Help yourself .
There 's plenty more where that come from . '
`` Neil do n't want MUCH persuasion .
He take some more , and say slyly , '' ` Is it go over the bay the night that yourself will be do ? '
`` Donald shake his head . '' '
I have think of it , ' he own , ` but it look a wee like a storm , and my sleigh be at the blacksmith 's to be shoe .
If I go it must be on Black Dan 's back , and he like a canter over the ice in a snow-storm as little a I . His own fireside be the best place for a man to-night , Campbell .
Have another taste , man , have another taste . '
`` Neil go on ` tasting , ' and that sly Donald sit there with a sober face , but laugh eye , and coax him on .
At last Neil 's head fell forward on his breast , and he be sound asleep .
Donald get up , put on his overcoat and cap , and go to the door . ''
` May your sleep be long and sweet , man , ' he say , laugh softly , ` and a for the waking , ` twill be betwixt you and me . '
`` With that he untie Neil 's horse , climb into Neil 's sleigh , and tuck Neil 's buffalo robe about him . ''
` Now , Bess , old girl , do your bonny , ' he say .
` There 's more than you know hang on your speed .
If the Campbell wake too soon Black Dan could show you a pair of clean heel for all your good start .
On , my girl . '
`` Brown Bess go over the ice like a deer , and Donald keep thinking of what he should say to Nancy -- and more still of what she would say to him .
SUPPOSE he be mistake .
SUPPOSE she say ` no ! ' ''
` Neil would have the laugh on me then .
Sure he 's sleep well .
And the snow be come soon .
There 'll be a bonny swirl on the bay ere long .
I hope no harm will come to the lad if he start to cross .
When he wake he 'll be in such a fine Highland temper that he 'll never stop to think of danger .
Well , Bess , old girl , here we be .
Now , Donald Fraser , pluck up heart and play the man .
Never flinch because a slip of a lass look scornful at you out of the bonny dark-blue eye on earth . '
`` But in spite of his bold word Donald 's heart be thump a he drive into the Sherman yard .
Nancy be there milk a cow by the stable door , but she stand up when she saw Donald come .
Oh , she be very beautiful !
Her hair be like a skein of golden silk , and her eye be as blue a the gulf water when the sun break out after a storm .
Donald felt more nervous than ever .
But he know he must make the most of his chance .
He might not see Nancy alone again before Neil come .
He catch her hand and stammer out , '' ` Nan , lass , I love you .
You may think 't be a hasty wooing , but that 's a story I can tell you later maybe .
I know well I 'm not worthy of you , but if true love could make a man worthy there 'd be none before me .
Will you have me , Nan ? '
`` Nancy do n't SAY she would have him .
She just LOOKED it , and Donald kiss her right there in the snow .
`` The next morning the storm be over .
Donald know Neil must be soon on his track .
He do not want to make the Sherman house the scene of a quarrel , so he resolve to get away before the Campbell come .
He persuade Nancy to go with him to visit some friend in another settlement .
As he bring Neil 's sleigh up to the door he saw a black speck far out on the bay and laugh . ''
` Black Dan go well , but he 'll not be quick enough , ' he say .
`` Half an hour later Neil Campbell rush into the Sherman kitchen and oh , how angry he be !
There be nobody there but Betty Sherman , and Betty be not afraid of him .
She be never afraid of anybody .
She be very handsome , with hair as brown a October nut and black eye and crimson cheek ; and she have always be in love with Neil Campbell herself . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Campbell , ' she say , with a toss of her head .
` It 's early abroad you be .
And on Black Dan , no le !
Was I mistake in thinking that Donald Fraser say once that his favourite horse should never be back by any man but him ?
But doubtless a fair exchange be no robbery , and Brown Bess be a good mare in her way . ' ''
` Where be Donald Fraser ? '
say Neil , shake his fist .
` It 's him I 'm seek , and it 's him I will be find .
Where be he , Betty Sherman ? ' ''
` Donald Fraser be far enough away by this time , ' mock Betty .
` He be a prudent fellow , and have some quickness of wit under that sandy thatch of his .
He come here last night at sunset , with a horse and sleigh not his own , or lately gotten , and he ask Nan in the stable yard to marry him .
Did a man ask ME to marry him at the cow 's side with a milk pail in my hand , it 's a cold answer he 'd get for his pain .
But Nan think differently , and they sit late together last night , and 't be a bonny story Nan waken me to hear when she come to bed -- the story of a braw lover who let his secret out when the whisky be above the wit , and then fell asleep while his rival be away to woo and win his lass .
Did you ever hear a like story , Mr. Campbell ? ' ''
` Oh , yes , ' say Neil fiercely .
` It be laugh at me over the country side and tell that story that Donald Fraser will be do , be it ?
But when I meet him it be not laugh he will be do .
Oh , no .
There will be another story to tell ! ' ''
` Now , do n't meddle with the man , ' cry Betty .
` What a state to be in because one good-looking lass like sandy hair and gray eye well than Highland black and blue !
You have not the spirit of a wren , Neil Campbell .
Were I you , I would show Donald Fraser that I could woo and win a lass as speedily a any Lowlander of them all ; that I would !
There 's many a girl would gladly say ` yes ' for your asking .
And here stand one !
Why not marry ME , Neil Campbell ?
Folks say I 'm as bonny a Nan -- and I could love you as well a Nan love her Donald -- ay , and ten time well ! '
`` What do you suppose the Campbell do ?
Why , just the thing he ought to have do .
He take Betty at her word on the spot ; and there be a double wedding soon after .
And it be say that Neil and Betty be the happy couple in the world -- happy even than Donald and Nancy .
So all be well because it end well ! ''
The Story Girl curtsy until her silken skirt sweep the floor .
Then she fling herself in her chair and look at Mr. Campbell , flush , triumphant , dare .
The story be old to u .
It have once be publish in a Charlottetown paper , and we have read in Aunt Olivia 's scrapbook , where the Story Girl have learn it .
But we have listen entrance .
I have write down the bare word of the story , a she tell it ; but I can never reproduce the charm and colour and spirit she infuse into it .
It LIVED for u .
Donald and Neil , Nancy and Betty , be there in that room with u .
We saw the flash of expression on their face , we hear their voice , angry or tender , mock or merry , in Lowland and Highland accent .
We realize all the mingle coquetry and feeling and defiance and archness in Betty Sherman 's dare speech .
We have even forget all about Mr. Campbell .
That gentleman , in silence , take out his wallet , extract a note therefrom , and hand it gravely to the Story Girl .
`` There be five dollar for you , '' he say , `` and your story be well worth it .
You ARE a wonder .
Some day you will make the world realize it .
I 've be about a bit , and hear some good thing , but I 've never enjoy anything more than that threadbare old story I hear in my cradle .
And now , will you do me a favour ? ''
`` Of course , '' say the delighted Story Girl .
`` Recite the multiplication table for me , '' say Mr. Campbell .
We star .
Well might Mr. Campbell be call eccentric .
What on earth do he want the multiplication table recite for ?
Even the Story Girl be surprise .
But she begin promptly , with twice one and go through it to twelve time twelve .
She repeat it simply , but her voice change from one tone to another a each in succession grow tire .
We have never dream that there be so much in the multiplication table .
As she announce it , the fact that three time three be nine be exquisitely ridiculous , five time six almost brought tear to our eye , eight time seven be the most tragic and frightful thing ever heard of , and twelve time twelve rang like a trumpet call to victory .
Mr. Campbell nod his satisfaction .
`` I think you could do it , '' he say .
`` The other day I find this statement in a book .
` Her voice would have make the multiplication table charm ! '
I think of it when I hear yours .
I do n't believe it before , but I do now . ''
Then he let u go .
`` You see , '' say the Story Girl a we go home , `` you need never be afraid of people . ''
`` But we be not all Story Girls , '' say Cecily .
That night we hear Felicity talk to Cecily in their room .
`` Mr. Campbell never notice one of u except the Story Girl , '' she say , `` but if I have put on MY best dress a she do maybe she would n't have take all the attention . ''
`` Could you ever do what Betty Sherman do , do you suppose ? ''
ask Cecily absently .
`` No ; but I believe the Story Girl could , '' answer Felicity rather snappishly .
CHAPTER VIII .
A TRAGEDY OF CHILDHOOD The Story Girl go to Charlottetown for a week in June to visit Aunt Louisa .
Life seem very colourless without her , and even Felicity admit that it be lonesome .
But three day after her departure Felix tell u something on the way home from school which lend some spice to existence immediately .
`` What do you think ? ''
he say in a very solemn , yet excite , tone .
`` Jerry Cowan tell me at recess this afternoon that he HAD SEEN A PICTURE OF GOD -- that he have it at home in an old , red-covered history of the world , and have look at it OFTEN . ''
To think that Jerry Cowan should have see such a picture often !
We be a deeply impress a Felix have mean u to be .
`` Did he say what it be like ? ''
ask Peter .
`` No -- only that it be a picture of God , walk in the garden of Eden . ''
`` Oh , '' whisper Felicity -- we all speak in low tone on the subject , for , by instinct and training , we think and utter the Great Name with reverence , in spite of our devouring curiosity -- `` oh , WOULD Jerry Cowan bring it to school and let u see it ? ''
`` I ask him that , soon a ever he tell me , '' say Felix .
`` He say he might , but he could n't promise , for he 'd have to ask his mother if he could bring the book to school .
If she 'll let him he 'll bring it to-morrow . ''
`` Oh , I 'll be almost afraid to look at it , '' say Sara Ray tremulously .
I think we all share her fear to some extent .
Nevertheless , we go to school the next day burn with curiosity .
And we be disappoint .
Possibly night have bring counsel to Jerry Cowan ; or perhaps his mother have put him up to it .
At all event , he announce to u that he could n't bring the red-covered history to school , but if we want to buy the picture outright he would tear it out of the book and sell it to u for fifty cent .
We talk the matter over in serious conclave in the orchard that even .
We be all rather short of hard cash , have devote most of our spare mean to the school library fund .
But the general consensus of opinion be that we must have the picture , no matter what pecuniary sacrifice be involve .
If we could each give about seven cent we would have the amount .
Peter could only give four , but Dan give eleven , which square matter .
`` Fifty cent would be pretty dear for any other picture , but of course this be different , '' say Dan .
`` And there 's a picture of Eden thrown in , too , you know , '' add Felicity .
`` Fancy selling God 's picture , '' say Cecily in a shocked , awe tone .
`` Nobody but a Cowan would do it , and that 's a fact , '' say Dan .
`` When we get it we 'll keep it in the family Bible , '' say Felicity .
`` That 's the only proper place . ''
`` Oh , I wonder what it will be like , '' breathe Cecily .
We all wonder .
Next day in school we agree to Jerry Cowan 's term , and Jerry promise to bring the picture up to Uncle Alec 's the following afternoon .
We be all intensely excite Saturday morning .
To our dismay , it begin to rain just before dinner .
`` What if Jerry do n't bring the picture to-day because of the rain ? ''
I suggest .
`` Never you fear , '' answer Felicity decidedly .
`` A Cowan would come through ANYTHING for fifty cent . ''
After dinner we all , without any verbal decision about it , wash our face and comb our hair .
The girl put on their second best dress , and we boys donned white collar .
We all have the unuttered feeling that we must do such honour to that Picture a we could .
Felicity and Dan begin a small spat over something , but stop at once when Cecily say severely , `` How DARE you quarrel when you be go to look at a picture of God to-day ? ''
Owing to the rain we could not foregather in the orchard , where we have mean to transact the business with Jerry .
We do not wish our grown-ups around at our great moment , so we betook ourselves to the loft of the granary in the spruce wood , from whose window we could see the main road and hail Jerry .
Sara Ray have join u , very pale and nervous , have have , so it appear , a difference of opinion with her mother about come up the hill in the rain .
`` I 'm afraid I do very wrong to come against ma 's will , '' she say miserably , `` but I COULD N'T wait .
I want to see the picture as soon a you do . ''
We wait and watch at the window .
The valley be full of mist , and the rain be come down in slant line over the top of the spruce .
But a we wait the cloud break away and the sun come out flashingly ; the drop on the spruce boughs glitter like diamond .
`` I do n't believe Jerry can be come , '' say Cecily in despair .
`` I suppose his mother must have think it be dreadful , after all , to sell such a picture . ''
`` There he be now ! ''
cried Dan , wave excitedly from the window .
`` He 's carry a fish-basket , '' say Felicity .
`` You surely do n't suppose he would bring THAT picture in a fish-basket ! ''
Jerry HAD bring it in a fish-basket , a appeared when he mount the granary stair shortly afterwards .
It be fold up in a newspaper packet on top of the dried herring with which the basket be fill .
We pay him his money , but we would not open the packet until he have go .
`` Cecily , '' say Felicity in a hushed tone .
`` You be the best of u all .
YOU open the parcel . ''
`` Oh , I 'm no gooder than the rest of you , '' breathe Cecily , `` but I 'll open it if you like . ''
With tremble finger Cecily open the parcel .
We stand around , hardly breathe .
She unfold it and hold it up .
We saw it .
Suddenly Sara begin to cry .
`` Oh , oh , oh , do God look like THAT ? ''
she wail .
Felix and I speak not .
Disappointment , and something bad , seal our speech .
DID God look like that -- like that stern , angrily frown old man with the toss hair and beard of the wood-cut Cecily hold .
`` I suppose He must , since that be His picture , '' say Dan miserably .
`` He look awful cross , '' say Peter simply .
`` Oh , I wish we 'd never , never see it , '' cry Cecily .
We all wish that -- too late .
Our curiosity have lead u into some Holy of Holies , not to be profane by human eye , and this be our punishment .
`` I 've always have a feeling right along , '' wept Sara , `` that it be n't RIGHT to buy -- or LOOK AT -- God 's picture . ''
As we stand there wretchedly we hear fly foot below and a blithe voice call , `` Where be you , child ? ''
The Story Girl have return !
At any other moment we would have rush to meet her in wild joy .
But now we be too crush and miserable to move .
`` Whatever be the matter with you all ? ''
demand the Story Girl , appear at the top of the stair .
`` What be Sara cry about ?
What have you get there ? ''
`` A picture of God , '' say Cecily with a sob in her voice , `` and oh , it be so dreadful and ugly .
Look ! ''
The Story Girl look .
An expression of scorn come over her face .
`` Surely you do n't believe God look like that , '' she say impatiently , while her fine eye flash .
`` He do n't -- He could n't .
He be wonderful and beautiful .
I 'm surprised at you .
THAT be nothing but the picture of a cross old man . ''
Hope spring up in our heart , although we be not wholly convince .
`` I do n't know , '' say Dan dubiously .
`` It say under the picture ` God in the Garden of Eden . '
It 's PRINTED . ''
`` Well , I suppose that 's what the man who draw it think God be like , '' answer the Story Girl carelessly .
`` But HE could n't have know any more than you do .
HE have never see Him . ''
`` It 's all very well for you to say so , '' say Felicity , `` but YOU do n't know either .
I wish I could believe that be n't like God -- but I do n't know what to believe . ''
`` Well , if you wo n't believe me , I suppose you 'll believe the minister , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Go and ask him .
He 's in the house this very minute .
He come up with u in the buggy . ''
At any other time we would never have dare catechize the minister about anything .
But desperate case call for desperate measure .
We draw straw to see who should go and do the asking , and the lot fell to Felix .
`` Better wait until Mr. Marwood leave , and catch him in the lane , '' advise the Story Girl .
`` You 'll have a lot of grown-ups around you in the house . ''
Felix take her advice .
Mr. Marwood , presently walk benignantly along the lane , be confront by a fat , small boy with a pale face but resolute eye .
The rest of u remain in the background but within hearing .
`` Well , Felix , what be it ? ''
ask Mr. Marwood kindly .
`` Please , sir , do God really look like this ? ''
ask Felix , hold out the picture .
`` We hope He do n't -- but we want to know the truth , and that be why I 'm bother you .
Please excuse u and tell me . ''
The minister look at the picture .
A stern expression come into his gentle blue eye and he get as near to frown a it be possible for him to get .
`` Where do you get that thing ? ''
he ask .
THING !
We begin to breathe easy .
`` We buy it from Jerry Cowan .
He find it in a red-covered history of the world .
It SAYS it 's God 's picture , '' say Felix .
`` It be nothing of the sort , '' say Mr. Marwood indignantly .
`` There be no such thing a a picture of God , Felix .
No human be know what he look like -- no human be CAN know .
We should not even try to think what He look like .
But , Felix , you may be sure that God be infinitely more beautiful and loving and tender and kind than anything we can imagine of Him .
Never believe anything else , my boy .
As for this -- this SACRILEGE -- take it and burn it . ''
We do not know what a sacrilege meant , but we know that Mr. Marwood have declare that the picture be not like God .
That be enough for u .
We felt a if a terrible weight have be lift from our mind .
`` I could hardly believe the Story Girl , but of course the minister KNOWS , '' say Dan happily .
`` We 've lose fifty cent because of it , '' say Felicity gloomily .
We have lose something of infinitely more value than fifty cent , although we do not realize it just then .
The minister 's word have remove from our mind the bitter belief that God be like that picture ; but on something deep and more endure than mind an impression have be make that be never to be remove .
The mischief be do .
From that day to this the thought or the mention of God bring up before u involuntarily the vision of a stern , angry , old man .
Such be the price we be to pay for the indulgence of a curiosity which each of u , deep in our heart , have , like Sara Ray , felt ought not to be gratify .
`` Mr. Marwood tell me to burn it , '' say Felix .
`` It do n't seem reverent to do that , '' say Cecily .
`` Even if it be n't God 's picture , it have His name on it . ''
`` Bury it , '' say the Story Girl .
We do bury it after tea , in the depth of the spruce grove ; and then we go into the orchard .
It be so nice to have the Story Girl back again .
She have wreathe her hair with Canterbury Bells , and look like the incarnation of rhyme and story and dream .
`` Canterbury Bells be a lovely name for a flower , be n't it ? ''
she say .
`` It make you think of cathedral and chime , do n't it ?
Let 's go over to Uncle Stephen 's Walk , and sit on the branch of the big tree .
It 's too wet on the grass , and I know a story -- a TRUE story , about an old lady I saw in town at Aunt Louisa 's .
Such a dear old lady , with lovely silvery curl . ''
After the rain the air seem drip with odour in the warm west wind -- the tang of fir balsam , the spice of mint , the wild woodsiness of fern , the aroma of grass steep in the sunshine , -- and with it all a breath of wild sweetness from far hill pasture .
Scattered through the grass in Uncle Stephen 's Walk , be blossom pale , aerial flower which have no name that we could ever discover .
Nobody seem to know anything about them .
They have be there when Great-grandfather King buy the place .
I have never see them elsewhere , or find them describe in any floral catalogue .
We call them the White Ladies .
The Story Girl give them the name .
She say they look like the soul of good woman who have have to suffer much and have be very patient .
They be wonderfully dainty , with a strange , faint , aromatic perfume which be only to be detect at a little distance and vanish if you bend over them .
They fade soon after they be pluck ; and , although stranger , greatly admire them , often carry away root and seed , they could never be coax to grow elsewhere .
`` My story be about Mrs. Dunbar and the Captain of the FANNY , '' say the Story Girl , settle herself comfortably on a bough , with her brown head against a gnarled trunk .
`` It 's sad and beautiful -- and true .
I do love to tell story that I know really happen .
Mrs. Dunbar live next door to Aunt Louisa in town .
She be so sweet .
You would n't think to look at her that she have a tragedy in her life , but she have .
Aunt Louisa tell me the tale .
It all happen long , long ago .
Interesting thing like this all do happen long ago , it seem to me .
They never seem to happen now .
This be in ' 49 , when people be rush to the gold field in California .
It be just like a fever , Aunt Louisa say .
People take it , right here on the Island ; and a number of young men determine they would go to California .
`` It be easy to go to California now ; but it be a very different matter then .
There be no railroad across the land , a there be now , and if you want to go to California you have to go in a sailing vessel , all the way around Cape Horn .
It be a long and dangerous journey ; and sometimes it take over six month .
When you get there you have no way of send word home again except by the same plan .
It might be over a year before your people at home heard a word about you -- and fancy what their feeling would be !
`` But these young men do n't think of these thing ; they be lead on by a golden vision .
They make all their arrangement , and they charter the brig Fanny to take them to California .
`` The captain of the Fanny be the hero of my story .
His name be Alan Dunbar , and he be young and handsome .
Heroes always be , you know , but Aunt Louisa say he really be .
And he be in love -- wildly in love , -- with Margaret Grant .
Margaret be as beautiful a a dream , with soft blue eye and cloud of golden hair ; and she love Alan Dunbar just as much a he love her .
But her parent be bitterly oppose to him , and they have forbid Margaret to see him or speak to him .
They have n't anything against him a a MAN , but they do n't want her to throw herself away on a sailor .
`` Well , when Alan Dunbar know that he must go to California in the Fanny he be in despair .
He felt that he could NEVER go so far away for so long and leave his Margaret behind .
And Margaret felt that she could never let him go .
I know EXACTLY how she felt . ''
`` How can you know ? ''
interrupt Peter suddenly .
`` You ai n't old enough to have a beau .
How can you know ? ''
The Story Girl look at Peter with a frown .
She do not like to be interrupt when tell a story .
`` Those be not thing one KNOWS about , '' she say with dignity .
`` One FEELS about them . ''
Peter , crush but not convinced , subside , and the Story Girl go on .
`` Finally , Margaret run away with Alan , and they be marry in Charlottetown .
Alan intend to take his wife with him to California in the Fanny .
If it be a hard journey for a man it be hard still for a woman , but Margaret would have dare anything for Alan 's sake .
They have three day -- ONLY three day -- of happiness , and then the blow fell .
The crew and the passenger of the Fanny refuse to let Captain Dunbar take his wife with him .
They tell him he must leave her behind .
And all his prayer be of no avail .
They say he stand on the deck of the Fanny and plead with the men while the tear run down his face ; but they would not yield , and he have to leave Margaret behind .
Oh , what a part it be ! ''
There be heartbreak in the Story Girl 's voice and tear come into our eye .
There , in the green bower of Uncle Stephen 's Walk , we cry over the pathos of a parting whose anguish have be still for many year .
`` When it be all over , Margaret 's father and mother forgive her , and she go back home to wait -- to WAIT .
Oh , it be so dreadful just to WAIT , and do nothing else .
Margaret wait for nearly a year .
How long it must have seem to her !
And at last there come a letter -- but not from Alan .
Alan be DEAD .
He have die in California and have be bury there .
While Margaret have be think of him and long for him and pray for him he have be lie in his lonely , faraway grave . ''
Cecily spring up , shake with sob .
`` Oh , do n't -- do n't go on , '' she implore .
`` I CA N'T bear any more . ''
`` There be no more , '' say the Story Girl .
`` That be the end of it -- the end of everything for Margaret .
It do n't kill HER , but her heart die . ''
`` I just wish I 'd hold of those fellow who would n't let the Captain take his wife , '' say Peter savagely .
`` Well , it be awful say , '' say Felicity , wipe her eye .
`` But it be long ago and we ca n't do any good by cry over it now .
Let u go and get something to eat .
I make some nice little rhubarb tart this morning . ''
We go .
In spite of new disappointment and old heartbreak we have appetite .
And Felicity do make scrumptious rhubarb tart !
CHAPTER IX .
MAGIC SEED When the time come to hand in our collection for the library fund Peter have the large -- three dollar .
Felicity be a good second with two and a half .
This be simply because the hen have lay so well .
`` If you 'd have to pay father for all the extra handful of wheat you 've feed to those hen , Miss Felicity , you would n't have so much , '' say Dan spitefully .
`` I do n't , '' say Felicity indignantly .
`` Look how Aunt Olivia 's hen lay , too , and she feed them herself just the same a usual . ''
`` Never mind , '' say Cecily , `` we have all get something to give .
If you be like poor Sara Ray , and have n't be able to collect anything , you might feel bad . ''
But Sara Ray HAD something to give .
She come up the hill after tea , all radiant .
When Sara Ray smile -- and she do not waste her smile -- she be rather pretty in a plaintive , apologetic way .
A dimple or two come into sight , and she have very nice teeth -- small and white , like the traditional row of pearl .
`` Oh , just look , '' she say .
`` Here be three dollar -- and I 'm go to give it all to the library fund .
I have a letter to-day from Uncle Arthur in Winnipeg , and he send me three dollar .
He say I be to use it ANY way I like , so ma could n't refuse to let me give it to the fund .
She think it 's an awful waste , but she always go by what Uncle Arthur say .
Oh , I 've pray so hard that some money might come some way , and now it have .
See what pray do ! ''
I be very much afraid that we do not rejoice quite a unselfishly in Sara 's good fortune a we should have do .
WE have earn our contribution by the sweat of our brow , or by the scarcely less disagreeable method of `` begging . ''
And Sara 's have as good a descended upon her out of the sky , a much like a miracle a anything you could imagine .
`` She pray for it , you know , '' say Felix , after Sara have go home .
`` That 's too easy a way of earn money , '' grumble Peter resentfully .
`` If the rest of u have just set down and do nothing , only pray , how much do you s ` pose we 'd have ?
It do n't seem fair to me . ''
`` Oh , well , it 's different with Sara , '' say Dan .
`` We COULD earn money and she COULD N'T .
You see ?
But come on down to the orchard .
The Story Girl have a letter from her father to-day and she 's go to read it to u . ''
We go promptly .
A letter from the Story Girl 's father be always an event ; and to hear her read it be almost as good a hear her tell a story .
Before come to Carlisle , Uncle Blair Stanley have be a mere name to u .
Now he be a personality .
His letter to the Story Girl , the picture and sketch he send her , her adore and frequent mention of him , all combine to make him very real to u .
We FELT then , what we do not understand till later year , that our grown-up relative do not altogether admire or approve of Uncle Blair .
He belong to a different world from theirs .
They have never know him very intimately or understand him .
I realize now that Uncle Blair be a bit of a Bohemian -- a respectable sort of tramp .
Had he be a poor man he might have be a more successful artist .
But he have a small fortune of his own and , lack the spur of necessity , or of disquiet ambition , he remain little more than a clever amateur .
Once in a while he paint a picture which show what he could do ; but for the rest , he be satisfy to wander over the world , light-hearted and content .
We know that the Story Girl be think to resemble him strongly in appearance and temperament , but she have far more fire and intensity and strength of will -- her inheritance from King and Ward .
She would never be satisfy a a dabbler ; whatever her future career should be , into it she would throw all her power of mind and heart and soul .
But Uncle Blair could do at least one thing surpassingly well .
He could write letter .
Such letter !
By contrast , Felix and I be secretly ashamed of father 's epistle .
Father could talk well but , a Felix say , he could n't write worth a cent .
The letter we have receive from him since his arrival in Rio de Janeiro be mere scrawl , tell u to be good boy and not trouble Aunt Janet , incidentally add that he be well and lonesome .
Felix and I be always glad to get his letter , but we never read them aloud to an admire circle in the orchard .
Uncle Blair be spend the summer in Switzerland ; and the letter the Story Girl read to u , among the fair , frail White Ladies of the Walk , where the west wind come now with a sigh , and again with a rush , and then brush our face as softly a the down of a thistle , be full of the glamour of mountain-rimmed lake , and purple chalet , and `` snowy summit old in story . ''
We climb Mount Blanc , saw the Jungfrau soar into cloudland , and walk among the gloomy pillar of Bonnivard 's prison .
Finally , the Story Girl tell u the tale of the Prisoner of Chillon , in word that be Byron 's , but in a voice that be all her own .
`` It must be splendid to go to Europe , '' sigh Cecily longingly .
`` I be go some day , '' say the Story Girl airily .
We look at her with a slightly incredulous awe .
To u , in those year , Europe seem almost a remote and unreachable a the moon .
It be hard to believe that one of US should ever go there .
But Aunt Julia have go -- and SHE have be bring up in Carlisle on this very farm .
So it be possible that the Story Girl might go too .
`` What will you do there ? ''
ask Peter practically .
`` I shall learn how to tell story to all the world , '' say the Story Girl dreamily .
It be a lovely , golden-brown evening ; the orchard , and the farm-lands beyond , be full of ruby light and kiss shadow .
Over in the east , above the Awkward Man 's house , the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess float across the sky , presently turn as rosy a if bedew with her heart 's blood .
We sit there and talk until the first star light a white taper over the beech hill .
Then I remember that I have forget to take my dose of magic seed , and I hasten to do it , although I be begin to lose faith in it .
I have not grow a single bit , by the merciless testimony of the hall door .
I take the box of seed out of my trunk in the twilit room and swallow the decreed pinch .
As I do so , Dan 's voice ring out behind me .
`` Beverley King , what have you get there ? ''
I thrust the box hastily into my trunk and confronted Dan .
`` None of your business , '' I say defiantly .
`` Yes , 't be . ''
Dan be too much in earnest to resent my blunt speech .
`` Look here , Bev , be that magic seed ?
And do you get it from Billy Robinson ? ''
Dan and I look at each other , suspicion dawning in our eye .
`` What do you know about Billy Robinson and his magic seed ? ''
I demand .
`` Just this .
I buy a box from him for -- for -- something .
He say he be n't go to sell any of it to anybody else .
Did he sell any to you ? ''
`` Yes , he do , '' I say in disgust -- for I be begin to understand that Billy and his magic seed be arrant fraud .
`` What for ?
YOUR mouth be a decent size , '' say Dan .
`` Mouth ?
It have nothing to do with my mouth !
He say it would make me grow tall .
And it have n't -- not an inch !
I do n't see what you want it for !
You be tall enough . ''
`` I get it for my mouth , '' say Dan with a shame-faced grin .
`` The girl in school laugh at it so .
Kate Marr say it 's like a gash in a pie .
Billy say that seed would shrink it for sure . ''
Well , there it be !
Billy have deceive u both .
Nor be we the only victim .
We do not find the whole story out at once .
Indeed , the summer be almost over before , in one way or another , the full measure of that shameless Billy Robinson 's iniquity be reveal to u .
But I shall anticipate the successive relation in this chapter .
Every pupil of Carlisle school , so it eventually appear , have buy magic seed , under solemn promise of secrecy .
Felix have believe blissfully that it would make him thin .
Cecily 's hair be to become naturally curly , and Sara Ray be not to be afraid of Peg Bowen any more .
It be to make Felicity as clever a the Story Girl and it be to make the Story Girl a good a cook a Felicity .
What Peter have buy magic seed for remain a secret long than any of the others .
Finally -- it be the night before what we expect would be the Judgment Day -- he confess to me that he have take it to make Felicity fond of him .
Skilfully indeed have that astute Billy play on our respective weakness .
The keen edge to our humiliation be give by the discovery that the magic seed be nothing more or less than caraway , which grow in abundance at Billy Robinson 's uncle 's in Markdale .
Peg Bowen have have nothing to do with it .
Well , we have all be badly hoax .
But we do not trumpet our wrong abroad .
We do not even call Billy to account .
We think that least say be soonest mend in such a matter .
We go very softly indeed , l the grown-ups , especially that terrible Uncle Roger , should hear of it .
`` We should have know good than to trust Billy Robinson , '' say Felicity , sum up the case one evening when all have be make know .
`` After all , what could you expect from a pig but a grunt ? ''
We be not surprise to find that Billy Robinson 's contribution to the library fund be the large hand in by any of the scholar .
Cecily say she do n't envy him his conscience .
But I be afraid she measure his conscience by her own .
I doubt very much if Billy 's trouble him at all .
CHAPTER X .
A DAUGHTER OF EVE `` I hate the thought of grow up , '' say the Story Girl reflectively , `` because I can never go barefooted then , and nobody will ever see what beautiful foot I have . ''
She be sit , the July sunlight , on the ledge of the open hayloft window in Uncle Roger 's big barn ; and the bare foot below her print skirt WERE beautiful .
They be slender and shapely and satin smooth with arched instep , the dainty of toe , and nail like pink shell .
We be all the hayloft .
The Story Girl have be tell u a tale `` Of old , unhappy , far-off thing , And battle long ago . ''
Felicity and Cecily be curl up in a corner , and we boys sprawl idly on the fragrant , sun-warm heap .
We have `` stow '' the hay in the loft that morning for Uncle Roger , so we felt that we have earn the right to loll on our sweet-smelling couch .
Haylofts be delicious place , with just enough of shadow and soft , uncertain noise to give an agreeable tang of mystery .
The swallow fly in and out of their nest above our head , and whenever a sunbeam fell through a chink the air swarm with golden dust .
Outside of the loft be a vast , sunshiny gulf of blue sky and mellow air , wherein floated argosy of fluffy cloud , and airy top of maple and spruce .
Pat be with u , of course , prowl about stealthily , or make frantic , bootless leap at the swallow .
A cat in a hayloft be a beautiful example of the eternal fitness of thing .
We have not hear of this fitness then , but we all felt that Paddy be in his own place in a hayloft .
`` I think it be very vain to talk about anything you have yourself be beautiful , '' say Felicity .
`` I be not a bit vain , '' say the Story Girl , with entire truthfulness .
`` It be not vanity to know your own good point .
It would just be stupidity if you do n't .
It 's only vanity when you get puff up about them .
I be not a bit pretty .
My only good point be my hair and eye and foot .
So I think it 's real mean that one of them have to be cover up the most of the time .
I 'm always glad when it get warm enough to go barefooted .
But , when I grow up they 'll have to cover all the time .
It IS mean . ''
`` You 'll have to put your shoe and stocking on when you go to the magic lantern show to-night , '' say Felicity in a tone of satisfaction .
`` I do n't know that .
I 'm think of go barefooted . ''
`` Oh , you would n't !
Sara Stanley , you 're not in earnest ! ''
exclaim Felicity , her blue eye fill with horror .
The Story Girl wink with the side of her face next to Felix and me , but the side next the girl change not a muscle .
She dearly love to `` take a rise '' out of Felicity now and then .
`` Indeed , I would if I just make up my mind to .
Why not ?
Why not bare foot -- if they 're clean -- as well a bare hand and face ? ''
`` Oh , you would n't !
It would be such a disgrace ! ''
say poor Felicity in real distress .
`` We go to school barefooted all June , '' argue that wicked Story Girl .
`` What be the difference between go to the schoolhouse barefooted in the daytime and go in the evening ? ''
`` Oh , there 's EVERY difference .
I ca n't just explain it -- but every one KNOWS there be a difference .
You know it yourself .
Oh , PLEASE , do n't do such a thing , Sara . ''
`` Well , I wo n't , just to oblige you , '' say the Story Girl , who would have die the death before she would have go to a `` public meeting '' barefooted .
We be all rather excite over the magic lantern show which an itinerant lecturer be to give in the schoolhouse that even .
Even Felix and I , who have see such show galore , be interested , and the rest be quite wild .
There have never be such a thing in Carlisle before .
We be all go , Peter include .
Peter go everywhere with u now .
He be a regular attendant at church and Sunday School , where his behaviour be as irreproachable a if he have be `` raise '' in the caste of Vere de Vere .
It be feather in the Story Girl 's cap , for she take all the credit of have start Peter on the right road .
Felicity be resign , although the fatal patch on Peter 's best trouser be still an eyesore to her .
She declare she never get any good of the singing , because Peter stand up then and every one could see the patch .
Mrs. James Clark , whose pew be behind ours , never take her eye off it -- or so Felicity aver .
But Peter 's stocking be always darn .
Aunt Olivia have see to that , ever since she hear of Peter 's singular device regard them on his first Sunday .
She have also give Peter a Bible , of which he be so proud that he hat to use it l he should soil it .
`` I think I 'll wrap it up and keep it in my box , '' he say .
`` I 've an old Bible of Aunt Jane 's at home that I can use .
I s ` pose it 's just the same , even if it be old , be n't it ? ''
`` Oh , yes , '' Cecily have assure him .
`` The Bible be always the same . ''
`` I think maybe they 'd get some new improvement on it since Aunt Jane 's day , '' say Peter , relieve .
`` Sara Ray be come along the lane , and she 's cry , '' announce Dan , who be peer out of a knot-hole on the opposite side of the loft .
`` Sara Ray be cry half her time , '' say Cecily impatiently .
`` I 'm sure she cry a quartful of tear a month .
There be time when you ca n't help cry .
But I hide then .
Sara just go and cry in public . ''
The lachrymose Sara presently join u and we discover the cause of her tear to be the doleful fact that her mother have forbid her to go to the magic lantern show that night .
We all show the sympathy we felt .
`` She SAID yesterday you could go , '' say the Story Girl indignantly .
`` Why have she change her mind ? ''
`` Because of the measles in Markdale , '' sob Sara .
`` She say Markdale be full of them , and there 'll be sure to be some of the Markdale people at the show .
So I 'm not to go .
And I 've never see a magic lantern -- I 've never see ANYTHING . ''
`` I do n't believe there 's any danger of catch measles , '' say Felicity .
`` If there be we would n't be allow to go . ''
`` I wish I COULD get the measles , '' say Sara defiantly .
`` Maybe I 'd be of some importance to ma then . ''
`` Suppose Cecily go down with you and coax your mother , '' suggest the Story Girl .
`` Perhaps she 'd let you go then .
She like Cecily .
She do n't like either Felicity or me , so it would only make matter bad for u to try . ''
`` Ma 's go to town -- pa and her go this afternoon -- and they 're not come back till to-morrow .
There 's nobody home but Judy Pineau and me . ''
`` Then , '' say the Story Girl , `` why do n't you just go to the show anyhow ?
Your mother wo n't ever know , if you coax Judy to hold her tongue . ''
`` Oh , but that 's wrong , '' say Felicity .
`` You should n't put Sara up to disobey her mother . ''
Now , Felicity for once be undoubtedly right .
The Story Girl 's suggestion WAS wrong ; and if it have be Cecily who protest , the Story Girl would probably have listen to her , and proceed no further in the matter .
But Felicity be one of those unfortunate people whose protest against wrong-doing serve only to drive the wrong-doer further on her sinful way .
The Story Girl resent Felicity 's superior tone , and proceed to tempt Sara in right good earnest .
The rest of u hold our tongue .
It be , we tell ourselves , Sara 's own lookout .
`` I have a good mind to do it , '' say Sara .
`` but I ca n't get my good clothes ; they 're in the spare room , and ma lock the door , for fear somebody would get at the fruit cake .
I have n't a single thing to wear , except my school gingham . ''
`` Well , that 's new and pretty , '' say the Story Girl .
`` We 'll lend you some thing .
You can have my lace collar .
That 'll make the gingham quite elegant .
And Cecily will lend you her second best hat . ''
`` But I 've no shoe or stocking .
They 're lock up too . ''
`` You can have a pair of mine , '' say Felicity , who probably think that since Sara be certain to yield to temptation , she might as well be garb decently for her transgression .
Sara do yield .
When the Story Girl 's voice entreat it be not easy to resist it temptation , even if you want to .
That evening , when we start for the schoolhouse , Sara Ray be among u , deck out in borrow plume .
`` Suppose she DOES catch the measles ? ''
Felicity say aside .
`` I do n't believe there 'll be anybody there from Markdale .
The lecturer be go to Markdale next week .
They 'll wait for that , '' say the Story Girl airily .
It be a cool , dewy evening , and we walk down the long , red hill in the high of spirit .
Over a valley fill with beech and spruce be a sunset afterglow -- creamy yellow and a hue that be not so much red a the dream of red , with a young moon swing low in it .
The air be sweet with the breath of mown hayfield where swath of clover have be steep in the sun .
Wild rose grow pinkly along the fence , and the roadside be star-dusted with buttercup .
Those of u who have nothing the matter with our conscience enjoy our walk to the little whitewashed schoolhouse in the valley .
Felicity and Cecily be void of offence towards all men .
The Story Girl walk uprightly like an incarnate flame in her crimson silk .
Her pretty foot be hide in the tan-coloured , button Paris boot which be the secret envy of every school girl in Carlisle .
But Sara Ray be not happy .
Her face be so melancholy that the Story Girl lose patience with her .
The Story Girl herself be not altogether at ease .
Probably her own conscience be trouble her .
But admit it she would not .
`` Now , Sara , '' she say , `` you just take my advice and go into this with all your heart if you go at all .
Never mind if it be bad .
There 's no use be naughty if you spoil your fun by wish all the time you be good .
You can repent afterwards , but there be no use in mix the two thing together . ''
`` I 'm not repent , '' protest Sara .
`` I 'm only scar of ma find it out . ''
`` Oh ! ''
The Story Girl 's voice express her scorn .
For remorse she have understanding and sympathy ; but fear of her fellow creature be something unknown to her .
`` Did n't Judy Pineau promise you solemnly she would n't tell ? ''
`` Yes ; but maybe some one who see me there will mention it to ma . ''
`` Well , if you 're so scared you 'd better not go .
It be n't too late .
Here 's your own gate , '' say Cecily .
But Sara could not give up the delight of the show .
So she walk on , a small , miserable testimony that the way of the transgressor be never easy , even when say transgressor be only a damsel of eleven .
The magic lantern show be a splendid one .
The view be good and the lecturer witty .
We repeat his joke to each other all the way home .
Sara , who have not enjoy the exhibition at all , seem to feel more cheerful when it be over and she be go home .
The Story Girl on the contrary be gloomy .
`` There WERE Markdale people there , '' she confide to me , `` and the Williamsons live next door to the Cowans , who have measles .
I wish I 'd never egg Sara on to go -- but do n't tell Felicity I say so .
If Sara Ray have really enjoy the show I would n't mind .
But she do n't .
I could see that .
So I 've do wrong and make her do wrong -- and there 's nothing to show for it . ''
The night be scent and mysterious .
The wind be play an eerie fleshless melody in the reed of the brook hollow .
The sky be dark and starry , and across it the Milky Way fling it shimmer misty ribbon .
`` There 's four hundred million star in the Milky Way , '' quoth Peter , who frequently astonish u by know more than any hired boy could be expect to .
He have a retentive memory , and never forget anything he hear or read .
The few book leave to him by his oft-referred-to Aunt Jane have stock his mind with a miscellaneous information which sometimes make Felix and me doubt if we know as much a Peter after all .
Felicity be so impressed by his knowledge of astronomy that she drop back from the other girl and walk beside him .
She have not do so before because he be barefooted .
It be permissible for hired boy to go to public meeting -- when not hold in the church -- with bare foot , and no particular disgrace attach to it .
But Felicity would not walk with a barefooted companion .
It be dark now , so nobody would notice his foot .
`` I know a story about the Milky Way , '' say the Story Girl , brighten up .
`` I read it in a book of Aunt Louisa 's in town , and I learn it off by heart .
Once there be two archangel in heaven , name Zerah and Zulamith -- '' `` Have angel names -- same a people ? ''
interrupt Peter .
`` Yes , of course .
They MUST have .
They 'd be all mixed up if they have n't . ''
`` And when I 'm an angel -- if I ever get to be one -- will my name still be Peter ? ''
`` No .
You 'll have a new name up there , '' say Cecily gently .
`` It say so in the Bible . ''
`` Well , I 'm glad of that .
Peter would be such a funny name for an angel .
And what be the difference between angel and archangel ? ''
`` Oh , archangel be angel that have be angel so long that they 've have time to grow good and bright and more beautiful than new angel , '' say the Story Girl , who probably make that explanation up on the spur of the moment , just to pacify Peter .
`` How long do it take for an angel to grow into an archangel ? ''
pursue Peter .
`` Oh , I do n't know .
Millions of year likely .
And even then I do n't suppose ALL the angel do .
A good many of them must just stay plain angel , I expect . ''
`` I shall be satisfy just to be a plain angel , '' say Felicity modestly .
`` Oh , see here , if you 're go to interrupt and argue over everything , we 'll never get the story tell , '' say Felix .
`` Dry up , all of you , and let the Story Girl go on . ''
We dry up , and the Story Girl go on .
`` Zerah and Zulamith love each other , just a mortal love , and this be forbid by the law of the Almighty .
And because Zerah and Zulamith have so broken God 's law they be banish from His presence to the uttermost bound of the universe .
If they have be banish TOGETHER it would have be no punishment ; so Zerah be exile to a star on one side of the universe , and Zulamith be send to a star on the other side of the universe ; and between them be a fathomless abyss which think itself could not cross .
Only one thing could cross it -- and that be love .
Zulamith yearn for Zerah with such fidelity and longing that he begin to build up a bridge of light from his star ; and Zerah , not know this , but love and long for him , begin to build a similar bridge of light from her star .
For a thousand thousand year they both build the bridge of light , and at last they meet and spring into each other 's arm .
Their toil and loneliness and suffering be all over and forget , and the bridge they have build span the gulf between their star of exile .
`` Now , when the other archangel saw what have be do they fly in fear and anger to God 's white throne , and cry to Him , '' ` See what these rebellious one have do !
They have build them a bridge of light across the universe , and set Thy decree of separation at naught .
Do Thou , then , stretch forth Thine arm and destroy their impious work . '
`` They cease -- and all heaven be hush .
Through the silence sound the voice of the Almighty . ''
` Nay , ' He say , ` whatsoever in my universe true love hath build not even the Almighty can destroy .
The bridge must stand forever . '
`` And , '' conclude the Story Girl , her face upturned to the sky and her big eye fill with starlight , `` it stand still .
That bridge be the Milky Way . ''
`` What a lovely story , '' sigh Sara Ray , who have be woo to a temporary forgetfulness of her woe by it charm .
The rest of u come back to earth , feel that we have be wander among the host of heaven .
We be not old enough to appreciate fully the wonderful meaning of the legend ; but we felt it beauty and it appeal .
To u forevermore the Milky Way would be , not Peter 's overwhelming garland of sun , but the lucent bridge , love-created , on which the banished archangel cross from star to star .
We have to go up Sara Ray 's lane with her to her very door , for she be afraid Peg Bowen would catch her if she go alone .
Then the Story Girl and I walk up the hill together .
Peter and Felicity lag behind .
Cecily and Dan and Felix be walk before u , hand in hand , sing a hymn .
Cecily have a very sweet voice , and I listen in delight .
But the Story Girl sigh .
`` What if Sara do take the measles ? ''
she ask miserably .
`` Everyone have to have the measles sometime , '' I say comfortingly , `` and the young you be the good . ''
CHAPTER XI .
THE STORY GIRL DOES PENANCE Ten day later , Aunt Olivia and Uncle Roger go to town one evening , to remain over night , and the next day .
Peter and the Story Girl be to stay at Uncle Alec 's during their absence .
We be in the orchard at sunset , listen to the story of King Cophetua and the beggar maid -- all of u , except Peter , who be hoe turnip , and Felicity , who have go down the hill on an errand to Mrs. Ray .
The Story Girl impersonate the beggar maid so vividly , and with such an illusion of beauty , that we do not wonder in the least at the king 's love for her .
I have read the story before , and it have be my opinion that it be `` rot . ''
No king , I felt certain , would ever marry a beggar maid when he have princess galore from whom to choose .
But now I understand it all .
When Felicity return we conclude from her expression that she have news .
And she have .
`` Sara be real sick , '' she say , with regret , and something that be not regret mingle in her voice .
`` She have a cold and sore throat , and she be feverish .
Mrs. Ray say if she be n't well by the morning she 's go to send for the doctor .
AND SHE IS AFRAID IT 'S THE MEASLES . ''
Felicity fling the last sentence at the Story Girl , who turn very pale .
`` Oh , do you suppose she catch them at the magic lantern show ? ''
she say miserably .
`` Where else could she have catch them ? ''
say Felicity mercilessly .
`` I do n't see her , of course -- Mrs. Ray meet me at the door and tell me not to come in .
But Mrs. Ray say the measles always go awful hard with the Rays -- if they do n't die completely of them it leave them deaf or half blind , or something like that .
Of course , '' add Felicity , her heart melting at sight of the misery in the Story Girl 's piteous eye , `` Mrs. Ray always look on the dark side , and it may not be the measles Sara have after all . ''
But Felicity have do her work too thoroughly .
The Story Girl be not to be comfort .
`` I 'd give anything if I 'd never put Sara up to go to that show , '' she say .
`` It 's all my fault -- but the punishment fall on Sara , and that be n't fair .
I 'd go this minute and confess the whole thing to Mrs. Ray ; but if I do it might get Sara into more trouble , and I must n't do that .
I sha 'n ' t sleep a wink to-night . ''
I do n't think she do .
She look very pale and woebegone when she come down to breakfast .
But , for all that , there be a certain exhilaration about her .
`` I 'm go to do penance all day for coax Sara to disobey her mother , '' she announce with chastened triumph .
`` Penance ? ''
we murmur in bewilderment .
`` Yes .
I 'm go to deny myself everything I like , and do everything I can think of that I do n't like , just to punish myself for be so wicked .
And if any of you think of anything I do n't , just mention it to me .
I think it out last night .
Maybe Sara wo n't be so very sick if God see I 'm truly sorry . ''
`` He can see it anyhow , without you 're do anything , '' say Cecily .
`` Well , my conscience will feel well . ''
`` I do n't believe Presbyterians ever do penance , '' say Felicity dubiously .
`` I never hear of one do it . ''
But the rest of u rather look with favour on the Story Girl 's idea .
We felt sure that she would do penance a picturesquely and thoroughly a she do everything else .
`` You might put pea in your shoe , you know , '' suggest Peter .
`` The very thing !
I never think of that .
I 'll get some after breakfast .
I 'm not go to eat a single thing all day , except bread and water -- and not much of that ! ''
This , we felt , be a heroic measure indeed .
To sit down to one of Aunt Janet 's meal , in ordinary health and appetite , and eat nothing but bread and water -- that would be penance with a vengeance !
We felt WE could never do it .
But the Story Girl do it .
We admire and pity her .
But now I do not think that she either need our pity or deserve our admiration .
Her ascetic fare be really sweet to her than honey of Hymettus .
She be , though quite unconsciously , act a part , and taste all the subtle joy of the artist , which be so much more exquisite than any material pleasure .
Aunt Janet , of course , notice the Story Girl 's abstinence and ask if she be sick .
`` No .
I be just do penance , Aunt Janet , for a sin I commit .
I ca n't confess it , because that would bring trouble on another person .
So I 'm go to do penance all day .
You do n't mind , do you ? ''
Aunt Janet be in a very good humour that morning , so she merely laugh .
`` Not if you do n't go too far with your nonsense , '' she say tolerantly .
`` Thank you .
And will you give me a handful of hard pea after breakfast , Aunt Janet ?
I want to put them in my shoe . ''
`` There be n't any ; I use the last in the soup yesterday . ''
`` Oh ! ''
The Story Girl be much disappointed .
`` Then I suppose I 'll have to do without .
The new pea would n't hurt enough .
They 're so soft they 'd just squash flat . ''
`` I 'll tell you , '' say Peter , `` I 'll pick up a lot of those little round pebble on Mr. King 's front walk .
They 'll be just as good a pea . ''
`` You 'll do nothing of the sort , '' say Aunt Janet .
`` Sara must not do penance in that way .
She would wear hole in her stocking , and might seriously bruise her foot . ''
`` What would you say if I take a whip and whip my bare shoulder till the blood come ? ''
demand the Story Girl aggrieve .
`` I would n't SAY anything , '' retort Aunt Janet .
`` I 'd simply turn you over my knee and give you a sound , solid spanking , Miss Sara .
You 'd find that penance enough . ''
The Story Girl be crimson with indignation .
To have such a remark make to you -- when you be fourteen and a half -- and before the boy , too !
Really , Aunt Janet could be very dreadful .
It be vacation , and there be not much to do that day ; we be soon free to seek the orchard .
But the Story Girl would not come .
She have seat herself in the darkest , hot corner of the kitchen , with a piece of old cotton in her hand .
`` I be not go to play to-day , '' she say , `` and I 'm not go to tell a single story .
Aunt Janet wo n't let me put pebble in my shoe , but I 've put a thistle next my skin on my back and it stick into me if I lean back the least bit .
And I 'm go to work buttonhole all over this cotton .
I hate work buttonhole bad than anything in the world , so I 'm go to work them all day . ''
`` What 's the good of work buttonhole on an old rag ? ''
ask Felicity .
`` It be n't any good .
The beauty of penance be that it make you feel uncomfortable .
So it do n't matter what you do , whether it 's useful or not , so long a it 's nasty .
Oh , I wonder how Sara be this morning . ''
`` Mother 's go down this afternoon , '' say Felicity .
`` She say none of u must go near the place till we know whether it be the measles or not . ''
`` I 've think of a great penance , '' say Cecily eagerly .
`` Do n't go to the missionary meeting to-night . ''
The Story Girl look piteous .
`` I think of that myself -- but I CA N'T stay home , Cecily .
It would be more than flesh and blood could endure .
I MUST hear that missionary speak .
They say he be all but eat by cannibal once .
Just think how many new story I 'd have to tell after I 'd hear him !
No , I must go , but I 'll tell you what I 'll do .
I 'll wear my school dress and hat .
THAT will be penance .
Felicity , when you set the table for dinner , put the broken-handled knife for me .
I hate it so .
And I 'm go to take a dose of Mexican Tea every two hour .
It 's such dreadful taste stuff -- but it 's a good blood purifier , so Aunt Janet ca n't object to it . ''
The Story Girl carry out her self-imposed penance fully .
All day she sit in the kitchen and work buttonhole , subsist on bread and water and Mexican Tea .
Felicity do a mean thing .
She go to work and make little raisin pie , right there in the kitchen before the Story Girl .
The smell of raisin pie be something to tempt an anchorite ; and the Story Girl be exceedingly fond of them .
Felicity eat two in her very presence , and then bring the rest out to u in the orchard .
The Story Girl could see u through the window , carouse without stint on raisin pie and Uncle Edward 's cherry .
But she work on at her buttonhole .
She would not look at the excite serial in the new magazine Dan bring home from the post-office , neither would she open a letter from her father .
Pat come over , but his most seductive purr win no notice from his mistress , who refuse herself the pleasure of even pat him .
Aunt Janet could not go down the hill in the afternoon to find out how Sara be because company come to tea -- the Millwards from Markdale .
Mr. Millward be a doctor , and Mrs. Millward be a B.A . Aunt Janet be very desirous that everything should be as nice a possible , and we be all send to our room before tea to wash and dress up .
The Story Girl slip over home , and when she come back we gasp .
She have comb her hair out straight , and braid it in a tight , kinky , pudgy braid ; and she wear an old dress of faded print , with hole in the elbow and ragged flounce , which be much too short for her .
`` Sara Stanley , have you take leave of your sens ? ''
demanded Aunt Janet .
`` What do you mean by put on such a rig !
Do n't you know I have company to tea ? ''
`` Yes , and that be just why I put it on , Aunt Janet .
I want to mortify the flesh -- '' `` I 'll ` mortify ' you , if I catch you show yourself to the Millwards like that , my girl !
Go right home and dress yourself decently -- or eat your supper in the kitchen . ''
The Story Girl choose the latter alternative .
She be highly indignant .
I verily believe that to sit at the dining-room table , in that shabby , outgrown dress , conscious of look her ugliest , and eat only bread and water before the critical Millwards would have be positive bliss to her .
When we go to the missionary meeting that evening , the Story Girl wear her school dress and hat , while Felicity and Cecily be in their pretty muslin .
And she have tie her hair with a snuff-brown ribbon which be very unbecoming to her .
The first person we saw in the church porch be Mrs. Ray .
She tell u that Sara have nothing bad than a feverish cold .
The missionary have at least seven happy listener that night .
We be all glad that Sara do not have measles , and the Story Girl be radiant .
`` Now you see all your penance be waste , '' say Felicity , a we walk home , keep close together because of the rumour that Peg Bowen be abroad .
`` Oh , I do n't know .
I feel well since I punish myself .
But I 'm go to make up for it to-morrow , '' say the Story Girl energetically .
`` In fact , I 'll begin to-night .
I 'm go to the pantry as soon a I get home , and I 'll read father 's letter before I go to bed .
Was n't the missionary splendid ?
That cannibal story be simply grand .
I try to remember every word , so that I can tell it just a he tell it .
Missionaries be such noble people . ''
`` I 'd like to be a missionary and have adventure like that , '' say Felix .
`` It would be all right if you could be sure the cannibal would be interrupt in the nick of time a his be , '' say Dan .
`` But sposen they be n't ? ''
`` Nothing would prevent cannibal from eat Felix if they once catch him , '' giggle Felicity .
`` He 's so nice and fat . ''
I be sure Felix felt very unlike a missionary at that precise moment .
`` I 'm go to put two cent more a week in my missionary box than I 've be do , '' say Cecily determinedly .
Two cent more a week out of Cecily 's egg money , mean something of a sacrifice .
It inspire the rest of u .
We all decide to increase our weekly contribution by a cent or so .
And Peter , who have have no missionary box at all , up to this time , determine to start one .
`` I do n't seem to be able to feel a int ` rest in missionary a you folks do , '' he say , `` but maybe if I begin to give something I 'll get int ` rest .
I 'll want to know how my money 's be spend .
I wo n't be able to give much .
When your father 's run away , and your mother go out wash , and you 're only old enough to get fifty cent a week , you ca n't give much to the heathen .
But I 'll do the best I can .
My Aunt Jane be fond of mission .
Are there any Methodist heathen ?
I s ` pose I ought to give my box to them , rather than to Presbyterian heathen . ''
`` No , it 's only after they 're convert that they 're anything in particular , '' say Felicity .
`` Before that , they 're just plain heathen .
But if you want your money to go to a Methodist missionary you can give it to the Methodist minister at Markdale .
I guess the Presbyterians can get along without it , and look after their own heathen . ''
`` Just smell Mrs. Sampson 's flower , '' say Cecily , a we pass a trim white pal close to the road , over which blow odour sweeter than the perfume of Araby 's shore .
`` Her rose be all out and that bed of Sweet William be a sight by daylight . ''
`` Sweet William be a dreadful name for a flower , '' say the Story Girl .
`` William be a man 's name , and men be NEVER sweet .
They be a great many nice thing , but they be NOT sweet and should n't be .
That be for woman .
Oh , look at the moonshine on the road in that gap between the spruce !
I 'd like a dress of moonshine , with star for button . ''
`` It would n't do , '' say Felicity decidedly .
`` You could see through it . ''
Which seem to settle the question of moonshine dress effectually .
CHAPTER XII .
THE BLUE CHEST OF RACHEL WARD `` It 's utterly out of the question , '' say Aunt Janet seriously .
When Aunt Janet say seriously that anything be out of the question it mean that she be think about it , and would probably end up by do it .
If a thing really be out of the question she merely laugh and refuse to discuss it at all .
The particular matter in or out of the question that open day of August be a project which Uncle Edward have recently moot .
Uncle Edward 's young daughter be to be marry ; and Uncle Edward have write over , urge Uncle Alec , Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia to go down to Halifax for the wedding and spend a week there .
Uncle Alec and Aunt Olivia be eager to go ; but Aunt Janet at first declare it be impossible .
`` How could we go away and leave the place to the mercy of all those young one ? ''
she demand .
`` We 'd come home and find them all sick , and the house burn down . ''
`` Not a bit of fear of it , '' scoff Uncle Roger .
`` Felicity be as good a housekeeper a you be ; and I shall be here to look after them all , and keep them from burn the house down .
You 've be promise Edward for year to visit him , and you 'll never have a good chance .
The haying be over and harvest be n't on , and Alec need a change .
He be n't look well at all . ''
I think it be Uncle Roger 's last argument which convince Aunt Janet .
In the end she decide to go .
Uncle Roger 's house be to be close , and he and Peter and the Story Girl be to take up their abode with u .
We be all delight .
Felicity , in especial , seem to be in seventh heaven .
To be leave in sole charge of a big house , with three meal a day to plan and prepare , with poultry and cow and dairy and garden to superintend , apparently furnish forth Felicity 's conception of Paradise .
Of course , we be all to help ; but Felicity be to `` run thing , '' and she glory in it .
The Story Girl be pleased , too .
`` Felicity be go to give me cook lesson , '' she confide to me , a we walk in the orchard .
`` Is n't that fine ?
It will be easy when there be no grown-ups around to make me nervous , and laugh if I make mistake . ''
Uncle Alec and aunt leave on Monday morning .
Poor Aunt Janet be full of dismal foreboding , and give u so many charge and warning that we do not try to remember any of them ; Uncle Alec merely tell u to be good and mind what Uncle Roger say .
Aunt Olivia laugh at u out of her pansy-blue eye , and tell u she know exactly what we felt like and hop we 'd have a gorgeous time .
`` Mind they go to bed at a decent hour , '' Aunt Janet call back to Uncle Roger a she drive out of the gate .
`` And if anything dreadful happen telegraph u . ''
Then they be really go and we be all leave `` to keep house . ''
Uncle Roger and Peter go away to their work .
Felicity at once set the preparation for dinner a-going , and allot to each of u his portion of service .
The Story Girl be to prepare the potato ; Felix and Dan be to pick and shell the pea ; Cecily be to attend the fire ; I be to peel the turnip .
Felicity make our mouth water by announce that she be go to make a roly-poly jam pudding for dinner .
I peel my turnip on the back porch , put them in their pot , and set them on the stove .
Then I be at liberty to watch the others , who have long job .
The kitchen be a scene of happy activity .
The Story Girl peel her potato , somewhat slowly and awkwardly -- for she be not deft at household task ; Dan and Felix shell pea and torment Pat by attach pod to his ear and tail ; Felicity , flush and serious , measure and stir skilfully .
`` I be sit on a tragedy , '' say the Story Girl suddenly .
Felix and I star .
We be not quite sure what a `` tragedy '' be , but we do not think it be an old blue wooden chest , such a the Story Girl be undoubtedly sit on , if eyesight count for anything .
The old chest fill up the corner between the table and the wall .
Neither Felix nor I have ever think about it particularly .
It be very large and heavy , and Felicity generally say hard thing of it when she sweep the kitchen .
`` This old blue chest hold a tragedy , '' explain the Story Girl .
`` I know a story about it . ''
`` Cousin Rachel Ward 's wedding thing be all in that old chest , '' say Felicity .
Who be Cousin Rachel Ward ?
And why be her wed thing shut up in an old blue chest in Uncle Alec 's kitchen ?
We demand the tale instantly .
The Story Girl tell it to u a she peel her potato .
Perhaps the potato suffer -- Felicity declare the eye be not properly do at all -- but the story do not .
`` It be a sad story , '' say the Story Girl , `` and it happen fifty year ago , when Grandfather and Grandmother King be quite young .
Grandmother 's cousin Rachel Ward come to spend a winter with them .
She belong to Montreal and she be an orphan too , just like the Family Ghost .
I have never hear what she look like , but she MUST have be beautiful , of course . ''
`` Mother say she be awful sentimental and romantic , '' interject Felicity .
`` Well , anyway , she meet Will Montague that winter .
He be handsome -- everybody say so '' -- `` And an awful flirt , '' say Felicity .
`` Felicity , I WISH you would n't interrupt .
It spoil the effect .
What would you feel like if I go and keep stir thing that do n't belong to it into that pudding ?
I feel just the same way .
Well , Will Montague fell in love with Rachel Ward , and she with him , and it be all arrange that they be to be marry from here in the spring .
Poor Rachel be so happy that winter ; she make all her wedding thing with her own hand .
Girls do , then , you know , for there be no such thing a a sewing-machine .
Well , at last in April the wedding day come , and all the guest be here , and Rachel be dress in her wedding robe , wait for her bridegroom .
And '' -- the Story Girl lay down her knife and potato and clasp her wet hand -- `` WILL MONTAGUE NEVER CAME ! ''
We felt a much of a shock a if we have be one of the expectant guest ourselves .
`` What happen to him ?
Was HE kill too ? ''
ask Felix .
The Story Girl sigh and resume her work .
`` No , indeed .
I wish he have be .
THAT would have be suitable and romantic .
No , it be just something horrid .
He have to run away for debt !
Fancy !
He act mean right through , Aunt Janet say .
He never send even a word to Rachel , and she never hear from him again . ''
`` Pig ! ''
say Felix forcibly .
`` She be broken-hearted of course .
When she find out what have happen , she take all her wedding thing , and her supply of linen , and some present that have be give her , and pack them all away in this old blue chest .
Then she go away back to Montreal , and take the key with her .
She never come back to the Island again -- I suppose she could n't bear to .
And she have live in Montreal ever since and never marry .
She be an old woman now -- nearly seventy-five .
And this chest have never be open since . ''
`` Mother write to Cousin Rachel ten year ago , '' say Cecily , `` and ask her if she might open the chest to see if the moth have get into it .
There 's a crack in the back as big a your finger .
Cousin Rachel write back that if it be n't for one thing that be in the trunk she would ask mother to open the chest and dispose of the thing a she like .
But she could not bear that any one but herself should see or touch that one thing .
So she want it leave a it be .
Ma say she wash her hand of it , moth or no moth .
She say if Cousin Rachel have to move that chest every time the floor have to be scrub it would cure her of her sentimental nonsense .
But I think , '' conclude Cecily , `` that I would feel just like Cousin Rachel in her place . ''
`` What be the thing she could n't bear any one to see ? ''
I ask .
`` Ma think it be her wed dress .
But father say he believe it be Will Montague 's picture , '' say Felicity .
`` He saw her put it in .
Father know some of the thing that be in the chest .
He be ten year old , and he saw her pack it .
There 's a white muslin wedding dress and a veil -- and -- and -- a -- a '' -- Felicity drop her eye and blush painfully .
`` A petticoat , embroider by hand from hem to belt , '' say the Story Girl calmly .
`` And a china fruit basket with an apple on the handle , '' go on Felicity , much relieve .
`` And a tea set , and a blue candle-stick . ''
`` I 'd dearly love to see all the thing that be in it , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Pa say it must never be open without Cousin Rachel 's permission , '' say Cecily .
Felix and I look at the chest reverently .
It have take on a new significance in our eye , and seem like a tomb wherein lay bury some dead romance of the vanished year .
`` What happen to Will Montague ? ''
I ask .
`` Nothing ! ''
say the Story Girl viciously .
`` He just go on living and flourishing .
He patch up matter with his creditor after awhile , and come back to the Island ; and in the end he marry a real nice girl , with money , and be very happy .
Did you ever HEAR of anything so unjust ? ''
`` Beverley King , '' suddenly cry Felicity , who have be peer into a pot , `` YOU 'VE GONE AND PUT THE TURNIPS ON TO BOIL WHOLE JUST LIKE POTATOES ! ''
`` Was n't that right ? ''
I cry , in an agony of shame .
`` Right ! ''
but Felicity have already whisk the turnip out , and be slice them , while all the others be laugh at me .
I have add a tradition on my own account to the family archive .
Uncle Roger roar when he hear it ; and he roar again at night over Peter 's account of Felix attempt to milk a cow .
Felix have previously acquire the knack of extract milk from the udder .
But he have never before try to `` milk a whole cow . ''
He do not get on well ; the cow tramp on his foot , and finally upset the bucket .
`` What be you to do when a cow wo n't stand straight ? ''
splutter Felix angrily .
`` That 's the question , '' say Uncle Roger , shake his head gravely .
Uncle Roger 's laughter be hard to bear , but his gravity be hard .
Meanwhile , in the pantry the Story Girl , apron-enshrouded , be be initiate into the mystery of bread-making .
Under Felicity 's eye she set the bread , and on the morrow she be to bake it .
`` The first thing you must do in the morning be knead it well , '' say Felicity , `` and the early it 's do the good -- because it 's such a warm night . ''
With that we go to bed , and sleep as soundly a if tragedy of blue chest and turnip and crooked cow have no place in the scheme of thing at all .
CHAPTER XIII .
AN OLD PROVERB WITH A NEW MEANING It be half-past five when we boys get up the next morning .
We be join on the stair by Felicity , yawn and rosy .
`` Oh , dear me , I oversleep myself .
Uncle Roger want breakfast at six .
Well , I suppose the fire be on anyhow , for the Story Girl be up .
I guess she get up early to knead the bread .
She could n't sleep all night for worry over it . ''
The fire be on , and a flushed and triumphant Story Girl be take a loaf of bread from the oven .
`` Just look , '' she say proudly .
`` I have every bit of the bread bake .
I get up at three , and it be lovely and light , so I just give it a right good kneading and pop it into the oven .
And it 's all do and out of the way .
But the loaf do n't seem quite as big a they should be , '' she add doubtfully .
`` Sara Stanley ! ''
Felicity fly across the kitchen .
`` Do you mean that you put the bread right into the oven after you knead it without leave it to rise a second time ? ''
The Story Girl turn quite pale .
`` Yes , I do , '' she falter .
`` Oh , Felicity , be n't it right ? ''
`` You 've ruin the bread , '' say Felicity flatly .
`` It 's as heavy a a stone .
I declare , Sara Stanley , I 'd rather have a little common sense than be a great story teller . ''
Bitter indeed be the poor Story Girl 's mortification .
`` Do n't tell Uncle Roger , '' she implore humbly .
`` Oh , I wo n't tell him , '' promise Felicity amiably .
`` It 's lucky there 's enough old bread to do to-day .
This will go to the hen .
But it 's an awful waste of good flour . ''
The Story Girl creep out with Felix and me to the morning orchard , while Dan and Peter go to do the barn work .
`` It be n't ANY use for me to try to learn to cook , '' she say .
`` Never mind , '' I say consolingly .
`` You can tell splendid story . ''
`` But what good would that do a hungry boy ? ''
wail the Story Girl .
`` Boys ai n't ALWAYS hungry , '' say Felix gravely .
`` There 's time when they ai n't . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' say the Story Girl drearily .
`` Besides , '' add Felix in the tone of one who say while there be life there be yet hope , `` you may learn to cook yet if you keep on try . ''
`` But Aunt Olivia wo n't let me waste the stuff .
My only hope be to learn this week .
But I suppose Felicity be so disgusted with me now that she wo n't give me any more lesson . ''
`` I do n't care , '' say Felix .
`` I like you good than Felicity , even if you ca n't cook .
There 's lot of folk can make bread .
But there be n't many who can tell a story like you . ''
`` But it 's good to be useful than just interesting , '' sigh the Story Girl bitterly .
And Felicity , who be useful , would , in her secret soul , have give anything to be interesting .
Which be the way of human nature .
Company descend on u that afternoon .
First come Aunt Janet 's sister , Mrs. Patterson , with a daughter of sixteen year and a son of two .
They be follow by a buggy-load of Markdale people ; and finally , Mrs. Elder Frewen and her sister from Vancouver , with two small daughter of the latter , arrive .
`` It never rain but it pour , '' say Uncle Roger , a he go out to take their horse .
But Felicity 's foot be on her native heath .
She have be bake all the afternoon , and , with a pantry well stock with biscuit , cooky , cake , and pie , she care not if all Carlisle come to tea .
Cecily set the table , and the Story Girl wait on it and wash all the dish afterwards .
But all the blushing honour fell to Felicity , who receive so many compliment that her air be quite unbearable for the rest of the week .
She preside at the head of the table with as much grace and dignity a if she have be five time twelve year old , and seem to know by instinct just who take sugar and who take it not .
She be flush with excitement and pleasure , and be so pretty that I could hardly eat for look at her -- which be the high compliment in a boy 's power to pay .
The Story Girl , on the contrary , be under eclipse .
She be pale and lustreless from her disturbed night and early rising ; and no opportunity offer to tell a melting tale .
Nobody take any notice of her .
It be Felicity 's day .
After tea Mrs. Frewen and her sister wish to visit their father 's grave in the Carlisle churchyard .
It appear that everybody want to go with them ; but it be evident that somebody must stay home with Jimmy Patterson , who have just fall sound asleep on the kitchen sofa .
Dan finally volunteer to look after him .
He have a new Henty book which he want to finish , and that , he say , be well fun than a walk to the graveyard .
`` I think we 'll be back before he wake , '' say Mrs. Patterson , `` and anyhow he be very good and wo n't be any trouble .
Do n't let him go outside , though .
He have a cold now . ''
We go away , leave Dan sit on the door-sill read his book , and Jimmy P. snooze blissfully on the sofa .
When we return -- Felix and the girl and I be ahead of the others -- Dan be still sit in precisely the same place and attitude ; but there be no Jimmy in sight .
`` Dan , where 's the baby ? ''
cry Felicity .
Dan look around .
His jaw fell in blank amazement .
I never say any one look as foolish a Dan at that moment .
`` Good gracious , I do n't know , '' he say helplessly .
`` You 've be so deep in that wretched book that he 's get out , and dear know where he be , '' cry Felicity distractedly .
`` I be n't , '' cry Dan .
`` He MUST be in the house .
I 've be sit right across the door ever since you leave , and he could n't have get out unless he crawl right over me .
He must be in the house . ''
`` He be n't in the kitchen , '' say Felicity rush about wildly , `` and he could n't get into the other part of the house , for I shut the hall door tight , and no baby could open it -- and it 's shut tight yet .
So be all the window .
He MUST have go out of that door , Dan King , and it 's your fault . ''
`` He DID N'T go out of this door , '' reiterate Dan stubbornly .
`` I know that . ''
`` Well , where be he , then ?
He be n't here .
Did he melt into air ? ''
demand Felicity .
`` Oh , come and look for him , all of you .
Do n't stand round like ninny .
We MUST find him before his mother get here .
Dan King , you 're an idiot ! ''
Dan be too frighten to resent this , at the time .
However and wherever Jimmy have go , he WAS go , so much be certain .
We tear about the house and yard like maniac ; we look into every likely and unlikely place .
But Jimmy we could not find , anymore than if he have indeed melt into air .
Mrs. Patterson come , and we have not find him .
Things be get serious .
Uncle Roger and Peter be summon from the field .
Mrs. Patterson become hysterical , and be take into the spare room with such remedy a could be suggest .
Everybody blame poor Dan .
Cecily ask him what he would feel like if Jimmy be never , never find .
The Story Girl have a gruesome recollection of some baby at Markdale who have wander away like that -- `` And they never find him till the next spring , and all they find be -- HIS SKELETON , with the grass grow through it , '' she whisper .
`` This beat me , '' say Uncle Roger , when a fruitless hour have elapse .
`` I do hope that baby have n't wander down to the swamp .
It seem impossible he could walk so far ; but I must go and see .
Felicity , hand me my high boot out from under the sofa , there 's a girl . ''
Felicity , pale and tearful , drop on her knee and lift the cretonne frill of the sofa .
There , his head pillow hardly on Uncle Roger 's boot , lay Jimmy Patterson , still sound asleep !
`` Well , I 'll be -- jiggered ! ''
say Uncle Roger .
`` I KNEW he never go out of the door , '' cry Dan triumphantly .
When the last buggy have drive away , Felicity set a batch of bread , and the rest of u sit around the back porch step in the cat 's light and ate cherry , shoot the stone at each other .
Cecily be in quest of information .
`` What do ` it never rain but it pour ' mean ? ''
`` Oh , it mean if anything happen something else be sure to happen , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I 'll illustrate .
There 's Mrs. Murphy .
She never have a proposal in her life till she be forty , and then she have three in the one week , and she be so flustered she take the wrong one and have be sorry ever since .
Do you see what it mean now ? ''
`` Yes , I guess so , '' say Cecily somewhat doubtfully .
Later on we hear her impart her newly acquire knowledge to Felicity in the pantry . ''
` It never rain but it pour ' mean that nobody want to marry you for ever so long , and then lot of people do . ''
CHAPTER XIV .
FORBIDDEN FRUIT We be all , with the exception of Uncle Roger , more or less grumpy in the household of King next day .
Perhaps our nerve have be upset by the excitement attendant on Jimmy Patterson 's disappearance .
But it be more likely that our crankiness be the result of the supper we have eat the previous night .
Even child can not devour mince pie , and cold fry pork ham , and fruit cake before go to bed with entire impunity .
Aunt Janet have forget to warn Uncle Roger to keep an eye on our bedtime snack , and we eat what seem good unto u .
Some of u have frightful dream , and all of u carry chip on our shoulder at breakfast .
Felicity and Dan begin a bickering which they keep up the entire day .
Felicity have a natural aptitude for what we call `` bossing , '' and in her mother 's absence she deem that she have a right to rule supreme .
She know good than to make any attempt to assert authority over the Story Girl , and Felix and I be allow some length of tether ; but Cecily , Dan , and Peter be expect to submit dutifully to her decree .
In the main they do ; but on this particular morning Dan be plainly inclined to rebel .
He have have time to grow sore over the thing that Felicity have say to him when Jimmy Patterson be think lost , and he begin the day with a flatly express determination that he be not go to let Felicity rule the roost .
It be not a pleasant day , and to make matter bad it rain until late in the afternoon .
The Story Girl have not recover from the mortification of the previous day ; she would not talk , and she would not tell a single story ; she sit on Rachel Ward 's chest and eat her breakfast with the air of a martyr .
After breakfast she wash the dish and do the bed-room work in grim silence ; then , with a book under one arm and Pat under the other , she betook herself to the window-seat in the upstairs hall , and would not be lure from that retreat , charm we never so wisely .
She stroke the purring Paddy , and read steadily on , with madden indifference to all our pleading .
Even Cecily , the meek and mild , be snappish , and complain of headache .
Peter have go home to see his mother , and Uncle Roger have go to Markdale on business .
Sara Ray come up , but be so snub by Felicity that she go home , cry .
Felicity get the dinner by herself , disdain to ask or command assistance .
She bang thing about and rattle the stove cover until even Cecily protest from her sofa .
Dan sit on the floor and whittle , his sole aim and object be to make a mess and annoy Felicity , in which noble ambition he succeed perfectly .
`` I wish Aunt Janet and Uncle Alec be home , '' say Felix .
`` It 's not half so much fun have the grown-ups away a I think it would be . ''
`` I wish I be back in Toronto , '' I say sulkily .
The mince pie be to blame for THAT wish .
`` I wish you be , I 'm sure , '' say Felicity , riddle the fire noisily .
`` Any one who live with you , Felicity King , will always be wish he be somewhere else , '' say Dan .
`` I be n't talk to you , Dan King , '' retort Felicity , '' ` Speak when you 're speak to , come when you 're call . ' ''
`` Oh , oh , oh , '' wail Cecily on the sofa .
`` I WISH it would stop raining .
I WISH my head would stop aching .
I WISH ma have never go away .
I WISH you 'd leave Felicity alone , Dan . ''
`` I wish girl have some sense , '' say Dan -- which bring the orgy of wish to an end for the time .
A wishing fairy might have have the time of her life in the King kitchen that morning -- particularly if she be a cynically inclined fairy .
But even the effect of unholy snack wear away at length .
By tea-time thing have brighten up .
The rain have cease , and the old , low-raftered room be full of sunshine which dance on the shin dish of the dresser , make mosaic on the floor , and flicker over the table whereon a delicious meal be spread .
Felicity have put on her blue muslin , and look so beautiful in it that her good humour be quite restore .
Cecily 's headache be good , and the Story Girl , refresh by an afternoon siesta , come down with smile and sparkle eye .
Dan alone continue to nurse his grievance , and would not even laugh when the Story Girl tell u a tale brought to mind by some of the `` Rev . Mr. Scott 's plum '' which be on the table .
`` The Rev . Mr. Scott be the man who think the pulpit door must be make for speerits , you know , '' she say .
`` I hear Uncle Edward tell ever so many story about him .
He be call to this congregation , and he labour here long and faithfully , and be much beloved , though he be very eccentric . ''
`` What do that mean ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Hush !
It just mean queer , '' say Cecily , nudge him with her elbow .
`` A common man would be queer , but when it 's a minister , it 's eccentric . ''
`` When he get very old , '' continue the Story Girl , `` the Presbytery think it be time he be retire .
HE do n't think so ; but the Presbytery have their way , because there be so many of them to one of him .
He be retire , and a young man be call to Carlisle .
Mr. Scott go to live in town , but he come out to Carlisle very often , and visit all the people regularly , just the same a when he be their minister .
The young minister be a very good young man , and try to do his duty ; but he be dreadfully afraid of meet old Mr. Scott , because he have be tell that the old minister be very angry at be set aside , and would likely give him a sound drubbing , if he ever meet him .
One day the young minister be visit the Crawfords in Markdale , when they suddenly hear old Mr. Scott 's voice in the kitchen .
The young minister turn pale a the dead , and implore Mrs. Crawford to hide him .
But she could n't get him out of the room , and all she could do be to hide him in the china closet .
The young minister slip into the china closet , and old Mr. Scott come into the room .
He talk very nicely , and read , and prayed .
They make very long prayer in those day , you know ; and at the end of his prayer he say , ` Oh Lord , bless the poor young man hiding in the closet .
Give him courage not to fear the face of man .
Make him a burning and a shin light to this sadly abused congregation . '
Just imagine the feeling of the young minister in the china closet !
But he come right out like a man , though his face be very red , as soon a Mr. Scott have do praying .
And Mr. Scott be lovely to him , and shake hand , and never mention the china closet .
And they be the best of friend ever afterwards . ''
`` How do old Mr. Scott find out the young minister be in the closet ? ''
ask Felix .
`` Nobody ever know .
They suppose he have see him through the window before he come into the house , and guess he must be in the closet -- because there be no way for him to get out of the room . ''
`` Mr. Scott plant the yellow plum tree in Grandfather 's time , '' say Cecily , peel one of the plum , `` and when he do it he say it be a Christian an act a he ever do .
I wonder what he mean .
I do n't see anything very Christian about plant a tree . ''
`` I do , '' say the Story Girl sagely .
When next we assemble ourselves together , it be after milking , and the care of the day be do with .
We foregather in the balsam-fragrant aisle of the fir wood , and eat early August apple to such an extent that the Story Girl say we make her think of the Irishman 's pig .
`` An Irishman who live at Markdale have a little pig , '' she say , `` and he give it a pailful of mush .
The pig at the whole pailful , and then the Irishman put the pig IN the pail , and it do n't fill more than half the pail .
Now , how be that , when it hold a whole pailful of mush ? ''
This seem to be a rather unanswerable kind of conundrum .
We discuss the problem a we roam the wood , and Dan and Peter almost quarrel over it , Dan maintain that the thing be impossible , and Peter be of the opinion that the mush be somehow `` make thicker '' in the process of be eat , and so take up less room .
During the discussion we come out to the fence of the hill pasture where grow the `` bad berry '' bush .
Just what these `` bad berry '' be I can not tell .
We never know their real name .
They be small , red-clustered berry of a glossy , seductive appearance , and we be forbid to eat them , because it be think they might be poisonous .
Dan pick a cluster and hold it up .
`` Dan King , do n't you DARE eat those berry , '' say Felicity in her `` bossy '' tone .
`` They 're poison .
Drop them right away . ''
Now , Dan have not have the slight intention of eat the berry .
But at Felicity 's prohibition the rebellion which have smoulder in him all day break into sudden flame .
He would show her !
`` I 'll eat them if I please , Felicity King , '' he say in a fury : `` I do n't believe they 're poison .
Look here ! ''
Dan cram the whole bunch into his capacious mouth and chew it up .
`` They taste great , '' he say , smack ; and he eat two more cluster , regardless of our horror-stricken protestation and Felicity 's pleading .
We fear that Dan would drop dead on the spot .
But nothing occur immediately .
When an hour have pass we conclude that the bad berry be not poison after all , and we look upon Dan a quite a hero for dare to eat them .
`` I know they would n't hurt me , '' he say loftily .
`` Felicity 's so fond of make a fuss over everything . ''
Nevertheless , when it grow dark and we return to the house , I notice that Dan be rather pale and quiet .
He lay down on the kitchen sofa .
`` Do n't you feel all right , Dan ? ''
I whisper anxiously .
`` Shut up , '' he say .
I shut up .
Felicity and Cecily be set out a lunch in the pantry when we be all startle by a loud groan from the sofa .
`` Oh , I 'm sick -- I 'm awful sick , '' say Dan abjectly , all the defiance and bravado go out of him .
We all go to piece , except Cecily , who alone retain her presence of mind .
`` Have you get a pain in your stomach ? ''
she demand .
`` I 've get an awful pain here , if that 's where my stomach be , '' moan Dan , put his hand on a portion of his anatomy considerably below his stomach .
`` Oh -- oh -- oh ! ''
`` Go for Uncle Roger , '' command Cecily , pale but compose .
`` Felicity , put on the kettle .
Dan , I 'm go to give you mustard and warm water . ''
The mustard and warm water produce it proper effect promptly , but give Dan no relief .
He continue to writhe and groan .
Uncle Roger , who have be summon from his own place , go at once for the doctor , tell Peter to go down the hill for Mrs. Ray .
Peter go , but return accompany by Sara only .
Mrs. Ray and Judy Pineau be both away .
Sara might well have stay home ; she be of no use , and could only add to the general confusion , wander aimlessly about , cry and ask if Dan be go to die .
Cecily take charge of thing .
Felicity might charm the palate , and the Story Girl bind captive the soul ; but when pain and sickness wring the brow it be Cecily who be the ministering angel .
She make the writhing Dan go to bed .
She make him swallow every available antidote which be recommend in `` the doctor 's book ; '' and she apply hot cloth to him until her faithful little hand be half scald off .
There be no doubt Dan be suffer intense pain .
He moan and writhe , and cry for his mother .
`` Oh , be n't it dreadful ! ''
say Felicity , wring her hand a she walk the kitchen floor .
`` Oh , why do n't the doctor come ?
I TOLD Dan the bad berry be poison .
But surely they ca n't kill people ALTOGETHER . ''
`` Pa 's cousin die of eat something forty year ago , '' sob Sara Ray .
`` Hold your tongue , '' say Peter in a fierce whisper .
`` You oughter have more sense than to say such thing to the girl .
They do n't want to be any bad scar than they be . ''
`` But Pa 's cousin DID die , '' reiterate Sara .
`` My Aunt Jane use to rub whisky on for a pain , '' suggest Peter .
`` We have n't any whisky , '' say Felicity disapprovingly .
`` This be a temperance house . ''
`` But rub whisky on the OUTSIDE be n't any harm , '' argue Peter .
`` It 's only when you take it inside it be bad for you . ''
`` Well , we have n't any , anyhow , '' say Felicity .
`` I suppose blueberry wine would n't do in it place ? ''
Peter do not think blueberry wine would be any good .
It be ten o'clock before Dan begin to get well ; but from that time he improve rapidly .
When the doctor , who have be away from home when Uncle Roger reach Markdale , come at half past ten , he find his patient very weak and white , but free from pain .
Dr. Grier pat Cecily on the head , tell her she be a little brick , and have do just the right thing , examine some of the fatal berry and give it a his opinion that they be probably poisonous , administer some powder to Dan and advise him not to tamper with forbidden fruit in future , and go away .
Mrs. Ray now appear , look for Sara , and say she would stay all night with u .
`` I 'll be much oblige to you if you will , '' say Uncle Roger .
`` I feel a bit shook .
I urge Janet and Alec to go to Halifax , and take the responsibility of the child while they be away , but I do n't know what I be let myself in for .
If anything have happen I could never have forgive myself -- though I believe it 's beyond the power of mortal man to keep watch over the thing child WILL eat .
Now , you young fry , get straight off to your bed .
Dan be out of danger , and you ca n't do any more good .
Not that any of you have do much , except Cecily .
She 's get a head of her shoulder . ''
`` It 's be a horrid day all through , '' say Felicity drearily , a we climb the stair .
`` I suppose we make it horrid ourselves , '' say the Story Girl candidly .
`` But it 'll be a good story to tell sometime , '' she add .
`` I 'm awful tired and thankful , '' sigh Cecily .
We all felt that way .
CHAPTER XV .
A DISOBEDIENT BROTHER Dan be his own man again in the morning , though rather pale and weak ; he want to get up , but Cecily order him to stay in bed .
Fortunately Felicity forget to repeat the command , so Dan do stay in bed .
Cecily carry his meal to him , and read a Henty book to him all her spare time .
The Story Girl go up and tell him wondrous tale ; and Sara Ray bring him a pudding she have make herself .
Sara 's intention be good , but the pudding -- well , Dan feed most of it to Paddy , who have curl himself up at the foot of the bed , give the world assurance of a cat by his mellifluous purring .
`` Ai n't he just a great old fellow ? ''
say Dan .
`` He know I 'm kind of sick , just as well a a human .
He never pay no attention to me when I 'm well . ''
Felix and Peter and I be require to help Uncle Roger in some carpentering work that day , and Felicity indulge in one of the house-cleaning orgy so dear to her soul ; so that it be even before we be all free to meet in the orchard and loll on the grass of Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
In August it be a place of shady sweetness , fragrant with the odour of ripen apple , full of dear , delicate shadow .
Through it opening we look afar to the blue rim of the hill and over green , old , tranquil field , lie the sunset glow .
Overhead the lacing leave make a green , murmurous roof .
There be no such thing a hurry in the world , while we linger there and talk of `` cabbage and king . ''
A tale of the Story Girl 's , wherein prince be thick than blackberry , and queen as common a buttercup , lead to our discussion of king .
We wonder what it would be like to be a king .
Peter think it would be fine , only kind of inconvenient , wear a crown all the time .
`` Oh , but they do n't , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Maybe they use to once , but now they wear hat .
The crown be just for special occasion .
They look very much like other people , if you can go by their photograph . ''
`` I do n't believe it would be much fun a a steady thing , '' say Cecily .
`` I 'd like to SEE a queen though .
That be one thing I have against the Island -- you never have a chance to see thing like that here . ''
`` The Prince of Wales be in Charlottetown once , '' say Peter .
`` My Aunt Jane saw him quite close by . ''
`` That be before we be bear , and such a thing wo n't happen again until after we 're dead , '' say Cecily , with very unusual pessimism .
`` I think queen and king be thicker long ago , '' say the Story Girl .
`` They do seem dreadfully scarce now .
There be n't one in this country anywhere .
Perhaps I 'll get a glimpse of some when I go to Europe . ''
Well , the Story Girl be destine to stand before king herself , and she be to be one whom they delight to honour .
But we do not know that , a we sit in the old orchard .
We think it quite sufficiently marvellous that she should expect to have the chance of just see them .
`` Can a queen do exactly a she please ? ''
Sara Ray want to know .
`` Not nowadays , '' explain the Story Girl .
`` Then I do n't see any use in be one , '' Sara decide .
`` A king ca n't do a he please now , either , '' say Felix .
`` If he try to , and if it be n't what please other people , the Parliament or something squelch him . ''
`` Is n't ` squelch ' a lovely word ? ''
say the Story Girl irrelevantly .
`` It 's so expressive .
Squ-u-e-l-ch ! ''
Certainly it be a lovely word , a the Story Girl say it .
Even a king would not have mind be squelch , if it be do to music like that .
`` Uncle Roger say that Martin Forbes ' wife have squelch HIM , '' say Felicity .
`` He say Martin ca n't call his soul his own since he be marry . ''
`` I 'm glad of it , '' say Cecily vindictively .
We all star .
This be so very unlike Cecily .
`` Martin Forbes be the brother of a horrid man in Summerside who call me Johnny , that 's why , '' she explain .
`` He be visit here with his wife two year ago , and he call me Johnny every time he speak to me .
Just you fancy !
I 'll NEVER forgive him . ''
`` That be n't a Christian spirit , '' say Felicity rebukingly .
`` I do n't care .
Would YOU forgive James Forbes if he have call YOU Johnny ? ''
demand Cecily .
`` I know a story about Martin Forbes ' grandfather , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Long ago they do n't have any choir in the Carlisle church -- just a precentor you know .
But at last they get a choir , and Andrew McPherson be to sing bass in it .
Old Mr. Forbes have n't go to church for year , because he be so rheumatic , but he go the first Sunday the choir sang , because he have never hear any one sing bass , and want to hear what it be like .
Grandfather King ask him what he think of the choir .
Mr. Forbes say it be ` verra guid , ' but a for Andrew 's bass , ` there be nae bass aboot it -- it be just a bur-r-r-r the hale time . ' ''
If you could have hear the Story Girl 's `` bur-r-r-r ! ''
Not old Mr. Forbes himself could have invest it with more of Doric scorn .
We roll over in the cool grass and scream with laughter .
`` Poor Dan , '' say Cecily compassionately .
`` He 's up there all alone in his room , miss all the fun .
I suppose it 's mean of u to be have such a good time here , when he have to stay in bed . ''
`` If Dan have n't do wrong eat the bad berry when he be tell not to , he would n't be sick , '' say Felicity .
`` You 're bind to catch it when you do wrong .
It be just a Providence he do n't die . ''
`` That make me think of another story about old Mr. Scott , '' say the Story Girl .
`` You know , I tell you he be very angry because the Presbytery make him retire .
There be two minister in particular he blame for be at the bottom of it .
One time a friend of his be try to console him , and say to him , '' ` You should be resign to the will of Providence . ' ''
` Providence have nothing to do with it , ' say old Mr. Scott . ''
Twas the McCloskeys and the devil . ' ''
`` You should n't speak of the -- the -- DEVIL , '' say Felicity , rather shock .
`` Well , that 's just what Mr. Scott say . ''
`` Oh , it 's all right for a MINISTER to speak of him .
But it be n't nice for little girl .
If you HAVE to speak of -- of -- him -- you might say the Old Scratch .
That be what mother call him . '' '' ''
Twas the McCloskeys and the Old Scratch , ' '' say the Story Girl reflectively , a if she be try to see which version be the more effective .
`` It would n't do , '' she decide .
`` I do n't think it 's any harm to mention the -- the -- that person , when you 're tell a story , '' say Cecily .
`` It 's only in plain talk it do n't do .
It sound too much like swear then . ''
`` I know another story about Mr. Scott , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Not long after he be marry his wife be n't quite ready for church one morning when it be time to go .
So , just to teach her a lesson , he drive off alone , and leave her to walk all the way -- it be nearly two mile -- in the heat and dust .
She take it very quietly .
It 's the best way , I guess , when you 're marry to a man like old Mr. Scott .
But just a few Sundays after be n't he late himself !
I suppose Mrs. Scott think that what be sauce for the goose be sauce for the gander , for she slip out and drive off to church a he have do .
Old Mr. Scott finally arrive at the church , pretty hot and dusty , and in none too good a temper .
He go into the pulpit , lean over it and look at his wife , sit calmly in her pew at the side . ''
` It be cleverly do , ' he say , right out loud , ` BUT DINNA TRY IT AGAIN ! ' ''
In the midst of our laughter Pat come down the Walk , his stately tail waving over the grass .
He prove to be the precursor of Dan , clothe and in his right mind .
`` Do you think you should have get up , Dan ? ''
say Cecily anxiously .
`` I have to , '' say Dan .
`` The window be open , and it be more 'n I could stand to hear you fellows laugh down here and me miss it all .
` Sides , I 'm all right again .
I feel fine . ''
`` I guess this will be a lesson to you , Dan King , '' say Felicity , in her most maddening tone .
`` I guess you wo n't forget it in a hurry .
You wo n't go eat the bad berry another time when you 're tell not to . ''
Dan have pick out a soft spot in the grass for himself , and be in the act of sit down , when Felicity 's tactful speech arrest him midway .
He straighten up and turn a wrathful face on his provoking sister .
Then , red with indignation , but without a word , he stalk up the walk .
`` Now he 's go off mad , '' say Cecily reproachfully .
`` Oh , Felicity , why could n't you have hold your tongue ? ''
`` Why , what do I say to make him mad ? ''
ask Felicity in honest perplexity .
`` I think it 's awful for brother and sister to be always quarrel , '' sigh Cecily .
`` The Cowans fight all the time ; and you and Dan will soon be a bad . ''
`` Oh , talk sense , '' say Felicity .
`` Dan 's get so touchy it be n't safe to speak to him .
I should think he 'd be sorry for all the trouble he make last night .
But you just back him up in everything , Cecily . ''
`` I do n't ! ''
`` You do !
And you 've no business to , specially when mother 's away .
She leave ME in charge . ''
`` You do n't take much charge last night when Dan get sick , '' say Felix maliciously .
Felicity have tell him at tea that night he be get fatter than ever .
This be his tit-for-tat .
`` You be pretty glad to leave it all to Cecily then . ''
`` Who 's talk to you ? ''
say Felicity .
`` Now , look here , '' say the Story Girl , `` the first thing we know we 'll all be quarrel , and then some of u will sulk all day to-morrow .
It 's dreadful to spoil a whole day .
Just let 's all sit still and count a hundred before we say another word . ''
We sit still and count the hundred .
When Cecily finish she get up and go in search of Dan , resolve to soothe his wounded feeling .
Felicity call after her to tell Dan there be a jam turnover she have put away in the pantry specially for him .
Felix hold out to Felicity a remarkably fine apple which he have be save for his own consumption ; and the Story Girl begin a tale of an enchanted maiden in a castle by the sea ; but we never hear the end of it .
For , just a the evening star be look whitely through the rosy window of the west , Cecily come fly through the orchard , wring her hand .
`` Oh , come , come quick , '' she gasp .
`` Dan 's eat the bad berry again -- he 's et a whole bunch of them -- he say he 'll show Felicity .
I ca n't stop him .
Come you and try . ''
We rise in a body and rush towards the house .
In the yard we encounter Dan , emerge from the fir wood and champ the fatal berry with unrepentant relish .
`` Dan King , do you want to commit suicide ? ''
demand the Story Girl .
`` Look here , Dan , '' I expostulate .
`` You should n't do this .
Think how sick you be last night and all the trouble you make for everybody .
Do n't eat any more , there 's a good chap . ''
`` All right , '' say Dan .
`` I 've et all I want .
They taste fine .
I do n't believe it be them make me sick . ''
But now that his anger be over he look a little frightened .
Felicity be not there .
We find her in the kitchen , light up the fire .
`` Bev , fill the kettle with water and put it on to heat , '' she say in a resigned tone .
`` If Dan 's go to be sick again we 've get to be ready for it .
I wish mother be home , that 's all .
I hope she 'll never go away again .
Dan King , you just wait till I tell her of the way you 've act . ''
`` Fudge !
I ai n't go to be sick , '' say Dan .
`` And if YOU begin tell tale , Felicity King , I 'LL tell some too .
I know how many egg mother say you could use while she be away -- and I know how many you HAVE use .
I count .
So you 'd better mind your own business , Miss. '' `` A nice way to talk to your sister when you may be dead in an hour 's time ! ''
retort Felicity , in tear between her anger and her real alarm about Dan .
But in an hour 's time Dan be still in good health , and announce his intention of go to bed .
He go , and be soon sleep as peacefully a if he have nothing on either conscience or stomach .
But Felicity declare she mean to keep the water hot until all danger be past ; and we sit up to keep her company .
We be sit there when Uncle Roger walk in at eleven o'clock .
`` What on earth be you young fry do up at this time of night ? ''
he ask angrily .
`` You should have be in your bed two hour ago .
And with a roar fire on a night that 's hot enough to melt a brass monkey !
Have you take leave of your sens ? ''
`` It 's because of Dan , '' explain Felicity wearily .
`` He go and et more of the bad berry -- a whole lot of them -- and we be sure he 'd be sick again .
But he have n't be yet , and now he 's asleep . ''
`` Is that boy stark , star mad ? ''
say Uncle Roger .
`` It be Felicity 's fault , '' cry Cecily , who always take Dan 's part through evil report and good report .
`` She tell him she guess he 'd learn a lesson and would n't do what she 'd tell him not to again .
So he go and et them because she vex him so . ''
`` Felicity King , if you do n't watch out you 'll grow up into the sort of woman who drive her husband to drink , '' say Uncle Roger gravely .
`` How could I tell Dan would act so like a mule ! ''
cry Felicity .
`` Get off to bed , every one of you .
It 's a thankful man I 'll be when your father and mother come home .
The wretched bachelor who undertake to look after a houseful of child like you be to be pity .
Nobody will ever catch me do it again .
Felicity , be there anything fit to eat in the pantry ? ''
That last question be the most unkind cut of all .
Felicity could have forgive Uncle Roger anything but that .
It really be unpardonable .
She confide to me a we climb the stair that she hat Uncle Roger .
Her red lip quiver and the tear of wounded pride brim over in her beautiful blue eye .
In the dim candle-light she look unbelievably pretty and appeal .
I put my arm about her and give her a cousinly salute .
`` Never you mind him , Felicity , '' I say .
`` He 's only a grown-up . ''
CHAPTER XVI .
THE GHOSTLY BELL Friday be a comfortable day in the household of King .
Everybody be in good humour .
The Story Girl sparkle through several tale that range from the afrites and jinns of Eastern myth , through the piping day of chivalry , down to the homely anecdote of Carlisle workaday folk .
She be in turn an Oriental princess behind a silken veil , the bride who follow her bridegroom to the war of Palestine disguise a a page , the gallant lady who ransom her diamond necklace by dance a coranto with a highwayman on a moonlit heath , and `` Buskirk 's girl '' who join the Sons and Daughters of Temperance `` just to see what be into it ; '' and in each impersonation she be so thoroughly the thing impersonate that it be a matter of surprise to u when she emerge from each our own familiar Story Girl again .
Cecily and Sara Ray find a `` sweet '' new knit lace pattern in an old magazine and spend a happy afternoon learn it and `` talk secret . ''
Chancing -- accidentally , I vow -- to overhear certain of these secret , I learn that Sara Ray have name an apple for Johnny Price -- `` and , Cecily , true 's you live , there be eight seed in it , and you know eight mean ` they both love ' '' -- while Cecily admit that Willy Fraser have write on his slate and show it to her , `` If you love me a I love you , No knife can cut our love in two '' -- `` but , Sara Ray , NEVER you breathe this to a living soul . ''
Felix also aver that he hear Sara ask Cecily very seriously , `` Cecily , how old must we be before we can have a REAL beau ? ''
But Sara always deny it ; so I be inclined to believe Felix simply make it up himself .
Paddy distinguish himself by catch a rat , and be intolerably conceited about it -- until Sara Ray cure him by call him a `` dear , sweet cat , '' and kiss him between the ear .
Then Pat sneak abjectly off , his tail drooping .
He resent be call a sweet cat .
He have a sense of humour , have Pat .
Very few cat have ; and most of them have such an inordinate appetite for flattery that they will swallow any amount of it and thrive thereon .
Paddy have a finer taste .
The Story Girl and I be the only one who could pay him compliment to his liking .
The Story Girl would box his ear with her fist and say , `` Bless your gray heart , Paddy , you 're a good sort of old rascal , '' and Pat would purr his satisfaction ; I use to take a handful of the skin on his back , shake him gently and say , `` Pat , you 've forget more than any human be ever know , '' and I vow Paddy would lick his chop with delight .
But to be call `` a sweet cat ! ''
Oh , Sara , Sara !
Felicity try -- and have the most gratifying luck with -- a new and complicated cake recipe -- a gorgeous compound of a plumminess to make your mouth water .
The number of egg she use in it would have shock Aunt Janet 's thrifty soul , but that cake , like beauty , be it own excuse .
Uncle Roger eat three slice of it at tea-time and tell Felicity she be an artist .
The poor man mean it a a compliment ; but Felicity , who know Uncle Blair be an artist and have a poor opinion of such fry , look indignant and retort , indeed she be n't !
`` Peter say there 's any amount of raspberry back in the maple clearing , '' say Dan .
`` S'posen we all go after tea and pick some ? ''
`` I 'd like to , '' sigh Felicity , `` but we 'd come home tire and with all the milking to do .
You boys good go alone . ''
`` Peter and I will attend to the milking for one evening , '' say Uncle Roger .
`` You can all go .
I have an idea that a raspberry pie for to-morrow night , when the folk come home , would hit the right spot . ''
Accordingly , after tea we all set off , arm with jug and cup .
Felicity , thoughtful creature , also take a small basketful of jelly cooky along with her .
We have to go back through the maple wood to the extreme end of Uncle Roger 's farm -- a pretty walk , through a world of green , whisper bough and spice-sweet fern , and shift patch of sunlight .
The raspberry be plentiful , and we be not long in fill our receptacle .
Then we foregather around a tiny wood spring , cold and pellucid under it young maple , and eat the jelly cooky ; and the Story Girl tell u a tale of a haunted spring in a mountain glen where a fair white lady dwelt , who pledge all comer in a golden cup with jewel bright .
`` And if you drink of the cup with her , '' say the Story Girl , her eye glow through the emerald dusk about u , `` you be never see in the world again ; you be whisk straightway to fairyland , and live there with a fairy bride .
And you never WANTED to come back to earth , because when you drink of the magic cup you forget all your past life , except for one day in every year when you be allow to remember it . ''
`` I wish there be such a place a fairyland -- and a way to get to it , '' say Cecily .
`` I think there IS such a place -- in spite of Uncle Edward , '' say the Story Girl dreamily , `` and I think there be a way of get there too , if we could only find it . ''
Well , the Story Girl be right .
There be such a place a fairyland -- but only child can find the way to it .
And they do not know that it be fairyland until they have grow so old that they forget the way .
One bitter day , when they seek it and can not find it , they realize what they have lose ; and that be the tragedy of life .
On that day the gate of Eden be shut behind them and the age of gold be over .
Henceforth they must dwell in the common light of common day .
Only a few , who remain child at heart , can ever find that fair , lose path again ; and bless be they above mortal .
They , and only they , can bring u tidings from that dear country where we once sojourn and from which we must evermore be exile .
The world call them it singer and poet and artist and story-tellers ; but they be just people who have never forget the way to fairyland .
As we sit there the Awkward Man pass by , with his gun over his shoulder and his dog at his side .
He do not look like an awkward man , there in the heart of the maple wood .
He stride along right masterfully and lift his head with the air of one who be monarch of all he survey .
The Story Girl kiss her fingertip to him with the delightful audacity which be a part of her ; and the Awkward Man pluck off his hat and sweep her a stately and graceful bow .
`` I do n't understand why they call him the awkward man , '' say Cecily , when he be out of earshot .
`` You 'd understand why if you ever saw him at a party or a picnic , '' say Felicity , `` try to pass plate and drop them whenever a woman look at him .
They say it 's pitiful to see him . ''
`` I must get well acquaint with that man next summer , '' say the Story Girl .
`` If I put it off any long it will be too late .
I 'm grow so fast , Aunt Olivia say I 'll have to wear ankle skirt next summer .
If I begin to look grown-up he 'll get frighten of me , and then I 'll never find out the Golden Milestone mystery . ''
`` Do you think he 'll ever tell you who Alice be ? ''
I ask .
`` I have a notion who Alice be already , '' say the mysterious creature .
But she would tell u nothing more .
When the jelly cooky be all eat it be high time to be move homeward , for when the dark come down there be more comfortable place than a rustle maple wood and the precinct of a possibly enchant spring .
When we reach the foot of the orchard and enter it through a gap in the hedge it be the magical , mystical time of `` between light . ''
Off to the west be a daffodil glow hanging over the valley of lose sunset , and Grandfather King 's huge willow rise up against it like a rounded mountain of foliage .
In the east , above the maple wood , be a silvery sheen that hint the moonrise .
But the orchard be a place of shadow and mysterious sound .
Midway up the open space in it heart we meet Peter ; and if ever a boy be give over to sheer terror that boy be Peter .
His face be as white a a sunburned face could be , and his eye be brim with panic .
`` Peter , what be the matter ? ''
cry Cecily .
`` There 's -- SOMETHING -- in the house , RINGING A BELL , '' say Peter , in a shaking voice .
Not the Story Girl herself could have invest that `` something '' with more of creepy horror .
We all draw close together .
I felt a crinkly feeling along my back which I have never know before .
If Peter have not be so manifestly frighten we might have think he be try to `` pass a joke '' on u .
But such abject terror a his could not be counterfeit .
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Felicity , but her voice shook .
`` There be n't a bell in the house to ring .
You must have imagine it , Peter .
Or else Uncle Roger be try to fool u . ''
`` Your Uncle Roger go to Markdale right after milk , '' say Peter .
`` He lock up the house and give me the key .
There be n't a soul in it then , that I 'm sure of .
I druv the cow to the pasture , and I get back about fifteen minute ago .
I set down on the front door step for a moment , and all at once I hear a bell ring in the house eight time .
I tell you I be skeered .
I make a bolt for the orchard -- and you wo n't catch me go near that house till your Uncle Roger come home . ''
You would n't catch any of u do it .
We be almost a badly scar a Peter .
There we stand in a huddled demoralize group .
Oh , what an eerie place that orchard be !
What shadow !
What noise !
What spooky swoop of bat !
You COULD N'T look every way at once , and goodness only know what might be behind you !
`` There CA N'T be anybody in the house , '' say Felicity .
`` Well , here 's the key -- go and see for yourself , '' say Peter .
Felicity have no intention of go and see .
`` I think you boys ought to go , '' she say , retreat behind the defence of sex .
`` You ought to be braver than girl . ''
`` But we ai n't , '' say Felix candidly .
`` I would n't be much scar of anything REAL .
But a haunt house be a different thing . ''
`` I always think something have to be do in a place before it could be haunt , '' say Cecily .
`` Somebody kill or something like that , you know .
Nothing like that ever happen in our family .
The Kings have always be respectable . ''
`` Perhaps it be Emily King 's ghost , '' whisper Felix .
`` She never appear anywhere but in the orchard , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Oh , oh , child , be n't there something under Uncle Alec 's tree ? ''
We peer fearfully through the gloom .
There WAS something -- something that waver and flutter -- advanced -- retreat -- `` That 's only my old apron , '' say Felicity .
`` I hang it there to-day when I be look for the white hen 's nest .
Oh , what shall we do ?
Uncle Roger may not be back for hour .
I CA N'T believe there 's anything in the house . ''
`` Maybe it 's only Peg Bowen , '' suggest Dan .
There be not a great deal of comfort in this .
We be almost as much afraid of Peg Bowen a we would be of any spectral visitant .
Peter scoff at the idea .
`` Peg Bowen be n't in the house before your Uncle Roger lock it up , and how could she get in afterwards ? ''
he say .
`` No , it be n't Peg Bowen .
It 's SOMETHING that WALKS . ''
`` I know a story about a ghost , '' say the Story Girl , the ruling passion strong even in extremity .
`` It be about a ghost with eyehole but no eye -- '' `` Do n't , '' cry Cecily hysterically .
`` Do n't you go on !
Do n't you say another word !
I ca n't bear it !
Do n't you ! ''
The Story Girl do n't .
But she have say enough .
There be something in the quality of a ghost with eyehole but no eye that freeze our young blood .
There never be in all the world six more badly scar child than those who huddle in the old King orchard that August night .
All at once -- something -- leap from the bough of a tree and alight before u .
We split the air with a simultaneous shriek .
We would have run , one and all , if there have be anywhere to run to .
But there be n't -- all around u be only those shadowy arcade .
Then we saw with shame that it be only our Paddy .
`` Pat , Pat , '' I say , pick him up , feel a certain comfort in his soft , solid body .
`` Stay with u , old fellow . ''
But Pat would none of u .
He struggle out of my clasp and disappear over the long grass with soundless leap .
He be no longer our tame , domestic , well acquaint Paddy .
He be a strange , furtive animal -- a `` questing beast . ''
Presently the moon rise ; but this only make matter worse .
The shadow have be still before ; now they move and dance , a the night wind toss the bough .
The old house , with it dreadful secret , be white and clear against the dark background of spruce .
We be woefully tire , but we could not sit down because the grass be reek with dew .
`` The Family Ghost only appear in daylight , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I would n't mind see a ghost in daylight .
But after dark be another thing . ''
`` There 's no such thing a a ghost , '' I say contemptuously .
Oh , how I wish I could believe it !
`` Then what ring that bell ? ''
say Peter .
`` Bells do n't ring of themselves , I s ` pose , specially when there ai n't any in the house to ring . ''
`` Oh , will Uncle Roger never come home ! ''
sobbed Felicity .
`` I know he 'll laugh at u awful , but it 's good to be laugh at than scared like this . ''
Uncle Roger do not come until nearly ten .
Never be there a more welcome sound than the rumble of his wheel in the lane .
We run to the orchard gate and swarm across the yard , just a Uncle Roger alight at the front door .
He star at u in the moonlight .
`` Have you torment any one into eat more bad berry , Felicity ? ''
he demand .
`` Oh , Uncle Roger , do n't go in , '' implore Felicity seriously .
`` There 's something dreadful in there -- something that ring a bell .
Peter hear it .
Do n't go in . ''
`` There 's no use ask the meaning of this , I suppose , '' say Uncle Roger with the calm of despair .
`` I 've give up try to fathom you young one .
Peter , where 's the key ?
What yarn have you be tell ? ''
`` I DID hear a bell ring , '' say Peter stubbornly .
Uncle Roger unlock and flung open the front door .
As he do so , clear and sweet , ring out ten bell-like chime .
`` That 's what I hear , '' cry Peter .
`` There 's the bell ! ''
We have to wait until Uncle Roger stop laugh before we hear the explanation .
We think he never WOULD stop .
`` That 's Grandfather King 's old clock striking , '' he say , as soon a he be able to speak .
`` Sammy Prott come along after tea , when you be away to the forge , Peter , and I give him permission to clean the old clock .
He have it go merrily in no time .
And now it have almost frighten you poor little monkey to death . ''
We hear Uncle Roger chuckle all the way to the barn .
`` Uncle Roger can laugh , '' say Cecily , with a quiver in her voice , `` but it 's no laughing matter to be so scared .
I just feel sick , I be so frightened . ''
`` I would n't mind if he 'd laugh once and have it do with it , '' say Felicity bitterly .
`` But he 'll laugh at u for a year , and tell the story to every soul that come to the place . ''
`` You ca n't blame him for that , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I shall tell it , too .
I do n't care if the joke be as much on myself a any one .
A story be a story , no matter who it 's on .
But it IS hateful to be laugh at -- and grown-ups always do it .
I never will when I 'm grown up .
I 'll remember good . ''
`` It 's all Peter 's fault , '' say Felicity .
`` I do think he might have have more sense than to take a clock strike for a bell ringing . ''
`` I never hear that kind of a strike before , '' protest Peter .
`` It do n't sound a bit like other clock .
And the door be shut and the sound kind o ' muffle .
It 's all very fine to say you would have know what it be , but I do n't believe you would . ''
`` I would n't have , '' say the Story Girl honestly .
`` I think it WAS a bell when I hear it , and the door open , too .
Let u be fair , Felicity . ''
`` I 'm dreadful tired , '' sigh Cecily .
We be all `` dreadful tired , '' for this be the third night of late hour and nerve rack strain .
But it be over two hour since we have eat the cooky , and Felicity suggest that a saucerful apiece of raspberry and cream would not be hard to take .
It be not , for any one but Cecily , who could n't swallow a mouthful .
`` I 'm glad father and mother will be back to-morrow night , '' she say .
`` It 's too exciting when they 're away .
That 's my opinion . ''
CHAPTER XVII .
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING Felicity be cumber with many care the next morning .
For one thing , the whole house must be put in apple pie order ; and for another , an elaborate supper must be prepare for the expected return of the traveller that night .
Felicity devote her whole attention to this , and leave the secondary preparation of the regular meal to Cecily and the Story Girl .
It be agree that the latter be to make a cornmeal pudding for dinner .
In spite of her disaster with the bread , the Story Girl have be take cook lesson from Felicity all the week , and get on tolerably well , although , mindful of her former mistake , she never venture on anything without Felicity 's approval .
But Felicity have no time to oversee her this morning .
`` You must attend to the pudding yourself , '' she say .
`` The recipe 's so plain and simple even you ca n't go astray , and if there 's anything you do n't understand you can ask me .
But do n't bother me if you can help it . ''
The Story Girl do not bother her once .
The pudding be concoct and bake , a the Story Girl proudly inform u when we come to the dinner-table , all on her own hook .
She be very proud of it ; and certainly as far a appearance go it justify her triumph .
The slice be smooth and golden ; and , smother in the luscious maple sugar sauce which Cecily have compound , be very fair to view .
Nevertheless , although none of u , not even Uncle Roger or Felicity , say a word at the time , for fear of hurt the Story Girl 's feeling , the pudding do not taste exactly a it should .
It be tough -- decidedly tough -- and lack the richness of flavour which be customary in Aunt Janet 's cornmeal pudding .
If it have not be for the abundant supply of sauce it would have be very dry eat indeed .
Eaten it be , however , to the last crumb .
If it be not just what a cornmeal pudding might be , the rest of the bill of fare have be extra good and our appetite match it .
`` I wish I be twin so 's I could eat more , '' say Dan , when he simply have to stop .
`` What good would be twin do you ? ''
ask Peter .
`` People who squint ca n't eat any more than people who do n't squint , can they ? ''
We could not see any connection between Peter 's two question .
`` What have squint get to do with twin ? ''
ask Dan .
`` Why , twin be just people that squint , be n't they ? ''
say Peter .
We think he be try to be funny , until we find out that he be quite in earnest .
Then we laugh until Peter get sulky .
`` I do n't care , '' he say .
`` How 's a fellow to know ?
Tommy and Adam Cowan , over at Markdale , be twin ; and they 're both cross-eyed .
So I s ` pose that be what be twin mean .
It 's all very fine for you fellows to laugh .
I never go to school half as much a you do ; and you be bring up in Toronto , too .
If you 'd work out ever since you be seven , and just get to school in the winter , there 'd be lot of thing you would n't know , either . ''
`` Never mind , Peter , '' say Cecily .
`` You know lot of thing they do n't . ''
But Peter be not to be conciliate , and take himself off in high dudgeon .
To be laugh at before Felicity -- to be laugh at BY Felicity -- be something he could not endure .
Let Cecily and the Story Girl cackle all they want to , and let those stuck-up Toronto boys grin like chessy-cats ; but when Felicity laugh at him the iron enter into Peter 's soul .
If the Story Girl laugh at Peter the mill of the god ground out his revenge for him in mid-afternoon .
Felicity , have use up all the available cooking material in the house , have to stop perforce ; and she now determine to stuff two new pincushion she have be make for her room .
We hear her rummage in the pantry a we sit on the cool , spruce-shadowed cellar door outside , where Uncle Roger be show u how to make elderberry pop-guns .
Presently she come out , frown .
`` Cecily , do you know where mother put the sawdust she empty out of that old bead pincushion of Grandmother King 's , after she have sift the needle out of it ?
I think it be in the tin box . ''
`` So it be , '' say Cecily .
`` It be n't .
There be n't a speck of sawdust in that box . ''
The Story Girl 's face wear a quite indescribable expression , compound of horror and shame .
She need not have confess .
If she have but hold her tongue the mystery of the sawdust 's disappearance might have forever remain a mystery .
She WOULD have hold her tongue , a she afterwards confide to me , if it have not be for a horrible fear which flash into her mind that possibly sawdust pudding be not healthy for people to eat -- especially if there might be needle in them -- and that if any mischief have be do in that direction it be her duty to undo it if possible at any cost of ridicule to herself .
`` Oh , Felicity , '' she say , her voice express a very anguish of humiliation , `` I -- I -- think that stuff in the box be cornmeal and use it to make the pudding . ''
Felicity and Cecily star blankly at the Story Girl .
We boys begin to laugh , but be check midway by Uncle Roger .
He be rock himself back and forth , with his hand press against his stomach .
`` Oh , '' he groan , `` I 've be wonder what these sharp pain I 've be feel ever since dinner meant .
I know now .
I must have swallow a needle -- several needle , perhaps .
I 'm do for ! ''
The poor Story Girl go very white .
`` Oh , Uncle Roger , could it be possible ?
You COULD N'T have swallow a needle without know it .
It would have stick in your tongue or teeth . ''
`` I do n't chew the pudding , '' groan Uncle Roger .
`` It be too tough -- I just swallow the chunk whole . ''
He groan and twisted and double himself up .
But he overdo it .
He be not as good an actor a the Story Girl .
Felicity look scornfully at him .
`` Uncle Roger , you be not one bit sick , '' she say deliberately .
`` You be just put on . ''
`` Felicity , if I die from the effect of eat sawdust pudding , flavour with needle , you 'll be sorry you ever say such a thing to your poor old uncle , '' say Uncle Roger reproachfully .
`` Even if there be no needle in it , sixty-year-old sawdust ca n't be good for my tummy .
I daresay it be n't even clean . ''
`` Well , you know every one have to eat a peck of dirt in his life , '' giggle Felicity .
`` But nobody have to eat it all at once , '' retort Uncle Roger , with another groan .
`` Oh , Sara Stanley , it 's a thankful man I be that your Aunt Olivia be to be home to-night .
You 'd have me kilt entirely by another day .
I believe you do it on purpose to have a story to tell . ''
Uncle Roger hobble off to the barn , still hold on to his stomach .
`` Do you think he really feel sick ? ''
ask the Story Girl anxiously .
`` No , I do n't , '' say Felicity .
`` You need n't worry over him .
There 's nothing the matter with him .
I do n't believe there be any needle in that sawdust .
Mother sift it very carefully . ''
`` I know a story about a man whose son swallow a mouse , '' say the Story Girl , who would probably have know a story and try to tell it if she be be lead to the stake .
`` And he run and waken up a very tired doctor just a he have get to sleep . ''
` Oh , doctor , my son have swallow a mouse , ' he cry .
` What shall I do ? ' ''
` Tell him to swallow a cat , ' roar the poor doctor , and slam his door .
`` Now , if Uncle Roger have swallow any needle , maybe it would make it all right if he swallow a pincushion . ''
We all laugh .
But Felicity soon grow sober .
`` It seem awful to think of eat a sawdust pudding .
How on earth do you make such a mistake ? ''
`` It look just like cornmeal , '' say the Story Girl , go from white to red in her shame .
`` Well , I 'm go to give up try to cook , and stick to thing I can do .
And if ever one of you mention sawdust pudding to me I 'll never tell you another story as long a I live . ''
The threat be effectual .
Never do we mention that unholy pudding .
But the Story Girl could not so impose silence on the grown-ups , especially Uncle Roger .
He torment her for the rest of the summer .
Never a breakfast do he sit down to , without gravely inquire if they be sure there be no sawdust in the porridge .
Not a tweak of rheumatism do he feel but he vow it be due to a needle , travel about his body .
And Aunt Olivia be warn to label all the pincushion in the house .
`` Contents , sawdust ; not intend for pudding . ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
HOW KISSING WAS DISCOVERED An August evening , calm , golden , dewless , can be very lovely .
At sunset , Felicity , Cecily , and Sara Ray , Dan , Felix , and I be in the orchard , sit on the cool grass at the base of the Pulpit Stone .
In the west be a field of crocus sky over which pale cloud blossom be scatter .
Uncle Roger have go to the station to meet the traveller , and the dining-room table be spread with a feast of fat thing .
`` It 's be a jolly week , take it all round , '' say Felix , `` but I 'm glad the grown-ups be come back to-night , especially Uncle Alec . ''
`` I wonder if they 'll bring u anything , '' say Dan .
`` I 'm think long to hear all about the wedding , '' say Felicity , who be braid timothy stalk into a collar for Pat .
`` You girl be always think about wedding and get marry , '' say Dan contemptuously .
`` We ai n't , '' say Felicity indignantly .
`` I be NEVER go to get marry .
I think it be just horrid , so there ! ''
`` I guess you think it would be a good deal horrider not to be , '' say Dan .
`` It depend on who you 're marry to , '' say Cecily gravely , see that Felicity disdain reply .
`` If you get a man like father it would be all right .
But S'POSEN you get one like Andrew Ward ?
He 's so mean and cross to his wife that she tell him every day she wish she 'd never set eye on him . ''
`` Perhaps that 's WHY he 's mean and cross , '' say Felix .
`` I tell you it be n't always the man 's fault , '' say Dan darkly .
`` When I get married I 'll be good to my wife , but I mean to be bos .
When I open my mouth my word will be law . ''
`` If your word be as big a your mouth I guess it will be , '' say Felicity cruelly .
`` I pity the man who get you , Felicity King , that 's all '' retort Dan .
`` Now , do n't fight , '' implore Cecily .
`` Who 's fight ? ''
demand Dan .
`` Felicity think she can say anything she like to me , but I 'll show her different . ''
Probably , in spite of Cecily 's effort , a bitter spat would have result between Dan and Felicity , have not a diversion be effect at that moment by the Story Girl , who come slowly down Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
`` Just look how the Story Girl have get herself up ! ''
say Felicity .
`` Why , she 's no more than decent ! ''
The Story Girl be barefooted and barearmed , have roll the sleeve of her pink gingham up to her shoulder .
Around her waist be twist a girdle of the blood-red rose that bloom in Aunt Olivia 's garden ; on her sleek curl she wear a chaplet of them ; and her hand be full of them .
She pause under the outmost tree , in a golden-green gloom , and laugh at u over a big branch .
Her wild , subtle , nameless charm clothe her a with a garment .
We always remember the picture she make there ; and in late day when we read Tennyson 's poem at a college desk , we know exactly how an oread , peer through the green leaf on some haunt knoll of many fountained Ida , must look .
`` Felicity , '' say the Story Girl reproachfully , `` what have you be do to Peter ?
He 's up there sulk in the granary , and he wo n't come down , and he say it 's your fault .
You must have hurt his feeling dreadfully . ''
`` I do n't know about his feeling , '' say Felicity , with an angry toss of her shin head , `` but I guess I make his ear tingle all right .
I box them both good and hard . ''
`` Oh , Felicity !
What for ? ''
`` Well , he try to kiss me , that 's what for ! ''
say Felicity , turn very red .
`` As if I would let a hired boy kiss me !
I guess Master Peter wo n't try anything like that again in a hurry . ''
The Story Girl come out of her shadow and sit down beside u on the grass .
`` Well , in that case , '' she say gravely , `` I think you do right to slap his ear -- not because he be a hired boy , but because it would be impertinent in ANY boy .
But talk of kiss make me think of a story I find in Aunt Olivia 's scrapbook the other day .
Would n't you like to hear it ?
It be call , ` How Kissing Was Discovered . ' ''
`` Was n't kiss always discover ? ''
ask Dan .
`` Not accord to this story .
It be just discover accidentally . ''
`` Well , let 's hear about it , '' say Felix , `` although I think kiss 's awful silly , and it would n't have matter much if it have n't ever be discover . ''
The Story Girl scatter her rose around her on the grass , and clasp her slim hand over her knee .
Gazing dreamily afar at the tinted sky between the apple tree , a if she be look back to the merry day of the world 's gay youth , she begin , her voice give to the word and fancy of the old tale the delicacy of hoar frost and the crystal sparkle of dew .
`` It happen long , long ago in Greece -- where so many other beautiful thing happen .
Before that , nobody have ever hear of kissing .
And then it be just discover in the twinkling of an eye .
And a man write it down and the account have be preserve ever since .
`` There be a young shepherd name Glaucon -- a very handsome young shepherd -- who live in a little village call Thebes .
It become a very great and famous city afterwards , but at this time it be only a little village , very quiet and simple .
Too quiet for Glaucon 's liking .
He grow tire of it , and he think he would like to go away from home and see something of the world .
So he take his knapsack and his shepherd 's crook , and wander away until he come to Thessaly .
That be the land of the god ' hill , you know .
The name of the hill be Olympus .
But it have nothing to do with this story .
This happen on another mountain -- Mount Pelion .
`` Glaucon hire himself to a wealthy man who have a great many sheep .
And every day Glaucon have to lead the sheep up to pasture on Mount Pelion , and watch them while they eat .
There be nothing else to do , and he would have find the time very long , if he have not be able to play on a flute .
So he play very often and very beautifully , a he sit under the tree and watch the wonderful blue sea afar off , and think about Aglaia .
`` Aglaia be his master 's daughter .
She be so sweet and beautiful that Glaucon fell in love with her the very moment he first saw her ; and when he be not play his flute on the mountain he be think about Aglaia , and dream that some day he might have flock of his own , and a dear little cottage down in the valley where he and Aglaia might live .
`` Aglaia have fall in love with Glaucon just a he have with her .
But she never let him suspect it for ever so long .
He do not know how often she would steal up the mountain and hide behind the rock near where the sheep pasture , to listen to Glaucon 's beautiful music .
It be very lovely music , because he be always think of Aglaia while he play , though he little dream how near him she often be .
`` But after awhile Glaucon find out that Aglaia love him , and everything be well .
Nowadays I suppose a wealthy man like Aglaia 's father would n't be willing to let his daughter marry a hired man ; but this be in the Golden Age , you know , when nothing like that matter at all .
`` After that , almost every day Aglaia would go up the mountain and sit beside Glaucon , a he watch the flock and play on his flute .
But he do not play as much a he use to , because he like well to talk with Aglaia .
And in the evening they would lead the sheep home together .
`` One day Aglaia go up the mountain by a new way , and she come to a little brook .
Something be sparkle very brightly among it pebble .
Aglaia pick it up , and it be the most beautiful little stone that she have ever see .
It be only as large a a pea , but it glitter and flash in the sunlight with every colour of the rainbow .
Aglaia be so delighted with it that she resolve to take it a a present to Glaucon .
`` But all at once she hear a stamping of hoof behind her , and when she turn she almost die from fright .
For there be the great god , Pan , and he be a very terrible object , look quite as much like a goat a a man .
The god be not all beautiful , you know .
And , beautiful or not , nobody ever want to meet them face to face . ''
` Give that stone to me , ' say Pan , hold out his hand .
`` But Aglaia , though she be frighten , would not give him the stone . '' '
I want it for Glaucon , ' she say . '' '
I want it for one of my wood nymphs , ' say Pan , ` and I must have it . '
`` He advance threateningly , but Aglaia run as hard a she could up the mountain .
If she could only reach Glaucon he would protect her .
Pan follow her , clatter and bellow terribly , but in a few minute she rush into Glaucon 's arm .
`` The dreadful sight of Pan and the still more dreadful noise he make , so frighten the sheep that they flee in all direction .
But Glaucon be not afraid at all , because Pan be the god of shepherd , and be bind to grant any prayer a good shepherd , who always do his duty , might make .
If Glaucon have NOT be a good shepherd dear know what would have happen to him and Aglaia .
But he be ; and when he beg Pan to go away and not frighten Aglaia any more , Pan have to go , grumble a good deal -- and Pan 's grumbling have a very ugly sound .
But still he WENT , and that be the main thing . ''
` Now , dear , what be all this trouble about ? '
ask Glaucon ; and Aglaia tell him the story . ''
` But where be the beautiful stone ? '
he ask , when she have finish .
` Didst thou drop it in thy alarm ? '
`` No , indeed !
Aglaia have do nothing of the sort .
When she begin to run , she have pop it into her mouth , and there it be still , quite safe .
Now she poke it out between her red lip , where it glitter in the sunlight . ''
` Take it , ' she whisper .
`` The question be -- how be he to take it ?
Both of Aglaia 's arm be hold fast to her side by Glaucon 's arm ; and if he loosen his clasp ever so little he be afraid she would fall , so weak and trembling be she from her dreadful fright .
Then Glaucon have a brilliant idea .
He would take the beautiful stone from Aglaia 's lip with his own lip .
`` He bend over until his lip touch hers -- and THEN , he forget all about the beautiful pebble and so do Aglaia .
Kissing be discover !
`` What a yarn ! ''
say Dan , draw a long breath , when we have come to ourselves and discover that we be really sit in a dewy Prince Edward Island orchard instead of watch two lover on a mountain in Thessaly in the Golden Age .
`` I do n't believe a word of it . ''
`` Of course , we know it be n't really true , '' say Felicity .
`` Well , I do n't know , '' say the Story Girl thoughtfully .
`` I think there be two kind of true thing -- true thing that ARE , and true thing that be NOT , but MIGHT be . ''
`` I do n't believe there 's any but the one kind of trueness , '' say Felicity .
`` And anyway , this story could n't be true .
You know there be no such thing a a god Pan . ''
`` How do you know what there might have be in the Golden Age ? ''
ask the Story Girl .
Which be , indeed , an unanswerable question for Felicity .
`` I wonder what become of the beautiful stone ? ''
say Cecily .
`` Likely Aglaia swallow it , '' say Felix practically .
`` Did Glaucon and Aglaia ever get marry ? ''
ask Sara Ray .
`` The story do n't say .
It stop just there , '' say the Story Girl .
`` But of course they do .
I will tell you what I think .
I do n't think Aglaia swallow the stone .
I think it just fell to the ground ; and after awhile they find it , and it turn out to be of such value that Glaucon could buy all the flock and herd in the valley , and the sweet cottage ; and he and Aglaia be marry right away . ''
`` But you only THINK that , '' say Sara Ray .
`` I 'd like to be really sure that be what happen . ''
`` Oh , bother , none of it happen , '' say Dan .
`` I believe it while the Story Girl be tell it , but I do n't now .
Is n't that wheel ? ''
Wheels it be .
Two wagon be drive up the lane .
We rush to the house -- and there be Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia !
The excitement be quite tremendous .
Every body talk and laugh at once , and it be not until we be all seat around the supper table that conversation grow coherent .
What laughter and questioning and telling of tale follow , what smile and bright eye and glad voice .
And through it all , the blissful purr of Paddy , who sit on the window sill behind the Story Girl , resound through the din like Andrew McPherson 's bass -- `` just a bur-r-r-r the hale time . ''
`` Well , I 'm thankful to be home again '' say Aunt Janet , beam on u .
`` We have a real nice time , and Edward 's folk be as kind a could be .
But give me home for a steady thing .
How have everything go ?
How do the child behave , Roger ? ''
`` Like model , '' say Uncle Roger .
`` They be as good a gold most of the day . ''
There be time when one could n't help like Uncle Roger .
CHAPTER XIX .
A DREAD PROPHECY `` I 've get to go and begin stump out the elderberry pasture this afternoon , '' say Peter dolefully .
`` I tell you it 's a tough job .
Mr. Roger might wait for cool weather before he set people to stump out elderberry , and that 's a fact . ''
`` Why do n't you tell him so ? ''
ask Dan .
`` It ai n't my business to tell him thing , '' retort Peter .
`` I 'm hired to do what I 'm told , and I do it .
But I can have my own opinion all the same .
It 's go to be a broiling hot day . ''
We be all in the orchard , except Felix , who have go to the post-office .
It be the forenoon of an August Saturday .
Cecily and Sara Ray , who have come up to spend the day with u -- her mother have go to town -- be eat timothy root .
Bertha Lawrence , a Charlottetown girl , who have visit Kitty Marr in June , and have go to school one day with her , have eat timothy root , affect to consider them great delicacy .
The fad be at once take up by the Carlisle schoolgirl .
Timothy root quite oust `` sour '' and young raspberry sprout , both of which have the real merit of be quite toothsome , while timothy root be tough and tasteless .
But timothy root be fashionable , therefore timothy root must be eat .
Pecks of them must have be devour in Carlisle that summer .
Pat be there also , pad about from one to the other on his black paw , give u friendly poke and rub .
We all make much of him except Felicity , who would not take any notice of him because he be the Story Girl 's cat .
We boy be sprawl on the grass .
Our morning chore be do and the day be before u .
We should have be feel very comfortable and happy , but , a a matter of fact , we be not particularly so .
The Story Girl be sit on the mint beside the well-house , weave herself a wreath of buttercup .
Felicity be sip from the cup of clouded blue with an overdone air of unconcern .
Each be acutely and miserably conscious of the other 's presence , and each be desirous of convince the rest of u that the other be less than nothing to her .
Felicity could not succeed .
The Story Girl manage it well .
If it have not be for the fact that in all our foregatherings she be careful to sit a far from Felicity a possible , we might have be deceive .
We have not pass a very pleasant week .
Felicity and the Story Girl have not be `` speak '' to each other , and consequently there have be something rotten in the state of Denmark .
An air of restraint be over all our game and conversation .
On the precede Monday Felicity and the Story Girl have quarrel over something .
What the cause of the quarrel be I can not tell because I never know .
It remain a `` dead secret '' between the party of the first and second part forever .
But it be more bitter than the general run of their tiff , and the consequence be apparent to all .
They have not speak to each other since .
This be not because the rancour of either last so long .
On the contrary it pass speedily away , not even one low descend sun go down on their wrath .
But dignity remain to be consider .
Neither would `` speak first , '' and each obstinately declare that she would not speak first , no , not in a hundred year .
Neither argument , entreaty , nor expostulation have any effect on those two stubborn girl , nor yet the tear of sweet Cecily , who cry every night about it , and mingle in her pure little prayer fervent petition that Felicity and the Story Girl might make up .
`` I do n't know where you expect to go when you die , Felicity , '' she say tearfully , `` if you do n't forgive people . ''
`` I have forgive her , '' be Felicity 's answer , `` but I be not go to speak first for all that . ''
`` It 's very wrong , and , more than that , it 's so uncomfortable , '' complain Cecily .
`` It spoil everything . ''
`` Were they ever like this before ? ''
I ask Cecily , a we talk the matter over privately in Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
`` Never for so long , '' say Cecily .
`` They have a spell like this last summer , and one the summer before , but they only last a couple of day . ''
`` And who speak first ? ''
`` Oh , the Story Girl .
She get excite about something and speak to Felicity before she think , and then it be all right .
But I 'm afraid it be n't go to be like that this time .
Do n't you notice how careful the Story Girl be not to get excite ?
That be such a bad sign . ''
`` We 've just get to think up something that will excite her , that 's all , '' I say .
`` I 'm -- I 'm pray about it , '' say Cecily in a low voice , her tear-wet lash tremble against her pale , round cheek .
`` Do you suppose it will do any good , Bev ? ''
`` Very likely , '' I assure her .
`` Remember Sara Ray and the money .
That come from pray . ''
`` I 'm glad you think so , '' say Cecily tremulously .
`` Dan say it be no use for me to bother pray about it .
He say if they COULD N'T speak God might do something , but when they just WOULD N'T it be n't likely He would interfere .
Dan do say such queer thing .
I 'm so afraid he 's go to grow up just like Uncle Robert Ward , who never go to church , and do n't believe more than half the Bible be true . ''
`` Which half do he believe be true ? ''
I inquire with unholy curiosity .
`` Oh , just the nice part .
He say there 's a heaven all right , but no -- no -- HELL .
I do n't want Dan to grow up like that .
It be n't respectable .
And you would n't want all kind of people crowd heaven , now , would you ? ''
`` Well , no , I suppose not , '' I agree , think of Billy Robinson .
`` Of course , I ca n't help feeling sorry for those who have to go to THE OTHER PLACE , '' say Cecily compassionately .
`` But I suppose they would n't be very comfortable in heaven either .
They would n't feel at home .
Andrew Marr say a simply dreadful thing about THE OTHER PLACE one night last fall , when Felicity and I be down to see Kitty , and they be burn the potato stalk .
He say he believe THE OTHER PLACE must be lot more interesting than heaven because fire be such jolly thing .
Now , do you ever hear the like ? ''
`` I guess it depend a good deal on whether you 're inside or outside the fire , '' I say .
`` Oh , Andrew do n't really mean it , of course .
He just say it to sound smart and make u stare .
The Marrs be all like that .
But anyhow , I 'm go to keep on pray that something will happen to excite the Story Girl .
I do n't believe there be any use in pray that Felicity will speak first , because I be sure she wo n't . ''
`` But do n't you suppose God could make her ? ''
I say , feel that it be n't quite fair that the Story Girl should always have to speak first .
If she have speak first the other time it be surely Felicity 's turn this time .
`` Well , I believe it would puzzle Him , '' say Cecily , out of the depth of her experience with Felicity .
Peter , a be to be expect , take Felicity 's part , and say the Story Girl ought to speak first because she be the old .
That , he say , have always be his Aunt Jane 's rule .
Sara Ray think Felicity should speak first , because the Story Girl be half an orphan .
Felix try to make peace between them , and meet the usual fate of all peacemaker .
The Story Girl loftily tell him that he be too young to understand , and Felicity say that fat boy should mind their own business .
After that , Felix declare it would serve Felicity right if the Story Girl never speak to her again .
Dan have no patience with either of the girl , especially Felicity .
`` What they both want be a right good spanking , '' he say .
If only a spanking would mend the matter it be not likely it would ever be mend .
Both Felicity and the Story Girl be rather too old to be spank , and , if they have not be , none of the grown-ups would have think it worth while to administer so desperate a remedy for what they consider so insignificant a trouble .
With the usual levity of grown-ups , they regard the coldness between the girl a a subject of mirth and jest , and recked not that it be freeze the genial current of our youthful soul , and blighting hour that should have be fair page in our book of day .
The Story Girl finish her wreath and put it on .
The buttercup droop over her high , white brow and play peep with her glowing eye .
A dreamy smile hover around her poppy-red mouth -- a significant smile which , to those of u skilled in it interpretation , betoken the sentence which soon come .
`` I know a story about a man who always have his own opinion -- '' The Story Girl get no further .
We never hear the story of the man who always have his own opinion .
Felix come tear up the lane , with a newspaper in his hand .
When a boy as fat a Felix run at full speed on a broiling August forenoon , he have something to run for -- a Felicity remark .
`` He must have get some bad news at the office , '' say Sara Ray .
`` Oh , I hope nothing have happen to father , '' I exclaim , spring anxiously to my foot , a sick , horrible feeling of fear run over me like a cool , ripple wave .
`` It 's just as likely to be good news he be run for a bad , '' say the Story Girl , who be no believer in meet trouble half way .
`` He would n't be run so fast for good news , '' say Dan cynically .
We be not leave long in doubt .
The orchard gate fly open and Felix be among u .
One glimpse of his face tell u that he be no bearer of glad tidings .
He have be run hard and should have be rubicund .
Instead , he be `` as pale a be the dead . ''
I could not have ask him what be the matter have my life depend on it .
It be Felicity who demand impatiently of my shaking , voiceless brother : `` Felix King , what have scar you ? ''
Felix hold out the newspaper -- it be the Charlottetown Daily Enterprise .
`` It 's there , '' he gasp .
`` Look -- read -- oh , do you -- think it 's -- true ?
The -- end of -- the world -- be come to-morrow -- at two -- o'clock -- in the afternoon ! ''
Crash !
Felicity have drop the cup of clouded blue , which have pass unscathed through so many change year , and now at last lay shatter on the stone of the well curb .
At any other time we should all have be aghast over such a catastrophe , but it pass unnoticed now .
What matter it that all the cup in the world be break to-day if the crack o ' doom must sound to-morrow ?
`` Oh , Sara Stanley , do you believe it ?
DO you ? ''
gasped Felicity , clutch the Story Girl 's hand .
Cecily 's prayer have be answer .
Excitement have come with a vengeance , and under it stress Felicity have speak first .
But this , like the breaking of the cup , have no significance for u at the moment .
The Story Girl snatch the paper and read the announcement to a group on which sudden , tense silence have fall .
Under a sensational headline , `` The Last Trump will sound at Two O'clock To-morrow , '' be a paragraph to the effect that the leader of a certain noted sect in the United States have predict that August twelfth would be the Judgment Day , and that all his numerous follower be prepare for the dread event by prayer , fasting , and the making of appropriate white garment for ascension robe .
I laugh at the remembrance now -- until I recall the real horror of fear that enwrap u in that sunny orchard that August morning of long ago ; and then I laugh no more .
We be only child , be it remembered , with a very firm and simple faith that grown people know much more than we do , and a rooted conviction that whatever you read in a newspaper must be true .
If the Daily Enterprise say that August twelfth be to be the Judgment Day how be you go to get around it ?
`` Do you believe it , Sara Stanley ? ''
persist Felicity .
`` DO you ? ''
`` No -- no , I do n't believe a word of it , '' say the Story Girl .
But for once her voice fail to carry conviction -- or , rather , it carry conviction of the very opposite kind .
It be bear in upon our miserable mind that if the Story Girl do not altogether believe it be true she believe it might be true ; and the possibility be almost as dreadful a the certainty .
`` It CA N'T be true , '' say Sara Ray , seek refuge , a usual , in tear .
`` Why , everything look just the same .
Things COULD N'T look the same if the Judgment Day be go to be to-morrow . ''
`` But that 's just the way it 's to come , '' I say uncomfortably .
`` It tell you in the Bible .
It 's to come just like a thief in the night . ''
`` But it tell you another thing in the Bible , too , '' say Cecily eagerly .
`` It say nobody know when the Judgment Day be to come -- not even the angel in heaven .
Now , if the angel in heaven do n't know it , do you suppose the editor of the Enterprise can know it -- and him a Grit , too ? ''
`` I guess he know as much about it a a Tory would , '' retort the Story Girl .
Uncle Roger be a Liberal and Uncle Alec a Conservative , and the girl hold fast to the political tradition of their respective household .
`` But it be n't really the Enterprise editor at all who be say it -- it 's a man in the States who claim to be a prophet .
If he IS a prophet perhaps he have find out somehow . ''
`` And it 's in the paper , too , and that 's print as well a the Bible , '' say Dan .
`` Well , I 'm go to depend on the Bible , '' say Cecily .
`` I do n't believe it 's the Judgment Day to-morrow -- but I 'm scared , for all that , '' she add piteously .
That be exactly the position of u all .
As in the case of the bell-ringing ghost , we do not believe but we tremble .
`` Nobody might have know when the Bible be write , '' say Dan , `` but maybe somebody know now .
Why , the Bible be write thousand of year ago , and that paper be print this very morning .
There 's be time to find out ever so much more . ''
`` I want to do so many thing , '' say the Story Girl , pluck off her crown of buttercup gold with a tragic gesture , `` but if it 's the Judgment Day to-morrow I wo n't have time to do any of them . ''
`` It ca n't be much bad than die , I s ` pose , '' say Felix , grasp at any straw of comfort .
`` I 'm awful glad I 've get into the habit of go to church and Sunday School this summer , '' say Peter very soberly .
`` I wish I 'd make up my mind before this whether to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
Do you s ` pose it 's too late now ? ''
`` Oh , that do n't matter , '' say Cecily earnestly .
`` If -- if you 're a Christian , Peter , that be all that 's necessary . ''
`` But it 's too late for that , '' say Peter miserably .
`` I ca n't turn into a Christian between this and two o'clock to-morrow .
I 'll just have to be satisfy with make up my mind to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
I want to wait till I get old enough to make out what be the difference between them , but I 'll have to chance it now .
I guess I 'll be a Presbyterian , 'cause I want to be like the rest of you .
Yes , I 'll be a Presbyterian . ''
`` I know a story about Judy Pineau and the word Presbyterian , '' say the Story Girl , `` but I ca n't tell it now .
If to-morrow be n't the Judgment Day I 'll tell it Monday . ''
`` If I have know that to-morrow might be the Judgment Day I would n't have quarrel with you last Monday , Sara Stanley , or be so horrid and sulky all the week .
Indeed I would n't , '' say Felicity , with very unusual humility .
Ah , Felicity !
We be all , in the depth of our pitiful little soul , review the innumerable thing we would or would not have do `` if we have know . ''
What a black and endless list they make -- those sin of omission and commission that rush accusingly across our young memory !
For u the leaf of the Book of Judgment be already open ; and we stand at the bar of our own conscience , than which for youth or eld , there can be no more dread tribunal .
I think of all the evil deed of my short life -- of pinch Felix to make him cry out at family prayer , of play truant from Sunday School and go fish one day , of a certain fib -- no , no away from this awful hour with all such euphonious evasion -- of a LIE I have once tell , of many a selfish and unkind word and thought and action .
And to-morrow might be the great and terrible day of the last accounting !
Oh , if I have only be a good boy !
`` The quarrel be as much my fault a yours , Felicity , '' say the Story Girl , put her arm around Felicity .
`` We ca n't undo it now .
But if to-morrow be n't the Judgment Day we must be careful never to quarrel again .
Oh , I wish father be here . ''
`` He will be , '' say Cecily .
`` If it 's the Judgment Day for Prince Edward Island it will be for Europe , too . ''
`` I wish we could just KNOW whether what the paper say be true or not , '' say Felix desperately .
`` It seem to me I could brace up if I just KNEW . ''
But to whom could we appeal ?
Uncle Alec be away and would not be back until late that night .
Neither Aunt Janet nor Uncle Roger be people to whom we care to apply in such a crisis .
We be afraid of the Judgment Day ; but we be almost equally afraid of be laugh at .
How about Aunt Olivia ?
`` No , Aunt Olivia have go to bed with a sick headache and must n't be disturb , '' say the Story Girl .
`` She say I must get dinner ready , because there be plenty of cold meat , and nothing to do but boil the potato and pea , and set the table .
I do n't know how I can put my thought into it when the Judgment Day may be to-morrow .
Besides , what be the good of ask the grown-ups ?
They do n't know anything more about this than we do . ''
`` But if they 'd just SAY they do n't believe it , it would be a sort of comfort , '' say Cecily .
`` I suppose the minister would know , but he 's away on his vacation '' say Felicity .
`` Anyhow , I 'll go and ask mother what she think of it . ''
Felicity pick up the Enterprise and betook herself to the house .
We await her return in dire suspense .
`` Well , what do she say ? ''
ask Cecily tremulously .
`` She say , ` Run away and do n't bother me .
I have n't any time for your nonsense . ' ''
responded Felicity in an injured tone .
`` And I say , ` But , ma , the paper SAYS to-morrow be the Judgment Day , ' and ma just say ` Judgment Fiddlesticks ! ' ''
`` Well , that 's kind of comforting , '' say Peter .
`` She ca n't put any faith in it , or she 'd be more work up . ''
`` If it only be n't PRINTED ! ''
say Dan gloomily .
`` Let 's all go over and ask Uncle Roger , '' say Felix desperately .
That we should make Uncle Roger a court of last resort indicate all too clearly the state of our mind .
But we go .
Uncle Roger be in his barn-yard , hitch his black mare into the buggy .
His copy of the Enterprise be stick out of his pocket .
He look , a we saw with sinking heart , unusually grave and preoccupy .
There be not a glimmer of a smile about his face .
`` You ask him , '' say Felicity , nudge the Story Girl .
`` Uncle Roger , '' say the Story Girl , the golden note of her voice thread with fear and appeal .
`` the Enterprise say that to-morrow be the Judgment Day ?
IS it ?
Do YOU think it be ? ''
`` I 'm afraid so , '' say Uncle Roger gravely .
`` The Enterprise be always very careful to print only reliable news . ''
`` But mother do n't believe it , '' cry Felicity .
Uncle Roger shake his head .
`` That be just the trouble , '' he say .
`` People wo n't believe it till it 's too late .
I 'm go straight to Markdale to pay a man there some money I owe him , and after dinner I 'm go to Summerside to buy me a new suit .
My old one be too shabby for the Judgment Day . ''
He get into his buggy and drive away , leave eight distract mortal behind him .
`` Well , I suppose that settle it , '' say Peter , in despair tone .
`` Is there anything we can do to PREPARE ? ''
ask Cecily .
`` I wish I have a white dress like you girls , '' sob Sara Ray .
`` But I have n't , and it 's too late to get one .
Oh , I wish I have mind what ma say well .
I would n't have disobey her so often if I 'd think the Judgment Day be so near .
When I go home I 'm go to tell her about go to the magic lantern show . ''
`` I 'm not sure that Uncle Roger mean what he say , '' remark the Story Girl .
`` I could n't get a look into his eye .
If he be try to hoax u there would have be a twinkle in them .
He can never help that .
You know he would think it a great joke to frighten u like this .
It 's really dreadful to have no grown-ups you can depend on . ''
`` We could depend on father if he be here , '' say Dan stoutly .
`` HE 'D tell u the truth . ''
`` He would tell u what he THOUGHT be true , Dan , but he could n't KNOW .
He 's not such a well-educated man a the editor of the Enterprise .
No , there 's nothing to do but wait and see . ''
`` Let u go into the house and read just what the Bible do say about it , '' suggest Cecily .
We creep in carefully , l we disturb Aunt Olivia , and Cecily find and read the significant portion of Holy Writ .
There be little comfort for u in that vivid and terrible picture .
`` Well , '' say the Story Girl finally .
`` I must go and get the potato ready .
I suppose they must be boil even if it be the Judgment Day to-morrow .
But I do n't believe it be . ''
`` And I 've get to go and stump elderberry , '' say Peter .
`` I do n't see how I can do it -- go away back there alone .
I 'll feel scared to death the whole time . ''
`` Tell Uncle Roger that , and say if to-morrow be the end of the world that there be no good in stump any more field , '' I suggest .
`` Yes , and if he let you off then we 'll know he be in earnest , '' chime in Cecily .
`` But if he still say you must go that 'll be a sign he do n't believe it . ''
Leaving the Story Girl and Peter to peel their potato , the rest of u go home , where Aunt Janet , who have go to the well and find the fragment of the old blue cup , give poor Felicity a bitter scold about it .
But Felicity bore it very patiently -- nay , more , she seem to delight in it .
`` Ma ca n't believe to-morrow be the last day , or she would n't scold like that , '' she tell u ; and this comfort u until after dinner , when the Story Girl and Peter come over and tell u that Uncle Roger have really go to Summerside .
Then we plunge down into fear and wretchedness again .
`` But he say I must go and stump elderberry just the same '' say Peter .
`` He say it might NOT be the Judgment Day to-morrow , though he believe it be , and it would keep me out of mischief .
But I just ca n't stand it back there alone .
Some of you fellows must come with me .
I do n't want you to work , but just for company . ''
It be finally decide that Dan and Felix should go .
I want to go also , but the girl protest .
`` YOU must stay and keep u cheer up , '' implore Felicity .
`` I just do n't know how I 'm ever go to put in the afternoon .
I promise Kitty Marr that I 'd go down and spend it with her , but I ca n't now .
And I ca n't knit any at my lace .
I 'd just keep thinking , ` What be the use ?
Perhaps it 'll all be burn up to-morrow . ' ''
So I stay with the girl , and a miserable afternoon we have of it .
The Story Girl again and again declare that she `` do n't believe it , '' but when we ask her to tell a story , she evade it with a flimsy excuse .
Cecily pester at Aunt Janet 's life out , ask repeatedly , `` Ma , will you be wash Monday ? ''
`` Ma , will you be go to prayer meeting Tuesday night ? ''
`` Ma , will you be preserve raspberry next week ? ''
and various similar question .
It be a huge comfort to her that Aunt Janet always say , `` Yes , '' or `` Of course , '' a if there could be no question about it .
Sara Ray cry until I wonder how one small head could contain all the tear she shed .
But I do not believe she be half as much frighten a disappointed that she have no white dress .
In mid-afternoon Cecily come downstairs with her forget-me-not jug in her hand -- a dainty bit of china , wreathe with dark blue forget-me-not , which Cecily prize highly , and in which she always keep her toothbrush .
`` Sara , I be go to give you this jug , '' she say solemnly .
Now , Sara have always covet this particular jug .
She stop cry long enough to clutch it delightedly .
`` Oh , Cecily , thank you .
But be you sure you wo n't want it back if to-morrow be n't the Judgment Day ? ''
`` No , it 's yours for good , '' say Cecily , with the high , remote air of one to whom forget-me-not jug and all such pomp and vanity of the world be a a tale that be tell .
`` Are you go to give any one your cherry vase ? ''
ask Felicity , try to speak indifferently .
Felicity have never admire the forget-me-not jug , but she have always hanker after the cherry vase -- an affair of white glass , with a cluster of red glass cherry and golden-green glass leave on it side , which Aunt Olivia have give Cecily one Christmas .
`` No , I 'm not , '' answer Cecily , with a change of tone .
`` Oh , well , I do n't care , '' say Felicity quickly .
`` Only , if to-morrow be the last day , the cherry vase wo n't be much use to you . ''
`` I guess it will be as much use to me a to any one else , '' say Cecily indignantly .
She have sacrifice her dear forget-me-not jug to satisfy some pang of conscience , or propitiate some threatening fate , but surrender her precious cherry vase she could not and would not .
Felicity need n't be give any hint !
With the gather shade of night our plight become pitiful .
In the daylight , surround by homely , familiar sight and sound , it be not so difficult to fortify our soul with a cheer incredulity .
But now , in this time of shadow , dread belief clutch u and wring u with terror .
If there have be one wise old friend to tell u , in serious fashion , that we need not be afraid , that the Enterprise paragraph be naught save the idle report of a deluded fanatic , it would have be well for u .
But there be not .
Our grown-ups , instead , consider our terror an exquisite jest .
At that very moment , Aunt Olivia , who have recover from her headache , and Aunt Janet be laugh in the kitchen over the state the child be in because they be afraid the end of the world be close at hand .
Aunt Janet 's throaty gurgle and Aunt Olivia 's trill mirth float out through the open window .
`` Perhaps they 'll laugh on the other side of their face to-morrow , '' say Dan , with gloomy satisfaction .
We be sit on the cellar hatch , watch what might be our last sunset o'er the dark hill of time .
Peter be with u .
It be his last Sunday to go home , but he have elect to remain .
`` If to-morrow be the Judgment Day I want to be with you fellows , '' he say .
Sara Ray have also yearn to stay , but could not because her mother have tell her she must be home before dark .
`` Never mind , Sara , '' comfort Cecily .
`` It 's not to be till two o'clock to-morrow , so you 'll have plenty of time to get up here before anything happens . ''
`` But there might be a mistake , '' sob Sara .
`` It might be two o'clock to-night instead of to-morrow . ''
It might , indeed .
This be a new horror , which have not occur to u .
`` I 'm sure I wo n't sleep a wink to-night , '' say Felix .
`` The paper SAYS two o'clock to-morrow , '' say Dan .
`` You need n't worry , Sara . ''
But Sara depart , weep .
She do not , however , forget to carry the forget-me-not jug with her .
All thing consider , her departure be a relief .
Such a constantly tearful damsel be not a pleasant companion .
Cecily and Felicity and the Story Girl do not cry .
They be make of finer , firm stuff .
Dry-eyed , with such courage a they might , they face whatever might be in store for them .
`` I wonder where we 'll all be this time to-morrow night , '' say Felix mournfully , a we watch the sunset between the dark fir bough .
It be an ominous sunset .
The sun drop down amid dark , livid cloud , that turn sullen shade of purple and fiery red behind him .
`` I hope we 'll be all together , wherever we be , '' say Cecily gently .
`` Nothing can be so very bad then . ''
`` I 'm go to read the Bible all to-morrow forenoon , '' say Peter .
When Aunt Olivia come out to go home the Story Girl ask her permission to stay all night with Felicity and Cecily .
Aunt Olivia assent lightly , swing her hat on her arm and include u all in a friendly smile .
She look very pretty , with her big blue eye and warm-hued golden hair .
We love Aunt Olivia ; but just now we resent her have laugh at u with Aunt Janet , and we refuse to smile back .
`` What a sulky , sulky lot of little people , '' say Aunt Olivia , go away across the yard , hold her pretty dress up from the dewy grass .
Peter resolve to stay all night with u , too , not trouble himself about anybody 's permission .
When we go to bed it be settle down for a stormy night , and the rain be stream wetly on the roof , a if the world , like Sara Ray , be weep because it end be so near .
Nobody forget or hurry over his prayer that night .
We would dearly have love to leave the candle burning , but Aunt Janet 's decree regard this be as inexorable a any of Mede and Persia .
Out the candle must go ; and we lay there , quake , with the wild rain stream down on the roof above u , and the voice of the storm wail through the writhing spruce tree .
CHAPTER XX .
THE JUDGMENT SUNDAY Sunday morning break , dull and gray .
The rain have cease , but the cloud hang dark and brooding above a world which , in it windless calm , follow the spent storm-throe , seem to u to be wait `` till judgment speak the doom of fate . ''
We be all up early .
None of u , it appear , have sleep well , and some of u not at all .
The Story Girl have be among the latter , and she look very pale and wan , with black shadow under her deep-set eye .
Peter , however , have sleep soundly enough after twelve o'clock .
`` When you 've be stump out elderberry all the afternoon it 'll take more than the Judgment Day to keep you awake all night , '' he say .
`` But when I wake up this morning it be just awful .
I 'd forget it for a moment , and then it all come back with a rush , and I be bad scar than before . ''
Cecily be pale but brave .
For the first time in year she have not put her hair up in curler on Saturday night .
It be brush and braid with Puritan simplicity .
`` If it 's the Judgment Day I do n't care whether my hair be curly or not , '' she say .
`` Well , '' say Aunt Janet , when we all descend to the kitchen , `` this be the first time you young one have ever all get up without be call , and that 's a fact . ''
At breakfast our appetite be poor .
How could the grown-ups eat a they do ?
After breakfast and the necessary chore there be the forenoon to be live through .
Peter , true to his word , get out his Bible and begin to read from the first chapter in Genesis .
`` I wo n't have time to read it all through , I s ` pose , '' he say , `` but I 'll get along as far a I can . ''
There be no preaching in Carlisle that day , and Sunday School be not till the evening .
Cecily get out her Lesson Slip and study the lesson conscientiously .
The rest of u do not see how she could do it .
We could not , that be very certain .
`` If it be n't the Judgment Day , I want to have the lesson learn , '' she say , `` and if it be I 'll feel I 've do what be right .
But I never find it so hard to remember the Golden Text before . ''
The long dragging hour be hard to endure .
We roam restlessly about , and go to and fro -- all save Peter , who still steadily read away at his Bible .
He be through Genesis by eleven and begin on Exodus .
`` There 's a good deal of it I do n't understand , '' he say , `` but I read every word , and that 's the main thing .
That story about Joseph and his brother be so int ` resting I almost forget about the Judgment Day . ''
But the long drawn out dread be begin to get on Dan 's nerve .
`` If it be the Judgment Day , '' he growl , a we go in to dinner , `` I wish it 'd hurry up and have it over . ''
`` Oh , Dan ! ''
cry Felicity and Cecily together , in a chorus of horror .
But the Story Girl look a if she rather sympathize with Dan .
If we have eat little at breakfast we could eat still less at dinner .
After dinner the cloud roll away , and the sun come joyously and gloriously out .
This , we think , be a good omen .
Felicity opine that it would n't have clear up if it be the Judgment Day .
Nevertheless , we dress ourselves carefully , and the girl put on their white dress .
Sara Ray come up , still cry , of course .
She increase our uneasiness by say that her mother believe the Enterprise paragraph , and be afraid that the end of the world be really at hand .
`` That 's why she let me come up , '' she sob .
`` If she have n't be afraid I do n't believe she would have let me come up .
But I 'd have die if I could n't have come .
And she be n't a bit cross when I tell her I have go to the magic lantern show .
That 's an awful bad sign .
I have n't a white dress , but I put on my white muslin apron with the frill . ''
`` That seem kind of queer , '' say Felicity doubtfully .
`` You would n't put on an apron to go to church , and so it do n't seem a if it be proper to put it on for Judgment Day either . ''
`` Well , it 's the best I could do , '' say Sara disconsolately .
`` I want to have something white on .
It 's just like a dress only it have n't sleeve . ''
`` Let 's go into the orchard and wait , '' say the Story Girl .
`` It 's one o'clock now , so in another hour we 'll know the bad .
We 'll leave the front door open , and we 'll hear the big clock when it strike two . ''
No good plan be suggest , we betook ourselves to the orchard , and sit on the bough of Uncle Alec 's tree because the grass be wet .
The world be beautiful and peaceful and green .
Overhead be a dazzling blue sky , spot with heap of white cloud .
`` Pshaw , I do n't believe there 's any fear of it be the last day , '' say Dan , begin a whistle out of sheer bravado .
`` Well , do n't whistle on Sunday anyhow , '' say Felicity severely .
`` I do n't see a thing about Methodists or Presbyterians , as far a I 've go , and I 'm most through Exodus , '' say Peter suddenly .
`` When do it begin to tell about them ? ''
`` There 's nothing about Methodists or Presbyterians in the Bible , '' say Felicity scornfully .
Peter look amaze .
`` Well , how do they happen then ? ''
he ask .
`` When do they begin to be ? ''
`` I 've often think it such a strange thing that there be n't a word about either of them in the Bible , '' say Cecily .
`` Especially when it mention Baptists -- or at least one Baptist . ''
`` Well , anyhow , '' say Peter , `` even if it be n't the Judgment Day I 'm go to keep on read the Bible until I 've get clean through .
I never think it be such an int ` rest book . ''
`` It sound simply dreadful to hear you call the Bible an interesting book , '' say Felicity , with a shudder at the sacrilege .
`` Why , you might be talk about ANY common book . ''
`` I do n't mean any harm , '' say Peter , crestfallen .
`` The Bible IS an interesting book , '' say the Story Girl , come to Peter 's rescue .
`` And there be magnificent story in it -- yes , Felicity , MAGNIFICENT .
If the world do n't come to an end I 'll tell you the story of Ruth next Sunday -- or look here !
I 'll tell it anyhow .
That 's a promise .
Wherever we be next Sunday I 'll tell you about Ruth . ''
`` Why , you would n't tell story in heaven , '' say Cecily , in a very timid voice .
`` Why not ? ''
say the Story Girl , with a flash of her eye .
`` Indeed I shall .
I 'll tell story as long a I 've a tongue to talk with , or any one to listen . ''
Ay , doubtless .
That dauntless spirit would soar triumphantly above the wreck of matter and the crash of world , take with it all it own wild sweetness and daring .
Even the young-eyed cherub , choir on meadow of asphodel , might cease their harping for a time to listen to a tale of the vanished earth , tell by that golden tongue .
Some vague thought of this be in our mind a we look at her ; and somehow it comfort u .
Not even the Judgment be so greatly to be fear if after it we be the SAME , our own precious little identity unchanged .
`` It must be get handy two , '' say Cecily .
`` It seem a if we 'd be wait here for ever so much long than an hour . ''
Conversation languish .
We watch and wait nervously .
The moment drag by , each seem an hour .
Would two o'clock never come and end the suspense ?
We all become very tense .
Even Peter have to stop reading .
Any unaccustomed sound or sight in the world about u strike on our taut sens like the trump of doom .
A cloud pass over the sun and a the sudden shadow sweep across the orchard we turn pale and tremble .
A wagon rumbling over a plank bridge in the hollow make Sara Ray start up with a shriek .
The slamming of a barn door over at Uncle Roger 's cause the cold perspiration to break out on our face .
`` I do n't believe it 's the Judgment Day , '' say Felix , `` and I never have believe it .
But oh , I wish that clock would strike two . ''
`` Ca n't you tell u a story to pass the time ? ''
I entreat the Story Girl .
She shake her head .
`` No , it would be no use to try .
But if this be n't the Judgment Day I 'll have a great one to tell of u be so scar . ''
Pat presently come gallop up the orchard , carry in his mouth a big field mouse , which , sit down before u , he proceed to devour , body and bone , afterwards lick his chop with great satisfaction .
`` It ca n't be the Judgment Day , '' say Sara Ray , brighten up .
`` Paddy would never be eat mice if it be . ''
`` If that clock do n't soon strike two I shall go out of my seven sens , '' declare Cecily with unusual vehemence .
`` Time always seem long when you 're wait , '' say the Story Girl .
`` But it do seem a if we have be here more than an hour . ''
`` Maybe the clock strike and we do n't hear it , '' suggest Dan .
`` Somebody 'd better go and see . ''
`` I 'll go , '' say Cecily .
`` I suppose , even if anything happen , I 'll have time to get back to you . ''
We watch her white-clad figure pas through the gate and enter the front door .
A few minute pass -- or a few year -- we could not have tell which .
Then Cecily come run at full speed back to u .
But when she reach u she tremble so much that at first she could not speak .
`` What be it ?
Is it past two ? ''
implore the Story Girl .
`` It 's -- it 's four , '' say Cecily with a gasp .
`` The old clock be n't go .
Mother forget to wind it up last night and it stop .
But it 's four by the kitchen clock -- so it be n't the Judgment Day -- and tea be ready -- and mother say to come in . ''
We look at each other , realize what our dread have be , now that it be lift .
It be not the Judgment Day .
The world and life be still before u , with all their potent lure of year unknown .
`` I 'll never believe anything I read in the paper again , '' say Dan , rush to the opposite extreme .
`` I tell you the Bible be more to be depend on than the newspaper , '' say Cecily triumphantly .
Sara Ray and Peter and the Story Girl go home , and we go in to tea with royal appetite .
Afterwards , a we dress for Sunday School upstairs , our spirit carry u away to such an extent that Aunt Janet have to come twice to the foot of the stair and inquire severely , `` Children , have you forget what day this be ? ''
`` Is n't it nice that we 're go to live a spell longer in this nice world ? ''
say Felix , a we walk down the hill .
`` Yes , and Felicity and the Story Girl be speak again , '' say Cecily happily .
`` And Felicity DID speak first , '' I say .
`` Yes , but it take the Judgment Day to make her .
I wish , '' add Cecily with a sigh , `` that I have n't be in quite such a hurry give away my forget-me-not jug . ''
`` And I wish I have n't be in such a hurry decide I 'd be a Presbyterian , '' say Peter .
`` Well , it 's not too late for that , '' say Dan .
`` You can change your mind now . ''
`` No , sir , '' say Peter with a flash of spirit , `` I ai n't one of the kind that say they 'll be something just because they 're scar , and when the scare be over go back on it .
I say I 'd be Presbyterian and I mean to stick to it . ''
`` You say you know a story that have something to do with Presbyterians , '' I say to the Story Girl .
`` Tell u it now . ''
`` Oh , no , it be n't the right kind of story to tell on Sunday , '' she reply .
`` But I 'll tell it to-morrow morning . ''
Accordingly , we hear it the next morning in the orchard .
`` Long ago , when Judy Pineau be young , '' say the Story Girl , `` she be hire with Mrs. Elder Frewen -- the first Mrs. Elder Frewen .
Mrs. Frewen have be a school-teacher , and she be very particular a to how people talk , and the grammar they use .
And she do n't like anything but refine word .
One very hot day she hear Judy Pineau say she be ` all in a sweat . '
Mrs. Frewen be greatly shock , and say , ` Judy , you should n't say that .
It 's horse that sweat .
You should say you be in a perspiration . '
Well , Judy promise she 'd remember , because she like Mrs. Frewen and be anxious to please her .
Not long afterwards Judy be scrub the kitchen floor one morning , and when Mrs. Frewen come in Judy look up and say , quite proud over use the right word , ` Oh , Mees Frewen , ai n't it awful hot ?
I declare I 'm all in a Presbyterian . ' ''
CHAPTER XXI .
DREAMERS OF DREAMS August go out and September come in .
Harvest be end ; and though summer be not yet go , her face be turn westering .
The aster letter her retreat footstep in a purple script , and over the hill and valley hang a faint blue smoke , a if Nature be worship at her woodland altar .
The apple begin to burn red on the bending bough ; cricket sing day and night ; squirrel chatter secret of Polichinelle in the spruce ; the sunshine be a thick and yellow a molten gold ; school open , and we small denizen of the hill farm live happy day of harmless work and necessary play , close in night of peaceful , undisturbed slumber under a roof watch over by autumnal star .
At least , our slumber be peaceful and undisturbed until our orgy of dream begin .
`` I would really like to know what especial kind of deviltry you young fry be up to this time , '' say Uncle Roger one evening , a he pass through the orchard with his gun on his shoulder , bound for the swamp .
We be sit in a circle before the Pulpit Stone , each write diligently in an exercise book , and eat the Rev . Mr. Scott 's plum , which always reach their prime of juicy , golden-green flesh and bloomy blue skin in September .
The Rev . Mr. Scott be dead and go , but those plum certainly keep his memory green , a his forgotten sermon could never have do .
`` Oh , '' say Felicity in a shocked tone , when Uncle Roger have pass by , `` Uncle Roger SWORE . ''
`` Oh , no , he do n't , '' say the Story Girl quickly . ''
` Deviltry ' be n't swear at all .
It only mean extra bad mischief . ''
`` Well , it 's not a very nice word , anyhow , '' say Felicity .
`` No , it be n't , '' agree the Story Girl with a regretful sigh .
`` It 's very expressive , but it be n't nice .
That be the way with so many word .
They 're expressive , but they 're not nice , and so a girl ca n't use them '' The Story Girl sigh again .
She love expressive word , and treasure them a some girl might have treasure jewel .
To her , they be as lustrous pearl , thread on the crimson cord of a vivid fancy .
When she meet with a new one she utter it over and over to herself in solitude , weigh it , caress it , infuse it with the radiance of her voice , make it her own in all it possibility for ever .
`` Well , anyhow , it be n't a suitable word in this case , '' insist Felicity .
`` We be not up to any dev -- any extra bad mischief .
Writing down one 's dream be n't mischief at all . ''
Certainly it be n't .
Surely not even the strait sect of the grown-ups could call it so .
If write down your dream , with agonize care a to composition and spelling -- for who know that the eye of generation unborn might not read the record ?
-- be not a harmless amusement , could anything be call so ?
I trow not .
We have be at it for a fortnight , and during that time we only live to have dream and write them down .
The Story Girl have originate the idea one evening in the rustling , rain-wet way of the spruce wood , where we be pick gum after a day of shower .
When we have pick enough , we sit down on the moss-grown stone at the end of a long arcade , where it open out on the harvest-golden valley below u , our jaw exercise themselves vigorously on the spoil of our climbing .
We be never allow to chew gum in school or in company , but in wood and field , orchard and hayloft , such rule be in abeyance .
`` My Aunt Jane use to say it be n't polite to chew gum anywhere , '' say Peter rather ruefully .
`` I do n't suppose your Aunt Jane know all the rule of etiquette , '' say Felicity , design to crush Peter with a big word , borrow from the Family Guide .
But Peter be not to be so crushed .
He have in him a certain toughness of fibre , that would have be proof against a whole dictionary .
`` She do , too , '' he retort .
`` My Aunt Jane be a real lady , even if she be only a Craig .
She know all those rule and she keep them when there be nobody round to see her , just the same a when any one be .
And she be smart .
If father have have half her git-up-and-git I would n't be a hired boy to-day . ''
`` Have you any idea where your father be ? ''
ask Dan .
`` No , '' say Peter indifferently .
`` The last we hear of him he be in the Maine lumber wood .
But that be three year ago .
I do n't know where he be now , and , '' add Peter deliberately , take his gum from his mouth to make his statement more impressive , `` I do n't care . ''
`` Oh , Peter , that sound dreadful , '' say Cecily .
`` Your own father ! ''
`` Well , '' say Peter defiantly , `` if your own father have run away when you be a baby , and leave your mother to earn her living by wash and work out , I guess you would n't care much about him either . ''
`` Perhaps your father may come home some of these day with a huge fortune , '' suggest the Story Girl .
`` Perhaps pig may whistle , but they 've poor mouth for it , '' be all the answer Peter deign to this charming suggestion .
`` There go Mr. Campbell down the road , '' say Dan .
`` That 's his new mare .
Is n't she a dandy ?
She 's get a skin like black satin .
He call her Betty Sherman . ''
`` I do n't think it 's very nice to call a horse after your own grandmother , '' say Felicity .
`` Betty Sherman would have think it a compliment , '' say the Story Girl .
`` Maybe she would .
She could n't have be very nice herself , or she would never have go and ask a man to marry her , '' say Felicity .
`` Why not ? ''
`` Goodness me , it be dreadful !
Would YOU do such a thing yourself ? ''
`` Well , I do n't know , '' say the Story Girl , her eye gleam with impish laughter .
`` If I want him DREADFULLY , and HE would n't do the asking , perhaps I would . ''
`` I 'd rather die an old maid forty time over , '' exclaim Felicity .
`` Nobody as pretty a you will ever be an old maid , Felicity , '' say Peter , who never put too fine an edge on his compliment .
Felicity toss her golden tressed head and try to look angry , but make a dismal failure of it .
`` It would n't be ladylike to ask any one to marry you , you know , '' argue Cecily .
`` I do n't suppose the Family Guide would think so , '' agree the Story Girl lazily , with some sarcasm in her voice .
The Story Girl never hold the Family Guide in such reverence a do Felicity and Cecily .
They pore over the `` etiquette column '' every week , and could have tell you on demand , just exactly what kind of glove should be wear at a wedding , what you should say when introduce or be introduce , and how you ought to look when your best young man come to see you .
`` They say Mrs. Richard Cook ask HER husband to marry her , '' say Dan .
`` Uncle Roger say she do n't exactly ask him , but she help the lame dog over the stile so slick that Richard be engage to her before he know what have happen to him , '' say the Story Girl .
`` I know a story about Mrs. Richard Cook 's grandmother .
She be one of those woman who be always say ' I tell you so -- ' '' `` Take notice , Felicity , '' say Dan aside . ''
-- And she be very stubborn .
Soon after she be marry she and her husband quarrel about an apple tree they have plant in their orchard .
The label be lose .
He say it be a Fameuse and she declare it be a Yellow Transparent .
They fight over it till the neighbour come out to listen .
Finally he get so angry that he tell her to shut up .
They do n't have any Family Guide in those day , so he do n't know it be n't polite to say shut up to your wife .
I suppose she think she would teach him manner , for would you believe it ?
That woman do shut up , and never speak one single word to her husband for five year .
And then , in five year ' time , the tree bore apple , and they WERE Yellow Transparents .
And then she speak at last .
She say , ' I tell you so . ' ''
`` And do she talk to him after that a usual ? ''
ask Sara Ray .
`` Oh , yes , she be just the same a she use to be , '' say the Story Girl wearily .
`` But that do n't belong to the story .
It stop when she speak at last .
You 're never satisfy to leave a story where it should stop , Sara Ray . ''
`` Well , I always like to know what happen afterwards , '' say Sara Ray .
`` Uncle Roger say he would n't want a wife he could never quarrel with , '' remark Dan .
`` He say it would be too tame a life for him . ''
`` I wonder if Uncle Roger will always stay a bachelor , '' say Cecily .
`` He seem real happy , '' observe Peter .
`` Ma say that it 's all right as long a he be a bachelor because he wo n't take any one , '' say Felicity , `` but if he wake up some day and find he be an old bachelor because he ca n't get any one it 'll have a very different flavour . ''
`` If your Aunt Olivia be to up and get marry what would your Uncle Roger do for a housekeeper ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Oh , but Aunt Olivia will never be marry now , '' say Felicity .
`` Why , she 'll be twenty-nine next January . ''
`` Well , o ' course , that 's pretty old , '' admit Peter , `` but she might find some one who would n't mind that , see she 's so pretty . ''
`` It would be awful splendid and excite to have a wedding in the family , would n't it ? ''
say Cecily .
`` I 've never see any one marry , and I 'd just love to .
I 've be to four funeral , but not to one single wedding . ''
`` I 've never even get to a funeral , '' say Sara Ray gloomily .
`` There 's the wedding veil of the proud princess , '' say Cecily , point to a long drift of filmy vapour in the southwestern sky .
`` And look at that sweet pink cloud below it , '' add Felicity .
`` Maybe that little pink cloud be a dream , get all ready to float down into somebody 's sleep , '' suggest the Story Girl .
`` I have a perfectly awful dream last night , '' say Cecily , with a shudder of remembrance .
`` I dream I be on a desert island inhabit by tiger and native with two head . ''
`` Oh ! ''
the Story Girl look at Cecily half reproachfully .
`` Why could n't you tell it good than that ?
If I have such a dream I could tell it so that everybody else would feel a if they have dream it , too . ''
`` Well , I 'm not you , '' counter Cecily , `` and I would n't want to frighten any one a I be frighten .
It be an awful dream -- but it be kind of interesting , too . ''
`` I 've have some real int ` rest dream , '' say Peter , `` but I ca n't remember them long .
I wish I could . ''
`` Why do n't you write them down ? ''
suggest the Story Girl .
`` Oh -- '' she turn upon u a face illuminate with a sudden inspiration .
`` I 've an idea .
Let u each get an exercise book and write down all our dream , just a we dream them .
We 'll see who 'll have the most interesting collection .
And we 'll have them to read and laugh over when we 're old and gray . ''
Instantly we all saw ourselves and each other by inner vision , old and gray -- all but the Story Girl .
We could not picture her a old .
Always , as long a she live , so it seem to u , must she have sleek brown curl , a voice like the sound of a harpstring in the wind , and eye that be star of eternal youth .
CHAPTER XXII .
THE DREAM BOOKS The next day the Story Girl coax Uncle Roger to take her to Markdale , and there she buy our dream book .
They be ten cent apiece , with rule page and mottle green cover .
My own lie open beside me a I write , it yellow page inscribe with the vision that haunt my childish slumber on those night of long ago .
On the cover be paste a lady 's visit card , on which be write , `` The Dream Book of Beverley King . ''
Cecily have a packet of visit card which she be hoard against the day when she would be grow up and could put the call etiquette of the Family Guide into practice ; but she generously give u all one apiece for the cover of our dream book .
As I turn the page and glance over the na & iuml ; ve record , each one beginning , `` Last night I dream , '' the past come very vividly back to me .
I see that bowery orchard , shin in memory with a soft glow of beauty -- `` the light that never be on land or sea , '' -- where we sit on those September evening and write down our dream , when the care of the day be over and there be nothing to interfere with the pleasing throe of composition .
Peter -- Dan -- Felix -- Cecily -- Felicity -- Sara Ray -- the Story Girl -- they be all around me once more , in the sweet-scented , fading grass , each with open dream book and pencil in hand , now write busily , now star fixedly into space in search of some elusive word or phrase which might best describe the indescribable .
I hear their laughing voice , I see their bright , unclouded eye .
In this little , old book , fill with cramped , boyish writing , there be a spell of white magic that set the year at naught .
Beverley King be a boy once more , write down his dream in the old King orchard on the homestead hill , blow over by musky wind .
Opposite to him sit the Story Girl , with her scarlet rosetted head , her beautiful bare foot cross before her , one slender hand prop her high , white brow , on either side of which fall her glossy curl .
There , to the right , be sweet Cecily of the dear , brown eye , with a little bloated dictionary beside her -- for you dream of so many thing you ca n't spell , or be expect to spell , when you be only eleven .
Next to her sits Felicity , beautiful , and conscious that she be beautiful , with hair of spun sunshine , and sea-blue eye , and all the rose of that vanish summer abloom in her cheek .
Peter be beside her , of course , sprawl flat on his stomach among the grass , one hand clutch his black curl , with his dream book on a small , round stone before him -- for only so can Peter compose at all , and even then he find it hard work .
He can handle a hoe more deftly than a pencil , and his spelling , even with all his frequent appeal to Cecily , be a fearful and wonderful thing .
As for punctuation , he never attempt it , beyond an occasion period , jot down whenever he happen to think of it , whether in the right place or not .
The Story Girl go over his dream after he have write them out , and put in the comma and semicolon , and straighten out the sentence .
Felix sit on the right of the Story Girl , fat and stodgy , grimly in earnest even over dream .
He write with his knee stick up to form a writing-desk , and he always frowns fiercely the whole time .
Dan , like Peter , write lie down flat , but with his back towards u ; and he have a dismal habit of groan aloud , writhe his whole body , and dig his toe into the grass , when he can not turn a sentence to suit him .
Sara Ray be at his left .
There be seldom anything to be say of Sara except to tell where she be .
Like Tennyson 's Maud , in one respect at least , Sara be splendidly null .
Well , there we sit and write in our dream book , and Uncle Roger pass by and accuses u of be up to dev -- to very bad mischief .
Each of u be very anxious to possess the most exciting record ; but we be an honourable little crew , and I do not think anything be ever write down in those dream book which have not really be dream .
We have expect that the Story Girl would eclipse u all in the matter of dream ; but , at least in the beginning , her dream be no more remarkable than those of the rest of u .
In dreamland we be all equal .
Cecily , indeed , seem to have the most decided talent for dramatic dream .
That meek and mild of girl be in the habit of dream truly terrible thing .
Almost every night battle , murder , or sudden death play some part in her vision .
On the other hand , Dan , who be a somewhat truculent fellow , addict to the perusal of lurid dime novel which he borrow from the other boy in school , dream dream of such a peaceful and pastoral character that he be quite disgust with the result tame page of his dream book .
But if the Story Girl could not dream anything more wonderful than the rest of u , she score when it come to the telling .
To hear her tell a dream be as good -- or a bad -- a dream it yourself .
As far a write them down be concerned , I believe that I , Beverley King , carry off the palm .
I be consider to possess a pretty knack of composition .
But the Story Girl go me one good even there , because , have inherit something of her father 's talent for drawing , she illustrate her dream with sketch that certainly catch the spirit of them , whatever might be say of their technical excellence .
She have an especial knack for draw monstrosity ; and I vividly recall the picture of an enormous and hideous lizard , look like a reptile of the pterodactyl period , which she have dream of see crawl across the roof of the house .
On another occasion she have a frightful dream -- at least , it seem frightful while she tell u and describe the dreadful feeling it have give her -- of be chase around the parlour by the ottoman , which make face at her .
She draw a picture of the grimace ottoman on the margin of her dream book which so scar Sara Ray when she behold it that she cry all the way home , and insist on sleep that night with Judy Pineau l the furniture take to pursue her also .
Sara Ray 's own dream never amount to much .
She be always in trouble of some sort -- could n't get her hair braid , or her shoe on the right foot .
Consequently , her dream book be very monotonous .
The only thing worth mention in the way of dream that Sara Ray ever achieve be when she dream that she go up in a balloon and fell out .
`` I expect to come down with an awful thud , '' she say shuddering , `` but I light as light a a feather and wake right up . ''
`` If you have n't wake up you 'd have die , '' say Peter with a dark significance .
`` If you dream of fall and DO N'T wake you DO land with a thud and it kill you .
That 's what happen to people who die in their sleep . ''
`` How do you know ? ''
ask Dan skeptically .
`` Nobody who die in his sleep could ever tell it . ''
`` My Aunt Jane tell me so , '' say Peter .
`` I suppose that settle it , '' say Felicity disagreeably .
`` You always say something nasty when I mention my Aunt Jane , '' say Peter reproachfully .
`` What do I say that be nasty ? ''
cry Felicity .
`` I do n't say a single thing . ''
`` Well , it sound nasty , '' say Peter , who know that it be the tone that make the music .
`` What do your Aunt Jane look like ? ''
ask Cecily sympathetically .
`` Was she pretty ? ''
`` No , '' concede Peter reluctantly , `` she be n't pretty -- but she look like the woman in that picture the Story Girl 's father send her last week -- the one with the shiny ring round her head and the baby in her lap .
I 've see Aunt Jane look at me just like that woman look at her baby .
Ma never look so .
Poor ma be too busy wash .
I wish I could dream of my Aunt Jane .
I never do . '' ''
` Dream of the dead , you 'll hear of the living , ' '' quote Felix oracularly .
`` I dream last night that I throw a lighted match into that keg of gunpowder in Mr. Cook 's store at Markdale , '' say Peter .
`` It blow up -- and everything blow up -- and they fish me out of the mess -- but I wake up before I 'd time to find out if I be kill or not . ''
`` One be so apt to wake up just a thing get interesting , '' remark the Story Girl discontentedly .
`` I dream last night that I have really truly curly hair , '' say Cecily mournfully .
`` And oh , I be so happy !
It be dreadful to wake up and find it as straight a ever . ''
Felix , that sober , solid fellow , dream constantly of fly through the air .
His description of his aerial flight over the tree-tops of dreamland always fill u with envy .
None of the rest of u could ever compass such a dream , not even the Story Girl , who might have be expect to dream of fly if anybody do .
Felix have a knack of dream anyhow , and his dream book , while suffer somewhat in comparison of literary style , be about the best of the lot when it come to subject matter .
Cecily 's might be more dramatic , but Felix 's be more amusing .
The dream which we all count his masterpiece be the one in which a menagerie have camp in the orchard and the rhinoceros chase Aunt Janet around and around the Pulpit Stone , but turn into an inoffensive pig when it be on the point of catch her .
Felix have a sick spell soon after we begin our dream book , and Aunt Janet essay to cure him by administer a dose of liver pill which Elder Frewen have assure her be a cure-all for every disease the flesh be heir to .
But Felix flatly refuse to take liver pill ; Mexican Tea he would drink , but liver pill he would not take , in spite of his own suffering and Aunt Janet 's command and entreaty .
I could not understand his antipathy to the insignificant little white pellet , which be so easy to swallow ; but he explain the matter to u in the orchard when he have recover his usual health and spirit .
`` I be afraid to take the liver pill for fear they 'd prevent me from dream , '' he say .
`` Do n't you remember old Miss Baxter in Toronto , Bev ?
And how she tell Mrs. McLaren that she be subject to terrible dream , and finally she take two liver pill and never have any more dream after that .
I 'd rather have die than risk it , '' conclude Felix solemnly .
`` I 'd an exciting dream last night for once , '' say Dan triumphantly .
`` I dream old Peg Bowen chase me .
I think I be up to her house and she take after me .
You bet I scoot .
And she catch me -- yes , sir !
I felt her skinny hand reach out and clutch my shoulder .
I let out a screech -- and wake up . ''
`` I should think you do screech , '' say Felicity .
`` We hear you clean over into our room . ''
`` I hate to dream of be chase because I can never run , '' say Sara Ray with a shiver .
`` I just stand root to the ground -- and see it come -- and ca n't stir .
It do n't sound much write out , but it 's awful to go through .
I 'm sure I hope I 'll never dream Peg Bowen chase me .
I 'll die if I do . ''
`` I wonder what Peg Bowen would really do to a fellow if she catch him , '' speculate Dan .
`` Peg Bowen do n't need to catch you to do thing to you , '' say Peter ominously .
`` She can put ill-luck on you just by look at you -- and she will if you offend her . ''
`` I do n't believe that , '' say the Story Girl airily .
`` Do n't you ?
All right , then !
Last summer she call at Lem Hill 's in Markdale , and he tell her to clear out or he 'd set the dog on her .
Peg clear out , and she go across his pasture , mutter to herself and throw her arm round .
And next day his very best cow take sick and die .
How do you account for that ? ''
`` It might have happen anyhow , '' say the Story Girl -- somewhat less assuredly , though .
`` It might .
But I 'd just as soon Peg Bowen do n't look at MY cow , '' say Peter .
`` As if you have any cow ! ''
giggle Felicity .
`` I 'm go to have cow some day , '' say Peter , flushing .
`` I do n't mean to be a hired boy all my life .
I 'll have a farm of my own and cow and everything .
You 'll see if I wo n't . ''
`` I dream last night that we open the blue chest , '' say the Story Girl , `` and all the thing be there -- the blue china candlestick -- only it be brass in the dream -- and the fruit basket with the apple on it , and the wedding dress , and the embroidered petticoat .
And we be laugh , and try the thing on , and have such fun .
And Rachel Ward herself come and look at u -- so sad and reproachful -- and we all felt ashamed , and I begin to cry , and wake up cry . ''
`` I dream last night that Felix be thin , '' say Peter , laugh .
`` He do look so queer .
His clothes just hang loose , and he be go round try to hold them on . ''
Everybody think this be funny , except Felix .
He would not speak to Peter for two day because of it .
Felicity also get into trouble because of her dream .
One night she wake up , have just have a very exciting dream ; but she go to sleep again , and in the morning she could not remember the dream at all .
Felicity determine she would never let another dream get away from her in such a fashion ; and the next time she waken in the night -- have dream that she be dead and bury -- she promptly arise , light a candle , and proceed to write the dream down then and there .
While so employed she contrive to upset the candle and set fire to her nightgown -- a brand-new one , trim with any quantity of crocheted lace .
A huge hole be burn in it , and when Aunt Janet discover it she lift up her voice with no uncertain sound .
Felicity have never receive a sharp scolding .
But she take it very philosophically .
She be use to her mother 's bitter tongue , and she be not unduly sensitive .
`` Anyhow , I save my dream , '' she say placidly .
And that , of course , be all that really matter .
Grown people be so strangely oblivious to the truly important thing of life .
Material for new garment , of night or day , could be buy in any shop for a trifling sum and make up out of hand .
But if a dream escape you , in what market-place the wide world over can you hope to regain it ?
What coin of earthly minting will ever buy back for you that lose and lovely vision ?
CHAPTER XXIII .
SUCH STUFF AS DREAMS ARE MADE ON Peter take Dan and me aside one evening , a we be on our way to the orchard with our dream book , say significantly that he want our advice .
Accordingly , we go round to the spruce wood , where the girl would not see u to the rousing of their curiosity , and then Peter tell u of his dilemma .
`` Last night I dream I be in church , '' he say .
`` I think it be full of people , and I walk up the aisle to your pew and set down , as unconcerned a a pig on ice .
And then I find that I have n't a stitch of clothes on -- NOT ONE BLESSED STITCH .
Now '' -- Peter drop his voice -- `` what be bother me be this -- would it be proper to tell a dream like that before the girl ? ''
I be of the opinion that it would be rather questionable ; but Dan vow he do n't see why .
HE 'D tell it quick a any other dream .
There be nothing bad in it .
`` But they 're your own relation , '' say Peter .
`` They 're no relation to me , and that make a difference .
Besides , they 're all such ladylike girl .
I guess I 'd well not risk it .
I 'm pretty sure Aunt Jane would n't think it be proper to tell such a dream .
And I do n't want to offend Fel -- any of them . ''
