And there 's that lace of mine you can have for a bertha .
I want you to look just right , you see .
Enfield be a big place , and there will be lot of grandee at the wedding .
Let 's get the last fashion sheet and pick out a design right away .
Here 's one on the very first page that would be nice .
You could wear it to perfection , Caddy you 're so tall and slender .
It would n't suit a plump and podgy person like myself at all . ''
Carry like the pattern , and they have an animated discussion over it .
But , in the end , Carry sigh , and push the sheet away from her , with all the brightness go out of face .
`` It 's no use , Patty .
I 'd forget for a few minute , but it 's all come back now .
I ca n't think of wedding and new dress , when the thought of that interest crowd everything else out .
It 's due next month -- fifty dollar -- and I 've only ten save up .
I ca n't make forty dollar in a month , even if I have any amount of sewing , and you know hardly anyone want sew do just now .
I do n't know what we shall do .
Oh , I suppose we can rent a couple of room in the village and exist in them .
But it break my heart to think of leave our old home . ''
`` Perhaps Mr. Kerr will let u have more time , '' suggest Patty , not very hopefully .
The sparkle have go out of her face too .
Patty love their little home as much a Carry do .
`` You know he wo n't .
He have be only too anxious for an excuse to foreclose , this long time .
He want the land the house be on .
Oh , if I only have n't be sick so long in the summer -- just when everybody have sew to do .
I 've try so hard to catch up , but I could n't . ''
Carry 's voice break in a sob .
Patty lean over the table and pat her sister 's glossy dark hair gently .
`` You 've work too hard , dearie .
You 've just go to skin and bone .
Oh , I know how hard it be !
I ca n't bear to think of leave this dear old spot either .
If we could only induce Mr. Kerr to give u a year 's grace !
I 'd be teach then , and we could easily pay the interest and some of the principal too .
Perhaps he will if we both go to him and coax very hard .
Anyway , do n't worry over it till after the wedding .
I want you to go and have a good time .
You never have good time , Carry . ''
`` Neither do you , '' say Carry rebelliously .
`` You never have anything that other girl have , Patty -- not even pretty clothes . ''
`` Deed , and I 've lot of thing to be thankful for , '' say Patty cheerily .
`` Do n't you fret about me .
I 'm vain enough to think I 've get some brain anyway , and I 'm a-meaning to do something with them too .
Now I think I 'll go upstairs and study this evening .
It will be warm enough there tonight , and the noise of the machine rather bother me . ''
Patty whisk out , and Carry know she should go to her sewing .
But she sit a long while at the table in dismal thought .
She be so tired , and so hopeless .
It have be such a hard struggle , and it seem now a if it would all come to naught .
For five year , ever since her mother 's death , Carry have support herself and Patty by dressmaking .
They have be a hard five year of pinching and economizing and go without , for Enderby be only a small place , and there be two other dressmaker .
Then there be always the mortgage to devour everything .
Carry have keep it at bay till now , but at last she be conquer .
She have have typhoid fever in the spring and have not be able to work for a long time .
Indeed , she have go to work before she should .
The doctor 's bill be yet unpaid , but Dr. Hamilton have tell her to take her time .
Carry know she would not be press for that , and next year Patty would be able to help her .
But next year would be too late .
The dear little home would be lose then .
When Carry rouse herself from her sad reflection , she saw a crumpled note lie on the floor .
She pick it up and absently smooth it out .
Seeing Patty 's name at the top she be about to lay it aside without read it , but the line be few , and the sense of them flash into Carry 's brain .
The note be an invitation to Clare Forbes 's party !
The Lea girl have know that the Forbes girl be go to give a party , but they have not expect that Patty would be invite .
Of course , Clare Forbes be in Patty 's class at school and be always very nice and friendly with her .
But then the Forbes set be not the Lea set .
Carry run upstairs to Patty 's room .
`` Patty , you drop this on the floor .
I could n't help see what it be .
Why do n't you tell me Clare have invite you ? ''
`` Because I know I could n't go , and I think you would feel badly over that .
Caddy , I wish you have n't see it . ''
`` Oh , Patty , I do wish you could go to the party .
It be so sweet of Clare to invite you , and perhaps she will be offend if you do n't go -- she wo n't understand .
Clare Forbes be n't a girl whose friendship be to be lightly throw away when it be offer . ''
`` I know that .
But , Caddy dear , it be impossible .
I do n't think that I have any foolish pride about clothes , but you know it be out of the question to think of go to Clare Forbes 's party in my last winter 's plaid dress , which be a good two inch too short and skimpy in proportion .
Putting my own feeling aside , it would be an insult to Clare .
There , do n't think any more about it . ''
But Carry do think about it .
She lay awake half the night wonder if there might not be some way for Patty to go to that party .
She know it be impossible , unless Patty have a new dress , and how could a new dress be have ?
Yet she do so want Patty to go .
Patty never have any good time , and she be study so hard .
Then , all at once , Carry think of a way by which Patty might have a new dress .
She have be toss restlessly , but now she lay very still , star with wide-open eye at the moonlit window , with the big willow bough branch darkly across it .
Yes , it be a way , but could she ?
Could she ?
Yes , she could , and she would .
Carry bury her face in her pillow with a sob and a gulp .
But she have decide what must be do , and how it must be do .
`` Are you go to begin on your organdie today ? ''
ask Patty in the morning , before she start for school .
`` I must finish Mrs. Pidgeon 's suit first , '' Carry answer .
`` Next week will be time enough to think about my wedding garment . ''
She try to laugh and fail .
Patty think with a pang that Carry look horribly pale and tired -- probably she have worry most of the night over the interest .
`` I 'm so glad she 's go to Chris 's wedding , '' think Patty , a she hurry down the street .
`` It will take her out of herself and give her something nice to think of for ever so long . ''
Nothing more be say that week about the organdie , or the wedding , or the Forbes 's party .
Carry sew fiercely , and sit at her machine for hour after Patty have go to bed .
The night before the party she say to Patty , `` Braid your hair tonight , Patty .
You 'll want it nice and wavy to go to the Forbes 's tomorrow night . ''
Patty think that Carry be actually try to perpetrate a weak joke , and endeavour to laugh .
But it be a rather dreary laugh .
Patty , after a hard evening 's study , felt tired and discourage , and she be really dreadfully disappointed about the party , although she would n't have let Carry suspect it for the world .
`` You 're go , you know , '' say Carry , as serious a a judge , although there be a little twinkle in her eye .
`` In a faded plaid two inch too short ? ''
Patty smile as brightly a possible .
`` Oh , no .
I have a dress all ready for you . ''
Carry open the wardrobe door and take out -- the lovely girlish dress of creamy organdie , with pale pink rose scatter over it , make with the daintiest of ruffle and tuck , with a bertha of soft creamy lace , and a girdle of white silk .
`` This be for you , '' say Carry .
Patty gaze at the dress with horror-stricken eye .
`` Caroline Lea , that be your organdie !
And you 've go and make it up for me !
Carry Lea , what be you go to wear to the wedding ? ''
`` Nothing .
I 'm not go . ''
`` You be -- you must -- you shall .
I wo n't take the organdie . ''
`` You 'll have to now , because it 's make to fit you .
Come , Patty dear , I 've set my heart on your go to that party .
You must n't disappoint me -- you ca n't , for what good would it do ?
I can never wear the dress now . ''
Patty realize that .
She know she might as well go to the party , but she do not feel much pleasure in the prospect .
Nevertheless , when she be ready for it the next evening , she could n't help a little thrill of delight .
The dress be so pretty , and dainty , and become .
`` You look sweet , '' exclaim Carry admiringly .
`` There , I hear the Browns ' carriage .
Patty , I want you to promise me this -- that you 'll not let any thought of me , or my not go to the wedding , spoil your enjoyment this evening .
I give you the dress that you might have a good time , so do n't make my gift of no effect . ''
`` I 'll try , '' promise Patty , fly downstairs , where her next-door neighbour be wait for her .
At two o'clock that night Carry be awaken to see Patty bend over her , flush and radiant .
Carry sit sleepily up .
`` I hope you have a good time , '' she say .
`` I have -- oh , I have -- but I do n't waken you out of your hard-earned slumber at this wee sma ' hour to tell you that .
Carry , I 've think of a way for you to go to the wedding .
It just come to me at supper .
Mrs. Forbes be sit opposite to me , and her dress suggest it .
You must make over Aunt Caroline 's silk dress . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Carry , a little crossly ; even sweet-tempered people be sometimes cross when they be waken up for -- a it seem -- nothing .
`` It 's good plain sense .
Of course , you must make it over and -- '' `` Patty Lea , you 're crazy .
I would n't dream of wear that hideous thing .
Bright green silk , with huge yellow brocade flower as big a cabbage all over it !
I think I see myself in it . ''
`` Caddy , listen to me .
You know there 's enough of that black lace of mother 's for the waist , and the big black lace shawl of Grandmother Lea 's will do for the skirt .
Make it over -- '' `` A plain slip of the silk , '' gasp Carry , her quick brain seize on all the possibility of the plan .
`` Why do n't I think of it before ?
It will be just the thing , the green and yellow will be tone down to a nice shimmer under the black lace .
And I 'll make cuff of black velvet with double puff above -- and just cut out a wee bit at the throat with a frill of lace and a band of black velvet ribbon around my neck .
Patty Lea , it 's an inspiration . ''
Carry be out of bed by daylight the next morning and , while Patty still slumber , she mount to the garret , and take Aunt Caroline 's silk dress from the chest where it have lain forgotten for three year .
Carry hold it up at arm 's length , and look at it with amusement .
`` It be certainly ugly , but with the lace over it it will look very different .
There 's enough of it , anyway , and that skirt be stiff enough to stand alone .
Poor Aunt Caroline , I 'm afraid I be n't particularly grateful for her gift at the time , but I really be now . ''
Aunt Caroline , who have give the dress to Carry three year before , be , an old lady of eighty , the aunt of Carry 's father .
She have once possess a snug farm but in an evil hour she have be persuade to deed it to her nephew , Edward Curry , whom she have bring up .
Poor Aunt Caroline have live to regret this step , for everyone in Enderby know that Edward Curry and his wife have repay her with ingratitude and greed .
Carry , who be name for her , be her favourite grandniece and often go to see her , though such visit be coldly receive by the Currys , who always take especial care never to leave Aunt Caroline alone with any of her relative .
On one occasion , when Carry be there , Aunt Caroline have bring out this silk dress .
`` I 'm go to give this to you , Carry , '' she say timidly .
`` It 's a good silk , and not so very old .
Mr. Greenley give it to me for a birthday present fifteen year ago .
Maybe you can make it over for yourself . ''
Mrs. Edward , who be on duty at the time , sniffed disagreeably , but she say nothing .
The dress be of no value in her eye , for the pattern be so ugly and old-fashioned that none of her smart daughter would have wear it .
Had it be otherwise , Aunt Caroline would probably not have be allow to give it away .
Carry have thank Aunt Caroline sincerely .
If she do not care much for the silk , she at least prize the kindly motive behind the gift .
Perhaps she and Patty laugh a little over it a they pack it away in the garret .
It be so very ugly , but Carry think it be sweet of Aunt Caroline to have give her something .
Poor old Aunt Caroline have die soon after , and Carry have not think about the silk dress again .
She have too many other thing to think of , this poor worried Carry .
After breakfast Carry begin to rip the skirt breadths apart .
Snip , snip , go her scissors , while her thought roam far afield -- now look forward with renew pleasure to Christine 's wedding , now dwell dolefully on the mortgage .
Patty , who be wash the dish , know just what her thought be by the light and shadow on her expressive face .
`` Why !
-- what ? ''
exclaim Carry suddenly .
Patty wheel about to see Carry star at the silk dress like one bewitched .
Between the silk and the lining which she have just rip apart be a twenty-dollar bill , and beside it a sheet of letter paper cover with writing in a cramped angular hand , both secure very carefully to the silk .
`` Carry Lea ! ''
gasp Patty .
With tremble finger Carry snip away the stitch that hold the letter , and read it aloud .
`` My dear Caroline , '' it run , `` I do not know when you will find this letter and this money , but when you do it belong to you .
I have a hundred dollar which I always mean to give you because you be name for me .
But Edward and his wife do not know I have it , and I do n't want them to find out .
They would not let me give it to you if they know , so I have think of this way of get it to you .
I have sew five twenty-dollar bill under the lining of this skirt , and they be all yours , with your Aunt Caroline 's best love .
You be always a good girl , Carry , and you 've work hard , and I 've give Edward enough .
Just take this money and use it a you like .
`` Aunt Caroline Greenley . ''
`` Carry Lea , be we both dream ? ''
gasp Patty .
With crimson cheek Carry rip the other breadths apart , and there be the other four bill .
Then she slip down in a little heap on the sofa cushion and begin to cry -- happy tear of relief and gladness .
`` We can pay the interest , '' say Patty , dance around the room , `` and get yourself a nice new dress for the wedding . ''
`` Indeed I wo n't , '' say Carry , sit up and laugh through her tear .
`` I 'll make over this dress and wear it out of gratitude to the memory of dear Aunt Caroline . ''
Aunt Susanna 's Thanksgiving Dinner .
BY L.M . MONTGOMERY `` Here 's Aunt Susanna , girl , '' say Laura who be sit by the north window -- nothing but north light do for Laura who be the artist of our talented family .
Each of u have a little pet new-fledged talent which we be faithfully cultivate in the hope that it will amount to something and soar highly some day .
But it be difficult to cultivate four talent on our tiny income .
If Laura be n't such a good manager we never could do it .
Laura 's word be a signal for Kate to hang up her violin and for me to push my pen and portfolio out of sight .
Laura have hide her brush and water color a she speak .
Only Margaret continue to bend serenely over her Latin grammar .
Aunt Susanna frown on musical and literary and artistic ambition but she accord a faint approval to Margaret 's desire for an education .
A college course , with a tangible diploma at the end , and a sensible pedagogic aspiration be something Aunt Susanna can understand when she try hard .
But she can not understand mess with paint , fiddle , or scribbling , and she have only unmeasured contempt for messers , fiddler , and scribbler .
Time be when we have pay no attention to Aunt Susanna 's view on these point ; but ever since she have , on one incautious day when she be in high good humor , drop a pale , anemic little hint that she might send Margaret to college if she be a good girl we have be bend all our energy towards secure Aunt Susanna 's approval .
It be not enough that Aunt Susanna should approve of Margaret ; she must approve of the whole four of u or she would not help Margaret .
That be Aunt Susanna 's way .
Of late we have be grow a little discouraged .
Aunt Susanna have recently read a magazine article which state that the high education of woman be ruin our country and that a woman who be a B.A . could n't , in the very nature of thing , ever be a housewifely , cookly creature .
Consequently , Margaret 's chance look a little foggy ; but we have n't quite give up hope .
A very little thing might sway Aunt Susanna one way or the other , so that we walk very softly and try to mingle serpent ' wisdom and dove ' harmlessness in practical portion .
When Aunt Susanna come in Laura be crochet , Kate be sew , and I be pore over a recipe book .
That be not deception at all , since we do all these thing frequently -- much more frequently , in fact , than we paint or fiddle or write .
But Aunt Susanna would never believe it .
Nor do she believe it now .
She throw back her lovely new sealskin cape , look around the sitting-room and then smile -- a truly Aunt Susannian smile .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- `` What a pity you forget to wipe that smudge of paint off your nose , Laura , '' she say sarcastically .
`` You do n't seem to get on very fast with your lace .
How long be it since you begin it ?
Over three month , be n't it ? ''
`` This be the third piece of the same pattern I 've do in three month , Aunt Susanna , '' say Laura presently .
Laura be an old duck .
She never get cross and snap back .
I do ; and it 's so hard not to with Aunt Susanna sometimes .
But I generally manage it for I 'd do anything for Margaret .
Laura do not tell Aunt Susanna that she sell her lace at the Women 's Exchange in town and make enough to buy her new hat .
She make enough out of her water color to dress herself .
Aunt Susanna take a second breath and start in again .
`` I notice your violin have n't quite as much dust on it a the rest of the thing in this room , Kate .
It 's a pity you stop play just a I come in .
I do n't enjoy fiddle much but I 'd prefer it to see anyone use a needle who be n't accustom to it . ''
Kate be really a most dainty needlewoman and do all the fine sewing in our family .
She color and say nothing -- that be the high pitch of virtue to which our Katie , like myself , can attain .
`` And there 's Margaret ruin her eye over book , '' go on Aunt Susanna severely .
`` Will you kindly tell me , Margaret Thorne , what good you ever expect Latin to do you ? ''
`` Well , you see , Aunt Susanna , '' say Margaret gently -- Magsie and Laura be bird of a feather -- `` I want to be a teacher if I can manage to get through , and I shall need Latin for that . ''
All the girl except me have now get their accustomed rap , but I know good than to hope I should escape .
`` So you 're read a recipe book , Agnes ?
Well , that 's good than pore over a novel .
I 'm afraid you have n't be at it very long though .
People generally do n't read recipes upside down -- and besides , you do n't quite cover up your portfolio .
I see a corner of it stick out .
Was genius burn before I come in ?
It 's too bad if I quench the flame . ''
`` A cookery book be n't such a novelty to me a you seem to think , Aunt Susanna , '' I say , as meekly a it be possible for me .
`` Why I 'm a real good cook -- ` if I do say it as have n't orter . ' ''
I be , too .
`` Well , I 'm glad to hear it , '' say Aunt Susanna skeptically , `` because that have to do with my errand her to-day .
I 'm in a peck of trouble .
Firstly , Miranda Mary 's mother have have to go and get sick and Miranda Mary must go home to wait on her .
Secondly , I 've just have a telegram from my sister-in-law who have be order west for her health , and I 'll have to leave on to-night 's train to see her before she go .
I ca n't get back until the noon train Thursday , and that be Thanksgiving , and I 've invite Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert to dinner that day .
They 'll come on the same train .
I 'm dreadfully worry .
There do n't seem to be anything I can do except get on of you girls to go up to the Pinery Thursday morning and cook the dinner for u .
Do you think you can manage it ? ''
We all felt rather dismay , and nobody volunteer with a rush .
But a I have just boast that I could cook it be plainly my duty to step into the breach , and I do it with fear and trembling .
`` I 'll go , Aunt Susanna , '' I say .
`` And I 'll help you , '' say Kate .
`` Well , I suppose I 'll have to try you , '' say Aunt Susanna with the air of a woman determine to make the best of a bad business .
`` Here be the key of the kitchen door .
You 'll find everything in the pantry , turkey and all .
The mince pie be all ready make so you 'll only have to warm them up .
I want dinner sharp at twelve for the train be due at 11:50 .
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert be very particular and I do hope you will have thing right .
Oh , if I could only be home myself !
Why will people get sick at such inconvenient time ? ''
`` Do n't worry , Aunt Susanna , '' I say comfortingly .
`` Kate and I will have your Thanksgiving dinner ready for you in tiptop style . ''
`` Well I 'm sure I hope so .
Do n't get to moon over a story , Agnes .
I 'll lock the library up and fortunately there be no fiddle at the Pinery .
Above all , do n't let any of the McGinnises in .
They 'll be sure to be prowl around when I 'm not home .
Do n't give that dog of theirs any scrap either .
That be Miranda Mary 's one fault .
She will fee that dog in spite of all I can do and I ca n't walk out of my own back door without fall over him . ''
We promise to eschew the McGinnises and all their work , include the dog , and when Aunt Susanna have go we look at each other with mingle hope and fear .
`` Girls , this be the chance of your life , '' say Laura .
`` If you can only please Aunt Susanna with this dinner it will convince her that you be good cook in spite of your nefarious bent for music and literature .
I consider the illness of Miranda Mary 's mother a Providential interposition -- that be , if she be n't too sick . ''
`` It 's all very well for you to be please , Lolla , '' I say dolefully .
`` But I do n't feel jubilant over the prospect at all .
Something will probably go wrong .
And then there 's our own nice little Thanksgiving celebration we 've plan , and pinch and economize for week to provide .
That be half spoiled now . ''
`` Oh , what be that compare to Margaret 's chance of go to college ? ''
exclaimed Kate .
`` Cheer up , Aggie .
You know we can cook .
I feel that it be now or never with Aunt Susanna . ''
I cheer up accordingly .
We be not give to pessimism which be fortunate .
Ever since father die four year ago we have struggle on here , content to give up a good deal just to keep our home and be together .
This little gray house -- oh , how we do love it and it apple tree -- be ours and we have , a aforesaid , a tiny income and our ambition ; not very big ambition but big enough to give zest to our life and hope to the future .
We 've be very happy a a rule .
Aunt Susanna have a big house and lot of money but she be n't as happy a we be .
She nag u a good deal -- just a she use to nag father -- but we do n't mind it very much after all .
Indeed , I sometimes suspect that we really like Aunt Susanna tremendously if she 'd only leave u alone long enough to find it out .
Thursday morning be an ideal Thanksgiving morning -- bright , crisp and sparkling .
There have be a white frost in the night , and the orchard and the white birch wood behind it look like fairyland .
We be all up early .
None of u have sleep well , and both Kate and I have have the most fearful dream of spoil Aunt Susanna 's Thanksgiving dinner .
`` Never mind , dream always go by contrary , you know , '' say Laura cheerfully .
`` You 'd better go up to the Pinery early and get the fire on , for the house will be cold .
Remember the McGinnises and the dog .
Weigh the turkey so that you 'll know exactly how long to cook it .
Put the pie in the oven in time to get piping hot -- lukewarm mince pie be an abomination .
Be sure -- '' `` Laura , do n't confuse u with any more caution , '' I groan , `` or we shall get hopelessly fuddle .
Come on , Kate , before she have time to . ''
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- It be n't very far up to the Pinery -- just ten minute ' walk , and such a delightful walk on that delightful morning .
We go through the orchard and then through the white birch wood where the loveliness of the frosted bough awe u .
Beyond that there be a lane between rank of young , balsamy , white-misted fir and then an open pasture field , sere and crispy .
Just across it be the Pinery , a lovely old house with dormer window in the roof , surround by pine that be dark and glorious against the silvery morning sky .
The McGinnis dog be sit on the back-door step when we arrive .
He wag his tail ingratiatingly , but we ruthlessly push him off , go in and shut the door in his face .
All the little McGinnises be sit in a row on their fence , and they whoop derisively .
The McGinnis manner be not those which appertain to the caste of Vere de Vere ; but we rather like the urchin -- there be eight of them -- and we would probably have go over to talk to them if we have not have the fear of Aunt Susanna before our eye .
We kindle the fire , weigh the turkey , put it in the oven and prepare the vegetable .
Then we set the dining-room table and decorate it with Aunt Susanna 's potted fern and dish of lovely red apple .
Everything go so smoothly that we soon forget to be nervous .
When the turkey be do , we take it out , set it on the back of the range to keep warm and put the mince pie in .
The potato , cabbage and turnip be bubble away cheerfully , and everything be go as merrily a a marriage bell .
Then , all at once , thing happen .
In an evil hour we go to the yard window and look out .
We saw a quiet scene .
The McGinnis dog be still sit on his haunch by the step , just a he have be sit all the morning .
Down in the McGinnis yard everything wear an unusually peaceful aspect .
Only one McGinnis be in sight -- Tony , age eight , who be perch up on the edge of the well box , swing his leg and sing at the top of his melodious Irish voice .
All at once , just a we be look at him , Tony go over backward and apparently tumble head foremost down his father 's well .
Kate and I scream simultaneously .
We tear across the kitchen , flung open the door , plunge down over Aunt Susanna 's yard , scramble over the fence and fly to the well .
Just a we reach it , Tony 's red head appear a he climb serenely out over the box .
I do n't know whether I felt more relieved or furious .
He have merely fall on the blank guard inside the box : and there be time when I be tempt to think he fell on purpose because he saw Kate and me look out at the window .
At least he do n't seem at all frighten , and grin most impishly at u .
Kate and I turn on our heel and march back in as dignify a manner a be possible under the circumstance .
Half way up Aunt Susanna 's yard we forget dignity and break into a run .
We have leave the door open and the McGinnis dog have disappear .
Never shall I forget the sight we saw or the smell we smell when we burst into that kitchen .
There on the floor be the McGinnis dog and what be leave of Aunt Susanna 's Thanksgiving turkey .
As for the smell , imagine a commingled odor of scorch turnip and burn mince pie , and you have it .
The dog flee out with a guilty yelp .
I groan and snatch the turnip off .
Kate throw open the oven door and drag out the pie .
Pies and turnip be ruin as irretrievably a the turkey .
`` Oh , what shall we do ? ''
I cry miserably .
I know Margaret 's chance of college be go forever .
`` Do ! ''
Kate be superb .
She do n't lose her wit for a second .
`` We 'll go home and borrow the girl ' dinner .
Quick -- there 's just ten minute before train time .
Throw those pie and turnip into this basket -- the turkey too -- we 'll carry them with u to hide them . ''
I might not be able to evolve an idea like that on the spur of the moment , but I can at least act up to it when it be present .
Without a moment 's delay we shut the door and ran .
As we go I saw the McGinnis dog lick his chop over in their yard .
I have be ashamed ever since of my feeling toward that dog .
They be murderous .
Fortunately I have no time to indulge them .
It be ten minute walk from the Pinery to our house , but you can run it in five .
Kate and I burst into the kitchen just a Laura and Margaret be sit down to dinner .
We have neither time nor breath for explanation .
Without a word I grasp the turkey platter and the turnip tureen .
Kate catch one hot mince pie from the oven and whisk a cold one out of the pantry .
`` We 've -- get -- to have -- them , '' be all she say .
I 've always say that Laura and Magsie would rise to any occasion .
They saw u carry their Thanksgiving dinner off under their very eye and they never interfere by word or motion .
They do n't even worry u with question .
They realize that something desperate have happen and that the emergency call for deed not word .
`` Aggie , '' gasp Kate behind me a we tear through the birch wood , `` the border -- of these pie -- be crimp -- differently -- from Aunt Susanna 's . ''
`` She -- wo n't know -- the difference , '' I pant .
`` Miranda -- Mary -- crimp them . ''
We get back to the Pinery just a the train whistle blew .
We have ten minute to transfer turkey and turnip to Aunt Susanna 's dish , hide our own , air the kitchen , and get back our breath .
We accomplish it .
When Aunt Susanna and her guest come we be prepare for them : we be calm -- outwardly -- and the second mince pie be get hot in the oven .
It be ready by the time it be need .
Fortunately our turkey be the same size a Aunt Susanna 's , and Laura have cook a double supply of turnip , intend to warm them up the next day .
Still , all thing consider , Kate and I do n't enjoy that dinner much .
We keep think of poor Laura and Magsie at home , din off potato on Thanksgiving !
But at least Aunt Susanna be satisfy .
When Kate and I be wash the dish she come out quite beamingly .
`` Well , my dear , I must admit that you make a very good job of the dinner , indeed .
The turkey be do to perfection .
As for the mince pie -- well , of course Miranda Mary make them , but she must have have extra good luck with them , for they be excellent and heat to just the right degree .
You do n't give anything to the McGinnis dog , I hope ? ''
`` No , we do n't give him anything , '' say Kate .
Aunt Susanna do not notice the emphasis .
When we have finish the dish we smuggle our platter and tureen out of the house and go home .
Laura and Margaret be busy painting and studying and be just as sweet-tempered a if we have n't rob them of their dinner .
But we have to tell them the whole story before we even take off our hat .
`` There be a special Providence for child and idiot , '' say Laura gently .
We do n't ask her whether she mean u or Tony McGinnis or both .
There be some thing well leave in obscurity .
I 'd have probably say something much sharp than that if anybody have make off with my Thanksgiving turkey so unceremoniously .
Aunt Susanna come down the next day and tell Margaret that she would send her to college .
Also she commission Laura to paint her a water-color for her dining-room and say she 'd pay her five dollar for it .
Kate and I be rather leave out in the cold in this distribution of favor , but when you come to reflect that Laura and Magsie have really cook that dinner , it be only just .
Anyway , Aunt Susanna have never since insinuate that we ca n't cook , and that be as much a we deserve .
By Grace of Julius Caesar Melissa send word on Monday evening that she think we have well go round with the subscription list for cushion the church pew on Tuesday .
I send back word that I think we have well go on Thursday .
I have no particular objection to Tuesday , but Melissa be rather fond of settle thing without consult anyone else , and I do n't believe in always let her have her own way .
Melissa be my cousin and we have always be good friend , and I be really very fond of her ; but there 's no sense in lie down and let yourself be walk over .
We finally compromise on Wednesday .
I always have a feeling of dread when I hear of any new church-project for which money will be need , because I know perfectly well that Melissa and I will be send round to collect for it .
People say we seem to be able to get more than anybody else ; and they appear to think that because Melissa be an unencumbered old maid , and I be an unencumbered widow , we can spare the time without any inconvenience to ourselves .
Well , we have be canvass for building fund , and social , and supper for year , but it be need now ; at least , I have have enough of it , and I should think Melissa have , too .
We start out bright and early on Wednesday morning , for Jersey Cove be a big place and we know we should need the whole day .
We have to walk because neither of u own a horse , and anyway it 's more nuisance get out to open and shut gate than it be worth while .
It be a lovely day then , though promising to be hot , and our heart be as light a could be expect , consider the disagreeable expedition we be on .
I be wait at my gate for Melissa when she come , and she look me over with wonder and disapproval .
I could see she think I be a fool to dress up in my second best flower muslin and my very best hat with the pale pink rose in it to walk about in the heat and dust ; but I be n't .
All my experience in canvassing go to show that the good dress and well look you be the more money you 'll get -- that be , when it 's the men you have to tackle , a in this case .
If it have be the woman , however , I would have put on the old and ugly thing , consistent with decency , I have .
This be what Melissa have do , a it be , and she do look fearfully prim and dowdy , except for her front hair , which be a soft and fluffy and elaborate a usual .
I never could understand how Melissa always get it arrange so beautifully .
Nothing particular happen the first part of the day .
Some few growled and would n't subscribe anything , but on the whole we do pretty well .
If it have be a missionary subscription we should have fare bad ; but when it be something touch their own comfort , like cushion the pew , they come down handsomely .
We reach Daniel Wilson 's by noon , and have to have dinner there .
We do n't eat much , although we be hungry enough -- Mary Wilson 's cooking be a by-word in Jersey Cove .
No wonder Daniel be dyspeptic ; but dyspeptic or not , he give u a big subscription for our cushion and tell u we look young than ever .
Daniel be always very complimentary , and they say Mary be jealous .
When we leave the Wilson 's Melissa say , with an air of a woman nerve herself to a disagreeable duty : `` I suppose we might as well go to Isaac Appleby 's now and get it over . ''
I agree with her .
I have be dread that call all day .
It be n't a very pleasant thing to go to a man you have recently refuse to marry and ask him for money ; and Melissa and I be both in that predicament .
Isaac be a well-to-do old bachelor who have never have any notion of get marry until his sister die in the winter .
And then , as soon a the spring planting be over , he begin to look round for a wife .
He come to me first and I say `` No '' good and hard .
I like Isaac well enough ; but I be snug and comfortable , and do n't feel like pull up my root and move into another lot ; besides , Isaac 's courting seem to me a shade too business-like .
I ca n't get along without a little romance ; it 's my nature .
Isaac be disappoint and say so , but intimate that it be n't crush and that the next best would do very well .
The next best be Melissa , and he propose to her after the decent interval of a fortnight .
Melissa also refuse him .
I admit I be surprise at this , for I know Melissa be rather anxious to marry ; but she have always be down on Isaac Appleby , from principle , because of a family feud on her mother 's side ; besides , an old beau of hers , a widower at Kingsbridge , be just begin to take notice again , and I suspect Melissa have hope concern him .
Finally , I imagine Melissa do not fancy be second choice .
Whatever her reason be , she refuse poor Isaac , and that finish his matrimonial prospect as far a Jersey Cove be concern , for there be n't another eligible woman in it -- that be , for a man of Isaac 's age .
I be the only widow , and the other old maid besides Melissa be all hopelessly old-maiden .
This be all three month ago , and Isaac have be keep house for himself ever since .
Nobody know much about how he get along , for the Appleby house be half a mile from anywhere , down near the shore at the end of a long lane -- the lonesome place , a I do not fail to remember when I be consider Isaac 's offer .
`` I hear Jarvis Aldrich say Isaac have get a dog lately , '' say Melissa , when we finally come in sight of the house -- a handsome new one , by the way , put up only ten year ago .
`` Jarvis say it be an imported breed .
I do hope it be n't cross . ''
I have a mortal horror of dog , and I follow Melissa into the big farmyard with fear and trembling .
We be halfway across the yard when Melissa shriek : `` Anne , there 's the dog ! ''
There be the dog ; and the trouble be that he do n't stay there , but come right down the slope at a steady , business-like trot .
He be a bull-dog and big enough to bite a body clean in two , and he be the ugly thing in dog I have ever see .
Melissa and I both lose our head .
We scream , drop our parasol , and run instinctively to the only refuge that be in sight -- a ladder lean against the old Appleby house .
I be forty-five and something more than plump , so that climb ladder be not my favorite form of exercise .
But I go up that one with the agility and grace of sixteen .
Melissa follow me , and we find ourselves on the roof -- fortunately it be a flat one -- panting and gasping , but safe , unless that diabolical dog could climb a ladder .
I creep cautiously to the edge and peer over .
The beast be sit on his haunch at the foot of the ladder , and it be quite evident he be not short on time .
The gleam in his eye seem to say : `` I 've get you two unprincipled subscription hunter beautifully tree and it 's treed you 're go to stay .
That be what I call satisfy . ''
I report the state of the case to Melissa .
`` What shall we do ? ''
I ask .
`` Do ? ''
say Melissa , snappishly .
`` Why , stay here till Isaac Appleby come out and take that brute away ?
What else can we do ? ''
`` What if he be n't at home ? ''
I suggest .
`` We 'll stay here till he come home .
Oh , this be a nice predicament .
This be what come of cushion church ! ''
`` It might be bad , '' I say comfortingly .
`` Suppose the roof have n't be flat ? ''
`` Call Isaac , '' say Melissa shortly .
I do n't fancy call Isaac , but call him I do , and when that fail to bring him Melissa condescend to call , too ; but scream a we might , no Isaac appear , and that dog sit there and smile internally .
`` It 's no use , '' say Melissa sulkily at last .
`` Isaac Appleby be dead or away . ''
Half an hour pass ; it seem as long a a day .
The sun just boil down on that roof and we be nearly melt .
We be dreadfully thirsty , and the heat make our head ache , and I could see my muslin dress fading before my very eyes .
As for the rose on my best hat -- but that be too harrow to think about .
Then we saw a welcome sight -- Isaac Appleby come through the yard with a hoe over his shoulder .
He have probably be work in his field at the back of the house .
I never think I should have be so glad to see him .
`` Isaac , oh , Isaac ! ''
I call joyfully , lean over as far a I dare .
Isaac look up in amazement at me and Melissa crane our neck over the edge of the roof .
Then he saw the dog and take in the situation .
The creature actually grin .
`` Wo n't you call off your dog and let u get down , Isaac ? ''
I say pleadingly .
Isaac stand and reflect for a moment or two .
Then he come slowly forward and , before we realize what he be go to do , he take that ladder down and lay it on the ground .
`` Isaac Appleby , what do you mean ? ''
demand Melissa wrathfully .
Isaac fold his arm and look up .
It would be hard to say which face be the more determined , his or the dog 's .
But Isaac have the advantage in point of look , I will say that for him .
`` I mean that you two woman will stay up on that roof until one of you agree to marry me , '' say Isaac solemnly .
I gasp .
`` Isaac Appleby , you ca n't be in earnest ? ''
I cry incredulously .
`` You could n't be so mean ? ''
`` I be in earnest .
I want a wife , and I be go to have one .
You two will stay up there , and Julius Caesar here will watch you until one of you make up her mind to take me .
You can settle it between yourselves , and let me know when you have come to a decision . ''
And with that Isaac walk jauntily into his new house .
`` The man ca n't mean it ! ''
say Melissa .
`` He be try to play a joke on u . ''
`` He do mean it , '' I say gloomily .
`` An Appleby never say anything he do n't mean .
He will keep u here until one of u consent to marry him . ''
`` It wo n't be me , then , '' say Melissa in a calm sort of rage .
`` I wo n't marry him if I have to sit on this roof for the rest of my life .
You can take him .
It 's really you he want , anyway ; he ask you first . ''
I always know that rankle with Melissa .
I think the situation over before I say anything more .
We certainly could n't get off that roof , and if we could , there be Julius Caesar .
The place be out of sight of every other house in Jersey Cove , and nobody might come near it for a week .
To be sure , when Melissa and I do n't turn up the Covites might get out and search for u ; but that would n't be for two or three day anyhow .
Melissa have turn her back on me and be sit with her elbow prop up on her knee , look gloomily out to sea .
I be afraid I could n't coax her into marry Isaac .
As for me , I have n't any real objection to marry him , after all , for if he be short of romance he be good-natured and have a fat bank account ; but I hat to be drive into it that way .
`` You 'd better take him , Melissa , '' I say entreatingly .
`` I 've have one husband and that be enough . ''
`` More than enough for me , thank you , '' say Melissa sarcastically .
`` Isaac be a fine man and have a lovely house ; and you be n't sure the Kingsbridge man really mean anything , '' I go on .
`` I would rather , '' say Melissa , with the same awful calmness , `` jump down from this roof and break my neck , or be devour piecemeal by that fiend down there than marry Isaac Appleby . ''
It do n't seem worth while to say anything more after that .
We sit there in stony silence and the time drag by .
I be hot , hungry , thirsty , cross ; and besides , I felt that I be in a ridiculous position , which be bad than all the rest .
We could see Isaac sit in the shade of one of his apple tree in the front orchard comfortably read a newspaper .
I think if he have n't aggravate me by do that I 'd have give in sooner .
But a it be , I be determine to be as stubborn a everybody else .
We be four obstinate creature -- Isaac and Melissa and Julius Caesar and I .
At four o'clock Isaac get up and go into the house ; in a few minute he come out again with a basket in one hand and a ball of cord in the other .
`` I do n't intend to starve you , of course , lady , '' he say politely , `` I will throw this ball up to you and you can then draw up the basket . ''
I catch the ball , for Melissa never turn her head .
I would have prefer to be scornful , too , and reject the food altogether ; but I be so dreadfully thirsty that I put my pride in my pocket and haul the basket up .
Besides , I think it might enable u to hold out until some loophole of escape present itself .
Isaac go back into the house and I unpack the basket .
There be a bottle of milk , some bread and butter , and a pie .
Melissa would n't take a morsel of the food , but she be so thirsty she have to take a drink of milk .
She try to lift her veil -- and something caught ; Melissa give it a savage twitch , and off come veil and hat -- and all her front hair !
You never saw such a sight .
I 'd always suspect Melissa wear a false front , but I 'd never have any proof before .
Melissa pin on her hair again and put on her hat and drink the milk , all without a word ; but she be purple .
I felt sorry for her .
And I felt sorry for Isaac when I try to eat that bread .
It be sour and dreadful .
As for the pie , it be hopeless .
I taste it , and then throw it down to Julius Caesar .
Julius Caesar , not be over particular , eat it up .
I think perhaps it would kill him , for anything might come of eat such a concoction .
That pie be a strong argument for Isaac .
I think a man who have to live on such cookery do indeed need a wife and might be pardon for take desperate measure to get one .
I be dreadfully tire of broil on the roof anyhow .
But it be the thunderstorm that decide me .
When I saw it come up , black and quick , from the northwest , I give in at once .
I have endure a good deal and be prepare to endure more ; but I have pay ten dollar for my hat and I be not go to have it ruin by a thunderstorm .
I call to Isaac and out he come .
`` If you will let u down and promise to dispose of that dog before I come here I will marry you , Isaac , '' I say , `` but I 'll make you sorry for it afterwards , though . ''
`` I 'll take the risk of that , Anne , '' he say ; `` and , of course , I 'll sell the dog .
I wo n't need him when I have you . ''
Isaac mean to be complimentary , though you might n't have think so if you have see the face of that dog .
Isaac order Julius Caesar away and put up the ladder , and turn his back , real considerately , while we climb down .
We have to go in his house and stay till the shower be over .
I do n't forget the object of our call and I produce our subscription list at once .
`` How much have you get ? ''
ask Isaac .
`` Seventy dollar and we want a hundred and fifty , '' I say .
`` You may put me down for the remain eighty , then , '' say Isaac calmly .
The Applebys be never mean where money be concern , I must say .
Isaac offer to drive u home when it clear up , but I say `` No . ''
I want to settle Melissa before she get a chance to talk .
On the way home I say to her : `` I hope you wo n't mention this to anyone , Melissa .
I do n't mind marry Isaac , but I do n't want people to know how it come about . ''
`` Oh , I wo n't say anything about it , '' say Melissa , laugh a little disagreeably .
`` Because , '' I say , to clinch the matter , look significantly at her front hair a I say it , `` I have something to tell , too . ''
Melissa will hold her tongue .
By the Rule of Contrary `` Look here , Burton , '' say old John Ellis in an ominous tone of voice , `` I want to know if what that old busybody of a Mary Keane come here today gossip about be true .
If it be -- well , I 've something to say about the matter !
Have you be court that niece of Susan Oliver 's all summer on the sly ? ''
Burton Ellis 's handsome , boyish face flush darkly crimson to the root of his curly black hair .
Something in the father 's tone rouse anger and rebellion in the son .
He straighten himself up from the turnip row he be hoe , look his father squarely in the face , and say quietly , `` Not on the sly , sir , I never do thing that way .
But I have be go to see Madge Oliver for some time , and we be engage .
We be think of be marry this fall , and we hope you will not object . ''
Burton 's frankness nearly take away his father 's breath .
Old John fairly choke with rage .
`` You young fool , '' he splutter , bring down his hoe with such energy that he slice off half a dozen of his fine young turnip plant , `` have you go clean crazy ?
No , sir , I 'll never consent to your marry an Oliver , and you need n't have any idea that I will . ''
`` Then I 'll marry her without your consent , '' retort Burton angrily , lose the temper he have be try to keep .
`` Oh , will you indeed !
Well , if you do , out you go , and not a cent of my money or a rod of my land do you ever get . ''
`` What have you get against Madge ? ''
ask Burton , force himself to speak calmly , for he know his father too well to doubt for a minute that he mean and would do just what he say .
`` She 's an Oliver , '' say old John crustily , `` and that 's enough . ''
And consider that he have settle the matter , John Ellis throw down his hoe and leave the field in a towering rage .
Burton hoe away savagely until his anger have spend itself on the weed .
Give up Madge -- dear , sweet little Madge ?
Not he !
Yet if his father remain of the same mind , their marriage be out of the question at present .
And Burton know quite well that his father would remain of the same mind .
Old John Ellis have the reputation of be the most contrary man in Greenwood .
When Burton have finish his row he leave the turnip field and go straight across lot to see Madge and tell her his dismal story .
An hour later Miss Susan Oliver go up the stair of her little brown house to Madge 's room and find her niece lying on the bed , her pretty curl tumble , her soft cheek flush crimson , cry a if her heart would break .
Miss Susan be a tall , grim , angular spinster who look like the last person in the world to whom a love affair might be confide .
But never be appearance more deceptive than in this case .
Behind her unprepossessing exterior Miss Susan have a warm , sympathetic heart fill to the brim with kindly affection for her pretty niece .
She have see Burton Ellis go moodily across the field homeward and guess that something have go wrong .
`` Now , dearie , what be the matter ? ''
she say , tenderly pat the brown head .
Madge sob out the whole story disconsolately .
Burton 's father would not let him marry her because she be an Oliver .
And , oh , what would she do ?
`` Do n't worry , Madge , '' say Miss Susan comfortingly .
`` I 'll soon settle old John Ellis . ''
`` Why , what can you do ? ''
ask Madge forlornly .
Miss Susan square her shoulder and look amuse .
`` You 'll see .
I know old John Ellis good than he know himself .
He be the most contrary man the Lord ever make .
I go to school with him .
I learn how to manage him then , and I have n't forget how .
I 'm go straight up to interview him . ''
`` Are you sure that will do any good ? ''
say Madge doubtfully .
`` If you go to him and take Burton 's and my part , wo n't it only make him bad ? ''
`` Madge , dear , '' say Miss Susan , busily twist her scanty , iron-grey hair up into a hard little knob at the back of her head before Madge 's glass , `` you just wait .
I 'm not young , and I 'm not pretty , and I 'm not in love , but I 've more gumption than you and Burton have or ever will have .
You keep your eye open and see if you can learn something .
You 'll need it if you go up to live with old John Ellis . ''
Burton have return to the turnip field , but old John Ellis be take his ease with a rampant political newspaper on the cool verandah of his house .
Looking up from a bitter editorial to chuckle over a cut sarcasm contain therein , he saw a tall , angular figure come up the lane with aggressiveness write large in every fold and flutter of shawl and skirt .
`` Old Susan Oliver , as sure a a gun , '' say old John with another chuckle .
`` She look mad clean through .
I suppose she 's come here to blow me up for refuse to let Burton take that girl of hers .
She 's be angle and scheme for it for year , but she will find who she have to deal with .
Come on , Miss Susan . ''
John Ellis lay down his paper and stand up with a sarcastic smile .
Miss Susan reach the step and skim undauntedly up them .
She do indeed look angry and disturbed .
Without any preliminary greeting she burst out into a tirade that simply take away her complacent foe 's breath .
`` Look here , John Ellis , I want to know what this mean .
I 've discover that that young upstart of a son of yours , who ought to be in short trouser yet , have be court my niece , Madge Oliver , all summer .
He have have the impudence to tell me that he want to marry her .
I wo n't have it , I tell you , and you can tell your son so .
Marry my niece indeed !
A pretty pas the world be come to !
I 'll never consent to it . ''
Perhaps if you have search Greenwood and all the adjacent district thoroughly you might have find a man who be more astonished and take aback than old John Ellis be at that moment , but I doubt it .
The wind be completely take out of his sail and every bit of the Ellis contrariness be rouse .
`` What have you get to say against my son ? ''
he fairly shout in his rage .
`` Is n't he good enough for your girl , Susan Oliver , I 'd like to know ? ''
`` No , he be n't , '' retort Miss Susan deliberately and unflinchingly .
`` He 's well enough in his place , but you 'll please to remember , John Ellis , that my niece be an Oliver , and the Olivers do n't marry beneath them . ''
Old John be furious .
`` Beneath them indeed !
Why , woman , it be condescension in my son to so much a look at your niece -- condescension , that be what it be .
You be as poor a church mouse . ''
`` We come of good family , though , '' retort Miss Susan .
`` You Ellises be nobody .
Your grandfather be a hired man !
And yet you have the presumption to think you 're fit to marry into an old , respectable family like the Olivers .
But talk do n't signify .
I simply wo n't allow this nonsense to go on .
I come here today to tell you so plump and plain .
It 's your duty to stop it ; if you do n't I will , that 's all . ''
`` Oh , will you ? ''
John Ellis be at a white heat of rage and stubbornness now .
`` We 'll see , Miss Susan , we 'll see .
My son shall marry whatever girl he please , and I 'll back him up in it -- do you hear that ?
Come here and tell me my son be n't good enough for your niece indeed !
I 'll show you he can get her anyway . ''
`` You 've hear what I 've say , '' be the answer , `` and you 'd better go by it , that 's all .
I sha n't stay to bandy word with you , John Ellis .
I 'm go home to talk to my niece and tell her her duty plain , and what I want her to do , and she 'll do it , I have n't a fear . ''
Miss Susan be halfway down the step , but John Ellis run to the railing of the verandah to get the last word .
`` I 'll send Burton down this evening to talk to her and tell her what he want her to do , and we 'll see whether she 'll sooner listen to you than to him , '' he shout .
Miss Susan deign no reply .
Old John stride out to the turnip field .
Burton saw him come and look for another outburst of wrath , but his father 's first word almost take away his breath .
`` See here , Burt , I take back all I say this afternoon .
I want you to marry Madge Oliver now , and the sooner , the good .
That old cat of a Susan have the face to come up and tell me you be n't good enough for her niece .
I tell her a few plain truth .
Do n't you mind the old crosspatch .
I 'll back you up . ''
By this time Burton have begin hoe vigorously , to hide the amused twinkle of comprehension in his eye .
He admire Miss Susan 's tactic , but he do not say so .
`` All right , Father , '' he answer dutifully .
When Miss Susan reach home she tell Madge to bathe her eye and put on her new pink muslin , because she guess Burton would be down that evening .
`` Oh , Auntie , how do you manage it ? ''
cry Madge .
`` Madge , '' say Miss Susan solemnly , but with dancing eye , `` do you know how to drive a pig ?
Just try to make it go in the opposite direction and it will bolt the way you want it .
Remember that , my dear . ''
Fair Exchange and No Robbery Katherine Rangely be pack up .
Her chum and roommate , Edith Wilmer , be sit on the bed watch her in that calm disinterested fashion peculiarly madden to a bewilder packer .
`` It do seem too provoking , '' say Katherine , a she tug at an obstinate shawl strap , `` that Ned should be transfer here now , just when I 'm go away .
The power that be might have wait until vacation be over .
Ned wo n't know a soul here and he 'll be horribly lonesome . ''
`` I 'll do my best to befriend him , with your permission , '' say Edith consolingly .
`` Oh , I know .
You 're a special Providence , Ede .
Ned will be up tonight first thing , of course , and I 'll introduce him .
Try to keep the poor fellow amuse until I get back .
Two month !
Just fancy !
And Aunt Elizabeth wo n't abate one jot or tittle of the time I promise to stay with her .
Harbour Hill be so frightfully dull , too . ''
Then the talk drift around to Edith 's affair .
She be engage to a certain Sidney Keith , who be a professor in some college .
`` I do n't expect to see much of Sidney this summer , '' say Edith .
`` He 's write another book .
He be so terribly addict to literature . ''
`` How lovely , '' sigh Katherine , who have aspiration in that line herself .
`` If only Ned be like him I should be perfectly happy .
But Ned be so prosaic .
He do n't care a rap for poetry , and he laugh when I enthuse .
It make him quite furious when I talk of take up write seriously .
He say woman writer be an abomination on the face of the earth .
Did you ever hear anything so ridiculous ? ''
`` He be very handsome , though , '' say Edith , with a glance at his photograph on Katherine 's dress table .
`` And that be what Sid be not .
He be rather distinguished look , but as plain a he can possibly be . ''
Edith sigh .
She have a weakness for handsome men and think it rather hard that fate should have allot her so plain a lover .
`` He have lovely eye , '' say Katherine comfortingly , `` and handsome men be always vain .
Even Ned be .
I have to snub him regularly .
But I think you 'll like him . ''
Edith think so too when Ned Ellison appear that night .
He be a handsome off-handed young fellow , who seem to admire Katherine immensely , and be a little afraid of her into the bargain .
`` Edith will try to make Riverton pleasant for you while I be away , '' she tell him in their good-bye chat .
`` She be a dear girl -- you 'll like her , I know .
It 's really too bad I have to go away now , but it ca n't be help . ''
`` I shall be awfully lonesome , '' grumble Ned .
`` Do n't you forget to write regularly , Kitty . ''
`` Of course I 'll write , but for pity 's sake , Ned , do n't call me Kitty .
It sound so childish .
Well , bye-bye , dear boy .
I 'll be back in two month and then we 'll have a lovely time . ''
* * * * * When Katherine have be at Harbour Hill for a week she wonder how upon earth she be go to put in the remain seven .
Harbour Hill be note for it beauty , but not every woman can live by scenery alone .
`` Aunt Elizabeth , '' say Katherine one day , `` do anybody ever die in Harbour Hill ?
Because it do n't seem to me it would be any change for them if they do . ''
Aunt Elizabeth 's only reply to this be a shocked look .
To pass the time Katherine take to collect seaweed , and this involve long tramps along the shore .
On one of these occasion she meet with an adventure .
The place be a remote spot far up the shore .
Katherine have take off her shoe and stocking , tuck up her skirt , roll her sleeves high above her dimpled elbow , and be deep in the absorb process of fish up seaweed off a craggy headland .
She look anything but dignify while so employed , but under the circumstance dignity do not matter .
Presently she hear a shout from the shore and , turn around in dismay , she behold a man on the rock behind her .
He be evidently shout at her .
What on earth could the creature want ?
`` Come in , '' he call , gesticulate wildly .
`` You 'll be in the bottomless pit in another moment if you do n't look out . ''
`` He certainly must be a lunatic , '' say Katherine to herself , `` or else he 's drunk .
What be I to do ? ''
`` Come in , I tell you , '' insist the stranger .
`` What in the world do you mean by wad out to such a place ?
Why , it 's madness . ''
Katherine 's indignation get the good of her fear .
`` I do not think I be trespass , '' she call back as icily a possible .
The stranger do not seem to be snub at all .
He come down to the very edge of the rock where Katherine could see him plainly .
He be dress in a somewhat well-worn grey suit and wore spectacle .
He do not look like a lunatic , and he do not seem to be drunk .
`` I implore you to come in , '' he say earnestly .
`` You must be stand on the very brink of the bottomless pit . ''
He be certainly off his balance , think Katherine .
He must be some revivalist who have go insane on one point .
I suppose I 'd better go in .
He look quite capable of wad out here after me if I do n't .
She pick her step carefully back with her precious specimen .
The stranger eye her severely a she step on the rock .
`` I should think you would have more sense than to risk your life in that fashion for a handful of seaweed , '' he say .
`` I have n't the faint idea what you mean , '' say Miss Rangely .
`` You do n't look crazy , but you talk a if you be . ''
`` Do you mean to say you do n't know that what the people hereabouts call the Bottomless Pit be situate right off that point -- the most dangerous spot along the whole coast ? ''
`` No , I do n't , '' say Katherine , horrify .
She remember now that Aunt Elizabeth have warn her to be careful of some bad hole along shore , but she have not be pay much attention and have suppose it to be in quite another direction .
`` I be a stranger here . ''
`` Well , I hardly think you 'd be foolish enough to be out there if you know , '' say the other in mollified accent .
`` The place ought not to be leave without warn , anyhow .
It be the most careless thing I ever heard of .
There be a big hole right off that point and nobody have ever be able to find the bottom of it .
A person who get into it would never be hear of again .
The rock there form an eddy that suck everything right down . ''
`` I be very grateful to you for call me in , '' say Katherine humbly .
`` I have no idea I be in such danger . ''
`` You have a very fine bunch of seaweed , I see , '' say the unknown .
But Katherine be in no mood to converse on seaweed .
She suddenly realize what she must look like -- bare foot , draggle skirt , drip arm .
And this creature whom she have take for a lunatic be undoubtedly a gentleman .
Oh , if he would only go and give her a chance to put on her shoe and stocking !
Nothing seem far from his intention .
When Katherine have pick up the aforesaid article and turn homeward , he walk beside her , still discourse on seaweed as eloquently a if he be commonly accustom to walk with barefooted young woman .
In spite of herself , Katherine could n't help listen to him , for he manage to invest seaweed with an absorb interest .
She finally decide that a he do n't seem to mind her bare foot , she would n't either .
He know so much about seaweed that Katherine felt decidedly amateurish beside him .
He look over her specimen and point out the valuable one .
He explain the best method of preserve and mount them , and tell her of other and less dangerous place along the shore where she might get some new variety .
When they come in sight of Harbour Hill , Katherine begin to wonder what on earth she would do with him .
It be n't exactly permissible to snub a man who have practically save your life , but , on the other hand , the prospect of walk through the principal street of Harbour Hill barefooted and escort by a scholarly look gentleman discourse on seaweed be not to be calmly contemplate .
The unknown cut the Gordian knot himself .
He say that he must really go back or he would be late for dinner , lift his hat politely , and depart .
Katherine wait until he be out of sight , then sit down on the sand and put on her shoe and stocking .
`` Who on earth can he be ? ''
she say to herself .
`` And where have I see him before ?
There be certainly something familiar about his appearance .
He be very nice , but he must have think me crazy .
I wonder if he belong to Harbour Hill . ''
The mystery be solve when she get home and find a letter from Edith await her .
`` I see Ned quite often , '' write the latter , `` and I think he be perfectly splendid .
You be a lucky girl , Kate .
But oh , do you know that Sidney be actually at Harbour Hill , too , or at least quite near it ?
I have a letter from him yesterday .
He have go down there to spend his vacation , because it be so quiet , and to finish up some horrid scientific book he be work at .
He 's board at some little farmhouse up the shore .
I 've write to him today to hunt you up and consider himself introduce to you .
I think you 'll like him , for he 's just your style . ''
Katherine smile when Sidney Keith 's card be bring up to her that evening and go down to meet him .
Her companion of the morning rise to meet her .
`` You ! ''
he say .
`` Yes , me , '' say Miss Rangely cheerfully and ungrammatically .
`` You do n't expect it , do you ?
I be sure I have see you before -- only it be n't you but your photograph . ''
When Professor Keith go away it be with a cordial invitation to call again .
He do not fail to avail himself of it -- in fact , he become a constant visitor at Sycamore Villa .
Katherine write all about it to Edith and cultivate Professor Keith with a dear conscience .
They get on capitally together .
They go on long expedition up shore after seaweed , and when seaweed be exhaust they begin to make a collection of the Harbour Hill flora .
This involve more long , companionable expedition .
Katherine sometimes wonder when Professor Keith find time to work on his book , but a he make no reference to the subject , neither do she .
Once in a while , when she have time to think of them , she wonder how Ned and Edith be get on .
At first Edith 's letter have be full of Ned , but in her last two or three she have say little about him .
Katherine write and jokingly ask Edith if she and Ned have quarrel .
Edith write back and say , `` What nonsense . ''
She and Ned be as good friend a ever , but he be get acquaint in Riverton now and be n't so dependent on her society , etc . .
Katherine sigh and go on a fern hunt with Professor Keith .
It be get near the end of her vacation and she have only two week more .
They be sit down to rest on the side of the road when she mention this fact inconsequently .
The professor prod the harmless dust with his cane .
Well , he suppose she would find a return to work pleasant and would doubtless be glad to see her Riverton friends again .
`` I 'm die to see Edith , '' say Katherine .
`` And Ned ? ''
suggest Professor Keith .
`` Oh yes .
Ned , of course , '' assent Katherine without enthusiasm .
There do n't seem to be anything more to say .
One can not talk everlastingly about fern , so they get up and go home .
Katherine write a particularly affectionate letter to Ned that night .
Then she go to bed and cry .
When Professor Keith come up to bid Miss Rangely good-bye on the eve of her departure from Harbour Hill , he look like a man who be be lead to execution without benefit of clergy .
But he keep himself well in hand and talk calmly on impersonal subject .
After all , it be Katherine who make the first break when she get up to say good-bye .
She be in the middle of some conventional sentence when she suddenly stop short , and her voice trail off in a babyish quiver .
The professor put out his arm and draw her close to him .
His hat drop under their foot and be trample on , but I doubt if Professor Keith know the difference to this day , for he be fully absorb in kiss Katherine 's hair .
When she become cognizant of this fact , she draw herself away .
`` Oh , Sidney , do n't !
-- think of Edith !
I feel like a traitor . ''
`` Do you think she would care very much if I -- if you -- if we -- '' hesitate the professor .
`` Oh , it would break her heart , '' cry Katherine with convince earnestness .
`` I know it would -- and Ned 's too .
They must never know . ''
The professor stoop and begin hunt for his maltreated hat .
He be a long time find it , and when he do he go softly to the door .
With his hand on the knob , he pause and look back .
`` Good-bye , Miss Rangely , '' he say softly .
But Katherine , whose face be bury in the cushion of the lounge , do not hear him and when she look up he be go .
* * * * * Katharine felt that life be stale , flat and unprofitable when she alight at Riverton station in the dusk of the next evening .
She be not expect until a late train and there be no one to meet her .
She walk drearily through the street to her boarding house and enter her room unannounced .
Edith , who be lie on the bed , spring up with a surprised greeting .
It be too dark to be sure , but Katherine have an uncomfortable suspicion that her friend have be cry , and her heart quake guiltily .
Could Edith have suspect anything ?
`` Why , we do n't think you 'd be up till the 8:30 train , and Ned and I be go to meet you . ''
`` I find I could catch an early train , so I take it , '' say Katherine , a she drop listlessly into a chair .
`` I be tire to death and I have such a headache .
I ca n't see anyone tonight , not even Ned . ''
`` You poor dear , '' say Edith sympathetically , begin a search for the cologne .
`` Lie down on the bed and I 'll bathe your poor head .
Did you have a good time at Harbour Hill ?
And how do you leave Sid ?
Did he say anything about come up ? ''
`` Oh , he be quite well , '' say Katherine wearily .
`` I do n't hear him say if he intend to come up or not .
There , thanks -- that will do nicely . ''
After Edith have go down , Katherine toss about restlessly .
She know Ned have come and she do not want to see him .
But , after all , it be only put off the evil day , and it be treat him rather shabbily .
She would go down for a minute .
There be two door to the parlour , and Katherine go by way of the library one , over which a portiere be hang .
Her hand be lift to draw it back when she hear something that arrest the movement .
A woman be cry in the room beyond .
It be Edith -- and what be she say ?
`` Oh , Ned , it be all perfectly dreadful !
I could n't look Catherine in the face when she come home .
I 'm so ashamed of myself and I never mean to be so false .
We must never let her suspect for a minute . ''
`` It 's pretty rough on a fellow , '' say another voice -- Ned 's voice -- in a choked sort of a way .
`` Upon my word , Edith , I do n't see how I 'm go to keep it up . ''
`` You must , '' sob Edith .
`` It would break her heart -- and Sidney 's too .
We must just make up our mind to forget each other , Ned , and you must marry Katherine . ''
Just at this point Katherine become aware that she be eavesdrop and she go away noiselessly .
She do not look in the least like a person who have receive a mortal blow , and she have forget her headache altogether .
When Edith come up half an hour later , she find the worn-out invalid sit up and read a novel .
`` How be your headache , dear ? ''
she ask , carefully keep her face turn away from Katherine .
`` Oh , it 's all go , '' say Miss Rangely cheerfully .
`` Why do n't you come down then ?
Ned be here . ''
`` Well , Ede , I do go down , but I think I be n't particularly want , so I come back . ''
Edith face her friend in dismay , forgetful of swollen lid and tear-stained cheek .
`` Katherine ! ''
`` Do n't look so conscience stricken , my dear child .
There be no harm do . ''
`` You hear -- '' `` Some surprising speech .
So you and Ned have go and fall in love with one another ? ''
`` Oh , Katherine , '' sob Edith , `` we -- we -- could n't help it -- but it 's all over .
Oh , do n't be angry with me ! ''
`` Angry ?
My dear , I 'm delighted . ''
`` Delighted ? ''
`` Yes , you dear goose .
Ca n't you guess , or must I tell you ?
Sidney and I do the very same , and have just such a melancholy part last night a I suspect you and Ned have tonight . ''
`` Katherine ! ''
`` Yes , it 's quite true .
And of course we make up our mind to sacrifice ourselves on the altar of duty and all that .
But now , thank goodness , there be no need of such wholesale immolation .
So just let 's forgive each other . ''
`` Oh , '' sigh Edith happily , `` it be almost too good to be true . ''
`` It be really providentially order , be n't it ? ''
say Katherine .
`` Ned and I would never have get on together in the world , and you and Sidney would have bore each other to death .
As it be , there will be four perfectly happy people instead of four miserable one .
I 'll tell Ned so tomorrow . ''
Four Winds Alan Douglas throw down his pen with an impatient exclamation .
It be high time his next Sunday 's sermon be write , but he could not concentrate his thought on his chosen text .
For one thing he do not like it and have select it only because Elder Trewin , in his call of the evening before , have hint that it be time for a good stiff doctrinal discourse , such a his predecessor in Rexton , the Rev . Jabez Strong , have delight in .
Alan hat doctrine -- `` the soul 's staylaces , '' he call them -- but Elder Trewin be a man to be reckon with and Alan preach an occasional sermon to please him .
`` It 's no use , '' he say wearily .
`` I could have write a sermon in keep with that text in November or midwinter , but now , when the whole world be reawaken in a miracle of beauty and love , I ca n't do it .
If a northeast rainstorm do n't set in before next Sunday , Mr. Trewin will not have his sermon .
I shall take a my text instead , ` The flower appear on the earth , the time of the singing of bird have come . ' ''
He rise and go to his study window , outside of which a young vine be glow in soft tender green tint , it small dainty leave cast quiver shadow on the opposite wall where the portrait of Alan 's mother hung .
She have a fine , strong , sweet face ; the same face , cast in a masculine mould , be repeat in her son , and the resemblance be strike a he stand in the search evening sunshine .
The black hair grow around his forehead in the same way ; his eye be steel blue , like hers , with a similar expression , half brooding , half tender , in their depth .
He have the mobile , smile mouth of the picture , but his chin be deep and square , dent with a dimple which , combine with a certain occasional whimsicality of opinion and glance , have cause Elder Trewin some qualm of doubt regard the fitness of this young man for his high and holy vocation .
The Rev . Jabez Strong have never indulge in dimple or joke ; but then , a Elder Trewin , be a just man , have to admit , the Rev . Jabez Strong have preach many a time and oft to more empty pew than full one , while now the church be crowd to it utmost capacity on Sundays and people come to hear Mr. Douglas who have not darken a church door for year .
All thing consider , Elder Trewin decide to overlook the dimple .
There be sure to be some drawback in every minister .
Alan from his study look down on all the length of the Rexton valley , at the head of which the manse be situate , and think that Eden might have look so in it innocence , for all the orchard be abloom and the distant hill be tremulous and aerial in springtime gauze of pale purple and pearl .
But in any garden , despite it beauty , be an element of tameness and domesticity , and Alan 's eye , after a moment 's delighted gazing , stray wistfully off to the north where the hill break away into a long sloping lowland of pine and fir .
Beyond it stretch the wide expanse of the lake , flash in the molten gold and crimson of evening .
Its lure be irresistible .
Alan have be bear and breed beside a faraway sea and the love of it be strong in his heart -- so strong that he know he must go back to it sometime .
Meanwhile , the great lake , mimic the sea in it vast expanse and the storm that often sweep over it , be his comfort and solace .
As often a he could he steal away to it wild and lonely shore , leave the snug bound of cultivated home land behind him with something like a sense of relief .
Down there by the lake be a primitive wilderness where man be a naught and man-made doctrine have no place .
There one might walk hand in hand with nature and so come very close to God .
Many of Alan 's best sermon be write after he have come home , rapt-eyed , from some long shore tramp where the wilderness have open it heart to him and the pine have call to him in their soft , sibilant speech .
With a half guilty glance at the futile sermon , he take his hat and go out .
The sun of the cool spring evening be swing low over the lake a he turn into the unfrequented , deep-rutted road lead to the shore .
It be two mile to the lake , but half way there Alan come to where another road branch off and strike down through the pine in a northeasterly direction .
He have sometimes wonder where it lead but he have never explore it .
Now he have a sudden whim to do so and turn into it .
It be even rough and lonely than the other ; between the rut the grass grow long and thickly ; sometimes the pine bough meet overhead ; again , the tree break away to reveal wonderful glimpse of gleam water , purple islet , dark feathery coast .
Still , the road seem to lead nowhere and Alan be half repent the impulse which have lead him to choose it when he suddenly come out from the shadow of the pine and find himself gaze on a sight which amaze him .
Before him be a small peninsula run out into the lake and terminating in a long sandy point .
Beyond it be a glorious sweep of sunset water .
The peninsula itself seem barren and sandy , cover for the most part with scrub fir and spruce , through which the narrow road wound on to what be the astonishing ; feature in the landscape -- a grey and weather-beaten house build almost at the extremity of the point and shadow from the western light by a thick plantation of tall pine behind it .
It be the house which puzzle Alan .
He have never know there be any house near the lake shore -- have never hear mention make of any ; yet here be one , and one which be evidently occupy , for a slender spiral of smoke be curl upward from it on the chilly spring air .
It could not be a fisherman 's dwelling , for it be large and build after a quaint tasteful design .
The long Alan look at it the more his wonder grow .
The people live here be in the bound of his congregation .
How then be it that he have never see or hear of them ?
He saunter slowly down the road until he saw that it lead directly to the house and end in the yard .
Then he turn off in a narrow path to the shore .
He be not far from the house now and he scan it observantly a he go past .
The barren sweep almost up to it door in front but at the side , shelter from the lake wind by the pine , be a garden where there be a fine show of gay tulip and golden daffodil .
No living creature be visible and , in spite of the blossoming geranium and muslin curtain at the window and the homely spiral of smoke , the place have a lonely , almost untenanted , look .
When Alan reach the shore he find that it be of a much more open and less rocky nature than the part which he have be use to frequent .
The beach be of sand and the scrub barrens dwindle down to it almost insensibly .
To right and leave fir-fringed point run out into the lake , shape a little cove with the house in it curve .
Alan walk slowly towards the left headland , intend to follow the shore around to the other road .
As he pass the point he stop short in astonishment .
The second surprise and mystery of the evening confront him .
A little distance away a girl be stand -- a girl who turn a startled face at his unexpected appearance .
Alan Douglas have think he know all the girl in Rexton , but this lithe , glorious creature be a stranger to him .
She stand with her hand on the head of a huge , tawny collie dog ; another dog be sit on his haunch beside her .
She be tall , with a great braid of shin chestnut hair , show ruddy burnish tint where the sunlight struck it , hang over her shoulder .
The plain dark dress she wear emphasize the grace and strength of her supple form .
Her face be oval and pale , with straight black brow and a finely cut crimson mouth -- a face whose beauty bore the indefinable stamp of race and breeding mingle with a wild sweetness , a of a flower grow in some lonely and inaccessible place .
None of the Rexton girl look like that .
Who , in the name of all that be amazing , could she be ?
As the thought cross Alan 's mind the girl turn , with an air of indifference that might have seem slightly overdone to a calmer observer than be the young minister at that moment and , with a gesture of command to her dog , walk quickly away into the scrub spruce .
She be so tall that her uncovered head be visible over them a she follow some wind footpath , and Alan stand like a man root to the ground until he saw her enter the grey house .
Then he go homeward in a maze , all thought of sermon , doctrinal or otherwise , for the moment knock out of his head .
She be the most beautiful woman I ever saw , he think .
How be it possible that I have live in Rexton for six month and never heard of her or of that house ?
Well , I daresay there 's some simple explanation of it all .
The place may have be unoccupied until lately -- probably it be the summer residence of people who have only recently come to it .
I 'll ask Mrs. Danby .
She 'll know if anybody will .
That good woman know everything about everybody in Rexton for three generation back .
Alan find Isabel King with his housekeeper when he get home .
His greeting be ting with a slight constraint .
He be not a vain man , but he could not help know that Isabel look upon him with a favour that have in it much more than professional interest .
Isabel herself show it with sufficient distinctness .
Moreover , he felt a certain personal dislike of her and of her hard , insistent beauty , which seem hard and more insistent than ever contrast with his recollection of the girl of the lake shore .
Isabel have a trick of come to the manse on plausible errand to Mrs. Danby and linger until it be so dark that Alan be in courtesy bound to see her home .
The ruse be a little too patent and amuse Alan , although he carefully hide his amusement and treat Isabel with the fine unvarying deference which his mother have engrained into him for womanhood -- a deference that flatter Isabel even while it annoy her with the sense of a barrier which she could not break down or pas .
She be the daughter of the rich man in Rexton and incline to give herself air on that account , but Alan 's gentle indifference always bring home to her an unwelcome feeling of inferiority .
`` You 've be tire yourself out again tramp that lake shore , I suppose , '' say Mrs. Danby , who have keep house for three bachelor minister and consequently felt entitle to hector them in a somewhat maternal fashion .
`` Not tire myself -- rest and refresh myself rather , '' smile Alan .
`` I be tire when I go out but now I feel like a strong man rejoice to run a race .
By the way , Mrs. Danby , who live in that quaint old house away down at the very shore ?
I never know of it existence before . ''
Alan 's `` by the way '' be not quite so indifferent a he try to make it .
Isabel King , lean back posingly among the cushion of the lounge , sit quickly up a he ask his question .
`` Dear me , you do n't mean to say you 've never hear of Captain Anthony -- Captain Anthony Oliver ? ''
say Mrs. Danby .
`` He live down there at Four Winds , a they call it -- he and his daughter and an old cousin . ''
Isabel King bent forward , her brown eye on Alan 's face .
`` Did you see Lynde Oliver ? ''
she ask with suppressed eagerness .
Alan ignore the question -- perhaps he do not hear it .
`` Have they live there long ? ''
he ask .
`` For eighteen year , '' say Mrs. Danby placidly .
`` It 's funny you have n't hear them mention .
But people do n't talk much about the Captain now -- he 's an old story -- and of course they never go anywhere , not even to church .
The Captain be a rank infidel and they say his daughter be just a bad .
To be sure , nobody know much about her , but it stand to reason that a girl who 's have her bring up must be odd , to say no bad of her .
It 's not really her fault , I suppose -- her wicked old scalawag of a father be to blame for it .
She 's never darken a church or school door in her life and they say she 's always be a regular tomboy -- run wild outdoors with dog , and fishing and shoot like a man .
Nobody ever go there -- the Captain do n't want visitor .
He must have do something dreadful in his time , if it be only know , when he 's so set on living like a hermit away down on that jumping-off place .
Did you see any of them ? ''
`` I saw Miss Oliver , I suppose , '' say Alan briefly .
`` At least I meet a young lady on the shore .
But where do these people come from ?
Surely more be know of them than this . ''
`` Precious little .
The truth be , Mr. Douglas , folk do n't think the Olivers respectable and do n't want to have anything to do with them .
Eighteen year ago Captain Anthony come from goodness know where , buy the Four Winds point , and build that house .
He say he 'd be a sailor all his life and could n't live away from the water .
He bring his wife and child and an old cousin of his with him .
This Lynde be n't more than two year old then .
People go to call but they never saw any of the woman and the Captain let them see they be n't want .
Some of the men who 'd be work round the place saw his wife and say she be sickly but real handsome and like a lady , but she never seem to want to see anyone or be see herself .
There be a story that the Captain have be a smuggler and that if he be catch he 'd be send to prison .
Oh , there be all sort of yarn , mostly come from the men who work there , for nobody else ever get inside the house .
Well , four year ago his wife disappear -- it be n't know how or when .
She just be n't ever see again , that 's all .
Whether she die or be murder or go away nobody ever know .
There be some talk of an investigation but nothing come of it .
As for the girl , she 's always live there with her father .
She must be a perfect heathen .
He never go anywhere , but there use to be talk of stranger visit him -- queer sort of character who come up the lake in vessel from the American side .
I have n't hear any report of such these past few year , though -- not since his wife disappear .
He keep a yacht and go sail in it -- sometimes he cruise about for week -- that 's about all he ever do .
And now you know as much about the Olivers a I do , Mr. Douglas . ''
Alan have listen to this gossipy narrative with an interest that do not escape Isabel King 's observant eye .
Much of it he mentally dismiss a improbable surmise , but the basic fact be probably a Mrs. Danby have report them .
He have know that the girl of the shore could be no commonplace , primly nurture young woman .
`` Has no effort ever be make to bring these people into touch with the church ? ''
he ask absently .
`` Bless you , yes .
Every minister that 's ever be in Rexton have have a try at it .
The old cousin meet every one of them at the door and tell him nobody be at home .
Mr. Strong be the most persistent -- he do n't like be beat .
He go again and again and finally the Captain send him word that when he want parson or pill-dosers he 'd send for them , and till he do he 'd thank them to mind their own business .
They say Mr. Strong meet Lynde once along shore and want to know if she would n't come to church , and she laugh in his face and tell him she know more about God now than he do or ever would .
Perhaps the story be n't true .
Or if it be maybe he provoke her into say it .
Mr. Strong be n't overly tactful .
I believe in judge the poor girl as charitably a possible and make allowance for her , see how she 's be bring up .
You could n't expect her to know how to behave . ''
Somehow , Alan resent Mrs. Danby 's charity .
Then , his sense of humour be strongly develop , he smile to think of this commonplace old lady `` make allowance '' for the splendid bit of femininity he have see on the shore .
A plump barnyard fowl might as well have talk of make allowance for a seagull !
Alan walk home with Isabel King but he be very silent a they go together down the long , dark , sweet-smelling country road border by it white orchard .
Isabel put her own construction on his absent reply to her remark and presently she ask him , `` Did you think Lynde Oliver handsome ? ''
The question give Alan an annoyance out of all proportion to it significance .
He felt an instinctive reluctance to discuss Lynde Oliver with Isabel King .
`` I saw her only for a moment , '' he say coldly , `` but she impress me a be a beautiful woman . ''
`` They tell queer story about her -- but maybe they 're not all true , '' say Isabel , unable to keep the sneer of malice out of her voice .
At that moment Alan 's secret contempt for her crystallize into pronounced aversion .
He make no reply and they go the rest of the way in silence .
At her gate Isabel say , `` You have n't be over to see u very lately , Mr. Douglas . ''
`` My congregation be a large one and I can not visit all my people as often a I might wish , '' Alan answer , all the more coldly for the personal note in her tone .
`` A minister 's time be not his own , you know . ''
`` Shall you be go to see the Olivers ? ''
ask Isabel bluntly .
`` I have not consider that question .
Good-night , Miss King . ''
On his way back to the manse Alan do consider the question .
Should he make any attempt to establish friendly relation with the resident of Four Winds ?
It surprise him to find how much he want to , but he finally conclude that he would not .
They be not adherent of his church and he do not believe that even a minister have any right to force himself upon people who plainly wish to be let alone .
When he get home , although it be late , he go to his study and begin work on a new text -- for Elder Trewin 's seem utterly out of the question .
Even with the new one he do not get on very well .
At last in exasperation he lean back in his chair .
Why ca n't I stop thinking of those Four Winds people ?
Here , let me put these haunt thought into word and see if that will lay them .
That girl have a beautiful face but a cold one .
Would I like to see it light up with the warmth of her soul set free ?
Yes , frankly , I would .
She look upon me with indifference .
Would I like to see her welcome me a a friend ?
I have a conviction that I would , although no doubt everybody in my congregation would look upon her a a most unsuitable friend for me .
Do I believe that she be wild , unwomanly , heathenish , a Mrs. Danby say ?
No , I do not , most emphatically .
I believe she be a lady in the true sense of that much abuse word , though she be doubtless unconventional .
Having say all this , I do not see what more there be to be say .
And -- I -- be -- go -- to -- write -- this -- sermon .
Alan write it , put all thought of Lynde Oliver sternly out of his mind for the time be .
He have no notion of fall in love with her .
He know nothing of love and imagine that it count for nothing in his life .
He admit that his curiosity be aflame about the girl , but it never occur to him that she mean or could mean anything to him but an attractive enigma which once solve would lose it attraction .
The young woman he know in Rexton , whose simple , pleasant friendship he value , have the placid , domestic charm of their own sweet-breathed , windless orchard .
Lynde Oliver have the fascination of the lake shore -- wild , remote , untamed -- the lure of the wilderness and the primitive .
There be nothing more personal in his thought of her , and yet when he recall Isabel King 's sneer he felt an almost personal resentment .
* * * * * During the following fortnight Alan make many trip to the shore -- and he always go by the branch road to the Four Winds point .
He do not attempt to conceal from himself that he hop to meet Lynde Oliver again .
In this he be unsuccessful .
Sometimes he saw her at a distance along the shore but she always disappear as soon a see .
Occasionally a he cross the point he saw her work in her garden but he never go very near the house , feel that he have no right to spy on it or her in any way .
He soon become convinced that she avoid him purposely and the conviction pique him .
He felt an odd masterful desire to meet her face to face and make her look at him .
Sometimes he call himself a fool and vow he would go no more to the Four Winds shore .
Yet he inevitably go .
He do not find in the shore the comfort and inspiration he have formerly find .
Something have come between his soul and the soul of the wilderness -- something he do not recognize or formulate -- a nameless , haunt longing that shape itself about the memory of a cold sweet face and starry , indifferent eye , grey a the lake at dawn .
Of Captain Anthony he never get even a glimpse , but he saw the old cousin several time , go and come about the yard and it environs .
Finally one day he meet her , come up a path which lead to a spring down in a firry hollow .
She be carry two heavy pail of water and Alan ask permission to help her .
He half expect a repulse , for the tall , grim old woman have a rather stern and forbidding look , but after gaze at him a moment in a somewhat scrutinizing manner she say briefly , `` You may , if you like . ''
Alan take the pail and follow her , the path not be wide enough for two .
She stride on before him at a rapid , vigorous pace until they come out into the yard by the house .
Alan felt his heart beat foolishly .
Would he see Lynde Oliver ?
Would -- `` You may carry the water there , '' the old woman say , point to a little outhouse near the pine .
`` I 'm wash -- the spring water be soft than the well water .
Thank you '' -- a Alan set the pail down on a bench -- `` I 'm not so young a I be and bring the water so far tire me .
Lynde always bring it for me when she 's home . ''
She stand before him in the narrow doorway , block his exit , and look at him with keen , deep-set dark eye .
In spite of her withered aspect and wrinkle face , she be not an uncomely old woman and there be about her a dignity of carriage and manner that please Alan .
It do not occur to him to wonder why it should please him .
If he have hunt that feel down he might have be surprise to discover that it have it origin in a curious gratification over the thought that the woman who live with Lynde have a certain refinement about her .
He prefer her unsmiling dourness to vulgar garrulity .
`` Are you the young minister up at Rexton ? ''
she ask bluntly .
`` Yes . ''
`` I think so .
Lynde say she have see you on the shore once .
Well '' -- she cast an uncertain glance over her shoulder at the house -- `` I 'm much oblige to you . ''
Alan have an idea that that be not what she have think of say , but a she have turn aside and be busy herself with the pail , there seem nothing for him to do but to go .
`` Wait a moment . ''
She face him again , and if Alan have be a vain man he might have think that admiration look from her pierce eye .
`` What do you think of u ?
I suppose they 've tell you tale of u up there ? ''
-- with a scornful gesture of her hand in the direction of Rexton .
`` Do you believe them ? ''
`` I believe no ill of anyone until I have absolute proof of it , '' say Alan , smile -- he be quite unconscious what a win smile he have , which be the best of it -- `` and I never put faith in gossip .
Of course you be gossipped about -- you know that . ''
`` Yes , I know it '' -- grimly -- `` and I do n't care what they say about the Captain and me .
We be a queer pair -- just as queer a they make u out .
You can believe what you like about u , but do n't you believe a word they say against Lynde .
She 's sweet and good and beautiful .
It 's not her fault that she never go to church -- it 's her father 's .
Do n't you hold that against her . ''
The fierce yet repress energy of her tone prevent Alan from feel any amusement over her simple defence of Lynde .
Moreover , it sound unreasonably sweet in his ear .
`` I wo n't , '' he promise , `` but I do n't suppose it would matter much to Miss Oliver if I do .
She do not strike me a a young lady who would worry very much about other people 's opinion . ''
If his object be to prolong the conversation about Lynde , he be disappointed , for the old woman have turn abruptly to her work again and , though Alan linger for a few moment longer , she take no further notice of him .
But when he have go she peer stealthily after him from the door until he be lose to sight among the pine .
`` A well-looking man , '' she mutter .
`` I wish Lynde have be home .
I do n't dare ask him to the house for I know Anthony be in one of his mood .
But it 's time something be do .
She 's woman grown and this be no life for her .
And there 's nobody to do anything but me and I 'm not able , even if I know what to do .
I wonder why she hat men so .
Perhaps it 's because she never know any that be real gentleman .
This man be -- but then he 's a minister and that make a wide gulf between them in another way .
I 've see the love of man and woman bridge some wider gulf though .
But it ca n't with Lynde , I 'm fear .
She 's so bitter at the mere speaking of love and marriage .
I ca n't think why .
I 'm sure her mother and Anthony be happy together , and that be all she 's ever see of marriage .
But I think when she tell me of meet this young man on the shore there be something in her look I 'd never notice before -- a if she 'd find something in herself she 'd never know be there .
But she 'll never make friend with him and I ca n't .
If the Captain be n't so queer -- '' She stop abruptly , for a tall lithe figure be come up from the shore .
Lynde wave her hand a she draw near .
`` Oh , Emily , I 've have such a splendid sail .
It be glorious .
Bad Emily , you 've be carry water .
Did n't I tell you never to do that when I be away ? ''
`` I do n't have to do it .
That young minister up at Rexton meet me and bring it up .
He 's nice , Lynde . ''
Lynde 's brow darken .
She turn and walk away to the house without a word .
On his way home that night Alan meet Isabel King on the main shore road .
She carry an armful of pine bough and say she want the needle for a cushion .
Yet the thought come into Alan 's mind that she be spy on him and , although he try to dismiss it a unworthy , it continue to lurk there .
For a week he avoid the shore , but there come a day when it inexplicable lure draw him to it again irresistibly .
It be a warm , windy evening and the air be sweet and resinous , the lake misty and blue .
There be no sign of life about Four Winds and the shore seem a lonely and virgin a if human foot have never tread it .
The Captain 's yacht be go from the little harbour where it be generally anchor and , though every flutter of wind in the scrub fir make Alan 's heart beat expectantly , he saw nothing of Lynde Oliver .
He be on the point of turn homeward , with an unreasoning sense of disappointment , when one of Lynde 's dog break down through the hedge of spruce , bark loudly .
Alan look for Lynde to follow , but she do not , and he speedily saw that there be something unusual about the dog 's behaviour .
The animal circle around him , still bark excitedly , then run off for a short distance , stop , bark again , and return , repeat the manoeuvre .
It be plain that he want Alan to follow him , and it occur to the young minister that the dog 's mistress must be in danger of some kind .
Instantly he set off after him ; and the dog , with a final sharp bark of satisfaction , spring up the low bank into the spruce .
Alan follow him across the peninsula and then along the further shore , which rapidly grow steep and high .
Half a mile down the cliff be rocky and precipitous , while the beach beneath them be heap with huge boulder .
Alan follow the dog along one of the narrow path with which the barren abound until nearly a mile from Four Winds .
Then the animal halt , run to the edge of the cliff and bark .
It be an ugly-looking place where a portion of the soil have evidently break away recently , and Alan step cautiously out to the brink and look down .
He could not repress an exclamation of dismay and alarm .
A few foot below him Lynde Oliver be lie on a mass of mossy soil which be apparently on the verge of slip over a slop shelf of rock , below which be a sheer drop of thirty foot to the cruel boulder below .
The extreme danger of her position be manifest at a glance ; the soil on which she lay be stationary , yet it seem a if the slight motion on her part would send it over the brink .
Lynde lay movelessly ; her face be white , and both fear and appeal be visible in her large dilated eye .
Yet she be quite calm and a faint smile cross her pale lip a she saw the man and the dog .
`` Good faithful Pat , so you do bring help , '' she say .
`` But how can I help you , Miss Oliver ? ''
say Alan hoarsely .
`` I can not reach you -- and it look a if the slight touch or jar would send that broken earth over the brink . ''
`` I fear it would .
You must go back to Four Winds and get a rope . ''
`` And leave you here alone -- in such danger ? ''
`` Pat will stay with me .
Besides , there be nothing else to do .
You will find a rope in that little house where you put the water for Emily .
Father and Emily be away .
I think I be quite safe here if I do n't move at all . ''
Alan 's own common sense tell him that , a she say , there be nothing else to do and , much a he hat to leave her alone thus , he realize that he must lose no time in do it .
`` I 'll be back as quickly a possible , '' he say hurriedly .
Alan have be a noted runner at college and his muscle have not forget their old training .
Yet it seem to him an age ere he reach Four Winds , secure the rope , and return .
At every fly step he be haunt by the thought of the girl lie on the brink of the precipice and the fear that she might slip over it before he could rescue her .
When he reach the scene of the accident he dread to look over the broken edge , but she be lie there safely and she smile when she saw him -- a brave smile that soften her tense white face into the likeness of a frightened child 's .
`` If I drop the rope down to you , be you strong enough to hold to it while the earth go and then draw yourself up the slope hand over hand ? ''
ask Alan anxiously .
`` Yes , '' she answer fearlessly .
Alan pass down one end of the rope and then brace himself firmly to hold it , for there be no tree near enough to be of any assistance .
The next moment the full weight of her body swung from it , for at her first movement the soil beneath her slip away .
Alan 's heart sicken ; what if she go with it ?
Could she cling to the rope while he draw her up ?
Then he saw she be still safe on the slop shelf .
Carefully and painfully she draw herself to her knee and , ding to the rope , creep up the rock hand over hand .
When she come within his reach he grasp her arm and lift her up into safety beside him .
`` Thank God , '' he say , with white lip than her own .
For a few moment Lynde sit silent on the sod , exhaust with fright and exertion , while her dog fawn on her in an ecstasy of joy .
Finally she look up into Alan 's anxious face and their eye meet .
It be something more than the physical reaction that suddenly flush the girl 's cheek .
She spring lithely to her foot .
`` Can you walk back home ? ''
Alan ask .
`` Oh , yes , I be all right now .
It be very foolish of me to get into such a predicament .
Father and Emily go down the lake in the yacht this afternoon and I start out for a ramble .
When I come here I saw some junebells grow right out on the ledge and I creep out to gather them .
I should have know well .
It break away under me and the more I try to scramble back the faster it slide down , carry me with it .
I think it would go right over the brink '' -- she give a little involuntary shudder -- `` but just at the very edge it stop .
I know I must lie very still or it would go right over .
It seem like day .
Pat be with me and I tell him to go for help , but I know there be no one at home -- and I be horribly afraid , '' she conclude with another shiver .
`` I never be afraid in my life before -- at least not with that kind of fear . ''
`` You have have a terrible experience and a narrow escape , '' say Alan lamely .
He could think of nothing more to say ; his usual readiness of utterance seem to have fail him .
`` You save my life , '' she say , `` you and Pat -- for doggie must have his share of credit . ''
`` A much large share than mine , '' say Alan , smile .
`` If Pat have not come for me , I would not have know of your danger .
What a magnificent fellow he be ! ''
`` Is n't he ? ''
she agree proudly .
`` And so be Laddie , my other dog .
He go with Father today .
I love my dog more than people . ''
She look at him with a little defiance in her eye .
`` I suppose you think that terrible . ''
`` I think many dog be much more lovable -- and worthy of love -- than many people , '' say Alan , laugh .
How childlike she be in some way !
That trace of defiance -- it be so like a child who expect to be scold for some wrong attitude of mind .
And yet there be moment when she look the tall proud queen .
Sometimes , when the path grow narrow , she walk before him , her hand on the dog 's head .
Alan like this , since it leave him free to watch admiringly the swing grace of her step and the white curve of her neck beneath the thick braid of hair , which today be wound about her head .
When she drop back beside him in the wider space , he could only have steal glance at her profile , delicately , strongly cut , virginal in it soft curve , childlike in it purity .
Once she look around and catch his glance ; again she flush , and something strange and exultant stir in Alan 's heart .
It be a if that maiden blush be the involuntary , unconscious admission of some power he have over her -- a power which her hitherto unfettered spirit have never before felt .
The cold indifference he have see in her face at their first meeting be go , and something tell him it be go forever .
When they come in sight of Four Winds they saw two people walk up the road from the harbour and a few further step bring them face to face with Captain Anthony Oliver and his old housekeeper .
The Captain 's appearance be a fresh surprise to Alan .
He have expect to meet a rough , burly sailor , loud of voice and forbidding of manner .
Instead , Captain Anthony be a tall , well-built man of perhaps fifty .
His face , beneath it shock of iron-grey hair , be handsome but wear a somewhat forbidding expression , and there be something in it , apart from line or feature , which do not please Alan .
He have no time to analyze this impression , for Lynde say hurriedly , `` Father , this be Mr. Douglas .
He have just do me a great service . ''
She briefly explain her accident ; when she have finish , the Captain turn to Alan and hold out his hand , a frank smile replace the rather suspicious and contemptuous scowl which have previously overshadow it .
`` I be much oblige to you , Mr. Douglas , '' he say cordially .
`` You must come up to the house and let me thank you at leisure .
As a rule I 'm not very partial to the cloth , a you may have heard .
In this case it be the man , not the minister , I invite . ''
The front door of Four Winds open directly into a wide , low-ceilinged living room , furnish with simplicity and good taste .
Leaving the two men there , Lynde and the old cousin vanish , and Alan find himself talk freely with the Captain who could , a it appear , talk well on many subject far remove from Four Winds .
He be evidently a clever , self-educated man , somewhat opinionated and give to sarcasm ; he never make any reference to his own past life or experience , but Alan discover him to be surprisingly well read in politics and science .
Sometimes in the pause of the conversation Alan find the old man look at him in a furtive way he do not like , but the Captain be such an improvement on what he have be lead to expect that he be not incline to be over critical .
At least , this be what he honestly think .
He do not suspect that it be because this man be Lynde 's father that he wish to think as well a possible of him .
Presently Lynde come in .
She have change her outdoor dress , stain with moss and soil in her fall , for a soft cling garment of some pale yellow material , and her long , thick braid of hair hung over her shoulder .
She sit mutely down in a dim corner and take no part in the conversation except to answer briefly the remark which Alan address to her .
Emily come in and light the lamp on the table .
She be a grim and unsmiling a ever , yet she cast a look of satisfaction on Alan a she pass out .
One dog lay down at Lynde 's foot , the other sat on his haunch by her side and lay his head on her lap .
Rexton and it quiet round of parish duty seem thousand of mile away from Alan , and he wonder a little if this be not all a dream .
When he go away the Captain invite him back .
`` If you like to come , that be , '' he say brusquely , `` and always a the man , not the priest , remember .
I do n't want you by and by to be slyly slip in the thin end of any professional wedge .
You 'll waste your time if you do .
Come a man to man and you 'll be welcome , for I like you -- and it 's few men I like .
But do n't try to talk religion to me . ''
`` I never talk religion , '' say Alan emphatically .
`` I try to live it .
I 'll not come to your house a a self-appointed missionary , sir , but I shall certainly act and speak at all time a my conscience and my reverence for my vocation demand .
If I respect your belief , whatever they may be , I shall expect you to respect mine , Captain Oliver . ''
`` Oh , I wo n't insult your God , '' say the Captain with a faint sneer .
Alan go home in a tumult of contend feeling .
He do not altogether like Captain Anthony -- that be very clear to him , and yet there be something about the man that attract him .
Intellectually he be a worthy foeman , and Alan have often long for such since come to Rexton .
He miss the keen , stimulate debate of his college day and , now there seem a chance of renew them , he be eager to grasp it .
And Lynde -- how beautiful she be !
What though she share -- a be not unlikely -- in her father 's lack of belief ?
She could not be essentially irreligious -- that be impossible in a true woman .
Might not this be his opportunity to help her -- to lead her into dearer light ?
Alan Douglas be a sincere man , with himself as well a with others , yet there be some motif that lie , in their first inception , too deep even for the probe of self-analysis .
He have not a yet the faint suspicion a to the real source of his interest in Lynde Oliver -- in his sudden forceful desire to be of use and service to her -- to rescue her from spiritual peril a he have that day rescue her from bodily danger .
She must have a lonely , unsatisfying life , he think .
It be my duty to help her if I can .
It do not then occur to him that duty in this instance wear a much more pleasing aspect than it have sometimes wear in his experience .
* * * * * Alan do not mean to be oversoon in go back to Four Winds , but three day later a book come to him which Captain Anthony have express a wish to see .
It furnish an excuse for an early call .
After that he go often .
He always find the Captain courteous and affable , old Emily grimly cordial , Lynde sometimes remote and demure , sometimes frankly friendly .
Occasionally , when the Captain be away in his yacht , he go for a walk with her and her dog along the shore or through the sweet-smelling pinelands up the lake .
He find that she love book and be avid for more of them than she could obtain ; he be glad to take her several and discuss them with her .
She like history and travel best .
With novel she have no patience , she say disdainfully .
She seldom speak of herself or her past life and Alan fancy she avoid any personal reference .
But once she say abruptly , `` Why do you never ask me to go to church ?
I 've always be afraid you would . ''
`` Because I do not think it would do you any good to go if you do n't want to , '' say Alan gravely .
`` Souls should not be rudely handle any more than body . ''
She look at him reflectively , her finger dent her chin in a meditative fashion she have .
`` You be not at all like Mr. Strong .
He always scold me , when he get a chance , for not go to church .
I would have hat him if it have be worthwhile .
I tell him one day that I be nearer to God under these pine than I could be in any building fashion by human hand .
He be very much shock .
But I do n't want you to misunderstand me .
Father do not go to church because he do not believe there be a God .
But I know there be .
Mother teach me so .
I have never go to church because Father would not allow me , and I could not go now in Rexton where the people talk about me so .
Oh , I know they do -- you know it , too -- but I do not care for them .
I know I 'm not like other girl .
I would like to be but I ca n't be -- I never can be -- now . ''
There be some strange passion in her voice that Alan do not quite understand -- a bitterness and a revolt which he take to be against the circumstance that hedge her in .
`` Is not some other life possible for you if your present life do not content you ? ''
he say gently .
`` But it do content me , '' say Lynde imperiously .
`` I want no other -- I wish this life to go on forever -- forever , do you understand ?
If I be sure that it would -- if I be sure that no change would ever come to me , I would be perfectly content .
It be the fear that a change will come that make me wretched .
Oh ! ''
She shudder and put her hand over her eye .
Alan think she must mean that when her father die she would be alone in the world .
He want to comfort her -- reassure her -- but he do not know how .
One evening when he go to Four Winds he find the door open and , see the Captain in the living room , he step in unannounced .
Captain Anthony be sit by the table , his head in his hand ; at Alan 's entrance he turn upon him a haggard face , blacken by a furious scowl beneath which blaze eye full of malevolence .
`` What do you want here ? ''
he say , follow up the demand with a string of vile oath .
Before Alan could summon his scattered wit , Lynde glide in with a white , appeal face .
Wordlessly she grasp Alan 's arm , draw him out , and shut the door .
`` Oh , I 've be watch for you , '' she say breathlessly .
`` I be afraid you might come tonight -- but I miss you . ''
`` But your father ? ''
say Alan in amazement .
`` How have I anger him ? ''
`` Hush .
Come into the garden .
I will explain there . ''
He follow her into the little enclosure where the red and white rose be now in full blow .
`` Father be n't angry with you , '' say Lynde in a low shamed voice .
`` It 's just -- he take strange mood sometimes .
Then he seem to hate u all -- even me -- and he be like that for day .
He seem to suspect and dread everybody a if they be plot against him .
You -- perhaps you think he have be drink ?
No , that be not the trouble .
These terrible mood come on without any cause that we know of .
Even Mother could not do anything with him when he be like that .
You must go away now -- and do not come back until his dark mood have pass .
He will be just a glad to see you a ever then , and this will not make any difference with him .
Do n't come back for a week at least . ''
`` I do not like to leave you in such trouble , Miss Oliver . ''
`` Oh , it do n't matter about me -- I have Emily .
And there be nothing you could do .
Please go at once .
Father know I be talk to you and that will vex him still more . ''
Alan , realize that he could not help her and that his presence only make matter worse , go away perplexedly .
The following week be a miserable one for him .
His duty be distasteful to him and meet his people a positive torture .
Sometimes Mrs. Danby look dubiously at him and seem on the point of say something -- but never say it .
Isabel King watch him when they meet , with bold probe eye .
In his abstraction he do not notice this any more than he notice a certain subtle change which have come over the member of his congregation -- a if a breath of suspicion have blow across them and trouble their confidence and trust .
Once Alan would have be keenly and instantly conscious of this slight chill ; now he be not even aware of it .
When he venture to go back to Four Winds he find the Captain on the point of start off for a cruise in his yacht .
He be urbane and friendly , utterly ignore the incident of Alan 's last visit and regret that business compel him to go down the lake .
Alan saw him off with small regret and turn joyfully to Lynde , who be walk under the pine with her dog .
She look pale and tired and her eye be still troubled , but she smile proudly and make no reference to what have happen .
`` I 'm go to put these flower on Mother 's grave , '' she say , lift her slender hand fill with late white rose .
`` Mother loved flower and I always keep them near her when I can .
You may come with me if you like . ''
Alan have know Lynde 's mother be bury under the pine but he have never visit the spot before .
The grave be at the westernmost end of the pine wood , where it give out on the lake , a beautiful spot , give over to silence and shadow .
`` Mother wish to be bury here , '' Lynde say , kneel to arrange her flower .
`` Father would have take her anywhere but she say she want to be near u and near the lake she have love so well .
Father bury her himself .
He would n't have anyone else do anything for her .
I be so glad she be here .
It would have be terrible to have see her take far away -- my sweet little mother . ''
`` A mother be the best thing in the world -- I realize that when I lose mine , '' say Alan gently .
`` How long be it since your mother die ? ''
`` Three year .
Oh , I think I should die too when she do .
She be very ill -- she be never strong , you know -- but I never think she could die .
There be a year then -- part of the time I do n't believe in God at all and the rest I hat Him .
I be very wicked but I be so unhappy .
Father have so many dreadful mood and -- there be something else .
I use to wish to die . ''
She bow her head on her hand and gaze moodily on the ground .
Alan , lean against a pine tree , look down at her .
The sunlight fell through the sway bough on her glory of burnished hair and light up the curve of cheek and chin against the dark background of wood brown .
All the defiance and wildness have go from her for the time and she seem like a helpless , weary child .
He want to take her in his arm and comfort her .
`` You must resemble your mother , '' he say absently , a if thinking aloud .
`` You do n't look at all like your father . ''
Lynde shake her head .
`` No , I do n't look like Mother either .
She be tiny and dark -- she have a sweet little face and velvet-brown eye and soft curly dark hair .
Oh , I remember her look so well .
I wish I do resemble her .
I love her so -- I would have do anything to save her suffering and trouble .
At least , she die in peace . ''
There be a curious note of fierce self-gratulation in the girl 's voice a she speak the last sentence .
Again Alan felt the unpleasant impression that there be much in her that he do not understand -- might never understand -- although such understanding be necessary to perfect friendship .
She have never speak so freely of her past life to him before , yet he felt somehow that something be be keep back in jealous repression .
It must be something connect with her father , Alan think .
Doubtless , Captain Anthony 's past would not bear inspection , and his daughter know it and dwell in the shadow of her knowledge .
His heart fill with ache pity for her ; he rag secretly because he be so powerless to help her .
Her girlhood have be blight , rob of it meed of happiness and joy .
Was she likewise to miss her womanhood ?
Alan 's hand clench involuntarily at the unuttered question .
On his way home that even he again meet Isabel King .
She turn and walk back with him but she make no reference to Four Winds or it inhabitant .
If Alan have trouble himself to look , he would have see a malicious glow in her baleful brown eye .
But the only eye which have any meaning for him just then be the grey one of Lynde Oliver .
* * * * * During Alan 's next three visit to Four Winds he saw nothing of Lynde , either in the house or out of it .
This surprised and worry him .
There be no apparent difference in Captain Anthony , who continue to be suave and friendly .
Alan always enjoy his conversation with the Captain , who be witty , incisive , and pungent ; yet he dislike the man himself more at every visit .
If he have be compel to define his impression , he would have say the Captain be a charming scoundrel .
But it occur to him that Emily be disturb about something .
Sometimes he catch her glance , full of perplexity and -- it almost seem -- distrust .
She look a if she felt hostile towards him .
But Alan dismiss the idea a absurd .
She have be friendly from the first and he have do nothing to excite her disapproval .
Lynde 's mysterious absence be a far more perplexing problem .
She have not go away , for when Alan ask the Captain concern her , he respond indifferently that she be out walking .
Alan catch a glint of amusement in the old man 's eye a he speak .
He could have swear it be malicious amusement .
One evening he go to Four Winds around the shore .
As he turn the headland of the cove , he saw Lynde and her dog not a hundred foot away .
The moment she saw him she dart up the bank and disappear among the fir .
Alan be thunderstruck .
There be no room for doubt that she mean to avoid him .
He walk up to the house in a tumult of mingle feeling which he do not even then understand .
He only realize that he felt bitterly hurt and grieve -- puzzle as well .
What do it all mean ?
He meet Emily in the yard of Four Winds on her way to the spring and stop her resolutely .
`` Miss Oliver , '' he say bluntly , `` be Miss Lynde angry with me ?
And why ? ''
Emily look at him piercingly .
`` Have you no idea why ? ''
she ask shortly .
`` None in the world . ''
She look at him through and through a moment longer .
Then , seem satisfied with her scrutiny , she pick up her pail .
`` Come down to the spring with me , '' she say .
As soon a they be out of sight of the house , Emily begin abruptly .
`` If you do n't know why Lynde be act so , I ca n't tell you , for I do n't know either .
I do n't even know if she be angry .
I only think perhaps she be -- that you have do or say something to vex her -- plague her to go to church maybe .
But if you do n't , it may not be anger at all .
I do n't understand that girl .
She 's be different ever since her mother die .
She use to tell me everything before that .
You must go and ask her right out yourself what be wrong .
But maybe I can tell you something .
Did you write her a letter a fortnight ago ? ''
`` A letter ?
No . ''
`` Well , she get one then .
I think it come from you -- I do n't know who else would be write to her .
A boy bring it and give it to her at the door .
She 's be act strange ever since .
She cry at night -- something Lynde never do before except when her mother die .
And in daytime she roam the shore and wood like one possess .
You must find out what be in that letter , Mr. Douglas . ''
`` Have you any idea who the boy be ? ''
Alan ask , feel somewhat relieve .
The mystery be clear up , he think .
No doubt it be the old story of some cowardly anonymous letter .
His thought fly involuntarily to Isabel King .
Emily shake her head .
`` No .
He be just a half-grown fellow with reddish hair and he limp a little . ''
`` Oh , that be the postmaster 's son , '' say Alan disappointedly .
`` That put u further off the scent than ever .
The letter be probably drop in the box at the office and there will consequently be no way of trace the writer . ''
`` Well , I ca n't tell you anything more , '' say Emily .
`` You 'll have to ask Lynde for the truth . ''
This Alan be determine to do whenever he should meet her .
He do not go to the house with Emily but wander about the shore , watch for Lynde and not see her .
At length he go home , a prey to stormy emotion .
He realize at last that he love Lynde Oliver .
He wonder how he could have be so long blind to it .
He know that he must have love her ever since he have first see her .
The discovery amaze but do not shock him .
There be no reason why he should not love her -- should not woo and win her for his wife if she care for him .
She be good and sweet and true .
Anything of doubt in her antecedent could not touch her .
Probably the world would look upon Captain Anthony a a somewhat undesirable father-in-law for a minister , but that aspect of the question do not disturb Alan .
As for the trouble of the letter , he felt sure he would easily be able to clear it away .
Probably some malicious busybody have become aware of his frequent call at Four Winds and choose to interfere in his private affair thus .
For the first time it occur to him that there have be a certain lack of cordiality among his people of late .
If it be really so , doubtless this be the reason .
At any other time this would have be of moment to him .
But now his thought be too wholly take up with Lynde and the estrangement on her part to attach much importance to anything else .
What she think matter incalculably more to Alan than what all the people in Rexton put together think .
He have the right , like any other man , to woo the woman of his choice and he would certainly brook no outside interference in the matter .
After a sleepless night he go back to Four Winds in the morning .
Lynde would not expect him at that time and he would have more chance of find her .
The result justify his idea , for he meet her by the spring .
Alan felt shock at the change in her appearance .
She look a if year of suffering have pass over her .
Her lip be pallid , and hollow circle under her eye make them appear unnaturally large .
He have last leave the girl in the bloom of her youth ; he find her again a woman on whom life have lay it heavy hand .
A burn flood of colour swept over her face a they meet , then recede a quickly , leave her whiter than before .
Without any waste of word , Alan plunge abruptly into the subject .
`` Miss Oliver , why have you avoid me so of late ?
Have I do anything to offend you ? ''
`` No . ''
She speak a if the word hurt her , her eye persistently cast down .
`` Then what be the trouble ? ''
There be no answer .
She give an unvoluntary glance around a if seek some way of escape .
There be none , for the spring be set about with thick young fir and Alan block the only path .
He lean forward and take her hand in his .
`` Miss Oliver , you must tell me what the trouble be , '' he say firmly .
She pull her hand away and fling them up to her face , her form shake by stormy sob .
In distress he put his arm about her and draw her closer .
`` Tell me , Lynde , '' he whisper tenderly .
She break away from him , say passionately , `` You must not come to Four Winds any more .
You must not have anything more to do with u -- any of u .
We have do you enough harm already .
But I never think it could hurt you -- oh , I be sorry , sorry ! ''
`` Miss Oliver , I want to see that letter you receive the other evening .
Oh '' -- a she start with surprise -- `` I know about it -- Emily tell me .
Who write it ? ''
`` There be no name sign to it , '' she falter .
`` Just a I think .
Well , you must let me see it . ''
`` I can not -- I burn it . ''
`` Then tell me what be in it .
You must .
This matter must be clear up -- I be not go to have our beautiful friendship spoil by the malice of some coward .
What do that letter say ? ''
`` It say that everybody in your congregation be talk about your frequent visit here -- that it have make a great scandal -- that it be do you a great deal of injury and would probably end in your have to leave Rexton . ''
`` That would be a catastrophe indeed , '' say Alan drily .
`` Well , what else ? ''
`` Nothing more -- at least , nothing about you .
The rest be about myself -- I do not mind it -- much .
But I be so sorry to think that I have do you harm .
It be not too late to undo it .
You must not come here any more .
Then they will forget . ''
`` Perhaps -- but I should not forget .
It 's a little too late for me .
Lynde , you must not let this venomous letter come between u .
I love you , dear -- I 've love you ever since I meet you and I want you for my wife . ''
Alan have not intend to say that just then , but the word come to his lip in spite of himself .
She look so sad and appeal and weary that he want to have the right to comfort and protect her .
She turn her eye full upon him with no hint of maidenly shyness or shrinking in them .
Instead , they be full of a blank , incredulous horror that swallow up every other feeling .
There be no mistake their expression and it strike an icy chill to Alan 's heart .
He have certainly not expect a too ready response on her part -- he know that even if she care for him he might find it a matter of time to win her avowal of it -- but he certainly have not expect to see such evident abject dismay a her blanched face betray .
She put up her hand a if ward a blow .
`` Do n't -- do n't , '' she gasp .
`` You must not say that -- you must never say it .
Oh , I never dream of this .
If I have think it possible you could -- love me , I would never have be friend with you .
Oh , I 've make a terrible mistake . ''
She wring her hand piteously together , look like a soul in torment .
Alan could not bear to see her pain .
`` Do n't feel such distress , '' he implore .
`` I suppose I 've speak too abruptly -- but I 'll be so patient , dear , if you 'll only try to care for me a little .
Ca n't you , dear ? ''
`` I ca n't marry you , '' say Lynde desperately .
She lean against a slim white bole of a young birch behind her and look at him wretchedly .
`` Wo n't you please go away and forget me ? ''
`` I ca n't forget you , '' Alan say , smile a little in spite of his suffering .
`` You be the only woman I can ever love -- and I ca n't give you up unless I have to .
Wo n't you be frank with me , dear ?
Do you honestly think you can never learn to love me ? ''
`` It be not that , '' say Lynde in a hard , unnatural voice .
`` I be married already . ''
Alan star at her , not in the least comprehend the meaning of her word .
Everything -- pain , hope , fear , passion -- have slip away from him for a moment , a if he have be stun by a physical blow .
He could not have hear aright .
`` Married ? ''
he say dully .
`` Lynde , you can not mean it ? ''
`` Yes , I do .
I be marry three year ago . ''
`` Why be I not tell this ? ''
Alan 's voice be stern , although he do not mean it to be so , and she shrink and shiver .
Then she begin in a low monotonous tone from which all feeling of any sort seem to have utterly fade .
`` Three year ago Mother be very ill -- so ill that any shock would kill her , so the doctor Father bring from the lake tell u .
A man -- a young sea captain -- come here to see Father .
His name be Frank Harmon and he have know Father well in the past .
They have sail together .
Father seem to be afraid of him -- I have never see him afraid of anybody before .
I could not think much about anybody except Mother then , but I know I do not quite like Captain Harmon , although he be very polite to me and I suppose might have be call handsome .
One day Father come to me and tell me I must marry Captain Harmon .
I laugh at the idea at first but when I look at Father 's face I do not laugh .
It be all white and drawn .
He implore me to marry Captain Harmon .
He say if I do not it would mean shame and disgrace for u all -- that Captain Harmon have some hold on him and would tell what he know if I do not marry him .
I do n't know what it be but it must have be something dreadful .
And he say it would kill Mother .
I know it would , and that be what drive me to consent at last .
Oh , I ca n't tell you what I suffer .
I be only seventeen and there be nobody to advise me .
One day Father and Captain Harmon and I go down the lake to Crosse Harbour and we be marry there .
As soon a the ceremony be over , Captain Harmon have to sail in his vessel .
He be go to China .
Father and I come back home .
Nobody know -- not even Emily .
He say we must not tell Mother until she be well .
But she be never good .
She only live three month more -- she live them happily and at rest .
When I think of that , I be not sorry for what I do .
Captain Harmon say he would be back in the fall to claim me .
I wait , sick at heart .
But he do not come -- he have never come .
We have never hear a word of or about him since .
Sometimes I feel sure he can not be still live .
But never a day dawn that I do n't say to myself , ` Perhaps he will come today ' -- and , oh -- '' She break down again , sob bitterly .
Amid all the daze of his own pain Alan realize that , at any cost , he must not make it hard for her by show his suffering .
He try to speak calmly , wisely , a a disinterested friend .
`` Could it not be discover whether your -- this man -- be or be not live ?
Surely your father could find out . ''
Lynde shake her head .
`` No , he say he have no way of do so .
We do not know if Captain Harmon have any relative or even where his home be , and it be his own ship in which he sail .
Father would be glad to think that Frank Harmon be dead , but he do not think he be .
He say he be always a fickle-minded fellow , one fancy drive another out of his mind .
Oh , I can bear my own misery -- but to think what I have bring on you !
I never dream that you could care for me .
I be so lonely and your friendship be so pleasant -- can you ever forgive me ? ''
`` There be nothing to forgive , as far a you be concern , Lynde , '' say Alan steadily .
`` You have do me no wrong .
I have love you sincerely and such love can be nothing but a blessing to me .
I only wish that I could help you .
It wring my heart to think of your position .
But I can do nothing -- nothing .
I must not even come here any more .
You understand that ? ''
`` Yes . ''
There be an unconscious revelation in the girl 's mournful eye a she turn them on Alan .
It thrill him to the core of his be .
She love him .
If it be not for that empty marriage form , he could win her , but the knowledge be only an added mocking torment .
Alan have not know a man could endure such misery and live .
A score of wild question rush to his lip but he crush them back for Lynde 's sake and hold out his hand .
`` Good-bye , dear , '' he say almost steadily , dare to say no more l he should say too much .
`` Good-bye , '' Lynde answer faintly .
When he have go she fling herself down on the moss by the spring and lay there in an utter abandonment of misery and desolation .
Pain and indignation struggle for mastery in Alan 's stormy soul a he walk homeward .
So this be Captain Anthony 's doings !
He have sacrifice his daughter to some crime of his dubious past .
Alan never dream of blame Lynde for have keep her marriage a secret ; he put the blame where it belong -- on the Captain 's shoulder .
Captain Anthony have never warn him by so much a a hint that Lynde be not free to be win .
It have all probably seem a good joke to him .
Alan think the furtive amusement he have so often detect in the Captain 's eye be explain now .
He find Elder Trewin in his study when he get home .
The good Elder 's face be stern and anxious ; he have call on a distasteful errand -- to tell the young minister of the scandal his intimacy with the Four Winds people be make in the congregation and remonstrate with him concern it .
Alan listen absently , with none of the resentment he would have felt at the interference a day previously .
A man do not mind a pin-prick when a limb be be wrench away .
`` I can promise you that my objectionable call at Four Winds will cease , '' he say sarcastically , when the Elder have finish .
Elder Trewin get himself away , feel snub but relieve .
`` Took it purty quiet , '' he reflect .
`` Do n't believe there be much in the yarn after all .
Isabel King start them and probably she exaggerate a lot .
I suppose he 's have some notion like a not of bring the Captain over to the church .
But that 's foolish , for he 'd never manage it , and meanwhile be give occasion for gossip .
It 's just as well to stop it .
He 's a good pastor and he work hard -- too hard , mebbe .
He look real careworn and worried today . ''
The Rexton gossip soon cease with the cessation of the young minister 's visit to Four Winds .
A month later it suffer a brief revival when a tall grim-faced old woman , whom a few recognize a Captain Anthony 's housekeeper , be see to walk down the Rexton road and enter the manse .
She do not stay there long -- watcher from a dozen different window be agree upon that -- and nobody , not even Mrs. Danby , who do her best to find out , ever know why she have call .
Emily look at Alan with grim reproach when she be show into his study , and as soon a they be alone she begin with her usual abruptness , `` Mr. Douglas , why have you give up come to Four Winds ? ''
Alan flinch .
`` You must ask Lynde that , Miss Oliver , '' he say quietly .
`` I have ask her -- and she say nothing . ''
`` Then I can not tell you . ''
Anger glow in Emily 's eye .
`` I think you be a gentleman , '' she say bitterly .
`` You be not .
You be break Lynde 's heart .
She 's go to a shadow of herself and she 's fret night and day .
You go there and make her like you -- oh , I 've eye -- and then you leave her . ''
Alan bent over his desk and look the old woman in the face unflinchingly .
`` You be mistake , Miss Oliver , '' he say earnestly .
`` I love Lynde and would be only too happy if it be possible that I could marry her .
I be not to blame for what have come about -- she will tell you that herself if you ask her . ''
His look and tone convince Emily .
`` Who be to blame then ?
Lynde herself ? ''
`` No , no . ''
`` The Captain then ? ''
`` Not in the sense you mean .
I can tell you nothing more . ''
A baffled expression cross the old woman 's face .
`` There 's a mystery here -- there always have be -- and I 'm shut out of it .
Lynde wo n't confide in me -- in me who 'd give my life 's blood to help her .
Perhaps I can help her -- I could tell you something .
Have you stop come to Four Winds -- have she make you stop come -- because she 's get such a wicked old scamp for a father ?
Is that the reason ? ''
Alan shake his head .
`` No , that have nothing to do with it . ''
`` And you wo n't come back ? ''
`` It be not a question of will .
I can not -- must not go . ''
`` Lynde will break her heart then , '' say Emily in a tone of despair .
`` I think not .
She be too strong and fine for that .
Help her all you can with sympathy but do n't torment her with any question .
You may tell her if you like that I advise her to confide the whole story to you , but if she can not do n't tease her to .
Be very gentle with her . ''
`` You do n't need to tell me that .
I 'd rather die than hurt her .
I come here full of anger against you -- but I see now you be not to blame .
You be suffer too -- your face tell that .
All the same , I wish you 'd never set foot in Four Winds .
She be n't happy before but she be n't so miserable a she be now .
Oh , I know Anthony be at the bottom of it all in some way but I wo n't ask you any more question since you do n't feel free to answer them .
But be you sure that nothing can be do to clear up the trouble ? ''
`` Too sure , '' say Alan 's white lip .
* * * * * The autumn drag away .
Alan find out how much a man may suffer and yet go on living and working .
As for that , his work be all that make life possible for him now and he fling himself into it with feverish energy , grow so thin and hollow-eyed over it that even Elder Trewin remonstrate and suggest a vacation -- a suggestion at which Alan merely smile .
A vacation which would take him away from Lynde 's neighbourhood -- the thought be not to be entertain .
He never saw Lynde , for he never go to any part of the shore now ; yet he hunger constantly for the sight of her , the sound of her voice , the glance of her luminous eye .
When he picture her eat her heart out in the solitude of Four Winds , he clench his hand in despair .
As for the possibility of Harmon 's return , Alan could never face it for a moment .
When it thrust it ugly presence into his thought , he put it away desperately .
The man be dead -- or his fickle fancy have veer elsewhere .
Nothing else could explain his absence .
But they could never know , and the uncertainty would forever stand between him and Lynde like a spectre .
But he think more of Lynde 's pain than his own .
He would have elect to bear any suffering if by so do he could have free her from the nightmare dread of Harmon 's return to claim her .
That dread have always hang over her and now it must be intensify to agony by her love for another man .
And he could do nothing -- nothing .
He groan aloud in his helplessness .
One evening in late November Alan fling aside his pen and yield to the impulse that urge him to the lake shore .
He do not mean to seek Lynde -- he would go to a part of the shore where there would be no likelihood of meet her .
But get away by himself he must .
A November storm be rag and there would be a certain satisfaction in breast it buffet and fight his way through it .
Besides , he know that Isabel King be in the house and he dread meet her .
Since his conviction that she have write that letter to Lynde , he could not tolerate the girl and it task his self-control to keep from show his contempt openly .
Perhaps Isabel felt it beneath all his outward courtesy .
At least she do not seek his society a she have formerly do .
It be the second day of the storm ; a wild northeast gale be blow and cold rain and freeze sleet fell in frequent shower .
Alan shiver a he come out into it full fury on the lake shore .
At first he could not see the water through the driving mist .
Then it clear away for a moment and he stop short , aghast at the sight which meet his eye .
Opposite him be a long low island know a Philip 's Point , dwindle down at it northeastern side to two long narrow bar of quicksand .
Alan 's horrified eye saw a small schooner sunk between the bar ; her hull be entirely under water and in the rigging clung one solitary figure .
So much he saw before the Point be blot out in a renew downpour of sleet .
Without a moment 's hesitation Alan turn and run for Four Winds , which be only about a quarter of a mile away around a headland .
With the Captain 's assistance , something might be do .
Other help could not be obtain before darkness would fall and then it would be impossible to do anything .
He dash up the step of Four Winds and meet Emily , who have fling the door open .
Behind her be Lynde 's pale face with it alarmed questioning eye .
`` Where be the Captain ? ''
gasp Alan .
`` There 's a vessel on Philip 's Point and one man at least on her . ''
`` The Captain 's away on a cruise , '' say Emily blankly .
`` He go three day ago . ''
`` Then nothing can be do , '' say Alan despairingly .
`` It will be dark long before I can get to the village . ''
Lynde step out , tie a shawl around her head .
`` Let u go around to the Point , '' she say .
`` Have you match ?
No ?
Emily , get some .
We must light a bonfire at least .
And bring Father 's glass . ''
`` It be not a fit night for you to be out , '' say Alan anxiously .
`` You be shelter here -- you do n't feel it -- but it 's a fearful storm down there . ''
`` I be not afraid of the storm .
It will not hurt me .
Let u hurry .
It be grow dark already . ''
In silence they breast their way to the shore and around the headland .
Arriving opposite Philip 's Point , a lull in the sleet permit them to see the sunken schooner and the clinging figure .
Lynde wave her hand to him and they saw him wave back .
`` It wo n't be necessary to light a fire now that he have see u , '' say Lynde .
`` Nothing can be do with village help till morning and that man can never cling there so long .
He will freeze to death , for it be grow colder every minute .
His only chance be to swim ashore if he can swim .
The danger will be when he come near shore ; the undertow of the backwater on the quicksand will sweep him away and in his probably exhausted condition he may not be able to make head against it . ''
`` He know that , doubtless , and that be why he have n't attempt to swim ashore before this , '' say Alan .
`` But I 'll meet him in the backwater and drag him in . ''
`` You -- you 'll risk your own life , '' cry Lynde .
`` There be a little risk certainly , but I do n't think there be a great one .
Anyhow , the attempt must be make , '' say Alan quietly .
Suddenly Lynde 's composure forsake her .
She wring her hand .
`` I ca n't let you do it , '' she cry wildly .
`` You might be drown -- there 's every risk .
You do n't know the force of that backwater .
Alan , Alan , do n't think of it . ''
She catch his arm in her white wet hand and look into his face with passionate pleading .
Emily , who have say nothing , now speak harshly .
`` Lynde be right , Mr. Douglas .
You have no right to risk your life for a stranger .
My advice be to go to the village for help , and Lynde and I will make a fire and watch here .
That be all that can be expect of you or u . ''
Alan pay no heed to Emily .
Very tenderly he loosen Lynde 's hold on his arm and look into her quivering face .
`` You know it be my duty , Lynde , '' he say gently .
`` If anything can be do for that poor man , I be the only one who can do it .
I will come back safe , please God .
Be brave , dear . ''
Lynde , with a little moan of resignation , turn away .
Old Emily look on with a face of grim disapproval a Alan wad out into the surf that boil and swirl around him in a mad whirl of foam .
The shower of sleet have again slacken , and the wreck half a mile away , with it solitary figure , be dearly visible .
Alan beckon to the man to jump overboard and swim ashore , enforce his appeal by gesture that command haste before the next shower should come .
For a few moment it seem a if the seaman do not understand or lack the courage or power to obey .
The next minute he have drop from the rig on the crest of a mighty wave and be be borne onward to the shore .
Speedily the backwater be reach and the man , suck down by the swirl of the wave , throw up his arm and disappear .
Alan dash in , groping , swimming ; it seem an eternity before his hand clutch the drowning man and wrench him from the undertow .
And , with the seaman in his arm , he stagger back through the foam and drop his burden on the sand at Lynde 's foot .
Alan be reel from exhaustion and chill to the marrow , but he think only of the man he have rescue .
The latter be unconscious and , a Alan bent over him , he hear Lynde give a choking little cry .
`` He be live still , '' say Alan .
`` We must get him up to the house as soon a possible .
How shall we manage it ? ''
`` Lynde and I can go and bring the Captain 's mattress down , '' say Emily .
Now that Alan be safe she be eager to do all she could .
`` Then you and I can carry him up to the house . ''
`` That will be best , '' say Alan .
`` Go quickly . ''
He do not look at Lynde or he would have be shock by the agony on her face .
She cast one glance at the prostrate man and follow Emily .
In a short time they return with the mattress , and Alan and Emily carry the sailor on it to Four Winds .
Lynde walk behind them , seemingly unconscious of both .
She watch the stranger 's face a one fascinate .
At Four Winds they carry the man to a room where Emily and Alan work over him , while Lynde heat water and hunt out stimulant in a mechanical fashion .
When Alan come down she ask no question but look at him with the same strained horror on her face which it have bear ever since Alan have drop his burden at her foot .
`` Is he -- conscious ? ''
ask Lynde , a if she force herself to ask the question .
`` Yes , he have come back to life .
But he be delirious and do n't realize his surroundings at all .
He think he be still on board the vessel .
He 'll probably come round all right .
Emily be go to watch him and I 'll go up to Rexton and send Dr. Ames down . ''
`` Do you know who that man you have save be ? ''
ask Lynde .
`` No .
I ask him his name but could not get any sensible answer . ''
`` I can tell you who he be -- he be Frank Harmon . ''
Alan star at her .
`` Frank Harmon .
Your -- your -- the man you marry ?
Impossible ! ''
`` It be he .
Do you think I could be mistake ? ''
* * * * * Dr. Ames come to Four Winds that night and again the next day .
He find Harmon delirious in a high fever .
`` It will be several day before he come to his sens , '' he say .
`` Shall I send you help to nurse him ? ''
`` It be n't necessary , '' say Emily stiffly .
`` I can look after him -- and the Captain ought to be back tomorrow . ''
`` You 've no idea who he be , I suppose ? ''
ask the doctor .
`` No . ''
Emily be quite sincere .
Lynde have not tell her , and Emily do not recognize him .
`` Well , Mr. Douglas do a brave thing in rescue him , '' say Dr. Ames .
`` I 'll be back tomorrow . ''
Harmon remain delirious for a week .
Alan go every day to Four Winds , his interest in a man he have rescue explain his visit to the Rexton people .
The Captain have return and , though not absolutely uncivil , be taciturn and moody .
Alan reflect grimly that Captain Anthony probably owe him a grudge for save Harmon 's life .
He never saw Lynde alone , but her strained , tortured face make his heart ache .
Old Emily only seem her natural self .
She wait on Harmon and Dr. Ames consider her a paragon of a nurse .
Alan think it be well that Emily know nothing more of Harmon than that he be an old friend of Captain Anthony 's .
He felt sure that she would have walk out of the sick room and never reentered it have she guess that the patient be the man whom , above all others , Lynde dread and fear .
One afternoon when Alan go to Four Winds Emily meet him at the door .
`` He 's good , '' she announce .
`` He have a good sleep this afternoon and when he wake he be quite himself .
You 'd better go up and see him .
I tell him all I could but he want to see you .
Anthony and Lynde be away to Crosse Harbour .
Go up and talk to him . ''
Harmon turn his head a the minister approach and hold out his hand with a smile .
`` You 're the preacher , I reckon .
They tell me you be the man who pull me out of that hurly-burly .
I be n't hardly worth save but I 'm as grateful to you a if I be . ''
`` I only -- do -- what any man would have do , '' say Alan , take the offer hand .
`` I do n't know about that .
Anyhow , it 's not every man could have do it .
I 'd be hang in that rig all day and most of the night before .
There be five more of u but they drop off .
I know it be no use to try to swim ashore alone -- the backwater would be too much for me .
I must have be a lot of trouble .
That old woman say I 've be rave for a week .
And , by the way I feel , I fancy I 'll be stretch out here another week before I 'll be able to use my pin .
Who be these Olivers anyhow ?
The old woman would n't talk about the family . ''
`` Do n't you know them ? ''
ask Alan in astonishment .
`` Is n't your name Harmon ? ''
`` That 's right -- Harmon -- Alfred Harmon , first mate of the schooner , Annie M. '' `` Alfred !
I think your name be Frank ! ''
`` Frank be my twin brother .
We be so much alike our own mammy could n't tell u apart .
Did you know Frank ? ''
`` No .
This family do .
Miss Oliver think you be Frank when she saw you . ''
`` I do n't feel much like myself but I 'm not Frank anyway .
He 's dead , poor chap -- get shot in a spat with Chinese pirate three year ago . ''
`` Dead !
Man , be you speak the truth ?
Are you certain ? ''
`` Pop sure .
His mate tell me the whole story .
Say , preacher , what 's the matter ?
You look a if you be go to keel over . ''
Alan hastily drink a glass of water .
`` I -- I be all right now .
I have n't be feel well of late . ''
`` Guess you do n't do yourself any good go out into that freezing water and drag me in . ''
`` I shall thank God every day of my life that I do do it , '' say Alan gravely , new light in his eye , a Emily enter the room .
`` Miss Oliver , when will the Captain and Lynde be back ? ''
`` They say they would be home by four . ''
She look at Alan curiously .
`` I will go and meet her , '' he say quickly .
He come upon Lynde , sit on a grey boulder under the shadow of an overhang fir coppice , with her dog beside her .
She turn her head indifferently a Alan 's footstep sound on the pebble , and then stand slowly up .
`` Are you look for me ? ''
she ask .
`` I have some news for you , Lynde , '' Alan say .
`` Has he -- have he come to himself ? ''
she whisper .
`` Yes , he have come to himself .
Lynde , he be not Frank Harmon -- he be his twin brother .
He say Frank Harmon be kill three year ago in the China sea . ''
For a moment Lynde 's great grey eye star into Alan 's , question .
Then , a the truth seize on her comprehension , she sit down on the boulder and put her hand over her face without a word .
Alan walk down to the water 's edge to give her time to recover herself .
When he come back he take her hand and say quietly , `` Lynde , do you realize what this mean for u -- for u ?
You be free -- free to love me -- to be my wife . ''
Lynde shake her head .
`` Oh , that ca n't be .
I be not fit to be your wife . ''
`` Do n't talk nonsense , dear , '' he smile .
`` It be n't nonsense .
You be a minister and it would ruin you to marry a girl like me .
Think what the Rexton people would say of it . ''
`` Rexton be n't the world , dearest .
Last week I have a letter from home ask me to go to a church there .
I do not think of accept then -- now I will go -- we will both go -- and a new life will begin for you , clear of the shadow of the old . ''
`` That be n't possible .
No , Alan , listen -- I love you too well to do you the wrong of marry you .
It would injure you .
There be Father .
I love him and he have always be very kind to me .
But -- but -- there 's something wrong -- you know it -- some crime in his past -- '' `` The only man who know that be dead . ''
`` We do not know that he be the only man .
I be the daughter of a criminal and I be no fit wife for Alan Douglas .
No , Alan , do n't plead , please .
I wo n't think differently -- I never can . ''
There be a ring of finality in her tone that strike dismay to Alan 's heart .
He prepare to entreat and argue , but before he could utter a word , the bough behind them part and Captain Anthony step down from the bank .
`` I 've be listen , '' he announce coolly , `` and I think it high time I take a share in the conversation .
You seem to have run up against a snag , Mr. Douglas .
You say Frank Harmon be dead .
That 's good riddance if it 's true .
Is it true ? ''
`` His brother declare it be . ''
`` Well , then , I 'll help you all I can .
I like you , Mr. Douglas , and I happen to be fond of Lynde , too -- though you may n't believe it .
I 'm fond of her for her mother 's sake and I 'd like to see her happy .
I do n't want to give her to Harmon that time three year ago but I could n't help myself .
He have the upper hand , curse him .
It be n't for my own sake , though -- it be for my wife 's .
However , that 's all over and do with and I 'll do the best I can to atone for it .
So you wo n't marry your minister because your father be not a good man , Lynde ?
Well , I do n't suppose he be a very good man -- a man who make his wife 's life a hell , even in a refined way , be n't exactly a saint , to my way of thinking .
But that 's the bad that could be say of him and it do n't entail any indelible disgrace on his family , I suppose .
I be not your father , Lynde . ''
`` Not my father ? ''
Lynde echo the word blankly .
`` No .
Your father be your mother 's first husband .
She never tell you of him .
When I say he make her life a hell , I say the truth , no more , no le .
I have love your mother ever since I be a boy , Lynde .
But she be far above me in station and I never dream it be possible to win her love .
She marry James Ashley .
He be a gentleman , so call -- and he do n't kick or beat her .
Oh no , he just torment her refine womanhood to the verge of frenzy , that be all .
He die when you be a baby .
And a year later I find out your mother could love me , rough sailor and all a I be .
I marry her and bring her here .
We have fifteen year of happiness together .
I 'm not a good man -- but I make your mother happy in spite of her wrecked health and her dark memory .
It be her wish that you should be know a my daughter , but under the present circumstance I know she would wish that you should be tell the truth .
Marry your man , Lynde , and go away with him .
Emily will go with you if you like .
I 'm go back to the sea .
I 've be hanker for it ever since your mother die .
I 'll go out of your life .
There , do n't cry -- I hate to see a woman cry .
Mr. Douglas , I 'll leave you to dry her tear and I 'll go up to the house and have a talk with Harmon . ''
When Captain Anthony have disappear behind the Point , Alan turn to Lynde .
She be sob softly and her face be wet with tear .
Alan draw her head down on his shoulder .
`` Sweetheart , the dark past be all put by .
Our future begin with promise .
All be well with u , dear Lynde . ''
Like a child , she put her arm about his neck and their lip meet .
Marcella 's Reward Dr. Clark shake his head gravely .
`` She be not improve as fast a I should like to see , '' he say .
`` In fact -- er -- she seem to have go backward the past week .
You must send her to the country , Miss Langley .
The heat here be too try for her . ''
Dr. Clark might as well have say , `` You must send her to the moon '' -- or so Marcella think bitterly .
Despair fill her heart a she look at Patty 's white face and transparent hand and listen to the doctor 's coolly professional advice .
Patty 's illness have already sweep away the scant saving of three year .
Marcella have nothing left with which to do anything more for her .
She do not make any answer to the doctor -- she could not .
Besides , what could she say , with Patty 's big blue eye , big and bluer than ever in her thin face , look at her so wistfully ?
She dare not say it be impossible .
But Aunt Emma have no such scruple .
With a great clatter and racket , that lady fell upon the dish that hold Patty 's almost untasted dinner and whisk them away while her tongue keep time to her jerky movement .
`` Goodness me , doctor , do you think you 're talk to millionaire ?
Where do you suppose the money be to come from to send Patty to the country ?
I ca n't afford it , that be certain .
I think I do pretty well to give Marcella and Patty their board free , and I have to work my finger to the bone to do that .
It 's all nonsense about Patty , anyhow .
What she ought to do be to make an effort to get good .
She do n't -- she just mope and pine .
She wo n't eat a thing I cook for her .
How can anyone expect to get good if she do n't eat ? ''
Aunt Emma glare at the doctor a if she be triumphantly sure that she have propound an unanswerable question .
A dull red flush rise to Marcella 's face .
`` Oh , Aunt Emma , I ca n't eat ! ''
say Patty wearily .
`` It be n't because I wo n't -- indeed , I ca n't . ''
`` Humph !
I suppose my cooking be n't fancy enough for you -- that 's the trouble .
Well , I have n't the time to put any frill on it .
I think I do pretty well to wait on you at all with all that work pile up before me .
But some people imagine that they be bear to be wait on . ''
Aunt Emma whirl the last dish from the table and leave the room , slam the door behind her .
The doctor shrug his shoulder .
He have become use to Miss Gibson 's tirade during Patty 's illness .
But Marcella have never get use to them -- never , in all the three year she have live with her aunt .
They flick on the raw as keenly a ever .
This morning it seem unbearable .
It take every atom of Marcella 's self-control to keep her from voice her resentful thought .
It be only for Patty 's sake that she be able to restrain herself .
It be only for Patty 's sake , too , that she do not , as soon a the doctor have go , give way to tear .
Instead , she smile bravely into the little sister 's eye .
`` Let me brush your hair now , dear , and bathe your face . ''
`` Have you time ? ''
say Patty anxiously .
`` Yes , I think so . ''
Patty give a sigh of content .
`` I 'm so glad !
Aunt Emma always hurt me when she brush my hair -- she be in such a hurry .
You 're so gentle , Marcella , you do n't make my head ache at all .
But oh !
I 'm so tired of be sick .
I wish I could get well faster .
Marcy , do you think I can be send to the country ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , dear .
I 'll see if I can think of any way to manage it , '' say Marcella , strive to speak hopefully .
Patty draw a long breath .
`` Oh , Marcy , it would be lovely to see the green field again , and the wood and brook , a we do that summer we spend in the country before Father die .
I wish we could live in the country always .
I 'm sure I would soon get good if I could go -- if it be only for a little while .
It 's so hot here -- and the factory make such a noise -- my head seem to go round and round all the time .
And Aunt Emma scold so . ''
`` You must n't mind Aunt Emma , dear , '' say Marcella .
`` You know she do n't really mean it -- it be just a habit she have get into .
She be really very good to you when you be so sick .
She sit up night after night with you , and make me go to bed .
There now , dearie , you 're fresh and sweet , and I must hurry to the store , or I 'll be late .
Try and have a little nap , and I 'll bring you home some orange tonight . ''
Marcella drop a kiss on Patty 's cheek , put on her hat and go out .
As soon a she leave the house , she quicken her step almost to a run .
She fear she would be late , and that mean a ten-cent fine .
Ten cent loom as large a ten dollar now to Marcella 's eye when every dime mean so much .
But fast a she go , her distract thought go faster .
She could not send Patty to the country .
There be no way , think , plan , worry a she might .
And if she could not !
Marcella remember Patty 's face and the doctor 's look , and her heart sank like lead .
Patty be grow weak every day instead of strong , and the weather be get hotter .
Oh , if Patty be to -- to -- but Marcella could not complete the sentence even in thought .
If they be not so desperately poor !
Marcella 's bitterness overflow her soul at the thought .
Everywhere around her be evidence of wealth -- wealth often lavishly and foolishly spent -- and she could not get money enough anywhere to save her sister 's life !
She almost felt that she hat all those smile , well-dressed people who throng the street .
By the time she reach the store , poor Marcella 's heart be seethe with misery and resentment .
Three year before , when Marcella have be sixteen and Patty nine , their parent have die , leave them absolutely alone in the world except for their father 's half-sister , Miss Gibson , who live in Canning and earn her livelihood washing and mending for the hand employ in the big factory nearby .
She have grudgingly offer the girl a home , which Marcella have accept because she must .
She obtain a position in one of the Canning store at three dollar a week , out of which she contrive to dress herself and Patty and send the latter to school .
Her life for three year be one of absolute drudgery , yet until now she have never lose courage , but have struggle bravely on , hop for good time in the future when she should get promotion and Patty would be old enough to teach school .
But now Marcella 's courage and hopefulness have go out like a spent candle .
She be late at the store , and that mean a fine ; her head ache , and her foot felt like lead a she climb the stair to her department -- a hot , dark , stuffy corner behind the shirtwaist counter .
It be warm and close at any time , but today it be stifle , and there be already a crowd of customer , for it be the day of a bargain sale .
The heat and noise and chatter get on Marcella 's tortured nerve .
She felt that she want to scream , but instead she turn calmly to a wait customer -- a big , handsome , richly dress woman .
Marcella note with an ever-increasing bitterness that the woman wear a lace collar the price of which would have keep Patty in the country for a year .
She be Mrs. Liddell -- Marcella know her by sight -- and she be in a very bad temper because she have be keep wait .
For the next half hour she badger and worry Marcella to the point of distraction .
Nothing suit her .
Pile after pile , box after box , of shirtwaist do Marcella take down for her , only to have them fling aside with sarcastic remark .
Mrs. Liddell seem to hold Marcella responsible for the lack of waist that suit her ; her tongue grow sharp and sharp and her comment more try .
Then she mislay her purse , and be disagreeable about that until it turn up .
Marcella shut her lip so tightly that they turn white to keep back the impatient retort that rise momentarily to her lip .
The insolence of some customer be always try to the sensitive , high-spirited girl , but today it seem unbearable .
Her head throb fiercely with the pain of the ever-increasing ache , and -- what be the lady on her right say to a friend ?
`` Yes , she have typhoid , you know -- a very bad form .
She rally from it , but she be so exhausted that she could n't really recover , and the doctor say -- '' `` Really , '' interrupt Mrs. Liddell 's sharp voice , `` may I ask you to attend to me , if you please ?
No doubt gossip may be very interesting to you , but I be accustom to have a clerk pay some small attention to my requirement .
If you can not attend to your business , I shall go to the floor walker and ask him to direct me to somebody who can .
The laziness and disobligingness of the girl in this store be really get beyond endurance . ''
A passionate answer be on the point of Marcella 's tongue .
All her bitterness and suffering and resentment flash into her face and eye .
For one moment she be determine to speak out , to repay Mrs. Liddell 's insolence in kind .
A retort be ready to her hand .
Everyone know that Mrs. Liddell , before her marriage to a wealthy man , have be a work girl .
What could be easy than to say contemptuously : `` You should be a judge of a clerk 's courtesy and ability , madam .
You be a shop girl yourself once ? ''
But if she say it , what would follow ?
Prompt and instant dismissal .
And Patty ?
The thought of the little sister quell the storm in Marcella 's soul .
For Patty 's sake she must control her temper -- and she do .
With an effort that leave her white and tremulous she crush back the hot word and say quietly : `` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Liddell .
I do not mean to be inattentive .
Let me show you some of our new lingerie waist , I think you will like them . ''
But Mrs. Liddell do not like the new lingerie waist which Marcella bring to her in her trembling hand .
For another half hour she examine and find fault and sneer .
Then she sweep away with the scornful remark that she do n't see a thing there that be fit to wear , and she would go to Markwell Bros. and see if they have anything worth look at .
When she have go , Marcella lean against the counter , pale and exhaust .
She must have a breathing spell .
Oh , how her head ache !
How hot and stifle and horrible everything be !
She long for the country herself .
Oh , if she and Patty could only go away to some place where there be green clover meadow and cool breeze and great hill where the air be sweet and pure !
During all this time a middle-aged woman have be sit on a stool beside the bargain counter .
When a clerk ask her if she wish to be wait on , she say , `` No , I 'm just wait here for a friend who promise to meet me . ''
She be tall and gaunt and grey haired .
She have square jaw and cold grey eye and an aggressive nose , but there be something attractive in her plain face , a mingling of common sense and kindliness .
She watch Marcella and Mrs. Liddell closely and lose nothing of all that be say and do on both side .
Now and then she smile grimly and nod .
When Mrs. Liddell have go , she rise and lean over the counter .
Marcella open her burning eye and pull herself wearily together .
`` What can I do for you ? ''
she say .
`` Nothing .
I ai n't look for to have anything do for me .
You need to have something do for you , I guess , by the look of you .
You seem dead beat out .
Are n't you awful tire ?
I 've be listen to that woman jaw you till I felt like rise up and give her a large and wholesome piece of my mind .
I do n't know how you keep your patience with her , but I can tell you I admire you for it , and I make up my mind I 'd tell you so . ''
The kindness and sympathy in her tone break Marcella down .
Tears rush to her eye .
She bow her head on her hand and say sobbingly , `` Oh , I be tired !
But it 's not that .
I 'm -- I 'm in such trouble . ''
`` I know you be , '' say the other , with a nod of her head .
`` I could tell that right off by your face .
Do you know what I say to myself ?
I say , ` That girl have get somebody at home awful sick . '
That 's what I say .
Was I right ? ''
`` Yes , indeed you be , '' say Marcella .
`` I know it '' -- another triumphant nod .
`` Now , you just tell me all about it .
It 'll do you good to talk it over with somebody .
Here , I 'll pretend I 'm look at shirtwaist , so that floor walker wo n't be come down on you , and I 'll be as hard to please a that other woman be , so 's you can take your time .
Who 's sick -- and what 's the matter ? ''
Marcella tell the whole story , choke back her sob and force herself to speak calmly , have the fear of the floor walker before her eye .
`` And I ca n't afford to send Patty to the country -- I ca n't -- and I know she wo n't get good if she do n't go , '' she conclude .
`` Dear , dear , but that 's too bad !
Something must be do .
Let me see -- let me put on my thinking cap .
What be your name ? ''
`` Marcella Langley . ''
The old woman drop the lingerie waist she be pretend to examine and star at Marcella .
`` You do n't say !
Look here , what be your mother 's name before she be marry ? ''
`` Mary Carvell . ''
`` Well , I have hear of coincidence , but this beat all !
Mary Carvell !
Well , do you ever hear your mother speak of a girl friend of hers call Josephine Draper ? ''
`` I should think I do !
You do n't mean -- '' `` I do mean it .
I 'm Josephine Draper .
Your mother and I go to school together , and we be as much a sister to each other until she get married .
Then she go away , and after a few year I lose trace of her .
I do n't even know she be dead .
Poor Mary !
Well , my duty be plain -- that 's one comfort -- my duty and my pleasure , too .
Your sister be come out to Dalesboro to stay with me .
Yes , and you be too , for the whole summer .
You need n't say you 're not , because you be .
I 've say so .
There 's room at Fir Cottage for you both .
Yes , Fir Cottage -- I guess you 've hear your mother speak of that .
There 's her old room out there that we always sleep in when she come to stay all night with me .
It 's all ready for you .
What 's that ?
You ca n't afford to lose your place here ?
Bless your heart , child , you wo n't lose it !
The owner of this store be my nephew , and he 'll do considerable to oblige me , as well he might , see a I bring him up .
To think that Mary Carvell 's daughter have be in his store for three year , and me never suspect it !
And I might never have find you out at all if you have n't be so patient with that woman .
If you 'd sass her back , I 'd have think she deserve it and would n't have blame you a mite , but I would n't have bother come to talk to you either .
Well , well well !
Poor child , do n't cry .
You just pick up and go home .
I 'll make it all right with Tom .
You 're pretty near play out yourself , I can see that .
But a summer in Fir Cottage , with plenty of cream and egg and my cookery , will soon make another girl of you .
Do n't you dare to thank me .
It 's a privilege to be able to do something for Mary Carvell 's girl .
I just love Mary . ''
The upshot of the whole matter be that Marcella and Patty go , two day later , to Dalesboro , where Miss Draper give them a hearty welcome to Fir Cottage -- a quaint , delightful little house circle by big Scotch fir and overgrown with vine .
Never be such delightful week a those that follow .
Patty come rapidly back to health and strength .
As for Marcella , Miss Draper 's prophecy be also fulfil ; she soon look and felt like another girl .
The dismal year of drudgery behind her be forget like a dream , and she live wholly in the beautiful present , in the walk and drive , the flower and grass slope , and in the pleasant household duty which she share with Miss Draper .
`` I love housework , '' she exclaim one September day .
`` I do n't like the thought of go back to the store a bit . ''
`` Well , you 're not go back , '' calmly say Miss Draper , who have a habit of arrange other people 's business for them that might have be disconcert have it not be for her keen insight and hearty good sense .
`` You 're go to stay here with me -- you and Patty .
I do n't propose to die of lonesomeness losing you , and I need somebody to help me about the house .
I 've think it all out .
You be to call me Aunt Josephine , and Patty be to go to school .
I have this scheme in mind from the first , but I think I 'd wait to see how we get along live in the same house , and how you like it here , before I speak out .
No , you need n't thank me this time either .
I 'm do this every bit a much for my sake a yours .
Well , that 's all settle .
Patty wo n't object , bless her rosy cheek ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
say Marcella , with eye shin through her tear .
`` I 'm so happy , dear Miss Draper -- I mean Aunt Josephine .
I 'll love to stay here -- and I will thank you . ''
`` Fudge ! ''
remark Miss Draper , who felt uncomfortably near cry herself .
`` You might go out and pick a basket of Golden Gems .
I want to make some jelly for Patty . ''
Margaret 's Patient -LSB- Illustration : `` DID DR. FORBES THINK SHE OUGHT TO GIVE UP HER TRIP ? '' -RSB-
Margaret pause a moment at the gate and look back at the quaint old house under it snowy fir with a thrill of proprietary affection .
It be her home ; for the first time in her life she have a real home , and the long , weary year of poorly pay drudgery be all behind her .
Before her be a prospect of independence and many of the delight she have always crave ; in the immediate future be a trip to Vancouver with Mrs. Boyd .
For I shall go , of course , think Margaret , a she walk briskly down the snowy road .
I 've always want to see the Rockies , and to go there with Mrs. Boyd will double the pleasure .
She be such a delightful companion .
Margaret Campbell have be an orphan ever since she could remember .
She have be bring up by a distant relative of her father 's -- that be , she have be give board , lodge , some schooling and indifferent clothes for the privilege of work like a little drudge in the house of the grim cousin who shelter her .
The death of this cousin flung Margaret on her own resource .
A friend have procure her employment a the `` companion '' of a rich , eccentric old lady , infirm of health and temper .
Margaret live with her for five year , and to the young girl they seem treble the time .
Her employer be fault-finding , peevish , unreasonable , and many a time Margaret 's patience almost fail her -- almost , but not quite .
In the end it bring her a more tangible reward than sometimes fall to the lot of the toiler .
Mrs. Constance die , and in her will she leave to Margaret her little up-country cottage and enough money to provide her an income for the rest of her life .
Margaret take immediate possession of her little house and , with the aid of a capable old servant , soon find herself very comfortable .
She realize that her day of drudgery be over , and that henceforth life would be a very different thing from what it have be .
Margaret meant to have `` a good time . ''
She have never have any pleasure and now she be resolve to garner in all she could of the joy of existence .
`` I 'm not go to do a single useful thing for a year , '' she have tell Mrs. Boyd gaily .
`` Just think of it -- a whole delightful year of vacation , to go and come at will , to read , travel , dream , rest .
After that , I mean to see if I can find something to do for other folk , but I 'm go to have this one golden year .
And the first thing in it be our trip to Vancouver .
I 'm so glad I have the chance to go with you .
It 's a wee bit short notice , but I 'll be ready when you want to start . ''
Altogether , Margaret felt pretty well satisfy with life a she trip blithely down the country road between the rank of snow-laden spruce , with the blue sky above and the crisp , exhilarate air all about .
There be only one drawback , but it be a pretty serious one .
It 's so lonely by spell , Margaret sometimes think wistfully .
All the joy my good fortune have bring me ca n't quite fill my heart .
There 's always one little empty , ache spot .
Oh , if I have somebody of my very own to love and care for , a mother , a sister , even a cousin .
But there 's nobody .
I have n't a relative in the world , and there be time when I 'd give almost anything to have one .
Well , I must try to be satisfy with friendship , instead .
Margaret 's meditation be interrupt by a brisk footstep behind her , and presently Dr. Forbes come up .
`` Good afternoon , Miss Campbell .
Taking a constitutional ? ''
`` Yes .
Is n't it a lovely day ?
I suppose you be on your professional round .
How be all your patient ? ''
`` Most of them be do well .
But I 'm sorry to say I have a new one and be very much worried about her .
Do you know Freda Martin ? ''
`` The little teacher in the Primary Department who board with the Wayes ?
Yes , I 've meet her once or twice .
Is she ill ? ''
`` Yes , seriously .
It 's typhoid , and she have be go about long than she should .
I do n't know what be to be do with her .
It seem she be like yourself in one respect , Miss Campbell ; she be utterly alone in the world .
Mrs. Waye be cripple with rheumatism and ca n't nurse her , and I fear it will be impossible to get a nurse in Blythefield .
She ought to be take from the Wayes ' .
The house be overrun with child , be right next door to that noisy factory , and in other respect be a poor place for a sick girl . ''
`` It be too bad , I be very sorry , '' say Margaret sympathetically .
Dr. Forbes shoot a keen look at her from his deep-set eye .
`` Are you willing to show your sympathy in a practical form , Miss Campbell ? ''
he say bluntly .
`` You tell me the other day you mean to begin work for others next year .
Why not begin now ?
Here 's a splendid chance to befriend a friendless girl .
Will you take Freda Martin into your home during her illness ? ''
`` Oh , I could n't , '' cry Margaret blankly .
`` Why , I 'm go away next week .
I 'm go with Mrs. Boyd to Vancouver , and my house will be shut up . ''
`` Oh , I do not know .
That settle it , I suppose , '' say the doctor with a sigh of regret .
`` Well , I must see what else I can do for poor Freda .
If I have a home of my own , the problem would be easily solve , but a I 'm only a boarder myself , I 'm helpless in that respect .
I 'm very much afraid she will have a hard time to pull through , but I 'll do the best I can for her .
Well , I must run in here and have a look at Tommy Griggs ' eye .
Good morning , Miss Campbell . ''
Margaret respond rather absently and walk on with her eye fix on the road .
Somehow all the joy have go out of the day for her , and out of her prospective trip .
She stop on the little bridge and gazed unseeingly at the ice-bound creek .
Did Dr. Forbes really think she ought to give up her trip in order to take Freda Martin into her home and probably nurse her as well , since skilled nursing of any kind be almost unobtainable in Blythefield ?
No , of course , Dr. Forbes do not mean anything of the sort .
He have not know she intend to go away .
Margaret try to put the thought out of her mind , but it come insistently back .
She know -- none well -- what it be to be alone and friendless .
Once she have be ill , too , and leave to the ministration of careless servant .
Margaret shudder whenever she think of that time .
She be very , very sorry for Freda Martin , but she certainly could n't give up her plan for her .
`` Why , I 'd never have the chance to go with Mrs. Boyd again , '' she argue with her troublesome inward prompting .
Altogether , Margaret 's walk be spoil .
But when she go to bed that night , she be firmly resolve to dismiss all thought of Freda Martin .
In the middle of the night she wake up .
It be calm and moonlight and frosty .
The world be very still , and Margaret 's heart and conscience spoke to her out of that silence , where all worldly motif be hush and sham .
She listen , and know that in the morning she must send for Dr. Forbes and tell him to bring his patient to Fir Cottage .
The evening of the next day find Freda in Margaret 's spare room and Margaret herself instal a nurse , for a Dr. Forbes have fear , he have find it impossible to obtain anyone else .
Margaret have a natural gift for nursing , and she have have a good deal of experience in sick room .
She be skilful , gentle and compose , and Dr. Forbes nod his head with satisfaction a he watch her .
A week later Mrs. Boyd leave for Vancouver , and Margaret , bend over her delirious patient , could not even go to the station to see her off .
But she think little about it .
All her hope be centre on pull Freda Martin through ; and when , after a long , doubtful fortnight , Dr. Forbes pronounce her on the way to recovery , Margaret felt a if she have give the gift of life to a fellow creature .
`` Oh , I be so glad I stay , '' she whisper to herself .
During Freda 's convalescence Margaret learn to love her dearly .
She be such a sweet , brave little creature , full of a fine courage to face the loneliness and trial of her lot .
`` I can never repay you for your kindness , Miss Campbell , '' she say wistfully .
`` I be more than repay already , '' say Margaret sincerely .
`` Have n't I find a dear little friend ? ''
One day Freda ask Margaret to write a note for her to a certain school chum .
`` She will like to know I be get well .
You will find her address in my writing desk . ''
Freda 's modest trunk have be bring to Fir Cottage , and Margaret go to it for the desk .
As she turn over the loose paper in search of the address , her eye be catch by a name sign to a fade and yellow letter -- Worth Spencer .
Her mother 's name !
Margaret give a little exclamation of astonishment .
Could her mother have write that letter ?
It be not likely another woman would have that uncommon name .
Margaret catch up the letter and ran to Freda 's room .
`` Freda , I could n't help see the name sign to this letter , it be my mother 's .
To whom be it write ? ''
`` That be one of my mother 's old letter , '' say Freda .
`` She have a sister , my Aunt Worth .
She be a great deal old than Mother .
Their parent die when Mother be a baby .
Aunt Worth go to her father 's people , while Mother 's grandmother take her .
There be not very good feeling between the two family , I think .
Mother say she lose trace of her sister after her sister marry , and then , long after , she saw Aunt Worth 's death in the paper . ''
`` Can you tell me where your mother and her sister live before they be separate ? ''
ask Margaret excitedly .
`` Ridgetown . ''
`` Then my mother must have be your mother 's sister , and , oh , Freda , Freda , you be my cousin . ''
Eventually this be prove to be the fact .
Margaret investigate the matter and discover beyond a doubt that she and Freda be cousin .
It would be hard to say which of the two girl be the more delighted .
`` Anyhow , we 'll never be part again , '' say Margaret happily .
`` Fir Cottage be your home henceforth , Freda .
Oh , how rich I be .
I have get somebody who really belong to me .
And I owe it all to Dr. Forbes .
If he have n't suggest you come here , I should never have find out that we be cousin . ''
`` And I do n't think I should ever have get good at all , '' whisper Freda , slip her hand into Margaret 's .
`` I think we be go to be the two happy girl in the world , '' say Margaret .
`` And Freda , do you know what we be go to do when your summer vacation come ?
We be go to have a trip through the Rockies , yes , indeedy .
It would have be nice go with Mrs. Boyd , but it will be ten time nicer to go with you . ''
Matthew Insists on Puffed Sleeves Matthew be have a bad ten minute of it .
He have come into the kitchen , in the twilight of a cold , grey December evening , and have sit down in the wood-box corner to take off his heavy boot , unconscious of the fact that Anne and a bevy of her schoolmate be have a practice of `` The Fairy Queen '' in the sitting-room .
Presently they come troop through the hall and out into the kitchen , laugh and chatter gaily .
They do not see Matthew , who shrink bashfully back into the shadow beyond the wood-box with a boot in one hand and a bootjack in the other , and he watch them shyly for the aforesaid ten minute a they put on cap and jacket and talk about the dialogue and the concert .
Anne stand among them , bright eyed and animate a they ; but Matthew suddenly become conscious that there be something about her different from her mate .
And what worry Matthew be that the difference impress him a be something that should not exist .
Anne have a brighter face , and big , starry eye , and more delicate feature than the others ; even shy , unobservant Matthew have learn to take note of these thing ; but the difference that disturb him do not consist in any of these respect .
Then in what do it consist ?
Matthew be haunt by this question long after the girl have go , arm in arm , down the long , hard-frozen lane and Anne have betaken herself to her book .
He could not refer it to Marilla , who , he felt , would be quite sure to sniff scornfully and remark that the only difference she saw between Anne and the other girl be that they sometimes keep their tongue quiet while Anne never do .
This , Matthew felt , would be no great help .
He have recourse to his pipe that even to help him study it out , much to Marilla 's disgust .
After two hour of smoking and hard reflection Matthew arrive at a solution of his problem .
Anne be not dress like the other girl !
The more Matthew think about the matter the more he be convince that Anne never have be dress like the other girl -- never since she have come to Green Gables .
Marilla keep her clothe in plain , dark dress , all make after the same unvarying pattern .
If Matthew know there be such a thing a fashion in dress it be as much a he do ; but he be quite sure that Anne 's sleeve do not look at all like the sleeve the other girl wore .
He recall the cluster of little girl he have see around her that evening -- all gay in waist of red and blue and pink and white -- and he wonder why Marilla always keep her so plainly and soberly gown .
Of course , it must be all right .
Marilla know best and Marilla be bring her up .
Probably some wise , inscrutable motive be to be serve thereby .
But surely it would do no harm to let the child have one pretty dress -- something like Diana Barry always wore .
Matthew decide that he would give her one ; that surely could not be object to a an unwarranted put in of his oar .
Christmas be only a fortnight off .
A nice new dress would be the very thing for a present .
Matthew , with a sigh of satisfaction , put away his pipe and go to bed , while Marilla open all the door and air the house .
The very next evening Matthew betook himself to Carmody to buy the dress , determine to get the bad over and have do with it .
It would be , he felt assure , no trifle ordeal .
There be some thing Matthew could buy and prove himself no mean bargainer ; but he know he would be at the mercy of shopkeeper when it come to buy a girl 's dress .
After much cogitation Matthew resolve to go to Samuel Lawson 's store instead of William Blair 's .
To be sure , the Cuthberts always have go to William Blair 's ; it be almost as much a matter of conscience with them a to attend the Presbyterian church and vote Conservative .
But William Blair 's two daughter frequently wait on customer there and Matthew hold them in absolute dread .
He could contrive to deal with them when he know exactly what he want and could point it out ; but in such a matter a this , require explanation and consultation , Matthew felt that he must be sure of a man behind the counter .
So he would go to Lawson 's , where Samuel or his son would wait on him .
Alas !
Matthew do not know that Samuel , in the recent expansion of his business , have set up a lady clerk also ; she be a niece of his wife 's and a very dashing young person indeed , with a huge , droop pompadour , big , roll brown eye , and a most extensive and bewilder smile .
She be dress with exceed smartness and wear several bangle bracelet that glitter and rattle and tinkle with every movement of her hand .
Matthew be cover with confusion at find her there at all ; and those bangle completely wreck his wit at one fell swoop .
`` What can I do for you this evening .
Mr. Cuthbert ? ''
Miss Lucilla Harris inquire , briskly and ingratiatingly , tap the counter with both hand .
`` Have you any -- any -- any -- well now , say any garden rake ? ''
stammer Matthew .
Miss Harris look somewhat surprised , as well she might , to hear a man inquire for garden rake in the middle of December .
`` I believe we have one or two leave over , '' she say , `` but they 're upstairs in the lumber-room .
I 'll go and see . ''
During her absence Matthew collect his scattered sens for another effort .
When Miss Harris return with the rake and cheerfully inquire : `` Anything else tonight , Mr. Cuthbert ? ''
Matthew take his courage in both hand and reply : `` Well now , since you suggest it , I might as well -- take -- that be -- look at -- buy some -- some hayseed . ''
Miss Harris have hear Matthew Cuthbert call odd .
She now conclude that he be entirely crazy .
`` We only keep hayseed in the spring , '' she explain loftily .
`` We 've none on hand just now . ''
`` Oh , certainly -- certainly -- just a you say , '' stammer unhappy Matthew , seize the rake and make for the door .
At the threshold he recollect that he have not pay for it and he turn miserably back .
While Miss Harris be count out his change he rally his power for a final desperate attempt .
`` Well now -- if it be n't too much trouble -- I might as well -- that be -- I 'd like to look at -- at -- some sugar . ''
`` White or brown ? ''
queried Miss Harris patiently .
`` Oh -- well now -- brown , '' say Matthew feebly .
`` There 's a barrel of it over there , '' say Miss Harris , shake her bangle at it .
`` It 's the only kind we have . ''
`` I 'll -- I 'll take twenty pound of it , '' say Matthew , with bead of perspiration stand on his forehead .
Matthew have drive halfway home before he be his own man again .
It have be a gruesome experience , but it serve him right , he think , for commit the heresy of go to a strange store .
When he reach home he hide the rake in the tool-house , but the sugar he carry in to Marilla .
`` Brown sugar ! ''
exclaim Marilla .
`` Whatever possess you to get so much ?
You know I never use it except for the hired man 's porridge or black fruit-cake .
Jerry 's go and I 've make my cake long ago .
It 's not good sugar , either -- it 's coarse and dark -- William Blair do n't usually keep sugar like that . ''
`` I -- I think it might come in handy sometime , '' say Matthew , make good his escape .
When Matthew come to think the matter over he decide that a woman be require to cope with the situation .
Marilla be out of the question .
Matthew felt sure she would throw cold water on his project at once .
Remained only Mrs. Lynde ; for of no other woman in Avonlea would Matthew have dare to ask advice .
To Mrs. Lynde he go accordingly , and that good lady promptly take the matter out of the harassed man 's hand .
`` Pick out a dress for you to give Anne ?
To be sure I will .
I 'm go to Carmody tomorrow and I 'll attend to it .
Have you something particular in mind ?
No ?
Well , I 'll just go by my own judgment then .
I believe a nice rich brown would just suit Anne , and William Blair have some new gloria in that 's real pretty .
Perhaps you 'd like me to make it up for her , too , see that if Marilla be to make it Anne would probably get wind of it before the time and spoil the surprise ?
Well , I 'll do it .
No , it be n't a mite of trouble .
I like sew .
I 'll make it to fit my niece , Jenny Gillis , for she and Anne be as like a two pea as far a figure go . ''
`` Well now , I 'm much oblige , '' say Matthew , `` and -- and -- I dunno -- but I 'd like -- I think they make the sleeve different nowadays to what they use to be .
If it would n't be ask too much I -- I 'd like them make in the new way . ''
`` Puffs ?
Of course .
You need n't worry a speck more about it , Matthew .
I 'll make it up in the very late fashion , '' say Mrs. Lynde .
To herself she add when Matthew have go : `` It 'll be a real satisfaction to see that poor child wear something decent for once .
The way Marilla dress her be positively ridiculous , that 's what , and I 've ache to tell her so plainly a dozen time .
I 've hold my tongue though , for I can see Marilla do n't want advice and she think she know more about bringing child up than I do for all she 's an old maid .
But that 's always the way .
Folks that have bring up child know that there 's no hard and fast method in the world that 'll suit every child .
But them as never have think it 's all a plain and easy a Rule of Three -- just set your three term down so fashion , and the sum 'll work out correct .
But flesh and blood do n't come under the head of arithmetic and that 's where Marilla Cuthbert make her mistake .
I suppose she 's try to cultivate a spirit of humility in Anne by dress her a she do : but it 's more likely to cultivate envy and discontent .
I 'm sure the child must feel the difference between her clothes and the other girl ' .
But to think of Matthew take notice of it !
That man be wake up after be asleep for over sixty year . ''
Marilla know all the follow fortnight that Matthew have something on his mind , but what it be she could not guess , until Christmas Eve , when Mrs. Lynde bring up the new dress .
Marilla behave pretty well on the whole , although it be very likely she distrust Mrs. Lynde 's diplomatic explanation that she have make the dress because Matthew be afraid Anne would find out about it too soon if Marilla make it .
`` So this be what Matthew have be look so mysterious over and grin about to himself for two week , be it ? ''
she say a little stiffly but tolerantly .
`` I know he be up to some foolishness .
Well , I must say I do n't think Anne need any more dress .
I make her three good , warm , serviceable one this fall , and anything more be sheer extravagance .
There 's enough material in those sleeve alone to make a waist , I declare there be .
You 'll just pamper Anne 's vanity , Matthew , and she 's as vain a a peacock now .
Well , I hope she 'll be satisfy at last , for I know she 's be hanker after those silly sleeve ever since they come in , although she never say a word after the first .
The puff have be get big and more ridiculous right along ; they 're as big a balloon now .
Next year anybody who wear them will have to go through a door sideways . ''
Christmas morning break on a beautiful white world .
It have be a very mild December and people have look forward to a green Christmas ; but just enough snow fell softly in the night to transfigure Avonlea .
Anne peep out from her frost gable window with delighted eye .
The fir in the Haunted Wood be all feathery and wonderful ; the birch and wild cherry tree be outline in pearl ; the ploughed field be stretch of snowy dimple ; and there be a crisp tang in the air that be glorious .
Anne run downstairs sing until her voice re-echoed through Green Gables .
`` Merry Christmas , Marilla !
Merry Christmas , Matthew !
Is n't it a lovely Christmas ?
I 'm so glad it 's white .
Any other kind of Christmas do n't seem real , do it ?
I do n't like green Christmases .
They 're not green -- they 're just nasty fade brown and grey .
What make people call them green ?
Why -- why -- Matthew , be that for me ?
Oh , Matthew ! ''
Matthew have sheepishly unfold the dress from it paper swathing and hold it out with a deprecatory glance at Marilla , who feign to be contemptuously fill the teapot , but nevertheless watch the scene out of the corner of her eye with a rather interested air .
Anne take the dress and look at it in reverent silence .
Oh , how pretty it be -- a lovely soft brown gloria with all the gloss of silk ; a skirt with dainty frill and shirring ; a waist elaborately pin-tucked in the most fashionable way , with a little ruffle of filmy lace at the neck .
But the sleeve -- they be the crown glory !
Long elbow cuff , and above them two beautiful puff divide by row of shirr and bow of brown silk ribbon .
`` That 's a Christmas present for you , Anne , '' say Matthew shyly .
`` Why -- why -- Anne , do n't you like it ?
Well now -- well now . ''
For Anne 's eye have suddenly fill with tear . ''
Like it !
Oh , Matthew ! ''
Anne lay the dress over a chair and clasp her hand .
`` Matthew , it 's perfectly exquisite .
Oh , I can never thank you enough .
Look at those sleeve !
Oh , it seem to me this must be a happy dream . ''
`` Well , well , let u have breakfast , '' interrupt Marilla .
`` I must say , Anne , I do n't think you need the dress ; but since Matthew have get it for you , see that you take good care of it .
There 's a hair ribbon Mrs. Lynde leave for you .
It 's brown , to match the dress .
Come now , sit in . ''
`` I do n't see how I 'm go to eat breakfast , '' say Anne rapturously .
`` Breakfast seem so commonplace at such an exciting moment .
I 'd rather feast my eye on that dress .
I 'm so glad that puffed sleeve be still fashionable .
It do seem to me that I 'd never get over it if they go out before I have a dress with them .
I 'd never have felt quite satisfied , you see .
It be lovely of Mrs. Lynde to give me the ribbon , too .
I feel that I ought to be a very good girl indeed .
It 's at time like this I 'm sorry I 'm not a model little girl ; and I always resolve that I will be in future .
But somehow it 's hard to carry out your resolution when irresistible temptation come .
Still , I really will make an extra effort after this . ''
When the commonplace breakfast be over Diana appear , cross the white log bridge in the hollow , a gay little figure in her crimson ulster .
Anne fly down the slope to meet her .
`` Merry Christmas , Diana !
And oh , it 's a wonderful Christmas .
I 've something splendid to show you .
Matthew have give me the lovely dress , with such sleeve .
I could n't even imagine any nicer . ''
`` I 've get something more for you , '' say Diana breathlessly .
`` Here -- this box .
Aunt Josephine send u out a big box with ever so many thing in it -- and this be for you .
I 'd have bring it over last night , but it do n't come until after dark , and I never feel very comfortable come through the Haunted Wood in the dark now . ''
Anne open the box and peep in .
First a card with `` For the Anne-girl and Merry Christmas , '' write on it ; and then , a pair of the dainty little kid slipper , with bead toe and satin bow and glisten buckle .
`` Oh , '' say Anne , `` Diana , this be too much , I must be dream . '' ''
I call it providential , '' say Diana .
`` You wo n't have to borrow Ruby 's slipper now , and that 's a blessing , for they 're two size too big for you , and it would be awful to hear a fairy shuffling .
Josie Pye would be delight .
Mind you , Rob Wright go home with Gertie Pye from the practice night before last .
Did you ever hear anything equal to that ? ''
All the Avonlea scholar be in a fever of excitement that day , for the hall have to be decorate and a last grand rehearsal hold .
The concert come off in the evening and be a pronounced success .
The little hall be crowd ; all the performer do excellently well , but Anne be the bright particular star of the occasion , a even envy , in the shape of Josie Pye , dare not deny .
`` Oh , have n't it be a brilliant evening ? ''
sigh Anne , when it be all over and she and Diana be walk home together under a dark , starry sky .
`` Everything go off very well , '' say Diana practically .
`` I guess we must have make as much a ten dollar .
Mind you , Mr. Allan be go to send an account of it to the Charlottetown paper . ''
`` Oh , Diana , will we really see our name in print ?
It make me thrill to think of it .
Your solo be perfectly elegant , Diana .
I felt prouder than you do when it be encore .
I just say to myself , ` It be my dear bosom friend who be so honoured . ' ''
`` Well , your recitation just bring down the house , Anne .
That sad one be simply splendid . ''
`` Oh , I be so nervous , Diana .
When Mr. Allan call out my name I really can not tell how I ever get up on that platform .
I felt a if a million eye be look at me and through me , and for one dreadful moment I be sure I could n't begin at all .
Then I think of my lovely puffed sleeve and take courage .
I know that I must live up to those sleeve , Diana .
So I start in , and my voice seem to be come from ever so far away .
I just felt like a parrot .
It 's providential that I practise those recitation so often up in the garret , or I 'd never have be able to get through .
Did I groan all right ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , you groan lovely , '' assure Diana .
`` I saw old Mrs. Sloane wipe away tear when I sit down .
It be splendid to think I have touch somebody 's heart .
It 's so romantic to take part in a concert be n't it ?
Oh , it 's be a very memorable occasion indeed . ''
`` Was n't the boy ' dialogue fine ? ''
say Diana .
`` Gilbert Blythe be just splendid .
Anne , I do think it 's awful mean the way you treat Gil .
Wait till I tell you .
When you run off the platform after the fairy dialogue one of your rose fell out of your hair .
I saw Gil pick it up and put it in his breast pocket .
There now .
You 're so romantic that I 'm sure you ought to be please at that . ''
`` It 's nothing to me what that person do , '' say Anne loftily .
`` I simply never waste a thought on him , Diana . ''
That night Marilla and Matthew , who have be out to a concert for the first time in twenty year , sit for awhile by the kitchen fire after Anne have go to bed .
`` Well now , I guess our Anne do as well a any of them , '' say Matthew proudly .
`` Yes , she do , '' admit Marilla .
`` She 's a bright child , Matthew .
And she look real nice , too .
I 've be kind of oppose to this concert scheme , but I suppose there 's no real harm in it after all .
Anyhow , I be proud of Anne tonight , although I 'm not go to tell her so . ''
`` Well now , I be proud of her and I do tell her so ` fore she go upstairs , '' say Matthew .
`` We must see what we can do for her some of these day , Marilla .
I guess she 'll need something more than Avonlea school by and by . ''
`` There 's time enough to think of that , '' say Marilla .
`` She 's only thirteen in March .
Though tonight it strike me she be grow quite a big girl .
Mrs. Lynde make that dress a mite too long , and it make Anne look so tall .
She 's quick to learn and I guess the best thing we can do for her will be to send her to Queen 's after a spell .
But nothing need be say about that for a year or two yet . ''
`` Well now , it 'll do no harm to be think it over off and on , '' say Matthew .
`` Things like that be all the good for lot of thinking over . ''
Missy 's Room Mrs. Falconer and Miss Bailey walk home together through the fine blue summer afternoon from the Ladies ' Aid meeting at Mrs. Robinson 's .
They be talk earnestly ; that be to say , Miss Bailey be talk earnestly and volubly , and Mrs. Falconer be listen .
Mrs. Falconer have reduce the practice of listen to a fine art .
She be a thin , wistful-faced mite of a woman , with sad brown eye , and with snow-white hair that be a libel on her fifty-five year and girlish step .
Nobody in Lindsay ever felt very well acquaint with Mrs. Falconer , in spite of the fact that she have live among them forty year .
She keep between her and her world a fine , baffle reserve which no one have ever be able to penetrate .
It be know that she have have a bitter sorrow in her life , but she never make any reference to it , and most people in Lindsay have forget it .
Some foolish one even suppose that Mrs. Falconer have forget it .
`` Well , I do not know what on earth be to be do with Camilla Clark , '' say Miss Bailey , with a prodigious sigh .
`` I suppose that we will simply have to trust the whole matter to Providence . ''
Miss Bailey 's tone and sigh really seem to intimate to the world at large that Providence be a last resort and a very dubious one .
Not that Miss Bailey mean anything of the sort ; her faith be as substantial a her work , which be many and praiseworthy and seasonable .
The case of Camilla Clark be agitate the Ladies ' Aid of one of the Lindsay church .
They have talk about it through the whole of that afternoon session while they sew for their missionary box -- talk about it , and come to no conclusion .
In the precede spring James Clark , one of the hand in the lumber mill at Lindsay , have be kill in an accident .
The shock have prove nearly fatal to his young wife .
The next day Camilla Clark 's baby be bear dead , and the poor mother hover for week between life and death .
Slowly , very slowly , life win the battle , and Camilla come back from the valley of the shadow .
But she be still an invalid , and would be so for a long time .
The Clarks have come to Lindsay only a short time before the accident .
They be board at Mrs. Barry 's when it happen , and Mrs. Barry have show every kindness and consideration to the unhappy young widow .
But now the Barrys be very soon to leave Lindsay for the West , and the question be , what be to be do with Camilla Clark ?
She could not go west ; she could not even do work of any sort yet in Lindsay ; she have no relative or friend in the world ; and she be absolutely penniless .
As she and her husband have join the church to which the aforesaid Ladies ' Aid belong , the member thereof felt themselves bound to take up her case and see what could be do for her .
The obvious solution be for some of them to offer her a home until such time a she would be able to go to work .
But there do not seem to be anyone who could offer to do this -- unless it be Mrs. Falconer .
The church be small , and the Ladies ' Aid small .
There be only twelve member in it ; four of these be unmarried lady who board , and so be helpless in the matter ; of the remain eight seven have large family , or sick husband , or something else that prevent them from offer Camilla Clark an asylum .
Their excuse be all valid ; they be good , sincere woman who would have take her in if they could , but they could not see their way clear to do so .
However , it be probable they would eventually manage it in some way if Mrs. Falconer do not rise to the occasion .
Nobody like to ask Mrs. Falconer outright to take Camilla Clark in , yet everyone think she might offer .
She be comfortably off , and though her house be small , there be nobody to live in it except herself and her husband .
But Mrs. Falconer sit silent through all the discussion of the Ladies ' Aid , and never open her lip on the subject of Camilla Clark despite the numerous hint which she receive .
Miss Bailey make one more effort a aforesaid .
When her despair reference to Providence bring forth no result , she wish she dare ask Mrs. Falconer openly to take Camilla Clark , but somehow she do not dare .
There be not many thing that could daunt Miss Bailey , but Mrs. Falconer 's reserve and gentle aloofness always could .
When Miss Bailey have go on down the village street , Mrs. Falconer pause for a few moment at her gate , apparently lose in deep thought .
She be perfectly well aware of all the hint that have be throw out for her benefit that afternoon .
She know that the Aids , one and all , think that she ought to take Camilla Clark .
But she have no room to give her -- for it be out of the question to think of put her in Missy 's room .
`` I could n't do such a thing , '' she say to herself piteously .
`` They do n't understand -- they ca n't understand -- but I could n't give her Missy 's room .
I 'm sorry for poor Camilla , and I wish I could help her .
But I ca n't give her Missy 's room , and I have no other . ''
The little Falconer cottage , set back from the road in the green seclusion of an apple orchard and thick , leafy maple , be a very tiny one .
There be just two room downstairs and two upstairs .
When Mrs. Falconer enter the kitchen an old-looking man with long white hair and mild blue eye look up with a smile from the bright-coloured block before him .
`` Have you be lonely , Father ? ''
say Mrs. Falconer tenderly .
He shake his head , still smile .
`` No , not lonely .
These '' -- point to the block -- `` be so pretty .
See my house , Mother . ''
This man be Mrs. Falconer 's husband .
Once he have be one of the smart , most intelligent men in Lindsay , and one of the most trusted employee of the railroad company .
Then there have be a train collision .
Malcolm Falconer be take out of the wreck fearfully injure .
He eventually recover physical health , but he be from that time forth merely a child in intellect -- a harmless , kindly creature , docile and easily amuse .
Mrs. Falconer try to dismiss the thought of Camilla Clark from her mind , but it would not be dismiss .
Her conscience reproach her continually .
She try to compromise with it by say that she would go down and see Camilla that even and take her some nice fresh Irish moss jelly .
It be so good for delicate people .
She find Camilla alone in the Barry sitting-room , and notice with a feeling that be almost like self-reproach how thin and frail and white the poor young creature look .
Why , she seem little more than a child !
Her great dark eye be far too big for her wasted face , and her hand be almost transparent .
`` I 'm not much well yet , '' say Camilla tremulously , in response to Mrs. Falconer 's inquiry .
`` Oh , I 'm so slow get well !
And I know -- I feel that I 'm a burden to everybody . ''
`` But you must n't think that , dear , '' say Mrs. Falconer , feel more uncomfortable than ever .
`` We be all glad to do all we can for you . ''
Mrs. Falconer pause suddenly .
She be a very truthful woman and she instantly realize that that last sentence be not true .
She be not do all she could for Camilla -- she would not be glad , she fear , to do all she could .
`` If I be only well enough to go to work , '' sigh Camilla .
`` Mr. Marks say I can have a place in the shoe factory whenever I 'm able to .
But it will be so long yet .
Oh , I 'm so tired and discourage ! ''
She put her hand over her face and sobbed .
Mrs. Falconer catch her breath .
What if Missy be somewhere alone in the world -- ill , friendless , with never a soul to offer her a refuge or a shelter ?
It be so very , very probable .
Before she could check herself Mrs. Falconer speak .
`` My dear , do n't cry !
I want you to come and stay with me until you get perfectly well .
You wo n't be a speck of trouble , and I 'll be glad to have you for company . ''
Mrs. Falconer 's Rubicon be cross .
She could not draw back now if she want to .
But she be not at all sure that she do want to .
By the time she reach home she be sure she do n't want to .
And yet -- to give Missy 's room to Camilla !
It seem a great sacrifice to Mrs. Falconer .
She go up to it the next morning with firmly set lip to air and dust it .
It be just the same a when Missy have leave it long ago .
Nothing have ever be move or change , but everything have always be keep beautifully neat and clean .
Snow-white muslin curtain hang before the small square window .
In one corner be a little white bed .
Missy 's picture hang on the wall ; Missy 's book and work-basket be lie on the square stand ; there be a bit of half-finished fancy work , yellow from age , lie in the basket .
On a small bureau before the gilt-framed mirror be several little girlish knick-knacks and box whose content have never be disturb since Missy go away .
One of Missy 's gay pink ribbon -- Missy have be so fond of pink ribbon -- hung over the top of the mirror .
On a chair lay Missy 's hat , bright with ribbon and rose , just a Missy have lay it there on the night before she leave her home .
Mrs. Falconer 's lip quiver a she look about the room , and tear come to her eye .
Oh , how could she put these thing away and bring a stranger here -- here , where no one save herself have enter for fifteen year , here in this room , sacred to Missy 's memory , wait for her return when she should be weary of wander ?
It almost seem to the mother 's vague fancy , distort by long , silent brooding , that her daughter 's innocent girlhood have be keep here for her and would be lose forever if the room be give to another .
`` I suppose it 's dreadful foolishness , '' say Mrs. Falconer , wipe her eye .
`` I know it be , but I ca n't help it .
It just go to my heart to think of put these thing away .
But I must do it .
Camilla be come here today , and this room must be get ready for her .
Oh , Missy , my poor lose child , it 's for your sake I 'm do this -- because you may be suffer somewhere a Camilla be now , and I 'd wish the same kindness to be show to you . ''
She open the window and put fresh linen on the bed .
One by one Missy 's little belonging be remove and pack carefully away .
On the gay , foolish little hat with it faded wreath of rose the mother 's tear fell a she put it in a box .
She remember so plainly the first time Missy have wear it .
She could see the pretty , delicately tinted face , the big shining brown eye , and the riotous golden curl under the drooping , lace-edged brim .
Oh , where be Missy now ?
What roof shelter her ?
Did she ever think of her mother and the little white cottage under the maple , and the low-ceilinged , dim room where she have kneel to say her childhood 's prayer ?
Camilla Clark come that afternoon .
`` Oh , it be lovely here , '' she say gratefully , look out into the rustle shade of the maple .
`` I 'm sure I shall soon get well here .
Mrs. Barry be so kind to me -- I shall never forget her kindness -- but the house be so close to the factory , and there be such a whirring of wheel all the time , it seem to get into my head and make me wild with nervousness .
I 'm so weak that sound like that worry me .
But it be so still and green and peaceful here .
It just rest me . ''
When bedtime come , Mrs. Falconer take Camilla up to Missy 's room .
It be not as hard a she have expect it to be after all .
The wrench be over with the put away of Missy 's thing , and it do not hurt the mother to see the frail , girlish Camilla in her daughter 's place .
`` What a dear little room ! ''
say Camilla , glance around .
`` It be so white and sweet .
Oh , I know I be go to sleep well here , and dream sweet dream . ''
`` It be my daughter 's room , '' say Mrs. Falconer , sit down on the chintz-covered seat by the open window .
Camilla look surprised .
`` I do not know you have a daughter , '' she say .
`` Yes -- I have just the one child , '' say Mrs. Falconer dreamily .
For fifteen year she have never speak of Missy to a living soul except her husband .
But now she felt a sudden impulse to tell Camilla about her , and about the room .
`` Her name be Isabella , after her father 's mother , but we never call her anything but Missy .
That be the little name she give herself when she begin to talk .
Oh , I 've miss her so ! ''
`` When do she die ? ''
ask Camilla softly , sympathy shining , starlike , in her dark eye .
`` She -- she do n't die , '' say Mrs. Falconer .
`` She go away .
She be a pretty girl and gay and fond of fun -- but such a good girl .
Oh , Missy be always a good girl !
Her father and I be so proud of her -- too proud , I suppose .
She have her little fault -- she be too fond of dress and gaiety , but then she be so young , and we indulge her .
Then Bert Williams come to Lindsay to work in the factory .
He be a handsome fellow , with take way about him , but he be drunken and profane , and nobody know anything about his past life .
He fascinate Missy .
He keep come to see her until her father forbid him the house .
Then our poor , foolish child use to meet him elsewhere .
We find this out afterwards .
And at last she run away with him , and they be marry over at Peterboro and go there to live , for Bert have get work there .
We -- we be too hard on Missy .
But her father be so dreadful hurt about it .
He 'd be so fond and proud of her , and he felt that she have disgrace him .
He disown her , and send her word never to show her face here again , for he 'd never forgive her .
And I be angry too .
I do n't send her any word at all .
Oh , how I 've weep over that !
If I have just send her one little word of forgiveness , everything might have be different .
But Father forbid me to .
`` Then in a little while there be a dreadful trouble .
A woman come to Peterboro and claim to be Bert Williams 's wife -- and she be -- she prove it .
Bert clear out and be never see again in these part .
As soon a we hear about it Father relent , and I go right down to Peterboro to see Missy and bring her home .
But she be n't there -- she have go , nobody know where .
I get a letter from her the next week .
She say her heart be break , and she know we would never forgive her , and she could n't face the disgrace , so she be go away where nobody would ever find her .
We do everything we could to trace her , but we never could .
We 've never hear from her since , and it be fifteen year ago .
Sometimes I be afraid she be dead , but then again I feel sure she be n't .
Oh , Camilla , if I could only find my poor child and bring her home !
`` This be her room .
And when she go away I make up my mind I would keep it for her just a she leave it , and I have up to now .
Nobody have ever be inside the door but myself .
I 've always hop that Missy would come home , and I would lead her up here and say , ` Missy , here be your room just a you leave it , and here be your place in your mother 's heart just a you leave it , ' But she never come .
I 'm afraid she never will . ''
Mrs. Falconer drop her face in her hand and sob softly .
Camilla come over to her and put her arm about her .
`` I think she will , '' she say .
`` I think -- I be sure your love and prayer will bring Missy home yet .
And I understand how good you have be in give me her room -- oh , I know what it must have cost you !
I will pray tonight that God will bring Missy back to you . ''
When Mrs. Falconer return to the kitchen to close the house for the night , her husband be already sound asleep ; she hear a low , timid knock at the door .
Wondering who it could be so late , she open it .
The light fell on a shrinking , shabby figure on the step , and on a pale , pinch face in which only a mother could have recognize the feature of her child .
Mrs. Falconer give a cry .
`` Missy !
Missy !
Missy ! ''
She catch the poor wanderer to her heart and draw her in .
`` Oh , Missy , Missy , have you come back at last ?
Thank God !
Oh , thank God ! ''
`` I have to come back .
I be starve for a glimpse of your face and of the old home , Mother , '' sob Missy .
`` But I do n't mean you should know -- I never mean to show myself to you .
I 've be sick , and just as soon a I get well I come here .
I mean to creep home after dark and look at the dear old house , and perhaps get a glimpse of you and Father through the window if you be still here .
I do n't know if you be .
And then I mean to go right away on the night train .
I be under the window and I hear you tell my story to someone .
Oh , Mother , when I know that you have forgive me , that you love me still and have always keep my room for me , I make up my mind that I 'd show myself to you . ''
The mother have get her child into a rocking-chair and remove the shabby hat and cloak .
How ill and worn and fade Missy look !
Yet her face be pure and fine , and there be in it something sweet than have ever be there in her beautiful girlhood .
`` I 'm terribly change , be I not , Mother ? ''
say Missy , with a faint smile .
`` I 've have a hard life -- but an honest one , Mother .
When I go away I be almost mad with the disgrace my wilfulness have bring on you and Father and myself .
I go as far a I could get away from you , and I get work in a factory .
I 've work there ever since , just make enough to keep body and soul together .
Oh , I 've starve for a word from you -- the sight of your face !
But I think Father would spurn me from his door if I should ever dare to come back . ''
`` Oh , Missy ! ''
sob the mother .
`` Your poor father be just like a child .
He get a terrible hurt ten year ago , and never get over it .
I do n't suppose he 'll even know you -- he 's clean forget everything .
But he forgive you before it happen .
You poor child , you 're do right out .
You 're too weak to be travel .
But never mind , you 're home now , and I 'll soon nurse you up .
I 'll put on the kettle and get you a good cup of tea first thing .
And you 're not to do any more talk till the morning .
But , oh , Missy , I ca n't take you to your own room after all .
Camilla Clark have it , and she 'll be asleep by now ; we must n't disturb her , for she 's be real sick .
I 'll fix up a bed for you on the sofa , though .
Missy , Missy , let u kneel down here and thank God for His mercy ! ''
Late that night , when Missy have fall asleep in her improvised bed , the wakeful mother crept in to gloat over her .
`` Just to think , '' she whisper , `` if I have n't take Camilla Clark in , Missy would n't have hear me tell about the room , and she 'd have go away again and never have know .
Oh , I do n't deserve such a blessing when I be so unwilling to take Camilla !
But I know one thing : this be go to be Camilla 's home .
There 'll be no leave it even when she do get well .
She shall be my daughter , and I 'll love her next to Missy . ''
Ted 's Afternoon Off Ted be up at five that morning , a usual .
He always have to rise early to kindle the fire and go for the cow , but on this particular morning there be no `` have to '' about it .
He have awaken at four o'clock and have spring eagerly to the little garret window face the east , to see what sort of a day be be bear .
Thrilling with excitement , he saw that it be go to be a glorious day .
The sky be all rosy and golden and clear beyond the sharp-pointed , dark fir on Lee 's Hill .
Out to the north the sea be shimmer and sparkle gaily , with little foam crest here and there ruffle up by the cool morning breeze .
Oh , it would be a splendid day !
And he , Ted Melvin , be to have a half holiday for the first time since he have come to live in Brookdale four year ago -- a whole afternoon off to go to the Sunday School picnic at the beach beyond the big hotel .
It almost seem too good to be true !
The Jacksons , with whom he have live ever since his mother have die , do not think holiday be necessity for boy .
Hard work and cast-off clothes , and three grudgingly allow month of school in the winter , make up Ted 's life year in and year out -- his out life at least .
He have an inner life of dream , but nobody know or suspect anything about that .
To everybody in Brookdale he be simply Ted Melvin , a shy , odd-looking little fellow with big dreamy black eye and a head of thick tangle curl which could never be make to look tidy and always annoy Mrs. Jackson exceedingly .
It be a yet too early to light the fire or go for the cow .
Ted creep softly to a corner in the garret and take from the wall an old brown fiddle .
It have be his father 's .
He love to play on it , and his few rare spare moment be always spend in the garret corner or the hayloft , with his precious fiddle .
It be his one link with the old life he have live in a little cottage far away , with a mother who have love him and a merry young father who have make wonderful music on the old brown violin .
Ted push open his garret window and , seat himself on the sill , begin to play , with his eye fix on the glowing eastern sky .
He play very softly , since Mrs. Jackson have a pronounce dislike to be waken by `` fiddle at all unearthly hour . ''
The music he make be beautiful and would have astonish anybody who know enough to know how wonderful it really be .
But there be nobody to hear this little neglected urchin of all work , and he fiddle away happily , the music float out of the garret window , over the treetop and the dew-wet clover field , until it mingle with the wind and be lose in the silver sky of the morning .
Ted work doubly hard all that forenoon , since there be a double share of work to do if , a Mrs. Jackson say , he be to be gad to picnic in the afternoon .
But he do it all cheerily and whistle for joy a he work .
After dinner Mrs. Ross come in .
Mrs. Ross live down on the shore road and make a living for herself and her two child by wash and do day ' work out .
She be not a very cheerful person and generally speak a if on the point of burst into tear .
She look more doleful than ever today , and lose no time in explain why .
`` I 've just get word that my sister over at White Sands be sick with pendikis '' -- this be the near Mrs. Ross could get to appendicitis -- `` and have to go to the hospital .
I 've get to go right over and see her , Mrs. Jackson , and I 've run in to ask if Ted can go and stay with Jimmy till I get back .
There 's no one else I can get , and Amelia be away .
I 'll be back this evening .
I do n't like leave Jimmy alone . ''
`` Ted 's be promise that he could go to the picnic this afternoon , '' say Mrs. Jackson shortly .
`` Mr. Jackson say he could go , so he 'll have to please himself .
If he 's willing to stay with Jimmy instead , he can .
I do n't care . ''
`` Oh , I 've get to go to the picnic , '' cry Ted impulsively .
`` I 'm awful sorry for Jimmy -- but I must go to the picnic . ''
`` I s ` pose you feel so , '' say Mrs. Ross , sigh heavily .
`` I dunno 's I blame you .
Picnics be more cheerful than stay with a poor little lame boy , I do n't doubt .
Well , I s ` pose I can put Jimmy 's supper on the table clost to him , and shut the cat in with him , and mebbe he 'll worry through .
He be count on have you to fiddle for him , though .
Jimmy 's crazy about music , and he do n't never hear much of it .
Speaking of fiddling , there 's a great fiddler stopping at the hotel now .
His name be Blair Milford , and he make his living fiddling at concert .
I know him well when he be a child -- I be nurse in his father 's family .
He be a taking little chap , and I be real fond of him .
Well , I must be get .
Jimmy 'll feel bad at stay alone , but I 'll tell him he 'll just have to put up with it . ''
Mrs. Ross sigh herself away , and Ted fly up to his garret corner with a choking in his throat .
He could n't go to stay with Jimmy -- he could n't give up the picnic !
Why , he have never be at a picnic ; and they be go to drive to the hotel beach in wagon , and have swing , and game , and ice cream , and a boat sail to Curtain Island !
He have be look forward to it , wake and dreaming , for a fortnight .
He must go .
But poor little Jimmy !
It be too bad for him to be leave all alone .
`` I would n't like it myself , '' say Ted miserably , try to swallow a lump that persist in come up in his throat .
`` It must be dreadful to have to lie on the sofa all the time and never be able to run , climb tree or play , or do a single thing .
And Jimmy do n't like read much .
He 'll be dreadful lonesome .
I 'll be think of him all the time at the picnic -- I know I will .
I suppose I could go and stay with him , if I just make up my mind to it . ''
Making up his mind to it be a slow and difficult process .
But when Ted be finally dress in his shabby , `` skimpy '' Sunday best , he tuck his precious fiddle under his arm and slip downstairs .
`` Please , I think I 'll go and stay with Jimmy , '' he say to Mrs. Jackson timidly , a he always speak to her .
`` Well , if you 're to waste the afternoon , I s ` pose it 's good to waste it that way than in go to a picnic and eat yourself sick , '' be Mrs. Jackson 's ungracious response .
Ted reach Mrs. Ross 's little house just a that good lady be lock the door on Jimmy and the cat .
`` Well , I 'm real glad , '' she say , when Ted tell her he have come to stay .
`` I 'd have worry most awful if I 'd have to leave Jimmy all alone .
He 's cry in there this minute .
Come now , Jimmy , dry up .
Here 's Ted come to stop with you after all , and he 's bring his fiddle , too . ''
Jimmy 's tear be soon dry , and he welcome Ted joyfully .
`` I 've be think awful long to hear you fiddle , '' say Jimmy , with a sigh of content .
`` Seems like the ache ai n't never half so bad when I 'm listen to music -- and when it 's your music , I forget there 's any ache at all . ''
Ted take his violin and begin to play .
After all , it be almost as good a a picnic to have a whole afternoon for his music .
The stuffy little room , with it dingy plaster and shabby furniture , be fill with wonderful harmony .
Once he begin , Ted could play for hour at a stretch and never be conscious of fatigue .
Jimmy lay and listen in rapturous content while Ted 's violin sang and laugh and dream and ripple .
There be another listener besides Jimmy .
Outside , on the red sandstone doorstep , a man be sit -- a tall , well-dressed man with a pale , beautiful face and long , supple white hand .
Motionless , he sit there and listen to the music until at last it stop .
Then he rise and knock at the door .
Ted , violin in hand , open it .
An expression of amazement flash into the stranger 's face , but he only say , `` Is Mrs. Ross at home ? ''
`` No , sir , '' say Ted shyly .
`` She go over to White Sands and she wo n't be back till night .
But Jimmy be here -- Jimmy be her little boy .
Will you come in ? ''
`` I 'm sorry Mrs. Ross be away , '' say the stranger , enter .
`` She be an old nurse of mine .
I must confess I 've be sit on the step out there for some time , listen to your music .
Who teach you to play , my boy ? ''
`` Nobody , '' say Ted simply .
`` I 've always be able to play . ''
`` He make it up himself out of his own head , sir , '' say Jimmy eagerly .
`` No , I do n't make it -- it make itself -- it just come , '' say Ted , a dreamy gaze come into his big black eye .
The caller look at him closely .
`` I know a little about music myself , '' he say .
`` My name be Blair Milford and I be a professional violinist .
Your playing be wonderful .
What be your name ? ''
`` Ted Melvin . ''
`` Well , Ted , I think that you have a great talent , and it ought to be cultivate .
You should have competent instruction .
Come , you must tell me all about yourself . ''
Ted tell what little he think there be to tell .
Blair Milford listen and nod , guess much that Ted do n't tell and , indeed , do n't know himself .
Then he make Ted play for him again .
`` Amazing ! ''
he say softly , under his breath .
Finally he take the violin and play himself .
Ted and Jimmy listen breathlessly .
`` Oh , if I could only play like that ! ''
say Ted wistfully .
Blair Milford smile .
`` You will play much well some day if you get the proper training , '' he say .
`` You have a wonderful talent , my boy , and you should have it cultivate .
It will never in the world do to waste such genius .
Yes , that be the right word , '' he go on musingly , a if talk to himself , '' ` genius . '
Nature be always take u by surprise .
This child have what I have never have and would make any sacrifice for .
And yet in him it may come to naught for lack of opportunity .
But it must not , Ted .
You must have a musical training . ''
`` I ca n't take lesson , if that be what you mean , sir , '' say Ted wonderingly .
`` Mr. Jackson would n't pay for them . ''
`` I think we need n't worry about the question of payment if you can find time to practise , '' say Blair Milford .
`` I be to be at the beach for two month yet .
For once I 'll take a music pupil .
But will you have time to practise ? ''
`` Yes , sir , I 'll make time , '' say Ted , as soon a he could speak at all for the wonder of it .
`` I 'll get up at four in the morning and have an hour 's practising before the time for the cow .
But I 'm afraid it 'll be too much trouble for you , sir , I 'm afraid -- '' Blair Milford laugh and put his slim white hand on Ted 's curly head .
`` It be n't much trouble to train an artist .
It be a privilege .
Ah , Ted , you have what I once hop I have , what I know now I never can have .
You do n't understand me .
You will some day . ''
`` Ai n't he an awful nice man ? ''
say Jimmy , when Blair Milford have go .
`` But what do he mean by all that talk ? ''
`` I do n't know exactly , '' say Ted dreamily .
`` That be , I seem to feel what he mean but I ca n't quite put it into word .
But , oh , Jimmy , I 'm so happy .
I 'm to have lesson -- I have always long to have them . ''
`` I guess you 're glad you do n't go to the picnic ? ''
say Jimmy .
`` Yes , but I be glad before , Jimmy , honest I be . ''
Blair Milford keep his promise .
He interview Mr. and Mrs. Jackson and , by mean best know to himself , induce them to consent that Ted should take music lesson every Saturday afternoon .
He be a pupil to delight a teacher 's heart and , after every lesson , Blair Milford look at him with kindly eye and murmur , `` Amazing , '' under his breath .
Finally he go again to the Jacksons , and the next day he say to Ted , `` Ted , would you like to come away with me -- live with me -- be my boy and have your gift for music thoroughly cultivate ? ''
`` What do you mean , sir ? ''
say Ted tremblingly .
`` I mean that I want you -- that I must have you , Ted .
I 've talk to Mr. Jackson , and he have consent to let you come .
You shall be educate , you shall have the best master in your art that the world affords , you shall have the career I once dream of .
Will you come , Ted ? ''
Ted draw a long breath .
`` Yes , sir , '' he say .
`` But it be n't so much because of the music -- it 's because I love you , Mr. Milford , and I 'm so glad I 'm to be always with you . ''
The Doctor 's Sweetheart Just because I be an old woman outwardly it do n't follow that I be one inwardly .
Hearts do n't grow old -- or should n't .
Mine have n't , I be thankful to say .
It bound like a girl 's with delight when I saw Doctor John and Marcella Barry drive past this afternoon .
If the doctor have be my own son I could n't have felt more real pleasure in his happiness .
I 'm only an old lady who can do little but sit by her window and knit , but eye be make for seeing , and I use mine for that purpose .
When I see the good and beautiful thing -- and a body need never look for the other kind , you know -- the thing God plan from the beginning and bring about in spite of the counter plan and scheme of men , I feel such a deep joy that I 'm glad , even at seventy-five , to be alive in a world where such thing come to pass .
And if ever God meant and make two people for each other , those people be Doctor John and Marcella Barry ; and that be what I always tell folk who come here comment on the difference in their age .
`` Old enough to be her father , '' sniff Mrs. Riddell to me the other day .
I do n't say anything to Mrs. Riddell .
I just look at her .
I presume my face express what I felt pretty clearly .
How any woman can live for sixty year in the world , a Mrs. Riddell have , a wife and mother at that , and not get some realization of the beauty and general satisfactoriness of a real and abide love , be something I can not understand and never shall be able to .
Nobody in Bridgeport believe that Marcella would ever come back , except Doctor John and me -- not even her Aunt Sara .
I 've hear people laugh at me when I say I know she would ; but nobody mind be laugh at when she be sure of a thing and I be sure that Marcella Barry would come back a that the sun rise and set .
I have n't lived beside her for eight year to know so little about her a to doubt her .
Neither have Doctor John .
Marcella be only eight year old when she come to live in Bridgeport .
Her father , Chester Barry , have just die .
Her mother , who be a sister of Miss Sara Bryant , my next door neighbor , have be dead for four year .
Marcella 's father leave her to the guardianship of his brother , Richard Barry ; but Miss Sara plead so hard to have the little girl that the Barrys consent to let Marcella live with her aunt until she be sixteen .
Then , they say , she would have to go back to them , to be properly educate and take the place of her father 's daughter in his world .
For , of course , it be a fact that Miss Sara Bryant 's world be and be a very different one from Chester Barry 's world .
As to which side the difference favor , that be n't for me to say .
It all depend on your standard of what be really worth while , you know .
So Marcella come to live with u in Bridgeport .
I say `` u '' advisedly .
She sleep and ate in her aunt 's house , but every house in the village be a home to her ; for , with all our little disagreement and diverse opinion , we be really all one big family , and everybody feel an interest in and a good working affection for everybody else .
Besides , Marcella be one of those child whom everybody love at sight , and keep on loving .
One long , steady gaze from those big grayish-blue black-lashed eye of hers go right into your heart and stay there .
She be a pretty child and as good a she be pretty .
It be the right sort of goodness , too , with just enough spice of original sin in it to keep it from spoil by reason of over-sweetness .
She be a frank , loyal , brave little thing , even at eight , and would n't have say or do a mean or false thing to save her life .
She and I be right good friend from the beginning .
She love me and she love her Aunt Sara ; but from the very first her best and deep affection go out to Doctor John Haven , who live in the big brick house on the other side of Miss Sara 's .
Doctor John be a Bridgeport boy , and when he get through college he come right home and settle down here , with his widowed mother .
The Bridgeport girl be flutter , for eligible young men be scarce in our village ; there be considerable setting of cap , I must say that , although I despise ill-natured gossip ; but neither the cap nor the wearer thereof seem to make any impression on Doctor John .
Mrs. Riddell say that he be a born old bachelor ; I suppose she base her opinion on the fact that Doctor John be always a quiet , bookish fellow , who do n't care a button for society , and have never be guilty of a flirtation in his life .
I know Doctor John 's heart far good than Martha Riddell could know anybody 's ; and I know there be nothing of the old bachelor in his nature .
He just have to wait for the right woman , that be all , not be able to content himself with less a some men can and do .
If she never come Doctor John would never marry ; but he would n't be an old bachelor for all that .
He be thirty when Marcella come to Bridgeport -- a tall , broad-shouldered man with a mane of thick brown curl and level , dark hazel eye .
He walk with a little stoop , his hand clasp behind him ; and he have the sweet , deep voice .
Spoken music , if ever a voice be .
He be kind and brave and gentle , but a little distant and reserve with most people .
Everybody in Bridgeport like him , but only a very few ever pass the inner gate of his confidence or be admit to any share in his real life .
I be proud to say I be one ; I think it be something for an old woman to boast of .
Doctor John be always fond of child , and they of him .
It be natural that he and little Marcella should take to each other .
He have the most to do with bring her up , for Miss Sara consult him in everything .
Marcella be not hard to manage for the most part ; but she have a will of her own , and when she do set it up in opposition to the power that be , nobody but the doctor could influence her at all ; she never resist him or disobey his wish .
Marcella be one of those girl who develop early .
I suppose her constant association with u elderly folk have something to do with it , too .
But , at fifteen , she be a woman , love , beautiful , and spirit .
And Doctor John love her -- love the woman , not the child .
I know it before he do -- but not , a I think , before Marcella do , for those young , straight-gazing eye of hers be wonderfully quick to read into other people 's heart .
I watch them together and saw the love grow between them , like a strong , fair , perfect flower , whose fragrance be to endure for eternity .
Miss Sara saw it , too , and be half-pleased and half-worried ; even Miss Sara think the Doctor too old for Marcella ; and besides , there be the Barrys to be reckon with .
Those Barrys be the nightmare dread of poor Miss Sara 's life .
The time come when Doctor John 's eye be open .
He look into his own heart and read there what life have write for him .
As he tell me long afterwards , it come to him with a shock that leave him white-lipped .
But he be a brave , sensible fellow and he look the matter squarely in the face .
First of all , he put away to one side all that the world might say ; the thing concern solely him and Marcella , and the world have nothing to do with it .
That dispose of , he ask himself soberly if he have a right to try to win Marcella 's love .
He decide that he have not ; it would be take an unfair advantage of her youth and inexperience .
He know that she must soon go to her father 's people -- she must not go bound by any tie of his making .
Doctor John , for Marcella 's sake , give the decision against his own heart .
So much do Doctor John tell me , his old friend and confidant .
I say nothing and give no advice , not have live seventy-five year for nothing .
I know that Doctor John 's decision be manly and right and fair ; but I also know it be all nullify by the fact that Marcella already love him .
So much I know ; the rest I be leave to suppose .
The Doctor and Marcella tell me much , but there be some thing too sacred to be tell , even to me .
So that to this day I do n't know how the doctor find out that Marcella love him .
All I know be that one day , just a month before her sixteenth birthday , the two come hand in hand to Miss Sara and me , a we sit on Miss Sara 's veranda in the twilight , and tell u simply that they have plight their troth to each other .
I look at them stand there with that wonderful sunrise of life and love on their face -- the doctor , tall and serious , with a sprinkle of silver in his brown hair and the smile of a happy man on his lip -- Marcella , such a slip of a girl , with her black hair in a long braid and her lovely face all dewed over with tear and sun over with smile -- I , an old woman , look at them and thank the good God for them and their delight .
Miss Sara laugh and cry and kiss -- and forboded what the Barrys would do .
Her foreboding prove only too true .
When the doctor write to Richard Barry , Marcella 's guardian , ask his consent to their engagement , Richard Barry promptly make trouble -- the very bad kind of trouble .
He descend on Bridgeport and completely overwhelmed poor Miss Sara in his wrath .
He laugh at the idea of countenance an engagement between a child like Marcella and an obscure country doctor .
And he carry Marcella off with him !
She have to go , of course .
He be her legal guardian and he would listen to no pleading .
He do n't know anything about Marcella 's character , and he think that a new life out in the great world would soon blot out her fancy .
After the first outburst of tear and prayer Marcella take it very calmly , as far a outward eye could see .
She be a cool and dignified and stately a a young queen .
On the night before she go away she come over to say good-bye to me .
She do not even shed any tear , but the look in her eye tell of bitter hurt .
`` It be goodbye for five year , Miss Tranquil , '' she say steadily .
`` When I be twenty-one I will come back .
That be the only promise I can make .
They will not let me write to John or Aunt Sara and I will do nothing underhanded .
But I will not forget and I will come back . ''
Richard Barry would not even let her see Doctor John alone again .
She have to bid him good-bye beneath the cold , contemptuous eye of the man of the world .
So there be just a hand-clasp and one long deep look between them that be tender than any kiss and more eloquent than any word .
`` I will come back when I be twenty-one , '' say Marcella .
And I saw Richard Barry smile .
So Marcella go away and in all Bridgeport there be only two people who believe she would ever return .
There be no keep a secret in Bridgeport , and everybody know all about the love affair between Marcella and the doctor and about the promise she have make .
Everybody sympathize with the doctor because everybody believe he have lose his sweetheart .
`` For of course she 'll never come back , '' say Mrs. Riddell to me .
`` She 's only a child and she 'll soon forget him .
She 's to be send to school and take abroad and between time she 'll live with the Richard Barrys ; and they move , a everyone know , in the very high and gay circle .
I 'm sorry for the doctor , though .
A man of his age do n't get over a thing like that in a hurry and he be perfectly silly over Marcella .
But it really serve him right for fall in love with a child . ''
There be time when Martha Riddell get on my nerve .
She 's a good-hearted woman , and she mean well ; but she rasp -- rasp terribly .
Even Miss Sara exasperate me .
But then she have her excuse .
The child she love a her own have be tear from her and it almost break her heart .
But even so , I think she ought to have have a little more faith in Marcella .
`` Oh , no , she 'll never come back , '' sob Miss Sara .
`` Yes , I know she promise .
But they 'll wean her away from me .
She 'll have such a gay , splendid life she 'll not want to come back .
Five year be a lifetime at her age .
No , do n't try to comfort me , Miss Tranquil , because I wo n't be comfort ! ''
When a person have make up her mind to be miserable you just have to let her be miserable .
I almost dread to see Doctor John for fear he would be in despair , too , without any confidence in Marcella .
But when he come I saw I need n't have worry .
The light have all go out of his eye , but there be a calm , steady patience in them .
`` She will come back to me , Miss Tranquil , '' he say .
`` I know what people be say , but that do not trouble me .
They do not know Marcella a I do .
She promise and she will keep her word -- keep it joyously and gladly , too .
If I do not know that I would not wish it fulfilment .
When she be free she will turn her back on that brilliant world and all it offer her and come back to me .
My part be to wait and believe . ''
So Doctor John wait and believe .
After a little while the excitement die away and people forget Marcella .
We never hear from or about her , except a paragraph now and then in the society column of the city paper the doctor take .
We know she be send to school for three year ; then the Barrys take her abroad .
She be present at court .
When the doctor read this -- he be with me at the time -- he put his hand over his eye and sit very silent for a long time .
I wonder if at last some momentary doubt have creep into his mind -- if he do not fear that Marcella must have forget him .
The paper told of her triumph and her beauty and hint at a titled match .
Was it probable or even possible that she would be faithful to him after all this ?
The doctor must have guess my thought , for at last he look up with a smile .
`` She will come back , '' be all he say .
But I saw that the doubt , if doubt it be , have go .
I watch him a he go away , that tall , gentle , kindly-eyed man , and I pray that his trust might not be misplace ; for if it should be it would break his heart .
Five year seem a long time in look forward .
But they pass quickly .
One day I remember that it be Marcella 's twenty-first birthday .
Only one other person thought of it .
Even Miss Sara do not .
Miss Sara remember Marcella only a a child that have be love and lose .
Nobody else in Bridgeport think about her at all .
The doctor come in that evening .
He have a rise in his buttonhole and he walk with a step as light a a boy 's .
`` She be free to-day , '' he say .
`` We shall soon have her again , Miss Tranquil . ''
`` Do you think she will be the same ? ''
I say .
I do n't know what make me say it .
I hate to be one of those people who throw cold water on other people ' hope .
But it slip out before I think .
I suppose the doubt have be vaguely trouble me always , under all my faith in Marcella , and now make itself felt in spite of me .
But the doctor only laugh .
`` How could she be change ? ''
he say .
`` Some woman might be -- most woman would be -- but not Marcella .
Dear Miss Tranquil , do n't spoil your beautiful record of confidence by doubt her now .
We shall have her again soon -- how soon I do n't know , for I do n't even know where she be , whether in the old world or the new -- but just as soon a she can come to u . ''
We say nothing more -- neither of u .
But every day the light in the doctor 's eye grow brighter and deeper and tenderer .
He never speak of Marcella , but I know she be in his thought every moment .
He be much calm than I be .
I tremble when the postman knock , jump when the gate latch click , and fairly have a cold chill if I saw a telegraph boy run down the street .
One evening , a fortnight later , I go over to see Miss Sara .
She be out somewhere , so I sit down in her little sitting room to wait for her .
Presently the doctor come in and we sit in the soft twilight , talk a little now and then , but silent when we want to be , a becomes real friendship .
It be such a beautiful evening .
Outside in Miss Sara 's garden the rose be white and red , and sweet with dew ; the honeysuckle at the window send in delicious breath now and again ; a few sleepy bird be twitter ; between the tree the sky be all pink and silvery blue and there be an evening star over the elm in my front yard .
We hear somebody come through the door and down the hall .
I turn , expect to see Miss Sara -- and I saw Marcella !
She be stand in the doorway , tall and beautiful , with a ray of sunset light fall athwart her black hair under her travelling hat .
She be look past me at Doctor John and in her splendid eye be the look of the exile who have come home to her own .
`` Marcella ! ''
say the doctor .
I go out by the dining-room door and shut it behind me , leave them alone together .
The wedding be to be next month .
Miss Sara be beside herself with delight .
The excitement have be really terrible , and the way people have talk and wonder and exclaim have almost wear my patience clean out .
I 've snub more person in the last ten day than I ever do in all my life before .
Nothing of this worry Doctor John or Marcella .
They be too happy to care for gossip or outside curiosity .
The Barrys be not come to the wedding , I understand .
They refuse to forgive Marcella or countenance her folly , a they call it , in any way .
Folly !
When I see those two together and realize what they mean to each other I have some humble , reverent idea of what true wisdom be .
The End of the Young Family Feud A week before Christmas , Aunt Jean write to Elizabeth , invite her and Alberta and me to eat our Christmas dinner at Monkshead .
We accept with delight .
Aunt Jean and Uncle Norman be delightful people , and we know we should have a jolly time at their house .
Besides , we want to see Monkshead , where Father have live in his boyhood , and the old Young homestead where he have be bear and bring up and where Uncle William still live .
Father never say much about it , but we know he love it very dearly , and we have always greatly desire to get at least a glimpse of what Alberta like to call `` our ancestral hall . ''
Since Monkshead be only sixty mile away , and Uncle William live there a aforesaid , it may be pertinently ask what there be to prevent u from visit it and the homestead as often a we wish .
We answer promptly : the family feud .
Father and Uncle William be on bad term , or rather on no term at all , and have be ever since we could remember .
After Grandfather Young 's death there have be a wretched quarrel over the property .
Father always say that he have be as much to blame a Uncle William , but Great-aunt Emily tell u that Uncle William have be by far the most to blame , and that he have behave scandalously to Father .
Moreover , she say that Father have go to him when cooling-down time come , apologize for what he have say , and ask Uncle William to be friend again ; and that William , simply turn his back on Father and walk into the house without say a word , but , a Great-aunt Emily say , with the Young temper stick out of every kink and curve of his figure .
Great-aunt Emily be our aunt on Mother 's side , and she do not like any of the Youngs except Father and Uncle Norman .
This be why we have never visit Monkshead .
We have never see Uncle William , and we always think of him a a sort of ogre when we think of him at all .
When we be child , our old nurse , Margaret Hannah , use to frighten u into good behaviour by say ominously , `` If you ` uns aint good your Uncle William 'll cotch you . ''
What he would do to u when he `` cotched '' u she never specify , probably reason that the unknown be always more terrible than the know .
My private opinion in those day be that he would boil u in oil and pick our bone .
Uncle Norman and Aunt Jean have be live out west for year .
Three month before this Christmas they have come east , buy a house in Monkshead , and settle there .
They have be down to see u , and Father and Mother and the boy have be up to see them , but we three girl have not ; so we be pleasantly excite at the thought of spending Christmas there .
Christmas morning be fine , white a a pearl and clear a a diamond .
We have to go by the seven o'clock train , since there be no other before eleven , and we reach Monkshead at eight-thirty .
When we step from the train the stationmaster ask u if we be the three Miss Youngs .
Alberta plead guilty , and he say , `` Well , here 's a letter for you then . ''
We take the letter and go into the wait room with sundry misgiving .
What have happen ?
Were Uncle Norman and Aunt Jean quarantine for scarlet fever , or have burglar raid the pantry and carry off the Christmas supply ?
Elizabeth open and read the letter aloud .
It be from Aunt Jean to the following effect : DEAR GIRLS : I be so sorry to disappoint you , but I can not help it .
Word have come from Streatham that my sister have meet with a serious accident and be in a very critical condition .
Your uncle and I must go to Streatham immediately and be leave on the eight o'clock express .
I know you have start before this , so there be no use in telegraphing .
We want you to go right to the house and make yourself at home .
You will find the key under the kitchen doorstep , and the dinner in the pantry all ready to cook .
There be two mince pie on the third shelf , and the plum pudding only need to be warm up .
You will find a little Christmas remembrance for each of you on the dining-room table .
I hope you will make as merry a you possibly can and we will have you down again as soon a we come back .
Your hurried and affectionate , AUNT JEAN We look at each other somewhat dolefully .
But , a Alberta point out , we might as well make the best of it , since there be no way of get home before the five o'clock train .
So we trail out to the stationmaster , and ask him limply if he could direct u to Mr. Norman Young 's house .
He be a rather grumpy individual , very busy with pencil and notebook over some freight ; but he favour u with his attention long enough to point with his pencil and say jerkily , `` Young 's ?
See that red house on the hill ?
That 's it . ''
The red house be about a quarter of a mile from the station , and we saw it plainly .
Accordingly , to the red house we betook ourselves .
On nearer view it prove to be a trim , handsome place , with nice ground and very fine old tree .
We find the key under the kitchen doorstep and go in .
The fire be black out , and somehow thing wear a more cheerless look than I have expect to find .
I may as well admit that we march into the dining room first of all , to find our present .
There be three parcel , two very small and one pretty big , lie on the table , but when we come to look for name there be none .
`` Evidently Aunt Jean , in her hurry and excitement , forget to label them , '' say Elizabeth .
`` Let u open them .
We may be able to guess from the content which belong to whom . ''
I must say we be surprise when we open those parcel .
`` We have know that Aunt Jean 's gift would be nice , but we have not expect anything like this .
There be a magnificent stone marten collar , a dear little gold watch and pearl chatelaine , and a gold chain bracelet set with turquoise .
`` The collar must be for you , Elizabeth , because Mary and I have one already , and Aunt Jean know it , '' say Alberta ; `` the watch must be for you , Mary , because I have one ; and by the process of exhaustion the bracelet must be for me .
Well , they be all perfectly sweet . ''
Elizabeth put on her collar and parade in front of the sideboard mirror .
It be so dusty she have to take her handkerchief and wipe it before she could see herself properly .
Everything in the room be equally dusty .
As for the lace curtain , they look a if they have n't be wash for year , and one of them have a long ragged hole in it .
I could n't help feel secretly surprise , for Aunt Jean have the reputation of be a perfect housekeeper .
However , I do n't say anything , and neither do the other girl .
Mother have always impress upon u that it be the height of bad manner to criticize anything we might not like in a house where we be guest .
`` Well , let 's see about dinner , '' say Alberta , practically , snap her bracelet on her wrist and admire the effect .
We go to the kitchen , where Elizabeth proceed to light the fire , that be one of her specialty , while Alberta and I explore the pantry .
We find the dinner supply lay out a Aunt Jean have explain .
There be a nice fat turkey all stuffed , and vegetable galore .
The mince pie be in their place , but they be almost the only thing about which that could be truthfully say , for the disorder of that pantry be enough to give a tidy person nightmare for a month .
`` I never in all my life saw -- '' begin Alberta , and then stop short , evidently remember Mother 's teaching .
`` Where be the plum pudding ? ''
say I , to turn the conversation into safer channel .
It be nowhere to be see , so we conclude it must be in the cellar .
But we find the cellar door padlock good and fast .
`` Never mind , '' say Elizabeth .
`` You know none of u really like plum pudding .
We only eat it because it be the proper traditional dessert .
The mince pie will suit u good . ''
We hurry the turkey into the oven , and soon everything be go merrily .
We have lot of fun get up that dinner , and we make ourselves perfectly at home , a Aunt Jean have command .
We kindle a fire in the dining room and dust everything in sight .
We could n't find anything remotely resemble a duster , so we use our handkerchief .
When we get through , the room look like something , for the furnishing be really very handsome , but our handkerchief -- well !
Then we set the table with all the nice dish we could find .
There be only one long tablecloth in the sideboard drawer , and there be three hole in it , but we cover them with dish and put a little potted palm in the middle for a centrepiece .
At one o'clock dinner be ready for u and we for it .
Very nice that table look , too , a we sit down to it .
Just a Alberta be about to spear the turkey with a fork and begin carve , that be one of her specialty , the kitchen door open and somebody walk in .
Before we could move , a big , handsome , bewhiskered man in a fur coat appear in the dining-room doorway .
I be n't frighten .
He seem quite respectable , I think , and I suppose he be some intimate friend of Uncle Norman 's .
I rise politely and say , `` Good day . ''
You never saw such an expression of amazement a be on that poor man 's face .
He look from me to Alberta and from Alberta to Elizabeth and from Elizabeth to me again a if he doubt the evidence of his eye .
`` Mr. and Mrs. Norman Young be not at home , '' I explain , pity him .
`` They go to Streatham this morning because Mrs. Young 's sister be very ill . ''
`` What do all this mean ? ''
say the big man gruffly .
`` This be n't Norman Young 's house ... it be mine .
I 'm William Young .
Who be you ?
And what be you do here ? ''
I fell back into my chair , speechless .
My very first impulse be to put up my hand and cover the gold watch .
Alberta have drop the carve knife and be try desperately to get the gold bracelet off under the table .
In a flash we have realize our mistake and it awfulness .
As for me , I felt positively frighten ; Margaret Hannah 's warning of old have leave an ineffaceable impression .
Elizabeth rise to the occasion .
Rising to the occasion be another of Elizabeth 's specialty .
Besides , she be not hamper by the tingle consciousness that she be wear a gift that have not be intend for her .
`` We have make a mistake , I fear , '' she say , with a dignity which I appreciate even in my panic , `` and we be very sorry for it .
We be invite to spend Christmas with Mr. and Mrs. Norman Young .
When we get off the train we be give a letter from them state that they be summon away but tell u to go to their house and make ourselves at home .
The stationmaster tell u that this be the house , so we come here .
We have never be in Monkshead , so we do not know the difference .
Please pardon u . ''
I have get off the watch by this time and lay it on the table , unobserved , a I think .
Alberta , not have the key of the bracelet , have not be able to get it off , and she sit there crimson with shame .
As for Uncle William , there be positively a twinkle in his eye .
He do not look in the least ogreish .
`` Well , it have be quite a fortunate mistake for me , '' he say .
`` I come home expect to find a cold house and a raw dinner , and I find this instead .
I 'm very much oblige to you . ''
Alberta rise , go to the mantel piece , take the key of the bracelet therefrom , and unlock it .
Then she face Uncle William .
`` Mrs. Young tell u in her letter that we would find our Christmas gift on the table , so we take it for grant that these thing belong to u , '' she say desperately .
`` And now , if you will kindly tell u where Mr. Norman Young do live , we wo n't intrude on you any long .
Come , girl . ''
Elizabeth and I rise with a sigh .
There be nothing else to be do , of course , but we be fearfully hungry , and we do not feel enthusiastic over the prospect of go to another empty house and cook another dinner .
`` Wait a bit , '' say Uncle William .
`` I think since you have go to all the trouble of cook the dinner it 's only fair you should stay and help to eat it .
Accidents seem to be rather fashionable just now .
My housekeeper 's son break his leg down at Weston , and I have to take her there early this morning .
Come , introduce yourselves .
To whom be I indebted for this pleasant surprise ? ''
`` We be Elizabeth , Alberta , and Mary Young of Green Village , '' I say ; and then I look to see the ogre creep out if it be ever go to .
But Uncle William merely look amaze for the first moment , foolish for the second , and the third he be himself again .
`` Robert 's daughter ? ''
he say , a if it be the most natural thing in the world that Robert 's daughter should be there in his house .
`` So you be my niece ?
Well , I 'm very glad to make your acquaintance .
Sit down and we 'll have dinner as soon a I can get my coat off .
I want to see if you be as good cook a your mother use to be long ago . ''
We sit down , and so do Uncle William .
Alberta have her chance to show what she could do at carving , for Uncle William say it be something he never do ; he keep a housekeeper just for that .
At first we felt a bit stiff and awkward ; but that soon wear off , for Uncle William be genial , witty , and entertain .
Soon , to our surprise , we find that we be enjoy ourselves .
Uncle William seem to be , too .
When we have finish he lean back and look at u .
`` I suppose you 've be bring up to abhor me and all my work ? ''
he say abruptly .
`` Not by Father and Mother , '' I say frankly .
`` They never say anything against you .
Margaret Hannah do , though .
She bring u up in the way we should go through fear of you . ''
Uncle William laugh .
`` Margaret Hannah be a faithful old enemy of mine , '' he say .
`` Well , I act like a fool -- and bad .
I 've be sorry for it ever since .
I be in the wrong .
I could n't have say this to your father , but I do n't mind say it to you , and you can tell him if you like . ''
`` He 'll be delight to hear that you be no longer angry with him , '' say Alberta .
`` He have always long to be friend with you again , Uncle William .
But he think you be still bitter against him . ''
`` No -- no -- nothing but stubborn pride , '' say Uncle William .
`` Now , girl , since you be my guest I must try to give you a good time .
We 'll take the double sleigh and have a jolly drive this afternoon .
And about those trinket there -- they be yours .
I do get them for some young friend of mine here , but I 'll give them something else .
I want you to have these .
That watch look very nice on your blouse , Mary , and the bracelet become Alberta 's pretty wrist very well .
Come and give your cranky old uncle a hug for them . ''
Uncle William get his hug heartily ; then we wash up the dish and go for our drive .
We get back just in time to catch the evening train home .
Uncle William saw u off at the station , under promise to come back and stay a week with him when his housekeeper come home .
`` One of you will have to come and stay with me altogether , pretty soon , '' he say .
`` Tell your father he must be prepare to hand over one of his girl to me a a token of his forgiveness .
I 'll be down to talk it over with him shortly . ''
When we get home and tell our story , Father say , `` Thank God ! ''
very softly .
There be tear in his eye .
He do not wait for Uncle William to come down , but go to Monkshead himself the next day .
In the spring Alberta be to go and live with Uncle William .
She be make a supply of duster now .
And next Christmas we be go to have a grand family reunion at the old homestead .
Mistakes be not always bad .
The Genesis of the Doughnut Club When John Henry die there seem to be nothing for me to do but pack up and go back east .
I do n't want to do it , but forty-five year of sojourn in this world have teach me that a body have to do a good many thing she do n't want to do , and that most of them turn out to be for the best in the long run .
But I know perfectly well that it be n't best for me or anybody else that I should go back to live with William and Susanna , and I could n't think what Providence be about when thing seem to point that way .
I want to stay in Carleton .
I love the big , straggling , bustle little town that always remind me of a lanky , overgrown schoolboy , all arm and leg , but full to the brim with enthusiasm and splendid idea .
I know Carleton be bind to grow into a magnificent city , and I want to be there and see it grow and watch it develop ; and I love the whole big , breezy golden west , with the rush and tingle of it young life .
And , more than all , I love my boy , and what I be go to do without them or they without me be more than I know , though I try to think Providence might know .
But there be no place in Carleton for me ; the only thing to do be to go back east , and I know that all the time , even when I be desperately pray that I might find a way to remain .
There 's not much comfort , or help either , pray one way and believe another .
I 'd live down east in Northfield all my life -- until five year ago -- live with my brother William and his wife .
Northfield be a little pinched-up village where everybody know more about you than you do about yourself , and you could n't turn around without be comment upon .
William and Susanna be kind to me , but I be just the old maid sister , of no importance to anybody , and I never felt a if I be really live .
I be simply vegetate on , and would n't be miss by a single soul if I die .
It be a horrible feeling , but I do n't expect it would ever be any different , and I have make up my mind that when I die I would have the word `` Wasted '' carve on my tombstone .
It would n't be conventional at all , but I 'd be conventional all my life , and I be determine I 'd have something do out of the common even if I have to wait until I be dead to have it .
Then all at once the letter come from John Henry , my brother out west .
He write that his wife have die and he want me to go out and keep house for him .
I sit right down and write him I 'd go and in a week 's time I start .
It make quite a commotion ; I have that much satisfaction out of it to begin with .
Susanna be n't any too well pleased .
I be only the old maid sister , but I be a good cook , and help be scarce in Northfield .
All the neighbour shake their head , and warn me I would n't like it .
I be too old to change my way , and I 'd be dreadfully homesick , and I 'd find the west too rough and boisterous .
I just smile and say nothing .
Well , I come out here to Carleton , and from the time I get here I be perfectly happy .
John Henry have a little rented house , and he be as poor a a church mouse , be the ne'er - do-well of our family , and the best loved , a ne'er - do-wells be so apt to be .
He 'd nearly die of lonesomeness since his wife 's death , and he be so glad to see me .
That be delightful in itself , and I be just in my element get that little house fix up cosy and homelike , and cook the most elegant meal .
There be n't much work to do , just for me and him , and I get a squaw in to wash and scrub .
I never think about Northfield except to thank goodness I 'd escape from it , and John Henry and I be as happy a a king and queen .
Then after awhile my activity begin to sprout and branch out , and the direction they take be boys .
Carleton be full of boy , like all the western town , overflow with them a you might say , young fellow just let loose from home and mother , some of them die of homesickness and some of them begin to run wild and get into risky way , some of them smart and some of them lazy , some ugly and some handsome ; but all of them boy , lovable , rollick boy , with the making of good men in them if there be anybody to take hold of them and cut the pattern right , but liable to be spoil just because there be n't anybody .
Well , I do what I could .
It begin with John Henry bring home some of them that work in his office to spend the evening now and again , and they tell other fellow and ask leave to bring them in too .
And before long it get to be that there never be an evening there be n't some of them there , `` Aunt-Pattying '' me .
I tell them from the start I would not be call Miss . .
When a woman have be Miss for forty-five year she get tire of it .
So Aunt Patty it be , and Aunt Patty it remain , and I love all those dear boy a if they 'd be my own .
They tell me all their trouble , and I mother them and cheer them up and scold them , and finally top off with a jolly good supper ; for , talk a you like , you ca n't preach much good into a boy if he 's get an ache void in his stomach .
Fill that up with tasty victual , and then you can do something with his spiritual nature .
If a boy be well stuff with good thing and then wo n't listen to advice , you might as well stop waste your breath on him , because there be something radically wrong with him .
Probably his grandfather have dyspepsia .
And a dyspeptic ancestor be bad for a boy than predestination , in my opinion .
Anyway , most of my boy take to go to church and Bible class of their own accord , after I 'd be their aunt for awhile .
The young minister think it be all his doings , and I let him think so to keep him cheer up .
He be a nice boy himself , and often drop in of an evening too ; but I never would let him talk theology until after supper .
His view always seem so much mellow then , and do n't puzzle the other boys more than be wholesome for them .
This go on for five glorious year , the only year of my life I 'd ever live , and then come , a I think , the end of everything .
John Henry take typhoid and die .
At first that be all I could think of ; and when I get so that I could think of other thing , there be , a I have say , nothing for me to do but go back east .
The boy , who have be as good a gold to me all through my trouble , felt dreadfully bad over this , and coax me hard to stay .
They say if I 'd start a boarding house I 'd have all the boarder I could accommodate ; but I know it be no use to think of that , because I be n't strong enough , and help be so hard to get .
No , there be nothing for it but Northfield and stagnation again , with not a stray boy anywhere to mother .
I look the dismal prospect square in the face and make up my mind to it .
But I be determine to give my boy one good celebration before I go , anyway .
It be near Thanksgiving , and I resolve they should have a dinner that would keep my memory green for awhile , a real old-fashioned Thanksgiving dinner such a they use to have at home .
I know it would cost more than I could really afford , but I shut my eye to that aspect of the question .
I be go back to strict eastern economy for the rest of my day , and I mean to indulge in one wild , blissful riot of extravagance before I be cooped up again .
I count up the boy I must have , and there be fifteen , include the minister .
I invite them a fortnight ahead to make sure of get them , though I need n't have worry , for they all say they would have break an engagement to dine with the king for one of my dinner .
The minister say he have be feel so homesick he be afraid he would n't be able to preach a real thankful sermon , but now he be comfortably sure that his sermon would be overflow with gratitude .
I just throw myself heart and soul into the preparation for that dinner .
I have three turkey and two sucking pig , and mince pie and pumpkin pie and apple pie , and doughnut and fruit cake and cranberry sauce and brown bread , and ever so many other thing to fill up the chink .
The night before Thanksgiving everything be ready , and I be so tired I could hardly talk to Jimmy Nelson when he drop in .
Jimmy have something on his mind , I saw that .
So I say , '' ` Fess up , Jimmy , and then you 'll be able to enjoy your call . ''
`` I want to ask a favour of you , Aunt Patty , '' say Jimmy .
I know I should have to grant it ; nobody could refuse Jimmy anything , he look so much like a nice , clean , pink-and-white little schoolboy whose mother have just scrub his face and tell him to be good .
At the same time he be one of the wild young scamp in Carleton , or have be until a year ago .
I 'd get him well set on the road to reformation , and I felt worse about leave him than any of the rest of them .
I know he be just at the critical point .
With somebody to tide him over the next half year he 'd probably go straight for the rest of his life , but if he be leave to himself he 'd likely just slip back to his old set and way .
`` I want you to let me bring my Uncle Joe to dinner tomorrow , '' say Jimmy .
`` The poor old fellow be strand here for Thanksgiving , and he hat hotel .
May I ? ''
`` Of course , '' I say heartily , wonder why Jimmy seem to think I might n't want his Uncle Joe .
`` Bring him right along . ''
`` Thanks , '' say Jimmy .
`` He 'll be more than pleased .
Your sublime cookery will delight him .
He adore the west , but he ca n't endure it cooking .
He 's always harp on his mother 's pantry and the good old down-east dinner .
He 's dyspeptic and pessimistic most of the time , and he 's get half a dozen crony just like himself .
All they think of be railroad and bill of fare . ''
`` Railroads ! ''
I cry .
And then an awful thought assail me .
`` Jimmy Nelson , your uncle be n't -- be n't -- he ca n't be Joseph P. Nelson , the rich Joseph P. Nelson ! ''
`` Oh , he 's rich enough , '' say Jimmy ; get up and reach for his hat .
`` In dollar , that be .
Some way he 's poor enough .
Well , I must be go .
Thanks ever so much for let me bring Uncle Joe . ''
And that rascal be go , leave me crushed .
Joseph Nelson be come to my house to dinner -- Joseph P. Nelson , the millionaire railroad king , who keep his own chef and be accustom to din with the great one of the earth !
I be afraid I should never be able to forgive Jimmy .
I could n't sleep a wink that night , and I cook that dinner next day in a terrible state of mind .
Every ring that come at the door make my heart jump , -- but in the end Jimmy do n't ring at all , but just walk in with his uncle in tow .
The minute I saw Joseph P. I know I need n't be scar of him ; he just look real common .
He be little and thin and kind of bored-looking , with grey hair and whisker , and his clothes be next door to downright shabbiness .
If it have n't be for the thought of that chef , I would n't have felt a bit ashamed of my old-fashioned Thanksgiving spread .
When Joseph P. sit down to that table he stop look bore .
All the time the minister be say grace that man simply star at a big plate of doughnut near my end of the table , a if he 'd never see anything like them before .
All the boy talk and laugh while they be eat , but Joseph P. just ate , tuck away turkey and vegetable and keep an anxious eye on those doughnut , a if he be afraid somebody else would get hold of them before his turn come .
I wish I be sure it be etiquette to tell him not to worry because there be plenty more in the pantry .
By the time he 'd be help three time to mince pie I give up feeling bad about the chef .
He finish off with the doughnut , and I sha n't tell how many of them he devour , because I would not be believe .
Most of the boy have to go away soon after dinner .
Joseph P. shake hand with me absently and merely say , `` Good afternoon , Miss Porter . ''
I do n't think he seem at all grateful for his dinner , but that do n't worry me because it be for my boy I 'd get it up , and not for dyspeptic millionaire whose digestion have be spoil by private chef .
And my boy have appreciate it , there be n't any doubt about that .
Peter Crockett and Tommy Gray stay to help me wash the dish , and we have the jolliest time ever .
Afterward we pick the turkey bone .
But that night I realize that I be once more a useless , lonely old woman .
I cry myself to sleep , and next morning I have n't spunk enough to cook myself a dinner .
I din off some cracker and the remnant of the apple pie , and I be sit star at the crumb when the bell rang .
I wipe away my tear and go to the door .
Joseph P. Nelson be stand there , and he say , without waste any word -- it be easy to see how that man manage to get railroad build where nobody else could manage it -- that he have call to see me on a little matter of business .
He take just ten minute to make it clear to me , and when I saw the whole project I be the happy woman in Carleton or out of it .
He say he have never eat such a Thanksgiving dinner a mine , and that I be the woman he 'd be look for for year .
He say that he have a few business friend who have be bring up on a down-east farm like himself , and never get over their hankering for old-fashioned cookery .
`` That be something we ca n't get here , with all our money , '' he say .
`` Now , Miss Porter , my nephew tell me that you wish to remain in Carleton , if you can find some way of support yourself .
I have a proposition to make to you .
These aforesaid friend of mine and I expect to spend most of our time in Carleton for the next few year .
In fact we shall probably make it our home eventually .
It 's go to be the city of the west after awhile , and the centre of a dozen railroad .
Well , we mean to equip a small private restaurant for ourselves and we want you to take charge of it .
You wo n't have to do much except oversee the business and arrange the bill of fare .
We want plain , substantial old-time meal and cookery .
When we have a hankering for doughnut and apple pie and cranberry tart , we want to know just where to get them and have them the right kind .
We 're all horribly tire of hotel fare and fancy fol-de-rols with French name .
A place where we could get a dinner such a you serve yesterday would be a boon to u .
We 'd have start the restaurant long ago if we could have get a suitable person to take charge of it . ''
He name the salary the club would pay and the very sound of it make me feel rich .
You may be sure I do n't take long to decide .
That be a year ago , and today the Doughnut Club , a they call themselves , be a huge success , and the fame of it have go abroad in the land , although they be pretty exclusive and keep all their good thing close enough to themselves .
Joseph P. take a Scotch peer there to dinner one day last week .
Jimmy Nelson tell me afterward that the man say it be the only satisfying meal he 'd have since he leave the old country .
As for me , I have my little house , my very own and no rented one , and all my dear boy , and I 'm a happy old busybody .
You see , Providence do answer my prayer in spite of my lack of faith ; but of course He use mean , and that Thanksgiving dinner of mine be the earthly instrument of it all .
The Girl Who Drove the Cows `` I wonder who that pleasant-looking girl who drive cow down the beech lane every morning and evening be , '' say Pauline Palmer , at the tea table of the country farmhouse where she and her aunt be spend the summer .
Mrs. Wallace have want to go to some fashionable watering place , but her husband have bluntly tell her he could n't afford it .
Stay in the city when all her set be out she would not , and the aforesaid farmhouse have be the compromise .
`` I should n't suppose it could make any difference to you who she be , '' say Mrs. Wallace impatiently .
`` I do wish , Pauline , that you be more careful in your choice of associate .
You hobnob with everyone , even that old man who come around buy egg .
It be very bad form . ''
Pauline hide a rather undutiful smile behind her napkin .
Aunt Olivia 's snobbish opinion always amuse her .
`` You 've no idea what an interesting old man he be , '' she say .
`` He can talk more entertainingly than any other man I know .
What be the use of be so exclusive , Aunt Olivia ?
You miss so much fun .
You would n't be so horribly bore a you be if you fraternize a little with the ` native , ' a you call them . ''
`` No , thank you , '' say Mrs. Wallace disdainfully .
`` Well , I be go to try to get acquaint with that girl , '' say Pauline resolutely .
`` She look nice and jolly . ''
`` I do n't know where you get your low taste from , '' groan Mrs. Wallace .
`` I 'm sure it be n't from your poor mother .
What do you suppose the Morgan Knowles would think if they saw you take up with some tomboy girl on a farm ? ''
`` I do n't see why it should make a great deal of difference what they would think , since they do n't seem to be aware of my existence , or even of yours , Aunty , '' say Pauline , with twinkle eye .
She know it be her aunt 's dear desire to get in with the Morgan Knowles ' `` set '' -- a desire that seem a far from be realize a ever .
Mrs. Wallace could never understand why the Morgan Knowles shut her from their charmed circle .
They certainly associate with people much poor and of more doubtful worldly station than hers -- the Markhams , for instance , who live on an unfashionable street and wear quite shabby clothes .
Just before she have leave Colchester , Mrs. Wallace have see Mrs. Knowles and Mrs. Markham together in the former 's automobile .
James Wallace and Morgan Knowles be associate in business dealing ; but in spite of Mrs. Wallace 's schemings and aspiration and heart burning , the association remain a purely business one and never advance an inch in the direction of friendship .
As for Pauline , she be hopelessly devoid of social ambition and she do not in the least mind the Morgan Knowles ' remote attitude .
`` Besides , '' continue Pauline , `` she be n't a tomboy at all .
She look like a very womanly , well-bred sort of girl .
Why should you think her a tomboy because she drive cow ?
Cows be placid , useful animal -- witness this delicious cream which I be pour over my blueberry .
And they have to be drive .
It 's an honest occupation . ''
`` I daresay she be someone 's servant , '' say Mrs. Wallace contemptuously .
`` But I suppose even that would n't matter to you , Pauline ? ''
`` Not a mite , '' say Pauline cheerfully .
`` One of the very nice girl I ever know be a maid Mother have the last year of her dear life .
I love that girl , Aunt Olivia , and I correspond with her .
She write letter that be ten time more clever and entertaining than those stupid epistle Clarisse Gray send me -- and Clarisse Gray be a rich man 's daughter and be be educate in Paris . ''
`` You be incorrigible , Pauline , '' say Mrs. Wallace hopelessly .
`` Mrs. Boyd , '' say Pauline to their landlady , who now make her appearance , `` who be that girl who drive the cow along the beech lane morning and evening ? ''
`` Ada Cameron , I guess , '' be Mrs. Boyd 's response .
`` She live with the Embrees down on the old Embree place just below here .
They 're pasture their cow on the upper farm this summer .
Mrs. Embree be her father 's half-sister . ''
`` Is she as nice a she look ? ''
`` Yes , Ada 's a real nice sensible girl , '' say Mrs. Boyd .
`` There be no nonsense about her . ''
`` That do n't sound very encouraging , '' murmur Pauline , a Mrs. Boyd go out .
`` I like people with a little nonsense about them .
But I hope good thing of Ada , Mrs. Boyd to the contrary notwithstanding .
She have a pair of grey eye that ca n't possibly always look sensible .
I think they must mellow occasionally into fun and jollity and wholesome nonsense .
Well , I 'm off to the shore .
I want to get that photograph of the Cove this evening , if possible .
I 've set my heart on take first prize at the Amateur Photographers ' Exhibition this fall , and if I can only get that Cove with all it beautiful light and shadow , it will be the gem of my collection . ''
Pauline , on her return from the shore , reach the beech lane just a the Embree cow be swing down it .
Behind them come a tall , brown-haired , brown-faced girl in a neat print dress .
Her hat be hung over her arm , and the low evening sunlight shone redly over her smooth glossy head .
She carry herself with a pretty dignity , but when her eye meet Pauline 's , she look a if she would smile on the slight provocation .
Pauline promptly give her the provocation .
`` Good evening , Miss Cameron , '' she call blithely .
`` Wo n't you please stop a few moment and look me over ?
I want to see if you think me a likely person for a summer chum . ''
Ada Cameron do more than smile .
She laugh outright and go over to the fence where Pauline be sit on a stump .
She look down into the merry black eye of the town girl she have be half envy for a week and say humorously : `` Yes , I think you very likely , indeed .
But it take two to make a friendship -- like a bargain .
If I 'm one , you 'll have to be the other . ''
`` I 'm the other .
Shake , '' say Pauline , hold out her hand .
That be the beginning of a friendship that make poor Mrs. Wallace groan outwardly as well a inwardly .
Pauline and Ada find that they like each other even more than they have expect to .
They walk , row , berry and picnic together .
Ada do not go to Mrs. Boyd 's a great deal , for some instinct tell her that Mrs. Wallace do not look favourably on her , but Pauline spend half her time at the little , brown , orchard-embowered house at the end of the beech lane where the Embrees live .
She have never meet any girl she think so nice a Ada .
`` She be nice every way , '' she tell the unconvinced Aunt Olivia .
`` She 's clever and well read .
She be sensible and frank .
She have a sense of humour and a great deal of insight into character -- witness her liking for your niece !
She can talk interestingly and she can also be silent when silence be become .
And she have the fine profile I ever saw .
Aunt Olivia , may I ask her to visit me next winter ? ''
`` No , indeed , '' say Mrs. Wallace , with crush emphasis .
`` You surely do n't expect to continue this absurd intimacy past the summer , Pauline ? ''
`` I expect to be Ada 's friend all my life , '' say Pauline laughingly , but with a little ring of purpose in her voice .
`` Oh , Aunty , dear , ca n't you see that Ada be just the same girl in cotton print that she would be in silk attire ?
She be really far more distinguished look than any girl in the Knowles ' set . ''
`` Pauline ! ''
say Aunt Olivia , look as shock a if Pauline have commit blasphemy .
Pauline laugh again , but she sigh a she go to her room .
Aunt Olivia have the kind heart in the world , she think .
What a pity she be n't able to see thing a they really be !
My friendship with Ada ca n't be perfect if I ca n't invite her to my home .
And she be such a dear girl -- the first real friend after my own heart that I 've ever have .
The summer wan , and August burn itself out .
`` I suppose you will be go back to town next week ?
I shall miss you dreadfully , '' say Ada .
The two girl be in the Embree garden , where Pauline be prepare to take a photograph of Ada stand among the aster , with a great sheaf of them in her arm .
Pauline wish she could have say : But you must come and visit me in the winter .
Since she could not , she have to content herself with say : `` You wo n't miss me any more than I shall miss you .
But we 'll correspond , and I hope Aunt Olivia will come to Marwood again next summer . ''
`` I do n't think I shall be here then , '' say Ada with a sigh .
`` You see , it be time I be do something for myself , Pauline .
Aunt Jane and Uncle Robert have always be very kind to me , but they have a large family and be not very well off .
So I think I 'll try for a situation in one of the Remington store this fall . ''
`` It 's such a pity you could n't have go to the Academy and study for a teacher 's licence , '' say Pauline , who know what Ada 's ambition be .
`` I should have like that good , of course , '' say Ada quietly .
`` But it be not possible , so I must do my best at the next best thing .
Do n't let 's talk of it .
It might make me feel blueish and I want to look especially pleasant if I 'm go to have my photo take . ''
`` You could n't look anything else , '' laugh Pauline .
`` Do n't smile too broadly -- I want you to be look over the aster with a bit of a dream on your face and in your eye .
If the picture turn out as beautiful a I fondly expect , I mean to put it in my exhibition collection under the title ' A September Dream . '
There , that 's the very expression .
When you look like that , you remind me of somebody I have see , but I ca n't remember who it be .
All ready now -- do n't move -- there , dearie , it be all over . ''
When Pauline go back to Colchester , she be busy for a month prepare her photograph for the exhibition , while Aunt Olivia renew her spinning of all the little social web in which she fondly hop to entangle the Morgan Knowles and other desirable fly .
When the exhibition be open , Pauline Palmer 's collection win first prize , and the pretty picture in it be one call `` A September Dream '' -- a tall girl with a wistful face , stand in an old-fashioned garden with her arm full of aster .
The very day after the exhibition be open the Morgan Knowles ' automobile stop at the Wallace door .
Mrs. Wallace be out , but it be Pauline whom stately Mrs. Morgan Knowles ask for .
Pauline be at that moment bury in her darkroom develop photograph , and she run down just a she be -- a fact which would have mortify Mrs. Wallace exceedingly if she have ever know it .
But Mrs. Morgan Knowles do not seem to mind at all .
She like Pauline 's simplicity of manner .
It be more than she have expect from the aunt 's rather vulgar affectation .
`` I have call to ask you who the original of the photograph ' A September Dream ' in your exhibit be , Miss Palmer , '' she say graciously .
`` The resemblance to a very dear childhood friend of mine be so startling that I be sure it can not be accidental . ''
`` That be a photograph of Ada Cameron , a friend whom I meet this summer up in Marwood , '' say Pauline .
`` Ada Cameron !
She must be Ada Frame 's daughter , then , '' exclaim Mrs. Knowles in excitement .
Then , see Pauline 's puzzled face , she explain : `` Years ago , when I be a child , I always spend my summer on the farm of my uncle , John Frame .
My cousin , Ada Frame , be the dear friend I ever have , but after we grow up we saw nothing of each other , for I go with my parent to Europe for several year , and Ada marry a neighbour 's son , Alec Cameron , and go out west .
Her father , who be my only living relative other than my parent , die , and I never hear anything more of Ada until about eight year ago , when somebody tell me she be dead and have leave no family .
That part of the report can not have be true if this girl be her daughter . ''
`` I believe she be , '' say Pauline quickly .
`` Ada be bear out west and live there until she be eight year old , when her parent die and she be send east to her father 's half-sister .
And Ada look like you -- she always remind me of somebody I have see , but I never could decide who it be before .
Oh , I hope it be true , for Ada be such a sweet girl , Mrs. Knowles . ''
`` She could n't be anything else if she be Ada Frame 's daughter , '' say Mrs. Knowles .
`` My husband will investigate the matter at once , and if this girl be Ada 's child we shall hope to find a daughter in her , a we have none of our own . ''
`` What will Aunt Olivia say ! ''
say Pauline with wickedly dance eye when Mrs. Knowles have go .
Aunt Olivia be too much overcome to say anything .
That good lady felt rather foolish when it be prove that the girl she have so despise be Mrs. Morgan Knowles ' cousin and be go to be adopt by her .
But to hear Aunt Olivia talk now , you would suppose that she and not Pauline have discover Ada .
The latter sought Pauline out as soon a she come to Colchester , and the summer friendship prove a life-long one and be , for the Wallaces , the open sesame to the enchant ground of the Knowles ' `` set . ''
`` So everybody concerned be happy , '' say Pauline .
`` Ada be go to college and so be I , and Aunt Olivia be on the same committee a Mrs. Knowles for the big church bazaar .
What about my ` low taste ' now , Aunt Olivia ? ''
`` Well , who would ever have suppose that a girl who drive cow to pasture be connect with the Morgan Knowles ? ''
say poor Aunt Olivia piteously .
The Growing Up of Cornelia January First .
Aunt Jemima give me this diary for a Christmas present .
It 's just the sort of gift a person name Jemima would be likely to make .
I ca n't imagine why Aunt Jemima think I should like a diary .
Probably she do n't think about it at all .
I suppose it happen to be the first thing she saw when she start out to do her Christmas duty by me , and so she buy it .
I 'm sure I 'm the last girl in the world to keep a diary .
I 'm not a bit sentimental and I never have time for soul outpouring .
It 's jolly to be out skate or snowshoe or just tramp around .
And besides , nothing ever happen to me worth write in a diary .
Still , since Aunt Jemima give it to me , I 'm go to get the good out of it .
I do n't believe in waste even a diary .
Father ... it would be easy to write `` Dad , '' but Dad sound disrespectful in a diary ... say I have a streak of old Grandmother Marshall 's economical nature in me .
So I 'm go to write in this book whenever I have anything that might , by any stretch of imagination , be suppose worth while .
Jen and Alice and Sue would have plenty to write about , I dare say .
They certainly seem to have jolly time ... and a for the men ... but there !
People say men be interest .
They may be .
But I shall never get well enough acquaint with any of them to find out .
Mother say it be high time I give up my tomboy way and come `` out '' too , because I be eighteen .
I coax off this winter .
It be n't very hard , because no mother with three old unmarried girl on her hand would be very anxious to bring out a fourth .
The girl take my part and advise Mother to let me be a child as long a possible .
Mother yield for this time , but say I must be bring out next winter or people would talk .
Oh , I hate the thought of it !
People might talk about my not be bring out , but they will talk far more about the blunder I shall make .
The doleful fact be , I 'm too wretchedly shy and awkward to live .
It fill my soul with terror to think of don long dress and put my hair up and go into society .
I ca n't talk and men frighten me to death .
I fall over thing a it be , and what will it be with long dress ?
As far back a I can remember it have be my one aim and object in life to escape company .
Oh , if only one need never grow up !
If I could only go back four year and stay there !
Mother lament over it muchly .
She say she do n't know what she have do to have such a shy , unpresentable daughter .
I know .
She marry Grandmother Marshall 's son , and Grandmother Marshall be as shy a she be economical .
Mother triumph over heredity with Jen and Sue and Alice , but it come off best with me .
The other girl be note for their grace and tact .
But I 'm the black sheep and always will be .
It would n't worry me so much if they 'd leave me alone and stop nag me .
`` Oh , for a lodge in some vast wilderness , '' where there be no men , no party , no dinner ... just quantity of dog and horse and skate pond and wood !
I need never put on long dress then , but just be a jolly little girl forever .
However , I 've get one beautiful year before me yet , and I mean to make the most of it .
* * * * * January Tenth .
It be rather good to have a diary to pour out your woe in when you feel awfully bad and have no one to sympathize with you .
I 've be use to shut them all up in my soul and then they sometimes ferment and make trouble .
We have a lot of people here to dinner tonight , and that make me miserable to begin with .
I have to dress up in a stiff white dress with a sash , and Jen tie two big white fly-away bow on my hair that keep rasp my neck and tickle my ear in a most exasperating way .
Then an old lady whom I detest try to make me talk before everybody , and all I could do be to turn as red a a beet and stammer : `` Yes , ma'am , '' `` no , ma'am . ''
It make Mother furious , because it be so old-fashioned to say `` ma'am . ''
Our old nurse teach me to say it when I be small , and though it have be pretty well govern out of me since then , it 's sure to pop up when I get confused and nervous .
Sue ... may it be account unto her for righteousness ... contrive that I should go out to dinner with old Mr. Grant , because she know he go to dinner for the sake of eating and never talk or want anybody else to .
But when we be cross the hall I step on Mrs. Burnett 's train and something tore .
Mrs. Burnett give me a furious look and glower all through dinner .
The meal be completely spoil for me and I could find no comfort , even in the Nesselrode pudding , which be my favourite dessert .
It be just when the pudding come on that I get the most unkind cut of all .
Mrs. Allardyce remark that Sidney Elliot be come home to Stillwater .
Everybody exclaim and question and seem delighted .
I saw Mother give one quick , involuntary look at Jen , and then gaze steadfastly at Mr. Grant to atone for it .
Jen be twenty-six , and Stillwater be next door to our place !
As for me , I be so vexed that I might as well have be eat chip for all the good that Nesselrode pudding be to me .
If Sidney Elliot be come home everything would be spoil .
There would be no more ramblings in the Stillwater wood , no more delightful skate on the Stillwater lake .
Stillwater have be the only place in the world where I could find the full joy of solitude , and now this , too , be to be take from me .
We have no wood , no lake .
I hat Sidney Elliot .
It be ten year since Sidney Elliot close Stillwater and go abroad .
He have stay abroad ever since and nobody have miss him , I 'm sure .
I remember him dimly a a tall dark man who use to lounge about alone in his garden and be always read book .
Sometimes he come into our garden and tease u child .
He be say to be a cynic and to detest society .
If this latter item be a fact I almost feel a grim pity for him .
He may detest it , but he will be drag into it .
Rich bachelor be few and far between in Riverton , and the mamma will hunt him down .
I feel like cry .
If Sidney Elliot come home I shall be debar from Stillwater .
I have roam it demesne for ten beautiful year , and I 'm sure I love them a hundredfold well than he do , or can .
It be flagrantly unfair .
Oh , I hate him !
* * * * * January Twentieth .
No , I do n't .
I believe I like him .
Yet it 's almost unbelievable .
I 've always think men so detestable .
I 'm tingle all over with the surprise and pleasure of a little unexpected adventure .
For the first time I have something really worth write in a diary ... and I 'm glad I have a diary to write it in .
Blessings on Aunt Jemima !
May her shadow never grow less .
This evening I start out for a last long linger ramble in my beloved Stillwater wood .
The last , I think , because I know Sidney Elliot be expect home next week , and after that I 'd have to be cooped up on our lawn .
I dress myself comfortably for climb fence and skim over snowy waste .
That be , I put on the short old tweed skirt I have and a red jacket with sleeve three year behind the fashion , but jolly pocket to put your hand in , and a still red tam .
Thus accoutre , I sallied forth .
It be such a lovely evening that I could n't help enjoy myself in spite of my sorrow .
The sun be low and creamy , and the snow be so white and the shadow so slender and blue .
All through the lovely Stillwater wood be a fine frosty stillness .
It be splendid to skim down those long wonderful avenue of crust snow , with the mossy grey bole on either hand , and overhead the lacing , leafless bough , I just drank in the air and the beauty until my very soul be thrill , and I go on and on and on until I be most delightfully lose .
That be , I do n't know just where I be , but the wood be n't so big but that I 'd be sure to come out safely somewhere ; and , oh , it be so glorious to be there all alone and never a creature to worry me .
At last I turn into a long aisle that seem to lead right out into the very heart of a deep-red overflowing winter sunset .
At it end I find a fence , and I climb up on that fence and sat there , so comfortably , with my back against a big beech and my foot dangle .
Then I saw him !
I know it be Sidney Elliot in a moment .
He be just a tall and just a black-eyed ; he be still give to lounge evidently , for he be lean against the fence a panel away from me and look at me with an amused smile .
After my first mad impulse to rush away and bury myself in the wilderness that smile put me at ease .
If he have look grave or polite I would have be a miserably shy a I 've always be in a man 's presence .
But it be the smile of a grandfather for a child , and I just grin cheerfully back at him .
He plough along through the thick drift that be soft and spongy by the fence and come close up to me .
`` You must be little Cornelia , '' he say with another age smile .
`` Or rather , you be little Cornelia .
I suppose you be big Cornelia now and want to be treat like a young lady ? ''
`` Indeed , I do n't , '' I protest .
`` I 'm not grow up and I do n't want to be .
You be Mr. Elliot , I suppose .
Nobody expect you till next week .
What make you come so soon ? ''
`` A whim of mine , '' he say .
`` I 'm full of whim and crotchet .
Old bachelor always be .
But why do you ask that question in a tone which seem to imply that you resent my come so soon , Miss Cornelia ? ''
`` Oh , do n't tack the Miss on , '' I implore .
`` Call me Cornelia ... or good still , Nic , a Dad do .
I do resent your come so soon .
I resent your come at all .
And , oh , it be such a satisfaction to tell you so . ''
He smile with his eye ... a deep , black , velvety smile .
But he shake his head sorrowfully .
`` I must be get very old , '' he say .
`` It 's a sign of age when a person find himself unwelcome and superfluous . ''
`` Your age have nothing to do with it , '' I retort .
`` It be because Stillwater be the only place I have to run wild in ... and run wild be all I 'm fit for .
It 's so lovely and roomy I can lose myself in it .
I shall die or go mad if I 'm cooped up on our little pocket handkerchief of a lawn . ''
`` But why should you be ? ''
he inquire gravely .
I reflect ... and be surprise .
`` After all , I do n't know ... now ... why I should be , '' I admit .
`` I think you would n't want me prowl about your domain .
Besides , I be afraid I 'd meet you ... and I do n't like meet men .
I hate to have them around ... I 'm so shy and awkward . ''
`` Do you find me very dreadful ? ''
he ask .
I reflect again ... and be again surprised .
`` No , I do n't .
I do n't mind you a bit ... any more than if you be Dad . ''
`` Then you must n't consider yourself an exile from Stillwater .
The wood be yours to roam in at will , and if you want to roam them alone you may , and if you 'd like a companion once in a while command me .
Let 's be good friend , little lass .
Shake hand on it . ''
I slip down from the fence and shake hand with him .
I do like him very much ... he be so nice and unaffected and brotherly ... just a if I 'd know him all my life .
We walk down the long white avenue , where everything be grow dusky , and I have tell him all my trouble before we get to the end of it .
He be so sympathetic and agree with me that it be a pity people have to grow up .
He promise to come over tomorrow and look at Don 's leg .
Don be one of my dog , and he have get a bad leg .
I 've be doctor it myself , but it do n't get any good .
Sidney think he can cure it .
He say I must call him Sidney if I want him to call me Nic .
When we get to the lake , there it lay all gleaming and smooth a glass ... the most tempting thing .
`` What a glorious possible slide , '' he say .
`` Let u have it , little lass . ''
He take my hand and we run down the slope and go skim over the ice .
It be glorious .
The house come in sight a we reach the other side .
It be big and dark and silent .
`` So the old place be still stand , '' say Sidney , look up at it .
In the dusk I think his face have a tender , reverent look instead of the rather mocking expression it have wear all along .
`` Have n't you be there yet ? ''
I ask quickly .
`` No .
I 'm stop at the hotel over in Croyden .
The house will need some fix up before it 's fit to live in .
I just come down tonight to look at it and take a short cut through the wood .
I 'm glad I do .
It be worth while to see you come tramp down that long white avenue when you think yourself alone with the silence .
I think I have never see a child so full of the pure joy of existence .
Hold fast to that , little lass , as long a you can .
You 'll never find anything to take it place after it go .
You jolly little child ! ''
`` I 'm eighteen , '' I say suddenly .
I do n't know what make me say it .
He laugh and pull his coat collar up around his ear .
`` Never , '' he mock .
`` You 're about twelve ... stay twelve , and always wear red cap and jacket , you vivid thing : Good night . ''
He be off across the lake , and I come home .
Yes , I do like him , even if he be a man .
* * * * * February Twentieth .
I 've find out what diary be for ... to work off blue mood in , mood that come on without any reason whatever and therefore ca n't be confide to any fellow creature .
You scribble away for a while ... and then it 's all go ... and your soul feel clear a crystal once more .
I always go to Sidney now in a blue mood that have a real cause .
He can cheer me up in five minute .
But in such a one a this , which be quite unaccountable , there 's nothing for it but a diary .
Sidney have be live at Stillwater for a month .
It seem a if he must have live there always .
He come to our place the next day after I meet him in the wood .
Everybody make a fuss over him , but he shake them off with an ease I envy and whisk me out to see Don 's leg .
He have fix it up so that it be as good a new now , and the dog like him almost good than they like me .
We have have splendid time since then .
We be just the jolly chum and we tramp about everywhere together and go skating and snowshoeing and riding .
We read a lot of book together too , and Sidney always explain everything I do n't understand .
I 'm not a bit shy and I can always find plenty to say to him .
He be n't at all like any other man I know .
Everybody like him , but the woman seem to be a little afraid of him .
They say he be so terribly cynical and satirical .
He go into society a good bit , although he say it bore him .
He say he only go because it would bore him bad to stay home alone .
There 's only one thing about Sidney that I hardly like .
I think he rather overdo it in the matter of treat me a if I be a little girl .
Of course , I do n't want him to look upon me a grow up .
But there be a medium in all thing , and he really need n't talk a if he think I be a child of ten and have no earthly interest in anything but sport and dog .
These be the best thing ... I suppose ... but I understand lot of other thing too , only I ca n't convince Sidney that I do .
I know he be laugh at me when I try to show him I 'm not so childish a he think me .
He 's indulgent and whimsical , just a he would be with a little girl who be make believe to be grow up .
Perhaps next winter , when I put on long dress and come out , he 'll stop regard me a a child .
But next winter be so horribly far off .
The day we be fuss with Don 's leg I tell Sidney that Mother say I 'd have to be grow up next winter and how I hat it , and I make him promise that when the time come he would use all his influence to beg me off for another year .
He say he would , because it be a shame to worry child about society .
But somehow I 've conclude not to bother make a fuss .
I have to come out some time , and I might as well take the plunge and get it over .
Mrs. Burnett be here this evening fix up some arrangement for a charity bazaar she and Jen be interested in , and she talk most of the time about Sidney ... for Jen 's benefit , I suppose , although Jen and Sid do n't get on at all .
They fight every time they meet , so I do n't see why Mrs. Burnett should think thing .
`` I wonder what he 'll do when Mrs. Rennie come to the Glasgows ' next month , '' say Mrs. Burnett .
`` Why should he do anything ? ''
ask Jen .
`` Oh , well , you know there be something between them ... an understanding if not an engagement ... before she marry Rennie .
They meet abroad ... my sister tell me all about it ... and Mr. Elliot be quite infatuated with her .
She be a very handsome and fascinating girl .
Then she throw him over and marry old Jacob Rennie ... for his million , of course , for he certainly have nothing else to recommend him .
Amy say Mr. Elliot be never the same man again .
But Jacob die obligingly two year ago and Mrs. Rennie be free now ; so I dare say they 'll make it up .
No doubt that be why she be come to Riverton .
Well , it would be a very suitable match . ''
I 'm so glad I never like Mrs. Burnett .
I wonder if it be true that Sidney do care for that horrid woman ... of course she be horrid !
Did n't she marry an old man for his money ?
... and care for her still .
It be no business of mine , of course , and it do n't matter to me at all .
But I rather hope he do n't ... because it would spoil everything if he get married .
He would n't have time to be chum with me then .
I do n't know why I feel so dull tonight .
Writing in this diary do n't seem to have help me as much a I think it would , either .
I dare say it 's the weather .
It must be the weather .
It be a wet , windy night and the rain be thud against the window .
I hate rainy night .
I wonder if Mrs. Rennie be really as handsome a Mrs. Burnett say .
I wonder how old she be .
I wonder if she ever care for Sidney ... no , she do n't .
No woman who care for Sidney could ever have throw him over for an old moneybag .
I wonder if I shall like her .
No , I wo n't .
I 'm sure I sha n't like her .
My head be ache and I 'm go to bed .
* * * * * March Tenth .
Mrs. Rennie be here to dinner tonight .
My head be ache again , and Mother say I need n't go down to dinner if I 'd rather not ; but a dozen headache could not have keep me back , or a dozen men either , even suppose I 'd have to talk to them all .
I want to see Mrs. Rennie .
Nothing have be talk of in Riverton for the last fortnight but Mrs. Rennie .
I 've hear of her beauty and charm and costume until I 'm sick of the subject .
Today I speak to Sidney about her .
Before I think I say right out , `` Mrs. Rennie be to dine with u tonight . ''
`` Yes ? ''
he say in a quiet voice .
`` I 'm die to see her , '' I go on recklessly .
`` I 've hear so much about her .
They say she 's so beautiful and fascinating .
Is she ?
You ought to know . ''
Sidney swing the sled around and put it in position for another coast .
`` Yes , I know her , '' he admit tranquilly .
`` She be a very handsome woman , and I suppose most people would consider her fascinating .
Come , Nic , get on the sled .
We have just time for one more coast , and then you must go in . ''
`` You be once a good friend ... a very good friend ... of Mrs. Rennie 's , be n't you , Sid ? ''
I say .
A little mocking gleam crept into his eye , and I instantly realize that he be look upon me a a rather impertinent child .
`` You 've be listen to gossip , Nic , '' he say .
`` It 's a bad habit , child .
Do n't let it grow on you .
Come . ''
I go , feel crush and furious and ashamed .
I know her at once when I go down to the drawing-room .
There be three other strange woman there , but I know she be the only one who could be Mrs. Rennie .
I felt such a horrible queer sink feeling at my heart when I saw her .
Oh , she be beautiful ... I have never see anyone so beautiful .
And Sidney be stand beside her , talk to her , with a smile on his face , but none in his eye ... I notice that at a glance .
She be so tall and slender and willowy .
Her dress be wonderful , and her bare throat and shoulder be like pearl .
Her hair be pale , pale gold , and her eye long-lashed and sweet , and her mouth like a scarlet blossom against her creamy face .
I think of how I must look beside her ... an awkward little girl in a short skirt with my hair in a braid and too many hand and foot , and I would have give anything then to be tall and grown-up and graceful .
I watch her all the evening and the queer feeling in me somewhere grow bad and bad .
I could n't eat anything .
Sidney take Mrs. Rennie in ; they sit opposite to me and talk all the time .
I be so glad when the dinner be over and everybody go .
The first thing I do when I escape to my room be to go to the glass and look myself over just a critically and carefully a if I be somebody else .
I saw a great rope of dark brown hair ... a brown skin with red cheek ... a big red mouth ... a pair of grey eye .
That be all .
And when I think of that shimmer witch woman with her white skin and shin hair I want to put out the light and cry in the dark .
Only I 've never cry since I be a child and break my last doll , and I 've get so out of the habit that I do n't know how to go about it .
* * * * * April Fifth .
Aunt Jemima would not think I be get the good out of my diary .
A whole month and not a word !
But there be nothing to write , and I 've felt too miserable to write if there have be .
I do n't know what be the matter with me .
I 'm just cross and horrid to everyone , even to poor Sidney .
Mrs. Rennie have be queen it in Riverton society for the past month .
People rave over her and I admire her horribly , although I do n't like her .
Mrs. Burnett say that a match between her and Sidney Elliot be a foregone conclusion .
It 's plain to be see that Mrs. Rennie love Sidney .
Even I can see that , and I do n't know much about such thing .
But it puzzle me to know how Sidney regard her .
I have never think he show any sign of really care for her .
But then , he be n't the kind that would .
`` Nic , I wonder if you will ever grow up , '' he say to me today , laugh , when he catch me race over the lawn with the dog .
`` I 'm grown up now , '' I say crossly .
`` Why , I 'm eighteen and a half and I 'm two inch taller than any of the other girl . ''
Sidney laugh , a if he be heartily amuse at something .
`` You 're a blessed baby , '' he say , `` and the dear , true , jolly little chum ever a fellow have .
I do n't know what I 'd do without you , Nic .
You keep me sane and wholesome .
I 'm a tenfold well man for know you , little girl . ''
I be rather pleased .
It be nice to think I be some good to Sidney .
`` Are you go to the Trents ' dinner tonight ? ''
I ask .
`` Yes , '' he say briefly .
`` Mrs. Rennie will be there , '' I say .
Sidney nod .
`` Do you think her so very handsome , Sidney ? ''
I say .
I have never mention Mrs. Rennie to him since the day we be coast , and I do n't mean to now .
The question just ask itself .
`` Yes , very ; but not as handsome a you will be ten year from now , Nic , '' say Sidney lightly .
`` Do you think I 'm handsome , Sidney ? ''
I cry .
`` You will be when you 're grow up , '' he answer , look at me critically .
`` Will you be go to Mrs. Greaves ' reception after the dinner ? ''
I ask .
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' say Sidney absently .
I could see he be n't think of me at all .
I wonder if he be think of Mrs. Rennie .
* * * * * April Sixth .
Oh , something so wonderful have happen .
I can hardly believe it .
There be moment when I quake with the fear that it be all a dream .
I wonder if I can really be the same Cornelia Marshall I be yesterday .
No , I 'm not the same ... and the difference be so blessed .
Oh , I 'm so happy !
My heart bubble over with happiness and song .
It 's so wonderful and lovely to be a woman and know it and know that other people know it .
You dear diary , you be make for this moment ... I shall write all about it in you and so fulfil your destiny .
And then I shall put you away and never write anything more in you , because I shall not need you ... I shall have Sidney .
Last night I be all alone in the house ... and I be so lonely and miserable .
I put my chin on my hand and I think ... and think ... and think .
I imagine Sidney at the Greaves ' , talk to Mrs. Rennie with that velvety smile in his eye .
I could see her , graceful and white , in her trailing , cling gown , with diamond about her smooth neck and in her hair .
I suddenly wonder what I would look like in even dress with my hair up .
I wonder if Sidney would like me in it .
All at once I get up and rush to Sue 's room .
I light the gas , rummage , and go to work .
I pile my hair on top of my head , pin it there , and thrust a long silver dagger through it to hold a couple of pale white rose she have leave on her table .
Then I put on her last winter 's party dress .
It be such a pretty pale yellow thing , with touch of black lace , and it do n't matter about it be a little old-fashioned , since it fit me like a glove .
Finally I step back and look at myself .
I saw a woman in that glass ... a tall , straight creature with crimson cheek and glow eye ... and the thought in my mind be so insistent that it say itself aloud : `` Oh , I wish Sidney could see me now ! ''
At that very moment the maid knock at the door to tell me that Mr. Elliot be downstairs ask for me .
I do not hesitate a second .
With my heart beat wildly I trail downstairs to Sidney .
He be stand by the fireplace when I go in , and look very tired .
When he hear me he turn his head and our eye meet .
All at once a terrible thing happen ... at least , I think it a terrible thing then .
I know why I have want Sidney to realize that I be no long a child .
It be because I love him !
I know it the moment I saw that strange , new expression leap into his eye .
`` Cornelia , '' he say in a stunned sort of voice .
`` Why ... Nic ... why , little girl ... you 're a woman !
How blind I 've be !
And now I 've lose my little chum . ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' I say wildly .
I be so miserable and confuse I do n't know what I say .
`` Never , Sidney .
I 'd rather be a little girl and have you for a friend ... I 'll always be a little girl !
It 's all this hateful dress .
I 'll go and take it off ... I 'll ... '' And then I just put my hand up to my burn face and the tear that would never come before come in a flood .
All at once I felt Sidney 's arm about me and felt my head drawn to his shoulder .
`` Do n't cry , dear , '' I hear him say softly .
`` You can never be a little girl to me again ... my eye be open ... but I do n't want you to be .
I want you to be my big girl ... mine , all mine , forever . ''
What happen after that be n't to be write in a diary .
I wo n't even write down the thing he say about how I look , because it would seem so terribly vain , but I ca n't help thinking of them , for I be so happy .
The Old Fellow 's Letter Ruggles and I be down on the Old Fellow .
It do n't matter why and , since in a story of this kind we must tell the truth no matter what happen -- or else where be the use of write a story at all ?
-- I 'll have to confess that we have deserve all we get and that the Old Fellow do no more than his duty by u .
Both Ruggles and I see that now , since we have have time to cool off , but at the moment we be in a fearful wax at the Old Fellow and be bind to hatch up something to get even with him .
Of course , the Old Fellow have another name , just a Ruggles have another name .
He be principal of the Frampton Academy -- the Old Fellow , not Ruggles -- and his name be George Osborne .
We have to call him Mr. Osborne to his face , but he be the Old Fellow everywhere else .
He be quite old -- thirty-six if he 's a day , and whatever possessed Sylvia Grant -- but there , I 'm get ahead of my story .
Most of the Cads like the Old Fellow .
Even Ruggles and I like him on the average .
The girl be always a little provoke at him because he be so shy and absent-minded , but when it come to the point , they like him too .
I hear Emma White say once that he be `` so handsome '' ; I nearly whoop .
Ruggles be mad because he 's go on Em .
For the idea of call a thin , pale , dark , dreamy-looking chap like the Old Fellow `` handsome '' be more than I could stand without guffaw .
Em probably say it to provoke Ruggles ; she could n't really have think it .
`` Micky , '' the English professor , now -- if she have call him handsome there would have be some sense in it .
He be splendid : big six-footer with magnificent muscle , red cheek , and curly yellow hair .
I ca n't see how he can be content to sit down and teach mushy English literature and poetry and that sort of thing .
It would have be more in keep with the Old Fellow .
There be a rumour running at large in the Academy that the Old Fellow write poetry , but he run the mathematics and do n't make such a foozle of it a you might suppose , either .
Ruggles and I mean to get square with the Old Fellow , if it take all the term ; at least , we say so .
But if Providence have n't send Sylvia Grant walk down the street past our boarding house that afternoon , we should probably have cool off before we think of any working plan of revenge .
Sylvia Grant do go down the street , however .
Ruggles , hang halfway out of the window a usual , saw her , and call me to go and look .
Of course I go .
Sylvia Grant be always worth look at .
There be no girl in Frampton who could hold a candle to her when it come to beauty .
As for brain , that be another thing altogether .
My private opinion be that Sylvia have n't any , or she would never have prefer -- but there , I 'm get on too fast again .
Ruggles should have write this story ; he can concentrate well .
Sylvia be the Latin professor 's daughter ; she be n't a Cad girl , of course .
She be over twenty and have graduate from it two year ago , but she be in all the social thing that go on in the Academy ; and all the unmarried professor , except the Old Fellow , be in love with her .
Micky have it the bad , and we have all make up our mind that Sylvia would marry Micky .
He be so handsome , we do n't see how she could help it .
I tell you , they make a dandy-looking couple when they be together .
Well , a I say before , I toddle to the window to have a look at the fair Sylvia .
She be all tog out in some new fall dud , and I guess she 'd come out to show them off .
They be brownish , kind of , and she 'd a spanking hat on with feather and thing in it .
Her hair be shin under it , all purply-black , and she look sweet enough to eat .
Then she saw Ruggles and me and she wave her hand and laugh , and her big blackish-blue eye sparkle ; but she have n't be laugh before , or sparkle either .
I 'd think she look kind of glum , and I wonder if she and Micky have have a fall out .
I rather suspect it , for at the Senior Prom , three night before , she have hardly look at Micky , but have sit in a corner and talk to the Old Fellow .
He do n't do much talk ; he be too shy , and he look mighty uncomfortable .
I think it kind of mean of Sylvia to torment him so , when she know he hat to have to talk to girl , but when I saw Micky scowl at the corner , I know she be do it to make him jealous .
Girls wo n't stick at anything when they want to provoke a chap ; I know it to my cost , for Jennie Price -- but that have nothing to do with this story .
Just across the square Sylvia meet the Old Fellow and bow .
He lift his hat and pass on , but after a few step he turn and look back ; he catch Sylvia do the same thing , so he wheel and come on , look mighty foolish .
As he pass beneath our window Ruggles chuckle fiendishly .
`` I 've think of something , Polly , '' he say -- my name be Paul .
`` Bet you it will make the Old Fellow squirm .
Let 's write a letter to Sylvia Grant -- a love letter -- and sign the Old Fellow 's name to it .
She 'll give him a fearful snubbing , and we 'll be revenge . ''
`` But who 'll write it ? ''
I say doubtfully .
`` I ca n't .
You 'll have to , Ruggles .
You 've have more practice . ''
Ruggles turn red .
I know he write to Em White in vacation .
`` I 'll do my best , '' he say , quite meekly .
`` That be , I 'll compose it .
But you 'll have to copy it .
You can imitate the Old Fellow 's handwriting so well . ''
`` But look here , '' I say , an uncomfortable idea strike me , `` what about Sylvia ?
Wo n't she feel kind of flattish when she find out he do n't write it ?
For of course he 'll tell her .
We have n't anything against her , you know . ''
`` Oh , Sylvia wo n't care , '' say Ruggles serenely .
`` She 's the sort of girl who can take a joke .
I 've see her eye shine over trick we 've play on the professor before now .
She 'll just laugh .
Besides , she do n't like the Old Fellow a bit .
I know from the way she act with him .
She 's always so cool and stiff when he 's about , not a bit like she be with the other professor . ''
Well , Ruggles write the letter .
At first he try to pass it off on me a his own composition .
But I know a few little thing , and one of them be that Ruggles could n't have make up that letter any more than he could have write a sonnet .
I tell him so , and make him own up .
He have a copy of an old letter that have be write to his sister by her young man .
I suppose Ruggles have steal it , but there be no use inquire too closely into these thing .
Anyhow , that letter just fill the bill .
It be beautifully express .
Ruggles 's sister 's young man must have possess lot of ability .
He be an English professor , something like Micky , so I suppose he be extra good at it .
He start in by tell her how much he love her , and what an angel of beauty and goodness he have always think her ; how unworthy he felt himself of her and how little hope he have that she could ever care for him ; and he wind up by implore her to tell him if she could possibly love him a little bit and all that sort of thing .
I copy the letter out on heliotrope paper in my best imitation of the Old Fellow 's handwriting and sign it , `` Yours devotedly and imploringly , George Osborne . ''
Then we mail it that very even .
The next evening the Cad girl give a big reception in the Assembly Hall to an Academy alumna who be visit the Greek professor 's wife .
It be the smart event of the term and everybody be there -- student and faculty and , of course , Sylvia Grant .
Sylvia look stunning .
She be all in white , with a string of pearl about her pretty round throat and a couple of little pink rose in her black hair .
I never saw her so smile and bright ; but she seem quiet than usual , and avoid poor Micky so skilfully that it be really a pleasure to watch her .
The Old Fellow come in late , with his tie all crook , a it always be ; I saw Sylvia blush and nudge Ruggles to look .
`` She 's thinking of the letter , '' he say .
Ruggles and I never mean to listen , upon my word we do n't .
It be pure accident .
We be in behind the flag and palm in the Modern Languages Room , fix up a plan how to get Em and Jennie off for a moonlit stroll in the ground -- these thing require diplomacy I can tell you , for there be always so many other fellow hang about -- when in come Sylvia Grant and the Old Fellow arm in arm .
The room be quite empty , or they think it be , and they sit down just on the other side of the flag .
They could n't see u , but we could see them quite plainly .
Sylvia still look smile and happy , not a bit mad a we have expect , but just kind of shy and radiant .
As for the Old Fellow , he look , a Em White would say , as Sphinx-like a ever .
I 'd defy any man alive to tell from the Old Fellow 's expression what he be think about or what he felt like at any time .
Then all at once Sylvia say softly , with her eye cast down , `` I receive your letter , Mr. Osborne . ''
Any other man in the world would have jump , or say , `` My letter ! ! ! ''
or show surprise in some way .
But the Old Fellow have a nerve .
He look sideways at Sylvia for a moment and then he say kind of drily , `` Ah , do you ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Sylvia , not much above a whisper .
`` It -- it surprise me very much .
I never suppose that you -- you care for me in that way . ''
`` Can you tell me how I could help care ? ''
say the Old Fellow in the strange way .
His voice actually tremble .
`` I -- I do n't think I would tell you if I know , '' say Sylvia , turn her head away .
`` You see -- I do n't want you to help caring . ''
`` Sylvia ! ''
You never saw such a transformation a come over the Old Fellow .
His eye just blaze , but his face go white .
He bend forward and take her hand .
`` Sylvia , do you mean that you -- you actually care a little for me , dearest ?
Oh , Sylvia , do you mean that ? ''
`` Of course I do , '' say Sylvia right out .
`` I 've always care -- ever since I be a little girl come here to school and break my heart over mathematics , although I hat them , just to be in your class .
Why -- why -- I 've treasure up old geometry exercise you write out for me just because you write them .
But I think I could never make you care for me .
I be the happy girl in the world when your letter come today . ''
`` Sylvia , '' say the Old Fellow , `` I 've love you for year .
But I never dream that you could care for me .
I think it quite useless to tell you of my love -- before .
Will you -- can you be my wife , darling ? ''
At this point Ruggles and I differ a to what come next .
He assert that Sylvia turn square around and kiss the Old Fellow .
But I 'm sure she just turn her face and give him a look and then he kiss her .
Anyhow , there they both be , go on at the silly rate about how much they love each other and how the Old Fellow think she love Micky and all that sort of thing .
It be awful .
I never think the Old Fellow or Sylvia either could be so spooney .
Ruggles and I would have give anything on earth to be out of that .
We know we 'd no business to be there and we felt as foolish a flatfish .
It be a tremendous relief when the Old Fellow and Sylvia get up at last and trail away , both of them look idiotically happy .
`` Well , do you ever ? ''
say Ruggles .
It be a girl 's exclamation , but nothing else would have express his feeling .
`` No , I never , '' I say .
`` To think that Sylvia Grant should be sweet on the Old Fellow when she could have Micky !
It pass comprehension .
Did she -- do she really promise to marry him , Ruggles ? ''
`` She do , '' say Ruggles gloomily .
`` But , I say , be n't that Old Fellow game ?
Tumbled to the trick in a jiff ; never let on but what he write the letter , never will let on , I bet .
Where do the joke come in , Polly , my boy ? ''
`` It 's on u , '' I say , `` but nobody will know of it if we hold our tongue .
We 'll have to hold them anyhow , for Sylvia 's sake , since she 's be goose enough to go and fall in love with the Old Fellow .
She 'd go wild if she ever find out the letter be a hoax .
We have make that match , Ruggles .
He 'd never have get up enough spunk to tell her he want her , and she 'd probably have marry Micky out of spite . ''
`` Well , you know the Old Fellow be n't a bad sort after all , '' say Ruggles , `` and he 's really awfully go on her .
So it 's all right .
Let 's go and find the girl . ''
The Parting of The Ways Mrs. Longworth cross the hotel piazza , descend the step , and walk out of sight down the shore road with all the grace of motion that lent distinction to her slight movement .
Her eye be very bright , and an unusual flush stain the pallor of her cheek .
Two men who be lounge in one corner of the hotel piazza look admiringly after her .
`` She be a beautiful woman , '' say one .
`` Was n't there some talk about Mrs. Longworth and Cunningham last winter ? ''
ask the other .
`` Yes .
They be much together .
Still , there may have be nothing wrong .
She be old Judge Carmody 's daughter , you know .
Longworth get Carmody under his thumb in money matter and put the screw on .
They say he make Carmody 's daughter the price of the old man 's redemption .
The girl herself be a mere child , I shall never forget her face on her wedding day .
But she 's be plucky since then , I must say .
If she have suffer , she have n't show it .
I do n't suppose Longworth ever ill-treat her .
He be n't that sort .
He 's simply a grovelling cad -- that 's all .
Nobody would sympathise much with the poor devil if his wife do run off with Cunningham . ''
Meanwhile , Beatrice Longworth walk quickly down the shore road , her white skirt brushing over the crisp golden grass by the way .
In a sunny hollow among the sandhills she come upon Stephen Gordon , sprawl out luxuriously in the warm , sea-smelling grass .
The youth sprang to his foot at sight of her , and his big brown eye kindle to a glow .
Mrs. Longworth smile to him .
They have be great friend all summer .
He be a lanky , overgrown lad of fifteen or sixteen , odd and shy and dreamy , scarcely possess a speaking acquaintance with others at the hotel .
But he and Mrs. Longworth have be congenial from their first meeting .
In many way , he be far old than his year , but there be a certain inerradicable boyishness about him to which her heart warmed .
`` You be the very person I be just go in search of .
I 've news to tell .
Sit down . ''
He speak eagerly , pat the big gray boulder beside him with his slim , brown hand .
For a moment Beatrice hesitate .
She want to be alone just then .
But his clever , homely face be so appeal that she yield and sit down .
Stephen flung himself down again contentedly in the grass at her foot , pillow his chin in his palm and look up at her , adoringly .
`` You be so beautiful , dear lady .
I love to look at you .
Will you tilt that hat a little more over the left eye-brow ?
Yes -- so -- some day I shall paint you . ''
His tone and manner be all simplicity .
`` When you be a great artist , '' say Beatrice , indulgently .
He nod .
`` Yes , I mean to be that .
I 've tell you all my dream , you know .
Now for my news .
I 'm go away to-morrow .
I have a telegram from father to-day . ''
He draw the message from his pocket and flourish it up at her .
`` I 'm to join him in Europe at once .
He be in Rome .
Think of it -- in Rome !
I 'm to go on with my art study there .
And I leave to-morrow . ''
`` I 'm glad -- and I 'm sorry -- and you know which be which , '' say Beatrice , pat the shaggy brown head .
`` I shall miss you dreadfully , Stephen . ''
`` We have be splendid chum , have n't we ? ''
he say , eagerly .
Suddenly his face change .
He creep nearer to her , and bow his head until his lip almost touch the hem of her dress .
`` I 'm glad you come down to-day , '' he go on in a low , diffident voice .
`` I want to tell you something , and I can tell it good here .
I could n't go away without thank you .
I 'll make a mess of it -- I can never explain thing .
But you 've be so much to me -- you mean so much to me .
You 've make me believe in thing I never believe in before .
You -- you -- I know now that there be such a thing a a good woman , a woman who could make a man well , just because he breathe the same air with her . ''
He pause for a moment ; then go on in a still low tone : `` It 's hard when a fellow ca n't speak of his mother because he ca n't say anything good of her , be n't it ?
My mother be n't a good woman .
When I be eight year old she go away with a scoundrel .
It break father 's heart .
Nobody think I understand , I be such a little fellow .
But I do .
I hear them talk .
I know she have bring shame and disgrace on herself and u .
And I have love her so !
Then , somehow , a I grow up , it be my misfortune that all the woman I have to do with be mean and base .
They be hireling , and I hat and fear them .
There be an aunt of mine -- she try to be good to me in her way .
But she tell me a lie , and I never care for her after I find it out .
And then , father -- we love each other and be good chum .
But he do n't believe in much either .
He be bitter , you know .
He say all woman be alike .
I grow up with that notion .
I do n't care much for anything -- nothing seem worth while .
Then I come here and meet you . ''
He pause again .
Beatrice have listen with a gray look on her face .
It would have startle him have he glance up , but he do not , and after a moment 's silence the halt boyish voice go on : `` You have change everything for me .
I be nothing but a clod before .
You be not the mother of my body , but you be of my soul .
It be bear of you .
I shall always love and reverence you for it .
You will always be my ideal .
If I ever do anything worth while it will be because of you .
In everything I shall ever attempt I shall try to do it a if you be to pass judgment upon it .
You will be a lifelong inspiration to me .
Oh , I be bungle this !
I ca n't tell you what I feel -- you be so pure , so good , so noble !
I shall reverence all woman for your sake henceforth . ''
`` And if , '' say Beatrice , in a very low voice , `` if I be false to your ideal of me -- if I be to do anything that would destroy your faith in me -- something weak or wicked -- '' `` But you could n't , '' he interrupt , fling up his head and look at her with his great dog-like eye , `` you could n't ! ''
`` But if I could ? ''
she persist , gently , `` and if I do -- what then ? ''
`` I should hate you , '' he say , passionately .
`` You would be bad than a murderess .
You would kill every good impulse and belief in me .
I would never trust anything or anybody again -- but there , '' he add , his voice once more growing tender , `` you will never fail me , I feel sure of that . ''
`` Thank you , '' say Beatrice , almost in a whisper .
`` Thank you , '' she repeat , after a moment .
She stand up and hold out her hand .
`` I think I must go now .
Good-bye , dear laddie .
Write to me from Rome .
I shall always be glad to hear from you wherever you be .
And -- and -- I shall always try to live up to your ideal of me , Stephen . ''
He spring to his foot and take her hand , lift it to his lip with boyish reverence .
`` I know that , '' he say , slowly .
`` Good-bye , my sweet lady . ''
When Mrs. Longworth find herself in her room again , she unlock her desk and take out a letter .
It be address to Mr. Maurice Cunningham .
She slowly tear it twice across , lay the fragment on a tray , and touch them with a lighted match .
As they blaze up one line come out in writhe redness across the page : `` I will go away with you a you ask . ''
Then it crumble into gray ash .
She draw a long breath and hide her face in her hand .
The Promissory Note Ernest Duncan swing himself off the platform of David White 's store and walk whistle up the street .
Life seem good to Ernest just then .
Mr. White have give him a rise in salary that day , and have tell him that he be satisfy with him .
Mr. White be not easy to please in the matter of clerk , and it have be with fear and tremble that Ernest have go into his store six month before .
He have think himself fortunate to secure such a chance .
His father have die the precede year , leave nothing in the way of worldly good except the house he have live in .
For several year before his death he have be unable to do much work , and the finance of the little family have dwindle steadily .
After his father 's death Ernest , who have be go to school and expect to go to college , find that he must go to work at once instead to support himself and his mother .
If George Duncan have not leave much of worldly wealth behind him , he at least bequeath to his son the interest of a fine , upright character and a reputation for honesty and integrity .
None know this good than David White , and it be on this account that he take Ernest a his clerk , over the head of several other applicant who seem to have a strong `` pull . ''
`` I do n't know anything about you , Ernest , '' he say bluntly .
`` You 're only sixteen , and you may not have an ounce of real grit or worth in you .
But it will be a queer thing if your father 's son have n't .
I know him all his life .
A good man never live nor , before his accident , a smarter one .
I 'll give his son a chance , anyhow .
If you take after your dad you 'll get on all right . ''
Ernest have not be in the store very long before Mr. White conclude , with a gratified chuckle , that he do take after his father .
He be hard-working , conscientious , and oblige .
Customers of all sort , from the rough fisherman who come up from the harbour to the old Irishwomen from the back country road , like him .
Mr. White be satisfy .
He be begin to grow old .
This lad have the making of a good partner in him by and by .
No hurry ; he must serve long apprenticeship first and prove his mettle ; no use spoil him by hint at future partnership before need be .
That would all come in due time .
David White be a shrewd man .
Ernest be unconscious of his employer 's plan regard him ; but he know that he stand well with him and , much to his surprise , he find that he like the work , and be begin to take a personal interest and pleasure in the store .
Hence , he go home to tea on this particular afternoon with buoyant step and smile eye .
It be a good world , and he be glad to be alive in it , glad to have work to do and a dear little mother to work for .
Most of the folk who meet him smile in friendly fashion at the bright-eyed , frank-faced lad .
Only old Jacob Patterson scowl grimly a he pass him , emit merely a surly grunt in response to Ernest 's greeting .
But then , old Jacob Patterson be note a much for his surliness a for his miserliness .
Nobody have ever hear him speak pleasantly to anyone ; therefore his unfriendliness do not at all dash Ernest 's high spirit .
`` I 'm sorry for him , '' the lad thought .
`` He have no interest in life save accumulate money .
He have no other pleasure or affection or ambition .
When he die I do n't suppose a single regret will follow him .
Father die a poor man , but what love and respect go with him to his grave -- aye , and beyond it .
Jacob Patterson , I 'm sorry for you .
You have choose the poor part , and you be a poor man in spite of your thousand . ''
Ernest and his mother live up on the hill , at the end of the straggling village street .
The house be a small , old-fashioned one , paint white , set in the middle of a small but beautiful lawn .
George Duncan , during the last rather helpless year of his life , have devote himself to the cultivation of flower , shrub , and tree and , a a result , his lawn be the pretty in Conway .
Ernest work hard in his spare moment to keep it look as well a in his father 's lifetime , for he love his little home dearly , and be proud of it beauty .
He run gaily into the sitting-room .
`` Tea ready , lady mother ?
I 'm hungry a a wolf .
Good news give one an appetite .
Mr. White have raise my salary a couple of dollar per week .
We must celebrate the event somehow this evening .
What do you say to a sail on the river and an ice cream at Taylor 's afterwards ?
When a little woman ca n't outlive her schoolgirl hankering for ice cream -- why , Mother , what 's the matter ?
Mother , dear ! ''
Mrs. Duncan have be stand before the window with her back to the room when Ernest enter .
When she turn he saw that she have be cry .
`` Oh , Ernest , '' she say brokenly , `` Jacob Patterson have just be here -- and he say -- he say -- '' `` What have that old miser be say to trouble you ? ''
demand Ernest angrily , take her hand in his .
`` He say he hold your father 's promissory note for nine hundred dollar , overdue for several year , '' answer Mrs. Duncan .
`` Yes -- and he show me the note , Ernest . ''
`` Father 's promissory note for nine hundred ! ''
exclaim Ernest in bewilderment .
`` But Father pay that note to James Patterson five year ago , Mother -- just before his accident .
Did n't you tell me he do ? ''
`` Yes , he do , '' say Mrs. Duncan , `` but -- '' `` Then where be it ? ''
interrupt Ernest .
`` Father would keep the receipted note , of course .
We must look among his paper . ''
`` You wo n't find it there , Ernest .
We -- we do n't know where the note be .
It -- it be lose . ''
`` Lost !
That be unfortunate .
But you say that Jacob Patterson show you a promissory note of Father 's still in existence ?
How can that be ?
It ca n't possibly be the note he pay .
And there could n't have be another note we know nothing of ? ''
`` I understand how this note come to be in Jacob Patterson 's possession , '' say Mrs. Duncan more firmly , `` but he laugh in my face when I tell him .
I must tell you the whole story , Ernest .
But sit down and get your tea first . ''
`` I have n't any appetite for tea now , Mother , '' say Ernest soberly .
`` Let me hear the whole truth about the matter . ''
`` Seven year ago your father give his note to old James Patterson , Jacob 's brother , '' say Mrs. Duncan .
`` It be for nine hundred dollar .
Two year afterwards the note fell due and he pay James Patterson the full amount with interest .
I remember the day well .
I have only too good reason to .
He go up to the Patterson place in the afternoon with the money .
It be a very hot day .
James Patterson receipt the note and give it to your father .
Your father always remember that much ; he be also sure that he have the note with him when he leave the house .
He then go over to see Paul Sinclair .
A thunderstorm come up while he be on the road .
Then , a you know , Ernest , just a he turn in at Paul Sinclair 's gate the lightning flash struck and stun him .
It be week before he come to himself at all .
He never do come completely to himself again .
When , week afterwards , I think of the note and ask him about it , we could not find it ; and , search a we do , we never find it .
Your father could never remember what he do with it when he leave James Patterson 's .
Neither Mr. Sinclair nor his wife could recollect see anything of it at the time of the accident .
James Patterson have leave for California the very morning after , and he never come back .
We do not worry much about the loss of the note then ; it do not seem of much moment , and your father be not in a condition to be trouble about the matter . ''
`` But , Mother , this note that Jacob Patterson hold -- I do n't understand about this . ''
`` I 'm come to that .
I remember distinctly that on the evening when your father come home after sign the note he say that James Patterson draw up a note and he sign it , but just a he do so the old man 's pet cat , which be sit on the table , upset an ink bottle and the ink run all over the table and stain one end of the note .
Old James Patterson be the fussy man who ever live , and a stickler for neatness .
` Tut , tut , ' he say , ` this wo n't do .
Here , I 'll draw up another note and tear this blot one up . '
He do so and your father sign it .
He always suppose James Patterson destroy the first one , and certainly he must have intend to , for there never be an honester man .
But he must have neglect to do so for , Ernest , it be that blotted note Jacob Patterson show me today .
He say he find it among his brother 's paper .
I suppose it have be in the desk up at the Patterson place ever since James go to California .
He die last winter and Jacob be his sole heir .
Ernest , that note with the compound interest on it for seven year amount to over eleven hundred dollar .
How can we pay it ? ''
`` I 'm afraid that this be a very serious business , Mother , '' say Ernest , rise and pace the floor with agitated stride .
`` We shall have to pay the note if we can not find the other -- and even if we could , perhaps .
Your story of the draw up of the second note would not be worth anything a evidence in a court of law -- and we have nothing to hope from Jacob Patterson 's clemency .
No doubt he believe that he really hold Father 's unpaid note .
He be not a dishonest man ; in fact , he rather pride himself on have make all his money honestly .
He will exact every penny of the debt .
The first thing to do be to have another thorough search for the lost note -- although I be afraid that it be a forlorn hope . ''
A forlorn hope it prove to be .
The note do not turn up .
Old Jacob Patterson prove obdurate .
He laugh to scorn the tale of the blotted note and , indeed , Ernest sadly admit to himself that it be not a story anybody would be in a hurry to believe .
`` There 's nothing for it but to sell our house and pay the debt , Mother , '' he say at last .
Ernest have grow old in the day that have follow Jacob Patterson 's demand .
His boyish face be pale and haggard .
`` Jacob Patterson will take the case into the law court if we do n't settle at once .
Mr. White offer to lend me the money on a mortgage on the place , but I could never pay the interest out of my salary when we have nothing else to live on .
I would only get far and far behind .
I 'm not afraid of hard work , but I dare not borrow money with so little prospect of ever be able to repay it .
We must sell the place and rent that little four-roomed cottage of Mr. Percy 's down by the river to live in .
Oh , Mother , it half kill me to think of your be turn out of your home like this ! ''
It be a bitter thing for Mrs. Duncan also , but for Ernest 's sake she conceal her feeling and affected cheerfulness .
The house and lot be sell , Mr. White be the purchaser thereof ; and Ernest and his mother remove to the little riverside cottage with such of their household belonging a have not also to be sell to make up the required sum .
Even then , Ernest have to borrow two hundred dollar from Mr. White , and he foresee that the repayal of this sum would cost him much self-denial and privation .
It would be necessary to cut their modest expense down severely .
For himself Ernest do not mind , but it hurt him keenly that his mother should lack the little luxury and comfort to which she have be accustom .
He saw too , in spite of her effort to hide it , that leave her old home be a terrible blow to her .
Altogether , Ernest felt bitter and dishearten ; his step lack spring and his face it smile .
He do his work with dogged faithfulness , but he no longer found pleasure in it .
He know that his mother secretly pin after her lost home where she have go a a bride , and the knowledge render him very unhappy .
* * * * * Paul Sinclair , his father 's friend and cousin , die that winter , leave two small child .
His wife have die the previous year .
When his business affair come to be settle they be find to be sadly involve .
There be debt on all side , and it be soon only too evident that nothing be leave for the little boy .
They be homeless and penniless .
`` What will become of them , poor little fellow ? ''
say Mrs. Duncan pityingly .
`` We be their only relative , Ernest .
We must give them a home at least . ''
`` Mother , how can we ! ''
exclaim Ernest .
`` We be so poor .
It 's as much a we can do to get along now , and there be that two hundred to pay Mr. White .
I 'm sorry for Danny and Frank , but I do n't see how we can possibly do anything for them . ''
Mrs. Duncan sigh .
`` I know it be n't right to ask you to add to your burden , '' she say wistfully .
`` It be of you I be think , Mother , '' say Ernest tenderly .
`` I ca n't have your burden add to .
You deny yourself too much and work too hard now .
What would it be if you take the care of those child upon yourself ? ''
`` Do n't think of me , Ernest , '' say Mrs. Duncan eagerly .
`` I would n't mind .
I 'd be glad to do anything I could for them , poor little soul .
Their father be your father 's best friend , and I feel a if it be our duty to do all we can for them .
They 're such little fellow .
Who know how they would be treat if they be take by stranger ?
And they 'd most likely be separate , and that would be a shame .
But I leave it for you to decide , Ernest .
It be your right , for the heavy part will fall on you . ''
Ernest do not decide at once .
For a week he think the matter over , weigh pro and con carefully .
To take the two Sinclair boy mean a double portion of toil and self-denial .
Had he not enough to bear now ?
But , on the other side , be it not his duty , nay , his privilege , to help the child if he could ?
In the end he say to his mother : `` We 'll take the little fellow , Mother .
I 'll do the best I can for them .
We 'll manage a corner and a crust for them . ''
So Danny and Frank Sinclair come to the little cottage .
Frank be eight and Danny six , and they be small and lively and mischievous .
They worship Mrs. Duncan , and think Ernest the fine fellow in the world .
When his birthday come around in March , the two little chap put their head together in a grave consultation a to what they could give him .
`` You know he give u present on our birthday , '' say Frank .
`` So we must give him something . ''
`` I 'll div him my pottet-knife , '' say Danny , take the somewhat battered and loose-jointed affair from his pocket , and gaze at it affectionately .
`` I 'll give him one of Papa 's book , '' say Frank .
`` That pretty one with the red cover and the gold letter . ''
A few of Mr. Sinclair 's book have be save for the boy , and be store in a little box in their room .
The book Frank refer to be an old History of the Turks , and it gay cover be probably the best of it , since it content be of no particular merit .
On Ernest 's birthday both boy give him their offering after breakfast .
`` Here 's a pottet-knife for you , '' say Danny graciously .
`` It 's a bully pottet-knife .
It 'll cut real well if you hold it dust the wight way .
I 'll show you . ''
`` And here 's a book for you , '' say Frank .
`` It 's a real pretty book , and I guess it 's pretty interesting reading too .
It 's all about the Turks . ''
Ernest accept both gift gravely , and after the child have go out he and his mother have a hearty laugh .
`` The dear , kind-hearted little lad ! ''
say Mrs. Duncan .
`` It must have be a real sacrifice on Danny 's part to give you his beloved ` pottet-knife . '
I be afraid you be go to refuse it at first , and that would have hurt his little feeling terribly .
I do n't think the History of the Turks will keep you up burn the midnight oil .
I remember that book of old -- I could never forget that gorgeous cover .
Mr. Sinclair lend it to your father once , and he say it be absolute trash .
Why , Ernest , what 's the matter ? ''
Ernest have be turn the book 's leaf over carelessly .
Suddenly he spring to his foot with an exclamation , his face turn white a marble .
`` Mother ! ''
he gasp , hold out a yellowed slip of paper .
`` Look !
It 's the lost promissory note . ''
Mother and son look at each other for a moment .
Then Mrs. Duncan begin to laugh and cry together .
`` Your father take that book with him when he go to pay the note , '' she say .
`` He intend to return it to Mr. Sinclair .
I remember see the gleam of the red binding in his hand a he go out of the gate .
He must have slip the note into it and I suppose the book have never be open since .
Oh , Ernest -- do you think -- will Jacob Patterson -- '' `` I do n't know , Mother .
I must see Mr. White about this .
Do n't be too sanguine .
This do n't prove that the note Jacob Patterson find be n't a genuine note also , you know -- that be , I do n't think it would serve a proof in law .
We 'll have to leave it to his sense of justice .
If he refuse to refund the money I 'm afraid we ca n't compel him to do so . ''
But Jacob Patterson do not any longer refuse belief to Mrs. Patterson 's story of the blotted note .
He be a harsh , miserly man , but he pride himself on his strict honesty ; he have be fairly well acquaint with his brother 's business transaction , and know that George Duncan have give only one promissory note .
`` I 'll admit , ma'am , since the receipted note have turn up , that your story about the blotted one must be true , '' he say surlily .
`` I 'll pay your money back .
Nobody can ever say Jacob Patterson cheat .
I take what I believe to be my due .
Since I 'm convinced it be n't I 'll hand every penny over .
Though , mind you , you could n't make me do it by law .
It 's my honesty , ma'am , it 's my honesty . ''
Since Jacob Patterson be so well satisfied with the fibre of his honesty , neither Mrs. Duncan nor Ernest be dispose to quarrel with it .
Mr. White readily agree to sell the old Duncan place back to them , and by spring they be settle again in their beloved little home .
Danny and Frank be with them , of course .
`` We ca n't be too good to them , Mother , '' say Ernest .
`` We really owe all our happiness to them . ''
`` Yes , but , Ernest , if you have not consent to take the homeless little lad in their time of need this would n't have come about . ''
`` I 've be well reward , Mother , '' say Ernest quietly , `` but , even if nothing of the sort have happen , I would be glad that I do the best I could for Frank and Danny .
I 'm ashamed to think that I be unwilling to do it at first .
If it have n't be for what you say , I would n't have .
So it be your unselfishness we have to thank for it all , Mother dear . ''
The Revolt of Mary Isabel `` For a woman of forty , Mary Isabel , you have the least sense of any person I have ever know , '' say Louisa Irving .
Louisa have say something similar in spirit to Mary Isabel almost every day of her life .
Mary Isabel have never resent it , even when it hurt her bitterly .
Everybody in Latimer know that Louisa Irving rule her meek little sister with a rod of iron and wonder why Mary Isabel never rebel .
It simply never occur to Mary Isabel to do so ; all her life she have give in to Louisa and the thought of refuse obedience to her sister 's Mede-and-Persian decree never cross her mind .
Mary Isabel have only one secret from Louisa and she live in daily dread that Louisa would discover it .
It be a very harmless little secret , but Mary Isabel felt rightly sure that Louisa would not tolerate it for a moment .
They be sit together in the dim living room of their quaint old cottage down by the shore .
The window be open and the sea-breeze blew in , stir the prim white curtain fitfully , and ruffle the little ring of dark hair on Mary Isabel 's forehead -- ring which always annoy Louisa .
She think Mary Isabel ought to brush them straight back , and Mary Isabel do so faithfully a dozen time a day ; and in ten minute they creep down again , kink defiance to Louisa , who might make Mary Isabel submit to her in all thing but have no power over naturally curly hair .
Louisa have never have any trouble with her own hair ; it be straight and sleek and mouse-coloured -- what there be of it .
Mary Isabel 's face be flush and her wood-brown eye look grieved and pleading .
Mary Isabel be still pretty , and vanity be the last thing to desert a properly construct woman .
`` I ca n't wear a bonnet yet , Louisa , '' she protest .
`` Bonnets have go out for everybody except really old lady .
I want a hat : one of those pretty , floppy one with pale blue forget-me-not . ''
Then it be that Louisa make the remark quote above .
`` I wear a bonnet before I be forty , '' she go on ruthlessly , `` and so should every decent woman .
It be absurd to be think so much of dress at your age , Mary Isabel .
I do n't know what sort of a way you 'd bedizen yourself out if I 'd let you , I 'm sure .
It 's fortunate you have somebody to keep you from make a fool of yourself .
I 'm go to town tomorrow and I 'll pick you out a suitable black bonnet .
You 'd look nice star round in leghorn and forget-me-nots , now , would n't you ? ''
Mary Isabel privately think she would , but she give in , of course , although she do hate bitterly that unbought , unescapable bonnet .
`` Well , do a you think best , Louisa , '' she say with a sigh .
`` I suppose it do n't matter much .
Nobody care how I look anyhow .
But ca n't I go to town with you ?
I want to pick out my new silk . ''
`` I 'm as good a judge of black silk a you , '' say Louisa shortly .
`` It be n't safe to leave the house alone . ''
`` But I do n't want a black silk , '' cry Mary Isabel .
`` I 've wear black so long ; both my silk dress have be black .
I want a pretty silver-grey , something like Mrs. Chester Ford 's . ''
`` Did anyone ever hear such nonsense ? ''
Louisa want to know , in genuine amazement .
`` Silver-grey silk be the most unserviceable thing in the world .
There 's nothing like black for wear and real elegance .
No , no , Mary Isabel , do n't be foolish .
You must let me choose for you ; you know you never have any judgment .
Mother tell you so often enough .
Now , get your sunbonnet and take a walk to the shore .
You look tire .
I 'll get the tea . ''
Louisa 's tone be kind though firm .
She Was really good to Mary Isabel as long a Mary Isabel give her her own way peaceably .
But if she have know Mary Isabel 's secret she would never have permit those walk to the shore .
Mary Isabel sigh again , yield , and go out .
Across a green field from the Irving cottage Dr. Donald Hamilton 's big house be hood itself in the shadow of the thick fir grove that enable the doctor to have a garden .
There be no shelter at the cottage , so the Irving `` girl '' never try to have a garden .
Soon after Dr. Hamilton have come there to live he have send a bouquet of early daffodil over by his housekeeper .
Louisa have take them gingerly in her extreme fingertip , carry them across the field to the lawn fence , and cast them over it , under the amused grey eye of portly Dr. Hamilton , who be look out of his office window .
Then Louisa have come back to the porch door and ostentatiously wash her hand .
`` I guess that will settle Donald Hamilton , '' she tell the secretly sorry Mary Isabel triumphantly , and it do settle him -- at least as far a any farther social advance be concern .
Dr. Hamilton be an excellent physician and an equally excellent man .
Louisa Irving could not have pick a flaw in his history or character .
Indeed , against Dr. Hamilton himself she have no grudge , but he be the brother of a man she hat and whose relative be consequently taboo in Louisa 's eye .
Not that the brother be a bad man either ; he have simply take the opposite side to the Irvings in a notable church feud of a dozen year ago , and Louisa have never since hold any intercourse with him or his fellow sinner .
Mary Isabel do not look at the Hamilton house .
She keep her head resolutely turn away a she go down the shore lane with it wild sweet loneliness of salt-withered grass and pip sea-winds .
Only when she turn the corner of the fir-wood , which shut her out from view of the house , do she look timidly over the line-fence .
Dr. Hamilton be stand there , where the fence run out to the sandy shingle , smoke his little black pipe , which he take out and put away when Mary Isabel come around the fir .
Men do thing like that instinctively in Mary Isabel 's company .
There be something so delicately virginal about her , in spite of her forty year , that they give her the reverence they would have pay to a very young , pure girl .
Dr. Hamilton smile at the little troubled face under the big sunbonnet .
Mary Isabel have to wear a sunbonnet .
She would never have do it from choice .
`` What be the matter ? ''
ask the doctor , in his big , breezy , old-bachelor voice .
He have another voice for sick-beds and room of bereavement , but this one suit best with the purring of the wave and wind .
`` How do you know that anything be the matter ? ''
Mary Isabel parry demurely .
`` By your face .
Come now , tell me what it be . ''
`` It be really nothing .
I have just be foolish , that be all .
I want a hat with forget-me-not and a grey silk , and Louisa say I must have black and a bonnet . ''
The doctor look indignant but hold his peace .
He and Mary Isabel have tacitly agree never to discuss Louisa , because such discussion would not make for harmony .
Mary Isabel 's conscience would not let the doctor say anything uncomplimentary of Louisa , and the doctor 's conscience would not let him say anything complimentary .
So they leave her out of the question and talk about the sea and the boat and poetry and flower and similar non-combustible subject .
* * * * * These clandestine meeting have be go on for two month , ever since the day they have just happen to meet below the fir .
It never occur to Mary Isabel that the doctor mean anything but friendship ; and if it have occur to the doctor , he do not think there would be much use in say so .
Mary Isabel be too hopelessly under Louisa 's thumb .
She might keep tryst below the fir occasionally -- so long a Louisa do n't know -- but to no farther length would she dare go .
Besides , the doctor be n't quite sure that he really want anything more .
Mary Isabel be a sweet little woman , but Dr. Hamilton have be a bachelor so long that it would be very difficult for him to get out of the habit ; so difficult that it be hardly worth while try when such an obstacle a Louisa Irving 's tyranny loom in the way .
So he never try to make love to Mary Isabel , though he probably would have if he have think it of any use .
This do not sound very romantic , of course , but when a man be fifty , romance , while it may be present in the fruit , be assuredly absent in blossom .
`` I suppose you wo n't be go to the induction of my nephew Thursday week ? ''
say the doctor in the course of the conversation .
`` No .
Louisa will not permit it .
I have hop , '' say Mary Isabel with a sigh , a she braid some silvery shore-grasses nervously together , `` that when old Mr. Moody go away she would go back to the church here .
And I think she would if -- if -- '' `` If Jim have n't come in Mr. Moody 's place , '' finish the doctor with his jolly laugh .
Mary Isabel colour prettily .
`` It be not because he be your nephew , doctor .
It be because -- because -- '' `` Because he be the nephew of my brother who be on the other side in that ancient church fracas ?
Bless you , I understand .
What a good hater your sister be !
Such a tenacity in hold bitterness from one generation to another command admiration of a certain sort .
As for Jim , he 's a nice little chap , and he be come to live with me until the manse be repair . ''
`` I be sure you will find that pleasant , '' say Mary Isabel primly .
She wonder if the young minister 's advent would make any difference in regard to these shore-meetings ; then decide quickly that it would not ; then more quickly still that it would n't matter if it do .
`` He will be company , '' admit the doctor , who like company and find the shore road rather lonesome .
`` I have a letter from him today say that he 'd come home with me from the induction .
By the way , they 're tear down the old post office today .
And that remind me -- by Jove , I 'd all but forgotten .
I promise to go up and see Mollie Marr this evening ; Mollie 's nerve be on the rampage again .
I must rush . ''
With a wave of his hand the doctor hurry off .
Mary Isabel linger for some time longer , lean against the fence , look dreamily out to sea .
The doctor be a very pleasant companion .
If only Louisa would allow neighbourliness !
Mary Isabel felt a faint , impotent resentment .
She have never have anything other girl have : friend , dress , beau , and it be all Louisa 's fault -- Louisa who be go to make her wear a bonnet for the rest of her life .
The more Mary Isabel thought of that bonnet the more she hat it .
That even Warren Marr ride down to the shore cottage on horseback and hand Mary Isabel a letter ; a strange , scrumpled , soil , yellow letter .
When Mary Isabel saw the handwriting on the envelope she tremble and turn a deadly pale a if she have see a ghost : `` Here 's a letter for you , '' say Warren , grinning .
`` It 's be a long time on the way -- nigh fifteen year .
Guess the news 'll be rather stale .
We find it behind the old partition when we tear it down today . ''
`` It be my brother Tom 's writing , '' say Mary Isabel faintly .
She go into the room trembling , hold the letter tightly in her clasped hand .
Louisa have go up to the village on an errand ; Mary Isabel almost wish she be home ; she hardly felt equal to the task of open Tom 's letter alone .
Tom have be dead for ten year and this letter give her an uncanny sensation ; a of a message from the spirit-land .
Fifteen year , ago Thomas Irving have go to California and five year later he have die there .
Mary Isabel , who have idolize her brother , almost grieve herself to death at the time .
Finally she open the letter with ice-cold finger .
It have be write soon after Tom reach California .
The first two page be fill with description of the country and his `` job . ''
On the third Tom begin abruptly : Look here , Mary Isabel , you be not to let Louisa bos you about a she be do when I be at home .
I be go to speak to you about it before I come away , but I forget .
Lou be a fine girl , but she be too domineering , and the more you give in to her the worse it make her .
You 're far too easy-going for your own welfare , Mary Isabel , and for your own sake I Wish you have more spunk .
Do n't let Louisa live your life for you ; just you live it yourself .
Never mind if there be some friction at first ; Lou will give in when she find she have to , and you 'll both be the good for it , I want you to be real happy , Mary Isabel , but you wo n't be if you do n't assert your independence .
Giving in the way you do be bad for both you and Louisa .
It will make her a tyrant and you a poor-spirited creature of no account in the world .
Just brace up and stand firm .
When she have read the letter through Mary Isabel take it to her own room and lock it in her bureau drawer .
Then she sit by her window , look out into a sea-sunset , and think it over .
Coming in the strange way it have , the letter seem a message from the dead , and Mary Isabel have a superstitious conviction that she must obey it .
She have always have a great respect for Tom 's opinion .
He be right -- oh , she felt that he be right .
What a pity she have not receive the letter long ago , before the shackle of habit have become so firmly rivet .
But it be not too late yet .
She would rebel at last and -- how have Tom phrase it -- oh , yes , assert her independence .
She owe it to Tom ; It have be his wish -- and he be dead -- and she would do her best to fulfil it .
`` I sha n't get a bonnet , '' think Mary Isabel determinedly .
`` Tom would n't have like me in a bonnet .
From this out I 'm just go to do exactly a Tom would have like me to do , no matter how afraid I be of Louisa .
And , oh , I be horribly afraid of her . ''
Mary Isabel be every whit a much afraid the next morning after breakfast but she do not look it , by reason of the flush on her cheek and the glint in her brown eye .
She have put Tom 's letter in the bosom of her dress and she press her fingertip on it that the crackle might give her courage .
`` Louisa , '' she say firmly , `` I be go to town with you . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Louisa shortly .
`` You may call it nonsense if you like , but I be go , '' say Mary Isabel unquailingly .
`` I have make up my mind on that point , Louisa , and nothing you can say will alter it . ''
Louisa look amaze .
Never before have Mary Isabel set her decree at naught .
`` Are you crazy , Mary Isabel ? ''
she demand .
`` No , I be not crazy .
But I be go to town and I be go to get a silver-grey silk for myself and a new hat .
I will not wear a bonnet and you need never mention it to me again , Louisa . ''
`` If you be go to town I shall stay home , '' say Louisa in a cold , ominous tone that almost make Mary Isabel quake .
If it have not be for that reassure crackle of Tom 's letter I fear Mary Isabel would have give in .
`` This house ca n't be leave alone .
If you go , I 'll stay . ''
Louisa honestly think that would bring the rebel to term .
Mary Isabel have never go to town alone in her life .
Louisa do not believe she would dare to go .
But Mary Isabel do not quail .
Defiance be not so hard after all , once you have begin .
Mary Isabel go to town and she go alone .
She spend the whole delightful day in the shop , unhampered by Louisa 's scorn and criticism in her examination of all the pretty thing display .
She select a hat she felt sure Tom would like -- a pretty crumple grey straw with forget-me-nots and ribbon .
Then she buy a grey silk of a lovely silvery shade .
When she get back home she unwrap her package and show her purchase to Louisa .
But Louisa neither look at them nor speak to Mary Isabel .
Mary Isabel toss her head and go to her own room .
Her draught of freedom have stimulate her , and she do not mind Louisa 's attitude half as much a she would have expect .
She read Tom 's letter over again to fortify herself and then she dress her hair in a fashion she have see that day in town and pull out all the little curl on her forehead .
The next day she take the silver-grey silk to the Latimer dressmaker and pick out a fashionable design for it .
When the silk dress come home , Louisa , who have thaw out somewhat in the meantime , unbent sufficiently to remark that it fit very well .
`` I be go to wear it to the induction tomorrow , '' Mary Isabel say , boldly to all appearance , quakingly in reality .
She know that she be throw down the gauntlet for good and all .
If she could assert and maintain her independence in this matter Louisa 's power would be break forever .
* * * * * Twelve year before this , the previously mention schism have break out in the Latimer church .
The minister have side with the faction which Louisa Irving oppose .
She have promptly cease go to his church and withdraw all financial support .
She pay to the Marwood church , fifteen mile away , and occasionally she hire a team and drove over there to service .
But she never enter the Latimer church again nor allow Mary Isabel to do so .
For that matter , Mary Isabel do not wish to go .
She have resent the minister 's attitude almost as bitterly a Louisa .
But when Mr. Moody accept a call elsewhere Mary Isabel hop that she and Louisa might return to their old church home .
Possibly they might have do so have not the congregation call the young , newly fledge James Anderson .
Mary Isabel would not have care for this , but Louisa sternly say that neither she nor any of hers should ever darken the door of a church where the nephew of Martin Hamilton preach .
Mary Isabel have regretfully acquiesce at the time , but now she have make up her mind to go to church and she mean to begin with the induction service .
Louisa star at her sister incredulously .
`` Have you take complete leave of your sens , Mary Isabel ? ''
`` No .
I 've just come to them , '' retort Mary Isabel recklessly , grip a chair-back desperately so that Louisa should not see how she be tremble .
`` It be all foolishness to keep away from church just because of an old grudge .
I 'm tired of stay home Sundays or drive fifteen mile to Marwood to hear poor old Mr. Grattan .
Everybody say Mr. Anderson be a splendid young man and an excellent preacher , and I 'm go to attend his service regularly . ''
Louisa have take Mary Isabel 's first defiance in icy disdain .
Now she lose her temper and rag .
The storm of angry word beat on Mary Isabel like hail , but she front it staunchly .
She seem to hear Tom 's voice say , `` Live your own life , Mary Isabel ; do n't let Louisa live it for you , '' and she mean to obey him .
`` If you go to that man 's induction I 'll never forgive you , '' Louisa conclude .
Mary Isabel say nothing .
She just prim up her lip very determinedly , pick up the silk dress , and carry it to her room .
The next day be fine and warm .
Louisa say no word all the morning .
She work fiercely and slam thing around noisily .
After dinner Mary Isabel go to her room and come down presently , fine and dainty in her grey silk , with the forget-me-not hat rest on the soft loose wave of her hair .
Louisa be black the kitchen stove .
She shoot one angry glance at Mary Isabel , then give a short , contemptuous laugh , the laugh of an angry woman who find herself rob of all weapon except ridicule .
Mary Isabel flush and walk with an unfaltering step out of the house and up the lane .
She resent Louisa 's laughter .
She be sure there be nothing so very ridiculous about her appearance .
Women far old than she , even in Latimer , wear light dress and fashionable hat .
Really , Louisa be very disagreeable .
`` I have put up with her way too long , '' think Mary Isabel , with a quick , unwonted rush of anger .
`` But I never shall again -- no , never , let her be a vexed and scornful a she please . ''
The induction service be interesting , and Mary Isabel enjoy them .
Doctor Hamilton be sit across from her and once or twice she catch him look at her admiringly .
The doctor notice the hat and the grey silk and wonder how Mary Isabel have manage to get her own way concern them .
What a pretty woman she be !
Really , he have never realize before how very pretty she be .
But then , he have never see her except in a sunbonnet or with her hair comb primly back .
But when the service be over Mary Isabel be dismay to see that the sky have cloud over and look very much like rain .
Everybody hurry home , and Mary Isabel trip along the shore road fill with anxious thought about her dress .
That kind of silk always spot , and her hat would be ruin if it get wet .
How foolish she have be not to bring an umbrella !
She reach her own doorstep pant just a the first drop of rain fell .
`` Thank goodness , '' she breathe .
Then she try to open the door .
It would not open .
She could see Louisa sit by the kitchen window , calmly reading .
`` Louisa , open the door quick , '' she call impatiently .
Louisa never move a muscle , although Mary Isabel know she must have hear .
`` Louisa , do you hear what I say ? ''
she cry , reach over and tap on the pane imperiously .
`` Open the door at once .
It be go to rain -- it be rain now .
Be quick . ''
Louisa might as well have be a graven image for all the response she give .
Then do Mary Isabel realize her position .
Louisa have lock her out purposely , know the rain be come .
Louisa have no intention of let her in ; she mean to keep her out until the dress and hat of her rebellion be spoil .
This be Louisa 's revenge .
Mary Isabel turn with a gasp .
What should she do ?
The padlocked door of hen-house and well-house and wood-house : reveal the thoroughness of Louisa 's vindictive design .
Where should she go ?
She would go somewhere .
She would not have her lovely new dress and hat spoil !
She catch her ruffle skirt up in her hand and ran across the yard .
She climb the fence into the field and run across that .
Another drop of rain strike her cheek .
She never glance back or she would have see a horrified face peer from the cottage kitchen window .
Louisa have never dream that Mary Isabel would seek refuge over at Dr. Hamilton 's .
Dr. Hamilton , who have drive home from church with the young minister , saw her come and run to open the door for her .
Mary Isabel dash up the verandah step , breathless , crimson-cheeked , tremble with pent-up indignation and sense of outrage .
`` Louisa lock me out , Dr. Hamilton , '' she cry almost hysterically .
`` She lock me out on purpose to spoil my dress .
I 'll never forgive her , I 'll never go back to her , never , never , unless she ask me to .
I have to come here .
I be not go to have my dress ruin to please Louisa . ''
`` Of course not -- of course not , '' say Dr. Hamilton soothingly , draw her into his big cosy living room .
`` You do perfectly right to come here , and you be just in time .
There be the rain now in good earnest . ''
Mary Isabel sink into a chair and look at Dr. Hamilton with tear in her eye .
`` Was n't it an unkind , unsisterly thing to do ? ''
she ask piteously .
`` Oh , I shall never feel the same towards Louisa again .
Tom be right -- I do n't tell you about Tom 's letter but I will by and by .
I shall not go back to Louisa after her lock me out .
When it stop rain I 'll go straight up to my cousin Ella 's and stay with her until I arrange my plan .
But one thing be certain , I shall not go back to Louisa . ''
`` I would n't , '' say the doctor recklessly .
`` Now , do n't cry and do n't worry .
Take off your hat -- you can go to the spare room across the hall , if you like .
Jim have go upstairs to lie down ; he have a bad headache and say he do n't want any tea .
So I be go to get up a bachelor 's snack for myself .
My housekeeper be away .
She hear , at church that her mother be ill and go over to Marwood . ''
When Mary Isabel come back from the spare room , a little calmer but with trace of tear on her pink cheek , the doctor have a good a tea-table spread a any woman could have have .
Mary Isabel think it be fortunate that the little errand boy , Tommy Brewster , be there , or she certainly would have be dreadfully embarrassed , now that the flame of her anger have blow out .
