I get every one myself , and they be extra whacker , '' say Mac , present a bushel or so .
`` You should have see Giglamps when he be after them .
He pitch out of the tree , and would have break his bless old neck if Arch have not catch him , '' observe Steve , a he lounge gracefully in the window seat .
`` You need n't talk , Dandy , when you do n't know a chestnut from a beech , and keep on thrash till I tell you of it , '' retort Mac , festoon himself over the back of the sofa , be a privileged boy .
`` I do n't make mistake when I thrash you , old Worm , so you 'd better mind what you be about , '' answer Steve , without a ray of proper respect for his elder brother .
`` It be get dark , and I must go , or mamma will be alarm , '' say Ariadne , rise in sudden haste , though she hop to be ask to remain to the nut-party .
No one invite her ; and all the while she be put on her thing and chat to Rose the boy be telegraph to one another the sad fact that someone ought to escort the young lady home .
Not a boy felt heroic enough to cast himself into the breach , however ; even polite Archie shirk the duty , say to Charlie , a they quietly slip into an adjoining room , `` I 'm not go to do all the gallivanting .
Let Steve take that chit home and show his manner . ''
`` I 'll be hang if I do ! ''
answered Prince , who dislike Miss Blish because she try to be coquettish with him .
`` Then I will , '' and , to the dismay of both recreant lad , Dr. Alec walk out of the room to offer his service to the `` chit . ''
He be too late , however , for Mac , obey a look from Rose , have already make a victim of himself , and trudge meekly away , wish the gentle Ariadne at the bottom of the Red Sea .
`` Then I will take this lady down to tea , a the other one have find a gentleman to go home with her .
I see the lamp be light below , and I smell a smell which tell me that auntie have something extra nice for u to-night . ''
As he speak , Dr. Alec be prepare to carry Rose downstairs a usual ; but Archie and Prince rush forward , beg with penitent eagerness for the honour of carry her in an arm-chair .
Rose consent , fear that her uncle 's keen eye would discover the fatal bit of silk ; so the boy cross hand , and , take a good grip of each curly pate , she be borne down in state , while the others follow by way of the banister .
Tea be order early than usual , so that Jamie and his dolly could have a taste , at least , of the holiday fun , for they be to stay till seven , and be allow twelve roast chestnut apiece , which they be under bond not to eat till next day .
Tea be despatch rapidly , therefore , and the party gather round the wide hearth in the dining-room , where the nut be soon dance gaily on hot shovel or bounce out among the company , thereby cause delightful panic among the little one .
`` Come , Rosy , tell u a story while we work , for you ca n't help much , and must amuse u a your share , '' propose Mac , who sit in the shade pricking nut , and who know by experience what a capital little Scheherazade his cousin be .
`` Yes , we poor monkey ca n't burn our paw for nothing , so tell away , Pussy , '' add Charlie , a he throw several hot nut into her lap and shake his finger afterwards .
`` Well , I happen to have a little story with a moral to it in my mind , and I will tell it , though it be intend for young child than you , '' answer Rose , who be rather fond of tell instructive tale .
`` Fire away , '' say Geordie , and she obey , little think what a disastrous story it would prove to herself .
`` Well , once upon a time , a little girl go to see a young lady who be very fond of her .
Now , the young lady happen to be lame , and have to have her foot bandage up every day ; so she keep a basketful of bandage , all nicely roll and ready .
The little girl like to play with this basket , and one day , when she think no one saw her , she take one of the roll without ask leave , and put it in her pocket . ''
Here Pokey , who have be peer lovingly down at the five warm nut that lay at the bottom of her tiny pocket , suddenly look up and say , `` Oh ! ''
in a startled tone , a if the moral tale have become intensely interest all at once .
Rose heard and saw the innocent betrayal of the small sinner , and go on in a most impressive manner , while the boy nudge one another and wink a they catch the joke .
`` But an eye do see this naughty little girl , and whose eye do you think it be ? ''
`` Eye of Dod , '' murmur conscience-stricken Pokey , spread two chubby little hand before the round face , which they be not half big enough to hide .
Rose be rather take aback by this reply , but , feel that she be produce a good effect , she add seriously , `` Yes , God saw her , and so do the young lady , but she do not say anything ; she wait to see what the little girl would do about it .
She have be very happy before she take the bandage , but when it be in her pocket she seem troubled , and pretty soon stop play , and sit down in a corner look very sober .
She think a few minute , and then go and put back the roll very softly , and her face clear up , and she be a happy child again .
The young lady be glad to see that , and wonder what make the little girl put it back . ''
`` Tonscience p ` icked her , '' murmur a contrite voice from behind the small hand press tightly over Pokey 's red face .
`` And why do she take it , do you suppose ? ''
ask Rose , in a school-marmish tone , feel that all the listener be interested in her tale and it unexpected application .
`` It be so nice and wound , and she want it deffly , '' answer the little voice .
`` Well , I 'm glad she have such a good conscience .
The moral be that people who steal do n't enjoy what they take , and be not happy till they put it back .
What make that little girl hide her face ? ''
ask Rose , a she conclude .
`` Me 's so ` shamed of Pokey , '' sob the small culprit , quite overcome by remorse and confusion at this awful disclosure .
`` Come , Rose , it 's too bad to tell her little trick before everyone , and preach at her in that way ; you would n't like it yourself , '' begin Dr. Alec , take the weeper on his knee and administer consolation in the shape of kiss and nut .
Before Rose could express her regret , Jamie , who have be redden and ruffle like a little turkey-cock for several minute , burst out indignantly , bent on avenge the wound give to his beloved dolly .
`` I know something bad that you do , and I 'm go to tell right out .
You think we do n't see you , but we do , and you say uncle would n't like it , and the boy would tease , and you make Ariadne promise not to tell , and she punch hole in your ear to put ear-rings in .
So now !
and that 's much badder than to take an old piece of rag ; and I hate you for make my Pokey cry . ''
Jamie 's somewhat incoherent explosion produce such an effect that Pokey 's small sin be instantly forget , and Rose felt that her hour have come .
`` What !
what !
what ! ''
cry the boy in a chorus , drop their shovel and knife to gather round Rose , for a guilty clutching at her ear betray her , and with a feeble cry of `` Ariadne make me ! ''
she hide her head among the pillow like an absurd little ostrich .
`` Now she 'll go prance round with bird cage and basket and cart and pig , for all I know , in her ear , a the other girl do , and wo n't she look like a goose ? ''
ask one tormentor , tweak a curl that stray out from the cushion .
`` I do n't think she 'd be so silly , '' say Mac , in a tone of disappointment that tell Rose she have sink in the esteem of her wise cousin .
`` That Blish girl be a nuisance , and ought not to be allow to come here with her nonsensical notion , '' say the Prince , feel a strong desire to shake that young person a an angry dog might shake a mischievous kitten .
`` How do you like it , uncle ? ''
ask Archie , who , be the head of a family himself , believe in preserve discipline at all cost .
`` I be very much surprise ; but I see she be a girl , after all , and must have her vanity like all the rest of them , '' answer Dr. Alec , with a sigh , a if he have expect to find Rose a sort of angel , above all earthly temptation .
`` What shall you do about it , sir ? ''
inquired Geordie , wonder what punishment would be inflict on a feminine culprit .
`` As she be fond of ornament , perhaps we have well give her a nose-ring also .
I have one somewhere that a Fiji belle once wear ; I 'll look it up , '' and , leave Pokey to Jamie 's care , Dr. Alec rise a if to carry out his suggestion in earnest .
`` Good !
good !
We 'll do it right away !
Here 's a gimlet , so you hold her , boy , while I get her dear little nose all ready , '' cry Charlie , whisk away the pillow a the other boy dance about the sofa in true Fiji style .
It be a dreadful moment , for Rose could not run away she could only grasp her precious nose with one hand and extend the other , cry distractedly , `` O uncle , save me , save me ! ''
Of course he save her ; and when she be securely barricade by his strong arm , she confess her folly in such humiliation of spirit , that the lad , after a good laugh at her , decide to forgive her and lay all the blame on the tempter , Ariadne .
Even Dr. Alec relent so far a to propose two gold ring for the ear instead of one copper one for the nose ; a proceeding which prove that if Rose have all the weakness of her sex for jewellery , he have all the inconsistency of his in give a pretty penitent exactly what she want , spite of his better judgment .
Chapter 16 -- Bread and Button-Holes `` What in the world be my girl think about all alone here , with such a solemn face ? ''
ask Dr. Alec , come into the study , one November day , to find Rose sit there with folded hand and a very thoughtful aspect .
`` Uncle , I want to have some serious conversation with you , if you have time , '' she say , come out of a brown study , a if she have not hear his question .
`` I 'm entirely at your service , and most happy to listen , '' he answer , in his politest manner , for when Rose put on her womanly little air he always treat her with a playful sort of respect that please her very much .
Now , a he sit down beside her , she say , very soberly , `` I 've be try to decide what trade I would learn , and I want you to advise me . ''
`` Trade , my dear ? ''
and Dr. Alec look so astonished that she hasten to explain .
`` I forget that you do n't hear the talk about it up at Cosey Corner .
You see we use to sit under the pine and sew , and talk a great deal all the lady , I mean and I like it very much .
Mother Atkinson think that everyone should have a trade , or something to make a live out of , for rich people may grow poor , you know , and poor people have to work .
Her girl be very clever , and could do ever so many thing , and Aunt Jessie think the old lady be right ; so when I saw how happy and independent those young lady be , I want to have a trade , and then it would n't matter about money , though I like to have it well enough . ''
Dr. Alec listen to this explanation with a curious mixture of surprise , pleasure , and amusement in his face , and look at his little niece a if she have suddenly change into a young woman .
She have grow a good deal in the last six month , and an amount of thinking have go on in that young head which would have astonish him greatly could he have know it all , for Rose be one of the child who observe and meditate much , and now and then nonplus their friend by a wise or curious remark .
`` I quite agree with the lady , and shall be glad to help you decide on something if I can , '' say the Doctor seriously .
`` What do you incline to ?
A natural taste or talent be a great help in choosing , you know . ''
`` I have n't any talent , or any especial taste that I can see , and that be why I ca n't decide , uncle .
So , I think it would be a good plan to pick out some very useful business and learn it , because I do n't do it for pleasure , you see , but a a part of my education , and to be ready in case I 'm ever poor , '' answer Rose , look a if she rather long for a little poverty so that her useful gift might be exercise .
`` Well , now , there be one very excellent , necessary , and womanly accomplishment that no girl should be without , for it be a help to rich and poor , and the comfort of family depend upon it .
This fine talent be neglect nowadays , and consider old-fashioned , which be a sad mistake , and one that I do n't mean to make in bring up my girl .
It should be a part of every girl 's education , and I know of a most accomplished lady who will teach you in the best and pleasant manner . ''
`` Oh , what be it ? ''
cry Rose eagerly , charm to be meet in this helpful and cordial way .
`` Housekeeping ! ''
answer Dr. Alec .
`` Is that an accomplishment ? ''
ask Rose , while her face fell , for she have indulge in all sort of vague , delightful dream .
`` Yes ; it be one of the most beautiful as well a useful of all the art a woman can learn .
Not so romantic , perhaps , a singing , painting , write , or teaching , even ; but one that make many happy and comfortable , and home the sweet place in the world .
Yes , you may open your big eye ; but it be a fact that I have rather see you a good housekeeper than the great belle in the city .
It need not interfere with any talent you may possess , but it be a necessary part of your training , and I hope that you will set about it at once , now that you be well and strong . ''
`` Who be the lady ? ''
ask Rose , rather impressed by her uncle 's earnest speech .
`` Aunt Plenty . ''
`` Is she accomplish ? ''
begin Rose in a wonder tone , for this great-aunt of hers have seem the least cultivated of them all .
`` In the good old-fashioned way she be very accomplished , and have make this house a happy home to u all , ever since we can remember .
She be not elegant , but genuinely good , and so beloved and respect that there will be universal mourn for her when her place be empty .
No one can fill it , for the solid , homely virtue of the dear soul have go out of fashion , a I say , and nothing new can be half so satisfactory , to me at least . ''
`` I should like to have people feel so about me .
Can she teach me to do what she do , and to grow a good ? ''
ask Rose , with a little prick of remorse for even think that Aunt Plenty be a commonplace old lady .
`` Yes , if you do n't despise such simple lesson a she can give .
I know it would fill her dear old heart with pride and pleasure to feel that anyone care to learn of her , for she fancy her day go by .
Let her teach you how to be what she have be a skilful , frugal , cheerful housewife ; the maker and the keeper of a happy home , and by and by you will see what a valuable lesson it be . ''
`` I will , uncle .
But how shall I begin ? ''
`` I 'll speak to her about it , and she will make it all right with Dolly , for cooking be one of the main thing , you know . ''
`` So it be !
I do n't mind that a bit , for I like to mess , and use to try at home ; but I have no one to tell me , so I never do much but spoil my apron .
Pies be great fun , only Dolly be so cross , I do n't believe she will ever let me do a thing in the kitchen . ''
`` Then we 'll cook in the parlour .
I fancy Aunt Plenty will manage her , so do n't be trouble .
Only mind this , I 'd rather you learn how to make good bread than the best pie ever bake .
When you bring me a handsome , wholesome loaf , entirely make by yourself , I shall be more pleased than if you offer me a pair of slipper embroider in the very late style .
I do n't wish to bribe you , but I 'll give you my hearty kiss , and promise to eat every crumb of the loaf myself . ''
`` It 's a bargain !
it 's a bargain !
Come and tell aunty all about it , for I 'm in a hurry to begin , '' cry Rose , dance before him toward the parlor , where Miss Plenty sit alone knit contentedly , yet ready to run at the first call for help of any sort , from any quarter .
No need to tell how surprised and gratify she be at the invitation she receive to teach the child the domestic art which be her only accomplishments , nor to relate how energetically she set about her pleasant task .
Dolly dare not grumble , for Miss Plenty be the one person whom she obey , and Phebe openly rejoice , for these new lesson bring Rose nearer to her , and glorify the kitchen in the good girl 's eye .
To tell the truth , the elder aunt have sometimes felt that they do not have quite their share of the little niece who have win their heart long ago , and be the sunshine of the house .
They talk it over together sometimes , but always end by say that a Alec have all the responsibility , he should have the large share of the dear girl 's love and time , and they would be content with such crumb of comfort a they could get .
Dr. Alec have find out this little secret , and , after reproach himself for be blind and selfish , be try to devise some way of mend matter without trouble anyone , when Rose 's new whim suggest an excellent method of wean her a little from himself .
He do not know how fond he be of her till he give her up to the new teacher , and often could not resist peep in at the door to see how she get on , or steal sly look through the slide when she be deep in dough , or listen intently to some impressive lecture from Aunt Plenty .
They catch him at it now and then , and order him off the premise at the point of the rolling-pin ; or , if unusually successful , and , therefore , in a milder mood , they lure him away with bribe of ginger-bread , a stray pickle , or a tart that be not quite symmetrical enough to suit their critical eye .
Of course he make a point of partake copiously of all the delectable mess that now appear at table , for both the cook be on their mettle , and he fare sumptuously every day .
But an especial relish be give to any dish when , in reply to his honest praise of it , Rose colour up with innocent pride , and say modestly , `` I make that , uncle , and I 'm glad you like it . ''
It be some time before the perfect loaf appear , for bread-making be an art not easily learn , and Aunt Plenty be very thorough in her teaching ; so Rose study yeast first , and through various stage of cake and biscuit come at last to the crown glory of the `` handsome , wholesome loaf . ''
It appear at tea-time , on a silver salver , proudly bear in by Phebe , who could not refrain from whisper , with a beam face , a she set it down before Dr. Alec , `` Ai n't it just lovely , sir ? ''
`` It be a regularly splendid loaf !
Did my girl make it all herself ? ''
he ask , survey the shapely , sweet-smelling object with real interest and pleasure .
`` Every particle herself , and never ask a bit of help or advice from anyone , '' answer Aunt Plenty , fold her hand with an air of unmitigated satisfaction , for her pupil certainly do her great credit .
`` I 've have so many failure and trouble that I really think I never should be able to do it alone .
Dolly let one splendid batch burn up because I forget it .
She be there and smelt it , but never do a thing , for she say , when I undertake to bake bread I must give my whole mind to it .
Was n't it hard ?
She might have call me at least , '' say Rose , recollect , with a sigh , the anguish of that moment .
`` She mean you should learn by experience , a Rosamond do in that little affair of the purple jar , you remember . ''
`` I always think it very unfair in her mother not to warn the poor thing a little bit ; and she be regularly mean when Rosamond ask for a bowl to put the purple stuff in , and she say , in such a provoking way , ' I do not agree to lend you a bowl , but I will , my dear . '
Ugh !
I always want to shake that hateful woman , though she be a moral mamma . ''
`` Never mind her now , but tell me all about my loaf , '' say Dr. Alec , much amuse at Rose 's burst of indignation .
`` There 's nothing to tell , uncle , except that I do my best , give my mind to it , and sit watch over it all the while it be in the oven till I be quite baked myself .
Everything go right this time , and it come out a nice , round , crusty loaf , a you see .
Now taste it , and tell me if it be good as well a handsome . ''
`` Must I cut it ?
Ca n't I put it under a glass cover and keep it in the parlor a they do wax flower and fine work of that sort ? ''
`` What an idea , uncle !
It would mould and be spoil .
Besides , people would laugh at u , and make fun of my old-fashioned accomplishment .
You promise to eat it , and you must ; not all at once , but as soon a you can , so I can make you some more . ''
Dr. Alec solemnly cut off his favourite crusty slice , and solemnly eat it ; then wipe his lip , and brush back Rose 's hair , solemnly kiss her on the forehead , say , heartily , `` My dear , it be perfect bread , and you be an honour to your teacher .
When we have our model school I shall offer a prize for the best bread , and you will get it . ''
`` I 've get it already , and I 'm quite satisfied , '' say Rose , slip into her seat , and try to hide her right hand which have a burn on it .
But Dr. Alec saw it , guess how it come there , and after tea insist on ease the pain which she would hardly confess .
`` Aunt Clara say I be spoil my hand , but I do n't care , for I 've have such good time with Aunt Plenty , and I think she have enjoy it as much a I have .
Only one thing trouble me , uncle , and I want to ask you about it , '' say Rose , a they pace up and down the hall in the twilight , the bandaged hand very carefully lay on Dr. Alec 's arm .
`` More little confidence ?
I like them immensely , so tell away , my dear . ''
`` Well , you see I feel a if Aunt Peace would like to do something for me , and I 've find out what it can be .
You know she ca n't go about like Aunty Plen , and we be so busy nowadays that she be rather lonely , I 'm afraid .
So I want to take lesson in sewing of her .
She work so beautifully , and it be a useful thing , you know , and I ought to be a good needlewoman as well a housekeeper , ought n't I ? ''
`` Bless your kind little heart , that be what I be think of the other day when Aunt Peace say she saw you very seldom now , you be so busy I want to speak of it , but fancy you have as much on your hand a you could manage .
It would delight the dear woman to teach you all her delicate handicraft , especially button-holes , for I believe that be where young lady fail ; at least , I 've hear them say so .
So , do you devote your mind to button-holes ; make 'em all over my clothes if you want something to practice on .
I 'll wear any quantity . ''
Rose laugh at this reckless offer , but promise to attend to that important branch , though she confess that darning be her weak point .
Whereupon Uncle Alec engage to supply her with sock in all stage of dilapidation , and to have a new set at once , so that she could run the heel for him a a pleasant beginning .
Then they go up to make their request in due form , to the great delight of gentle Aunt Peace , who get quite excite with the fun that go on while they would yarn , look up darn needle , and fit out a nice little mend basket for her pupil .
Very busy and very happy be Rose 's day now , for in the morning she go about the house with Aunt Plenty attend to linen-closets and store-rooms , pickle and preserving , explore garret and cellar to see that all be right , and learning , in the good old-fashioned manner , to look well after the way of the household .
In the afternoon , after her walk or drive , she sit with Aunt Peace ply her needle , while Aunt Plenty , whose eye be fail , knit and chat briskly , tell many a pleasant story of old time , till the three be move to laugh and cry together , for the busy needle be embroider all sort of bright pattern on the life of the worker , though they seem to be only stitch cotton and darn hose .
It be a pretty sight to see the rosy-faced little maid sit between the two old lady , listen dutifully to their instruction , and cheer the lesson with her lively chatter and blithe laugh .
If the kitchen have prove attractive to Dr. Alec when Rose be there at work , the sewing-room be quite irresistible , and he make himself so agreeable that no one have the heart to drive him away , especially when he read aloud or spun yarn .
`` There !
I 've make you a new set of warm night-gowns with four button-holes in each .
See if they be not neatly do , '' say Rose , one day , some week after the new lesson begin .
`` Even to a thread , and nice little bar across the end so I ca n't tear them when I twitch the button out .
Most superior work , ma'am , and I 'm deeply grateful ; so much so , that I 'll sew on these button myself , and save those tired finger from another prick . ''
`` You sew them on ? ''
cry Rose , with her eye wide open in amazement .
`` Wait a bit till I get my sewing tackle , and then you shall see what I can do . ''
`` Can he , really ? ''
ask Rose of Aunt Peace , a Uncle Alec march off with a comical air of importance .
`` Oh , yes , I teach him year ago , before he go to sea ; and I suppose he have have to do thing for himself , more or less , ever since ; so he have keep his hand in . ''
He evidently have , for he be soon back with a funny little work-bag , out of which he produce a thimble without a top ; and , have thread his needle , he proceed to sew on the button so handily that Rose be much impressed and amused .
`` I wonder if there be anything in the world that you can not do , '' she say , in a tone of respectful admiration .
`` There be one or two thing that I be not up to yet , '' he answer , with a laugh in the corner of his eye , a he wax his thread with a flourish .
`` I should like to know what ? ''
`` Bread and button-holes , ma'am . ''
Chapter 17 -- Good Bargains It be a rainy Sunday afternoon , and four boy be try to spend it quietly in the `` liberry , '' a Jamie call the room devote to book and boy , at Aunt Jessie 's .
Will and Geordie be sprawl on the sofa , deep in the adventure of the scapegrace and ragamuffin whose history be now the fashion .
Archie lounge in the easy chair , surround by newspaper ; Charlie stand upon the rug , in an Englishman 's favourite attitude , and , I regret to say , both be smoke cigar .
`` It be my opinion that this day will never come to an end , '' say Prince , with a yawn that nearly rent him asunder .
`` Read and improve your mind , my son , '' answer Archie , peer solemnly over the paper behind which he have be doze .
`` Do n't you preach , parson , but put on your boot and come out for a tramp , instead of mull over the fire like a granny . ''
`` No , thank you , tramp in an easterly storm do n't strike me a amuse . ''
There Archie stop and hold up his hand , for a pleasant voice be hear say outside , `` Are the boy in the library , auntie ? ''
`` Yes , dear , and long for sunshine ; so run in and make it for them , '' answer Mrs. Jessie .
`` It 's Rose , '' and Archie throw his cigar into the fire .
`` What 's that for ? ''
ask Charlie .
`` Gentlemen do n't smoke before lady . ''
`` True ; but I 'm not go to waste my weed , '' and Prince poke his into the empty inkstand that serve them for an ash tray .
A gentle tap at the door be answer by a chorus of `` Come in , '' and Rose appear , look blooming and breezy with the chilly air .
`` If I disturb you , say so , and I 'll go away , '' she begin , pause on the threshold with modest hesitation , for something in the elder boy ' face excite her curiosity .
`` You never disturb u , cousin , '' say the smoker , while the reader tear themselves from the hero of the bar-room and gutter long enough to nod affably to their guest .
As Rose bent to warm her hand , one end of Archie 's cigar stick out of the ash , smoke furiously and smell strongly .
`` Oh , you bad boy , how could you do it , to-day of all day ? ''
she say reproachfully .
`` Where 's the harm ? ''
ask Archie .
`` You know as well a I do ; your mother do n't like it , and it 's a bad habit , for it waste money and do you no good . ''
`` Fiddlesticks !
every man smoke , even Uncle Alec , whom you think so perfect , '' begin Charlie , in his tease way .
`` No , he do n't !
He have give it up , and I know why , '' cry Rose eagerly .
`` Now I think of it , I have n't see the old meerschaum since he come home .
Did he stop it on our account ? ''
ask Archie .
`` Yes , '' and Rose tell the little scene on the seashore in the camping-out time .
Archie seem much impress , and say manfully , `` He wo n't have do that in vain so far a I 'm concerned .
I do n't care a pin about smoking , so can give it up as easy a not , and I promise you I will .
I only do it now and then for fun . ''
`` You too ? ''
and Rose look up at the bonny Prince , who never look less bonny than at that moment , for he have resume his cigar just to torment her .
Now Charlie care as little a Archie about smoking , but it would not do to yield too soon : so he shake his head , give a great puff , and say loftily , `` You woman be always ask u to give up harmless little thing just because you do n't approve of them .
How would you like it if we do the same by you , miss ? ''
`` If I do harmful or silly thing , I 'd thank you for tell me of them , and I 'd try to mend my way , '' answer Rose heartily .
`` Well , now , we 'll see if you mean what you say .
I 'll give up smoke to please you , if you will give up something to please me , '' say Prince , see a good chance to lord it over the weak vessel at small cost to himself .
`` I 'll agree if it be as foolish a cigar . ''
`` Oh , it 's ever so much silly . ''
`` Then I promise ; what be it ? ''
and Rose quite tremble with anxiety to know which of her pet habit or possession she must lose .
`` Give up your ear-rings , '' and Charlie laugh wickedly , sure that she would never hold to that bargain .
Rose utter a cry and clap both hand to her ear where the gold ring hung .
`` Oh , Charlie , would n't anything else do as well ?
I 've be through so much teasing and trouble , I do want to enjoy my pretty ear-rings , for I can wear them now . ''
`` Wear as many a you like , and I 'll smoke in peace , '' return this bad boy .
`` Will nothing else satisfy you ? ''
imploringly .
`` Nothing , '' sternly .
Rose stood silent for a minute , think of something Aunt Jessie once say `` You have more influence over the boy than you know ; use it for their good , and I shall thank you all my life . ''
Here be a chance to do some good by sacrifice a little vanity of her own .
She felt it be right to do it , yet find it very hard , and ask wistfully , `` Do you mean never wear them , Charlie ? ''
`` Never , unless you want me to smoke . ''
`` I never do . ''
`` Then clinch the bargain . ''
He have no idea she would do it , and be much surprise when she take the dear ring from her ear , with a quick gesture , and hold them out to him , say , in a tone that make the colour come up to his brown cheek , it be so full of sweet good will , `` I care more for my cousin than for my ear-rings , so I promise , and I 'll keep my word . ''
`` For shame , Prince !
let her wear her little danglers if she like , and do n't bargain about do what you know be right , '' cry Archie , come out of his grove of newspaper with an indignant bounce .
But Rose be bend on show her aunt that she could use her influence for the boy ' good , and say steadily , `` It be fair , and I want it to be so , then you will believe I 'm in earnest .
Here , each of you wear one of these on your watch-guard to remind you .
I shall not forget , because very soon I can not wear ear-rings if I want to . ''
As she speak , Rose offer a little ring to each cousin , and the boy , see how sincere she be , obey her .
When the pledge be safe , Rose stretch a hand to each , and the lad give hers a hearty grip , half pleased and half ashamed of their part in the compact .
Just at that moment Dr. Alec and Mrs. Jessie come in .
`` What 's this ?
Dancing Ladies ' Triumph on Sunday ? ''
exclaim Uncle Alec , survey the trio with surprise .
`` No , sir , it be the Anti-Tobacco League .
Will you join ? ''
say Charlie , while Rose slip away to her aunt , and Archie bury both cigar behind the back log .
When the mystery be explain , the elder be well pleased , and Rose receive a vote of thanks , which make her feel a if she have do a service to her country , a she have , for every boy who grow up free from bad habit bid fair to make a good citizen .
`` I wish Rose would drive a bargain with Will and Geordie also , for I think these book be a bad for the small boy a cigar for the large one , '' say Mrs. Jessie , sit down on the sofa between the reader , who politely curl up their leg to make room for her .
`` I think they be all the fashion , '' answer Dr. Alec , settle in the big chair with Rose .
`` So be smoke , but it be harmful .
The writer of these popular story intend to do good , I have no doubt , but it seem to me they fail because their motto be , ` Be smart , and you will be rich , ' instead of ` Be honest , and you will be happy . '
I do not judge hastily , Alec , for I have read a dozen , at least , of these story , and , with much that be attractive to boys , I find a great deal to condemn in them , and other parent say the same when I ask them . ''
`` Now , Mum , that 's too bad !
I like 'em tip-top .
This one be a regular screamer , '' cry Will .
`` They 're bully book , and I 'd like to know where 's the harm , '' add Geordie .
`` You have just show u one of the chief evil , and that be slang , '' answer their mother quickly .
`` Must have it , ma'am .
If these chap talk all right , there 'd be no fun in 'em , '' protest Will .
`` A boot-black must n't use good grammar , and a newsboy must swear a little , or he would n't be natural , '' explain Geordie , both boy ready to fight gallantly for their favourite .
`` But my son be neither boot-blacks nor newsboy , and I object to hear them use such word a ` screamer , ' ` bully , ' and ` buster . '
In fact , I fail to see the advantage of write book about such people unless it be do in a very different way .
I can not think they will help to refine the ragamuffin if they read them , and I 'm sure they can do no good to the good class of boy , who through these book be introduce to police court , counterfeiter ' den , gamble house , drink saloon , and all sort of low life . ''
`` Some of them be about first-rate boy , mother ; and they go to sea and study , and sail round the world , have great lark all the way . ''
`` I have read about them , Geordie , and though they be good than the others , I be not satisfy with these optical delusion , a I call them .
Now , I put it to you , boy , be it natural for lad from fifteen to eighteen to command ship , defeat pirate , outwit smuggler , and so cover themselves with glory , that Admiral Farragut invite them to dinner , say , ` Noble boy , you be an honour to your country ! '
Or , if the hero be in the army , he have hair-breadth escape and adventure enough in one small volume to turn his hair white , and in the end he go to Washington at the express desire of the President or Commander-in-chief to be promote to no end of star and bar .
Even if the hero be merely an honest boy try to get his living , he be not permit to do so in a natural way , by hard work and year of patient effort , but be suddenly adopt by a millionaire whose pocket-book he have return ; or a rich uncle appear from sea just in the nick of time ; or the remarkable boy earn a few dollar , speculates in pea-nuts or necktie , and grow rich so rapidly that Sinbad in the diamond valley be a pauper compare to him .
Is n't it so , boy ? ''
`` Well , the fellow in these book be mighty lucky , and very smart , I must say , '' answer Will , survey an illustration on the open page before him , where a small but virtuous youth be upset a tipsy giant in a bar-room , and under it the elegant inscription , `` Dick Dauntless punch the head of Sam Soaker . ''
`` It give boy such wrong idea of life and business ; show them so much evil and vulgarity that they need not know about , and make the one success worth have a fortune , a lord 's daughter , or some worldly honour , often not worth the time it take to win .
It do seem to me that some one might write story that should be lively , natural and helpful tale in which the English should be good , the moral pure , and the character such a we can love in spite of the fault that all may have .
I ca n't bear to see such crowd of eager little fellow at the library read such trash ; weak , when it be not wicked , and totally unfit to fee the hungry mind that feast on it for want of something well .
There !
my lecture be do ; now I should like to hear what you gentlemen have to say , '' and Aunt Jessie subside with a pretty flush on the face that be full of motherly anxiety for her boy .
`` Tom Brown just suit mother , and me too , so I wish Mr. Hughes would write another story a good , '' say Archie .
`` You do n't find thing of this sort in Tom Brown ; yet these book be all in the Sunday-school library '' and Mrs. Jessie read the following paragraph from the book she have take from Will 's hand , '' ` In this place we saw a tooth of John the Baptist .
Ben say he could see locust and wild honey stick to it .
I could n't .
Perhaps John use a piece of the true cross for a tooth-pick . ' ''
`` A larky sort of a boy say that , Mum , and we skip the part where they describe what they saw in the different country , '' cry Will .
`` And those description , take mostly from guidebook , I fancy , be the only part of any real worth .
The scrape of the bad boy make up the rest of the story , and it be for those you read these book , I think , '' answer his mother , stroke back the hair off the honest little face that look rather abash at this true statement of the case .
`` Anyway , mother , the ship part be useful , for we learn how to sail her , and by and by that will all come handy when we go to sea , '' put in Geordie .
`` Indeed , then you can explain this manoeuvre to me , of course , '' and Mrs. Jessie read from another page the following nautical paragraph , `` The wind be south-south-west , and we can have her up four point closer to the wind , and still be six point off the wind .
As she luff up we shall man the fore and main sheet , slack on the weather , and haul on the lee brace . ''
`` I guess I could , if I be n't afraid of uncle .
He know so much more than I do , he 'd laugh , '' begin Geordie , evidently puzzle by the question .
`` Ho , you know you ca n't , so why make believe ?
We do n't understand half of the sea lingo , Mum , and I dare say it 's all wrong , '' cry Will , suddenly go over to the enemy , to Geordie 's great disgust .
`` I do wish the boy would n't talk to me a if I be a ship , '' say Rose , bring forward a private grievance .
`` Coming home from church this morning , the wind blow me about , and Will call out , right in the street , ` Brail up the foresail , and take in the flying-jib , that will ease her . ' ''
The boy shout at the plaintive tone in which Rose repeat the word that offend her , and Will vainly endeavour to explain that he only mean to tell her to wrap her cloak closer , and tie a veil over the tempest-tossed feather in her hat .
`` To tell the truth , if the boy must have slang , I can bear the ` sea lingo , ' a Will call it , good than the other .
It afflict me less to hear my son talk about ` brail up the foresail ' than do a they ` darn please , ' and ` cut your cable ' be decidedly preferable to ` let her rip . '
I once make a rule that I would have no slang in the house .
I give it up now , for I can not keep it ; but I will not have rubbishy book ; so , Archie , please send these two after your cigar . ''
Mrs. Jessie hold both the small boy fast with an arm round each neck , and when she take this base advantage of them they could only squirm with dismay .
`` Yes , right behind the back log , '' she continue , energetically .
`` There , my hearties -LRB- you like sea slang , so I 'll give you a bit -RRB- now , I want you to promise not to read any more stuff for a month , and I 'll agree to supply you with wholesome fare . ''
`` Oh , mother , not a single one ? ''
cry Will .
`` Could n't we just finish those ? ''
plead Geordie .
`` The boy throw away half-smoked cigar ; and your book must go after them .
Surely you would not be outdo by the ` old fellow , ' a you call them , or be less obedient to little Mum than they be to Rose . ''
`` Course not !
Come on , Geordie , '' and Will take the vow like a hero .
His brother sigh and obeyed , but privately resolve to finish his story the minute the month be over .
`` You have lay out a hard task for yourself , Jessie , in try to provide good reading for boy who have be live on sensation story .
It will be like go from raspberry tart to plain bread and butter ; but you will probably save them from a bilious fever , '' say Dr. Alec , much amuse at the proceeding .
`` I remember hear grandpa say that a love for good book be one of the best safeguard a man could have , '' begin Archie , star thoughtfully at the fine library before him .
`` Yes , but there 's no time to read nowadays ; a fellow have to keep scratch round to make money or he 's nobody , '' cut in Charlie , try to look worldly-wise .
`` This love of money be the curse of America , and for the sake of it men will sell honour and honesty , till we do n't know whom to trust , and it be only a genius like Agassiz who dare to say , ' I can not waste my time in get rich , ' '' say Mrs. Jessie sadly .
`` Do you want u to be poor , mother ? ''
ask Archie , wonder .
`` No , dear , and you never need be , while you can use your hand ; but I be afraid of this thirst for wealth , and the temptation it bring .
O , my boy !
I tremble for the time when I must let you go , because I think it would break my heart to have you fail a so many fail .
It would be far easy to see you dead if it could be say of you a of Sumner ` No man dare offer him a bribe . ' ''
Mrs. Jessie be so earnest in her motherly anxiety that her voice falter over the last word , and she hug the yellow head closer in her arm , a if she fear to let them leave that safe harbour for the great sea where so many little boat go down .
The young lad nestle close to her , and Archie say , in his quiet , resolute way , `` I can not promise to be an Agassiz or a Sumner , mother ; but I do promise to be an honest man , please God . ''
`` Then I 'm satisfied ! ''
and hold fast the hand he give her , she seal his promise with a kiss that have all a mother 's hope and faith in it .
`` I do n't see how they ever can be bad , she be so fond and proud of them , '' whisper Rose , quite touch by the little scene .
`` You must help her make them what they should be .
You have begin already , and when I see those ring where they be , my girl be prettier in my sight than if the big diamond that ever twinkle shone in her ear , '' answer Dr. Alec , look at her with approve eye .
`` I 'm so glad you think I can do anything , for I perfectly ache to be useful ; everyone be so good to me , especially Aunt Jessie . ''
`` I think you be in a fair way to pay your debt , Rosy , for when girl give up their little vanity , and boys their small vice , and try to strengthen each other in well-doing , matter be go a they ought .
Work away , my dear , and help their mother keep these son fit friend for an innocent creature like yourself ; they will be the manly men for it , I can assure you . ''
Chapter 18 -- Fashion and Physiology `` Please , sir , I guess you 'd better step up right away , or it will be too late , for I hear Miss Rose say she know you would n't like it , and she 'd never dare to let you see her . ''
Phebe say this a she pop her head into the study , where Dr. Alec sit read a new book .
`` They be at it , be they ? ''
he say , look up quickly , and give himself a shake , a if ready for a battle of some sort .
`` Yes , sir , as hard a they can talk , and Miss Rose do n't seem to know what to do , for the thing be ever so stylish , and she look elegant in 'em ; though I like her best in the old one , '' answer Phebe .
`` You be a girl of sense .
I 'll settle matter for Rosy , and you 'll lend a hand .
Is everything ready in her room , and be you sure you understand how they go ? ''
`` Oh , yes , sir ; but they be so funny !
I know Miss Rose will think it 's a joke , '' and Phebe laugh a if something tickle her immensely .
`` Never mind what she think so long a she obey .
Tell her to do it for my sake , and she will find it the best joke she ever saw .
I expect to have a tough time of it , but we 'll win yet , '' say the Doctor , a he march upstairs with the book in his hand , and an odd smile on his face .
There be such a clatter of tongue in the sewing-room that no one hear his tap at the door , so he push it open and take an observation .
Aunt Plenty , Aunt Clara , and Aunt Jessie be all absorb in gaze at Rose , who slowly revolve between them and the great mirror , in a full winter costume of the late fashion .
`` Bless my heart !
bad even than I expect , '' think the Doctor , with an inward groan , for , to his benighted eye , the girl look like a trussed fowl , and the fine new dress have neither grace , beauty , nor fitness to recommend it .
The suit be of two peculiar shade of blue , so arrange that patch of light and dark distract the eye .
The upper skirt be tie so lightly back that it be impossible to take a long step , and the under one be so loaded with plaited frill that it `` wobble '' no other word will express it ungracefully , both fore and aft .
A bunch of fold be gather up just below the waist behind , and a great bow ride a-top .
A small jacket of the same material be adorn with a high ruff at the back , and laid well open over the breast , to display some lace and a locket .
Heavy fringe , bow , puff , ruffle , and revers finish off the dress , make one 's head ache to think of the amount of work waste , for not a single graceful line strike the eye , and the beauty of the material be quite lose in the profusion of ornament .
A high velvet hat , audaciously turn up in front , with a bunch of pink rose and a sweeping plume , be cock over one ear , and , with her curl braid into a club at the back of her neck , Rose 's head look more like that of a dashing young cavalier than a modest little girl 's .
High-heeled boot tilt her well forward , a tiny muff pinion her arm , and a spotted veil , tie so closely over her face that her eyelash be rumple by it , give the last touch of absurdity to her appearance .
`` Now she look like other girl , and a I like to see her , '' Mrs. Clara be say , with an air of great satisfaction .
`` She do look like a fashionable young lady , but somehow I miss my little Rose , for child dress like child in my day , '' answer Aunt Plenty , peer through her glass with a troubled look , for she could not imagine the creature before her ever sit in her lap , run to wait upon her , or make the house gay with a child 's blithe presence .
`` Things have change since your day , Aunt , and it take time to get use to new way .
But you , Jessie , surely like this costume well than the dowdy thing Rose have be wear all summer .
Now , be honest , and own you do , '' say Mrs. Clara , bent on be praise for her work .
`` Well , dear to be quite honest , then , I think it be frightful , '' answer Mrs. Jessie , with a candour that cause revolve Rose to stop in dismay .
`` Hear , hear , '' cry a deep voice , and with a general start the lady become aware that the enemy be among them .
Rose blush up to her hat brim , and stand , look , a she felt , like a fool , while Mrs. Clara hasten to explain .
`` Of course , I do n't expect you to like it , Alec , but I do n't consider you a judge of what be proper and become for a young lady .
Therefore , I have take the liberty of provide a pretty street suit for Rose .
She need not wear it if you object , for I know we promise to let you do what you like with the poor dear for a year . ''
`` It be a street costume , be it ? ''
ask the Doctor , mildly .
`` Do you know , I never should have guess that it be mean for winter weather and brisk locomotion .
Take a turn , Rosy , and let me see all it beauty and advantage . ''
Rose try to walk off with her usual free tread , but the under-skirt got in her way , the over-skirt be so tight she could not take a long step , and her boot make it impossible to carry herself perfectly erect .
`` I have n't get use to it yet , '' she say , petulantly , kick at her train , a she turn to toddle back again .
`` Suppose a mad dog or a runaway horse be after you , could you get out of the way without upset , Colonel , '' ask the Doctor , with a twinkle in the eye that be fix on the rakish hat .
`` Do n't think I could , but I 'll try , '' and Rose make a rush across the room .
Her boot-heels catch on a rug , several string break , her hat tip over her eye , and she plunge promiscuously into a chair , where she sit laugh so infectiously that all but Mrs. Clara join in her mirth .
`` I should say that a walk suit in which one could not walk , and a winter suit which expose the throat , head , and foot to cold and damp , be rather a failure , Clara , especially a it have no beauty to reconcile one to it utter unfitness , '' say Dr. Alec , a he help Rose undo her veil , add , in a low tone , `` Nice thing for the eye ; you 'll soon see spot when it 's off as well a when it 's on , and , by and by , be a case for an oculist . ''
`` No beauty ! ''
cried Mrs. Clara , warmly , `` Now , that be just a man 's blindness .
This be the best of silk and camel 's hair , real ostrich feather , and an expensive ermine muff .
What could be in good taste , or more proper for a young girl ? ''
`` I 'll shew you , if Rose will go to her room and oblige me by put on what she find there , '' answer the Doctor , with unexpected readiness .
`` Alec , if it be a Bloomer , I shall protest .
I 've be expect it , but I know I can not bear to see that pretty child sacrifice to your wild idea of health .
Tell me it be n't a Bloomer ! ''
and Mrs. Clara clasp her hand imploringly .
`` It be not . ''
`` Thank Heaven ! ''
and she resign herself with a sigh of relief , add plaintively , `` I do hope you 'd accept my suit , for poor Rose have be afflict with frightful clothes long enough to spoil the taste of any girl . ''
`` You talk of my afflict the child , and then make a helpless guy like that of her ! ''
answer the Doctor , point to the little fashion plate that be scuttle out of sight a fast a it could go .
He close the door with a shrug , but before anyone could speak , his quick eye fell upon an object which cause him to frown , and demand in an indignant tone , `` After all I have say , be you really go to tempt my girl with those abominable thing ? ''
`` I think we put them away when she would n't wear them , '' murmur Mrs. Clara , whisk a little pair of corset out of sight with guilty haste .
`` I only bring them to try , for Rose be grow stout , and will have no figure if it be not attend to soon , '' she add , with an air of calm conviction that rouse the Doctor still more , for this be one of his especial abomination .
`` Growing stout !
Yes , thank Heaven , she be , and shall continue to do it , for Nature know how to mould a woman well than any corset-maker , and I wo n't have her interfere with .
My dear Clara , have you lose your sens that you can for a moment dream of put a grow girl into an instrument of torture like this ? ''
and with a sudden gesture he pluck forth the offend corset from under the sofa cushion , and hold them out with the expression one would wear on behold the thumbscrew or the rack of ancient time .
`` Do n't be absurd , Alec .
There be no torture about it , for tight lacing be out of fashion , and we have nice , sensible thing nowadays .
Everyone wear them ; even baby have stiffen waist to support their weak little back , '' begin Mrs. Clara , rush to the defence of the pet delusion of most woman .
`` I know it , and so the poor little soul have weak back all their day , a their mother have before them .
It be vain to argue the matter , and I wo n't try , but I wish to state , once for all , that if I ever see a pair of corset near Rose , I 'll put them in the fire , and you may send the bill to me . ''
As he speak the corset be on their way to destruction , but Mrs. Jessie catch his arm , exclaim merrily , `` Do n't burn them , for mercy sake , Alec ; they be full of whalebone , and will make a dreadful odour .
Give them to me .
I 'll see that they do no harm . ''
`` Whalebones , indeed !
A regular fence of them , and metal gate-posts in front .
As if our own bone be not enough , if we 'd give them a chance to do their duty , '' growl the Doctor , yield up the bone of contention with a last shake of contempt .
Then his face clear suddenly , and he hold up his finger , say , with a smile , `` Hear those girl laugh ; cramp lung could not make hearty music like that . ''
Peals of laughter issue from Rose 's room , and smile involuntarily touch the lip of those who listen to the happy sound .
`` Some new prank of yours , Alec ? ''
ask Aunt Plenty , indulgently , for she have come to believe in most of her nephew 's odd notion , because they seem to work so well .
`` Yes , ma'am , my last , and I hope you will like it .
I discover what Clara be at , and get my rival suit ready for to-day .
I 'm not go to ` afflict ' Rose , but let her choose , and if I 'm not entirely mistake , she will like my rig best .
While we wait I 'll explain , and then you will appreciate the general effect well .
I get hold of this little book , and be strike with it good sense and good taste , for it suggest a way to clothe woman both healthfully and handsomely , and that be a great point .
It begin at the foundation , a you will see if you will look at these picture , and I should think woman would rejoice at this lightening of their burden . ''
As he speak , the Doctor lay the book before Aunt Plenty , who obediently bring her spectacle to bear upon the illustration , and after a long look exclaim , with a scandalised face , `` Mercy on u , these thing be like the night-drawers Jamie wear !
You do n't mean to say you want Rose to come out in this costume ?
It 's not proper , and I wo n't consent to it ! ''
`` I do mean it , and I 'm sure my sensible aunt will consent when she understand that these well I 'll call them by an Indian name , and say pajama be for underwear , and Rose can have a pretty frock a she like outside .
These two suit of flannel , each in one piece from head to foot , with a skirt or so hung on this easily-fitting waist , will keep the child warm without burden her with belt , and gather , and buckle , and bunch round the waist , and leave free the muscle that need plenty of room to work in .
She shall never have the back-ache if I can help it , nor the long list of ill you dear woman think you can not escape . ''
`` I do n't consider it modest , and I 'm sure Rose will be shock at it , '' begin Mrs. Clara , but stop suddenly , a Rose appear in the doorway , not look shock a bit .
`` Come on , my hygienic model , and let u see you , '' say her uncle , with an approve glance , a she walk in , look so mischievously merry , that it be evident she enjoy the joke .
`` Well , I do n't see anything remarkable .
That be a neat , plain suit ; the material be good , and it 's not unbecoming , if you want her to look like a little school-girl ; but it have not a particle of style , and no one would ever give it a second glance , '' say Mrs. Clara , feel that her last remark condemn the whole thing .
`` Exactly what I want , '' answer the provoking Doctor , rub his hand with a satisfied air .
`` Rosy look now like what she be , a modest little girl , who do not want to be star at .
I think she would get a glance of approval , though , from people who like sense and simplicity rather than fuss and feather .
Revolve , my Hebe , and let me refresh my eye by the sight of you . ''
There be very little to see , however , only a pretty Gabrielle dress , of a soft warm shade of brown , come to the top of a trim pair of boot with low heel .
A seal-skin sack , cap , and mitten , with a glimpse of scarlet at the throat , and the pretty curl tie up with a bright velvet of the same colour , complete the external adornment , make her look like a robin redbreast wintry , yet warm .
`` How do you like it , Rosy ? ''
ask the Doctor , feel that her opinion be more important to the success of his new idea than that of all the aunt on the hill .
`` I feel very odd and light , but I 'm warm a a toast , and nothing seem to be in my way , '' answer Rose , with a skip which display shapely gaiter on leg that now might be a free and active a a boy 's under the modest skirt of the girl .
`` You can run away from the mad dog , and walk off at a smart pace without tumble on your nose , now , I fancy ? ''
`` Yes , uncle !
suppose the dog come , I just hop over a wall so and when I walk of a cold day , I go like this . ''
Entering fully into the spirit of the thing , Rose swing herself over the high back of the sofa as easily a one of her cousin , and then go down the long hall a if her stout boot be relate to the famous seven-leaguers .
`` There !
you see how it will be ; dress her in that boyish way and she will act like a boy .
I do hate all these invention of strong-minded woman ! ''
exclaim Mrs. Clara , a Rose come back at a run .
`` Ah , but you see some of these sensible invention come from the brain of a fashionable modiste , who will make you more lovely , or what you value more ` stylish ' outside and comfortable within .
Mrs. Van Tassel have be to Madame Stone , and be wear a full suit of this sort .
Van himself tell me , when I ask how she be , that she have give up lie on the sofa , and be go about in a most astonishing way , consider her feeble health . ''
`` You do n't say so !
Let me see that book a moment , '' and Aunt Clara examine the new pattern with a more respectful air , for if the elegant Mrs. Van Tassel wore these `` dreadful thing '' it would never do to be leave behind , in spite of her prejudice .
Dr. Alec look at Mrs. Jessie , and both smile , for `` little Mum '' have be in the secret , and enjoy it mightily .
`` I think that would settle it , '' he say with a nod .
`` I do n't wait for Mrs. Van to lead the way , and for once in my life I have adopt a new fashion before Clara .
My freedom suit be order , and you may see me play tag with Rose and the boy before long , '' answer Mrs. Jessie , nod back at him .
Meantime Aunt Plenty be examine Rose 's costume , for the hat and sack be off , and the girl be eagerly explain the new under-garments .
`` See , auntie , all nice scarlet flannel , and a gay little petticoat , and long stocking , oh , so warm !
Phebe and I nearly die laugh when I put this rig on , but I like it ever so much .
The dress be so comfortable , and do n't need any belt or sash , and I can sit without rumple any trimming , that 's such a comfort !
I like to be tidy , and so , when I wear fussed-up thing , I 'm think of my clothes all the time , and that 's tiresome .
Do say you like it .
I resolve I would , just to please uncle , for he do know more about health than anyone else , I 'm sure , and I 'd wear a bag if he ask me to do it . ''
`` I do n't ask that , Rose , but I wish you 'd weigh and compare the two suit , and then choose which seem best .
I leave it to your own commonsense , '' answer Dr. Alec , feel pretty sure he have win .
`` Why , I take this one , of course , uncle .
The other be fashionable , and yes I must say I think it 's pretty but it 's very heavy , and I should have to go round like a walking doll if I wear it .
I 'm much oblige to auntie , but I 'll keep this , please . ''
Rose speak gently but decidedly , though there be a look of regret when her eye fell on the other suit which Phebe have bring in ; and it be very natural to like to look a other girl do .
Aunt Clara sigh ; Uncle Alec smile , and say heartily , `` Thank you , dear ; now read this book and you will understand why I ask it of you .
Then , if you like , I 'll give you a new lesson ; you ask for one yesterday , and this be more necessary than French or housekeep . ''
`` Oh , what ? ''
and Rose catch up the book which Mrs. Clara have throw down with a disgusted look .
Though Dr. Alec be forty , the boyish love of tease be not yet dead in him , and , be much elate at his victory , he could not resist the temptation of shock Mrs. Clara by suggest dreadful possibility , so he answer , half in earnest , half in jest , `` Physiology , Rose .
Would n't you like to be a little medical student , with Uncle Doctor for teacher , and be ready to take up his practice when he have to stop ?
If you agree , I 'll hunt up my old skeleton to-morrow . ''
That be too much for Aunt Clara , and she hastily depart , with her mind in a sad state of perturbation about Mrs. Van Tassel 's new costume and Rose 's new study .
Chapter 19 -- Brother Bones Rose accept her uncle 's offer , a Aunt Myra discover two or three day later .
Coming in for an early call , and hear voice in the study , she open the door , give a cry and shut it quickly , look a good deal startle .
The Doctor appear in a moment , and beg to know what the matter be .
`` How can you ask when that long box look so like a coffin I think it be one , and that dreadful thing star me in the face a I open the door , '' answer Mrs. Myra , point to the skeleton that hung from the chandelier cheerfully grin at all beholder .
`` This be a medical college where woman be freely admit , so walk in , madam , and join the class if you 'll do me the honour , '' say the Doctor , wave her forward with his politest bow .
`` Do , auntie , it 's perfectly splendid , '' cry Rose 's voice , and Rose 's bloom face be see behind the rib of the skeleton , smile and nod in the gay possible manner .
`` What be you do , child ? ''
demanded Aunt Myra , drop into a chair and star about her .
`` Oh , I 'm learn bone to-day , and I like it so much .
There be twelve rib , you know , and the two low one be call float rib , because they be not fasten to the breastbone .
That 's why they go in so easily if you lace tight and squeeze the lung and heart in the let me see , what be that big word oh , I know thoracic cavity , '' and Rose beam with pride a she air her little bit of knowledge .
`` Do you think that be a good sort of thing for her to be poke over ?
She be a nervous child , and I 'm afraid it will be bad for her , '' say Aunt Myra , watch Rose a she count vertebra , and waggle a hip-joint in it socket with an inquiring expression .
`` An excellent study , for she enjoy it , and I mean to teach her how to manage her nerve so that they wo n't be a curse to her , a many a woman 's become through ignorance or want of thought .
To make a mystery or terror of these thing be a mistake , and I mean Rose shall understand and respect her body so well that she wo n't dare to trifle with it a most woman do . ''
`` And she really like it ? ''
`` Very much , auntie !
It 's all so wonderful , and so nicely plan , you can hardly believe what you see .
Just think , there be 600,000,000 air cell in one pair of lung , and 2,000 pore to a square inch of surface ; so you see what quantity of air we must have , and what care we should take of our skin so all the little door will open and shut right .
And brain , auntie , you 've no idea how curious they be ; I have n't get to them yet , but I long to , and uncle be go to show me a manikin that you can take to piece .
Just think how nice it will be to see all the organ in their place ; I only wish they could be make to work a ours do . ''
It be funny to see Aunt Myra 's face a Rose stand before her talk rapidly with one hand lay in the friendly manner on the skeleton 's shoulder .
Every word both the Doctor and Rose utter hit the good lady in her weak spot , and a she look and listen a long array of bottle and pill-boxes rise up before her , reproach her with the `` ignorance and want of thought '' that make her what she be , a nervous , dyspeptic , unhappy old woman .
`` Well , I do n't know but you may be right , Alec , only I would n't carry it too far .
Women do n't need much of this sort of knowledge , and be not fit for it .
I could n't bear to touch that ugly thing , and it give me the creep to hear about ` organ , ' '' say Aunt Myra , with a sigh and her hand on her side .
`` Would n't it be a comfort to know that your liver be on the right side , auntie , and not on the left ! ''
ask Rose with a naughty laugh in her eye , for she have lately learnt that Aunt Myra 's liver complaint be not in the proper place .
`` It 's a dying world , child , and it do n't much matter where the pain be , for sooner or later we all drop off and be see no more , '' be Aunt Myra 's cheerful reply .
`` Well , I intend to know what kill me if I can , and meantime , I 'm go to enjoy myself in spite of a dying world .
I wish you 'd do so too , and come and study with uncle , it would do you good , I 'm sure , '' and Rose go back to count vertebra with such a happy face , that Aunt Myra have not the heart to say a word to dampen her ardour .
`` Perhaps it 's as well to let her do what she like the little while she be with u .
But pray be careful of her , Alec , and not allow her to overwork , '' she whisper a she go out .
`` That 's exactly what I 'm try to do , ma'am , and rather a hard job I find it , '' he add , a he shut the door , for the dear aunt be dreadfully in his way sometimes .
Half an hour later come another interruption in the shape of Mac , who announce his arrival by the brief but elegant remark , `` Hullo !
what new game be this ? ''
Rose explain , Mac give a long whistle of surprise , and then take a promenade round the skeleton , observe gravely , `` Brother Bones look very jolly , but I ca n't say much for his beauty . ''
`` You must n't make fun of him , for he 's a good old fellow , and you 'd be just a ugly if your flesh be off , '' say Rose , defend her new friend with warmth .
`` I dare say , so I 'll keep my flesh on , thank you .
You be so busy you ca n't read to a fellow , I suppose ? ''
ask Mac , whose eye be well , but still too weak for book .
`` Do n't you want to come and join my class ?
Uncle explain it all to u , and you can take a look at the plate a they come along .
We 'll give up bone today and have eye instead ; that will be more interesting to you , '' add Rose , see no ardent thirst for physiological information in his face .
`` Rose , we must not fly about from one thing to another in this way , '' begin Dr. Alec , but she whisper quickly , with a nod towards Mac , whose goggles be turn wistfully in the direction of the forbidden book , `` He 's blue to-day , and we must amuse him ; give a little lecture on eye , and it will do him good .
No matter about me , uncle . ''
`` Very well ; the class will please be seat , '' and the Doctor give a sounding rap on the table .
`` Come , sit by me , dear , then we can both see the picture ; and if your head get tire you can lie down , '' say Rose , generously open her little college to a brother , and kindly provide for the weakness that all humanity be subject to .
Side by side they sit and listen to a very simple explanation of the mechanism of the eye , find it as wonderful a a fairy tale , for fine plate illustrate it , and a very willing teacher do his best to make the lesson pleasant .
`` Jove !
if I 'd know what mischief I be do to that mighty delicate machine of mine , you would n't have catch me read by firelight , or study with a glare of sunshine on my book , '' say Mac , peer solemnly at a magnified eye-ball ; then , push it away , he add indignantly , `` Why be n't a fellow taught all about his work , and how to manage 'em , and not leave to go blunder into all sort of worry ?
Telling him after he 's down be n't much use , for then he 's find it out himself and wo n't thank you . ''
`` Ah , Mac , that 's just what I keep lecture about , and people wo n't listen .
You lads need that sort of knowledge so much , and father and mother ought to be able to give it to you .
Few of them be able , and so we all go blundering , a you say .
Less Greek and Latin and more knowledge of the law of health for my boy , if I have them .
Mathematics be all very well , but moral be well , and I wish , how I wish that I could help teacher and parent to feel it a they ought . ''
`` Some do ; Aunt Jessie and her boy have capital talk , and I wish we could ; but mother 's so busy with her housekeeping , and father with his business , there never seem to be any time for that sort of thing ; even if there be , it do n't seem a if it would be easy to talk to them , because we 've never get into the way of it , you know . ''
Poor Mac be right there , and express a want that many a boy and girl feel .
Fathers and mother be too absorb in business and housekeeping to study their child , and cherish that sweet and natural confidence which be a child 's sure safeguard , and a parent 's subtle power .
So the young heart hide trouble or temptation till the harm be do , and mutual regret come too late .
Happy the boy and girl who tell all thing freely to father or mother , sure of pity , help , and pardon ; and thrice happy the parent who , out of their own experience , and by their own virtue , can teach and uplift the soul for which they be responsible .
This longing stir in the heart of Rose and Mac , and by a natural impulse both turn to Dr. Alec , for in this queer world of ours , fatherly and motherly heart often beat warm and wise in the breast of bachelor uncle and maiden aunt ; and it be my private opinion that these worthy creature be a beautiful provision of nature for the cherishing of other people 's child .
They certainly get great comfort out of it , and receive much innocent affection that otherwise would be lose .
Dr. Alec be one of these , and his big heart have room for every one of the eight cousin , especially orphan Rose and afflict Mac ; so , when the boy utter that unconscious reproach to his parent , and Rose add with a sigh , `` It must be beautiful to have a mother ! ''
the good Doctor yearn over them , and , shut his book with a decided slam , say in that cordial voice of his , `` Now , look here , child , you just come and tell me all your worry , and with God 's help , I 'll settle them for you .
That be what I 'm here for , I believe , and it will be a great happiness to me if you can trust me . ''
`` We can , uncle , and we will ! ''
both answer , with a heartiness that gratify him much .
`` Good !
now school be dismiss , and I advise you to go and refresh your 600,000,000 air cell by a brisk run in the garden .
Come again whenever you like , Mac , and we 'll teach you all we can about your ` work , ' a you call them , so you can keep them run smoothly . ''
`` We 'll come , sir , much oblige , '' and the class in physiology go out to walk .
Mac do come again , glad to find something he could study in spite of his weak eye , and learn much that be of more value than anything his school have ever teach him .
Of course , the other lad make great fun of the whole thing , and plague Dr. Alec 's student half out of their life .
But they keep on persistently , and one day something happen which make the other fellow behave themselves for ever after .
It be a holiday , and Rose up in her room think she hear the voice of her cousin , so she run down to welcome them , but find no one there .
`` Never mind , they will be here soon , and then we 'll have a frolic , '' she say to herself , and think she have be mistake she go into the study to wait .
She be lounge over the table look at a map when an odd noise catch her ear .
A gentle tapping somewhere , and follow the sound it seem to come from the inside of the long case in which the skeleton live when not professionally engage .
This case stand upright in a niche between two book-cases at the back of the room , a darkish corner , where Brother Bones , a the boy would call him , be out of the way .
As Rose stand look in that direction , and wonder if a rat have get shut in , the door of the case swing slowly open , and with a great start she saw a bony arm lift , and a bony finger beckon to her .
For a minute she be frighten , and run to the study door with a fluttering heart , but just a she touch the handle a queer , stifle sort of giggle make her stop short and turn red with anger .
She pause an instant to collect herself , and then go softly toward the bony beckoner .
A near look reveal black thread tie to the arm and finger , the end of thread disappear through hole bore in the back of the case .
Peeping into the dark recess , she also catch sight of the tip of an elbow cover with a rough gray cloth which she know very well .
Quick a a flash she understand the joke , her fear vanish , and with a wicked smile , she whip out her scissors , cut the thread , and the bony arm drop with a rattle .
Before she could say , `` Come out , Charlie , and let my skeleton alone , '' a sudden irruption of boy , all in a high state of tickle , proclaim to the hidden rogue that his joke be a failure .
`` I tell him not to do it , because it might give you a start , '' explain Archie , emerge from the closet .
`` I have a smelling bottle all ready if she faint away , '' add Steve , pop up from behind the great chair .
`` It 's too bad of you not to squawk and run ; we depend on it , it 's such fun to howl after you , '' say Will and Geordie , roll out from under the sofa in a promiscuous heap .
`` You be get altogether too strong-minded , Rose ; most girl would have be in a jolly twitter to see this old fellow waggle his finger at them , '' complain Charlie , squeeze out from his tight quarter , dusty and disgust .
`` I 'm used to your prank now , so I 'm always on the watch and prepared .
But I wo n't have Brother Bones make fun of .
I know uncle would n't like it , so please do n't , '' begin Rose just a Dr. Alec come in , and , see the state of the case at a glance , he say quietly , `` Hear how I get that skeleton , and then I 'm sure you will treat it with respect . ''
The boy settle down at once on any article of furniture that be nearest and listen dutifully .
`` Years ago , when I be in the hospital , a poor fellow be bring there with a rare and very painful disease .
There be no hope for him , but we do our best , and he be so grateful that when he die he leave u his body that we might discover the mystery of his complaint , and so be able to help others afflict in the same way .
It do do good , and his brave patience make u remember him long after he be go .
He think I have be kind to him , and say to a fellow-student of mine , ` Tell the Doctor I lave him me bone , for I 've nothing else in the wide world , and I 'll nos be want 'em at all , at all , when the great pain hat kilt me entirely . '
So that be how they come to be mine , and why I 've keep them carefully , for , though only a poor , ignorant fellow , Mike Nolan do what he could to help others , and prove his gratitude to those who try to help him . ''
As Dr. Alec pause , Archie close the door of the case as respectfully a if the mummy of an Egyptian king be inside ; Will and Geordie look solemnly at one another , evidently much impressed , and Charlie pensively remark from the coal-hod where he sit , `` I 've often hear of a skeleton in the house , but I think few people have one a useful and as interesting a ours . ''
Chapter 20 -- Under The Mistletoe Rose make Phebe promise that she would bring her stock into the `` Bower , '' a she call her pretty room , on Christmas morning , because that first delicious rummage lose half it charm if two little night-caps at least do not meet over the treasure , and two happy voice Oh and Ah together .
So when Rose open her eye that day they fell upon faithful Phebe , roll up in a shawl , sit on the rug before a blazing fire , with her untouched stocking laid beside her .
`` Merry Christmas ! ''
cry the little mistress smile gaily .
`` Merry Christmas ! ''
answer the little maid , so heartily that it do one good to hear her .
`` Bring the stocking right away , Phebe , and let 's see what we 've get , '' say Rose , sit up among the pillow , and look as eager a a child .
A pair of long knobby hose be lay out upon the coverlet , and their content examine with delight , though each knew every bless thing that have be put into the other 's stocking .
Never mind what they be ; it be evident that they be quite satisfactory , for a Rose lean back , she say , with a luxurious sigh of satisfaction , `` Now , I believe I 've get everything in the world that I want , '' and Phebe answer , smile over a lapful of treasure , `` This be the most splendid Christmas I ever have since I be bear . ''
Then she add with an important air , `` Do wish for something else , because I happen to know of two more present outside the door this minute . ''
`` Oh , me , what richness ! ''
cry Rose , much excite .
`` I use to wish for a pair of glass slipper like Cinderella 's , but a I ca n't have them , I really do n't know what to ask for . ''
Phebe clap her hand a she skip off the bed and ran to the door , say merrily , `` One of them be for your foot , anyway .
I do n't know what you 'll say to the other , but I think it 's elegant . ''
So do Rose , when a shin pair of skate and a fine sled appear .
`` Uncle send those ; I know he do ; and , now I see them , I remember that I do want to skate and coast .
Is n't it a beauty ?
See !
they fit nicely , '' and , sit on the new sled , Rose try a skate on her little bare foot , while Phebe stand by admire the pretty tableau .
`` Now we must hurry and get dress , for there be a deal to do to-day , and I want to get through in time to try my sled before dinner . ''
`` Gracious me , and I ought to be dust my parlor this bless minute ! ''
and mistress and maid separate with such happy face that anyone would have know what day it be without be tell .
`` Birnam Wood have come to Dunsinane , Rosy , '' say Dr. Alec , a he leave the breakfast table to open the door for a procession of holly , hemlock , and cedar bough that come march up the step .
Snowballs and `` Merry Christmases ! ''
flew about pretty briskly for several minute ; then all fell to work trim the old house , for the family always din together there on that day .
`` I ride mile and mile , a Ben say , to get this fine bit , and I 'm go to hang it there a the last touch to the rig-a-madooning , '' say Charlie , a he fasten a dull green branch to the chandelier in the front parlor .
`` It be n't very pretty , '' say Rose , who be trim the chimney-piece with glossy holly spray .
`` Never mind that , it 's mistletoe , and anyone who stand under it will get kiss whether they like it or not .
Now 's your time , lady , '' answer the saucy Prince , keep his place and look sentimentally at the girl , who retire precipitately from the dangerous spot .
`` You wo n't catch me , '' say Rose , with great dignity .
`` See if I do n't ! ''
`` I 've get my eye on Phebe , '' observe Will , in a patronise tone that make them all laugh .
`` Bless the dear ; I sha n't mind it a bit , '' answer Phebe , with such a maternal air that Will 's budding gallantry be chill to death .
`` Oh , the mistletoe bough , '' sang Rose .
`` Oh , the mistletoe bough ! ''
echoed all the boy , and the teasing end in the plaintive ballad they all like so well .
There be plenty of time to try the new skate before dinner , and then Rose take her first lesson on the little bay , which seem to have freeze over for that express purpose .
She find tumble down and get up again warm work for a time , but with six boy to teach her , she manage at last to stand alone ; and , satisfy with that success , she refresh herself with a dozen grand coast on the Amazon , a her sled be call .
`` Ah , that fatal colour !
it break my heart to see it , '' croak Aunt Myra , a Rose come down a little late , with cheek almost as ruddy a the holly berry on the wall , and every curl as smooth a Phebe 's careful hand could make it .
`` I 'm glad to see that Alec allow the poor child to make herself pretty in spite of his absurd notion , '' add Aunt Clara , take infinite satisfaction in the fact that Rose 's blue silk dress have three frill on it .
`` She 's a very intelligent child , and have a nice little manner of her own , '' observe Aunt Jane , with unusual affability ; for Rose have just hand Mac a screen to guard his eye from the brilliant fire .
`` If I have a daughter like that to show my Jem when he get home , I should be a very proud and happy woman , '' think Aunt Jessie , and then reproach herself for not be perfectly satisfy with her four brave lad .
Aunt Plenty be too absorb in the dinner to have an eye for anything else ; if she have not be , she would have see what an effect her new cap produce upon the boy .
The good lady own that she do `` love a dressy cap , '' and on this occasion her head gear be magnificent ; for the towering structure of lace be adorn with buff ribbon to such an extent that it look a if a flock of yellow butterfly have settle on her dear old head .
When she trot about the room the ruches quiver , the little bow all stood erect , and the streamer wave in the breeze so comically that it be absolutely necessary for Archie to smother the Brats in the curtain till they have have their first laugh out .
Uncle Mac have bring Fun See to dinner , and it be a mercy he do , for the elder lads find a vent for their merriment in joke the young Chinaman on his improved appearance .
He be in American costume now , with a cropped head , and speak remarkably good English after six month at school ; but , for all that , his yellow face and beady eye make a curious contrast to the blonde Campbells all about him .
Will call him the `` Typhoon , '' mean Tycoon , and the name stick to him to his great disgust .
Aunt Peace be bring down and set in the chair of state at table , for she never fail to join the family on this day , and sit smile at them all , `` like an embodiment of Peace on earth , '' Uncle Alec say , a he take his place beside her , while Uncle Mac support Aunt Plenty at the other end .
`` I eat hardly any breakfast , and I 've do everything I know to make myself extra hungry , but I really do n't think I can eat straight through , unless I burst my button off , '' whisper Geordie to Will , a he survey the bounteous store before him with a hopeless sigh .
`` A fellow never know what he can do till he try , '' answer Will , attack his heaped-up plate with an evident intention of do his duty like a man .
Everybody know what a Christmas dinner be , so we need waste no word in describe this one , but hasten at once to tell what happen at the end of it .
The end , by the way , be so long in come that the gas be light before dessert be over , for a snow flurry have come on and the wintry daylight fade fast .
But that only make it all the jollier in the warm , bright room , full of happy soul .
Everyone be very merry , but Archie seem particularly uplift so much so , that Charlie confide to Rose that he be afraid the Chief have be at the decanter .
Rose indignantly deny the insinuation , for when health be drink in the good old-fashioned way to suit the elder , she have observe that Aunt Jessie 's boy fill their glass with water , and have do the same herself in spite of the Prince 's joke about `` the rosy . ''
But Archie certainly be unusually excited , and when someone remember that it be the anniversary of Uncle Jem 's wedding , and wish he be there to make a speech , his son electrify the family by try to do it for him .
It be rather incoherent and flowery , a maiden speech be apt to be , but the end be consider superb ; for , turn to his mother with a queer little choke in his voice , he say that she `` deserve to be bless with peace and plenty , to be crown with rose and lad ' - love , and to receive the cargo of happiness sail home to her in spite of wind or tide to add another Jem to the family jewel . ''
That allusion to the Captain , now on his return trip , make Mrs. Jessie sob in her napkin , and set the boy cheer .
Then , a if that be not sensation enough , Archie suddenly dash out of the room , a if he have lose his wit .
`` Too bashful to stay and be praise , '' begin Charlie , excuse the peculiarity of his chief a in duty bound .
`` Phebe beckon to him ; I saw her , '' cry Rose , star hard at the door .
`` Is it more present come ? ''
ask Jamie , just a his brother re-appeared , look more excited than ever .
`` Yes ; a present for mother , and here it be ! ''
roar Archie , fling wide the door to let in a tall man , who cry out , `` Where 's my little woman ?
The first kiss for her , then the rest may come on as fast a they like . ''
Before the word be out of his mouth , Mrs. Jessie be half-hidden under his rough great-coat , and four boy be prance about him clamour for their turn .
Of course , there be a joyful tumult for a time , during which Rose slip into the window recess and watch what go on , a if it be a chapter in a Christmas story .
It be good to see bluff Uncle Jem look proudly at his tall son , and fondly hug the little one .
It be well still to see him shake his brother ' hand a if he would never leave off , and kiss all the sister in a way that make even solemn Aunt Myra brighten up for a minute .
But it be best of all to see him finally establish in grandfather 's chair , with his `` little woman '' beside him , his three young boy in his lap , and Archie hovering over him like a large-sized cherub .
That really be , a Charlie say , `` A landscape to do one 's heart good . ''
`` All hearty and all here , thank God ! ''
say Captain Jem in the first pause that come , a he look about him with a grateful face .
`` All but Rose , '' answer loyal little Jamie , remember the absent .
`` Faith , I forget the child !
Where be George 's little girl ? ''
ask the Captain , who have not see her since she be a baby .
`` You 'd better say Alec 's great girl , '' say Uncle Mac , who profess to be madly jealous of his brother .
`` Here I be , sir , '' and Rose appear from behind the curtain , look a if she have rather have stay there .
`` Saint George Germain , how the mite have grow ! ''
cry Captain Jem , a he tumble the boy out of his lap , and rise to greet the tall girl , like a gentleman a he be .
But , somehow , when he shake her hand it look so small in his big one , and her face remind him so strongly of his dead brother , that he be not satisfy with so cold a welcome , and with a sudden softening of the keen eye he take her up in his arm , whisper , with a rough cheek against her smooth one , `` God bless you , child !
forgive me if I forget you for a minute , and be sure that not one of your kinsfolk be happy to see you here than Uncle Jem . ''
That make it all right ; and when he set her down , Rose 's face be so bright it be evident that some spell have be use to banish the feeling of neglect that have keep her moping behind the curtain so long .
That everyone sit round and hear all about the voyage home how the Captain have set his heart on get there in time to keep Christmas ; how everything have conspire to thwart his plan ; and how , at the very last minute , he have manage to do it , and have send a telegram to Archie , bid him keep the secret , and be ready for his father at any moment , for the ship get into another port , and he might be late .
Then Archie tell how that telegram have burn in his pocket all dinner-time ; how he have to take Phebe into his confidence , and how clever she be to keep the Captain back till the speech be over and he could come in with effect .
The elder would have sit and talk all the evening , but the young folk be bend on have their usual Christmas frolic ; so , after an hour of pleasant chat , they begin to get restless , and have consult together in dumb show , they devise a way to very effectually break up the family council .
Steve vanish , and , sooner than the boy imagine Dandy could get himself up , the skirl of the bag-pipe be hear in the hall , and the bonny piper come to lead Clan Campbell to the revel .
`` Draw it mild , Stevie , my man ; ye play unco weel , but ye mak a most infernal din , '' cry Uncle Jem , with his hand over his ear , for this accomplishment be new to him , and `` take him all aback , '' a he express it .
So Steve drone out a Highland reel as softly a he could , and the boy dance it to a circle of admire relation .
Captain Jem be a true sailor , however , and could not stand idle while anything lively be go on ; so , when the piper 's breath give out , he cut a splendid pigeon-wing into the middle of the hall , say , `` Who can dance a Fore and After ? ''
and , wait for no reply , begin to whistle the air so invitingly that Mrs Jessie `` set '' to him laugh like a girl ; Rose and Charlie take their place behind , and away go the four with a spirit and skill that inspire all the rest to `` cut in '' a fast a they could .
That be a grand beginning , and they have many another dance before anyone would own they be tire .
Even Fun See distinguish himself with Aunt Plenty , whom he greatly admire a the stout lady in the company ; plumpness be consider a beauty in his country .
The merry old soul profess herself immensely flatter by his admiration , and the boy declare she `` set her cap at him , '' else he would never have dare to catch her under the mistletoe , and , rise on the tip of his own toe , gallantly salute her fat cheek .
How they all laugh at her astonishment , and how Fun 's little black eye twinkle over this exploit !
Charlie put him up to it , and Charlie be so bent on catch Rose , that he lay all sort of pitfall for her , and bribe the other lad to help him .
But Rose be wide-awake , and escape all his snare , profess great contempt for such foolish custom .
Poor Phebe do not fare so well , and Archie be the only one who take a base advantage of her a she stand innocently offer tea to Aunt Myra , whom she happen to meet just under the fatal bough .
If his father 's arrival have not rather upset him , I doubt if the dignified Chief would have do it , for he apologize at once in the handsome manner , and catch the tray that nearly drop from Phebe 's hand .
Jamie boldly invite all the lady to come and salute him ; and a for Uncle Jem , he behave a if the entire room be a grove of mistletoe .
Uncle Alec slyly lay a bit of it on Aunt Peace 's cap , and then softly kiss her ; which little joke seem to please her very much , for she like to have part in all the home pastime , and Alec be her favourite nephew .
Charlie alone fail to catch his shy bird , and the oftener she escape the more determined he be to ensnare her .
When every other wile have be try in vain , he get Archie to propose a game with forfeit .
`` I understand that dodge , '' think Rose , and be on her guard so carefully that not one among the pile soon collect belonged to her .
`` Now let u redeem them and play something else , '' say Will , quite unconscious of the deeply-laid plot all about him .
`` One more round and then we will , '' answer the Prince , who have now bait his trap anew .
Just a the question come to Rose , Jamie 's voice be hear in the hall , cry distressfully , `` Oh , come quick , quick ! ''
Rose start up , miss the question , and be greet with a general cry of `` Forfeit !
forfeit ! ''
in which the little traitor come to join .
`` Now I 've get her , '' think the young rascal , exult in his fun-loving soul .
`` Now I 'm lose , '' think Rose , a she give up her pin-cushion with a sternly defiant look that would have daunt anyone but the reckless Prince .
In fact , it make even him think twice , and resolve to `` let Rose off easy , '' she have be so clever .
`` Here 's a very pretty pawn , and what shall be do to redeem it ? ''
ask Steve , hold the pin-cushion over Charlie 's head , for he have insist on be judge , and keep that for the last .
`` Fine or superfine ? ''
`` Super . ''
`` Hum , well , she shall take old Mac under the mistletoe , and kiss him prettily .
Wo n't he be mad , though ? ''
and this bad boy chuckle over the discomfort he have cause two harmless being .
There be an impressive pause among the young folk in their corner , for they all know that Mac would `` be mad , '' since he hat nonsense of this sort , and have go to talk with the elder when the game begin .
At this moment he be stand before the fire , listen to a discussion between his uncle and his father , look as wise a a young owl , and blissfully unconscious of the plot against him .
Charlie expect that Rose would say , `` I wo n't ! ''
therefore he be rather astonish , not to say gratify , when , after a look at the victim , she laugh suddenly , and , go up to the group of gentleman , draw her uncle Mac under the mistletoe and surprise him with a hearty kiss .
`` Thank you , my dear , '' say the innocent gentleman , look much please at the unexpected honour .
`` Oh , come ; that 's not fair , '' begin Charlie .
But Rose cut him short by say , a she make him a fine courtesy , `` You say ` Old Mac , ' and though it be very disrespectful , I do it .
That be your last chance , sir , and you 've lose it . ''
He certainly have , for , a he speak , Rose pull down the mistletoe and throw it into the fire , while the boy jeer at the crestfallen Prince , and exalt quick-witted Rose to the sky .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
ask young Mac , wake out of a brown study by the laughter , in which the elder join .
But there be a regular shout when , the matter have be explain to him , Mac take a meditative stare at Rose through his goggles , and say in a philosophical tone , `` Well , I do n't think I should have mind much if she have do it . ''
That tickle the lad immensely , and nothing but the appearance of a slight refection would have induce them to stop chaff the poor Worm , who could not see anything funny in the beautiful resignation he have show on this try occasion .
Soon after this , the discovery of Jamie curl up in the sofa corner , a sound asleep a a dormouse , suggest the propriety of go home , and a general move be make .
They be all stand about the hall lingering over the good-nights , when the sound of a voice softly sing `` Sweet Home , '' make them pause and listen .
It be Phebe , poor little Phebe , who never have a home , never know the love of father or mother , brother or sister ; who stand all alone in the wide world , yet be not sad nor afraid , but take her bit of happiness gratefully , and sung over her work without a thought of discontent .
I fancy the happy family stand there together remember this and felt the beauty of it , for when the solitary voice come to the burden of it song , other voice take it up and finish it so sweetly , that the old house seem to echo the word `` Home '' in the ear of both the orphan girl , who have just spend their first Christmas under it hospitable roof .
Chapter 21 -- A Scare `` Brother Alec , you surely do n't mean to allow that child to go out such a bitter cold day a this , '' say Mrs. Myra , look into the study , where the Doctor sit read his paper , one February morning .
`` Why not ?
If a delicate invalid like yourself can bear it , surely my hearty girl can , especially a she be dress for cold weather , '' answer Dr. Alec with provoke confidence .
`` But you have no idea how sharp the wind be .
I be chill to the very marrow of my bone , '' answer Aunt Myra , chafe the end of her purple nose with her sombre glove .
`` I do n't doubt it , ma'am , if you will wear crape and silk instead of fur and flannel .
Rosy go out in all weather , and will be none the worse for an hour 's brisk skating . ''
`` Well , I warn you that you be trifle with the child 's health , and depend too much on the seeming improvement she have make this year .
She be a delicate creature for all that , and will drop away suddenly at the first serious attack , a her poor mother do , '' croak Aunt Myra , with a despondent wag of the big bonnet .
`` I 'll risk it , '' answer Dr. Alec , knit his brow , a he always do when any allusion be make to that other Rose .
`` Mark my word , you will repent it , '' and with that awful prophecy , Aunt Myra depart like a black shadow .
Now it must be confess that among the Doctor 's failing and he have his share be a very masculine dislike of advice which be thrust upon him unasked .
He always listen with respect to the great-aunt , and often consult Mrs. Jessie ; but the other three lady try his patience sorely , by constant warning , complaint and counsel .
Aunt Myra be an especial trial , and he always turn contrary the moment she begin to talk .
He could not help it , and often laugh about it with comic frankness .
Here now be a sample of it , for he have just be think that Rose have well defer her run till the wind go down and the sun be warmer .
But Aunt Myra speak , and he could not resist the temptation to make light of her advice , and let Rose brave the cold .
He have no fear of it harm her , for she go out every day , and it be a great satisfaction to him to see her run down the avenue a minute afterward , with her skate on her arm , look like a rosy-faced Esquimaux in her seal-skin suit , a she smile at Aunt Myra stalk along as solemnly a a crow .
`` I hope the child wo n't stay out long , for this wind be enough to chill the marrow in young bone than Myra 's , '' think Dr. Alec , half an hour later , a he drive toward the city to see the few patient he have consent to take for old acquaintance ' sake .
The thought return several time that morning , for it be truly a bitter day , and , in spite of his bear-skin coat , the Doctor shiver .
But he have great faith in Rose 's good sense , and it never occur to him that she be make a little Casabianca of herself , with the difference of freeze instead of burn at her post .
You see , Mac have make an appointment to meet her at a certain spot , and have a grand skate bout as soon a the few lesson he be allow be over .
She have promise to wait for him , and do so with a faithfulness that cost her dear , because Mac forget his appointment when the lesson be do , and become absorb in a chemical experiment , till a general combustion of gas drive him out of his laboratory .
Then he suddenly remember Rose , and would gladly have hurry away to her , but his mother forbid his go out , for the sharp wind would hurt his eye .
`` She will wait and wait , mother , for she always keep her word , and I tell her to hold on till I come , '' explain Mac , with vision of a shivering little figure watch on the windy hill-top .
`` Of course , your uncle wo n't let her go out such a day a this .
If he do , she will have the sense to come here for you , or to go home again when you do n't appear , '' say Aunt Jane , return to her `` Watts on the Mind . ''
`` I wish Steve would just cut up and see if she 's there , since I ca n't go , '' begin Mac , anxiously .
`` Steve wo n't stir a peg , thank you .
He 's get his own toe to thaw out , and want his dinner , '' answer Dandy , just in from school , and wrestle impatiently with his boot .
So Mac resign himself , and Rose wait dutifully till dinner-time assure her that her waiting be in vain .
She have do her best to keep warm , have skate till she be tire and hot , then stand watch others till she be chill ; try to get up a glow again by trot up and down the road , but fail to do so , and finally cuddle disconsolately under a pine-tree to wait and watch .
When she at length start for home , she be benumb with cold , and could hardly make her way against the wind that buffet the frost-bitten rise most unmercifully .
Dr. Alec be bask in the warmth of the study fire , after his drive , when the sound of a stifled sob make him hurry to the door and look anxiously into the hall .
Rose lay in a shivering bunch near the register , with her thing half off , wring her hand , and try not to cry with the pain return warmth brought to her half-frozen finger .
`` My darling , what be it ? ''
and Uncle Alec have her in his arm in a minute .
`` Mac do n't come I ca n't get warm the fire make me ache ! ''
and with a long shiver Rose burst out cry , while her teeth chatter , and her poor little nose be so blue , it make one 's heart ache to see it .
In less time than it take to tell it , Dr. Alec have her on the sofa roll up in the bear-skin coat , with Phebe rub her cold foot while he rub the ache hand , and Aunt Plenty make a comfortable hot drink , and Aunt Peace send down her own foot-warmer and embroider blanket `` for the dear . ''
Full of remorseful tenderness , Uncle Alec work over his new patient till she declare she be all right again .
He would not let her get up to dinner , but feed her himself , and then forget his own while he sit watch her fall into a drowse , for Aunt Plenty 's cordial make her sleepy .
She lay so several hour for the drowse deepen into a heavy sleep , and Uncle Alec , still at his post , saw with grow anxiety that a feverish colour begin to burn in her cheek , that her breathing be quick and uneven , and now and then she give a little moan , a if in pain .
Suddenly she wake up with a start , and see Aunt Plenty bending over her , put out her arm like a sick child , say wearily , `` Please , could I go to bed ? ''
`` The best place for you , deary .
Take her right up , Alec ; I 've get the hot water ready , and after a nice bath , she shall have a cup of my sage tea , and be roll up in blanket to sleep off her cold , '' answer the old lady , cheerily , a she bustle away to give order .
`` Are you in pain , darling ? ''
ask Uncle Alec , a he carry her up .
`` My side ache when I breathe , and I feel stiff and queer ; but it be n't bad , so do n't be trouble , uncle , '' whisper Rose , with a little hot hand against his cheek .
But the poor doctor do look troubled , and have cause to do so , for just then Rose try to laugh at Dolly charge into the room with a warming-pan , but could not , for the sharp pain take her breath away and make her cry out .
`` Pleurisy , '' sigh Aunt Plenty , from the depth of the bath-tub .
`` Pewmonia ! ''
groan Dolly , burrow among the bedclothes with the long-handled pan , a if bent on fish up that treacherous disease .
`` Oh , be it bad ? ''
ask Phebe , nearly drop a pail of hot water in her dismay , for she know nothing of sickness , and Dolly 's suggestion have a peculiarly dreadful sound to her .
`` Hush ! ''
order the Doctor , in a tone that silence all further prediction , and make everyone work with a will .
`` Make her as comfortable a you can , and when she be in her little bed I 'll come and say good-night , '' he add , when the bath be ready and the blanket brown nicely before the fire .
Then he go away to talk quite cheerfully to Aunt Peace about it be `` only a chill '' ; after which he tramp up and down the hall , pull his beard and knit his brow , sure sign of great inward perturbation .
`` I think it would be too good luck to get through the year without a downfall .
Confound my perversity !
Why could n't I take Myra 's advice and keep Rose at home .
It 's not fair that the poor child should suffer for my sinful over-confidence .
She shall not suffer for it !
Pneumonia , indeed !
I defy it , '' and he shake his fist in the ugly face of an Indian idol that happen to be before him , a if that particularly hideous god have some spite against his own little goddess .
In spite of his defiance his heart sunk when he saw Rose again , for the pain be bad , and the bath and blanket , the warming-pan and piping-hot sage tea , be all in vain .
For several hour there be no rest for the poor child , and all manner of gloomy foreboding haunt the mind of those who hover about her with face full of the tender anxiety .
In the midst of the bad paroxysm Charlie come to leave a message from his mother , and be meet by Phebe come despondently downstairs with a mustard plaster that have bring no relief .
`` What the dickens be the matter ?
You look as dismal a a tombstone , '' he say , a she hold up her hand to stop his lively whistling .
`` Miss Rose be dreadful sick . ''
`` The deuce she be ! ''
`` Do n't swear , Mr. Charlie ; she really be , and it 's Mr. Mac 's fault , '' and Phebe tell the sad tale in a few sharp word , for she felt at war with the entire race of boy at that moment .
`` I 'll give it to him , make your mind easy about that , '' say Charlie , with an ominous double up of his fist .
`` But Rose be n't dangerously ill , be she ? ''
he add anxiously , a Aunt Plenty be see to trot across the upper hall , shake a bottle violently a she go .
`` Oh , but she be though .
The Doctor do n't say much , but he do n't call it a ` chill ' any more .
It 's ` pleurisy ' now , and I 'm so afraid it will be pewmonia to-morrow , '' answer Phebe , with a despair glance at the plaster .
Charlie explode into a stifled laugh at the new pronunciation of pneumonia , to Phebe 's great indignation .
`` How can you have the heart to do it , and she in such horrid pain ?
Hark to that , and then laugh if you darst , '' she say with a tragic gesture , and her black eyes full of fire .
Charlie listen and hear little moan that go to his heart and make his face as sober a Phebe 's .
`` O uncle , please stop the pain , and let me rest a minute !
Do n't tell the boy I be n't brave .
I try to bear it , but it 's so sharp I ca n't help cry . ''
Neither could Charlie , when he hear the broken voice say that ; but , boy-like , he would n't own it , and say pettishly , a he rub his sleeve across his eye , `` Do n't hold that confound thing right under my nose ; the mustard make my eye smart . ''
`` Do n't see how it can , when it have n't any more strength in it than meal .
The Doctor say so , and I 'm go to get some good , '' begin Phebe , not a bit ashamed of the great tear that be bedew the condemned plaster .
`` I 'll go ! ''
and Charlie be off like a shot , glad of an excuse to get out of sight for a few minute .
When he come back all inconvenient emotion have be dispose of , and , have deliver a box of the hot mustard procurable for money , he depart to `` blow up '' Mac , that be his next duty in his opinion .
He do it so energetically and thoroughly that the poor Worm be cast into the depth of remorseful despair , and go to bed that even feeling that he be an outcast from among men , and bore the mark of Cain upon his brow .
Thanks to the skill of the Doctor , and the devotion of his helper , Rose grow easy about midnight , and all hop that the bad be over .
Phebe be make tea by the study fire , for the Doctor have forget to eat and drink since Rose be ill , and Aunt Plenty insist on his have a `` good cordial dish of tea '' after his exertion .
A tap on the window startle Phebe , and , look up , she saw a face peering in .
She be not afraid , for a second look show her that it be neither ghost nor burglar , but Mac , look pale and wild in the wintry moonlight .
`` Come and let a fellow in , '' he say in a low tone , and when he stand in the hall he clutch Phebe 's arm , whisper gruffly , `` How be Rose ? ''
`` Thanks be to goodness , she 's good , '' answer Phebe , with a smile that be like broad sunshine to the poor lad 's anxious heart .
`` And she will be all right again to-morrow ? ''
`` Oh , dear no !
Dolly say she 's sure to have rheumatic fever , if she do n't have noo-monia ! ''
answer Phebe , careful to pronounce the word rightly this time .
Down go Mac 's face , and remorse begin to gnaw at him again a he give a great sigh and say doubtfully , `` I suppose I could n't see her ? ''
`` Of course not at this time of night , when we want her to go to sleep ! ''
Mac open his mouth to say something more , when a sneeze come upon him unawares , and a loud `` Ah rash hoo ! ''
awoke the echo of the quiet house .
`` Why do n't you stop it ? ''
say Phebe reproachfully .
`` I dare say you 've wake her up . ''
`` Did n't know it be come .
Just my luck ! ''
groan Mac , turn to go before his unfortunate presence do more harm .
But a voice from the stair-head call softly , `` Mac , come up ; Rose want to see you . ''
Up he go , and find his uncle wait for him .
`` What bring you here at this hour , my boy ? ''
ask the Doctor in a whisper .
`` Charlie say it be all my fault , and if she die I 'd kill her .
I could n't sleep , so I come to see how she be , and no one know it but Steve , '' he say with such a troubled face and voice that the Doctor have not the heart to blame him .
Before he could say anything more a feeble voice call `` Mac ! ''
and with a hasty `` Stay a minute just to please her , and then slip away , for I want her to sleep , '' the Doctor lead him into the room .
The face on the pillow look very pale and childish , and the smile that welcome Mac be very faint , for Rose be spend with pain , yet could not rest till she have say a word of comfort to her cousin .
`` I know your funny sneeze , and I guess that you come to see how I do , though it be very late .
Do n't be worry , I 'm well now , and it be my fault I be ill , not yours ; for I need n't have be so silly a to wait in the cold just because I say I would . ''
Mac hasten to explain , to load himself with reproach , and to beg her not to die on any account , for Charlie 's lecture have make a deep impression on the poor boy 's mind .
`` I do n't know there be any danger of my dying , '' and Rose look up at him with a solemn expression in her great eye .
`` Oh , I hope not ; but people do sometimes go suddenly , you know , and I could n't rest till I 'd ask you to forgive me , '' falter Mac , think that Rose look very like an angel already , with the golden hair loose on the pillow , and the meekness of suffer on her little white face .
`` I do n't think I shall die ; uncle wo n't let me ; but if I do , remember I forgive you . ''
She look at him with a tender light in her eye , and , see how pathetic his dumb grief be , she add softly , draw his head down , `` I would n't kiss you under the mistletoe , but I will now , for I want you to be sure I do forgive and love you just the same . ''
That quite upset poor Mac ; he could only murmur his thanks and get out of the room as fast a possible , to grope his way to the couch at the far end of the hall , and lie there till he fell asleep , wear out with try not to `` make a baby '' of himself .
Chapter 22 -- Something to do Whatever danger there might have be from the effect of that sudden chill , it be soon over , though , of course , Aunt Myra refuse to believe it , and Dr. Alec cherish his girl with redoubled vigilance and tenderness for month afterward .
Rose quite enjoy be sick , because as soon a the pain end the fun begin , and for a week or two she lead the life of a little princess seclude in the Bower , while every one serve , amuse , and watch over her in the most delightful manner .
But the doctor be call away to see an old friend , who be dangerously ill , and then Rose felt like a young bird deprive of it mother 's shelter wing ; especially on one afternoon when the aunt be take their nap , and the house be very still within while snow fell softly without .
`` I 'll go and hunt up Phebe , she be always nice and busy , and like to have me help her .
If Dolly be out of the way we can make caramel and surprise the boy when they come , '' Rose say to herself , a she throw down her book and felt ready for society of some sort .
She take the precaution to peep through the slide before she enter the kitchen , for Dolly allow no messing when she be round .
But the coast be clear , and no one but Phebe appear , sit at the table with her head on her arm apparently asleep .
Rose be just about to wake her with a `` Boo ! ''
when she lift her head , dry her wet eye with her blue apron , and fell to work with a resolute face on something she be evidently much interested in .
Rose could not make out what it be , and her curiosity be greatly excited , for Phebe be write with a sputter pen on some bit of brown paper , apparently copy something from a little book .
`` I must know what the dear thing be about , and why she cry , and then set her lip tight and go to work with all her might , '' think Rose , forget all about the caramel , and , go round to the door , she enter the kitchen , say pleasantly , `` Phebe , I want something to do .
Ca n't you let me help you about anything , or shall I be in the way ? ''
`` Oh , dear no , miss ; I always love to have you round when thing be tidy .
What would you like to do ? ''
answer Phebe , open a drawer a if about to sweep her own affair out of sight ; but Rose stop her , exclaim , like a curious child , `` Let me see !
What be it ?
I wo n't tell if you 'd rather not have Dolly know . ''
`` I 'm only try to study a bit ; but I 'm so stupid I do n't get on much , '' answer the girl reluctantly , permit her little mistress to examine the poor contrivance she be try to work with .
A broken slate that have blow off the roof , an inch or two of pencil , an old almanac for a reader , several bit of brown or yellow paper iron smoothly and sew together for a copy-book , and the copy sundry receipt write in Aunt Plenty 's neat hand .
These , with a small bottle of ink and a rusty pen , make up Phebe 's outfit , and it be little wonder that she do not `` get on '' in spite of the patient persistence that dry the desponding tear and drive along the sputter pen with a will .
`` You may laugh if you want to , Miss Rose , I know my thing be queer , and that 's why I hide 'em ; but I do n't mind since you 've find me out , and I ai n't a bit ashamed except of be so backward at my age , '' say Phebe humbly , though her cheek grow redder a she wash out some crooked capital with a tear or two not yet dry upon the slate .
`` Laugh at you !
I feel more like cry to think what a selfish girl I be , to have load of book and thing and never remember to give you some .
Why do n't you come and ask me , and not go struggle along alone in this way ?
It be very wrong of you , Phebe , and I 'll never forgive you if you do so again , '' answer Rose , with one hand on Phebe 's shoulder , while the other gently turn the leaf of the poor little copy-book .
`` I do n't like to ask for anything more when you be so good to me all the time , miss , dear , '' begin Phebe , look up with grateful eye .
`` O you proud thing !
just a if it be n't fun to give away , and I have the best of it .
Now , see here , I 've get a plan and you must n't say no , or I shall scold .
I want something to do , and I 'm go to teach you all I know ; it wo n't take long , '' and Rose laugh a she put her arm around Phebe 's neck , and pat the smooth dark head with the kind little hand that so love to give .
`` It would be just heavenly ! ''
and Phebe 's face shone at the mere idea ; but fell again a she add wistfully , `` Only I 'm afraid I ought not to let you do it , Miss Rose .
It will take time , and maybe the Doctor would n't like it . ''
`` He do n't want me to study much , but he never say a word about teaching , and I do n't believe he will mind a bit .
Anyway , we can try it till he come , so pack up your thing and go right to my room and we 'll begin this very day ; I 'd truly like to do it , and we 'll have nice time , see if we do n't ! ''
cry Rose eagerly .
It be a pretty sight to see Phebe bundle her humble outfit into her apron , and spring up a if the desire of her heart have suddenly be make a happy fact to her ; it be a still pretty sight to see Rose run gaily on before , smile like a good fairy a she beckon to the other , sing a she go , `` The way into my parlour be up a winding stair , And many be the curious thing I 'll show you when you 're there .
Will you , will you walk in , Phebe dear ? ''
`` Oh , wo n't I ! ''
answer Phebe fervently , add , a they enter the Bower , `` You be the dear spider that ever be , and I 'm the happy fly . ''
`` I 'm go to be very strict , so sit down in that chair and do n't say a word till school be ready to open , '' order Rose , delight with the prospect of such a useful and pleasant `` something to do . ''
So Phebe sit demurely in her place while her new teacher lay forth book and slate , a pretty inkstand and a little globe ; hastily tore a bit off her big sponge , sharpen pencil with more energy than skill , and when all be ready give a prance of satisfaction that set the pupil laughing .
`` Now the school be open , and I shall hear you read , so that I may know in which class to put you , Miss Moore , '' begin Rose with great dignity , a she lay a book before her scholar , and sit down in the easy chair with a long rule in her hand .
Phebe do pretty well , only trip now and then over a hard word , and pronounce identical `` identickle , '' in a sober way that tickle Rose , though never a smile betrayed her .
The spelling lesson which follow be rather discourage ; Phebe 's idea of geography be very vague , and grammar be nowhere , though the pupil protest that she try so hard to `` talk nice like educate folk '' that Dolly call her `` a stuck-up piece who do n't know her place . ''
`` Dolly 's an old goose , so do n't you mind her , for she will say ` nater , ' ` vittles , ' and ` doos ' as long a she live , and insist that they be right .
You do talk very nicely , Phebe , I 've observe it , and grammar will help you , and show you some thing be right and others ai n't be not , I mean , '' add Rose , correct herself , and feeling that she must mind her own part of speech if she be to serve a an example for Phebe .
When the arithmetic come , the little teacher be surprise to find her scholar quicker in some thing than herself , for Phebe have work away at the column in the butcher 's and baker 's book till she could add so quickly and correctly that Rose be amaze , and felt that in this branch the pupil would soon excel the teacher if she keep on at the same pace .
Her praise cheer Phebe immensely , and they go bravely on , both get so interested that time fly unheeded till Aunt Plenty appear , exclaim , a she star at the two head bend over one slate , `` Bless my heart , what be go on now ? ''
`` School , aunty .
I 'm teach Phebe , and it 's great fun ! ''
cry Rose , look up with a bright face .
But Phebe 's be brighter , though she add with a wistful look , `` Maybe I ought to have ask leave first ; only when Miss Rose propose this , I be so happy I forget to .
Shall I stop , ma'am ? ''
`` Of course not , child ; I 'm glad to see you fond of your book , and to find Rose help you along .
My bless mother use to sit at work with her maid about her , teach them many a useful thing in the good old fashion that 's go by now .
Only do n't neglect your work , dear , or let the book interfere with the duty . ''
As Aunt Plenty speak , with her kind old face beam approvingly upon the girl , Phebe glance at the clock , saw that it point to five , know that Dolly would soon be down , expect to find preparation for supper under way , and , hastily drop her pencil , she jump up , say , `` Please , can I go ?
I 'll clear up after I 've do my chore . ''
`` School be dismiss , '' answer Rose , and with a grateful `` Thank you , heap and heap ! ''
Phebe run away sing the multiplication table a she set the tea ditto .
That be the way it begin , and for a week the class of one go on with great pleasure and profit to all concern ; for the pupil prove a bright one , and come to her lesson a to a feast , while the young teacher do her best to be worthy the high opinion held of her , for Phebe firmly believe that Miss Rose know everything in the way of learning .
Of course the lad find out what be go on , and chaff the girl about the `` Seminary , '' a they call the new enterprise ; but they think it a good thing on the whole , kindly offer to give lesson in Greek and Latin gratis , and decide among themselves that `` Rose be a little trump to give the Phebe-bird such a capital boost . ''
Rose herself have some doubt a to how it would strike her uncle , and concoct a wheedlesome speech which should at once convince him that it be the most useful , wholesome , and delightful plan ever devise .
But she get no chance to deliver her address , for Dr. Alec come upon her so unexpectedly that it go out of her head entirely .
She be sit on the floor in the library , pore over a big book lay open in her lap , and know nothing of the long-desired arrival till two large , warm hand meet under her chin and gently turn her head back , so that someone could kiss her heartily on either cheek , while a fatherly voice say , half reproachfully , `` Why be my girl brooding over a dusty Encyclopedia when she ought to be run to meet the old gentleman who could n't get on another minute without her ? ''
`` O uncle !
I 'm so glad !
and so sorry !
Why do n't you let u know what time you 'd be here , or call out the minute you come ?
Have n't I be home-sick for you ?
and now I 'm so happy to have you back I could hug your dear old curly head off , '' cry Rose , a the Encyclopedia go down with a bang , and she up with a spring that carry her into Dr. Alec 's arm , to be keep there in the sort of embrace a man give to the dear creature the world hold for him .
Presently he be in his easy chair with Rose upon his knee smile up in his face and talk as fast a her tongue could go , while he watch her with an expression of supreme content , a he stroke the smooth round cheek , or hold the little hand in his , rejoice to see how rosy be the one , how plump and strong the other .
`` Have you have a good time ?
Did you save the poor lady ?
Are n't you glad to be home again with your girl to torment you ? ''
`` Yes , to all those question .
Now tell me what you 've be at , little sinner ?
Aunty Plen say you want to consult me about some new and remarkable project which you have dare to start in my absence . ''
`` She do n't tell you , I hope ? ''
`` Not a word more expect that you be rather doubtful how I 'd take it , and so want to ` fess ' yourself and get round me a you always try to do , though you do n't often succeed .
Now , then , own up and take the consequence . ''
So Rose tell about her school in her pretty , earnest way , dwell on Phebe 's hunger for knowledge , and the delight it be to help her , add , with a wise nod , `` And it help me too , uncle , for she be so quick and eager I have to do my best or she will get ahead of me in some thing .
To-day , now , she have the word ` cotton ' in a lesson and ask all about it , and I be ashamed to find I really know so little that I could only say that it be a plant that grow down South in a kind of a pod , and be make into cloth .
That 's what I be read up when you come , and to-morrow I shall tell her all about it , and indigo too .
So you see it teach me also , and be as good a a general review of what I 've learn , in a pleasanter way than go over it alone . ''
`` You artful little baggage !
that 's the way you expect to get round me , be it ?
That 's not studying , I suppose ? ''
`` No , sir , it 's teach ; and please , I like it much well than have a good time by myself .
Besides , you know , I adopt Phebe and promise to be a sister to her , so I be bound to keep my word , be I not ? ''
answer Rose , look both anxious and resolute a she wait for her sentence .
Dr. Alec be evidently already win , for Rose have describe the old slate and brown paper copy-book with pathetic effect , and the excellent man have not only decide to send Phebe to school long before the story be do , but reproach himself for forget his duty to one little girl in his love for another .
So when Rose try to look meek and fail utterly , he laugh and pinch her cheek , and answer in that genial way which add such warmth and grace to any favour , `` I have n't the slight objection in the world .
In fact , I be begin to think I might let you go at your book again , moderately , since you be so well ; and this be an excellent way to try your power .
Phebe be a brave , bright lass , and shall have a fair chance in the world , if we can give it to her , so that if she ever find her friend they need not be ashamed of her . ''
`` I think she have find some already , '' begin Rose eagerly .
`` Hey ?
what ?
have anyone turn up since I 've be go ? ''
ask Dr. Alec quickly , for it be a firm belief in the family that Phebe would prove to be `` somebody '' sooner or later .
`` No , her best friend turn up when you come home , uncle , '' answer Rose with an approve pat , add gratefully , `` I ca n't half thank you for be so good to my girl , but she will , because I know she be go to make a woman to be proud of , she 's so strong and true , and love . ''
`` Bless your dear heart , I have n't begin to do anything yet , more shame to me !
But I 'm go at it now , and as soon a she get on a bit , she shall go to school as long a she like .
How will that do for a beginning ? ''
`` It will be ` just heavenly , ' a Phebe say , for it be the wish of her life to ` get lot of school , ' and she will be too happy when I tell her .
May I , please ?
it will be so lovely to see the dear thing open her big eye and clap her hand at the splendid news . ''
`` No one shall have a finger in this nice little pie ; you shall do it all yourself , only do n't go too fast , or make too many castle in the air , my dear ; for time and patience must go into this pie of ours if it be to turn out well . ''
`` Yes , uncle , only when it be open wo n't ` the bird begin to sing ? '' '
laugh Rose , take a turn about the room a a vent for the joyful emotion that make her eyes shine .
All of a sudden she stop and ask soberly , `` If Phebe go to school who will do her work ?
I 'm willing , if I can . ''
`` Come here and I 'll tell you a secret .
Dolly 's ` bone ' be get so troublesome , and her dear old temper so bad , that the aunt have decide to pension her off and let her go and live with her daughter , who have marry very well .
I saw her this week , and she 'd like to have her mother come , so in the spring we shall have a grand change , and get a new cook and chamber-girl if any can be find to suit our honoured relative . ''
`` Oh , me !
how can I ever get on without Phebe ?
Could n't she stay , just so I could see her ?
I 'd pay her board rather than have her go , I 'm so fond of her . ''
How Dr. Alec laugh at that proposal , and how satisfied Rose be when he explain that Phebe be still to be her maid , with no duty except such a she could easily perform between school-hours .
`` She be a proud creature , for all her humble way , and even from u would not take a favour if she do not earn it somewhere .
So this arrangement make it all square and comfortable , you see , and she will pay for the schooling by curl these goldilocks a dozen time a day if you let her . ''
`` Your plan be always so wise and kind !
That 's why they work so well , I suppose , and why people let you do what you like with them .
I really do n't see how other girl get along without an Uncle Alec ! ''
answer Rose , with a sigh of pity for those who have miss so great a blessing .
When Phebe be tell the splendid news , she do not `` stand on her head with rapture , '' a Charlie prophesy she would , but take it quietly , because it be such a happy thing she have no word `` big and beautiful enough to thank them in , '' she say ; but every hour of her day be brighten by this granted wish , and dedicate to the service of those who give it .
Her heart be so full of content that if overflow in music , and the sweet voice sing all about the house give thanks so blithely that no other word be need .
Her willing foot be never tire of take step for those who have smooth her way ; her skilful hand be always busy in some labour of love for them , and on the face fast grow in comeliness there be an almost womanly expression of devotion , which prove how well Phebe have already learn one of life 's great lesson gratitude .
Chapter 23 -- Peace-Making `` Steve , I want you to tell me something , '' say Rose to Dandy , who be make face at himself in the glass , while he wait for an answer to the note he bring from his mother to Aunt Plenty .
`` P'raps I will , and p ` rap I wo n't .
What be it ? ''
`` Have n't Arch and Charlie quarrel ? ''
`` Dare say ; we fellow be always have little row , you know .
I do believe a sty be come on my star-board eye , '' and Steve affect to be absorb in a survey of his yellow lash .
`` No , that wo n't do ; I want to know all about it ; for I 'm sure something more serious than a ` little row ' be the matter .
Come , please tell me , Stenie , there 's a dear . ''
`` Botheration !
you do n't want me to turn telltale , do you ? ''
growl Steve , pull his top-knot , a he always do when perplexed .
`` Yes , I do , '' be Rose 's decided answer for she saw from his manner that she be right , and determine to have the secret out of him if coax would do it .
`` I do n't wish you to tell thing to everyone , of course , but to me you may , and you must , because I have a right to know .
You boys need somebody to look after you , and I 'm go to do it , for girl be nice peacemaker , and know how to manage people .
Uncle say so , and he be never wrong . ''
Steve be about to indulge in a derisive hoot at the idea of her look after them , but a sudden thought restrain him , and suggest a way in which he could satisfy Rose , and good himself at the same time .
`` What will you give me if I 'll tell you every bit about it ? ''
he ask , with a sudden red in his cheek and an uneasy look in his eye , for he be half ashamed of the proposition .
`` What do you want ? ''
and Rose look up rather surprise at his question .
`` I 'd like to borrow some money .
I should n't think of ask you , only Mac never have a cent .
since he 's set up his old chemical shop , where he 'll blow himself to bits some day , and you and uncle will have the fun of put him together again , '' and Steve try to look a if the idea amuse him .
`` I 'll lend it to you with pleasure , so tell away , '' say Rose , bound to get at the secret .
Evidently much relieve by the promise , Steve set his top-knot cheerfully erect again , and briefly state the case .
`` As you say , it 's all right to tell you , but do n't let the boy know I blab , or Prince will take my head off .
You see , Archie do n't like some of the fellow Charlie go with , and cut 'em .
That make Prince mad , and he hold on just to plague Arch , so they do n't speak to one another , if they can help it , and that 's the row . ''
`` Are those boy bad ? ''
ask Rose , anxiously .
`` Guess not , only rather wild .
They be old than our fellow , but they like Prince , he 's such a jolly boy ; sings so well , dance jig and breakdown , you know , and play any game that 's go .
He beat Morse at billiards , and that 's something to brag of , for Morse think he know everything .
I saw the match , and it be great fun ! ''
Steve get quite excite over the prowess of Charlie , whom he admire immensely , and try to imitate .
Rose do not know half the danger of such gift and taste a Charlie 's , but felt instinctively that something must be wrong if Archie disapprove .
`` If Prince like any billiard-playing boy well than Archie , I do n't think much of his sense , '' she say severely .
`` Of course he do n't ; but , you see , Charlie and Arch be both as proud a they can be , and wo n't give in .
I suppose Arch be right , but I do n't blame Charlie a bit for like to be with the others sometimes , they be such a jolly set , '' and Steve shake his head morally , even while his eye twinkle over the memory of some of the exploit of the `` jolly set . ''
`` Oh , dear me ! ''
sigh Rose , `` I do n't see what I can do about it , but I wish the boy would make up , for Prince ca n't come to any harm with Archie , he 's so good and sensible . ''
`` That 's the trouble ; Arch preaches , and Prince wo n't stand it .
He tell Arch he be a prig and a parson , and Arch tell him he be n't a gentleman .
My boot !
be n't they both mad , though !
I think for a minute they 'd pitch into one another and have it out .
Wish they have , and not go stalk round stiff and glum ever since .
Mac and I settle our row with a bat or so over the head , and then we be all right . ''
Rose could n't help laugh a Steve spar away at a fat sofa-pillow , to illustrate his meaning ; and , have give it several scientific whack , he pull down his cuff and smile upon her with benign pity for her feminine ignorance of this summary way of settle a quarrel .
`` What droll thing boy be ! ''
she say , with a mixture of admiration and perplexity in her face , which Steve accept a a compliment to his sex .
`` We 're a pretty clever invention , miss , and you ca n't get on without u , '' he answer , with his nose in the air .
Then , take a sudden plunge into business , he add , `` How about that bit of money you be go to lend me ?
I 've tell , now you pay up . ''
`` Of course I will !
How much do you want ? ''
and Rose pull out her purse .
`` Could you spare five dollar ?
I want to pay a little debt of honour that be rather press , '' and Steve put on a mannish air that be comical to see .
`` Are n't all debt honourable ? ''
ask innocent Rose .
`` Yes , of course ; but this be a bet I make , and it ought to be settle up at once , '' begin Steve , find it awkward to explain .
`` Oh , do n't bet , it 's not right , and I know your father would n't like it .
Promise you wo n't do so again ; please promise ! ''
and Rose hold fast the hand into which she have just put the money .
`` Well , I wo n't .
It 's worry me a good deal , but I be joke into it .
Much oblige , cousin , I 'm all right now , '' and Steve depart hastily .
Having decide to be a peace-maker , Rose wait for an opportunity , and very soon it come .
She be spend the day with Aunt Clara , who have be entertain some young guest , and invite Rose to meet them , for she think it high time her niece conquer her bashfulness and saw a little of society .
Dinner be over , and everyone have go .
Aunt Clara be rest before go out to an even party , and Rose be wait for Charlie to come and take her home .
She sit alone in the elegant drawing-room , feel particularly nice and pretty , for she have her best frock on , a pair of gold band her aunt have just give her , and a tea-rose bud in her sash , like the beautiful Miss Van Tassel , whom everyone admire .
She have spread out her little skirt to the best advantage , and , lean back in a luxurious chair , sit admire her own foot in new slipper with rosette almost as big a dahlia .
Presently Charlie come lounge in , look rather sleepy and queer , Rose think .
On see her , however , he rouse up and say with a smile that end in a gape , `` I think you be with mother , so I take forty wink after I get those girl off .
Now , I 'm at your service , Rosamunda , whenever you like . ''
`` You look a if your head ache .
If it do , do n't mind me .
I 'm not afraid to run home alone , it 's so early , '' answer Rose , observe the flushed cheek and heavy eye of her cousin .
`` I think I see myself let you do it .
Champagne always make my headache , but the air will set me up . ''
`` Why do you drink it , then ? ''
ask Rose , anxiously .
`` Ca n't help it , when I 'm host .
Now , do n't you begin to lecture ; I 've have enough of Archie 's old-fashioned notion , and I do n't want any more . ''
Charlie 's tone be decidedly cross , and his whole manner so unlike his usual merry good-nature , that Rose felt crush , and answer meekly , `` I be n't go to lecture , only when people like other people , they ca n't bear to see them suffer pain . ''
That bring Charlie round at once , for Rose 's lip tremble a little , though she try to hide it by smell the flower she pull from her sash .
`` I 'm a regular bear , and I beg your pardon for be so cross , Rosy , '' he say in the old frank way that be so winning .
`` I wish you 'd beg Archie 's too , and be good friend again .
You never be cross when he be your chum , '' Rose say , look up at him a he bend toward her from the low chimney-piece , where he have be lean his elbow .
In an instant he stand a stiff and straight a a ramrod , and the heavy eye kindle with an angry spark a he say , in his high and mighty manner , `` You 'd better not meddle with what you do n't understand , cousin . ''
`` But I do understand , and it trouble me very much to see you so cold and stiff to one another .
You always use to be together , and now you hardly speak .
You be so ready to beg my pardon I do n't see why you ca n't beg Archie 's , if you be in the wrong . ''
`` I 'm not ! ''
this be so short and sharp that Rose start , and Charlie add in a calmer but still very haughty tone : `` A gentleman always begs pardon when he have be rude to a lady , but one man do n't apologize to another man who have insult him . ''
`` Oh , my heart , what a pepperpot ! ''
thought Rose , and , hop to make him laugh , she add slyly : `` I be not talk about men , but boy , and one of them a Prince , who ought to set a good example to his subject . ''
But Charlie would not relent , and try to turn the subject by say gravely , a he unfasten the little gold ring from his watch-guard , `` I 've break my word , so I want to give this back and free you from the bargain .
I 'm sorry , but I think it a foolish promise , and do n't intend to keep it .
Choose a pair of ear-rings to suit yourself , a my forfeit .
You have a right to wear them now . ''
`` No , I can only wear one , and that be no use , for Archie will keep his word I 'm sure ! ''
Rose be so mortified and grieve at this downfall of her hope that she speak sharply , and would not take the ring the deserter offer her .
He shrug his shoulder , and throw it into her lap , try to look cool and careless , but fail entirely , for he be ashamed of himself , and out of sort generally .
Rose want to cry , but pride would not let her , and , be very angry , she relieve herself by talk instead of tear .
Looking pale and excite , she rise out of her chair , cast away the ring , and say in a voice that she vainly try to keep steady , `` You be not at all the boy I think you be , and I do n't respect you one bit .
I 've try to help you be good , but you wo n't let me , and I shall not try any more .
You talk a great deal about be a gentleman , but you be not , for you 've break your word , and I can never trust you again .
I do n't wish you to go home with me .
I 'd rather have Mary .
Good-night . ''
And with that last dreadful blow , Rose walk out of the room , leave Charlie a much astonish a if one of his pet pigeon have fly in his face and peck at him .
She be so seldom angry , that when her temper do get the good of her it make a deep impression on the lad , for it be generally a righteous sort of indignation at some injustice or wrong-doing , not childish passion .
Her little thunderstorm clear off in a sob or two a she put on her thing in the entry-closet , and when she emerge she look the brighter for the shower .
A hasty good-night to Aunt Clara now under the hand of the hairdresser and then she creep down to find Mary the maid .
But Mary be out , so be the man , and Rose slip away by the back-door , flatter herself that she have escape the awkwardness of have Charlie for escort .
There she be mistake , however , for the gate have hardly close behind her when a well-known tramp be hear , and the Prince be beside her , say in a tone of penitent politeness that banish Rose 's wrath like magic , `` You need n't speak to me if you do n't choose , but I must see you safely home , cousin . ''
She turn at once , put out her hand , and answer heartily , `` I be the cross one .
Please forgive me , and let 's be friend again . ''
Now that be good than a dozen sermon on the beauty of forgiveness , and do Charlie more good , for it show him how sweet humility be , and prove that Rose practise a she preach .
He shake the hand warmly , then draw it through his arm and say , a if anxious to recover the good opinion with the loss of which he have be threaten , `` Look here , Rosy , I 've put the ring back , and I 'm go to try again .
But you do n't know how hard it be to stand be laugh at . ''
`` Yes , I do !
Ariadne plague me every time I see her , because I do n't wear ear-rings after all the trouble I have get ready for them . ''
`` Ah , but her twaddle be n't half as bad a the chaffing I get .
It take a deal of pluck to hold out when you be tell you be tie to an apron string , and all that sort of thing , '' sigh Charlie .
`` I think you have a ` deal of pluck , ' a you call it .
The boy all say you be the brave of the seven , '' say Rose .
`` So I be about some thing , but I can not bear to be laugh at . ''
`` It be hard , but if one be right wo n't that make it easy ? ''
`` Not to me ; it might to a pious parson like Arch . ''
`` Please do n't call him names !
I guess he have what be call moral courage , and you physical courage .
Uncle explain the difference to me , and moral be the best , though often it do n't look so , '' say Rose thoughtfully .
Charlie do n't like that , and answer quickly , `` I do n't believe he 'd stand it any good than I do , if he have those fellow at him . ''
`` Perhaps that 's why he keep out of their way , and want you to . ''
Rose have him there , and Charlie felt it , but would not give in just yet , though he be go fast , for somehow , in the dark he seem to see thing clear than in the light , and find it very easy to be confidential when it be `` only Rose . ''
`` If he be my brother , now , he 'd have some right to interfere , '' begin Charlie , in an injured tone .
`` I wish he be ! ''
cry Rose .
`` So do I , '' answer Charlie , and then they both laugh at his inconsistency .
The laugh do them good , and when Prince speak again , it be in a different tone pensive , not proud nor perverse .
`` You see , it 's hard upon me that I have no brother and sister .
The others be good off and need n't go abroad for chum if they do n't like .
I be all alone , and I 'd be thankful even for a little sister . ''
Rose think that very pathetic , and , overlook the uncomplimentary word `` even '' in that last sentence , she say , with a timid sort of earnestness that conquer her cousin at once , `` Play I be a little sister .
I know I 'm silly , but perhaps I 'm good than nothing , and I 'd dearly love to do it . ''
`` So should I !
and we will , for you be not silly , my dear , but a very sensible girl , we all think , and I 'm proud to have you for a sister .
There , now ! ''
and Charlie look down at the curly head bob along beside him with real affection in his face .
Rose give a skip of pleasure , and lay one seal-skin mitten over the other on his arm , a she say happily , `` That 's so nice of you !
Now , you need n't be lonely any more , and I 'll try to fill Archie 's place till he come back , for I know he will , as soon a you let him . ''
`` Well , I do n't mind tell you that while he be my mate I never miss brother and sister , or want anyone else ; but since he cast me off , I 'll be hang if I do n't feel as forlorn a old Crusoe before Friday turn up . ''
This burst of confidence confirm Rose in her purpose of win Charlie 's Mentor back to him , but she say no more , content to have do so well .
They part excellent friend , and Prince go home , wonder why `` a fellow do n't mind say thing to a girl or woman which they would die before they 'd own to another fellow . ''
Rose also have some sage reflection upon the subject , and fell asleep think that there be a great many curious thing in this world , and feeling that she be begin to find out some of them .
Next day she trudge up the hill to see Archie , and have tell him as much a she think best about her talk with Charlie , beg him to forget and forgive .
`` I 've be think that perhaps I ought to , though I be in the right .
I 'm no end fond of Charlie , and he 's the best-hearted lad alive ; but he ca n't say No , and that will play the mischief with him , if he do not take care , '' say Archie in his grave , kind way .
`` While father be home , I be very busy with him , so Prince get into a set I do n't like .
They try to be fast , and think it 's manly , and they flatter him , and lead him on to do all sort of thing play for money , and bet , and loaf about .
I hate to have him do so , and try to stop it , but go to work the wrong way , so we get into a mess . ''
`` He be all ready to make up if you do n't say much , for he own to me he be wrong ; but I do n't think he will own it to you , in word , '' begin Rose .
`` I do n't care for that ; if he 'll just drop those row-dies and come back , I 'll hold my tongue and not preach .
I wonder if he owe those fellow money , and so do n't like to break off till he can pay it .
I hope not , but do n't dare to ask ; though , perhaps , Steve know , he 's always after Prince , more 's the pity , '' and Archie look anxious .
`` I think Steve do know , for he talk about debt of honour the day I give him -- '' There Rose stop short and turned scarlet .
But Archie order her to `` fess , '' and have the whole story in five minute , for none dare disobey the Chief .
He complete her affliction by put a five-dollar bill into her pocket by main force , look both indignant and resolute a he say , `` Never do so again ; but send Steve to me , if he be afraid to go to his father .
Charlie have nothing to do with that ; he would n't borrow a penny of a girl , do n't think it .
But that 's the harm he do Steve , who adore him , and try to be like him in all thing .
Do n't say a word ; I 'll make it all right , and no one shall blame you . ''
`` Oh me !
I always make trouble by try to help , and then let out the wrong thing , '' sigh Rose , much depress by her slip of the tongue .
Archie comfort her with the novel remark that it be always best to tell the truth , and make her quite cheerful by promise to heal the breach with Charlie as soon a possible .
He keep his word so well that the very next afternoon , a Rose look out of the window , she behold the joyful spectacle of Archie and Prince come up the avenue , arm-in-arm , a of old , talk away a if to make up for the unhappy silence of the past week .
Rose drop her work , hurry to the door , and , open it wide , stand there smile down upon them so happily , that the face of the lad brighten a they run up the step eager to show that all be well with them .
`` Here 's our little peace-maker ! ''
say Archie , shake hand with vigour .
But Charlie add , with a look that make Rose very proud and happy , `` And my little sister . ''
Chapter 24 -- Which ?
`` Uncle , I have discover what girl be make for , '' say Rose , the day after the reconciliation of Archie and the Prince .
`` Well , my dear , what be it ? ''
ask Dr. Alec , who be `` plank the deck , '' a he call his daily promenade up and down the hall .
`` To take care of boy , '' answer Rose , quite beam with satisfaction a she speak .
`` Phebe laugh when I tell her , and say she think girl have well learn to take care of themselves first .
But that 's because she have n't get seven boy-cousins a I have . ''
`` She be right , nevertheless , Rosy , and so be you , for the two thing go together , and in help seven lad you be unconsciously do much to improve one lass , '' say Dr. Alec , stop to nod and smile at the bright-faced figure rest on the old bamboo chair , after a lively game of battledore and shuttlecock , in place of a run which a storm prevent .
`` Am I ?
I 'm glad of that ; but really , uncle , I do feel a if I must take care of the boy , for they come to me in all sort of trouble , and ask advice , and I like it so much .
Only I do n't always know what to do , and I 'm go to consult you privately and then surprise them with my wisdom . ''
`` All right , my dear ; what 's the first worry ?
I see you have something on your little mind , so come and tell uncle . ''
Rose put her arm in his , and , pace to and fro , tell him all about Charlie , ask what she could do to keep him straight , and be a real sister to him .
`` Could you make up your mind to go and stay with Aunt Clara a month ? ''
ask the Doctor , when she end .
`` Yes , sir ; but I should n't like it .
Do you really want me to go ? ''
`` The best cure for Charlie be a daily dose of Rose water , or Rose and water , or Rose and water ; will you go and see that he take it ? ''
laugh Dr. Alec .
`` You mean that if I 'm there and try to make it pleasant , he will stay at home and keep out of mischief ? ''
`` Exactly . ''
`` But could I make it pleasant ?
He would want the boy . ''
`` No danger but he 'd have the boy , for they swarm after you like bee after their queen .
Have n't you find that out ? ''
`` Aunt Plen often say they never use to be here half so much before I come , but I never think I make the difference , it seem so natural to have them round . ''
`` Little modesty do n't know what a magnet she be ; but she will find it out some day , '' and the Doctor softly stroke the cheek that have grow rosy with pleasure at the thought of be so much love .
`` Now , you see , if I move the magnet to Aunt Clara 's , the lad will go there as sure a iron to steel , and Charlie will be so happy at home he wo n't care for these mischievous mate of his I hope , '' add the Doctor , well know how hard it be to wean a seventeen-year-old boy from his first taste of what be call `` see life , '' which , ala !
often end in see death .
`` I 'll go , uncle , right away !
Aunt Clara be always ask me , and will be glad to get me .
I shall have to dress and dine late , and see lot of company , and be very fashionable , but I 'll try not to let it hurt me ; and if I get in a puzzle or worry about anything I can run to you , '' answer Rose , good-will conquering timidity .
So it be decide , and without say much about the real reason for this visit , Rose be transplant to Aunt Clara 's , feeling that she have a work to do , and very eager to do it well .
Dr. Alec be right about the bee , for the boy do follow their queen , and astonish Mrs. Clara by their sudden assiduity in make call , drop in to dinner , and get up even frolic .
Charlie be a devoted host , and try to show his gratitude by be very kind to his `` little sister , '' for he guess why she come , and his heart be touch by her artless endeavour to `` help him be good . ''
Rose often long to be back in the old house with the simpler pleasure and more useful duty of the life there ; but , have make up her mind , in spite of Phebe , that `` girl be make to take care of boy , '' here motherly little soul find much to enjoy in the new task she have undertake .
It be a pretty sight to see the one earnest , sweet-faced girl among the flock of tall lad , try to understand , to help and please them with a patient affection that work many a small miracle unperceived .
Slang , rough manner , and careless habit be banish or better by the presence of a little gentlewoman ; and all the manly virtue crop up be encourage by the hearty admiration bestow upon them by one whose good opinion all value more than they confess ; while Rose try to imitate the good quality she praise in them , to put away her girlish vanity and fear , to be strong and just , and frank and brave , as well a modest , kind , and beautiful .
This trial work so well that when the month be over , Mac and Steve demand a visit in their turn , and Rose go , feel that she would like to hear grim Aunt Jane say , a Aunt Clara do at parting , `` I wish I could keep you all my life , dear . ''
After Mac and Steve have have their turn , Archie and Company bore her away for some week ; and with them she be so happy , she felt a if she would like to stay for ever , if she could have Uncle Alec also .
Of course , Aunt Myra could not be neglect , and , with secret despair , Rose go to the `` Mausoleum , '' a the boy call her gloomy abode .
Fortunately , she be very near home , and Dr. Alec drop in so often that her visit be far less dismal than she expect .
Between them , they actually make Aunt Myra laugh heartily more than once ; and Rose do her so much good by let in the sunshine , sing about the silent house , cook wholesome mess , and amuse the old lady with funny little lecture on physiology , that she forget to take her pill and give up `` Mum 's Elixir , '' because she sleep so well , after the long walk and drive she be beguile into take , that she need no narcotic .
So the winter fly rapidly away , and it be May before Rose be fairly settle again at home .
They call her the `` Monthly Rose , '' because she have spend a month with each of the aunt , and leave such pleasant memory of bloom and fragrance behind her , that all want the family flower back again .
Dr. Alec rejoice greatly over his recovered treasure ; but a the time draw near when his year of experiment end , he have many a secret fear that Rose might like to make her home for the next twelve month with Aunt Jessie , or even Aunt Clara , for Charlie 's sake .
He say nothing , but wait with much anxiety for the day when the matter should be decide ; and while he wait he do his best to finish as far a possible the task he have begin so well .
Rose be very happy now , be out nearly all day enjoy the beautiful awakening of the world , for spring come bright and early , a if anxious to do it part .
The old horse-chestnuts bud round her window , green thing spring up like magic in the garden under her hand , hardy flower bloom as fast a they could , the bird sing blithely overhead , and every day a chorus of pleasant voice cry , `` Good morning , cousin , be n't it jolly weather ? ''
No one remember the date of the eventful conversation which result in the Doctor 's experiment -LRB- no one but himself at least -RRB- ; so when the aunt be invite to tea one Saturday they come quite unsuspiciously , and be all sit together have a social chat , when Brother Alec enter with two photograph in his hand .
`` Do you remember that ? ''
he say , show one to Aunt Clara , who happen to be near .
`` Yes , indeed ; it be very like her when she come .
Quite her sad , unchildlike expression , and thin little face , with the big dark eye . ''
The picture be pass round , and all agree that `` it be very like Rose a year ago . ''
This point be settle , the Doctor show the second picture , which be receive with great approbation , and pronounce a `` charming likeness . ''
It certainly be , and a striking contrast to the first one , for it be a blooming , smile face , full of girlish spirit and health , with no sign of melancholy , though the soft eye be thoughtful , and the line about the lip betray a sensitive nature .
Dr. Alec set both photograph on the chimneypiece , and , fall back a step or two , survey them with infinite satisfaction for several minute , then wheel round , say briefly , a he point to the two face , `` Time be up ; how do you think my experiment have succeed , lady ? ''
`` Bless me , so it be ! ''
cry Aunt Plenty , drop a stitch in her surprise .
`` Beautifully , dear , '' answer Aunt Peace , smile entire approval .
`` She certainly have improve , but appearance be deceitful , and she have no constitution to build upon , '' croak Aunt Myra .
`` I be willing to allow that , as far a mere health go , the experiment be a success , '' graciously observe Aunt Jane , unable to forget Rose 's kindness to her Mac .
`` So be I ; and I 'll go far , for I really do believe Alec have do wonder for the child ; she will be a beauty in two or three year , '' add Aunt Clara , feeling that she could say nothing good than that .
`` I always know he would succeed , and I 'm so glad you all allow it , for he deserve more credit than you know , and more praise than he will ever get , '' cry Aunt Jessie , clap her hand with an enthusiasm that cause Jamie 's little red stocking to wave like a triumphal banner in the air .
Dr. Alec make them a splendid bow , look much gratify , and then say soberly , `` Thank you ; now the question be , shall I go on ?
for this be only the beginning .
None of you know the hindrance I 've have , the mistake I 've make , the study I 've give the case , and the anxiety I 've often felt .
Sister Myra be right be one thing Rose be a delicate creature , quick to flourish in the sunshine , and a quick to droop without it .
She have no special weakness , but inherit her mother 's sensitive nature , and need the wise , tenderest care , to keep a very ardent little soul from wear out a finely organised little body .
I think I have find the right treatment , and ; with you to help me , I believe we may build up a lovely and a noble woman , who will be a pride and comfort to u all . ''
There Dr. Alec stop to get his breath , for he have speak very earnestly , and his voice get a little husky over the last word .
A gentle murmur from the aunt seem to encourage him , and he go on with an engage smile , for the good man be slyly try to win all the lady to vote for him when the time come .
`` Now , I do n't wish to be selfish or arbitrary , because I be her guardian , and I shall leave Rose free to choose for herself .
We all want her , and if she like to make her home with any of you rather than with me , she shall do so .
In fact , I encourage her visit last winter , that she might see what we can all offer her , and judge where she will be happy .
Is not that the fair way ?
Will you agree to abide by her choice , a I do ? ''
`` Yes , we will , '' say all the aunt , in quite a flutter of excitement at the prospect of have Rose for a whole year .
`` Good !
she will be here directly , and then we will settle the question for another year .
A most important year , mind you , for she have get a good start , and will blossom rapidly now if all go well with her .
So I beg of you do n't undo my work , but deal very wisely and gently with my little girl , for if any harm come to her , I think it would break my heart . ''
As he speak , Dr. Alec turn his back abruptly and affect to be examine the picture again ; but the aunt understand how dear the child be to the solitary man who have love her mother year ago , and who now find his happiness in cherish the little Rose who be so like her .
The good lady nod and sigh , and telegraph to one another that none of them would complain if not choose , or ever try to rob Brother Alec of his `` Heart 's Delight , '' a the boy call Rose .
Just then a pleasant sound of happy voice come up from the garden , and smile break out on all serious face .
Dr. Alec turn at once , say , a he throw back his head , `` There she be ; now for it ! ''
The cousin have be a-Maying , and soon come flock in laden with the spoil .
`` Here be our bonny Scotch rise with all her thorn about her , '' say Dr. Alec , survey her with unusual pride and tenderness , a she go to show Aunt Peace her basket full of early flower , fresh leaf , and curious lichen .
`` Leave your clutter in the hall , boy , and sit quietly down if you choose to stop here , for we be busy , '' say Aunt Plenty , shake her finger at the turbulent Clan , who be bubble over with the jollity born of spring sunshine and healthy exercise .
`` Of course , we choose to stay !
Would n't miss our Saturday high tea for anything , '' say the Chief , a he restore order among his men with a nod , a word , and an occasional shake .
`` What be up ?
a court-martial ? ''
ask Charlie , look at the assembled lady with affected awe and real curiosity , for these face betray that some interesting business be afloat .
Dr. Alec explain in a few word , which he make a brief and calm a he could ; but the effect be excite , nevertheless , for each of the lad begin at once to bribe , entice , and wheedle `` our cousin '' to choose his home .
`` You really ought to come to u for mother 's sake , a a relish , you know , for she must be perfectly satiate with boy , '' begin Archie , use the strong argument he could think of at the moment .
`` Oh , do !
we 'll never slam , or bounce at you or call you ` fraid cat , ' if you only will , '' beseech Geordie and Will , distort their countenance in the attempt to smile with overpower sweetness .
`` And I 'll always wash my hand ` fore I touch you , and you shall be my dolly , 'cause Pokey 's go away , and I 'll love you hard , '' cry Jamie , cling to her with his chubby face full of affection .
`` Brothers and sister ought to live together ; especially when the brother need some one to make home pleasant for him , '' add Charlie , with the wheedlesome tone and look that Rose always find so difficult to resist .
`` You have her long , and it 's our turn now ; Mac need her more than you do , Prince , for she 's ` the light of his eye , ' he say .
Come , Rose , choose u , and I 'll never use the musky pomade you hate again as long a I live , '' say Steve , with his most killing air , a he offer this noble sacrifice .
Mac peer wistfully over his goggles , say in an unusually wide-awake and earnest way , -- `` Do , cousin , then we can study chemistry together .
My experiment do n't blow up very often now , and the gas be n't at all bad when you get use to them . ''
Rose meantime have stand quite still , with the flower drop from her hand a her eye go from one eager face to another , while smile ripple over her own at the various enticement offer her .
During the laugh that follow Mac 's handsome proposition , she look at her uncle , whose eye be fix on her with an expression of love and longing that go to her heart .
`` Ah !
yes , '' she think , `` he want me most !
I 've often long to give him something that he wish for very much , and now I can . ''
So , when , at a sudden gesture from Aunt Peace , silence fell , Rose say slowly , with a pretty colour in her cheek , and a beseeching look about the room , a if ask pardon of the boy , `` It 's very hard to choose when everybody be so fond of me ; therefore I think I 'd well go to the one who seem to need me most . ''
`` No , dear , the one you love the best and will be happy with , '' say Dr. Alec quickly , a a doleful sniff from Aunt Myra , and a murmur of `` My sainted Caroline , '' make Rose pause and look that way .
`` Take time , cousin ; do n't be in a hurry to make up your mind , and remember , ` Codlin 's your friend , ' '' add Charlie , hopeful still .
`` I do n't want any time !
I know who I love best , who I 'm happy with , and I choose uncle .
Will he have me ? ''
cry Rose , in a tone that produce a sympathetic thrill among the hearer , it be so full of tender confidence and love .
If she really have any doubt , the look in Dr. Alec 's face banish it without a word , a he open wide his arm , and she run into them , feel that home be there .
No one spoke for a minute , but there be sign of emotion among the aunt , which warn the boy to bestir themselves before the water-works begin to play .
So they take hand and begin to prance about uncle and niece , singing , with sudden inspiration , the nursery rhyme , `` Ring around a Rosy ! ''
Of course that put an end to all sentiment , and Rose emerge laugh from Dr. Alec 's bosom , with the mark of a waistcoat button nicely imprint on her left cheek .
He saw it , and say with a merry kiss that half efface it , `` This be my ewe lamb , and I have set my mark on her , so no one can steal her away . ''
That tickle the boy , and they set up a shout of , `` Uncle have a little lamb ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Flower_Fables.txt.out
THE FROST-KING : OR , THE POWER OF LOVE .
THREE little Fairies sit in the field eat their breakfast ; each among the leaf of her favorite flower , Daisy , Primrose , and Violet , be happy a Elves need be .
The morning wind gently rock them to and fro , and the sun shone warmly down upon the dewy grass , where butterfly spread their gay wing , and bee with their deep voice sing among the flower ; while the little bird hop merrily about to peep at them .
On a silvery mushroom be spread the breakfast ; little cake of flower-dust lay on a broad green leaf , beside a crimson strawberry , which , with sugar from the violet , and cream from the yellow milkweed , make a fairy meal , and their drink be the dew from the flower ' bright leaf .
`` Ah me , '' sigh Primrose , throw herself languidly back , `` how warm the sun grow !
give me another piece of strawberry , and then I must hasten away to the shadow of the fern .
But while I eat , tell me , dear Violet , why be you all so sad ?
I have scarce see a happy face since my return from Rose Land ; dear friend , what mean it ? ''
`` I will tell you , '' reply little Violet , the tear gathering in her soft eye .
`` Our good Queen be ever strive to keep the dear flower from the power of the cruel Frost-King ; many way she try , but all have fail .
She have send messenger to his court with costly gift ; but all have return sick for want of sunlight , weary and sad ; we have watch over them , heedless of sun or shower , but still his dark spirit do their work , and we be leave to weep over our blight blossom .
Thus have we strive , and in vain ; and this night our Queen hold council for the last time .
Therefore be we sad , dear Primrose , for she have toil and care for u , and we can do nothing to help or advise her now . ''
`` It be indeed a cruel thing , '' reply her friend ; `` but a we can not help it , we must suffer patiently , and not let the sorrow of others disturb our happiness .
But , dear sister , see you not how high the sun be get ?
I have my lock to curl , and my robe to prepare for the evening ; therefore I must be go , or I shall be brown a a withered leaf in this warm light . ''
So , gather a tiny mushroom for a parasol , she fly away ; Daisy soon follow , and Violet be leave alone .
Then she spread the table afresh , and to it come fearlessly the busy ant and bee , gay butterfly and bird ; even the poor blind mole and humble worm be not forget ; and with gentle word she give to all , while each learn something of their kind little teacher ; and the love that make her own heart bright shone alike on all .
The ant and bee learn generosity , the butterfly and bird contentment , the mole and worm confidence in the love of others ; and each go to their home well for the little time they have be with Violet .
Evening come , and with it troop of Elves to counsel their good Queen , who , seat on her mossy throne , look anxiously upon the throng below , whose glitter wing and rustle robe gleam like many-colored flower .
At length she rise , and amid the deep silence speak thus : -- `` Dear child , let u not tire of a good work , hard though it be and wearisome ; think of the many little heart that in their sorrow look to u for help .
What would the green earth be without it lovely flower , and what a lonely home for u !
Their beauty fill our heart with brightness , and their love with tender thought .
Ought we then to leave them to die uncared for and alone ?
They give to u their all ; ought we not to toil unceasingly , that they may bloom in peace within their quiet home ?
We have try to gain the love of the stern Frost-King , but in vain ; his heart be hard a his own icy land ; no love can melt , no kindness bring it back to sunlight and to joy .
How then may we keep our frail blossom from his cruel spirit ?
Who will give u counsel ?
Who will be our messenger for the last time ?
Speak , my subject . ''
Then a great murmuring arose , and many spoke , some for costly gift , some for war ; and the fearful counselled patience and submission .
Long and eagerly they speak , and their soft voice rise high .
Then sweet music sound on the air , and the loud tone be hush , a in wonder silence the Fairies wait what should come .
Through the crowd there come a little form , a wreath of pure white violet lay among the bright lock that fell so softly round the gentle face , where a deep blush glow , a , kneel at the throne , little Violet say : -- `` Dear Queen , we have bend to the Frost-King 's power , we have borne gift unto his pride , but have we go trustingly to him and speak fearlessly of his evil deed ?
Have we shed the soft light of unwearied love around his cold heart , and with patient tenderness show him how bright and beautiful love can make even the dark lot ?
`` Our messenger have go fearfully , and with cold look and courtly word offer him rich gift , thing he care not for , and with equal pride have he send them back .
`` Then let me , the weak of your band , go to him , trust in the love I know lie hide in the cold heart .
`` I will bear only a garland of our fair flower ; these will I wind about him , and their bright face , look lovingly in his , will bring sweet thought to his dark mind , and their soft breath steal in like gentle word .
Then , when he see them fade on his breast , will he not sigh that there be no warmth there to keep them fresh and lovely ?
This will I do , dear Queen , and never leave his dreary home , till the sunlight fall on flower fair a those that bloom in our own dear land . ''
Silently the Queen have listen , but now , rise and place her hand on little Violet 's head , she say , turn to the throng below : -- `` We in our pride and power have err , while this , the weak and lowly of our subject , have from the innocence of her own pure heart counsel u more wisely than the noble of our train .
All who will aid our brave little messenger , lift your wand , that we may know who will place their trust in the Power of Love . ''
Every fairy wand glisten in the air , a with silvery voice they cry , `` Love and little Violet . ''
Then down from the throne , hand in hand , come the Queen and Violet , and till the moon sank do the Fairies toil , to weave a wreath of the fair flower .
Tenderly they gather them , with the night-dew fresh upon their leaf , and a they weave chant sweet spell , and whisper fairy blessing on the bright messenger whom they send forth to die in a dreary land , that their gentle kindred might bloom unharmed .
At length it be do ; and the fair flower lay glow in the soft starlight , while beside them stand the Fairies , sing to the music of the wind-harps : -- `` We be send you , dear flower , Forth alone to die , Where your gentle sister may not weep O'er the cold graf where you lie ; But you go to bring them fadeless life In the bright home where they dwell , And you softly smile that ' t be so , As we sadly sing farewell .
O plead with gentle word for u , And whisper tenderly Of generous love to that cold heart , And it will answer ye ; And though you fade in a dreary home , Yet love heart will tell Of the joy and peace that you have give : Flowers , dear flower , farewell ! ''
The morning sun look softly down upon the broad green earth , which like a mighty altar be send up cloud of perfume from it breast , while flower dance gayly in the summer wind , and bird sing their morning hymn among the cool green leaf .
Then high above , on shin wing , soar a little form .
The sunlight rest softly on the silken hair , and the wind fan lovingly the bright face , and bring the sweet odor to cheer her on .
Thus go Violet through the clear air , and the earth look smile up to her , a , with the bright wreath fold in her arm , she fly among the soft , white cloud .
On and on she go , over hill and valley , broad river and rustle wood , till the warm sunlight pass away , the wind grow cold , and the air thick with fall snow .
Then far below she saw the Frost-King 's home .
Pillars of hard , gray ice support the high , arch roof , hung with crystal icicle .
Dreary garden lay around , fill with withered flower and bare , droop tree ; while heavy cloud hang low in the dark sky , and a cold wind murmur sadly through the wintry air .
With a beating heart Violet fold her fading wreath more closely to her breast , and with weary wing fly onward to the dreary palace .
Here , before the closed door , stand many form with dark face and harsh , discordant voice , who sternly ask the shiver little Fairy why she come to them .
Gently she answer , tell them her errand , beseech them to let her pass ere the cold wind blight her frail blossom .
Then they fling wide the door , and she pass in .
Walls of ice , carve with strange figure , be around her ; glitter icicle hung from the high roof , and soft , white snow cover the hard floor .
On a throne hung with cloud sit the Frost-King ; a crown of crystal bound his white lock , and a dark mantle wrought with delicate frost-work be fold over his cold breast .
His stern face could not stay little Violet , and on through the long hall she go , heedless of the snow that gather on her foot , and the bleak wind that blow around her ; while the King with wonder eye look on the golden light that play upon the dark wall a she pass .
The flower , a if they know their part , unfold their bright leaf , and pour forth their sweet perfume , a , kneel at the throne , the brave little Fairy say , -- `` O King of blight and sorrow , send me not away till I have bring back the light and joy that will make your dark home bright and beautiful again .
Let me call back to the desolate garden the fair form that be go , and their soft voice bless you will bring to your breast a never fail joy .
Cast by your icy crown and sceptre , and let the sunlight of love fall softly on your heart .
`` Then will the earth bloom again in all it beauty , and your dim eye will rest only on fair form , while music shall sound through these dreary hall , and the love of grateful heart be yours .
Have pity on the gentle flower-spirits , and do not doom them to an early death , when they might bloom in fadeless beauty , make u wiser by their gentle teaching , and the earth brighter by their lovely form .
These fair flower , with the prayer of all Fairy Land , I lay before you ; O send me not away till they be answer . ''
And with tear fall thick and fast upon their tender leaf , Violet lay the wreath at his foot , while the golden light grow ever brighter a it fell upon the little form so humbly kneel there .
The King 's stern face grow milder a he gaze on the gentle Fairy , and the flower seem to look beseechingly upon him ; while their fragrant voice sound softly in his ear , tell of their dying sister , and of the joy it give to bring happiness to the weak and sorrowing .
But he draw the dark mantle closer over his breast and answer coldly , -- `` I can not grant your prayer , little Fairy ; it be my will the flower should die .
Go back to your Queen , and tell her that I can not yield my power to please these foolish flower . ''
Then Violet hang the wreath above the throne , and with weary foot go forth again , out into the cold , dark garden , and still the golden shadow follow her , and wherever they fell , flower bloom and green leaf rustle .
Then come the Frost-Spirits , and beneath their cold wing the flower die , while the Spirits bore Violet to a low , dark cell , say a they leave her , that their King be angry that she have dare to stay when he have bid her go .
So all alone she sit , and sad thought of her happy home come back to her , and she weep bitterly .
But soon come vision of the gentle flower die in their forest home , and their voice ring in her ear , implore her to save them .
Then she weep no longer , but patiently await what might come .
Soon the golden light gleam faintly through the cell , and she hear little voice call for help , and high up among the heavy cobweb hang poor little fly struggle to free themselves , while their cruel enemy sit in their net , watch their pain .
With her wand the Fairy break the band that hold them , tenderly bind up their broken wing , and heal their wound ; while they lay in the warm light , and feebly hum their thanks to their kind deliverer .
Then she go to the ugly brown spider , and in gentle word tell them , how in Fairy Land their kindred spun all the elfin cloth , and in return the Fairies give them food , and then how happily they live among the green leaf , spin garment for their neighbor .
`` And you too , '' say she , `` shall spin for me , and I will give you good food than helpless insect .
You shall live in peace , and spin your delicate thread into a mantle for the stern King ; and I will weave golden thread amid the gray , that when fold over his cold heart gentle thought may enter in and make it their home . ''
And while she gayly sung , the little weaver spin their silken thread , the fly on glitter wing fly lovingly above her head , and over all the golden light shone softly down .
When the Frost-Spirits tell their King , he greatly wonder and often stole to look at the sunny little room where friend and enemy work peacefully together .
Still the light grow brighter , and float out into the cold air , where it hang like bright cloud above the dreary garden , whence all the Spirits ' power could not drive it ; and green leaf bud on the naked tree , and flower bloom ; but the Spirits heap snow upon them , and they bow their head and die .
At length the mantle be finish , and amid the gray thread shine golden one , make it bright ; and she send it to the King , entreat him to wear it , for it would bring peace and love to dwell within his breast .
But he scornfully throw it aside , and bid his Spirits take her to a colder cell , deep in the earth ; and there with harsh word they leave her .
Still she sing gayly on , and the fall drop keep time so musically , that the King in his cold ice-halls wonder at the low , sweet sound that come steal up to him .
Thus Violet dwelt , and each day the golden light grow strong ; and from among the crevice of the rocky wall come troop of little velvet-coated mole , pray that they might listen to the sweet music , and lie in the warm light .
`` We lead , '' say they , `` a dreary life in the cold earth ; the flower-roots be dead , and no soft dew descend for u to drink , no little seed or leaf can we find .
Ah , good Fairy , let u be your servant : give u but a few crumb of your daily bread , and we will do all in our power to serve you . ''
And Violet say , Yes ; so day after day they labor to make a pathway through the frozen earth , that she might reach the root of the withered flower ; and soon , wherever through the dark galleries she go , the soft light fell upon the root of flower , and they with new life spread forth in the warm ground , and force fresh sap to the blossom above .
Brightly they bloom and dance in the soft light , and the Frost-Spirits try in vain to harm them , for when they come beneath the bright cloud their power to do evil leave them .
From his dark castle the King look out on the happy flower , who nod gayly to him , and in sweet color strive to tell him of the good little Spirit , who toil so faithfully below , that they might live .
And when he turn from the brightness without , to his stately palace , it seem so cold and dreary , that he fold Violet 's mantle round him , and sit beneath the faded wreath upon his ice-carved throne , wonder at the strange warmth that come from it ; till at length he bid his Spirits bring the little Fairy from her dismal prison .
Soon they come hasten back , and pray him to come and see how lovely the dark cell have grow .
The rough floor be spread with deep green moss , and over wall and roof grow flowery vine , fill the air with their sweet breath ; while above play the clear , soft light , cast rosy shadow on the glittering drop that lay among the fragrant leaf ; and beneath the vine stand Violet , cast crumb to the downy little mole who run fearlessly about and listen a she sing to them .
When the old King saw how much fairer she have make the dreary cell than his palace room , gentle thought within whisper him to grant her prayer , and let the little Fairy go back to her friend and home ; but the Frost-Spirits breathe upon the flower and bid him see how frail they be , and useless to a King .
Then the stern , cold thought come back again , and he harshly bid her follow him .
With a sad farewell to her little friend she follow him , and before the throne await his command .
When the King saw how pale and sad the gentle face have grow , how thin her robe , and weak her wing , and yet how lovingly the golden shadow fell around her and brighten a they lay upon the wand , which , guide by patient love , have make his once desolate home so bright , he could not be cruel to the one who have do so much for him , and in kindly tone he say , -- `` Little Fairy , I offer you two thing , and you may choose between them .
If I will vow never more to harm the flower you may love , will you go back to your own people and leave me and my Spirits to work our will on all the other flower that bloom ?
The earth be broad , and we can find them in any land , then why should you care what happen to their kindred if your own be safe ?
Will you do this ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
answered Violet sadly , `` do you not know that beneath the flower ' bright leaf there beat a little heart that love and sorrow like our own ?
And can I , heedless of their beauty , doom them to pain and grief , that I might save my own dear blossom from the cruel foe to which I leave them ?
Ah no !
sooner would I dwell for ever in your darkest cell , than lose the love of those warm , trust heart . ''
`` Then listen , '' say the King , `` to the task I give you .
You shall raise up for me a palace fairer than this , and if you can work that miracle I will grant your prayer or lose my kingly crown .
And now go forth , and begin your task ; my Spirits shall not harm you , and I will wait till it be do before I blight another flower . ''
Then out into the garden go Violet with a heavy heart ; for she have toil so long , her strength be nearly go .
But the flower whisper their gratitude , and fold their leaf a if they bless her ; and when she saw the garden fill with love friend , who strive to cheer and thank her for her care , courage and strength return ; and raise up thick cloud of mist , that hide her from the wonder flower , alone and trustingly she begin her work .
As time go by , the Frost-King fear the task have be too hard for the Fairy ; sound be hear behind the wall of mist , bright shadow see to pass within , but the little voice be never hear .
Meanwhile the golden light have fade from the garden , the flower bow their head , and all be dark and cold a when the gentle Fairy come .
And to the stern King his home seem more desolate and sad ; for he miss the warm light , the happy flower , and , more than all , the gay voice and bright face of little Violet .
So he wander through his dreary palace , wonder how he have be content to live before without sunlight and love .
And little Violet be mourn a dead in Fairy-Land , and many tear be shed , for the gentle Fairy be beloved by all , from the Queen down to the humble flower .
Sadly they watch over every bird and blossom which she have love , and strive to be like her in kindly word and deed .
They wear cypress wreath , and spoke of her a one whom they should never see again .
Thus they dwell in deepest sorrow , till one day there come to them an unknown messenger , wrap in a dark mantle , who look with wonder eye on the bright palace , and flower-crowned elf , who kindly welcome him , and bring fresh dew and rosy fruit to refresh the weary stranger .
Then he tell them that he come from the Frost-King , who beg the Queen and all her subject to come and see the palace little Violet have build ; for the veil of mist would soon be withdraw , and a she could not make a fair home than the ice-castle , the King wish her kindred near to comfort and to bear her home .
And while the Elves wept , he tell them how patiently she have toil , how her fadeless love have make the dark cell bright and beautiful .
These and many other thing he tell them ; for little Violet have win the love of many of the Frost-Spirits , and even when they kill the flower she have toil so hard to bring to life and beauty , she speak gentle word to them , and seek to teach them how beautiful be love .
Long stay the messenger , and deep grow his wonder that the Fairy could have leave so fair a home , to toil in the dreary palace of his cruel master , and suffer cold and weariness , to give life and joy to the weak and sorrowing .
When the Elves have promise they would come , he bid farewell to happy Fairy-Land , and fly sadly home .
At last the time arrive , and out in his barren garden , under a canopy of dark cloud , sit the Frost-King before the misty wall , behind which be heard low , sweet sound , a of rustle tree and warble bird .
Soon through the air come many-colored troop of Elves .
First the Queen , know by the silver lily on her snowy robe and the bright crown in her hair , beside whom fly a band of Elves in crimson and gold , make sweet music on their flower-trumpets , while all around , with smile face and bright eye , flutter her love subject .
On they come , like a flock of brilliant butterfly , their shining wing and many-colored garment sparkle in the dim air ; and soon the leafless tree be gay with living flower , and their sweet voice fill the garden with music .
Like his subject , the King look on the lovely Elves , and no longer wonder that little Violet wept and long for her home .
Darker and more desolate seem his stately home , and when the Fairies ask for flower , he felt ashamed that he have none to give them .
At length a warm wind sweep through the garden , and the mist-clouds pass away , while in silent wonder look the Frost-King and the Elves upon the scene before them .
Far a eye could reach be tall green tree whose droop bough make graceful arch , through which the golden light shone softly , make bright shadow on the deep green moss below , where the fair flower wave in the cool wind , and sang , in their low , sweet voice , how beautiful be Love .
Flowering vine fold their soft leaf around the tree , make green pillar of their rough trunk .
Fountains throw their bright water to the roof , and flock of silver-winged bird fly sing among the flower , or brood lovingly above their nest .
Doves with gentle eye coo among the green leaf , snow-white cloud float in the sunny shy , and the golden light , bright than before , shone softly down .
Soon through the long aisle come Violet , flower and green leaf rustle a she pass .
On she go to the Frost-King 's throne , bear two crown , one of sparkle icicle , the other of pure white lily , and kneel before him , say , -- `` My task be do , and , thanks to the Spirits of earth and air , I have make a fair a home a Elfin hand can form .
You must now decide .
Will you be King of Flower-Land , and own my gentle kindred for your love friend ?
Will you possess unfading peace and joy , and the grateful love of all the green earth 's fragrant child ?
Then take this crown of flower .
But if you can find no pleasure here , go back to your own cold home , and dwell in solitude and darkness , where no ray of sunlight or of joy can enter .
`` Send forth your Spirits to carry sorrow and desolation over the happy earth , and win for yourself the fear and hatred of those who would so gladly love and reverence you .
Then take this glitter crown , hard and cold a your own heart will be , if you will shut out all that be bright and beautiful .
Both be before you .
Choose . ''
The old King look at the little Fairy , and saw how lovingly the bright shadow gather round her , a if to shield her from every harm ; the timid bird nestle in her bosom , and the flower grow fairer a she look upon them ; while her gentle friend , with tear in their bright eye , fold their hand beseechingly , and smile on her .
Kind think come throng to his mind , and he turn to look at the two palace .
Violet 's , so fair and beautiful , with it rustling tree , calm , sunny sky , and happy bird and flower , all create by her patient love and care .
His own , so cold and dark and dreary , his empty garden where no flower could bloom , no green tree dwell , or gay bird sing , all desolate and dim ; -- and while he gaze , his own Spirits , cast off their dark mantle , kneel before him and beseech him not to send them forth to blight the thing the gentle Fairies love so much .
`` We have serve you long and faithfully , '' say they , `` give u now our freedom , that we may learn to be beloved by the sweet flower we have harm so long .
Grant the little Fairy 's prayer ; and let her go back to her own dear home .
She have teach u that Love be mighty than Fear .
Choose the Flower crown , and we will be the true subject you have ever have . ''
Then , amid a burst of wild , sweet music , the Frost-King place the Flower crown on his head , and kneel to little Violet ; while far and near , over the broad green earth , sound the voice of flower , sing their thanks to the gentle Fairy , and the summer wind be laden with perfume , which they send a token of their gratitude ; and wherever she go , old tree bend down to fold their slender branch round her , flower lay their soft face against her own , and whisper blessing ; even the humble moss bent over the little foot , and kiss them a they pass .
The old King , surround by the happy Fairies , sit in Violet 's lovely home , and watch his icy castle melt away beneath the bright sunlight ; while his Spirits , cold and gloomy no longer , dance with the Elves , and wait on their King with love eagerness .
Brighter grow the golden light , gayer sing the bird , and the harmonious voice of grateful flower , sound over the earth , carry new joy to all their gentle kindred .
Brighter shine the golden shadow ; On the cool wind softly come The low , sweet tone of happy flower , Singing little Violet 's name .
` Mong the green tree be it whisper , And the bright wave bore it on To the lonely forest flower , Where the glad news have not go .
Thus the Frost-King lose his kingdom , And his power to harm and blight .
Violet conquer , and his cold heart Warmed with music , love , and light ; And his fair home , once so dreary , Gay with lovely Elves and flower , Brought a joy that never fade Through the long bright summer hour .
Thus , by Violet 's magic power , All dark shadow pass away , And o'er the home of happy flower The golden light for ever lay .
Thus the Fairy mission end , And all Flower-Land be teach The `` Power of Love , '' by gentle deed That little Violet wrought .
As Sunny Lock cease , another little Elf come forward ; and this be the tale `` Silver Wing '' tell .
EVA 'S VISIT TO FAIRY-LAND .
DOWN among the grass and fragrant clover lay little Eva by the brook-side , watch the bright wave , a they go sing by under the drooping flower that grow on it bank .
As she be wonder where the water go , she hear a faint , low sound , a of far-off music .
She think it be the wind , but not a leaf be stir , and soon through the rippling water come a strange little boat .
It be a lily of the valley , whose tall stem form the mast , while the broad leave that rise from the root , and droop again till they reach the water , be fill with gay little Elves , who dance to the music of the silver lily-bells above , that ring a merry peal , and fill the air with their fragrant breath .
On come the fairy boat , till it reach a moss-grown rock ; and here it stop , while the Fairies rest beneath the violet-leaves , and sang with the dance wave .
Eva look with wonder on their gay face and bright garment , and in the joy of her heart sang too , and throw crimson fruit for the little folk to feast upon .
They look kindly on the child , and , after whisper long among themselves , two little bright-eyed Elves fly over the shining water , and , light on the clover-blossoms , say gently , `` Little maiden , many thanks for your kindness ; and our Queen bid u ask if you will go with u to Fairy-Land , and learn what we can teach you . ''
`` Gladly would I go with you , dear Fairies , '' say Eva , `` but I can not sail in your little boat .
See !
I can hold you in my hand , and could not live among you without harm your tiny kingdom , I be so large . ''
Then the Elves laugh gayly , a they fold their arm about her , say , `` You be a good child , dear Eva , to fear do harm to those weak than yourself .
You can not hurt u now .
Look in the water and see what we have do . ''
Eva look into the brook , and saw a tiny child stand between the Elves .
`` Now I can go with you , '' say she , `` but see , I can no longer step from the bank to yonder stone , for the brook seem now like a great river , and you have not give me wing like yours . ''
But the Fairies take each a hand , and fly lightly over the stream .
The Queen and her subject come to meet her , and all seem glad to say some kindly word of welcome to the little stranger .
They place a flower-crown upon her head , lay their soft face against her own , and soon it seem a if the gentle Elves have always be her friend .
`` Now must we go home , '' say the Queen , `` and you shall go with u , little one . ''
Then there be a great bustle , a they fly about on shin wing , some laying cushion of violet leaf in the boat , others fold the Queen 's veil and mantle more closely round her , lest the fall dew should chill her .
The cool wave ' gentle plashing against the boat , and the sweet chime of the lily-bells , lull little Eva to sleep , and when she wake it be in Fairy-Land .
A faint , rosy light , a of the setting sun , shone on the white pillar of the Queen 's palace a they pass in , and the sleep flower lean gracefully on their stem , dream beneath their soft green curtain .
All be cool and still , and the Elves glide silently about , l they should break their slumber .
They lead Eva to a bed of pure white leaf , above which droop the fragrant petal of a crimson rise .
`` You can look at the bright color till the light fade , and then the rise will sing you to sleep , '' say the Elves , a they fold the soft leaf about her , gently kiss her , and steal away .
Long she lay watch the bright shadow , and listen to the song of the rise , while through the long night dream of lovely thing float like bright cloud through her mind ; while the rise bent lovingly above her , and sang in the clear moonlight .
With the sun rise the Fairies , and , with Eva , hasten away to the fountain , whose cool water be soon fill with little form , and the air ring with happy voice , a the Elves float in the blue wave among the fair white lily , or sit on the green moss , smooth their bright lock , and wear fresh garland of dewy flower .
At length the Queen come forth , and her subject gather round her , and while the flower bow their head , and the tree hush their rustling , the Fairies sing their morning hymn to the Father of bird and blossom , who have make the earth so fair a home for them .
Then they fly away to the garden , and soon , high up among the tree-tops , or under the broad leaf , sit the Elves in little group , take their breakfast of fruit and pure fresh dew ; while the bright-winged bird come fearlessly among them , peck the same ripe berry , and dip their little beak in the same flower-cups , and the Fairies fold their arm lovingly about them , smooth their soft bosom , and gayly sang to them .
`` Now , little Eva , '' say they , `` you will see that Fairies be not idle , wilful Spirits , a mortal believe .
Come , we will show you what we do . ''
They lead her to a lovely room , through whose wall of deep green leave the light stole softly in .
Here lay many wounded insect , and harmless little creature , whom cruel hand have hurt ; and pale , droop flower grow beside urn of heal herb , from whose fresh leaf come a faint , sweet perfume .
Eva wonder , but silently follow her guide , little Rose-Leaf , who with tender word pass among the delicate blossom , pour dew on their feeble root , cheer them with her love word and happy smile .
Then she go to the insect ; first to a little fly who lay in a flower-leaf cradle .
`` Do you suffer much , dear Gauzy-Wing ? ''
ask the Fairy .
`` I will bind up your poor little leg , and Zephyr shall rock you to sleep . ''
So she fold the cool leave tenderly about the poor fly , bath his wing , and bring him refresh drink , while he hum his thanks , and forget his pain , a Zephyr softly sing and fan him with her wave wing .
They pass on , and Eva saw beside each bed a Fairy , who with gentle hand and love word soothe the suffering insect .
At length they stop beside a bee , who lay among sweet honeysuckle flower , in a cool , still place , where the summer wind blew in , and the green leaf rustle pleasantly .
Yet he seem to find no rest , and murmur of the pain he be doom to bear .
`` Why must I lie here , while my kindred be out in the pleasant field , enjoy the sunlight and the fresh air , and cruel hand have doom me to this dark place and bitter pain when I have do no wrong ?
Uncared for and forget , I must stay here among these poor thing who think only of themselves .
Come here , Rose-Leaf , and bind up my wound , for I be far more useful than idle bird or fly . ''
Then say the Fairy , while she bath the broken wing , -- `` Love-Blossom , you should not murmur .
We may find happiness in seek to be patient even while we suffer .
You be not forget or uncared for , but others need our care more than you , and to those who take cheerfully the pain and sorrow sent , do we most gladly give our help .
You need not be idle , even though lie here in darkness and sorrow ; you can be take from your heart all sad and discontented feeling , and if love and patience blossom there , you will be good for the lonely hour spend here .
Look on the bed beside you ; this little dove have suffer far great pain than you , and all our care can never ease it ; yet through the long day he hath lain here , not an unkind word or a repining sigh hath he utter .
Ah , Love-Blossom , the gentle bird can teach a lesson you will be wise and good for . ''
Then a faint voice whisper , `` Little Rose-Leaf , come quickly , or I can not thank you a I ought for all your love care of me . ''
So they pass to the bed beside the discontented bee , and here upon the soft down lay the dove , whose gentle eye look gratefully upon the Fairy , a she kneel beside the little couch , smooth the soft white bosom , fold her arm about it and weep sorrow tear , while the bird still whisper it gratitude and love .
`` Dear Fairy , the fair flower have cheer me with their sweet breath , fresh dew and fragrant leaf have be ever ready for me , gentle hand to tend , kindly hearts to love ; and for this I can only thank you and say farewell . ''
Then the quiver wing be still , and the patient little dove be dead ; but the bee murmur no longer , and the dew from the flower fell like tear around the quiet bed .
Sadly Rose-Leaf lead Eva away , say , `` Lily-Bosom shall have a grave tonight beneath our fair blossom , and you shall see that gentleness and love be prize far above gold or beauty , here in Fairy-Land .
Come now to the Flower Palace , and see the Fairy Court . ''
Beneath green arch , bright with bird and flower , beside sing wave , go Eva into a lofty hall .
The roof of pure white lily rest on pillar of green cluster vine , while many-colored blossom throw their bright shadow on the wall , a they dance below in the deep green moss , and their low , sweet voice sound softly through the sunlit palace , while the rustle leaf keep time .
Beside the throne stand Eva , and watch the lovely form around her , a they stand , each little band in it own color , with glistening wing , and flower wand .
Suddenly the music grow loud and sweeter , and the Fairies knelt , and bow their head , a on through the crowd of love subject come the Queen , while the air be fill with gay voice sing to welcome her .
She place the child beside her , say , `` Little Eva , you shall see now how the flower on your great earth bloom so brightly .
A band of love little gardener go daily forth from Fairy-Land , to tend and watch them , that no harm may befall the gentle spirit that dwell beneath their leaf .
This be never know , for like all good it be unseen by mortal eye , and unto only pure heart like yours do we make know our secret .
The humble flower that grow be visit by our messenger , and often bloom in fragrant beauty unknown , unloved by all save Fairy friend , who seek to fill the spirit with all sweet and gentle virtue , that they may not be useless on the earth ; for the noble mortal stoop to learn of flower .
Now , Eglantine , what have you to tell u of your rosy namesake on the earth ? ''
From a group of Elves , whose rose-wreathed wand show the flower they love , come one bear a tiny urn , and , answer the Queen , she say , -- `` Over hill and valley they be bloom fresh and fair a summer sun and dew can make them .
No droop stem or wither leaf tell of any evil thought within their fragrant bosom , and thus from the fair of their race have they gather this sweet dew , a a token of their gratitude to one whose tenderness and care have keep them pure and happy ; and this , the lovely of their sister , have I bring to place among the Fairy flower that never pass away . ''
Eglantine lay the urn before the Queen , and place the fragrant rise on the dewy moss beside the throne , while a murmur of approval go through the hall , a each elfin wand wave to the little Fairy who have toil so well and faithfully , and could bring so fair a gift to their good Queen .
Then come forth an Elf bear a withered leaf , while her many-colored robe and the purple tulip in her hair tell her name and charge .
`` Dear Queen , '' she sadly say , `` I would gladly bring a pleasant tidings a my sister , but , ala !
my flower be proud and wilful , and when I go to gather my little gift of colored leaf for royal garment , they bid me bring this withered blossom , and tell you they would serve no longer one who will not make them Queen over all the other flower .
They would yield neither dew nor honey , but proudly close their leaf and bid me go . ''
`` Your task have be too hard for you , '' say the Queen kindly , a she place the droop flower in the urn Eglantine have give , `` you will see how this dew from a sweet , pure heart will give new life and loveliness even to this poor fade one .
So can you , dear Rainbow , by love word and gentle teaching , bring back lose purity and peace to those whom pride and selfishness have blight .
Go once again to the proud flower , and tell them when they be queen of their own heart they will ask no fairer kingdom .
Watch more tenderly than ever over them , see that they lack neither dew nor air , speak lovingly to them , and let no unkind word or deed of theirs anger you .
Let them see by your patient love and care how much fairer they might be , and when next you come , you will be laden with gift from humble , love flower . ''
Thus they tell what they have do , and receive from their Queen some gentle chiding or love word of praise .
`` You will be weary of this , '' say little Rose-Leaf to Eva ; `` come now and see where we be taught to read the tale write on flower-leaves , and the sweet language of the bird , and all that can make a Fairy heart wiser and good . ''
Then into a cheerful place they go , where be many group of flower , among whose leaf sit the child Elves , and learn from their flower-books all that Fairy hand have write there .
Some study how to watch the tender bud , when to spread them to the sunlight , and when to shelter them from rain ; how to guard the ripening seed , and when to lay them in the warm earth or send them on the summer wind to far off hill and valley , where other Fairy hand would tend and cherish them , till a sisterhood of happy flower spring up to beautify and gladden the lonely spot where they have fall .
Others learn to heal the wounded insect , whose frail limbs a breeze could shatter , and who , be it not for Fairy hand , would die ere half their happy summer life have go .
Some learn how by pleasant dream to cheer and comfort mortal heart , by whispered word of love to save from evil deed those who have go astray , to fill young heart with gentle thought and pure affection , that no sin might mar the beauty of the human flower ; while others , like mortal child , learn the Fairy alphabet .
Thus the Elves make love friend by care and love , and no evil thing could harm them , for those they help to cherish and protect ever watch to shield and save them .
Eva nod to the gay little one , a they peep from among the leaf at the stranger , and then she listen to the Fairy lesson .
Several tiny Elves stand on a broad leaf while the teacher sit among the petal of a flower that bent beside them , and ask question that none but Fairies would care to know .
`` Twinkle , if there lay nine seed within a flower-cup and the wind bore five away , how many would the blossom have ? ''
`` Four , '' reply the little one .
`` Rosebud , if a Cowslip open three leaf in one day and four the next , how many rosy leaf will there be when the whole flower have bloom ? ''
`` Seven , '' sing the gay little Elf .
`` Harebell , if a silkworm spin one yard of Fairy cloth in an hour , how many will it spin in a day ? ''
`` Twelve , '' say the Fairy child .
`` Primrose , where lie Violet Island ? ''
`` In the Lake of Ripples . ''
`` Lilla , you may bind Rose Land . ''
`` On the north by Ferndale , south by Sunny Wave River , east by the hill of Morning Clouds , and west by the Evening Star . ''
`` Now , little one , '' say the teacher , `` you may go to your painting , that our visitor may see how we repair the flower that earthly hand have injure . ''
Then Eva saw how , on large , white leaf , the Fairies learn to imitate the lovely color , and with tiny brush to brighten the blush on the anemone 's cheek , to deepen the blue of the violet 's eye , and add new light to the golden cowslip .
`` You have stay long enough , '' say the Elves at length , `` we have many thing to show you .
Come now and see what be our dear work . ''
So Eva say farewell to the child Elves , and hasten with little Rose-Leaf to the gate .
Here she saw many band of Fairies , fold in dark mantle that mortal might not know them , who , with the child among them , fly away over hill and valley .
Some go to the cottage amid the hill , some to the sea-side to watch above the humble fisher folk ; but little Rose-Leaf and many others go into the noisy city .
Eva wonder within herself what good the tiny Elves could do in this great place ; but she soon learn , for the Fairy band go among the poor and friendless , bring pleasant dream to the sick and old , sweet , tender thought of love and gentleness to the young , strength to the weak , and patient cheerfulness to the poor and lonely .
Then the child wonder no longer , but deep grow her love for the tender-hearted Elves , who leave their own happy home to cheer and comfort those who never know what hand have clothe and feed them , what hearts have give of their own joy , and bring such happiness to theirs .
Long they stay , and many a lesson little Eva learn : but when she beg them to go back , they still lead her on , say , `` Our work be not yet do ; shall we leave so many sad heart when we may cheer them , so many dark home that we may brighten ?
We must stay yet long , little Eva , and you may learn yet more . ''
Then they go into a dark and lonely room , and here they find a pale , sad-eyed child , who weep bitter tear over a faded flower .
`` Ah , '' sigh the little one , `` it be my only friend , and I cherish it with all my lone heart 's love ; ' t be all that make my sad life happy ; and it be go . ''
Tenderly the child fasten the drooping stem , and place it where the one faint ray of sunlight stole into the dreary room .
`` Do you see , '' say the Elves , `` through this simple flower will we keep the child pure and stainless amid the sin and sorrow around her .
The love of this shall lead her on through temptation and through grief , and she shall be a spirit of joy and consolation to the sinful and the sorrowing . ''
And with busy love toil the Elves amid the withered leaf , and new strength be give to the flower ; while , a day by day the friendless child water the grow bud , deep grow her love for the unseen friend who have give her one thing to cherish in her lonely home ; sweet , gentle thought fill her heart a she bend above it , and the blossom 's fragrant breath be to her a whispered voice of all fair and lovely thing ; and a the flower teach her , so she teach others .
The loving Elves bring her sweet dream by night , and happy thought by day , and a she grow in childlike beauty , pure and patient amid poverty and sorrow , the sinful be rebuke , sorrow heart grow light , and the weak and selfish forget their idle fear , when they saw her trustingly live on with none to aid or comfort her .
The love she bore the tender flower keep her own heart innocent and bright , and the pure human flower be a lesson to those who look upon it ; and soon the gloomy house be bright with happy heart , that learn of the gentle child to bear poverty and grief a she have do , to forgive those who bring care and wrong to them , and to seek for happiness in humble deed of charity and love .
`` Our work be do , '' whisper the Elves , and with blessing on the two fair flower , they fly away to other home ; -- to a blind old man who dwell alone with none to love him , till through long year of darkness and of silent sorrow the heart within have grow dim and cold .
No sunlight could enter at the darkened eye , and none be near to whisper gentle word , to cheer and comfort .
Thus he dwell forgotten and alone , seek to give no joy to others , possess none himself .
Life be dark and sad till the untiring Elves come to his dreary home , bring sunlight and love .
They whisper sweet word of comfort , -- how , if the darkened eye could find no light without , within there might be never-failing happiness ; gentle feeling and sweet , love thought could make the heart fair , if the gloomy , selfish sorrow be but cast away , and all would be bright and beautiful .
They bring light-hearted child , who gather round him , make the desolate home fair with their young face , and his sad heart gay with their sweet , childish voice .
The love they bore he could not cast away , sunlight stole in , the dark thought pass away , and the earth be a pleasant home to him .
Thus their little hand lead him back to peace and happiness , flower bloom beside his door , and their fragrant breath bring happy thought of pleasant valley and green hill ; bird sing to him , and their sweet voice wake the music in his own soul , that never fail to calm and comfort .
Happy sound be hear in his once lonely home , and bright face gather round his knee , and listen tenderly while he strive to tell them all the good that gentleness and love have do for him .
Still the Elves watch near , and brighter grow the heart a kindly thought and tender feeling enter in , and make it their home ; and when the old man fell asleep , above his grave little foot trod lightly , and love hand laid fragrant flower .
Then go the Elves into the dreary prison-houses , where sad heart pin in lonely sorrow for the joy and freedom they have lose .
To these come the love band with tender word , tell of the peace they yet might win by patient striving and repentant tear , thus wake in their bosom all the holy feeling and sweet affection that have slept so long .
They tell pleasant tale , and sing their sweet song to cheer and gladden , while the dim cell grow bright with the sunlight , and fragrant with the flower the loving Elves have bring , and by their gentle teaching those sad , despair heart be fill with patient hope and earnest longing to win back their lose innocence and joy .
Thus to all who need help or comfort go the faithful Fairies ; and when at length they turn towards Fairy-Land , many be the grateful , happy heart they leave behind .
Then through the summer sky , above the blossoming earth , they journey home , happy for the joy they have give , wiser for the good they have do .
All Fairy-Land be dress in flower , and the soft wind go singing by , laden with their fragrant breath .
Sweet music sound through the air , and troop of Elves in their gay robe hasten to the palace where the feast be spread .
Soon the bright hall be fill with smile face and fair form , and little Eva , a she stand beside the Queen , think she have never see a sight so lovely .
The many-colored shadow of the fair flower play on the pure white wall , and fountain sparkle in the sunlight , make music a the cool wave rise and fell , while to and fro , with waving wing and joyous voice , go the smile Elves , bear fruit and honey , or fragrant garland for each other 's hair .
Long they feast , gayly they sing , and Eva , dance merrily among them , long to be an Elf that she might dwell forever in so fair a home .
At length the music cease , and the Queen say , a she lay her hand on little Eva 's shin hair : -- `` Dear child , tomorrow we must bear you home , for , much a we long to keep you , it be wrong to bring such sorrow to your love earthly friend ; therefore we will guide you to the brook-side , and there say farewell till you come again to visit u .
Nay , do not weep , dear Rose-Leaf ; you shall watch over little Eva 's flower , and when she look at them she will think of you .
Come now and lead her to the Fairy garden , and show her what we think our fair sight .
Weep no more , but strive to make her last hour with u happy a you can . ''
With gentle caress and most tender word the love Elves gather about the child , and , with Rose-Leaf by her side , they lead her through the palace , and along green , wind path , till Eva saw what seem a wall of flower rise before her , while the air be fill with the most fragrant odor , and the low , sweet music a of sing blossom .
`` Where have you bring me , and what mean these lovely sound ? ''
ask Eva .
`` Look here , and you shall see , '' say Rose-Leaf , a she bend aside the vine , `` but listen silently or you can not hear . ''
Then Eva , look through the drooping vine , behold a garden fill with the lovely flower ; fair a be all the blossom she have see in Fairy-Land , none be so beautiful a these .
The rise glow with a deep crimson , the lily 's soft leaf be more purely white , the crocus and humble cowslip shone like sunlight , and the violet be blue a the sky that smile above it .
`` How beautiful they be , '' whisper Eva , `` but , dear Rose-Leaf , why do you keep them here , and why call you this your fair sight ? ''
`` Look again , and I will tell you , '' answer the Fairy .
Eva look , and saw from every flower a tiny form come forth to welcome the Elves , who all , save Rose-Leaf , have fly above the wall , and be now scatter dew upon the flower ' bright leaf and talk gayly with the Spirits , who gather around them , and seem full of joy that they have come .
The child saw that each one wear the color of the flower that be it home .
Delicate and graceful be the little form , bright the silken hair that fell about each lovely face ; and Eva hear the low , sweet murmur of their silvery voice and the rustle of their wing .
She gaze in silent wonder , forget she know not who they be , till the Fairy say , -- `` These be the spirit of the flower , and this the Fairy Home where those whose heart be pure and love on the earth come to bloom in fadeless beauty here , when their earthly life be past .
The humble flower that bloom have a home with u , for outward beauty be a worthless thing if all be not fair and sweet within .
Do you see yonder lovely spirit sing with my sister Moonlight ?
a clover blossom be her home , and she dwell unknown , unloved ; yet patient and content , bear cheerfully the sorrow send her .
We watch and saw how fair and sweet the humble flower grow , and then gladly bore her here , to blossom with the lily and the rise .
The flower ' life be often short , for cruel hand destroy them ; therefore be it our great joy to bring them hither , where no careless foot or wintry wind can harm them , where they bloom in quiet beauty , repay our care by their love and sweet perfume . ''
`` I will never break another flower , '' cry Eva ; `` but let me go to them , dear Fairy ; I would gladly know the lovely spirit , and ask forgiveness for the sorrow I have cause .
May I not go in ? ''
`` Nay , dear Eva , you be a mortal child , and can not enter here ; but I will tell them of the kind little maiden who have learn to love them , and they will remember you when you be go .
Come now , for you have see enough , and we must be away . ''
On a rosy morning cloud , surround by the loving Elves , go Eva through the sunny sky .
The fresh wind bore them gently on , and soon they stand again beside the brook , whose wave dance brightly a if to welcome them .
`` Now , ere we say farewell , '' say the Queen , a they gather nearer to the child , `` tell me , dear Eva , what among all our Fairy gift will make you happy , and it shall be yours . ''
`` You good little Fairies , '' say Eva , fold them in her arm , for she be no long the tiny child she have be in Fairy-Land , `` you dear good little Elves , what can I ask of you , who have do so much to make me happy , and teach me so many good and gentle lesson , the memory of which will never pass away ?
I can only ask of you the power to be a pure and gentle a yourselves , a tender and love to the weak and sorrow , a untiring in kindly deed to all .
Grant me this gift , and you shall see that little Eva have not forget what you have teach her . ''
`` The power shall be yours , '' say the Elves , and lay their soft hand on her head ; `` we will watch over you in dream , and when you would have tidings of u , ask the flower in your garden , and they will tell you all you would know .
Farewell .
Remember Fairy-Land and all your loving friend . ''
They cling about her tenderly , and little Rose-Leaf place a flower crown on her head , whisper softly , `` When you would come to u again , stand by the brook-side and wave this in the air , and we will gladly take you to our home again .
Farewell , dear Eva .
Think of your little Rose-Leaf when among the flower . ''
Long Eva watch their shining wing , and listen to the music of their voice a they fly sing home , and when at length the last little form have vanish among the cloud , she saw that all around her where the Elves have be , the fair flower have spring up , and the lonely brook-side be a blooming garden .
Thus she stand among the waving blossom , with the Fairy garland in her hair , and happy feeling in her heart , good and wiser for her visit to Fairy-Land .
`` Now , Star-Twinkle , what have you to teach ? ''
ask the Queen .
`` Nothing but a little song I hear the hare-bells singing , '' reply the Fairy , and , take her harp , sang , in a low , sweet voice : -- THE FLOWER 'S LESSON .
THERE grow a fragrant rose-tree where the brook flow , With two little tender bud , and one full rise ; When the sun go down to his bed in the west , The little bud lean on the rose-mother 's breast , While the bright eyed star their long watch kept , And the flower of the valley in their green cradle sleep ; Then silently in odor they commune with each other , The two little bud on the bosom of their mother .
`` O sister , '' say the little one , a she gaze at the sky , `` I wish that the Dew Elves , a they wander lightly by , Would bring me a star ; for they never grow dim , And the Father do not need them to burn round him .
The shin drop of dew the Elves bring each day And place in my bosom , so soon pass away ; But a star would glitter brightly through the long summer hour , And I should be fair than all my sister flower .
That be good far than the dew-drops that fall On the high and the low , and come alike to all .
I would be fair and stately , with a bright star to shine And give a queenly air to this crimson robe of mine . ''
And proudly she cry , `` These fire-flies shall be My jewel , since the star can never come to me . ''
Just then a tiny dew-drop that hung o'er the dell On the breast of the bud like a soft star fell ; But impatiently she fling it away from her leaf , And it fell on her mother like a tear of grief , While she fold to her breast , with wilful pride , A glitter fire-fly that hung by her side .
`` Heed , '' say the mother rise , `` daughter mine , Why shouldst thou seek for beauty not thine ?
The Father hath make thee what thou now art ; And what he most loveth be a sweet , pure heart .
Then why dost thou take with such discontent The loving gift which he to thee hath sent ?
For the cool fresh dew will render thee far More lovely and sweet than the bright star ; They be make for Heaven , and can never come to shine Like the fire-fly thou hast in that foolish breast of thine .
O my foolish little bud , do listen to thy mother ; Care only for true beauty , and seek for no other .
There will be grief and trouble in that wilful little heart ; Unfold thy leave , my daughter , and let the fly depart . ''
But the proud little bud would have her own will , And fold the fire-fly more closely still ; Till the struggle insect tore open the vest Of purple and green , that cover her breast .
When the sun come up , she saw with grief The blooming of her sister bud leaf by leaf .
While she , once a fair and bright a the rest , Hung her weary head down on her wound breast .
Bright grow the sunshine , and the soft summer air Was fill with the music of flower sing there ; But faint grow the little bud with thirst and pain , And long for the cool dew ; but now ' t be in vain .
Then bitterly she weep for her folly and pride , As droop she stand by her fair sister 's side .
Then the rise mother lean the weary little head On her bosom to rest , and tenderly she say : `` Thou hast learn , my little bud , that , whatever may betide , Thou canst win thyself no joy by passion or by pride .
The love Father send the sunshine and the shower , That thou mayst become a perfect little flower ; -- The sweet dew to fee thee , the soft wind to cheer , And the earth a a pleasant home , while thou art dwell here .
Then shouldst thou not be grateful for all this kindly care , And strive to keep thyself most innocent and fair ?
Then seek , my little blossom , to win humility ; Be fair without , be pure within , and thou wilt happy be .
So when the quiet Autumn of thy fragrant life shall come , Thou mayst pas away , to bloom in the Flower Spirits ' home . ''
Then from the mother 's breast , where it still lay hid , Into the fading bud the dew-drop gently slide ; Stronger grow the little form , and happy tear fell , As the dew do it silent work , and the bud grow well , While the gentle rise lean , with motherly pride , O'er the fair little one that bloom at her side .
Night come again , and the fire-flies fly ; But the bud let them pass , and drank of the dew ; While the soft star shine , from the still summer heaven , On the happy little flower that have learn the lesson give .
The music-loving Elves clap their hand , a Star-Twinkle cease ; and the Queen place a flower crown , with a gentle smile , upon the Fairy 's head , say , -- `` The little bud 's lesson shall teach u how sad a thing be pride , and that humility alone can bring true happiness to flower and Fairy .
You shall come next , Zephyr . ''
And the little Fairy , who lay rock to and fro upon a fluttering vine-leaf , thus begin her story : -- `` As I lay rest in the bosom of a cowslip that bent above the brook , a little wind , tire of play , tell me this tale of LILY-BELL AND THISTLEDOWN .
ONCE upon a time , two little Fairies go out into the world , to seek their fortune .
Thistledown be a gay and gallant a little Elf a ever spread a wing .
His purple mantle , and doublet of green , be embroider with the bright thread , and the plume in his cap come always from the wing of the gay butterfly .
But he be not love in Fairy-Land , for , like the flower whose name and color he wear , though fair to look upon , many be the little thorn of cruelty and selfishness that lay conceal by his gay mantle .
Many a gentle flower and harmless bird die by his hand , for he care for himself alone , and whatever give him pleasure must be his , though happy heart be render sad , and peaceful home destroy .
Such be Thistledown ; but far different be his little friend , Lily-Bell .
Kind , compassionate , and loving , wherever her gentle face be see , joy and gratitude be find ; no suffer flower or insect , that do not love and bless the kindly Fairy ; and thus all Elf-Land look upon her a a friend .
Nor do this make her vain and heedless of others ; she humbly dwell among them , seek to do all the good she might ; and many a houseless bird and hungry insect that Thistledown have harm do she feed and shelter , and in return no evil could befall her , for so many friend be all about her , seek to repay her tenderness and love by their watchful care .
She would not now have leave Fairy-Land , but to help and counsel her wild companion , Thistledown , who , discontent with his quiet home , WOULD seek his fortune in the great world , and she fear he would suffer from his own fault for others would not always be a gentle and forgive a his kindred .
So the kind little Fairy leave her home and friend to go with him ; and thus , side by side , they fly beneath the bright summer sky .
On and on , over hill and valley , they go , chase the gay butterfly , or listen to the bee , a they fly from flower to flower like busy little housewife , sing a they work ; till at last they reach a pleasant garden , fill with flower and green , old tree .
`` See , '' cry Thistledown , `` what a lovely home be here ; let u rest among the cool leaf , and hear the flower sing , for I be sadly tired and hungry . ''
So into the quiet garden they go , and the wind gayly welcome them , while the flower nod on their stem , offer their bright leaf for the Elves to rest upon , and fresh , sweet honey to refresh them .
`` Now , dear Thistle , do not harm these friendly blossom , '' say Lily-Bell ; `` see how kindly they spread their leaf , and offer u their dew .
It would be very wrong in you to repay their care with cruelty and pain .
You will be tender for my sake , dear Thistle . ''
Then she go among the flower , and they bend lovingly before her , and lay their soft leaf against her little face , that she might see how glad they be to welcome one so good and gentle , and kindly offer their dew and honey to the weary little Fairy , who sit among their fragrant petal and look smilingly on the happy blossom , who , with their soft , low voice , sing her to sleep .
While Lily-Bell lay dream among the rose-leaves , Thistledown go wander through the garden .
First he rob the bee of their honey , and rudely shake the little flower , that he might get the dew they have gather to bathe their bud in .
Then he chase the bright winged fly , and wound them with the sharp thorn he carry for a sword ; he break the spider 's shin web , lam the bird , and soon wherever he pass lay wound insect and droop flower ; while the wind carry the tidings over the garden , and bird and blossom look upon him a an evil spirit , and flee away or close their leaf , lest he should harm them .
Thus he go , leave sorrow and pain behind him , till he come to the rose where Lily-Bell lay sleeping .
There , weary of his cruel sport , he stay to rest beneath a graceful rose-tree , where grow one blooming flower and a tiny bud .
`` Why be you so slow in blooming , little one ?
You be too old to be rock in your green cradle longer , and should be out among your sister flower , '' say Thistle , a he lay idly in the shadow of the tree .
`` My little bud be not yet strong enough to venture forth , '' reply the rise , a she bend fondly over it ; `` the sunlight and the rain would blight her tender form , be she to blossom now , but soon she will be fit to bear them ; till then she be content to rest beside her mother , and to wait . ''
`` You silly flower , '' say Thistledown , `` see how quickly I will make you bloom !
your waiting be all useless . ''
And speak thus , he pull rudely apart the folded leaf , and lay them open to the sun and air ; while the rise mother implore the cruel Fairy to leave her little bud untouched .
`` It be my first , my only one , '' say she , `` and I have watch over it with such care , hop it would soon bloom beside me ; and now you have destroy it .
How could you harm the little helpless one , that never do aught to injure you ? ''
And while her tear fell like summer rain , she droop in grief above the little bud , and sadly watch it fade in the sunlight ; but Thistledown , heedless of the sorrow he have give , spread his wing and fly away .
Soon the sky grow dark , and heavy drop begin to fall .
Then Thistle hasten to the lily , for her cup be deep , and the white leaf fell like curtain over the fragrant bed ; he be a dainty little Elf , and could not sleep among the clover and bright buttercup .
But when he ask the flower to unfold her leaf and take him in , she turn her pale , soft face away , and answer sadly , `` I must shield my little drooping sister whom you have harm , and can not let you in . ''
Then Thistledown be very angry , and turn to find shelter among the stately rose ; but they show their sharp thorn , and , while their rosy face glow with anger , tell him to begone , or they would repay him for the wrong he have do their gentle kindred .
He would have stay to harm them , but the rain fell fast , and he hurry away , say , `` The tulip will take me in , for I have praise their beauty , and they be vain and foolish flower . ''
But when he come , all wet and cold , pray for shelter among their thick leaf , they only laugh and say scornfully , `` We know you , and will not let you in , for you be false and cruel , and will only bring u sorrow .
You need not come to u for another mantle , when the rain have spoil your fine one ; and do not stay here , or we will do you harm . ''
Then they wave their broad leaf stormily , and scatter the heavy drop on his drip garment .
`` Now must I go to the humble daisy and blue violet , '' say Thistle , `` they will be glad to let in so fine a Fairy , and I shall die in this cold wind and rain . ''
So away he fly , a fast a his heavy wing would bear him , to the daisy ; but they nod their head wisely , and close their leaf yet closer , say sharply , -- `` Go away with yourself , and do not imagine we will open our leaf to you , and spoil our seed by let in the rain .
It serve you rightly ; to gain our love and confidence , and repay it by such cruelty !
You will find no shelter here for one whose careless hand wound our little friend Violet , and break the true heart that ever beat in a flower 's breast .
We be very angry with you , wicked Fairy ; go away and hide yourself . ''
`` Ah , '' cry the shiver Elf , `` where can I find shelter ?
I will go to the violet : they will forgive and take me in . ''
But the daisy have speak truly ; the gentle little flower be dead , and her blue-eyed sister be weep bitterly over her faded leaf .
`` Now I have no friend , '' sigh poor Thistledown , `` and must die of cold .
Ah , if I have but mind Lily-Bell , I might now be dream beneath some flower 's leaf . ''
`` Others can forgive and love , beside Lily-Bell and Violet , '' say a faint , sweet voice ; `` I have no little bud to shelter now , and you can enter here . ''
It be the rise mother that speak , and Thistle saw how pale the bright leaf have grow , and how the slender stem be bow .
Grieved , ashamed , and wonder at the flower 's forgiving word , he lay his weary head on the bosom he have fill with sorrow , and the fragrant leaf be fold carefully about him .
But he could find no rest .
The rise strove to comfort him ; but when she fancy he be sleep , thought of her lose bud stole in , and the little heart beat so sadly where he lay , that no sleep come ; while the bitter tear he have cause to flow fell more coldly on him than the rain without .
Then he hear the other flower whisper among themselves of his cruelty , and the sorrow he have bring to their happy home ; and many wonder how the rise , who have suffer most , could yet forgive and shelter him .
`` Never could I forgive one who have rob me of my child .
I could bow my head and die , but could give no happiness to one who have take all my own , '' say Hyacinth , bend fondly over the little one that blossom by her side .
`` Dear Violet be not the only one who will leave u , '' sob little Mignonette ; `` the rise mother will fade like her little bud , and we shall lose our gentle teacher .
Her last lesson be forgiveness ; let u show our love for her , and the gentle stranger Lily-Bell , by allow no unkind word or thought of him who have bring u all this grief . ''
The angry word be hush , and through the long night nothing be hear but the dropping of the rain , and the low sigh of the rise .
Soon the sunlight come again , and with it Lily-Bell seek for Thistledown ; but he be ashamed , and steal away .
When the flower tell their sorrow to kind-hearted Lily-Bell , she weep bitterly at the pain her friend have give , and with loving word strive to comfort those whom he have grieve ; with gentle care she heal the wounded bird , and watch above the flower he have harm , bring each day dew and sunlight to refresh and strengthen , till all be well again ; and though sorrow for their dead friend , still they forgive Thistle for the sake of her who have do so much for them .
Thus , erelong , bud fair than that she have lose lay on the rise mother 's breast , and for all she have suffer she be well repay by the love of Lily-Bell and her sister flower .
And when bird , bee , and blossom be strong and fair again , the gentle Fairy say farewell , and fly away to seek her friend , leave behind many grateful heart , who owe their joy and life to her .
Meanwhile , over hill and dale go Thistledown , and for a time be kind and gentle to every living thing .
He miss sadly the little friend who have leave her happy home to watch over him , but he be too proud to own his fault , and so go on , hop she would find him .
One day he fell asleep , and when he wake the sun have set , and the dew begin to fall ; the flower-cups be close , and he have nowhere to go , till a friendly little bee , belated by his heavy load of honey , bid the weary Fairy come with him .
`` Help me to bear my honey home , and you can stay with u tonight , '' he kindly say .
So Thistle gladly go with him , and soon they come to a pleasant garden , where among the fair flower stand the hive , cover with vine and overhung with blossom tree .
Glow-worms stood at the door to light them home , and a they pass in , the Fairy think how charm it must be to dwell in such a lovely place .
The floor of wax be pure and white a marble , while the wall be form of golden honey-comb , and the air be fragrant with the breath of flower .
`` You can not see our Queen to-night , '' say the little bee , `` but I will show you to a bed where you can rest . ''
And he lead the tired Fairy to a little cell , where on a bed of flower-leaves he fold his wing and fell asleep .
As the first ray of sunlight stole in , he be awaken by sweet music .
It be the morning song of the bee .
`` Awake !
awake !
for the early gleam Of golden sunlight shine On the rippling wave , that brightly flow Beneath the flowering vine .
Awake !
awake !
for the low , sweet chant Of the wild-birds ' morning hymn Comes float by on the fragrant air , Through the forest cool and dim ; Then spread each wing , And work , and sing , Through the long , bright sunny hour ; O'er the pleasant earth We journey forth , For a day among the flower .
`` Awake !
awake !
for the summer wind Hath bid the blossom unclose , Hath open the violet 's soft blue eye , And waken the sleeping rise .
And lightly they wave on their slender stem Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , Waiting for u , a we sing come To gather our honey-dew there .
Then spread each wing , And work , and sing , Through the long , bright sunny hour ; O'er the pleasant earth We journey forth , For a day among the flower ! ''
Soon his friend come to bid him rise , a the Queen desire to speak with him .
So , with his purple mantle throw gracefully over his shoulder , and his little cap hold respectfully in his hand , he follow Nimble-Wing to the great hall , where the Queen be be serve by her little page .
Some bore her fresh dew and honey , some fan her with fragrant flower-leaves , while others scatter the sweet perfume on the air .
`` Little Fairy , '' say the Queen , `` you be welcome to my palace ; and we will gladly have you stay with u , if you will obey our law .
We do not spend the pleasant summer day in idleness and pleasure , but each one labor for the happiness and good of all .
If our home be beautiful , we have make it so by industry ; and here , a one large , love family , we dwell ; no sorrow , care , or discord can enter in , while all obey the voice of her who seek to be a wise and gentle Queen to them .
If you will stay with u , we will teach you many thing .
Order , patience , industry , who can teach so well a they who be the emblem of these virtue ?
`` Our law be few and simple .
You must each day gather your share of honey , see that your cell be sweet and fresh , a you yourself must be ; rise with the sun , and with him to sleep .
You must harm no flower in do your work , nor take more than your just share of honey ; for they so kindly give u food , it be most cruel to treat them with aught save gentleness and gratitude .
Now will you stay with u , and learn what even mortal seek to know , that labor brings true happiness ? ''
And Thistle say he would stay and dwell with them ; for he be tire of wander alone , and think he might live here till Lily-Bell should come , or till he be weary of the kind-hearted bee .
Then they take away his gay garment , and dress him like themselves , in the black velvet cloak with golden band across his breast .
`` Now come with u , '' they say .
So forth into the green field they go , and make their breakfast among the dewy flower ; and then till the sun set they fly from bud to blossom , sing a they go ; and Thistle for a while be happy than when break flower and harm gentle bird .
But he soon grow tire of work all day in the sun , and long to be free again .
He could find no pleasure with the industrious bee , and sigh to be away with his idle friend , the butterfly ; so while the others work he sleep or play , and then , in haste to get his share , he tear the flower , and take all they have save for their own food .
Nor be this all ; he tell such pleasant tale of the life he lead before he come to live with them , that many grow unhappy and discontent , and they who have before wish no great joy than the love and praise of their kind Queen , now disobey and blame her for all she have do for them .
Long she bore with their unkind word and deed ; and when at length she find it be the ungrateful Fairy who have work this trouble in her quiet kingdom , she strive , with sweet , forgiving word , to show him all the wrong he have do ; but he would not listen , and still go on destroy the happiness of those who have do so much for him .
Then , when she saw that no kindness could touch his heart , she say : -- `` Thistledown , we take you in , a friendless stranger , feed and clothe you , and make our home a pleasant to you a we could ; and in return for all our care , you have bring discontent and trouble to my subject , grief and care to me .
I can not let my peaceful kingdom be disturb by you ; therefore go and seek another home .
You may find other friend , but none will love you more than we , have you be worthy of it ; so farewell . ''
And the door of the once happy home he have disturb be close behind him .
Then he be very angry , and determine to bring some great sorrow on the good Queen .
So he seek out the idle , wilful bee , whom he have first make discontent , bid them follow him , and win the honey the Queen have store up for the winter .
`` Let u feast and make merry in the pleasant summer-time , '' say Thistle ; `` winter be far off , why should we waste these lovely day , toil to lay up the food we might enjoy now .
Come , we will take what we have make , and think no more of what the Queen have say . ''
So while the industrious bee be out among the flower , he lead the drone to the hive , and take possession of the honey , destroy and lay waste the home of the kind bee ; then , fear that in their grief and anger they might harm him , Thistle fly away to seek new friend .
After many wandering , he come at length to a great forest , and here beside a still lake he stay to rest .
Delicate wood-flowers grow near him in the deep green moss , with droop head , a if they listen to the soft wind singing among the pine .
Bright-eyed bird peep at him from their nest , and many-colored insect dance above the cool , still lake .
`` This be a pleasant place , '' say Thistle ; `` it shall be my home for a while .
Come hither , blue dragon-fly , I would gladly make a friend of you , for I be all alone . ''
The dragon-fly fold his shin wing beside the Elf , listen to the tale he tell , promise to befriend the lonely one , and strive to make the forest a happy home to him .
So here dwelt Thistle , and many kind friend gather round him , for he speak gently to them , and they know nothing of the cruel deeds he have do ; and for a while he be happy and content .
But at length he grow weary of the gentle bird , and wild-flowers , and seek new pleasure in destroy the beauty he be tire of ; and soon the friend who have so kindly welcome him look upon him a an evil spirit , and shrink away a he approach .
At length his friend the dragon-fly besought him to leave the quiet home he have disturb .
Then Thistle be very angry , and while the dragon-fly be sleep among the flower that hang over the lake , he lead an ugly spider to the spot , and bid him weave his net about the sleeping insect , and bind him fast .
The cruel spider gladly obey the ungrateful Fairy ; and soon the poor fly could move neither leg nor wing .
Then Thistle fly away through the wood , leave sorrow and trouble behind him .
He have not journey far before he grow weary , and lay down to rest .
Long he sleep , and when he awake , and try to rise , his hand and wing be bind ; while beside him stand two strange little figure , with dark face and garment , that rustle like withered leaf ; who cry to him , a he struggle to get free , -- `` Lie still , you naughty Fairy , you be in the Brownies ' power , and shall be well punish for your cruelty ere we let you go . ''
So poor Thistle lay sorrowfully , wonder what would come of it , and wish Lily-Bell would come to help and comfort him ; but he have leave her , and she could not help him now .
Soon a troop of Brownies come rustle through the air , and gather round him , while one who wear an acorn-cup on his head , and be their King , say , a he stand beside the trembling Fairy , -- `` You have do many cruel thing , and cause much sorrow to happy heart ; now you be in my power , and I shall keep you prisoner till you have repent .
You can not dwell on the earth without harm the fair thing give you to enjoy , so you shall live alone in solitude and darkness , till you have learn to find happiness in gentle deed , and forget yourself in give joy to others .
When you have learn this , I will set you free . ''
Then the Brownies bore him to a high , dark rock , and , enter a little door , lead him to a small cell , dimly light by a crevice through which come a single gleam of sunlight ; and there , through long , long day , poor Thistle sit alone , and gaze with wistful eye at the little opening , long to be out on the green earth .
No one come to him , but the silent Brownies who bring his daily food ; and with bitter tear he weep for Lily-Bell , mourn his cruelty and selfishness , seek to do some kindly deed that might atone for his wrong-doing .
A little vine that grow outside his prison rock come creep up , and look in through the crevice , a if to cheer the lonely Fairy , who welcome it most gladly , and daily sprinkle it soft leaf with his small share of water , that the little vine might live , even if it darken more and more his dim cell .
The watchful Brownies saw this kind deed , and bring him fresh flower , and many thing , which Thistle gratefully receive , though he never know it be his kindness to the vine that gain for him these pleasure .
Thus do poor Thistle strive to be more gentle and unselfish , and grow daily happy and well .
Now while Thistledown be a captive in the lonely cell , Lily-Bell be seek him far and wide , and sadly trace him by the sorrowing hearts he have leave behind .
She heal the drooping flower , cheer the Queen Bee 's grief , bring back her discontented subject , restore the home to peace and order , and leave them bless her .
Thus she journey on , till she reach the forest where Thistledown have lose his freedom .
She unbind the starve dragon-fly , and tend the wounded bird ; but though all learn to love her , none could tell where the Brownies have bear her friend , till a little wind come whispering by , and tell her that a sweet voice have be hear , sing Fairy song , deep in a moss-grown rock .
Then Lily-Bell go seek through the forest , listen for the voice .
Long she look and listen in vain ; when one day , a she be wander through a lonely dell , she hear a faint , low sound of music , and soon a distant voice mournfully singing , -- `` Bright shin the summer sun , Soft be the summer air ; Gayly the wood-birds sing , Flowers be bloom fair .
`` But , deep in the dark , cold rock , Sadly I dwell , Longing for thee , dear friend , Lily-Bell !
Lily-Bell ! ''
`` Thistle , dear Thistle , where be you ? ''
joyfully cry Lily-Bell , a she fly from rock to rock .
But the voice be still , and she would have look in vain , have she not see a little vine , whose green leave flutter to and fro seem beckon her to come ; and a she stand among it flower she sing , -- `` Through sunlight and summer air I have seek for thee long , Guided by bird and flower , And now by thy song .
`` Thistledown !
Thistledown !
O'er hill and dell Hither to comfort thee Comes Lily-Bell . ''
Then from the vine-leaves two little arm be stretch out to her , and Thistledown be find .
So Lily-Bell make her home in the shadow of the vine , and bring such joy to Thistle , that his lonely cell seem pleasanter to him than all the world beside ; and he grow daily more like his gentle friend .
But it do not last long , for one day she do not come .
He watch and wait long , for the little face that use to peep smiling in through the vine-leaves .
He call and beckon through the narrow opening , but no Lily-Bell answer ; and he weep sadly a he think of all she have do for him , and that now he could not go to seek and help her , for he have lose his freedom by his own cruel and wicked deed .
At last he beseech the silent Brownie earnestly to tell him whither she have go .
`` O let me go to her , '' pray Thistle ; `` if she be in sorrow , I will comfort her , and show my gratitude for all she have do for me : dear Brownie , set me free , and when she be find I will come and be your prisoner again .
I will bear and suffer any danger for her sake . ''
`` Lily-Bell be safe , '' reply the Brownie ; `` come , you shall learn the trial that await you . ''
Then he lead the wonder Fairy from his prison , to a group of tall , droop fern , beneath whose shade a large white lily have be place , form a little tent , within which , on a couch of thick green moss , lay Lily-Bell in a deep sleep ; the sunlight stole softly in , and all be cool and still .
`` You can not wake her , '' say the Brownie , a Thistle fold his arm tenderly about her .
`` It be a magic slumber , and she will not wake till you shall bring hither gift from the Earth , Air , and Water Spirits . '
T be a long and weary task , for you have make no friend to help you , and will have to seek for them alone .
This be the trial we shall give you ; and if your love for Lily-Bell be strong enough to keep you from all cruelty and selfishness , and make you kind and loving a you should be , she will awake to welcome you , and love you still more fondly than before . ''
Then Thistle , with a last look on the little friend he love so well , set forth alone to his long task .
The home of the Earth Spirits be the first to find , and no one would tell him where to look .
So far and wide he wander , through gloomy forest and among lonely hill , with none to cheer him when sad and weary , none to guide him on his way .
On he go , think of Lily-Bell , and for her sake bearing all ; for in his quiet prison many gentle feeling and kindly thought have spring up in his heart , and he now strive to be friend with all , and win for himself the love and confidence of those whom once he seek to harm and cruelly destroy .
But few believe him ; for they remember his false promise and evil deed , and would not trust him now ; so poor Thistle find few to love or care for him .
Long he wander , and carefully he seek ; but could not find the Earth Spirits ' home .
And when at length he reach the pleasant garden where he and Lily-Bell first part , he say within himself , -- `` Here I will stay awhile , and try to win by kindly deeds the flower ' forgiveness for the pain and sorrow I bring them long ago ; and they may learn to love and trust me .
So , even if I never find the Spirits , I shall be worthy of Lily-Bell 's affection if I strive to atone for the wrong I have do . ''
Then he go among the flower , but they close their leaf , and shrink away , tremble with fear ; while the bird flee to hide among the leaf a he pass .
This grieve poor Thistle , and he long to tell them how change he have become ; but they would not listen .
So he try to show , by quiet deed of kindness , that he mean no harm to them ; and soon the kind-hearted bird pity the lonely Fairy , and when he come near sang cheer song , and drop ripe berry in his path , for he no longer break their egg , or hurt their little one .
And when the flower saw this , and find the once cruel Elf now water and tend little bud , feed hungry insect , and help the busy ant to bear their heavy load , they share the pity of the bird , and long to trust him ; but they dare not yet .
He come one day , while wander through the garden , to the little rise he have once harm so sadly .
Many bud now bloomed beside her , and her soft face glow with motherly pride , a she bend fondly over them .
But when Thistle come , he saw with sorrow how she bid them close their green curtain , and conceal themselves beneath the leaf , for there be danger near ; and , droop still more closely over them , she seem to wait with tremble fear the cruel Fairy 's come .
But no rude hand tear her little one away , no unkind word be speak ; but a soft shower of dew fell lightly on them , and Thistle , bend tenderly above them , say , -- `` Dear flower , forgive the sorrow I once bring you , and trust me now for Lily-Bell 's sake .
Her gentleness have change my cruelty to kindness , and I would gladly repay all for the harm I have do ; but none will love and trust me now . ''
Then the little rise look up , and while the dew-drops shone like happy tear upon her leaf , she say , -- `` I WILL love and trust you , Thistle , for you be indeed much change .
Make your home among u , and my sister flower will soon learn to love you a you deserve .
Not for sweet Lily-Bell 's sake , but for your own , will I become your friend ; for you be kind and gentle now , and worthy of our love .
Look up , my little one , there be no danger near ; look up , and welcome Thistle to our home . ''
Then the little bud raise their rosy face , dance again upon their stem , and nod kindly at Thistle , who smile on them through happy tear , and kiss the sweet , forgive rise , who love and trust him when most forlorn and friendless .
But the other flower wonder among themselves , and Hyacinth say , -- `` If Rose-Leaf be his friend , surely we may be ; yet still I fear he may soon grow weary of this gentleness , and be again the wicked Fairy he once be , and we shall suffer for our kindness to him now . ''
`` Ah , do not doubt him ! ''
cry warm-hearted little Mignonette ; `` surely some good spirit have change the wicked Thistle into this good little Elf .
See how tenderly he lift aside the leaf that overshadow pale Harebell , and listen now how softly he sing a he rock little Eglantine to sleep .
He have do many friendly thing , though none save Rose-Leaf have be kind to him , and he be very sad .
Last night when I awake to draw my curtain closer , he sit weep in the moonlight , so bitterly , I long to speak a kindly word to him .
Dear sister , let u trust him . ''
And they all say little Mignonette be right ; and , spread wide their leaf , they bid him come , and drink their dew , and lie among the fragrant petal , strive to cheer his sorrow .
Thistle tell them all , and , after much whispering together , they say , -- `` Yes , we will help you to find the Earth Spirits , for you be strive to be good , and for love of Lily-Bell we will do much for you . ''
So they call a little bright-eyed mole , and say , `` Downy-Back , we have give you a pleasant home among our root , and you be a grateful little friend ; so will you guide dear Thistle to the Earth Spirits ' home ? ''
Downy-Back say , `` Yes , '' and Thistle , thank the kindly flower , follow his little guide , through long , dark gallery , deep and deeply into the ground ; while a glow-worm flew before to light the way .
On they go , and after a while , reach a path lit up by bright jewel hang upon the wall .
Here Downy-Back , and Glimmer , the glow-worm , leave him , say , -- `` We can lead you no farther ; you must now go on alone , and the music of the Spirits will guide you to their home . ''
Then they go quickly up the winding path , and Thistle , guide by the sweet music , go on alone .
He soon reach a lovely spot , whose golden hall be bright with jewel , which sparkle brightly , and throw many-colored shadow on the shin garment of the little Spirits , who dance below to the melody of soft , silvery bell .
Long Thistle stand watch the brilliant form that flash and sparkle round him ; but he miss the flower and the sunlight , and rejoice that he be not an Earth Spirit .
At last they spy him out , and , gladly welcome him , bid him join in their dance .
But Thistledown be too sad for that , and when he tell them all his story they no longer urged , but seek to comfort him ; and one whom they call little Sparkle -LRB- for her crown and robe shone with the bright diamond -RRB- , say : `` You will have to work for u , ere you can win a gift to show the Brownies ; do you see those golden bell that make such music , a we wave them to and fro ?
We work long and hard ere they be win , and you can win one of those , if you will do the task we give you . ''
And Thistle say , `` No task will be too hard for me to do for dear Lily-Bell 's sake . ''
Then they lead him to a strange , dark place , light up with torch ; where troop of Spirits fly busily to and fro , among damp rock , and through dark gallery that lead far down into the earth .
`` What do they here ? ''
ask Thistle .
`` I will tell , '' reply little Sparkle , `` for I once work here myself .
Some of them watch above the flower-roots , and keep them fresh and strong ; others gather the clear drop that trickle from the damp rock , and form a little spring , which , grow ever large , rise to the light above , and gush forth in some green field or lonely forest ; where the wild-birds come to drink , and wood-flowers spread their thirsty leaf above the clear , cool wave , a they go dance away , carry joy and freshness wherever they go .
Others shape the bright jewel into lovely form , and make the good-luck penny which we give to mortal whom we love .
And here you must toil till the golden flower be win . ''
Then Thistle go among the Spirits , and join in their task ; he tend the flower-roots , gather the water-drops , and form the good-luck penny .
Long and hard he work , and be often sad and weary , often tempt by unkind and selfish thought ; but he think of Lily-Bell , and strive to be kind and loving a she have be ; and soon the Spirits learn to love the patient Fairy , who have leave his home to toil among them for the sake of his gentle friend .
At length come little Sparkle to him , say , `` You have do enough ; come now , and dance and feast with u , for the golden flower be win . ''
But Thistle could not stay , for half his task be not yet do ; and he long for sunlight and Lily-Bell .
So , take a kind farewell , he hasten through the torch-lit path up to the light again ; and , spread his wing , fly over hill and dale till he reach the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleeping .
It be early morning , and the rosy light shone brightly through the lily-leaves upon her , a Thistle enter , and lay his first gift at the Brownie King 's foot .
`` You have do well , '' say he , `` we hear good tidings of you from bird and flower , and you be truly seek to repair the evil you have do .
Take now one look at your little friend , and then go forth to seek from the Air Spirits your second gift . ''
Then Thistle say farewell again to Lily-Bell , and fly far and wide among the cloud , seek the Air Spirits ; but though he wander till his weary wing could bear him no longer , it be in vain .
So , faint and sad , he lay down to rest on a broad vine-leaf , that flutter gently in the wind ; and a he lay , he saw beneath him the home of the kind be whom he have so disturbed , and Lily-Bell have help and comfort .
`` I will seek to win their pardon , and show them that I be no longer the cruel Fairy who so harm them , '' think Thistle , `` and when they become again my friend , I will ask their help to find the Air Spirits ; and if I deserve it , they will gladly aid me on my way . ''
So he fly down into the field below , and hasten busily from flower to flower , till he have fill a tiny blue-bell with sweet , fresh honey .
Then he steal softly to the hive , and , place it near the door , conceal himself to watch .
Soon his friend Nimble-Wing come fly home , and when he spy the little cup , he hum with joy , and call his companion around him .
`` Surely , some good Elf have place it here for u , '' say they ; `` let u bear it to our Queen ; it be so fresh and fragrant it will be a fit gift for her '' ; and they joyfully take it in , little dreaming who have place it there .
So each day Thistle fill a flower-cup , and lay it at the door ; and each day the bee wonder more and more , for many strange thing happen .
The field-flowers told of the good spirit who watch above them , and the bird sang of the same kind little Elf bring soft moss for their nest , and food for their hungry young one ; while all around the hive have grow fairer since the Fairy come .
But the bee never saw him , for he fear he have not yet do enough to win their forgiveness and friendship ; so he live alone among the vine , daily bring them honey , and do some kindly action .
At length , a he lay sleep in a flower-bell , a little bee come wandering by , and know him for the wicked Thistle ; so he call his friend , and , a they fly murmur around him , he awake .
`` What shall we do to you , naughty Elf ? ''
say they .
`` You be in our power , and we will sting you if you be not still . ''
`` Let u close the flower-leaves around him and leave him here to starve , '' cry one , who have not yet forget all the sorrow Thistle have cause them long ago .
`` No , no , that be very cruel , dear Buzz , '' say little Hum ; `` let u take him to our Queen , and she will tell u how to show our anger for the wicked deed he do .
See how bitterly he weep ; be kind to him , he will not harm u more . ''
`` You good little Hum ! ''
cry a kind-hearted robin who have hop near to listen to the bee .
`` Dear friend , do you not know that this be the good Fairy who have dwell so quietly among u , watch over bird and blossom , give joy to all he help ?
It be HE who bring the honey-cup each day to you , and then go silently away , that you may never know who work so faithfully for you .
Be kind to him , for if he have do wrong , he have repent of it , a you may see . ''
`` Can this be naughty Thistle ? ''
say Nimble-Wing .
`` Yes , it be I , '' say Thistle , `` but no long cruel and unkind .
I have try to win your love by patient industry .
Ah , trust me now , and you shall see I be not naughty Thistle any more . ''
Then the wonder bee lead him to their Queen , and when he have tell his tale , and beg their forgiveness , it be gladly give ; and all strive to show him that he be love and trust .
Then he ask if they could tell him where the Air Spirits dwelt , for he must not forget dear Lily-Bell ; and to his great joy the Queen say , `` Yes , '' and bid little Hum guide Thistle to Cloud-Land .
Little Hum joyfully obey ; and Thistle follow him , a he fly high and high among the soft cloud , till in the distance they saw a radiant light .
`` There be their home , and I must leave you now , dear Thistle , '' say the little bee ; and , bid him farewell , he fly sing back ; while Thistle , follow the light , soon find himself in the Air Spirits ' home .
The sky be gold and purple like an autumn sunset , and long wall of brilliant cloud lay round him .
A rosy light shone through the silver mist , on gleam column and the rainbow roof ; soft , fragrant wind go whisper by , and airy little form be flit to and fro .
Long Thistle wonder at the beauty round him ; and then he go among the shin Spirits , tell his tale , and ask a gift .
But they answer like the Earth Spirits .
`` You must serve u first , and then we will gladly give you a robe of sunlight like our own . ''
And then they tell him how they waft flower-seeds over the earth , to beautify and brighten lonely spot ; how they watch above the blossom by day , and scatter dew at night , bring sunlight into darkened place , and soft wind to refresh and cheer .
`` These be the thing we do , '' say they , `` and you must aid u for a time . ''
And Thistle gladly go with the lovely Spirits ; by day he join the sunlight and the breeze in their silent work ; by night , with Star-Light and her sister spirit , he fly over the moon-lit earth , drop cool dew upon the folded flower , and bring happy dream to sleep mortal .
Many a kind deed be do , many a gentle word be speak ; and each day light grow his heart , and strong his power of give joy to others .
At length Star-Light bid him work no more , and gladly give him the gift he have win .
Then his second task be do , and he fly gayly back to the green earth and slumber Lily-Bell .
The silvery moonlight shone upon her , a he come to give his second gift ; and the Brownie speak more kindly than before .
`` One more trial , Thistle , and she will awake .
Go bravely forth and win your last and hard gift . ''
Then with a light heart Thistle journey away to the brook and river , seek the Water Spirits .
But he look in vain ; till , wander through the forest where the Brownies take him captive , he stop beside the quiet lake .
As he stand here he hear a sound of pain , and , look in the tall grass at his side , he saw the dragon-fly whose kindness he once repay by pain and sorrow , and who now lay suffer and alone .
Thistle bend tenderly beside him , say , `` Dear Flutter , do not fear me .
I will gladly ease your pain , if you will let me ; I be your friend , and long to show you how I grieve for all the wrong I do you , when you be so kind to me .
Forgive , and let me help and comfort you . ''
Then he bind up the broken wing , and speak so tenderly that Flutter doubt him no longer , and be his friend again .
Day by day do Thistle watch beside him , make little bed of cool , fresh moss for him to rest upon , fan him when he sleep , and sing sweet song to cheer him when awake .
And often when poor Flutter long to be dance once again over the blue wave , the Fairy bore him in his arm to the lake , and on a broad leaf , with a green flag for a sail , they float on the still water ; while the dragon-fly 's companion fly about them , play merry game .
At length the broken wing be well , and Thistle say he must again seek the Water Spirits .
`` I can tell you where to find them , '' say Flutter ; `` you must follow yonder little brook , and it will lead you to the sea , where the Spirits dwell .
I would gladly do more for you , dear Thistle , but I can not , for they live deep beneath the wave .
You will find some kind friend to aid you on your way ; and so farewell . ''
Thistle follow the little brook , a it flow through field and valley , grow ever large , till it reach the sea .
Here the wind blew freshly , and the great wave roll and break at Thistle 's foot , a he stand upon the shore , watch the billow dance and sparkle in the sun .
`` How shall I find the Spirits in this great sea , with none to help or guide me ?
Yet it be my last task , and for Lily-Bell 's sake I must not fear or falter now , '' say Thistle .
So he fly hither and thither over the sea , look through the wave .
Soon he saw , far below , the branch of the coral tree .
`` They must be here , '' think he , and , fold his wing , he plunge into the deep , cold sea .
But he saw only fearful monster and dark shape that gather round him ; and , tremble with fear , he struggle up again .
The great wave toss him to and fro , and cast him bruise and faint upon the shore .
Here he lay weep bitterly , till a voice beside him say , `` Poor little Elf , what have befall you ?
These rough wave be not fit playmate for so delicate a thing a you .
Tell me your sorrow , and I will comfort you . ''
And Thistle , look up , saw a white sea-bird at his side , who try with friendly word to cheer him .
So he tell all his wandering , and how he seek the Sea Spirits .
`` Surely , if bee and blossom do their part to help you , bird should aid you too , '' say the Sea-bird .
`` I will call my friend , the Nautilus , and he will bear you safely to the Coral Palace where the Spirits dwell . ''
So , spread his great wing , he fly away , and soon Thistle saw a little boat come dancing over the wave , and wait beside the shore for him .
In he spring .
Nautilus raise his little sail to the wind , and the light boat glide swiftly over the blue sea .
At last Thistle cry , `` I see lovely arch far below ; let me go , it be the Spirits ' home . ''
`` Nay , close your eye , and trust to me .
I will bear you safely down , '' say Nautilus .
So Thistle close his eye , and listen to the murmur of the sea , a they sink slowly through the wave .
The soft sound lull him to sleep , and when he awake the boat be go , and he stand among the Water Spirits , in their strange and lovely home .
Lofty arch of snow-white coral bent above him , and the wall of brightly tint shell be wreathe with lovely sea-flowers , and the sunlight shining on the wave cast silvery shadow on the ground , where sparkle stone glow in the sand .
A cool , fresh wind sweep through the wave garland of bright sea-moss , and the distant murmur of dash wave come softly on the air .
Soon troop of graceful Spirits flit by , and when they find the wonder Elf , they gather round him , bring pearl-shells heap with precious stone , and all the rare , strange gift that lie beneath the sea .
But Thistle wish for none of these , and when his tale be tell , the kindly Spirits pity him ; and little Pearl sigh , a she tell him of the long and weary task he must perform , ere he could win a crown of snow-white pearl like those they wear .
But Thistle have gain strength and courage in his wandering , and do not falter now , when they lead him to a place among the coral-workers , and tell him he must labor here , till the spreading branch reach the light and air , through the wave that dance above .
With a patient hope that he might yet be worthy of Lily-Bell , the Fairy leave the lovely spirit and their pleasant home , to toil among the coral-builders , where all be strange and dim .
Long , long , he work ; but still the wave roll far above them , and his task be not yet do ; and many bitter tear poor Thistle shed , and sadly he pin for air and sunlight , the voice of bird , and breath of flower .
Often , fold in the magic garment which the Spirits give him , that he might pass unharmed among the fearful creature dwell there , he rise to the surface of the sea , and , glide through the wave , gaze longingly upon the hill , now look blue and dim so far away , or watch the flock of summer bird , journey to a warm land ; and they bring sad memory of green old forest , and sunny field , to the lonely little Fairy float on the great , wild sea .
Day after day go by , and slowly Thistle 's task draw towards an end .
Busily toil the coral-workers , but more busily toil he ; insect and Spirit daily wonder more and more , at the industry and patience of the silent little Elf , who have a friendly word for all , though he never join them in their sport .
Higher and high grow the coral-boughs , and light grow the Fairy 's heart , while thought of dear Lily-Bell cheer him on , a day by day he steadily toil ; and when at length the sun shone on his work , and it be do , he stay but to take the garland he have win , and to thank the good Spirits for their love and care .
Then up through the cold , blue wave he swiftly glide , and , shake the bright drop from his wing , soar sing up to the sunny sky .
On through the fragrant air go Thistle , look with glad face upon the fair , fresh earth below , where flower look smile up , and green tree bow their graceful head a if to welcome him .
Soon the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleep rise before him , and a he pass along the cool , dim wood-paths , never have they seem so fair .
But when he come where his little friend have sleep , it be no long the dark , silent spot where he last saw her .
Garlands hang from every tree , and the fair flower fill the air with their sweet breath .
Bird 's gay voice echo far and wide , and the little brook go singing by , beneath the arch fern that bend above it ; green leaf rustle in the summer wind , and the air be full of music .
But the fair sight be Lily-Bell , a she lay on the couch of velvet moss that Fairy hand have spread .
The golden flower lay beside her , and the glittering robe be fold round her little form .
The warm sunlight fell upon her , and the soft breeze lift her shin hair .
Happy tear fell fast , a Thistle fold his arm around her , cry , `` O Lily-Bell , dear Lily-Bell , awake !
I have be true to you , and now my task be do . ''
Then , with a smile , Lily-Bell awoke , and look with wonder eye upon the beauty that have rise round her .
`` Dear Thistle , what mean these fair thing , and why be we in this lovely place ? ''
`` Listen , Lily-Bell , '' say the Brownie King , a he appear beside her .
And then he tell all that Thistle have do to show his love for her ; how he have wander far and wide to seek the Fairy gift , and toil long and hard to win them ; how he have be love , true , and tender , when most lonely and forsake .
`` Bird , bee , and blossom have forgive him , and none be more loved and trust now by all , than the once cruel Thistle , '' say the King , a he bend down to the happy Elf , who bow low before him .
`` You have learn the beauty of a gentle , kindly heart , dear Thistle ; and you be now worthy to become the friend of her for whom you have do so much .
Place the crown upon her head , for she be Queen of all the Forest Fairies now . ''
And a the crown shone on the head that Lily-Bell bend down on Thistle 's breast , the forest seem alive with little form , who spring from flower and leaf , and gather round her , bring gift for their new Queen .
`` If I be Queen , then you be King , dear Thistle , '' say the Fairy .
`` Take the crown , and I will have a wreath of flower .
You have toil and suffer for my sake , and you alone should rule over these little Elves whose love you have win . ''
`` Keep your crown , Lily-Bell , for yonder come the Spirits with their gift to Thistle , '' say the Brownie .
And , a he point with his wand , out from among the mossy root of an old tree come troop the Earth Spirits , their flower-bells ring softly a they come , and their jewelled garment glitter in the sun .
On to where Thistledown stand beneath the shadow of the flower , with Lily-Bell beside him , go the Spirits ; and then forth sprang little Sparkle , wave a golden flower , whose silvery music fill the air .
`` Dear Thistle , '' say the shining Spirit , `` what you toil so faithfully to win for another , let u offer now a a token of our love for you . ''
As she cease , down through the air come float band of lovely Air Spirits , bring a shin robe , and they too tell their love for the gentle Fairy who have dwell with them .
Then softly on the breeze come distant music , grow ever nearer , till over the ripple wave come the singing Water Spirits , in their boat of many-colored shell ; and a they place their glittering crown on Thistle 's head , loud ring the flower , and joyously sing the bird , while all the Forest Fairies cry , with silvery voice , `` Lily-Bell and Thistledown !
Long live our King and Queen ! ''
`` Have you a tale for u too , dear Violet-Eye ? ''
say the Queen , a Zephyr cease .
The little Elf thus name look from among the flower-leaves where she sit , and with a smile reply , `` As I be weave garland in the field , I hear a primrose tell this tale to her friend Golden-Rod . ''
LITTLE BUD .
IN a great forest , high up among the green bough , live Bird Brown-Breast , and his bright-eyed little mate .
They be now very happy ; their home be do , the four blue egg lay in the soft nest , and the little wife sit still and patient on them , while the husband sang , and tell her charming tale , and bring her sweet berry and little worm .
Things go smoothly on , till one day she find in the nest a little white egg , with a golden band about it .
`` My friend , '' cry she , `` come and see !
Where can this fine egg have come from ?
My four be here , and this also ; what think you of it ? ''
The husband shake his head gravely , and say , `` Be not alarm , my love ; it be doubtless some good Fairy who have give u this , and we shall find some gift within ; do not let u touch it , but do you sit carefully upon it , and we shall see in time what have be send u . ''
So they say nothing about it , and soon their home have four little chirp child ; and then the white egg open , and , behold , a little maiden lay sing within .
Then how amaze be they , and how they welcome her , a she lay warm beneath the mother 's wing , and how the young bird do love her .
Great joy be in the forest , and proud be the parent of their family , and still more of the little one who have come to them ; while all the neighbor flock in , to see Dame Brown-Breast 's little child .
And the tiny maiden talk to them , and sing so merrily , that they could have listen for ever .
Soon she be the joy of the whole forest , dance from tree to tree , make every nest her home , and none be ever so welcome a little Bud ; and so they live right merrily in the green old forest .
The father now have much to do to supply his family with food , and choice morsel do he bring little Bud .
The wild fruit be her food , the fresh dew in the flower-cups her drink , while the green leave serve her for little robe ; and thus she find garment in the flower of the field , and a happy home with Mother Brown-Breast ; and all in the wood , from the stately tree to the little moss in the turf , be friend to the merry child .
And each day she teach the young bird sweet song , and a their gay music rang through the old forest , the stern , dark pine cease their solemn waving , that they might hear the soft sound steal through the dim wood-paths , and mortal child come to listen , say softly , `` Hear the flower sing , and touch them not , for the Fairies be here . ''
Then come a band of sad little Elves to Bud , pray that they might hear the sweet music ; and when she take them by the hand , and speak gently to them , they weep and say sadly , when she ask them whence they come , -- `` We dwell once in Fairy-Land , and O how happy be we then !
But ala !
we be not worthy of so fair a home , and be send forth into the cold world .
Look at our robe , they be like the withered leaf ; our wing be dim , our crown be go , and we lead sad , lonely live in this dark forest .
Let u stay with you ; your gay music sound like Fairy song , and you have such a friendly way with you , and speak so gently to u .
It be good to be near one so lovely and so kind ; and you can tell u how we may again become fair and innocent .
Say we may stay with you , kind little maiden . ''
And Bud say , `` Yes , '' and they stay ; but her kind little heart be grieve that they weep so sadly , and all she could say could not make them happy ; till at last she say , -- `` Do not weep , and I will go to Queen Dew-Drop , and beseech her to let you come back .
I will tell her that you be repentant , and will do anything to gain her love again ; that you be sad , and long to be forgive .
This will I say , and more , and trust she will grant my prayer . ''
`` She will not say no to you , dear Bud , '' say the poor little Fairies ; `` she will love you a we do , and if we can but come again to our lose home , we can not give you thanks enough .
Go , Bud , and if there be power in Fairy gift , you shall be as happy a our heart ' best love can make you . ''
The tidings of Bud 's departure fly through the forest , and all her friend come to say farewell , a with the morning sun she would go ; and each bring some little gift , for the land of Fairies be far away , and she must journey long .
`` Nay , you shall not go on your foot , my child , '' say Mother Brown-Breast ; `` your friend Golden-Wing shall carry you .
Call him hither , that I may seat you rightly , for if you should fall off my heart would break . ''
Then up come Golden-Wing , and Bud be safely seat on the cushion of violet-leaves ; and it be really charm to see her merry little face , peep from under the broad brim of her cow-slip hat , a her butterfly steed stand wave his bright wing in the sunlight .
Then come the bee with his yellow honey-bags , which he beg she would take , and the little brown spider that live under the great leaf bring a veil for her hat , and beseech her to wear it , lest the sun should shine too brightly ; while the ant come bring a tiny strawberry , lest she should miss her favorite fruit .
The mother give her good advice , and the papa stand with his head on one side , and his round eye twinkle with delight , to think that his little Bud be go to Fairy-Land .
Then they all sing gayly together , till she pass out of sight over the hill , and they saw her no more .
And now Bud leave the old forest far behind her .
Golden-Wing bore her swiftly along , and she look down on the green mountain , and the peasant 's cottage , that stand among overshadow tree ; and the earth look bright , with it broad , blue river wind through soft meadow , the singing bird , and flower , who keep their bright eye ever on the sky .
And she sing gayly a they float in the clear air , while her friend keep time with his wave wing , and ever a they go along all grow fairer ; and thus they come to Fairy-Land .
As Bud pass through the gate , she no longer wonder that the exiled Fairies wept and sorrow for the lovely home they have lose .
Bright cloud float in the sunny sky , cast a rainbow light on the Fairy palace below , where the Elves be dance ; while the low , sweet voice of the sing flower sound softly through the fragrant air , and mingle with the music of the ripple wave , a they flow on beneath the blossoming vine that droop above them .
All be bright and beautiful ; but kind little Bud would not linger , for the form of the weep Fairies be before her ; and though the blossom nod gayly on their stem to welcome her , and the soft wind kiss her cheek , she would not stay , but on to the Flower Palace she go , into a pleasant hall whose wall be form of crimson rose , amid whose leaf sit little Elves , make sweet music on their harp .
When they saw Bud , they gather round her , and lead her through the flower-wreathed arch to a group of the most beautiful Fairies , who be gather about a stately lily , in whose fragrant cup sit one whose purple robe and glitter crown tell she be their Queen .
Bud kneel before her , and , while tear stream down her little face , she tell her errand , and plead earnestly that the exiled Fairies might be forgive , and not be leave to pine far from their friend and kindred .
And a she pray , many wept with her ; and when she cease , and wait for her answer , many kneel beside her , pray forgiveness for the unhappy Elves .
With tearful eye , Queen Dew-Drop reply , -- `` Little maiden , your prayer have soften my heart .
They shall not be leave sorrowing and alone , nor shall you go back without a kindly word to cheer and comfort them .
We will pardon their fault , and when they can bring hither a perfect Fairy crown , robe , and wand , they shall be again receive a child of their loving Queen .
The task be hard , for none but the best and purest can form the Fairy garment ; yet with patience they may yet restore their robe to their former brightness .
Farewell , good little maiden ; come with them , for but for you they would have dwelt for ever without the wall of Fairy-Land . ''
`` Good speed to you , and farewell , '' cry they all , a , with love message to their poor friend , they bore her to the gate .
Day after day toil little Bud , cheer the Fairies , who , angry and disappointed , would not listen to her gentle word , but turn away and sit alone weep .
They grieve her kind heart with many cruel word ; but patiently she bore with them , and when they tell her they could never perform so hard a task , and must dwell for ever in the dark forest , she answer gently , that the snow-white lily must be plant , and water with repentant tear , before the robe of innocence could be win ; that the sun of love must shine in their heart , before the light could return to their dim crown , and deed of kindness must be perform , ere the power would come again to their now useless wand .
Then they plant the lily ; but they soon droop and die , and no light come to their crown .
They do no gentle deeds , but care only for themselves ; and when they find their labor be in vain , they try no longer , but sit weeping .
Bud , with ceaseless toil and patient care , tend the lily , which bloom brightly , the crown grow bright , and in her hand the wand have power over bird and blossom , for she be strive to give happiness to others , forgetful of herself .
And the idle Fairies , with thankful word , take the garment from her , and then with Bud go forth to Fairy-Land , and stand with beating heart before the gate ; where crowd of Fairy friend come forth to welcome them .
But when Queen Dew-Drop touch them with her wand , a they pass in , the light fade from their crown , their robe become like wither leaf , and their wand be powerless .
Amid the tear of all the Fairies , the Queen lead them to the gate , and say , -- `` Farewell !
It be not in my power to aid you ; innocence and love be not within your heart , and be it not for this untiring little maiden , who have toil while you have weep , you never would have enter your lose home .
Go and strive again , for till all be once more fair and pure , I can not call you mine . ''
`` Farewell ! ''
sing the weeping Fairies , a the gate close on their outcast friend ; who , humble and broken-hearted , gather around Bud ; and she , with cheer word , guide them back to the forest .
Time pass on , and the Fairies have do nothing to gain their lovely home again .
They weep no longer , but watch little Bud , a she daily tend the flower , restore their strength and beauty , or with gentle word fly from nest to nest , teach the little bird to live happily together ; and wherever she go blessing fell , and love heart be fill with gratitude .
Then , one by one , the Elves secretly do some little work of kindness , and find a quiet joy come back to repay them .
Flowers look lovingly up a they pass , bird sing to cheer them when sad thought make them weep .
And soon little Bud find out their gentle deed , and her friendly word give them new strength .
So day after day they follow her , and like a band of guardian spirit they fly far and wide , carry with them joy and peace .
And not only bird and flower bless them , but human being also ; for with tender hand they guide little child from danger , and keep their young heart free from evil thought ; they whisper soothe word to the sick , and bring sweet odor and fair flower to their lonely room .
They send lovely vision to the old and blind , to make their heart young and bright with happy thought .
But most tenderly do they watch over the poor and sorrowing , and many a poor mother bless the unseen hand that lay food before her hungry little one , and fold warm garment round their naked limb .
Many a poor man wonder at the fair flower that spring up in his little garden-plot , cheer him with their bright form , and make his dreary home fair with their loveliness , and look at his once barren field , where now wave the golden corn , turn it broad leaf to the warm sun , and promise a store of golden ear to give him food ; while the care-worn face grow bright , and the troubled heart fill with gratitude towards the invisible spirit who have bring him such joy .
Thus time pass on , and though the exiled Fairies long often for their home , still , know they do not deserve it , they toil on , hop one day to see the friend they have lose ; while the joy of their own heart make their life full of happiness .
One day come little Bud to them , say , -- `` Listen , dear friend .
I have a hard task to offer you .
It be a great sacrifice for you light love Fairies to dwell through the long winter in the dark , cold earth , watch over the flower root , to keep them free from the little grub and worm that seek to harm them .
But in the sunny Spring when they bloom again , their love and gratitude will give you happy home among their bright leaf .
`` It be a wearisome task , and I can give you no reward for all your tender care , but the blessing of the gentle flower you will have save from death .
Gladly would I aid you ; but my winged friend be prepare for their journey to warmer land , and I must help them teach their little one to fly , and see them safely on their way .
Then , through the winter , must I seek the dwelling of the poor and suffering , comfort the sick and lonely , and give hope and courage to those who in their poverty be lead astray .
These thing must I do ; but when the flower bloom again I will be with you , to welcome back our friend from over the sea . ''
Then , with tear , the Fairies answer , `` Ah , good little Bud , you have take the hard task yourself , and who will repay you for all your deed of tenderness and mercy in the great world ?
Should evil befall you , our heart would break .
We will labor trustingly in the earth , and thought of you shall cheer u on ; for without you we have be worthless being , and never know the joy that kindly action bring .
Yes , dear Bud , we will gladly toil among the root , that the fair flower may wear their gay robe to welcome you . ''
Then deep in the earth the Fairies dwelt , and no frost or snow could harm the blossom they tend .
Every little seed be lay in the soft earth , water , and watch .
Tender root be fold in withered leaf , that no chill drop might reach them ; and safely dream the flower , till summer wind should call them forth ; while light grow each Fairy heart , a every gentle deed be tenderly perform .
At length the snow be go , and they hear little voice call them to come up ; but patiently they work , till seed and root be green and strong .
Then , with eager foot , they hasten to the earth above , where , over hill and valley , bright flower and bud tree smile in the warm sunlight , blossoms bent lovingly before them , and ring their colored bell , till the fragrant air be full of music ; while the stately tree wave their great arm above them , and scatter soft leaf at their foot .
Then come the merry bird , make the wood alive with their gay voice , call to one another , a they fly among the vine , build their little home .
Long wait the Elves , and at last she come with Father Brown-Breast .
Happy day pass ; and summer flower be in their full beauty , when Bud bid the Fairies come with her .
Mounted on bright-winged butterfly , they fly over forest and meadow , till with joyful eye they saw the flower-crowned wall of Fairy-Land .
Before the gate they stand , and soon troop of love Elves come forth to meet them .
And on through the sunny garden they go , into the Lily Hall , where , among the golden stamen of a graceful flower , sit the Queen ; while on the broad , green leave around it stand the brighteyed little maid of honor .
Then , amid the deep silence , little Bud , lead the Fairies to the throne , say , -- `` Dear Queen , I here bring back your subject , wiser for their sorrow , good for their hard trial ; and now might any Queen be proud of them , and bow to learn from them that give joy and peace to others brings it fourfold to u , bear a double happiness in the blessing to those we help .
Through the dreary month , when they might have dwell among fair Southern flower , beneath a smile sky , they toil in the dark and silent earth , fill the heart of the gentle Flower Spirits with grateful love , seek no reward but the knowledge of their own good deed , and the joy they always bring .
This they have do unmurmuringly and alone ; and now , far and wide , flower blessing fall upon them , and the summer wind bear the glad tidings unto those who droop in sorrow , and new joy and strength it bring , a they look longingly for the friend whose gentle care hath bring such happiness to their fair kindred .
`` Are they not worthy of your love , dear Queen ?
Have they not win their lovely home ?
Say they be pardon , and you have gain the love of heart pure a the snow-white robe now fold over them . ''
As Bud cease , she touch the wonder Fairies with her wand , and the dark fade garment fell away ; and beneath , the robe of lily-leaves glittered pure and spotless in the sun-light .
Then , while happy tear fell , Queen Dew-Drop place the bright crown on the bowed head of the kneeling Fairies , and lay before them the wand their own good deed have render powerful .
They turn to thank little Bud for all her patient love , but she be go ; and high above , in the clear air , they saw the little form journey back to the quiet forest .
She need no reward but the joy she have give .
The Fairy heart be pure again , and her work be do ; yet all Fairy-Land have learn a lesson from gentle little Bud .
`` Now , little Sunbeam , what have you to tell u ? ''
say the Queen , look down on a bright-eyed Elf , who sit half hide in the deep moss at her foot .
`` I too , like Star-Twinkle , have nothing but a song to offer , '' reply the Fairy ; and then , while the nightingale 's sweet voice mingle with her own , she sing , -- CLOVER-BLOSSOM .
IN a quiet , pleasant meadow , Beneath a summer sky , Where green old tree their branch wave , And wind go sing by ; Where a little brook go ripple So musically low , And pass cloud cast shadow On the wave grass below ; Where low , sweet note of brooding bird Stole out on the fragrant air , And golden sunlight shone undimmed On all most fresh and fair ; -- There bloom a lovely sisterhood Of happy little flower , Together in this pleasant home , Through quiet summer hour .
No rude hand come to gather them , No chill wind to blight ; Warm sunbeams smile on them by day , And soft dew fell at night .
So here , along the brook-side , Beneath the green old tree , The flower dwell among their friend , The sunbeam and the breeze .
One morning , a the flower awake , Fragrant , and fresh , and fair , A little worm come creep by , And beg a shelter there .
`` Ah !
pity and love me , '' sigh the worm , `` I be lonely , poor , and weak ; A little spot for a resting-place , Dear flower , be all I seek .
I be not fair , and have dwell unloved By butterfly , bird , and bee .
They little know that in this dark form Lay the beauty they yet may see .
Then let me lie in the deep green moss , And weave my little tomb , And sleep my long , unbroken sleep Till Spring 's first flower come .
Then will I come in a fairer dress , And your gentle care repay By the grateful love of the humble worm ; Kind flower , O let me stay ! ''
But the wild rise show her little thorn , While her soft face glow with pride ; The violet hid beneath the drooping fern , And the daisy turn aside .
Little Houstonia scornfully laugh , As she dance on her slender stem ; While the cowslip bent to the ripple wave , And whisper the tale to them .
A blue-eyed grass look down on the worm , As it silently turn away , And cry , `` Thou wilt harm our delicate leaf , And therefore thou canst not stay . ''
Then a sweet , soft voice , call out from far , `` Come hither , poor worm , to me ; The sun lie warm in this quiet spot , And I 'll share my home with thee . ''
The wonder flower look up to see Who have offer the worm a home : ' T be a clover-blossom , whose flutter leaf Seemed beckon him to come ; It dwell in a sunny little nook , Where cool wind rustle by , And murmur bee and butterfly come , On the flower 's breast to lie .
Down through the leaf the sunlight stole , And seem to linger there , As if it love to brighten the home Of one so sweet and fair .
Its rosy face smile kindly down , As the friendless worm draw near ; And it low voice , softly whisper , say `` Poor thing , thou art welcome here ; Close at my side , in the soft green moss , Thou wilt find a quiet bed , Where thou canst softly sleep till Spring , With my leaf above thee spread .
I pity and love thee , friendless worm , Though thou art not graceful or fair ; For many a dark , unlovely form , Hath a kind heart dwelling there ; No more o'er the green and pleasant earth , Lonely and poor , shalt thou roam , For a loving friend hast thou find in me , And rest in my little home . ''
Then , deep in it quiet mossy bed , Sheltered from sun and shower , The grateful worm spin it winter tomb , In the shadow of the flower .
And Clover guard well it rest , Till Autumn 's leaf be sere , Till all her sister flower be go , And her winter sleep draw near .
Then her withered leaf be softly spread O'er the sleep worm below , Ere the faithful little flower lay Beneath the winter snow .
Spring come again , and the flower rise From their quiet winter graf , And gayly dance on their slender stem , And sang with the ripple wave .
Softly the warm wind kiss their cheek ; Brightly the sunbeam fell , As , one by one , they come again In their summer home to dwell .
And little Clover bloom once more , Rosy , and sweet , and fair , And patiently watch by the mossy bed , For the worm still slumber there .
Then her sister flower scornfully cry , As they wave in the summer air , `` The ugly worm be friendless and poor ; Little Clover , why shouldst thou care ?
Then watch no more , nor dwell alone , Away from thy sister flower ; Come , dance and feast , and spend with u These pleasant summer hour .
We pity thee , foolish little flower , To trust what the false worm say ; He will not come in a fairer dress , For he lie in the green moss dead . ''
But little Clover still watch on , Alone in her sunny home ; She do not doubt the poor worm 's truth , And trust he would come .
At last the small cell open wide , And a glittering butterfly , From out the moss , on golden wing , Soared up to the sunny sky .
Then the wonder flower cry aloud , `` Clover , thy watch be vain ; He only seek a shelter here , And never will come again . ''
And the unkind flower dance for joy , When they saw him thus depart ; For the love of a beautiful butterfly Is dear to a flower 's heart .
They fear he would stay in Clover 's home , And her tender care repay ; So they dance for joy , when at last he rise And silently fly away .
Then little Clover bow her head , While her soft tear fell like dew ; For her gentle heart be grieve , to find That her sister ' word be true , And the insect she have watch so long When helpless , poor , and lone , Thankless for all her faithful care , On his golden wing have fly .
But a she droop , in silent grief , She hear little Daisy cry , `` O sister , look !
I see him now , Afar in the sunny sky ; He be float back from Cloud-Land now , Borne by the fragrant air .
Spread wide your leaf , that he may choose The flower he deem most fair . ''
Then the wild rise glow with a deep blush , As she proudly wave on her stem ; The Cowslip bent to the clear blue wave , And make her mirror of them .
Little Houstonia merrily dance , And spread her white leaf wide ; While Daisy whisper her joy and hope , As she stand by her gay friend ' side .
Violet peep from the tall green fern , And lift her soft blue eye To watch the glittering form , that shone Afar in the summer sky .
They think no more of the ugly worm , Who once have waken their scorn ; But look and long for the butterfly now , As the soft wind bore him on .
Nearer and nearer the bright form come , And fairer the blossom grow ; Each welcome him , in her sweetest tone ; Each offer her honey and dew .
But in vain do they beckon , and smile , and call , And wider their leaf unclose ; The glittering form still float on , By Violet , Daisy , and Rose .
Lightly it fly to the pleasant home Of the flower most truly fair , On Clover 's breast he softly light , And fold his bright wing there .
`` Dear flower , '' the butterfly whisper low , `` Long hast thou wait for me ; Now I be come , and my grateful love Shall brighten thy home for thee ; Thou hast love and care for me , when alone , Hast watch o'er me long and well ; And now will I strive to show the thanks The poor worm could not tell .
Sunbeam and breeze shall come to thee , And the cool dew that fall ; Whate'er a flower can wish be thine , For thou art worthy all .
And the home thou share with the friendless worm The butterfly 's home shall be ; And thou shalt find , dear , faithful flower , A love friend in me . ''
Then , through the long , bright summer hour Through sunshine and through shower , Together in their happy home Dwelt butterfly and flower .
`` Ah , that be very lovely , '' cry the Elves , gather round little Sunbeam a she cease , to place a garland in her hair and praise her song .
`` Now , '' say the Queen , `` call hither Moon-light and Summer-Wind , for they have see many pleasant thing in their long wandering , and will gladly tell u them . ''
`` Most joyfully will we do our best , dear Queen , '' say the Elves , a they fold their wing beside her .
`` Now , Summer-Wind , '' say Moonlight , `` till your turn come , do you sit here and fan me while I tell this tale of LITTLE ANNIE 'S DREAM ; OR , THE FAIRY FLOWER .
IN a large and pleasant garden sit little Annie all alone , and she seem very sad , for drop that be not dew fell fast upon the flower beside her , who look wonderingly up , and bent still nearer , a if they long to cheer and comfort her .
The warm wind lift up her shin hair and softly kiss her cheek , while the sunbeam , look most kindly in her face , make little rainbow in her tear , and linger lovingly about her .
But Annie pay no heed to sun , or wind , or flower ; still the bright tear fell , and she forget all but her sorrow .
`` Little Annie , tell me why you weep , '' say a low voice in her ear ; and , look up , the child behold a little figure stand on a vine-leaf at her side ; a lovely face smile on her , from amid bright lock of hair , and shin wing be fold on a white and glitter robe , that flutter in the wind .
`` Who be you , lovely little thing ? ''
cry Annie , smile through her tear .
`` I be a Fairy , little child , and be come to help and comfort you ; now tell me why you weep , and let me be your friend , '' reply the spirit , a she smile more kindly still on Annie 's wonder face .
`` And be you really , then , a little Elf , such a I read of in my fairy book ?
Do you ride on butterfly , sleep in flower-cups , and live among the cloud ? ''
`` Yes , all these thing I do , and many stranger still , that all your fairy book can never tell ; but now , dear Annie , '' say the Fairy , bend nearer , `` tell me why I find no sunshine on your face ; why be these great drop shin on the flower , and why do you sit alone when BIRD and BEE be call you to play ? ''
`` Ah , you will not love me any more if I should tell you all , '' say Annie , while the tear begin to fall again ; `` I be not happy , for I be not good ; how shall I learn to be a patient , gentle child ?
good little Fairy , will you teach me how ? ''
`` Gladly will I aid you , Annie , and if you truly wish to be a happy child , you first must learn to conquer many passion that you cherish now , and make your heart a home for gentle feeling and happy thought ; the task be hard , but I will give this fairy flower to help and counsel you .
Bend hither , that I may place it in your breast ; no hand can take it hence , till I unsay the spell that hold it there . ''
As thus she speak , the Elf take from her bosom a graceful flower , whose snow-white leave shone with a strange , soft light .
`` This be a fairy flower , '' say the Elf , `` invisible to every eye save yours ; now listen while I tell it power , Annie .
When your heart be fill with love thought , when some kindly deed have be do , some duty well perform , then from the flower there will arise the sweet , soft fragrance , to reward and gladden you .
But when an unkind word be on your lip , when a selfish , angry feeling rise in your heart , or an unkind , cruel deed be to be do , then will you hear the soft , low chime of the flower-bell ; listen to it warning , let the word remain unspoken , the deed undone , and in the quiet joy of your own heart , and the magic perfume of your bosom flower , you will find a sweet reward . ''
`` O kind and generous Fairy , how can I ever thank you for this lovely gift ! ''
cry Annie .
`` I will be true , and listen to my little bell whenever it may ring .
But shall I never see YOU more ?
Ah !
if you would only stay with me , I should indeed be good . ''
`` I can not stay now , little Annie , '' say the Elf , `` but when another Spring come round , I shall be here again , to see how well the fairy gift have do it work .
And now farewell , dear child ; be faithful to yourself , and the magic flower will never fade . ''
Then the gentle Fairy fold her little arm around Annie 's neck , lay a soft kiss on her cheek , and , spread wide her shining wing , fly sing up among the white cloud float in the sky .
And little Annie sat among her flower , and watch with wonder joy the fairy blossom shin on her breast .
The pleasant day of Spring and Summer pass away , and in little Annie 's garden Autumn flower be bloom everywhere , with each day 's sun and dew grow still more beautiful and bright ; but the fairy flower , that should have be the lovely of all , hung pale and droop on little Annie 's bosom ; it fragrance seem quite go , and the clear , low music of it warning chime rang often in her ear .
When first the Fairy place it there , she have be pleased with her new gift , and for a while obey the fairy bell , and often try to win some fragrance from the flower , by kind and pleasant word and action ; then , a the Fairy say , she find a sweet reward in the strange , soft perfume of the magic blossom , a it shine upon her breast ; but selfish thought would come to tempt her , she would yield , and unkind word fell from her lip ; and then the flower droop pale and scentless , the fairy bell rang mournfully , Annie would forget her good resolution , and be again a selfish , wilful little child .
At last she try no longer , but grow angry with the faithful flower , and would have tear it from her breast ; but the fairy spell still hold it fast , and all her angry word but make it ring a louder , sad peal .
Then she pay no heed to the silvery music sounding in her ear , and each day grow still more unhappy , discontent , and unkind ; so , when the Autumn day come round , she be no good for the gentle Fairy 's gift , and long for Spring , that it might be return ; for now the constant echo of the mournful music make her very sad .
One sunny morning , when the fresh , cool Winds be blow , and not a cloud be in the sky , little Annie walk among her flower , look carefully into each , hop thus to find the Fairy , who alone could take the magic blossom from her breast .
But she lift up their drooping leaf , peep into their dewy cup in vain ; no little Elf lay hidden there , and she turn sadly from them all , say , `` I will go out into the field and wood , and seek her there .
I will not listen to this tiresome music more , nor wear this withered flower longer . ''
So out into the field she go , where the long grass rustle a she pass , and timid bird look at her from their nest ; where lovely wild-flowers nod in the wind , and open wide their fragrant leaf , to welcome in the murmuring bee , while butterfly , like winged flower , dance and glitter in the sun .
Little Annie look , search , and ask them all if any one could tell her of the Fairy whom she seek ; but the bird look wonderingly at her with their soft , bright eye , and still sing on ; the flower nod wisely on their stem , but do not speak , while butterfly and bee buzz and flutter away , one far too busy , the other too idle , to stay and tell her what she ask .
Then she go through broad field of yellow grain , that wave around her like a golden forest ; here cricket chirp , grasshopper leap , and busy ant work , but they could not tell her what she long to know .
`` Now will I go among the hill , '' say Annie , `` she may be there . ''
So up and down the green hill-sides go her little foot ; long she search and vainly she call ; but still no Fairy come .
Then by the river-side she go , and ask the gay dragon-flies , and the cool white lily , if the Fairy have be there ; but the blue wave ripple on the white sand at her foot , and no voice answer her .
Then into the forest little Annie go ; and a she pass along the dim , cool path , the wood-flowers smile up in her face , gay squirrel peep at her , a they swing amid the vine , and doves cooed softly a she wander by ; but none could answer her .
So , weary with her long and useless search , she sit amid the fern , and feast on the rosy strawberry that grow beside her , watch meanwhile the crimson even cloud that glow around the setting sun .
The night-wind rustle through the bough , rock the flower to sleep ; the wild bird sing their evening hymn , and all within the wood grow calm and still ; paler and paler grow the purple light , low and low droop little Annie 's head , the tall fern bent to shield her from the dew , the whisper pine sing a soft lullaby ; and when the Autumn moon rise up , her silver light shone on the child , where , pillow on green moss , she lay asleep amid the wood-flowers in the dim old forest .
And all night long beside her stand the Fairy she have seek , and by elfin spell and charm sent to the sleep child this dream .
Little Annie dream she sit in her own garden , a she have often sit before , with angry feeling in her heart , and unkind word upon her lip .
The magic flower be ring it soft warning , but she pay no heed to anything , save her own troubled thought ; thus she sit , when suddenly a low voice whisper in her ear , -- `` Little Annie , look and see the evil thing that you be cherish ; I will clothe in fit shape the thought and feeling that now dwell within your heart , and you shall see how great their power becomes , unless you banish them for ever . ''
Then Annie saw , with fear and wonder , that the angry word she utter change to dark , unlovely form , each show plainly from what fault or passion it have sprung .
Some of the shape have scowl face and bright , fiery eye ; these be the spirit of Anger .
Others , with sullen , anxious look , seem gather up all they could reach , and Annie saw that the more they gain , the less they seem to have ; and these she know be shape of Selfishness .
Spirits of Pride be there , who fold their shadowy garment round them , and turn scornfully away from all the rest .
These and many others little Annie saw , which have come from her own heart , and take form before her eye .
When first she saw them , they be small and weak ; but a she look they seem to grow and gather strength , and each gain a strange power over her .
She could not drive them from her sight , and they grow ever strong , darker , and more unlovely to her eye .
They seem to cast black shadow over all around , to dim the sunshine , blight the flower , and drive away all bright and lovely thing ; while rise slowly round her Annie saw a high , dark wall , that seem to shut out everything she love ; she dare not move , or speak , but , with a strange fear at her heart , sit watch the dim shape that hover round her .
Higher and high rise the shadowy wall , slowly the flower near her died , lingeringly the sunlight fade ; but at last they both be go , and leave her all alone behind the gloomy wall .
Then the spirit gather round her , whisper strange thing in her ear , bid her obey , for by her own will she have yield up her heart to be their home , and she be now their slave .
Then she could hear no more , but , sink down among the withered flower , wept sad and bitter tear , for her lose liberty and joy ; then through the gloom there shine a faint , soft light , and on her breast she saw her fairy flower , upon whose snow-white leave her tear lay shin .
Clearer and brighter grow the radiant light , till the evil spirit turn away to the dark shadow of the wall , and leave the child alone .
The light and perfume of the flower seem to bring new strength to Annie , and she rise up , say , a she bend to kiss the blossom on her breast , `` Dear flower , help and guide me now , and I will listen to your voice , and cheerfully obey my faithful fairy bell . ''
Then in her dream she felt how hard the spirit try to tempt and trouble her , and how , but for her flower , they would have lead her back , and make all dark and dreary a before .
Long and hard she struggle , and tear often fell ; but after each new trial , brighter shine her magic flower , and sweeter grow it breath , while the spirit lose still more their power to tempt her .
Meanwhile , green , flower vine creep up the high , dark wall , and hide it roughness from her sight ; and over these she watch most tenderly , for soon , wherever green leaf and flower bloom , the wall beneath grow weak , and fell apart .
Thus little Annie work and hop , till one by one the evil spirit flee away , and in their place come shin form , with gentle eye and smile lip , who gather round her with such loving word , and bring such strength and joy to Annie 's heart , that nothing evil dare to enter in ; while slowly sink the gloomy wall , and , over wreath of fragrant flower , she pass out into the pleasant world again , the fairy gift no longer pale and drooping , but now shin like a star upon her breast .
Then the low voice speak again in Annie 's sleep ear , say , `` The dark , unlovely passion you have look upon be in your heart ; watch well while they be few and weak , l they should darken your whole life , and shut out love and happiness for ever .
Remember well the lesson of the dream , dear child , and let the shin spirit make your heart their home . ''
And with that voice sound in her ear , little Annie wake to find it be a dream ; but like other dream it do not pass away ; and a she sit alone , bath in the rosy morning light , and watch the forest waken into life , she think of the strange form she have see , and , look down upon the flower on her breast , she silently resolve to strive , a she have strive in her dream , to bring back light and beauty to it faded leaf , by be what the Fairy hop to render her , a patient , gentle little child .
And a the thought come to her mind , the flower raise it droop head , and , look up into the earnest little face bent over it , seem by it fragrant breath to answer Annie 's silent thought , and strengthen her for what might come .
Meanwhile the forest be astir , bird sing their gay good-morrows from tree to tree , while leaf and flower turn to greet the sun , who rise up smile on the world ; and so beneath the forest bough and through the dewy field go little Annie home , good and wiser for her dream .
Autumn flower be dead and go , yellow leaf lay rustle on the ground , bleak wind go whistle through the naked tree , and cold , white Winter snow fell softly down ; yet now , when all without look dark and dreary , on little Annie 's breast the fairy flower bloom more beautiful than ever .
The memory of her forest dream have never pass away , and through trial and temptation she have be true , and keep her resolution still unbroken ; seldom now do the warning bell sound in her ear , and seldom do the flower 's fragrance cease to float about her , or the fairy light to brighten all whereon it fell .
So , through the long , cold Winter , little Annie dwelt like a sunbeam in her home , each day grow rich in the love of others , and happier in herself ; often be she tempt , but , remember her dream , she listen only to the music of the fairy bell , and the unkind thought or feeling flee away , the smile spirit of gentleness and love nestle in her heart , and all be bright again .
So well and happy grow the child , fairer and sweeter grow the flower , till Spring come smile over the earth , and wake the flower , set free the stream , and welcome back the bird ; then daily do the happy child sit among her flower , long for the gentle Elf to come again , that she might tell her gratitude for all the magic gift have do .
At length , one day , a she sit sing in the sunny nook where all her fair flower bloom , weary with gaze at the far-off sky for the little form she hop would come , she bend to look with joyful love upon her bosom flower ; and a she look , it folded leaf spread wide apart , and , rise slowly from the deep white cup , appear the smile face of the lovely Elf whose come she have wait for so long .
`` Dear Annie , look for me no longer ; I be here on your own breast , for you have learn to love my gift , and it have do it work most faithfully and well , '' the Fairy say , a she look into the happy child 's bright face , and lay her little arm most tenderly about her neck .
`` And now have I bring another gift from Fairy-Land , a a fit reward for you , dear child , '' she say , when Annie have tell all her gratitude and love ; then , touch the child with her shin wand , the Fairy bid her look and listen silently .
And suddenly the world seem change to Annie ; for the air be fill with strange , sweet sound , and all around her float lovely form .
In every flower sit little smiling Elves , sing gayly a they rock amid the leaf .
On every breeze , bright , airy spirit come float by ; some fan her cheek with their cool breath , and wave her long hair to and fro , while others ring the flower-bells , and make a pleasant rustling among the leaf .
In the fountain , where the water dance and sparkle in the sun , astride of every drop she saw merry little spirit , who plash and float in the clear , cool wave , and sing as gayly a the flower , on whom they scatter glitter dew .
The tall tree , a their branch rustle in the wind , sing a low , dreamy song , while the wave grass be fill with little voice she have never hear before .
Butterflies whisper lovely tale in her ear , and bird sing cheerful song in a sweet language she have never understand before .
Earth and air seem fill with beauty and with music she have never dream of until now .
`` O tell me what it mean , dear Fairy !
be it another and a lovely dream , or be the earth in truth so beautiful a this ? ''
she cry , look with wonder joy upon the Elf , who lay upon the flower in her breast .
`` Yes , it be true , dear child , '' reply the Fairy , `` and few be the mortal to whom we give this lovely gift ; what to you be now so full of music and of light , to others be but a pleasant summer world ; they never know the language of butterfly or bird or flower , and they be blind to all that I have give you the power to see .
These fair thing be your friend and playmate now , and they will teach you many pleasant lesson , and give you many happy hour ; while the garden where you once sit , weep sad and bitter tear , be now brighten by your own happiness , fill with love friend by your own kindly thought and feeling ; and thus render a pleasant summer home for the gentle , happy child , whose bosom flower will never fade .
And now , dear Annie , I must go ; but every Springtime , with the early flower , will I come again to visit you , and bring some fairy gift .
Guard well the magic flower , that I may find all fair and bright when next I come . ''
Then , with a kind farewell , the gentle Fairy float upward through the sunny air , smile down upon the child , until she vanish in the soft , white cloud , and little Annie stand alone in her enchanted garden , where all be brighten with the radiant light , and fragrant with the perfume of her fairy flower .
When Moonlight cease , Summer-Wind lay down her rose-leaf fan , and , lean back in her acorn cup , tell this tale of RIPPLE , THE WATER-SPIRIT .
DOWN in the deep blue sea live Ripple , a happy little Water-Spirit ; all day long she dance beneath the coral arch , make garland of bright ocean flower , or float on the great wave that sparkle in the sunlight ; but the pastime that she love best be lie in the many-colored shell upon the shore , listen to the low , murmur music the wave have teach them long ago ; and here for hour the little Spirit lay watch the sea and sky , while sing gayly to herself .
But when tempest rise , she hasten down below the stormy billow , to where all be calm and still , and with her sister Spirits wait till it should be fair again , listen sadly , meanwhile , to the cry of those whom the wild wave wreck and cast into the angry sea , and who soon come float down , pale and cold , to the Spirits ' pleasant home ; then they weep pity tear above the lifeless form , and lay them in quiet graf , where flower bloom , and jewel sparkle in the sand .
This be Ripple 's only grief , and she often think of those who sorrow for the friend they love , who now sleep far down in the dim and silent coral cave , and gladly would she have save the life of those who lay around her ; but the great ocean be far mighty than all the tender-hearted Spirits dwelling in it bosom .
Thus she could only weep for them , and lay them down to sleep where no cruel wave could harm them more .
One day , when a fearful storm rag far and wide , and the Spirits saw great billow roll like heavy cloud above their head , and hear the wild wind sound far away , down through the foaming wave a little child come float to their home ; it eye be close a if in sleep , the long hair fell like sea-weed round it pale , cold face , and the little hand still clasp the shell they have be gather on the beach , when the great wave sweep it into the troubled sea .
With tender tear the Spirits lay the little form to rest upon it bed of flower , and , sing mournful song , a if to make it sleep more calm and deep , watch long and lovingly above it , till the storm have die away , and all be still again .
While Ripple sing above the little child , through the distant roar of wind and wave she hear a wild , sorrowing voice , that seem to call for help .
Long she listen , think it be but the echo of their own plaintive song , but high above the music still sound the sad , wail cry .
Then , steal silently away , she glide up through foam and spray , till , through the parting cloud , the sunlight shone upon her from the tranquil sky ; and , guide by the mournful sound , she float on , till , close before her on the beach , she saw a woman stretch forth her arm , and with a sad , imploring voice pray the restless sea to give her back the little child it have so cruelly borne away .
But the wave dash foam up among the bare rock at her foot , mingle their cold spray with her tear , and give no answer to her prayer .
When Ripple saw the mother 's grief , she long to comfort her ; so , bend tenderly beside her , where she kneel upon the shore , the little Spirit tell her how her child lay softly sleep , far down in a lovely place , where sorrow tear be shed , and gentle hand laid garland over him .
But all in vain she whisper kindly word ; the weep mother only cry , -- `` Dear Spirit , can you use no charm or spell to make the wave bring back my child , a full of life and strength a when they sweep him from my side ?
O give me back my little child , or let me lie beside him in the bosom of the cruel sea . ''
`` Most gladly will I help you if I can , though I have little power to use ; then grieve no more , for I will search both earth and sea , to find some friend who can bring back all you have lose .
Watch daily on the shore , and if I do not come again , then you will know my search have be in vain .
Farewell , poor mother , you shall see your little child again , if Fairy power can win him back . ''
And with these cheer word Ripple spring into the sea ; while , smile through her tear , the woman watch the gentle Spirit , till her bright crown vanish in the wave .
When Ripple reach her home , she hasten to the palace of the Queen , and tell her of the little child , the sorrow mother , and the promise she have make .
`` Good little Ripple , '' say the Queen , when she have tell her all , `` your promise never can be keep ; there be no power below the sea to work this charm , and you can never reach the Fire-Spirits ' home , to win from them a flame to warm the little body into life .
I pity the poor mother , and would most gladly help her ; but ala !
I be a Spirit like yourself , and can not serve you a I long to do . ''
`` Ah , dear Queen !
if you have see her sorrow , you too would seek to keep the promise I have make .
I can not let her watch for ME in vain , till I have do my best : then tell me where the Fire-Spirits dwell , and I will ask of them the flame that shall give life to the little child and such great happiness to the sad , lonely mother : tell me the path , and let me go . ''
`` It be far , far away , high up above the sun , where no Spirit ever dare to venture yet , '' reply the Queen .
`` I can not show the path , for it be through the air .
Dear Ripple , do not go , for you can never reach that distant place : some harm most surely will befall ; and then how shall we live , without our dearest , gentle Spirit ?
Stay here with u in your own pleasant home , and think more of this , for I can never let you go . ''
But Ripple would not break the promise she have make , and beseech so earnestly , and with such pleading word , that the Queen at last with sorrow give consent , and Ripple joyfully prepare to go .
She , with her sister Spirits , build up a tomb of delicate , bright-colored shell , wherein the child might lie , till she should come to wake him into life ; then , pray them to watch most faithfully above it , she say farewell , and float bravely forth , on her long , unknown journey , far away .
`` I will search the broad earth till I find a path up to the sun , or some kind friend who will carry me ; for , ala !
I have no wing , and can not glide through the blue air a through the sea , '' say Ripple to herself , a she go dance over the wave , which bore her swiftly onward towards a distant shore .
Long she journey through the pathless ocean , with no friend to cheer her , save the white sea-birds who go sweeping by , and only stay to dip their wide wing at her side , and then fly silently away .
Sometimes great ship sail by , and then with long eye do the little Spirit gaze up at the face that look down upon the sea ; for often they be kind and pleasant one , and she gladly would have call to them and ask them to be friend .
But they would never understand the strange , sweet language that she speak , or even see the lovely face that smile at them above the wave ; her blue , transparent garment be but water to their eye , and the pearl chain in her hair but foam and sparkling spray ; so , hop that the sea would be most gentle with them , silently she float on her way , and leave them far behind .
At length green hill be see , and the wave gladly bore the little Spirit on , till , ripple gently over soft white sand , they leave her on the pleasant shore .
`` Ah , what a lovely place it be ! ''
say Ripple , a she pass through sunny valley , where flower begin to bloom , and young leaf rustle on the tree .
`` Why be you all so gay , dear bird ? ''
she ask , a their cheerful voice sound far and near ; `` be there a festival over the earth , that all be so beautiful and bright ? ''
`` Do you not know that Spring be come ?
The warm wind whisper it day ago , and we be learn the sweet song , to welcome her when she shall come , '' sing the lark , soar away a the music gush from his little throat .
`` And shall I see her , Violet , a she journey over the earth ? ''
ask Ripple again .
`` Yes , you will meet her soon , for the sunlight tell me she be near ; tell her we long to see her again , and be wait to welcome her back , '' say the blue flower , dance for joy on her stem , a she nod and smile on the Spirit .
`` I will ask Spring where the Fire-Spirits dwell ; she travel over the earth each year , and surely can show me the way , '' think Ripple , a she go journey on .
Soon she saw Spring come smiling over the earth ; sunbeam and breeze float before , and then , with her white garment cover with flower , with wreath in her hair , and dew-drops and seed fall fast from her hand the beautiful season come singing by .
`` Dear Spring , will you listen , and help a poor little Spirit , who seek far and wide for the Fire-Spirits ' home ? ''
cried Ripple ; and then tell why she be there , and beg her to tell what she seek .
`` The Fire-Spirits ' home be far , far away , and I can not guide you there ; but Summer be come behind me , '' say Spring , `` and she may know good than I .
But I will give you a breeze to help you on your way ; it will never tire nor fail , but bear you easily over land and sea .
Farewell , little Spirit !
I would gladly do more , but voice be call me far and wide , and I can not stay . ''
`` Many thanks , kind Spring ! ''
cried Ripple , a she float away on the breeze ; `` give a kindly word to the mother who wait on the shore , and tell her I have not forget my vow , but hope soon to see her again . ''
Then Spring fly on with her sunshine and flower , and Ripple go swiftly over hill and vale , till she come to the land where Summer be dwell .
Here the sun shone warmly down on the early fruit , the wind blow freshly over field of fragrant hay , and rustle with a pleasant sound among the green leaf in the forest ; heavy dew fell softly down at night , and long , bright day bring strength and beauty to the blossoming earth .
`` Now I must seek for Summer , '' say Ripple , a she sail slowly through the sunny sky .
`` I be here , what would you with me , little Spirit ? ''
say a musical voice in her ear ; and , float by her side , she saw a graceful form , with green robe flutter in the air , whose pleasant face look kindly on her , from beneath a crown of golden sunbeam that cast a warm , bright glow on all beneath .
Then Ripple tell her tale , and ask where she should go ; but Summer answer , -- `` I can tell no more than my young sister Spring where you may find the Spirits that you seek ; but I too , like her , will give a gift to aid you .
Take this sunbeam from my crown ; it will cheer and brighten the most gloomy path through which you pass .
Farewell !
I shall carry tidings of you to the watcher by the sea , if in my journey round the world I find her there . ''
And Summer , give her the sunbeam , pass away over the distant hill , leave all green and bright behind her .
So Ripple journeyed on again , till the earth below her shone with yellow harvest wave in the sun , and the air be fill with cheerful voice , a the reaper sing among the field or in the pleasant vineyard , where purple fruit hung gleam through the leaf ; while the sky above be cloudless , and the change forest-trees shone like a many-colored garland , over hill and plain ; and here , along the ripen corn-fields , with bright wreath of crimson leaf and golden wheat-ears in her hair and on her purple mantle , stately Autumn pass , with a happy smile on her calm face , a she go scatter generous gift from her full arm .
But when the wandering Spirit come to her , and ask for what she seek , this season , like the others , could not tell her where to go ; so , give her a yellow leaf , Autumn say , a she pass on , -- `` Ask Winter , little Ripple , when you come to his cold home ; he know the Fire-Spirits well , for when he come they fly to the earth , to warm and comfort those dwell there ; and perhaps he can tell you where they be .
So take this gift of mine , and when you meet his chilly wind , fold it about you , and sit warm beneath it shelter , till you come to sunlight again .
I will carry comfort to the patient woman , a my sister have already do , and tell her you be faithful still . ''
Then on go the never-tiring Breeze , over forest , hill , and field , till the sky grow dark , and bleak wind whistle by .
Then Ripple , fold in the soft , warm leaf , look sadly down on the earth , that seem to lie so desolate and still beneath it shroud of snow , and think how bitter cold the leaf and flower must be ; for the little Water-Spirit do not know that Winter spread a soft white cover above their bed , that they might safely sleep below till Spring should waken them again .
So she go sorrowfully on , till Winter , rid on the strong North-Wind , come rushing by , with a sparkle ice-crown in his stream hair , while from beneath his crimson cloak , where glitter frost-work shone like silver thread , he scatter snow-flakes far and wide .
`` What do you seek with me , fair little Spirit , that you come so bravely here amid my ice and snow ?
Do not fear me ; I be warm at heart , though rude and cold without , '' say Winter , look kindly on her , while a bright smile shone like sunlight on his pleasant face , a it glow and glisten in the frosty air .
When Ripple tell him why she have come , he point upward , where the sunlight dimly shone through the heavy cloud , say , -- `` Far off there , beside the sun , be the Fire-Spirits ' home ; and the only path be up , through cloud and mist .
It be a long , strange path , for a lonely little Spirit to be go ; the Fairies be wild , wilful thing , and in their play may harm and trouble you .
Come back with me , and do not go this dangerous journey to the sky .
I 'll gladly bear you home again , if you will come . ''
But Ripple say , `` I can not turn back now , when I be nearly there .
The Spirits surely will not harm me , when I tell them why I be come ; and if I win the flame , I shall be the happy Spirit in the sea , for my promise will be keep , and the poor mother happy once again .
So farewell , Winter !
Speak to her gently , and tell her to hope still , for I shall surely come . ''
`` Adieu , little Ripple !
May good angel watch above you !
Journey bravely on , and take this snow-flake that will never melt , a MY gift , '' Winter cry , a the North-Wind bore him on , leave a cloud of fall snow behind .
`` Now , dear Breeze , '' say Ripple , `` fly straight upward through the air , until we reach the place we have so long be seek ; Sunbeam shall go before to light the way , Yellow-leaf shall shelter me from heat and rain , while Snow-flake shall lie here beside me till it come of use .
So farewell to the pleasant earth , until we come again .
And now away , up to the sun ! ''
When Ripple first begin her airy journey , all be dark and dreary ; heavy cloud lay pile like hill around her , and a cold mist fill the air but the Sunbeam , like a star , light up the way , the leaf lay warmly round her , and the tireless wind go swiftly on .
Higher and high they float up , still darker and darker grow the air , closer the damp mist gather , while the black cloud roll and toss , like great wave , to and fro .
`` Ah ! ''
sigh the weary little Spirit , `` shall I never see the light again , or feel the warm wind on my cheek ?
It be a dreary way indeed , and but for the Seasons ' gift I should have perish long ago ; but the heavy cloud MUST pass away at last , and all be fair again .
So hasten on , good Breeze , and bring me quickly to my journey 's end . ''
Soon the cold vapor vanish from her path , and sunshine shone upon her pleasantly ; so she go gayly on , till she come up among the star , where many new , strange sight be to be see .
With wonder eye she look upon the bright world that once seem dim and distant , when she gaze upon them from the sea ; but now they move around her , some shin with a softly radiant light , some circle with bright , many-colored ring , while others burn with a red , angry glare .
Ripple would have gladly stay to watch them long , for she fancy low , sweet voice call her , and lovely face seem to look upon her a she pass ; but high up still , near to the sun , she saw a far-off light , that glitter like a brilliant crimson star , and seem to cast a rosy glow along the sky .
`` The Fire-Spirits surely must be there , and I must stay no longer here , '' say Ripple .
So steadily she float on , till straight before her lay a broad , bright path , that lead up to a golden arch , beyond which she could see shape flit to and fro .
As she draw near , brighter glow the sky , hotter and hotter grow the air , till Ripple 's leaf-cloak shrivel up , and could no longer shield her from the heat ; then she unfold the white snow-flake , and , gladly wrap the soft , cool mantle round her , enter through the shining arch .
Through the red mist that float all around her , she could see high wall of change light , where orange , blue , and violet flame go flicker to and fro , make graceful figure a they dance and glow ; and underneath these rainbow arch , little Spirits glide , far and near , wear crown of fire , beneath which flash their wild , bright eye ; and a they speak , spark drop quickly from their lip , and Ripple saw with wonder , through their garment of transparent light , that in each Fairy 's breast there burn a steady flame , that never waver or go out .
As thus she stand , the Spirits gather round her , and their hot breath would have scorch her , but she draw the snow-cloak closer round her , say , -- `` Take me to your Queen , that I may tell her why I be here , and ask for what I seek . ''
So , through long hall of many-colored fire , they lead her to a Spirit fairer than the rest , whose crown of flame wave to and fro like golden plume , while , underneath her violet robe , the light within her breast glow bright and strong .
`` This be our Queen , '' the Spirits say , bend low before her , a she turn her gleam eye upon the stranger they have bring .
Then Ripple tell how she have wander round the world in search of them , how the Seasons have most kindly help her on , by give Sun-beam , Breeze , Leaf , and Flake ; and how , through many danger , she have come at last to ask of them the magic flame that could give life to the little child again .
When she have tell her tale , the spirit whisper earnestly among themselves , while spark fell thick and fast with every word ; at length the Fire-Queen say aloud , -- `` We can not give the flame you ask , for each of u must take a part of it from our own breast ; and this we will not do , for the brighter our bosom-fire burn , the lovelier we be .
So do not ask u for this thing ; but any other gift we will most gladly give , for we feel kindly towards you , and will serve you if we may . ''
But Ripple ask no other boon , and , weep sadly , beg them not to send her back without the gift she have come so far to gain .
`` O dear , warm-hearted Spirits !
give me each a little light from your own breast , and surely they will glow the brighter for this kindly deed ; and I will thankfully repay it if I can . ''
As thus she speak , the Queen , who have spy out a chain of jewel Ripple wear upon her neck , reply , -- `` If you will give me those bright , sparkling stone , I will bestow on you a part of my own flame ; for we have no such lovely thing to wear about our neck , and I desire much to have them .
Will you give it me for what I offer , little Spirit ? ''
Joyfully Ripple give her the chain ; but , as soon a it touch her hand , the jewel melt like snow , and fell in bright drop to the ground ; at this the Queen 's eye flash , and the Spirits gather angrily about poor Ripple , who look sadly at the broken chain , and think in vain what she could give , to win the thing she long so earnestly for .
`` I have many fair gem than these , in my home below the sea ; and I will bring all I can gather far and wide , if you will grant my prayer , and give me what I seek , '' she say , turn gently to the fiery Spirits , who be hover fiercely round her .
`` You must bring u each a jewel that will never vanish from our hand a these have do , '' they say , `` and we will each give of our fire ; and when the child be bring to life , you must bring hither all the jewel you can gather from the depth of the sea , that we may try them here among the flame ; but if they melt away like these , then we shall keep you prisoner , till you give u back the light we lend .
If you consent to this , then take our gift , and journey home again ; but fail not to return , or we shall seek you out . ''
And Ripple say she would consent , though she know not if the jewel could be find ; still , think of the promise she have make , she forget all else , and tell the Spirits what they ask most surely should be do .
So each one give a little of the fire from their breast , and place the flame in a crystal vase , through which it shine and glitter like a star .
Then , bid her remember all she have promise them , they lead her to the golden arch , and say farewell .
So , down along the shin path , through mist and cloud , she travel back ; till , far below , she saw the broad blue sea she leave so long ago .
Gladly she plunge into the clear , cool wave , and float back to her pleasant home ; where the Spirits gather joyfully about her , listen with tear and smile , a she tell all her many wandering , and show the crystal vase that she have bring .
`` Now come , '' say they , `` and finish the good work you have so bravely carry on . ''
So to the quiet tomb they go , where , like a marble image , cold and still , the little child be lie .
Then Ripple place the flame upon his breast , and watch it gleam and sparkle there , while light come slowly back into the once dim eye , a rosy glow shone over the pale face , and breath stole through the parted lip ; still brighter and warmer burn the magic fire , until the child awoke from his long sleep , and look in smile wonder at the face bending over him .
Then Ripple sang for joy , and , with her sister Spirits , rob the child in graceful garment , woven of bright sea-weed , while in his shin hair they wreathe long garland of their fair flower , and on his little arm hung chain of brilliant shell .
`` Now come with u , dear child , '' say Ripple ; `` we will bear you safely up into the sunlight and the pleasant air ; for this be not your home , and yonder , on the shore , there wait a loving friend for you . ''
So up they go , through foam and spray , till on the beach , where the fresh wind play among her fall hair , and the wave break sparkle at her foot , the lonely mother still stand , gaze wistfully across the sea .
Suddenly , upon a great blue billow that come roll in , she saw the Water-Spirits smiling on her ; and high aloft , in their white gleaming arm , her child stretch forth his hand to welcome her ; while the little voice she so long to hear again cried gayly , -- `` See , dear mother , I be come ; and look what lovely thing the gentle Spirits give , that I might seem more beautiful to you . ''
Then gently the great wave break , and roll back to the sea , leave Ripple on the shore , and the child clasp in his mother 's arm .
`` O faithful little Spirit !
I would gladly give some precious gift to show my gratitude for this kind deed ; but I have nothing save this chain of little pearl : they be the tear I shed , and the sea have change them thus , that I might offer them to you , '' the happy mother say , when her first joy be pass , and Ripple turn to go .
`` Yes , I will gladly wear your gift , and look upon it a my fair ornament , '' the Water-Spirit say ; and with the pearl upon her breast , she leave the shore , where the child be play gayly to and fro , and the mother 's glad smile shone upon her , till she sink beneath the wave .
And now another task be to be do ; her promise to the Fire-Spirits must be keep .
So far and wide she search among the cavern of the sea , and gather all the bright jewel shin there ; and then upon her faithful Breeze once more go journey through the sky .
The Spirits gladly welcome her , and lead her to the Queen , before whom she pour out the sparkle gem she have gather with such toil and care ; but when the Spirits try to form them into crown , they trickle from their hand like colored drop of dew , and Ripple saw with fear and sorrow how they melt one by one away , till none of all the many she have bring remain .
Then the Fire-Spirits look upon her angrily , and when she beg them to be merciful , and let her try once more , say , -- `` Do not keep me prisoner here .
I can not breathe the flame that give you life , and but for this snow-mantle I too should melt away , and vanish like the jewel in your hand .
O dear Spirits , give me some other task , but let me go from this warm place , where all be strange and fearful to a Spirit of the sea . ''
They would not listen ; and draw nearer , say , while bright spark shower from their lip , `` We will not let you go , for you have promise to be ours if the gem you bring proved worthless ; so fling away this cold white cloak , and bathe with u in the fire fountain , and help u bring back to our bosom flame the light we give you for the child . ''
Then Ripple sink down on the burning floor , and felt that her life be nearly do ; for she well know the hot air of the fire-palace would be death to her .
The Spirits gather round , and begin to lift her mantle off ; but underneath they saw the pearl chain , shin with a clear , soft light , that only glow more brightly when they lay their hand upon it .
`` O give u this ! ''
cry they ; `` it be far lovely than all the rest , and do not melt away like them ; and see how brilliantly it glitter in our hand .
If we may but have this , all will be well , and you be once more free . ''
And Ripple , safe again beneath her snow flake , gladly give the chain to them ; and tell them how the pearl they now place proudly on their breast be form of tear , which but for them might still be flow .
Then the Spirits smile most kindly on her , and would have put their arm about her , and have kiss her cheek , but she draw back , tell them that every touch of theirs be like a wound to her .
`` Then , if we may not tell our pleasure so , we will show it in a different way , and give you a pleasant journey home .
Come out with u , '' the Spirits say , `` and see the bright path we have make for you . ''
So they lead her to the lofty gate , and here , from sky to earth , a lovely rainbow arch it radiant color in the sun .
`` This be indeed a pleasant road , '' say Ripple .
`` Thank you , friendly Spirits , for your care ; and now farewell .
I would gladly stay yet longer , but we can not dwell together , and I be long sadly for my own cool home .
Now Sunbeam , Breeze , Leaf , and Flake , fly back to the Seasons whence you come , and tell them that , thanks to their kind gift , Ripple 's work at last be do . ''
Then down along the shin pathway spread before her , the happy little Spirit glide to the sea .
`` Thanks , dear Summer-Wind , '' say the Queen ; `` we will remember the lesson you have each taught u , and when next we meet in Fern Dale , you shall tell u more .
And now , dear Trip , call them from the lake , for the moon be sink fast , and we must hasten home . ''
The Elves gather about their Queen , and while the rustle leaf be still , and the flower ' sweet voice mingle with their own , they sing this FAIRY SONG .
The moonlight fade from flower and tree , And the star dim one by one ; The tale be tell , the song be sing , And the Fairy feast be do .
The night-wind rock the sleep flower , And sings to them , soft and low .
The early bird erelong will wake : ' T be time for the Elves to go .
O'er the sleep earth we silently pass , Unseen by mortal eye , And send sweet dream , a we lightly float Through the quiet moonlit sky ; -- For the star ' soft eye alone may see , And the flower alone may know , The feast we hold , the tale we tell : So ' t be time for the Elves to go .
From bird , and blossom , and bee , We learn the lesson they teach ; And seek , by kindly deed , to win A love friend in each .
And though unseen on earth we dwell , Sweet voice whisper low , And gentle heart most joyously greet The Elves where'er they go .
When next we meet in the Fairy dell , May the silver moon 's soft light Shine then on face gay a now , And Elfin heart a light .
Now spread each wing , for the eastern sky With sunlight soon will glow .
The morning star shall light u home : Farewell !
for the Elves must go .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Jack_and_Jill.txt.out
Chapter I .
The Catastrophe `` Clear the lulla ! ''
be the general cry on a bright December afternoon , when all the boy and girl of Harmony Village be out enjoy the first good snow of the season .
Up and down three long coast they go as fast a leg and sled could carry them .
One smooth path lead into the meadow , and here the little folk congregate ; one swept across the pond , where skater be dart about like water-bugs ; and the third , from the very top of the steep hill , end abruptly at a rail fence on the high bank above the road .
There be a group of lad and lasses sit or lean on this fence to rest after an exciting race , and , a they repose , they amuse themselves with criticise their mate , still absorb in this most delightful of out-door sport .
`` Here come Frank Minot , look as solemn a a judge , '' cry one , a a tall fellow of sixteen spun by , with a set look about the mouth and a keen sparkle of the eye , fix on the distant goal with a do-or-die expression .
`` Here 's Molly Loo And little Boo ! ''
sang out another ; and down come a girl with fly hair , carry a small boy behind her , so fat that his short leg stick out from the side , and his round face look over her shoulder like a full moon .
`` There 's Gus Burton ; do n't he go it ? ''
and such a very long boy whiz by , that it look almost a if his heel be at the top of the hill when his head be at the bottom !
`` Hurrah for Ed Devlin ! ''
and a general shout greet a sweet-faced lad , with a laugh on his lip , a fine color on his brown cheek , and a gay word for every girl he pass .
`` Laura and Lotty keep to the safe coast into the meadow , and Molly Loo be the only girl that dare to try this long one to the pond .
I would n't for the world ; the ice ca n't be strong yet , though it be cold enough to freeze one 's nose off , '' say a timid damsel , who sit hug a post and scream whenever a mischievous lad shake the fence .
`` No , she be n't ; here 's Jack and Jill go like fury . ''
`` Clear the track For jolly Jack ! ''
sing the boy , who have rhyme and nickname for nearly every one .
Down come a gay red sled , bear a boy who seem all smile and sunshine , so white be his teeth , so golden be his hair , so bright and happy his whole air .
Behind him cling a little gypsy of a girl , with black eye and hair , cheek as red a her hood , and a face full of fun and sparkle , a she wave Jack 's blue tippet like a banner with one hand , and hold on with the other .
`` Jill go wherever Jack do , and he let her .
He 's such a good-natured chap , he ca n't say ` No . ' ''
`` To a girl , '' slyly add one of the boy , who have wish to borrow the red sled , and have be politely refused because Jill want it .
`` He 's the nice boy in the world , for he never get mad , '' say the timid young lady , recall the many time Jack have shield her from the terror which beset her path to school , in the shape of cow , dog , and boy who make face and call her '' ` Fraid-cat . ''
`` He do n't dare to get mad with Jill , for she 'd take his head off in two minute if he do , '' growl Joe Flint , still smart from the rebuke Jill have give him for rob the little one of their safe coast because he fancy it .
`` She would n't !
she 's a dear !
You need n't sniff at her because she be poor .
She 's ever so much bright than you be , or she would n't always be at the head of your class , old Joe , '' cry the girl , stand by their friend with a unanimity which prove what a favorite she be .
Joe subside with a scornful a curl to his nose a it chilly state permit , and Merry Grant introduce a subject of general interest by ask abruptly , -- `` Who be go to the candy-scrape to-night ? ''
`` All of u .
Frank invite the whole set , and we shall have a tip-top time .
We always do at the Minots ' , '' cry Sue , the timid trembler .
`` Jack say there be a barrel of molasses in the house , so there would be enough for all to eat and some to carry away .
They know how to do thing handsomely ; '' and the speaker lick his lip , a if already taste the feast in store for him .
`` Mrs. Minot be a mother worth have , '' say Molly Loo , come up with Boo on the sled ; and she know what it be to need a mother , for she have none , and try to care for the little brother with maternal love and patience .
`` She be just as sweet a she can be ! ''
declare Merry , enthusiastically .
`` Especially when she have a candy-scrape , '' say Joe , try to be amiable , l he should be leave out of the party .
Whereat they all laugh , and go gayly away for a farewell frolic , a the sun be set and the keen wind nip finger and toe as well a nose .
Down they go , one after another , on the various coast , -- solemn Frank , long Gus , gallant Ed , fly-away Molly Loo , pretty Laura and Lotty , grumpy Joe , sweet-faced Merry with Sue shriek wildly behind her , gay Jack and gypsy Jill , always together , -- one and all bubbling over with the innocent jollity born of healthful exercise .
People pass in the road below look up and smile involuntarily at the red-cheeked lad and lass , fill the frosty air with peal of laughter and cry of triumph a they fly by in every conceivable attitude ; for the fun be at it height now , and the old and grave observer felt a glow of pleasure a they look , remember their own young day .
`` Jack , take me down that coast .
Joe say I would n't dare to do it , so I must , '' command Jill , a they pause for breath after the long trudge up hill .
Jill , of course , be not her real name , but have be give because of her friendship with Jack , who so admired Janey Pecq 's spirit and fun .
`` I guess I would n't .
It be very bumpy and end in a big drift ; not half so nice a this one .
Hop on and we 'll have a good spin across the pond ; '' and Jack bring `` Thunderbolt '' round with a skilful swing and an engage air that would have win obedience from anybody but wilful Jill .
`` It be very nice , but I wo n't be tell I do n't ` dare ' by any boy in the world .
If you be afraid , I 'll go alone . ''
And , before he could speak , she have snatch the rope from his hand , throw herself upon the sled , and be off , helter-skelter , down the most dangerous coast on the hill-side .
She do not get far , however ; for , start in a hurry , she do not guide her steed with care , and the red charger land her in the snow half-way down , where she lay laugh till Jack come to pick her up .
`` If you will go , I 'll take you down all right .
I 'm not afraid , for I 've do it a dozen time with the other fellow ; but we give it up because it be short and bad , '' he say , still good-natured , though a little hurt at the charge of cowardice ; for Jack be as brave a a little lion , and with the best sort of bravery , -- the courage to do right .
`` So it be ; but I must do it a few time , or Joe will plague me and spoil my fun to-night , '' answer Jill , shake her skirt and rub her blue hand , wet and cold with the snow .
`` Here , put these on ; I never use them .
Keep them if they fit ; I only carry them to please mother . ''
And Jack pull out a pair of red mitten with the air of a boy use to give away .
`` They be lovely warm , and they do fit .
Must be too small for your paw , so I 'll knit you a new pair for Christmas , and make you wear them , too , '' say Jill , put on the mitten with a nod of thanks , and end her speech with a stamp of her rubber boot to enforce her threat .
Jack laugh , and up they trudge to the spot whence the three coast diverge .
`` Now , which will you have ? ''
he ask , with a warn look in the honest blue eye which often unconsciously control naughty Jill against her will .
`` That one ! ''
and the red mitten point firmly to the perilous path just try .
`` You will do it ? ''
`` I will ! ''
`` Come on , then , and hold tight . ''
Jack 's smile be go now , and he wait without a word while Jill tuck herself up , then take his place in front , and off they go on the brief , breathless trip straight into the drift by the fence below .
`` I do n't see anything very awful in that .
Come up and have another .
Joe be watch u , and I 'd like to show him that we be n't afraid of anything , '' say Jill , with a defiant glance at a distant boy , who have pause to watch the descent .
`` It be a regular ` go-bang , ' if that be what you like , '' answer Jack , a they plow their way up again .
`` It be .
You boys think girl like little mean coast without any fun or danger in them , a if we could n't be brave and strong as well a you .
Give me three go-bangs and then we 'll stop .
My tumble do n't count , so give me two more and then I 'll be good . ''
Jill take her seat a she speak , and look up with such a rosy , plead face that Jack give in at once , and down they go again , raise a cloud of glitter snow-dust a they rein up in fine style with their foot on the fence .
`` It 's just splendid !
Now , one more ! ''
cry Jill , excite by the cheer of a sleigh party passing below .
Proud of his skill , Jack march back , resolve to make the third `` go '' the crowning achievement of the afternoon , while Jill prance after him as lightly a if the big boot be the famous seven-leagued one , and chatter about the candy-scrape and whether there would be nut or not .
So full be they of this important question , that they pile on hap-hazard , and start off still talk so busily that Jill forget to hold tight and Jack to steer carefully .
Alas , for the candy-scrape that never be to be !
Alas , for poor `` Thunderbolt '' blindly set forth on the last trip he ever make !
And oh , ala , for Jack and Jill , who wilfully choose the wrong road and end their fun for the winter !
No one know how it happen , but instead of land in the drift , or at the fence , there be a great crash against the bar , a dreadful plunge off the steep bank , a sudden scattering of girl , boy , sled , fence , earth , and snow , all about the road , two cry , and then silence .
`` I know they 'd do it ! ''
and , stand on the post where he have perch , Joe wave his arm and shout : `` Smash-up !
Smash-up !
Run !
Run ! ''
like a raven croaking over a battlefield when the fight be do .
Down rush boy and girl ready to laugh or cry , a the case might be , for accident will happen on the best-regulated coasting-grounds .
They find Jack sit up look about him with a queer , daze expression , while an ugly cut on the forehead be bleed in a way which sober the boy and frighten the girl half out of their wit .
`` He 's kill !
He 's kill ! ''
wailed Sue , hide her face and begin to cry .
`` No , I 'm not .
I 'll be all right when I get my breath .
Where 's Jill ? ''
ask Jack , stoutly , though still too giddy to see straight .
The group about him open , and his comrade in misfortune be discover lie quietly in the snow with all the pretty color shock out of her face by the fall , and wink rapidly , a if half stun .
But no wound appear , and when ask if she be dead , she answer in a vague sort of way , -- `` I guess not .
Is Jack hurt ? ''
`` Broken his head , '' croak Joe , step aside , that she might behold the fallen hero vainly try to look calm and cheerful with red drop run down his cheek and a lump on his forehead .
Jill shut her eye and wave the girl away , say , faintly , -- `` Never mind me .
Go and see to him . ''
`` Do n't !
I 'm all right , '' and Jack try to get up in order to prove that header off a bank be mere trifle to him ; but at the first movement of the left leg he utter a sharp cry of pain , and would have fall if Gus have not catch and gently lay him down .
`` What be it , old chap ? ''
ask Frank , kneel beside him , really alarm now , the hurt seem bad than mere bump , which be common affair among baseball player , and not worth much notice .
`` I light on my head , but I guess I 've break my leg .
Do n't frighten mother , '' and Jack hold fast to Frank 's arm a he look into the anxious face bent over him ; for , though the elder tyrannize over the young , the brother love one another dearly .
`` Lift his head , Frank , while I tie my handkerchief round to stop the bleeding , '' say a quiet voice , a Ed Devlin lay a handful of soft snow on the wound ; and Jack 's face brighten a he turn to thank the one big boy who never be rough with the small one .
`` Better get him right home , '' advise Gus , who stand by look on , with his little sister Laura and Lotty cling to him .
`` Take Jill , too , for it 's my opinion she have break her back .
She ca n't stir one bit , '' announce Molly Loo , with a droll air of triumph , a if rather pleased than otherwise to have her patient hurt the bad ; for Jack 's wound be very effective , and Molly have a taste for the tragic .
This cheerful statement be greet with a wail from Susan and howl from Boo , who have earn that name from the ease with which , on all occasion , he could burst into a dismal roar without shed a tear , and stop as suddenly a he begin .
`` Oh , I be so sorry !
It be my fault ; I should n't have let her do it , '' say Jack , distressfully .
`` It be all my fault ; I make him .
If I 'd break every bone I 've get , it would serve me right .
Do n't help me , anybody ; I 'm a wicked thing , and I deserve to lie here and freeze and starve and die ! ''
cry Jill , pile up punishment in her remorseful anguish of mind and body .
`` But we want to help you , and we can settle about blame by and by , '' whisper Merry with a kiss ; for she adore dash Jill , and never would own that she do wrong .
`` Here come the wood-sleds just in time .
I 'll cut away and tell one of them to hurry up . ''
And , free himself from his sister , Gus go off at a great pace , prove that the long leg carry a sensible head as well a a kind heart .
As the first sled approached , an air of relief pervade the agitated party , for it be drive by Mr. Grant , a big , benevolent-looking farmer , who survey the scene with the sympathetic interest of a man and a father .
`` Had a little accident , have you ?
Well , that 's a pretty likely place for a spill .
Tried it once myself and break the bridge of my nose , '' he say , tap that massive feature with a laugh which show that fifty year of farming have not take all the boy out of him .
`` Now then , let 's see about this little chore , and lively , too , for it 's late , and these party ought to be house , '' he add , throw down his whip , push back his cap , and nod at the wound with a reassure smile .
`` Jill first , please , sir , '' say Ed , the gentle squire of dame , spread his overcoat on the sled as eagerly a ever Raleigh lay down his velvet cloak for a queen to walk upon .
`` All right .
Just lay easy , my dear , and I wo n't hurt you a mite if I can help it . ''
Careful a Mr. Grant be , Jill could have scream with pain a he lift her ; but she set her lip and bore it with the courage of a little Indian ; for all the lad be look on , and Jill be proud to show that a girl could bear as much a a boy .
She hide her face in the coat as soon a she be settle , to hide the tear that would come , and by the time Jack be place beside her , she have quite a little cistern of salt water store up in Ed 's coat-pocket .
Then the mournful procession set forth , Mr. Grant drive the ox , the girl cluster about the interesting invalid on the sled , while the boy come behind like a guard of honor , leave the hill desert by all but Joe , who have return to hover about the fatal fence , and poor `` Thunderbolt , '' split asunder , lie on the bank to mark the spot where the great catastrophe occur .
Chapter II .
Two Penitents Jack and Jill never care to say much about the night which follow the first coast party of the season , for it be the sad and the hard their short life have ever know .
Jack suffer most in body ; for the setting of the broken leg be such a painful job , that it wring several sharp cry from him , and make Frank , who help , quite weak and white with sympathy , when it be over .
The wounded head ache dreadfully , and the poor boy felt a if bruise all over , for he have the bad of the fall .
Dr. Whiting speak cheerfully of the case , and make so light of broken leg , that Jack innocently ask if he should not be up in a week or so .
`` Well , no ; it usually take twenty-one day for bone to knit , and young one make quick work of it , '' answer the doctor , with a last scientific tuck to the various bandage , which make Jack feel like a hapless chicken truss for the spit .
`` Twenty-one day !
Three whole week in bed !
I should n't call that quick work , '' groan the dismayed patient , whose experience of illness have be limit .
`` It be a forty day ' job , young man , and you must make up your mind to bear it like a hero .
We will do our best ; but next time , look before you leap , and save your bone .
Good-night ; you 'll feel well in the morning .
No jig , remember ; '' and off go the busy doctor for another look at Jill , who have be order to bed and leave to rest till the other case be attend to .
Any one would have think Jack 's plight much the worse , but the doctor look more sober over Jill 's hurt back than the boy 's compound fracture ; and the poor little girl have a very bad quarter of an hour while he be try to discover the extent of the injury .
`` Keep her quiet , and time will show how much damage be do , '' be all he say in her hearing ; but if she have know that he tell Mrs. Pecq he fear serious consequence , she would not have wonder why her mother cry a she rub the numb limb and place the pillow so tenderly .
Jill suffer most in her mind ; for only a sharp stab of pain now and then remind her of her body ; but her remorseful little soul give her no peace for thinking of Jack , whose bruise and breakages her lively fancy paint in the dark color .
`` Oh , do n't be good to me , Mammy ; I make him go , and now he 's hurt dreadfully , and may die ; and it be all my fault , and everybody ought to hate me , '' sob poor Jill , a a neighbor leave the room after report in a minute manner how Jack scream when his leg be set , and how Frank be find white a a sheet , with his head under the pump , while Gus restore the tone of his friend 's nerve , by pump a if the house be on fire .
`` Whist , my lass , and go to sleep .
Take a sup of the good wine Mrs. Minot send , for you be as cold a a clod , and it break my heart to see my Janey so . ''
`` I ca n't go to sleep ; I do n't see how Jack 's mother could send me anything when I 've half kill him .
I want to be cold and ache and have horrid thing do to me .
Oh , if I ever get out of this bed I 'll be the best girl in the world , to pay for this .
See if I ai n't ! ''
and Jill give such a decided nod that her tear fly all about the pillow like a shower .
`` You 'd better begin at once , for you wo n't get out of that bed for a long while , I 'm afraid , my lamb , '' sigh her mother , unable to conceal the anxiety that lay so heavy on her heart .
`` Am I hurt badly , Mammy ? ''
`` I fear it , lass . ''
`` I 'm glad of it ; I ought to be bad than Jack , and I hope I be .
I 'll bear it well , and be good right away .
Sing , Mammy , and I 'll try to go to sleep to please you . ''
Jill shut her eye with sudden and unusual meekness , and before her mother have croon half a dozen verse of an old ballad , the little black head lay still upon the pillow , and repentant Jill be fast asleep with a red mitten in her hand .
Mrs. Pecq be an Englishwoman who have leave Montreal at the death of her husband , a French Canadian , and have come to live in the tiny cottage which stand near Mrs. Minot 's big house , separate only by an arbor-vitae hedge .
A sad , silent person , who have see well day , but say nothing about them , and earn her bread by sew , nursing , work in the factory , or anything that come in her way , be anxious to educate her little girl .
Now , a she sit beside the bed in the small , poor room , that hope almost die within her , for here be the child lay up for month , probably , and the one ambition and pleasure of the solitary woman 's life be to see Janey Pecq 's name over all the high mark in the school-reports she proudly bring home .
`` She 'll win through , please Heaven , and I 'll see my lass a gentlewoman yet , thanks to the good friend in yonder , who will never let her want for care , '' think the poor soul , look out into the gloom where a long ray of light stream from the great house warm and comfortable upon the cottage , like the spirit of kindness which make the inmate friend and neighbor .
Meantime , that other mother sat by her boy 's bed a anxious but with good hope , for Mrs. Minot make trouble sweet and helpful by the way in which she bore it ; and her boy be learn of her how to find silver lining to the cloud that must come into the blue sky .
Jack lay wide awake , with hot cheek , and throb head , and all sort of queer sensation in the broken leg .
The soothing potion he have take do not affect him yet , and he try to beguile the weary time by wonder who come and go below .
Gentle ring at the front door , and mysterious tapping at the back , have be go on all the evening ; for the report of the accident have grow astonishingly in it travel , and at eight o'clock the general belief be that Jack have break both leg , fracture his skull , and lay at the point of death , while Jill have dislocate one shoulder , and be bruise black and blue from top to toe .
Such be the case , it be no wonder that anxious playmate and neighbor haunt the doorstep of the two house , and that offer of help pour in .
Frank , have tie up the bell and put a notice in the lighted side-window , say , `` Go to the back door , '' sit in the parlor , support by his chum , Gus , while Ed play softly on the piano , hop to lull Jack to sleep .
It do soothe him , for a very sweet friendship exist between the tall youth and the lad of thirteen .
Ed go with the big fellow , but always have a kind word for the small boy ; and affectionate Jack , never ashamed to show his love , be often see with his arm round Ed 's shoulder , a they sit together in the pleasant red parlor , where all the young people be welcome and Frank be king .
`` Is the pain any easy , my darling ? ''
ask Mrs. Minot , lean over the pillow , where the golden head lay quiet for a moment .
`` Not much .
I forget it listen to the music .
Dear old Ed be play all my favorite tune , and it be very nice .
I guess he feel pretty sorry about me . ''
`` They all do .
Frank could not talk of it .
Gus would n't go home to tea , he be so anxious to do something for u .
Joe bring back the bit of your poor sled , because he do n't like to leave them lie round for any one to carry off , he say , and you might like them to remember your fall by . ''
Jack try to laugh , but it be rather a failure , though he manage to say , cheerfully , -- `` That be good of old Joe .
I would n't lend him ` Thunderbolt ' for fear he 'd hurt it .
Could n't have smash it up well than I do , could he ?
Do n't think I want any piece to remind me of that fall .
I just wish you 'd see u , mother !
It must have be a splendid spill to look at , any way . ''
`` No , thank you ; I 'd rather not even try to imagine my precious boy go heel over head down that dreadful hill .
No more prank of that sort for some time , Jacky ; '' and Mrs. Minot look rather please on the whole to have her venturesome bird safe under her maternal wing .
`` No coasting till some time in January .
What a fool I be to do it !
Go-bangs always be dangerous , and that 's the fun of the thing .
Oh dear ! ''
Jack throw his arm about and frown darkly , but never say a word of the wilful little baggage who have lead him into mischief ; he be too much of a gentleman to tell on a girl , though it cost him an effort to hold his tongue , because Mamma 's good opinion be very precious to him , and he long to explain .
She know all about it , however , for Jill have be carry into the house revile herself for the mishap , and even in the midst of her own anxiety for her boy , Mrs. Minot understand the state of the case without more word .
So she now set his mind at rest by say , quietly .
`` Foolish fun , a you see , dear .
Another time , stand firm and help Jill to control her headstrong will .
When you learn to yield less and she more , there will be no scrape like this to try u all . ''
`` I 'll remember , mother .
I hate not to be oblige , but I guess it would have save u lot of trouble if I 'd say No in the beginning .
I try to , but she would go .
Poor Jill !
I 'll take good care of her next time .
Is she very ill , Mamma ? ''
`` I can tell you good to-morrow .
She do not suffer much , and we hope there be no great harm do . ''
`` I wish she have a nice place like this to be sick in .
It must be very poky in those little room , '' say Jack , a his eye rove round the large chamber where he lay so cosey , warm , and pleasant , with the gay chintz curtain drape door and window , the rosy carpet , comfortable chair , and a fire glowing in the grate .
`` I shall see that she suffer for nothing , so do n't trouble your kind heart about her to-night , but try to sleep ; that 's what you need , '' answer his mother , wet the bandage on his forehead , and put a cool hand on the flushed cheek .
Jack obediently close his eye and listen while the boy sing `` The Sweet By and By , '' soften their rough young voice for his sake till the music be as soft a a lullaby .
He lay so still his mother think he be off , but presently a tear slip out and roll down the red cheek , wet her hand a it pass .
`` My blessed boy , what be it ? ''
she whisper , with a touch and a tone that only mother have .
The blue eye open wide , and Jack 's own sunshiny smile break through the tear that fill them a he say with a sniff , -- `` Everybody be so good to me I ca n't help make a noodle of myself .
`` You be not a noodle ! ''
cry Mamma , resent the epithet .
`` One of the sweet thing about pain and sorrow be that they show u how well we be love , how much kindness there be in the world , and how easily we can make others happy in the same way when they need help and sympathy .
Do n't forget that , little son . ''
`` Do n't see how I can , with you to show me how nice it be .
Kiss me good-night , and then ` I 'll be good , ' a Jill say . ''
Nestling his head upon his mother 's arm , Jack lay quiet till , lull by the music of his mate , he drowse away into the dreamless sleep which be Nurse Nature 's healthy soothing sirup for weary soul and body .
Chapter III .
Ward No . 1 For some day , nothing be see and little be hear of the `` dear sufferer , '' a the old lady call them .
But they be not forget ; the first word utter when any of the young people meet be : `` How be Jack ? ''
`` Seen Jill yet ? ''
and all wait with impatience for the moment when they could be admit to their favorite mate , more than ever object of interest now .
Meantime , the captive spend the first few day in sleep , pain , and try to accept the hard fact that school and play be do with for month perhaps .
But young spirit be wonderfully elastic and soon cheer up , and healthy young body heal fast , or easily adapt themselves to new condition .
So our invalid begin to mend on the fourth day , and to drive their nurse distract with effort to amuse them , before the first week be over .
The most successful attempt originate in Ward No . 1 , a Mrs. Minot call Jack 's apartment , and we will give our sympathize reader some idea of this place , which become the stage whereon be enact many varied and remarkable scene .
Each of the Minot boy have his own room , and there collect his own treasure and trophy , arrange to suit his convenience and taste .
Frank 's be full of book , map , machinery , chemical mess , and geometrical drawing , which adorn the wall like intricate cobweb .
A big chair , where he read and study with his heel higher than his head , a basket of apple for refreshment at all hour of the day or night , and an immense inkstand , in which several pen be always apparently bath their foot , be the principal ornament of his scholastic retreat .
Jack 's hobby be athletic sport , for he be bent on have a strong and active body for his happy little soul to live and enjoy itself in .
So a severe simplicity reign in his apartment ; in summer , especially , for then his floor be bare , his window be uncurtained , and the chair uncushioned , the bed be a narrow and hard a Napoleon 's .
The only ornament be dumbbell , whip , bat , rod , skate , boxing-gloves , a big bath-pan and a small library , consist chiefly of book on game , horse , health , hunting , and travel .
In winter his mother make thing more comfortable by introduce rug , curtain , and a fire .
Jack , also , relent slightly in the severity of his training , occasionally indulge in the national buckwheat cake , instead of the prescribed oatmeal porridge , for breakfast , omit his cold bath when the thermometer be below zero , and dance at night , instead of run a give distance by day .
Now , however , he be a helpless captive , give over to all sort of coddling , laziness , and luxury , and there be a droll mixture of mirth and melancholy in his face , a he lay truss up in bed , watch the comfort which have suddenly rob his room of it Spartan simplicity .
A delicious couch be there , with Frank repose in it depth , half hide under several folio which he be consult for a history of the steam-engine , the subject of his next composition .
A white-covered table stand near , with all manner of dainty set forth in a way to tempt the stern principle .
Vases of flower bloom on the chimney-piece , -- gift from anxious young lady , leave with their love .
Frivolous story-books and picture-papers strew the bed , now shroud in effeminate chintz curtain , beneath which Jack lay like a wounded warrior in his tent .
But the sad sight for our crippled athlete be a glimpse , through a half-opened door , at the beloved dumb-bells , bat , ball , boxing-gloves , and snow-shoes , all pile ignominiously away in the bath-pan , mournfully recall the fact that their day be over , now , at least for some time .
He be about to groan dismally , when his eye fell on a sight which make him swallow the groan , and cough instead , a if it choke him a little .
The sight be his mother 's face , a she sit in a low chair roll bandage , with a basket beside her in which be pile of old linen , lint , plaster , and other matter , need for the dressing of wound .
As he look , Jack remember how steadily and tenderly she have stand by him all through the hard time just past , and how carefully she have bath and dress his wound each day in spite of the effort it cost her to give him pain or even see him suffer .
`` That 's a good sort of strength than swing twenty-pound dumb-bells or run race ; I guess I 'll try for that kind , too , and not howl or let her see me squirm when the doctor hurt , '' think the boy , a he saw that gentle face so pale and tire with much watching and anxiety , yet so patient , serene , and cheerful , that it be like sunshine .
`` Lie down and take a good nap , mother dear , I feel first-rate , and Frank can see to me if I want anything .
Do , now , '' he add , with a persuasive nod toward the couch , and a boyish relish in stir up his lazy brother .
After some urging , Mamma consent to go to her room for forty wink , leave Jack in the care of Frank , beg him to be as quiet a possible if the dear boy wish to sleep , and to amuse him if he do not .
Being wear out , Mrs. Minot lengthen her forty wink into a three hour ' nap , and a the `` dear boy '' scorn repose , Mr. Frank have his hand full while on guard .
`` I 'll read to you .
Here 's Watt , Arkwright , Fulton , and a lot of capital fellow , with picture that will do your heart good .
Have a bit , will you ? ''
ask the new nurse , flap the leaf invitingly .
-- for Frank have a passion for such thing , and draw steam-engines all over his slate , a Tommy Traddles draw host of skeleton when low in his spirit .
`` I do n't want any of your old boiler and stoker and whirligig .
I 'm tired of reading , and want something regularly jolly , '' answer Jack , who have be chase white buffalo with `` The Hunters of the West , '' till he be a trifle tire and fractious .
`` Play cribbage , euchre , anything you like ; '' and Frank obligingly disinter himself from under the folio , feel that it be hard for a fellow to lie flat a whole week .
`` No fun ; just two of u .
Wish school be over , so the boy would come in ; doctor say I might see them now . ''
`` They 'll be along by and by , and I 'll hail them .
Till then , what shall we do ?
I 'm your man for anything , only put a name to it . ''
`` Just wish I have a telegraph or a telephone , so I could talk to Jill .
Would n't it be fun to pipe across and get an answer ! ''
`` I 'll make either you say ; '' and Frank look a if trifle of that sort be to be have for the asking .
`` Could you , really ? ''
`` We 'll start the telegraph first , then you can send thing over if you like , '' say Frank , prudently propose the sure experiment .
`` Go ahead , then .
I 'd like that , and so would Jill , for I know she want to hear from me . ''
`` There 's one trouble , though ; I shall have to leave you alone for a few minute while I rig up the rope ; '' and Frank look sober , for he be a faithful boy , and do not want to desert his post .
`` Oh , never mind ; I wo n't want anything .
If I do , I can pound for Ann . ''
`` And wake mother .
I 'll fix you a good way than that ; '' and , full of inventive genius , our young Edison splice the poker to part of a fishing-rod in a jiffy , make a long-handled hook which reach across the room .
`` There 's an arm for you ; now hook away , and let 's see how it work , '' he say , hand over the instrument to Jack , who proceed to show it unexpected capability by hook the cloth off the table in attempt to get his handkerchief , catch Frank by the hair when fishing for a book , and break a pane of glass in try to draw down the curtain .
`` It 's so everlasting long , I ca n't manage it , '' laugh Jack , a it finally catch in his bed-hangings , and nearly pull them , ring and all , down upon his head .
`` Let it alone , unless you need something very much , and do n't bother about the glass .
It 's just what we want for the telegraph wire or rope to go through .
Keep still , and I 'll have the thing run in ten minute ; '' and , delight with the job , Frank hurry away , leave Jack to compose a message to send as soon a it be possible .
`` What in the world be that fly across the Minots ' yard , -- a brown hen or a boy 's kite ? ''
exclaim old Miss Hopkins , peer out of her window at the singular performance go on in her opposite neighbor 's garden .
First , Frank appear with a hatchet and chop a clear space in the hedge between his own house and the cottage ; next , a clothes line be pass through this aperture and fasten somewhere on the other side ; lastly , a small covered basket , slung on this rope , be see hitch along , drawn either way by a set of string ; then , a if satisfy with his job , Frank retire , whistle `` Hail Columbia . ''
`` It 's those child at their prank again .
I think break bone would n't keep them out of mischief long , '' say the old lady , watch with great interest the mysterious basket travel up and down the rope from the big house to the cottage .
If she have see what come and go over the wire of the `` Great International Telegraph , '' she would have laugh till her spectacle fly off her Roman nose .
A letter from Jack , with a large orange , go first , explain the new enterprise : -- `` Dear Jill , -- It 's too bad you ca n't come over to see me .
I be pretty well , but awful tired of keep still .
I want to see you ever so much .
Frank have fix u a telegraph , so we can write and send thing .
Wo n't it be jolly !
I ca n't look out to see him do it ; but , when you pull your string , my little bell ring , and I know a message be come .
I send you an orange .
Do you like gorver jelly ?
People send in lot of goody , and we will go half .
Good-by .
`` Jack '' Away go the basket , and in fifteen minute it come back from the cottage with nothing in it but the orange .
`` Hullo !
Is she mad ? ''
ask Jack , a Frank bring the despatch for him to examine .
But , at the first touch , the hollow peel open , and out fell a letter , two gum-drops , and an owl make of a peanut , with round eye draw at the end where the stem form a funny beak .
Two bit of straw be the leg , and the face look so like Dr. Whiting that both boy laugh at the sight .
`` That 's so like Jill ; she 'd make fun if she be half dead .
Let 's see what she say ; '' and Jack read the little note , which show a sad neglect of the spelling-book : -- `` Dear Jacky , -- I ca n't stir and it 's horrid .
The telly graf be very nice and we will have fun with it .
I never eat any gorver jelly .
The orange be first rate .
Send me a book to read .
All about bear and ship and crockydiles .
The doctor be come to see you , so I send him the quick way .
Molly Loo say it be dreadful lonesome at school without u .
Yours truly , `` Jill '' Jack immediately despatch the book and a sample of guava jelly , which unfortunately upset on the way , to the great detriment of `` The Wild Beasts of Asia and Africa . ''
Jill promptly respond with the loan of a tiny black kitten , who emerge spitting and scratching , to Jack 's great delight ; and he be cudgel his brain a to how a fat white rabbit could be transport , when a shrill whistle from without save Jill from that inconvenient offering .
`` It 's the fellow ; do you want to see them ? ''
ask Frank , gaze down with calm superiority upon the three eager face which look up at him .
`` Guess I do ! ''
and Jack promptly throw the kitten overboard , scorn to be see by any manly eye amuse himself with such girlish toy .
Bang !
go the front door ; tramp , tramp , tramp , come six boot foot up the stair ; and , a Frank throw wide the door , three large being pause on the threshold to deliver the courteous `` Hullo ! ''
which be the established greeting among boy on all social occasion .
`` Come along , old fellow ; I 'm ever so glad to see you ! ''
cry the invalid , with such energetic demonstration of the arm that he look a if about to fly or crow , like an excited young cockerel .
`` How be you , Major ? ''
`` Does the leg ache much , Jack ? ''
`` Mr. Phipps say you 'll have to pay for the new rail . ''
With these characteristic greeting , the gentleman cast away their hat and sit down , all grin cheerfully , and all with eye irresistibly fix upon the dainty , which prove too much for the politeness of ever-hungry boy .
`` Help yourselves , '' say Jack , with a hospitable wave .
`` All the dear old lady in town have be send in nice thing , and I ca n't begin to eat them up .
Lend a hand and clear away this lot , or we shall have to throw them out of the window .
Bring on the doughnut and the tart and the shaky stuff in the entry closet , Frank , and let 's have a lark . ''
No sooner say than do .
Gus take the tart , Joe the doughnut , Ed the jelly , and Frank suggest `` spoon all round '' for the Italian cream .
A few trifle in the way of custard , fruit , and wafer biscuit be not worth mentioning ; but every dish be soon empty , and Jack say , a he survey the scene of devastation with great satisfaction , -- `` Call again to-morrow , gentleman , and we will have another bout .
Free lunch at 5 P.M. till further notice .
Now tell me all the news . ''
For half an hour , five tongue go like mill clapper , and there be no know when they would have stop if the little bell have not suddenly ring with a violence that make them jump .
`` That 's Jill ; see what she want , Frank ; '' and while his brother send off the basket , Jack tell about the new invention , and invite his mate to examine and admire .
They do so , and shout with merriment when the next despatch from Jill arrive .
A pasteboard jumping-jack , with one leg do up in cotton-wool to preserve the likeness , and a great lump of molasses candy in a brown paper , with accompany note : -- `` Dear Sir , -- I saw the boy go in , and know you be have a nice time , so I send over the candy Molly Loo and Merry bring me .
Mammy say I ca n't eat it , and it will all melt away if I keep it .
Also a picture of Jack Minot , who will dance on one leg and waggle the other , and make you laugh .
I wish I could come , too .
Do n't you hate grewel ?
I do .
-- In haste , `` J.P. '' `` Let 's all send her a letter , '' propose Jack , and out come pen , ink , paper , and the lamp , and every one fell to scribble .
A droll collection be the result , for Frank draw a picture of the fatal fall with broken rail fly in every direction , Jack with his head swollen to the size of a balloon , and Jill in two piece , while the various boy and girl be hit off with a sly skill that give Gus leg like a stork , Molly Loo hair several yard long , and Boo a series of visible howl come out of an immense mouth in the shape of o 's .
The ox be particularly good , for their horn branch like those of the moose , and Mr. Grant have a patriarchal beard which wave in the breeze a he bore the wounded girl to a sled very like a funeral pyre , the stake be crown with big mitten like torch .
`` You ought to be an artist .
I never saw such a dabster a you be .
That 's the very moral of Joe , all in a bunch on the fence , with a blot to show how purple his nose be , '' say Gus , hold up the sketch for general criticism and admiration .
`` I 'd rather have a red nose than leg like a grasshopper ; so you need n't twit , Daddy , '' growl Joe , quite unconscious that a blot actually do adorn his nose , a he labor over a brief despatch .
The boy enjoy the joke , and one after the other read out his message to the captive lady : -- `` Dear Jill , -- Sorry you ai n't here .
Great fun .
Jack pretty lively .
Laura and Lot would send love if they know of the chance .
Fly round and get well .
`` Gus '' `` Dear Gilliflower , -- Hope you be pretty comfortable in your ` dungeon cell . '
Would you like a serenade when the moon come ?
Hope you will soon be up again , for we miss you very much .
Shall be very happy to help in any way I can .
Love to your mother .
Your true friend , `` E.D. '' `` Miss Pecq . ''
Dear Madam , -- I be happy to tell you that we be all well , and hope you be the same .
I give Jem Cox a licking because he go to your desk .
You have good send for your book .
You wo n't have to pay for the sled or the fence .
Jack say he will see to it .
We have be have a spread over here .
First-rate thing .
I would n't mind break a leg , if I have such good grub and no chore to do .
No more now , from yours , with esteem , `` Joseph P. Flint '' Joe think that an elegant epistle , have copy portion of it from the `` Letter Writer , '' and proudly read it off to the boy , who assure him that Jill would be much impress .
`` Now , Jack , hurry up and let u send the lot off , for we must go , '' say Gus , a Frank put the letter in the basket , and the clatter of tea-things be hear below .
`` I 'm not go to show mine .
It 's private and you must n't look , '' answer Jack , pat down an envelope with such care that no one have a chance to peep .
But Joe have see the little note copy , and while the others be at the window work the telegraph he catch up the original , carelessly thrust by Jack under the pillow , and read it aloud before any one know what he be about .
`` My Dear , -- I wish I could send you some of my good time .
As I ca n't , I send you much love , and I hope you will try and be patient a I be go to , for it be our fault , and we must not make a fuss now .
Ai n't mother sweet ?
Mine be come over to-morrow to see you and tell me how you be .
This round thing be a kiss for good-night .
`` Your Jack '' `` Is n't that spoony ?
You 'd better hide your face , I think .
He 's get to be a regular mollycoddle , be n't he ? ''
jeered Joe , a the boy laugh , and then grow sober , see Jack 's head bury in the bedclothes , after send a pillow at his tormentor .
It nearly hit Mrs. Minot , come in with her patient 's tea on a tray , and at sight of her the guest hurriedly take leave , Joe nearly tumble downstairs to escape from Frank , who would have follow , if his mother have not say quickly , `` Stay , and tell me what be the matter . ''
`` Only tease Jack a bit .
Do n't be mad , old boy , Joe do n't mean any harm , and it be rather soft , now be n't it ? ''
ask Frank , try to appease the wounded feeling of his brother .
`` I charge you not to worry him .
Those boy be too much for the poor dear , and I ought not to have leave him , '' say Mamma , a she vainly endeavor to find and caress the yellow head burrow so far out of sight that nothing but one red ear be visible .
`` He like it , and we get on capitally till Joe rough him about Jill .
Ah , Joe 's get it now !
I think Gus and Ed would do that little job for me , '' add Frank , run to the window a the sound of stifled cry and laughter reach him .
The red ear heard also , and Jack pop up his head to ask , with interest , -- `` What be they do to him ? ''
`` Rolling him in the snow , and he 's howl like fun . ''
`` Serves him right , '' mutter Jack , with a frown .
Then , a a wail arose suggestive of an unpleasant mixture of snow in the mouth and thump on the back , he burst out laughing , and say , good-naturedly , `` Go and stop them , Frank ; I wo n't mind , only tell him it be a mean trick .
Hurry !
Gus be so strong he do n't know how his pounding hurt . ''
Off ran Frank , and Jack tell his wrong to his mother .
She sympathize heartily , and saw no harm in the affectionate little note , which would please Jill , and help her to bear her trial patiently .
`` It be n't silly to be fond of her , be it ?
She be so nice and funny , and try to be good , and like me , and I wo n't be ashamed of my friend , if folk do laugh , '' protest Jack , with a rap of his teaspoon .
`` No , dear , it be quite kind and proper , and I 'd rather have you play with a merry little girl than with rough boy till you be big enough to hold your own , '' answer Mamma , put the cup to his lip that the recline lad might take his broma without spill .
`` Pooh !
I do n't mean that ; I 'm strong enough now to take care of myself , '' cry Jack , stoutly .
`` I can thrash Joe any day , if I like .
Just look at my arm ; there 's muscle for you ! ''
and up go a sleeve , to the great danger of overturn the tray , a the boy proudly display his biceps and expand his chest , both of which be very fine for a lad of his year .
`` If I 'd be on my leg , he would n't have dare to insult me , and it be cowardly to hit a fellow when he be down . ''
Mrs. Minot want to laugh at Jack 's indignation , but the bell rang , and she have to go and pull in the basket , much amuse at the new game .
Burning to distinguish herself in the eye of the big boy , Jill have send over a tall , red flannel night-cap , which she have be make for some propose Christmas play , and add the following verse , for she be consider a gifted rhymester at the game party : -- `` When it come night , We put out the light .
Some blow with a puff , Some turn down and snuff ; But neat folk prefer A nice extinguis_her .
So here I send you back One to put on Mr. Jack . ''
`` Now , I call that regularly smart ; not one of u could do it , and I just wish Joe be here to see it .
I want to send once more , something good for tea ; she hat gruel so ; '' and the last despatch which the Great International Telegraph carry that day be a baked apple and a warm muffin , with `` J. M. 's best regard . ''
Chapter IV .
Ward No . 2 .
Things be not so gay in Ward No . 2 , for Mrs. Pecq be very busy , and Jill have nothing to amuse her but fly visit from the girl , and such little play a she could invent for herself in bed .
Fortunately , she have a lively fancy , and so get on pretty well , till keep still grow unbearable , and the active child ache in every limb to be up and out .
That , however , be impossible , for the least attempt to sit or stand bring on the pain that take her breath away and make her glad to lie flat again .
The doctor speak cheerfully , but look sober , and Mrs. Pecq begin to fear that Janey be to be a cripple for life .
She say nothing , but Jill 's quick eye saw an added trouble in the always anxious face , and it depress her spirit , though she never guess half the mischief the fall have do .
The telegraph be a great comfort , and the two invalid keep up a lively correspondence , not to say traffic in light article , for the Great International be the only aerial express in existence .
But even this amusement flag after a time ; neither have much to tell , and when the daily health bulletin have be exchange , message give out , and the basket 's travel grow more and more infrequent .
Neither could read all the time , game be soon use up , their mate be at school most of the day , and after a week or two the poor child begin to get pale and fractious with the confinement , always so irksome to young people .
`` I do believe the child will fret herself into a fever , mem , and I 'm clean distraught to know what to do for her .
She never use to mind trifle , but now she fret about the odd thing , and I ca n't change them .
This wall-paper be well enough , but she have take a fancy that the spot on it look like spider , and it make her nervous .
I 've no other warm place to put her , and no money for a new paper .
Poor lass !
There be hard time before her , I 'm fear . ''
Mrs. Pecq say this in a low voice to Mrs. Minot , who come in as often a she could , to see what her neighbor need ; for both mother be anxious , and sympathy draw them to one another .
While one woman talk , the other look about the little room , not wonder in the least that Jill find it hard to be content there .
It be very neat , but so plain that there be not even a picture on the wall , nor an ornament upon the mantel , except the necessary clock , lamp , and match-box .
The paper be ugly , be a deep buff with a brown figure that do look very like spider sprawl over it , and might well make one nervous to look at day after day .
Jill be asleep in the folding chair Dr. Whiting have send , with a mattress to make it soft .
The back could be raise or lower at will ; but only a few inch have be gain a yet , and the thin hair pillow be all she could bear .
She look very pretty a she lay , with dark lash against the feverish cheek , lips apart , and a cloud of curly black lock all about the face pillow on one arm .
She seem like a brilliant little flower in that dull place , -- for the French blood in her vein give her a color , warmth , and grace which be very charm .
Her natural love of beauty show itself in many way : a red ribbon have tie up her hair , a gay but fade shawl be throw over the bed , and the gift send her be arrange with care upon the table by her side among her own few toy and treasure .
There be something pathetic in this childish attempt to beautify the poor place , and Mrs. Minot 's eye be full a she look at the tired woman , whose one joy and comfort lay there in such sad plight .
`` My dear soul , cheer up , and we will help one another through the hard time , '' she say , with a soft hand on the rough one , and a look that promise much .
`` Please God , we will , mem !
With such good friend , I never should complain .
I try not to do it , but it break my heart to see my little lass spoil for life , most like ; '' and Mrs. Pecq press the kind hand with a despondent sigh .
`` We wo n't say , or even think , that , yet .
Everything be possible to youth and health like Janey 's .
We must keep her happy , and time will do the rest , I 'm sure .
Let u begin at once , and have a surprise for her when she wake . ''
As she speak , Mrs. Minot move quietly about the room , pin the page of several illustrated paper against the wall at the foot of the bed , and place to the best advantage the other comfort she have bring .
`` Keep up your heart , neighbor .
I have an idea in my head which I think will help u all , if I can carry it out , '' she say , cheerily , a she go , leave Mrs. Pecq to sew on Jack 's new night-gowns , with swift finger , and the grateful wish that she might work for these good friend forever .
As if the whispering and rustling have disturb her , Jill soon begin to stir , and slowly open the eye which have close so wearily on the dull December afternoon .
The bare wall with it brown spider no longer confront her , but the colored print of a little girl dance to the tune her father be play on a guitar , while a stately lady , with satin dress , ruff , and powder , stand look on , well pleased .
The quaint figure , in it belaced frock , quilt petticoat , and red-heeled shoe , seem to come trip toward her in such a life-like way , that she almost saw the curl blow back , hear the rustle of the rich brocade , and catch the sparkle of the little maid 's bright eye .
`` Oh , how pretty !
Who send them ? ''
ask Jill , eagerly , a her eye glance along the wall , see other new and interesting thing beyond : an elephant-hunt , a ship in full sail , a horse-race , and a ball-room .
`` The good fairy who never come empty-handed .
Look round a bit and you will see more pretties all for you , my dearie ; '' and her mother point to a bunch of purple grape in a green leaf plate , a knot of bright flower pin on the white curtain , and a gay little double gown across the foot of the bed .
Jill clap her hand , and be enjoy her new pleasure , when in come Merry and Molly Loo , with Boo , of course , trot after her like a fat and amiable puppy .
Then the good time begin ; the gown be put on , the fruit taste , and the picture be study like famous work of art .
`` It 's a splendid plan to cover up that hateful wall .
I 'd stick picture all round and have a gallery .
That remind me !
Up in the garret at our house be a box full of old fashion-books my aunt leave .
I often look at them on rainy day , and they be very funny .
I 'll go this minute and get every one .
We can pin them up , or make paper doll ; '' and away rush Molly Loo , with the small brother waddle behind , for , when he lose sight of her , he be desolate indeed .
The girl have fit of laughter over the queer costume of year go by , and put up a splendid procession of lady in full skirt , tower hat , point slipper , powder hair , simper face , and impossible waist .
`` I do think this bride be perfectly splendid , the long train and veil be so sweet , '' say Jill , revel in fine clothes a she turn from one plate to another .
`` I like the elephant best , and I 'd give anything to go on a hunt like that ! ''
cry Molly Loo , who ride cow , drive any horse she could get , have nine cat , and be not afraid of the big dog that ever bark .
`` I fancy ` The Dancing Lesson ; ' it be so sort of splendid , with the great window , gold chair , and fine folk .
Oh , I would like to live in a castle with a father and mother like that , '' say Merry , who be romantic , and find the old farmhouse on the hill a sad trial to her high-flown idea of elegance .
`` Now , that ship , set out for some far-away place , be more to my mind .
I weary for home now and then , and mean to see it again some day ; '' and Mrs. Pecq look longingly at the English ship , though it be evidently outward bound .
Then , a if reproach herself for discontent , she add : `` It look like those I use to see go off to India with a load of missionary .
I come near go myself once , with a lady bound for Siam ; but I go to Canada with her sister , and here I be . ''
`` I 'd like to be a missionary and go where folk throw their baby to the crocodile .
I 'd watch and fish them out , and have a school , and bring them up , and convert all the people till they know well , '' say warm-hearted Molly Loo , who befriend every abuse animal and forlorn child she meet .
`` We need n't go to Africa to be missionary ; they have 'em nearer home and need 'em , too .
In all the big city there be a many , and they have their hand full with the poor , the wicked , and the helpless .
One can find that sort of work anywhere , if one have a mind , '' say Mrs. Pecq .
`` I wish we have some to do here .
I 'd so like to go round with basket of tea and rice , and give out tract and talk to people .
Would n't you , girl ? ''
ask Molly , much take with the new idea .
`` It would be rather nice to have a society all to ourselves , and have meeting and resolution and thing , '' answer Merry , who be fond of little ceremony , and always go to the sew circle with her mother .
`` We would n't let the boy come in .
We 'd have it a secret society , a they do their temperance lodge , and we 'd have badge and pass-words and grip .
It would be fun if we can only get some heathen to work at ! ''
cry Jill , ready for fresh enterprise of every sort .
`` I can tell you someone to begin on right away , '' say her mother , nod at her .
`` As wild a little savage a I 'd wish to see .
Take her in hand , and make a pretty-mannered lady of her .
Begin at home , my lass , and you 'll find missionary work enough for a while . ''
`` Now , Mammy , you mean me !
Well , I will begin ; and I 'll be so good , folk wo n't know me .
Being sick make naughty child behave in story-books , I 'll see if live one ca n't ; '' and Jill put on such a sanctified face that the girl laugh and ask for their mission also , think they would be the same .
`` You , Merry , might do a deal at home help mother , and set the big brother a good example .
One little girl in a house can do pretty much a she will , especially if she have a mind to make plain thing nice and comfortable , and not long for castle before she know how to do her own task well , '' be the first unexpected reply .
Merry color , but take the reproof sweetly , resolve to do what she could , and surprise to find how many way seem open to her after a few minute ' thought .
`` Where shall I begin ?
I 'm not afraid of a dozen crocodile after Miss Bat ; '' and Molly Loo look about her with a fierce air , have have practice in battle with the old lady who keep her father 's house .
`` Well , dear , you have n't far to look for as nice a little heathen a you 'd wish ; '' and Mrs. Pecq glance at Boo , who sit on the floor star hard at them , attract by the dread word `` crocodile . ''
He have a cold and no handkerchief , his little hand be red with chilblain , his clothes shabby , he have untidy darn in the knee of his stocking , and a head of tight curl that evidently have not be comb for some time .
`` Yes , I know he be , and I try to keep him decent , but I forget , and he hat to be fix , and Miss Bat do n't care , and father laugh when I talk about it . ''
Poor Molly Loo look much ashamed a she make excuse , try at the same time to mend matter by seize Boo and dust him all over with her handkerchief , give a pull at his hair a if ring bell , and then dump him down again with the despair exclamation : `` Yes , we 're a pair of heathen , and there 's no one to save u if I do n't . ''
That be true enough ; for Molly 's father be a busy man , careless of everything but his mill , Miss Bat be old and lazy , and felt a if she might take life easy after serve the motherless child for many year as well a she know how .
Molly be begin to see how much amiss thing be at home , and old enough to feel mortified , though , a yet , she have do nothing to mend the matter except be kind to the little boy .
`` You will , my dear , '' answer Mrs. Pecq , encouragingly , for she know all about it .
`` Now you 've each get a mission , let u see how well you will get on .
Keep it secret , if you like , and report once a week .
I 'll be a member , and we 'll do great thing yet . ''
`` We wo n't begin till after Christmas ; there be so much to do , we never shall have time for any more .
Do n't tell , and we 'll start fair at New Year 's , if not before , '' say Jill , take the lead a usual .
Then they go on with the gay lady , who certainly be heathen enough in dress to be in sad need of conversion , -- to common-sense at least .
`` I feel a if I be at a party , '' say Jill , after a pause occupy in survey her gallery with great satisfaction , for dress be her delight , and here she have every conceivable style and color .
`` Talking of party , be n't it too bad that we must give up our Christmas fun ?
Ca n't get on without you and Jack , so we be not go to do a thing , but just have our present , '' say Merry , sadly , a they begin to fit different head and body together , to try droll effect .
`` I shall be all well in a fortnight , I know ; but Jack wo n't , for it will take more than a month to mend his poor leg .
May be they will have a dance in the boy ' big room , and he can look on , '' suggest Jill , with a glance at the dance damsel on the wall , for she dearly love it , and never guess how long it would be before her light foot would keep time to music again .
`` You 'd better give Jack a hint about the party .
Send over some smart lady , and say they have come to his Christmas ball , '' propose audacious Molly Loo , always ready for fun .
So they put a preposterous green bonnet , top-heavy with plume , on a little lady in yellow , who sit in a carriage ; the lady beside her , in winter costume of velvet pelisse and ermine boa , be fit to a bride 's head with it orange flower and veil , and these work of art be send over to Jack , label `` Miss Laura and Lotty Burton go to the Minots ' Christmas ball , '' -- a piece of naughtiness on Jill 's part , for she know Jack like the pretty sister , whose gentle manner make her own wild way seem all the more blamable .
No answer come for a long time , and the girl have almost forget their joke in a game of Letters , when `` Tingle , tangle ! ''
go the bell , and the basket come in heavily laden .
A roll of colored paper be tie outside , and within be a box that rattle , a green and silver horn , a roll of narrow ribbon , a spool of strong thread , some large needle , and a note from Mrs. Minot : -- `` Dear Jill , -- I think of have a Christmas tree so that our invalid can enjoy it , and all your elegant friend be cordially invite .
Knowing that you would like to help , I send some paper for sugar-plum horn and some bead for necklace .
They will brighten the tree and please the girl for themselves or their doll .
Jack send you a horn for a pattern , and will you make a ladder-necklace to show him how ?
Let me know if you need anything .
`` Yours in haste , `` Anna Minot '' `` She know what the child would like , bless her kind heart , '' say Mrs. Pecq to herself , and something brighter than the most silvery bead shone on Jack 's shirt-sleeve , a she saw the rapture of Jill over the new work and the promised pleasure .
Joyful cry greet the opening of the box , for bunch of splendid large bugle appear in all color , and a lively discussion go on a to the best contrast .
Jill could not refuse to let her friend share the pretty work , and soon three necklace glitter on three neck , a each admire her own choice .
`` I 'd be willing to hurt my back dreadfully , if I could lie and do such lovely thing all day , '' say Merry , a she reluctantly put down her needle at last , for home duty wait to be do , and look more than ever distasteful after this new pleasure .
`` So would I !
Oh , do you think Mrs. Minot will let you fill the horn when they be do ?
I 'd love to help you then .
Be sure you send for me ! ''
cry Molly Loo , arch her neck like a proud pigeon to watch the glitter of her purple and gold necklace on her brown gown .
`` I 'm afraid you could n't be trust , you love sweetie so , and I 'm sure Boo could n't .
But I 'll see about it , '' reply Jill , with a responsible air .
The mention of the boy recall him to their mind , and look round they find him peacefully absorb in polish up the floor with Molly 's pocket-handkerchief and oil from the little machine-can .
Being tear from this congenial labor , he be carry off shin with grease and roar lustily .
But Jill do not mind her loneliness now , and sang like a happy canary while she thread her sparkle bead , or hang the gay horn to dry , ready for their cargo of sweet .
So Mrs. Minot 's recipe for sunshine prove successful , and mother-wit make the wintry day a bright and happy one for both the little prisoner .
Chapter V. Secrets There be a great many club in Harmony Village , but a we intend to interest ourselves with the affair of the young folk only , we need not dwell upon the intellectual amusement of the elder .
In summer , the boy devote themselves to baseball , the girl to boat , and all get rosy , stout , and strong , in these healthful exercise .
In winter , the lad have their debating club , the lass a dramatic ditto .
At the former , astonish burst of oratory be hear ; at the latter , everything be boldly attempt , from Romeo and Juliet to Mother Goose 's immortal melody .
The two club frequently meet and mingle their attraction in a really entertaining manner , for the speaker make good actor , and the young actress be most appreciative listener to the eloquence of each budding Demosthenes .
Great plan have be afoot for Christmas or New Year , but when the grand catastrophe put an end to the career of one of the best `` spouter , '' and cause the retirement of the favorite `` singing chambermaid , '' the affair be postpone till February , when Washington 's birthday be always celebrate by the patriotic town , where the father of his country once put on his nightcap , or take off his boot , a that ubiquitous hero appear to have do in every part of the United States .
Meantime the boy be study Revolutionary character , and the girl rehearse such dramatic scene a they think most appropriate and effective for the 22d .
In both of these attempt they be much help by the sense and spirit of Ralph Evans , a youth of nineteen , who be a great favorite with the young folk , not only because he be a good , industrious fellow , who support his grandmother , but also full of talent , fun , and ingenuity .
It be no wonder every one who really know him like him , for he could turn his hand to anything , and love to do it .
If the girl be in despair about a fire-place when act `` The Cricket on the Hearth , '' he paint one , and put a gas-log in it that make the kettle really boil , to their great delight .
If the boy find the interest of their club flagging , Ralph would convulse them by imitation of the `` Member from Cranberry Centre , '' or fire them with speech of famous statesman .
Charity fair could not get on without him , and in the store where he work he do many an ingenious job , which make him value for his mechanical skill , as well a for his energy and integrity .
Mrs. Minot like to have him with her son , because they also be to paddle their own canoe by and by , and she believe that , rich or poor , boy make good men for learn to use the talent they possess , not merely a ornament , but tool with which to carve their own fortune ; and the best help toward this end be an example of faithful work , high aim , and honest living .
So Ralph come often , and in time of trouble be a real rainy-day friend .
Jack grow very fond of him during his imprisonment , for the good youth run in every evening to get commission , amuse the boy with droll account of the day 's adventure , or invent lift , bed-tables , and foot-rests for the impatient invalid .
Frank find him a sure guide through the mechanical mystery which he love , and spend many a useful half-hour discussing cylinder , piston , valve , and balance-wheels .
Jill also come in for her share of care and comfort ; the poor little back lay all the easy for the air-cushion Ralph get her , and the weary headache find relief from the spray atomizer , which softly distil it scented dew on the hot forehead till she fell asleep .
Round the bed of Jack and Jill meet and mingle the schoolmate of whom our story treat .
Never , probably , do invalid have gayer time than our two , after a week of solitary confinement ; for school gossip crept in , game could not be prevent , and Christmas secret be concoct in those room till they be regular conspirator ' den , when they be not little Bedlams .
After the horn and bead labor be over , the stringing of pop-corn on red , and cranberry on white , thread , come next , and Jack and Jill often look like a new kind of spider in the pretty web hung about them , till reel off to bide their time in the Christmas closet .
Paper flower follow , and gay garland and bouquet blossom , regardless of the snow and frost without .
Then there be a great scribbling of name , verse , and note to accompany the steadily increase store of odd parcel which be collect at the Minots ' , for gift from every one be to ornament the tree , and contribution pour in a the day draw near .
But the secret which most excite the young people be the deep mystery of certain proceeding at the Minot house .
No one but Frank , Ralph , and Mamma know what it be , and the two boy nearly drive the others distract by the tantalize way in which they hint at joy to come , talk strangely about bird , go measure round with foot-rules , and shut themselves up in the Boys ' Den , a a certain large room be call .
This seem to be the centre of operation , but beyond the fact of the promised tree no ray of light be permit to pass the jealously guarded door .
Strange men with paste-pots and ladder go in , furniture be drag about , and all sort of boyish lumber be send up garret and down cellar .
Mrs. Minot be see ponder over heap of green stuff , hammering be hear , singular bundle be smuggle upstairs , flower plant betray their presence by whiff of fragrance when the door be open , and Mrs. Pecq be catch smile all by herself in a back bedroom , which usually be shut up in winter .
`` They be go to have a play , after all , and that green stuff be the curtain , '' say Molly Loo , a the girl talk it over one day , when they sit with their back turn to one another , put last stitch in certain bit of work which have to be conceal from all eye , though it be find convenient to ask one another 's taste a to the color , material , and size of these mysterious article .
`` I think it be go to be a dance .
I hear the boy do their step when I go in last evening to find out whether Jack like blue or yellow best , so I could put the bow on his pen-wiper , '' declare Merry , knit briskly away at the last of the pair of pretty white bed-socks she be make for Jill right under her inquisitive little nose .
`` They would n't have a party of that kind without Jack and me .
It be only an extra nice tree , you see if it be n't , '' answer Jill from behind the pillow which make a temporary screen to hide the toilet mat she be prepare for all her friend .
`` Every one of you be wrong , and you 'd better rest easy , for you wo n't find out the best part of it , try a you may . ''
And Mrs. Pecq actually chuckle a she , too , work away at some bit of muslin , with her back turn to the very unsocial-looking group .
`` Well , I do n't care , we 've get a secret all our own , and wo n't ever tell , will we ? ''
cry Jill , fall back on the Home Missionary Society , though it be not yet begin .
`` Never ! ''
answer the girl , and all take great comfort in the idea that one mystery would not be clear up , even at Christmas .
Jack give up guessing , in despair , after he have suggest a new dining-room where he could eat with the family , a private school in which his lesson might go on with a tutor , or a theatre for the production of the farce in which he delight .
`` It be go to be use to keep something in that you be very fond of , '' say Mamma , take pity on him at last .
`` Ducks ? ''
ask Jack , with a half pleased , half puzzle air , not quite see where the water be to come from .
Frank explode at the idea , and add to the mystification by say , -- `` There will be one little duck and one great donkey in it . ''
Then , fear he have tell the secret , he run off , quack and bray derisively .
`` It be to be use for creature that I , too , be fond of , and you know neither donkey nor duck be favorite of mine , '' say Mamma , with a demure expression , a she sit turn over old clothes for the bundle that always go to poor neighbor , with a little store of goody , at this time of the year .
`` I know !
I know !
It be to be a new ward for more sick folk , be n't it , now ? ''
cry Jack , with what he think a great proof of shrewdness .
`` I do n't see how I could attend to many more patient till this one be off my hand , '' answer Mamma , with a queer smile , add quickly , a if she too be afraid of let the cat out of the bag : `` That remind me of a Christmas I once spend among the hospital and poor-houses of a great city with a good lady who , for thirty year , have make it her mission to see that these poor little soul have one merry day .
We give away two hundred doll , several great box of candy and toy , besides gay picture , and new clothes to orphan child , sick baby , and half-grown innocent .
Ah , my boy , that be a day to remember all my life , to make me doubly grateful for my blessing , and very glad to serve the helpless and afflicted , a that dear woman do . ''
The look and tone with which the last word be uttered effectually turn Jack 's thought from the great secret , and start another small one , for he fell to plan what he would buy with his pocket-money to surprise the little Pats and Biddies who be to have no Christmas tree .
Chapter VI .
Surprises `` Is it pleasant ? ''
be the question Jill ask before she be fairly awake on Christmas morning .
`` Yes , dear ; as bright a heart could wish .
Now eat a bit , and then I 'll make you nice for the day 's pleasure .
I only hope it wo n't be too much for you , '' answer Mrs. Pecq , bustle about , happy , yet anxious , for Jill be to be carry over to Mrs. Minot 's , and it be her first attempt at go out since the accident .
It seem a if nine o'clock would never come , and Jill , with wrap all ready , lay wait in a fever of impatience for the doctor 's visit , a he wish to superintend the moving .
At last he come , find all promising , and have bundle up his small patient , carry her , with Frank 's help , in her chair-bed to the ox-sled , which be draw to the next door , and Miss Jill land in the Boys ' Den before she have time to get either cold or tire .
Mrs. Minot take her thing off with a cordial welcome , but Jill never say a word , for , after one exclamation , she lay star about her , dumb with surprise and delight at what she saw .
The great room be entirely change ; for now it look like a garden , or one of the fairy scenes child love , where in-doors and out-of-doors be pleasantly combine .
The ceiling be pale blue , like the sky ; the wall be cover with a paper like a rustic trellis , up which climb morning-glories so naturally that the many-colored bell seem dance in the wind .
Birds and butterfly fly among them , and here and there , through arch in the trellis , one seem to look into a sunny summer world , contrast curiously with the wintry landscape lie beyond the real window , festoon with evergreen garland , and curtain only by stand of living flower .
A green drugget cover the floor like grass , rustic chair from the garden stand about , and in the middle of the room a handsome hemlock wait for it pretty burden .
A Yule-log blaze on the wide hearth , and over the chimney-piece , frame in holly , shine the word that set all heart to dance , `` Merry Christmas ! ''
`` Do you like it , dear ?
This be our surprise for you and Jack , and here we mean to have good time together , '' say Mrs. Minot , who have stand quietly enjoy the effect of her work .
`` Oh , it be so lovely I do n't know what to say ! ''
and Jill put up both arm , a word fail her , and grateful kiss be all she have to offer .
`` Can you suggest anything more to add to the pleasantness ? ''
ask the gentle lady , hold the small hand in her own , and feel well repay by the child 's delight .
`` Only Jack ; '' and Jill 's laugh be good to hear , a she glance up with merry , yet wistful eye .
`` You be right .
We 'll have him in at once , or he will come hop on one leg ; '' and away hurry his mother , laughing , too , for whistle , shout , thump , and violent demonstration of all kind have be hear from the room where Jack be rag with impatience , while he wait for his share of the surprise .
Jill could hardly lie still when she hear the roll of another chair-bed come down the hall , it passage enliven with cry of `` Starboard !
Port !
Easy now !
Pull away ! ''
from Ralph and Frank , a they steer the recumbent Columbus on his first voyage of discovery .
`` Well , I call that handsome ! ''
be Jack 's exclamation , when the full beauty of the scene burst upon his view .
Then he forget all about it and give a whoop of pleasure , for there beside the fire be an eager face , two hand beckon , and Jill 's voice cry , joyfully , -- `` I 'm here !
I 'm here !
Oh , do come , quick ! ''
Down the long room rattle the chair , Jack cheer all the way , and bring up beside the other one , a the long-parted friend exclaim , with one accord , -- `` Is n't this jolly ! ''
It certainly do look so , for Ralph and Frank dance a wild sort of fandango round the tree , Dr. Whiting stand and laugh , while the two mother beam from the door-way , and the child , not know whether to laugh or to cry , compromise the matter by clap their hand and shouting , `` Merry Christmas to everybody ! ''
like a pair of little maniac .
Then they all sober down , and the busy one go off to the various duty of the day , leave the young invalid to repose and enjoy themselves together .
`` How nice you look , '' say Jill , when they have duly admire the pretty room .
`` So do you , '' gallantly return Jack , a he survey her with unusual interest .
They do look very nice , though happiness be the principal beautifier .
Jill wear a red wrapper , with the most brilliant of all the necklace sparkle at her throat , over a nicely crimped frill her mother have make in honor of the day .
All the curly black hair be gather into a red net , and a pair of smart little moccasin cover the foot that have not step for many a weary day .
Jack be not so gay , but have make himself as fine a circumstance would permit .
A gray dressing-gown , with blue cuff and collar , be very become to the blonde youth ; an immaculate shirt , best stud , sleeve-buttons , blue tie , and handkerchief wet with cologne stick out of the breast-pocket , give an air of elegance in spite of the afghan spread over the low portion of his manly form .
The yellow hair be brush till it shone , and be part in the middle , to hide the black patch , make two engaging little `` quirls '' on his forehead .
The summer tan have fade from his cheek , but his eye be as blue a the wintry sky , and nearly every white tooth be visible a he smile on his partner in misfortune , say cheerily , -- `` I 'm ever so glad to see you again ; guess we be over the bad of it now , and can have good time .
Wo n't it be fun to stay here all the while , and amuse one another ? ''
`` Yes , indeed ; but one day be so short !
It will be stupid than ever when I go home to-night , '' answer Jill , look about her with long eye .
`` But you be not go home to-night ; you be to stay ever so long .
Did n't Mamma tell you ? ''
`` No .
Oh , how splendid !
Am I really ?
Where will I sleep ?
What will Mammy do without me ? ''
and Jill almost sit up , she be so delighted with the new surprise .
`` That room in there be all fix for you .
I make Frank tell me so much .
Mamma say I might tell you , but I do n't think she would be able to hold in if she saw you first .
Your mother be come , too , and we be all go to have lark together till we be well . ''
The splendor of this arrangement take Jill 's breath away , and before she get it again , in come Frank and Ralph with two clothes-baskets of treasure to be hang upon the tree .
While they wire on the candle the child ask question , and find out all they want to know about the new plan and pleasure .
`` Who fix all this ? ''
`` Mamma thought of it , and Ralph and I do it .
He 's the man for this sort of thing , you know .
He propose cut out the arch and stick on bird and butterfly just where they look best .
I put those canary over there , they look so well against the blue ; '' and Frank proudly point out some queer orange-colored fowl , look a if they be have fit in the air , but very effective , nevertheless .
`` Your mother say you might call this the Bird Room .
We catch a scarlet-tanager for you to begin with , do n't we , Jack ? ''
and Ralph throw a bon-bon at Jill , who look very like a bright little bird in a warm nest .
`` Good for you !
Yes , and we be go to keep her in this pretty cage till we can both fly off together .
I say , Jill , where shall we be in our class when we do get back ? ''
and Jack 's merry face fell at the thought .
`` At the foot , if we do n't study and keep up .
Doctor say I might study sometimes , if I 'd lie still as long a he think best , and Molly bring home my book , and Merry say she will come in every day and tell me where the lesson be .
I do n't mean to fall behind , if my backbone be crack , '' say Jill , with a decided nod that make several black ring fly out of the net to dance on her forehead .
`` Frank say he 'd pull me along in my Latin , but I 've be lazy and have n't do a thing .
Let 's go at it and start fair for New Year , '' propose Jack , who do not love study a the bright girl do , but be ashamed to fall behind her in anything .
`` All right .
They 've be review , so we can keep up when they begin , if we work next week , while the rest have a holiday .
Oh , dear , I do miss school dreadfully ; '' and Jill sigh for the old desk , every blot and notch of which be dear to her .
`` There come our thing , and pretty nice they look , too , '' say Jack ; and his mother begin to dress the tree , hang up the gay horn , the gilded nut , red and yellow apple and orange , and festoon long string of pop-corn and scarlet cranberry from bough to bough , with the glittering necklace hung where the light would show their color best .
`` I never saw such a splendid tree before .
I 'm glad we could help , though we be ill .
Is it all do now ? ''
ask Jill , when the last parcel be tie on and everybody stand back to admire the pretty sight .
`` One thing more .
Hand me that box , Frank , and be very careful that you fasten this up firmly , Ralph , '' answer Mrs. Minot , a she take from it wrapping the waxen figure of a little child .
The rosy limb be very life-like , so be the smile face under the lock of shin hair .
Both plump arm be outspread a if to scatter blessing over all , and downy wing seem to flutter from the dimpled shoulder , make an angel of the baby .
`` Is it St. Nicholas ? ''
ask Jill , who have never see that famous personage , and know but little of Christmas festivity .
`` It be the Christ-child , whose birthday we be celebrate .
I get the best I could find , for I like the idea well than old Santa Claus ; though we may have him , too , '' say Mamma , hold the little image so that both could see it well .
`` It look like a real baby ; '' and Jack touch the rosy foot with the tip of his finger , a if expect a crow from the half-open lip .
`` It remind me of the saint in the chapel of the Sacred Heart in Montreal .
One little St. John look like this , only he have a lamb instead of wing , '' say Jill , stroke the flaxen hair , and wish she dare ask for it to play with .
`` He be the child 's saint to pray to , love , and imitate , for he never forget them , but bless and heal and teach them all his life .
This be only a poor image of the holy baby ever bear , but I hope it will keep his memory in your mind all day , because this be the day for good resolution , happy thought , and humble prayer , as well a play and gift and feasting . ''
While she speak , Mrs. Minot , touch the little figure as tenderly a if it be alive , have tie a broad white ribbon round it , and , hand it to Ralph , bid him fasten it to the hook above the tree-top , where it seem to float a if the downy wing support it .
Jack and Jill lay silently watch , with a sweet sort of soberness in their young face , and for a moment the room be very still a all eye look up at the Blessed Child .
The sunshine seem to grow more golden a it flicker on the little head , the flame glance about the glittering tree a if try to climb and kiss the baby foot , and , without , a chime of bell ring sweetly , call people to hear again the lovely story of the life begin on Christmas Day .
Only a minute , but it do them good , and presently , when the pleasant work be over , and the worker go , the boy to church , and Mamma to see about lunch for the invalid , Jack say , gravely , to Jill , -- `` I think we ought to be extra good , every one be so kind to u , and we be get well , and go to have such capital time .
Do n't see how we can do anything else to show we be grateful . ''
`` It be n't easy to be good when one be sick , '' say Jill , thoughtfully .
`` I fret dreadfully , I get so tired of be still .
I want to scream sometimes , but I do n't , because it would scare Mammy , so I cry .
Do you cry , Jack ? ''
`` Men never do .
I want to tramp round when thing bother me ; but I ca n't , so I kick and say , ` Hang it ! '
and when I get very bad I pitch into Frank , and he let me .
I tell you , Jill , he 's a good brother ! ''
and Jack privately resolve then and there to invite Frank to take it out of him in any form he please as soon a health would permit .
`` I rather think we shall grow good in this pretty place , for I do n't see how we can be bad if we want to , it be all so nice and sort of pious here , '' say Jill , with her eye on the angel over the tree .
`` A fellow can be awfully hungry , I know that .
I do n't half eat breakfast , I be in such a hurry to see you , and know all about the secret .
Frank keep say I could n't guess , that you have come , and I never would be ready , till finally I get mad and fire an egg at him , and make no end of a mess . ''
Jack and Jill go off into a gale of laughter at the idea of dignified Frank dodge the egg that smash on the wall , leave an indelible mark of Jack 's besetting sin , impatience .
Just then Mrs. Minot come in , well pleased to hear such pleasant sound , and to see two merry face , where usually one listless one meet her anxious eye .
`` The new medicine work well , neighbor , '' she say to Mrs. Pecq , who follow with the lunch tray .
`` Indeed it do , mem .
I feel a if I 'd take a sup myself , I 'm that easy in my mind . ''
And she look so , too , for she seem to have leave all her care in the little house when she lock the door behind her , and now stand smile with a clean apron on , so fresh and cheerful , that Jill hardly know her own mother .
`` Things taste well when you have someone to eat with you , '' observe Jack , a they devour sandwich , and drink milk out of little mug with rosebud on them .
`` Do n't eat too much , or you wo n't be ready for the next surprise , '' say his mother , when the plate be empty , and the last drop go down throat dry with much chatter .
`` More surprise !
Oh , what fun ! ''
cry Jill .
And all the rest of the morning , in the interval of talk and play , they try to guess what it could be .
At two o'clock they find out , for dinner be serve in the Bird Room , and the child revel in the simple feast prepare for them .
The two mother keep the little bed-tables well supply , and feed their nursling like maternal bird , while Frank preside over the feast with great dignity , and eat a dinner which would have astonish Mamma , if she have not be too busy to observe how fast the mince pie vanish .
`` The girl say Christmas be spoil because of u ; but I do n't think so , and they wo n't either , when they see this splendid place and know all about our nice plan , '' say Jill , luxuriously eat the nut-meats Jack pick out for her , a they lay in Eastern style at the festive board .
`` I call this broken bone make easy .
I never have a good Christmas .
Have a raisin ?
Here 's a good fat one . ''
And Jack make a long arm to Jill 's mouth , which begin to sing `` Little Jack Horner '' a an appropriate return .
`` It would have be a lonesome one to all of u , I 'm think , but for your mother , boy .
My duty and hearty thanks to you , mem , '' put in grateful Mrs. Pecq , bow over her coffee-cup a she have see lady bow over their wine-glasses at dinner party in Old England .
`` I rise to propose a health , Our Mothers . ''
And Frank stand up with a goblet of water , for not even at Christmas time be wine see on that table .
`` Hip , hip , hurrah ! ''
call Jack , baptize himself with a good sprinkle , a he wave his glass and drink the toast with a look that make his mother 's eye fill with happy tear .
Jill throw her mother a kiss , feel very grow up and elegant to be din out in such style .
Then they drink every one 's health with much merriment , till Frank declare that Jack would float off on the deluge of water he splash about in his enthusiasm , and Mamma propose a rest after the merry-making .
`` Now the best fun be come , and we have not long to wait , '' say the boy , when nap and ride about the room have whiled away the brief interval between dinner and dusk , for the evening entertainment be to be an early one , to suit the invalid ' bedtime .
`` I hope the girl will like their thing .
I help to choose them , and each have a nice present .
I do n't know mine , though , and I 'm in a twitter to see it , '' say Jill , a they lay wait for the fun to begin .
`` I do ; I choose it , so I know you will like one of them , any way . ''
`` Have I get more than one ? ''
`` I guess you 'll think so when they be hand down .
The bell be go all day yesterday , and the girl keep bring in bundle for you ; I see seven now , '' and Jack roll his eye from one mysterious parcel to another hang on the laden bough .
`` I know something , too .
That square bundle be what you want ever so much .
I tell Frank , and he get it for his present .
It be all red and gold outside , and every sort of color inside ; you 'll hurrah when you see it .
That roundish one be yours too ; I make them , '' cry Jill , point to a flat package tie to the stem of the tree , and a neat little roll in which be the blue mittens that she have knit for him .
`` I can wait ; '' but the boy 's eye shone with eagerness , and he could not resist fire two or three pop-corns at it to see whether it be hard or soft .
`` That barking dog be for Boo , and the little yellow sled , so Molly can drag him to school , he always tumble down so when it be slippery , '' continue Jill , proud of her superior knowledge , a she show a small spot animal hanging by it tail , with a red tongue display a if about to taste the sweetie in the horn below .
`` Do n't talk about sled , for mercy 's sake !
I never want to see another , and you would n't , either , if you have to lie with a flat-iron tie to your ankle , a I do , '' say Jack , with a kick of the well leg and an ireful glance at the weight attach to the other that it might not contract while heal .
`` Well , I think plaster , and liniment , and rub , as bad a flat-irons any day .
I do n't believe you have ache half so much a I have , though it sound bad to break legs than to sprain your back , '' protest Jill , eager to prove herself the great sufferer , a invalid be apt to be .
`` I guess you would n't think so if you 'd be pull round a I be when they set my leg .
Caesar , how it do hurt ! ''
and Jack squirm at the recollection of it .
`` You do n't faint away a I do when the doctor be find out if my vertebrums be hurt , so now ! ''
cry Jill , bound to carry her point , though not at all clear what vertebra be .
`` Pooh !
Girls always faint .
Men be braver , and I do n't faint a bit in spite of all that horrid agony . ''
`` You howl ; Frank tell me so .
Doctor say I be a brave girl , so you need n't brag , for you 'll have to go on a crutch for a while .
I know that . ''
`` You may have to use two of them for year , may be .
I hear the doctor tell my mother so .
I shall be up and about long before you will .
Now then ! ''
Both child be get excite , for the various pleasure of the day have be rather too much for them , and there be no know but they would have add the sad surprise of a quarrel to the pleasant one of the day , if a cheerful whistle have not be heard , a Ralph come in to light the candle and give the last artistic touch to the room .
`` Well , young folk , how go it ?
Had a merry time so far ? ''
he ask , a he fix the step and run up with a lighted match in his hand .
`` Very nice , thank you , '' answer a prim little voice from the dusk below , for only the glow of the fire fill the room just then .
Jack say nothing , and two red sulky face be hide in the dark , watch candle after candle sputter , brighten , and twinkle , till the trembling shadow begin to flit away like imp afraid of the light .
`` Now he will see my face , and I know it be cross , '' think Jill , a Ralph go round the last circle , leave another line of spark among the hemlock bough .
Jack think the same , and have just get the frown smooth out of his forehead , when Frank bring a fresh log , and a glorious blaze spring up , fill every corner of the room , and dance over the figure in the long chair till they have to brighten whether they like it or not .
Presently the bell begin to ring and gay voice to sound below : then Jill smile in spite of herself a Molly Loo 's usual cry of `` Oh , dear , where be that child ? ''
reach her , and Jack could not help keep time to the march Ed play , while Frank and Gus marshal the procession .
`` Ready ! ''
cried Mrs. Minot , at last , and up come the troop of eager lad and lass , brave in holiday suit , with face to match .
A unanimous `` O , o , o ! ''
burst from twenty tongue , a the full splendor of the tree , the room , and it inmate , dawn upon them ; for not only do the pretty Christ-child hover above , but Santa Claus himself stand below , fur-clad , white-bearded , and powder with snow from the dredging-box .
Ralph be a good actor , and , when the first rapture be over he distribute the present with such droll speech , joke , and gambol , that the room rang with merriment , and passer-by pause to listen , sure that here , at least , Christmas be merry .
It would be impossible to tell about all the gift or the joy of the receiver , but every one be satisfy , and the king and queen of the revel so overwhelmed with little token of good-will , that their bed look like booth at a fair .
Jack beam over the handsome postage-stamp book which have long be the desire of his heart , and Jill felt like a millionaire , with a silver fruit-knife , a pretty work-basket , and oh !
-- coal of fire on her head !
-- a ring from Jack .
A simple little thing enough , with one tiny turquoise forget-me-not , but something like a dew-drop fell on it when no one be look , and she long to say , `` I 'm sorry I be cross ; forgive me , Jack . ''
But it could not be do then , so she turn to admire Merry 's bed-shoes , the pot of pansy , hyacinth , and geranium which Gus and his sister send for her window garden , Molly 's queer Christmas pie , and the zither Ed promise to teach her how to play upon .
The tree be soon strip , and pop-corns strew the floor a the child stand about pick them off the red thread when candy give out , with an occasional cranberry by way of relish .
Boo insist on try the new sled at once , and enliven the trip by the squeaking of the spotted dog , the toot of a tin trumpet , and shout of joy at the splendor of the turn-out .
The girl all put on their necklace , and dance about like fine lady at a ball .
The boy fell to compare skate , ball , and cuff-buttons on the spot , while the little one devote all their energy to eat everything eatable they could lay their hand on .
Games be play till nine o'clock , and then the party break up , after they have take hand round the tree and sing a song write by one whom you all know , -- so faithfully and beautifully do she love and labor for child the world over .
THE BLESSED DAY `` What shall little child bring On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ?
What shall little child bring On Christmas Day in the morning ?
This shall little child bring On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ; Love and joy to Christ their king , On Christmas Day in the morning !
`` What shall little child sing On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ?
What shall little child sing On Christmas Day in the morning ?
The grand old carol shall they sing On Christmas Day , on Christmas Day ; With all their heart , their offering bring On Christmas Day in the morning . ''
Jack be carry off to bed in such haste that he have only time to call out , `` Good-night ! ''
before he be roll away , gap a he go .
Jill soon find herself tuck up in the great white bed she be to share with her mother , and lay look about the pleasant chamber , while Mrs. Pecq run home for a minute to see that all be safe there for the night .
After the merry din the house seem very still , with only a light step now and then , the murmur of voice not far away , or the jingle of sleigh-bells from without , and the little girl rest easily among the pillow , think over the pleasure of the day , too wide-awake for sleep .
There be no lamp in the chamber , but she could look into the pretty Bird Room , where the fire-light still shine on flowery wall , desert tree , and Christ-child float above the green .
Jill 's eye wander there and linger till they be full of regretful tear , because the sight of the little angel recall the word speak when it be hang up , the good resolution she have take then , and how soon it be break .
`` I say I could n't be bad in that lovely place , and I be a cross , ungrateful girl after all they 've do for Mammy and me .
Poor Jack be hurt the bad , and he be brave , though he do scream .
I wish I could go and tell him so , and hear him say , ` All right . '
Oh , me , I 've spoil the day ! ''
A great sob choke more word , and Jill be about to have a comfortable cry , when someone enter the other room , and she saw Frank do something with a long cord and a thing that look like a tiny drum .
Quiet a a bright-eyed mouse , Jill peep out wonder what it be , and suspect mischief , for the boy be laugh to himself a he stretch the cord , and now and then bent over the little object in his hand , touch it with great care .
`` May be it 's a torpedo to blow up and scare me ; Jack like to play trick .
Well , I 'll scream loud when it go off , so he will be satisfy that I 'm dreadfully frighten , '' think Jill , little dream what the last surprise of the day be to be .
Presently a voice whisper , -- `` I say !
Are you awake ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Any one there but you ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Catch this , then .
Hold it to your ear and see what you 'll get . ''
The little drum come fly in , and , catch it , Jill , with some hesitation , obey Frank 's order .
Judge of her amazement when she catch in broken whisper these touch word : -- `` Sorry I be cross .
Forgive and forget .
Start fair to-morrow .
All right .
Jack . ''
Jill be so delighted with this handsome apology , that she could not reply for a moment , then steady her voice , and answer back in her sweetest tone , -- `` I 'm sorry , too .
Never , never , will again .
Feel much good now .
Good-night , you dear old thing . ''
Satisfied with the success of his telephone , Frank twitch back the drum and vanish , leave Jill to lay her cheek upon the hand that wear the little ring and fall asleep , say to herself , with a farewell glance at the child 's saint , dimly see in the soft gloom , `` I will not forget .
I will be good ! ''
Chapter VII .
Jill 's Mission The good time begin immediately , and very little studying be do that week in spite of the virtuous resolution make by certain young person on Christmas Day .
But , dear me , how be it possible to settle down to lesson in the delightful Bird Room , with not only it own charm to distract one , but all the new gift to enjoy , and a dozen call a day to occupy one 's time ?
`` I guess we 'd better wait till the others be at school , and just go in for fun this week , '' say Jack , who be in great spirit at the prospect of get up , for the splint be off , and he hop to be promote to crutch very soon . ''
I shall keep my Speller by me and take a look at it every day , for that be what I 'm most backward in .
But I intend to devote myself to you , Jack , and be real kind and useful .
I 've make a plan to do it , and I mean to carry it out , any way , '' answer Jill , who have begin to be a missionary , and felt that this be a field of labor where she could distinguish herself .
`` Here 's a home mission all ready for you , and you can be pay your debt beside do yourself good , '' Mrs. Pecq say to her in private , have find plenty to do herself .
Now Jill make one great mistake at the outset -- she forget that she be the one to be convert to good manner and gentleness , and devote her effort to look after Jack , find it much easy to cure other people 's fault than her own .
Jack be a most engaging heathen , and need very little instruction ; therefore Jill think her task would be an easy one .
But three or four week of petting and play have rather demoralize both child , so Jill 's Speller , though tuck under the sofa pillow every day , be seldom look at , and Jack shirk his Latin shamefully .
Both read all the story-books they could get , hold daily levee in the Bird Room , and all their spare minute be spend in teach Snowdrop , the great Angora cat , to bring the ball when they drop it in their game .
So Saturday come , and both be rather the worse for so much idleness , since daily duty and study be the wholesome bread which feed the mind well than the dyspeptic plum-cake of sensational reading , or the unsubstantial bon-bons of frivolous amusement .
It be a stormy day , so they have few caller , and devote themselves to arrange the album ; for these book be all the rage just then , and boys meet to compare , discus , buy , sell , and `` swap '' stamp with as much interest a men on ` Change gamble in stock .
Jack have a nice little collection , and have be save up pocket-money to buy a book in which to preserve his treasure .
Now , thanks to Jill 's timely suggestion , Frank have give him a fine one , and several friend have contribute a number of rare stamp to grace the large , inviting page .
Jill wield the gum-brush and fit on the little flap , a her finger be skilful at this nice work , and Jack put each stamp in it proper place with great rustling of leaf and comparing of mark .
Returning , after a brief absence , Mrs. Minot behold the countenance of the worker adorn with gay stamp , give them a very curious appearance .
`` My dear !
what new play have you get now ?
Are you wild Indians ?
or letter that have go round the world before find the right address ? ''
she ask , laugh at the ridiculous sight , for both be as sober a judge and deeply absorb in some doubtful specimen .
`` Oh , we just stick them there to keep them safe ; they get lose if we leave them lie round .
It 's very handy , for I can see in a minute what I want on Jill 's face and she on mine , and put our finger on the right chap at once , '' answer Jack , add , with an anxious gaze at his friend 's variegated countenance , `` Where the dickens be my New Granada ?
It 's rare , and I would n't lose it for a dollar . ''
`` Why , there it be on your own nose .
Do n't you remember you put it there because you say mine be not big enough to hold it ? ''
laugh Jill , tweak a large orange square off the round nose of her neighbor , cause it to wrinkle up in a droll way , a the gum make the operation slightly painful .
`` So I do , and give you Little Bolivar on yours .
Now I 'll have Alsace and Lorraine , 1870 .
There be seven of them , so hold still and see how you like it , '' return Jack , pick the large , pale stamp one by one from Jill 's forehead , which they cross like a band .
She bore it without flinch , say to herself with a secret smile , a she glance at the hot fire , which scorch her if she keep near enough to Jack to help him , `` This really be be like a missionary , with a tattooed savage to look after .
I have to suffer a little , a the good folk do who get spear and roast sometimes ; but I wo n't complain a bit , though my forehead smart , my arm be tire , and one cheek be as red a fire . ''
`` The Roman States make a handsome page , do n't they ? ''
ask Jack , little dreaming of the part he be play in Jill 's mind .
`` Oh , I say , be n't Corea a beauty ?
I 'm ever so proud of that ; '' and he gaze fondly on a big blue stamp , the sole ornament of one page .
`` I do n't see why the Cape of Good Hope have pyramid .
They ought to go in Egypt .
The Sandwich Islands be all right , with head of the black king and queen on them , '' say Jill , feel that they be very appropriate to her private play .
`` Turkey have crescent , Australia swan , and Spain woman 's head , with black bar across them .
Frank say it be because they keep woman shut up so ; but that be only his fun .
I 'd rather have a good , honest green United States , with Washington on it , or a blue one-center with old Franklin , than all their eagle and lion and king and queen put together , '' add the democratic boy , with a disrespectful slap on a crowned head a he settle Heligoland in it place .
`` Why do Austria have Mercury on the stamp , I wonder ?
Do they wear helmet like that ? ''
ask Jill , with the brush-handle in her mouth a she cut a fresh batch of flap .
`` May be he be postman to the god , so he be put on stamp now .
The Prussians wear helmet , but they have spike like the old Roman fellows .
I like Prussians ever so much ; they fight splendidly , and always beat .
Austrians have a handsome uniform , though . ''
`` Talking of Romans reminds me that I have not hear your Latin for two day .
Come , lazybones , brace up , and let u have it now .
I 've do my compo , and shall have just time before I go out for a tramp with Gus , '' say Frank , put by a neat page to dry , for he study every day like a conscientious lad a he be .
`` Do n't know it .
Not go to try till next week .
Grind away over your old Greek as much a you like , but do n't bother me , '' answer Jack , frown at the mere thought of the detested lesson .
But Frank adore his Xenophon , and would not see his old friend , Caesar , neglect without an effort to defend him ; so he confiscate the gum-pot , and effectually stop the stamp business by whisk away at one fell swoop all that lay on Jill 's table .
`` Now then , young man , you will quit this sort of nonsense and do your lesson , or you wo n't see these fellow again in a hurry .
You ask me to hear you , and I 'm go to do it ; here 's the book . ''
Frank 's tone be the dictatorial one , which Jack hat and always find hard to obey , especially when he know he ought to do it .
Usually , when his patience be try , he stride about the room , or run off for a race round the garden , come back breathless , but good-tempered .
Now both these vent for irritation be deny him , and he have fall into the way of throw thing about in a pet .
He long to send Caesar to perpetual banishment in the fire blaze close by , but resist the temptation , and answer honestly , though gruffly : `` I know I do , but I do n't see any use in pounce on a fellow when he be n't ready .
I have n't get my lesson , and do n't mean to worry about it ; so you may just give me back my thing and go about your business . ''
`` I 'll give you back a stamp for every perfect lesson you get , and you wo n't see them on any other term ; '' and , thrust the treasure into his pocket , Frank catch up his rubber boot , and go off swing them like a pair of club , feel that he would give a trifle to be able to use them on his lazy brother .
At this high-handed proceeding , and the threat which accompany it , Jack 's patience give out , and catch up Caesar , a he think , send him fly after the retreat tyrant with the defiant declaration , -- `` Keep them , then , and your old book , too !
I wo n't look at it till you give all my stamp back and say you be sorry .
So now ! ''
It be all over before Mamma could interfere , or Jill do more than clutch and cling to the gum-brush .
Frank vanish unharmed , but the poor book dash against the wall to fall half open on the floor , it gay cover loosen , and it smooth leaf crush by the blow .
`` It 's the album !
O Jack , how could you ? ''
cry Jill , dismay at sight of the precious book so maltreat by the owner .
`` Thought it be the other .
Guess it be n't hurt much .
Did n't mean to hit him , any way .
He do provoke me so , '' mutter Jack , very red and shamefaced a his mother pick up the book and lay it silently on the table before him .
He do not know what to do with himself , and be thankful for the stamp still leave him , find great relief in make face a he pluck them one by one from his mortified countenance .
Jill look on , half glad , half sorry that her savage show such sign of unconverted ferocity , and Mrs. Minot go on write letter , wear the grave look her son find hard to bear than another person 's scolding .
No one spoke for a moment , and the silence be become awkward when Gus appear in a rubber suit , bring a book to Jack from Laura and a note to Jill from Lotty .
`` Look here , you just trundle me into my den , please , I 'm go to have a nap , it 's so dull to-day I do n't feel like do much , '' say Jack , when Gus have do his errand , try to look a if he know nothing about the fracas .
Jack fold his arm and depart like a warrior borne from the battle-field , to be chaff unmercifully for a `` pepper-pot , '' while Gus make him comfortable in his own room .
`` I hear once of a boy who throw a fork at his brother and put his eye out .
But he do n't mean to , and the brother forgive him , and he never do so any more , '' observe Jill , in a pensive tone , wish to show that she felt all the danger of impatience , but be sorry for the culprit .
`` Did the boy ever forgive himself ? ''
ask Mrs. Minot .
`` No , 'm ; I suppose not .
But Jack do n't hit Frank , and feel real sorry , I know . ''
`` He might have , and hurt him very much .
Our action be in our own hand , but the consequence of them be not .
Remember that , my dear , and think twice before you do anything . ''
`` Yes , 'm , I will ; '' and Jill compose herself to consider what missionaries usually do when the native hurl tomahawk and boomerang at one another , and defy the ruler of the land .
Mrs. Minot write one page of a new letter , then stop , push her paper about , think a little , and finally get up , say , a if she find it impossible to resist the yearning of her heart for the naughty boy , -- `` I be go to see if Jack be cover up , he be so helpless , and liable to take cold .
Do n't stir till I come back . ''
`` No , 'm , I wo n't . ''
Away go the tender parent to find her son study Caesar for dear life , and all the more amiable for the little gust which have blow away the temporary irritability .
The brother be often call `` Thunder and Lightning , '' because Frank lower and growl and be a good while clear up , while Jack 's temper come and go like a flash , and the air be all the clearer for the escape of dangerous electricity .
Of course Mamma have to stop and deliver a little lecture , illustrate by sad tale of petulant boy , and punctuate with kiss which take off the edge of these afflict narrative .
Jill meantime meditate morally on the superiority of her own good temper over the hasty one of her dear playmate , and just when she be feel unusually uplifted and secure , ala !
like so many of u , she fell , in the most deplorable manner .
Glancing about the room for something to do , she saw a sheet of paper lie exactly out of reach , where it have flutter from the table unperceived .
At first her eye rest on it as carelessly a it do on the stray stamp Frank have drop ; then , a if one thing suggest the other , she take it into her head that the paper be Frank 's composition , or , good still , a note to Annette , for the two correspond when absence or weather prevent the daily meeting at school .
`` Would n't it be fun to keep it till he give back Jack 's stamp ?
It would plague him so if it be a note , and I do believe it be , for compo 's do n't begin with two word on one side .
I 'll get it , and Jack and I will plan some way to pay him off , cross thing ! ''
Forgetting her promise not to stir , also how dishonorable it be to read other people 's letter , Jill catch up the long-handled hook , often in use now , and try to pull the paper nearer .
It would not come at once , for a seam in the carpet hold it , and Jill fear to tear or crumple it if she be not very careful .
The hook be rather heavy and long for her to manage , and Jack usually do the fishing , so she be not very skilful ; and just a she be give a particularly quick jerk , she lose her balance , fell off the sofa , and drop the pole with a bang .
`` Oh , my back ! ''
be all she could think or say a she felt the jar all through her little body , and a corresponding fear in her guilty little mind that someone would come and find out the double mischief she have be at .
For a moment she lay quite still to recover from the shock , then a the pain pass she begin to wonder how she should get back , and look about her to see if she could do it alone .
She think she could , a the sofa be near and she have improve so much that she could sit up a little if the doctor would have let her .
She be gather herself together for the effort , when , within arm 's reach now , she saw the tempting paper , and seize it with glee , for in spite of her predicament she do want to tease Frank .
A glance show that it be not the composition nor a note , but the beginning of a letter from Mrs. Minot to her sister , and Jill be about to lay it down when her own name catch her eye , and she could not resist read it .
Hard word to write of one so young , doubly hard to read , and impossible to forget .
`` Dear Lizzie , -- Jack continue to do very well , and will soon be up again .
But we begin to fear that the little girl be permanently injure in the back .
She be here , and we do our best for her ; but I never look at her without thinking of Lucinda Snow , who , you remember , be bedridden for twenty year , owe to a fall at fifteen .
Poor little Janey do not know yet , and I hope '' -- There it end , and `` poor little Janey 's '' punishment for disobedience begin that instant .
She think she be get well because she do not suffer all the time , and every one speak cheerfully about `` by and by . ''
Now she know the truth , and shut her eye with a shiver a she say , low , to herself , -- `` Twenty year !
I could n't bear it ; oh , I could n't bear it ! ''
A very miserable Jill lay on the floor , and for a while do not care who come and find her ; then the last word of the letter -- `` I hope '' -- seem to shine across the blackness of the dreadful `` twenty year '' and cheer her up a bit , for despair never live long in young heart , and Jill be a brave child .
`` That be why Mammy sigh so when she dress me , and every one be so good to me .
Perhaps Mrs. Minot do n't really know , after all .
She be dreadfully scar about Jack , and he be get well .
I 'd like to ask Doctor , but he might find out about the letter .
Oh , dear , why do n't I keep still and let the horrid thing alone ! ''
As she think that , Jill push the paper away , pull herself up , and with much painful effort manage to get back to her sofa , where she lay herself down with a groan , feeling a if the twenty year have already pass over her since she tumble off .
`` I 've tell a lie , for I say I would n't stir .
I 've hurt my back , I 've do a mean thing , and I 've get pay for it .
A nice missionary I be ; I 'd better begin at home , a Mammy tell me to ; '' and Jill groan again , remember her mother 's word .
`` Now I 've get another secret to keep all alone , for I 'd be ashamed to tell the girl .
I guess I 'll turn round and study my spelling ; then no one will see my face . ''
Jill look the picture of a good , industrious child a she lay with her back to the large table , her book hold so that nothing be to be see but one cheek and a pair of lip move busily .
Fortunately , it be difficult for little sinner to act a part , and , even if the face be hide , something in the body seem to betray the internal remorse and shame .
Usually , Jill lay flat and still ; now her back be bent in a peculiar way a she lean over her book , and one foot wag nervously , while on the visible cheek be a Spanish stamp with a woman 's face look through the black bar , very suggestively , if she have know it .
How long the minute seem till some one come , and what a queer little jump her heart give when Mrs. Minot 's voice say , cheerfully , `` Jack be all right , and , I declare , so be Jill .
I really believe there be a telegraph still work somewhere between you two , and each know what the other be about without word . ''
`` I do n't have any other book handy , so I think I 'd study awhile , '' answer Jill , feeling that she deserve no praise for her seeming industry .
She cast a sidelong glance a she speak , and see that Mrs. Minot be look for the letter , hide her face and lay so still she could hear the rustle of the paper a it be take from the floor .
It be well she do not also see the quick look the lady give her a she turn the letter and find a red stamp stick to the under side , for this unlucky little witness tell the story .
Mrs. Minot remember have see the stamp lie close to the sofa when she leave the room , for she have have half a mind to take it to Jack , but do not , think Frank 's plan have some advantage .
She also recollect that a paper fly off the table , but be in haste she have not stop to see what it be .
Now , the stamp and the letter could hardly have come together without hand , for they lay a yard apart , and here , also , on the unwritten portion of the page , be the mark of a small green thumb .
Jill have be wind wool for a stripe in her new afghan , and the green ball lay on her sofa .
These sign suggest and confirm what Mrs. Minot do not want to believe ; so do the voice , attitude , and air of Jill , all very unlike her usual open , alert way .
The kind lady could easily forgive the reading of her letter since the girl have find such sad news there , but the danger of disobedience be serious in her case , and a glance show that she be suffer either in mind or body -- perhaps both .
`` I will wait for her to tell me .
She be an honest child , and the truth will soon come out , '' think Mrs. Minot , a she take a clean sheet , and Jill try to study .
`` Shall I hear your lesson , dear ?
Jack mean to recite his like a good boy , so suppose you follow his example , '' she say , presently .
`` I do n't know a I can say it , but I 'll try . ''
Jill do try , and get on bravely till she come to the word `` permanent ; '' there she hesitate , remember where she saw it last .
`` Do you know what that mean ? ''
ask her teacher , think to help her on by define the word .
`` Always -- for a great while -- or something like that ; do n't it ? ''
falter Jill , with a tight feeling in her throat , and the color come up , a she try to speak easily , yet felt so shame-stricken she could not .
`` Are you in pain , my child ?
Never mind the lesson ; tell me , and I 'll do something for you . ''
The kind word , the soft hand on her hot cheek , and the pity in the eye that look at her , be too much for Jill .
A sob come first , and then the truth , tell with hidden face and tear that wash the blush away , and set free the honest little soul that could not hide it fault from such a friend .
`` I know it all before , and be sure you would tell me , else you would not be the child I love and like to help so well . ''
Then , while she soothe Jill 's trouble , Mrs. Minot tell her story and show the letter , wish to lessen , if possible , some part of the pain it have give .
`` Sly old stamp !
To go and tell on me when I mean to own up , and get some credit if I could , after be so mean and bad , '' say Jill , smile through her tear when she saw the tell-tale witness against her .
`` You have good stick it in your book to remind you of the bad consequence of disobedience , then perhaps this lesson will leave a ` permanent ' impression on your mind and memory , '' answer Mrs. Minot , glad to see her natural gayety come back , and hop that she have forget the content of the unfortunate letter .
But she have not ; and presently , when the sad affair have be talk over and forgiven , Jill ask , slowly , a she try to put on a brave look , -- `` Please tell me about Lucinda Snow .
If I be to be like her , I might as well know how she manage to bear it so long . ''
`` I 'm sorry you ever heard of her , and yet perhaps it may help you to bear your trial , dear , which I hope will never be a heavy a one a hers .
This Lucinda I know for year , and though at first I think her fate the sad that could be , I come at last to see how happy she be in spite of her affliction , how good and useful and beloved . ''
`` Why , how could she be ?
What do she do ? ''
cry Jill , forget her own trouble to look up with an open , eager face again .
`` She be so patient , other people be ashamed to complain of their small worry ; so cheerful , that her own great one grow lighter ; so industrious , that she make both money and friend by pretty thing she work and sell to her many visitor .
And , best of all , so wise and sweet that she seem to get good out of everything , and make her poor room a sort of chapel where people go for comfort , counsel , and an example of a pious life .
So , you see , Lucinda be not so very miserable after all . ''
`` Well , if I could not be a I be , I 'd like to be a woman like that .
Only , I hope I shall not ! ''
answer Jill , thoughtfully at first , then come out so decidedly with the last word that it be evident the life of a bedridden saint be not at all to her mind .
`` So do I ; and I mean to believe that you will not .
Meantime , we can try to make the waiting a useful and pleasant a possible .
This painful little back will be a sort of conscience to remind you of what you ought to do and leave undone , and so you can be learn obedience .
Then , when the body be strong , it will have form a good habit to make duty easy ; and my Lucinda can be a sweet example , even while lie here , if she choose . ''
`` Can I ? ''
and Jill 's eye be full of soft tear a the comfortable , cheer word sink into her heart , to blossom slowly by and by into her life , for this be to be a long lesson , hard to learn , but very useful in the year to come .
When the boy return , after the Latin be recite and peace restore , Jack show her a recovered stamp promptly pay by Frank , who be as just a he be severe , and Jill ask for the old red one , though she do not tell why she want it , nor show it put away in the spelling-book , a little seal upon a promise make to be keep .
Chapter VIII .
Merry and Molly Now let u see how the other missionary get on with their task .
Farmer Grant be a thrifty , well-to-do man , anxious to give his child great advantage than he have enjoy , and to improve the fine place of which he be justly proud .
Mrs. Grant be a notable housewife , a ambitious and industrious a her husband , but too busy to spend any time on the elegancies of life , though always ready to help the poor and sick like a good neighbor and Christian woman .
The three son -- Tom , Dick , and Harry -- be big fellow of seventeen , nineteen , and twenty-one ; the first two on the farm , and the elder in a store just set up for himself .
Kind-hearted but rough-mannered youth , who love Merry very much , but tease her sadly about her `` fine lady air , '' a they call her dainty way and love of beauty .
Merry be a thoughtful girl , full of innocent fancy , refine taste , and romantic dream , in which no one sympathize at home , though she be the pet of the family .
It do seem , to an outsider , a if the delicate little creature have get there by mistake , for she look very like a tea-rose in a field of clover and dandelion , whose high aim in life be to fee cow and help make root beer .
When the girl talk over the new society , it please Merry very much , and she decide not only to try and love work well , but to convert her family to a liking for pretty thing , a she call her own more cultivated taste .
`` I will begin at once , and show them that I do n't mean to shirk my duty , though I do want to be nice , '' think she , a she sit at supper one night and look about her , plan her first move .
Not a very cheering prospect for a lover of the beautiful , certainly , for the big kitchen , though as neat a wax , have nothing lovely in it , except a red geranium blooming at the window .
Nor be the people all that could be desire , in some respect , a they sit about the table shovelling in pork and bean with their knife , drink tea from their saucer , and laugh out with a hearty `` Haw , haw , '' when anything amuse them .
Yet the boy be handsome , strong specimen , the farmer a hale , benevolent-looking man , the housewife a pleasant , sharp-eyed matron , who seem to find comfort in look often at the bright face at her elbow , with the broad forehead , clear eye , sweet mouth , and quiet voice that come like music in among the loud masculine one , or the quick , nervous tone of a woman always in a hurry .
Merry 's face be so thoughtful that even that her father observe it , for , when at home , he watch her a one watch a kitten , glad to see anything so pretty , young , and happy , at it play .
`` Little daughter have get something on her mind , I mistrust .
Come and tell father all about it , '' he say , with a sound slap on his broad knee a he turn his chair from the table to the ugly stove , where three pair of wet boot steam underneath , and a great kettle of cider apple-sauce simmer above .
`` When I 've help clear up , I 'll come and talk .
Now , mother , you sit down and rest ; Roxy and I can do everything , '' answer Merry , pat the old rocking-chair so invitingly that the tired woman could not resist , especially a watch the kettle give her an excuse for obey .
`` Well , I do n't care if I do , for I 've be on my foot since five o'clock .
Be sure you cover thing up , and shut the buttery door , and put the cat down cellar , and sift your meal .
I 'll see to the buckwheat last thing before I go to bed . ''
Mrs. Grant subside with her knitting , for her hand be never idle ; Tom tilt his chair back against the wall and pick his teeth with his pen-knife ; Dick get out a little pot of grease , to make the boots water-tight ; and Harry sit down at the small table to look over his account , with an important air , -- for every one occupy this room , and the work be do in the out-kitchen behind .
Merry hat clear up , but dutifully do every distasteful task , and keep her eye on careless Roxy till all be in order ; then she gladly go to perch on her father 's knee , see in all the face about her the silent welcome they always wear for the `` little one . ''
`` Yes , I do want something , but I know you will say it be silly , '' she begin , a her father pinch her bloom cheek , with the wish that his peach would ever look half a well .
`` Should n't wonder if it be a doll now ; '' and Mr. Grant stroke her head with an indulgent smile , a if she be about six instead of fifteen .
`` Why , father , you know I do n't !
I have n't play with dolly for year and year .
No ; I want to fix up my room pretty , like Jill 's .
I 'll do it all myself , and only want a few thing , for I do n't expect it to look as nice a hers . ''
Indignation give Merry courage to state her wish boldly , though she know the boy would laugh .
They do , and her mother say in a tone of surprise , -- `` Why , child , what more can you want ?
I 'm sure your room be always as neat a a new pin , thanks to your bring up , and I tell you to have a fire there whenever you want to . ''
`` Let me have some old thing out of the garret , and I 'll show you what I want .
It be neat , but so bare and ugly I hate to be there .
I do so love something pretty to look at ! ''
and Merry give a little shiver of disgust a she turn her eye away from the large greasy boot Dick be hold up to be sure it be well lubricate all round .
`` So do I , and that 's a fact .
I could n't get on without my pretty girl here , any way .
Why , she touch up the old place well than a dozen flower-pots in full blow , '' say the farmer , a his eye go from the scarlet geranium to the bright young face so near his own .
`` I wish I have a dozen in the sitting-room window .
Mother say they be not tidy , but I 'd keep them neat , and I know you 'd like it , '' break in Merry , glad of the chance to get one of the long-desired wish of her heart fulfil .
`` I 'll fetch you some next time I go over to Ballad 's .
Tell me what you want , and we 'll have a posy bed somewhere round , see if we do n't , '' say her father , dimly understand what she want .
`` Now , if mother say I may fix my room , I shall be satisfy , and I 'll do my chore without a bit of fuss , to show how grateful I be , '' say the girl , thank her father with a kiss , and smile at her mother so wistfully that the good woman could not refuse .
`` You may have anything you like out of the blue chest .
There 's a lot of thing there that the moth get at after Grandma die , and I could n't bear to throw or give 'em away .
Trim up your room a you like , and mind you do n't forget your part of the bargain , '' answer Mrs. Grant , see profit in the plan .
`` I wo n't ; I 'll work all the morning to-morrow , and in the afternoon I 'll get ready to show you what I call a nice , pretty room , '' answer Merry , look so pleased it seem a if another flower have blossom in the large bare kitchen .
She keep her word , and the very stormy afternoon when Jill get into trouble , Merry be work busily at her little bower .
In the blue chest she find a variety of treasure , and ignore the moth hole , use them to the best advantage , try to imitate the simple comfort with a touch of elegance which prevail in Mrs. Minot 's back bedroom .
Three fade red-moreen curtain go up at the window over the chilly paper shade , give a pleasant glow to the bare wall .
A red quilt with white star , rather the bad for many washing , cover the bed , and a gay cloth the table , where a judicious arrangement of book and basket conceal the spot .
The little air-tight stove be banish , and a pair of ancient andiron shone in the fire-light .
Grandma 's last and large braid rug lay on the hearth , and her brass candlestick adorn the bureau , over the mirror of which be festoon a white muslin skirt , tie up with Merry 's red sash .
This piece of elegance give the last touch to her room , she think , and she be very proud of it , set forth all her small store of trinket in a large shell , with an empty scent bottle , and a clean tidy over the pincushion .
On the wall she hang three old-fashioned picture , which she venture to borrow from the garret till well could be find .
One a mourning piece , with a very tall lady weep on an urn in a grove of willow , and two small boy in knee breech and funny little square tail to their coat , look like cherub in large frill .
The other be as good a a bonfire , be an eruption of Vesuvius , and very lurid indeed , for the Bay of Naples be boil like a pot , the red sky rain rock , and a few distracted people lie flat upon the shore .
The third be a really pretty scene of child dance round a May-pole , for though nearly a hundred year old , the little maid smile and the boy prance as gayly a if the flower they carry be still alive and sweet .
`` Now I 'll call them all to see , and say that it be pretty .
Then I 'll enjoy it , and come here when thing look dismal and bare everywhere else , '' say Merry , when at last it be do .
She have work all the afternoon , and only finish at supper time , so the candle have to be light that the toilette might look it best , and impress the beholder with an idea of true elegance .
Unfortunately , the fire smoke a little , and a window be set ajar to clear the room ; an evil-disposed gust blew in , waft the thin drapery within reach of the light , and when Merry throw open the door proudly think to display her success , she be horrify to find the room in a blaze , and half her labor all in vain .
The conflagration be over in a minute , however , for the boy tear down the muslin and stamp out the fire with much laughter , while Mrs. Grant bewail the damage to her carpet , and poor Merry take refuge in her father 's arm , refuse to be comfort in spite of his kind commendation of `` Grandma 's fixins . ''
The third little missionary have the hard time of all , and her first effort be not much more satisfactory nor successful than the others .
Her father be away from morning till night , and then have his paper to read , book to keep , or `` a man to see down town , '' so that , after a hasty word at tea , he saw no more of the child till another evening , a they be seldom up at his early breakfast .
He think they be well take care of , for Miss Bathsheba Dawes be an energetic , middle-aged spinster when she come into the family , and have be there fifteen year , so he do not observe , what a woman would have see at once , that Miss Bat be get old and careless , and everything about the house be at six and seven .
She take good care of him , and think she have do her duty if she get three comfortable meal , nurse the child when they be ill , and saw that the house do not burn up .
So Maria Louisa and Napoleon Bonaparte get on a they could , without the tender care of a mother .
Molly have be a happy-go-lucky child , contented with her pet , her freedom , and little Boo to love ; but now she be just begin to see that they be not like other child , and to feel ashamed of it .
`` Papa be busy , but Miss Bat ought to see to u ; she be pay for it , and goodness know she have an easy time now , for if I ask her to do anything , she groan over her bone , and tell me young folk should wait on themselves .
I take all the care of Boo off her hand , but I ca n't wash my own thing , and he have n't a decent trouser to his bless little leg .
I 'd tell papa , but it would n't do any good ; he 'd only say , ` Yes , child , yes , I 'll attend to it , ' and never do a thing . ''
This use to be Molly 's lament , when some especially try event occur , and if the girl be not there to condole with her , she would retire to the shed-chamber , call her nine cat about her , and , sit in the old bushel basket , pull her hair about her ear , and scold all alone .
The cat learn to understand this habit , and nobly do their best to dispel the gloom which now and then obscure the sunshine of their little mistress .
Some of them would creep into her lap and purr till the comfortable sound soothe her irritation ; the sedate elder sit at her foot blink with such wise and sympathetic face , that she felt a if half a dozen Solomons be give her the sage advice ; while the kitten frisk about , cut up their droll caper till she laugh in spite of herself .
When the laugh come , the bad of the fit be over , and she soon cheer up , dismiss the consolers with a pat all round , a feast of good thing from Miss Bat 's larder , and the usual speech : -- `` Well , dear , it 's of no use to worry .
I guess we shall get along somehow , if we do n't fret . ''
With which wise resolution , Molly would leave her retreat and freshen up her spirit by a row on the river or a romp with Boo , which always finish the case .
Now , however , she be bind to try the new plan and do something toward reform not only the boy 's condition , but the disorder and discomfort of home .
`` I 'll play it be Siam , and this the house of a native , and I 'm come to show the folk how to live nicely .
Miss Bat wo n't know what to make of it , and I ca n't tell her , so I shall get some fun out of it , any way , '' think Molly , a she survey the dining-room the day her mission begin .
The prospect be not cheer ; and , if the native of Siam live in such confusion , it be high time they be attend to .
The breakfast-table still stand a it be leave , with slop of coffee on the cloth ; bit of bread , egg-shells , and potato-skins lay about , and one lonely sausage be cast away in the middle of a large platter .
The furniture be dusty , stave untidy , and the carpet look a if crumb have be scatter to chicken who decline their breakfast .
Boo be sit on the sofa , with his arm through a hole in the cover , hunt for some lost treasure put away there for safe keep , like a little magpie a he be .
Molly fancy she wash and dress him well enough ; but to-day she seem to see more clearly , and sigh a she think of the hard job in store for her if she give him the thorough washing he need , and comb out that curly mop of hair .
`` I 'll clear up first and do that by and by .
I ought to have a nice little tub and good towel , like Mrs. Minot , and I will , too , if I buy them myself , '' she say , pile up cup with an energy that threaten destruction to handle .
Miss Bat , who be trail about the kitchen , with her head pin up in a little plaid shawl , be so surprised by the demand for a pan of hot water and four clean towel , that she nearly drop her snuff-box , chief comfort of her lazy soul .
`` What new whimsey now ?
Generally , the dish stand round till I have time to pick 'em up , and you be off coast or career somewhere .
Well , this tidy fit wo n't last long , so I may as well make the most of it , '' say Miss Bat , a she hand out the required article , and then push her spectacle from the tip of her sharp nose to her sharp black eye for a good look at the girl who stand primly before her , with a clean apron on and her hair braid up instead of fly wildly about her shoulder .
`` Umph ! ''
be all the comment that Miss Bat make on this unusual neatness , and she go on scrap her saucepan , while Molly return to her work , very well pleased with the effect of her first step , for she felt that the bewilderment of Miss Bat would be a constant inspiration to fresh effort .
An hour of hard work produce an agreeable change in the abode of the native , for the table be clear , room swept and dust , fire brighten , and the hole in the sofa-covering be pin up till time could be find to mend them .
To be sure , roll of lint lay in corner , smear of ash be on the stove hearth , and dust still lurk on chair round and table leg .
But too much must not be expect of a new convert , so the young missionary sit down to rest , well pleased and ready for another attempt as soon a she could decide in what direction it should be make .
She quail before Boo a she look at the unconscious innocent peacefully play with the spotted dog , now bereft of his tail , and the lone sausage with which he be attempt to fee the hungry animal , whose red mouth always gap for more .
`` It will be an awful job , and he be so happy I wo n't plague him yet .
Guess I 'll go and put my room to right first , and pick up some clean clothes to put on him , if he be alive after I get through with him , '' think Molly , foresee a stormy passage for the boy , who hat a bath as much a some people hate a trip across the Atlantic .
Up she go , and find the fire out felt discouraged , thought she would rest a little more , so retired under the blanket to read one of the Christmas book .
The dinner-bell rang while she be still wander happily in `` Nelly 's Silver Mine , '' and she run down to find that Boo have lay out a railroad all across her neat room , use bit of coal for sleeper and book for rail , over which he be drag the yellow sled laden with a dismayed kitten , the tailless dog , and the remains of the sausage , evidently on it way to the tomb , for Boo take bite at it now and then , no other lunch be offer him .
`` Oh dear !
why ca n't boys play without make such a mess , '' sigh Molly , pick up the feather from the duster with which Boo have be try to make a `` cocky-doo '' of the hapless dog .
`` I 'll wash him right after dinner , and that will keep him out of mischief for a while , '' she think , a the young engineer unsuspiciously proceed to ornament his already crocky countenance with squash , cranberry sauce , and gravy , till he look more like a Fiji chief in full war-paint than a Christian boy .
`` I want two pail of hot water , please , Miss Bat , and the big tub , '' say Molly , a the ancient handmaid empty her fourth cup of tea , for she din with the family , and enjoy her own good cooking in it prime .
`` What be you go to wash now ? ''
`` Boo -- I 'm sure he need it enough ; '' and Molly could not help laugh a the victim add to his brilliant appearance by smear the color all together with a rub of two grimy hand , make a fine `` Turner '' of himself .
`` Now , Maria Louisa Bemis , you ai n't go to cut up no caper with that child !
The idea of a hot bath in the middle of the day , and him full of dinner , and croupy into the bargain !
Wet a corner of a towel at the kettle-spout and polish him off if you like , but you wo n't risk his life in no bath-tubs this cold day . ''
Miss Bat 's word be law in some thing , so Molly have to submit , and take Boo away , say , loftily , a she leave the room , -- `` I shall ask father , and do it to-night , for I will not have my brother look like a pig . ''
`` My patience !
how the Siamese do leave their thing round , '' she exclaim , a she survey her room after make up the fire and polish off Boo .
`` I 'll put thing in order , and then mend up my rag , if I can find my thimble .
Now , let me see ; '' and she go to explore her closet , bureau , and table , find such disorder everywhere that her courage nearly give out .
She have clothes enough , but all need care ; even her best dress have two button off , and her Sunday hat but one string .
Shoes , skirt , book , and toy lay about , and her drawer be a perfect chaos of soiled ruffle , odd glove , old ribbon , boot lacing , and bit of paper .
`` Oh , my heart , what a muddle !
Mrs. Minot would n't think much of me if she could see that , '' say Molly , recall how that lady once say she could judge a good deal of a little girl 's character and habit by a peep at her top drawer , and go on , with great success , to guess how each of the school-mates keep her drawer .
`` Come , missionary , clear up , and do n't let me find such a glory-hole again , or I 'll report you to the society , '' say Molly , tip the whole drawer-full out upon the bed , and beguile the tiresome job by keep up the new play .
Twilight come before it be do , and a great pile of thing loom up on her table , with no visible mean of repair , -- for Molly 's work-basket be full of nut , and her thimble down a hole in the shed-floor , where the cat have drop it in their play .
`` I 'll ask Bat for hook and tape , and papa for some money to buy scissors and thing , for I do n't know where mine be .
Glad I ca n't do any more now !
Being neat be such hard work ! ''
and Molly throw herself down on the rug beside the old wooden cradle in which Boo be blissfully rock , with a cargo of toys aboard .
She watch her time , and as soon a her father have do supper , she hasten to say , before he get to his desk , -- `` Please , papa , I want a dollar to get some brass button and thing to fix Boo 's clothes with .
He wear a hole in his new trouser coast down the Kembles ' step .
And ca n't I wash him ?
He need it , and Miss Bat wo n't let me have a tub . ''
`` Certainly , child , certainly ; do what you like , only do n't keep me .
I must be off , or I shall miss Jackson , and he 's the man I want ; '' and , throw down two dollar instead of one , Mr. Bemis hurry away , with a vague impression that Boo have swallow a dozen brass button , and Miss Bat have be coast somewhere in a bath-pan ; but catch Jackson be important , so he do not stop to investigate .
Armed with the paternal permission , Molly carry her point , and oh , what a dreadful evening poor Boo spent !
First , he be decoy upstairs an hour too soon , then put in a tub by main force and sternly scrub , in spite of shriek that bring Miss Bat to the locked door to condole with the sufferer , scold the scrubber , and depart , darkly prophesy croup before morning .
`` He always howl when he be wash ; but I shall do it , since you wo n't , and he must get use to it .
I will not have people tell me he 's neglect , if I can help it , '' cry Molly , work away with tear in her eye -- for it be as hard for her a for Boo ; but she mean to be thorough for once in her life , no matter what happen .
When the bad be over , she coax him with candy and story till the long task of comb out the curl be safely do ; then , in the clean night-gown with a blue button newly sew on , she lay him in bed , wear out , but sweet a a rise .
`` Now , say your prayer , darling , and go to sleep with the nice red blanket all tuck round so you wo n't get cold , '' say Molly , rather doubtful of the effect of the wet head .
`` No , I wo n't !
Going to sleep now !
'' and Boo shut his eye wearily , feel that his late trial have not leave him in a prayerful mood .
`` Then you 'll be a real little heathen , a Mrs. Pecq call you , and I do n't know what I shall do with you , '' say Molly , long to cuddle rather than scold the little fellow , whose soul need look after as well a his body .
`` No , no ; I wo n't be a heevin !
I do n't want to be frowed to the trockindiles .
I will say my prayer !
oh , I will ! ''
and , rise in his bed , Boo do so , with the devotion of an infant Samuel , for he remember the talk when the society be form .
Molly think her labor be over for that night , and soon go to bed , tired with her first attempt .
But toward morning she be waken by the hoarse breathing of the boy , and be force to patter away to Miss Bat 's room , humbly ask for the squill , and confess that the prophecy have come to pass .
`` I know it !
Bring the child to me , and do n't fret .
I 'll see to him , and next time you do a I say , '' be the consoling welcome she receive a the old lady pop up a sleepy but anxious face in a large flannel cap , and shake the bottle with the air of a general who have rout the foe before and mean to do it again .
Leaving her little responsibility in Miss Bat 's arm , Molly retire to wet her pillow with a few remorseful tear , and to fall asleep , wonder if real missionary ever kill their pupil in the process of conversion .
So the girl all fail in the beginning ; but they do not give up , and succeed good next time , a we shall see .
Chapter IX .
The Debating Club `` Look here , old man , we ought to have a meeting .
Holidays be over , and we must brace up and attend to business , '' say Frank to Gus , a they stroll out of the schoolyard one afternoon in January , apparently absorb in conversation , but in reality wait for a blue cloud and a scarlet feather to appear on the step .
`` All right .
When , where , and what ? ''
ask Gus , who be a man of few word .
`` To-night , our house , subject , ` Shall girl go to college with u ? '
Mother say we have good be make up our mind , because every one be talk about it , and we shall have to be on one side or the other , so we may as well settle it now , '' answer Frank , for there be an impression among the member that all vexed question would be much help by the united eloquence and wisdom of the club .
`` Very good ; I 'll pass the word and be there .
Hullo , Neddy !
The D.C. meet to-night , at Minot 's , seven sharp .
Co-ed , & c. , '' add Gus , lose no time , a a third boy come briskly round the corner , with a little bag in his hand .
`` I 'll come .
Got home an hour earlier to-night , and think I 'd look you up a I go by , '' respond Ed Devlin , a he take possession of the third post , with a glance toward the schoolhouse to see if a seal-skin cap , with a long , yellow braid depend therefrom , be anywhere in sight .
`` Very good of you , I 'm sure , '' say Gus , ironically , not a bit deceive by this polite attention .
`` The long way round be sometimes the short way home , hey , Ed ? ''
and Frank give him a playful poke that nearly send him off his perch .
Then they all laugh at some joke of their own , and Gus add , `` No girl come to hear u to-night .
Do n't think it , my son .
`` More 's the pity , '' and Ed shake his head regretfully over the downfall of his hope .
`` Ca n't help it ; the other fellow say they spoil the fun , so we have to give in , sometimes , for the sake of peace and quietness .
Do n't mind have them a bit myself , '' say Frank , in such a tone of cheerful resignation that they laugh again , for the `` Triangle , '' a the three chum be call , always make merry music .
`` We must have a game party next week .
The girl like that , and so do I , '' candidly observe Gus , whose pleasant parlor be the scene of many such frolic .
`` And so do your sister and your cousin and your aunt , '' hum Ed , for Gus be often call Admiral because he really do possess three sister , two cousin , and four aunt , besides mother and grandmother , all living in the big house together .
The boy promptly join in the popular chorus , and other voice all about the yard take it up , for the `` Pinafore '' epidemic rag fearfully in Harmony Village that winter .
`` How 's business ? ''
ask Gus , when the song end , for Ed have not return to school in the autumn , but have go into a store in the city .
`` Dull ; thing will look up toward spring , they say .
I get on well enough , but I miss you fellows dreadfully ; '' and Ed put a hand on the broad shoulder of each friend , a if he long to be a school-boy again .
`` Better give it up and go to college with me next year , '' say Frank , who be prepare for Boston University , while Gus fit for Harvard .
`` No ; I 've choose business , and I mean to stick to it , so do n't you unsettle my mind .
Have you practise that March ? ''
ask Ed , turn to a gayer subject , for he have his little trouble , but always look on the bright side of thing .
`` Skating be so good , I do n't get much time .
Come early , and we 'll have a turn at it . ''
`` I will .
Must run home now . ''
`` Pretty cold loafing here . ''
`` Mail be in by this time . ''
And with these artless excuse the three boy leap off the post , a if one spring move them , a a group of girl come chatter down the path .
The blue cloud float away beside Frank , the scarlet feather march off with the Admiral , while the fur cap nod to the gray hat a two happy face smile at each other .
The same thing often happen , for twice a-day the street be full of young couple walk to and from school together , smile at by the elder , and laugh at by the less susceptible boy and girl , who go alone or troop along in noisy group .
The prudent mother have try to stop this guileless custom , but find it very difficult , a the father usually sympathize with their son , and dismiss the matter with the comfortable phrase , `` Never mind ; boy will be boy . ''
`` Not forever , '' return the anxious mamma , see the tall lad daily grow more manly , and the pretty daughter fast learn to look demure when certain name be mention .
It could not be stop without great parental sternness and the danger of deceit , for co-education will go on outside of school if not inside , and the safe way be to let sentiment and study go hand in hand , with teacher and parent to direct and explain the great lesson all be the good for learn soon or late .
So the elder have to give in , acknowledge that this sudden readiness to go to school be a comfort , that the new sort of gentle emulation work wonder in lazy girl and boy , and that watch these `` primrose friendship '' bud , blossom , and die painless death , give a little touch of romance to their own work-a-day life .
`` On the whole I 'd rather have my son walk , playing , and study with bright , well-mannered girl , than always knock about with rough boy , '' say Mrs. Minot at one of the Mothers ' Meetings , where the good lady meet to talk over their child , and help one another to do their duty by them .
`` I find that Gus be more gentle with his sister since Juliet take him in hand , for he want to stand well with her , and they report him if he trouble them .
I really see no harm in the little friendship , though I never have any such when I be a girl , '' say Mrs. Burton , who adore her one boy and be his confidante .
`` My Merry seem to be content with her brother so far , but I should n't wonder if I have my hand full by and by , '' add Mrs. Grant , who already foresee that her sweet little daughter would be seek after as soon a she should lengthen her skirt and turn up her bonny brown hair .
Molly Loo have no mother to say a word for her , but she settle matter for herself by hold fast to Merry , and declare that she would have no escort but faithful Boo .
It be necessary to dwell a moment upon this new amusement , because it be not peculiar to Harmony Village , but appear everywhere as naturally a the game party and croquet which have take the place of the husking frolic and apple-bees of olden time , and it be impossible to dodge the subject if one attempt to write of boy and girl a they really be nowadays .
`` Here , my hero , see how you like this .
If it suit , you will be ready to march as soon a the doctor give the word , '' say Ralph , come into the Bird Room that even with a neat little crutch under his arm .
`` Ha , ha , that look fine !
I 'd like to try it right off , but I wo n't till I get leave .
Did you make it yourself , Ral ? ''
ask Jack , handle it with delight , a he sit bolt upright , with his leg on a rest , for he be get on capitally now .
`` Mostly .
Rather a neat job , I flatter myself . ''
`` I should say so .
What a clever fellow you be !
Any new invention lately ? ''
ask Frank , come up to examine and admire .
`` Only an anti-snoring machine and an elbow-pad , '' answer Ralph , with a twinkle in his eye , a if remind of something funny .
`` Go on , and tell about them .
I never heard of an anti-snorer .
Jack good have one , '' say Frank , interested at once .
`` Well , a rich old lady keep her family awake with that lively music , so she send to Shirtman and Codleff for something to stop it .
They think it be a good joke , and tell me to see what I could do .
I think it over , and get up the nice little affair you ever saw .
It go over the mouth , and have a tube to fit the ear , so when the lady snore she wake herself up and stop it .
It suit exactly .
I think of take out a patent , '' conclude Ralph , join in the boy ' laugh at the droll idea .
`` What be the pad ? ''
ask Frank , return to the small model of an engine he be make .
`` Oh , that be a mere trifle for a man who have a tender elbow-joint and want something to protect it .
I make a little pad to fit on , and his crazy-bone be safe . ''
`` I plan to have you make me a new leg if this one be spoil , '' say Jack , sure that his friend could invent anything under the sun .
`` I 'd do my best for you .
I make a hand for a fellow once , and that get me my place , you know , '' answer Ralph , who think little of such mechanical trifle , and long to be paint portrait or model bust , be an artist as well a an inventor .
Here Gus , Ed , and several other boy come in , and the conversation become general .
Grif , Chick , and Brickbat be three young gentleman whose own respectable name be usually ignore , and they cheerfully answer to these nickname .
As the clock strike seven , Frank , who rule the club with a rod of iron when Chairman , take his place behind the study table .
Seats stand about it , and a large , shabby book lay before Gus , who be Secretary , and keep the record with a lavish expenditure of ink , to judge by the blot .
The member take their seat , and nearly all tilt back their chair and put their hand in their pocket , to keep them out of mischief ; for , a every one know , it be impossible for two lad to be near each other and refrain from tickle or pinch .
Frank give three rap with an old croquet-mallet set on a short handle , and with much dignity open the meeting .
`` Gentlemen , the business of the club will be attend to , and then we will discuss the question , ` Shall girl go to our college ? '
The Secretary will now read the report of the last meeting . ''
Clearing his throat , Gus read the following brief and elegant report : -- `` Club met , December 18th , at the house of G. Burton , Esq . .
Subject : ` Is summer or winter best fun ? '
A lively pow-wow .
About evenly divide .
J . Flint fin five cent for disrespect to the Chair .
A collection of forty cent take up to pay for break a pane of glass during a free fight of the member on the door-step .
E. Devlin be choose Secretary for the come year , and a new book contribute by the Chairman . ''
`` That 's all . ''
`` Is there any other business before the meeting ? ''
ask Frank , a the reader close the old book with a slam and shove the new one across the table .
Ed rise , and glance about him with an appeal look , say , a if sure his proposition would not be well receive , `` I wish to propose the name of a new member .
Bob Walker want to join , and I think we ought to let him .
He be try to behave well , and I be sure we could help him .
Ca n't we ? ''
All the boy look sober , and Joe , otherwise Brickbat , say , bluntly , `` I wo n't .
He 's a bad lot , and we do n't want any such here .
Let him go with chap of his own sort . ''
`` That be just what I want to keep him from !
He 's a good-hearted boy enough , only no one look after him ; so he get into scrape , a we should , if we be in his place , I dare say .
He want to come here , and would be so proud if he be let in , I know he 'd behave .
Come now , let 's give him a chance , '' and Ed look at Gus and Frank , sure that if they stand by him he should carry his point .
But Gus shake his head , a if doubtful of the wisdom of the plan , and Frank say gravely : `` You know we make the rule that the number should never be over eight , and we can not break it . ''
`` You need n't .
I ca n't be here half the time , so I will resign and let Bob have my place , '' begin Ed , but he be silence by shout of `` No , no , you sha n't ! ''
`` We wo n't let you off ! ''
`` Club would go to smash , if you back out ! ''
`` Let him have my place ; I 'm the young , and you wo n't miss me , '' cry Jack , bound to stand by Ed at all cost .
`` We might do that , '' say Frank , who do object to small boy , though willing to admit this particular one .
`` Better make a new rule to have ten member , and admit both Bob and Tom Grant , '' say Ralph , whereat Grif grin and Joe scowl , for one lad like Merry 's big brother and the other do not .
`` That 's a good idea !
Put it to vote , '' say Gus , too kind-hearted to shut the door on any one .
`` First I want to ask if all you fellow be ready to stand by Bob , out of the club as well a in , for it wo n't do much good to be kind to him here and cut him at school and in the street , '' say Ed , heartily in earnest about the matter .
`` I will ! ''
cry Jack , ready to follow where his beloved friend lead , and the others nod , unwilling to be outdo by the young member .
`` Good !
With all of u to lend a hand , we can do a great deal ; and I tell you , boys , it be time , if we want to keep poor Bob straight .
We all turn our back on him , so he loaf round the tavern , and go with fellow we do n't care to know .
But he be n't bad yet , and we can keep him up , I 'm sure , if we just try .
I hope to get him into the Lodge , and that will be half the battle , wo n't it , Frank ? ''
added Ed , sure that this suggestion would have weight with the honorable Chairman .
`` Bring him along ; I 'm with you ! ''
answered Frank , make up his mind at once , for he have join the Temperance Lodge four year ago , and already six boy have follow his example .
`` He be learn to smoke , but we 'll make him drop it before it lead to worse .
You can help him there , Admiral , if you only will , '' add Ed , give a grateful look at one friend , and turn to the other .
`` I 'm your man ; '' and Gus look a if he know what he promise , for he have give up smoke to oblige his father , and keep his word like a hero .
`` You other fellow can do a good deal by just be kind and not twit him with old scrape , and I 'll do anything I can for you all to pay for this ; '' and Ed sit down with a beam smile , feel that his cause be win .
The vote be take , and all hand go up , for even surly Joe give in ; so Bob and Tom be duly elect , and prove their gratitude for the honor do them by become worthy member of the club .
It be only boys ' play now , but the kind heart and pure instinct of one lad show the others how to lend a help hand to a comrade in danger , and win him away from temptation to the safer pastime of their more guarded life .
Well pleased with themselves -- for every genuine act or word , no matter how trifle it seem , leave a sweet and strengthen influence behind -- the member settle down to the debate , which be never very long , and often only an excuse for fun of all sort .
`` Ralph , Gus , and Ed be for , and Brickbat , Grif , and Chick against , I suppose ? ''
say Frank , survey his company like a general preparing for battle .
`` No , sir !
I believe in co-everything ! ''
cry Chick , a mild youth , who loyally escort a chosen damsel home from school every day .
A laugh greet this bold declaration , and Chick sit down , red but firm .
`` I 'll speak for two since the Chairman ca n't , and Jack wo n't go against those who pet him most to death , '' say Joe , who , not be a favorite with the girl , consider them a nuisance and lose no opportunity of tell them so .
`` Fire away , then , since you be up ; '' command Frank .
`` Well , '' begin Joe , feel too late how much he have undertake , `` I do n't know a great deal about it , and I do n't care , but I do not believe in have girl at college .
They do n't belong there , nobody want 'em , and they 'd well be at home darn their stocking . ''
`` Yours , too , '' put in Ralph , who have hear that argument so often he be tire of it .
`` Of course ; that 's what girl be for .
I do n't mind 'em at school , but I 'd just as soon they have a room to themselves .
We should get on good . '' ''
You would if Mabel be n't in your class and always ahead of you , '' observe Ed , whose friend be a fine scholar , and he very proud of the fact .
`` Look here , if you fellows keep interrupting , I wo n't sit down for half an hour , '' say Joe , well know that eloquence be not his gift , but bound to have his say out .
Deep silence reign , for that threat quell the most impatient member , and Joe prosed on , use all the argument he have ever hear , and pay off several old score by sly hit of a personal nature , a old orator often do .
`` It be clear to my mind that boy would get on good without any girl fool round .
As for their be as smart a we be , it be all nonsense , for some of 'em cry over their lesson every day , or go home with headache , or get mad and scold all recess , because something ` be n't fair . '
No , sir ; girl ai n't mean to know much , and they ca n't .
Wise folk say so and I believe 'em .
Have n't get any sister myself , and I do n't want any , for they do n't seem to amount to much , accord to those who do have 'em . ''
Groans from Gus and Ed greet the closing remark of the ungallant Joe , who sit down , feel that he have make somebody squirm .
Up jump Grif , the delight of whose life be practical joke , which amiable weakness make him the terror of the girl , though they have no other fault to find with the merry lad .
`` Mr. Chairman , the ground I take be this : girl have not the strength to go to college with u .
They could n't row a race , go on a lark , or take care of themselves , a we do .
They be all well enough at home , and I like them at party , but for real fun and go I would n't give a cent for them , '' begin Grif , whose view of a collegiate life be confine to the enjoyment rather than the study of that festive period .
`` I have try them , and they ca n't stand anything .
They scream if you tell them there be a mouse in the room , and run if they see a big dog .
I just put a cockroach in Molly 's desk one day , and when she open it she jump a if she be shoot . ''
So do the gentleman of the club , for at that moment half-a-dozen fire-crackers explode under the chair Grif have leave , and fly wildly about the room .
Order be with difficulty restore , the mischievous party summarily chastise and command to hold his tongue , under penalty of ejectment from the room if he speak again .
Firmly grasp that red and unruly member , Grif compose himself to listen , with his nose in the air and his eye shin like black bead .
Ed be always the peace-maker , and now , when he rise with his engage smile , his voice fell like oil upon the troubled water , and his bright face be full of the become bashfulness which afflict youth of seventeen when touch upon such subject of newly acquire interest a girl and their pleasant but perplex way .
`` It seem to me we have hardly consider the matter enough to be able to say much .
But I think that school would be awfully dry and dismal without -- ahem !
-- any young lady to make it nice .
I would n't give a pin to go if there be only a crowd of fellow , though I like a good game as well a any man .
I pity any boy who have no sister , '' continue Ed , warm up a he think of his own , who love him dearly , a well they might , for a good brother never live .
`` Home would n't be worth have without them to look after a fellow , to keep him out of scrape , help him with his lesson , and make thing jolly for his friend .
I tell you we ca n't do without girl , and I 'm not ashamed to say that I think the more we see of them , and try to be like them in many way , the good men we shall be by and by . ''
`` Hear !
hear ! ''
cried Frank , in his deepest tone , for he heartily agree to that , have talk the matter over with his mother , and receive much light upon thing which should always be set right in young head and heart .
And who can do this so wisely and well a mother , if they only will ?
Feeling that his sentiment have be approve , and he need not be ashamed of the honest color in his cheek , Ed sit down amid the applause of his side , especially of Jack , who pound so vigorously with his crutch that Mrs. Pecq pop in her head to see if anything be want .
`` No , thank you , ma'am , we be only cheer Ed , '' say Gus , now upon his leg , and rather at a loss what to say till Mrs. Pecq 's appearance suggest an idea , and he seize upon it .
`` My honored friend have speak so well that I have little to add .
I agree with him , and if you want an example of what girl can do , why , look at Jill .
She 's young , I know , but a first-rate scholar for her age .
As for pluck , she be as brave a a boy , and almost a smart at run , rowing , and so on .
Of course , she ca n't play ball -- no girl can ; their arm be not make right to throw -- but she can catch remarkably well .
I 'll say that for her .
Now , if she and Mabel -- and -- and -- some others I could name , be so clever and strong at the beginning , I do n't see why they should n't keep up and go along with u all through .
I 'm willing , and will do what I can to help other fellow ' sister a I 'd like to have them help mine .
And I 'll punch their head if they do n't ; '' and Gus subside , assure , by a burst of applause , that his manly way of state the case meet with general approval .
`` We shall be happy to hear from our senior member if he will honor u with a few remark , '' say Frank , with a bow to Ralph .
No one ever know whom he would choose to personate , for he never speak in his own character .
Now he rise slowly , put one hand in his bosom , and fix his eye sternly on Grif , who be do something suspicious with a pin , give them a touch of Sergeant Buzfuz , from the Pickwick trial , think that the debate be not likely to throw much light on the subject under discussion .
In the midst of this appeal to `` Me lud and gentleman of the jury , '' he suddenly pause , smooth his hair down upon his forehead , roll up his eye , and fold his hand , drone out Mr. Chadband 's sermon on Peace , deliver over poor Jo , and end with the famous line : -- `` Oh , run stream of sparkle joy , To be a glorious human boy ! ''
Then , set his hair erect with one comprehensive sweep , he catch up his coat-skirts over his arm , and , assume a parliamentary attitude , burst into a comical medley , compose of extract from Jefferson Brick 's and Lafayette Kettle 's speech , and Elijah Pogram 's Defiance , from `` Martin Chuzzlewit . ''
Gazing at Gus , who be convulse with suppressed merriment , he thunder forth : -- `` In the name of our common country , sir , in the name of that righteous cause in which we be jined , and in the name of the star-spangled banner , I thank you for your eloquent and categorical remark .
You , sir , be a model of a man fresh from Natur 's mould .
A true-born child of this free hemisphere ; verdant a the mountain of our land ; bright and flowin ' a our mineral Licks ; unspiled by fashion a air our boundless perearers .
Rough you may be ; so air our Barrs .
Wild you may be ; so air our Buffalers .
But , sir , you air a Child of Freedom , and your proud answer to the Tyrant be , that your bright home be in the Settin ' Sun .
And , sir , if any man deny this fact , though it be the British Lion himself , I defy him .
Let me have him here ! ''
-- smite the table , and cause the inkstand to skip -- `` here , upon this sacred altar !
Here , upon the ancestral ash cement with the glorious blood pour out like water on the plain of Chickabiddy Lick .
Alone I dare that Lion , and tell him that Freedom 's hand once twist in his mane , he roll a corse before me , and the Eagles of the Great Republic scream , Ha , ha ! ''
By this time the boy be roll about in fit of laughter ; even sober Frank be red and breathless , and Jack lay back , feebly squeal , a he could laugh no more .
In a moment Ralph be as meek a a Quaker , and sit look about him with a mildly astonished air , a if inquire the cause of such unseemly mirth .
A knock at the door produce a lull , and in come a maid with apple .
`` Time 's up ; fall to and make yourselves comfortable , '' be the summary way in which the club be release from it sterner duty and permit to unbend it mighty mind for a social half-hour , chiefly devote to whist , with an Indian war-dance a a closing ceremony .
Chapter X .
The Dramatic Club While Jack be hop gayly about on his crutch , poor Jill be feel the effect of her second fall , and instead of sit up , a she hop to do after six week of rest , she be order to lie on a board for two hour each day .
Not an easy penance , by any mean , for the board be very hard , and she could do nothing while she lay there , a it do not slope enough to permit her to read without great fatigue of both eye and hand .
So the little martyr spend her first hour of trial in sobbing , the second in singing , for just a her mother and Mrs. Minot be decide in despair that neither she nor they could bear it , Jill suddenly break out into a merry chorus she use to hear her father sing : -- `` Faut jouer le mirliton , Faut jouer le mirlitir , Faut jouer le mirliter , Mir -- li -- ton . ''
The sound of the brave little voice be very comfort to the two mother hover about her , and Jack say , with a look of mingled pity and admiration , a he brandish his crutch over the imaginary foe , -- `` That 's right !
Sing away , and we 'll play you be an Indian captive be torment by your enemy , and too proud to complain .
I 'll watch the clock , and the minute time be up I 'll rush in and rescue you . ''
Jill laugh , but the fancy please her , and she straighten herself out under the gay afghan , while she sing , in a plaintive voice , another little French song her father teach her : -- `` J'avais une colombe blanche , J'avais un blanc petit pigeon , Tous deux volaient , de branche en branche , Jusqu'au fate de mon dongeon : Mais comme un coup de vent d'automne , S'est abattu l , l'pervier , Et ma colombe si mignonne Ne revient plus au colombier . ''
`` My poor Jean have a fine voice , and always hop the child would take after him .
It would break his heart to see her lie there try to cheer her pain with the song he use to sing her to sleep with , '' say Mrs. Pecq , sadly .
`` She really have a great deal of talent , and when she be able she shall have some lesson , for music be a comfort and a pleasure , sick or well , '' answer Mrs. Minot , who have often admire the fresh voice , with it pretty accent .
Here Jill begin the Canadian boat-song , with great vigor , a if bound to play her part of Indian victim with spirit , and not disgrace herself by any more cry .
All know the air , and join in , especially Jack , who come out strong on the `` Row , brother , row , '' but end in a squeak on a high note , so drolly , that the rest break down .
So the hour that begin with tear end with music and laughter , and a new pleasure to think of for the future .
After that day Jill exert all her fortitude , for she like to have the boy call her brave and admire the cheerful way in which she endure two hour of discomfort .
She find she could use her zither a it lay upon her breast , and every day the pretty music begin at a certain hour , and all in the house soon learn to love and listen for it .
Even the old cook set open her kitchen door , say pitifully , `` Poor darlint , hear how purty she 's singin ' , wid the pain , on that crewel boord .
It 's a little saint , she be .
May her bed above be aisy ! ''
Frank would lift her gently on and off , with a kind word that comfort her immensely , and gentle Ed would come and teach her new bit of music , while the other fellow be frolic below .
Ralph add his share to her amusement , for he ask leave to model her head in clay , and set up his work in a corner , come to pat , scrape , and mould whenever he have a spare minute , amuse her by his lively chat , and show her how to shape bird , rabbit , and queer face in the soft clay , when the song be all sung and her finger tire of the zither .
The girl sympathize very heartily with her new trial , and bring all manner of gift to cheer her captivity .
Merry and Molly make a gay screen by paste picture on the black cambric which cover the folding frame that stand before her to keep the draught from her a she lay on her board .
Bright bird and flower , figure and animal , cover one side , and on the other they put motto , bit of poetry , anecdote , and short story , so that Jill could lie and look or read without the trouble of hold a book .
It be not all do at once , but grow slowly , and be a source of instruction as well a amusement to them all , a they read carefully , that they might make good selection .
But the thing that please Jill most be something Jack do , for he give up go to school , and stay at home nearly a fortnight after he might have go , all for her sake .
The day the doctor say he might try it if he would be very careful , he be in great spirit , and limp about , look up his book , and plan how he would astonish his mate by the rapidity of his recovery .
When he sit down to rest he remember Jill , who have be lie quietly behind the screen , while he talk with his mother , busy put fresh cover on the book .
`` She be so still , I guess she be asleep , '' think Jack , peep round the corner .
No , not asleep , but lie with her eye fix on the sunny window , beyond which the bright winter world sparkle after a fresh snow-fall .
The jingle of sleigh-bells could be hear , the laughter of boy and girl on their way to school , all the pleasant stir of a new day of happy work and play for the rest of the world , more lonely , quiet , and wearisome than ever to her since her friend and fellow-prisoner be set free and go to leave her .
Jack understood that patient , wistful look , and , without a word , go back to his seat , star at the fire so soberly , that his mother presently ask : `` What be you think of so busily , with that pucker in your forehead ? ''
`` I 've about make up my mind that I wo n't go to school just yet , '' answer Jack , slowly lift his head , for it cost him something to give up the long-expected pleasure .
`` Why not ? ''
and Mrs. Minot look much surprise , till Jack point to the screen , and , make a sad face to express Jill 's anguish , answer in a cheerful tone , `` Well , I 'm not sure that it be best .
Doctor do not want me to go , but say I might because I tease .
I shall be sure to come to grief , and then every one will say , ' I tell you so , ' and that be so provoking .
I 'd rather keep still a week longer .
Had n't I good ? ''
His mother smile and nod a she say , sew away at much-abused old Caesar , a if she love him , `` Do a you think best , dear .
I always want you at home , but I do n't wonder you be rather tire of it after this long confinement . ''
`` I say , Jill , should I be in your way if I do n't go to school till the first of February ? ''
call Jack , laugh to himself at the absurdity of the question .
`` Not much ! ''
answer a glad voice from behind the screen , and he know the sorrowful eye be shin with delight , though he could not see them .
`` Well , I guess I may as well , and get quite firm on my leg before I start .
Another week or so will bring me up if I study hard , so I shall not lose my time .
I 'll tackle my Latin as soon a it 's ready , mother . ''
Jack get a hearty kiss with the neatly cover book , and Mamma love him for the little sacrifice more than if he have win a prize at school .
He do get a reward , for , in five minute from the time he decide , Jill be sing like a bobolink , and such a medley of merry music come from behind the screen , that it be a regular morning concert .
She do not know then that he stay for her sake , but she find it out soon after , and when the time come do as much for him , a we shall see .
It prove a wise decision , for the last part of January be so stormy Jack could not have go half the time .
So , while the snow drift , and bitter wind rag , he sit snugly at home amusing Jill , and get on bravely with his lesson , for Frank take great pain with him to show his approbation of the little kindness , and , somehow , the memory of it seem to make even the detest Latin easy .
With February fair weather set in , and Jack march happily away to school , with Jill 's new mitten on his hand , Mamma nod from the door-step , and Frank ready to give him a lift on the new sled , if the way prove too long or too rough .
`` I shall not have time to miss him now , for we be to be very busy get ready for the Twenty-second .
The Dramatic Club meet to-night , and would like to come here , if they may , so I can help ? ''
say Jill , a Mrs. Minot come up , expect to find her rather low in her mind .
`` Certainly ; and I have a basket of old finery I look up for the club when I be rummage out bit of silk for your blue quilt , '' answer the good lady , who have set up a new employment to beguile the hour of Jack 's absence .
When the girl arrive , that even , they find Mrs . Chairwoman surround by a strew of theatrical property , enjoy herself very much .
All bring such contribution a they could muster , and all be eager about a certain tableau which be to be the gem of the whole , they think .
Jill , of course , be not expect to take any part , but her taste be good , so all consult her a they show their old silk , lace , and flower , ask who should be this , and who that .
All want to be the `` Sleeping Beauty , '' for that be the chosen scene , with the slumber court about the princess , and the prince in the act of awaken her .
Jack be to be the hero , brave in his mother 's velvet cape , red boot , and a real sword , while the other boy be to have part of more or less splendor .
`` Mabel should be the Beauty , because her hair be so lovely , '' say Juliet , who be quite satisfied with her own part of the Queen .
`` No , Merry ought to have it , a she be the prettiest , and have that splendid veil to wear , '' answer Molly , who be to be the maid of honor , cuff the little page , Boo .
`` I do n't care a bit , but my feather would be fine for the Princess , and I do n't know a Emma would like to have me lend it to any one else , '' say Annette , wave a long white plume over her head , with girlish delight in it grace .
`` I should think the white silk dress , the veil , and the feather ought to go together , with the scarlet crape shawl and these pearl .
That would be sweet , and just what princesses really wear , '' advise Jill , who be string a quantity of old Roman pearl .
`` We all want to wear the nice thing , so let u draw lot .
Would n't that be the fair way ? ''
ask Merry , look like a rosy little bride , under a great piece of illusion , which have do duty in many play .
`` The Prince be light , so the Princess must be darkish .
We ought to choose the girl who will look best , a it be a picture .
I hear Miss Delano say so , when the lady get up the tableau , last winter , and every one want to be Cleopatra , '' say Jill decidedly .
`` You choose , and then if we ca n't agree we will draw lot , '' propose Susy , who , be plain , know there be little hope of her get a chance in any other way .
So all stood in a row , and Jill , from her sofa , survey them critically , feel that the one Jack would really prefer be not among the number .
`` I choose that one , for Juliet want to be Queen , Molly would make face , and the others be too big or too light , '' pronounce Jill , point to Merry , who look pleased , while Mabel 's face darken , and Susy give a disdainful sniff .
`` You 'd better draw lot , and then there will be no fuss .
Ju and I be out of the fight , but you three can try , and let this settle the matter , '' say Molly , hand Jill a long strip of paper .
All agree to let it be so , and when the bit be ready drew in turn .
This time fate be evidently on Merry 's side , and no one grumble when she show the long paper .
`` Go and dress , then come back , and we 'll plan how we be to be place before we call up the boy , '' command Jill , who be manager , since she could be nothing else .
The girl retire to the bedroom and begin to `` rig up , '' a they call it ; but discontent still lurk among them , and show itself in sharp word , envious look , and disoblige act .
`` Am I to have the white silk and the feather ? ''
ask Merry , delight with the silvery shimmer of the one and the graceful droop of the other , though both be rather shabby .
`` You can use your own dress .
I do n't see why you should have everything , '' answer Susy , who be at the mirror , put a wreath of scarlet flower on her red head , bound to be gay since she could not be pretty .
`` I think I 'd well keep the plume , a I have n't anything else that be nice , and I 'm afraid Emma would n't like me to lend it , '' add Annette , who be disappoint that Mabel be not to be the Beauty . ''
I do n't intend to act at all ! ''
declare Mabel , begin to braid up her hair with a jerk , out of humor with the whole affair . ''
I think you be a set of cross , selfish girl to back out and keep your nice thing just because you ca n't all have the best part .
I 'm ashamed of you ! ''
scold Molly , stand by Merry , who be sadly survey her mother 's old purple silk , which look like brown in the evening .
`` I 'm go to have Miss Delano 's red brocade for the Queen , and I shall ask her for the yellow-satin dress for Merry when I go to get mine , and tell her how mean you be , '' say Juliet , frown under her gilt-paper crown a she sweep about in a red table-cloth for train till the brocade arrive .
`` Perhaps you 'd like to have Mabel cut her hair off , so Merry can have that , too ? ''
cry Susy , with whom hair be a tender point .
`` Light hair be n't want , so Ju will have to give hers , or you 'd better borrow Miss Bat 's frisette , '' add Mabel , with a scornful laugh .
`` I just wish Miss Bat be here to give you girls a good shaking .
Do let someone else have a chance at the glass , you peacock ! ''
exclaim Molly Loo , push Susy aside to arrange her own blue turban , out of which she pluck the pink pompon to give Merry .
`` Do n't quarrel about me .
I shall do well enough , and the scarlet shawl will hide my ugly dress , '' say Merry , from the corner , where she sit wait for her turn at the mirror .
As she speak of the shawl her eye go in search of it , and something that she saw in the other room put her own disappointment out of her head .
Jill lay there all alone , rather tire with the lively chatter , and the effort it cost her not to repine at be shut out from the great delight of dress up and act .
Her eye be closed , her net be off , and all the pretty black curl lay about her shoulder a one hand idly pull them out , while the other rest on the red shawl , a if she love it glowing color and soft texture .
She be hum to herself the little song of the dove and the donjon , and something in the plaintive voice , the solitary figure , go straight to Merry 's gentle heart .
`` Poor Jilly ca n't have any of the fun , '' be the first thought ; then come a second , that make Merry start and smile , and in a minute whisper so that all but Jill could hear her , `` Girls , I 'm not go to be the Princess .
But I 've think of a splendid one ! ''
`` Who ? ''
ask the rest , star at one another , much surprise by this sudden announcement .
`` Hush !
Speak low , or you will spoil it all .
Look in the Bird Room , and tell me if that be n't a pretty Princess than I could make ? ''
They all look , but no one spoke , and Merry add , with sweet eagerness , `` It be the only thing poor Jill can be , and it would make her so happy ; Jack would like it , and it would please every one , I know .
Perhaps she will never walk again , so we ought to be very good to her , poor dear . ''
The last word , whisper with a little quiver in the voice , settle the matter good than hour of talk , for girl be tender-hearted creature , and not one of these but would have gladly give all the pretty thing she own to see Jill dance about well and strong again .
Like a ray of sunshine the kind think touch and brighten every face ; envy , impatience , vanity , and discontent fly away like imp at the come of the good fairy , and with one accord they all cry , -- `` It will be lovely ; let u go and tell her ! ''
Forgetting their own adornment , out they troop after Merry , who run to the sofa , say , with a smile which be reflect in all the other face , `` Jill , dear , we have choose another Princess , and I know you 'll like her . ''
`` Who be it ? ''
ask Jill , languidly , open her eye without the least suspicion of the truth .
`` I 'll show you ; '' and take the cherish veil from her own head , Merry drop it like a soft cloud over Jill ; Annette add the long plume , Susy lay the white silk dress about her , while Juliet and Mabel lift the scarlet shawl to spread it over the foot of the sofa , and Molly tear the last ornament from her turban , a silver star , to shine on Jill 's breast .
Then they all take hand and dance round the couch , sing , a they laugh at her astonishment , `` There she be !
There she be !
Princess Jill as fine a you please !
`` Do you really mean it ?
But can I ?
Is it fair ?
How sweet of you !
Come here and let me hug you all ! ''
cry Jill , in a rapture at the surprise , and the pretty way in which it be do .
The grand scene on the Twenty-second be very fine , indeed ; but the little tableau of that minute be infinitely well , though no one saw it , a Jill try to gather them all in her arm , for that nosegay of girlish face be the sweeter , because each one have sacrifice her own little vanity to please a friend , and her joy be reflect in the eye that sparkle round the happy Princess .
`` Oh , you dear , kind thing , to think of me and give me all your best clothes !
I never shall forget it , and I 'll do anything for you .
Yes !
I 'll write and ask Mrs. Piper to lend u her ermine cloak for the king .
See if I do n't ! ''
Shrieks of delight hail this noble offer , for no one have dare to borrow the much-coveted mantle , but all agree that the old lady would not refuse Jill .
It be astonish how smoothly everything go after this , for each be eager to help , admire , and suggest , in the friendly way ; and when all be dress , the boy find a party of very gay lady wait for them round the couch , where lay the bright little Princess ever see .
`` Oh , Jack , I 'm to act !
Was n't it dear of the girl to choose me ?
Do n't they look lovely ?
Are n't you glad ? ''
cry Jill , a the lad star and the lass blush and smile , well please at the frank admiration the boyish face show .
`` I guess I be !
You be a set of trump , and we 'll give you a first-class spread after the play to pay for it .
Wo n't we , fellows ? ''
answered Jack , much gratify , and feel that now he could act his own part capitally .
`` We will .
It be a handsome thing to do , and we think well of you for it .
Hey , Gus ? ''
and Frank nod approvingly at all , though he look only at Annette .
`` As king of this crowd , I call it to order , '' say Gus , retire to the throne , where Juliet sit laugh in her red table-cloth .
`` We 'll have ` The Fair One with Golden Locks ' next time ; I promise you that , '' whisper Ed to Mabel , whose shin hair stream over her blue dress like a mantle of gold-colored silk .
`` Girls be pretty nice thing , be n't they ?
Kind of 'em to take Jill in .
Do n't Molly look fine , though ? ''
and Grif 's black eye twinkle a he plan to pin her skirt to Merry 's at the first opportunity .
`` Susy look as gay a a feather-duster .
I like her .
She never snub a fellow , '' say Joe , much impress with the splendor of the court lady .
The boy ' costume be not yet ready , but they pose well , and all have a merry time , end with a game of blind-man 's - buff , in which every one catch the right person in the most singular way , and all agree a they go home in the moonlight that it have be an unusually jolly meeting .
So the fairy play wake the sleep beauty that lie in all of u , and make u lovely when we rouse it with a kiss of unselfish good-will , for , though the girl do not know it then , they have adorn themselves with pearl more precious than the waxen one they deck their Princess in .
Chapter XI .
`` Down Brakes '' The great people have their weak point , and the best-behaved boy now and then yield to temptation and get into trouble , a everybody know .
Frank be consider a remarkably well-bred and proper lad , and rather pride himself on his good reputation , for he never get into scrape like the other fellow .
Well , hardly ever , for we must confess that at rare interval his beset sin overcame his prudence , and he prove himself an erring , human boy .
Steam-engines have be his idol for year , and they alone could lure him from the path of virtue .
Once , in try to investigate the mechanism of a toy specimen , which have it little boiler and run about whistling and puffing in the most delightful way , he nearly set the house afire by the spark that drop on the straw carpet .
Another time , in try experiment with the kitchen tea-kettle , he blow himself up , and the scar of that explosion he still carry on his hand .
He be long past such childish amusement now , but his favorite haunt be the engine-house of the new railroad , where he observe the habit of his pet with never-failing interest , and cultivate the good-will of stoker and brakeman till they allow him many liberty , and be rather flatter by the admiration express for their iron horse by a young gentleman who like them good even than his Greek and Latin .
There be not much business do on this road a yet , and the two car of the passenger-trains be often nearly empty , though full freight-trains roll from the factory to the main road , of which this be only a branch .
So thing go on in a leisurely manner , which give Frank many opportunity of pursue his favorite pastime .
He soon know all about No . 11 , his pet engine , and have several ride on it with Bill , the engineer , so that he felt at home there , and privately resolve that when he be a rich man he would have a road of his own , and run train as often a he like .
Gus take less interest than his friend in the study of steam , but usually accompany him when he go over after school to disport himself in the engine-house , interview the stoker , or see if there be anything new in the way of brake .
One afternoon they find No . 11 on the side-track , puff away a if enjoy a quiet smoke before start .
No car be attach , and no driver be to be see , for Bill be off with the other men behind the station-house , help the expressman , whose horse have back down a bank and upset the wagon .
`` Good chance for a look at the old lady , '' say Frank , speaking of the engine a Bill do , and jump aboard with great satisfaction , follow by Gus .
`` I 'd give ten dollar if I could run her up to the bend and back , '' he add , fondly touch the bright brass knob and glancing at the fire with a critical eye .
`` You could n't do it alone , '' answer Gus , sit down on the grimy little perch , willing to indulge his mate 's amiable weakness .
`` Give me leave to try ?
Steam be up , and I could do it as easy a not ; '' and Frank put his hand on the throttle-valve , a if dare Gus to give the word .
`` Fire up and make her hum ! ''
laugh Gus , quote Bill 's frequent order to his mate , but with no idea of be obey .
`` All right ; I 'll just roll her up to the switch and back again .
I 've often do it with Bill ; '' and Frank cautiously open the throttle-valve , throw back the lever , and the great thing move with a throb and a puff .
`` Steady , old fellow , or you 'll come to grief .
Here , do n't open that ! ''
shout Gus , for just at that moment Joe appear at the switch , look ready for mischief .
`` Wish he would ; no train for twenty minute , and we could run up to the bend as well a not , '' say Frank , get excite with the sense of power , a the monster obey his hand so entirely that it be impossible to resist prolong the delight .
`` By George , he have !
Stop her !
Back her !
Hold on , Frank ! ''
cry Gus , a Joe , only catch the word `` Open that ! ''
obey , without the least idea that they would dare to leave the siding .
But they do , for Frank rather lose his head for a minute , and out upon the main track roll No . 11 as quietly a a well-trained horse take a familiar road .
`` Now you 've do it !
I 'll give you a good thrashing when I get back ! ''
roar Gus , shake his fist at Joe , who stand star , half-pleased , half-scared , at what he have do .
`` Are you really go to try it ? ''
ask Gus , a they glide on with increase speed , and he , too , felt the charm of such a novel adventure , though the consequence bid fair to be serious .
`` Yes , I be , '' answer Frank , with the grim look he always wear when his strong will get the upper hand .
`` Bill will give it to u , any way , so we may as well have our fun out .
If you be afraid , I 'll slow down and you can jump off , '' and his brown eye sparkle with the double delight of get his heart 's desire and astonish his friend at the same time by his skill and coolness .
`` Go ahead .
I 'll jump when you do ; '' and Gus calmly sit down again , bound in honor to stand by his mate till the smash come , though rather dismay at the audacity of the prank .
`` Do n't you call this just splendid ? ''
exclaim Frank , a they roll along over the crossing , past the bridge , toward the curve , a mile from the station .
`` Not bad .
They be yell like mad after u .
Better go back , if you can , '' say Gus , who be anxiously peer out , and , in spite of his effort to seem at ease , not enjoy the trip a particle .
`` Let them yell .
I start to go to the curve , and I 'll do it if it cost me a hundred dollar .
No danger ; there 's no train under twenty minute , I tell you , '' and Frank pull out his watch .
But the sun be in his eye , and he do not see clearly , or he would have discover that it be later than he think .
On they go , and be just round the bend when a shrill whistle in front startle both boy , and drive the color out of their cheek .
`` It 's the factory train ! ''
cry Gus , in a husky tone , a he spring to his foot .
`` No ; it 's the five-forty on the other road , '' answer Frank , with a queer thrill all through him at the thought of what might happen if it be not .
Both look straight ahead a the last tree glide by , and the long track lay before them , with the freight train slowly come down .
For an instant , the boy stand a if paralyze .
`` Jump ! ''
say Gus , look at the steep bank on one side and the river on the other , undecided which to try .
`` Sit still ! ''
command Frank , collect his wit , a he give a warning whistle to retard the on-coming train , while he reverse the engine and go back faster than he come .
A crowd of angry men be wait for them , and Bill stand at the open switch in a towering passion a No . 11 return to her place unharmed , but bear two pale and frightened boy , who step slowly and silently down , without a word to say for themselves , while the freight train rumble by on the main track .
Frank and Gus never have a very clear idea a to what occur during the next few minute , but vaguely remember be well shake , swear at , question , threaten with direful penalty , and finally order off the premise forever by the wrathful depot-master .
Joe be nowhere to be see , and a the two culprit walk away , try to go steadily , while their head spin round , and all the strength seem to have depart from their leg , Frank say , in an exhausted tone , -- `` Come down to the boat-house and rest a minute . ''
Both be glad to get out of sight , and drop upon the step red , rumple , and breathless , after the late exciting scene .
Gus generously forebore to speak , though he felt that he be the least to blame ; and Frank , after eat a bit of snow to moisten his dry lip , say , handsomely , -- `` Now , do n't you worry , old man .
I 'll pay the damage , for it be my fault .
Joe will dodge , but I wo n't , so make your mind easy .
`` We sha 'n ' t hear the last of this in a hurry , '' respond Gus , relieve , yet anxious , a he think of the reprimand his father would give him .
`` I hope mother wo n't hear of it till I tell her quietly myself .
She will be so frightened , and think I 'm surely smash up , if she be tell in a hurry ; '' and Frank give a shiver , a all the danger he have run come over him suddenly .
`` I think we be do for when we saw that train .
Guess we should have be if you have not have your wit about you .
I always say you be a cool one ; '' and Gus pat Frank 's back with a look of great admiration , for , now that it be all over , he consider it a very remarkable performance .
`` Which do you suppose it will be , fine or imprisonment ? ''
ask Frank , after sit in a despondent attitude for a moment .
`` Should n't wonder if it be both .
Running off with an engine be no joke , you know . ''
`` What do possess me to be such a fool ? ''
groan Frank , repent , all too late , of yield to the temptation which assail him .
`` Bear up , old fellow , I 'll stand by you ; and if the bad come , I 'll call as often a the rule of the prison allow , '' say Gus , consolingly , a he give his afflicted friend an arm , and they walk away , both feel that they be mark men from that day forth .
Meantime , Joe , as soon a he recover from the shock of see the boy actually go off , run away , a fast a his leg could carry him , to prepare Mrs. Minot for the loss of her son ; for the idea of their come safely back never occur to him , his knowledge of engine be limit .
A loud ring at the bell bring Mrs. Pecq , who be guard the house , while Mrs. Minot entertain a parlor full of company .
`` Frank 's run off with No . 11 , and he 'll be kill sure .
Thought I 'd come up and tell you , '' stammer Joe , all out of breath and look wild .
He get no further , for Mrs. Pecq clap one hand over his mouth , catch him by the collar with the other , and hustle him into the ante-room before any one else could hear the bad news .
`` Tell me all about it , and do n't shout .
What 's come to the boy ? ''
she demand , in a tone that reduce Joe to a whisper at once .
`` Go right back and see what have happen to him , then come and tell me quietly .
I 'll wait for you here .
I would n't have his mother startle for the world , '' say the good soul , when she know all .
`` Oh , I dar ` s n't !
I open the switch a they tell me to , and Bill will half kill me when he know it ! ''
cry Joe , in a panic , a the awful consequence of his deed rise before him , show both boy mortally injure and several train wreck .
`` Then take yourself off home and hold your tongue .
I 'll watch the door , for I wo n't have any more ridiculous boy tear in to disturb my lady . ''
Mrs. Pecq often call this good neighbor `` my lady '' when speaking of her , for Mrs. Minot be a true gentlewoman , and much pleasant to live with than the titled mistress have be .
Joe scud away a if the constable be after him , and presently Frank be see slowly approach with an unusually sober face and a pair of very dirty hand .
`` Thank heaven , he 's safe ! ''
and , softly open the door , Mrs. Pecq actually hustle the young master into the ante-room as unceremoniously a she have hustle Joe .
`` I beg pardon , but the parlor be full of company , and that fool of a Joe come roar in with a cock-and-bull story that give me quite a turn .
What be it , Mr. Frank ? ''
she ask eagerly , see that something be amiss .
He tell her in a few word , and she be much relieve to find that no harm have be do .
`` Ah , the danger be to come , '' say Frank , darkly , a he go away to wash his hand and prepare to relate his misdeed .
It be a very bad quarter of an hour for the poor fellow , who so seldom have any grave fault to confess ; but he do it manfully , and his mother be so grateful for the safety of her boy that she find it difficult to be severe enough , and content herself with forbid any more visit to the too charming No . 11 .
`` What do you suppose will be do to me ? ''
ask Frank , on whom the idea of imprisonment have make a deep impression .
`` I do n't know , dear , but I shall go over to see Mr. Burton right after tea .
He will tell u what to do and what to expect .
Gus must not suffer for your fault . ''
`` He 'll come off clear enough , but Joe must take his share , for if he have n't open that confound switch , no harm would have be do .
But when I saw the way clear , I actually could n't resist go ahead , '' say Frank , get excite again at the memory of that blissful moment when he start the engine .
Here Jack come hurry in , have hear the news , and refuse to believe it from any lip but Frank 's .
When he could no longer doubt , he be so much impress with the daring of the deed that he have nothing but admiration for his brother , till a sudden thought make him clap his hand and exclaim exultingly , -- `` His runaway beat mine all hollow , and now he ca n't crow over me !
Wo n't that be a comfort ?
The good boy have get into a scrape .
Hooray ! ''
This be such a droll way of take it , that they have to laugh ; and Frank take his humiliation so meekly that Jack soon fell to comfort him , instead of crow over him .
Jill think it a most interesting event ; and , when Frank and his mother go over to consult Mr. Burton , she and Jack plan out for the dear culprit a dramatic trial which would have convulse the sober of judge .
His sentence be ten year ' imprisonment , and such heavy fine that the family would have be reduce to beggary but for the sum make by Jill 's fancy work and Jack 's success a a champion pedestrian .
They find such comfort and amusement in this sensational programme that they be rather disappointed when Frank return , report that a fine would probably be all the penalty exact , a no harm have be do , and he and Gus be such respectable boy .
What would happen to Joe , he could not tell , but he think a good whipping ought to be add to his share .
Of course , the affair make a stir in the little world of child ; and when Frank go to school , feel that his character for good behavior be forever damage , he find himself a lion , and be in danger of be spoil by the admiration of his comrade , who point him out with pride a `` the fellow who run off with a steam-engine . ''
But an interview with Judge Kemble , a fine of twenty-five dollar , and lecture from all the grown people of his acquaintance , prevent him from regard his escapade a a feat to boast of .
He discover , also , how fickle a thing be public favor , for very soon those who have praise begin to tease , and it take all his courage , patience , and pride to carry him through the next week or two .
The lad be never tire of allude to No . 11 , give shrill whistle in his ear , ask if his watch be right , and draw locomotive on the blackboard whenever they get a chance .
The girl , too , have sly nod and smile , hint and joke of a milder sort , which make him color and fume , and once lose his dignity entirely .
Molly Loo , who dearly love to torment the big boy , and dare attack even solemn Frank , leave one of Boo 's old tin train on the door-step , direct to `` Conductor Minot , '' who , I regret to say , could not refrain from kick it into the street , and slam the door with a bang that shake the house .
Shrieks of laughter from wicked Molly and her coadjutor , Grif , greet this explosion of wrath , which do no good , however , for half an hour later the same car , all in a heap , be on the step again , with two headless doll tumble out of the cab , and the dilapidated engine label , `` No . 11 after the collision . ''
No one ever saw that ruin again , and for day Frank be utterly unconscious of Molly 's existence , a propriety forbid his have it out with her a he have with Grif .
Then Annette make peace between them , and the approach of the Twenty-second give the wag something else to think of .
But it be long before Frank forget that costly prank ; for he be a thoughtful boy , who honestly want to be good ; so he remember this episode humbly , and whenever he felt the approach of temptation he make the strong will master it , say to himself `` Down brake ! ''
thus save the precious freight he carry from many of the accident which befall u when we try to run our train without order , and so often wreck ourselves as well a others .
Chapter XII .
The Twenty-Second of February Of course , the young lady and gentleman have a ball on the evening of that day , but the boy and girl be full of excitement about their `` Scenes from the Life of Washington and other brilliant tableau , '' a the programme announce .
The Bird Room be the theatre , be very large , with four door conveniently place .
Ralph be in his element , put up a little stage , drill boy , arrange group , and unite in himself carpenter , scene-painter , manager , and gas man .
Mrs. Minot permit the house to be turn topsy-turvy , and Mrs. Pecq fly about , lend a hand everywhere .
Jill be costumer , with help from Miss Delano , who do not care for ball , and kindly take charge of the girl .
Jack print ticket , programme , and placard of the most imposing sort , and the work go gayly on till all be ready .
When the evening come , the Bird Room present a fine appearance .
One end be curtain off with red drapery ; and real footlights , with tin shade , give a truly theatrical air to the little stage .
Rows of chair , fill with mamma and little people , occupy the rest of the space .
The hall and Frank 's room be full of amused papa , uncle , and old gentleman whose patriotism bring them out in spite of rheumatism .
There be a great rustling of skirt , fluttering of fan , and much lively chat , till a bell rang and the orchestra strike up .
Yes , there really be an orchestra , for Ed declare that the national air must be play , or the whole thing would be a failure .
So he have exert himself to collect all the musical talent he could find , a horn , a fiddle , and a flute , with drum and fife for the martial scene .
Ed look more beaming than ever , a he wave his baton and lead off with Yankee Doodle a a safe beginning , for every one knew that .
It be fun to see little Johnny Cooper bang away on a big drum , and old Mr. Munson , who have be a fifer all his day , blow till he be as red a a lobster , while every one kept time to the music which put them all in good spirit for the opening scene .
Up go the curtain and several tree in tub appear , then a stately gentleman in small clothes , cock hat , gray wig , and an imposing cane , come slowly walk in .
It be Gus , who have be unanimously choose not only for Washington but for the father of the hero also , that the family trait of long leg and a somewhat massive nose might be preserve .
`` Ahem !
My tree be do finely , '' observe Mr. W. , senior , stroll along with his hand behind him , cast satisfied glance at the dwarf orange , oleander , abutilon , and little pine that represent his orchard .
Suddenly he start , pause , frown , and , after examine the latter shrub , which display several hack in it stem and a broken limb with six red-velvet cherry hang on it , he give a thump with his cane that make the little one jump , and cry out , -- `` Can it have be my son ? ''
He evidently think it be , for he call , in tone of thunder , -- `` George !
George Washington , come hither this moment ! ''
Great suspense on the part of the audience , then a general burst of laughter a Boo trot in , a perfect miniature of his honored parent , knee breech , cock hat , shoe buckle and all .
He be so fat that the little tail of his coat stick out in the droll way , his chubby leg could hardly carry the big buckle , and the rosy face display , when he take his hat off with a dutiful bow , be so solemn , the real George could not have look more anxious when he give the immortal answer .
`` Sirrah , do you cut that tree ? ''
demand the papa , with another rap of the cane , and such a frown that poor Boo look dismayed , till Molly whisper , `` Put your hand up , dear . ''
Then he remember his part , and , put one finger in his mouth , look down at his square-toed shoe , the image of a shame-stricken boy .
`` My son , do not deceive me .
If you have do this deed I shall chastise you , for it be my duty not to spare the rod , l I spoil the child .
But if you lie about it you disgrace the name of Washington forever . ''
This appeal seem to convulse George with inward agony , for he squirm most effectively a he draw from his pocket a toy hatchet , which would not have cut a straw , then look straight up into the awe-inspiring countenance of his parent , he bravely lisp , -- `` Papa , I tannot tell a lie .
I do tut it with my little hanchet . ''
`` Noble boy -- come to my arm !
I have rather you spoil all my cherry tree than tell one lie ! ''
cry the delighted gentleman , catch his son in an embrace so close that the fat leg kick convulsively , and the little coat-tails wave in the breeze , while cane and hatchet fell with a dramatic bang .
The curtain descend on this affect tableau ; but the audience call out both Washingtons , and they come , hand in hand , bow with the cocked hat press to their breast , the elder smile blandly , while the young , still flush by his exertion , nod to his friend , ask , with engage frankness , `` Was n't it nice ? ''
The next be a marine piece , for a boat be see , surround by tumultuous wave of blue cambric , and row by a party of stalwart men in regimentals , who with difficulty keep their seat , for the boat be only a paint board , and they sit on box or stool behind it .
But few mark the rower , for in their midst , tall , straight , and steadfast a a mast , stand one figure in a cloak , with folded arm , high boot , and , under the turned-up hat , a noble countenance , stern with indomitable courage .
A sword glitter at his side , and a banner wave over him , but his eye be fix on the distant shore , and he be evidently unconscious of the roaring billow , the block of ice , the discouragement of his men , or the danger and death that might await him .
Napoleon cross the Alps be not half so sublime , and with one voice the audience cry , `` Washington cross the Delaware ! ''
while the band burst forth with , `` See , the conquering hero come ! ''
all out of tune , but bound to play it or die in the attempt .
It would have be very successful if , all of a sudden , one of the rower have not `` catch a crab '' with disastrous consequence .
The oar be not move , but a veteran , who look very much like Joe , drop the one he hold , and in try to turn and pummel the black-eyed warrior behind him , he tumble off his seat , upset two other men , and pull the paint boat upon them a they lay kick in the cambric deep .
Shouts of laughter greet this mishap , but George Washington never stir .
Grasping the banner , he stand firm when all else go down in the general wreck , and the icy wave engulf his gallant crew , leave him erect amid a chaos of wildly toss boot , entangle oar , and red-faced victim .
Such god-like dignity could not fail to impress the frivolous crowd of laugher , and the curtain fell amid a round of applause for him alone .
`` Quite exciting , be n't it ?
Did n't know Gus have so much presence of mind , '' say Mr. Burton , well pleased with his boy .
`` If we do not know that Washington die in his bed , December 14 , 1799 , I should fear that we 'd see the last of him in that shipwreck , '' laugh an old gentleman , proud of his memory for date .
Much confusion reign behind the scene ; Ralph be hear scolding , and Joe set every one off again by explain , audibly , that Grif tickle him , and he could n't stand it .
A pretty , old-fashioned picture of the `` Daughters of Liberty '' follow , for the girl be determine to do honor to the brave and patient woman who so nobly bore their part in the struggle , yet be usually forget when those day be celebrate .
The damsel be charm in the big cap , flower gown , and high-heeled shoe of their great-grandmothers , a they sit about a spider-legged table talk over the tax , and pledge themselves to drink no more tea till it be take off .
Molly be on her foot proposing , `` Liberty forever , and down with all tyrant , '' to judge from her flash eye a she hold her egg-shell cup aloft , while the others lift theirs to drink the toast , and Merry , a hostess , sit with her hand on an antique teapot , label `` Sage , '' ready to fill again when the patriotic lady be ready for a second `` dish . ''
This be much applaud , and the curtain go up again , for the proud parent enjoy see their pretty girl in the faded finery of a hundred year ago .
The band play `` Auld Lang Syne , '' a a gentle hint that our fore-mothers should be remember as well a the fore-fathers .
It be evident that something very martial be to follow , for a great tramping , clashing , and fly about take place behind the scene while the tea-party be go on .
After some delay , `` The Surrender of Cornwallis '' be present in the most superb manner , a you can believe when I tell you that the stage be actually line with a glitter array of Washington and his general , Lafayette , Kosciusko , Rochambeau and the rest , all in astonish uniform , with sword which be evidently the pride of their life .
Fife and drum strike up a march , and in come Cornwallis , much cast down but full of manly resignation , a he surrender his sword , and stand aside with averted eye while his army march past , pile their arm at the hero 's foot .
This scene be the delight of the boy , for the rifle of Company F have be secure , and at least a dozen soldier keep file in and out in British uniform till Washington 's august leg be hide by the heap of arm rattle down before him .
The martial music , the steady tramp , and the patriotic memory awaken , cause this scene to be enthusiastically encore , and the boy would have go on march till midnight if Ralph have not peremptorily order down the curtain and clear the stage for the next tableau .
This have be artfully slip in between two brilliant one , to show that the Father of his Country have to pay a high price for his glory .
The darkened stage represent what seem to be a camp in a snow-storm , and a very forlorn camp , too ; for on `` the cold , cold ground '' -LRB- a reckless display of cotton batting -RRB- lay ragged soldier , sleep without blanket , their worn-out boot turn up pathetically , and no sign of food or fire to be see .
A very shabby sentinel , with foot bind in bloody cloth , and his face as pale a chalk could make it , gnaw a dry crust a he keep his watch in the wintry night .
A tent at the back of the stage show a solitary figure sit on a log of wood , pore over the map spread upon his knee , by the light of one candle stick in a bottle .
There could be no doubt who this be , for the buff-and-blue coat , the leg , the nose , the attitude , all betray the great George labor to save his country , in spite of privation , discouragement , and danger which would have daunt any other man .
`` Valley Forge , '' say someone , and the room be very still a old and young look silently at this little picture of a great and noble struggle in one of it dark hour .
The crust , the wounded foot , the rag , the snow , the loneliness , the indomitable courage and endurance of these men touch the heart of all , for the mimic scene grow real for a moment ; and , when a child 's voice break the silence , ask pitifully , `` Oh , mamma , be it truly as dreadful a that ? ''
a general outburst answer , a if every one want to cheer up the brave fellow and bid them fight on , for victory be surely come .
In the next scene it do come , and `` Washington at Trenton '' be prettily do .
An arch of flower cross the stage , with the motto , `` The Defender of the Mothers will be the Preserver of the Daughters ; '' and , a the hero with his general advance on one side , a troop of girl , in old-fashioned muslin frock , come to scatter flower before him , sing the song of long ago : -- `` Welcome , mighty chief , once more Welcome to this grateful shore ; Now no mercenary foe Aims again the fatal blow , -- Aims at thee the fatal blow .
`` Virgins fair and matron grave , Those thy conquer arm do save , Build for thee triumphal bower ; Strew , ye fair , his way with flower , -- Strew your hero 's way with flower . ''
And they do , sing with all their heart a they fling artificial rose and lily at the foot of the great men , who bow with benign grace .
Jack , who do Lafayette with a limp , cover himself with glory by pick up one of the bouquet and press it to his heart with all the gallantry of a Frenchman ; and when Washington lift the small of the maid and kiss her , the audience cheer .
Could n't help it , you know , it be so pretty and inspire .
The Washington Family , after the famous picture , come next , with Annette a the serene and sensible Martha , in a very become cap .
The General be in uniform , there be no time to change , but his attitude be quite correct , and the Custis boy and girl display the wide sash and ruffle collar with historic fidelity .
The band play `` Home , '' and every one agree that it be `` Sweet ! ''
`` Now I do n't see what more they can have except the death-bed , and that would be rather out of place in this gay company , '' say the old gentleman to Mr. Burton , a he mop his heated face after pound so heartily he nearly knock the ferule off his cane .
`` No ; they give that up , for my boy would n't wear a night-gown in public .
I ca n't tell secret , but I think they have get a very clever little finale for the first part -- a pretty compliment to one person and a pleasant surprise to all , '' answer Mr. Burton , who be in great spirit , be fond of theatrical and very justly proud of his child , for the little girl have be among the Trenton maid , and the mimic General have kiss his own small sister , Nelly , very tenderly .
A great deal of interest be felt a to what this surprise be to be , and a general `` Oh ! ''
greet the `` Minute Man , '' stand motionless upon his pedestal .
It be Frank , and Ralph have do his best to have the figure as perfect a possible , for the maker of the original have be a good friend to him ; and , while the young sculptor be dance gayly at the ball , this copy of his work be do him honor among the child .
Frank look it very well , for his firm-set mouth be full of resolution , his eye shine keen and courageous under the three-cornered hat , and the muscle stand out upon the bare arm that clutch the old gun .
Even the button on the gaiter seem to flash defiance , a the sturdy leg take the first step from the furrow toward the bridge where the young farmer become a hero when he `` fire the shot heard ` round the world . ''
`` That be splendid ! ''
`` As like to the original a flesh can be to bronze . ''
`` How still he stand ! ''
`` He 'll fight when the time come , and die hard , wo n't he ? ''
`` Hush !
You make the statue blush ! ''
These very audible remark certainly do , for the color rise visibly a the modest lad heard himself praise , though he saw but one face in all the crowd , his mother 's , far back , but full of love and pride , a she look up at her young minute man wait for the battle which often call u when we least expect it , and for which she have do her best to make him ready .
If there have be any danger of Frank be puff up by the success of his statue , it be counteract by irrepressible Grif , who , just at the most interesting moment , when all be gaze silently , give a whistle , follow by a `` Choo , choo , choo ! ''
and `` All aboard ! ''
so naturally that no one could mistake the joke , especially a another laugh voice add , `` Now , then , No . 11 ! ''
which bring down the house and the curtain too .
Frank be so angry , it be very difficult to keep him on his perch for the last scene of all .
He submit , however , rather than spoil the grand finale , hop that it beauty would efface that ill-timed pleasantry from the public mind .
So , when the agreeable clamor of hand and voice call for a repetition , the Minute Man reappear , grim than before .
But not alone , for group all about his pedestal be Washington and his general , the matron and maid , with a background of troop shoulder arm , Grif and Joe do such rash thing with their musket , that more than one hero receive a poke in his august back .
Before the full richness of this picture have be take in , Ed give a rap , and all burst out with `` Hail Columbia , '' in such an inspiring style that it be impossible for the audience to refrain from joining , which they do , all standing and all singing with a heartiness that make the wall ring .
The fife shrill , the horn blow sweet and clear , the fiddle be nearly drown by the energetic boom of the drum , and out into the starry night , through open window , roll the song that stir the cold heart with patriotic warmth and tune every voice to music . ''
` America ! '
We must have ` America ! '
Pipe up , Ed , this be too good to end without one song more , '' cry Mr. Burton , who have be sing like a trumpet ; and , hardly wait to get their breath , off they all go again with the national hymn , sing a they never have sing it before , for somehow the little scene they have just act or behold seem to show how much this dear America of ours have cost in more than one revolution , how full of courage , energy , and virtue it be in spite of all it fault , and what a privilege , as well a duty , it be for each to do his part toward it safety and it honor in the present , a do those brave men and woman in the past .
So the `` Scenes from the Life of Washington '' be a great success , and , when the song be over , people be glad of a brief recess while they have rapture , and refresh themselves with lemonade .
The girl have keep the secret of who the `` Princess '' be to be , and , when the curtain rise , a hum of surprise and pleasure greet the pretty group .
Jill lay asleep in all her splendor , the bonny `` Prince '' just lift the veil to wake her with a kiss , and all about them the court in it nap of a hundred year .
The `` King '' and `` Queen '' doze comfortably on the throne ; the maid of honor , like a garland of nod flower , about the couch ; the little page , unconscious of the blow about to fall , and the fool dreaming , with his mouth wide open .
It be so pretty , people do not tire of look , till Jack 's lame leg begin to tremble , and he whisper : `` Drop her or I shall pitch . ''
Down go the curtain ; but it rise in a moment , and there be the court after the awakening : the `` King '' and `` Queen '' look about them with sleepy dignity , the maid in various attitude of surprise , the fool grin from ear to ear , and the `` Princess '' hold out her hand to the `` Prince , '' a if glad to welcome the right lover when he come at last .
Molly get the laugh this time , for she could not resist give poor Boo the cuff which have be hang over him so long .
She give it with unconscious energy , and Boo cry `` Ow ! ''
so naturally that all the child be delighted and want it repeat .
But Boo decline , and the scene which follow be find quite as much to their taste , have be expressly prepare for the little people .
Mother Goose 's Reception be really very funny , for Ralph be the old lady , and have hire a representation of the immortal bird from a real theatre for this occasion .
There they stand , the dame in her pointed hat , red petticoat , cap , and cane , with the noble fowl , a good deal large than life , beside her , and Grif inside , enjoy himself immensely a he flap the wing , move the yellow leg , and wave the long neck about , while unearthly quack issue from the bill .
That be a great surprise for the child , and they get up in their seat to gaze their fill , many of them firmly believe that they actually behold the bless old woman who write the nursery song they love so well .
Then in come , one after another , the best of the character she have make famous , while a voice behind the scene sing the proper rhyme a each make their manner to the interesting pair .
`` Mistress Mary , '' and her `` pretty maid all in a row , '' pass by to their place in the background ; `` King Cole '' and his `` fiddler three '' make a goodly show ; so do the royal couple , who follow the great pie borne before them , with the `` four-and-twenty blackbird '' pop their head out in the most delightful way .
Little `` Bo-Peep '' lead a woolly lamb and weep over it lose tail , for not a sign of one appear on the poor thing .
`` Simple Simon '' follow the pie-man , gloat over his ware with the droll antic .
The little wife come trundle by in a wheelbarrow and be not upset ; neither be the lady with `` ring on her finger and bell on her toe , '' a she canter along on a rocking-horse .
`` Bobby Shafto 's '' yellow hair shone finely a he lead in the maid whom he come back from sea to marry .
`` Miss Muffet , '' bowl in hand , run away from an immense black spider , which waggle it long leg in a way so life-like that some of the child shake in their little shoe .
The beggar who come to town be out in full force , `` rag , tag , and velvet gown , '' quite true to life .
`` Boy Blue '' rub his eye , with hay stick in his hair , and toot on a tin horn a if bound to get the cow out of the corn .
Molly , with a long-handled frying-pan , make a capital `` Queen , '' in a tucked-up gown , check apron , and high crown , to good `` King Arthur , '' who , very properly , do not appear after steal the barley-meal , which might be see in the pan tie up in a pudding , like a cannon-ball , ready to fry .
But Tobias , Molly 's black cat , cover himself with glory by the spirit with which he act his part in , `` Sing , sing , what shall I sing ?
The cat 's run away with the pudding-bag string . ''
First he be lead across the stage on his hind leg , look very fierce and indignant , with a long tape trail behind him ; and , be set free at the proper moment , he give one bound over the four-and-twenty blackbird who happen to be in the way , and dash off a if an enraged cook have actually be after him , straight downstairs to the coal-bin , where he sit glare in the dark , till the fun be over .
When all the character have file in and stand in two long row , music strike up and they dance , `` All the way to Boston , '' a simple but lively affair , which give each a chance to show his or her costume a they prance down the middle and up outside .
Such a funny medley a it be , for there go fat `` King Cole '' with the most ragged of the beggar-maids .
`` Mistress Mary , '' in her pretty blue dress , trip along with `` Simple Simon '' star about him like a blockhead .
The fine lady leave her horse to dance with `` Bobby Shafto '' till every bell on her slipper tinkle it tongue out .
`` Bo-Peep '' and a jolly fiddler skip gayly up and down .
`` Miss Muffet '' take the big spider for her partner , and make his many leg fly about in the wild way .
The little wife get out of the wheelbarrow to help `` Boy Blue '' along , and Molly , with the frying-pan over her shoulder , lead off splendidly when it be `` Grand right and leave . ''
But the old lady and her goose be the best of all , for the dame 's shoe-buckles cut the most astonishing pigeon-wings , and to see that mammoth bird waddle down the middle with it wing half open , it long neck bridling , and it yellow leg in the first position a it curtsy to it partner , be a sight to remember , it be so intensely funny .
The merry old gentleman laugh till he cry ; Mr. Burton split his glove , he applaud so enthusiastically ; while the child beat the dust out of the carpet hop up and down , a they cry : `` Do it again ! ''
`` We want it all over ! ''
when the curtain go down at last on the flush and pant party , Mother G -- bowing , with her hat all awry , and the goose do a double shuffle a if it do not know how to leave off .
But they could not `` do it all over again , '' for it be grow late , and the people felt that they certainly have receive their money 's worth that even .
So it all end merrily , and when the guest depart the boy clear the room like magic , and the promised supper to the actor be serve in handsome style .
Jack and Jill be at one end , Mrs . Goose and her bird at the other , and all between be a comical collection of military hero , fairy character , and nursery celebrity .
All felt the need of refreshment after their labor , and sweep over the table like a flight of locust , leave devastation behind .
But they have earn their fun : and much innocent jollity prevail , while a few lingering papa and mamma watch the revel from afar , and have not the heart to order these noble being home till even the Father of his Country declare `` that he 'd have a perfectly splendid time , but could n't keep his eye open another minute , '' and very wisely retire to replace the immortal cock hat with a night-cap .
Chapter XIII .
Jack Has a Mystery `` What be the matter ?
Does your head ache ? ''
ask Jill , one evening in March , observe that Jack sit with his head in his hand , an attitude which , with him , mean either pain or perplexity .
`` No ; but I 'm bother .
I want some money , and I do n't see how I can earn it , '' he answer , tumble his hair about , and frown darkly at the fire .
`` How much ? ''
and Jill 's ready hand go to the pocket where her little purse lay , for she felt rich with several present lately make her .
`` Two seventy-five .
No , thank you , I wo n't borrow . ''
`` What be it for ? ''
`` Ca n't tell . ''
`` Why , I think you tell me everything . ''
`` Sorry , but I ca n't this time .
Do n't you worry ; I shall think of something . ''
`` Could n't your mother help ? ''
`` Do n't wish to ask her . ''
`` Why !
ca n't she know ? ''
`` Nobody can . ''
`` How queer !
Is it a scrape , Jack ? ''
ask Jill , look as curious a a magpie .
`` It be likely to be , if I ca n't get out of it this week , somehow . ''
`` Well , I do n't see how I can help if I 'm not to know anything ; '' and Jill seem rather hurt .
`` You can just stop ask question , and tell me how a fellow can earn some money .
That would help .
I 've get one dollar , but I must have some more ; '' and Jack look worried a he finger the little gold dollar on his watch-guard .
`` Oh , do you mean to use that ? ''
`` Yes , I do ; a man must pay his debt if he sell all he have to do it , '' say Jack sternly .
`` Dear me ; it must be something very serious . ''
And Jill lay quite still for five minute , think over all the way in which Jack ever do earn money , for Mrs. Minot like to have her boy work , and pay them in some way for all they do .
`` Is there any wood to saw ? ''
she ask presently , be very anxious to help .
`` All do . ''
`` Paths to shovel ? ''
`` No snow . ''
`` Lawn to rake , then ? ''
`` Not time for that yet . ''
`` Catalogue of book ? ''
`` Frank get that job . ''
`` Copy those letter for your mother ? ''
`` Take me too long .
Must have my money Friday , if possible . ''
`` I do n't see what we can do , then .
It be too early or too late for everything , and you wo n't borrow . ''
`` Not of you .
No , nor of any one else , if I can possibly help it .
I 've promise to do this myself , and I will ; '' and Jack wag his head resolutely .
`` Could n't you do something with the printing-press ?
Do me some card , and then , perhaps , the other girl will want some , '' say Jill , a a forlorn hope .
`` Just the thing !
What a goose I be not to think of it .
I 'll rig the old machine up at once . ''
And , start from his seat , Jack dive into the big closet , drag out the little press , and fell to oil , dust , and put it in order , like one relieved of a great anxiety .
`` Give me the type ; I 'll sort them and set up my name , so you can begin as soon a you be ready .
You know what a help I be when we do the programme .
I 'm almost sure the girl will want card , and I know your mother would like some more tag , '' say Jill , briskly rattle the letter into the different compartment , while Jack ink the roller and hunt up his big apron , whistle the while with recovered spirit .
A dozen neat card be soon print , and Jill insist on pay six cent for them , a earning be not borrow .
A few odd tag be find and do for Mamma , who immediately order four dozen at six cent a dozen , though she be not tell why there be such a pressing call for money .
Jack 's monthly half-dollar have be spend the first week , -- twenty-five cent for a concert , ten pay a fine for keep a book too long from the library , ten more to have his knife ground , and five in candy , for he dearly love sweetie , and be under bond to Mamma not to spend more than five cent a month on these unwholesome temptation .
She never ask the boy what they do with their money , but expect them to keep account in the little book she give them ; and , now and then , they show the neat page with pardonable pride , though she often laugh at the queer item .
All that even Jack & Co. work busily , for when Frank come in he good-naturedly order some pale-pink card for Annette , and run to the store to choose the right shade , and buy some package for the young printer also .
`` What do you suppose he be in such a pucker for ? ''
whisper Jill , a she set up the new name , to Frank , who sit close by , with one eye on his book and one on her .
`` Oh , some notion .
He 's a queer chap ; but I guess it be n't much of a scrape , or I should know it .
He 's so good-natured he 's always promise to do thing for people , and have too much pluck to give up when he find he ca n't .
Let him alone , and it will all come out soon enough , '' answer Frank , who laugh at his brother , but love him none the less for the tender heart that often get the good of his young head .
But for once Frank be mistake ; the mystery do not come out , and Jack work like a beaver all that week , a order pour in when Jill and Annette show their elegant card ; for , a everybody know , if one girl have a new thing all the rest must , whether it be a bow on the top of her head , a peculiar sort of pencil , or the late kind of chewing-gum .
Little play do the poor fellow get , for every spare minute be spend at the press , and no invitation could tempt him away , so much in earnest be our honest little Franklin about pay his debt .
Jill help all she could , and cheer his labor with her encouragement , remember how he stay at home for her .
`` It be real good of you to lend a hand , and I 'm ever so much oblige , '' say Jack , a the last order be strike off , and the drawer of the type-box hold a pile of shin five and ten cent piece , with two or three quarter .
`` I love to ; only it would be nice if I know what we be work for , '' she say demurely , a she scatter type for the last time ; and see that Jack be both tired and grateful , hop to get a hint of the secret .
`` I want to tell you , dreadfully ; but I ca n't , because I 've promise . ''
`` What , never ? ''
`` Never ! ''
and Jack look as firm a a rock .
`` Then I shall find out , for I have n't promise . ''
`` You ca n't . ''
`` See if I do n't ! ''
`` You be sharp , but you wo n't guess this .
It 's a tremendous secret , and nobody will tell it . ''
`` You 'll tell it yourself .
You always do . ''
`` I wo n't tell this .
It would be mean . ''
`` Wait and see ; I can get anything out of you if I try ; '' and Jill laugh , know her power well , for Jack find it very hard to keep a secret from her .
`` Do n't try ; please do n't !
It would n't be right , and you do n't want to make me do a dishonorable thing for your sake , I know . ''
Jack look so distressed that Jill promise not to make him tell , though she hold herself free to find out in other way , if she could .
Thus relieve , Jack trudge off to school on Friday with the two dollar and seventy-five cent jingle in his pocket , though the dear gold coin have to be sacrifice to make up the sum .
He do his lesson badly that day , be late at recess in the afternoon , and , as soon a school be over , depart in his rubber boot `` to take a walk , '' he say , though the road be in a bad state with a spring thaw .
Nothing be see of him till after tea-time , when he come limp in , very dirty and tired , but with a reposeful expression , which betray that a load be off his mind .
Frank be busy about his own affair and pay little attention to him , but Jill be on tenter-hooks to know where he have be , yet dare not ask the question .
`` Merry 's brother want some card .
He like hers so much he wish to make his lady-love a present .
Here 's the name ; '' and Jill hold up the order from Harry Grant , who be to be marry in the autumn .
`` Must wait till next week .
I 'm too tire to do a thing to-night , and I hate the sight of that old press , '' answer Jack , lay himself down upon the rug a if every joint ache .
`` What make you take such a long walk ?
You look as tire a if you 'd be ten mile , '' say Jill , hop to discover the length of the trip .
`` Had to .
Four or five mile be n't much , only my leg bother me ; '' and Jack give the ailing member a slap , a if he have find it much in his way that day ; for , though he have give up the crutch long ago , he rather miss their support sometimes .
Then , with a great yawn , he stretch himself out to bask in the blaze , pillow his head on his arm .
`` Dear old thing , he look all use up ; I wo n't plague him with talk ; '' and Jill begin to sing , a she often do in the twilight .
By the time the first song end a gentle snore be hear , and Jack lay fast asleep , wear out with the busy week and the walk , which have be longer and hard than any one guess .
Jill take up her knitting and work quietly by firelight , still wonder and guess what the secret could be ; for she have not much to amuse her , and little thing be very interesting if connect with her friend .
Presently Jack roll over and begin to mutter in his sleep , a he often do when too weary for sound slumber .
Jill pay no attention till he utter a name which make her prick up her ear and listen to the broken sentence which follow .
Only a few word , but she drop her work , say to herself , -- `` I do believe he be talk about the secret .
Now I shall find out , and he will tell me himself , a I say he would . ''
Much please , she lean and listen , but could make no sense of the confused babble about `` heavy boot ; '' `` All right , old fellow ; '' `` Jerry 's off ; '' and `` The ink be too thick . ''
The slam of the front door wake Jack , and he pull himself up , declare that he believe he have be have a nap .
`` I wish you 'd have another , '' say Jill , greatly disappoint at the loss of the intelligence she seem to be so near get .
`` Floor be too hard for tired bone .
Guess I 'll go to bed and get rest up for Monday .
I 've work like fury this week , so next I 'm go in for fun ; '' and , little dream what hard time be in store for him , Jack go off to enjoy his warm bath and welcome bed , where he be soon sleep with the serene look of one whose dream be happy , whose conscience be at rest .
* * * * * `` I have a few word to say to you before you go , '' say Mr. Acton , pause with his hand on the bell , Monday afternoon , when the hour come for dismiss school .
The bustle of put away book and prepare for a rapid a departure a propriety allow , subside suddenly , and the boy and girl sit as still a mouse , while the heart of such a have be guilty of any small sin begin to beat fast .
`` You remember that we have some trouble last winter about keep the boy away from the saloon , and that a rule be make forbid any pupil to go to town during recess ? ''
begin Mr. Acton , who , be a conscientious man as well a an excellent teacher , felt that he be responsible for the child in school hour , and do his best to aid parent in guard them from the few temptation which beset them in a country town .
A certain attractive little shop , where confectionery , baseball , stationery , and picture paper be sell , be a favorite loafing place for some of the boy till the rule forbid it be make , because in the rear of the shop be a beer and billiard saloon .
A wise rule , for the picture paper be not always of the best sort ; cigar be to be have ; idle fellow hang about there , and some of the lad , who want to be think manly , venture to pass the green baize door `` just to look on . ''
A murmur answer the teacher 's question , and he continue , `` You all know that the rule be break several time , and I tell you the next offender would be publicly reprimand , a private punishment have no effect .
I be sorry to say that the time have come , and the offender be a boy whom I trust entirely .
It grieve me to do this , but I must keep my promise , and hope the example will have a good effect . ''
Mr. Acton pause , a if he find it hard to go on , and the boy look at one another with inquire eye , for their teacher seldom punish , and when he do , it be a very solemn thing .
Several of these anxious glance fell upon Joe , who be very red and sit whittle a pencil a if he dare not lift his eye .
`` He 's the chap .
Wo n't he catch it ? ''
whisper Gus to Frank , for both owe him a grudge .
`` The boy who break the rule last Friday , at afternoon recess , will come to the desk , '' say Mr. Acton in his most impressive manner .
If a thunderbolt have fall through the roof it would hardly have cause a great surprise than the sight of Jack Minot walk slowly down the aisle , with a wrathful flash in the eye he turn on Joe a he pass him .
`` Now , Minot , let u have this over as soon a possible , for I do not like it any good than you do , and I be sure there be some mistake .
I 'm told you go to the shop on Friday .
Is it true ? ''
ask Mr. Acton very gently , for he like Jack and seldom have to correct him in any way .
`` Yes , sir ; '' and Jack look up a if proud to show that he be not afraid to tell the truth as far a he could .
`` To buy something ? ''
`` No , sir . ''
`` To meet someone ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Was it Jerry Shannon ? ''
No answer , but Jack 's fist double up of themselves a he shoot another fiery glance at Joe , whose face burn a if it scorch him .
`` I be tell it be ; also that you be see to go into the saloon with him .
Did you ? ''
and Mr. Acton look so sure that it be a mistake that it cost Jack a great effort to say , slowly , -- `` Yes , sir . ''
Quite a thrill pervade the school at this confession , for Jerry be one of the wild fellows the boy all shun , and to have any dealing with him be consider a very disgraceful thing .
`` Did you play ? ''
`` No , sir .
I ca n't . ''
`` Drink beer ? ''
`` I belong to the Lodge ; '' and Jack stand as erect a any little soldier who ever march under a temperance banner , and fought for the cause none be too young nor too old to help along .
`` I be sure of that .
Then what take you there , my boy ? ''
The question be so kindly put that Jack forget himself an instant , and blurt out , -- `` I only go to pay him some money , sir . ''
`` Ah , how much ? ''
`` Two seventy-five , '' mutter Jack , as red a a cherry at not be able to keep a secret better .
`` Too much for a lad like you to owe such a fellow a Jerry .
How come it ? ''
And Mr. Acton look disturb .
Jack open his lip to speak , but shut them again , and stand look down with a little quiver about the mouth that show how much it cost him to be silent .
`` Does any one beside Jerry know of this ? ''
`` One other fellow , '' after a pause .
`` Yes , I understand ; '' and Mr. Acton 's eye glance at Joe with a look that seem to say , `` I wish he 'd hold his tongue . ''
A queer smile flit over Jack 's face , for Joe be not the `` other fellow , '' and know very little about it , except what he have see when he be send on an errand by Mr. Acton on Friday .
`` I wish you would explain the matter , John , for I be sure it be well than it seem , and it would be very hard to punish you when you do n't deserve it . ''
`` But I do deserve it ; I 've break the rule , and I ought to be punish , '' say Jack , a if a good whipping would be easy to bear than this public cross-examination .
`` And you ca n't explain , or even say you be sorry or ashamed ? ''
ask Mr. Acton , hop to surprise another fact out of the boy .
`` No , sir ; I ca n't ; I 'm not ashamed ; I 'm not sorry , and I 'd do it again to-morrow if I have to , '' cry Jack , lose patience , and look a if he would not bear much more .
A groan from the boy greet this bare-faced declaration , and Susy quite shiver at the idea of have take two bite out of the apple of such a hardened desperado .
`` Think it over till to-morrow , and perhaps you will change your mind .
Remember that this be the last week of the month , and report be give out next Friday , '' say Mr. Acton , know how much the boy pride himself on always have good one to show his mother .
Poor Jack turn scarlet and bite his lip to keep them still , for he have forget this when he plunge into the affair which be likely to cost him dear .
Then the color fade away , the boyish face grow steady , and the honest eye look up at his teacher a he say very low , but all hear him , the room be so still , -- `` It be n't as bad a it look , sir , but I ca n't say any more .
No one be to blame but me ; and I could n't help break the rule , for Jerry be go away , I have only that time , and I 'd promise to pay up , so I do . ''
Mr. Acton believe every word he say , and regret that they have not be able to have it out privately , but he , too , must keep his promise and punish the offender , whoever he be .
`` Very well , you will lose your recess for a week , and this month 's report will be the first one in which behavior do not get the high mark .
You may go ; and I wish it understand that Master Minot be not to be trouble with question till he choose to set this matter right . ''
Then the bell rang , the child troop out , Mr. Acton go off without another word , and Jack be leave alone to put up his book and hide a few tear that would come because Frank turn his eye away from the implore look cast upon him a the culprit come down from the platform , a disgraced boy .
Elder brother be apt to be a little hard on young one , so it be not surprising that Frank , who be an eminently proper boy , be much cut up when Jack publicly confess to dealing with Jerry , leave it to be suppose that the bad half of the story remain untold .
He felt it his duty , therefore , to collar poor Jack when he come out , and talk to him all the way home , like a judge bent on get at the truth by main force .
A kind word would have be very comforting , but the scolding be too much for Jack 's temper , so he turn dogged and would not say a word , though Frank threaten not to speak to him for a week .
At tea-time both boy be very silent , one look grim , the other excited .
Frank star sternly at his brother across the table , and no amount of marmalade sweeten or soften that reproachful look .
Jack defiantly crunch his toast , with occasional slash at the butter , a if he must vent the pent-up emotion which half distract him .
Of course , their mother saw that something be amiss , but do not allude to it , hop that the cloud would blow over a so many do if leave alone .
But this one do not , and when both refuse cake , this sure sign of unusual perturbation make her anxious to know the cause .
As soon a tea be over , Jack retire with gloomy dignity to his own room , and Frank , cast away the paper he have be pretend to read , burst out with the whole story .
Mrs. Minot be as much surprise a he , but not angry , because , like most mother , she be sure that her son could not do anything very bad .
`` I will speak to him ; my boy wo n't refuse to give me some explanation , '' she say , when Frank have free his mind with as much warmth a if Jack have break all the ten commandment .
`` He will .
You often call me obstinate , but he be as pig-headed a a mule ; Joe only know what he saw , old tell-tale !
and Jerry have leave town , or I 'd have it out of him .
Make Jack own up , whether he can or not .
Little donkey ! ''
storm Frank , who hat rowdy and could not forgive his brother for be see with one .
`` My dear , all boy do foolish thing sometimes , even the wise and best behave , so do n't be hard on the poor child .
He have get into trouble , I 've no doubt , but it can not be very bad , and he earn the money to pay for his prank , whatever it be . ''
Mrs. Minot leave the room a she speak , and Frank cool down as if her word have be a shower-bath , for he remember his own costly escapade , and how kindly both his mother and Jack have stand by him on that try occasion .
So , feel rather remorseful , he go off to talk it over with Gus , leave Jill in a fever of curiosity , for Merry and Molly have drop in on their way home to break the blow to her , and Frank decline to discuss it with her , after mildly state that Jack be `` a ninny , '' in his opinion .
`` Well , I know one thing , '' say Jill confidentially to Snow-ball , when they be leave alone together , `` if every one else be scold him I wo n't say a word .
It 's so mean to crow over people when they be down , and I 'm sure he have n't do anything to be ashamed of , though he wo n't tell . ''
Snow-ball seem to agree to this , for he go and sit down by Jack 's slipper wait for him on the hearth , and Jill think that a very touching proof of affectionate fidelity to the little master who rule them both .
When he come , it be evident that he have find it hard to refuse his mother than all the rest .
But she trust him in spite of appearance , and that be such a comfort !
For poor Jack 's heart be very full , and he long to tell the whole story , but he would not break his promise , and so kept silence bravely .
Jill ask no question , affect to be anxious for the game they always play together in the evening , but while they play , though the lip be seal , the bright eye say as plainly a word , `` I trust you , '' and Jack be very grateful .
It be well he have something to cheer him up at home , for he get little peace at school .
He bore the grave look of Mr. Acton meekly , take the boy ' joke good-naturedly , and withstand the artful teasing of the girl with patient silence .
But it be very hard for the social , affectionate fellow to bear the general distrust , for he have be such a favorite he felt the change keenly .
But the thing that try him most be the knowledge that his report would not be what it usually be .
It be always a happy moment when he show it to his mother , and saw her eye brighten a it fell on the 99 or 100 , for she care more for good behavior than for perfect lesson .
Mr. Acton once say that Frank Minot 's moral influence in the school be unusual , and Jack never forget her pride and delight a she tell them what Frank himself have not know till then .
It be Jack 's ambition to have the same say of him , for he be not much of a scholar , and he have try hard since he go back to school to get good record in that respect at least .
Now here be a dreadful downfall , tardy mark , bad company , broken rule , and something too wrong to tell , apparently .
`` Well , I deserve a good report , and that 's a comfort , though nobody believe it , '' he say to himself , try to keep up his spirit , a the slow week go by , and no word from him have clear up the mystery .
Chapter XIV .
And Jill Finds It Out Jill worry about it more than he do , for she be a faithful little friend , and it be a great trial to have Jack even suspect of do anything wrong .
School be a child 's world while he be there , and it small affair be very important to him , so Jill felt that the one thing to be do be to clear away the cloud about her dear boy , and restore him to public favor .
`` Ed will be here Saturday night and may be he will find out , for Jack tell him everything .
I do hate to have him hector so , for I know he be , though he 's too proud to complain , '' she say , on Thursday evening , when Frank tell her some joke play upon his brother that day .
`` I let him alone , but I see that he be n't badger too much .
That 's all I can do .
If Ed have only come home last Saturday it might have do some good , but now it will be too late ; for the report be give out to-morrow , you know , '' answer Frank , feel a little jealous of Ed 's influence over Jack , though his own would have be a great if he have be a gentle .
`` Has Jerry come back ? ''
ask Jill , who keep all her question for Frank , because she seldom allude to the tender subject when with Jack .
`` No , he 's off for the summer .
Got a place somewhere .
Hope he 'll stay there and let Bob alone . ''
`` Where be Bob now ?
I do n't hear much about him lately , '' say Jill , who be constantly on the lookout for `` the other fellow , '' since it be not Joe .
`` Oh , he go to Captain Skinner 's the first of March , chores round , and go to school up there .
Captain be strict , and wo n't let Bob come to town , except Sundays ; but he do n't mind it much , for he like horse , have nice grub , and the Hill fellow be good chap for him to be with .
So he 's all right , if he only behave . ''
`` How far be it to Captain Skinner 's ? ''
ask Jill suddenly , have listen , with her sharp eye on Frank , a he tinker away at his model , since he be forbid all other indulgence in his beloved pastime .
`` It 's four mile to Hill District , but the Captain live this side of the school-house .
About three from here , I should say . ''
`` How long would it take a boy to walk up there ? ''
go on the questioner , with a new idea in her head .
`` Depends on how much of a walkist he be . ''
`` Suppose he be lame and it be sloshy , and he make a call and come back .
How long would that take ? ''
ask Jill impatiently .
`` Well , in that case , I should say two or three hour .
But it 's impossible to tell exactly , unless you know how lame the fellow be , and how long a call he make , '' say Frank , who like to be accurate .
`` Jack could n't do it in less , could he ? ''
`` He use to run up that hilly road for a breather , and think nothing of it .
It would be a long job for him now , poor little chap , for his leg often trouble him , though he hat to own it . ''
Jill lay back and laugh , a happy little laugh , a if she be pleased about something , and Frank look over his shoulder to ask question in his turn .
`` What be you laugh at ? ''
`` Ca n't tell . ''
`` Why do you want to know about Hill District ?
Are you go there ? ''
`` Wish I could !
I 'd soon have it out of him . ''
`` Who ? ''
`` Never mind .
Please push up my table .
I must write a letter , and I want you to post it for me to-night , and never say a word till I give you leave . ''
`` Oh , now you be go to have secret and be mysterious , and get into a mess , be you ? ''
and Frank look down at her with a suspicious air , though he be intensely curious to know what she be about .
`` Go away till I 'm do .
You will have to see the outside , but you ca n't know the inside till the answer come ; '' and prop herself up , Jill write the following note , with some hesitation at the beginning and end , for she do not know the gentleman she be address , except by sight , and it be rather awkward : -- `` Robert Walker .
`` Dear Sir , I want to ask if Jack Minot come to see you last Friday afternoon .
He get into trouble be see with Jerry Shannon .
He pay him some money .
Jack wo n't tell , and Mr. Acton talk to him about it before all the school .
We feel bad , because we think Jack do not do wrong .
I do n't know a you have anything to do with it , but I think I 'd ask .
Please answer quick .
Respectfully yours , `` Jane Pecq '' To make sure that her despatch be not tamper with , Jill put a great splash of red sealing-wax on it , which give it a very official look , and much impress Bob when he receive it .
`` There !
Go and post it , and do n't let any one see or know about it , '' she say , hand it over to Frank , who leave his work with unusual alacrity to do her errand .
When his eye fell on the address , he laugh , and say in a teasing way , -- `` Are you and Bob such good friend that you correspond ?
What will Jack say ? ''
`` Do n't know , and do n't care !
Be good , now , and let 's have a little secret as well a other folk .
I 'll tell you all about it when he answer , '' say Jill in her most coaxing tone .
`` Suppose he do n't ? ''
`` Then I shall send you up to see him .
I must know something , and I want to do it myself , if I can . ''
`` Look here ; what be you after ?
I do believe you think -- '' Frank get no farther , for Jill give a little scream , and stop him by cry eagerly , `` Do n't say it out loud !
I really do believe it may be , and I 'm go to find out . ''
`` What make you think of him ? ''
and Frank look thoughtfully at the letter , a if turn carefully over in his mind the idea that Jill 's quick wit have jump at .
`` Come here and I 'll tell you . ''
Holding him by one button , she whisper something in his ear that make him exclaim , with a look at the rug , -- `` No !
do he ?
I declare I should n't wonder !
It would be just like the dear old blunder-head . ''
`` I never think of it till you tell me where Bob be , and then it all sort of burst upon me in one minute ! ''
cry Jill , wave her arm about to express the intellectual explosion which have throw light upon the mystery , like sky-rockets in a dark night .
`` You be as bright a a button .
No time to lose ; I 'm off ; '' and off he be , splash through the mud to post the letter , on the back of which he add , to make the thing sure , `` Hurry up .
F.M. '' Both felt rather guilty next day , but enjoy themselves very much nevertheless , and keep chuckle over the mine they be make under Jack 's unconscious foot .
They hardly expect an answer at noon , a the Hill people be not very eager for their mail , but at night Jill be sure of a letter , and to her great delight it come .
Jack bring it himself , which add to the fun , and while she eagerly read it he sit calmly pore over the late number of his own private and particular `` Youth 's Companion . ''
Bob be not a `` complete letter-writer '' by any mean , and with great labor and much ink have produce the following brief but highly satisfactory epistle .
Not know how to address his fair correspondent he let it alone , and go at once to the point in the frank possible way : -- `` Jack do come up Friday .
Sorry he get into a mess .
It be real kind of him , and I shall pay him back soon .
Jack pay Jerry for me and I make him promise not to tell .
Jerry say he 'd come here and make a row if I do n't cash up .
I be afraid I 'd lose the place if he do , for the Capt . be awful strict .
If Jack do n't tell now , I will .
I ai n't mean .
Glad you write .
`` R.O.W. '' `` Hurrah ! ''
cry Jill , wave the letter over her head in great triumph .
`` Call everybody and read it out , '' she add , a Frank snatch it , and run for his mother , see at a glance that the news be good .
Jill be so afraid she should tell before the others come that she burst out sing `` Pretty Bobby Shafto '' at the top of her voice , to Jack 's great disgust , for he consider the song very personal , a he be rather fond of `` comb down his yellow hair , '' and Jill often plague him by sing it when he come in with the golden quirls very smooth and nice to hide the scar on his forehead .
In about five minute the door fly open and in come Mamma , make straight for bewildered Jack , who think the family have go crazy when his parent catch him in her arm , say tenderly , -- `` My good , generous boy !
I know he be right all the time ! ''
while Frank work his hand up and down like a pump-handle , exclaim heartily , -- `` You 're a trump , sir , and I 'm proud of you ! ''
Jill meantime call out , in wild delight , -- `` I tell you so !
I tell you so !
I do find out ; ha , ha , I do ! ''
`` Come , I say !
What 's the matter ?
I 'm all right .
Do n't squeeze the breath out of me , please , '' expostulate Jack , look so startled and innocent , a he struggle feebly , that they all laugh , and this plaintive protest cause him to be release .
But the next proceeding do not enlighten him much , for Frank keep wave a very inky paper before him and order him to read it , while Mamma make a charge at Jill , a if it be absolutely necessary to hug somebody .
`` Hullo ! ''
say Jack , when he get the letter into his own hand and read it .
`` Now who put Bob up to this ?
Nobody have any business to interfere -- but it 's mighty good of him , anyway , '' he add , a the anxious line in his round face smooth themselves away , while a smile of relief tell how hard it have be for him to keep his word .
`` I do ! ''
cry Jill , clap her hand , and look so happy that he could not have scold her if he have want to .
`` Who tell you he be in the scrape ? ''
demand Jack , in a hurry to know all about it now the seal be take off his own lip .
`` You do ; '' and Jill 's face twinkle with naughty satisfaction , for this be the best fun of all .
`` I do n't !
When ?
Where ?
It 's a joke ! ''
`` You do , '' cry Jill , point to the rug .
`` You go to sleep there after the long walk , and talk in your sleep about ` Bob ' and ` All right , old boy , ' and ever so much gibberish .
I do n't think about it then , but when I hear that Bob be up there I think may be he know something about it , and last night I write and ask him , and that 's the answer , and now it be all right , and you be the best boy that ever be , and I 'm so glad ! ''
Here Jill pause , all out of breath , and Frank say , with an approve pat on the head , -- `` It wo n't do to have such a sharp young person round if we be go to have secret .
You 'd make a good detective , miss . ''
`` Catch me take naps before people again ; '' and Jack look rather crestfallen that his own word have set `` Fine Ear '' on the track .
`` Never mind , I do n't mean to tell , though I just ache to do it all the time , so I have n't break my word .
I 'm glad you all know , but you need n't let it get out , for Bob be a good fellow , and it might make trouble for him , '' add Jack , anxious l his gain should be the other 's loss .
`` I shall tell Mr. Acton myself , and the Captain , also , for I 'm not go to have my son suspect of wrong-doing when he have only try to help a friend , and borne enough for his sake , '' say Mamma , much excite by this discovery of generous fidelity in her boy ; though when one come to look at it calmly , one saw that it might have be do in a wise way .
`` Now , please , do n't make a fuss about it ; that would be most as bad a have every one down on me .
I can stand your praise me , but I wo n't be pat on the head by anybody else ; '' and Jack assume a manly air , though his face be full of genuine boyish pleasure at be set right in the eye of those he love .
`` I 'll be discreet , dear , but you owe it to yourself , as well a Bob , to have the truth know .
Both have behave well , and no harm will come to him , I be sure .
I 'll see to that myself , '' say Mrs. Minot , in a tone that set Jack 's mind at rest on that point .
`` Now do tell all about it , '' cry Jill , who be pin to know the whole story , and felt a if she have earn the right to hear it .
`` Oh , it be n't much .
We promise Ed to stand by Bob , so I do as well a I know how ; '' and Jack seem to think that be about all there be to say .
`` I never saw such a fellow for keep a promise !
You stick to it through thick and thin , no matter how silly or hard it be .
You remember , mother , last summer , how you tell him not to go in a boat and he promise , the day we go on the picnic .
We ride up , but the horse run off home , so we have to come back by way of the river , all but Jack , and he walk every step of five mile because he would n't go near a boat , though Mr. Burton be there to take care of him .
I call that rather overdo the matter ; '' and Frank look a if he think moderation even in virtue a good thing .
`` And I call it a fine sample of entire obedience .
He obey order , and that be what we all must do , without always see why , or dare to use our own judgment .
It be a great safeguard to Jack , and a very great comfort to me ; for I know that if he promise he will keep his word , no matter what it cost him , '' say Mamma warmly , a she tumble up the quirls with an irrepressible caress , remember how the boy come wearily in after all the others , without seem for a moment to think that he could have do anything else .
`` Like Casabianca ! ''
cry Jill , much impressed , for obedience be her hard trial .
`` I think he be a fool to burn up , '' say Frank , bind not to give in .
`` I do n't .
It 's a splendid piece , and every one like to speak it , and it be true , and it would n't be in all the book if he be a fool .
Grown people know what be good , '' declare Jill , who like heroic action , and be always hop for a chance to distinguish herself in that way .
`` You admire ` The Charge of the Light Brigade , ' and glow all over a you thunder it out .
Yet they go gallantly to their death rather than disobey order .
A mistake , perhaps , but it make u thrill to hear of it ; and the same spirit keep my Jack true a steel when once his word be pass , or he think it be his duty .
Do n't be laugh out of it , my son , for faithfulness in little thing fit one for heroism when the great trial come .
One 's conscience can hardly be too tender when honor and honesty be concern . ''
`` You be right , mother , and I be wrong .
I beg your pardon , Jack , and you sha 'n ' t get ahead of me next time . ''
Frank make his mother a little bow , give his brother a shake of the hand , and nod to Jill , a if anxious to show that he be not too proud to own up when he make a mistake .
`` Please tell on , Jack .
This be very nice , but I do want to know all about the other , '' say Jill , after a short pause .
`` Let me see .
Oh , I saw Bob at church , and he look rather blue ; so , after Sunday School , I ask what the matter be .
He say Jerry bother him for some money he lend him at different time when they be loaf round together , before we take him up .
He would n't get any wage for some time .
The Captain keep him short on purpose , I guess , and wo n't let him come down town except on Sundays .
He do n't want any one to know about it , for fear he 'd lose his place .
So I promise I would n't tell .
Then I be afraid Jerry would go and make a fuss , and Bob would run off , or do something desperate , be worry , and I say I 'd pay it for him , if I could .
So he go home pretty jolly , and I scratch ` round for the money .
Got it , too , and be n't I glad ? ''
Jack pause to rub his hand , and Frank say , with more than usual respect , `` Could n't you get hold of Jerry in any other place , and out of school time ?
That do the mischief , thanks to Joe .
I thrash him , Jill -- do I mention it ? ''
`` I could n't get all my money till Friday morning , and I know Jerry be off at night .
I look for him before school , and at noon , but could n't find him , so afternoon recess be my last chance .
I be bind to do it and I do n't mean to break the rule , but Jerry be just go into the shop , so I pelt after him , and a it be private business we go to the billiard-room .
I declare I never be so relieve a when I hand over that money , and make him say it be all right , and he would n't go near Bob .
He 's off , so my mind be easy , and Bob will be so grateful I can keep him steady , perhaps .
That will be worth two seventy-five , I think , '' say Jack heartily .
`` You should have come to me , '' begin Frank .
`` And get laugh at -- no , thank you , '' interrupt Jack , recollect several philanthropic little enterprise which be nip in the bud for want of co-operation .
`` To me , then , '' say his mother .
`` It would have save so much trouble . ''
`` I think of it , but Bob do n't want the big fellow to know for fear they 'd be down on him , so I think he might not like me to tell grown people .
I do n't mind the fuss now , and Bob be as kind a he can be .
Wanted to give me his big knife , but I would n't take it .
I 'd rather have this , '' and Jack put the letter in his pocket with a slap outside , a if it warm the cockle of his heart to have it there .
`` Well , it seem rather like a tempest in a teapot , now it be all over , but I do admire your pluck , little boy , in hold out so well when every one be scold at you , and you in the right all the time , '' say Frank , glad to praise , now that he honestly could , after his wholesale condemnation .
`` That be what pull me through , I suppose .
I use to think if I have do anything wrong , that I could n't stand the snub a day .
I should have tell right off , and have it over .
Now , I guess I 'll have a good report if you do tell Mr. Acton , '' say Jack , look at his mother so wistfully , that she resolve to slip away that very evening , and make sure that the thing be do .
`` That will make you happy than anything else , wo n't it ? ''
ask Jill , eager to have him reward after his trial .
`` There 's one thing I like well , though I 'd be very sorry to lose my report .
It 's the fun of tell Ed I try to do a he want u to , and see how pleased he 'll be , '' add Jack , rather bashfully , for the boy laugh at him sometimes for his love of this friend .
`` I know he wo n't be any happy about it than someone else , who stand by you all through , and set her bright wit to work till the trouble be all clear away , '' say Mrs. Minot , look at Jill 's contented face , a she lay smile on them all .
Jack understood , and , hop across the room , give both the thin hand a hearty shake ; then , not find any word quite cordial enough in which to thank this faithful little sister , he stoop down and kiss her gratefully .
Chapter XV .
Saint Lucy Saturday be a busy and a happy time to Jack , for in the morning Mr. Acton come to see him , have hear the story overnight , and promise to keep Bob 's secret while give Jack an acquittal as public a the reprimand have be .
Then he ask for the report which Jack have bravely receive the day before and put away without show to anybody .
`` There be one mistake here which we must rectify , '' say Mr. Acton , a he cross out the low figure under the word `` Behavior , '' and put the much-desired 100 there .
`` But I do break the rule , sir , '' say Jack , though his face glow with pleasure , for Mamma be look on .
`` I overlook that a I should your break into my house if you saw it be on fire .
You run to save a friend , and I wish I could tell those fellow why you be there .
It would do them good .
I be not go to praise you , John , but I do believe you in spite of appearance , and I be glad to have for a pupil a boy who love his neighbor well than himself . ''
Then , have shake hand heartily , Mr. Acton go away , and Jack fly off to have rejoicing with Jill , who sit up on her sofa , without know it , so eager be she to hear all about the call .
In the afternoon Jack drive his mother to the Captain 's , confide to her on the way what a hard time he have when he go before , and how nothing but the thought of cheer Bob keep him up when he slip and hurt his knee , and his boot spring a leak , and the wind come up very cold , and the hill seem an endless mountain of mud and snow .
Mrs. Minot have such a gentle way of put thing that she would have win over a much hard man than the strict old Captain , who hear the story with interest , and be much please with the boy ' effort to keep Bob straight .
That young person dodge away into the barn with Jack , and only appear at the last minute to shove a bag of chestnut into the chaise .
But he get a few kind word that do him good , from Mrs. Minot and the Captain , and from that day felt himself under bond to behave well if he would keep their confidence .
`` I shall give Jill the nut ; and I wish I have something she want very , very much , for I do think she ought to be reward for get me out of the mess , '' say Jack , a they drive happily home again .
`` I hope to have something in a day or two that will delight her very much .
I will say no more now , but keep my little secret and let it be a surprise to all by and by , '' answer his mother , look a if she have not much doubt about the matter .
`` That will be jolly .
You be welcome to your secret , Mamma .
I 've have enough of them for one while ; '' and Jack shrug his broad shoulder a if a burden have be take off .
In the evening Ed come , and Jack be quite satisfied when he saw how pleased his friend be at what he have do .
`` I never mean you should take so much trouble , only be kind to Bob , '' say Ed , who do not know how strong his influence be , nor what a sweet example of quiet well-doing his own life be to all his mate .
`` I wish to be really useful ; not just to talk about it and do nothing .
That be n't your way , and I want to be like you , '' answer Jack , with such affectionate sincerity that Ed could not help believe him , though he modestly decline the compliment by say , a he begin to play softly , `` Better than I be , I hope .
I do n't amount to much . ''
`` Yes , you do !
and if any one say you do n't I 'll shake him .
I ca n't tell what it be , only you always look so happy and content -- sort of sweet and shiny , '' say Jack , a he stroke the smooth brown head , rather at a loss to describe the unusually fresh and sunny expression of Ed 's face , which be always cheerful , yet have a certain thoughtfulness that make it very attractive to both young and old .
`` Soap make him shiny ; I never saw such a fellow to wash and brush , '' put in Frank , a he come up with one of the piece of music he and Ed be fond of practise together .
`` I do n't mean that ! ''
say Jack indignantly .
`` I wash and brush till you call me a dandy , but I do n't have the same look -- it seem to come from the inside , somehow , a if he be always jolly and clean and good in his mind , you know . ''
`` Born so , '' say Frank , rumble away in the bass with a pair of hand that would have be the good for some of the above-mentioned soap , for he do not love to do much in the washing and brushing line .
`` I suppose that 's it .
Well , I like it , and I shall keep on try , for be love by every one be about the nice thing in the world .
Is n't it , Ed ? ''
ask Jack , with a gentle tweak of the ear a he put a question which he know would get no answer , for Ed be so modest he could not see wherein he differ from other boy , nor believe that the sunshine he saw in other face be only the reflection from his own .
Sunday even Mrs. Minot sit by the fire , plan how she should tell some good news she have be save up all day .
Mrs. Pecq know it , and seem so delighted that she go about smile a if she do not know what trouble meant , and could not do enough for the family .
She be downstairs now , see that the clothes be properly prepare for the wash , so there be no one in the Bird Room but Mamma and the child .
Frank be read up all he could find about some Biblical hero mention in the day 's sermon ; Jill lay where she have lain for nearly four long month , and though her face be pale and thin with the confinement , there be an expression on it now sweeter even than health .
Jack sit on the rug beside her , look at a white carnation through the magnifying glass , while she be enjoy the perfume of a red one a she talk to him .
`` If you look at the white petal you 'll see that they sparkle like marble , and go wind a long way down to the middle of the flower where it grow sort of rosy ; and in among the small , curly leaf , like fringe curtain , you can see the little green fairy sit all alone .
Your mother show me that , and I think it be very pretty .
I call it a ` fairy , ' but it be really where the seed be hide and the sweet smell come from . ''
Jill speak softly l she should disturb the others , and , a she turn to push up her pillow , she saw Mrs. Minot look at her with a smile she do not understand .
`` Did you speak , 'm ? ''
she ask , smile back again , without in the least knowing why .
`` No , dear .
I be listen and think what a pretty little story one could make out of your fairy live alone down there , and only know by her perfume . ''
`` Tell it , Mamma .
It be time for our story , and that would be a nice one , I guess , '' say Jack , who be a fond of story a when he sit in his mother 's lap and chuckle over the hero of the beanstalk .
`` We do n't have fairy tale on Sunday , you know , '' begin Jill regretfully .
`` Call it a parable , and have a moral to it , then it will be all right , '' put in Frank , a he shut his big book , have find what he want .
`` I like story about saint , and the good and wonderful thing they do , '' say Jill , who enjoy the wise and interesting bit Mrs. Minot often find for her in grown-up book , for Jill have thoughtful time , and ask question which show that she be grow fast in mind if not in body .
`` This be a true story ; but I will disguise it a little , and call it ` The Miracle of Saint Lucy , ' '' begin Mrs. Minot , see a way to tell her good news and amuse the child likewise .
Frank retire to the easy-chair , that he might sleep if the tale should prove too childish for him .
Jill settle herself among her cushion , and Jack lay flat upon the rug , with his foot up , so that he could admire his red slipper and rest his knee , which ache .
`` Once upon a time there be a queen who have two prince . ''
`` Was n't there a princess ? ''
ask Jack , interested at once .
`` No ; and it be a great sorrow to the queen that she have no little daughter , for the son be grow up , and she be often very lonely .
`` Like Snowdrop 's mother , '' whisper Jill .
`` Now , do n't keep interrupting , child , or we never shall get on , '' say Frank , more anxious to hear about the boy that be than the girl that be not .
`` One day , when the prince be out -- ahem !
we 'll say hunt -- they find a little damsel lie on the snow , half dead with cold , they think .
She be the child of a poor woman who live in the forest -- a wild little thing , always dance and sing about ; as hard to catch a a squirrel , and so fearless she would climb the high tree , leap broad brook , or jump off the steep rock to show her courage .
The boy carry her home to the palace , and the queen be glad to have her .
She have fall and hurt herself , so she lay in bed week after week , with her mother to take care of her -- '' `` That 's you , '' whisper Jack , throw the white carnation at Jill , and she throw back the red one , with her finger on her lip , for the tale be very interesting now .
`` She do not suffer much after a time , but she scold and cry , and could not be resign , because she be a prisoner .
The queen try to help her , but she could not do much ; the prince be kind , but they have their book and play , and be away a good deal .
Some friend she have come often to see her , but still she beat her wing against the bar , like a wild bird in a cage , and soon her spirit be all go , and it be sad to see her . ''
`` Where be your Saint Lucy ?
I think it be about her , '' ask Jack , who do not like to have Jill 's past trouble dwell upon , since his be not .
`` She be come .
Saints be not bear -- they be make after many trial and tribulation , '' answer his mother , look at the fire a if it help her to spin her little story .
`` Well , the poor child use to sing sometimes to while away the long hour -- sad song mostly , and one among them which the queen teach her be ` Sweet Patience , Come . '
`` This she use to sing a great deal after a while , never dream that Patience be an angel who could hear and obey .
But it be so ; and one night , when the girl have lull herself to sleep with that song , the angel come .
Nobody saw the lovely spirit with tender eye , and a voice that be like balm .
No one hear the rustle of wing a she hover over the little bed and touch the lip , the eye , the hand of the sleeper , and then fly away , leave three gift behind .
The girl do not know why , but after that night the song grow gayer , there seem to be more sunshine everywhere her eye look , and her hand be never tire of help others in various pretty , useful , or pleasant way .
Slowly the wild bird cease to beat against the bar , but sit in it cage and make music for all in the palace , till the queen could not do without it , the poor mother cheer up , and the prince call the girl their nightingale . ''
`` Was that the miracle ? ''
ask Jack , forget all about his slipper , a he watch Jill 's eye brighten and the color come up in her white cheek .
`` That be the miracle , and Patience can work far great one if you will let her . ''
`` And the girl 's name be Lucy ? ''
`` Yes ; they do not call her a saint then , but she be try to be as cheerful a a certain good woman she have heard of , and so the queen have that name for her , though she do not let her know it for a long time . ''
`` That 's not bad for a Sunday story , but there might have be more about the prince , seem to me , '' be Frank 's criticism , a Jill lay very still , try to hide her face behind the carnation , for she have no word to tell how touched and pleased she be to find that her little effort to be good have be see , remember , and now reward in this way .
`` There be more . ''
`` Then the story be n't do ? ''
cry Jack .
`` Oh dear , no ; the most interesting thing be to come , if you can wait for them . ''
`` Yes , I see , this be the moral part .
Now keep still , and let u have the rest , '' command Frank , while the others compose themselves for the sequel , suspect that it be rather nice , because Mamma 's sober face change , and her eye laugh a they look at the fire .
`` The elder prince be very fond of drive dragon , for the people of that country use these fiery monster a horse . ''
`` And get run away with , do n't he ? ''
laugh Jack , add , with great interest , `` What do the other fellow do ? ''
`` He go about fight other people 's battle , help the poor , and try to do good .
But he lack judgment , so he often get into trouble , and be in such a hurry that he do not always stop to find out the wise way .
As when he give away his best coat to a beggar boy , instead of the old one which he intend to give . ''
`` I say , that be n't fair , mother !
Neither of them be new , and the boy need the best more than I do , and I wear the old one all winter , do n't I ? ''
ask Jack , who have rather exult over Frank , and be now take down himself .
`` Yes , you do , my dear ; and it be not an easy thing for my dandiprat to do .
Now listen , and I 'll tell you how they both learn to be wise .
The elder prince soon find that the big dragon be too much for him , and set about train his own little one , who now and then run away with him .
Its name be Will , a good servant , but a bad master ; so he learn to control it , and in time this give him great power over himself , and fit him to be a king over others . ''
`` Thank you , mother ; I 'll remember my part of the moral .
Now give Jack his , '' say Frank , who like the dragon episode , a he have be wrestle with his own of late , and find it hard to manage .
`` He have a fine example before him in a friend , and he follow it more reasonably till he grow able to use wisely one of the best and noble gift of God -- benevolence . ''
`` Now tell about the girl .
Was there more to that part of the story ? ''
ask Jack , well pleased with his moral , a it take Ed in likewise .
`` That be the best of all , but it seem a if I never should get to it .
After Patience make Lucy sweet and cheerful , she begin to have a curious power over those about her , and to work little miracle herself , though she do not know it .
The queen learn to love her so dearly she could not let her go ; she cheer up all her friend when they come with their small trouble ; the prince find bright eye , willing hand , and a kind heart always at their service , and felt , without quite know why , that it be good for them to have a gentle little creature to care for ; so they soften their rough manner , loud voice , and careless way , for her sake , and when it be propose to take her away to her own home they could not give her up , but say she must stay longer , do n't they ? ''
`` I 'd like to see them say anything else , '' say Frank , while Jack sit up to demand fiercely , -- `` Who talk about take Jill away ? ''
`` Lucy 's mother think she ought to go , and say so , but the queen tell her how much good it do them all to have her there , and beg the dear woman to let her little cottage and come and be housekeeper in the palace , for the queen be get lazy , and like to sit and read , and talk and sew with Lucy , good than to look after thing . ''
`` And she say she would ? ''
cry Jill , clasp her hand in her anxiety , for she have learn to love her cage now .
`` Yes . ''
Mrs. Minot have no time to say more , for one of the red slipper fly up in the air , and Jack have to clap both hand over his mouth to suppress the `` hurrah ! ''
that nearly escape .
Frank say , `` That 's good ! ''
and nod with his most cordial smile at Jill who pull herself up with cheek now as rosy a the red carnation , and a little catch in her breath a she say to herself , -- `` It 's too lovely to be true . ''
`` That 's a first-rate end to a very good story , '' begin Jack , with grave decision , a he put on his slipper and sit up to pat Jill 's hand , wish it be not quite so like a little claw .
`` That 's not the end ; '' and Mamma 's eye laugh more than ever a three astonish face turned to her , and three voice cry out , -- `` Still more ? ''
`` The very best of all .
You must know that , while Lucy be busy for others , she be not forget , and when she be expect to lie on her bed through the summer , plan be be make for all sort of pleasant change .
First of all , she be to have a nice little brace to support the back which be grow good every day ; then , a the warm weather come on , she be to go out , or lie on the piazza ; and by and by , when school be do , she be to go with the queen and the prince for a month or two down to the sea-side , where fresh air and salt water be to build her up in the most delightful way .
There , now !
be n't that the best end of all ? ''
and Mamma pause to read her answer in the bright face of two of the listener , for Jill hid hers in the pillow , and lay quite still , a if it be too much for her .
`` That will be regularly splendid !
I 'll row you all about -- boating be so much easy than riding , and I like it on salt water , '' say Frank , go to sit on the arm of the sofa , quite excite by the charm of the new plan .
`` And I 'll teach you to swim , and roll you over the beach , and get sea-weed and shell , and no end of nice thing , and we 'll all come home as strong a lion , '' add Jack , scramble up a if about to set off at once .
`` The doctor say you have be do finely of late , and the brace will come to-morrow , and the first really mild day you be to have a breath of fresh air .
Wo n't that be good ? ''
ask Mrs. Minot , hop her story have not be too interesting .
`` Is she cry ? ''
say Jack , much concern a he pat the pillow in his most soothing way , while Frank lift one curl after another to see what be hide underneath .
Not tear , for two eye sparkle behind the finger , then the hand come down like cloud from before the sun , and Jill 's face shone out so bright and happy it do one 's heart good to see it .
`` I 'm not cry , '' she say with a laugh which be fuller of blithe music than any song she sing .
`` But it be so splendid , it sort of take my breath away for a minute .
I think I be n't any good , and never should be , and I make up my mind I would n't ask , it would be so hard for any one to tell me so .
Now I see why the doctor make me stand up , and tell me to get my basket ready to go a-Maying .
I think he be in fun ; do he really mean I could go ? ''
ask Jill , expect too much , for a word of encouragement make her as hopeful a she have be despondent before .
`` No , dear , not so soon a that .
It will be month , probably , before you can walk and run , a you use to ; but they will soon pass .
You need n't mind about May-day ; it be always too cold for flower , and you will find more here among your own plant , than on the hill , to fill your basket , '' answer Mrs. Minot , hasten to suggest something pleasant to beguile the time of probation .
`` I can wait .
Months be not year , and if I 'm truly get well , everything will seem beautiful and easy to me , '' say Jill , lay herself down again , with the patient look she have learn to wear , and gather up the scattered carnation to enjoy their spicy breath , a if the fairy hide there have teach her some of their sweet secret .
`` Dear little girl , it have be a long , hard trial for you , but it be come to an end , and I think you will find that it have not be time waste , I do n't want you to be a saint quite yet , but I be sure a gentler Jill will rise up from that sofa than the one who lay down there in December . ''
`` How could I help grow well , when you be so good to me ? ''
cry Jill , put up both arm , a Mrs. Minot go to take Frank 's place , and he retire to the fire , there to stand survey the scene with calm approval .
`` You have do quite as much for u ; so we be even .
I prove that to your mother , and she be go to let the little house and take care of the big one for me , while I borrow you to keep me happy and make the boy gentle and kind .
That be the bargain , and we get the best of it , '' say Mrs. Minot , look well please , while Jack add , `` That 's so ! ''
and Frank observe with an air of conviction , `` We could n't get on without Jill , possibly . ''
`` Can I do all that ?
I do n't know I be of any use .
I only try to be good and grateful , for there do n't seem to be anything else I could do , '' say Jill , wonder why they be all so fond of her .
`` No real try be ever in vain .
It be like the spring rain , and flower be sure to follow in good time .
The three gift Patience give Saint Lucy be courage , cheerfulness , and love , and with these one can work the sweet miracle in the world , a you see , '' and Mrs. Minot point to the pretty room and it happy inmate .
`` Am I really the least bit like that good Lucinda ?
I try to be , but I do n't think I be , '' ask Jill softly .
`` You be very like her in all way but one .
She do not get well , and you will . ''
A short answer , but it satisfy Jill to her heart 's core , and that night , when she lay in bed , she think to herself : `` How curious it be that I 've be a sort of missionary without know it !
They all love and thank me , and wo n't let me go , so I suppose I must have do something , but I do n't know what , except try to be good and pleasant . ''
That be the secret , and Jill find it out just when it be most grateful a a reward for past effort , most helpful a an encouragement toward the constant well-doing which can make even a little girl a joy and comfort to all who know and love her .
Chapter XVI .
Up at Merry 's `` Now fly round , child , and get your sweep do up smart and early . ''
`` Yes , mother . ''
`` I shall want you to help me about the baking , by and by . ''
`` Yes , mother . ''
`` Roxy be clean the cellar-closets , so you 'll have to get the vegetable ready for dinner .
Father want a boiled dish , and I shall be so busy I ca n't see to it . ''
`` Yes , mother . ''
A cheerful voice give the three answer , but it cost Merry an effort to keep it so , for she have certain little plan of her own which make the work before her unusually distasteful .
Saturday always be a try day , for , though she like to see room in order , she hat to sweep , a no speck escape Mrs. Grant 's eye , and only the good old-fashioned broom , wield by a pair of strong arm , be allow .
Baking be another trial : she love good bread and delicate pastry , but do not enjoy burn her face over a hot stove , daub her hand with dough , or spending hour roll out cooky for the boy ; while a `` boiled dinner '' be her especial horror , a it be not elegant , and the washing of vegetable be a job she always shirk when she could .
However , have make up her mind to do her work without complaint , she run upstairs to put on her dust-cap , try to look a if sweeping be the joy of her life .
`` It be such a lovely day , I do want to rake my garden , and have a walk with Molly , and finish my book so I can get another , '' she say with a sigh , a she lean out of the open window for a breath of the unusually mild air .
Down in the ten-acre lot the boy be cart and spread loam ; out in the barn her father be get his plow ready ; over the hill rise the smoke of the distant factory , and the river that turn the wheel be glide through the meadow , where soon the blackbird would be sing .
Old Bess paw the ground , eager to be off ; the gray hen be scratch busily all about the yard ; even the green thing in the garden be push through the brown earth , soften by April rain , and there be a shimmer of sunshine over the wide landscape that make every familiar object beautiful with hint of spring , and the activity it bring .
Something make the old nursery hymn come into Merry 's head , and hum to herself , `` In work of labor or of skill I would be busy too , '' she tie on her cap , shoulder her broom , and fell to work so energetically that she soon sweep her way through the chamber , down the front stair to the parlor door , leave freshness and order behind her a she go .
She always groan when she enter that apartment , and get out of it again as soon a possible , for it be , like most country parlor , a prim and chilly place , with little beauty and no comfort .
Black horse-hair furniture , very slippery and hard , stand against the wall ; the table have it gift book , album , worst mat and ugly lamp ; the mantel-piece it china vas , pink shell , and clock that never go ; the gay carpet be keep distressingly bright by closed shutter six day out of the seven , and a general air of go-to-meeting solemnity pervade the room .
Merry long to make it pretty and pleasant , but her mother would allow of no change there , so the girl give up her dream of rug and hanging , fine picture and tasteful ornament , and dutifully air , dust , and shut up this awful apartment once a week , privately resolve that , if she ever have a parlor of her own , it should not be as dismal a a tomb .
The dining-room be a very different place , for here Merry have be allow to do a she like , yet so gradual have be the change , that she would have find it difficult to tell how it come about .
It seem to begin with the flower , for her father keep his word about the `` posy pot , '' and get enough to make quite a little conservatory in the bay-window , which be sufficiently large for three row all round , and hanging-baskets overhead .
Being discourage by her first failure , Merry give up try to have thing nice everywhere , and content herself with make that one nook so pretty that the boy call it her `` bower . ''
Even busy Mrs. Grant own that plant be not so messy a she expect , and the farmer be never tire of watch `` little daughter '' a she sit at work there , with her low chair and table full of book .
The lamp help , also , for Merry set up her own , and keep it so well trimmed that it burn clear and bright , shin on the green arch of ivy overhead , and on the nasturtium vine frame the old glass , and peep at their gay little face , and at the pretty young girl , so pleasantly that first her father come to read his paper by it , then her mother slip in to rest on the lounge in the corner , and finally the boy hover about the door a if the `` settin ' - room '' have grow more attractive than the kitchen .
But the open fire do more than anything else to win and hold them all , a it seldom fails to do when the black demon of an airtight stove be banish from the hearth .
After the room be clean till it shone , Merry beg to have the brass andiron put in , and offer to keep them as bright a gold if her mother would consent .
So the great log be kindle , and the flame go dance up the chimney a if glad to be set free from their prison .
It change the whole room like magic , and no one could resist the desire to enjoy it cheery comfort .
The farmer 's three-cornered leathern chair soon stand on one side , and mother 's rocker on the other , a they toast their foot and doze or chat in the pleasant warmth .
The boy ' slipper be always ready on the hearth ; and when the big boot be once off , they naturally settle down about the table , where the tall lamp , with it pretty shade of pressed autumn leaf , burn brightly , and the book and paper lay ready to their hand instead of be tuck out of sight in the closet .
They be begin to see that `` Merry 's notion '' have some sense in them , since they be make comfortable , and good-naturedly take some pain to please her in various way .
Tom brush his hair and wash his hand nicely before he come to table .
Dick try to lower his boisterous laughter , and Harry never smoke in the sitting-room .
Even Roxy express her pleasure in see `` thing kind of spruce up , '' and Merry 's gentle treatment of the hard-working drudge win her heart entirely .
The girl be think of these change a she water her flower , dust the furniture , and lay the fire ready for kindle ; and , when all be do , she stand a minute to enjoy the pleasant room , full of spring sunshine , fresh air , and exquisite order .
It seem to give her heart for more distasteful labor , and she fell to work at the pie as cheerfully a if she like it .
Mrs. Grant be fly about the kitchen , get the loaf of brown and white bread ready for the big oven .
Roxy 's voice come up from the cellar sing `` Bounding Billows , '' with a swashing and scrub accompaniment which suggest that she be actually enjoy a `` life on the ocean wave . ''
Merry , in her neat cap and apron , stand smile over her work a she deftly roll and clip , fill and cover , find a certain sort of pleasure in do it well , and add interest to it by crimp the crust , make pretty device with strip of paste and star-shaped pricking of the fork .
`` Good-will giveth skill , '' say the proverb , and even particular Mrs. Grant be satisfy when she pause to examine the pastry with her experienced eye .
`` You be a handy child and a credit to your bring up , though I do say it .
Those be a pretty pie a I 'd wish to eat , if they bake well , and there 's no reason why they should n't . ''
`` May I make some tart or rabbit of these bit ?
The boy like them , and I enjoy model this sort of thing , '' say Merry , who be try to mould a bird , a she have see Ralph do with clay to amuse Jill while the bust be go on .
`` No , dear ; there 's no time for knick-knacks to-day .
The beet ought to be on this minute .
Run and get 'em , and be sure you scrape the carrot well . ''
Poor Merry put away the delicate task she be just begin to like , and take a pan go down cellar , wish vegetable could be grow without earth , for she hat to put her hand in dirty water .
A word of praise to Roxy make that grateful scrubber leave her work to poke about in the root-cellar , choose `` sech a be pretty much of a muchness , else they would n't bile even ; '' so Merry be spar that part of the job , and go up to scrape and wash without complaint , since it be for father .
She be repay at noon by the relish with which he enjoy his dinner , for Merry try to make even a boiled dish pretty by arrange the beet , carrot , turnip , and potato in contrast color , with the beef hide under the cabbage leave .
`` Now , I 'll rest and read for an hour , then I 'll rake my garden , or run down town to see Molly and get some seed , '' she think to herself , a she put away the spoon and glass , which she like to wash , that they might always be clear and bright .
`` If you 've do all your own mending , there 's a heap of sock to be look over .
Then I 'll show you about darn the tablecloth .
I do hate to have a stitch of work leave over till Monday , '' say Mrs. Grant , who never take nap , and pride herself on sit down to her needle at 3 P.M. every day .
`` Yes , mother ; '' and Merry go slowly upstairs , feel that a part of Saturday ought to be a holiday after book and work all the week .
As she braid up her hair , her eye fell upon the reflection of her own face in the glass .
Not a happy nor a pretty one just then , and Merry be so unaccustomed to see any other , that involuntarily the frown smooth itself out , the eye lose their weary look , the droop lip curve into a smile , and , lean her elbow on the bureau , she shake her head at herself , say , half aloud , a she glance at Ivanhoe lie near , -- `` You need n't look so cross and ugly just because you ca n't have what you want .
Sweeping , baking , and darn be not so bad a be plague with lover and carry off and burn at the stake , so I wo n't envy poor Rebecca her jewel and curl and romantic time , but make the best of my own . ''
Then she laugh , and the bright face come back into the mirror , look like an old friend , and Merry go on dress with care , for she take pleasure in her own little charm , and felt a sense of comfort in know that she could always have one pretty thing to look at if she keep her own face serene and sweet .
It certainly look so a it bend over the pile of big sock half an hour later , and brighten with each that be lay aside .
Her mother saw it , and , guess why such wistful glance go from clock to window , kindly shorten the task of table-cloth darning by do a good bit herself , before put it into Merry 's hand .
She be a good and love mother in spite of her strict way , and know that it be well for her romantic daughter to be learn all the housewifery lessons she could teach her , than to be read novel , write verse , or philander about with her head full of girlish fancy , quite innocent in themselves , but not the stuff to live on .
So she wisely teach the hand that prefer to pick flower , trim up room and mould bird , to work well with needle , broom , and rolling-pin ; put a receipt-book before the eye that love to laugh and weep over tender tale , and keep the young head and heart safe and happy with wholesome duty , useful study , and such harmless pleasure a girl should love , instead of let them waste their freshness in vague longing , idle dream , and frivolous pastime .
But it be often hard to thwart the docile child , and lately she have seem to be grow up so fast that her mother begin to feel a new sort of tenderness for this sweet daughter , who be almost ready to take upon herself the care , as well a triumph and delight , of maidenhood .
Something in the droop of the brown head , and the quick motion of the busy hand with a little burn on it , make it difficult for Mrs. Grant to keep Merry at work that day , and her eye watch the clock almost as impatiently a the girl 's , for she like to see the young face brighten when the hour of release come .
`` What next ? ''
ask Merry , a the last stitch be set , and she stifle a sigh on hear the clock strike four , for the sun be get low , and the lovely afternoon go fast .
`` One more job , if you be not too tire for it .
I want the receipt for diet drink Miss Dawes promise me ; would you like to run down and get it for me , dear ? ''
`` Yes , mother ! ''
and that answer be as blithe a a robin 's chirp , for that be just where Merry want to go .
Away go thimble and scissors , and in five minute away go Merry , skip down the hill without a care in the world , for a happy heart sit sing within , and everything seem full of beauty .
She have a capital time with Molly , call on Jill , do her shopping in the village , and have just turn to walk up the hill , when Ralph Evans come tramp along behind her , look so pleased and proud about something that she could not help ask what it be , for they be great friend , and Merry think that to be an artist be the most glorious career a man could choose .
`` I know you 've get some good news , '' she say , look up at him a he touch his hat and fell into step with her , seem more contented than before .
