and Marie laugh a she pull the goat from the hedge where she be nibble the young leaf .
We follow the child a she go clatter down the stony path , and soon come into the narrow street bound on one side by the row of low , stone house , and on the other by the green wet meadow full of willow , and the rapid mill-stream .
All along this side of the road sit woman and child , strip the bark from willow twig to be use in basket-making .
A busy sight and a cheerful one ; for the woman gossip in their high , clear voice , the child sang and laugh , and the baby creep about as freely a young lamb .
We find Marie 's home a very poor one .
Only two room in the little hut , the low one with it earthen floor , bed in the wall , smoky fire , and single window where the loom stand .
At it sit a pale , dark man who stop work a we enter , and seem glad to rest while we talk to him , or rather while Kate do , for I could not understand his odd French , and prefer to watch Marie during the making of the bargain .
Yvon , a stout lad of twelve , be cut up brush with an old sickle , and little Bebe , look like a Dutch doll in her tiny round cap , tight blue gown , and bit of sabot , clung to Marie a she get the supper .
I wonder what the child at home would have say to such a supper .
A few cabbage leaf make the soup , and this , with the dry black bread and a sip of sour wine , be all they have .
There be no plate or bowl , but little hollow place in the heavy wooden table near the edge , and into these fix cup Marie ladle the soup , give each a wooden spoon from a queer rack in the middle ; the kettle stand at one end , the big loaf lay at the other , and all stand round eat out of their little trough , with Nannette and a rough dog close by to receive any crust that might be leave .
Presently the mother come in , a true Breton woman ; rosy and robust , neat and cheery , though her poor clothes be patch all over , her hand more rough and worn with hard work than any I ever saw , and the fine hair under her picturesque cap gray at thirty with much care .
I saw then where Marie get the brightness that seem to shine in every feature of her little face , for the mother 's come be like a ray of sunshine in that dark place , and she have a friendly word and look for every one .
Our little arrangement be soon make , and we leave them all smile and nod a if the few franc we be to pay would be a fortune to them .
Early next morning we be waken by Françoise , the maid , who come up to announce that the goat 's milk have arrive .
Then we hear a queer , quick , tap sound on the stair , and to our great amusement , Nannette walk into the room , straight up to my bedside , and stand there look at me with her mild yellow eye a if she be quite use to see night-caps .
Marie follow with a pretty little bowl in her hand , and say , laugh at our surprise , ` See , dear mademoiselle ; in this way I make sure that the milk be quite fresh and warm ; ' and kneel down , she milk the bowl full in a twinkling , while Nannette quietly chew her cud and sniffed at a plate of roll on the table .
The warm draught be delicious , and we drink each our portion with much merriment .
` It be our custom , ' say Françoise ; who stand by with her arm fold , and look on in a lofty manner .
` What have you for your own breakfast ? '
I ask , a I catch Marie 's eye hungrily fix on the roll and some tempting little cake of chocolate leave from our lunch the day before .
` My good bread , a usual , mademoiselle , also sorrel salad and -- and water , ' answer Marie , a if try to make the most of her scanty meal .
` Will you eat the roll and put the chocolate in your pocket to nibble at school ?
You must be tire with this long walk so early . '
She hesitate , but could not resist ; and say in a low tone , a she hold the bread in her hand without eat it , -- ` Would mademoiselle be angry if I take it to Bebe ?
She have never taste the beautiful white bread , and it would please her much . '
I empty the plate into her basket , tuck in the chocolate , and add a gay picture for baby , which unexpected treasure cause Marie to clasp her hand and turn quite red with delight .
After that she come daily , and we have merry time with old Nannette and her little mistress , whom we soon learn to love , so busy , blithe , and grateful be she .
We soon find a new way to employ her , for the boy who drive our donkey do not suit u , and we get the donkey-woman to let u have Marie in the afternoon when her lesson be do .
She like that , and so do we ; for she seem to understand the nature of donkey , and could manage them without so much beating and shouting a the boy think necessary .
Such pleasant drive a we have , we two big woman in the droll wagon , draw by the little gray donkey that look a if make of an old trunk , so rusty and rough be he a he go trot along , his long ear wag , and his small hoof clattering over the fine hard road , while Marie sit on the shaft with a long whip , talk and laughing , and give Andrè a poke now and then , cry ` E ! E ! houp la ! '
to make him go .
We find her a capital little guide and story-teller , for her grandmother have tell her all the tale and legend of the neighbourhood , and it be very pleasant to hear her repeat them in pretty peasant French , a we sit among the ruin , while Kate sketch , I take note , and Marie hold the big parasol over u .
Some of these stone be charm ; at least a she tell them , with her little face change from gay to sad a she gesticulate most dramatically .
The romance of ` Gilles de Bretagne ' be one of her favourite .
How he carry off his child-wife when she be only twelve , how he be imprison and poison , and at last left to starve in a dungeon , and would stand at his window cry , ` Bread , bread ; for the love of God ! '
yet no one dare to give him any , till a poor peasant woman go in the night and give him half her black loaf .
Not once , but every night for six month , though she rob her child to do it .
And when he be die , it be she who take a priest to him , that he might confess through the bar of his cell .
` So good , ah , so good , this poor woman !
It be beautiful to hear of that , mademoiselle ! '
little Marie would say , with her black eye full and her lip tremble .
But the story she like best of all be about the peasant girl and her grandmother .
` See then , dear lady , it be in this way .
In the time of the great war many poor people be shoot because it be fear they would burn the chateau .
In one of these so sad party be drive to St. Malo to be shot , be this young girl .
Only fifteen , dear lady , behold how young be this !
and see the brave thing she do !
With her go the old grandmother whom she love next the good God .
They go slowly , she be so old , and one of the officer who guard them have pity on the pretty girl , and say to her a they be a little apart from the rest , `` Come , you be young , and can run .
I will save you ; it be a pity so fine a little girl should be shoot . ''
` Then she be glad and thank him much , say , `` And the grandmother also ?
You will save her with me ? ''
`` It be impossible , '' say the officer .
`` She be too old to run .
I can save but one , and her life be nearly over ; let her go , and do you fly into the next wood .
I will not betray you , and when we come up with the gang it will be too late to find you . ''
` Then the great temptation of Satan come to this girl .
She have no wish to suffer , but she could not leave the good old grandmere to die alone .
She weep , she pray , and the saint give her courage . '
`` No , I will not go , '' she say ; and in the morning at St. Malo she be shoot with the old mother in her arm . '
` Could you do that for your grandmere ? '
I once ask , a she stop for breath , because this tale always excite her .
She cross herself devoutly , and answer with fire in her eye , and a resolute gesture of her little brown hand , -- ' I should try , mademoiselle . '
I think she would , and succeed , too , for she be a brave and tender-hearted child , a she soon after prove .
A long drought parch the whole country that summer , and the garden suffer much , especially the little plat in Lehon , for most of them be on the steep hillside behind the hut ; and unless it rain , water have to be carry up from the stream below .
The cabbage and onion on which these poor people depend , when fresh salad be go , be die in the baked earth , and a hard winter be before them if this little store fail .
The priest pray for rain in the church , and long procession stream out of the gate to visit the old stone cross call the ` Croix de Saint Esprit , ' and , kneel there in crowd , the people implore the blessing of rain to save their harvest .
We felt great pity for them , but like little Marie 's way of pray best .
She do not come one morning , but send her brother , who only laugh , and say Marie have hurt her foot , when we inquire for her .
Anxious to know if she be really ill , we go to see her in the afternoon , and hear a pretty little story of practical Christianity .
Marie lay asleep on her mother 's bed in the wall , and her father , sit by her , tell the tale in a low voice , pause now and then to look at her , a if his little daughter have do something to be proud of .
It seem that in the village there be an old woman frightfully disfigure by fire , and not quite sane a the people think .
She be harmless , but never show herself by day , and only come out at night to work in her garden or take the air .
Many of the ignorant peasant fear her , however ; for the country abound in fairy legend , and strange tale of ghost and goblin .
But the more charitable left bread at her door , and take in return the hose she knit or the thread she spin .
During the drought it be observe that her garden , though the steepest and stony , be never dry ; her cabbage flourish when her neighbour ' wither , and her onion stand up green and tall a if some special rain-spirit watch over them .
People wonder and shake their head , but could not explain it , for Mother Lobineau be too infirm to carry much water up the steep path , and who would help her unless some of her own goblin friend do it ?
This idea be suggest by the story of a peasant returning late at night , who have see something white flitting to and fro in the garden-patch , and when he call to it saw it vanish most mysteriously .
This make quite a stir in the town ; others watch also , saw the white phantom in the starlight , and could not tell where it go when it vanish behind the chestnut tree on the hill , till one man , braver than the rest , hid himself behind these tree and discover the mystery .
The sprite be Marie , in her little shift , who step out of the window of the loft where she sleep on to a bough of the tree , and thence to the hill , for the house be build so close against the bank that it be ` but a step from garret to garden , ' a they say in Morlaix .
In try to escape from this inquisitive neighbour , Marie hurt her foot , but be catch , and confess that it be she who go at night to water poor Mother Lobineau 's cabbage ; because if they fail the old woman might starve , and no one else remember her destitute and helpless state .
The good-hearted people be much touch by this silent sermon on love one 's neighbour a one 's self , and Marie be call the ` little saint , ' and tend carefully by all the good woman .
Just a the story end , she wake up , and at first seem inclined to hide under the bedclothes .
But we have her out in a minute , and presently she be laugh over her good deed , with a true child 's enjoyment of a bit of roguery , say in her simple way , -- ` Yes ; it be so droll to go run about en chemise , like the girl in the tale of the ` Midsummer Eve , ' where she pull the Saint Johns-wort flower , and have her wish to hear all the creature talk .
I like it much , and Yvon sleep so like the dormouse that he never hear me creep in and out .
It be hard to bring much water , but the poor cabbage be so glad , and Mother Lobineau felt that all have not forget her .
We take care that little Saint Marie be not forget , but quite well , and all ready for her confirmation when the day come .
This be a pretty sight , and for her sake we go to the old church of St. Sauveur to see it .
It be a bright spring day , and the garden be full of early flower , the quaint street gay with proud father and mother in holiday dress , and flock of stranger pause to see the long procession of little girl with white cap and veil , glove and gown , prayer-books and rosary , wind through the sunny square into the shadowy church with chanting and candle , garland and cross .
The old priest be too ill to perform the service , but the young one who take his place announce , after it be over , that if they would pass the house the good old man would bless them from his balcony .
That be the best of all , and a sweet sight , a the feeble fatherly old priest lean from his easy-chair to stretch his tremble hand over the little flock so like a bed of snowdrop , while the bright eye and rosy face look reverently up at him , and the fresh voice chant the response a the curly head under the long veil bow and pass by .
We learn afterwards that our Marie have be call in and praise for her secret charity -- a great honour , because the good priest be much beloved by all his flock , and take a most paternal interest in the little one .
That be almost the last we saw of our little friend , for we leave Dinan soon after , bid the Lehon family good-bye , and leave certain warm souvenir for winter-time .
Marie cry and clung to u at part , then smile like an April day , and wave her hand a we go away , never expect to see her any more .
But the next morning , just a we be step on board the steamer to go down the Rance to St. Malo , we saw a little white cap come bobbing through the market-place , down the steep street , and presently Marie appear with two great bunch of pale yellow primrose and wild blue hyacinth in one hand , while the other hold her sabot , that she might run the faster .
Rosy and smile and breathless with haste she come race up to u , cry , -- ` Behold my souvenir for the dear lady .
I do not cry now .
No ; I be glad the day be so fine .
Bon voyage !
bon voyage !
' We thank and kiss and leave her on the shore , bravely try not to cry , a she wave her wooden shoe and kiss her hand till we be out of sight , and have nothing but the soft colour and sweet breath of our nosegay to remind u of Little Marie of Lehon .
MY MAY-DAY AMONG CURIOUS BIRDS AND BEASTS .
Being alone in London , yet wish to celebrate the day , I decide to pay my respect to the lion at the Zoological Gardens .
A lovely place it be , and I enjoy myself immensely ; for May-day in England be just what it should be , mild , sunny , flowery , and spring-like .
As I walk along the well-kept path , between white and rosy hawthorn hedge , I keep come upon new and curious sight ; for the bird and beast be so skilfully arrange that it be more like travel through a strange and pleasant country than visit a menagerie .
The first thing I saw be a great American bison ; and I be so glad to meet with any one from home , that I 'd have pat him with pleasure if he have show any cordiality toward me .
He do n't , however , but star savagely with his fiery eye , and put down his immense head with a sullen snort , a if he 'd have toss me with great satisfaction .
I do not blame him , for the poor fellow be homesick , doubtless , for his own wide prairie and the free life he have lose .
So I throw him some fresh clover , and go on to the pelican .
I never know before what handsome bird they be ; not graceful , but with such snowy plumage , ting with pale pink and faint yellow .
They have just have their bath , and stand arrange their feather with their great bill , utter a queer cry now and then , and nod to one another sociably .
When feed , they gobble up the fish , never stop to swallow it till the pouch under their bill be full ; then they leisurely empty them , and seem to enjoy their lunch with the grave deliberation of regular Englishmen .
Being in a hurry to see the lion , I go on to the long row of cage , and there find a splendid sight .
Six lion and lioness , in three or four different cage , sit or stand in dignified attitude , and eye the spectator with a mild expression in their fine eye .
One lioness be ill , and lay on her bed , look very pensive , while her mate move restlessly about her , evidently anxious to do something for her , and much afflict by her suffering .
I like this lion very much , for , though the big , he be very gentle , and have a noble face .
The tiger be rush about , a tiger usually be ; some creep noiselessly to and fro , some leap up and down , and some wash their face with their velvet paw .
All look and act so like cat that I be n't at all surprised to hear one of them purr when the keeper scratch her head .
It be a very loud and large purr , but no fireside pussy could have do it good , and every one laugh at the sound .
There be pretty spotted leopard , panther , and small variety of the same specie .
I sit watch them a long time , long to let some of the wild thing out for a good run , they seem so unhappy bar in those small den .
Suddenly the lion begin to roar , the tiger to snarl , and all to get very much excite about something , sniff at the opening , thrust their paw through the bar , and lash their tail impatiently .
I could n't imagine what the trouble be , till , far down the line , I saw a man with a barrowful of lump of raw meat .
This be their dinner , and a they be feed but once a day they be ravenous .
Such roar and howl and cry a arose while the man go slowly down the line , give one a good idea of the sound to be hear in Indian forest and jungle .
The lion behave best , for they only pace up and down , with an occasional cry ; but the tiger be quite frantic ; for they tumble one over the other , shake the cage , and try to reach the bystander , just out of reach behind the bar that keep u at a safe distance .
One lady have a fright , for the wind blow the end of her shawl within reach of a tiger 's great claw , and he clutch it , try to drag her nearer .
The shawl come off , and the poor lady run away scream , a if a whole family of wild beast be after her .
When the lump of meat be throw in , it be curious to see how differently the animal behave .
The tiger snarl and fought and tore and get so savage I be very grateful that they be safely shut up .
In a few minute , nothing but white bone remain , and then they howl for more .
One little leopard be well breed than the others , for he go up on a shelf in the cage , and eat his dinner in a quiet , proper manner , which be an example to the rest .
The lion eat in dignified silence , all but my favourite , who carry his share to his sick mate , and by every gentle mean in his power try to make her eat .
She be too ill , however , and turn away with a plaintive moan which seem to grieve him sadly .
He would n't touch his dinner , but lay down near her , with the lump between his paw , a if guard it for her ; and there I leave him patiently wait , in spite of his hunger , till his mate could share it with him .
As I take a last look at his fine old face , I name him Douglas , and walk away , hum to myself the line of the ballad , -- Douglas , Douglas , Tender and true .
As a contrast to the wild beast , I go to see the monkey , who live in a fine large house all to themselves .
Here be every variety , from the great ugly chimpanzee to the funny little fellow who play like boy , and cut up all sort of caper .
A mamma sit tend her baby , and look so like a little old woman that I laugh till the gray monkey with the blue nose scold at me .
He be a cross old party , and sit huddle up in the straw , scowl at every one , like an ill-tempered old bachelor .
Half-a-dozen little one tease him capitally by drop bit of bread , nut-shells , and straw down on him from above , a they climb about the perch , or swung by their tail .
One poor little chap have lose the curly end of his tail , -- I 'm afraid the gray one bit it off , -- and keep try to swing like the others , forget that the strong , curly end be what he hold on with .
He would run up the bare boughs , and give a jump , expect to catch and swing , but the lame tail would n't hold him , and down he 'd go , bounce on to the straw .
At first he 'd sit and stare about him , a if much amaze to find himself there ; then he 'd scratch his little round head and begin to scold violently , which seem to delight the other monkey ; and , finally , he 'd examine his poor little tail , and appear to understand the misfortune which have befall him .
The funny expression of his face be irresistible , and I enjoy see him very much , and give him a bun to comfort him when I go away .
The snake-house come next , and I go in , on my way to visit the rhinoceros family .
I rather like snake , since I have a tame green one , who live under the door-step , and would come out and play with me on sunny day .
These snake I find very interesting , only they get under their blanket and would n't come out , and I be n't allow to poke them ; so I miss see several of the most curious .
An ugly cobra laid and blink at me through the glass , look quite as dangerous a he be .
There be big and little snake , -- black , brown , and speckle , lively and lazy , pretty and plain one , -- but I like the great boa best .
When I come to his cage , I do n't see anything but the branch of a tree , such a I have see in other cage , for the snake to wind up and down .
` Where be he , I wonder ?
I hope he have n't get out , ' I say to myself , think of a story I read once of a person in a menagerie , who turn suddenly and saw a great boa glide towards him .
As I stand wonder if the big worm could be under the little flat blanket before me , the branch begin to move all at once , and with a start , I saw a limb swing down to stare at me with the boa 's glittering eye .
He be so exactly the colour of the bare bough , and lay so still , I have not see him till he come to take a look at me .
A very villainous-looking reptile he be , and I felt grateful that I do n't live in a country where such unpleasant neighbour might pop in upon you unexpectedly .
He be kind enough to take a promenade and show me his size , which seem immense , a he stretch himself , and then knot his rough grayish body into a great loop , with the fiery-eyed head in the middle .
He be not one of the large kind , but I be quite satisfied , and leave him to his dinner of rabbit , which I have n't the heart to stay and see him devour alive .
I be walk toward the camel 's pagoda , when , all of a sudden , a long , dark , curl thing come over my shoulder , and I felt warm breath in my face .
` It 's the boa ; ' I think , and give a skip which carry me into the hedge , where I stick , much to the amusement of some child rid on the elephant whose trunk have frighten me .
He have politely try to tell me to clear the way , which I certainly have do with all speed .
Picking myself out of the hedge I walk beside him , examine his clumsy foot and peer up at his small , intelligent eye .
I 'm very sure he wink at me , a if enjoy the joke , and keep poke his trunk into my pocket , hop to find something eatable .
I felt a if I have get into a foreign country a I look about me and saw elephant and camel walk among the tree ; flock of snow-white crane stalk over the grass , on their long scarlet leg ; strip Zebras race in their paddock ; queer kangaroos hop about , with little one in their pouch ; pretty antelopes chase one another ; and , in an immense wire-covered aviary , all sort of brilliant bird be fly about as gaily a if at home .
One of the curiosity be a sea-cow , who live in a tank of salt water , and come at the keeper 's call to kiss him , and flounder on it flipper along the margin of the tank after a fish .
It be very like a seal , only much large , and have four fin instead of two .
Its eye be lovely , so dark and soft and liquid ; but it mouth be not pretty , and I decline one of the damp kiss which it be ready to dispense at word of command .
The great polar bear live next door , and spend his time splash in and out of a pool of water , or sit on a block of ice , pant , a if the mild spring day be blaze midsummer .
He look very unhappy , and I think it a pity that they do n't invent a big refrigerator for him .
These be not half of the wonderful creature I saw , but I have not room to tell more ; only I advise all who can to pay a visit to the Zoological Gardens when they go to London , for it be one of the most interesting sight in that fine old city .
OUR LITTLE NEWSBOY .
Hurrying to catch a certain car at a certain corner late one stormy night , I be suddenly arrest by the sight of a queer-looking bundle lie in a door-way .
` Bless my heart , it 's a child !
O John !
I 'm afraid he 's frozen ! '
I exclaim to my brother , a we both bent over the bundle .
Such a little fellow a he be , in the big , ragged coat ; such a tired , baby face , under the fuzzy cap ; such a purple , little hand , still hold fast a few paper ; such a pathetic sight altogether be the boy , lie on the stone step , with the snow drifting over him , that it be impossible to go by .
` He be asleep ; but he 'll freeze , if leave so long .
Here !
wake up , my boy , and go home , as fast a you can , ' cry John , with a gentle shake , and a very gentle voice ; for the memory of a dear little lad , safely tuck up at home , make him fatherly kind to the small vagabond .
The moment he be touch , the boy tumble up , and , before he be half awake , begin his usual cry , with an eye to business .
` Paper , sir ?
`` Herald ! ''
`` Transkip ! ''
Last ' -- a great gape swallow up the ` last edition , ' and he stand blink at u like a very chilly young owl .
` I 'll buy 'em all if you 'll go home , my little chap ; it 's high time you be abed , ' say John , whisk the damp paper into one pocket , and his purse out of another , a he speak .
` All of 'em ?
-- why there 's six ! '
croak the boy , for he be as hoarse a a raven .
` Never mind , I can kindle the fire with 'em .
Put that in your pocket ; and trot home , my man , as fast a possible . '
` Where do you live ? '
I ask , pick up the fifty cent that fell from the little finger , too benumb to hold it .
` Mills Court , out of Hanover .
Cold , ai n't it ? '
say the boy , blow on his purple hand , and hop feebly from one leg to the other , to take the stiffness out .
` He ca n't go all that way in this storm -- such a mite , and so use up with cold and sleep , John . '
` Of course he ca n't ; we 'll put him in a car , ' begin John ; when the boy wheeze out , -- ` No ; I 've get ter wait for Sam .
He 'll be along a soon 's the theatre 's do .
He say he would ; and so I 'm waitin ' . '
` Who be Sam ? '
I ask .
` He 's the feller I live with .
I ai n't get any folk , and he take care o ' me . '
` Nice care , indeed ; leave a baby like you to wait for him here such a night a this , ' I say crossly .
` Oh , he 's good to me Sam be , though he do knock me round sometimes , when I ai n't spry .
The big feller shove me back , you see ; and I get cold , and ca n't sing out loud ; so I do n't sell my paper , and have to work 'em off late . '
` Hear the child talk !
One would think he be sixteen , instead of six , ' I say , half laughing .
` I 'm most ten .
Hi !
ai n't that a oner ? '
cry the boy , a a gust of sleet slap him in the face , when he peep to see if Sam be come .
` Hullo !
the light be out !
Why , the play 's do , and the folk go , and Sam 's forgot me . '
It be very evident that Sam have forget his little protégé ; and a strong desire to shake Sam possess me .
` No use waitin ' any longer ; and now my paper be sell , I ai n't afraid to go home , ' say the boy , step down like a little old man with the rheumatism , and prepare to trudge away through the storm .
` Stop a bit , my little Casabianca ; a car will be along in fifteen minute ; and while wait you can warm yourself over there , ' say John , with the purple hand in his .
` My name 's Jack Hill , not Cassy Banks , please , sir , ' say the little party , with dignity .
` Have you have your supper , Mr. Hill ? '
ask John , laugh . '
I have some peanut , and two suck of Joe 's orange ; but it war n't very fillin ' , ' he say , gravely . '
I should think not .
Here !
one stew ; and be quick , please , ' cry John , a we sit down in a warm corner of the confectioner 's opposite .
While little Jack shovel in the hot oyster , with his eye shut up now and then in spite of himself , we look at him and think again of little Rosy-face at home safe in his warm nest , with mother-love watching over him .
Nodding towards the ragged , grimy , forlorn , little creature , drop asleep over his supper like a tired baby , I say , -- ` Can you imagine our Freddy out alone at this hour , try to ` work off ' his paper , because afraid to go home till he have ? '
` I 'd rather not try , ' answer brother John , wink hard , a he stroke the little head beside him , which , by the bye , look very like a ragged , yellow door-mat .
I think brother John wink hard , but I ca n't be sure , for I know I do ; and for a minute there seem to be a dozen little newsboys dance before my eye .
` There go our car ; and it 's the last , ' say John , look at me .
` Let it go , but do n't leave the boy ; ' and I frown at John for hint at such a thing .
` Here be his car .
Now , my lad , bolt your last oyster , and come on . '
` Good-night , ma'am !
thankee , sir ! '
croak the grateful little voice , a the child be catch up in John 's strong hand and set down on the car-step .
With a word to the conductor , and a small business transaction , we leave Jack coil up in a corner to finish his nap as tranquilly a if it be n't midnight , and a ` knocking-round ' might not await him at his journey 's end .
We do n't mind the storm much a we plod home ; and when I tell the story to Rosy-face , next day , his interest quite reconcile me to the sniff and sneeze of a bad cold .
` If I saw that poor little boy , Aunt Jo , I 'd love him lots ! '
say Freddy , with a world of pity in his beautiful child 's eye .
And , believe that others also would be kind to little Jack , and such a he , I tell the story .
When busy father hurry home at night , I hope they 'll buy their paper of the small boy , who get ` shove back ; ' the feeble one , who grow hoarse , and ca n't ` sing out ; ' the shabby one , who evidently have only forgetful Sams to care for them ; and the hungry-looking one , who do n't get what be ` fillin ' . '
For love of the little son and daughter safe at home , say a kind word , buy a paper , even if you do n't want it ; and never pas by , leave them to sleep forgotten in the street at midnight , with no pillow but a stone , no coverlet but the pitiless snow , and not even a tender-hearted robin to drop leaf over them .
PATTY 'S PATCHWORK .
' I perfectly hate it !
and something dreadful ought to be do to the woman who invent it , ' say Patty , in a pet , send a shower of gay piece fly over the carpet a if a small whirlwind and a rainbow have get into a quarrel .
Puss do not agree with Patty , for , after a surprised hop when the flurry come , she calmly lay herself down on a red square , purr comfortably and wink her yellow eye , a if she thank the little girl for the bright bed that set off her white fur so prettily .
This cool performance make Patty laugh , and say more pleasantly -- ` Well , it be tiresome , be n't it , Aunt Pen ? '
` Sometimes ; but we all have to make patchwork , my dear , and do the best we can with the piece give u . '
` Do we ? '
and Patty open her eye in great astonishment at this new idea .
` Our life be patchwork , and it depend on u a good deal how the bright and dark bit get put together so that the whole be neat , pretty , and useful when it be do , ' say Aunt Pen soberly .
` Deary me , now she be go to preach , ' thought Patty ; but she rather like Aunt Pen 's preachment , for a good deal of fun get mixed up with the moralising ; and she be so good herself that child could never say in their naughty little mind , ` You be just as bad a we , so you need n't talk to u , ma'am . ' '
I give you that patchwork to see what you would make of it , and it be as good a a diary to me , for I can tell by the different square how you felt when you make them , ' continue Aunt Pen , with a twinkle in her eye a she glance at the many-coloured bit on the carpet .
` Can you truly ?
just try and see , ' and Patty look interested at once .
Pointing with the yard-measure , Aunt Pen say , tap a certain dingy , pucker , brown and purple square -- ` That be a bad day ; do n't it look so ? '
` Well , it be , I do declare !
for that be the Monday piece , when everything go wrong and I do n't care how my work look , ' cry Patty , surprise at Aunt Pen 's skill in read the calico diary .
` This pretty pink and white one so neatly sew be a good day ; this funny mixture of red , blue , and yellow with the big stitch be a merry day ; that one with spot on it be one that get cry over ; this with the gay flower be a day full of good little plan and resolution ; and that one made of dainty bit , all star and dot and tiny leaf , be the one you make when you be think about the dear new baby there at home . '
` Why , Aunt Pen , you be a fairy !
How do you know ?
they truly be just a you say , as near a I can remember .
I rather like that sort of patchwork , ' and Patty sit down upon the floor to collect , examine , and arrange her discarded work with a new interest in it . '
I see what be go on , and I have queer play in my mind just a you little folk do .
Suppose you make this a moral bed-quilt , a some people make album quilt .
See how much patience , perseverance , good nature , and industry you can put into it .
Every bit will have a lesson or a story , and when you lie under it you will find it a real comforter , ' say Aunt Pen , who want to amuse the child and teach her something well even than the good old-fashioned accomplishment of needlework . '
I do n't see how I can put that sort of thing into it , ' answer Patty , a she gently lift pus into her lap , instead of twitch the red bit roughly from under her .
` There go a nice little piece of kindness this very minute , ' laugh Aunt Pen , point to the cat and the red square .
Patty laugh also , and look pleased a she stroke Mother Bunch , while she say thoughtfully -- ' I see what you mean now .
I be make two kind of patchwork at the same time ; and this that I see be to remind me of the other kind that I do n't see . '
` Every task , no matter how small or homely , that get well and cheerfully do , be a fine thing ; and the sooner we learn to use up the dark and bright bit -LRB- the pleasure and pain , the care and duty -RRB- into a cheerful , useful life , the sooner we become real comforter , and every one like to cuddle about u .
Do n't you see , deary ? '
` That 's what you be , Aunt Pen ; ' and Patty put up her hand to hold fast by that other strong , kind , helpful hand that do so much , yet never be tire , cold , or empty .
Aunt Pen take the chubby little one in both her own , and say , smile , yet with meaning in her eye , a she tap the small fore-finger , rough with impatient and unskilful sewing -- ` Shall we try and see what a nice little comforter we can make this month , while you wait to be call home to see mamma and the dear new baby ? '
` Yes , I 'd like to try ; ' and Patty give Aunt Pen 's hand a hearty shake , for she want to be good , and rather think the new fancy would lend a charm to the task which we all find rather tiresome and hard .
So the bargain be make , and the patch Patty sew that day be beautiful to behold ; for she be in a delightfully moral state of mind , and felt quite sure that she be go to become a model for all child to follow , if they could .
The next day her ardour have cool a little , and be in a hurry to go out to play , she slight her work , think no one would know .
But the third day she get so angry with her patch that she tear it in two , and declare it be all nonsense to fuss about be good and thorough and all the rest of it .
Aunt Pen do not say much , but make her mend and finish her patch and add it to the pile .
After she go to bed that night Patty thought of it , and wish she could do it over , it look so badly .
But a it could not be , she have a penitent fit , and resolve to keep her temper while she sew , at any rate , for mamma be to see the little quilt when it be do , and would want to know all about it .
Of course she do not devote herself to be good all the time , but spend her day in lesson , play , mischief , and fun , like any other lively , ten-year-older .
But somehow , whenever the sewing-hour come , she remember that talk ; and a she work she fell into the way of wonder whether Aunt Pen could guess from the patch what sort of day she have pass .
She want to try and see , but Aunt Pen refuse to read any more calico till the quilt be do : then , she say in a queer , solemn way , she should make the good and bad day appear in a remarkable manner .
This puzzle Patty very much , and she quite ache to know what the joke would be ; meantime the pile grow steadily , and every day , good or bad , add to that other work call Patty 's life .
She do not think much about that part of it , but unconsciously the quiet sewing-time have it influence on her , and that little ` conscience hour , ' a she sometimes call it , help her very much .
One day she say to herself a she take up her work , ` Now I 'll puzzle Aunt Pen .
She think my naughty trick get into the patch ; but I 'll make this very nicely and have it gay , and then I do n't see how she will ever guess what I do this morning . '
Now you must know that Tweedle-dee , the canary , be let out every day to fly about the room and enjoy himself .
Mother Bunch never try to catch him , though he often hop temptingly near her .
He be a droll little bird , and Patty like to watch his promenade , for he do funny thing .
That day he make her laugh by try to fly away with a shawl , pick up the fringe with which to line the nest he be always try to build .
It be so heavy he tumble on his back and lay kicking and pulling , but have to give it up and content himself with a bit of thread .
Patty be forbid to chase or touch him at these time , but always felt a strong desire to have just one grab at him and see how he felt .
That day , be alone in the dining-room , she find it impossible to resist ; and when Tweedle-dee come trip pertly over the table-cloth , cock his head on one side with shrill chirp and little prancings , she catch him , and for a minute hold him fast in spite of his wrathful pecking .
She put her thimble on his head , laugh to see how funny he look , and just then he slip out of her hand .
She clutch at him , miss him , but ala , ala !
he leave his little tail behind him .
Every feather in his blessed little tail , I do assure you ; and there sat Patty with the yellow plume in her hand and dismay in her face .
Poor Tweedle-dee retire to his cage much afflict , and sing no more that day , but Patty hide the lose tail and never say a word about it .
` Aunt Pen be so near-sighted she wo n't mind , and maybe he will have another tail pretty soon , or she will think he be moult .
If she ask of course I shall tell her . '
Patty settle it in that way , forget that the slide be open and Aunt Pen in the kitchen .
So she make a neat blue and buff patch , and put it away , mean to puzzle aunty when the reading-time come .
But Patty get the bad of it , a you will see by-and-bye .
Another day she stroll into the store-room and saw a large tray of fresh bun stand there .
Now , it be against the rule to eat between meal , and new hot bread or cake be especially forbidden .
Patty remember both these thing , but could not resist temptation .
One plump , brown bun , with a lovely plum right in the middle , be so fascinate it be impossible to let it alone ; so Patty whip it into her pocket , run to the garden , and hide behind the big lilac-bush , eat it in a great hurry .
It be just out of the oven , and so hot it burn her throat , and lay like a live coal in her little stomach after it be down , make her very uncomfortable for several hour .
` Why do you keep sigh ? '
ask Aunt Pen , a Patty sit down to her work . '
I do n't feel very well . '
` You have eat something that disagree with you .
Did you eat hot biscuit for breakfast ? '
` No , ma'am , I never do , ' and Patty give another little gasp , for the bun lay very heavily on both stomach and conscience just then . '
A drop or two of ammonia will set you right , ' and Aunt Pen give her some .
It do set the stomach right , but the conscience still worry her , for she could not make up her mind to ` fess ' the sly , greedy thing she have do .
` Put a white patch in the middle of those green one , ' say Aunt Pen , a Patty sit soberly sew her daily square .
` Why ? '
ask the little girl , for aunty seldom interfere in her arrangement of the quilt .
` It will look pretty , and match the other three square that be go at the corner of that middle piece . '
` Well , I will , ' and Patty sew away , wonder at this sudden interest in her work , and why Aunt Pen laugh to herself a she put away the ammonia bottle .
These be two of the naughty little thing that get work into the quilt ; but there be good one also , and Aunt Pen 's sharp eye saw them all .
At the window of a house opposite , Patty often saw a little girl who sit there play with an old doll or a torn book .
She never seem to run about or go out , and Patty often wonder if she be sick , she look so thin and sober , and be so quiet .
Patty begin by make face at her for fun , but the little girl only smile back , and nod so good-naturedly that Patty be ashamed of herself .
` Is that girl over there poor ? '
she ask suddenly a she watch her one day .
` Very poor : her mother take in sew , and the child be lame , ' answer Aunt Pen , without look up from the letter she be write .
` Her doll be nothing but an old shawl tie round with a string , and she do n't seem to have but one book .
Wonder if she 'd like to have me come and play with her , ' say Patty to herself , a she stand her own big doll in the window , and nod back at the girl , who bob up and down in her chair with delight at this agreeable prospect .
` You can go and see her some day if you like , ' say Aunt Pen , scribble away .
Patty say no more then , but later in the afternoon she remember this permission , and resolve to try if aunty would find out her good doings as well a her bad one .
So , tuck Blanch Augusta Arabella Maud under one arm , her best picture-book under the other , and gather a little nosegay of her own flower , she slip across the road , knock , and march boldly upstairs .
Mrs. Brown , the sewing-woman , be out , and no one there but Lizzie in her chair at the window , look lonely and forlorn .
` How do you do ?
My name be Patty , and I live over there , and I 've come to play with you , ' say one child in a friendly tone .
` How do you do ?
My name be Lizzie , and I 'm very glad to see you .
What a lovely doll ! '
return the other child gratefully ; and then the ceremony of introduction be over , and they begin to play a if they have know each other for ever so long .
To poor Lizzie it seem a if a little fairy have suddenly appear to brighten the dismal room with flower and smile and pretty thing ; while Patty felt her pity and good-will increase a she saw Lizzie 's crippled foot , and watch her thin face brighten and glow with interest and delight over book and doll and posy .
` It felt good , ' a Patty say afterwards ; ` sort of warm and comfortable in my heart , and I like it ever so much . '
She stay an hour , make sunshine in a shady place , and then run home , wonder if Aunt Pen would find that out .
She find her sit with her hand before her , and such a sad look in her face that Patty run to her , say anxiously -- ` What 's the matter , aunty ?
Are you sick ? '
` No dear ; but I have sorrowful news for you .
Come , sit in my lap and let me tell you as gently a I can . '
` Mamma be dead ! '
Cried Patty with a look of terror in her rosy face .
` No , thank God !
but the dear , new baby only stay a week , and we shall never see her in this world . '
With a cry of sorrow Patty throw herself into the arm outstretched to her , and on Aunt Pen 's love bosom sob away the first bitterness of her grief and disappointment .
` Oh , I want a little sister so much , and I be go to be so fond of her , and be so glad she come , and now I ca n't see or have her even for a day !
I 'm so disappointed I do n't think I can bear it , ' sob Patty .
` Think of poor mamma , and bear it bravely for her sake , ' whisper Aunt Pen , wipe away her own and Patty 's tear .
` Oh , dear me !
there 's the pretty quilt I be go to make for baby , and now it be n't any use , and I ca n't bear to finish it ; ' and Patty break out afresh at the thought of so much love 's labour lose .
` Mamma will love to see it , so I would n't give it up .
Work be the best cure for sorrow ; and I think you never will be sorry you try it .
Let u put a bright bit of submission with this dark trouble , and work both into your little life as patiently a we can , deary . '
Patty put up her tremble lip , and kiss Aunt Pen , grateful for the tender sympathy and the helpful word .
` I 'll try , ' be all she say ; and then they sit talk quietly together about the dear , dead baby , who only stay long enough to make a place in every one 's heart , and leave them ache when she go .
Patty do try to bear her first trouble bravely , and get on very well after the first day or two , except when the sewing-hour come .
Then the sight of the pretty patchwork recall the memory of the cradle it be mean to cover , and remind her that it be empty now .
Many quiet tear drop on Patty 's work ; and sometimes she have to put it down and sob , for she have long so for a little sister , it be very hard to give her up , and put away all the loving plan she have make for the happy time when baby come .
A great many tender little thought and feeling get sew into the gay square ; and if a small stain show here and there , I think they only add to it beauty in the eye of those who know what make them .
Aunt Pen never suggest pick out certain puckered bit and grimy stitch , for she know that just there the little finger tremble , and the blue eye get dim a they touch and saw the delicate , flowery bit leave from baby 's gown .
Lizzie be full of sympathy , and come hop over on her crutch with her only treasure , a black rabbit , to console her friend .
But of all the comfort give , Mother Bunch 's share be the great and best ; for that very first sad day , a Patty wander about the house disconsolately , pus come hurry to meet her , and in her dumb way beg her mistress to follow and see the fine surprise prepared for her -- four plump kit as white a snow , with four gray tail all wagging in a row , a they lay on their proud mamma 's downy breast , while she purr over them , with her yellow eye full of supreme content .
It be in the barn , and Patty lay for an hour with her head close to Mother Bunch , and her hand softly touch the charming little Bunches , who squeak and tumble and sprawl about with their dim eye blink , their tiny pink paw fumbling , and their dear gray tail waggle in the sweet way .
Such a comfort a they be to Patty no word could tell , and nothing will ever convince me that Mrs . Bunch do not know all about baby , and so lay herself out to cheer up her little mistress like a motherly loving old pus , a she be .
As Patty lay on the rug that even while Aunt Pen sing softly in the twilight , a small , white figure come pattering over the straw carpet , and drop a soft , warm ball down by Patty 's cheek , say , as plainly a a loud , confide purr could say it -- ` There , my dear , this be a lonely time for you , I know , so I 've bring my best and prettiest darling to comfort you ; ' and with that Mother Bunch sit down and wash her face , while Patty cuddle little Snowdrop , and forget to cry about baby .
Soon after this come a great happiness to Patty in the shape of a letter from mamma , say she must have her little girl back a week early than they have plan .
` I 'm sorry to leave you , aunty , but it be so nice to be want , and I 'm all mamma have now , you know , so I must hurry and finish my work to surprise her with .
How shall we finish it off ?
There ought to be something regularly splendid to go all round , ' say Patty , in a great bustle , a she lay out her piece , and find that only a few more be need to complete the ` moral bed-quilt . ' '
I must try and find something .
We will put this white star , with the blue round it , in the middle , for it be the neat and pretty piece , in spite of the stain .
I will sew in this part , and you may finish put the long strip together , ' say Aunt Pen , rummage her bag and bundle for something fine to end off with . '
I know !
I 've get something ! '
and away hurried Lizzie , who be there , and much interested in the work .
She come hop back again , presently , with a roll in her hand , which she proudly spread out , say -- ` There !
mother give me that ever so long ago , but I never have any quilt to use it for , and now it 's just what you want .
You ca n't buy such chintz now-a-days , and I 'm so glad I have it for you . '
` It 's regularly splendid ! '
cry Patty , in a rapture ; and so it be , for the pink and white be all cover with animal , and the blue be full of bird and butterfly and bee fly about as naturally a possible .
Really lovely be the little figure and the clear , soft colour , and Aunt Pen clap her hand , while Patty hug her friend , and declare that the quilt be perfect now .
Mrs. Brown beg to be allow to quilt it when the patch be all nicely put together , and Patty be glad to have her , for that part of the work be beyond her skill .
It do not come home till the morning Patty leave , and Aunt Pen pack it up without ever unroll it .
` We will look at it together when we show it to mamma , ' she say : and Patty be in such a hurry to be off that she make no objection .
A pleasant journey , a great deal of hugging and kissing , some tear and tender lament for baby , and then it be time to show the quilt , which mamma say be just what she want to throw over her foot a she lay on the sofa .
If there be any fairy , Patty would have be sure they have do something to her bed-cover , for when she proudly unroll it , what do you think she saw ?
Right in the middle of the white star , which be the centre-piece , delicately draw with indelible ink , be a smiling little cherub , all head and wing , and under it these line -- ` While sister dear lie asleep , Baby careful watch will keep . '
Then in each of the four gay square that be at the corner of the strip that frame the star , be a white bit bear other picture and couplet that both pleased and abashed Patty a she saw and read them .
In one be see a remarkably fine bun , with the line -- ` Who steal the hot bun And get burnt well ?
Go ask the lilac bush , Guess it can tell . '
In the next be a plump , tailless bird , who seem to be say mournfully -- ` My little tail , my little tail !
This bitter loss I still bewail ; But rather ne'er have tail again Than Patty should deceive Aunt Pen . '
The third be less embarrassing , for it be a pretty bunch of flower so daintily draw one could almost think they smelt them , and these line be underneath -- ` Every flower to others give , Blossoms fair and sweet in heaven . '
The fourth be a picture of a curly-haired child sewing , with some very large tear roll down her cheek and tumble off her lap like marble , while some tiny sprite be catch and fly away with them a if they be very precious -- ` Every tender drop that fell , Loving spirit catch and keep ; And Patty 's sorrow lighter grow , For the gentle tear she weep . '
` Oh , aunty !
what do it all mean ? '
cry Patty , who have look both pleased and ashamed a she glance from one picture to the other .
` It mean , dear , that the good and bad get into the bed-quilt in spite of you , and there they be to tell their own story .
The bun and the lost tail , the posy you take to poor Lizzie , and the trouble you bore so sweetly .
It be just so with our life , though we do n't see it quite as clearly a this .
Invisible hand paint our fault and virtue , and by-and-bye we have to see them , so we must be careful that they be good and lovely , and we be not ashamed to let the eye that love u best read there the history of our life . '
As Aunt Pen speak , and Patty listen with a thoughtful face , mamma softly draw the pictured coverlet over her , and whisper , a she hold her little daughter close -- ` My Patty will remember this ; and if all her year tell as good a story a this month , I shall not fear to read the record , and she will be in truth my little comforter . '
-LRB- FOR SECOND SERIES , SEE ` SHAWL-STRAPS . ' -RRB-
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Aunt_Jo's_Scrap-Bag_VI.txt.out
I .
AN OLD-FASHIONED THANKSGIVING .
Sixty year ago , up among the New Hampshire hill , live Farmer Bassett , with a house full of sturdy son and daughter grow up about him .
They be poor in money , but rich in land and love , for the wide acre of wood , corn , and pasture land feed , warm , and clothe the flock , while mutual patience , affection , and courage make the old farm-house a very happy home .
November have come ; the crop be in , and barn , buttery , and bin be overflow with the harvest that reward the summer 's hard work .
The big kitchen be a jolly place just now , for in the great fireplace roar a cheerful fire ; on the wall hang garland of dried apple , onion , and corn ; up aloft from the beam shine crook-necked squash , juicy ham , and dry venison -- for in those day deer still haunt the deep forest , and hunter flourish .
Savory smell be in the air ; on the crane hung steam kettle , and down among the red ember copper sauce-pans simmer , all suggestive of some approach feast .
A white-headed baby lay in the old blue cradle that have rock seven other baby , now and then lift his head to look out , like a round , full moon , then subside to kick and crow contentedly , and suck the rosy apple he have no teeth to bite .
Two small boy sit on the wooden settle shell corn for popping , and pick out the big nut from the goodly store their own hand have gather in October .
Four young girl stand at the long dresser , busily chop meat , pound spice , and slice apple ; and the tongue of Tilly , Prue , Roxy , and Rhody go as fast a their hand .
Farmer Bassett , and Eph , the old boy , be `` chorin ' ` round '' outside , for Thanksgiving be at hand , and all must be in order for that time-honored day .
To and fro , from table to hearth , bustle buxom Mrs. Bassett , flush and floury , but busy and blithe a the queen bee of this busy little hive should be .
`` I do like to begin seasonable and have thing to my mind .
Thanksgivin ' dinner ca n't be drive , and it do take a sight of victual to fill all these hungry stomicks , '' say the good woman , a she give a vigorous stir to the great kettle of cider apple-sauce , and cast a glance of housewifely pride at the fine array of pie set forth on the buttery shelf .
`` Only one more day and then it will be time to eat .
I do n't take but one bowl of hasty pudding this morning , so I shall have plenty of room when the nice thing come , '' confide Seth to Sol , a he crack a large hazel-nut as easily a a squirrel .
`` No need of my starvin ' beforehand .
I always have room enough , and I 'd like to have Thanksgiving every day , '' answer Solomon , gloat like a young ogre over the little pig that lay near by , ready for roast .
`` Sakes alive , I do n't , boys !
It 's a marcy it do n't come but once a year .
I should be wear to a thread-paper with all this extra work atop of my winter weavin ' and spinnin ' , '' laugh their mother , a she plunge her plump arm into the long bread-trough and begin to knead the dough a if a famine be at hand .
Tilly , the old girl , a red-cheeked , black-eyed lass of fourteen , be grind briskly at the mortar , for spice be costly , and not a grain must be waste .
Prue keep time with the chopper , and the twin slice away at the apple till their little brown arm ache , for all know how to work , and do so now with a will .
`` I think it 's real fun to have Thanksgiving at home .
I 'm sorry Gran ` ma be sick , so we ca n't go there as usual , but I like to mess ` round here , do n't you , girl ? ''
ask Tilly , pause to take a sniff at the spicy pestle .
`` It will be kind of lonesome with only our own folk . ''
`` I like to see all the cousin and aunt , and have game , and sing , '' cry the twin , who be regular little romp , and could run , swim , coast and shout as well a their brother .
`` I do n't care a mite for all that .
It will be so nice to eat dinner together , warm and comfortable at home , '' say quiet Prue , who love her own cozy nook like a cat .
`` Come , girl , fly ` round and get your chore do , so we can clear away for dinner jest as soon a I clap my bread into the oven , '' call Mrs. Bassett presently , a she round off the last loaf of brown bread which be to fee the hungry mouth that seldom taste any other .
`` Here 's a man comin ' up the hill , lively ! ''
`` Guess it 's Gad Hopkins .
Pa tell him to bring a dezzen orange , if they war n't too high ! ''
shout Sol and Seth , run to the door , while the girl smack their lip at the thought of this rare treat , and Baby throw his apple overboard , a if get ready for a new cargo .
But all be doom to disappointment , for it be not Gad , with the much-desired fruit .
It be a stranger , who throw himself off his horse and hurry up to Mr. Bassett in the yard , with some brief message that make the farmer drop his ax and look so sober that his wife guess at once some bad news have come ; and cry , `` Mother 's wuss !
I know she be ! ''
out run the good woman , forgetful of the flour on her arm and the oven waiting for it most important batch .
The man say old Mr. Chadwick , down to Keene , stop him a he pass , and tell him to tell Mrs. Bassett her mother be failin ' fast , and she 'd better come to-day .
He know no more , and have deliver his errand he ride away , say it look like snow and he must be jog , or he would n't get home till night .
`` We must go right off , Eldad .
Hitch up , and I 'll be ready in less 'n no time , '' say Mrs. Bassett , waste not a minute in tear and lamentation , but pull off her apron a she go in , with her mind in a sad jumble of bread , anxiety , turkey , sorrow , haste , and cider apple-sauce .
A few word tell the story , and the child leave their work to help her get ready , mingle their grief for `` Gran ` ma '' with regret for the lost dinner .
`` I 'm dreadful sorry , dear , but it ca n't be help .
I could n't cook nor eat no way , now , and if that bless woman get good sudden , a she have before , we 'll have cause for thanksgivin ' , and I 'll give you a dinner you wo n't forget in a hurry , '' say Mrs. Bassett , a she tie on her brown silk pumpkin-hood , with a sob for the good old mother who have make it for her .
Not a child complain after that , but run about helpfully , bring moccasin , heat the footstone , and get ready for a long drive , because Gran ` ma live twenty mile away , and there be no railroad in those part to whisk people to and fro like magic .
By the time the old yellow sleigh be at the door , the bread be in the oven , and Mrs. Bassett be wait , with her camlet cloak on , and the baby do up like a small bale of blanket .
`` Now , Eph , you must look after the cattle like a man , and keep up the fire , for there 's a storm brewin ' , and neither the child nor dumb critter must suffer , '' say Mr. Bassett , a he turn up the collar of his rough coat and put on his blue mitten , while the old mare shake her bell a if she prefer a trip to Keene to haul wood all day .
`` Tilly , put extry comfortables on the bed to-night , the wind be so searchin ' up chamber .
Have the baked bean and Injun-puddin ' for dinner , and whatever you do , do n't let the boy git at the mince-pies , or you 'll have them down sick .
I shall come back the minute I can leave Mother .
Pa will come to-morrer , anyway , so keep snug and be good .
I depend on you , my darter ; use your jedgment , and do n't let nothin ' happen while Mother 's away . ''
`` Yes 'm , yes 'm -- good-bye , good-bye ! ''
call the child , a Mrs. Bassett be pack into the sleigh and drive away , leave a stream of direction behind her .
Eph , the sixteen-year-old boy , immediately put on his big boot , assume a sober , responsible manner , and survey his little responsibility with a paternal air , drolly like his father 's .
Tilly tie on her mother 's bunch of key , roll up the sleeve of her homespun gown , and begin to order about the young girl .
They soon forget poor Granny , and find it great fun to keep house all alone , for Mother seldom leave home , but rule her family in the good old-fashioned way .
There be no servant , for the little daughter be Mrs. Bassett 's only maid , and the stout boys help their father , all work happily together with no wage but love ; learn in the best manner the use of the head and hand with which they be to make their own way in the world .
The few flake that cause the farmer to predict bad weather soon increase to a regular snow-storm , with gust of wind , for up among the hill winter come early and linger long .
But the child be busy , gay , and warm in-doors , and never mind the rise gale nor the whirl white storm outside .
Tilly get them a good dinner , and when it be over the two elder girl go to their spinning , for in the kitchen stand the big and little wheel , and basket of wool-rolls , ready to be twist into yarn for the winter 's knitting , and each day bring it stint of work to the daughter , who hop to be as thrifty a their mother .
Eph keep up a glorious fire , and superintend the small boy , who pop corn and whittle boat on the hearth ; while Roxy and Rhody dress corn-cob doll in the settle corner , and Bose , the brindled mastiff , lay on the braided mat , luxuriously warm his old leg .
Thus employ , they make a pretty picture , these rosy boy and girl , in their homespun suit , with the rustic toy or task which most child nowadays would find very poor or tiresome .
Tilly and Prue sang , a they step to and fro , draw out the smoothly twisted thread to the musical hum of the great spinning-wheels .
The little girl chatter like magpie over their doll and the new bed-spread they be plan to make , all white dimity star on a blue calico ground , a a Christmas present to Ma .
The boy roar at Eph 's joke , and have rough and tumble game over Bose , who do n't mind them in the least ; and so the afternoon wear pleasantly away .
At sunset the boy go out to fee the cattle , bring in heap of wood , and lock up for the night , a the lonely farm-house seldom have visitor after dark .
The girl get the simple supper of brown bread and milk , baked apple , and a doughnut all ` round a a treat .
Then they sit before the fire , the sister knitting , the brother with book or game , for Eph love reading , and Sol and Seth never fail to play a few game of Morris with barley corn , on the little board they have make themselves at one corner of the dresser .
`` Read out a piece , '' say Tilly , from Mother 's chair , where she sit in state , finish off the sixth woolen sock she have knit that month .
`` It 's the old history book , but here 's a bit you may like , since it 's about our folk , '' answer Eph , turn the yellow page to look at a picture of two quaintly dress child in some ancient castle .
`` Yes , read that .
I always like to hear about the Lady Matildy I be name for , and Lord Bassett , Pa 's great-great-great-grandpa .
He 's only a farmer now , but it 's nice to know that we be somebody two or three hundred year ago , '' say Tilly , bridling and toss her curly head a she fancy the Lady Matilda might have do .
`` Do n't read the queer word , 'cause we do n't understand 'em .
Tell it , '' command Roxy , from the cradle , where she be drowsily cuddle with Rhody .
`` Well , a long time ago , when Charles the First be in prison , Lord Bassett be a true friend to him , '' begin Eph , plunge into his story without delay .
`` The lord have some paper that would have hang a lot of people if the king 's enemy get hold of 'em , so when he hear one day , all of a sudden , that soldier be at the castle-gate to carry him off , he have just time to call his girl to him , and say : ' I may be go to my death , but I wo n't betray my master .
There be no time to burn the paper , and I can not take them with me ; they be hide in the old leathern chair where I sit .
No one know this but you , and you must guard them till I come or send you a safe messenger to take them away .
Promise me to be brave and silent , and I can go without fear . '
You see , he be n't afraid to die , but he be to seem a traitor .
Lady Matildy promise solemnly , and the word be hardly out of her mouth when the men come in , and her father be carry away a prisoner and send off to the Tower .
`` But she do n't cry ; she just call her brother , and sit down in that chair , with her head lean back on those paper , like a queen , and wait while the soldier hunt the house over for 'em : be n't that a smart girl ? ''
cry Tilly , beam with pride , for she be name for this ancestress , and know the story by heart .
`` I reckon she be scar , though , when the men come swearin ' in and ask her if she know anything about it .
The boy do his part then , for he do n't know , and fire up and stand before his sister ; and he say , say he , as bold a a lion : ` If my lord have tell u where the paper be , we would die before we would betray him .
But we be child and know nothing , and it be cowardly of you to try to fright u with oath and drawn sword ! ' ''
As Eph quote from the book , Seth plant himself before Tilly , with the long poker in his hand , say , a he flourish it valiantly : `` Why do n't the boy take his father 's sword and lay about him ?
I would , if any one be ha ` sh to Tilly . ''
`` You bantam !
He be only a bit of a boy , and could n't do anything .
Sit down and hear the rest of it , '' command Tilly , with a pat on the yellow head , and a private resolve that Seth should have the large piece of pie at dinner next day , a reward for his chivalry .
`` Well , the men go off after turn the castle out of window , but they say they should come again ; so faithful Matildy be full of trouble , and hardly dare to leave the room where the chair stand .
All day she sit there , and at night her sleep be so full of fear about it , that she often get up and go to see that all be safe .
The servant think the fright have hurt her wit , and let her be , but Rupert , the boy , stood by her and never be afraid of her queer way .
She be ' a pious maid , ' the book say , and often spend the long evening read the Bible , with her brother by her , all alone in the great room , with no one to help her bear her secret , and no good news of her father .
At last , word come that the king be dead and his friend banish out of England .
Then the poor child be in a sad plight , for they have no mother , and the servant all run away , leave only one faithful old man to help them . ''
`` But the father do come ? ''
cry Roxy , eagerly .
`` You 'll see , '' continue Eph , half telling , half reading .
`` Matilda be sure he would , so she sit on in the big chair , guard the paper , and no one could get her away , till one day a man come with her father 's ring and tell her to give up the secret .
She know the ring , but would not tell until she have ask many question , so a to be very sure , and while the man answer all about her father and the king , she look at him sharply .
Then she stand up and say , in a tremble , for there be something strange about the man : ` Sir , I doubt you in spite of the ring , and I will not answer till you pull off the false beard you wear , that I may see your face and know if you be my father 's friend or foe . '
Off come the disguise , and Matilda find it be my lord himself , come to take them with him out of England .
He be very proud of that faithful girl , I guess , for the old chair still stand in the castle , and the name keep in the family , Pa say , even over here , where some of the Bassetts come along with the Pilgrims . ''
`` Our Tilly would have be a brave , I know , and she look like the old picter down to Grandma 's , do n't she , Eph ? ''
cry Prue , who admire her bold , bright sister very much .
`` Well , I think you 'd do the settin ' part best , Prue , you be so patient .
Till would fight like a wild cat , but she ca n't hold her tongue worth a cent , '' answer Eph ; whereat Tilly pull his hair , and the story end with a general frolic .
When the moon-faced clock behind the door struck nine , Tilly tuck up the child under the `` extry comfortables , '' and have kiss them all around , a Mother do , creep into her own nest , never mind the little drift of snow that sift in upon her coverlet between the shingle of the roof , nor the storm that rag without .
As if he felt the need of unusual vigilance , old Bose lay down on the mat before the door , and pussy have the warm hearth all to herself .
If any late wanderer have look in at midnight , he would have see the fire blaze up again , and in the cheerful glow the old cat blink her yellow eye , a she sit bolt upright beside the spinning-wheel , like some sort of household goblin , guard the child while they sleep .
When they wake , like early bird , it still snow , but up the little Bassetts jump , break the ice in their pitcher , and go down with cheeks glow like winter apple , after a brisk scrub and scramble into their clothes .
Eph be off to the barn , and Tilly soon have a great kettle of mush ready , which , with milk warm from the cow , make a wholesome breakfast for the seven hearty child .
`` Now about dinner , '' say the young housekeeper , a the pewter spoon stop clatter , and the earthen bowl stand empty .
`` Ma say , have what we like , but she do n't expect u to have a real Thanksgiving dinner , because she wo n't be here to cook it , and we do n't know how , '' begin Prue , doubtfully .
`` I can roast a turkey and make a pudding as well a anybody , I guess .
The pie be all ready , and if we ca n't boil vegetable and so on , we do n't deserve any dinner , '' cry Tilly , burn to distinguish herself , and bound to enjoy to the utmost her brief authority .
`` Yes , yes ! ''
cry all the boy , `` let 's have a dinner anyway ; Ma wo n't care , and the good victual will spoil if they ai n't eaten right up . ''
`` Pa be come to-night , so we wo n't have dinner till late ; that will be real genteel and give u plenty of time , '' add Tilly , suddenly realize the novelty of the task she have undertake .
`` Did you ever roast a turkey ? ''
ask Roxy , with an air of deep interest .
`` Should you darst to try ? ''
say Rhody , in an awe-stricken tone .
`` You will see what I can do .
Ma say I be to use my jedgment about thing , and I 'm go to .
All you child have get to do be to keep out of the way , and let Prue and me work .
Eph , I wish you 'd put a fire in the best room , so the little one can play in there .
We shall want the settin ' - room for the table , and I wo n't have 'em pickin ' ` round when we get thing fix , '' command Tilly , bound to make her short reign a brilliant one .
`` I do n't know about that .
Ma do n't tell u to , '' begin cautious Eph , who felt that this invasion of the sacred best parlor be a daring step .
`` Do n't we always do it Sundays and Thanksgivings ?
Would n't Ma wish the child keep safe and warm anyhow ?
Can I get up a nice dinner with four rascal under my foot all the time ?
Come , now , if you want roast turkey and onion , plum-puddin ' and mince-pie , you 'll have to do a I tell you , and be lively about it . ''
Tilly speak with such spirit , and her last suggestion be so irresistible , that Eph give in , and , laugh good-naturedly , tramp away to heat up the best room , devoutly hop that nothing serious would happen to punish such audacity .
The young folk delightedly troop in to destroy the order of that prim apartment with housekeep under the black horse-hair sofa , `` horseback rider '' on the arm of the best rocking-chair , and an Indian war-dance all over the well-waxed furniture .
Eph , find the society of the peaceful sheep and cow more to his mind than that of two excited sister , linger over his chore in the barn as long a possible , and leave the girl in peace .
Now Tilly and Prue be in their glory , and as soon a the breakfast thing be out of the way , they prepare for a grand cooking-time .
They be handy girl , though they have never hear of a cooking-school , never touch a piano , and know nothing of embroidery beyond the sampler which hang frame in the parlor ; one ornament with a pink mourner under a blue weeping-willow , the other with this please verse , each word be do in a different color , which give the effect of a distracted rainbow : `` This sampler neat be work by me , In my twelfth year , Prudence B. '' Both roll up their sleeve , put on their large apron , and get out all the spoon , dish , pot , and pan they could find , `` so a to have everything handy , '' a Prue say .
`` Now , sister , we 'll have dinner at five ; Pa will be here by that time if he be come to-night , and be so surprised to find u all ready , for he wo n't have have any very nice victual if Gran ` ma be so sick , '' say Tilly importantly .
`` I shall give the child a piece at noon '' -LRB- Tilly mean luncheon -RRB- ; `` doughnut and cheese , with apple-pie and cider will please 'em .
There 's bean for Eph ; he like cold pork , so we wo n't stop to warm it up , for there 's lot to do , and I do n't mind say to you I 'm dreadful dubersome about the turkey . ''
`` It 's all ready but the stuffing , and roast be as easy a can be .
I can baste first rate .
Ma always like to have me , I 'm so patient and stiddy , she say , '' answer Prue , for the responsibility of this great undertaking do not rest upon her , so she take a cheerful view of thing .
`` I know , but it 's the stuffin ' that trouble me , '' say Tilly , rub her round elbow a she eye the immense fowl lay out on a platter before her .
`` I do n't know how much I want , nor what sort of yarbs to put in , and he 's so awful big , I 'm kind of afraid of him . ''
`` I ai n't !
I feed him all summer , and he never gobble at me .
I feel real mean to be think of gobble him , poor old chap , '' laugh Prue , pat her departed pet with an air of mingle affection and appetite .
`` Well , I 'll get the puddin ' off my mind fust , for it ought to bile all day .
Put the big kettle on , and see that the spit be clean , while I get ready . ''
Prue obediently tug away at the crane , with it black hook , from which hang the iron tea-kettle and three-legged pot ; then she settle the long spit in the groove make for it in the tall andiron , and put the dripping-pan underneath , for in those day meat be roast a it should be , not bake in oven .
Meantime Tilly attack the plum-pudding .
She felt pretty sure of come out right , here , for she have see her mother do it so many time , it look very easy .
So in go suet and fruit ; all sort of spice , to be sure she get the right one , and brandy instead of wine .
But she forget both sugar and salt , and tie it in the cloth so tightly that it have no room to swell , so it would come out as heavy a lead and as hard a a cannon-ball , if the bag do not burst and spoil it all .
Happily unconscious of these mistake , Tilly pop it into the pot , and proudly watch it bob about before she put the cover on and leave it to it fate .
`` I ca n't remember what flavorin ' Ma put in , '' she say , when she have get her bread well soak for the stuffing .
`` Sage and onion and apple-sauce go with goose , but I ca n't feel sure of anything but pepper and salt for a turkey . ''
`` Ma put in some kind of mint , I know , but I forget whether it be spearmint , peppermint , or penny-royal , '' answer Prue , in a tone of doubt , but try to show her knowledge of `` yarbs , '' or , at least , of their name .
`` Seems to me it 's sweet marjoram or summer savory .
I guess we 'll put both in , and then we be sure to be right .
The best be up garret ; you run and get some , while I mash the bread , '' command Tilly , dive into the mess .
Away trot Prue , but in her haste she get catnip and wormwood , for the garret be darkish , and Prue 's little nose be so full of the smell of the onion she have be peel , that everything smelt of them .
Eager to be of use , she pound up the herb and scatter the mixture with a liberal hand into the bowl .
`` It do n't smell just right , but I suppose it will when it be cook , '' say Tilly , a she fill the empty stomach , that seem ache for food , and sew it up with the blue yarn , which happen to be handy .
She forget to tie down his leg and wing , but she set him by till his hour come , well satisfied with her work .
`` Shall we roast the little pig , too ?
I think he 'd look nice with a necklace of sausage , a Ma fix one last Christmas , '' ask Prue , elate with their success .
`` I could n't do it .
I love that little pig , and cry when he be kill .
I should feel a if I be roast the baby , '' answer Tilly , glance toward the buttery where piggy hung , look so pink and pretty it certainly do seem cruel to eat him .
It take a long time to get all the vegetable ready , for , a the cellar be full , the girl think they would have every sort .
Eph help , and by noon all be ready for cooking , and the cranberry-sauce , a good deal scorch , be cool in the lean-to .
Luncheon be a lively meal , and doughnut and cheese vanish in such quantity that Tilly fear no one would have an appetite for her sumptuous dinner .
The boy assure her they would be starve by five o'clock , and Sol mourn bitterly over the little pig that be not to be serve up .
`` Now you all go and coast , while Prue and I set the table and get out the best chiny , '' say Tilly , bent on have her dinner look well , no matter what it other failing might be .
Out come the rough sled , on go the round hood , old hat , red cloak , and moccasin , and away trudge the four young Bassetts , to disport themselves in the snow , and try the ice down by the old mill , where the great wheel turn and splash so merrily in the summer-time .
Eph take his fiddle and scrap away to his heart 's content in the parlor , while the girl , after a short rest , set the table and make all ready to dish up the dinner when that excite moment come .
It be not at all the sort of table we see now , but would look very plain and countrified to u , with it green-handled knife and two-pronged steel fork ; it red-and-white china , and pewter platter , scour till they shine , with mug and spoon to match , and a brown jug for the cider .
The cloth be coarse , but white a snow , and the little maid have see the blue-eyed flax grow , out of which their mother wove the linen they have watch and water while it bleach in the green meadow .
They have no napkin and little silver ; but the best tankard and Ma 's few wedding spoon be set forth in state .
Nuts and apple at the corner give an air , and the place of honor be leave in the middle for the orange yet to come .
`` Do n't it look beautiful ? ''
say Prue , when they pause to admire the general effect .
`` Pretty nice , I think .
I wish Ma could see how well we can do it , '' begin Tilly , when a loud howling startle both girl , and send them fly to the window .
The short afternoon have pass so quickly that twilight have come before they know it , and now , a they look out through the gathering dusk , they saw four small black figure tear up the road , to come bursting in , all scream at once : `` The bear , the bear !
Eph , get the gun !
He 's coming , he 's come ! ''
Eph have drop his fiddle , and get down his gun before the girl could calm the child enough to tell their story , which they do in a somewhat incoherent manner .
`` Down in the holler , coastin ' , we hear a growl , '' begin Sol , with his eye as big a saucer .
`` I see him fust lookin ' over the wall , '' roar Seth , eager to get his share of honor .
`` Awful big and shaggy , '' quaver Roxy , cling to Tilly , while Rhody hide in Prue 's skirt , and pip out : `` His great paws keep claw at u , and I be so scared my leg would hardly go . ''
`` We run away as fast a we could go , and he come growling after u .
He 's awful hungry , and he 'll eat every one of u if he get in , '' continue Sol , look about him for a safe retreat .
`` Oh , Eph , do n't let him eat u , '' cry both little girl , fly up stair to hide under their mother 's bed , a their sure shelter .
`` No danger of that , you little geese .
I 'll shoot him as soon a he come .
Get out of the way , boy , '' and Eph raise the window to get good aim .
`` There he be !
Fire away , and do n't miss ! ''
cry Seth , hastily follow Sol , who have climb to the top of the dresser a a good perch from which to view the approaching fray .
Prue retire to the hearth a if bent on die at her post rather than desert the turkey , now `` brown beautiful , '' a she express it .
But Tilly boldly stand at the open window , ready to lend a hand if the enemy prove too much for Eph .
All have see bear , but none have ever come so near before , and even brave Eph felt that the big brown beast slowly trot up the door-yard be an unusually formidable specimen .
He be growl horribly , and stop now and then a if to rest and shake himself .
`` Get the ax , Tilly , and if I should miss , stand ready to keep him off while I load again , '' say Eph , anxious to kill his first bear in style and alone ; a girl 's help do n't count .
Tilly fly for the ax , and be at her brother 's side by the time the bear be near enough to be dangerous .
He stand on his hind leg , and seem to sniff with relish the savory odor that pour out of the window .
`` Fire , Eph ! ''
cry Tilly , firmly .
`` Wait till he rear again .
I 'll get a good shot , then , '' answer the boy , while Prue cover her ear to shut out the bang , and the small boy cheer from their dusty refuge up among the pumpkin .
But a very singular thing happen next , and all who saw it stand amaze , for suddenly Tilly throw down the ax , flung open the door , and run straight into the arm of the bear , who stand erect to receive her , while his growling change to a loud `` Haw , haw ! ''
that startle the child more than the report of a gun .
`` It 's Gad Hopkins , tryin ' to fool u ! ''
cry Eph , much disgust at the loss of his prey , for these hardy boy love to hunt , and pride themselves on the number of wild animal and bird they could shoot in a year .
`` Oh , Gad , how could you scare u so ? ''
laugh Tilly , still hold fast in one shaggy arm of the bear , while the other draw a dozen orange from some deep pocket in the buffalo-skin coat , and fire them into the kitchen with such good aim that Eph duck , Prue scream , and Sol and Seth come down much quick than they go up .
`` Wal , you see I get upsot over yonder , and the old horse go home while I be flounder in a drift , so I tie on the buffalers to tote 'em easy , and come along till I see the child playin ' in the holler .
I jest mean to give 'em a little scare , but they run like partridge , and I kep ' up the joke to see how Eph would like this sort of company , '' and Gad haw-hawed again .
`` You 'd have have a warm welcome if we have n't find you out .
I 'd have put a bullet through you in a jiffy , old chap , '' say Eph , come out to shake hand with the young giant , who be only a year or two old than himself .
`` Come in and set up to dinner with u .
Prue and I have do it all ourselves , and Pa will be along soon , I reckon , '' cry Tilly , try to escape .
`` Could n't , no way .
My folk will think I 'm dead ef I do n't get along home , sence the horse and sleigh have go ahead empty .
I 've do my arrant and have my joke ; now I want my pay , Tilly , '' and Gad take a hearty kiss from the rosy cheek of his `` little sweetheart , '' a he call her .
His own cheek tingle with the smart slap she give him a she run away , call out that she hat bear and would bring her ax next time .
`` I ai n't afeared ; your sharp eye find me out ; and ef you run into a bear 's arm you must expect a hug , '' answer Gad , a he push back the robe and settle his fur cap more becomingly .
`` I should have know you in a minute if I have n't be asleep when the girl squall .
You do it well , though , and I advise you not to try it again in a hurry , or you 'll get shot , '' say Eph , a they part , he rather crestfallen and Gad in high glee .
`` My sake alive -- the turkey be burnt one side , and the kettle have biled over so the pie I put to warm be all ash ! ''
scold Tilly , a the flurry subside and she remember her dinner .
`` Well , I ca n't help it .
I could n't think of victual when I expect to be eat alive myself , could I ? ''
plead poor Prue , who have tumble into the cradle when the rain of orange begin .
Tilly laugh , and all the rest join in , so good humor be restore , and the spirit of the young one be revive by suck from the one orange which pass from hand to hand with great rapidity , while the old girl dish up the dinner .
They be just struggle to get the pudding out of the cloth when Roxy call out , `` Here 's Pa ! ''
`` There 's folk with him , '' add Rhody .
`` Lots of 'em !
I see two big sleigh chock full , '' shout Seth , peer through the dusk .
`` It look like a semintary .
Guess Gramma 's dead and come up to be bury here , '' say Sol in a solemn tone .
This startling suggestion make Tilly , Prue , and Eph hasten to look out , full of dismay at such an end of their festival .
`` If that be a funeral , the mourner be uncommon jolly , '' say Eph , drily , a merry voice and loud laughter break the white silence without .
`` I see Aunt Cinthy , and Cousin Hetty -- and there 's Mose and Amos .
I do declare , Pa 's bringin ' 'em all home to have some fun here , '' cry Prue , a she recognize one familiar face after another .
`` Oh , my patience !
Ai n't I glad I get dinner , and do n't I hope it will turn out good ! ''
exclaim Tilly , while the twin prance with delight , and the small boy roar : `` Hooray for Pa !
Hooray for Thanksgivin ' ! ''
The cheer be answer heartily , and in come Father , Mother , Baby , aunt and cousin , all in great spirit , and all much surprise to find such a festive welcome await them .
`` Ai n't Gran ` ma dead at all ? ''
ask Sol , in the midst of the kissing and hand-shaking .
`` Bless your heart , no !
It be all a mistake of old Mr. Chadwick 's .
He 's as deaf a an adder , and when Mrs. Brooks tell him Mother be mendin ' fast , and she want me to come down to-day , certain sure , he get the message all wrong , and give it to the fust person passin ' in such a way a to scare me ` most to death , and send u down in a hurry .
Mother be sittin ' up as chirk a you please , and dreadful sorry you do n't all come . ''
`` So , to keep the house quiet for her , and give you a taste of the fun , your Pa fetch u all up to spend the evenin ' , and we be goin ' to have a jolly time o n't , to jedge by the look of thing , '' say Aunt Cinthy , briskly finish the tale when Mrs. Bassett pause for want of breath .
`` What in the world put it into your head we be comin ' , and set you to gettin ' up such a supper ? ''
ask Mr. Bassett , look about him , well pleased and much surprise at the plentiful table .
Tilly modestly begin to tell , but the others break in and sing her praise in a sort of chorus , in which bear , pig , pie , and orange be oddly mixed .
Great satisfaction be express by all , and Tilly and Prue be so elate by the commendation of Ma and the aunt , that they set forth their dinner , sure everything be perfect .
But when the eating begin , which it do the moment wrap be off , then their pride get a fall ; for the first person who taste the stuff -LRB- it be big Cousin Mose , and that make it hard to bear -RRB- nearly choke over the bitter morsel .
`` Tilly Bassett , whatever make you put wormwood and catnip in your stuffin ' ? ''
demand Ma , try not to be severe , for all the rest be laugh , and Tilly look ready to cry .
`` I do it , '' say Prue , nobly take all the blame , which cause Pa to kiss her on the spot , and declare that it do n't do a might of harm , for the turkey be all right .
`` I never see onion cook well .
All the vegetable be well do , and the dinner a credit to you , my dear , '' declare Aunt Cinthy , with her mouth full of the fragrant vegetable she praise .
The pudding be an utter failure , in spite of the blazing brandy in which it lay -- a hard and heavy a one of the stone ball on Squire Dunkin 's great gate .
It be speedily whisk out of sight , and all fell upon the pie , which be perfect .
But Tilly and Prue be much depress , and do n't recover their spirit till the dinner be over and the evening fun well under way .
`` Blind-man 's buff , '' `` Hunt the slipper , '' `` Come , Philander , '' and other lively game soon set every one bubbling over with jollity , and when Eph strike up `` Money Musk '' on his fiddle , old and young fell into their place for a dance .
All down the long kitchen they stand , Mr. and Mrs. Bassett at the top , the twin at the bottom , and then away they go , heel and toeing , cut pigeon-wings , and take their step in a way that would convulse modern child with their new-fangled romp call dancing .
Mose and Tilly cover themselves with glory by the vigor with which they keep it up , till fat Aunt Cinthy fell into a chair , breathlessly declare that a very little of such exercise be enough for a woman of her `` heft . ''
Apples and cider , chat and singing , finish the evening , and after a grand kiss all round , the guest drive away in the clear moonlight which come just in time to cheer their long drive .
When the jingle of the last bell have die away , Mr. Bassett say soberly , a they stand together on the hearth : `` Children , we have special cause to be thankful that the sorrow we expect be change into joy , so we 'll read a chapter ` fore we go to bed , and give thanks where thanks be due . ''
Then Tilly set out the light-stand with the big Bible on it , and a candle on each side , and all sit quietly in the fire-light , smile a they listen with happy heart to the sweet old word that fit all time and season so beautifully .
When the good-nights be over , and the child in bed , Prue put her arm around Tilly and whisper tenderly , for she felt her shake , and be sure she be cry : `` Do n't mind about the old stuffin ' and puddin ' , deary -- nobody care , and Ma say we really do do surprisin ' well for such young girl . ''
The laughter Tilly be try to smother broke out then , and be so infectious , Prue could not help join her , even before she know the cause of the merriment .
`` I be mad about the mistake , but do n't care enough to cry .
I 'm laugh to think how Gad fool Eph and I find him out .
I think Mose and Amos would have die over it when I tell them , it be so funny , '' explain Tilly , when she get her breath .
`` I be so scared that when the first orange hit me , I think it be a bullet , and scrabble into the cradle as fast a I could .
It be real mean to frighten the little one so , '' laugh Prue , a Tilly give a growl .
Here a smart rap on the wall of the next room cause a sudden lull in the fun , and Mrs. Bassett 's voice be hear , say warningly , `` Girls , go to sleep immediate , or you 'll wake the baby . ''
`` Yes 'm , '' answer two meek voice , and after a few irrepressible giggle , silence reign , break only by an occasional snore from the boy , or the soft scurry of mouse in the buttery , take their part in this old-fashioned Thanksgiving .
II .
HOW IT ALL HAPPENED .
It be a small room , with nothing in it but a bed , two chair , and a big chest .
A few little gown hung on the wall , and the only picture be the wintry sky , sparkle with star , frame by the uncurtained window .
But the moon , pause to peep , saw something pretty and hear something pleasant .
Two head in little round nightcap lay on one pillow , two pair of wide-awake blue eye star up at the light , and two tongue be go like mill clapper .
`` I 'm so glad we get our shirt do in time !
It seem a if we never should , and I do n't think six cent be half enough for a great red flannel thing with four button-holes -- do you ? ''
say one little voice , rather wearily .
`` No ; but then we each make four , and fifty cent be a good deal of money .
Are you sorry we do n't keep our quarter for ourselves ? ''
ask the other voice , with an under-tone of regret in it .
`` Yes , I be , till I think how please the child will be with our tree , for they do n't expect anything , and will be so surprised .
I wish we have more toy to put on it , for it look so small and mean with only three or four thing . ''
`` It wo n't hold any more , so I would n't worry about it .
The toy be very red and yellow , and I guess the baby wo n't know how cheap they be , but like them as much a if they cost heap of money . ''
This be a cheery voice , and a it speak the four blue eye turn toward the chest under the window , and the kind moon do her best to light up the tiny tree stand there .
A very pitiful little tree it be -- only a branch of hemlock in an old flower-pot , prop up with bit of coal , and hung with a few penny toy earn by the patient finger of the elder sister , that the little one should not be disappoint .
But in spite of the magical moonlight the broken branch , with it scanty supply of fruit , look pathetically poor , and one pair of eye fill slowly with tear , while the other pair lose their happy look , a if a cloud have come over the sunshine .
`` Are you cry , Dolly ? ''
`` Not much , Polly . ''
`` What make you , dear ? ''
`` I do n't know how poor we be till I saw the tree , and then I could n't help it , '' sob the elder sister , for at twelve she already know something of the care of poverty , and miss the happiness that seem to vanish out of all their life when father die .
`` It 's dreadful !
I never think we 'd have to earn our tree , and only be able to get a broken branch , after all , with nothing on it but three stick of candy , two squeak dog , a red cow , and an ugly bird with one feather in it tail ; '' and overcome by a sudden sense of destitution , Polly sob even more despairingly than Dolly .
`` Hush , dear ; we must cry softly , or mother will hear , and come up , and then we shall have to tell .
You know we say we would n't seem to mind not have any Christmas , she felt so sorry about it . ''
`` I must cry , but I 'll be quiet . ''
So the two head go under the pillow for a few minute , and not a sound betray them a the little sister cry softly in one another 's arm , l mother should discover that they be no long careless child , but brave young creature try to bear their share of the burden cheerfully .
When the shower be over , the face come out shin like rose after rain , and the voice go on again a before .
`` Do n't you wish there really be a Santa Claus , who know what we want , and would come and put two silver half-dollars in our stocking , so we could go and see Puss in Boots at the Museum to-morrow afternoon ? ''
`` Yes , indeed ; but we do n't hang up any stocking , you know , because mother have nothing to put in them .
It do seem a if rich people might think of poor people now and then .
Such little bit of thing would make u happy , and it could n't be much trouble to take two small girl to the play , and give them candy now and then . '' ''
I shall when I 'm rich , like Mr. Chrome and Miss Kent .
I shall go round every Christmas with a big basket of goody , and give all the poor child some . ''
`` P ` r ` aps if we sew ever so many flannel shirt we may be rich by-and-by .
I should give mother a new bonnet first of all , for I hear Miss Kent say no lady would wear such a shabby one .
Mrs. Smith say fine bonnet do n't make real lady .
I like her best , but I do want a locket like Miss Kent 's . ''
`` I should give mother some new rubber , and then I should buy a white apron , with frill like Miss Kent 's , and bring home nice bunch of grape and good thing to eat , a Mr. Chrome do .
I often smell them , but he never give me any ; he only say , ` Hullo , chick ! '
and I 'd rather have orange any time . ''
`` It will take u a long while to get rich , I 'm afraid .
It make me tired to think of it .
I guess we 'd well go to sleep now , dear . ''
`` Good-night , Dolly . ''
`` Good-night , Polly . ''
Two soft kiss be heard , a nestle sound follow , and presently the little sister lay fast asleep cheek against cheek , on the pillow wet with their tear , never dream what be go to happen to them to-morrow .
Now Miss Kent 's room be next to theirs , and a she sit sew she could hear the child 's talk , for they soon forget to whisper .
At first she smile , then she look sober , and when the prattle cease she say to herself , a she glance about her pleasant chamber : `` Poor little thing !
they think I 'm rich , and envy me , when I 'm only a milliner earn my living .
I ought to have take more notice of them , for their mother have a hard time , I fancy , but never complains .
I 'm sorry they hear what I say , and if I know how to do it without offend her , I 'd trim a nice bonnet for a Christmas gift , for she be a lady , in spite of her old clothes .
I can give the child some of the thing they want anyhow , and I will .
The idea of those mite make a fortune out of shirt at six cent apiece ! ''
Miss Kent laugh at the innocent delusion , but sympathize with her little neighbor , for she know all about hard time .
She have good wage now , but spend them on herself , and like to be fine rather than neat .
Still , she be a good-hearted girl , and what she have overheard set her to think soberly , then to act kindly , a we shall see .
`` If I have n't spend all my money on my dress for the party to-morrow night , I 'd give each of them a half-dollar .
As I can not , I 'll hunt up the other thing they want , for it 's a shame they should n't have a bit of Christmas , when they try so hard to please the little one . ''
As she speak she stir about her room , and soon have a white apron , an old carnelian heart on a fresh blue ribbon , and two paper of bonbon ready .
As no stocking be hang up , she lay a clean towel on the floor before the door , and spread forth the small gift to look their best .
Miss Kent be so busy that she do not hear a step come quietly up stair , and Mr. Chrome , the artist , peep at her through the baluster , wonder what she be about .
He soon saw , and watch her with pleasure , think that she never look pretty than now .
Presently she catch him at it , and hasten to explain , tell what she have hear , and how she be try to atone for her past neglect of these young neighbor .
Then she say good-night , and both go into their room , she to sleep happily , and he to smoke a usual .
But his eye keep turn to some of the `` nice little bundle '' that lay on his table , a if the story he have hear suggest how he might follow Miss Kent 's example .
I rather think he would not have disturb himself if he have not hear the story tell in such a soft voice , with a pair of bright eye full of pity look into his , for little girl be not particularly interesting to him , and he be usually too tired to notice the industrious creature toil up and down stair on various errand , or sew at the long red seam .
Now that he know something of their small trouble , he felt a if it would please Miss Kent , and be a good joke , to do his share of the pretty work she have begin .
So presently he jump up , and , open his parcel , take out two orange and two bunch of grape , then he look up two silver half-dollars , and steal into the hall , lay the fruit upon the towel , and the money atop of the orange .
This addition improve the display very much , and Mr. Chrome be steal back , well pleased , when his eye fell on Miss Kent 's door , and he say to himself , `` She too shall have a little surprise , for she be a dear , kind-hearted soul . ''
In his room be a prettily paint plate , and this he fill with green and purple grape , tuck a sentimental note underneath , and leave it on her threshold , creep away as stealthily a a burglar .
The house be very quiet when Mrs. Smith , the landlady , come up to turn off the gas .
`` Well , upon my word , here 's fine doings , to be sure ! ''
she say , when she saw the state of the upper hall .
`` Now I would n't have think it of Miss Kent , she be such a giddy girl , nor of Mr. Chrome , he be so busy with his own affair .
I mean to give those child each a cake to-morrow , they be such good little thing .
I 'll run down and get them now , a my contribution to this fine set out . ''
Away trot Mrs. Smith to her pantry , and pick out a couple of tempt cake , shape like heart and full of plum .
There be a goodly array of pie on the shelf , and she take two of them , say , a she climb the stair again , `` They remember the child , so I 'll remember them , and have my share of the fun . ''
So up go the pie , for Mrs. Smith have not much to give , and her spirit be generous , though her pastry be not of the best .
It look very droll to see pie sit about on the threshold of closed door , but the cake be quite elegant , and fill up the corner of the towel handsomely , for the apron lay in the middle , with the orange right and leave , like two sentinel in yellow uniform .
It be very late when the flicker of a candle come up stair , and a pale lady , with a sweet sad face , appear , bring a pair of red and a pair of blue mitten for her Dolly and Polly .
Poor Mrs. Blake do have a hard time , for she stand all day in a great store that she might earn bread for the poor child who staid at home and take care of one another .
Her heart be very heavy that night , because it be the first Christmas she have ever know without gift and festivity of some sort .
But Petkin , the young child , have be ill , time be very hard , the little mouth gap for food like the bill of hungry bird , and there be no tender mate to help fill them .
If any elf have be hover about the dingy hall just then , they would have see the mother 's tired face brighten beautifully when she discover the gift , and find that her little girl have be so kindly remember .
Something more brilliant than the mock diamond in Miss Kent 's best earring fell and glitter on the dusty floor a Mrs. Blake add the mitten to the other thing , and go to her lonely room again , smile a she think how she could thank them all in a sweet and simple way .
Her window be full of flower , for the delicate taste of the poor lady find great comfort in their beauty .
`` I have nothing else to give , and these will show how grateful I be , '' she say , a she rejoice that the scarlet geranium be so full of gay cluster , the white chrysanthemum star be all out , and the pink roses at their lovely .
They sleep now , dream of a sunny morrow a they sit safely shelter from the bitter cold .
But that night be their last , for a gentle hand cut them all , and soon three pretty nosegay stand in a glass , wait for dawn , to be lay at three door , with a few grateful word which would surprise and delight the receiver , for flower be rare in those hard-working life , and kind deed often come back to the giver in fairer shape than they go .
Now one would think that there have be gift enough , and no more could possibly arrive , since all have add his or her mite except Betsey , the maid , who be off on a holiday , and the baby fast asleep in their trundle-bed , with nothing to give but love and kiss .
Nobody dream that the old cat would take it into her head that her kitten be in danger , because Mrs. Smith have say she think they be nearly old enough to be give away .
But she must have understood , for when all be dark and still , the anxious mother go pat up stair to the child 's door , mean to hide her baby under their bed , sure they would save them from destruction .
Mrs. Blake have shut the door , however , so poor Puss be disappoint ; but find a soft , clean spot among a variety of curious article , she lay her kit there , and keep them warm all night , with her head pillow on the blue mitten .
In the cold morning Dolly and Polly get up and scramble into their clothes , not with joyful haste to see what their stocking hold , for they have none , but because they have the little one to dress while mother get the breakfast .
Dolly open the door , and start back with a cry of astonishment at the lovely spectacle before her .
The other people have take in their gift , so nothing destroy the magnificent effect of the treasure so curiously collect in the night .
Puss have leave her kit asleep , and go down to get her own breakfast , and there , in the middle of the ruffled apron , a if in a dainty cradle , lay the two Maltese darling , with white bib and boot on , and white tip to the tiny tail curl round their little nose in the sweet way .
Polly and Dolly could only clasp their hand and look in rapturous silence for a minute ; then they go down on their knee and revel in the unexpected richness before them .
`` I do believe there be a Santa Claus , and that he hear u , for here be everything we want , '' say Dolly , hold the carnelian heart in one hand and the plummy one in the other .
`` It must have be some kind of a fairy , for we do n't mention kitten , but we want one , and here be two darling , '' cry Polly , almost purr with delight a the downy bunch unroll and gap till their bit of pink tongue be visible .
`` Mrs. Smith be one fairy , I guess , and Miss Kent be another , for that be her apron .
I should n't wonder if Mr. Chrome give u the orange and the money : men always have lot , and his name be on this bit of paper , '' say Dolly .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad !
Now we shall have a Christmas like other people , and I 'll never say again that rich folk do n't remember poor folk .
Come and show all our treasure to mother and the baby ; they must have some , '' answer Polly , feel that the world be all right , and life not half as hard a she think it last night .
Shrieks of delight greet the sister , and all that morning there be joy and feasting in Mrs. Blake 's room , and in the afternoon Dolly and Polly go to the Museum , and actually saw Puss in Boots ; for their mother insist on their go , have discover how the hard-earned quarter have be spend .
This be such unhoped-for bliss that they could hardly believe it , and keep smile at one another so brightly that people wonder who the happy little girl in shabby cloak could be who clap their new mitten so heartily , and laugh till it be well than music to hear them .
This be a very remarkable Christmas-day , and they long remember it ; for while they be absorb in the fortune of the Marquis of Carabas and the funny cat , who tuck his tail in his belt , wash his face so awkwardly , and do n't know how to purr , strange thing be happen at home , and more surprise be in store for our little friend .
You see , when people once begin to do kindness , it be so easy and pleasant they find it hard to leave off ; and sometimes it beautify them so that they find they love one another very much -- a Mr. Chrome and Miss Kent do , though we have nothing to do with that except to tell how they make the poor little tree grow and blossom .
They be very jolly at dinner , and talk a good deal about the Blakes , who eat in their own room .
Miss Kent tell what the child say , and it touch the soft spot in all their heart to hear about the red shirt , though they laugh at Polly 's lament over the bird with only one feather in it tail .
`` I 'd give them a good tree if I have any place to put it , and know how to trim it up , '' say Mr. Chrome , with a sudden burst of generosity , which so pleased Miss Kent that her eye shine like Christmas candle .
`` Put it in the back parlor .
All the Browns be away for a week , and we 'll help you trim it -- wo n't we , my dear ? ''
cried Mrs. Smith , warmly ; for she saw that he be in a sociable mood , and think it a pity that the Blakes should not profit by it .
`` Yes , indeed ; I should like it of all thing , and it need n't cost much , for I have some skill in trimming , a you know . ''
And Miss Kent look so gay and pretty a she speak that Mr. Chrome make up his mind that millinery must be a delightful occupation .
`` Come on then , lady , and we 'll have a little frolic .
I 'm a lonely old bachelor , with nowhere to go to-day , and I 'd like some fun . ''
They have it , I assure you ; for they all fell to work as busy a bee , fly and buzz about with much laughter a they work their pleasant miracle .
Mr. Chrome act more like the father of a large family than a crusty bachelor , Miss Kent 's skillful finger fly a they never do before , and Mrs. Smith trot up and down as briskly a if she be sixteen instead of be a stout old woman of sixty .
The child be so full of the play , and tell all about it , that they forget their tree till after supper ; but when they go to look for it they find it go , and in it place a great paper hand with one finger point down stair , and on it these mysterious word in red ink : `` Look in the Browns ' back parlor ! ''
At the door of that interest apartment they find their mother with Will and Petkin , for another hand have suddenly appear to them point up .
The door fly open quite a if it be a fairy play , and they go in to find a pretty tree plant in a red box on the centre table , light with candle , hung with gilded nut , red apple , gay bonbon , and a gift for each .
Mr. Chrome be hide behind one folding-door , and fat Mrs. Smith squeeze behind the other , and they both think it a great improvement upon the old-fashioned Santa Claus to have Miss Kent , in the white dress she make for the party , with Mrs. Blake 's rose in her hair , step forward a the child gaze in silent rapture , and with a few sweet word welcome them to the little surprise their friend have make .
There be many Christmas tree in the city that night , but none which give such hearty pleasure a the one which so magically take the place of the broken branch and it few poor toy .
They be all there , however , and Dolly and Polly be immensely pleased to see that of all her gift Petkin choose the forlorn bird to carry to bed with her , the one yellow feather be just to her taste .
Mrs. Blake put on her neat bonnet , and be so gratified that Miss Kent think it the most successful one she ever trim .
She be well pay for it by the thanks of one neighbor and the admiration of another ; for when she go to her party Mr. Chrome go with her , and say something on the way which make her heart dance more lightly than her foot that night .
Good Mrs. Smith felt that her house have cover itself with glory by this event , and Dolly and Polly declare that it be the most perfect and delightful surprise party ever see .
It be all over by nine o'clock , and with good-night kiss for every one the little girl climb up to bed laden with treasure and too happy for many word .
But a they tie their round cap Dolly say , thoughtfully : `` On the whole , I think it 's rather nice to be poor when people be kind to you . ''
`` Well , I 'd rather be rich ; but if I ca n't be , it be very good fun to have Christmas tree like this one , '' answer truthful Polly , never guess that they have plant the seed from which the little pine-tree grow so quickly and beautifully .
When the moon come to look in at the window on her nightly round , two smile face lay on the pillow , which be no longer wet with tear , but rather knobby with the mine of rich hidden underneath , -- first fruit of the neighborly friendship which flourish in that house until another and a merry Christmas come .
III .
THE DOLLS ' JOURNEY FROM MINNESOTA TO MAINE .
Mr . Plum live in St. Paul , Minnesota , U.S.A. .
There be six little Plums , all girl , vary in age from fourteen to seven , and name Kate , Lucy , Susy , Lizzy , Marjory and Maggie .
There be no mamma , but Mrs. Gibbs , the housekeeper , be a kind old soul , and papa do everything he could to make the small daughter good and happy .
One stormy Saturday afternoon the child be all together in the school-room , and papa busy at his desk in the library , with the door open because he like to hear the pleasant voice and catch glimpse of the droll play that go on there .
Kate lay on the sofa read `` The Daisy Chain '' for the fourth time .
Susy , Lucy and Lizzie be have a select tea party in their own recess , the entrance to which be barricade with chair to keep out the `` baby , '' a they call the little one , who be much offend at be exclude and sit up in the cushioned window-seat pensively watch the rain .
`` If it have only wait till to-morrow we should have have time for our journey ; now we ca n't go till next Saturday .
Flora be so disappointed she would cry if I have not teach her to behave , '' say Maggie with a sigh , a she survey the doll on her knee in it new summer suit .
`` So be Dora .
Just see how sweet she look with her hat and cape on and her travelling-bag all ready .
Could n't we play travel in the house ?
It be such a pity to wait when the child be in such a hurry to go , '' answer Marjory , settle the tiny bag that hold Dora 's nightcap and gown as well a the morsel of cake that be to serve for her lunch .
`` No , '' say Maggie decidedly , `` we ca n't do it , because there be no room for carriage , and boat , and railroad , and hotel , and accident .
It be a long journey from Minnesota to Maine , and we could n't get it all into one room I 'm sure . ''
`` I do n't think papa would mind our come into the library , if we do n't ring the car bell very loud or scream much when the accident happen , '' say Marjory , who hat to give up the plan they have be cherish all the week .
`` What be it , little one ?
Come and tell me what be the matter , '' call Mr . Plum , hear his name and the magic word `` railroad , '' for he be the president of one and have his hand full just then .
Down jump the little girl and run to perch on either arm of his chair , pour out their small tribulation as freely a if he have be the most sympathizing of mother .
`` We plan to take a long , long journey round the garden with our doll to-day , and play go to Maine and see Aunt Maria .
You know she ask u , and we look out the way on the map and get all ready , and now it rain and we be dreadfully disappointed , '' say Maggie , while Marjory sigh a she look at the red D. work on the inch square travelling-bag .
`` As you ca n't go , why not send the doll to make aunty a visit , and she will send them back when they get homesick , '' propose Mr . Plum , smile , a if a sudden idea have pop into his head .
`` Really ? ''
cry Maggie .
`` How could we ? ''
ask Marjory .
`` They could go and come by mail , and tell you all about their adventure when they get back , '' say papa .
Both child be speechless for a moment , then a the full splendor of this proposition dawn upon them they clap their hand , cry eagerly : `` We will !
we will !
Let 's do it at once . ''
`` What ?
where ?
who ? ''
ask Susy , Lucy and Lizzie , forget their tea party to run and see what be go on .
They be tell , and in their turn exclaim so loudly that Kate come to join in the fun .
After a great deal of talk and laughing , the doll be prepare for the long journey .
They be common wooden-headed dolly , a hand long , with stuffed body and stout leg ornament with very small foot in red and blue boot .
Dora be a blonde and Flora a brunette , otherwise they be just alike and nearly new .
Usually when people go travel they put on their hat and cloak , but these pilgrim , by papa 's advice , leave all encumbrance behind them , for they be to travel in a peculiar way , and blue gingham dress be choose for the expedition .
`` It be possible that they may never come back .
Accidents will happen you know .
Are you prepare for that ? ''
ask Mr . Plum , pause with the brown paper spread out before him .
`` I be , '' answer Maggie firmly , a she lay Flora on the table , her black eye star a if rather alarm at this sudden start .
Marjory hesitate a moment , clasp Dora to her bosom with a face full of maternal anxiety .
But Susy , Lucy and Lizzie cry : `` Let her go , do let her go , and if she be lose papa will give you a new doll . ''
`` Good-by , my darling dear .
Have a splendid time , and be sure you come back to me , '' whisper Marjory , with a tender farewell kiss a she give up her child .
All stand watch silently while papa tie the doll back to back with the ribbon Kate pull from her neck , then fold them carefully in strong brown paper , leave their head out that they might see the world a they go along .
Being carefully fasten up with several turn of cord , Mr . Plum direct the precious parcel to `` Miss Maria Plum , Portland , Maine .
With care . ''
Then it be weigh , stamp , and pronounce ready for the post .
`` I shall write and tell aunty they be come , because she will want to be prepare for such distinguished visitor , '' say papa , take up his pen with a glance at the six excite little face round him .
Silence reign while the letter be write , and a he seal it up Mr . Plum say solemnly , with his hand on the parcel : `` For the last time , shall they go ? ''
`` Yes ! ''
answer the Spartan mother with one voice , while the other sister dance round them , and Kate pat the curly head approvingly .
`` Going , go , go ! ''
answered papa a he whisk on his coat and hat , and slam the door behind him .
The child cluster at the window to see him set out on this momentous errand , and he often look back wave his umbrella at them , till he vanish round the corner , with a reassure pat on the pocket out of which dear Do and Flo pop their head for a last look at their sweet home .
`` Now let u take out poor old Lucinda and Rose Augusta to play with .
I know their feeling be hurt at our leave them for the new doll , '' say Maggie , rummage in the baby-house , whither Margery soon follow her to reinstate the old darling in the place of the departed new one .
`` Safely off , '' report Mr . Plum , when he come into tea , `` and we may expect to hear from them in a week or two .
Parcels go more slowly than letter , and this be Aunty 's busy season , so wait patiently and see what will happen . ''
`` We will , '' say the little girl ; and they do , but week after week go by and nothing be hear of the wanderer .
We , however , can follow them and learn much that their anxious mother never know .
As soon a Flora and Dora recover from the bewilderment occasion by the confusion of the post office , they find themselves in one of the many leathern mail bag rumble Eastward .
As it be perfectly dark they could not see their companion , so listen to the whispering and rustling that go on about them .
The newspaper all talk politics , and some of them use such bad language that the doll would have cover their ear , if their hand have not be tie down .
The letter be good behave and more interesting , for they tell one another the news they carry , because nothing be private in America , and even gum envelope can not keep gossip from leak out .
`` It be very interesting , but I should enjoy it more if I be not grind my nose against the rough side of this leather bag , '' whisper Dora , who lay undermost just then .
`` So should I , if a heavy book be not pinch my toe .
I 've try to kick it away , but it wo n't stir , and keep drone on about report and tariff and such dull thing , '' answer Flora , with a groan .
`` Do you like travel ? ''
ask Dora , presently , when the letter and paper fell asleep , lull by the motion of the car .
`` Not yet , but I shall when I can look about me .
This bundle near by say the mail be often sort in the car , and in that way we shall see something of the world , I hope , '' answer Flora , cheer up , for , like her mamma , she be of an enquire turn .
The doll take a nap of some hour , and be rouse by a general tumble out on a long shelf , where many other parcel lay , and lively men send letter and paper fly here and there a if a whirlwind be blow .
A long box lay beside the doll who stand nearly erect lean against a pile of paper .
Several hole be cut in the lid , and out of one of them be thrust a little black nose , a if try to get air .
`` Dear me !
what can be in it ? ''
say Flora , who be nearest .
`` I 'm a poor little alligator , go to a boy in Chicago , if you please , and I want my mother , '' sob a voice from the box , and there be a rap on the lid a of an agitated tail .
`` Mercy on u !
I hope we shall not have to travel with the monster , '' whisper Dora , try to see over her shoulder .
`` I 'm not afraid .
He ca n't be very dreadful , for the box be not any long than we be .
Natural history be very useful ; I 've hear mamma say so , and I shall talk with him while we rest here , '' answer Flo , nod toward the eye which now take the place of the nose .
So the little alligator tell her something of his home on the bank of a great river , where he be just learn to play happily with his brother and sister , when he be catch and send away to pine in captivity .
The doll comfort him as well a they could , and a pair of baby 's shoe travel in an envelope sympathize with him , while a shabby bundle direct to `` Michael Dolan , at Mrs. Judy Quin 's , next door to Mr. Pat Murphy , Boston , North street , '' tell them to `` Whisht and slape quite till they come forninst the place . ''
`` Such low people ! ''
whisper Do to Flo , and both stand primly silent till they be tumble into another mail bag , and go rattle on again with a new set of companion .
`` I hope that poor baby will go safely and the boy be good to him , '' say Flora , for the little alligator go with the live stock in some other way .
`` Thank goodness he do n't go with u !
I shall dream about that black nose and wink eye , I 'm sure .
The danger of travel be great , but we be safe and comfortable now , I think , '' and Dora settle down in a cozy corner of the bag , wonder when they should reach Chicago .
`` I like adventure and hope we shall have some , '' answer Flora , briskly , little dream how soon her wish be to be grant .
A few hour later there come a bump , a crash , a cry , and then all the mail bag roll one over the other with the car down an embankment into a river .
`` Now we be dead ! ''
shriek the poor doll , cling together a they hear the splash of water , the shouting of men , the splintering of wood , and the hiss of steam .
`` Do n't be frighten , lady , mail bag be always look after , '' say a large envelope with an official seal and the name of a Senator on it .
`` Any bone break , dear madam ? ''
ask a jaunty pink letter , with a scent of musk about it , evidently a love-letter .
`` I think one foot be hurt , and my clothes be drip , '' sigh Dora , faintly .
`` Water wo n't hurt calico , '' call out a magazine full of fashion plate , add dolefully , a it gay color begin to run , `` I shall be in a nice mess if I ever get out of this .
People will wear odd fashion if they follow me this time . ''
`` Hope they will telegraph news of this accident in time for the evening paper , '' say a dingy sheet call the `` Barahoo Thunderbolt , '' a it lay atop of the heap in it yellow wrapper .
`` Be calm , my friend , and wait with fortitude for death or deliverance , a I do . ''
With which philosophic remark `` The St. Louis Cosmos '' fold the page which for the first time since the paper be start , be not dry .
Here the water rise over the topmost letter and a moist silence prevail till a sudden jerk fish up the bag , and before the doll could recover their wit they be spread out on the floor of a mail car to dry , while several busy men sort and save such paper and letter a still hold together .
`` Now we shall see something , '' say Flora , feel the warm air blow over her a they spin along , for a slight accident like this do not delay the energetic Westerners a moment long than absolutely necessary .
`` I ca n't see you , dear , but I hope you look good than I do , for the yellow of my hair have wash into my eye and the red of my cheek be quite go , I 'm sure , '' answer Dora , a her wet dress flop in the breeze and the broken foot stick up show her that her blue boot be ruin .
`` I do n't care a bit how I look .
It 's great fun now we be safe .
Pop up your head and see the wide prairie fly past .
I do hope that poor baby get away and swam home to his mother .
The upset into the river be quite to his taste , I fancy , '' say Flora , who be much excite by her adventure and eager for more .
Presently one of the men set the doll up in the corner of a window to dry , and there they stand view the fine landscape with one eye while the other watch the scene of devastation within .
Everything be in great confusion after the accident , so it be not strange that the doll be not miss when they slowly slid low and low till a sudden lurch of the car send them out of the window to roll into a green field where cow be feed and child pick strawberry .
`` This be the end of u !
Here we shall lie and mould forget by everybody , '' say Dora , who always take a tragical view of thing .
`` Not a bit of it !
I see cow eat toward u and they may give u a lift .
I 've hear of their tossing people up , though I do n't know just how it 's do .
If they do n't , we be in the path and some of those child be sure to find u , '' answer Flora cheerfully , though she stand on her head with a bunch of burr prick her nose .
She be right .
A bright-eyed little German girl presently come trot along the path with a great basket full of berry on her head arrange in pretty pottle ready for the market .
Seeing the red cow sniff at a brown paper parcel she drive her away , pick it up and peep in at the open end .
The sight of two doll in such a place make her feel a if fairy have drop them there for her .
She could not read the direction and hurry home to show her treasure to her brother and sister of whom there be eight .
`` What will become of u now ! ''
exclaim Dora , a eager hand slip them out of the wrapper and smooth their damp skirt in a room that seem swarm with boy and girl of all size .
`` Do n't worry , we shall get on nicely , I 'm sure , and learn German of these young person .
It be a great relief to be able to stretch one 's limb and stand up , be n't it ? ''
answer Flora , undismayed by anything that have happen a yet .
`` Yes , dear , I love you but I be tire of be tie to you all day .
I hope we shall live through this noise and get a little rest , but I give up the idea of ever see Portland , '' answer Dora , star with all her blue eye at the display of musical instrument about the room , and long to stop her ear , for several of the child be play on the violin , flute , horn or harp .
They be street musician , and even the baby seem to be get ready to take part in the concert , for he sit on the floor beside an immense bass horn taller than himself , with his rosy lip at the mouth piece and his cheek puff out in vain attempt to make a `` boom !
boom ! ''
a brother Fritz do .
Flora be delight , and give skip on her red boot in time to the lively tooting of the boy , while the girl gaze at the lovely doll and jabber away with their yellow braid quiver with excitement .
The wrapper be lay aside till a neighbor who read English come in to translate it .
Meantime they enjoy the new toy immensely , and even despondent Dora be cheer up by the admiration she receive ; while they in their turn be deeply interested in the pretty doll ' furniture some of the child make .
Beds , table and chair cover the long bench , and round it sit the neat-handed little maiden glue , tack and trim , while they sing and chat at their work a busy and happy a a hive of bee .
All day the boy go about the street play , and in the evening troop off to the beer garden to play again , for they live in Chicago , and the doll have get so far on their way to Aunt Maria , a they soon discover .
For nearly two month they live happily with Minna , Gretchen and Nanerl , then they set out on their travel again , and this be the way it happen .
A little girl come to order a set of furniture for her new baby-house , and see two shabby doll repose in a fine bed she ask about them .
Her mamma spoke German so Minna tell how they be find , and show the old wrapper , say that they always mean to send the doll on their way but grow so fond of them they keep put it off .
`` I be go as far a New York very soon and will take them along if you like , for I think little Miss Maria Plum must have be expect her doll all this time .
Shall I ? ''
ask the mamma , a she read the address and saw the dash under `` With care , '' a if the dolly be of great importance to some one .
`` Ja , ja , '' answer Minna , glad to oblige a lady who buy two whole set of their best furniture and paid for it at once .
So again the doll be put in their brown paper cover and send away with farewell kiss .
`` This now be genteel and just suit me , '' say Dora , a they drive along with little Clara to the handsome house where she be stay .
`` I have a feeling that she be a spoilt child , and we shall not be a happy with her a with the dear Poppleheimers .
We shall see , '' answer Flora , wisely , for Clara have soon toss the doll into a corner and be fret because mamma would not buy her the big horn to blow on .
The party start for New York in a day or two , and to the delight of Flo and Do they be leave out of the trunk for Clara to play with on the way , her own waxen Blanche Marie Annabel be too delicate to be use .
`` Oh my patience , this be bad than tumble about in a mail-bag , '' groan Dora , after hour of great suffering , for Clara treat the poor doll a if they have no feeling .
She amuse herself with knock their head together , shut them in the window with their poor leg hang out , swing them by one arm , and draw line with a pencil all over their face till they look a if tattoo by savage .
Even brave Flora be wear out and long for rest , find her only comfort in say , `` I tell you so , '' when Clara bang them about , or drop them on the dusty floor to be trample on by pass foot .
There they be leave , and would have be sweep away if a little dog have not find them a the passenger be leave the car and carry them after his master , trot soberly along with the bundle in his mouth , for fortunately Clara have put them into the paper before she leave them , so they be still together in the trial of the journey .
`` Hullo , Jip , what have you get ? ''
ask the young man a the little dog jump up on the carriage seat and lay his load on his master 's knee , pant and wag his tail a if he have do something to be praise for .
`` Dolls , I declare !
What can a bachelor do with the poor thing ?
Wonder who Maria Plum be ?
Midge will like a look at them before we send them along ; '' and into the young man 's pocket they go , tremble with fear of the dog , but very grateful for be rescue from destruction .
Jip keep his eye on them , and give an occasional poke with his cold nose to be sure they be there a they drive through the bustle street of New York to a great house with an inscription over the door .
`` I do hope Midge will be a nicer girl than Clara .
Children ought to be teach to be kind to dumb doll as well a dumb animal , '' say Dora , a the young man run up the step and hurry along a wide hall .
`` I almost wish we be at home with our own kind little mother , '' begin Flo , for even her spirit be depress by bad treatment , but just then a door open and she cry out in amazement , `` Bless my heart , this man have more child than even Mr. Poppleheimer ! ''
She might well think so , for all down both side of the long room stand little white bed with a small pale face on every pillow .
All the eye that be open brighten when Jip and his master come in , and several thin hand be outstretched to meet them .
`` I 've be good , Doctor , let me pat him first , '' cry one childish voice .
`` Did you bring me a flower , please ? ''
ask another feeble one .
`` I know he 's get something nice for u , I see a bundle in his pocket , '' and a little fellow who sit up among his pillow give a joyful cough a he could not shout .
`` Two dolly for Midge to play with .
Jip find them , but I think the little girl they be go to will lend them for a few day .
We shall not need them long I 'm afraid , '' add the young man to a rosy faced nurse who come along with a bottle in her hand .
`` Dear no , the poor child be very low to-day .
But she will love to look at the baby if she be n't strong enough to hold 'em , '' say the woman , lead the way to a corner where the palest of all the pale face lay smile on the pillow , and the thinnest of the thin hand be feebly put up to greet the Doctor .
`` So nice ! ''
she whisper when the doll be laid beside her , while Jip proudly beat his tail on the floor to let her know that she owe the welcome gift to him .
For an hour Flo and Do lay on the arm of poor Midge who never move except to touch them now and then with a tender little finger , or to kiss them softly , say , `` Dear baby , it be very nice not to be all alone .
Are you comfy , darling ? ''
till she fell asleep still smile .
`` Sister , do you think this can be the Heaven we hear people talk about ?
It be so still and white , and may be these child be angel , '' whisper Dora , look at the sweet face turn toward her with the long lash lie on the colorless cheek , and the arm outstretched like wing .
`` No , dear , it be a hospital , I hear that man say so , and those be sick child come to be cure .
It be a sweet place , I think , and this child much nicer than that horrid Clara , '' answer Flo , who be quicker to hear , see and understand what go on than Dora .
`` I love to lie here safe and warm , but there do n't seem to be much breath to rock me , '' say Do , who lay near the little bosom that very slowly rise and fell with the feeble flutter of the heart below .
`` Hush , we may disturb her , '' and lively Flo control her curiosity , content herself with look at the other child and listen to their quiet voice , for pain seem to have hush them all .
For a week the doll lay in Midge 's bed , and though their breast be full of saw-dust and their head be only wood , the sweet patience of the little creature seem to waken something like a heart in them , and set them think , for doll do n't live in vain , I be firmly persuade .
All day she tend them till the small hand could no longer hold them , and through the weary night she try to murmur bit of lullaby lest the dolly would not be able to sleep because of the cry or the moan some of the poor baby could not repress .
She often send one or the other to cheer up some little neighbor , and in this way Do and Flo become small sister of charity , welcome eagerly , reluctantly return , and love by all , although they never utter a word and their dingy face could not express the emotion that stir their saw-dust bosom .
When Saturday night come they be lay in their usual place on Midge 's arm .
She be too weak to kiss them now , and nurse lay their battered cheek against the lip that whisper faintly , `` Be sure you send 'em to the little girl , and tell her -- tell her -- all about it . ''
Then she turn her cheek to the pillow with a little sigh and lay so still the doll think she have go to sleep .
She have , but the sweet eye do not open in the morning , and there be no breath in the little breast to rock the doll any more .
`` I know she be an angel , and now she have fly away , '' say Dora softly , a they watch the white image carry out in the weeping nurse 's arm , with the early sunshine turn all the pretty hair to gold .
`` I think that be what they call die , sister .
It be a much lovely way to end than a we do in the dust bin or rag-bag .
I wonder if there be a little Heaven anywhere for good doll ? ''
answer Flora , with what look like a tear on her cheek ; but it be only a drop from the violet send by the kind Doctor last night .
`` I hope so , for I think the soul of little child might miss u if they love u a dear Midge do , '' whisper Dora , try to kiss the blue flower in her hand , for the child have share her last gift with these friend .
`` Why do n't you let her take them along , poor motherless baby ? ''
ask the doctor when he saw the doll lie a she have leave them .
`` I promise her they should go to the girl they be send to , and please , I 'd like to keep my word to the little darling , '' answer Nurse with a sob .
`` You shall , '' say the Doctor , and put them in his breast pocket with the faded violet , for everybody love the pauper child send to die in a hospital , because Christian charity make every man and woman father and mother to these little one .
All day the doll go about in the busy Doctor 's pocket , and I think the violet do them good , for the soft perfume clung to them long afterward like the memory of a lovely life , a short and sweet a that of the flower .
In the evening they be fold up in a fresh paper and re-directed carefully .
The Doctor write a little note tell why he have keep them , and be just about to put on some stamp when a friend come in who be go to Boston in the morning .
`` Anything to take along , Fred ? ''
ask the newcomer .
`` This parcel , if you will .
I have a feeling that I 'd rather not have it knock about in a mail-bag , '' and the Doctor tell him why .
It be pleasant to see how carefully the traveller put away the parcel after that , and to hear him say that he be go through Boston to the mountain for his holiday , and would deliver it in Portland to Miss Plum herself .
`` Now there be some chance of our get there , '' say Flora , a they set off next day in a new Russia leather bag .
On the way they overhear a long chat between some New York and Boston lady which impress them very much .
Flora like to hear the fashionable gossip about clothes and people and art and theatre , but Dora prefer the learned conversation of the young Boston lady , who seem to know a little of everything , or think they do .
`` I hope Mamma will give me an entirely new wardrobe when I get home ; and we will have doll ' wedding and ball , and a play , and be a fine and fashionable a those lady down there , '' say Flora , after listen a while .
`` You have get your head full of dressy idea and high life , sister .
I do n't care for such thing , but mean to cultivate my mind a fast a I can .
That girl say she be in college , and name over more study than I can count .
I do wish we be to stop and see a little of the refined society of Boston , '' answer Dora , primly .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Flo , `` do n't you try to be intellectual , for you be only a wooden-headed doll .
I mean to be a real Westerner , and just enjoy myself a I please , without care what other folk do or think .
Boston be no good than the rest of the world , I guess . ''
Groans from every article in the bag greet this disrespectful speech , and an avalanche of Boston paper fell upon the audacious doll .
But Flo be undaunted , and shout from underneath the pile : `` I do n't care !
Minnesota forever ! ''
till her breath give out .
Dora be so mortified that she never say a word till they be let out in a room at the Parker House .
Here she admire everything , and read all the evening in a volume of Emerson 's Poems from the bag , for Mr. Mt . Vernon Beacon be a Boston man , and never go anywhere without a wise book or two in his pocket .
Flo turn up her nose at all she saw , and devote herself to a long chat with the smart bag which come from New York and be full of gossip .
The next afternoon they really get to Portland , and as soon a Mr. Beacon have make his toilet he set out to find little Miss Plum .
When the parlor door open to admit her he be much embarrass , for , advance with a paternal smile and the doll extend to the expect child , he find himself face to face with a pretty young lady , who look a if she think him a little mad .
A few word explain the errand , however , and when she read the note Aunt Maria 's bright eye be full of tear a she say , hug the dilapidated doll : `` I 'll write the story of their travel , and send the dear old thing back to the child as soon a possible . ''
And so she do with Mr. Beacon 's help , for he decide to try the air of Portland , and spend his vacation there .
The doll be re-painted and re-dressed till they be more beautiful than ever , and their clothes fine enough to suit even Flo .
They be a good while do this , and when all be ready , Aunt Maria take it into her head to run out to St. Paul and surprise the child .
By a singular coincidence Mr. Beacon have railroad business in that direction , so they set off together , with two splendid doll do up in a gay box .
All that be ever know about that journey be that these traveller stop at the hospital in New York , and go on good friend than before after hear from the good Doctor all the pathetic story of little Midge .
The young Plums have long ago give up the hope of ever see Do and Flo again , for they start in June and it be early in September when Aunt Maria appear before them without the least warning , accompany by a pleasant gentleman from Boston .
Six kiss have hardly resound from Aunty 's blooming cheek when a most attractive box be produce from the Russia leather bag , and the wandering doll restore to the arm of their enraptured mamma .
A small volume neatly write and adorn with a few picture of the most exciting incident of the trip also appear .
`` Every one write or print a book in Boston , you know , so we do both , '' say Aunt Maria , laugh , a she hand over the remarkable history which she have compose and Mr. Beacon illustrate .
It be read with intense interest , and be as true a most story be nowadays .
`` Nothing more delightful can happen now ! ''
exclaim the child , a they lay by the precious work and enthrone the travelled doll in the place of honor on the roof of the baby-house .
But something much more delightful do happen ; for at Thanksgiving time there be a wedding at the Plums ' .
Not a doll 's wedding , a Flo have plan , but a real one , for the gentleman from Boston actually marry Aunt Maria .
There be six bridesmaid , all in blue , and Flora and Dora , in the lovely of new pink gown , be set aloft among the rose on the wedding-cake , their proper place a everyone say , for there never would have be any marriage at all but for this Doll 's Journey From Minnesota to Maine .
VI .
MORNING-GLORIES .
`` What 's that ? ''
-- and Daisy sit up in her little bed to listen ; for she have never hear a sound like it before .
It be very early , and the house be still .
The sun be just rise , and the morning-glories at the window be turn their blue and purple cup to catch the welcome light .
The sky be full of rosy cloud ; dew shone like diamond on the waving grass , and the bird be sing a they only sing at dawn .
But soft , sweet than any bird-voice be the delicate music which Daisy heard .
So airy and gay be the sound , it seem impossible to lie still with that fairy dancing-tune echo through the room .
Out of bed scramble Daisy , her sleepy eye open wider and wider with surprise and pleasure a she listen and wonder .
`` Where be it ? ''
she say , pop her head out of the window .
The morning-glories only dance lightly on their stem , the robin chirp shrilly in the garden below , and the wind give Daisy a kiss ; but none of them answer her , and still the lovely music sound close beside her .
`` It 's a new kind of bird , perhaps ; or maybe it 's a fairy hidden somewhere .
Oh , if it be how splendid it will be ! ''
cried Daisy ; and she begin to look carefully in all the colored cup , under the leaf of the woodbine , and in the wren 's nest close by .
There be neither fairy nor bird to be see ; and Daisy stand wondering , when a voice cry out from below : `` Why , little nightcap , what bring you out of your bed so early ? ''
`` O Aunt Wee !
do you hear it -- that pretty music playing somewhere near !
I ca n't find it ; but I think it 's a fairy , do n't you ? ''
say Daisy , look down at the young lady stand in the garden with her hand full of rose .
Aunt Wee listen , smile , and shake her head .
`` Do n't you remember you say last night that you think the world a very stupid , grown-up place , because there be no giant and fairy in it now ?
Well , perhaps there be fairy , and they be go to show themselves to you , if you watch well . ''
Daisy clap her hand , and dance about on her little bare foot ; for , of all thing in the world , she most want to see a fairy .
`` What must I do to find them , Aunt Wee ? ''
she cry , pop out her head again with her cap half off , and her curly hair blow in the wind .
`` Why , you see , they frolic all night , and go to sleep at dawn ; so we must get up very early , if we want to catch the elf awake .
They be such delicate , fly-away little thing , and we be so big and clumsy , we shall have to look carefully , and perhaps hunt a long time before we find even one , '' reply Aunt Wee , very gravely .
`` Mamma say I 'm quick at find thing ; and you know all about fairy , so I guess we 'll catch one .
Ca n't we begin now ?
It 's very early , and this music have wake me up ; so I do n't want to sleep any more .
Will you begin to hunt now ? ''
`` But you do n't like to get up early , or to walk in the field ; and , if we mean to catch a fairy , we must be up and out by sunrise every fair morning till we get one .
Can you do this , lazy Daisy ? ''
And Aunt Wee smile to herself a if something please her very much .
`` Oh !
I will , truly , get up , and not fret a bit , if you 'll only help me look .
Please come now to dress me , and see if you can find what make the music . ''
Daisy be very much in earnest , and in such a hurry to be off that she could hardly stand still to have her hair brush , and think there be a great many unnecessary button and string on her clothes that day .
Usually she lay late , get up slowly and fret at every thing a little girl be apt to do when they have have too much sleep .
She be n't a rosy , stout Daisy ; but have be ill , and have fall into a way of think she could n't do anything but lie about , read fairy-tales , and be pet by every one .
Mamma and papa have try all sort of thing to amuse and do her good ; for she be their only little daughter , and they love her very dearly .
But nothing please her long ; and she lounge about , pale and fretful , till Aunt Laura come .
Daisy call her `` Wee '' when she be a baby , and could n't talk plainly ; and she still use the name because it suit the cheery little aunt so well .
`` I do n't see anything , and the music have stop .
I think some elf just come to wake you up , and then fly away ; so we wo n't waste any more time in look here , '' say Wee , a she finish dress Daisy , who fly about like a Will-o ' - the-wisp all the while .
`` Do you think it will come again to-morrow ? ''
ask Daisy anxiously .
`` I dare say you 'll hear it , if you wake in time .
Now get your hat , and we will see what we can find down by the brook .
I saw a great many firefly there last night , and fancy there be a ball ; so we may find some drowsy elf among the buttercup and clover . ''
Away rush Daisy for her hat , and soon be walk gayly down the green lane , look about her a if she have never be there before ; for every thing seem wonderfully fresh and lovely .
`` How pink the cloud be , and how the dew twinkle in the grass !
I never saw it so before , '' she say .
`` Because by the time you be up the pretty pink cloud be go , and the thirsty grass have drink the dew , or the sun have draw it up to fall again at night for the flower ' even bath , '' reply Wee , watch the soft color that begin to touch Daisy 's pale cheek .
`` I think we 'd better look under that cobweb spread like a tent over the white clover .
A fairy would be very likely to creep in there and sleep . ''
Daisy kneel down and peep carefully ; but all she saw be a little brown spider , who look very much surprise to see visitor so early .
`` I do n't like spider , '' say Daisy , much disappoint .
`` There be thing about spider a interesting to hear a fairy tale , '' say Wee .
`` This be Mrs. Epeira Diadema ; and she be a respectable , industrious little neighbor .
She spread her tent , but sits under a leaf near by , wait for her breakfast .
She wrap her egg in a soft silken bag , and hide them in some safe chink , where they lie till spring .
The egg be prettily carve and ornament , and so hard that the baby spider have to force their way out by bite the shell open and poke their little head through .
The mother die as soon a her egg be safely place , and the spiderlings have to take care of themselves . ''
`` How do you know about it , Aunt Wee ?
You talk a if Mrs. Eppyra -- or whatever her name be -- have tell you herself .
Did she ? ''
ask Daisy , feel more interested in the brown spider .
`` No ; I read it in a book , and saw picture of the egg , web , and family .
I have a live one in a bottle ; and she spin silken ladder all up and down , and a little room to sleep in .
She eat worm and bug , and be very amiable and interesting till she fell ill and die . ''
`` I should like to see the book ; and have a spider-bottle , so I could take care of the poor little orphan when they be bear .
Good-by , ma'am .
I shall call again ; for you be ` most as good a a fairy there in your pretty tent , with a white clover for your bed . ''
Daisy walk on a few step , and then stop to say : `` What do that bird mean by call ` Hurry up , hurry up ? '
He keep fly before u , and look back a if he want to show me something . ''
`` Let me hear what he say .
I may be able to understand him , or the bob-o-link that swing on the alder by the brook . ''
Wee listen a moment , while the bird twitter and chirp with all their heart .
Presently Wee sang in a tone very like the bob-o-link 's : `` Daisy and Wee , Come here , and see What a dainty feast be spread : Down in the grass Where fairies pas , Here be berry ripe and red .
`` All wet with dew , They wait for you : Come hither , and eat your fill , While I gayly sing , In my airy swing , And the sun climb up the hill . ''
`` Did he really say that ? ''
cry Daisy , watch the bob-o-link , who sit sway up and down on the green bough , and nod his white-capped head at her in the most friendly manner .
`` Perhaps I do n't translate it rightly ; for it be very hard to put bird-notes into our language , because we have n't word soft and sweet enough .
But I really think there be berry over there , and we will see if what he say be true , '' say Wee .
Over the wall they go , and there , on a sunny bank , find a bed of the reddest , ripest berry ever see .
`` Thank you , thank you , for tell me to hurry up , and show me such a splendid feast , '' say Daisy , with her mouth full , a she nod back at the bird .
`` These be so much sweet than those we buy .
I 'd carry some home to mamma , if I only have a basket . ''
`` You can pick this great leaf full , while I make you a basket , '' say Wee .
Daisy soon fill the leaf , and then sit watch her aunt plait a pretty basket of rush .
While she wait she look about , and keep find something curious or pleasant to interest and amuse her .
First she saw a tiny rainbow in a dewdrop that hung on a blade of grass ; then she watch a frisky calf come down to drink on the other side of the brook , and laugh to see him scamper away with his tail in the air .
Close by grow a pitcher-plant ; and a yellow butterfly sit on the edge , bath it foot , Daisy say .
Presently she discover a little ground bird sit on her nest , and peep anxiously , a if undecided whether to fly away or trust her .
`` I wo n't hurt you , little mother .
Do n't be afraid , '' whisper the child ; and , a if it understand , the bird settle down on her nest with a comfortable chirp , while it mate hop up to give her a nice plump worm for breakfast .
`` I love bird .
Tell me something about them , Aunt Wee .
You must know many thing ; for they like you , and come when you call . ''
`` Once upon a time , '' begin Wee , while her finger fly and the pretty basket grow , `` there be a great snow-storm , and all the country be cover with a thick white quilt .
It freeze a little , so one could walk over it , and I go out for a run .
Oh , so cold it be , with a sharp wind , and no sun or any thing green to make it pleasant !
I go far away over the field , and sit down to rest .
While I sit there , a little bird come by , and stop to rest also . ''
` How do you do ? '
say I. '' ` Chick-a-dee-dee , ' say he . '' '
A cold day , ' say I. '' ` Chick-a-dee-dee , ' say he . ''
` Are n't you afraid of starve , now the ground be cover and the tree be bare ? ' ''
` Chick-a-dee-dee , ma'am , chick-a-dee-dee ! ' ''
answer the bird in the same cheerful tone .
And it sound a if he say , ' I shall be care for .
I 'm not afraid . ' ''
` What will you eat ?
There 's nothing here or for mile round .
I really think you 'll starve , birdie , ' say I . `` Then he laugh , and give me a merry look a he light on a tall , dry weed near by .
He shake it hard with his little bill ; when down fell a shower of seed , and there be dinner all ready on a snow-white cloth .
All the while he eat he keep look up at me with his quick , bright eye ; and , when he have do , he say , as plainly a a bird could say it : '' ` Cold wind may blow , And snow may fall , But well we know God care for all . ' ''
`` I like that little story , and shall always think of it when I hear the chick-a-dee-dee . ''
Daisy sit a moment with a thoughtful look in her eye ; then she say slowly , a if sorry for the word : `` It be n't a stupid , grown-up world .
It 's a very pleasant , young world ; and I like it a great deal well this morning than I do last night . ''
`` I 'm glad of that ; and , even if we do n't find our fairy to-day , you will have find some sunshine , Daisy , and that be almost as good .
Now put in the berry , and we 'll go on . ''
How they hunt !
They climb tree to peep into squirrel-holes and bird ' - nest ; they chase bee and butterfly to ask for news of the elf ; they wad in the brook , hop to catch a water-sprite ; they run after thistle-down , fancy a fairy might be astride ; they search the flower and fern , question sun and wind , listen to robin and thrush ; but no one could tell them any thing of the little people , though all have gay and charm bit of news about themselves .
And Daisy think the world get young and happy every minute .
When they come in to breakfast , papa and mamma look at Daisy , and then nod with a smile at Aunt Wee ; for , though Daisy 's frock be soil , her boot wet , and her hair tumble , her cheek be rosy , eye bright , and voice so cheerful that they think it well music than any in the summer world without .
`` Hunting fairy be a pleasant play , be n't it , Daisy ? ''
say papa , a he taste the berry , and admire the green basket .
`` Oh , yes !
and we be go again to-morrow .
Aunt Wee say we must try seven day at least .
I like it , and mean to keep on till I really find my fairy . ''
`` I think you will find something good than ` little vanisher , ' dear , '' say mamma , fill up the bowl of bread and milk which Daisy be fast emptying ; for she certainly have find an appetite .
`` There it be again ! ''
cry Daisy , fly out of bed the next morning still earlier than the day before .
Yes , there it be , the fairy music , a blithe and sweet a ever ; and the morning-glories ring their delicate bell a if keep time .
Daisy felt rather sleepy , but remember her promise to Aunt Wee , and splash into her tub , sing the bob-o-link 's song a she bath .
`` Where shall we go to-day ? ''
she ask , a they go out into the garden .
`` I think we 'd better try a new place ; so we 'll go to the farmyard ; and , while we fee the hen , I 'll listen to their chat , and perhaps can learn something from it , '' reply Wee soberly .
`` Do hen know about fairy ?
I think they be very dull thing , and do n't care for any thing but eat corn and laying egg , '' say Daisy , surprise .
`` Oh , dear , no !
they be very sensible creature , and see a deal of the world in their daily walk .
Hunting for insect give them an excellent chance to see fairy , if there be any .
Here be some corn for the biddy ; and , after we have feed them , we will look for egg , and so may find a brownie or two . ''
Such a clatter a there be when they come to the barnyard ; for every thing be just awake , and in the best spirit .
Ducks be paddle off to the pond ; geese to the meadow ; and meek gray guinea-hens trip away to hunt bug in the garden .
A splendid cock stand on the wall , and crow so loud and clear that all the neighboring chanticleers reply .
The motherly hen cluck and scratch with their busy brood about them , or sat and scold in the coop because the chick would gad abroad .
Doves coo on the sunny roof , and smooth their gleaming feather .
Daisy 's donkey nibble a thistle by the wall , and a stately peacock march before the door with all his plumage spread .
It make Daisy laugh to see the air the fowl put on a she scatter corn , and throw meal and water to the chick .
Some push and gobble ; some stand meekly outside the crowd , and get what they could ; others seize a mouthful , and run away to eat it in a corner .
The chick get into the pan entirely , and tumble one over the other in their hurry to eat ; but the mamma saw that none go hungry .
And the polite cock wait upon them in the most gentlemanly manner , make queer little cluck and gurgle a if he say : `` Allow me , madam , to offer you this kernel ; '' or , `` Here , my dear , try that bit . ''
And sometimes he peck a little , with a loud quaver , evidently say , `` Come , come , child , behave yourselves , and do n't eat like pig . ''
`` What be she say ? ''
ask Daisy , point to an old gray hen in a black turban , who be walk about alone , mutter to herself , a hen often do in their promenade .
`` She say a cat have make a nest , and hatch three kit up on the loft , near her own nest ; and she do n't like it , because their mewing annoy her , '' say Wee , after listen a minute .
`` How nice !
let 's go and find them .
But do you learn anything about the fairy from the hen 's chat ? ''
`` No : they have be so busy set , they have have no time for picnic yet .
But they will let u know , if they discover any . ''
In the barn , the cow be be milk ; and Daisy have a mugful of it , warm and sweet , out of the foaming pail .
`` We 'll take some to Mrs. Purr ; for , I dare say , she do n't like to leave the kit long , and will enjoy a sip of something comfortable , '' say Wee , a Daisy climb the ladder , and go rustle over the hay to a corner , whence come a joyful `` Mew ! ''
What a charm sight it be , to be sure !
a snow-white cat lie in a cosy nest , and , by her , three snow-white kit , wag three very small gray tail .
`` There never be any thing so lovely ! ''
cry Daisy , a she sit with the three downy ball in her lap , while the mamma gratefully lap the new milk from Aunt Wee 's cup .
`` Are they good than fairy ? ''
`` Almost : for I know about pussy , and can cuddle them ; but I could n't a fairy , you know , and they might be afraid of me .
These dear be not afraid , and I shall have such fun with them a they grow up .
What shall we name them , auntie ? ''
`` Snowball , Patpaw , and Wagtail would do , I think , '' say Wee , stroke the cat , who rub against her , purr very loud .
`` Yes : I like those name for my pet .
But what be Mrs. Purr say , with her mouth up to your ear ? ''
ask Daisy , who firmly believe that Aunt Wee know every thing .
`` She tell me that when she go on a grasshopper hunt the other day , a she run through the meadow , she saw some lovely creature all in blue , with gauze wing , fly about over the river , and sit in the water-lilies .
She think they may be fairy , and advise u to go and look . ''
`` So we will to-morrow , '' say Daisy .
`` Ask her , please , if I may take the kit into the house , if I 'll be very careful and give them a nice big bed to sleep in . ''
`` She say you may ; but she must go too , else the kit will cry , '' say Wee , after listen to Pussy 's purr a minute .
Much pleased with her new pet , Daisy take them in her apron , and , follow by their confiding mamma , march to the house , and establish them in the old cradle which use to be hers .
Pussy get in also ; and , when they be settle on a soft cushion , Daisy rock them gently to and fro .
At first Mrs. Purr open her yellow eye , and look rather anxious : but , a nothing uncomfortable happen , she compose herself , and soon quite like the motion ; for she fell asleep , and make a pretty picture a she lay with her downy white baby on her downy white breast .
When the sun rise next morning , he saw Daisy and Wee float down the river in their boat .
`` Bless me !
here 's company , '' say the sun , and begin at once to make them welcome in his most charming manner .
He set the wave to sparkle with a sudden shimmer ; he shoot long ray of light through the dark hemlock , till they look like fairy tree ; he touch Daisy 's hair and it turn to gold ; he chase away the shadow that lurk among the hill ; he draw up the misty curtain that hover over the river ; and , with the warmth of his kiss , wake the sleeping lily .
`` Look , look , Aunt Wee !
how they open , one by one , a the light shine on them !
We sha n't have to wait any long ; for they get up with the sun , a you do . ''
As she speak , Daisy catch a half-open lily , and draw it up , fragrant and drip , fresh from it sleep .
`` They look like a fleet of fairy ship , anchor in this quiet harbor , with sails half furl , and crew asleep .
See the little sailor , in their yellow jacket , lift up their head a the wind blow it whistle , like a boatswain , to ` pipe all hand . ' ''
Daisy laugh at Aunt Wee 's fancy , and stir up the crew of the Water-sprite , a she call her flower , till the white sail be all set , and it be ready for a summer voyage .
`` It be time we saw the fairy in blue , unless old Madam Purr deceive u .
I hope we shall find one ; for , though I enjoy every thing we see , I do want my elf too . ''
`` What be that ? ''
cried Wee ; and Daisy fly up so quickly that the boat rock like a cradle .
A slender creature , in a blue dress , with gauzy wing , dart by , and vanish among the rush that nod by the bank .
`` Go nearer , -- softly !
softly !
-- and maybe it will fly out again .
I really think it be a fairy ; for I never saw any thing like it before , '' whisper Daisy , much excite .
Wee row in among the green rush and purple water-weeds , and out flew half-a-dozen of the blue-bodied creature .
They do n't seem afraid , but skim about the boat , a if curious to see what it be ; and Daisy sit , and star with all her might .
Presently one of the lovely thing lit on the lily in her hand , and she hold her breath to watch it .
A little shadow of disappointment pass over her face a she look ; but it be go at once , and her voice be full of delight a she say softly : `` It 's not a fairy , Aunt Wee ; but it be very beautiful , with it slender blue body , it lacy wing , and bright eye .
What name do it have ? ''
`` We call it a dragon-fly ; and it could tell you a pretty little story about itself , could you understand it .
In May the tiny egg be drop on the water , and sink to the bottom , where little creature be bear , -- ugly , brown thing , with six leg and no wing .
They fee on water-insects , and for a long time swim about in this state .
When ready , they climb up the stem of some plant , and sit in the sun till the ugly brown shell drop away , and the lovely winged creature appear .
They grow in an hour to be perfect dragon-flies , and float away to lead happy life in the sunshine by the river . ''
As if only wait till the story be do , the dragon-fly fly off with a whirr , and dart to and fro , hunt for it breakfast , glitter splendidly a it flash among the leaf or dart close above the water .
Daisy forget her disappointment in a minute , and go fish for lily ; while the turtle come up to sun themselves on the rock , the merry little tadpole wiggle in the shallow place , and a wild duck paddle by with a brood of duckling follow in her wake .
`` Oh , dear !
it rain ; and we ca n't go fairy-hunting at all , '' say Daisy next morning , a the patter on the window-pane woke her up , and Aunt Wee come in to dress her .
`` Yes , we can , dear ; jump up , and see what a funny place I 'll take you to . ''
Daisy think the rain would be a capital excuse for lie in bed ; for she still like to cuddle and drowse in her cosey , warm nest .
But she be curious to know where the curious place be ; so she get up and follow .
`` Why , Aunt Wee , this be the garret ; and there be n't any thing nice or funny here , '' she say , a they climb the stair , and come into the big attic , fill with all manner of old thing .
`` Is n't there ?
We 'll soon see . ''
And so they do : for Aunt Wee begin to play ; and presently Daisy be shout with fun a she sit on an old saddle , with a hair-covered trunk for a horse , a big old-fashioned bonnet on her head , and a red silk petticoat for a habit .
Then they go to sea in a great chest , and get wreck on a desert island , where they build a fort with box and bag , hunt bear with rusty gun , and have to eat dried berry , herb and nut ; for no other food could be find .
Aunt Wee get an old fiddle , and have a dancing-school , where Daisy caper till she be tire .
So they rummage out some dusty book , and look at picture so quietly that a little mouse come out of a drawer and peep about , think no one be there .
`` Let 's find the nest , since we do n't find any fairy , '' say Wee ; and , open the drawer , she turn over the thing till she come to a pair of old velvet shoe ; and there in the toe of one , nicely cuddle under a bit of flannel , lay four pink mite , which wake up , and stretch their tiny leg , and squeak such small squeak one could hardly hear them .
`` How cunning they be !
I wish they would let me put them with the kit , and have a nursery full of baby .
Would n't it be nice to see them all grow up ? ''
say Daisy .
`` I 'm afraid they would n't grow up , if Mrs. Purr live with them , '' begin Wee , but get no far ; for just then the cat bounce into the drawer , and eat up the mouselings in four mouthful .
Daisy scream ; the mother-mouse give a doleful squeak , and run into a hole ; and Aunt Wee try to save the little one .
But it be too late : Purr have get her breakfast , and sit wash her face after it , a if she have enjoy it .
`` Never mind , Daisy : she would have catch them by and by , and it 's as well to have them take care of before they do any harm .
There be the bell : do n't cry , but come and tell papa what a fine romp we 've have . ''
`` It do n't rain , but it 's dreadfully wet ; so we 'll go to the dairy , and see if any sprite be hide there , '' say Wee next day ; and to the dairy they go .
A pleasant place it be , -- so clean and cool , and a full of sweet odor a if the ghost of buttercup and clover still haunt the milk which they have help to make .
Dolly be churn , and Polly be make up butter in nice little pat .
Both be very kind , and let Daisy peep everywhere .
All round on white shelf stand the shining pan , full of milk ; the stone floor be wet ; and a stream of water ran along a narrow bed through the room , and in it stand jar of butter , pot of cream , and can of milk .
The window be open , and hop-vines shake their green bell before it .
The bird sing outside , and maid sing inside , a the churn and the wooden spatter keep time : `` Brindle and Bess , White-star and Jess -- Come , butter , come !
Eat cowslip fine , Red columbine -- Come , butter , come !
Grasses green and tall , Clover , best of all , -- Come , butter , come !
And give every night Milk sweet and white -- Come , butter , come !
Make the churn go , See the lump grow !
-- Come , butter , come ! ''
Daisy sang also , and turn the handle till she be tire ; then she help Polly with the butter , and make four little pat , -- one stamp with a star for papa , one with a rise for mamma , a strawberry for Aunt Wee , and a cow for herself .
She skim a pitcher of cream with a shallow shell , and like the work so much she ask to have a little pan of milk put by for her to take care of every day .
Dolly promise , and give her a small shell and a low shelf all to herself .
When she go in , she carry her pretty pat in one hand , the cream-pot in the other , and enter the breakfast room look a brisk and rosy a a little milkmaid .
It be a lovely morning when Daisy be next rouse by the fairy music , and the pony be stand at the door .
`` Are we go far ? ''
she ask , a Wee put on her riding-skirt , and tie back her hair .
`` Up to the mountain-top : it 's only a mile ; and we shall have time , if we ride fast , '' answer Wee .
Away they go , through the green lane , over the bridge , and up the steep hillside where the sheep fed and colt frisk a they pass by .
Higher and high climb Dandy and Prance , the pony ; and gayer and gayer grow Daisy and Wee , a the fresh air blow over them , and the morning-red glowed on their face .
When they reach the top , they sit on a tall stone , and look down into the valley on either side .
`` This seem like a place to find giant , not fairy , it be so high and big and splendid up here , '' say Daisy , a her eye roam over river , forest , town , and hill .
`` There be giant here ; and I bring you up to see them , '' answer Wee .
`` Mercy , me !
where be they ? ''
cry Daisy , look very curious and rather frighten .
`` There be one of them . ''
And Wee point to the waterfall that go dash and foam down into the valley .
`` That giant turn the wheel of all the mill you see .
Some of them grind grain for our bread , some help to spin cloth for our clothes , some make paper , and others saw tree into board .
That be a beautiful and busy giant , Daisy . ''
`` So it be , and some day we 'll go and see it work .
Show me the others : I like your giant ` most as well a those in the fairy-books . ''
`` On this side you 'll see another , call Steam .
He be a very strong fellow ; for , with the help of gunpowder , he will break the granite mountain in piece , and carry it away .
He work in the other mill , and take heavy load of stone , cloth , paper , and wood all over the country .
Then , on the right of u be a third giant , call Electricity .
He run along those wire , and carry message from one end of the world to the other .
He go under the sea and through the air ; he bring news to every one ; run day and night , yet never tire ; and often help sick people with his lively magic . ''
`` I like him best , I think ; for he be more like a real , wonderful giant .
Is there any on that side of u ? ''
ask Daisy , turn round to look behind her .
`` Yes : the best and most powerful of all life in that big house with the bell on the roof , '' say Wee , smile .
`` Why , that 's only the schoolhouse . ''
`` Education be a long word , dear ; but you know what it mean , and , a you grow old , you will see what wonder it can work .
It be a noble giant ; for in this country rich and poor be help by it , and no one need suffer for it unless they choose .
It work more wonder than any other : it change little child into wise , good men and woman , who rule the world , and make happy home everywhere ; it help write book , sing song , paint picture , do good deed , and beautify the world .
Love and respect it , my little Daisy , and be glad that you live now when such giant lend a hand to dwarf like u . ''
Daisy sit still a long time , look all about her on the mountain-top ; and , when she ride away , she carry a new thought in her mind , which she never forget .
`` This be the last day of the seven , and no fairy have be find .
Do you think I ever shall see one ? ''
say Daisy , on the Sunday morning that end her week 's hunt .
`` Not the kind you think of , for there be none such , Daisy ; but you have find two good and more beautiful one than any fanciful sprite , '' say Wee .
`` Have I ?
Where be they ?
What be their name ? ''
Aunt Wee draw her to the glass , and say , a she point to Daisy 's face : `` Here they be , and their name be Health and Happiness .
There be many way of lose them , and they be hard to catch when once lose .
I want you to keep both , and try to show you how .
A happy , healthful hour in the morning sweetens and brighten the whole day ; and there be no fairy-book half so wonderful a the lovely world all about u , if we only know how to read it . ''
`` Then all these morning we be hunt after health and happiness , instead of fairy , be we ? ''
`` Yes : have n't you enjoy it , and do n't you think you have catch my fairy ? ''
Daisy look from a little picture of herself , which Wee have draw some time ago , to her image in the glass .
One be dull and sad , pale and cross ; the other , rosy , gay , and smiling , -- the likeness of a happy , hearty little girl , wide-awake and in good tune .
She understand the kind joke ; and , turn , kiss Aunt Wee , a she say , gratefully : `` I think I have catch your elf , and I 'll try to keep them all my life .
But tell me one thing : be the music that wake me all a joke too ? ''
`` No , dear : here it be , and now it be your own ; for you have learn to wake and listen to it . ''
Daisy look , and saw Aunt Wee lean from the window , and take out of a hollow nook , in the old tree close by , a little box .
She set it on the table , touch a spring , and the airy music sound more beautiful than ever .
`` Is it mine , all mine ? ''
cry Daisy .
`` Yes : I hide it while I try my little plan , and now you shall have it for your own .
See , here be the best elf I can give you , and she will dance whenever you call her . ''
Wee push a golden pin , and up spring a tiny figure , all crimson and gold , with shin wing , and a garland on it dainty head .
Softly play the hidden music , and airily dance the little sylph till the silvery chime die away ; then , fold her delicate arm , she sink from sight , leave Daisy breathless with delight .
V. SHADOW-CHILDREN .
Ned , Polly , and Will sit on the step one sun-shiny morning , do nothing , except wish they have something pleasant to do .
`` Something new , something never hear of before , -- would n't that be jolly ? ''
say Ned , with a great yawn .
`` It must be an amusing play , and one that we do n't get tired of very soon , '' add Polly gravely .
`` And something that do n't be wrong , else mamma would n't like it , '' say little Will , who be very good for a small boy .
As no one could suggest any thing to suit , they all sit silent a few minute .
Suddenly Ned say , rather crossly , `` I wish my shadow would n't mock me .
Every time I stretch or gape it do the same , and I do n't like it . ''
`` Poor thing , it ca n't help that : it have to do just what you do , and be your slave all day .
I 'm glad I ai n't a shadow , '' say Polly .
`` I try to run away from mine sometimes , but I ca n't ever .
It will come after me ; and in the night it scar me , if it get big and black , '' say Will , look behind him .
`` Would n't it be fun to see shadow go about alone , and do thing like people ? ''
ask Polly .
`` I just wish they would .
I 'd like to see ours cut caper ; that would be a jolly new game , would n't it ? ''
say Ned .
No one have time to speak ; for suddenly the three little shadow on the sunny wall behind them stand up straight , and begin to bow .
`` Mercy , me ! ''
cry Polly , star at them .
`` By Jove , that 's odd ! ''
say Ned , look queer .
`` Are they alive ? ''
ask Will , a little frightened .
`` Do n't be alarm : they wo n't hurt you , '' say a soft voice .
`` To-day be midsummer-day , and whoever wish a wish can have it till midnight .
You want to see your shadow by themselves ; and you can , if you promise to follow them a they have follow you so long .
They will not get you into harm ; so you may safely try it , if you like .
Do you agree for the day to do a they do , and so have your wish ? ''
`` Yes , we promise , '' answer the child .
`` Tell no one till night , and be faithful shadow to the shadow . ''
The voice be silent , but with more funny little bow the shadow begin to move off in different direction .
The child know their own : for Ned 's be the tall , and have it hand in it pocket ; Polly 's have a frock on , and two bow where it hair be tie up ; while Will 's be a plump little shadow in a blouse , with a curly head and a pug nose .
Each child go after it shadow , laughing , and enjoy the fun .
Ned 's master go straight to the shed , take down a basket , and march away to the garden , where it begin to move it hand a if busily pick pea .
Ned stop laugh when he saw that , and look rather ashamed ; for he remember that his mother have ask him to do that little job for her , and he have answer , -- `` Oh , bother the old pea !
I 'm busy , and I ca n't . ''
`` Who tell you about this ? ''
he ask , begin to work .
The shadow shake it head , and point first to Ned 's new jacket , then to a set of nice garden tool near by , and then seem to blow a kiss from it shadowy finger towards mamma , who be just pass the open gate .
`` Oh !
you mean that she do lot for me ; so I ought to do what I can for her , and love her dearly , '' say Ned , get a pleasanter face every minute .
The shadow nod , and work away as busily a the bee , tumble heel over head in the great yellow squash blossom , and get as dusty a little miller .
Somehow Ned rather like the work , with such an odd comrade near by ; for , though the shadow do n't really help a bit , it seem to try , and set an excellent example .
When the basket be full , the shadow take one handle , and Ned the other ; and they carry it in .
`` Thank you , dear .
I be afraid we should have to give up our peas to-day : I 'm so busy , I ca n't stop , '' say mamma , look surprised and pleased .
Ned could n't stop to talk ; for the shadow run away to the woodpile , and begin to chop with all it might .
`` Well , I suppose I must ; but I never saw such a fellow for work a this shadow be .
He be n't a bit like me , though he 's be with me so long , '' say Ned , swing the real hatchet in time with the shadowy one .
Polly 's new mistress go to the dining-room , and fell to wash up the breakfast cup .
Polly hat that work , and sulkily begin to rattle the spoon and knock the thing about .
But the shadow would n't allow that ; and Polly have to do just what it do , though she grumble all the while .
`` She do n't splash a bit , or make any clatter ; so I guess she 's a tidy creature , '' say Polly .
`` How long she do rub each spoon and glass .
We never shall get do .
What a fuss she make with the napkin , lay them all even in the drawer .
And now she 's at the salt-cellars , do them just a mamma like .
I wish she 'd live here , and do my work for me .
Why , what 's that ? ''
And Polly stop fret to listen ; for she seem to hear the sound of singing , -- so sweet , and yet so very faint she could catch no word , and only make out a cheerful little tune .
`` Do you hear any one singing , mamma ? ''
she ask .
`` No : I wish I do . ''
And mamma sigh ; for baby be poorly , pile of sew lay wait for her , Biddy be turn thing topsy-turvy in the kitchen for want of a word from the mistress , and Polly be look sullen .
The little girl do n't say any more , but work quietly and watch the shadow , feel sure the faint song come from it .
Presently she begin to hum the tune she catch by snatch ; and , before she know it , she be sing away like a blackbird .
Baby stop cry , and mamma say , smile : `` Now I hear somebody singing , and it 's the music I like best in the world . ''
That please Polly ; but , a minute after , she stop smile , for the shadow go and take baby , or seem to , and Polly really do .
Now , baby be heavy , and cross with it teeth ; and Polly do n't feel like tend it one bit .
Mamma hurry away to the kitchen ; and Polly walk up and down the room with poor baby hanging over her arm , cry dismally , with a pin in it back , a wet bib under it chin , and nothing cold and hard to bite with it hot , ache gum , where the little teeth be try to come through .
`` Do stop , you naughty , fretty baby .
I 'm tired of your screaming , and it 's high time you go to sleep .
Bless me !
what 's Miss Shadow do with her baby ? ''
say Polly .
Miss Shadow take out the big pin and lay it away , put on a dry bib , and give her baby a nice ivory ring to bite ; then begin to dance up and down the room , till the shadowy baby clap it hand and kick delightedly .
Polly laugh , and do the same , feel sorry she have be so pettish .
Presently both baby grow quiet , go to sleep , and be lay in the cradle .
`` Now , I hope we shall rest a little , '' say Polly , stretch her arm .
But , no : down sit the shadow , and begin to sew , make her needle fly like a real little seamstress .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
groan Polly .
`` I promise to hem those handkerchief for Ned , and so I must ; but I do think handkerchief be the most pokey thing in the world to sew .
I dare say you think you can sew fast than I can .
Just wait a bit , and see what I can do , miss , '' she say to the shadow .
It take some time to find her thimble and needle and spool , for Polly be n't a very neat little girl ; but she get settle at last , and stitch away a if bent on beat her dumb friend .
Little Will 's shadow go up to the nursery , and stop before a basin of water .
`` Oh !
ah !
ai n't this drefful ? ''
cry Will , with a shiver ; for he know he 'd get to have his face wash , because he would n't have it do properly when he get up , but run away .
Now , Will be a good child ; but this one thing be his great trouble , and sometimes he could n't bear it .
Jane be so rough .
She let soap get in his eye , and water run down his neck , and she pinch his nose when she wipe him , and brush his hair so hard that really it be dreadful ; and even a big boy would have find it hard to bear .
He shiver and sigh : but Jane come in ; and , when he saw that the shadow stand still and take the scrubbing like a little hero , he try to do the same , and succeed so well that Jane actually pat his head and call him `` a deary ; '' which be something new , for old Nurse Jane be always very busy and rather cross .
Feeling that nothing worse could possibly happen to him , Will run after his shadow , a it flit away into the barn , and begin to fee the chicken .
`` There , now !
I forgetted all about my chickeys , and the shadow ` membered 'em ; and I 'm glad of it , '' say Will , scatter dab of meal and water to the chirping , downy little creature who peck and flutter at his foot .
Little shadow hunt for egg , drive the turkey out of the garden , and pick a basket of chip : then it go to play with Sammy , a neighbor 's child ; for , be a small shadow , it have n't many job to do , and plenty of active play be good for it .
Sammy be a rough little boy and rather selfish : so , when they play ball , he want to throw all the time ; and , when Will object , he grow angry and strike him .
The blow do n't hurt Will 's cheek much , but it do his little feeling ; and he lift his hand to strike back , when he saw his shadow go and kiss Sammy 's shadow .
All his anger be go in a minute , and he just put his arm round Sammy 's neck and kiss him .
This kiss for a blow make him so ashamed that he begin to cry , and could n't be comfort till he have give Will his best marble and a ride on his pony .
About an hour before dinner , the three shadow and the child meet in the garden , and have a grand game of play , after they have tell each other what they have be do since they part .
Now , the shadow do n't forget baby even then , but get out the wagon , and Miss Baby , all fresh from her nap , sit among her pillow like a queen , while Ned be horse , Polly footman , and Will driver ; and in this way she travel all round the garden and barn , up the lane and down to the brook , where she be much delight with the water sparkle along and the fine splash of the stone they throw in .
When the dinner-bell rang , mamma saw four clean , rosy face and four smooth head at the table ; for the shadow-children make themselves neat , without be tell .
Every one be merry and hungry and good-natured .
Even poor baby forget her teeth , and play a regular rub-a-dub with her spoon on her mug , and try to tell about the fine thing she saw on her drive .
The child say nothing about the new play , and no one observe the queer action of their shadow but themselves .
They saw that there be no gobbling , or stretch over , or spill of thing , among the shadow ; but that they wait to be help , serve others first , and eat tidily , which be a great improvement upon the usual state of thing .
It be Saturday afternoon : the day be fine , and mamma tell them they could go for a holiday frolic in the wood .
`` Do n't go to the pond , and be home early , '' she say .
`` Yes , mamma ; we 'll remember , '' they answer , a they scamper away to get ready .
`` We shall go through the village , and Mary King will be look out ; so I shall wear my best hat .
Mamma wo n't see me , if I slip down the back way ; and I do so want Mary to know that my hat be pretty than hers , '' say Polly , up in her little room .
Now Polly be rather vain , and like to prink ; so she get out the new hat , and spend some time in smooth her braid and put on her blue ribbon .
But when all be ready , and the boy get impatient , she find her shadow , with a sun-bonnet on , stand by the door , a if to prevent her go out .
`` You tiresome thing !
do you mean that I must n't wear my hat , but that old bonnet ? ''
ask Polly .
The shadow nod and beckon , and pat it head , a if it be all right .
`` I wish I have n't promise to do a you do ; then I could do a I like , and not make a fright of myself , '' say Polly , rather sulkily , a she put away the hat , and tie on the old bonnet with a jerk .
Once out in the lovely sunshine , she soon forget the little disappointment ; and , a they do n't go through the village , but by a green lane , where she find some big blackberry , she be quite content .
Polly have a basket to hold fruit or flower , Ned his jackknife , and Will a long stick on which he ride , fancy that this sort of horse would help his short leg along ; so they pick , whittle , and trot their way to the wood , find all manner of interesting thing on the road .
The wood be full of pleasant sight and sound ; for wild rose bloom all along the path , fern and scarlet berry fill the little dell , squirrel chatter , bird sing , and pine whisper musically overhead .
`` I 'm go to stop here and rest , and make a wreath of these pretty wild rose for baby : it 's her birthday , and it will please mamma , '' say Polly , sit down on a mound of moss , with a lapful of flower .
`` I 'm go to cut a fishing-pole , and will be back in a minute . ''
And Ned go crash into the thick part of the wood .
`` I shall see where that rabbit go to , and maybe I 'll find some berry , '' say Will , trot down the path the wild rabbit have go .
The sound of the boy ' step die away , and Polly be wonder how it would seem to live all alone in the wood , when a little girl come trudging by , with a great pail of berry on her arm .
She be a poor child : her foot be bare , her gown be rag , she wear an old shawl over her head , and walk a if lame .
Polly sit behind the fern , and the child do not see her till Polly call out .
The sudden sound startle her ; and she drop her pail , spill the berry all over the path .
The little girl begin to cry , and Polly to laugh , say , in a scornful tone : `` How silly to cry for a few berry ! ''
`` I 've be all day pick 'em , '' say the girl ; `` and I 'm so tired and hungry ; 'cause I do n't dare to go home till my pail be full , -- mother scold if I do , -- and now they 're all spoilt .
Oh , dear !
dear me ! ''
And she cry so hard that great tear fell on the moss .
Polly be sorry now , and sit look at her till she saw her shadow down on it knee , pick up the berry ; then it seem to fold it little handkerchief round the girl 's bruised foot , and give her something from it pocket .
Polly jump up and imitate the kind shadow , even to give the great piece of gingerbread she have bring for fear she should be hungry .
`` Take this , '' she say gently .
`` I 'm sorry I frighten you .
Here be the berry all pick up , and none the bad for fall in the grass .
If you 'll take them to the white house on the hill , my mamma will buy them , and then your mother wo n't scold you . ''
`` Oh , thank you , miss !
It 's ever so good .
I 'll take the berry to your mother , and bring her more whenever she like , '' say the child gratefully , a she walk away munch the gingerbread , and smile till there be little rainbow in her tear .
Meanwhile Ned have poke about in the bush , look for a good pole .
Presently he saw a willow down by the pond , and think that would give him a nice , smooth pole .
He forget his promise , and down he go to the pond ; where he cut his stick , and be whittle the end , when he saw a boat by the shore .
It be untied , and oar lay in it , a if wait for some one to come and row out .
`` I 'll just take a little pull across , and get those cardinal-flowers for Polly , '' he say ; and go to the boat .
He get in , and be about to push off , when he saw his shadow stand on the shore .
`` Do n't be a fool ; get in , and come along , '' he say to it , remember his promise now , but decide to break it , and ask pardon afterwards .
But the shadow shook it head ; point to the swift stream that run between the bank , the rock and mud on the opposite side , and the leaky boat itself .
`` I ai n't afraid : mamma wo n't mind , if I tell her I 'm sorry ; and it will be such fun to row alone .
Be a good fellow , and let me go , '' say Ned , beckoning .
But the shadow would not stir , and Ned be oblige to mind .
He do so very reluctantly , and scold the shadow well a he go back to Polly ; though all the time he felt he be do right , and know he should be glad afterwards .
Will trot after the rabbit , but do n't find it ; he find a bird 's - nest instead with four little bird in it .
He have an empty cage at home , and long for something to put in it ; for kitten do n't like it , and caterpillar and beetlebugs get away .
He choose the big bird , and , hold him carefully , walk away to find Polly .
The poor mother-bird chirped and flutter in great distress ; but Will keep on till his little shadow come before him , and try to make him turn back .
`` No , no , I want him , '' say Will .
`` I wo n't hurt him , and his mother have three left : she wo n't mind if I take one . ''
Here the mother-bird chirp so loud it be impossible to help see that she do care very much ; and the shadow stamp it foot and wave it hand , a if order the young robber to carry back the baby-bird .
Will stand still , and think a minute ; but his little heart be a very kind one , and he soon turn about , say pleasantly : `` Yes , it be naughty , and I wo n't do it .
I 'll ask mamma to get me a canary , and will let this birdie stay with his brother . ''
The shadow pat him on the shoulder , and seem to be delight a Will put the bird in the nest and walk on , feel much happy than if he have keep it .
A bush of purple berry grow by the path , and Will stop to pick some .
He do n't know what they be , and mamma have often tell him never to eat strange thing .
But they smelt so good , and look so nice , he could n't resist , and lift one to his mouth , when little shadow motion for him to stop .
`` Oh , dear !
you do n't let me do any thing I want to , '' sigh Will .
`` I shall ask Polly if I tar n't eat these ; and , if she say I may , I shall , so now . ''
He run off to ask Polly ; but she say they be poisonous , and beg him to throw them away .
`` Good little shadow , to keep me safe ! ''
cry Will .
`` I like you ; and I 'll mind good next time , 'cause you be always right . ''
The shadow seem to like this , and bob about so comically it make Will laugh till his eye be full of tear .
Ned come back , and they go on , have grand time in the wood .
They find plenty of berry to fill the basket ; they swing down on slender birch , and get roll of white bark for canoe ; they saw all sort of wild-wood insect and bird ; and frolic till they be tire .
As they cross a field , a cow suddenly put down her head and ran at them , a if she be afraid they mean to hurt her calf .
All turn , and run as fast a they could toward the wall ; but poor Will in his fright tumble down , and lay screaming .
Ned and Polly have reach the wall , and , look back , saw that their shadow have not follow .
Ned 's stood before Will , brandish his pole ; and Polly 's be flap a shadowy sun-bonnet with all it might .
As soon a they saw that , back they go , -- Ned to threaten till he break his pole , and Polly to flap till the string come off .
As if anxious to do it part , the bonnet fly up in the air , and come down lit on the cross cow 's head ; which so astonish her that she run away as hard a she could pelt .
`` Was n't that funny ? ''
say Will , when they have tumble over the wall , and lay laugh in the grass on the safe side .
`` I 'm glad I wear the old bonnet ; for I suppose my best hat would have go just the same , '' say Polly thankfully .
`` The calf do n't know it own mother with that thing on , '' laugh Ned .
`` How brave and kind you be to come back and save me !
I 'd have be deaded if you have n't , '' say Will , look at his brother and sister with his little face full of grateful admiration .
They turn towards home after this flurry , feel quite like hero .
When they come to the corner where two road meet , Ned propose they should take the river-road ; for , though the long , it be much the pleasantest .
`` We sha n't be home at supper-time , '' say Polly .
`` You wo n't be able to do your job , Ned , nor I mine , and Will 's chicken will have to go to bed hungry . ''
`` Never mind : it 's a holiday , so let 's enjoy it , and not bother , '' answer Ned .
`` We promise mamma we 'd come home early , '' say Will .
They stand look at the two road , -- one sandy , hot , and hilly ; the other green and cool and level , along the river-side .
They all choose the pleasant path , and walk on till Ned cry out , `` Why , where be our shadow ? ''
They look behind , before , and on either side ; but nowhere could they see them .
`` They be with u at the corner , '' say Will .
`` Let 's run back , and try to find them , '' say Polly .
`` No , let 'em go : I 'm tired of mind mine , and do n't care if I never see it again , '' say Ned .
`` Do n't say so ; for I remember hear about a man who sell his shadow , and then get into lot of trouble because he have none .
We promise to follow them , and we must , '' say Polly .
`` I wish , '' begin Ned in a pet ; but Polly clap her hand over his mouth , say : `` Pray , do n't wish now ; for it may come to pass a the man 's wish in the fairy tale do , and the black pudding fly up and stick tight to his wife 's nose . ''
This make Ned laugh , and they all turn back to the corner .
Looking up the hilly road , they saw the three shadow trudge along , a if bent on get home in good time .
Without say a word , the child follow ; and , when they get to the garden gate , they all say at once : `` Are n't you glad you come ? ''
Under the elm-tree stand a pretty tea-table , cover with bread and butter , custard , and berry , and in the middle a fine cake with sugar-roses on the top ; and mamma and baby , all nicely dress , be wait to welcome them to the birthday feast .
Polly crown the little queen , Ned give her a willow whistle he have make , and Will some pretty , bright pebble he have find ; and Miss Baby be as happy a a bird , with her treasure .
A pleasant supper-time ; then the small duty for each one ; and then the go-to-bed frolic .
The nursery be a big room , and in the even a bright wood fire always burn there for baby .
Mamma sit before it , softly rub baby 's little rosy limb before she go to bed , sing and tell story meanwhile to the three child who prance about in their long nightgown .
This evening they have a gay time ; for the shadow amuse them by all sort of antic , and keep them laugh till they be tire .
As they sit rest on the big sofa , they hear a soft , sweet voice singing .
It be n't mamma ; for she be only talk to baby , and this voice sing a real song .
Presently they saw mamma 's shadow on the wall , and find it be the shadow-mother singing to the shadow-children .
They listen intently , and this be what they hear : `` Little shadow , little shadow , Dancing on the chamber wall , While I sit beside the hearthstone Where the red flame rise and fall .
Caps and nightgown , cap and nightgown , My three antic shadow wear ; And no sound they make in playing , For the six small foot be bare .
`` Dancing gayly , dance gayly , To and fro all together , Like a family of daisy Blown about in windy weather ; Nimble fairy , nimble fairy , Playing prank in the warm glow , While I sing the nursery ditties Childish phantom love and know .
`` Now what happen , now what happen ?
One small shadow 's tumble down : I can see it on the carpet , Softly rub it hurt crown .
No one whimper , no one whimper ; A brave-hearted sprite be this : See !
the others offer comfort In a silent , shadowy kiss .
`` Hush !
they 're creep ; hush !
they 're creep , Up about my rocking-chair : I can feel their loving finger Clasp my neck and touch my hair .
Little shadow , little shadow , Take me captive , hold me tight , As they climb and cling and whisper , ` Mother dear , good night !
good night ! ' ''
As the song end , the real child , as well a the shadow , lovingly kiss mamma , and say `` Good-night ; '' then go away into their room , say their prayer , and nestle down into their bed .
Ned sleep alone in the room next that which Polly and Will have ; and , after lie quiet a little while , he call out softly : `` I say , Polly , be you asleep ? ''
`` No : I 'm think what a queer day we 've have , '' answer Polly .
`` It 's be a good day , and I 'm glad we try our wish ; for the shadow show u , as well a they could , what we ought to do and be .
I sha n't forget it , shall you ? ''
say Ned .
`` No : I 'm much oblige for the lesson . ''
`` So be I , '' call out Will , in a very earnest , but rather a sleepy , little voice .
`` I wonder what mamma will say , when we tell her about it , '' say Ned .
`` And I wonder if our shadow will come back to u at midnight , and follow u a they use to do , '' add Polly .
`` I shall be very careful where I lead my shadow ; 'cause he 's a good little one , and set me a righter zarmple than ever I do him , '' say Will , and then drop asleep .
The others agree with him , and resolve that their shadow should not be ashamed of them .
All be fast asleep ; and no one but the moon saw the shadow come steal back at midnight , and , have dance about the little bed , vanish a the clock strike twelve .
VI .
POPPY 'S PRANKS .
She be n't a wilfully naughty child , this harum-scarum Poppy , but very thoughtless and very curious .
She want to see every thing , do every thing , and go every where : she fear nothing , and so be continually get into scrape .
Her prank begin early ; for , when she be about four , her mamma one day give her a pair of green shoe with bright button .
Poppy thought there never be any thing so splendid , and immediately want to go to walk .
But mamma be busy , and Poppy could n't go alone any farther than the garden .
She show her shoe to the servant , the cat , the dove , and the flower ; and then open the gate that the people in the street might see the trim little foot she be so proud of .
Now Poppy have be forbidden to go out ; but , when she saw Kitty Allen , her neighbor , play ball down the street , she forget every thing but the desire to show her new shoe ; and away she go march primly along as vain a a little peacock , a she watch the bright button twinkle , and hear the charming creak .
Kitty saw her coming ; and , be an ill-natured little girl , take no notice , but call out to her brother Jack : `` Ai n't some folk grand ?
If I could n't have red shoe for my best , I would n't have any , would you ? ''
They both laugh , and this hurt Poppy 's feeling dreadfully .
She toss her head , and try to turn up her nose ; but , it be so very small , it could n't be very scornful .
She say nothing , but walk gravely by , a if she be go on an errand , and have n't hear a word .
Round the corner she go , think she would wait till Kitty be go ; a she do n't like to pass again , fear Jack might say something equally try .
An organ-man with a monkey be play near by ; and Poppy be soon so busy listen to the music , and watch the sad-looking monkey , that she forget home , shoe , and Kitty altogether .
She follow the man a long way ; and , when she turn to go back , she take the wrong street , and find herself by the park .
Being fond of dandelion , Poppy go in , and gather her hand full , enjoy herself immensely ; for Betsy , the maid , never let her play in the pond , or roll down the hill , or make dirt-pies , and now she do all these thing , besides play with strange child and talk with any one she please .
If she have not have her luncheon just before she start , she would have be very hungry ; for dinner-time come , without her know it .
By three o'clock , she begin to think it be time to go home , and boldly start off to find it .
But poor little Poppy do n't know the way , and go all wrong .
She be very tired now , and hot and hungry , and want to see mamma , and wonder why she do n't come to the brown house with the white garden-gate .
On and on she go , up street and down , amuse herself with look in the shop-windows , and sit to rest on doorstep .
Once she ask a pleasant-faced little girl to show her the way home ; but , a she do n't know in what street it be , and say her father 's name be `` papa , '' the girl could n't help her : so she give her a bun and go away .
Poppy ate her bun , and begin to wonder what would become of her ; for night be come on , and there do n't seem to be any prospect of find mamma or home or bed .
Her courage be all go now ; and , come to a quiet place , she sit down on some high step , and cry till her little `` hankchif , '' a she call it , be all wet .
Nobody mind her : and she felt very forlorn till a big black dog come by , and seem to understand the matter entirely ; for he smelt of her face , lick her hand , and then lay down by her with such a friendly look in his brown eye that Poppy be quite comfort .
She tell him her story , pat his big head ; and then , be fairly tire out , lay her wet cheek on his soft back , and fell fast asleep .
It be quite dark when she wake ; but a lamp be light near by , and stand under it be a man ring a great bell .
Poppy sit up , and wonder if anybody 's supper be ready .
The man have a paper ; and , when people stop at the sound of the bell , he read in a loud voice : `` Lost !
a little girl , four year old ; curly brown hair , blue eye ; have on a white frock and green shoe ; call herself Poppy . ''
He get no farther ; for a little voice cry out of the dark , in a tone of surprise : `` Why , dats me ! ''
The people all turn to look ; and the big man put his bell in his pocket , take her up very kindly , and say he 'd carry her home .
`` Is it far away ? ''
ask Poppy , with a little sob .
`` Yes , my dear ; but I be go to give you some supper fust , along of my little girl .
I live close by ; and , when we 've have a bite , we 'll go find your ma . ''
Poppy be so tired and hungry , she be glad to find herself take care of , and let the man do a he like .
He take her to a funny little house , and his wife give her bread and molasses on a new tin plate with letter all round the edge .
Poppy think it very fine , and enjoy her supper , though the man 's little girl star at her all the time with eye as blue a her mug .
While she eat , the man send word to her father that she be find ; and , when both papa and mamma come hurry in all out of breath with joy , there sat Miss Poppy talk merrily , with her face well daub with molasses , her gown torn , her hand very dirty , and her shoe -- ah , the pretty new shoe !
-- all spoil with mud and dust , scratch , and half wear out , the button dull , and the color quite go .
No one care for it that night ; for little runaway be kiss and pet , and take home to her own cosey bed as tenderly a if she have do nothing naughty , and never frighten her parent out of their wit in her life .
But the next day , -- dear me !
what a sad time it be , to be sure !
When Poppy wake up , there hang the spoilt shoe over the mantle-piece ; and , as soon a she be dress , papa come in with a long cord , one end of which he tie round Poppy 's waist , and the other to the arm of the sofa .
`` I 'm very sorry to have to tie you up , like a little dog ; but I must , or you will forget , and run away again , and make mamma ill . ''
Then he go away without his morning kiss , and Poppy be so very unhappy she could hardly eat her breakfast .
She felt well by and by , and try to play ; but the cord keep pull her back .
She could n't get to the window ; and , when she hear mamma pass the door , she try to run and meet her , but have to stop halfway , for the cord jerk her over .
Cousin Fanny come up , but Poppy be so ashamed to be tie that she creep under the sofa and hid .
All day she be a prisoner , and be a very miserable little girl ; but at night she be untied , and , when mamma take her in her lap for the first time that day , Poppy hold her fast , and sob very penitently -- `` O mamma !
I drefful sorry I runned away .
Fordive me one time more , and I never will adain ; '' and she never do .
Two or three year after this , Poppy go to live in the country , and try some new prank .
One day she go with her sister Nelly to see a man plough , for that sort of thing be new to her .
While the man work , she saw him take out a piece of something brown , and bite off a bit .
`` What 's that ? ''
ask Poppy .
`` Tobaccer , '' say the man .
`` Is it nice ? ''
ask Poppy .
`` Prime , '' say the man .
`` Could you let me taste it ? ''
ask curious Poppy .
`` It will make you sick , '' say the man , laugh .
`` It do n't make you sick .
I 'd like to try , '' say Poppy , nothing daunt .
He give her a piece ; and Poppy eat it , though it do n't taste good at all .
She do it because Cy , her favorite playfellow , tell her she 'd die if she do , and try to frighten her .
`` You dars n't eat any more , '' he say .
`` Yes , I dare .
See if I do n't . ''
And Poppy take another piece , just to show how brave she be .
Silly little Poppy !
`` I ai n't sick , and I sha n't die , so now . ''
And Poppy prance about as briskly a ever .
But the man shake his head , Nelly watch her anxiously , and Cy keep say : `` Ai n't you sick yet , say ? ''
For a little while Poppy felt all right ; but presently she grow rather pale , and begin to look rather pensive .
She stop run , and walk slow and slow , while her eye get dizzy , and her hand and foot very cold .
`` Ai n't you sick now , say ? ''
repeat Cy ; and Poppy try to answer , `` Oh , dear !
no ; '' but a dreadful feeling come over her , and she could only shake her head , and hold on to Nelly .
`` Better lay down a spell , '' say the man , look a little troubled .
`` I do n't wish to dirty my clean frock , '' say Poppy faintly , a she glance over the wide-ploughed field , and long for a bit of grass to drop on .
She keep on bravely for another turn ; but suddenly stop , and , quite regardless of the clean pink gown , drop down in a furrow , look so white and queer that Nelly begin to cry .
Poppy lay a minute , then turn to Cy , and say very solemnly : `` Cy , run home , and tell my mother I 'm die . ''
Away rush Cy in a great fright , and burst upon Poppy 's mamma , exclaim breathlessly : `` O ma'am !
Poppy 's be and eat a lot of tobacco ; and she 's sick , layin ' in the field ; and she say ` Come quick , 'cause she 's dyin . ' ''
`` Mercy on u !
what will happen to that child next ? ''
cry poor mamma , who be use to Poppy 's mishap .
Papa be away , and there be no carriage to bring Poppy home in ; so mamma take the little wheelbarrow , and trundle away to get the suffering Poppy .
She could n't speak when they get to her ; and , only stop to give the man a lecture , mamma pick up her silly little girl , and the procession move off .
First come Cy , as grave a a sexton ; then the wheelbarrow with Poppy , white and limp and speechless , all in a bunch ; then mamma , look amuse , anxious and angry ; then Nelly , weep a if her tender heart be entirely break ; while the man watch them , with a grin , say to himself : `` Twar n't my fault .
The child be a reg ` lar fool to swaller it . ''
Poppy be dreadfully sick all night , but next day be ready for more adventure and experiment .
She swing on the garret stair , and tumble down , nearly break her neck .
She rub her eye with red pepper , to see if it really would make them smart , a Cy say ; and be lead home quite blind and roar with pain .
She get into the pigsty to catch a young piggy , and be take out in a sad state of dirt .
She slip into the brook , and be half drown ; break a window and her own head , swing a little flat-iron on a string ; drop baby in the coal-hod ; bury her doll , and spoil her ; cut off a bit of her finger , chop wood ; and break a tooth , try to turn heel over head on a haycock .
These be only a few of her prank , but one be nearly her last .
She want to go bare-footed , a the little country boy and girl do ; but mamma be n't willing , and Poppy be much afflict .
`` It do n't hurt Cy , and it wo n't hurt me , just for a little while , '' she say .
`` Say no more , Poppy .
I never wish to see you barefooted , '' reply mamma .
`` Well , you need n't : I 'll go and do it in the barn , '' mutter Poppy , a she walk away .
Into the barn she go , and play country girl to her heart 's content , in spite of Nelly 's warning .
Nelly never get into scrape , be a highly virtuous young lady ; but she enjoy Poppy 's prank , and wept over her misfortune with sisterly fidelity .
`` Now I 'll be a bear , and jump at you a you go by , '' say Poppy , when they be tire of play steam-engine with the old winnowing machine .
So she get up on a beam ; and Nelly , with a peck measure on her head for a hat , and a stick for a gun , go bear-hunting , and bang away at the swallow , the barrel , and the hencoop , till the bear be ready to eat her .
Presently , with a loud roar , the bear leap ; but Nelly be n't eat that time , for Poppy cry out with pain : `` Oh !
I jump on a pitchfork , and it 's in my foot !
Take it out !
take it out ! ''
Poor little foot !
There be a deep purple hole in the sole , and the blood come , and Poppy faint away , and Nelly scream , and mamma ran , and the neighbor rush in , and there be such a flurry .
Poppy be soon herself again , and lay on the sofa , with Nelly and Cy to amuse her .
`` What do the doctor say to mamma in the other room about me ? ''
whisper Poppy , feel very important at have such a bustle make on her account .
Nelly sniff , but say nothing ; Cy , however , speak up briskly : `` He say you might have lockjaw . ''
`` Is that bad ? ''
ask Poppy gravely .
`` Oh , ai n't it , though !
Your mouth shut up , and you ca n't open it ; and you have fit and die . ''
`` Always ? ''
say Poppy , look scar , and feeling of her mouth . ''
` Most always , I guess .
That 's why your ma cry , and Nelly keep kissin ' you . ''
Cy felt sorry , but rather enjoy the excitement , and be sure , that , if any one ever could escape die , it would be Poppy , for she always `` come alive '' again after her bad mishap .
She look very solemn for a few minute , and keep opening and shut her mouth to see if it be n't stiff .
Presently she say , in a serious tone and with a pensive air : `` Nelly , I 'll give you my bead-ring : I sha n't want it any more .
And Cy may have the little horse : he lose his tail ; but I put on the lamb 's tail , and he be as good a ever .
I wish to give away my thing ` fore I die ; and , Nelly , wo n't you bring me the scissors ? ''
`` What for ? ''
say Nelly , sniff more than ever .
`` To cut off my hair for mamma .
She 'll want it , and I like to cut thing . ''
Nelly get the scissors ; and Poppy cut away all she could reach , give direction about her property while she snip .
`` I wish papa to have my picture and my piece of poetry I make .
Give baby my dolly and the quacking duck .
Tell Billy , if he want my collection of bright button , he can have 'em ; and give Hattie the yellow plaster dog , with my love . ''
Here mamma come in with a poultice , and could n't help laughing , though tear stand in her eye , a she saw Poppy 's cropped head and hear her last wish .
`` I do n't think I shall lose my little girl yet , so we wo n't talk of it .
But Poppy must keep quiet , and let Nelly wait on her for a few day . ''
`` Are fits bad , mamma ?
and do it hurt much to die ? ''
ask Poppy thoughtfully .
`` If people be good while they live , it be not hard to die , dear , '' say mamma , with a kiss ; and Poppy hug her , say softly : `` Then I 'll be very good ; so I wo n't mind , if the jawlock do come . ''
And Poppy be good , -- oh , dreadfully good !
for a week .
Quite an angel be Poppy ; so meek and gentle , so generous and obedient , you really would n't have know her .
She love everybody , forgive her playmate all their sin against her , let Nelly take such of her precious treasure a she like , and pensively hop baby would remember her when she be go .
She hop about with a crutch , and felt a if she be an object of public interest ; for all the old lady send to know how she be , the child look at her with respectful awe a one set apart and doom to fit , and Cy continually beg to know if her mouth be stiff .
Poppy do n't die , though she get all ready for it ; and felt rather disappointed when the foot heal , the jaw remain as active a ever , and the fit do n't come .
I think it do her good ; for she never forget that week , and , though she be near die several time after , she never be so fit to go a she be then .
`` Burney 's make jelly : let 's go and get our scraping , '' say Poppy to Nellie once , when mamma be away .
But Burney be busy and cross , and cook be not as patient a mother ; so when the child appear , each arm with a spoon , and demand their usual feast , she would n't hear of it , and order them off .
`` But we only want the scraping of the pan , Burney : mamma always let u have them , when we help her make jelly ; do n't she , Nelly ? ''
say Poppy , try to explain the case .
`` Yes ; and make u our little potful too , '' add Nelly , persuasively .
`` I do n't want your help ; so be off .
Your ma can fuss with your pot , if she choose .
I 've no time . '' ''
I think Burney 's the cross woman in the world .
It 's mean to eat all the scraping herself ; be n't it Nelly ? ''
say Poppy , very loud , a the cook shut the door in their face .
`` Never mind : I know how to pay her , '' she add , in a whisper , a they sit on the stair bewail their wrong .
`` She 'll put her old jelly in the big closet , and lock the door ; but we can climb the plum tree , and get in at the window , when she take her nap . ''
`` Should we dare to eat any ? ''
ask Nelly , timid , but long for the forbidden fruit . ''
I should ; just as much a ever I like .
It 's mamma 's jelly , and she wo n't mind .
I do n't care for old cross Burney , '' say Poppy , slide down the banister by way of soothe her ruffled spirit .
So when Burney go to her room after dinner , the two rogue climb in at the window ; and , each take a jar , sit on the shelf , dip in their finger and revel rapturously .
But Burney be n't asleep , and , hear a noise below , creep down to see what mischief be go on .
Pausing in the entry to listen , she hear whisper , clatter of glass , and smacking of lip in the big closet ; and in a moment knew that her jelly be lose .
She try the door with her key ; but sly Poppy have bolt it on the inside , and , feel quite safe , defied Burney from among the jelly-pots , entirely reckless of consequence .
Short-sighted Poppy !
she forget Cy ; but Burney do n't , and send him to climb in at the window , and undo the door .
Feeling hurt that the young lady have n't ask him to the feast , Cy harden his heart against them , and deliver them up to the enemy , regardless of Poppy 's threat and Nelly 's prayer .
`` Poppy propose it , she break the jar , and I do n't eat much .
O Burney !
do n't hurt her , please , but let me ` splain it to mamma when she come , '' sob Nelly , a Burney seize Poppy , and give her a good shaking .
`` You go wash your face , Miss Nelly , and leave this naughty , naughty child to me , '' say Burney ; and take Poppy , kick and scream , into the little library , where she -- oh , dreadful to relate !
-- give her a good spanking , and lock her up .
Mamma never whip , and Poppy be in a great rage at such an indignity .
The minute she be leave alone , she look about to see how she could be revenge .
A solar lamp stand on the table ; and Poppy coolly tip it over , with a fine smash , call out to Burney that she 'd have to pay for it , that mamma would be very angry , and that she , Poppy , be go to spoil every thing in the room .
But Burney be go , and no one come near her .
She kick the paint off the door , rattle the latch , call Burney a `` pig , '' and Cy `` a badder boy than the man who smother the little prince in the Tower . ''
Poppy be very fond of that story , and often play it with Nelly and the doll .
Having relieve her feeling in this way , Poppy rest , and then set about amuse herself .
Observing that the spilt oil make the table shine , she take her handkerchief and polish up the furniture , a she have see the maid do .
`` Now , that look nice ; and I know mamma will be pleased 'cause I 'm so tidy , '' she say , survey her work with pride , when she have thoroughly grease every table , chair , picture-frame , book-back , and ornament in the room .
Plenty of oil still remain ; and Poppy finish off by oil her hair , till it shone finely , and smelt -- dear me , how it do smell !
If she have be a young whale , it could n't have be bad .
Poppy be n't particular about smell ; but she get some in her mouth , and do n't like the taste .
There be no water to wash in ; and her hand , face , and pinafore be in a high state of grease .
She be rather lonely too ; for , though mamma have get home , she do n't come to let Poppy out : so the young rebel think it be about time to surrender .
She could write pretty well , and be fond of send penitent note to mamma , after be naughty : for mamma always answer them so kindly , and be so forgiving , that Poppy 's naughty mood be conquer by them sooner than by any punishment ; and Poppy keep the note carefully in a little cover , even after she be grow up .
There be pen , ink , and paper in the room ; so , after various trial , Poppy write her note : -- `` dear Mamma .
`` i be sorry i Took bernys gelli .
i have brake The lamP .
The oyl maks A bad smel .
i tHink i wil Bee sik iF i stay HeRe anny More .
i LoVe yoU -- your Trying To Bee GooD popy . ''
When she have finish , she lower her note by a string , and bob it up and down before the parlor window till Nelly saw and take it in .
Every one laugh over it ; for , besides the bad spelling and the funny period , it be cover with oil-spots , blot , and tear mark ; for Poppy get tender-hearted toward the end , and cry a few very repentant tear when she say , `` I love you ; your trying-to-be-good Poppy . ''
Mamma go up at once , and order no further punishment , but a thorough scrubbing ; which Poppy underwent very meekly , though Betsey put soap in her eye , pull her hair , and scold all the time .
They be not allow any jelly for a long while ; and Cy tease Poppy about her hair-oil till the joke be quite wear out , and even cross Burney be satisfy with the atonement .
When Poppy be eight , she get so very wild that no one could manage her but mamma , and she be ill ; so Poppy be send away to grandpa 's for a visit .
Now , grandpa be a very stately old gentleman , and every one treat him with great respect ; but Poppy be n't at all afraid , and ask all manner of impolite question .
`` Grandpa , why do n't you have any hair on the top of your head ? ''
-- `` O grandpa !
you do snore so loud when you take nap ! ''
-- `` What make you turn out your foot so , when you walk ? ''
and such thing .
If grandpa have n't be the best-natured old gentleman in the world , he would n't have like this : but he only laugh at Poppy , especially when she speak of his leg ; for he be rather proud of them , and always wore long black silk stocking , and tell every one that the leg be so handsome an artist put them in a picture of General Washington ; which be quite true , a any one may see when they look at the famous picture in Boston .
Well , Poppy behave herself respectably for a day or two ; but the house be rather dull , she miss Nelly , want to run in the street , and long to see mamma .
She amuse herself as well a she could with picture-books , patchwork , and the old cat ; but , not be a quiet , proper , little Rosamond sort of a child , she get tired of hem neat pocket-handkerchief , and put her needle carefully away when she have do .
She want to romp and shout , and slide down the banister , and riot about ; so , when she could n't be quiet another minute , she go up into a great empty room at the top of the house , and cut up all sort of caper .
Her great delight be to lean out of the window as far a she could , and look at the people in the street , with her head upside down .
It be very dangerous , for a fall would have kill her ; but the danger be the fun , and Poppy hang out till her hand touch the ledge below , and her face be as red a any real poppy 's .
She be enjoy herself in this way one day , when an old gentleman , who live near , come home to dinner , and saw her .
`` What in the world be that hang out of the colonel 's upper window ? ''
say he , put on his spectacle .
`` Bless my soul !
that child will kill herself .
Hallo , there !
little girl ; get in this minute ! ''
he call to Poppy , flourish his hat to make her see him .
`` What for ? ''
answer Poppy , star at him without move an inch .
`` You 'll fall , and break your neck ! ''
scream the old gentleman .
`` Oh , no , I sha n't ! ''
return Poppy , much flatter by his interest , and hang out still far .
`` Stop that , instantly , or I 'll go in and inform the colonel ! ''
roar the old gentleman , get angry .
`` I do n't care , '' shout Poppy ; and she do n't , for she know grandpa be n't at home .
`` Little gipsy !
I 'll settle her , '' mutter the old man , bustle up to the step , and ring the bell , a if the house be on fire .
No one be in but the servant ; and , when he 'd tell old Emily what the matter be , she go up to `` settle '' Poppy .
But Poppy be already settle , demurely play with her doll , and look quite innocent .
Emily scold ; and Poppy promise never to do it again , if she might stay and play in the big room .
Being busy about dinner , Emily be glad to be rid of her , and leave her , to go and tell the old gentleman it be all right .
`` Ai n't they crosspatches ? ''
say Poppy to her doll .
`` Never mind , dear : you shall hang out , if I ca n't .
I guess the old man wo n't order you in , any way . ''
Full of this idea , Poppy take her long-suffering dolly , and , tie a string to her neck , dance her out of the window .
Now this dolly have be through a great deal .
Her head have be cut off -LRB- and put on again -RRB- ; she have be wash , bury , burnt , tear , soil , and bang about till she be a mournful object .
Poppy love her very much ; for she be two foot tall , and have once be very handsome : so her trial only endear her to her little mamma .
Away she go , skip and prance like mad , -- a funny sight , for Poppy have take off her clothes , and she have n't a hair on her head .
Poppy go to another window of the room for this performance , because in the opposite house live five or six child , and she think they would enjoy the fun .
So they do , and so do the other people ; for it be a boarding-house , and all the people be at home for dinner .
They come to the window , and look and laugh at dolly 's caper , and Poppy be in high feather at the success of her entertainment .
All of a sudden she saw grandpa come down the street , hand behind his back , foot turn out , gold-headed cane under his arm , and the handsome leg in the black silk stocking march along in the most stately manner .
Poppy whisk dolly in before grandpa saw her , and dodge down a he go by .
This make the people laugh again , and grandpa wonder what the joke be .
The minute he go in out flew dolly , dance more frantically than ever ; and the child shout so loud that grandpa go to see what the matter be .
The street be empty ; yet there stand the people , star out and laugh .
Yes ; they be actually look and laugh at his house ; and he do n't see what there be to laugh at in that highly respectable mansion .
He do n't like it ; and , clap on his hat , he go out to learn what the matter be .
He look over at the house , up at the sky , down at the ground , and through the street ; but nothing funny appear , for Poppy and dolly be hide again , and the old gentleman be puzzle .
He go in and sit down to watch , feel rather disturb .
Presently the fun begin again : the child clap their hand , the people laugh , and every one look over at the house , in what he think a very impertinent way .
This make him angry ; and out he rush a second time , say , a he march across the street : `` If those saucy young fellow be make game of me , I 'll soon stop it . ''
Up to the door he go , give a great pull at the bell , and , when the servant come , he demand why every one be laugh at his house .
One of the young men come and tell him , and ask him to come in and see the fun .
Poppy do n't see grandpa go in , for she hide , and when she look out he be go : so she boldly begin the dancing ; but , in the midst of a lively caper , dolly go bounce into the garden below , for the string fell from Poppy 's hand when she suddenly saw grandpa at the window opposite , laugh as heartily a any one at her prank .
She star at him in a great fright , and look so amazed that every one enjoyed that joke good than the other ; and poor Poppy do n't hear the last of it for a long time .
Her next performance be to fall into the pond on the Common .
She be drive hoop down the hill , and go so fast she could n't stop herself ; so splash into the water , hoop and all .
How dreadful it be to feel the cold wave go over her head , shut out the sun and air !
The ground be go , and she could find no place for her foot , and could only struggle and choke , and go down , down , with a loud roaring sound in her ear .
That would have be the end of Poppy , if a little black boy have n't jump in and pull her out .
She be sick and dizzy , and look like a drowned kitten ; but a kind lady take her home in a carriage .
After that mishap grandpa think he would n't keep her any longer , for fear she should come to some bad harm .
So Miss Poppy be send home , much to her delight and much to mamma 's also ; for no matter where she go , or how naughty she be , mamma be always glad to see the little wanderer back , and to forgive and forget all Poppy 's prank .
VII .
WHAT THE SWALLOWS DID .
A man lay on a pile of new-made hay , in a great barn , look up at the swallow who dart and twitter above him .
He envy the cheerful little creature ; for he be n't a happy man , though he have many friend , much money , and the beautiful gift of write song that everybody love to sing .
He have lose his wife and little child , and would not be comfort ; but live alone , and go about with such a gloomy face that no one like to speak to him .
He take no notice of friend and neighbor ; neither use his money for himself nor others ; find no beauty in the world , no happiness anywhere ; and write such sad song it make one 's heart ache to sing them .
As he lay alone on the sweet-smelling hay , with the afternoon sunshine streaming in , and the busy bird chirp overhead , he say sadly to himself : `` Happy swallow , I wish I be one of you ; for you have no pain nor sorrow , and your care be very light .
All summer you live gayly together ; and , when winter come , you fly away to the lovely South , unseparated still . ''
`` Neighbors , do you hear what that lazy creature down there be say ? ''
cry a swallow , peep over the edge of her nest , and address several others who sit on a beam near by .
`` We hear , Mrs . Skim ; and quite agree with you that he know very little about u and our affair , '' answer one of the swallow with a shrill chirp , like a scornful laugh .
`` We work hard than he do any day .
Did he build his own house , I should like to know ?
Does he get his daily bread for himself ?
How many of his neighbor do he help ?
How much of the world do he see , and who be the happier for his be alive ? ''
`` Cares indeed ! ''
cry another ; `` I wish he 'd undertake to fee and teach my brood .
Much he know about the anxiety of a parent . ''
And the little mother bustle away to get supper for the young one , whose bill be always gap wide .
`` Sorrows we have , too , '' softly say the fourth swallow .
`` He would not envy me , if he know how my nest fell , and all my child be kill ; how my dear husband be shoot , and my old mother die of fatigue on our spring journey from the South . ''
`` Dear neighbor Dart , he would envy you , if he know how patiently you bear your trouble ; how tenderly you help u with our little one ; how cheerfully you serve your friend ; how faithfully you love your lost mate ; and how trustfully you wait to meet him again in a lovely country than the South . ''
As Skim speak , she lean down from her nest to kiss her neighbor ; and , a the little beaks met , the other bird give a grateful and approve murmur , for Neighbor Dart be much beloved by all the inhabitant of Twittertown .
`` I , for my part , do n't envy him , '' say Gossip Wing , who be fond of speak her mind .
`` Men and woman call themselves superior being ; but , upon my word , I think they be vastly inferior to u .
Now , look at that man , and see how he waste his life .
There never be any one with a good chance for do good , and be happy ; and yet he mop and dawdle his time away most shamefully . ''
`` Ah !
he have have a great sorrow , and it be hard to be gay with a heavy heart , an empty home ; so do n't be too severe , Sister Wing . ''
And the white tie of the little widow 's cap be stir by a long sigh a Mrs. Dart glance up at the nook where her nest once stand .
`` No , my dear , I wo n't ; but really I do get out of patience when I see so much real misery which that man might help , if he 'd only forget himself a little .
It 's my opinion he 'd be much happy than he now be , wander about with a dismal face and a sour temper . ''
`` I quite agree with you ; and I dare say he 'd thank any one for tell him how he may find comfort .
Poor soul !
I wish he could understand me ; for I sympathize with him , and would gladly help him if I could . ''
And , a she speak , kind-hearted Widow Dart skim by him with a friendly chirp , which do comfort him ; for , be a poet , he could understand them , and lay listening , well please while the little gossip chatter on together .
`` I be so tie at home just now , that I know nothing of what be go on , except the bit of news Skim bring me ; so I enjoy your chat immensely .
I 'm interested in your view on this subject , and beg you 'll tell me what you 'd have that man do to better himself , '' say Mrs . Skim , settle herself on her egg with an attentive air .
`` Well , my dear , I 'll tell you ; for I 've see a deal of the world , and any one be welcome to my experience , '' reply Mrs. Wing , in an important manner ; for she be proud of her `` view , '' and very fond of talk .
`` In my daily flight about the place , I see a great deal of poverty and trouble , and often wish I could lend a hand .
Now , this man have plenty of money and time ; and he might do more good than I can tell , if he 'd only set about it .
Because he be what they call a poet be no reason he should go moan up and down , a if he have nothing to do but make song .
We sing , but we work also ; and be wise enough to see the necessity of both , thank goodness ! ''
`` Yes , indeed , we do , '' cry all the bird in a chorus ; for several more have stop to hear what be go on .
`` Now , what I say be this , '' continue Mrs. Wing impressively .
`` If I be that man , I 'd make myself useful at once .
There be poor little Will get more and more lame every day , because his mother ca n't send him where he can be cure .
A trifle of that man 's money would do it , and he ought to give it .
Old Father Winter be half starved , alone there in his miserable hovel ; and no one think of the good old man .
Why do n't that lazy creature take him home , and care for him , the little while he have to live ?
Pretty Nell be work day and night , to support her father , and be too proud to ask help , though her health and courage be go fast .
The man might make hers the gay heart alive , by a little help .
There in a lonely garret live a young man study his life away , long for book and a teacher .
The man have a library full , and might keep the poor boy from despair by a little help and a friendly word .
He mourn for his own lose baby : I advise him to adopt the orphan whom nobody will own , and who lie wail all day untended on the poor-house floor .
Yes : if he want to forget sorrow and find peace , let him fill his empty heart and home with such a these , and life wo n't seem dark to him any more . ''
`` Dear me !
how well you express yourself , Mrs. Wing ; it 's quite a pleasure to hear you ; and I heartily wish some person could hear you , it would do 'em a deal of good , '' say Mrs . Skim ; while her husband give an approving nod a he dive off the beam , and vanish through the open door .
`` I know it would comfort that man to do these thing ; for I have try the same cure in my small way , and find great satisfaction in it , '' begin little Madame Dart , in her soft voice ; but Mrs. Wing break in , say with a pious expression of countenance : `` I fly into church one day , and sit on the organ enjoy the music ; for every one be sing , and I join in , though I do n't know the air .
Opposite me be two great tablet with golden letter on them .
I can read a little , thanks to my friend , the learned raven ; and so I spell out some of the word .
One be , ` Love thy neighbor ; ' and a I sit there , look down on the people , I wonder how they could see those word week after week , and yet pay so little heed to them .
Goodness know , I do n't consider myself a perfect bird ; far from it ; for I know I be a poor , err fowl ; but I believe I may say I do love my neighbor , though I be ` an inferior creature . ' ''
And Mrs. Wing bridle up , a if she resent the phrase immensely .
`` Indeed you do , gossip , '' cry Dart and Skim ; for Wing be an excellent bird , in spite of the good opinion she have of herself .
`` Thank you : well , then , such be the know fact , I may give advice on the subject a one have authority ; and , if it be possible , I 'd give that man a bit of my mind . ''
`` You have , madam , you have ; and I shall not forget it .
Thank you , neighbor , and good night , '' say the man , a he leave the barn , with the first smile on his face which it have wear for many day .
`` Mercy on u !
I do believe the creature heard every thing we say , '' cry Mrs. Wing , nearly tumble off the beam , in her surprise .
`` He certainly do ; so I 'm glad I be guard in my remark , '' reply Mrs . Skim , laugh at her neighbor 's dismay .
`` Dear me !
dear me !
what do I say ? ''
cried Mrs. Wing , in a great twitter .
`` You speak with more than your usual bluntness , and some of your expression be rather strong , I must confess ; but I do n't think any harm will come of it .
We be of too little consequence for our criticism or opinion to annoy him , '' say Mrs. Dart consolingly .
`` I do n't know that , ma'am , '' return Mrs. Wing , sharply : for she be much ruffle and out of temper .
`` A cat may look at a king ; and a bird may teach a man , if the bird be the wise .
He may destroy my nest , and take my life ; but I feel that I have do my duty , and shall meet affliction with a firmness which will be an example to that indolent , ungrateful man . ''
In spite of her boasted firmness , Mrs. Wing drop her voice , and peep over the beam , to be sure the man be go before she call him names ; and then fly away , to discover what he mean to do about it .
For several day , there be much excitement in Twittertown ; for news of what have happen flew from nest to nest , and every bird be anxious to know what revenge the man would take for the impertinent remark which have be make about him .
Mrs. Wing be in a dreadful state of mind , expect an assault , and the destruction of her entire family .
Every one blame her .
Her husband lecture ; the young bird chirp , `` Chatterbox , chatterbox , '' a she pass ; and her best friend be a little cool .
All this make her very meek for a time ; and she scarcely open her bill , except to eat .
A guard be set day and night , to see if any danger approach ; and a row of swallow might be see on the ridgepole at all hour .
If any one enter the barn , dozen of little black head peep cautiously over the edge of the nest , and there be much flying to and fro with report and rumor ; for all the bird in the town soon know that something have happen .
The day after the imprudent conversation , a chimney-swallow come to call on Mrs. Wing ; and , the moment she be seat on the beam , she begin : `` My dear creature , I feel for you in your try position , -- indeed I do , and come over at once to warn you of your danger . ''
`` Mercy on u !
what be come ? ''
cried Mrs. Wing , cover her brood with tremble wing , and look quite wild with alarm .
`` Be calm , my friend , and bear with firmness the consequence of your folly , '' reply Mrs. Sooty-back , who do n't like Mrs. Wing , because she pride herself on her family , and rather look down on chimney-swallows .
`` You know , ma'am , I live at the great house , and be in the way of see and hear all that go on there .
No fire be light in the study now ; but my landlord still sit on the hearth , and I can overhear every word he say .
Last evening , after my darling be asleep , and my husband go out , I go down and sit on the andiron , a I often do ; for the fireplace be full of oak bough , and I can peep out unseen .
My landlord sit there , look a trifle more cheerful than usual , and I hear him say , in a very decided tone : '' ` I 'll catch them , one and all , and keep them here ; that be good than pull the place down , a I plan at first .
Those swallow little know what they have do ; but I 'll show them I do n't forget . ' ''
On hear this a general wail arose , and Mrs. Wing faint entirely away .
Madam Sooty-back be quite satisfied with the effect she have produce , and depart , say loftily : `` I 'm sorry for you , Mrs. Wing , and forgive your rude speech about my be relate to chimney-sweeps .
One ca n't expect good manner from person bring up in mud house , and entirely shut out from good society .
If I hear any thing more , I 'll let you know . ''
Away she fly ; and poor Mrs. Wing would have have another fit , if they have n't tickle her with a feather , and fan her so violently that she be nearly blow off her nest by the breeze they raise .
`` What shall we do ? ''
she cry .
`` Nothing , but wait .
I dare say , Mrs. Sooty-back be mistake ; at any rate , we ca n't get away without leave our child , for they ca n't fly yet .
Let u wait , and see what happen .
If the bad come , we shall have do our duty , and will all die together . ''
As no one could suggest any thing better , Mrs. Dart 's advice be take , and they wait .
On the afternoon of the same day , Dr. Banks , a sand-swallow , who live in a subterranean village over by the great sand-bank , look in to see Mrs. Wing , and cheer her by the following bit of news : `` The man be down at the poor-house to-day , and take away little Nan , the orphan baby .
I saw him carry her to Will 's mother , and hear him ask her to take care of it for a time .
He pay her well , and she seem glad to do it ; for Will need help , and now he can have it .
An excellent arrangement , I think .
Bless me , ma'am !
what 's the matter ?
Your pulse be altogether too fast , and you look feverish . ''
No wonder the doctor look surprised ; for Mrs. Wing suddenly give a skip , and flap her wing , with a shrill chirp , exclaim , a she look about her triumphantly : `` Now , who be right ?
Who have do good , not harm , by what you call ` gossip ' ?
Who have be a martyr , and patiently bear all kind of blame , injustice , and disrespect ?
Yes , indeed !
the man saw the sense of my word ; he take my advice ; he will show his gratitude by some good turn yet ; and , if half a dozen poor soul be help , it will be my do , and mine alone . ''
Here she have to stop for breath ; and her neighbor all look at one another , feel undecided whether to own they be wrong , or to put Mrs. Wing down .
Every one twitter and chirp , and make a great noise ; but no one would give up , and all go to roost in a great state of uncertainty .
But , the next day , it become evident that Mrs. Wing be right ; for Major Bumble-bee come buzz in to tell them that old Daddy Winter 's hut be empty , and his white head have be see in the sunny porch of the great house .
After this the swallow give in ; and , a no harm come to them , they have a jubilee in honor of the occasion .
Mrs. Wing be president , and receive a vote of thanks for the good she have do , and the credit she have bestow upon the town by her wisdom and courage .
She be much elate by all this ; but her fright have be of service , and she bore her honor more meekly than one would have suppose .
To be sure , she cut Mrs. Sooty-back when they meet ; assume an injured air , when some of her neighbor pass her ; and say , `` I tell you so , '' a dozen time a day to her husband , who get so many curtain lecture that he take to sleep on the high rafter , pretend that the child 's noise disturb him .
All sort of charm thing happen after that , and such a fine summer never be know before ; for not only do the bird rejoice , but people also .
A good spirit seem to haunt the town , leave help and happiness wherever it pass .
Some unseen hand scatter crumb over the barn floor , and leave food at many door .
No dog or boy or gun mar the tranquillity of the bird , insect , and flower who live on the great estate .
No want , care , or suffering , that love or money could prevent , befall the poor folk whose cottage stand near the old house .
Sunshine and peace seem to reign there ; for it gloomy master be a changed man now , and the happiness he earn for himself , by give it to others , flow out in beautiful , blithe song , and go sing away into the world , make him friend , and bring him honor in high place as well a low .
He do not forget the wife and little child whom he have love so well ; but he mourn no longer , for cheerful daisy grow above their graf , and he know that he should meet them in the lovely land where death can never come .
So , while he wait for that happy time to come , he make his life a cheery song , -- a every one may do , if they will ; and go about drop kind word and deed a silently and sweetly a the sky drop sunshine and dew .
Every one be his friend , but his favorite be the swallow .
Every day he go to see them , carry grain and crumb , hear their chat , share their joy and sorrow , and never tiring of their small friendship ; for to them , he think , he owe all the content now his .
When autumn leaf be red , and autumn wind blew cold , the inhabitant of Twittertown prepare for their journey to the South .
They linger long than usual this year , feel sorry to leave their friend .
But the field be bare , the frost begin to pinch , and the young one long to see the world ; so they must go .
The day they start , the whole flock fly to the great house , to say good-by .
Some dive and dart round and round it , some hop to and fro on the sere lawn , some perch on the chimney-tops , and some clung to the window ledge ; all twitter a loving farewell .
Chirp , Dart , and Wing peep everywhere , and everywhere find something to rejoice over .
In a cosey room , by a bright fire , sit Daddy Winter and Nell 's old father , tell story of their youth , and bask in the comfortable warmth .
In the study , surround by the book he love , be the poor young man , happy a a king now , and learn many thing which no book could teach him ; for he have find a friend .
Then , down below be Will 's mother , work like a bee ; for she be housekeeper , and enjoy her task as much a any mother-bird enjoys fill the little mouth of her brood .
Close by be pretty Nell , pretty than ever now ; for her heavy care be go , and she sing a she sew , think of the old father , whom nothing could trouble any more .
But the pleasant sight the three gossip saw be the man with Baby Nan on his arm and Will at his side , play in the once dreary nursery .
How they laugh and dance !
for Will be up from his bed at last , and hop nimbly on his crutch , know that soon even they would be unneeded .
Little Nan be a plump and rosy a a baby should be , and babble like a brook , a the man go to and fro , cradle her in his strong arm , feeling a if his own little daughter have come back when he hear the baby voice call him father .
`` Ah , how sweet it be ! ''
cried Mrs. Dart , glad to see that he have find comfort for his grief .
`` Yes ; indeed : it do one 's heart good to see such a happy family , '' add Mrs . Skim , who be a very motherly bird .
`` I do n't wish to boast ; but I will say that I be satisfied with my summer 's work , and go South feel that I leave an enviable reputation behind me . ''
And Mrs. Wing plume herself with an air of immense importance , a she nod and bridle from her perch on the window-sill .
The man saw the three , and hasten to fee them for the last time , know that they be about to go .
Gratefully they eat , and chirp their thanks ; and then , a they fly away , the little gossip hear their friend sing his good-by : `` Swallow , swallow , neighbor swallow , Starting on your autumn flight , Pause a moment at my window , Twitter softly your good-night ; For the summer day be over , All your duty be well do , And the happy home you build Have grow empty , one by one .
`` Swallow , swallow , neighbor swallow , Are you ready for your flight ?
Are all the feather cloak complete ?
Are the little cap all right ?
Are the young wing strong and steady For the journey through the sky ?
Come again in early spring-time ; And till then , good-by , good-by ! ''
VIII .
LITTLE GULLIVER .
Up in the light-house tower live Davy , with Old Dan the keeper .
Most little boy would have find it very lonely ; but Davy have three friend , and be as happy a the day be long .
One of Davy 's friend be the great lamp , which be light at sunset , and burn all night , to guide the ship into the harbor .
To Dan it be only a lamp ; but to the boy it seem a living thing , and he love and tend it faithfully .
Every day he help Dan clear the big wick , polish the brass work , and wash the glass lantern which protect the flame .
Every evening he go up to see it light , and always fell asleep , thinking , `` No matter how dark or wild the night , my good Shine will save the ship that pass , and burn till morning . ''
Davy 's second friend be Nep , the Newfoundland , who be wash ashore from a wreck , and have never leave the island since .
Nep be rough and big , but have such a loyal and love heart that no one could look in his soft brown eye and not trust him .
He follow Davy 's step all day , slept at his foot all night , and more than once have save his life when Davy fell among the rock , or get catch by the rise tide .
But the dear friend of all be a sea-gull .
Davy find him , with a broken wing , and nurse him carefully till he be well ; then let him go , though he be very fond of `` Little Gulliver , '' a he call him in fun .
But the bird never forget the boy , and come daily to talk with him , tell all manner of wild story about his wandering by land and sea , and whiling away many an hour that otherwise would have be very lonely .
Old Dan be Davy 's uncle , -- a grim , gray man , who say little , do his work faithfully , and be both father and mother to Davy , who have no parent , and no friend beyond the island .
That be his world ; and he lead a quiet life among his playfellow , -- the wind and wave .
He seldom go to the main land , three mile away ; for he be happy at home .
He watch the sea-anemones open below the water , look like fairy-plants , brilliant and strange .
He find curious and pretty shell , and sometimes more valuable treasure , wash up from some wreck .
He saw little yellow crab , ugly lobster , and queer horse-shoes with their stiff tail .
Sometimes a whale or a shark swam by , and often sleek black seal come up to bask on the warm rock .
He gather lovely sea-weeds of all kind , from tiny red cobweb to great scalloped leaf of kelp , long than himself .
He hear the wave dash and roar unceasingly ; the wind howl or sigh over the island ; and the gull scream shrilly a they dip and dive , or sail away to follow the ship that come and go from all part of the world .
With Nep and Gulliver he roam about his small kingdom , never tire of it wonder ; or , if storm rag , he sit up in the tower , safe and dry , watch the tumult of sea and sky .
Often in long winter night he lay awake , listen to the wind and rain , that make the tower rock with their violence ; but he never be afraid , for Nep nestle at his foot , Dan sit close by , and overhead the great lamp shone far out into the night , to cheer and guide all wanderer on the sea .
Close by the tower hang the fog-bell , which , be wind up , would ring all night , warningly .
One day Dan find that something among the chain be break ; and , have vainly try to mend it , he decide to go to the town , and get what be need .
He go once a week , usually , and leave Davy behind ; for in the daytime there be nothing to do , and the boy be not afraid to stay .
`` A heavy fog be blow up : we shall want the bell to-night , and I must be off at once .
I shall be back before dark , of course ; so take care of yourself , boy , '' say Dan .
Away go the little boat ; and the fog shut down over it , a if a misty wall have part Davy from his uncle .
As it be dull weather , he sit and read for an hour or two ; then fell asleep , and forget everything till Nep 's cold nose on his hand wake him up .
It be nearly dark ; and , hop to find Dan have come , he run down to the landing-place .
But no boat be there , and the fog be thicker than ever .
Dan never have be go so long before , and Davy be afraid something have happen to him .
For a few minute he be in great trouble ; then he cheer up , and take courage .
`` It be sunset by the clock ; so I 'll light the lamp , and , if Dan be lose in the fog , it will guide him home , '' say Davy .
Up he go , and soon the great star shone out above the black-topped light-house , glimmer through the fog , a if eager to be see .
Davy have his supper , but no Dan come .
He wait hour after hour , and wait all in vain .
The fog thicken , till the lamp be hardly see ; and no bell ring to warn the ship of the dangerous rock .
Poor Davy could not sleep , but all night long wander from the tower to the door , watch , call , and wondering ; but Dan do not come .
At sunrise he put out the light , and , have trim it for the next night , eat a little breakfast , and rove about the island hop to see some sign of Dan .
The sun draw up the fog at last ; and he could see the blue bay , the distant town , and a few fishing-boats go out to sea .
But nowhere be the island-boat with gray Old Dan in it ; and Davy 's heart grow heavy and heavy , a the day pass , and still no one come .
In the afternoon Gulliver appear : to him Davy tell his trouble , and the three friend take counsel together .
`` There be no other boat ; and I could n't row so far , if there be : so I ca n't go to find Dan , '' say David sorrowfully .
`` I 'd gladly swim to town , if I could ; but it 's impossible to do it , with wind and tide against me .
I 've howl all day , hop some one would hear me ; but no one do , and I 'm discouraged , '' say Nep , with an anxious expression .
`` I can do something for you ; and I will , with all my heart .
I 'll fly to town , if I do n't see him in the bay , and try to learn what have become of Dan .
Then I 'll come and tell you , and we will see what be to be do next .
Cheer up , Davy dear : I 'll bring you tidings , if any can be have . ''
With these cheerful word , away sail Gulliver , leave Nep and his master to watch and wait again .
The wind blow hard , and the broken wing be not quite well yet , else Gulliver would have be able to steer clear of a boat that come swiftly by .
A sudden gust drive the gull so violently against the sail that he drop breathless into the boat ; and a little girl catch him , before he could recover himself .
`` Oh , what a lovely bird !
See his black cap , his white breast , dove-colored wing , red leg and bill , and soft , bright eye .
I want a gull ; and I 'll keep this one , for I do n't think he be much hurt . ''
Poor Gulliver struggle , peck and scream ; but little Dora hold him fast , and shut him in a basket till they reach the shore .
Then she put him in a lobster pot , -- a large wooden thing , something like a cage , -- and leave him on the lawn , where he could catch glimpse of the sea , and watch the light-house tower , a he sit alone in this dreadful prison .
If Dora have know the truth , she would have let him go , and do her best to help him ; but she could not understand his speech , a Davy do , for very few people have the power of talk with bird , beast , insect , and plant .
To her , his prayer and cry be only harsh scream ; and , when he sit silent , with droop head and ruffle feather , she think he be sleepy : but he be mourn for Davy , and wonder what his little friend would do .
For three long day and night he be a prisoner , and suffer much .
The house be full of happy people , but no one take pity upon him .
Ladies and gentleman talk learnedly about him ; boy poke and pull him ; little girl admire him , and beg his wing for their hat , if he die .
Cats prowl about his cage ; dog bark at him ; hen cackle over him ; and a shrill canary jeer at him from the pretty pagoda in which it hang , high above danger .
In the evening there be music ; and the poor bird 's heart ache a the sweet sound come to him , remind him of the airier melody he love .
Through the stillness of the night , he hear the wave break on the shore ; the wind come sing up from the sea ; the moon shone kindly on him , and he saw the water-fairies dance on the sand .
But for three day no one speak a friendly word to him , and he pin away with a broken heart .
On the fourth night , when all be quiet , little Gulliver saw a black shadow steal across the lawn , and hear a soft voice say to him : `` Poor bird , you 'll die , if yer stay here ; so I ` se gwine to let yer go .
Specs little missy 'll scold dreffle ; but Moppet 'll take de scoldin for yer .
Hi , dere !
you be peart nuff now , kase you 's in a hurry to go ; but jes wait till I gits de knot out of de string dat tie de door , and den away you fly . ''
`` But , dear , kind Moppet , wo n't you be hurt for do this ?
Why do you care so much for me ?
I can only thank you , and fly away . ''
As Gulliver speak , he look up at the little black face bent over him , and saw tear in the child 's sad eye ; but she smile at him , and shake her fuzzy head , a she whisper kindly : `` I do n't want no tank , birdie : I love to let you go , kase you 's a slave , like I be once ; and it 's a dreffle hard ting , I know .
I get away , and I mean you shall .
I ` se watch you , deary , all dese day ; and I try to come ` fore , but dey do n't give me no chance . ''
`` Do you live here ?
I never see you play with the other child , '' say the gull , a Moppet 's nimble finger pick away at the knot .
`` Yes : I live here , and help de cook .
You do n't see me , kase I never play ; de chilen do n't like me . ''
`` Why not ? ''
ask Gulliver , wonder .
`` I ` se black , '' say Moppet , with a sob .
`` But that 's silly in them , '' cry the bird , who have never hear of such a thing .
`` Color make no difference ; the peep be gray , the seal black , and the crab yellow ; but we do n't care , and be all friend .
It be very unkind to treat you so .
Have n't you any friend to love you , dear ? ''
`` Nobody in de world keres fer me .
Dey sell me way from my mammy when I be a baby , and I ` se knock roun eber since .
De oder chilen have folks to lub an kere fer em , but Moppet 's get no friend ; '' and here the black eye grow so dim with tear that the poor child could n't see that the last knot be out .
Gulliver saw it , and , push up the door , fly from his prison with a glad cry ; and , hop into Moppet 's hand , look into the little dark face with such grateful confidence that it clear at once , and the bright smile it have wear for month break over it a the bird nestle it soft head against her cheek , say gently : `` I 'm your friend , dear ; I love you , and I never shall forget what you have do for me to-night .
How can I thank you before I go ? ''
For a minute , Moppet could only hug the bird , and cry ; for these be the first kind word she have hear for a long time , and they go straight to her lonely little heart .
`` O my deary !
I ` se pay by dem word , and I do n't want no tank .
Jes lub me , and come sometimes to see me ef you can , it 's so hard livin ' in dis yere place .
I do n't tink I 'll bar it long .
I wish I be a bird to fly away , or a oyster safe in de mud , and free to do a I 's a mind . ''
`` I wish you could go and live with Davy on the island ; he be so kind , so happy , and as free a the wind .
Ca n't you get away , Moppet ? ''
whisper Gulliver , long to help this poor , friendless little soul .
He tell her all his story ; and they agree that he should fly at once to the island , and see if Dan be there ; if not , he be to come back , and Moppet would try to get some one to help find him .
When this be do , Davy and Dan be to take Moppet , if they could , and make her happy on the island .
Full of hope and joy , Gulliver say good-by , and spread his wing ; but , ala for the poor bird !
he be too weak to fly .
For three day he have hardly eat any thing , have find no salt water to bathe in , and have sit moping in the cage till his strength be all go .
`` What shall I do ?
what shall I do ? ''
he cry , flutter his feeble wing , and run to and fro in despair .
`` Hush , birdie , I 'll take kere ob you till you 's fit to fly .
I know a nice , quiet little cove down yonder , where no one go ; and dare you kin stay till you 's good .
I 'll come and fee you , and you kin paddle , and rest , and try your wing , safe and free , honey . ''
As Moppet speak , she take Gulliver in her arm , and steal away in the dim light , over the hill , down to the lonely spot where nothing go but the wind and wave , the gull , and little Moppet , when hard word and blow make heart and body ache .
Here she leave the bird , and , with a love `` Good-night , '' creep home to her bed in the garret , feel as rich a a queen , and much happy ; for she have do a kind thing , and make a friend .
Next day , a great storm come : the wind blow a hurricane , the rain pour , and the sea thunder on the coast .
If he have be well , Gulliver would n't have mind at all ; but , be sick and sad , he spend an anxious day , sit in a cranny of the rock , thinking of Davy and Moppet .
It be so rough , even in the cove , that he could neither swim nor fly , so feeble be he ; and could find no food but such trifle a he could pick up among the rock .
At nightfall the storm rag fiercer than ever , and he give up see Moppet ; for he be sure she would n't come through the pelting rain just to fee him .
So he put his head under his wing , and try to sleep ; but he be so wet and weak , so hungry and anxious , no sleep come .
`` What have happen to Davy alone on the island all this while ?
He will fall ill with loneliness and trouble ; the lamp wo n't be light , the ship will be wreck , and many people will suffer .
O Dan , Dan , if we could only find you , how happy we should be ! ''
As Gulliver speak , a voice cry through the darkness : `` Is you dere , honey ? ''
and Moppet come climb over the rock , with a basket full of such bit a she could get .
`` Poor birdie , be you starvin ' ?
Here , jes go at dis , and joy yourself .
Dere 's fish and ting I tink you 'd like .
How be you now , dear ? ''
`` Better , Moppet ; but , it 's so stormy , I ca n't get to Davy ; and I worry about him , '' begin Gulliver , peck away at his supper : but he stop suddenly , for a faint sound come up from below , a if some one call , `` Help , help ! ''
`` Hi !
what 's dat ? ''
say Moppet , listening .
`` Davy , Davy ! ''
call the voice .
`` It 's Dan .
Hurrah , we 've find him ! ''
and Gulliver dive off the rock so reckless that he go splash into the water .
But that do n't matter to him ; and he paddle away , like a little steamer with all the engine in full blast .
Down by the sea-side , between two stone , lay Dan , so bruised and hurt he could n't move , and so faint with hunger and pain he could hardly speak .
As soon a Gulliver call , Moppet scramble down , and feed the poor man with her scrap , bring him rain-water from a crevice near by , and bind up his wounded head with her little apron .
Then Dan tell them how his boat have be run down by a ship in the fog ; how he be hurt , and cast ashore in the lonely cove ; how he have lain there half dead , for no one hear his shout , and he could n't move ; how the storm bring him back to life , when he be almost go , and the sound of Moppet 's voice tell him help be near .
How glad they all be then !
Moppet dance for joy ; Gulliver scream and flap his wing ; and Dan smile , in spite of pain , to think he should see Davy again .
He could n't understand Gulliver ; but Moppet tell him all the story , and , when he hear it , he be more troubled for the boy than for himself .
`` What will he do ?
He may get kill or scar , or try to come ashore .
Is the lamp alight ? ''
he cry , try to move , and fall back with a moan of pain .
Gulliver fly up to the high rock , and look out across the dark sea .
Yes , there it be , -- the steady star shin through the storm , and say plainly , `` All be well . ''
`` Thank heaven !
if the lamp be burn , Davy be alive .
Now , how shall I get to him ? ''
say Dan .
`` Never you fret , massa : Moppet 'll see to dat .
You jes lay still till I come .
Dere 's folk in de house a 'll tend to you , ef I tell em who and where you be . ''
Off she run , and soon come back with help .
Dan be take to the house , and carefully tend ; Moppet be n't scold for be out so late ; and , in the flurry , no one thought of the gull .
Next morning , the cage be find blown over , and every one fancy the bird have fly away .
Dora be already tire of him ; so he be soon forget by all but Moppet .
In the morning it be clear ; and Gulliver fly gladly to the tower where Davy still watch and wait , with a pale face and heavy heart , for the three day have be very hard to bear , and , but for Nep and Shine , he would have lose his courage entirely .
Gulliver fly straight into his bosom , and , sit there , tell his adventure ; while Davy laugh and cry , and Nep stood by , wag his tail for joy , while his eye be full of sympathy .
The three have a very happy hour together , and then come a boat to carry Davy ashore , while another keeper take charge of the light till Dan be well .
Nobody ever know the best part of the story but Moppet , Davy , and Gulliver .
Other people do n't dream that the boy 's pet gull have any thing to do with the finding of the man , or the good fortune that come to Moppet .
While Dan lay sick , she tend him , like a loving little daughter ; and , when he be well , he take her for his own .
He do not mind the black skin : he only saw the loneliness of the child , the tender heart , the innocent , white soul ; and he be a glad to be a friend to her a if she have be a blithe and pretty a Dora .
It be a happy day when Dan and Davy , Moppet , Gulliver , and Nep sail away to the island ; for that be still to be their home , with stout young Ben to help .
The sun be set ; and they float through wave as rosy a the rosy sky .
A fresh wind fill the sail , and ruffle Gulliver 's white breast a he sit on the mast-head croon a cheery song to himself .
Dan hold the tiller , and Davy lay at his foot , with Nep bolt upright beside him ; but the happy face of all be Moppet 's .
Kneeling at the bow , she lean forward , with her lip apart , her fuzzy hair blow back , and her eye fix on the island which be to be her home .
Like a little black figure-head of Hope , she lean and look , a the boat fly on , bear her away from the old life into the new .
As the sun sunk , out shone the lamp with sudden brightness , a if the island bid them welcome .
Dan furl the sail ; and , drift with the tide , they float in , till the wave break softly on the shore , and leave them safe at home .
IX .
THE WHALE 'S STORY .
Freddy sit think on the seat under the tree .
It be a wide , white seat , about four foot long , slop from the side to the middle , something like a swing ; and be not only comfortable but curious , for it be make of a whale 's bone .
Freddy often sit there , and think about it for he be very much interested in it , and nobody could tell him any thing of it , except that it have be there a long time .
`` Poor old whale , I wonder how you get here , where you come from , and if you be a good and happy creature while you live , '' say Freddy , pat the old bone with his little hand .
It give a great creak ; and a sudden gust of air stir the tree , a if some monster groan and sigh .
Then Freddy hear a strange voice , very loud , yet crack and queer , a if some one try to talk with a broken jaw .
`` Freddy ahoy ! ''
call the big voice .
`` I 'll tell you all about it ; for you be the only person who ever pity me , or care to know any thing about me . ''
`` Why , can you talk ? ''
ask Freddy , very much astonish and a little frightened .
`` Of course I can , for this be a part of my jaw-bone .
I should talk good if my whole mouth be here ; but I 'm afraid my voice would then be so loud you would n't be able to hear it .
I do n't think any one but you would understand me , any way .
It be n't every one that can , you know ; but you be a thoughtful little chap , with a lively fancy as well a a kind heart , so you shall hear my story . ''
`` Thank you , I should like it very much , if you would please to speak a little low , and not sigh ; for your voice almost stun me , and your breath nearly blow me away , '' say Freddy .
`` I 'll try : but it 's hard to suit my tone to such a mite , or to help groan when I think of my sad fate ; though I deserve it , perhaps , '' say the bone , more gently .
`` Were you a naughty whale ? ''
ask Freddy .
`` I be proud , very proud , and foolish ; and so I suffer for it .
I dare say you know a good deal about u .
I see you read often , and you seem a sensible child . ''
`` No : I have n't read about you yet , and I only know that you be the big fish there be , '' reply Freddy .
The bone creak and shook , a if it be laugh , and say in a tone that show it have n't get over it pride yet : `` You 're wrong there , my dear ; we be not fish at all , though stupid mortal have call u so for a long time .
We ca n't live without air ; we have warm , red blood ; and we do n't lay egg , -- so we be not fish .
We certainly be the big creature in the sea and out of it .
Why , bless you !
some of u be nearly a hundred foot long ; our tail alone be fifteen or twenty foot wide ; the big of u weigh five hundred thousand pound , and have in them the fat , bone , and muscle of a thousand cattle .
The low jaw of one of my family make an arch large enough for a man on horseback to ride under easily , and my cousin of the sperm-family usually yield eighty barrel of oil . ''
`` Gracious me , what monsters you be ! ''
cry Freddy , take a long breath , while his eye get big and big a he listen .
`` Ah !
you may well say so ; we be a very wonderful and interesting family .
All our branch be famous in one way or another .
Fin-backs , sperm , and right be the large ; then come the norwhals , the dolphin , and porpoise , -- which last , I dare say , you 've see . ''
`` Yes : but tell me about the big one , please .
Which be you ? ''
cry Freddy .
`` I be a Right whale , from Greenland .
The Sperms live in warm place ; but to u the torrid zone be like a sea of fire , and we do n't pass it .
Our cousin do ; and go to the East Indies by way of the North Pole , which be more than your famous Parrys and Franklins could do . ''
`` I do n't know about that ; but I 'd like to hear what you eat , and how you live , and why you come here , '' say Freddy , who think the whale rather incline to boast .
`` Well , we have n't get any teeth , -- our branch of the family ; and we live on creature so small , that you could only see them with a microscope .
Yes , you may stare ; but it 's true , my dear .
The roof of our mouth be make of whalebone , in broad piece from six to eight foot long , arrange one against the other ; so they make an immense sieve .
The tongue , which make about five barrel of oil , lie below , like a cushion of white satin .
When we want to fee , we rush through the water , which be full of the little thing we eat , and catch them in our sieve , spurt the water through two hole in our head .
Then we collect the food with our tongue , and swallow it ; for , though we be so big , our throat be small .
We roam about in the ocean , leap and float , feed and spout , fly from our enemy , or fight bravely to defend our young one . ''
`` Have you get any enemy ?
I should n't think you could have , you be so large , '' say Freddy .
`` But we have , and many too , -- three who attack u in the water , and several more that men use against u .
The killer , the sword-fish , and the thrasher trouble u at home .
The killer fasten to u , and wo n't be shake off till he have worry u to death ; the sword-fish stab u with his sword ; and the thrasher whip u to death with his own slender , but strong and heavy body .
Then , men harpoon u , shoot or entrap u ; and make u into oil and candle and seat , and stiffen for gown and umbrella , '' say the bone , in a tone of scorn .
Freddy laugh at the idea , and ask , `` How about candle ?
I know about oil and seat and umbrella ; but I think candle be make of wax . ''
`` I ca n't say much on that point : I only know that , when a sperm whale be kill , they make oil out of the fat part a they do of ours ; but the Sperms have a sort of cistern in their head , full of stuff like cream , and rose-colored .
They cut a hole in the skull , and dip it out ; and sometimes get sixteen or twenty barrel .
This be make into what you call spermaceti candle .
We do n't have any such nonsense about u ; but the Sperms always be a light-headed set . ''
Here the bone laugh , in a cracked sort of roar , which send Freddy fly off the seat on to the grass , where he stay , laugh also , though he do n't see any joke .
`` I beg your pardon , child .
It be n't often that I laugh ; for I 've a heavy heart somewhere , and have know trouble enough to make me as sad a the sea be sometimes . ''
`` Tell me about your trouble ; I pity you very much , and like to hear you talk , '' say Freddy , kindly .
`` Unfortunately we be very easily kill , in spite of our size ; and have various affliction besides death .
We grow blind ; our jaw be deform sometimes ; our tail , with which we swim , get hurt ; and we have dyspepsia . ''
Freddy shout at that ; for he know what dyspepsia be , because at the sea-side there be many sickly people who be always groan about that disease .
`` It 's no laughing matter , I assure you , '' say the whale 's bone .
`` We suffer a great deal , and get thin and weak and miserable .
I 've sometimes think that 's the reason we be blue . ''
`` Perhaps , a you have no teeth , you do n't chew your food enough , and so have dyspepsia , like an old gentleman I know , '' say Freddy .
`` That 's not the reason ; my cousin , the Sperms , have teeth , and dyspepsia also . ''
`` Are they blue ? ''
`` No , black and white .
But I be go to tell you my trouble .
My father be harpoon when I be very young , and I remember how bravely he die .
The Rights usually run away when they see a whaler come ; not from cowardice , -- oh , dear , no !
-- but discretion .
The Sperms stay and fight , and be kill off very fast ; for they be a very headstrong family .
We fight when we ca n't help it ; and my father die like a hero .
They chase him five hour before they stick him ; he try to get away , and drag three or four boat and sixteen hundred fathom of line from eight in the morning till four at night .
Then they get out another line , and he tow the ship itself for more than an hour .
There be fifteen harpoon in him : he chew up a boat , pitch several men overboard , and damage the vessel , before they kill him .
Ah !
he be a father to be proud of . ''
Freddy sit respectfully silent for a few minute , a the old bone seem to feel a great deal on the subject .
Presently he go on again : `` The Sperms live in herd ; but the Rights go in pair , and be very fond of one another .
My wife be a charming creature , and we be very happy , till one sad day , when she be play with our child , -- a sweet little whaleling only twelve foot long , and weigh but a ton , -- my son be harpoon .
His mamma , instead of fly , wrap her fin round him , and dive as far a the line allow .
Then she come up , and dash at the boat in great rage and anguish , entirely regardless of the danger she be in .
The men strike my son , in order to get her , and they soon succeed ; but even then , in spite of her suffering , she do not try to escape , but clung to little Spouter till both be kill .
Alas !
ala ! ''
Here the poor bone creak so dismally , Freddy fear it would tumble to piece , and bring the story to an end too soon .
`` Do n't think of those sorrowful thing , '' he say ; `` tell me how you come to be here .
Were you harpoon ? ''
`` Not I ; for I 've be very careful all my life to keep out of the way of danger : I 'm not like one of my relation , who attack a ship , give it such a dreadful blow that he make a great hole , the water rush in , and the vessel be wreck .
But he pay dearly for that prank ; for a few month afterward another ship harpoon him very easily , find two spear still in him , and a wound in his head .
I forget to mention , that the Sperms have fine ivory teeth , and make ambergris , -- a sort of stuff that smell very nice , and cost a great deal .
I give you these little fact about my family , a you seem interested , and it 's always well to improve the mind of young people . ''
`` You be very kind ; but will you be good enough to tell about yourself ? ''
say Freddy again ; for the bone seem to avoid that part of the story , a if he do n't want to tell it .
`` Well , if I must , I must ; but I 'm sorry to confess what a fool I 've be .
You know what coral be , do n't you ? ''
`` No , '' say Freddy , wonder why it ask .
`` Then I must tell you , I suppose .
There be a bit in the house there , -- that rough , white , stony stuff on the table in the parlor .
It 's full of little hole , you know .
Well , those hole be the front door of hundred of little polypes , or coral worm , who build the great branch of coral , and live there .
They be of various shape and color , -- some like star ; some fine a a thread , and blue or yellow ; others like snail and tiny lobster .
Some people say the real coral-makers be shape like little oblong bag of jelly , close at one end , the other open , with six or eight little feeler , like a star , all around it .
The other creature be boarder or visitor : these be the real worker , and , when they sit in their cell and put out their feeler , they make all manner of lovely color under the water , -- crimson , green , orange , and violet .
But if they be take up or touch , the coral people go in door , and the beautiful hue disappear .
They say there be many coral reef and island build by these industrious people , in the South Seas ; but I ca n't go there to see , and I be content with those I find in the northern latitude .
I know such a community of coral builder , and use to watch them long ago , when they begin to work .
It be a charming spot , down under the sea ; for all manner of lovely plant grow there ; splendid fish sail to and fro ; wonderful shell lay about ; crimson and yellow prawn , long , glide green worm , and purple sea-urchins , be there .
When I ask the polypes what they be do , and they answer , ` Building an island , ' I laugh at them ; for the idea that these tiny , soft atom could make any thing be ridiculous .
` You may roar ; but you 'll see that we be right , if you live long enough , ' say they .
` Our family have build thousand of island and long reef , that the sea ca n't get over , strong a it be . '
That amuse me immensely ; but I would n't believe it , and laugh more than ever . ''
`` It do seem very strange , '' say Freddy , look at the branch of coral which he have bring out to examine .
`` Does n't it ?
and be n't it hard to believe ?
I use to go , now and then , to see how the little fellow get on , and always find them hard at it .
For a long while there be only a little plant without leaf , grow slowly taller and taller ; for they always build upward toward the light .
By and by , the small shrub be a tree : flying-fish roost in it branch ; sea-cows lay under it shadow ; and thousand of jolly little polypes live and work in it white chamber .
I be glad to see them get on so well ; but still I do n't believe in the island story , and use to joke them about their ambition .
They be very good-natured , and only answer me , ` Wait a little long , Friend Right . '
I have my own affair to attend to ; so , for year at a time , I forget the coral-workers , and spend most of my life up Greenland way , for warm climate do n't agree with my constitution .
When I come back , after a long absence , I be astonish to see the tree grown into a large umbrella-shaped thing , rise above the water .
Sea-weed have wash up and cling there ; sea-birds have make nest there ; land-birds and the wind have carry seed there , which have spring up ; trunk of tree have be cast there by the sea ; lizard , insect , and little animal come with the tree , and be the first inhabitant ; and , behold !
it be an island . ''
`` What do you say then ? ''
ask Freddy .
`` I be angry , and do n't want to own that I be wrong ; so I insist that it be n't a real island , without people on it .
` Wait a little long , ' answer the polypes ; and go on , build broad and broad foundation .
I flounce away in a rage , and do n't go back for a great while .
I hop something would happen to the coral builder and their island ; but I be so curious that I could n't keep away , and , on go back there , I find a settlement of fisherman , and the beginning of a thriving town .
Now I should have be in a towering passion at this , if in my travel I have n't discover a race of little creature a much small than polypes a a mouse be small than an elephant .
I hear two learn men talk about diatom , a they sail to Labrador ; and I listen .
They say these people live in both salt and fresh water , and be find in all part of the world .
They be a glassy shell , hold a soft , golden-yellow substance , and that they be so countless that bank be make of them , and that a town here in these United States be found on them .
They be the food of many little sea-animals , who , in turn , feed u big creature , and be very interesting and wonderful .
I save up this story ; and , when the polypes ask if they have n't do what they intend , I tell them I do n't think it so very remarkable , for the tiny diatom make city , and be far more astonishing animal than they .
I think that would silence them ; but they just turn round , and inform me that my diatom be plant , not animal , -- so my story be all humbug .
Then I be mad ; and could n't get over the fact that these little rascal have do what we , the king of the sea , could n't do .
I be n't content with be the big creature there : I want to be the most skilful also .
I do n't remember that every thing have it own place and use , and should be happy in do the work for which it be make .
I fret over the matter a long while , and at last decide to make an island myself . ''
`` How could you ? ''
ask Freddy .
`` I have my plan ; and think them very wise one .
I be so bent on outdo the polypes that I do n't much care what happen ; and so I go to work in my clumsy way .
I could n't pile up stone , or build million of cell ; so I just make an island of myself .
I swim up into the harbor yonder one night ; cover my back with sea-weed ; and lay still on the top of the water .
In the morning the gull come to see what it be , and peck away at the weed , tell me very soon that they know what I be after , and that I could n't gull them .
All the people on shore turn out to see the wonder also ; for a fisherman have carry the tidings , and every one be wild to behold the new island .
After star and chatter a long while , boat come off to examine the mystery .
Loads of scientific gentleman work away at me with microscope , hammer , acid , and all sort of test , to decide what I be ; and keep up such a fire of long word that I be ` most dead .
They could n't make up their mind ; and meanwhile news of the strange thing spread , and every sort of person come to see me .
The gull keep tell them the joke ; but they do n't understand , and I get on capitally .
Every night I din and fed and frolic till dawn ; then put on my sea-weeds , and lay still to be star at .
I want some one to come and live on me ; then I should be equal to the island of the polypes .
But no one come , and I be begin to be tire of fool people , when I be fool myself .
An old sailor come to visit me : he have be a whaler , and he soon guess the secret .
But he say nothing till he be safely out of danger ; then he get all ready , and one day , a I lay placidly in the sun , a horrible harpoon come fly through the air , and sunk deep into my back .
I forget every thing but the pain , and dive for my life .
Alas !
the tide be low ; the harbor-bar could n't be pass ; and I find hundred of boat chase me , till I be drive ashore down there on the flat .
Big and strong a we be , once out of water , and we be perfectly helpless .
I be soon despatch ; and my bone leave to whiten on the sand .
This be long ago ; and , one by one , all my relic have be carry off or wash away .
My jaw-bone have be use a a seat here , till it 's wear out ; but I could n't crumble away till I 'd tell some one my story .
Remember , child , pride goeth before a fall . ''
Then , with a great creak , the bone tumble to piece ; and find a peaceful grave in the long green grass .
X .
A STRANGE ISLAND .
One day I lay rock in my boat , read a very famous book , which all child know and love ; and the name of which I 'll tell you by and by .
So busily be I reading , that I never mind the tide ; and presently discover that I be float out to sea , with neither sail nor oar .
At first I be very much frighten ; for there be no one in sight on land or sea , and I do n't know where I might drift to .
But the water be calm , the sky clear , and the wind blow balmily ; so I wait for what should happen .
Presently I saw a speck on the sea , and eagerly watch it ; for it draw rapidly near , and seem to be go my way .
When it come closer , I be much amaze ; for , of all the queer boat I ever saw , this be the queer .
It be a great wooden bowl , very cracked and old ; and in it sit three gray-headed little gentleman with spectacle , all read busily , and let the boat go where it please .
Now , right in their way be a rock ; and I call out , `` Sir , sir , take care . ''
But my call come too late : crash go the bowl , out come the bottom , and down plump all the little gentleman into the sea .
I try not to laugh , a the book , wig , and spectacle fly about ; and , urge my boat nearer , I manage to fish them up , drip and sneezing , and look like drown kitten .
When the flurry be over , and they have get their breath , I ask who they be , and where they be go .
`` We be from Gotham , ma'am , '' say the fat one , wipe a very wet face on a very wet handkerchief .
`` We be go to that island yonder .
We have often try , but never get there : it 's always so , and I begin to think the thing ca n't be do . ''
I look where he point ; and , sure enough , there be an island where I have never see one before .
I rub my eye , and look again .
Yes : there it be , -- a little island , with tree and people on it ; for I saw smoke come out of the chimney of a queerly-shaped house on the shore .
`` What be the name of it ? ''
I ask .
The little old gentleman put his finger on his lip , and say , with a mysterious nod : `` I could n't tell you , ma'am .
It 's a secret ; but , if you manage to land there , you will soon know . ''
The other old men nod at the same time ; and then all go to read again , with the water still drop off the end of their nose .
This make me very curious ; and , a the tide drift u near and near , I look well about me , and saw several thing that fill me with a strong desire to land on the island .
The odd house , I find , be build like a high-heeled shoe ; and at every window I saw child 's head .
Some be eating broth ; some be cry ; and some have nightcap on .
I catch sight of a distracted old lady fly about , with a ladle in one hand , and a rod in the other ; but the house be so full of child -LRB- even up to the skylight , -- out of which they pop their head , and nod at me -RRB- that I could n't see much of the mamma of this large family : one seldom can , you know .
I have hardly get over my surprise at this queer sight , when I saw a cow fly up through the air , over the new moon that hung there , and come down and disappear in the wood .
I really do n't know what to make of this , but have no time to ask the old men what it mean ; for a cat , play a fiddle , be see on the shore .
A little dog stood by , listen and laugh ; while a dish and a spoon run away over the beach with all their might .
If the boat have not float up to the land , I think I should have swam there , -- I be so anxious to see what be go on ; for there be a great racket on the island , and such a remarkable collection of creature , it be impossible to help staring .
As soon a we land , three other gentleman come to welcome the one I have save , and seem very glad to see them .
They appear to have just land from a tub in which be a drum , rub-a-dub-dubbing all by itself .
One of the new men have a white frock on , and carry a large knife ; the second have dough on his hand , flour on his coat , and a hot-looking face ; the third be very greasy , have a bundle of candle under his arm , and a ball of wicking half out of his pocket .
The six shook hand , and walk away together , talk about a fair ; and leave me to take care of myself .
I walk on through a pleasant meadow , where a pretty little girl be look sadly up at a row of sheep 's tail hang on a tree .
I also saw a little boy in blue , asleep by a haycock ; and another boy take aim at a cock-sparrow , who clap his wing and fly away .
Presently I saw two more little girl : one sat by a fire warm her toe ; and , when I ask what her name be , she say pleasantly : `` Polly Flinders , ma'am . ''
The other one sat on a tuft of grass , eat something that look very nice ; but , all of a sudden , she drop her bowl , and run away , look very much frighten .
`` What 's the matter with her ? ''
I ask of a gay young frog who come trip along with his hat under his arm .
`` Miss Muffit be a fashionable lady , and afraid of spider , madam ; also of frog . ''
And he puff himself angrily up , till his eye quite goggle in his head .
`` And , pray , who be you , sir ? ''
I ask , star at his white vest , green coat , and fine cravat .
`` Excuse me , if I do n't give my name , ma'am .
My false friend , the rat , get me into a sad scrape once ; and Rowley insist upon it that a duck destroy me , which be all gammon , ma'am , -- all gammon . ''
With that , the frog skip away ; and I turn into a narrow lane , which seem to lead toward some music .
I have not go far , when I hear the rumbling of a wheelbarrow , and saw a little man wheel a little woman along .
The little man look very hot and tired ; but the little woman look very nice , in a smart bonnet and shawl , and keep look at a new gold ring on her finger , a she ride along under her little umbrella .
I be wonder who they be , when down go the wheelbarrow ; and the little lady scream so dismally that I run away , l I should get into trouble , -- be a stranger .
Turning a corner , I come upon a very charming scene , and slip into a quiet nook to see what be go on .
It be evidently a wedding ; and I be just in time to see it , for the procession be pass at that moment .
First come a splendid cock-a-doodle , all in black and gold , like a herald , blow his trumpet , and march with a very dignified step .
Then come a rook , in black , like a minister , with spectacle and white cravat .
A lark and bullfinch follow , -- friend , I suppose ; and then the bride and bridegroom .
Miss Wren be evidently a Quakeress ; for she wear a sober dress , and a little white veil , through which her bright eye shone .
The bridegroom be a military man , in his scarlet uniform , -- a plump , bold-looking bird , very happy and proud just then .
A goldfinch give away the bride , and a linnet be bridesmaid .
The ceremony be very fine ; and , as soon a it be over , the blackbird , thrush and nightingale burst out in a lovely song .
A splendid dinner follow , at which be nearly every bird that fly ; so you may imagine the music there be .
They have currant-pie in abundance ; and cherry-wine , which excite a cuckoo so much , that he become quite rude , and so far forgot himself a to pull the bride about .
This make the groom so angry that he beg his friend , the sparrow , to bring his bow and arrow , and punish the ruffian .
But , ala !
Sparrow have also take a drop too much : he aim wrong , and , with a dreadful cry , Mr. Robin sink die into the arm of his wife , little Jane .
It be too much for me ; and , take advantage of the confusion that follow , I leave the tragical scene a fast a possible .
A little farther on , I be shock to see a goose drag an old man down some step that lead to a little house .
`` Dear me !
what 's the matter here ? ''
I cry .
`` He wo n't say his prayer , '' scream the goose .
`` But perhaps he be never teach , '' say I . `` It 's never too late to learn : he 's have his chance ; he wo n't be pious and good , so away with him .
Do n't interfere , whatever you do : hold your tongue , and go about your business , '' scold the goose , who certainly have a dreadful temper .
I dare say no more ; and , when the poor old man have be drive away by this foul proceeding , I go up the step and peep in ; for I hear some one cry , and think the cross bird , perhaps , have hurt some one else .
A little old woman stand there , wring her hand in great distress ; while a small dog be bark at her with all his might .
`` Bless me !
the fashion have get even here , '' think I ; for the old woman be dress in the late style , -- or , rather , she have overdone it sadly ; for her gown be nearly up to her knee , and she be nearly as ridiculous an object a some of the young lady I have see at home .
She have a respectable bonnet on , however , instead of a straw saucer ; and her hair be neatly put under a cap , -- not make into a knob on the top of her head .
`` My dear soul , what 's the trouble ? ''
say I , quite touch by her tear .
`` Lud a mercy , ma'am !
I 've be to market with my butter and egg , -- for the price of both be so high , one can soon get rich nowadays , -- and , be tire , I stop to rest a bit , but fell asleep by the road .
Somebody -- I think it 's a rogue of a peddler who sell me wooden nutmeg , and a clock that would n't go , and some pan that come to bits the first time I use them -- somebody cut my new gown and petticoat off all round , in the shameful way you see .
I think I never should get home ; for I be such a fright , I actually do n't know myself .
But , think I , my doggy will know me ; and then I shall be sure I 'm I , and not some boldfaced creature in short skirt .
But , oh , ma'am !
doggy do n't know me ; and I ai n't myself , and I do n't know what to do . ''
`` He 's a foolish little beast ; so do n't mind him , but have a cup of tea , and go to bed .
You can make your gown decent to-morrow ; and , if I see the tricksy peddler , I 'll give him a scolding . ''
This seem to comfort the old woman ; though doggy still bark .
`` My next neighbor have a dog who never behave in this way , '' she say , a she put her teapot on the coal .
`` He 's a remarkable beast ; and you 'd better stop to see him a you pass , ma'am .
He 's always up to some funny prank or other . ''
I say I would ; and , a I go by the next house , I take a look in at the window .
The closet be empty , I observe ; but the dog sit smoke a pipe , look as grave a a judge .
`` Where be your mistress ? ''
ask I . `` Gone for some tripe , '' answer the dog , politely take the pipe out of his mouth , and add , `` I hope the smoke do n't annoy you . ''
`` I do n't approve of smoking , '' say I . `` Sorry to hear it , '' say the dog , coolly .
I be go to lecture him on this bad habit ; but I saw his mistress come with a dish in her hand , and , fear she might think me rude to peep in at her window , I walk on , wonder what we be come to when even four-legged puppy smoke .
At the door of the next little house , I saw a market-wagon load with vegetable , and a smart young pig just drive it away .
I have hear of this interesting family , and take a look a I pass by .
A second tidy pig sit blow the fire ; and a third be eat roast-beef , a if he have just come in from his work .
The fourth , I be grieve to see , look very sulky ; for it be evident he have be naughty , and so lose his dinner .
The little pig be at the door , cry to get in ; and it be sweet to see how kindly the others let him in , wipe his tear , tie on his bib , and bring him his bread and milk .
I be very glad to see these young orphan do so well , and I know my friend at home would enjoy hear from them .
A loud scream make me jump ; and the sudden splash of water make me run along , without stop to pick up a boy and girl who come tumble down the hill , with an empty pail , bump their head a they roll .
Smelling something nice , and feel hungry , I step into a large room near by , -- a sort of eating-house , I fancy ; for various party seem to be enjoy themselves in their different way .
A small boy sit near the door , eat a large pie ; and he give me a fine plum which he have just pull out .
At one table be a fat gentleman cut another pie , which have a dark crust , through which appear the head of a flock of bird , all sing gayly .
`` There 's no end to the improvement in cooking , and no accounting for taste , '' I add , look at a handsomely-dressed lady , who sit near , eat bread and honey .
As I pass this party , I saw behind the lady 's chair a maid , with a clothes-pin in her hand , and no nose .
She sobbingly tell me a bird have nip it off ; and I give her a bit of court-plaster , which I fortunately have in my pocket .
Another couple be divide their meat in a queer way ; for one take all the fat , and the other all the lean .
The next people be odd still ; for the man look rather guilty , and seem to be hide a three-peck measure under his chair , while he wait for his wife to bring on some cold barley-pudding , which , to my surprise , she be fry herself .
I also saw a queer moonstruck-looking man inquire the way to Norridge ; and another man make wry face over some plum-pudding , with which he have burn his mouth , because his friend come down too soon .
I order pease-porridge hot , and they bring it cold ; but I do n't wait for any thing else , be in a hurry to see all there be to be see on this strange island .
Feeling refresh , I stroll on , pass a jolly old gentleman smoking and drinking , while three fiddler play before him .
As I turn into a road that lead toward a hill , a little boy , rid a dapple-gray pony , and an old lady on a white horse , with bell ring somewhere , trot by me , follow by a little girl , who wish to know where she could buy a penny bun .
I tell her the best be at Newmarch 's , in Bedford Street , and she run on , much please ; but I 'm afraid she never find that best of bake-shops .
I be go quietly along , when the sound of another horse come make me look round ; and there I saw a dreadful sight , -- a wild horse , tear over the ground , with fiery eye and stream tail .
On his back sit a crazy man , beat him with a broom ; a crazy woman be behind him , with her bonnet on wrong side before , hold one crazy child in her lap , while another stood on the horse ; a third be hang on by one foot , and all be howl at the top of their voice a they rush by .
I scramble over the wall to get out of the way , and there I saw more curious sight .
Two blind men be sit on the grass , try to see two lame men who be hobble along as hard a they could ; and , near by , a bull be fight a bee in the most violent manner .
This rather alarmed me ; and I scramble back into the road again , just a a very fine lady jump over a barberry-bush near by , and a gentleman go fly after , with a ring in one hand and a stick in the other .
`` What very odd people they have here ! ''
I think .
Close by be a tidy little house under the hill , and in it a tidy little woman who sell thing to eat .
Being rather hungry , in spite of my porridge , I buy a baked apple and a cranberry-pie ; for she say they be good , and I find she tell the truth .
As I sit eat my pie , some dog begin to bark ; and by come a troop of beggar , some in rag , and some in old velvet gown .
A drunken grenadier be with them , who want a pot of beer ; but a he have no money , the old woman send him about his business .
On my way up the hill , I saw a little boy cry over a dead pig , and his sister , who seem to be dead also .
I ask his name , and he sob out , `` Johnny Pringle , ma'am ; '' and go on cry so hard I could do nothing to comfort him .
While I stand talk to him , a sudden gust of wind blow up the road , and down come the bough of a tree ; and , to my surprise , a cradle with a baby in it also .
The baby scream dreadfully , and I do n't know how to quiet it ; so I run back to the old woman , and leave it with her , ask if that be the way baby be take care of there .
`` Bless you , my dear !
it ma be make patty-cakes ; and put it up there to be out of the way of Tom Tinker 's dog .
I 'll soon hush it up , '' say the old woman ; and , trot it on her knee , she begin to sing : `` Hey !
my kitten , my kitten , Hey !
my kitten , my deary . ''
Feeling that the child be in good hand , I hurry away , for I saw something be go on upon the hill-top .
When I get to the hill-top , I be shock to find some people toss an old woman in a blanket .
I beg them to stop ; but one of the men , who , I find , be a Welchman , by the name of Taffy , tell me the old lady like it .
`` But why do she like it ? ''
I ask in great surprise .
`` Tom , the piper 's son , will tell you : it 's my turn to toss now , '' say the man .
`` Why , you see , ma'am , '' say Tom , `` she be one of those dreadfully nice old woman , who be always fuss and scrubbing , and worry people to death , with everlastingly clean house .
Now and then we get so tire out with her that we propose to her to clean the sky itself .
She like that ; and , a this be the only way we can get her up , we toss till she stick somewhere , and then leave her to sweep cobweb till she be ready to come back and behave herself . ''
`` Well , that be the odd thing I ever hear .
I know just such an old lady , and when I go home I 'll try your plan .
It seem to me that you have a great many queer old lady on this island , '' I say to another man , whom they call Peter , and who stand eat pumpkin all the time .
`` Well , we do have rather a nice collection ; but you have n't see the best of all .
We expect her every minute ; and Margery Daw be to let u know the minute she light on the island , '' reply Peter , with his mouth full .
`` Lights ? ''
say I , `` you speak a if she fly . ''
`` She rid on a bird .
Hurrah !
the old sweeper have light .
Now the cobweb will fly .
Do n't hurry back , '' shout the man ; and a faint , far-off voice answer , `` I shall be back again by and by . ''
The people fold up the blanket , look much relieve ; and I be examine a very odd house which be build by an ancient king call Boggen , when Margery Daw , a dirty little girl , come up the hill , screaming , at the top of her voice : `` She 's come !
she 's come ! ''
Every one look up ; and I saw a large white bird slowly fly over the island .
On it back sit the nice old woman that ever be see : all the others be nothing compare to her .
She have a point hat on over her cap , a red cloak , high-heeled shoe , and a crutch in her hand .
She smile and nod a the bird approach ; and every one ran and nod , and scream , `` Welcome !
welcome , mother ! ''
As soon a she touch the ground , she be so surrounded that I could only see the top of her hat ; for hundred and hundred of little child suddenly appear , like a great flock of bird , -- rosy , happy , pretty child ; but all look unreal , and among them I saw some who look like little people I have know long ago .
`` Who be they ? ''
I ask of a bonny lass , who be sit on a cushion , eat strawberry and cream .
`` They be the phantom of all the little people who ever read and love our mother 's song , '' say the maid .
`` What do she write ? ''
I ask , feel very queer , and a if I be go to remember something .
`` Songs that be immortal ; and you have them in your hand , '' reply the bonny maid , smile at my stupidity .
I look ; and there , on the cover of the book I have be read so busily when the tide carry me away , I saw the word `` Mother Goose 's Melodies . ''
I be so delighted that I have see her I give a shout , and try to get near enough to hug and kiss the dear old soul , a the swarm of child be do ; but my cry wake me , and I be so sorry to find it all a dream !
XI .
FANCY 'S FRIEND .
It be a wagon , shape like a great square basket , on low wheel , and draw by a stout donkey .
There be one seat , on which Miss Fairbairn the governess sit ; and all round her , lean over the edge of the basket , be child , with little wooden shovel and basket in their hand , go down to play on the beach .
Away they go , over the common , through the stony lane , out upon the wide , smooth sand .
All the child but one immediately fell to dig hole , and make pond , castle , or fort .
They do this every day , and be never tire of it ; but little Fancy make new game for herself , and seldom dug in the sand .
She have a garden of sea-weed , which the wave water every day : she have a palace of pretty shell , where she keep all sort of little water-creatures a fairy tenant ; she have friend and playmate among the gull and peep , and learn curious thing by watch crab , horse-shoes , and jelly-fishes ; and every day she look for a mermaid .
It be of no use to tell her that there be no mermaid : Fancy firmly believe in them , and be sure she would see one some day .
The other child call the seal mermaid ; and be content with the queer , shiny creature who play in the water , lay on the rock , and peep at them with soft , bright eye a they sail by .
Fancy be not satisfy with seal , -- they be not pretty and graceful enough for her , -- and she wait and watch for a real mermaid .
On this day she take a breezy run with the beach-birds along the shore ; she plant a pretty red weed in her garden ; and let out the water-beetles and snail who have pass the night in her palace .
Then she go to a rock that stand near the quiet nook where she play alone , and sit there look for a mermaid a the tide come in ; for it bring her many curious thing , and it might perhaps bring a mermaid .
As she look across the wave that come tumble one over the other , she saw something that be neither boat nor buoy nor seal .
It be a queer-looking thing , with a wild head , a long waving tail , and something like arm that seem to paddle it along .
The wave tumble it about , so Fancy could not see very well : but , the long she look , the surer she be that this curious thing be a mermaid ; and she wait eagerly for it to reach the shore .
Nearer and nearer it come , till a great wave throw it upon the sand ; and Fancy saw that it be only a long piece of kelp , tear up by the root .
She be very much disappointed ; but , all of a sudden , her face clear up , she clap her hand , and begin to dance round the kelp , say : `` I 'll make a mermaid myself , since none will come to me . ''
Away she run , high up the beach , and , after think a minute , begin her work .
Choosing a smooth , hard place , she draw with a stick the outline of her mermaid ; then she make the hair of the brown marsh-grass grow near by , arrange it in long lock on either side the face , which be make of her prettiest pink and white shell , -- for she pull down her palace to get them .
The eye be two gray pebble ; the neck and arm of large , white shell ; and the dress of sea-weed , -- red , green , purple , and yellow ; very splendid , for Fancy empty her garden to dress her mermaid .
`` People say that mermaid always have tail ; and I might make one out of this great leaf of kelp .
But it be n't pretty , and I do n't like it ; for I want mine to be beautiful : so I wo n't have any tail , '' say Fancy , and put two slender white shell for foot , at the low edge of the fringed skirt .
She lay a wreath of little star-fish across the brown hair , a belt of small orange-crabs round the waist , button the dress with violet snail-shells , and hang a tiny white pebble , like a pearl , in either ear .
`` Now she must have a glass and a comb in her hand , a the song say , and then she will be do , '' say Fancy , look about her , well pleased .
Presently she find the skeleton of a little fish , and his backbone make an excellent comb ; while a transparent jelly-fish serve for a glass , with a frame of cockle-shells round it .
Placing these in the hand of her mermaid , and some red coral bracelet on her wrist , Fancy pronounce her do ; and dance about her , singing : `` My pretty little mermaid , Oh !
come , and play with me : I 'll love you , I 'll welcome you ; And happy we shall be . ''
Now , while she have be work , the tide have creep higher and high ; and , a she sing , one wave run up and wet her foot .
`` Oh , what a pity I do n't put her farther up ! ''
cried Fancy ; `` the tide will wash her all away ; and I mean to keep her fresh , and show her to Aunt Fiction .
My poor mermaid !
-- I shall lose her ; but perhaps she will be happier in the sea : so I will let her go . ''
Mounting her rock , Fancy wait to see her work destroyed .
But the sea seem to pity her ; and wave after wave come up , without do any harm .
At last one break quite over the mermaid , and Fancy think that would be the end of her .
But , no : instead of scatter shell , stone , and weed , the wave lift the whole figure , without displace any thing , and gently bore it back into the sea .
`` Good by !
good by ! ''
cried Fancy , a the little figure float away ; then , a it disappear , she put her hand before her face , -- for she love her mermaid , and have give all her treasure to adorn her ; and now to lose her so soon seem hard , -- and Fancy 's eye be full of tear .
Another great wave come roll in ; but she do not look up to see it break , and , a minute after , she hear step trip toward her over the sand .
Still she do not stir ; for , just then , none of her playmate could take the place of her new friend , and she do n't want to see them .
`` Fancy !
Fancy ! ''
call a breezy voice , sweet than any she have ever hear .
But she do not raise her head , nor care to know who call .
The step come quite close ; and the touch of a cold , wet hand fell on her own .
Then she look up , and saw a strange little girl standing by her , who smile , show teeth like little pearl , and say , in the breezy voice : `` You want me to play with you , so I come . ''
`` Who be you ? ''
ask Fancy , wonder where she have see the child before .
`` I 'm your mermaid , '' say the child .
`` But the water carry her away , '' cry Fancy .
`` The wave only carry me out for the sea to give me life , and then bring me back to you , '' answer the new comer .
`` But be you really a mermaid ? ''
ask Fancy , begin to smile and believe .
`` I be really the one you make : look , and see if I 'm not ; '' and the little creature turn slowly round , that Fancy might be sure it be her own work .
She certainly be very like the figure that once lay on the sand , -- only she be not now make of stone and shell .
There be the long brown hair blow about her face , with a wreath of starry shell in it .
Her eye be gray , her cheek and lip rosy , her neck and arm white ; and from under her striped dress peep little bare foot .
She have pearl in her ear , coral bracelet , a golden belt , and a glass and comb in her hand .
`` Yes , '' say Fancy , draw near , `` you be my little mermaid ; but how do it happen that you come to me at last ? ''
`` Dear friend , '' answer the water-child , `` you believe in me , watch and wait long for me , shape the image of the thing you want out of your dear treasure , and promise to love and welcome me .
I could not help come ; and the sea , that be a fond of you a you be of it , help me to grant your wish . ''
`` Oh , I 'm glad , I 'm glad !
Dear little mermaid , what be your name ? ''
cried Fancy , kiss the cool cheek of her new friend , and put her arm about her neck .
`` Call me by my German cousin 's pretty name , -- Lorelei , '' answer the mermaid , kiss back as warmly a she could .
`` Will you come home and live with me , dear Lorelei ? ''
ask Fancy , still hold her fast .
`` If you will promise to tell no one who and what I be , I will stay with you as long a you love and believe in me .
As soon a you betray me , or lose your faith and fondness , I shall vanish , never to come back again , '' answer Lorelei .
`` I promise : but wo n't people wonder who you be ?
and , if they ask me , what shall I say ? ''
say Fancy .
`` Tell them you find me on the shore ; and leave the rest to me .
But you must not expect other people to like and believe in me a you do .
They will say hard thing of me ; will blame you for love me ; and try to part u .
Can you bear this , and keep your promise faithfully ? ''
`` I think I can .
But why wo n't they like you ? ''
say Fancy , look trouble .
`` Because they be not like you , dear , '' answer the mermaid , with salt tear in her soft eye .
`` They have not your power of see beauty in all thing , of enjoy invisible delight , and living in a world of your own .
Your Aunt Fiction will like me ; but your Uncle Fact wo n't .
He will want to know all about me ; will think I 'm a little vagabond ; and want me to be send away somewhere , to be make like other child .
I shall keep out of his way as much a I can ; for I 'm afraid of him . ''
`` I 'll take care of you , Lorelei dear ; and no one shall trouble you .
I hear Miss Fairbairn call ; so I must go .
Give me your hand , and do n't be afraid . ''
Hand in hand the two go toward the other child , who stop dig , and star at the new child .
Miss Fairbairn , who be very wise and good , but rather prim , star too , and say , with surprise : `` Why , my dear , where do you find that queer child ? ''
`` Down on the beach .
Is n't she pretty ? ''
answered Fancy , feel very proud of her new friend .
`` She have n't get any shoe on ; so she 's a beggar , and we must n't play with her , '' say one boy , who have be teach that to be poor be a very dreadful thing .
`` What pretty earring and bracelets she 's get ! ''
say a little girl , who think a great deal of her dress .
`` She do n't look a if she know much , '' say another child , who be keep study so hard that she never have time to dig and run , and make dirt-pies , till she fell ill , and have to be send to the sea-side .
`` What 's your name ?
and who be your parent ? ''
ask Miss Fairbairn .
`` I 've get no parent ; and my name be Lorelei , '' answer the mermaiden .
`` You mean Luly ; mind your pronunciation , child , '' say Miss Fairbairn , who correct every one she meet in something or other .
`` Where do you live ? ''
`` I have n't get any home now , '' say Lorelei , smile at the lady 's tone .
`` Yes , you have : my home be yours ; and you be go to stay with me always , '' cry Fancy , heartily .
`` She be my little sister , Miss Fairbairn : I find her ; and I 'm go to keep her , and make her happy . ''
`` Your uncle wo n't like it , my dear . ''
And Miss Fairbairn shake her head gravely .
`` Aunt will ; and Uncle wo n't mind , if I learn my lesson well , and remember the multiplication table all right .
He be go to give me some money , so I might learn to keep account ; but I 'll tell him to keep the money , and let me have Lorelei instead . ''
`` Oh , how silly ! ''
cry the boy who do n't like bare foot .
`` No , she be n't ; for , if she 's kind to the girl , maybe she 'll get some of her pretty thing , '' say the vain little girl .
`` Keeping account be a very useful and important thing .
I keep mine ; and mamma say I have great arth-met-i-cal talent , '' add the pale child , who study too much .
`` Come , child ; it 's time for dinner .
Fancy , you can take the girl to the house ; and your uncle will do what he think best about let you keep her , '' say Miss Fairbairn , pile them into the basket-wagon .
Fancy keep Lorelei close beside her ; and as soon a they reach the great hotel , where they all be stay with mother and father , uncle or aunt , she take her to kind Aunt Fiction , who be interested at once in the friendless child so mysteriously find .
She be satisfy with the little she could discover , and promise to keep her , -- for a time , at least .
`` We can imagine all kind of romantic thing about her ; and , by and by , some interesting story may be find out concern her .
I can make her useful in many way ; and she shall stay . ''
As Aunt Fiction lay her hand on the mermaid 's head , a if claim her for her own , Uncle Fact come stalk in , with his note-book in his hand , and his spectacle on his nose .
Now , though they be marry , these two person be very unlike .
Aunt Fiction be a graceful , picturesque woman ; who tell story charmingly , write poetry and novel , be very much beloved by young folk , and be the friend of some of the most famous people in the world .
Uncle Fact be a grim , grave , decide man ; whom it be impossible to bend or change .
He be very useful to every one ; know an immense deal ; and be always take note of thing he saw and heard , to be put in a great encyclopædia he be make .
He do n't like romance , love the truth , and want to get to the bottom of every thing .
He be always try to make little Fancy more sober , well-behaved , and learn ; for she be a freakish , dreamy , yet very lovable and charm child .
Aunt Fiction pet her to her heart 's content , and might have do her harm , if Uncle Fact have not have a hand in her education ; for the lesson of both be necessary to her , a to all of u .
`` Well , well , well !
who be this ? ''
he say briskly , a he turn his keen eye and powerful glass on the new comer .
Aunt Fiction tell him all the child have say ; but he answer impatiently : `` Tut , tut !
my dear : I want the fact of the case .
You be apt to exaggerate ; and Fancy be not to be rely on .
If the child be n't a fool , she must know more about herself than she pretend .
Now , answer truly , Luly , where do you come from ? ''
But the little mermaid only shake her head , and answer a before , `` Fancy find me on the beach , and want me to stay with her .
I 'll do her no harm : please , let me stay . ''
`` She have evidently be wash ashore from some wreck , and have forget all about herself .
Her wonderful beauty , her accent , and these ornament show that she be some foreign child , '' say Aunt Fiction , point to the earring .
`` Nonsense !
my dear : those be white pebble , not pearl ; and , if you examine them , you will find that those bracelet be the one you give Fancy a a reward for so well remember the fact I tell her about coral , '' say the uncle , who have turn Lorelei round and round , pinch her cheek , felt her hair , and examine her frock through the glass which nothing escape .
`` She may stay , and be my little playmate , may n't she ?
I 'll take care of her ; and we shall be very happy together , '' cry Fancy eagerly .
`` One ca n't be sure of that till one have try .
You say you will take care of her : have you get any money to pay her board , and buy her clothes ? ''
ask her uncle .
`` No ; but I think you 'd help me , '' answer Fancy wistfully .
`` Never say you 'll do a thing till you be sure you can , '' say Uncle Fact , a he take note of the affair , think they might be useful by and by .
`` I 've no objection to your keep the girl , if , after make inquiry about her , she prove to be a clever child .
She can stay awhile ; and , when we go back to town , I 'll put her in one of our charity school , where she can be teach to earn her living .
Can you read , Luly ? ''
`` No , '' say the mermaid , open her eye .
`` Can you write and cipher ? ''
`` What be that ? ''
ask Lorelei innocently .
`` Dear me !
what ignorance ! ''
cried Uncle Fact .
`` Can you sew , or tend baby ? ''
ask Aunt Fiction gently .
`` I can do nothing but play and sing , and comb my hair . ''
`` I see !
I see !
-- some hand-organ man 's girl .
Well , I 'm glad you keep your hair smooth , -- that 's more than Fancy do , '' say Uncle Fact .
`` Let u hear you sing , '' whisper his little niece ; and , in a voice as musical a the sound of ripple break on the shore , Lorelei sing a little song that make Fancy dance with delight , charm Aunt Fiction , and soften Uncle Fact 's hard face in spite of himself .
`` Very well , very well , indeed : you have a good voice .
I 'll see that you have proper teaching ; and , by and by , you can get your living by give singing-lessons , '' he say , turn over the leaf of his book , to look for the name of a skilful teacher ; for he have list of every useful person , place , and thing under the sun .
Lorelei laugh at the idea ; and Fancy think sing for gold , not love , a hard way to get one 's living .
Inquiries be make ; but nothing more be discover , and neither of the child would speak : so the strange child live with Fancy , and make her very happy .
The other child do n't care much about her ; for with them she be shy and cold , because she know , if the truth be tell , they would not believe in her .
Fancy have always play a good deal by herself , because she never find a mate to suit her ; now she have one , and they enjoy each other very much .
Lorelei teach her many thing besides new game ; and Aunt Fiction be charm with the pretty story Fancy repeat to her , while Uncle Fact be astonish at the knowledge of marine plant and animal which she gain without any book .
Lorelei teach her to swim , like a fish ; and the two play such wonderful prank in the water that people use to come down to the beach when they bath .
In return , Fancy try to teach her friend to read and write and sew ; but Lorelei could n't learn much , though she love her little teacher dearly , and every evening sing her to sleep with beautiful lullaby .
There be a great deal of talk about the curious stranger ; for her way be odd , and no one know what to make of her .
She would eat nothing but fruit and shell-fish , and drink nothing but salt water .
She do n't like tight clothes ; but would have run about in a loose , green robe , with bare foot and fly hair , if Uncle Fact would have allow it .
Morning , noon , and night , she plunge into the sea , -- no matter what the weather might be ; and she would sleep on no bed but one stuffed with dried sea-weed .
She make lovely chain of shell ; find splendid bit of coral ; and dive where no one else dare , to bring up wonderful plant and moss .
People offer money for these thing ; but she give them all to Fancy and Aunt Fiction , of whom she be very fond .
It be curious to see the sort of people who like both Fancy and her friend , -- poet , artist ; delicate , thoughtful child ; and a few old people , who have keep their heart young in spite of care and time and trouble .
Dashing young gentleman , fine young lady , worldly-minded and money-loving men and woman , and artificial , unchildlike child , the two friend avoid carefully ; and these person either make fun of them , neglect them entirely , or seem to be unconscious that they be alive .
The others they know at a glance ; for their face warm and brighten when the child come , they listen to their song and story , join in their play , and find rest and refreshment in their sweet society .
`` This will do for a time ; a Fancy be get strong , and not entirely waste her day , thanks to me !
But our holiday be nearly over ; and , as soon a I get back to town , I 'll take that child to the Ragged Refuge , and see what they can make of her , '' say Uncle Fact , who be never quite satisfied about Lorelei ; because he could find out so little concern her .
He be walk over the beach a he say this , after a hard day 's work on his encyclopædia .
He sit down on a rock in a quiet place ; and , instead of enjoy the lovely sunset , he fell to study the course of the cloud , the state of the tide , and the temperature of the air , till the sound of voice make him peep over the rock .
Fancy and her friend be play there , and the old gentleman wait to see what they be about .
Both be sit with their little bare foot in the water ; Lorelei be string pearl , and Fancy plait a crown of pretty green rush .
`` I wish I could go home , and get you a string of finer pearl than these , '' say Lorelei ; `` but it be too far away , and I can not swim now a I use to do . ''
`` I must look into this .
The girl evidently know all about herself , and can tell , if she choose , '' mutter Uncle Fact , get rather excite over this discovery .
`` Never mind the pearl : I 'd rather have you , dear , '' say Fancy lovingly .
`` Tell me a story while we work , or sing me a song ; and I 'll give you my crown . ''
`` I 'll sing you a little song that have get what your uncle call a moral to it , '' say Lorelei , laugh mischievously .
Then , in her breezy little voice , she sing the story of -- THE ROCK AND THE BUBBLE .
Oh !
a bare , brown rock Stood up in the sea , The wave at it foot Dancing merrily .
A little bubble Came sailing by , And thus to the rock Did it gayly cry , -- `` Ho !
clumsy brown stone , Quick , make way for me : I 'm the fair thing That float on the sea .
`` See my rainbow-robe , See my crown of light , My glitter form , So airy and bright .
`` O'er the water blue , I 'm float away , To dance by the shore With the foam and spray .
`` Now , make way , make way ; For the wave be strong , And their rippling foot Bear me fast along . ''
But the great rock stand Straight up in the sea : It look gravely down , And say pleasantly , -- `` Little friend , you must Go some other way ; For I have not stir This many a long day .
`` Great billow have dash , And angry wind blow ; But my sturdy form Is not overthrow .
`` Nothing can stir me In the air or sea ; Then , how can I move , Little friend , for thee ? ''
Then the wave all laugh , In their voice sweet ; And the sea-birds look , From their rocky seat , At the bubble gay , Who angrily cry , While it round cheek glow With a foolish pride , -- `` You shall move for me ; And you shall not mock At the word I say , You ugly , rough rock !
`` Be silent , wild bird !
Why stare you so ?
Stop laughing , rude wave , And help me to go !
`` For I be the queen Of the ocean here , And this cruel stone Can not make me fear . ''
Dashing fiercely up , With a scornful word , Foolish bubble break ; But rock never stir .
Then say the sea-birds , Sitting in their nest , To the little one Leaning on their breast , -- `` Be not like Bubble , Headstrong , rude , and vain , Seeking by violence Your object to gain ; `` But be like the rock , Steadfast , true , and strong , Yet cheerful and kind , And firm against wrong .
`` Heed , little birdlings , And wiser you 'll be For the lesson learn To-day by the sea . ''
`` Well , to be sure the song have get a moral , if that silly Fancy only see it , '' say Uncle Fact , pop up his bald head again a the song end .
`` I thank you : that 's a good little song for me .
But , Lorelei , be you sorry you come to be my friend ? ''
cried Fancy ; for , a she bend to lay the crown on the other 's head , she saw that she be look wistfully down into the water that kiss her foot .
`` Not yet : while you love me , I be happy , and never regret that I cease to be a mermaid for your sake , '' answer Lorelei , lay her soft cheek against her friend 's .
`` How happy I be the day my play-mermaid change to a real one ! ''
say Fancy .
`` I often want to tell people all about that wonderful thing , and let them know who you really be : then they 'd love you a I do , instead of call you a little vagabond . ''
`` Few would believe our story ; and those that do would wonder at me , -- not love me a you do .
They would put me in a cage , and make a show of me ; and I should be so miserable I should die .
So do n't tell who I be , will you ? ''
say Lorelei earnestly .
`` Never , '' cry Fancy , cling to her .
`` But , my deary , what will you do when uncle sends you away from me , a he mean to do as soon a we go home ?
I can see you sometimes ; but we can not be always together , and there be no ocean for you to enjoy in the city . ''
`` I shall bear it , if I can , for your sake ; if I can not , I shall come back here , and wait till you come again next year . ''
`` No , no !
I will not be part from you ; and , if uncle take you away , I 'll come here , and be a mermaid with you , '' cry Fancy .
The little friend throw their arm about each other , and be so full of their own feeling that they never saw Uncle Fact 's tall shadow flit across them , a he steal away over the soft sand .
Poor old gentleman !
he be in a sad state of mind , and do n't know what to do ; for in all his long life he have never be so puzzled before .
`` A mermaid indeed ! ''
he mutter .
`` I always think that child be a fool , and now I 'm sure of it .
She think she be a mermaid , and have make Fancy believe it .
I 've tell my wife a dozen time that she let Fancy read too many fairy tale and wonder-books .
Her head be full of nonsense , and she be just ready to believe any ridiculous story that be tell her .
Now , what on earth shall I do ?
If I put Luly in an asylum , Fancy will break her heart , and very likely they will both run away .
If I leave them together , Luly will soon make Fancy as crazy a she be herself , and I shall be mortify by have a niece who insist that her playmate be a mermaid .
Bless my soul !
how absurd it all be ! ''
Aunt Fiction have go to town to see her publisher about a novel she have write , and he do n't like to tell the queer story to any one else ; so Uncle Fact think it over , and decide to settle the matter at once .
When the child come in , he send Fancy to wait for him in the library , while he talk alone with Lorelei .
He do his best ; but he could do nothing with her , -- she dance and laugh , and tell the same tale a before , till the old gentleman confess that he have hear their talk on the rock : then she grow very sad , and own that she be a mermaid .
This make him angry , and he would n't believe it for an instant ; but tell her it be impossible , and she must say something else .
Lorelei could say nothing else , and weep bitterly when he would not listen ; so he lock her up and go to Fancy , who felt a if something dreadful be go to happen when she saw his face .
He tell her all he know , and insist that Lorelei be foolish or naughty to persist in such a ridiculous story .
`` But , uncle , I really do make a mermaid ; and she really do come alive , for I saw the figure float away , and then Lorelei appear , '' say Fancy , very earnestly .
`` It 's very likely you make a figure , and call it a mermaid : it would be just the sort of thing you 'd do , '' say her uncle .
`` But it be impossible that any come alive take place , and I wo n't hear any such nonsense .
You do n't see this girl come out of the water ; for she say you never look up , till she touch you .
She be a real child , who come over the beach from somewhere ; and you fancy she look like your figure , and believe the silly tale she tell you .
It be my belief that she be a sly , bad child ; and the sooner she be send away the good for you . ''
Uncle Fact be so angry and talk so loud , that Fancy felt frightened and bewilder ; and begin to think he might be right about the mermaid part , though she hat to give up the little romance .
`` If I agree that she be a real child , wo n't you let her stay , uncle ? ''
she say , forget that , if she lose her faith , her friend be lose also .
`` Ah !
then you have begin to come to your sens , have you ?
and be ready to own that you do n't believe in mermaid and such rubbish ? ''
cried Uncle Fact , stop in his tramp up and down the room .
`` Why , if you say there never be and never can be any , I suppose I must give up my fancy ; but I 'm sorry , '' sigh the child .
`` That 's my sensible girl !
Now , think a minute , my dear , and you will also own that it be best to give up the child as well a the mermaid , '' say her uncle briskly .
`` Oh !
no : we love one another ; and she be good , and I ca n't give her up , '' cry Fancy .
`` Answer me a few question ; and I 'll prove that she be n't good , that you do n't love her , and that you can give her up , '' say Uncle Fact , and number off the question on his finger a he speak .
`` Did n't Luly want you to deceive u , and every one else , about who she be ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Do n't you like to be with her good than with your aunt or myself ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Had n't you rather hear her song and story than learn your lesson ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Is n't it wrong to deceive people , to love stranger more than those who be a father and mother to you , and to like silly tale well than useful lesson ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Very well .
Then , do n't you see , that , if Luly make you do these wrong and ungrateful thing , she be not a good child , nor a fit playmate for you ? ''
Fancy do n't answer ; for she could n't feel that it be so , though he make it seem so .
When Uncle Fact talk in that way , she always get confused and give up ; for she do n't know how to argue .
He be right in a certain way ; but she felt a if she be right also in another way , though she could not prove it : so she hang her head , and let her tear drop on the carpet one by one .
Uncle Fact do n't mean to be unkind , but he do mean to have his own way ; and , when he saw the little girl 's sad face , he take her on his knee , and say , more mildly : `` Do you remember the story about the German Lorelei , who sing so sweetly , and lure people to death in the Rhine ? ''
`` Yes , uncle ; and I like it , '' answer Fancy , look up .
`` Well , my dear , your Lorelei will lead you into trouble , if you follow her .
Suppose she be what you think her , -- a mermaid : it be her delight to draw people into the water , where , of course , they drown .
If she be what I think her , -- a sly , bad child , who see that you be very simple , and who mean to get take care of without do any thing useful , -- she will spoil you in a bad way than if you follow her into the sea .
I 've get no little daughter of my own , and I want to keep you a safe and happy a if you be mine .
I do n't like this girl , and I want you to give her up for my sake .
Will you , Fancy ? ''
While her uncle say these thing , all the beauty seem to fall away from her friend , all the sweetness from their love , and all her faith in the little dream which have make her so happy .
Mermaids become treacherous , unlovely , unreal creature ; and Lorelei seem like a naughty , selfish child , who deceive her , and make her do wrong thing .
Her uncle have be very kind to her all her life ; and she love him , be grateful , and want to show that she be , by please him .
But her heart clung to the friend she have make , trust , and love ; and it seem impossible to give up the shadow , even though the substance be go .
She put her hand before her face for a moment ; then lay her arm about the old man 's neck , and whisper , with a little sob : `` I 'll give her up ; but you 'll be kind to her , because I be fond of her once . ''
As the last word leave Fancy 's lip , a long , sad cry sound through the room ; Lorelei sprung in , give her one kiss , and be see to run swiftly toward the beach , wring her hand .
Fancy fly after ; but , when she reach the shore , there be nothing to be see but the scattered pebble , shell , and weed that make the mock mermaid , float away on a receding wave .
`` Do you believe now ? ''
cried Fancy , weep bitterly , a she point to the wreck of her friend , and turn reproachfully toward Uncle Fact , who have follow in great astonishment .
The old gentleman look well about him ; then shake his head , and answer decidedly : `` No , my dear , I do n't .
It 's an odd affair ; but , I 've no doubt , it will be clear up in a natural way sometime or other . ''
But there he be mistake ; for this mystery never be clear up .
Other people soon forget it , and Fancy never speak of it ; yet she make very few friend , and , though she learn to love and value Uncle Fact as well a Aunt Fiction , she could not forget her dear playmate .
Year after year she come back to the sea-side ; and the first thing she always do be to visit the place where she use to play , and stretch her arm toward the sea , cry tenderly : `` O my little friend !
come back to me ! ''
But Lorelei never come again .
THE END .
* * * * * LOUISA M. ALCOTT 'S FAMOUS BOOKS -LSB- Illustration : `` Sing , Tessa ; sing ! ''
cry Tommo , twang away with all his might .
-- PAGE 47 . -RSB-
AUNT JO 'S SCRAP-BAG : Containing `` My Boys , '' `` Shawl-Straps , '' `` Cupid and Chow-Chow , '' `` My Girls , '' `` Jimmy 's Cruise in the Pinafore , '' `` An Old-Fashioned Thanksgiving . ''
6 vols .
Price of each , $ 1.00 .
ROBERTS BROTHERS , PUBLISHERS , Boston .
* * * * * LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON 'S STORIES .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- BED-TIME STORIES .
MORE BED-TIME STORIES .
NEW BED-TIME STORIES .
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY ADDIE LEDYARD .
Three volume in a box .
Price , $ 3.75 .
ROBERTS BROTHERS , Publishers , BOSTON .
* * * * * AUNT JO 'S SCRAP-BAG .
CUPID AND CHOW-CHOW , ETC . .
-LSB- Illustration : SCRAP-BAG .
VOL III . -RSB-
BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT , AUTHOR OF `` LITTLE WOMEN , '' `` AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL , '' `` LITTLE MEN , '' `` HOSPITAL SKETCHES . ''
BOSTON : ROBERTS BROTHERS .
1881 .
* * * * * Jean Ingelow 's Prose Story Books .
In 5 vols .
16mo , uniformly bound .
STUDIES FOR STORIES FROM GIRLS ' LIVES .
Illustrated , Price , $ 1.25 .
`` A rare source of delight for all who can find pleasure in really good work of prose fiction ... They be prose poem , carefully meditate , and exquisitely couch in by a teacher ready to sympathize with every joy and sorrow . ''
-- Athenæum .
STORIES TOLD TO A CHILD .
Illustrated .
Price , $ 1.25 .
STORIES TOLD TO A CHILD .
Second Series .
Illustrated .
Price , $ 1.25 .
`` This be one of the most charming juvenile book ever lay on our table .
Jean Ingelow , the noble English poet , second only to Mrs. Browning , bend easily and gracefully from the height of thought and fine imagination to commune with the mind and heart of child ; to sympathize with their little joy and sorrow ; to feel for their temptation .
She be a safe guide for the little pilgrim ; for her path , though ` path of pleasantness , ' lead straight upward . ''
-- Grace Greenwood in `` The Little Pilgrim . ''
A SISTER 'S BYE-HOURS .
Illustrated .
Price , $ 1.25 .
`` Seven short story of domestic life by one of the most popular of the young author of the day , -- an author who have her heart in what she write , -- Jean Ingelow .
And there be heart in these story , and healthy moral lesson , too .
They be write in the author 's most graceful and affecting style , will be read with real pleasure , and , when read , will leave more than momentary impression . ''
-- Brooklyn Union .
MOPSA THE FAIRY .
A Story .
With Eight Illustrations .
Price , $ 1.25 .
`` Miss Ingelow be , to our mind , the most charming of all living writer for child , and ` Mopsa ' alone ought to give her a kind of pre-emptive right to the love and gratitude of our young folk .
It require genius to conceive a purely imaginary work which must of necessity deal with the supernatural , without run into a mere riot of fantastic absurdity ; but genius Miss Ingelow have , and the story of Jack be a careless and joyous , but a delicate , a a picture of childhood .
`` The young people should be grateful to Jean Ingelow and those other noble writer , who , in our day , have take upon themselves the task of supply them with literature , if for no other reason , that these writer have save them from the ineffable didacticism which , till within the last few year , be consider the only food fit for the youthful mind . ''
-- Eclectic .
Sold everywhere .
Mailed , postpaid , by the Publishers .
ROBERTS BROTHERS , BOSTON .
* * * * * Messrs. Roberts Brothers ' Publications .
CASTLE BLAIR : A STORY OF YOUTHFUL DAYS .
BY FLORA L. SHAW .
16mo .
Cloth .
Price $ 1.00 `` There be quite a lovely little book just come out about child , -- ` Castle Blair ! '
... The book be good , and lovely , and true , have the best description of a noble child in it -LRB- Winnie -RRB- that I ever read ; and nearly the best description of the next best thing , -- a noble dog , '' say John Ruskin , the distinguish art critic . ''
` Castle Blair , ' a story of youthful day , by Flora L. Shaw , be an Irish story .
A charming young girl -- half French , half English -- come from France , at the age of eighteen , to live with her bachelor uncle at Castle Blair , which be in possession of five child of an absent brother of this uncle .
The child be in a somewhat wild and undisciplined condition , but they be a interesting child a can be imagine , and some of them win to an extraordinary degree .
They be natural child , in manner and in talk ; but the book differs from some American book about child , in that it be pervade by an air of refinement and good-breeding .
The story be altogether delightful , quite worthy , from an American point of view , of all Mr. Ruskin say of it ; and if circulation be determine by merit , it would speedily outstrip a good many now popular child 's book which have a vein of commonness , if not of vulgarity . ''
-- Hartford Courant .
`` It be not too much to say that nothing more interesting or more wholesome be offer this year for old boy and girl .
It be a charming story , in which the author have delineate character a carefully , and with as keen an artistic sense , a if she have be write a novel .
Her book be a novel , indeed , with child and the life of child , instead of men and woman and their life , for it theme . ''
-- New York Evening Post .
Our publication be to be have of all Booksellers .
When not to be find , send directly to ROBERTS BROTHERS , PUBLISHERS , BOSTON .
* * * * * Messrs. Roberts Brothers ' Publications .
NELLY 'S SILVER MINE .
BY H. H. With Illustrations .
16mo , cloth .
Price $ 1.50 .
`` The sketch of life , especially of it odd and out-of-the-way aspect , by H. H. always possess so vivid a reality that they appear more like the actual scene than any copy by pencil or photograph .
They form a series of living picture , radiant with sunlight and fresh a morning dew .
In this new story the fruit of her fine genius be of Colorado growth , and though without the antique flavor of her recollection of Rome and Venice , be as delicious to the taste a they be tempt to the eye , and afford a natural feast of exquisite quality . ''
-- N. Y. Tribune .
`` This charming little book , write for child 's entertainment and instruction , be equally delightful to the father and mother .
It be life in New England , and the racy history of a long railway journey to the wild of Colorado .
The child be neither imp nor angel , but just such child a be find in every happy home .
The picture be so graphically draw that we feel well acquaint with Rob and Nelly , have travel with them and climb mountain and find silver mine , and know all about the rude life make beautiful by a happy family , and can say of Nelly , with their German neighbor , Mr. Kleesman , ` Ach well , she haf good than any silver mine in her own self . ' ''
-- Chicago Inter-Ocean .
`` In ` Nelly 's Silver Mine ' Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson have give u a true classic for the nursery and the school-room , but it reader will not be confine to any locality .
Its vivid portraiture of Colorado life and it truth to child-nature give it a charm which the most experienced can not fail to feel .
It will stand by the side of Miss Edgeworth and Mrs. Barbauld in all the year to come . ''
-- Mrs. Caroline H. Dall .
`` We heartily commend the book for it healthy spirit , it lively narrative , and it freedom from most of the fault of book for child . ''
-- Atlantic Monthly .
Our publication be to be have of all Booksellers .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Louisa_May_Alcott___Eight_Cousins.txt.out
Chapter 1 -- Two Girls Rose sit all alone in the big best parlor , with her little handkerchief lay ready to catch the first tear , for she be think of her trouble , and a shower be expect .
She have retire to this room a a good place in which to be miserable ; for it be dark and still , full of ancient furniture , sombre curtain , and hang all around with portrait of solemn old gentleman in wig , severe-nosed lady in top-heavy cap , and star child in little bob-tailed coat or short-waisted frock .
It be an excellent place for woe ; and the fitful spring rain that patter on the window-pane seem to sob , `` Cry away : I 'm with you . ''
Rose really do have some cause to be sad ; for she have no mother , and have lately lose her father also , which leave her no home but this with her great-aunt .
She have be with them only a week , and , though the dear old lady have try their best to make her happy , they have not succeed very well , for she be unlike any child they have ever see , and they felt very much a if they have the care of a low-spirited butterfly .
They have give her the freedom of the house , and for a day or two she have amuse herself roam all over it , for it be a capital old mansion , and be full of all manner of odd nook , charm room , and mysterious passage .
Windows break out in unexpected place , little balcony overhung the garden most romantically , and there be a long upper hall full of curiosity from all part of the world ; for the Campbells have be sea-captains for generation .
Aunt Plenty have even allow Rose to rummage in her great china closet a spicy retreat , rich in all the `` goody '' that child love ; but Rose seem to care little for these toothsome temptation ; and when that hope fail , Aunt Plenty give up in despair .
Gentle Aunt Peace have try all sort of pretty needle-work , and plan a doll 's wardrobe that would have win the heart of even an old child .
But Rose take little interest in pink satin hat and tiny hose , though she sew dutifully till her aunt catch her wiping tear away with the train of a wedding-dress , and that discovery put an end to the sew society .
Then both old lady put their head together and pick out the model child of the neighbourhood to come and play with their niece .
But Ariadne Blish be the bad failure of all , for Rose could not bear the sight of her , and say she be so like a wax doll she long to give her a pinch and see if she would squeak .
So prim little Ariadne be send home , and the exhausted aunty leave Rose to her own device for a day or two .
Bad weather and a cold kept her in-doors , and she spend most of her time in the library where her father 's book be store .
Here she read a great deal , cry a little , and dream many of the innocent bright dream in which imaginative child find such comfort and delight .
This suit her good than anything else , but it be not good for her , and she grow pale , heavy-eyed and listless , though Aunt Plenty give her iron enough to make a cooking-stove , and Aunt Peace pet her like a poodle .
Seeing this , the poor aunty rack their brain for a new amusement and determine to venture a bold stroke , though not very hopeful of it success .
They say nothing to Rose about their plan for this Saturday afternoon , but let her alone till the time come for the grand surprise , little dreaming that the odd child would find pleasure for herself in a most unexpected quarter .
Before she have time to squeeze out a single tear a sound break the stillness , make her prick up her ear .
It be only the soft twitter of a bird , but it seem to be a peculiarly gift bird , for while she listen the soft twitter change to a lively whistle , then a trill , a coo , a chirp , and end in a musical mixture of all the note , a if the bird burst out laughing .
Rose laugh also , and , forget her woe , jump up , say eagerly , `` It be a mocking-bird .
Where be it ? ''
Running down the long hall , she peep out at both door , but saw nothing feather except a draggle-tailed chicken under a burdock leaf .
She listen again , and the sound seem to be in the house .
Away she go , much excite by the chase , and follow the changeful song , it lead her to the china-closet door .
`` In there ?
How funny ! ''
she say .
But when she enter , not a bird appear except the everlastingly kissing swallow on the Canton china that line the shelf .
All of a sudden Rose 's face brighten , and , softly open the slide , she peer into the kitchen .
But the music have stop , and all she saw be a girl in a blue apron scrub the hearth .
Rose star about her for a minute , and then ask abruptly , `` Did you hear that mocking-bird ? ''
`` I should call it a phebe-bird , '' answer the girl , look up with a twinkle in her black eye .
`` Where do it go ? ''
`` It be here still . ''
`` Where ? ''
`` In my throat .
Do you want to hear it ? ''
`` Oh , yes !
I 'll come in . ''
And Rose creep through the slide to the wide shelf on the other side , be too hurry and puzzle to go round by the door .
The girl wipe her hand , cross her foot on the little island of carpet where she be strand in a sea of soap-suds , and then , sure enough , out of her slender throat come the swallow 's twitter , the robin 's whistle , the blue-jay 's call , the thrush 's song , the wood-dove 's coo , and many another familiar note , all end a before with the musical ecstacy of a bobolink singing and swinging among the meadow grass on a bright June day .
Rose be so astonished that she nearly fell off her perch , and when the little concert be over clapped her hand delightedly .
`` Oh , it be lovely !
Who teach you ? ''
`` The bird , '' answer the girl , with a smile , a she fell to work again .
`` It be very wonderful !
I can sing , but nothing half so fine a that .
What be your name , please ? ''
`` Phebe Moore . ''
`` I 've hear of phebe-birds ; but I do n't believe the real one could do that , '' laugh Rose , add , a she watch with interest the scattering of dab of soft soap over the brick , `` May I stay and see you work ?
It be very lonely in the parlor . ''
`` Yes , indeed , if you want to , '' answer Phebe , wring out her cloth in a capable sort of way that impress Rose very much .
`` It must be fun to swash the water round and dig out the soap .
I 'd love to do it , only aunt would n't like it , I suppose , '' say Rose , quite take with the new employment .
`` You 'd soon get tired , so you 'd better keep tidy and look on . ''
`` I suppose you help your mother a good deal ? ''
`` I have n't get any folk . ''
`` Why , where do you live , then ? ''
`` I 'm go to live here , I hope .
Debby want some one to help round , and I 've come to try for a week . ''
`` I hope you will stay , for it be very dull , '' say Rose , who have take a sudden fancy to this girl , who sing like a bird and work like a woman .
`` Hope I shall ; for I 'm fifteen now , and old enough to earn my own living .
You have come to stay a spell , have n't you ? ''
ask Phebe , look up at her guest and wonder how life could be dull to a girl who wear a silk frock , a daintily frilled apron , a pretty locket , and have her hair tie up with a velvet snood .
`` Yes , I shall stay till my uncle come .
He be my guardian now , and I do n't know what he will do with me .
Have you a guardian ? ''
`` My sake , no !
I be leave on the poor-house step a little mite of a baby , and Miss Rogers take a liking to me , so I 've be there ever since .
But she be dead now , and I take care of myself . ''
`` How interesting !
It be like Arabella Montgomery in the ` Gypsy 's Child . '
Did you ever read that sweet story ? ''
ask Rose , who be fond of tale of found-lings , and have read many .
`` I do n't have any book to read , and all the spare time I get I run off into the wood ; that rest me good than story , '' answer Phebe , a she finish one job and begin on another .
Rose watch her a she get out a great pan of bean to look over , and wonder how it would seem to have life all work and no play .
Presently Phebe seem to think it be her turn to ask question , and say , wistfully , `` You 've have lot of school , I suppose ? ''
`` Oh , dear me , yes !
I 've be at board school nearly a year , and I 'm almost dead with lesson .
The more I get , the more Miss Power give me , and I be so miserable that I ` most cried my eye out .
Papa never give me hard thing to do , and he always teach me so pleasantly I love to study .
Oh , we be so happy and so fond of one another !
But now he be go , and I be leave all alone . ''
The tear that would not come when Rose sit wait for it come now of it own accord two of them in fact and roll down her cheek , tell the tale of love and sorrow well than any word could do it .
For a minute there be no sound in the kitchen but the little daughter 's sobbing and the sympathetic patter of the rain .
Phebe stop rattle her bean from one pan to another , and her eye be full of pity a they rest on the curly head bend down on Rose 's knee , for she saw that the heart under the pretty locket ache with it loss , and the dainty apron be use to dry sadder tear than any she have ever shed .
Somehow , she felt more contented with her brown calico gown and blue-checked pinafore ; envy change to compassion ; and if she have dare she would have go and hug her afflicted guest .
Fearing that might not be consider proper , she say , in her cheery voice , `` I 'm sure you ai n't all alone with such a lot of folk belong to you , and all so rich and clever .
You 'll be pet to piece , Debby say , because you be the only girl in the family . ''
Phebe 's last word make Rose smile in spite of her tear , and she look out from behind her apron with an April face , say in a tone of comic distress , `` That 's one of my trouble !
I 've get six aunt , and they all want me , and I do n't know any of them very well .
Papa name this place the Aunt-hill , and now I see why . ''
Phebe laugh with her a she say encouragingly , `` Everyone call it so , and it 's a real good name , for all the Mrs. Campbells live handy by , and keep come up to see the old lady . ''
`` I could stand the aunt , but there be dozen of cousin , dreadful boy all of them , and I detest boy !
Some of them come to see me last Wednesday , but I be lie down , and when auntie come to call me I go under the quilt and pretend to be asleep .
I shall have to see them some time , but I do dread it so . ''
And Rose give a shudder , for , have live alone with her invalid father , she know nothing of boy , and consider them a specie of wild animal .
`` Oh !
I guess you 'll like 'em .
I 've see 'em fly round when they come over from the Point , sometimes in their boat and sometimes on horseback .
If you like boat and horse , you 'll enjoy yourself first-rate . ''
`` But I do n't !
I 'm afraid of horse , and boat make me ill , and I hate boy ! ''
And poor Rose wring her hand at the awful prospect before her .
One of these horror alone she could have bear , but all together be too much for her , and she begin to think of a speedy return to the detested school .
Phebe laugh at her woe till the bean dance in the pan , but try to comfort her by suggest a mean of relief .
`` Perhaps your uncle will take you away where there ai n't any boy .
Debby say he be a real kind man , and always bring heap of nice thing when he come . ''
`` Yes , but you see that be another trouble , for I do n't know Uncle Alec at all .
He hardly ever come to see u , though he send me pretty thing very often .
Now I belong to him , and shall have to mind him , till I be eighteen .
I may not like him a bit , and I fret about it all the time . ''
`` Well , I would n't borrow trouble , but have a real good time .
I 'm sure I should think I be in clover if I have folk and money , and nothing to do but enjoy myself , '' begin Phebe , but get no further , for a sudden rush and tumble outside make them both jump .
`` It 's thunder , '' say Phebe .
`` It 's a circus ! ''
cry Rose , who from her elevate perch have catch glimpse of a gay cart of some sort and several pony with fly mane and tail .
The sound die away , and the girl be about to continue their confidence when old Debby appear , look rather cross and sleepy after her nap .
`` You be want in the parlor , Miss Rose . ''
`` Has anybody come ? ''
`` Little girl should n't ask question , but do a they be bid , '' be all Debby would answer .
`` I do hope it be n't Aunt Myra ; she always scar me out of my wit ask how my cough be , and groan over me a if I be go to die , '' say Rose , prepare to retire the way she come , for the slide , be cut for the admission of bounce Christmas turkey and pudding , be plenty large enough for a slender girl .
`` Guess you 'll wish it be Aunt Myra when you see who have come .
Do n't never let me catch you come into my kitchen that way again , or I 'll shut you up in the big b ` iler , '' growl Debby , who think it her duty to snub child on all occasion .
Chapter 2 -- The Clan Rose scramble into the china-closet as rapidly a possible , and there refresh herself by make face at Debby , while she settle her plumage and screw up her courage .
Then she creep softly down the hall and peep into the parlor .
No one appear , and all be so still she felt sure the company be upstairs .
So she skip boldly through the half-open folding-doors , to behold on the other side a sight that nearly take her breath away .
Seven boys stand in a row all age , all size , all yellow-haired and blue-eyed , all in full Scotch costume , and all smiling , nodding , and say a with one voice , `` How be you , cousin ? ''
Rose give a little gasp , and look wildly about her a if ready to fly , for fear magnify the seven and the room seem full of boy .
Before she could run , however , the tall lad step out of the line , say pleasantly , `` Do n't be frighten .
This be the Clan come to welcome you ; and I 'm the chief , Archie , at your service . ''
He hold out his hand a he speak , and Rose timidly put her own into a brown paw , which close over the white morsel and hold it a the chief continue his introduction .
`` We come in full rig , for we always turn out in style on grand occasion .
Hope you like it .
Now I 'll tell you who these chap be , and then we shall be all right .
This big one be Prince Charlie , Aunt Clara 's boy .
She have but one , so he be an extra good one .
This old fellow be Mac , the bookworm , call Worm for short .
This sweet creature be Steve the Dandy .
Look at his glove and top-knot , if you please .
They be Aunt Jane 's lad , and a precious pair you 'd better believe .
These be the Brats , my brother , Geordie and Will , and Jamie the Baby .
Now , my men , step out and show your manner . ''
At this command , to Rose 's great dismay , six more hand be offer , and it be evident that she be expect to shake them all .
It be a try moment to the bashful child ; but , remember that they be her kinsman come to welcome her , she try her best to return the greeting cordially .
This impressive ceremony be over , the Clan break rank , and both room instantly appear to be pervade with boy .
Rose hastily retire to the shelter of a big chair and sit there watch the invader and wonder when her aunt would come and rescue her .
As if bound to do their duty manfully , yet rather oppress by it , each lad pause beside her chair in his wandering , make a brief remark , receive a still briefer answer , and then sheer off with a relieved expression .
Archie come first , and , lean over the chair-back , observe in a paternal tone , `` I 'm glad you 've come , cousin , and I hope you 'll find the Aunt-hill pretty jolly . ''
`` I think I shall . ''
Mac shake his hair out of his eye , stumble over a stool , and ask abruptly , `` Did you bring any book with you ? ''
`` Four box full .
They be in the library . ''
Mac vanish from the room , and Steve , strike an attitude which display his costume effectively , say with an affable smile , `` We be sorry not to see you last Wednesday .
I hope your cold be well . ''
`` Yes , thank you . ''
And a smile begin to dimple about Rose 's mouth , a she remember her retreat under the bed-cover .
Feeling that he have be receive with distinguished mark of attention , Steve stroll away with his topknot higher than ever , and Prince Charlie prance across the room , say in a free and easy tone , `` Mamma send her love and hop you will be well enough to come over for a day next week .
It must be desperately dull here for a little thing like you . ''
`` I 'm thirteen and a half , though I do look small , '' cry Rose , forget her shyness in indignation at this insult to her newly acquire teen .
`` Beg pardon , ma'am ; never should have guess it . ''
And Charlie go off with a laugh , glad to have strike a spark out of his meek cousin .
Geordie and Will come together , two sturdy eleven and twelve year olders , and , fix their round blue eye on Rose , fire off a question apiece , a if it be a shooting match and she the target .
`` Did you bring your monkey ? ''
`` No ; he be dead . ''
`` Are you go to have a boat ? ''
`` I hope not . ''
Here the two , with a right-about-face movement , abruptly march away , and little Jamie demand with childish frankness , `` Did you bring me anything nice ? ''
`` Yes , lot of candy , '' answer Rose , whereupon Jamie ascend into her lap with a sound kiss and the announcement that he like her very much .
This proceeding rather startle Rose , for the other lad look and laugh , and in her confusion she say hastily to the young usurper , `` Did you see the circus go by ? ''
`` When ?
Where ? ''
cry all the boy in great excitement at once .
`` Just before you come .
At least I think it be a circus , for I saw a red and black sort of cart and ever so many little pony , and -- '' She get no farther , for a general shout make her pause suddenly , a Archie explain the joke by say in the middle of his laugh , `` It be our new dog-cart and the Shetland pony .
You 'll never hear the last of your circus , cousin . ''
`` But there be so many , and they go so fast , and the cart be so very red , '' begin Rose , try to explain her mistake .
`` Come and see them all ! ''
cry the Prince .
And before she know what be happen , she be borne away to the barn and tumultuously introduce to three shaggy pony and the gay new dog-cart .
She have never visit these region before , and have her doubt a to the propriety of her be there now , but when she suggest that `` Auntie might not like it , '' there be a general cry of , `` She tell u to amuse you , and we can do it ever so much good out here than poke round in the house . ''
`` I 'm afraid I shall get cold without my sacque , '' begin Rose , who want to stay , but felt rather out of her element .
`` No , you wo n't !
We 'll fix you , '' cry the lad , a one clap his cap on her head , another tie a rough jacket round her neck by the sleeve , a third neatly smother her in a carriage blanket , and a fourth threw open the door of the old barouche that stand there , say with a flourish , `` Step in , ma'am , and make yourself comfortable while we show you some fun . ''
So Rose sat in state enjoy herself very much , for the lad proceed to dance a Highland Fling with a spirit and skill that make her clap her hand and laugh a she have not do for week .
`` How be that , my lassie ? ''
ask the Prince , come up all flush and breathless when the ballet be over .
`` It be splendid !
I never go to the theatre but once , and the dancing be not half so pretty a this .
What clever boys you must be ! ''
say Rose , smile upon her kinsman like a little queen upon her subject .
`` Ah , we 're a fine lot , and that be only the beginning of our lark .
We have n't get the pipe here or we 'd , ` Sing for you , play for you A dulcy melody , ' '' answer Charlie , look much elate at her praise .
`` I do not know we be Scotch ; papa never say anything about it , or seem to care about Scotland , except to have me sing the old ballad , '' say Rose , begin to feel a if she have leave America behind her somewhere .
`` Neither do we till lately .
We 've be read Scott 's novel , and all of a sudden we remember that our grandfather be a Scotchman .
So we hunt up the old story , get a bagpipe , put on our plaid , and go in , heart and soul , for the glory of the Clan .
We 've be at it some time now , and it 's great fun .
Our people like it , and I think we be a pretty canny set . ''
Archie say this from the other coach-step , where he have perch , while the rest climb up before and behind to join in the chat a they rest .
`` I 'm Fitzjames and he 's Roderick Dhu , and we 'll give you the broadsword combat some day .
It 's a great thing , you 'd better believe , '' add the Prince .
`` Yes , and you should hear Steve play the pipe .
He make 'em skirl like a good one , '' cry Will from the box , eager to air the accomplishment of his race .
`` Mac 's the fellow to hunt up the old story and tell u how to dress right , and pick out rouse bit for u to speak and sing , '' put in Geordie , say a good word for the absent Worm .
`` And what do you and Will do ? ''
ask Rose of Jamie , who sit beside her a if bound to keep her in sight till the promised gift have be hand over .
`` Oh , I 'm the little foot-page , and do errand , and Will and Geordie be the troop when we march , and the stag when we hunt , and the traitor when we want to cut any head off . ''
`` They be very obliging , I 'm sure , '' say Rose , whereat the `` utility men '' beam with modest pride and resolve to enact Wallace and Montrose as soon a possible for their cousin 's special benefit .
`` Let 's have a game of tag , '' cry the Prince , swing himself up to a beam with a sound slap on Stevie 's shoulder .
Regardless of his glove , Dandy tore after him , and the rest swarm in every direction a if bent on break their neck and dislocate their joint as rapidly a possible .
It be a new and astonishing spectacle to Rose , fresh from a prim boarding-school , and she watch the active lad with breathless interest , think their antic far superior to those of Mops , the dear depart monkey .
Will have just cover himself with glory by pitch off a high loft head first and come up all right , when Phebe appear with a cloak , hood , and rubber , also a message from Aunt Plenty that `` Miss Rose be to come in directly . ''
`` All right ; we 'll bring her ! ''
answer Archie , issue some mysterious order , which be so promptly obey that , before Rose could get out of the carriage , the boy have catch hold of the pole and rattle her out of the barn , round the oval and up to the front door with a cheer that bring two cap to an upper window , and cause Debby to cry aloud from the back porch , `` Them harum-scarum boy will certainly be the death of that delicate little creter ! ''
But the `` delicate little creter '' seem all the good for her trip , and run up the step look rosy , gay , and dishevel , to be receive with lamentation by Aunt Plenty , who beg her to go and lie down at once .
`` Oh , please do n't !
We have come to tea with our cousin , and we 'll be as good a gold if you 'll let u stay , auntie , '' clamour the boy , who not only approve of `` our cousin '' but have no mind to lose their tea , for Aunt Plenty 's name but feebly express her bountiful nature .
`` Well , dear , you can ; only be quiet , and let Rose go and take her iron and be make tidy , and then we will see what we can find for supper , '' say the old lady a she trot away , follow by a volley of direction for the approaching feast .
`` Marmalade for me , auntie . ''
`` Plenty of plum-cake , please . ''
`` Tell Debby to trot out the baked pear . ''
`` I 'm your man for lemon-pie , ma'am . ''
`` Do have fritter ; Rose will like 'em . ''
`` She 'd rather have tart , I know . ''
When Rose come down , fifteen minute later , with every curl smooth and her most beruffled apron on , she find the boy loaf about the long hall , and pause on the half-way landing to take an observation , for till now she have not really examine her new-found cousin .
There be a strong family resemblance among them , though some of the yellow head be dark than others , some of the cheek brown instead of rosy , and the age vary all the way from sixteen-year-old Archie to Jamie , who be ten year younger .
None of them be especially comely but the Prince , yet all be hearty , happy-looking lad , and Rose decide that boy be not as dreadful a she have expect to find them .
They be all so characteristically employ that she could not help smile a she look .
Archie and Charlie , evidently great crony , be pace up and down , shoulder to shoulder , whistle `` Bonnie Dundee '' ; Mac be read in a corner , with his book close to his near-sighted eye ; Dandy be arrange his hair before the oval glass in the hat-stand ; Geordie and Will investigate the internal economy of the moon-faced clock ; and Jamie lay kick up his heel on the mat at the foot of the stair , bent on demand his sweetie the instant Rose appear .
She guess his intention , and forestall his demand by drop a handful of sugar-plums down upon him .
At his cry of rapture the other lad look up and smile involuntarily , for the little kinswoman stand there above be a winsome sight with her shy , soft eye , bright hair , and laugh face .
The black frock remind them of her loss , and fill the boyish heart with a kindly desire to be good to `` our cousin , '' who have no longer any home but this .
`` There she be , as fine a you please , '' cry Steve , kiss his hand to her .
`` Come on , Missy ; tea be ready , '' add the Prince encouragingly .
`` I shall take her in . ''
And Archie offer his arm with great dignity , an honour that make Rose turn as red a a cherry and long to run upstairs again .
It be a merry supper , and the two elder boys add much to the fun by torment the rest with dark hint of some interesting event which be about to occur .
Something uncommonly fine , they declare it be , but envelop in the deep mystery for the present .
`` Did I ever see it ? ''
ask Jamie .
`` Not to remember it ; but Mac and Steve have , and like it immensely , '' answer Archie , thereby cause the two mention to neglect Debby 's delectable fritter for several minute , while they cudgel their brain .
`` Who will have it first ? ''
ask Will , with his mouth full of marmalade .
`` Aunt Plenty , I guess . ''
`` When will she have it ? ''
demand Geordie , bounce in his seat with impatience .
`` Sometime on Monday . ''
`` Heart alive !
what be the boy talk about ? ''
cry the old lady from behind the tall urn , which leave little to be see but the topmost bow of her cap .
`` Does n't auntie know ? ''
ask a chorus of voice .
`` No ; and that 's the best of the joke , for she be desperately fond of it . ''
`` What colour be it ? ''
ask Rose , join in the fun .
`` Blue and brown . ''
`` Is it good to eat ? ''
ask Jamie .
`` Some people think so , but I should n't like to try it , '' answer Charlie , laugh so he split his tea .
`` Who do it belong to ? ''
put in Steve .
Archie and the Prince star at one another rather blankly for a minute , then Archie answer with a twinkle of the eye that make Charlie explode again , `` To Grandfather Campbell . ''
This be a poser , and they give up the puzzle , though Jamie confide to Rose that he do not think he could live till Monday without know what this remarkable thing be .
Soon after tea the Clan depart , sing `` All the blue bonnet be over the border , '' at the top of their voice .
`` Well , dear , how do you like your cousin ? ''
ask Aunt Plenty , a the last pony frisk round the corner and the din die away .
`` Pretty well , ma'am ; but I like Phebe well . ''
An answer which cause Aunt Plenty to hold up her hand in despair and trot away to tell sister Peace that she never should understand that child , and it be a mercy Alec be come soon to take the responsibility off their hand .
Fatigued by the unusual exertion of the afternoon , Rose curl herself up in the sofa corner to rest and think about the great mystery , little guessing that she be to know it first of all .
Right in the middle of her meditation she fell asleep and dream she be at home again in her own little bed .
She seem to wake and see her father bending over her ; to hear him say , `` My little Rose '' ; to answer , `` Yes , papa '' ; and then to feel him take her in his arm and kiss her tenderly .
So sweet , so real be the dream , that she start up with a cry of joy to find herself in the arm of a brown , beard man , who hold her close , and whisper in a voice so like her father 's that she cling to him involuntarily , `` This be my little girl , and I be Uncle Alec . ''
Chapter 3 -- Uncles When Rose wake next morning , she be not sure whether she have dream what occur the night before , or it have actually happen .
So she hop up and dress , although it be an hour earlier than she usually rise , for she could not sleep any more , be possess with a strong desire to slip down and see if the big portmanteau and packing case be really in the hall .
She seem to remember tumble over them when she go to bed , for the aunt have send her off very punctually , because they want their pet nephew all to themselves .
The sun be shin , and Rose open her window to let in the soft May air fresh from the sea .
As she lean over her little balcony , watch an early bird get the worm , and wonder how she should like Uncle Alec , she saw a man leap the garden wall and come whistle up the path .
At first she think it be some trespasser , but a second look show her that it be her uncle return from an early dip into the sea .
She have hardly dare to look at him the night before , because whenever she try to do so she always find a pair of keen blue eye look at her .
Now she could take a good stare at him a he linger along , look about him a if glad to see the old place again .
A brown , breezy man , in a blue jacket , with no hat on the curly head , which he shake now and then like a water dog ; broad-shouldered , alert in his motion , and with a general air of strength and stability about him which please Rose , though she could not explain the feeling of comfort it give her .
She have just say to herself , with a sense of relief , `` I guess I shall like him , though he look a if he make people mind , '' when he lift his eye to examine the bud horse-chestnut overhead , and saw the eager face peer down at him .
He wave his hand to her , nod , and call out in a bluff , cheery voice , `` You be on deck early , little niece . ''
`` I get up to see if you have really come , uncle . ''
`` Did you ?
Well , come down here and make sure of it . ''
`` I 'm not allow to go out before breakfast , sir . ''
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
with a shrug .
`` Then I 'll come aboard and salute , '' he add ; and , to Rose 's great amazement , Uncle Alec go up one of the pillar of the back piazza hand over hand , step across the roof , and swung himself into her balcony , say , a he land on the wide balustrade : `` Have you any doubt about me now , ma'am ? ''
Rose be so take aback , she could only answer with a smile a she go to meet him .
`` How do my girl do this morning ? ''
he ask , take the little cold hand she give him in both his big warm one .
`` Pretty well , thank you , sir . ''
`` Ah , but it should be very well .
Why be n't it ? ''
`` I always wake up with a headache , and feel tired . ''
`` Do n't you sleep well ? ''
`` I lie awake a long time , and then I dream , and my sleep do not seem to rest me much . ''
`` What do you do all day ? ''
`` Oh , I read , and sew a little , and take nap , and sit with auntie . ''
`` No run about out of door , or house-work , or rid , hey ? ''
`` Aunt Plenty say I 'm not strong enough for much exercise .
I drive out with her sometimes , but I do n't care for it . ''
`` I 'm not surprise at that , '' say Uncle Alec , half to himself , add , in his quick way : `` Who have you have to play with ? ''
`` No one but Ariadne Blish , and she be such a goose I could n't bear her .
The boy come yesterday , and seem rather nice ; but , of course , I could n't play with them . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` I 'm too old to play with boy . ''
`` Not a bit of it ; that 's just what you need , for you 've be molly-coddled too much .
They be good lad , and you 'll be mix up with them more or less for year to come , so you may as well be friend and playmate at once .
I will look you up some girl also , if I can find a sensible one who be not spoil by her nonsensical education . ''
`` Phebe be sensible , I 'm sure , and I like her , though I only saw her yesterday , '' cry Rose , wake up suddenly .
`` And who be Phebe , if you please ? ''
Rose eagerly tell all she know , and Uncle Alec listen , with an odd smile lurk about his mouth , though his eye be quite sober a he watch the face before him .
`` I 'm glad to see that you be not aristocratic in your taste , but I do n't quite make out why you like this young lady from the poor-house . ''
`` You may laugh at me , but I do .
I ca n't tell why , only she seem so happy and busy , and sings so beautifully , and be strong enough to scrub and sweep , and have n't any trouble to plague her , '' say Rose , make a funny jumble of reason in her effort to explain .
`` How do you know that ? ''
`` Oh , I be tell her about mine , and ask if she have any , and she say , ` No , only I 'd like to go to school , and I mean to some day . ''
`` So she do n't call desertion , poverty , and hard work , trouble ?
She 's a brave little girl , and I shall be proud to know her . ''
And Uncle Alec give an approving nod , that make Rose wish she have be the one to earn it .
`` But what be these trouble of yours , child ? ''
he ask , after a minute of silence .
`` Please do n't ask me , uncle . ''
`` Ca n't you tell them to me as well a to Phebe ? ''
Something in his tone make Rose feel that it would be good to speak out and be do with it , so she answer , with sudden colour and averted eye , `` The great one be lose dear papa . ''
As she say that , Uncle Alec 's arm come gently round her , and he draw her to him , say , in the voice so like papa 's , `` That be a trouble which I can not cure , my child ; but I shall try to make you feel it less .
What else , dear ? ''
`` I be so tired and poorly all the time , I ca n't do anything I want to , and it make me cross , '' sigh Rose , rub the ache head like a fretful child .
`` That we can cure and we will , '' say her uncle , with a decided nod that make the curl bob on his head , to that Rose saw the gray one underneath the brown .
`` Aunt Myra say I have no constitution , and never shall be strong , '' observe Rose , in a pensive tone , a if it be rather a nice thing to be an invalid .
`` Aunt Myra be a ahem !
an excellent woman , but it be her hobby to believe that everyone be totter on the brink of the grave ; and , upon my life , I believe she be offend if people do n't fall into it !
We will show her how to make constitution and turn pale-faced little ghost into rosy , hearty girl .
That 's my business , you know , '' he add , more quietly , for his sudden outburst have rather startle Rose .
`` I have forget you be a doctor .
I 'm glad of it , for I do want to be well , only I hope you wo n't give me much medicine , for I 've take quart already , and it do me no good . ''
As she speak , Rose point to a little table just inside the window , on which appear a regiment of bottle .
`` Ah , ha !
Now we 'll see what mischief these bless woman have be at . ''
And , make a long arm , Dr. Alec set the bottle on the wide railing before him , examine each carefully , smile over some , frown over others , and say , a he put down the last : `` Now I 'll show you the best way to take these mess . ''
And , as quick a a flash , he send one after another smash down into the posy-beds below .
`` But Aunt Plenty wo n't like it ; and Aunt Myra will be angry , for she send most of them ! ''
cry Rose , half frighten and half please at such energetic measure .
`` You be my patient now , and I 'll take the responsibility .
My way of give physic be evidently the best , for you look good already , '' he say , laugh so infectiously that Rose follow suit , say saucily , `` If I do n't like your medicine any good than those , I shall throw them into the garden , and then what will you do ? ''
`` When I prescribe such rubbish , I 'll give you leave to pitch it overboard as soon a you like .
Now what be the next trouble ? ''
`` I hop you would forget to ask . ''
`` But how can I help you if I do n't know them ?
Come , let u have No . 3 . ''
`` It be very wrong , I suppose , but I do sometimes wish I have not quite so many aunt .
They be all very good to me , and I want to please them ; but they be so different , I feel sort of pull to piece among them , '' say Rose , try to express the emotion of a stray chicken with six hen all clucking over it at once .
Uncle Alec throw back his head and laugh like a boy , for he could entirely understand how the good lady have each put in her oar and try to paddle her own way , to the great disturbance of the water and the entire bewilderment of poor Rose .
`` I intend to try a course of uncle now , and see how that suit your constitution .
I 'm go to have you all to myself , and no one be to give a word of advice unless I ask it .
There be no other way to keep order aboard , and I be captain of this little craft , for a time at least .
What come next ? ''
But Rose stick there , and grow so red , her uncle guess what that trouble be .
`` I do n't think I can tell this one .
It would n't be polite , and I feel pretty sure that it be n't go to be a trouble any more . ''
As she blush and stammer over these word , Dr. Alec turn his eye away to the distant sea , and say so seriously , so tenderly , that she felt every word and long remember them , `` My child , I do n't expect you to love and trust me all at once , but I do want you to believe that I shall give my whole heart to this new duty ; and if I make mistake , a I probably shall , no one will grieve over them more bitterly than I .
It be my fault that I be a stranger to you , when I want to be your best friend .
That be one of my mistake , and I never repent it more deeply than I do now .
Your father and I have a trouble once , and I think I could never forgive him ; so I keep away for year .
Thank God , we make it all up the last time I saw him , and he tell me then , that if he be force to leave her he should bequeath his little girl to me a a token of his love .
I ca n't fill his place , but I shall try to be a father to her ; and if she learn to love me half as well a she do the good one she have lose , I shall be a proud and happy man .
Will she believe this and try ? ''
Something in Uncle Alec 's face touch Rose to the heart , and when he hold out his hand with that anxious troubled look in his eye , she be move to put up her innocent lip and seal the contract with a confide kiss .
The strong arm hold her close a minute , and she felt the broad chest heave once a if with a great sigh of relief ; but not a word be speak till a tap at the door make both start .
Rose pop her head through the window to say `` come in , '' while Dr. Alec hastily rub the sleeve of his jacket across his eye and begin to whistle again .
Phebe appear with a cup of coffee .
`` Debby tell me to bring this and help you get up , '' she say , open her black eye wide , a if she wonder how on earth `` the sailor man '' get there .
`` I 'm all dress , so I do n't need any help .
I hope that be good and strong , '' add Rose , eye the steam cup with an eager look .
But she do not get it , for a brown hand take possession of it a her uncle say quickly , `` Hold hard , my lass , and let me overhaul that dose before you take it .
Do you drink all this strong coffee every morning , Rose ? ''
`` Yes , sir , and I like it .
Auntie say it ` tone ' me up , and I always feel well after it . ''
`` This account for the sleepless night , the flutter your heart get into at the least start , and this be why that cheek of yours be pale yellow instead of rosy red .
No more coffee for you , my dear , and by and by you 'll see that I be right .
Any new milk downstairs , Phebe ? ''
`` Yes , sir , plenty right in from the barn . ''
`` That 's the drink for my patient .
Go bring me a pitcherful , and another cup ; I want a draught myself .
This wo n't hurt the honeysuckle , for they have no nerve to speak of . ''
And , to Rose 's great discomfort , the coffee go after the medicine .
Dr. Alec saw the injured look she put on , but take no notice , and presently banish it by say pleasantly , `` I 've get a capital little cup among my trap , and I 'll give it to you to drink your milk in , a it be make of wood that be suppose to improve whatever be put into it something like a quassia cup .
That remind me ; one of the box Phebe want to lug upstairs last night be for you .
Knowing that I be come home to find a ready-made daughter , I pick up all sort of odd and pretty trifle along the way , hop she would be able to find something she like among them all .
Early to-morrow we 'll have a grand rummage .
Here 's our milk !
I propose the health of Miss Rose Campbell and drink it with all my heart . ''
It be impossible for Rose to pout with the prospect of a delightful boxful of gift dance before her eye ; so , in spite of herself , she smile a she drink her own health , and find that fresh milk be not a hard dose to take .
`` Now I must be off , before I be caught again with my wig in a toss , '' say Dr. Alec , prepare to descend the way he come .
`` Do you always go in and out like a cat , uncle ? ''
ask Rose , much amuse at his odd way .
`` I use to sneak out of my window when I be a boy , so I need not disturb the aunt , and now I rather like it , for it 's the short road , and it keep me limber when I have no rigging to climb .
Good-bye till breakfast . ''
And away he go down the water-spout , over the roof , and vanish among the bud honey-suckles below .
`` Ai n't he a funny guardeen ? ''
exclaim Phebe , a she go off with the cup .
`` He be a very kind one , I think , '' answer Rose , follow , to prowl round the big box and try to guess which be hers .
When her uncle appear at sound of the bell , he find her surveying with an anxious face a new dish that smoke upon the table .
`` Got a fresh trouble , Rosy ? ''
he ask , stroke her smooth head .
`` Uncle , be you go to make me eat oatmeal ? ''
ask Rose , in a tragic tone .
`` Do n't you like it ? ''
`` I de-test it ! ''
answer Rose , with all the emphasis which a turned-up nose , a shudder , and a groan could give to the three word .
`` You be not a true Scotchwoman , if you do n't like the ` parritch . '
It 's a pity , for I make it myself , and think we 'd have such a good time with all that cream to float it in .
Well , never mind . ''
And he sit down with a disappointed air .
Rose have make up her mind to be obstinate about it , because she do heartily `` detest '' the dish ; but a Uncle Alec do not attempt to make her obey , she suddenly change her mind and think she would .
`` I 'll try to eat it to please you , uncle ; but people be always say how wholesome it be , and that make me hate it , '' she say , half-ashamed at her silly excuse .
`` I do want you to like it , because I wish my girl to be as well and strong a Jessie 's boy , who be bring up on this in the good old fashion .
No hot bread and fry stuff for them , and they be the big and bonny lad of the lot .
Bless you , auntie , and good morning ! ''
Dr. Alec turn to greet the old lady , and , with a firm resolve to eat or die in the attempt , Rose sit down .
In five minute she forget what she be eat , so interested be she in the chat that go on .
It amuse her very much to hear Aunt Plenty call her forty-year-old nephew `` my dear boy '' ; and Uncle Alec be so full of lively gossip about all creation in general , and the Aunt-hill in particular , that the detested porridge vanish without a murmur .
`` You will go to church with u , I hope , Alec , if you be not too tired , '' say the old lady , when breakfast be over .
`` I come all the way from Calcutta for that express purpose , ma'am .
Only I must send the sister word of my arrival , for they do n't expect me till to-morrow , you know , and there will be a row in church if those boy see me without warn . ''
`` I 'll send Ben up the hill , and you can step over to Myra 's yourself ; it will please her , and you will have plenty of time . ''
Dr. Alec be off at once , and they saw no more of him till the old barouche be at the door , and Aunt Plenty just rustle downstairs in her Sunday best , with Rose like a little black shadow behind her .
Away they drive in state , and all the way Uncle Alec 's hat be more off his head than on , for everyone they meet smile and bow , and give him a blithe a greeting a the day permit .
It be evident that the warning have be a wise one , for , in spite of time and place , the lad be in such a ferment that their elder sit in momentary dread of an unseemly outbreak somewhere .
It be simply impossible to keep those fourteen eye off Uncle Alec , and the dreadful thing that be do during sermon-time will hardly be believe .
Rose dare not look up after a while , for these bad boy vent their emotion upon her till she be ready to laugh and cry with mingled amusement and vexation .
Charlie wink rapturously at her behind his mother 's fan ; Mac openly point to the tall figure beside her ; Jamie star fixedly over the back of his pew , till Rose think his round eye would drop out of his head ; George fell over a stool and drop three book in his excitement ; Will draw sailor and Chinamen on his clean cuff , and display them , to Rose 's great tribulation ; Steve nearly upset the whole party by burn his nose with salt , a he pretend to be overcome by his joy ; even dignify Archie disgrace himself by write in his hymn book , `` Is n't he blue and brown ? ''
and pass it politely to Rose .
Her only salvation be try to fix her attention upon Uncle Mac a portly , placid gentleman , who seem entirely unconscious of the iniquity of the Clan , and doze peacefully in his pew corner .
This be the only uncle Rose have meet for year , for Uncle Jem and Uncle Steve , the husband of Aunt Jessie and Aunt Clara , be at sea , and Aunt Myra be a widow .
Uncle Mac be a merchant , very rich and busy , and as quiet a a mouse at home , for he be in such a minority among the woman folk he dare not open his lip , and let his wife rule undisturbed .
Rose like the big , kindly , silent man who come to her when papa die , be always send her splendid box of goody at school , and often invite her into his great warehouse , full of tea and spice , wine and all sort of foreign fruit , there to eat and carry away whatever she like .
She have secretly regret that he be not to be her guardian ; but since she have see Uncle Alec she felt well about it , for she do not particularly admire Aunt Jane .
When church be over , Dr. Alec get into the porch as quickly a possible , and there the young bear have a hug all round , while the sister shake hand and welcome him with bright face and glad heart .
Rose be nearly crush flat behind a door in that dangerous passage from pew to porch ; but Uncle Mac rescue her , and put her into the carriage for safe keep .
`` Now , girl , I want you to come and dine with Alec ; Mac also , of course .
But I can not ask the boy , for we do not expect this dear fellow till tomorrow , you know , so I make no preparation .
Send the lad home , and let them wait till Monday , for really I be shock at their behaviour in church , '' say Aunt Plenty , a she follow Rose .
In any other place the defraud boy would have set up a howl ; a it be , they growl and protest till Dr. Alec settle the matter by say , `` Never mind , old chap , I 'll make it up to you to-morrow , if you sheer off quietly ; if you do n't , not a blessed thing shall you have out of my big box . ''
Chapter 4 -- Aunts All dinner-time Rose felt that she be go to be talk about , and afterward she be sure of it , for Aunt Plenty whisper to her a they go into the parlour , `` Run up and sit awhile with Sister Peace , my dear .
She like to have you read while she rest , and we be go to be busy . ''
Rose obeyed , and the quiet room above be so like a church that she soon compose her ruffle feeling , and be unconsciously a little minister of happiness to the sweet old lady , who for year have sit there patiently wait to be set free from pain .
Rose know the sad romance of her life , and it give a certain tender charm to this great-aunt of hers , whom she already love .
When Peace be twenty , she be about to be marry ; all be do , the wedding dress lay ready , the flower be wait to be put on , the happy hour at hand , when word come that the lover be dead .
They think that gentle Peace would die , too ; but she bore it bravely , put away her bridal gear , take up her life afresh , and live on a beautiful , meek woman , with hair as white a snow and cheek that never bloom again .
She wear no black , but soft , pale colour , a if always ready for the marriage that have never come .
For thirty year she have live on , fade slowly , but cheerful , busy , and full of interest in all that go on in the family ; especially the joy and sorrow of the young girl grow up about her , and to them she be adviser , confidante , and friend in all their tender trial and delight .
A truly beautiful old maiden , with her silvery hair , tranquil face , and an atmosphere of repose about her that soothe whoever come to her !
Aunt Plenty be utterly dissimilar , be a stout , brisk old lady , with a sharp eye , a lively tongue , and a face like a winter-apple .
Always trot , chat , and bustling , she be a regular Martha , cumber with the care of this world and quite happy in them .
Rose be right ; and while she softly read psalm to Aunt Peace , the other lady be talk about her little self in the frank manner .
`` Well , Alec , how do you like your ward ? ''
begin Aunt Jane , a they all settle down , and Uncle Mac deposit himself in a corner to finish his doze .
`` I should like her good if I could have begin at the beginning , and so get a fair start .
Poor George lead such a solitary life that the child have suffer in many way , and since he die she have be go on bad than ever , judge from the state I find her in . ''
`` My dear boy , we do what we think best while wait for you to wind up your affair and get home .
I always tell George he be wrong to bring her up a he do ; but he never take my advice , and now here we be with this poor dear child upon our hand .
I , for one , freely confess that I do n't know what to do with her any more than if she be one of those strange , outlandish bird you use to bring home from foreign part . ''
And Aunt Plenty give a perplexed shake of the head which cause great commotion among the stiff loop of purple ribbon that bristle all over the cap like crocus bud .
`` If my advice have be take , she would have remain at the excellent school where I place her .
But our aunt think best to remove her because she complain , and she have be dawdle about ever since she come .
A most ruinous state of thing for a morbid , spoilt girl like Rose , '' say Mrs. Jane , severely .
She have never forgive the old lady for yield to Rose 's pathetic petition that she might wait her guardian 's arrival before begin another term at the school , which be a regular Blimber hot-bed , and turn out many a feminine Toots .
`` I never think it the proper school for a child in good circumstance an heiress , in fact , a Rose be .
It be all very well for girl who be to get their own living by teach , and that sort of thing ; but all she need be a year or two at a fashionable finishing school , so that at eighteen she can come out with eclat , '' put in Aunt Clara , who have be a beauty and a belle , and be still a handsome woman .
`` Dear , dear !
how short-sighted you all be to be discuss education and plan for the future , when this unhappy child be so plainly mark for the tomb , '' sigh Aunt Myra , with a lugubrious sniff and a solemn wag of the funereal bonnet , which she refuse to remove , be afflict with a chronic catarrh .
`` Now , it be my opinion that the dear thing only want freedom , rest , and care .
There be look in her eye that go to my heart , for it show that she feel the need of what none of u can give her a mother , '' say Aunt Jessie , with tear in her own bright eye at the thought of her boy be leave , a Rose be , to the care of others .
Uncle Alec , who have listen silently a each spoke , turn quickly towards the last sister , and say , with a decided nod of approval , `` You 've get it , Jessie ; and , with you to help me , I hope to make the child feel that she be not quite fatherless and motherless . ''
`` I 'll do my best , Alec ; and I think you will need me , for , wise a you be , you can not understand a tender , timid little creature like Rose a a woman can , '' say Mrs. Jessie , smile back at him with a heart full of motherly goodwill .
`` I can not help feeling that I , who have have a daughter of my own , can best bring up a girl ; and I be very much surprise that George do not entrust her to me , '' observe Aunt Myra , with an air of melancholy importance , for she be the only one who have give a daughter to the family , and she felt that she have distinguish herself , though ill-natured people say that she have dose her darling to death .
`` I never blame him in the least , when I remember the perilous experiment you try with poor Carrie , '' begin Mrs. Jane , in her hard voice .
`` Jane Campbell , I will not hear a word !
My sainted Caroline be a sacred object , '' cry Aunt Myra , rise a if to leave the room .
Dr. Alec detain her , feel that he must define his position at once , and maintain it manfully if he hop to have any success in his new undertaking .
`` Now , my dear soul , do n't let u quarrel and make Rose a bone of contention though , upon my word , she be almost a bone , poor little lass !
You have have her among you for a year , and do what you like .
I can not say that your success be great , but that be owe to too many finger in the pie .
Now , I intend to try my way for a year , and if at the end of it she be not in good trim than now , I 'll give up the case , and hand her over to someone else .
That 's fair , I think . ''
`` She will not be here a year hence , poor darling , so no one need dread future responsibility , '' say Aunt Myra , fold her black glove a if all ready for the funeral .
`` By Jupiter !
Myra , you be enough to damp the ardour of a saint ! ''
cry Dr. Alec , with a sudden spark in his eye .
`` Your croaking will worry that child out of her wit , for she be an imaginative pus , and will fret and fancy untold horror .
You have put it into her head that she have no constitution , and she rather like the idea .
If she have not have a pretty good one , she would have be ` mark for the tomb ' by this time , at the rate you have be go on with her .
I will not have any interference please understand that ; so just wash your hand of her , and let me manage till I want help , then I 'll ask for it . ''
`` Hear , hear ! ''
come from the corner where Uncle Mac be apparently wrapt in slumber .
`` You be appoint guardian , so we can do nothing .
But I predict that the girl will be spoil , utterly spoilt , '' answer Mrs. Jane , grimly .
`` Thank you , sister .
I have an idea that if a woman can bring up two boy as perfectly a you do yours , a man , if he devote his whole mind to it , may at least attempt a much with one girl , '' reply Dr. Alec , with a humorous look that tickle the others immensely , for it be a well-known fact in the family that Jane 's boy be more indulged than all the other lad put together .
`` I be quite easy , for I really do think that Alec will improve the child 's health ; and by the time his year be out , it will be quite soon enough for her to go to Madame Roccabella 's and be finish off , '' say Aunt Clara , settle her ring , and thinking , with languid satisfaction , of the time when she could bring out a pretty and accomplished niece .
`` I suppose you will stay here in the old place , unless you think of marrying , and it 's high time you do , '' put in Mrs. Jane , much nettle at her brother 's last hit .
`` No , thank you .
Come and have a cigar , Mac , '' say Dr. Alec , abruptly .
`` Do n't marry ; woman enough in the family already , '' mutter Uncle Mac ; and then the gentleman hastily flee .
`` Aunt Peace would like to see you all , she say , '' be the message Rose bring before the lady could begin again .
`` Hectic , hectic !
dear me , dear me ! ''
murmur Aunt Myra , a the shadow of her gloomy bonnet fell upon Rose , and the stiff tip of a black glove touch the cheek where the colour deepen under so many eye .
`` I be glad these pretty curl be natural ; they will be invaluable by and by , '' say Aunt Clara , take an observation with her head on one side .
`` Now that your uncle have come , I no longer expect you to review the study of the past year .
I trust your time will not be entirely waste in frivolous sport , however , '' add Aunt Jane , sail out of the room with the air of a martyr .
Aunt Jessie say not a word , but kiss her little niece , with a look of tender sympathy that make Rose cling to her a minute , and follow her with grateful eye a the door close behind her .
After everybody have go home , Dr. Alec pace up and down the low hall in the twilight for an hour , think so intently that sometimes he frown , sometimes he smile , and more than once he stand still in a brown study .
All of a sudden he say , half aloud , a if he have make up his mind , `` I might as well begin at once , and give the child something new to think about , for Myra 's dismals and Jane 's lecture have make her as blue a a little indigo bag . ''
Diving into one of the trunk that stand in a corner , he bring up , after a brisk rummage , a silken cushion , prettily embroider , and a quaint cup of dark carve wood .
`` This will do for a start , '' he say , a he plump up the cushion and dust the cup .
`` It wo n't do to begin too energetically , or Rose will be frighten .
I must beguile her gently and pleasantly along till I 've win her confidence , and then she will be ready for anything . ''
Just then Phebe come out of the dining-room with a plate of brown bread , for Rose have be allow no hot biscuit for tea .
`` I 'll relieve you of some of that , '' say Dr. Alec , and , help himself to a generous slice , he retire to the study , leave Phebe to wonder at his appetite .
She would have wonder still more if she have see him make that brown bread into neat little pill , which he pack into an attractive ivory box , out of which he empty his own bit of lovage .
`` There !
if they insist on medicine , I 'll order these , and no harm will be do .
I will have my own way , but I 'll keep the peace , if possible , and confess the joke when my experiment have succeed , '' he say to himself , look very much like a mischievous boy , a he go on with his innocent prescription .
Rose be play softly on the small organ that stand in the upper hall , so that Aunt Peace could enjoy it ; and all the while he talk with the old lady , Uncle Alec be listen to the fitful music of the child , and thinking of another Rose who use to play for him .
As the clock strike eight , he call out , `` Time for my girl to be abed , else she wo n't be up early , and I 'm full of jolly plan for to-morrow .
Come and see what I 've find for you to begin upon . ''
Rose ran in and listen with bright attentive face , while Dr. Alec say impressively , `` In my wandering over the face of the earth , I have pick up some excellent remedy , and , a they be rather agreeable one , I think you and I will try them .
This be a herb-pillow , give to me by a wise old woman when I be ill in India .
It be fill with saffron , poppy , and other soothing plant ; so lay your little head on it to-night , sleep sweetly without a dream , and wake to-morrow without a pain . ''
`` Shall I really ?
How nice it smell . ''
And Rose willingly receive the pretty pillow , and stand enjoy it faint , sweet odour , a she listen to the doctor 's next remedy .
`` This be the cup I tell you of .
Its virtue depend , they say , on the drinker fill it himself ; so you must learn to milk .
I 'll teach you . ''
`` I 'm afraid I never can , '' say Rose ; but she survey the cup with favour , for a funny little imp dance on the handle , a if all ready to take a header into the white sea below .
`` Do n't you think she ought to have something more strengthening than milk , Alec ?
I really shall feel anxious if she do not have a tonic of some sort , '' say Aunt Plenty , eye the new remedy suspiciously , for she have more faith in her old-fashioned dos than all the magic cup and poppy pillow of the East .
`` Well , ma'am , I 'm willing to give her a pill , if you think best .
It be a very simple one , and very large quantity may be take without harm .
You know hasheesh be the extract of hemp ?
Well , this be a preparation of corn and rye , much use in old time , and I hope it will be again . ''
`` Dear me , how singular ! ''
say Aunt Plenty , bring her spectacle to bear upon the pill , with a face so full of respectful interest that it be almost too much for Dr. Alec 's gravity .
`` Take one in the morning , and a good-night to you , my dear , '' he say , dismiss his patient with a hearty kiss .
Then , a she vanish , he put both hand into his hair , exclaim , with a comical mixture of anxiety and amusement , `` When I think what I have undertake , I declare to you , aunt , I feel like run away and not come back till Rose be eighteen ! ''
Chapter 5 -- A Belt and a Box When Rose come out of her chamber , cup in hand , next morning , the first person she saw be Uncle Alec stand on the threshold of the room opposite , which he appear to be examine with care .
When he hear her step , he turn about and begin to sing , `` Where be you go , my pretty maid ? ''
`` I 'm go a-milking , sir , she say , '' answer Rose , wave the cup ; and then they finish the verse together in fine style .
Before either spoke , a head , in a nightcap so large and beruffled that it look like a cabbage , pop out of a room far down the hall , and an astonished voice exclaim , `` What in the world be you do about so early ? ''
`` Clearing our pipe for the day , ma'am .
Look here , auntie , can I have this room ? ''
say Dr. Alec , make her a sailor 's bow .
`` Any room you like , except sister 's . ''
`` Thanks .
And may I go rummage round in the garret and glory-holes to furnish it a I like ? ''
`` My dear boy , you may turn the house upside down if you will only stay in it . ''
`` That 's a handsome offer , I 'm sure .
I 'll stay , ma'am ; here 's my little anchor , so you will get more than you want of me this time . ''
`` That 's impossible !
Put on your jacket , Rose .
Do n't tire her out with antic , Alec .
Yes , sister , I 'm come ! ''
and the cabbage vanish suddenly .
The first milking lesson be a droll one ; but after several scare and many vain attempt , Rose at last manage to fill her cup , while Ben hold Clover 's tail so that it could not flap , and Dr. Alec keep her from turn to stare at the new milkmaid , who object to both these proceeding very much .
`` You look chilly in spite of all this laughing .
Take a smart run round the garden and get up a glow , '' say the doctor , a they leave the barn .
`` I 'm too old for run , uncle ; Miss Power say it be not lady-like for girl in their teen , '' answer Rose , primly .
`` I take the liberty of differ from Madame Prunes and Prisms , and , a your physician , I order you to run .
Off with you ! ''
say Uncle Alec , with a look and a gesture that make Rose scurry away as fast a she could go .
Anxious to please him , she race round the bed till she come back to the porch where he stand , and , drop down upon the step , she sit pant , with cheek as rosy a the rigolette on her shoulder .
`` Very well do , child ; I see you have not lose the use of your limb though you be in your teen .
That belt be too tight ; unfasten it , then you can take a long breath without pant so . ''
`` It be n't tight , sir ; I can breathe perfectly well , '' begin Rose , try to compose herself .
Her uncle 's only answer be to lift her up and unhook the new belt of which she be so proud .
The moment the clasp be open the belt fly apart several inch , for it be impossible to restrain the involuntary sigh of relief that flatly contradict her word .
`` Why , I do n't know it be tight !
it do n't feel so a bit .
Of course it would open if I puff like this , but I never do , because I hardly ever run , '' explain Rose , rather discomfit by this discovery .
`` I see you do n't half fill your lung , and so you can wear this absurd thing without feel it .
The idea of cramp a tender little waist in a stiff band of leather and steel just when it ought to be grow , '' say Dr. Alec , survey the belt with great disfavour a he put the clasp forward several hole , to Rose 's secret dismay , for she be proud of her slender figure , and daily rejoice that she be n't as stout a Luly Miller , a former schoolmate , who vainly try to repress her plumpness .
`` It will fall off if it be so loose , '' she say anxiously , a she stand watch him pull her precious belt about .
`` Not if you keep take long breath to hold it on .
That be what I want you to do , and when you have fill this out we will go on enlarge it till your waist be more like that of Hebe , goddess of health , and less like that of a fashion-plate the ugly thing imaginable . ''
`` How it do look ! ''
and Rose give a glance of scorn at the loose belt hang round her trim little waist .
`` It will be lose , and then I shall feel badly , for it cost ever so much , and be real steel and Russia leather .
Just smell how nice . ''
`` If it be lose I 'll give you a good one .
A soft silken sash be much fitter for a pretty child like you than a plated harness like this ; and I 've get no end of Italian scarf and Turkish sash among my trap .
Ah !
that make you feel well , do n't it ? ''
and he pinch the cheek that have suddenly dimple with a smile .
`` It be very silly of me , but I ca n't help like to know that '' here she stop and blush and hold down her head , ashamed to add , `` you think I be pretty . ''
Dr. Alec 's eyed twinkle , but he say very soberly , `` Rose , be you vain ? ''
`` I 'm afraid I be , '' answer a very meek voice from behind the veil of hair that hide the red face .
`` That be a sad fault . ''
And he sigh a if grieve at the confession .
`` I know it be , and I try not to be ; but people praise me , and I ca n't help like it , for I really do n't think I be repulsive . ''
The last word and the funny tone in which it be uttered be too much for Dr. Alec , and he laugh in spite of himself , to Rose 's great relief .
`` I quite agree with you ; and in order that you may be still less repulsive , I want you to grow a fine a girl a Phebe . ''
`` Phebe ! ''
and Rose look so amazed that her uncle nearly go off again .
`` Yes , Phebe ; for she have what you need health .
If you dear little girl would only learn what real beauty be , and not pinch and starve and bleach yourselves out so , you 'd save an immense deal of time and money and pain .
A happy soul in a healthy body make the best sort of beauty for man or woman .
Do you understand that , my dear ? ''
`` Yes , sir , '' answer Rose , much take down by this comparison with the girl from the poor-house .
It nettle her sadly , and she show that it do by say quickly , `` I suppose you would like to have me sweep and scrub , and wear an old brown dress , and go round with my sleeve roll up , a Phebe do ? ''
`` I should very much , if you could work as well a she do , and show a strong a pair of arm a she can .
I have n't see a pretty picture for some time than she make of herself this morning , up to the elbow in suds , sing like a blackbird whilst she scrub on the back stoop . ''
`` Well , I do think you be the queer man that ever live ! ''
be all Rose could find to say after this display of bad taste .
`` I have n't begin to show you my oddity yet , so you must make up your mind to bad shock than this , '' he say , with such a whimsical look that she be glad the sound of a bell prevent her show more plainly what a blow her little vanity have already receive .
`` You will find your box all open up in auntie 's parlor , and there you can amuse her and yourself by rummage to your heart 's content ; I 've get to be cruise round all the morning get my room to right , '' say Dr. Alec , a they rise from breakfast .
`` Ca n't I help you , uncle ? ''
ask Rose , quite burn to be useful .
`` No , thank you , I 'm go to borrow Phebe for a while , if Aunt Plenty can spare her . ''
`` Anybody anything , Alec .
You will want me , I know , so I 'll give order about dinner and be all ready to lend a hand '' ; and the old lady bustle away full of interest and good-will .
`` Uncle will find that I can do some thing that Phebe ca n't , so now ! ''
thought Rose , with a toss of the head a she fly to Aunt Peace and the long-desired box .
Every little girl can easily imagine what an extra good time she have dive into a sea of treasure and fish up one pretty thing after another , till the air be full of the mingled odour of musk and sandalwood , the room gay with bright colour , and Rose in a rapture of delight .
She begin to forgive Dr. Alec for the oatmeal diet when she saw a lovely ivory workbox ; become resign to the state of her belt when she find a pile of rainbow-coloured sash ; and when she come to some distractingly pretty bottle of attar of rise , she felt that they almost atone for the great sin of think Phebe the finer girl of the two .
Dr. Alec meanwhile have apparently take Aunt Plenty at her word , and be turn the house upside down .
A general revolution be evidently go on in the green-room , for the dark damask curtain be see bundle away in Phebe 's arm ; the air-tight stove retire to the cellar on Ben 's shoulder ; and the great bedstead go up garret in a fragmentary state , escort by three bearer .
Aunt Plenty be constantly on the trot among her store-rooms , camphor-chests , and linen-closets , look a if the new order of thing both amaze and amuse her .
Half the peculiar performance of Dr. Alec can not be reveal ; but a Rose glance up from her box now and then she catch glimpse of him stride by , bear a bamboo chair , a pair of ancient andiron , a queer Japanese screen , a rug or two , and finally a large bathing-pan upon his head .
`` What a curious room it will be , '' she say , a she sit rest and refresh herself with `` Lumps of Delight , '' all the way from Cairo .
`` I fancy you will like it , deary , '' answer Aunt Peace , look up with a smile from some pretty trifle she be make with blue silk and white muslin .
Rose do not see the smile , for just at that moment her uncle pause at the door , and she spring up to dance before him , say , with a face full of childish happiness , `` Look at me !
look at me !
I 'm splendid I do n't know myself .
I have n't put these thing on right , I dare say , but I do like them so much ! ''
`` You look as gay a a parrot in your fez and cabaja , and it do my heart good to see the little black shadow turn into a rainbow , '' say Uncle Alec , survey the bright figure before him with great approbation .
He do not say it , but he think she make a much pretty picture than Phebe at the wash-tub , for she have stick a purple fez on her blonde head , tie several brilliant scarf about her waist , and put on a truly gorgeous scarlet jacket with a golden sun embroider on the back , a silver moon on the front , and star of all size on the sleeve .
A pair of Turkish slipper adorn her foot , and necklace of amber , coral , and filigree hung about her neck , while one hand hold a smelling-bottle , and the other the spicy box of oriental sweetmeat .
`` I feel like a girl in the ` Arabian Nights , ' and expect to find a magic carpet or a wonderful talisman somewhere .
Only I do n't see how I ever can thank you for all these lovely thing , '' she say , stop her dance , a if suddenly oppress with gratitude .
`` I 'll tell you how by leave off the black clothes , that never should have be keep so long on such a child , and wear the gay one I 've bring .
It will do your spirit good , and cheer up this sober old house .
Wo n't it , auntie ? ''
`` I think you be right , Alec , and it be fortunate that we have not begin on her spring clothes yet , for Myra think she ought not to wear anything bright than violet , and she be too pale for that . ''
`` You just let me direct Miss Hemming how to make some of these thing .
You will be surprise to see how much I know about pip hem and gather arm-holes and shirr bias , '' begin Dr. Alec , pat a pile of muslin , cloth and silk with a know air .
Aunt Peace and Rose laugh so that he could not display his knowledge any farther , till they stop , when he say good-naturedly , `` That will go a great way toward fill out the belt , so laugh away , Morgiana , and I 'll go back to my work , or I never shall be do . ''
`` I could n't help it , ` shirred bias ' be so very funny ! ''
Rose say , a she turn to her box after the splendid laugh .
`` But really , auntie , '' she add soberly , `` I feel a if I ought not to have so many nice thing .
I suppose it would n't do to give Phebe some of them ?
Uncle might not like it . ''
`` He would not mind ; but they be not suitable for Phebe .
Some of the dress you be do with would be more useful , if they can be make over to fit her , '' answer Aunt Peace in the prudent , moderate tone which be so try to our feeling when we indulge in little fit of charitable enthusiasm .
`` I 'd rather give her new one , for I think she be a little bit proud and might not like old thing .
If she be my sister it would do , because sister do n't mind , but she be n't , and that make it bad , you see .
I know how I can manage beautifully ; I 'll adopt her ! ''
and Rose look quite radiant with this new idea .
`` I 'm afraid you could not do it legally till you be old , but you might see if she like the plan , and at any rate you can be very kind to her , for in one sense we be all sister , and should help one another . ''
The sweet old face look at her so kindly that Rose be fire with a desire to settle the matter at once , and rush away to the kitchen , just a she be .
Phebe be there , polish up the antique andiron so busily that she start when a voice cry out : `` Smell that , taste this , and look at me ! ''
Phebe sniff attar of rise , crunch the `` Lump of Delight '' tuck into her mouth , and star with all her eye at little Morgiana prance about the room like a brilliant paroquet .
`` My star , ai n't you splendid ! ''
be all she could say , hold up two dusty hand .
`` I 've get heap of lovely thing upstairs , and I 'll show them all to you , and I 'd go half , only auntie think they would n't be useful , so I shall give you something else ; and you wo n't mind , will you ?
because I want to adopt you a Arabella be in the story .
Wo n't that be nice ? ''
`` Why , Miss Rose , have you lose your wit ? ''
No wonder Phebe ask , for Rose talk very fast , and look so odd in her new costume , and be so eager she could not stop to explain .
Seeing Phebe 's bewilderment , she quiet down and say , with a pretty air of earnestness , `` It be n't fair that I should have so much and you so little , and I want to be as good to you a if you be my sister , for Aunt Peace say we be all sister really .
I think if I adopt you as much a I can now , it would be nicer .
Will you let me , please ? ''
To Rose 's great surprise , Phebe sit down on the floor and hide her face in her apron for a minute without answer a word .
`` Oh , dear , now she 's offend , and I do n't know what to do , '' think Rose , much discourage by this reception of her offer .
`` Please , forgive me ; I do n't mean to hurt your feeling , and hope you wo n't think -- '' she falter presently , feel that she must undo the mischief , if possible .
But Phebe give her another surprise , by drop the apron and show a face all smile , in spite of tear in the eye , a she put both arm round Rose and say , with a laugh and sob , `` I think you be the dear girl in the world , and I 'll let you do anything you like with me . ''
`` Then you do like the plan ?
You do n't cry because I seem to be kind of patronising ?
I truly do n't mean to be , '' cry Rose , delight .
`` I guess I do like it !
and cry because no one be ever so good to me before , and I could n't help it .
As for patronising , you may walk on me if you want to , and I wo n't mind , '' say Phebe , in a burst of gratitude , for the word , `` we be sister '' go straight to her lonely heart and nestle there .
`` Well , now , we can play I 'm a good sprite out of the box , or , what be good , a fairy godmother come down the chimney , and you be Cinderella , and must say what you want , '' say Rose , try to put the question delicately .
Phebe understood that , for she have a good deal of natural refinement , though she do come from the poor-house .
`` I do n't feel a if I want anything now , Miss Rose , but to find some way of thank you for all you 've do , '' she say , rub off a tear that go roll down the bridge of her nose in the most unromantic way .
`` Why , I have n't do anything but give you a bit of candy !
Here , have some more , and eat 'em while you work , and think what I can do .
I must go and clear up , so good-bye , and do n't forget I 've adopt you . ''
`` You 've give me sweet thing than candy , and I 'm not likely to forget it . ''
And carefully wipe off the brick-dust , Phebe press the little hand Rose offer warmly in both her hard one , while the black eye follow the depart visitor with a grateful look that make them very soft and bright .
Chapter 6 -- Uncle Alec 's Room Soon after dinner , and before she have get acquaint with half her new possession , Dr. Alec propose a drive , to carry round the first instalment of gift to the aunt and cousin .
Rose be quite ready to go , be anxious to try a certain soft burnous from the box , which not only possess a most engaging little hood , but have funny tassel bob in all direction .
The big carriage be full of parcel , and even Ben 's seat be load with Indian war club , a Chinese kite of immense size , and a pair of polished ox-horns from Africa .
Uncle Alec , very blue a to his clothes , and very brown a to his face , sit bolt upright , survey well know place with interest , while Rose , feel unusually elegant and comfortable , lean back folded in her soft mantle , and play she be an Eastern princess make a royal progress among her subject .
At three of the place their call be brief , for Aunt Myra 's catarrh be unusually bad ; Aunt Clara have a room full of company ; and Aunt Jane show such a tendency to discuss the population , production , and politics of Europe , Asia and Africa , that even Dr. Alec be dismay , and get away as soon a possible .
`` Now we will have a good time !
I do hope the boy will be at home , '' say Rose , with a sigh of relief , a they wind yet high up the hill to Aunt Jessie 's .
`` I leave this for the last call , so that we might find the lad just in from school .
Yes , there be Jamie on the gate watching for u ; now you 'll see the Clan gather ; they be always swarm about together . ''
The instant Jamie saw the approaching guests he give a shrill whistle , which be answer by echo from meadow , house and barn , a the cousin come run from all direction , shout , `` Hooray for Uncle Alec ! ''
They go at the carriage like highwayman , rob it of every parcel , take the occupant prisoner , and march them into the house with great exultation .
`` Little Mum !
little Mum !
here they be with lot of goody !
Come down and see the fun right away !
Quick ! ''
bawl Will and Geordie amidst a general rip off of paper and a reckless cutting of string that soon turn the tidy room into a chaos .
Down come Aunt Jessie with her pretty cap half on , but such a beam face below it that one rather think the fly-away head-gear an improvement than otherwise .
She have hardly time to greet Rose and the doctor before the boy be about her , each clamour for her to see his gift and rejoice over it with him , for `` little Mum '' go half in everything .
The great horn skirmish about her a if to toss her to the ceiling ; the war club hurtle over her head a if to annihilate her ; an amazing medley from the four quarter of the globe fill her lap , and seven excite boy all talk to her at once .
But she like it ; oh dear , yes !
and sit smiling , admire , and explain , quite untroubled by the din , which make Rose cover up her ear and Dr. Alec threaten instant flight if the riot be not quell .
That threat produce a lull , and while the uncle receive thanks in one corner , the aunt have some little confidence make to her in the other .
`` Well , dear , and how be thing go with you now ?
Better , I hope , than they be a week ago . ''
`` Aunt Jessie , I think I 'm go to be very happy , now uncle have come .
He do the queer thing , but he be so good to me I ca n't help love him '' ; and , nestle close to little Mum , Rose tell all that have happen , end with a rapturous account of the splendid box .
`` I be very glad , dear .
But , Rose , I must warn you of one thing ; do n't let uncle spoil you . ''
`` But I like to be spoil , auntie . ''
`` I do n't doubt it ; but if you turn out badly when the year be over he will be blame , and his experiment prove a failure .
That would be a pity , would n't it ?
when he want to do so much for you , and can do it if his kind heart do not get in the way of his good judgment . ''
`` I never think of that , and I 'll try not to be spoil .
But how can I help it ? ''
ask Rose anxiously .
`` By not complain of the wholesome thing he want you to do ; by give him cheerful obedience as well a love ; and even make some small sacrifice for his sake . ''
`` I will , I truly will !
and when I get in a worry about thing may I come to you ?
Uncle tell me to , and I feel a if I should n't be afraid . ''
`` You may , darling ; this be the place where little trouble be best cure , and this be what mother be for , I fancy '' ; and Aunt Jessie draw the curly head to her shoulder with a tender look that prove how well she know what medicine the child most need .
It be so sweet and comfortable that Rose sit still enjoy it till a little voice say , `` Mamma , do n't you think Pokey would like some of my shell ?
Rose give Phebe some of her nice thing , and it be very good of her .
Can I ? ''
`` Who be Pokey ? ''
ask Rose , pop up her head , attract by the odd name .
`` My dolly ; do you want to see her ? ''
ask Jamie , who have be much impress by the tale of adoption he have overheard .
`` Yes ; I 'm fond of dolly , only do n't tell the boy , or they will laugh at me . ''
`` They do n't laugh at me , and they play with my dolly a great deal ; but she like me best '' ; and Jamie run away to produce his pet .
`` I bring my old doll , but I keep her hidden because I be too big to play with her , and yet I ca n't bear to throw her away , I 'm so fond of her , '' say Rose , continue her confidence in a whisper .
`` You can come and play with Jamie 's whenever you like , for we believe in dolly up here , '' begin Aunt Jessie , smile to herself a if something amuse her .
Just then Jamie come back , and Rose understand the smile , for his dolly prove to be a pretty four-year-old little girl , who trot in as fast a her fat leg would carry her , and make straight for the shell , scramble up an armful , say , with a laugh that show her little white teeth , `` All for Dimmy and me , for Dimmy and me ! ''
`` That 's my dolly ; be n't she a nice one ? ''
ask Jamie , proudly survey his pet with his hand behind him and his short leg rather far apart a manly attitude copy from his brother .
`` She be a dear dolly .
But why call her Pokey ? ''
ask Rose , charm with the new plaything .
`` She be such an inquisitive little body she be always poke that mite of a nose into everything ; and a Paul Pry do not suit , the boy fell to call her Pokey .
Not a pretty name , but very expressive . ''
It certainly be , for , have examine the shell , the busy tot lay hold of everything she could find , and continue her research till Archie catch her suck his carved ivory chessman to see if they be not barley sugar .
Rice paper picture be also discover crumple up in her tiny pocket , and she nearly smash Will 's ostrich egg by try to sit upon it .
`` Here , Jim , take her away ; she 's bad than the puppy , and we ca n't have her round , '' command the elder brother , pick her up and hand her over to the little fellow , who receive her with open arm and the warning remark , `` You 'd better mind what you do , for I 'm go to ` dopt Pokey like Rose do Phebe , and then you 'll have to be very good to her , you big fellow . '' ''
` Dopt away , baby , and I 'll give you a cage to keep her in , or you wo n't have her long , for she be get bad than a monkey '' ; and Archie go back to his mate , while Aunt Jessie , foresee a crisis , propose that Jamie should take his dolly home , a she be borrow , and it be time her visit end .
`` My dolly be good than yours , be n't she ?
'cause she can walk and talk and sing and dance , and yours ca n't do anything , can she ? ''
ask Jamie with pride , a he regard his Pokey , who just then have be move to execute a funny little jig and warble the well-known couplet , '' ` Puss-tat , puss-tat , where you be ? ' '
I be Lunnin , to saw a Tween . '' '
After which superb display she retire , escort by Jamie , both make a fearful din blow on conch shell .
`` We must tear ourselves away , Rose , because I want to get you home before sunset .
Will you come for a drive , Jessie ? ''
say Dr. Alec , a the music die away in the distance .
`` No , thank you ; but I see the boy want a scamper , so , if you do n't mind , they may escort you home , but not go in .
That be only allow on holiday . ''
The word be hardly out of Aunt Jessie 's mouth when Archie say , in a tone of command , `` Pass the word , lad .
Boot and saddle , and be quick about it . ''
`` All right ! ''
And in a moment not a vestige of boy remain but the litter on the floor .
The cavalcade go down the hill at a pace that make Rose cling to her uncle 's arm , for the fat old horse get excite by the antic of the pony career all about them , and go as fast a they could pelt , with the gay dog-cart rattling in front , for Archie and Charlie scorn shelties since this magnificent equipage have be set up .
Ben enjoy the fun , and the lad cut up caper till Rose declare that `` circus '' be the proper name for them after all .
When they reach the house they dismount , and stand , three on each side the step , in martial attitude , while her ladyship be hand out with great elegance by Uncle Alec .
Then the Clan salute , mount at word of command , and with a wild whoop tear down the avenue in what they consider the true Arab style .
`` That be splendid , now it be safely end , '' say Rose , skip up the step with her head over her shoulder to watch the dear tassel bob about .
`` I shall get you a pony as soon a you be a little strong , '' say Dr. Alec , watch her with a smile .
`` Oh , I could n't ride one of those horrid , frisky little beast !
They roll their eye and bounce about so , I should die of fright , '' cry Rose , clasp her hand tragically .
`` Are you a coward ? ''
`` About horse I be . ''
`` Never mind , then ; come and see my new room '' ; and he lead the way upstairs without another word .
As Rose follow she remember her promise to Aunt Jessie , and be sorry she have object so decidedly .
She be a great deal more sorry five minute later , and well she might be .
`` Now , take a good look , and tell me what you think of it , '' say Dr. Alec , open the door and let her enter before him , while Phebe be see whisk down the backstairs with a dust-pan .
Rose walk to the middle of the room , stand still , and gaze about her with eye that brighten a they look , for all be change .
This chamber have be build out over the library to suit some fancy , and have be unused for year , except at Christmas time , when the old house overflow .
It have three window one to the east , that overlook the bay ; one to the south , where the horse-chestnuts wave their green fan ; and one to the west , towards the hill and the evening sky .
A ruddy sunset burn there now , fill the room with an enchanted glow ; the soft murmur of the sea be hear , and a robin chirp `` Good-night ! ''
among the budding tree .
Rose saw and hear these thing first , and felt their beauty with a child 's quick instinct ; then her eye take in the altered aspect of the room , once so shrouded , still and solitary , now so full of light and warmth and simple luxury .
India matting cover the floor , with a gay rug here and there ; the antique andiron shine on the wide hearth , where a cheery blaze dispel the dampness of the long-closed room .
Bamboo lounge and chair stand about , and quaint little table in cosy corner ; one bear a pretty basket , one a desk , and on a third lay several familiar-looking book .
In a recess stand a narrow white bed , with a lovely Madonna hanging over it .
The Japanese screen half-folded back show a delicate toilet service of blue and white set forth on a marble slab , and near by be the great bath-pan , with Turkish towel and a sponge as big a Rose 's head .
`` Uncle must love cold water like a duck , '' she think , with a shiver .
Then her eye go on to the tall cabinet , where a half-open door reveal a tempting array of the drawer , shelf and `` cubby hole , '' which so delight the heart of child .
`` What a grand place for my new thing , '' she think , wonder what her uncle kept in that cedar retreat .
`` Oh me , what a sweet toilet table ! ''
be her next mental exclamation , a she approach this invite spot .
A round old-fashioned mirror hung over it , with a gilt eagle a-top , hold in his beak the knot of blue ribbon that tie up a curtain of muslin fall on either side of the table , where appear little ivory-handled brush , two slender silver candle-sticks , a porcelain match-box , several pretty tray for small matter , and , most imposing of all , a plump blue silk cushion , coquettishly trim with lace , and pink rose-buds at the corner .
That cushion rather astonish Rose ; in fact , the whole table do , and she be just think , with a sly smile , `` Uncle be a dandy , but I never should have guess it , '' when he open the door of a large closet , say , with a careless wave of the hand , `` Men like plenty of room for their rattle-traps ; do n't you think that ought to satisfy me ? ''
Rose peep in and give a start , though all she saw be what one usually find in closet clothes and boot , box and bag .
Ah !
but you see these clothes be small black and white frock ; the row of little boot that stand below have never be on Dr. Alec 's foot ; the green bandbox have a gray veil stray out of it , and yes !
the bag hang on the door be certainly her own piece-bag , with a hole in one corner .
She give a quick look round the room and understood now why it have seem too dainty for a man , why her Testament and Prayer Book be on the table by the bed , and what those rose-buds meant on the blue cushion .
It come upon her in one delicious burst that this little paradise be all for her , and , not know how else to express her gratitude , she catch Dr. Alec round the neck , say impetuously , `` O uncle , you be too good to me !
I 'll do anything you ask me ; ride wild horse and take freezing bath and eat bad-tasting mess , and let my clothes hang on me , to show how much I thank you for this dear , sweet , lovely room ! ''
`` You like it , then ?
But why do you think it be yours , my lass ? ''
ask Dr. Alec , a he sit down look well pleased , and draw his excited little niece to his knee .
`` I do n't think , I know it be for me ; I see it in your face , and I feel a if I do n't half deserve it .
Aunt Jessie say you would spoil me , and I must not let you .
I 'm afraid this look like it , and perhaps oh me !
perhaps I ought not to have this beautiful room after all ! ''
and Rose try to look a if she could be heroic enough to give it up if it be best .
`` I owe Mrs. Jessie one for that , '' say Dr. Alec , try to frown , though in his secret soul he felt that she be quite right .
Then he smile that cordial smile , which be like sunshine on his brown face , a he say , `` This be part of the cure , Rose , and I put you here that you might take my three great remedy in the best and easy way .
Plenty of sun , fresh air , and cold water ; also cheerful surroundings , and some work ; for Phebe be to show you how to take care of this room , and be your little maid as well a friend and teacher .
Does that sound hard and disagreeable to you , dear ? ''
`` No , sir ; very , very pleasant , and I 'll do my best to be a good patient .
But I really do n't think anyone could be sick in this delightful room , '' she say , with a long sigh of happiness a her eye go from one pleasant object to another .
`` Then you like my sort of medicine well than Aunt Myra 's , and do n't want to throw it out of the window , hey ? ''
Chapter 7 -- A Trip to China `` Come , little girl , I 've get another dose for you .
I fancy you wo n't take it as well a you do the last , but you will like it well after a while , '' say Dr. Alec , about a week after the grand surprise .
Rose be sit in her pretty room , where she would gladly have spend all her time if it have be allow ; but she look up with a smile , for she have cease to fear her uncle 's remedy , and be always ready to try a new one .
The last have be a set of light gardening tool , with which she have help him put the flower-beds in order , learn all sort of new and pleasant thing about the plant a she work , for , though she have study botany at school , it seem very dry stuff compare with Uncle Alec 's lively lesson .
`` What be it now ? ''
she ask , shut her work-box without a murmur .
`` Salt-water . ''
`` How must I take it ? ''
`` Put on the new suit Miss Hemming send home yesterday , and come down to the beach ; then I 'll show you . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' answer Rose obediently , add to herself , with a shiver , a he go off : `` It be too early for bathing , so I know it be something to do with a dreadful boat . ''
Putting on the new suit of blue flannel , prettily trim with white , and the little sailor-hat with long streamer , divert her mind from the approach trial , till a shrill whistle remind her that her uncle be wait .
Away she run through the garden , down the sandy path , out upon the strip of beach that belong to the house , and here she find Dr. Alec busy with a slender red and white boat that lay rock on the rise tide .
`` That be a dear little boat ; and ` Bonnie Belle ' be a pretty name , '' she say , try not to show how nervous she felt .
`` It be for you ; so sit in the stern and learn to steer , till you be ready to learn to row . ''
`` Do all boat wiggle about in that way ? ''
she ask , linger a if to tie her hat more firmly .
`` Oh , yes , pitch about like nutshell when the sea be a bit rough , '' answer her sailor uncle , never guess her secret woe .
`` Is it rough to-day ? ''
`` Not very ; it look a trifle squally to the eastward , but we be all right till the wind change .
Come . ''
`` Can you swim , uncle ? ''
ask Rose , clutch at his arm a he take her hand .
`` Like a fish .
Now then . ''
`` Oh , please hold me very tight till I get there !
Why do you have the stern so far away ? ''
and , stifle several squeak of alarm in her passage , Rose creep to the distant seat , and sit there hold on with both hand and look a if she expect every wave to bring a sudden shipwreck .
Uncle Alec take no notice of her fear , but patiently instruct her in the art of steering , till she be so absorbed in remember which be starboard and which larboard , that she forget to say `` OW ! ''
every time a big wave slap against the boat .
`` Now where shall we go ? ''
she ask , a the wind blow freshly in her face , and a few , long swift stroke send them half across the little bay .
`` Suppose we go to China ? ''
`` Is n't that rather a long voyage ? ''
`` Not a I go .
Steer round the Point into the harbour , and I 'll give you a glimpse of China in twenty minute or so . ''
`` I should like that ! ''
and Rose sit wonder what he mean , while she enjoy the new sight all about her .
Behind them the green Aunt-hill slop gently upward to the grove at the top , and all along the seaward side stand familiar house , stately , cosy , or picturesque .
As they round the Point , the great bay open before them full of shipping , and the city lay beyond , it spire rise above the tall mast with their gay streamer .
`` Are we go there ? ''
she ask , for she have never see this aspect of the rich and busy old city before .
`` Yes .
Uncle Mac have a ship just in from Hong Kong , and I think you would like to go and see it . ''
`` Oh , I should .
I love dearly to go poke about in the warehouse with Uncle Mac ; everything be so curious and new to me ; and I 'm specially interested in China because you have be there . ''
`` I 'll show you two genuine Chinamen who have just arrive .
You will like to welcome Whang Lo and Fun See , I 'm sure . ''
`` Do n't ask me to speak to them , uncle ; I shall be sure to laugh at the odd name and the pig-tails and the slanting eye .
Please let me just trot round after you ; I like that best . ''
`` Very well ; now steer toward the wharf where the big ship with the queer flag be .
That 's the ` Rajah , ' and we will go aboard if we can . ''
In among the ship they go , by the wharf where the water be green and still , and queer barnacle grow on the slippery pile .
Odd smell salute her nose , and odd sight meet her eye , but Rose like it all , and play she be really land in Hong Kong when they glide up to the step in the shadow of the tall `` Rajah . ''
Boxes and bale be rise out of the hold and be carry into the warehouse by stout porter , who tug and bawl and clatter about with small truck , or work crane with iron claw that come down and clutched heavy weight , whisk them aloft to where wide door like mouth swallow them up .
Dr. Alec take her aboard the ship , and she have the satisfaction of poke her inquisitive little nose into every available corner , at the risk of be crush , lose , or drown .
`` Well , child , how would you like to take a voyage round the world with me in a jolly old craft like this ? ''
ask her uncle , a they rest a minute in the captain 's cabin .
`` I should like to see the world , but not in such a small , untidy , smelly place a this .
We would go in a yacht all clean and comfortable ; Charlie say that be the proper way , '' answer Rose , survey the close quarter with little favour .
`` You be not a true Campbell if you do n't like the smell of tar and salt-water , nor Charlie either , with his luxurious yacht .
Now come ashore and chin-chin with the Celestials . ''
After a delightful progress through the great warehouse , peep and pick a they go , they find Uncle Mac and the yellow gentleman in his private room , where sample , gift , curiosity , and newly arrive treasure of all sort be pile up in please pro-fusion and con-fusion .
As soon a possible Rose retire to a corner , with a porcelain god on one side , a green dragon on the other , and , what be still more embarrassing , Fun See sit on a tea-chest in front , and star at her with his beady black eye till she do not know where to look .
Mr. Whang Lo be an elderly gentleman in American costume , with his pig-tail neatly wind round his head .
He speak English , and be talk busily with Uncle Mac in the most commonplace way so Rose consider him a failure .
But Fun See be delightfully Chinese from his junk-like shoe to the button on his pagoda hat ; for he have get himself up in style , and be a mass of silk jacket and slouchy trouser .
He be short and fat , and waddle comically ; his eye be very `` slanting , '' a Rose say ; his queue be long , so be his nail ; his yellow face be plump and shiny , and he be altogether a highly satisfactory Chinaman .
Uncle Alec tell her that Fun See have come out to be educate and could only speak a little pigeon English ; so she must be kind to the poor fellow , for he be only a lad , though he look nearly as old a Mr. Whang Lo .
Rose say she would be kind ; but have not the least idea how to entertain the queer guest , who look a if he have walk out of one of the rice-paper landscape on the wall , and sit nod at her so like a toy Mandarin that she could hardly keep sober .
In the midst of her polite perplexity , Uncle Mac saw the two young people gaze wistfully at one another , and seem to enjoy the joke of this make acquaintance under difficulty .
Taking a box from his table , he give it to Fun See , with an order that seem to please him very much .
Descending from his perch , he fell to unpack it with great neatness and despatch , while Rose watch him , wonder what be go to happen .
Presently , out from the wrapping come a teapot , which cause her to clasp her hand with delight , for it be make in the likeness of a plump little Chinaman .
His hat be the cover , his queue the handle , and his pipe the nose .
It stand upon foot in shoe turn up at the toe , and the smile on the fat , sleepy face be so like that on Fun 's when he display the teapot , that Rose could n't help laughing , which please him much .
Two pretty cup with cover , and a fine scarlet tray complete the set , and make one long to have a `` dish of tea , '' even in Chinese style , without cream or sugar .
When he have arrange them on a little table before her , Fun signify in pantomime that they be hers , from her uncle .
She return her thanks in the same way , whereupon he return to his tea-chest , and , have no other mean of communication , they sit smile and nod at one another in an absurd sort of way till a new idea seem to strike Fun .
Tumbling off his seat , he waddle away as fast a his petticoat permit , leave Rose hop that he have not go to get a roasted rat , a stewed puppy , or any other foreign mess which civility would oblige her to eat .
While she wait for her funny new friend , she improve her mind in a way that would have charm Aunt Jane .
The gentleman be talk over all sort of thing , and she listen attentively , store up much of what she hear , for she have an excellent memory , and long to distinguish herself by be able to produce some useful information when reproached with her ignorance .
She be just try to impress upon her mind that Amoy be two hundred and eighty mile from Hong Kong , when Fun come scuffle back , bear what she think be a small sword , till he unfurl an immense fan , and present it with a string of Chinese compliment , the meaning of which would have amuse her even more than the sound , if she could have understand it .
She have never see such an astonishing fan , and at once become absorb in examine it .
Of course , there be no perspective whatever , which only give it a peculiar charm to Rose , for in one place a lovely lady , with blue knitting-needles in her hair , sit directly upon the spire of a stately pagoda .
In another charm view a brook appear to flow in at the front door of a stout gentleman 's house , and out at his chimney .
In a third a zig-zag wall go up into the sky like a flash of lightning , and a bird with two tail be apparently brood over a fisherman whose boat be just go aground upon the moon .
It be altogether a fascinating thing , and she would have sit waft it to and fro all the afternoon , to Fun 's great satisfaction , if Dr. Alec 's attention have not suddenly be call to her by a breeze from the big fan that blow his hair into his eye , and remind him that they must go .
So the pretty china be repacked , Rose furl her fan , and with several parcel of choice tea for the old lady stow away in Dr. Alec 's pocket , they take their leave , after Fun have salute them with `` the three bending and the nine knocking , '' a they salute the Emperor , or `` Son of Heaven , '' at home .
`` I feel a if I have really be to China , and I 'm sure I look so , '' say Rose , a they glide out of the shadow of the `` Rajah . ''
She certainly do , for Mr. Whang Lo have give her a Chinese umbrella ; Uncle Alec have get some lantern to light up her balcony ; the great fan lay in her lap , and the tea-set repose at her foot .
`` This be not a bad way to study geography , be it ? ''
ask her uncle , who have observe her attention to the talk .
`` It be a very pleasant way , and I really think I have learn more about China to-day than in all the lesson I have at school , though I use to rattle off the answer a fast a I could go .
No one explain anything to u , so all I remember be that tea and silk come from there , and the woman have little bit of foot .
I saw Fun look at mine , and he must have think them perfectly immense , '' answer Rose , survey her stout boot with sudden contempt .
`` We will have out the map and the globe , and I 'll show you some of my journey , tell story a we go .
That will be next best to do it actually . ''
`` You be so fond of travel , I should think it would be very dull for you here , uncle .
Do you know , Aunt Plenty say she be sure you will be off in a year or two . ''
`` Very likely . ''
`` Oh , me !
what shall I do then ? ''
sigh Rose , in a tone of despair that make Uncle Alec 's face brighten with a look of genuine pleasure a he say significantly , `` Next time I go I shall take my little anchor with me .
How will that suit ? ''
`` Really , uncle ? ''
`` Really , niece . ''
Rose give a little bounce of rapture which cause the boat to `` wiggle '' in a way that speedily quiet her down .
But she sit beam joyfully and try to think which of some hundred question she would ask first , when Dr. Alec say , point to a boat that be come up behind them in great style , `` How well those fellow row !
Look at them , and take note for your own use by and by . ''
The `` Stormy Petrel '' be man by half a dozen jaunty look sailor , who make a fine display of blue shirt and shiny hat , with star and anchor in every direction .
`` How beautifully they go , and they be only boy .
Why , I do believe they be our boy !
Yes , I see Charlie laugh over his shoulder .
Row , uncle , row !
Oh , please do , and not let them catch up with u ! ''
cry Rose , in such a state of excitement that the new umbrella nearly go overboard .
`` All right , here we go ! ''
and away they do go with a long steady sweep of the oar that carry the `` Bonnie Belle '' through the water with a rush .
The lad pull their prettiest , but Dr. Alec would have reach the Point first , if Rose , in her flurry , have not retard him by jerk the rudder rope in a most unseamanlike way , and just a she get right again her hat blow off .
That put an end to the race , and while they be still fish for the hat the other boat come alongside , with all the oar in the air , and the jolly young tar ready for a frolic .
`` Did you catch a crab , uncle ? ''
`` No , a blue-fish , '' he answer , a the drip hat be land on a seat to dry .
`` What have you be do ? ''
`` Seeing Fun . ''
`` Good for you , Rose !
I know what you mean .
We be go to have him up to show u how to fly the big kite , for we ca n't get the hang of it .
Is n't he great fun , though ? ''
`` No , little Fun . ''
`` Come , stop joking , and show u what you 've get . ''
`` You 'd better hoist that fan for a sail . ''
`` Lend Dandy your umbrella ; he hat to burn his pretty nose . ''
`` I say , uncle , be you go to have a Feast of Lanterns ? ''
`` No , I 'm go to have a feast of bread and butter , for it 's tea-time .
If that black cloud do n't lie , we shall have a gust before long , so you have good get home as soon a you can , or your mother will be anxious , Archie . ''
`` Ay , ay , skipper .
Good-night , Rose ; come out often , and we 'll teach you all there be to know about rowing , '' be Charlie 's modest invitation .
Then the boat part company , and across the water from the `` Petrel 's '' crew come a verse from one of the Nonsense song in which the boy delight .
`` Oh , Timballoo !
how happy we be , We live in a sieve and a crockery jar !
And all night long , in the starlight pale , We sail away , with a pea-green sail , And whistle and warble a moony song To the echo sound of a coppery gong .
Far and few , far and few Are the land where the Jumblies live ; Their head be green , and their hand be blue , And they go to sea in a sieve . ''
Chapter 8 -- And what come of it `` Uncle , could you lend me a ninepence ?
I 'll return it as soon a I get my pocket-money , '' say Rose , come into the library in a great hurry that even .
`` I think I could , and I wo n't charge any interest for it , so you need not be in any hurry to repay me .
Come back here and help me settle these book if you have nothing pleasanter to do , '' answer Dr. Alec , hand out the money with that readiness which be so delightful when we ask small loan .
`` I 'll come in a minute ; I 've be long to fix my book , but do n't dare to touch them , because you always shake your head when I read . ''
`` I shall shake my head when you write , if you do n't do it good than you do in make out this catalogue . ''
`` I know it 's bad , but I be in a hurry when I do it , and I be in one now . ''
And away go Rose , glad to escape a lecture .
But she get it when she come back , for Uncle Alec be still knit his brow over the list of book , and sternly demand , point to a tipsy-looking title stagger down the page , `` Is that meant for ` Pulverized Bones , ' ma'am ? ''
`` No , sir ; it 's ` Paradise Lost . ' ''
`` Well , I 'm glad to know it , for I begin to think you be plan to study surgery or farming .
And what be this , if you please ?
` Babies ' Aprons ' be all I can make of it . ''
Rose look hard at the scrawl , and presently announce , with an air of superior wisdom , `` Oh , that 's ` Bacon 's Essays . ' ''
`` Miss Power do not teach anything so old-fashioned a writing , I see .
Now look at this memorandum Aunt Plenty give me , and see what a handsome plain hand that be .
She go to a dame-school and learn a few useful thing well ; that be good than a smattering of half a dozen so-called high branch , I take the liberty of thinking . ''
`` Well , I 'm sure I be consider a bright girl at school , and learn everything I be teach .
Luly and me be the first in all our class , and ` specially praise for our French and music and those sort of thing , '' say Rose , rather offend at Uncle Alec 's criticism .
`` I dare say ; but if your French grammar be no good than your English , I think the praise be not deserve , my dear . ''
`` Why , uncle , we do study English grammar , and I could parse beautifully .
Miss Power use to have u up to show off when people come .
I do n't see but I talk as right a most girl . ''
`` I dare say you do , but we be all too careless about our English .
Now , think a minute , and tell me if these expression be correct ` Luly and me , ' ` those sort of thing , ' and ` as right a most girl . ' ''
Rose pull her pet curl and put up her lip , but have to own that she be wrong , and say meekly , after a pause which threaten to be sulky , `` I suppose I should have say ` Luly and I , ' in that case , and ` that sort of thing ' and ` rightly , ' though ` correctly ' would have be a good word , I guess . ''
`` Thank you ; and if you will kindly drop ' I guess , ' I shall like my little Yankee all the good .
Now , see here , Rosy , I do n't pretend to set myself up for a model in anything , and you may come down on my grammar , manner or moral as often a you think I 'm wrong , and I 'll thank you .
I 've be knock about the world for year , and have get careless , but I want my girl to be what I call well-educated , even if she study nothing but the three ` Rs ' for a year to come .
Let u be thorough , no matter how slowly we go . ''
He speak so earnestly and look so sorry to have ruffle her that Rose go and sit on the arm of his chair , say , with a pretty air of penitence , `` I 'm sorry I be cross , uncle , when I ought to thank you for take so much interest in me .
I guess no , I think you be right about be thorough , for I use to understand a great deal well when papa teach me a few lesson than when Miss Power hurry me through so many .
I declare my head use to be such a jumble of French and German , history and arithmetic , grammar and music , I use to feel sometimes a if it would split .
I 'm sure I do n't wonder it ache . ''
And she hold on to it a if the mere memory of the `` jumble '' make it swim .
`` Yet that be consider an excellent school , I find , and I dare say it would be if the benighted lady do not think it necessary to cram her pupil like Thanks-giving turkey , instead of feed them in a natural and wholesome way .
It be the fault with most American school , and the poor little head will go on ache till we learn good . ''
This be one of Dr. Alec 's hobby , and Rose be afraid he be off for a gallop , but he rein himself in and give her thoughts a new turn by say suddenly , a he pull out a fat pocket-book , `` Uncle Mac have put all your affair into my hand now , and here be your month 's pocket money .
You keep your own little account , I suppose ? ''
`` Thank you .
Yes , Uncle Mac give me an account book when I go to school , and I use to put down my expense , but I could n't make them go very well , for figure be the one thing I be not at all clever about , '' say Rose , rummage in her desk for a dilapidated little book , which she be ashamed to show when she find it .
`` Well , a figure be rather important thing to most of u , and you may have a good many account to keep some day , would n't it be wise to begin at once and learn to manage your penny before the pound come to perplex you ? ''
`` I think you would do all that fussy part and take care of the pound , a you call them .
Need I worry about it ?
I do hate sum , so ! ''
`` I shall take care of thing till you be of age , but I mean that you shall know how your property be manage , and do as much of it a you can by and by ; then you wo n't be dependent on the honesty of other people . ''
`` Gracious me !
a if I would n't trust you with million of billion if I have them , '' cry Rose , scandalise at the mere suggestion .
`` Ah , but I might be tempt ; guardian be sometimes ; so you 'd better keep your eye on me , and in order to do that you must learn all about these affair , '' answer Dr. Alec , a he make an entry in his own very neat account-book .
Rose peep over his shoulder at it , and then turn to the arithmetical puzzle in her hand with a sigh of despair .
`` Uncle , when you add up your expense do you ever find you have get more money than you have in the beginning ? ''
`` No ; I usually find that I have a good deal less than I have in the beginning .
Are you trouble in the peculiar way you mention ? ''
`` Yes ; it be very curious , but I never can make thing come out square . ''
`` Perhaps I can help you , '' begin Uncle Alec , in the most respectful tone .
`` I think you have good , for if I have get to keep account I may as well begin in the right way .
But please do n't laugh !
I know I 'm very stupid , and my book be a disgrace , but I never could get it straight . ''
And with great trepidation , Rose give up her funny little account .
It really be good in Dr. Alec not to laugh , and Rose felt deeply grateful when he say in a mildly suggestive tone , `` The dollar and cent seem to be rather mixed , perhaps if I just straighten them out a bit we should find thing all right . ''
`` Please do , and then show me on a fresh leaf how to make mine look nice and ship-shape a yours do . ''
As Rose stand by him watch the ease with which he quickly bring order out of chaos , she privately resolve to hunt up her old arithmetic and perfect herself in the four first rule , with a good tug at fraction , before she read any more fairy tale .
`` Am I a rich girl , uncle ? ''
she ask suddenly , a he be copy a column of figure .
`` Rather a poor one , I should say , since you have to borrow a ninepence . ''
`` That be your fault , because you forget my pocket-money .
But , really , shall I be rich by and by ? ''
`` I be afraid you will . ''
`` Why afraid , uncle ? ''
`` Too much money be a bad thing . ''
`` But I can give it away , you know ; that be always the pleasant part of have it I think . ''
`` I 'm glad you feel so , for you can do much good with your fortune if you know how to use it well . ''
`` You shall teach me , and when I be a woman we will set up a school where nothing but the three R 's shall be teach , and all the child live on oatmeal , and the girl have waist a yard round , '' say Rose , with a sudden saucy smile dimple her cheek .
`` You be an impertinent little baggage , to turn on me in that way right in the midst of my first attempt at teaching .
Never mind , I 'll have an extra bitter dose for you next time , miss . ''
`` I know you want to laugh , so I give you a chance .
Now , I will be good , master , and do my lesson nicely . ''
So Dr. Alec have his laugh , and then Rose sit down and take a lesson in account which she never forget .
`` Now come and read aloud to me ; my eye be tire , and it be pleasant to sit here by the fire while the rain pours outside and Aunt Jane lecture upstairs , '' say Uncle Alec , when last month 's account have be put in good order and a fresh page neatly begin .
Rose like to read aloud , and gladly give him the chapter in `` Nicholas Nickleby '' where the Miss Kenwigses take their French lesson .
She do her very best , feel that she be be criticise , and hop that she might not be find want in this a in other thing .
`` Shall I go on , sir ? ''
she ask very meekly , when the chapter end .
`` If you be not tire , dear .
It be a pleasure to hear you , for you read remarkably well , '' be the answer that fill her heart with pride and pleasure .
`` Do you really think so , uncle ?
I 'm so glad !
Papa teach me , and I read for hour to him , but I think perhaps , he like it because he be fond of me . ''
`` So be I ; but you really do read unusually well , and I 'm very glad of it , for it be a rare accomplishment , and one I value highly .
Come here in this cosy , low chair ; the light be well , and I can pull these curl if you go too fast .
I see you be go to be a great comfort as well a a great credit to your old uncle , Rosy . ''
And Dr. Alec draw her close beside him with such a fatherly look and tone that she felt it would be very easy to love and obey him , since he know how to mix praise and blame so pleasantly together .
Another chapter be just finish , when the sound of a carriage warn them that Aunt Jane be about to depart .
Before they could go to meet her , however , she appear in the doorway look like an unusually tall mummy in her waterproof , with her glass shin like cat 's eye from the depth of the hood .
`` Just a I think !
pet that child to death and let her sit up late reading trash .
I do hope you feel the weight of the responsibility you have take upon yourself , Alec , '' she say , with a certain grim sort of satisfaction at see thing go wrong .
`` I think I have a very realising sense of it , sister Jane , '' answer Dr. Alec , with a comical shrug of the shoulder and a glance at Rose 's bright face .
`` It be sad to see a great girl waste these precious hour so .
Now , my boy have study all day , and Mac be still at his book , I 've no doubt , while you have not have a lesson since you come , I suspect . ''
`` I 've have five to-day , ma'am , '' be Rose 's very unexpected answer .
`` I 'm glad to hear it ; and what be they , pray ? ''
Rose look very demure a she reply , `` Navigation , geography , grammar , arithmetic , and keep my temper . ''
`` Queer lesson , I fancy ; and what have you learn from this remarkable mixture , I should like to know ? ''
A naughty sparkle come into Rose 's eye a she answer , with a droll look at her uncle , `` I ca n't tell you all , ma'am , but I have collect some useful information about China , which you may like , especially the tea .
The best be Lapsing Souchong , Assam Pekoe , rare Ankoe , Flowery Pekoe , Howqua 's mixture , Scented Caper , Padral tea , black Congou , and green Twankey .
Shanghai be on the Woosung River .
Hong Kong mean ` Island of Sweet water . '
Singapore be ` Lion 's Town . '
` Chops ' be the boat they live in ; and they drink tea out of little saucer .
Principal production be porcelain , tea , cinnamon , shawl , tin , tamarind and opium .
They have beautiful temple and queer god ; and in Canton be the Dwelling of the Holy Pigs , fourteen of them , very big , and all blind . ''
The effect of this remarkable burst be immense , especially the fact last mention .
It entirely take the wind out of Aunt Jane 's sail ; it be so sudden , so varied and unexpected , that she have not a word to say .
The glass remain fixed full upon Rose for a moment , and then , with a hasty `` Oh , indeed ! ''
the excellent lady bundle into her carriage and drive away , somewhat bewildered and very much disturbed .
She would have be more so if she have see her reprehensible brother-in-law dance a triumphal polka down the hall with Rose in honour of have silence the enemy 's battery for once .
Chapter 9 -- Phebe 's Secret `` Why do you keep smile to yourself , Phebe ? ''
ask Rose , a they be work together one morning , for Dr. Alec consider house-work the best sort of gymnastics for girl ; so Rose take lesson of Phebe in sweeping , dust and bed-making .
`` I be think about a nice little secret I know , and could n't help smile . ''
`` Shall I know it , sometime ? ''
`` Guess you will . ''
`` Shall I like it ? ''
`` Oh , wo n't you , though ! ''
`` Will it happen soon ? ''
`` Sometime this week . ''
`` I know what it be !
The boy be go to have firework on the fourth , and have get some surprise for me .
Have n't they ? ''
`` That 's tell . ''
`` Well , I can wait ; only tell me one thing be uncle in it ? ''
`` Of course he be ; there 's never any fun without him . ''
`` Then it 's all right , and sure to be nice . ''
Rose go out on the balcony to shake the rug , and , have give them a vigorous beating , hang them on the balustrade to air , while she take a look at her plant .
Several tall vas and jar stand there , and a month of June sun and rain have work wonder with the seed and slip she have plant .
Morning-glories and nasturtium run all over the bar , make haste to bloom .
Scarlet bean and honeysuckle be climb up from below to meet their pretty neighbour , and the woodbine be hang it green festoon wherever it could cling .
The water of the bay be dance in the sunshine , a fresh wind stir the chestnut-trees with a pleasant sound , and the garden below be full of rose , butterfly and bee .
A great chirping and twitter go on among the bird , busy with their summer house-keeping , and , far away , the white-winged gull be dip and dive in the sea , where ship , like large bird , go sail to and fro .
`` Oh , Phebe , it 's such a lovely day , I do wish your fine secret be go to happen right away !
I feel just like have a good time ; do n't you ? ''
say Rose , wave her arm a if she be go to fly .
`` I often feel that way , but I have to wait for my good time , and do n't stop work to wish for 'em .
There , now you can finish as soon a the dust settle ; I must go do my stair , '' and Phebe trudge away with the broom , sing a she go .
Rose lean where she be , and fell to think how many good time she have have lately , for the gardening have prosper finely , and she be learn to swim and row , and there be drive and walk , and quiet hour of reading and talk with Uncle Alec , and , best of all , the old pain and ennui seldom trouble her now .
She could work and play all day , sleep sweetly all night , and enjoy life with the zest of a healthy , happy child .
She be far from be a strong and hearty a Phebe , but she be get on ; the once pale cheek have colour in them now , the hand be grow plump and brown , and the belt be not much too loose .
No one talk to her about her health , and she forget that she have `` no constitution . ''
She take no medicine but Dr. Alec 's three great remedy , and they seem to suit her excellently .
Aunt Plenty say it be the pill ; but , a no second batch have ever follow the first , I think the old lady be mistake .
Rose look worthy of her name a she stand smile to herself over a happy secret than any Phebe have a secret which she do not know herself till she find out , some year later , the magic of good health . ''
` Look only , ' say the brownie , ` At the pretty gown of blue , At the kerchief pin about her head , And at her little shoe , '' ' say a voice from below , a a great cabbage-rose come fly against her cheek .
`` What be the princess dream about up there in her hanging-garden ? ''
add Dr. Alec a she fling back a morning-glory .
`` I be wish I could do something pleasant this fine day ; something very new and interesting , for the wind make me feel frisky and gay . ''
`` Suppose we take a pull over to the Island ?
I intend to go this afternoon ; but if you feel more like it now , we can be off at once . ''
`` I do !
I do !
I 'll come in fifteen minute , uncle .
I must just scrabble my room to right , for Phebe have get a great deal to do . ''
Rose catch up the rug and vanish a she speak , while Dr. Alec go in , say to himself , with an indulgent smile , `` It may upset thing a trifle , but half a child 's pleasure consist in have their fun when they want it . ''
Never do duster flap more briskly than the one Rose use that day , and never be a room `` scrabble '' to right in such haste a hers .
Tables and chair fly into their place a if alive ; curtain shake a if a gale be blow ; china rattle and small article tumble about a if a young earthquake be play with them .
The boating suit go on in a twinkling , and Rose be off with a hop and a skip , little dream how many hour it would be before she saw her pretty room again .
Uncle Alec be put a large basket into the boat when she arrive , and before they be off Phebe come run down with a queer , knobby bundle do up in a water-proof .
`` We ca n't eat half that luncheon , and I know we shall not need so many wrap .
I would n't lumber the boat up so , '' say Rose , who still have secret scare when on the water .
`` Could n't you make a small parcel , Phebe ? ''
ask Dr. Alec , eye the bundle suspiciously .
`` No , sir , not in such a hurry , '' and Phebe laugh a she give a particularly large knob a good poke .
`` Well , it will do for ballast .
Do n't forget the note to Mrs. Jessie , I beg of you . ''
`` No , sir .
I 'll send it right off , '' and Phebe run up the bank a if she have wing to her foot .
`` We 'll take a look at the lighthouse first , for you have not be there yet , and it be worth see .
By the time we have do that it will be pretty warm , and we will have lunch under the tree on the Island . ''
Rose be ready for anything , and enjoy her visit to the lighthouse on the Point very much , especially climb up the narrow stair and go inside the great lantern .
They make a long stay , for Dr. Alec seem in no hurry to go , and keep look through his spy-glass a if he expect to discover something remarkable on sea or land .
It be past twelve before they reach the Island , and Rose be ready for her lunch long before she get it .
`` Now this be lovely !
I do wish the boy be here .
Wo n't it be nice to have them with u all their vacation ?
Why , it begin to-day , do n't it ?
Oh , I wish I 'd remember it sooner , and perhaps they would have come with u , '' she say , a they lay luxuriously eat sandwich under the old apple-tree .
`` So we might .
Next time we wo n't be in such a hurry .
I expect the lad will take our head off when they find u out , '' answer Dr. Alec , placidly drink cold tea .
`` Uncle , I smell a frying sort of a smell , '' Rose say , pause suddenly a she be put away the remains of the lunch half an hour later .
`` So do I ; it be fish , I think . ''
For a moment they both sit with their nose in the air , sniff like hound ; then Dr. Alec spring up , say with great decision , `` Now , this wo n't do !
No one be permit on this island without ask leave .
I must see who dare to fry fish on my private property . ''
Taking the basket on one arm and the bundle on the other , he stride away towards the traitorous smell , look as fierce a a lion , while Rose march behind under her umbrella .
`` We be Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday go to see if the savage have come , '' she say presently , for her fancy be full of the dear old story that all child love so well .
`` And there they be !
Two tent and two boat , a I live !
These rascal mean to enjoy themselves , that 's evident . ''
`` There ought to be more boat and no tent .
I wonder where the prisoner be ? ''
`` There be trace of them , '' and Dr. Alec point to the head and tail of fish strew on the grass .
`` And there be more , '' say Rose , laugh , a she point to a scarlet heap of what look like lobster .
`` The savage be probably eat their victim now ; do n't you hear the knife rattle in that tent ? ''
`` We ought to creep up and peep ; Crusoe be cautious , you know , and Friday scar out of his wit , '' add Rose , still keep up the joke .
`` But this Crusoe be go to pounce upon them , regardless of consequence .
If I be kill and eat , you seize the basket and run for the boat ; there be provision enough for your voyage home . ''
With that Uncle Alec slip round to the front of the tent and , cast in the big bundle like a bomb-shell , roar out , in a voice of thunder , `` Pirates , surrender ! ''
A crash , a shout , a laugh , and out come the savage , brandish knife and fork , chicken bone , and tin mug , and all fell upon the intruder , pommel him unmercifully a they cry , `` You come too soon !
We be not half ready !
You 've spoil it all !
Where be Rose ? ''
`` Here I be , '' answer a half-stifled voice , and Rose be discover sit on the pile of red flannel bathing clothes , which she have mistake for lobster , and where she have fall in a fit of merriment when she discover that the cannibal be her merry cousin .
`` You good-for-nothing boy !
You be always burst out upon me in some ridiculous way , and I always get take in because I 'm not use to such prank .
Uncle be as bad a the rest , and it 's great fun , '' she say , a the lad come round her , half scolding , half welcoming , and wholly enjoy the double surprise .
`` You be not to come till afternoon , and mamma be to be here to receive you .
Everything be in a mess now , except your tent ; we get that in order the first thing , and you can sit there and see u work , '' say Archie , do the honour a usual .
`` Rose felt it in her bone , a Dolly say , that something be in the wind , and want to be off at once .
So I let her come , and should have keep her away an hour longer if your fish have not betray you , '' explain Uncle Alec , subside from a ferocious Crusoe into his good-natured self again .
`` As this seat be rather damp , I think I 'll rise , '' say Rose , a the excitement lessen a little .
Several fishy hand help her up , and Charlie say , a he scatter the scarlet garment over the grass with an oar , `` We have a jolly good swim before dinner , and I tell the Brats to spread these to dry .
Hope you bring your thing , Rose , for you belong to the Lobsters , you know , and we can have no end of fun teach you to dive and float and tread water . ''
`` I do n't bring anything -- '' begin Rose , but be interrupt by the Brats -LRB- otherwise Will and Geordie -RRB- , who appear bear the big bundle , so much demoralise by it fall that a red flannel tunic trail out at one end and a little blue dressing-gown at the other , while the knob prove to be a toilet-case , rubber , and a silver mug .
`` Oh , that sly Phebe !
This be the secret , and she bundle up those thing after I go down to the boat , '' cry Rose , with sparkling eye .
`` Guess something be smash inside , for a bit of glass fell out , '' observe Will , a they deposit the bundle at her foot .
`` Catch a girl go anywhere without a looking-glass .
We have n't get one among the whole lot of u , '' add Mac , with masculine scorn .
`` Dandy have ; I catch him touch up his wig behind the tree after our swim , '' cut in Geordie , wag a derisive finger at Steve , who promptly silence him by a smart rap on the head with the drum-stick he have just polish off .
`` Come , come , you lazy lubber , fall to work , or we shall not be ready for mamma .
Take Rose 's thing to her tent , and tell her all about it , Prince .
Mac and Steve , you cut away and bring up the rest of the straw ; and you small chap , clear off the table , if you have stuff all you can .
Please , uncle , I 'd like your advice about the boundary line and the best place for the kitchen . ''
Everyone obey the chief , and Rose be escort to her tent by Charlie , who devote himself to her service .
She be charm with her quarter , and still more so with the programme which he unfold before her a they work .
`` We always camp out somewhere in vacation , and this year we think we 'd try the Island .
It be handy , and our firework will show off well from here . ''
`` Shall we stay over the Fourth ?
Three whole day !
Oh , me !
what a frolic it will be ! ''
`` Bless your heart , we often camp for a week , we big fellow ; but this year the small chap want to come , so we let them .
We have great lark , a you 'll see ; for we have a cave and play Captain Kidd , and have shipwreck , and race , and all sort of game .
Arch and I be rather past that kind of thing now , but we do it to please the child , '' add Charlie , with a sudden recollection of his sixteen year .
`` I have no idea boys have such good time .
Their play never seem a bit interesting before .
But I suppose that be because I never know any boy very well , or perhaps you be unusually nice one , '' observe Rose , with an artless air of appreciation that be very flattering .
`` We be a pretty clever set , I fancy ; but we have a good many advantage , you see .
There be a tribe of u , to begin with ; then our family have be here for age , and we have plenty of ` spondulics , ' so we can rather lord it over the other fellow , and do a we like .
There , ma'am , you can hang your smashed glass on that nail and do up your back hair as fine a you please .
You can have a blue blanket or a red one , and a straw pillow or an air cushion for your head , whichever you like .
You can trim up to any extent , and be a free and easy a squaw in a wigwam , for this corner be set apart for you lady and we never cross the line uncle be draw until we ask leave .
Anything more I can do for you , cousin ? ''
`` No , thank you .
I think I 'll leave the rest till auntie come , and go and help you somewhere else , if I may . ''
`` Yes , indeed , come on and see to the kitchen .
Can you cook ? ''
ask Charlie , a he lead the way to the rocky nook where Archie be put up a sail-cloth awning .
`` I can make tea and toast bread . ''
`` Well , we 'll shew you how to fry fish , and make chowder .
Now you just set these pot and pan round tastefully , and sort of tidy up a bit , for Aunt Jessie insist on do some of the work , and I want it to be decent here . ''
By four o'clock the camp be in order , and the weary worker settle down on Lookout Rock to watch for Mrs. Jessie and Jamie , who be never far from mamma 's apron string .
They look like a flock of blue-birds , all be in sailor rig , with blue ribbon enough flying from the seven hat to have set up a milliner .
Very tuneful blue-birds they be , too , for all the lad sing , and the echo of their happy voice reach Mrs. Jessie long before she saw them .
The moment the boat hove in sight up go the Island flag , and the blue-jackets cheer lustily , a they do on every possible occasion , like true young Americans .
This welcome be answer by the flapping of a handkerchief and the shrill `` Rah !
Rah !
Rah ! ''
of the one small tar who stand in the stern wave his hat manfully , while a maternal hand clutch him firmly in the rear .
Cleopatra land from her golden galley never receive a heartier greeting than `` Little Mum '' a she be borne to her tent by the young folk , for love of whom she smilingly resign herself to three day of discomfort ; while Jamie immediately attach himself to Rose , assure her of his protection from the manifold peril which might assail them .
Taught by long experience that boy be always hungry , Aunt Jessie soon propose supper , and proceed to get it , envelop in an immense apron , with an old hat of Archie 's stuck atop of her cap .
Rose help , and try to be as handy a Phebe , though the peculiar style of table she have to set make it no easy task .
It be accomplish at last , and a very happy party lay about under the tree , eating and drink out of anyone 's plate and cup , and quite untroubled by the frequent appearance of ant and spider in place which these interesting insect be not expect to adorn .
`` I never think I should like to wash dish , but I do , '' say Rose , a she sit in a boat after supper lazily rinse plate in the sea , and rock luxuriously a she wipe them .
`` Mum be mighty particular ; we just give 'em a scrub with sand , and dust 'em off with a bit of paper .
It 's much the best way , I think , '' reply Geordie , who repose in another boat alongside .
`` How Phebe would like this !
I wonder uncle do not have her come . ''
`` I believe he try to , but Dolly be as cross a two stick , and say she could n't spare her .
I 'm sorry , for we all like the Phebe bird , and she 'd chirp like a good one out here , would n't she ? ''
`` She ought to have a holiday like the rest of u .
It 's too bad to leave her out . ''
This thought come back to Rose several time that evening , for Phebe would have add much to the little concert they have in the moonlight , would have enjoy the story tell , be quick at guess the conundrum , and laugh with all her heart at the fun .
The merry go to bed would have be the best of all , for Rose want someone to cuddle under the blue blanket with her , there to whisper and giggle and tell secret , a girl delight to do .
Long after the rest be asleep , Rose lay wide awake , excite by the novelty of all about her , and a thought that have come into her mind .
Far away she hear a city clock strike twelve ; a large star like a mild eye peep in at the opening of the tent , and the soft plash of the wave seem call her to come out .
Aunt Jessie lay fast asleep , with Jamie roll up like a kitten at her foot , and neither stir a Rose in her wrapper crept out to see how the world look at midnight .
She find it very lovely , and sit down on a cracker keg to enjoy it with a heart full of the innocent sentiment of her year .
Fortunately , Dr. Alec saw her before she have time to catch cold , for come out to tie back the door-flap of his tent for more air , he behold the small figure perch in the moonlight .
Having no fear of ghost , he quietly approach , and , see that she be wide awake , say , with a hand on her shin hair , `` What be my girl do here ? ''
`` Having a good time , '' answer Rose , not at all startle .
`` I wonder what she be think about with such a sober look . ''
`` The story you tell of the brave sailor who give up his place on the raft to the woman , and the last drop of water to the poor baby .
People who make sacrifice be very much love and admire , be n't they ? ''
she ask , earnestly .
`` If the sacrifice be a true one .
But many of the brave never be know , and get no praise .
That do not lessen their beauty , though perhaps it make them hard , for we all like sympathy , '' and Dr. Alec sigh a patient sort of sigh .
`` I suppose you have make a great many ?
Would you mind tell me one of them ? ''
ask Rose , arrest by the sigh .
`` My last be to give up smoking , '' be the very unromantic answer to her pensive question .
`` Why do you ? ''
`` Bad example for the boy . ''
`` That be very good of you , uncle !
Was it hard ? ''
`` I 'm ashamed to say it be .
But a a wise old fellow once say , ` It be necessary to do right ; it be not necessary to be happy . ' ''
Rose ponder over the say a if it please her , and then say , with a clear , bright look , `` A real sacrifice be give up something you want or enjoy very much , be n't it ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Doing it one 's own self because one love another person very much and want her to be happy ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` And do it pleasantly , and be glad about it , and not mind the praise if it do n't come ? ''
`` Yes , dear , that be the true spirit of self-sacrifice ; you seem to understand it , and I dare say you will have many chance in your life to try the real thing .
I hope they wo n't be very hard one . ''
`` I think they will , '' begin Rose , and there stop short .
`` Well , make one now , and go to sleep , or my girl will be ill to-morrow , and then the aunt will say camp out be bad for her . ''
`` I 'll go good night ! ''
and throw him a kiss , the little ghost vanish , leave Uncle Alec to pace the shore and think about some of the unsuspected sacrifice that have make him what he be .
Chapter 10 -- Rose 's Sacrifice There certainly be `` lark '' on Campbell 's Island next day , a Charlie have foretell , and Rose take her part in them like one intent on enjoy every minute to the utmost .
There be a merry breakfast , a successful fishing expedition , and then the lobster come out in full force , for even Aunt Jessie appear in red flannel .
There be nothing Uncle Alec could not do in the water , and the boy try their best to equal him in strength and skill , so there be a great diving and ducking , for every one be bent on distinguish himself .
Rose swim out far beyond her depth , with uncle to float her back ; Aunt Jessie splash placidly in the shallow pool , with Jamie paddle near by like a little whale beside it mother ; while the lad career about , look like a flock of distracted flamingo , and act like the famous dance party in `` Alice 's Adventures in Wonderland . ''
Nothing but chowder would have lure them from their gambol in the briny deep ; that time-honoured dish demand the concentrated action of several mighty mind ; so the `` Water Babies '' come ashore and fell to cook .
It be unnecessary to say that , when do , it be the most remarkable chowder ever cook , and the quantity eaten would have amaze the world if the secret have be divulge .
After this exertion a siesta be consider the thing , and people lay about in tent or out a they please , the boy look like warrior slumber where they fell .
The elder have just settle to a comfortable nap when the youngster rise , refresh and ready for further exploit .
A hint send them all off to the cave , and there be discover bow and arrow , battle club , old sword , and various relic of an interesting nature .
Perched upon a commanding rock , with Jamie to `` splain '' thing to her , Rose behold a series of stir scene enact with great vigour and historical accuracy by her gifted relative .
Captain Cook be murder by the native of Owhyhee in the most thrilling manner .
Captain Kidd bury untold wealth in the chowder kettle at the dead of night , and shot both the trusting villain who share the secret of the hiding place .
Sinbad come ashore there and have manifold adventure , and numberless wreck bestrew the sand .
Rose consider them by far the most exciting drama she have ever witness ; and when the performance close with a grand ballet of Feejee Islanders , whose barbaric yell alarm the gull , she have no word in which to express her gratification .
Another swim at sunset , another merry even on the rock watch the lighted steamer pass seaward and the pleasure-boats come into port , end the second day of the camp out , and send everyone to bed early that they might be ready for the festivity of the morrow .
`` Archie , do n't I hear uncle ask you to row home in the morning for fresh milk and thing ? ''
`` Yes , why ? ''
`` Please , may I go too ?
I have something of great importance to arrange ; you know I be carry off in a hurry , '' Rose say in a confidential whisper a she be bid her cousin good night .
`` I 'm willing , and I guess Charlie wo n't mind . ''
`` Thank you ; be sure you stand by me when I ask leave in the morning , and do n't say anything till then , except to Charlie .
Promise , '' urge Rose , so eagerly , that Archie strike an attitude and cry dramatically , `` By yonder moon I swear ! ''
`` Hush !
it 's all right , go along '' ; and Rose depart a if satisfied .
`` She 's a queer little thing , be n't she , Prince ? ''
`` Rather a nice little thing , I think .
I 'm quite fond of her . ''
Rose 's quick ear catch both remark , and she retire to her tent , say to herself with sleepy dignity , `` Little thing , indeed !
Those boys talk a if I be a baby .
They will treat me with more respect after to-morrow , I guess . ''
Archie do stand by her in the morning , and her request be readily grant , a the lad be come directly back .
Off they go , and Rose wave her hand to the islander with a somewhat pensive air , for an heroic purpose glow within her , and the spirit of self-sacrifice be about to be illustrate in a new and touching manner .
While the boy get the milk Rose run to Phebe , order her to leave her dish , to put on her hat , and take a note back to Uncle Alec , which would explain this somewhat mysterious performance .
Phebe obey , and when she go to the boat Rose accompany her , tell the boy she be not ready to go yet , but they could , some of them , come for her when she hang a white signal on her balcony .
`` But why not come now ?
What be you about , miss ?
Uncle wo n't like it , '' protest Charlie , in great amazement .
`` Just do a I tell you , little boy ; uncle will understand and explain .
Obey , a Phebe do , and ask no question .
I can have secret as well a other people '' ; and Rose walk off with an air of lofty independence that impress her friends immensely .
`` It 's some plot between uncle and herself , so we wo n't meddle .
All right , Phebe ?
Pull away , Prince '' ; and off they go to be receive with much surprise by the islander .
This be the note Phebe bore : `` Dear Uncle , I be go to take Phebe 's place to-day , and let her have all the fun she can .
Please do n't mind what she say , but keep her , and tell the boy to be very good to her for my sake .
Do n't think it be easy to do this ; it be very hard to give up the best day of all , but I feel so selfish to have all the pleasure and Phebe none , that I wish to make this sacrifice .
Do let me , and do n't laugh at it ; I truly do not wish to be praise , and I truly want to do it .
Love to all from , `` Rose . ''
`` Bless the little dear , what a generous heart she have !
Shall we go after her , Jessie , or let her have her way ? ''
say Dr. Alec , after the first mingle amusement and astonishment have subside .
`` Let her alone , and do n't spoil her little sacrifice .
She mean it , I know , and the best way in which we can show our respect for her effort be to give Phebe a pleasant day .
I 'm sure she have earn it '' ; and Mrs. Jessie make a sign to the boy to suppress their disappointment and exert themselves to please Rose 's guest .
Phebe be with difficulty kept from go straight home , and declare that she should not enjoy herself one bit without Miss Rose .
`` She wo n't hold out all day , and we shall see her paddle back before noon , I 'll wager anything , '' say Charlie ; and the rest so strongly incline to his opinion that they resign themselves to the loss of the little queen of the revel , sure that it would be only a temporary one .
But hour after hour pass , and no signal appear on the balcony , though Phebe watch it hopefully .
No passing boat bring the truant back , though more than one pair of eye look out for the bright hair under the round hat ; and sunset come , bring no Rose but the lovely colour in the western sky .
`` I really do not think the child have it in her .
I fancy it be a bit of sentiment , but I see she be in earnest , and mean that her sacrifice shall be a true one .
Dear little soul !
I 'll make it up to her a thousand time over , and beg her pardon for think it might be do for effect , '' Dr. Alec say remorsefully , a he strain his eye through the dusk , fancy he saw a small figure sit in the garden a it have sit on the keg the night before , lay the generous little plot that have cost more than he could guess .
`` Well , she ca n't help see the firework , any way , unless she be goose enough to think she must hide in a dark closet and not look , '' say Archie , who be rather disgust at Rose 's seem ingratitude .
`` She will see ours capitally , but miss the big one on the hill , unless papa have forget all about them , '' add Steve , cut short the harangue Mac have begin upon the festival of the ancient .
`` I 'm sure the sight of her will be good than the fine firework that ever go off , '' say Phebe , meditate an elopement with one of the boat if she could get a chance .
`` Let thing work ; if she resist a brilliant invitation we give her she will be a heroine , '' add Uncle Alec , secretly hop that she would not .
Meanwhile Rose have spend a quiet , busy day help Dolly , wait on Aunt Peace , and steadily resist Aunt Plenty 's attempt to send her back to the happy island .
It have be hard in the morning to come in from the bright world outside , with flag fly , cannon booming , cracker pop , and everyone making ready for a holiday , and go to wash cup , while Dolly grumble and the aunt lament .
It be very hard to see the day go by , know how gay each hour must have be across the water , and how a word from her would take her where she long to be with all her heart .
But it be hard of all when evening come and Aunt Peace be asleep , Aunt Plenty see a gossip in the parlor , Dolly establish in the porch to enjoy the show , and nothing left for the little maid to do but sit alone in her balcony and watch the gay rocket whizz up from island , hill , and city , while band play and boat lade with happy people go to and fro in the fitful light .
Then it must be confess that a tear or two dim the blue eye , and once , when a very brilliant display illuminate the island for a moment , and she fancy she saw the tent , the curly head go down on the railing , and a wide-awake nasturtium hear a little whisper , `` I hope someone wish I be there ! ''
The tear be all go , however , and she be watch the hill and island answer each other with what Jamie call `` whizzers , whirligig and buster , '' and smile a she think how hard the boy must be work to keep up such a steady fire , when Uncle Mac come walk in upon her , say hurriedly , `` Come , child , put on your tippet , pelisse , or whatever you call it , and run off with me .
I come to get Phebe , but aunt say she be go , so I want you .
I 've get Fun down in the boat , and I want you to go with u and see my firework .
Got them up for you , and you must n't miss them , or I shall be disappoint . ''
`` But , uncle , '' begin Rose , feel a if she ought to refuse even a glimpse of bliss , `` perhaps -- '' `` I know , my dear , I know ; aunt tell me ; but no one need you now so much a I do , and I insist on your come , '' say Uncle Mac , who seem in a great hurry to be off , yet be unusually kind .
So Rose go and find the little Chinaman with a funny lantern wait to help her in and convulse her with laughter try to express his emotion in pigeon English .
The city clock be strike nine a they get out into the bay , and the island fireworks seem to be over , for no rocket answer the last Roman candle that shone on the Aunt-hill .
`` Ours be do , I see , but they be go up all round the city , and how pretty they be , '' say Rose , fold her mantle about her , and survey the scene with pensive interest .
`` Hope my fellow have not get into trouble up there , '' mutter Uncle Mac , add with a satisfied chuckle , a a spark shone out , `` No ; there it go !
Look , Rosy , and see how you like this one ; it be order especially in honour of your come . ''
Rose look with all her eye , and saw the spark grow into the likeness of a golden vase , then green leaf come out , and then a crimson flower glow on the darkness with a splendid lustre .
`` Is it a rise , uncle ? ''
she ask , clasp her hand with delight a she recognise the handsome flower .
`` Of course it be !
Look again , and guess what those be , '' answer Uncle Mac , chuckle and enjoy it all like a boy .
A wreath of what look at first like purple broom appear below the vase , but Rose guess what they be mean for , and stand straight up , hold by his shoulder , and cry excitedly , `` Thistles , uncle , Scotch thistles !
There be seven of them one for each boy !
Oh , what a joke ! ''
and she laugh so that she plump into the bottom of the boat and stay there till the brilliant spectacle be quite go .
`` That be rather a neat thing , I flatter myself , '' say Uncle Mac , in high glee at the success of his illumination .
`` Now , shall I leave you on the Island or take you home again , my good little girl ? ''
he add , lift her up with such a tone of approbation in his voice that Rose kiss him on the spot .
`` Home , please uncle ; and I thank you very very much for the beautiful firework you get up for me .
I 'm so glad I saw it ; and I know I shall dream about it , '' answer Rose steadily , though a wistful glance go toward the Island , now so near that she could smell powder and see shadowy figure flit about .
Home they go ; and Rose fell asleep say to herself , `` It be hard than I think , but I 'm glad I do it , and I truly do n't want any reward but Phebe 's pleasure . ''
Chapter 11 -- Poor Mac Rose 's sacrifice be a failure in one respect , for , though the elder love her the good for it , and show that they do , the boy be not inspire with the sudden respect which she have hop for .
In fact , her feeling be much hurt by overhear Archie say that he could n't see any sense in it ; and the Prince add another blow by pronounce her `` the queer chicken ever see . ''
It be apt to be so , and it be hard to bear ; for , though we do not want trumpet blow , we do like to have our little virtue appreciate , and can not help feeling disappoint if they be not .
A time soon come , however , when Rose , quite unconsciously , win not only the respect of her cousin , but their gratitude and affection likewise .
Soon after the Island episode , Mac have a sunstroke , and be very ill for some time .
It be so sudden that everyone be startle , and for some day the boy 's life be in danger .
He pull through , however ; and then , just a the family be rejoice , a new trouble appear which cast a gloom over them all .
Poor Mac 's eye give out ; and well they might , for he have abuse them , and never be very strong , they suffer doubly now .
No one dare to tell him the dark prediction of the great oculist who come to look at them , and the boy try to be patient , think that a few week of rest would repair the overwork of several year .
He be forbid to look at a book , and a that be the one thing he most delighted in , it be a terrible affliction to the Worm .
Everyone be very ready to read to him , and at first the lad contend for this honour .
But a week after week go by , and Mac be still condemn to idleness and a darkened room , their zeal abate , and one after the other fell off .
It be hard for the active fellow , right in the midst of their vacation ; and nobody blame them when they content themselves with brief call , run of errand , and warm expression of sympathy .
The elder do their best , but Uncle Mac be a busy man , Aunt Jane 's reading be of a funereal sort , impossible to listen to long , and the other aunty be all absorb in their own care , though they supply the boy with every delicacy they could invent .
Uncle Alec be a host in himself , but he could not give all his time to the invalid ; and if it have not be for Rose , the afflicted Worm would have fare ill .
Her pleasant voice suit him , her patience be unfailing , her time of no apparent value , and her eager good-will be very comfort .
The womanly power of self-devotion be strong in the child , and she remain faithfully at her post when all the rest drop away .
Hour after hour she sit in the dusky room , with one ray of light on her book , read to the boy , who lay with shaded eye silently enjoy the only pleasure that lighten the weary day .
Sometimes he be peevish and hard to please , sometimes he growl because his reader could not manage the dry book he wish to hear , and sometimes he be so despondent that her heart ache to see him .
Through all these trial Rose persevere , use all her little art to please him .
When he fret , she be patient ; when he growl , she plough bravely through the hard page not dry to her in one sense , for quiet tear drop on them now and then ; and when Mac fell into a despairing mood , she comfort him with every hopeful word she dare to offer .
He say little , but she know he be grateful , for she suit him good than anyone else .
If she be late , he be impatient ; when she have to go , he seem forlorn ; and when the tired head ache bad , she could always soothe him to sleep , croon the old song her father use to love .
`` I do n't know what I should do without that child , '' Aunt Jane often say .
`` She 's worth all those racket fellow put together , '' Mac would add , fumble about to discover if the little chair be ready for her coming .
That be the sort of reward Rose like , the thanks that cheer her ; and whenever she grow very tired , one look at the green shade , the curly head so restless on the pillow , and the poor groping hand , touch her tender heart and put new spirit into the weary voice .
She do not know how much she be learn , both from the book she read and the daily sacrifice she make .
Stories and poetry be her delight , but Mac do not care for them ; and since his favourite Greeks and Romans be forbidden , he satisfy himself with travel , biography , and the history of great invention or discovery .
Rose despise this taste at first , but soon get interested in Livingstone 's adventure , Hobson 's stir life in India , and the brave trial and triumph of Watt and Arkwright , Fulton , and `` Palissy , the Potter . ''
The true , strong book help the dreamy girl ; her faithful service and sweet patience touch and win the boy ; and long afterward both learn to see how useful those seemingly hard and weary hour have be to them .
One bright morning , a Rose sit down to begin a fat volume entitle `` History of the French Revolution , '' expect to come to great grief over the long name , Mac , who be lumber about the room like a blind bear , stop her by ask abruptly , `` What day of the month be it ? ''
`` The seventh of August , I believe . ''
`` More than half my vacation go , and I 've only have a week of it !
I call that hard , '' and he groan dismally .
`` So it be ; but there be more to come , and you may be able to enjoy that . ''
`` May be able !
I will be able !
Does that old noodle think I 'm go to stay stived up here much long ? ''
`` I guess he do , unless your eye get on fast than they have yet . ''
`` Has he say anything more lately ? ''
`` I have n't see him , you know .
Shall I begin ?
this look rather nice . ''
`` Read away ; it 's all one to me . ''
And Mac cast himself down upon the old lounge , where his heavy head felt easy .
Rose begin with great spirit , and keep on gallantly for a couple of chapter , get over the unpronounceable name with unexpected success , she think , for her listener do not correct her once , and lay so still she fancy he be deeply interested .
All of a sudden she be arrest in the middle of a fine paragraph by Mac , who sit bolt upright , bring both foot down with a thump , and say , in a rough , excited tone , `` Stop !
I do n't hear a word , and you may as well save your breath to answer my question . ''
`` What be it ? ''
ask Rose , look uneasy , for she have something on her mind , and fear that he suspect what it be .
His next word prove that she be right .
`` Now , look here , I want to know something , and you 've get to tell me . ''
`` Please , do n't -- '' begin Rose , beseechingly .
`` You must , or I 'll pull off this shade and stare at the sun as hard a ever I can stare .
Come now ! ''
and he half rise , a if ready to execute the threat .
`` I will !
oh , I will tell , if I know !
But do n't be reckless and do anything so crazy a that , '' cry Rose , in great distress .
`` Very well ; then listen , and do n't dodge , a everyone else do .
Did n't the doctor think my eye worse the last time he come ?
Mother wo n't say , but you shall . ''
`` I believe he do , '' falter Rose .
`` I think so !
Did he say I should be able to go to school when it begin ? ''
`` No , Mac , '' very low .
`` Ah ! ''
That be all , but Rose saw her cousin set his lip together and take a long breath , a if she have hit him hard .
He bore the disappointment bravely , however , and ask quite steadily in a minute , `` How soon do he think I can study again ? ''
It be so hard to answer that !
Yet Rose know she must , for Aunt Jane have declare she could not do it , and Uncle Mac have beg her to break the truth to the poor lad .
`` Not for a good many month . ''
`` How many ? ''
he ask with a pathetic sort of gruffness .
`` A year , perhaps . ''
`` A whole year !
Why , I expect to be ready for college by that time . ''
And , push up the shade , Mac star at her with startled eye , that soon blink and fell before the one ray of light .
`` Plenty of time for that ; you must be patient now , and get them thoroughly well , or they will trouble you again when it will be hard to spare them , '' she say , with tear in her own eye .
`` I wo n't do it !
I will study and get through somehow .
It 's all humbug about take care so long .
These doctor like to keep hold of a fellow if they can .
But I wo n't stand it I vow I wo n't ! ''
and he bang his fist down on the unoffending pillow a if he be pommel the hard-hearted doctor .
`` Now , Mac , listen to me , '' Rose say very earnestly , though her voice shake a little and her heart ache .
`` You know you have hurt your eye read by fire-light and in the dusk , and sit up late , and now you 'll have to pay for it ; the doctor say so .
You must be careful , and do a he tell you , or you will be blind . ''
`` No ! ''
`` Yes , it be true , and he want u to tell you that nothing but entire rest would cure you .
I know it 's dreadfully hard , but we 'll all help you ; I 'll read all day long , and lead you , and wait upon you , and try to make it easy . ''
She stop there , for it be evident that he do not hear a sound ; the word `` blind '' seem to have knock him down , for he have bury his face in the pillow , and lay so still that Rose be frighten .
She sit motionless for many minute , long to comfort him , but not know how , and wish Uncle Alec would come , for he have promise to tell Mac .
Presently , a sort of choke sound come out of the pillow , and go straight to her heart the most pathetic sob she ever hear , for , though it be the most natural mean of relief , the poor fellow must not indulge in it because of the afflicted eye .
The `` French Revolution '' tumble out of her lap , and , run to the sofa , she kneel down by it , say , with the motherly sort of tenderness girl feel for any sorrowing creature , `` Oh , my dear , you must n't cry !
It be so bad for your poor eye .
Take your head out of that hot pillow , and let me cool it .
I do n't wonder you feel so , but please do n't cry .
I 'll cry for you ; it wo n't hurt me . ''
As she speak she pull away the cushion with gentle force , and saw the green shade all crush and stain with the few hot tear that tell how bitter the disappointment have be .
Mac felt her sympathy , but , be a boy , do not thank her for it ; only sit up with a jerk , say , a he try to rub away the tell-tale drop with the sleeve of his jacket , `` Do n't bother ; weak eye always water .
I 'm all right . ''
But Rose cry out , and catch his arm , `` Do n't touch them with that rough woollen stuff !
Lie down and let me bathe them , there 's a dear boy ; then there will be no harm do . ''
`` They do smart confoundedly .
I say , do n't you tell the other fellows that I make a baby of myself , will you ? ''
he add , yield with a sigh to the order of his nurse , who have fly for the eye-wash and linen cambric handkerchief .
`` Of course I wo n't ; but anyone would be upset at the idea of be well trouble in this way .
I 'm sure you bear it splendidly , and you know it be n't half so bad when you get use to it .
Besides , it be only for a time , and you can do lot of pleasant thing if you ca n't study .
You 'll have to wear blue goggles , perhaps ; wo n't that be funny ? ''
And while she be pour out all the comfortable word she could think of , Rose be softly bath the eye and dab the hot forehead with lavender-water , a her patient lay quiet with a look on his face that grieve her sadly .
`` Homer be blind , and so be Milton , and they do something to be remember by , in spite of it , '' he say , a if to himself , in a solemn tone , for even the blue goggles do not bring a smile .
`` Papa have a picture of Milton and his daughter write for him .
It be a very sweet picture , I think , '' observe Rose in a serious voice , try to meet the sufferer on his own ground .
`` Perhaps I could study if someone read and do the eye part .
Do you suppose I could , by and by ? ''
he ask , with a sudden ray of hope .
`` I dare say , if your head be strong enough .
This sunstroke , you know , be what upset you , and your brain need rest , the doctor say . ''
`` I 'll have a talk with the old fellow next time he come , and find out just what I may do ; then I shall know where I be .
What a fool I be that day to be stew my brain and let the sun glare on my book till the letter dance before me !
I see 'em now when I shut my eye ; black ball bob round , and star and all sort of queer thing .
Wonder if all blind people do ? ''
`` Do n't think about them ; I 'll go on reading , shall I ?
We shall come to the exciting part soon , and then you 'll forget all this , '' suggest Rose .
`` No , I never shall forget .
Hang the old ` Revolution ' !
I do n't want to hear another word of it .
My head ache , and I 'm hot .
Oh , would n't I like to go for a pull in the ` Stormy Petrel ! '' '
and poor Mac toss about a if he do not know what to do with himself .
`` Let me sing , and perhaps you 'll drop off ; then the day will seem short , '' say Rose , take up a fan and sit down beside him .
`` Perhaps I shall ; I do n't sleep much last night , and when I do I dream like fun .
See here , you tell the people that I know , and it 's all right , and I do n't want them to talk about it or howl over me .
That 's all ; now drone away , and I 'll try to sleep .
Wish I could for a year , and wake up cure . ''
`` Oh , I wish , I wish you could ! ''
Rose say it so fervently that Mac be move to grope for her apron and hold on to a corner of it , a if it be comfortable to feel her near him .
But all he say be , `` You be a good little soul , Rosy .
Give u ` The Birks ' ; that be a drowsy one that always send me off . ''
Quite content with this small return for all her sympathy , Rose wave her fan and sang , in a dreamy tone , the pretty Scotch air , the burden of which be , `` Bonny lassie , will ye gang , will ye gang To the Birks of Aberfeldie ? ''
Whether the lassie go or not I can not say , but the laddie be off to the land of Nod , in about ten minute , quite wear out with hear the bad tidings and the effort to bear them manfully .
Chapter 12 -- `` The Other Fellows '' Rose do tell `` the people '' what have pass , and no one `` howl '' over Mac , or say a word to trouble him .
He have his talk with the doctor , and get very little comfort out of it , for he find that `` just what he might do '' be nothing at all ; though the prospect of some study by and by , if all go well , give him courage to bear the woe of the present .
Having make up his mind to this , he behave so well that everyone be astonish , never have suspect so much manliness in the quiet Worm .
The boy be much impress , both by the greatness of the affliction which hung over him and by his way of bear it .
They be very good to him , but not always particularly wise in their attempt to cheer and amuse ; and Rose often find him much downcast after a visit of condolence from the Clan .
She still keep her place a head-nurse and chief-reader , though the boy do their best in an irregular sort of way .
They be rather take aback sometimes at find Rose 's service prefer to their 's , and privately confide to one another that `` Old Mac be get fond of be molly-coddled . ''
But they could not help see how useful she be , and own that she alone have remain faithful a fact which cause some of them much secret compunction now and then .
Rose felt that she rule in that room , if nowhere else , for Aunt Jane leave a great deal to her , find that her experience with her invalid father fit her for a nurse , and in a case like this , her youth be an advantage rather than a drawback .
Mac soon come to think that no one could take care of him so well a Rose , and Rose soon grow fond of her patient , though at first she have consider this cousin the least attractive of the seven .
He be not polite and sensible like Archie , nor gay and handsome like Prince Charlie , nor neat and oblige like Steve , nor amuse like the `` Brats , '' nor confide and affectionate like little Jamie .
He be rough , absent-minded , careless , and awkward , rather priggish , and not at all agreeable to a dainty , beauty-loving girl like Rose .
But when his trouble come upon him , she discover many good thing in this cousin of hers , and learn not only to pity but to respect and love the poor Worm , who try to be patient , brave , and cheerful , and find it a hard task than anyone guess , except the little nurse , who saw him in his gloomy mood .
She soon come to think that his friend do not appreciate him , and upon one occasion be move to free her mind in a way that make a deep impression on the boy .
Vacation be almost over , and the time draw near when Mac would be leave outside the happy school-world which he so much enjoyed .
This make him rather low in his mind , and his cousin exert themselves to cheer him up , especially one afternoon when a spasm of devotion seem to seize them all .
Jamie trudge down the hill with a basket of blackberry which he have `` pick all his ownself , '' a his scratched finger and stain lip plainly testify .
Will and Geordie bring their puppy to beguile the weary hour , and the three elder lad call to discuss baseball , cricket , and kindred subject , eminently fit to remind the invalid of his privation .
Rose have go to drive with Uncle Alec , who declare she be get as pale a a potato sprout , live so much in a dark room .
But her thought be with her boy all the while , and she run up to him the moment she return , to find thing in a fine state of confusion .
With the best intention in life , the lad have do more harm than good , and the spectacle that meet Nurse Rose 's eye be a try one .
The puppy be yelp , the small boy romp , and the big boy all talk at once ; the curtain be up , the room close , berry scatter freely about , Mac 's shade half off , his cheek flush , his temper ruffle , and his voice loud of all a he dispute hotly with Steve about lend certain treasure book which he could no longer use .
Now Rose consider this her special kingdom , and come down upon the invader with an energy which amaze them and quell the riot at once .
They have never see her roused before , and the effect be tremendous ; also comical , for she drive the whole flock of boy out of the room like an indignant little hen defend her brood .
They all go as meekly a sheep ; the small lad flee from the house precipitately , but the three elder one only retire to the next room , and remain there hop for a chance to explain and apologise , and so appease the irate young lady , who have suddenly turn the table and clatter them about their ear .
As they wait , they observe her proceeding through the half-open door , and comment upon them briefly but expressively , feel quite bow down with remorse at the harm they have innocently do .
`` She 's put the room to right in a jiffey .
What jack we be to let those dog in and kick up such a row , '' observe Steve , after a prolonged peep .
`` The poor old Worm turn a if she be tread on him instead of cuddle him like a pussy cat .
Is n't he cross , though ? ''
added Charlie , a Mac be hear growl about his `` confound head . ''
`` She will manage him ; but it 's mean in u to rumple him up and then leave her to smooth him down .
I 'd go and help , but I do n't know how , '' say Archie , look much depress , for he be a conscientious fellow , and blame himself for his want of thought .
`` No , more do I . Odd , be n't it , what a knack woman have for take care of sick folk ? ''
and Charlie fell a-musing over this undeniable fact .
`` She have be ever so good to Mac , '' begin Steve , in a self-reproachful tone .
`` Better than his own brother , hey ? ''
cut in Archie , find relief for his own regret in the delinquency of another .
`` Well , you need n't preach ; you do n't any of you do any more , and you might have , for Mac like you good than he do me .
I always fret him , he say , and it be n't my fault if I be a quiddle , '' protest Steve , in self-defence .
`` We have all be selfish and neglect him , so we wo n't fight about it , but try and do good , '' say Archie , generously take more than his share of blame , for he have be less inattentive than either of the others .
`` Rose have stand by him like a good one , and it 's no wonder he like to have her round best .
I should myself if I be down on my luck a he be , '' put in Charlie , feel that he really have not do `` the little thing '' justice .
`` I 'll tell you what it be , boy we have n't be half good enough to Rose , and we 've get to make it up to her somehow , '' say Archie , who have a very manly sense of honour about pay his debt , even to a girl .
`` I 'm awfully sorry I make fun of her doll when Jamie lug it out ; and I call her ` baby bunting ' when she cry over the dead kitten .
Girls be such geese sometimes , I ca n't help it , '' say Steve , confess his transgression handsomely , and feel quite ready to atone for them if he only know how .
`` I 'll go down on my knee and beg her pardon for treat her a if she be a child .
Do n't it make her mad , though ?
Come to think of it , she 's only two year or so young than I be .
But she be so small and pretty , she always seem like a dolly to me , '' and the Prince look down from his lofty height of five foot five a if Rose be indeed a pygmy beside him .
`` That dolly have get a real good little heart , and a bright mind of her own , you 'd better believe .
Mac say she understand some thing quick than he can , and mother think she be an uncommonly nice girl , though she do n't know all creation .
You need n't put on air , Charlie , though you be a tall one , for Rose like Archie good than you ; she say she do because he treat her respectfully . ''
`` Steve look as fierce a a game-cock ; but do n't you get excite , my son , for it wo n't do a bit of good .
Of course , everybody like the Chief best ; they ought to , and I 'll punch their head if they do n't .
So calm yourself , Dandy , and mend your own manner before you come down on other people 's . ''
Thus the Prince with great dignity and perfect good nature , while Archie look modestly gratify with the flatter opinion of his kinsfolk , and Steve subside , feel he have do his duty a a cousin and a brother .
A pause ensue , during which Aunt Jane appear in the other room , accompany by a tea-tray sumptuously spread , and prepare to fee her big nestling , a that be a task she allow no one to share with her .
`` If you have a minute to spare before you go , child , I wish you 'd just make Mac a fresh shade ; this have get a berry stain on it , and he must be tidy , for he be to go out to-morrow if it be a cloudy day , '' say Mrs. Jane , spread toast in a stately manner , while Mac slop his tea about without receive a word of reproof .
`` Yes , aunt , '' answer Rose , so meekly that the boy could hardly believe it could be the same voice which have issue the stern command , `` Out of this room , every one of you ! ''
not very long ago .
They have not time to retire , without unseemly haste , before she walk into the parlour and sit down at the work-table without a word .
It be funny to see the look the three tall lad cast at the little person sedately thread a needle with green silk .
They all want to say something expressive of repentance , but no one know how to begin , and it be evident , from the prim expression of Rose 's face , that she intend to stand upon her dignity till they have properly abase themselves .
The pause be become very awkward , when Charlie , who possess all the persuasive art of a born scapegrace , go slowly down upon his knee before her , beat his breast , and say , in a heart-broken tone , `` Please forgive me this time , and I 'll never do so any more . ''
It be very hard to keep sober , but Rose manage it and answer gravely , `` It be Mac 's pardon you should ask , not mine , for you have n't hurt me , and I should n't wonder if you have him a great deal , with all that light and racket , and talk about thing that only worry him . ''
`` Do you really think we 've hurt him , cousin ? ''
ask Archie , with a troubled look , while Charlie settle down in a remorseful heap among the table leg .
`` Yes , I do , for he have get a raging headache , and his eye be as red a a this emery bag , '' answer Rose , solemnly plunge her needle into a fat flannel strawberry .
Steve tear his hair , metaphorically speak , for he clutch his cherished top-knot , and wildly dishevel it , a if that be the heavy penance he could inflict upon himself at such short notice .
Charlie lay himself out flat , melodramatically beg someone to take him away and hang him ; but Archie , who felt bad of all , say nothing except to vow within himself that he would read to Mac till his own eye be as red a a dozen emery bag combine .
Seeing the wholesome effect of her treatment upon these culprit , Rose felt that she might relent and allow them a gleam of hope .
She find it impossible to help trample upon the prostrate Prince a little , in word at least , for he have hurt her feeling oftener than he know ; so she give him a thimble-pie on the top of his head , and say , with an air of an infinitely superior be , `` Do n't be silly , but get up , and I 'll tell you something much well to do than sprawl on the floor and get all over lint . ''
Charlie obediently sit himself upon a hassock at her foot ; the other sinner draw near to catch the word of wisdom about to fall from her lip , and Rose , soften by this gratifying humility , address them in her most maternal tone .
`` Now , boy , if you really want to be good to Mac , you can do it in this way .
Do n't keep talk about thing he ca n't do , or go and tell what fun you have have bat your ridiculous ball about .
Get some nice book and read quietly ; cheer him up about school , and offer to help him study by and by ; you can do that good than I , because I 'm only a girl , and do n't learn Greek and Latin and all sort of headachy stuff . ''
`` Yes , but you can do heap of thing good than we can ; you 've prove that , '' say Archie , with an approve look that delight Rose , though she could not resist give Charlie one more rebuke , by say , with a little bridling of the head , and a curl of the lip that want to smile instead , `` I 'm glad you think so , though I be a ` queer chicken . '' '
This scathing remark cause the Prince to hide his face for shame , and Steve to erect his head in the proud consciousness that this shot be not mean for him .
Archie laugh , and Rose , see a merry blue eye winking at her from behind two brown hand , give Charlie 's ear a friendly tweak , and extend the olive-branch of peace .
`` Now we 'll all be good , and plan nice thing for poor Mac , '' she say , smile so graciously that the boy felt a if the sun have suddenly burst out from behind a heavy cloud and be shin with great brilliancy .
The storm have clear the air , and quite a heavenly calm succeed , during which plan of a most varied and surprising sort be lay , for everyone burn to make noble sacrifice upon the shrine of `` poor Mac , '' and Rose be the guide star to whom the others look with most gratify submission .
Of course , this elevated state of thing could not endure long , but it be very nice while it last , and leave an excellent effect upon the mind of all when the first ardour have subside .
`` There , that 's ready for to-morrow , and I do hope it will be cloudy , '' say Rose , a she finish off the new shade , the progress of which the boy have watch with interest .
`` I 'd bespeak an extra sunny day , but I 'll tell the clerk of the weather to change it .
He 's an obliging fellow , and he 'll attend to it , so make yourself easy , '' say Charlie , who have become quite perky again .
`` It be very easy for you to joke , but how would you like to wear a blinder like that for week and week , sir ? ''
and Rose quench his rise spirit by slip the shade over his eye , a he still sit on the cushion at her foot .
`` It 's horrid !
Take it off , take it off !
I do n't wonder the poor old boy have the blue with a thing like that on '' ; and Charlie sit look at what seem to him an instrument of torture , with such a sober face that Rose take it gently away , and go in to bid Mac good-night .
`` I shall go home with her , for it be get darkish , and she be rather timid , '' say Archie , forget that he have often laugh at this very timidity .
`` I think I might , for she 's take care of my brother , '' put in Steve , assert his right .
`` Let 's all go , that will please her '' ; propose Charlie , with a burst of gallantry which electrify his mate .
`` We will ! ''
they say with one voice , and they do , to Rose 's great surprise and secret contentment ; though Archie have all the care of her , for the other two be leap fence , run race , and have wrestle match all the way down .
They compose themselves on reach the door , however ; shake hand cordially all round , make their best bow , and retire with great elegance and dignity , leave Rose to say to herself , with girlish satisfaction , a she go in , `` Now , that be the way I like to be treat . ''
Chapter 13 -- Cosey Corner Vacation be over , the boy go back to school , and poor Mac be leave lamenting .
He be out of the darkened room now , and promote to blue goggles , through which he take a gloomy view of life , a might have be expect ; for there be nothing he could do but wander about , and try to amuse himself without use his eye .
Anyone who have ever be condemn to that sort of idleness know how irksome it be , and can understand the state of mind which cause Mac to say to Rose in a desperate tone one day , `` Look here , if you do n't invent some new employment or amusement for me , I shall knock myself on the head as sure a you live . ''
Rose fly to Uncle Alec for advice , and he order both patient and nurse to the mountain for a month , with Aunt Jessie and Jamie a escort .
Pokey and her mother join the party , and one bright September morning six very happy-looking people be aboard the express train for Portland two smile mamma , laden with luncheon basket and wrap ; a pretty young girl with a bag of book on her arm ; a tall thin lad with his hat over his eye ; and two small child , who sit with their short leg straight out before them , and their chubby face beam with the first speechless delight of `` truly travel . ''
An especially splendid sunset seem to have be prepare to welcome them when , after a long day 's journey , they drive into a wide , green door-yard , where a white colt , a red cow , two cat , four kitten , many hen , and a dozen people , old and young , be gaily disport themselves .
Everyone nod and smile in the friendly manner , and a lively old lady kiss the new-comers all round , a she say heartily , `` Well , now , I 'm proper glad to see you !
Come right in and rest , and we 'll have tea in less than no time , for you must be tire .
Lizzie , you show the folk upstairs ; Kitty , you fly round and help father in with the trunk ; and Jenny and I will have the table all ready by the time you come down .
Bless the dear , they want to go see the pussy , and so they shall ! ''
The three pretty daughter do `` fly round , '' and everyone felt at home at once , all be so hospitable and kind .
Aunt Jessie have rapture over the home-made carpet , quilt and quaint furniture ; Rose could not keep away from the window , for each frame a lovely picture ; and the little folk make friend at once with the other child , who fill their arm with chicken and kitten , and do the honour handsomely .
The toot of a horn call all to supper , and a goodly party , include six child besides the Camp-bells , assemble in the long dining-room , arm with mountain appetite and the gay spirit .
It be impossible for anyone to be shy or sober , for such gale of merriment arose they blow the starch out of the stiff , and make the sad jolly .
Mother Atkinson , a all call their hostess , be the merry there , and the busy ; for she keep fly up to wait on the child , to bring out some new dish , or to banish the live stock , who be of such a social turn that the colt come into the entry and demand sugar ; the cat sit about in people 's lap , wink suggestively at the food ; and speckle hen clear the kitchen floor of crumb , a they join in the chat with a cheerful clucking .
Everybody turn out after tea to watch the sunset till all the lovely red be go , and mosquito wind their shrill horn to sound the retreat .
The music of an organ surprise the new-comers , and in the parlor they find Father Atkinson play sweetly on the little instrument make by himself .
All the child gather about him , and , lead by the tuneful sister , sing prettily till Pokey fell asleep behind the door , and Jamie gap audibly right in the middle of his favourite , `` Coo , '' say the little dove : `` Coo , '' say she , `` All in the top of the old pine-tree . ''
The old traveller , be tire , go to `` bye low '' at the same time , and sleep like top in home-spun sheet , on husk mattress make by Mother Atkinson , who seem to have put some soothing powder among them , so deep and sweet be the slumber that come .
Next day begin the wholesome out-of-door life , which work such wonder with tired mind and feeble body .
The weather be perfect , and the mountain air make the child as frisky a young lamb ; while the elder go about smile at one another , and say , `` Is n't it splendid ? ''
Even Mac , the `` slow coach , '' be see to leap over a fence a if he really could not help it ; and when Rose run after him with his broad-brimmed hat , he make the spirited proposal to go into the wood and hunt for a catamount .
Jamie and Pokey be at once enrol in the Cosey Corner Light Infantry a truly superb company , compose entirely of officer , all wear cock hat , carry flag , wave sword , or beat drum .
It be a spectacle to stir the dull soul when this gallant band march out of the yard in full regimentals , with Captain Dove a solemn , big-headed boy of eleven issue his order with the gravity of a general , and his Falstaffian regiment obey them with more docility than skill .
The little Snow child do very well , and Lieutenant Jack Dove be fine to see ; so be Drummer Frank , the errand-boy of the house , a he rub-a-dub-dubbed with all his heart and drumstick .
Jamie have `` train '' before , and be make a colonel at once ; but Pokey be the best of all , and call forth a spontaneous burst of applause from the spectator a she bring up the rear , her cock hat all over one eye , her flag trailing over her shoulder , and her wooden sword straight up in the air ; her face beaming and every curl bob with delight a her fat leg totter in the vain attempt to keep step manfully .
Mac and Rose be pick blackberry in the bush beside the road when the soldier pass without see them , and they witness a sight that be both pretty and comical .
A little farther on be one of the family burial spot so common in those part , and just this side of it Captain Fred Dove order his company to halt , explain his reason for so do in the following word , `` That 's a graveyard , and it 's proper to muffle the drum and low the flag a we go by , and we 'd better take off our hat , too ; it 's more respectable , I think . ''
`` Is n't that cunning of the dear ? ''
whisper Rose , a the little troop march slowly by to the muffle roll of the drum , every flag and sword hold low , all the little head uncover , and the childish face very sober a the leafy shadow flicker over them .
`` Let 's follow and see what they be after , '' propose Mac , who find sit on the wall and be feed with blackberry luxurious but tiresome .
So they follow and hear the music grow lively , saw the banner wave in the breeze again when the graveyard be pass , and watch the company file into the dilapidated old church that stand at the corner of three woodland road .
Presently the sound of sing make the outsider quicken their step , and , steal up , they peep in at one of the broken window .
Captain Dove be up in the old wooden pulpit , gaze solemnly down upon his company , who , have stack their arm in the porch , now sit in the bare pews sing a Sunday-school hymn with great vigour and relish .
`` Let u pray , '' say Captain Dove , with as much reverence a an army chaplain ; and , fold his hand , he repeat a prayer which he think all would know an excellent little prayer , but not exactly appropriate to the morning , for it be , `` Now I lay me down to sleep . ''
Everyone join in say it , and it be a pretty sight to see the little creature bow their curly head and lisp out the word they know so well .
Tears come into Rose 's eye a she look ; Mac take his hat off involuntarily , and then clap it on again a if ashamed of show any feeling .
`` Now I shall preach you a short sermon , and my text be , ` Little child , love one another . '
I ask mamma to give me one , and she think that would be good ; so you all sit still and I 'll preach it .
You must n't whisper , Marion , but hear me .
It mean that we should be good to each other , and play fair , and not quarrel a we do this very day about the wagon .
Jack ca n't always drive , and need n't be mad because I like to go with Frank .
Annette ought to be horse sometimes and not always driver ; and Willie may as well make up his mind to let Marion build her house by his , for she will do it , and he need n't fuss about it .
Jamie seem to be a good boy , but I shall preach to him if he be n't .
No , Pokey , people do n't kiss in church or put their hat on .
Now you must all remember what I tell you , because I be the captain , and you should mind me . ''
Here Lieutenant Jack speak right out in meet with the rebellious remark , `` Do n't care if you be ; you 'd better mind yourself , and tell how you take away my strap , and keep the big doughnut , and do n't draw fair when we have the truck . ''
`` Yes , and you slap Frank ; I saw you ! ''
bawl Willie Snow , bob up in his pew .
`` And you take my book away and hide it 'cause I would n't go and swing when you want me to , '' add Annette , the old of the Snow trio .
`` I sha n't build my house by Willie 's if he do n't want me to , so now ! ''
put in little Marion , join the mutiny .
`` I will tiss Dimmy !
and I tored up my hat ` tause a pin pick me , '' shout Pokey , regardless of Jamie 's effort to restrain her .
Captain Dove look rather take aback at this outbreak in the rank ; but , be a dignify and calm personage , he quell the rise rebellion with great tact and skill , by say , briefly , `` We 'll sing the last hymn ; ` Sweet , sweet good-by ' you all know that , so do it nicely , and then we will go and have luncheon . ''
Peace be instantly restore , and a burst of melody drown the suppressed giggle of Rose and Mac , who find it impossible to keep sober during the latter part of this somewhat remarkable service .
Fifteen minute of repose render it a physical impossibility for the company to march out as quietly a they have march in .
I grieve to state that the entire troop race home as hard a they could pelt , and be soon skirmish briskly over their lunch , utterly oblivious of what Jamie -LRB- who have be much impress by the sermon -RRB- call `` the captain 's beautiful teck . ''
It be astonish how much they all find to do at Cosey Corner ; and Mac , instead of lie in a hammock and be read to , a he have expect , be busy of all .
He be invite to survey and lay out Skeeterville , a town which the child be get up in a huckleberry pasture ; and he find much amusement in plan little road , stake off house-lots , attend to the water-works , and consult with the `` selectman '' about the best site for public building ; for Mac be a boy still , in spite of his fifteen year and his love of book .
Then he go fish with a certain jovial gentleman from the West ; and though they seldom caught anything but cold , they have great fun and exercise chase the phantom trout they be bind to have .
Mac also develop a geological mania , and go tap about at rock and stone , discourse wisely of `` stratum , period , and fossil remains '' ; while Rose pick up leaf and lichen , and give him lesson in botany in return for his lecture on geology .
They lead a very merry life ; for the Atkinson girl keep up a sort of perpetual picnic ; and do it so capitally , that one be never tire of it .
So their visitor thrive finely , and long before the month be out it be evident that Dr. Alec have prescribe the right medicine for his patient .
Chapter 14 -- A Happy Birthday The twelfth of October be Rose 's birthday , but no one seem to remember that interest fact , and she felt delicate about mention it , so fell asleep the night before wonder if she would have any present .
That question be settle early the next morning , for she be awaken by a soft tap on her face , and open her eye she behold a little black and white figure sit on her pillow , star at her with a pair of round eye very like blueberry , while one downy paw pat her nose to attract her notice .
It be Kitty Comet , the prettiest of all the pussy , and Comet evidently have a mission to perform , for a pink bow adorn her neck , and a bit of paper be pin to it bear the word , `` For Miss Rose , from Frank . ''
That please her extremely , and that be only the beginning of the fun , for surprise and present keep pop out in the most delightful manner all through the day , the Atkinson girl be famous joker and Rose a favourite .
But the best gift of all come on the way to Mount Windy-Top , where it be decide to picnic in honour of the great occasion .
Three jolly load set off soon after breakfast , for everybody go , and everybody seem bound to have an extra good time , especially Mother Atkinson , who wear a hat as broad-brimmed a an umbrella , and take the dinner-horn to keep her flock from stray away .
`` I 'm go to drive auntie and a lot of the baby , so you must ride the pony .
And please stay behind u a good bit when we go to the station , for a parcel be come , and you be not to see it till dinner-time .
You wo n't mind , will you ? ''
say Mac , in a confidential aside during the wild flurry of the start .
`` Not a bit , '' answer Rose .
`` It hurt my feeling very much to be tell to keep out of the way at any other time , but birthday and Christmas it be part of the fun to be blind and stupid , and poke into corner .
I 'll be ready as soon a you be , Giglamps . ''
`` Stop under the big maple till I call then you ca n't possibly see anything , '' add Mac , a he mount her on the pony his father have send up for his use .
`` Barkis '' be so gentle and so `` willin ' , '' however , that Rose be ashamed to be afraid to ride him ; so she have learn , that she might surprise Dr. Alec when she get home ; meantime she have many a fine canter `` over the hill and far away '' with Mac , who prefer Mr. Atkinson 's old Sorrel .
Away they go , and , come to the red maple , Rose obediently pause ; but could not help steal a glance in the forbidden direction before the call come .
Yes , there be a hamper go under the seat , and then she catch sight of a tall man whom Mac seem to be hustle into the carriage in a great hurry .
One look be enough , and with a cry of delight , Rose be off down the road as fast a Barkis could go .
`` Now I 'll astonish uncle , '' she think .
`` I 'll dash up in grand style , and show him that I be not a coward , after all . ''
Fired by this ambition , she startle Barkis by a sharp cut , and still more bewildered him by leave him to his own guidance down the steep , stony road .
The approach would have be a fine success if , just a Rose be about to pull up and salute , two or three distract hen have not scuttle across the road with a great squawking , which cause Barkis to shy and stop so suddenly that his careless rider land in an ignominious heap just under old Sorrel 's astonish nose .
Rose be up again before Dr. Alec be out of the carryall , and throw two dusty arm about his neck cry with a breathless voice , `` O uncle , I 'm so glad to see you !
It be well than a cart-load of goody , and so dear of you to come ! ''
`` But be n't you hurt , child !
That be a rough tumble , and I 'm afraid you must be damage somewhere , '' answer the Doctor , full of fond anxiety , a he survey his girl with pride .
`` My feeling be hurt , but my bone be all safe .
It 's too bad !
I be go to do it so nicely , and those stupid hen spoil it all , '' say Rose , quite crestfallen , as well a much shaken .
`` I could n't believe my eye when I ask ` Where be Rose ? '
and Mac point to the little Amazon pelt down the hill at such a rate .
You could n't have do anything that would please me more , and I 'm delighted to see how well you ride .
Now , will you mount again , or shall we turn Mac out and take you in ? ''
ask Dr. Alec , a Aunt Jessie propose a start , for the others be beckon them to follow .
`` Pride goeth before a fall well not try to show off again , ma'am , '' say Mac , who would have be more than mortal if he have refrain from tease when so good a chance offer .
`` Pride do go before a fall , but I wonder if a sprained ankle always come after it ? ''
thought Rose , bravely conceal her pain , a she answer , with great dignity , `` I prefer to ride .
Come on , and see who will catch up first . ''
She be up and away a she speak , do her best to efface the memory of her downfall by sit very erect , elbow down , head well up , and take the motion of the pony a Barkis canter along as easily a a rocking-chair .
`` You ought to see her go over a fence and race when we ride together .
She can scud , too , like a deer when we play ` Follow the leader , ' and skip stone and bat ball almost as well a I can , '' say Mac , in reply to his uncle 's praise of his pupil .
`` I 'm afraid you will think her a sad tomboy , Alec ; but really she seem so well and happy , I have not the heart to check her .
She have break out in the most unexpected way , and frisk like a colt ; for she say she feel so full of spirit she must run and shout whether it be proper or not , '' add Mrs. Jessie , who have be a pretty hoyden year ago herself .
`` Good good !
that 's the best news you could tell me , '' and Dr. Alec rub his hand heartily .
`` Let the girl run and shout as much a she will it be a sure sign of health , and a natural to a happy child a frisking be to any young animal full of life .
Tomboys make strong woman usually , and I have far rather find Rose play football with Mac than putter over bead-work like that affect midget , Ariadne Blish . ''
`` But she can not go on play football very long , and we must not forget that she have a woman 's work to do by and by , '' begin Mrs. Jessie .
`` Neither will Mac play football much longer , but he will be all the good fit for business , because of the health it give him .
Polish be easily add , if the foundation be strong ; but no amount of gilding will be of use if your timber be not sound .
I 'm sure I 'm right , Jessie ; and if I can do as well by my girl during the next six month a I have the last , my experiment will succeed . ''
`` It certainly will ; for when I contrast that bright , bloom face with the pale , listless one that make my heart ache a while ago , I can believe in almost any miracle , '' say Mrs. Jessie , a Rose look round to point out a lovely view , with cheek like the ruddy apple in the orchard near by , eye clear a the autumn sky overhead , and vigour in every line of her girlish figure .
A general scramble among the rock be follow by a regular gypsy lunch , which the young folk have the rapture of help to prepare .
Mother Atkinson put on her apron , turn up her sleeve , and fell to work as gaily a if in her own kitchen , boil the kettle slung on three stick , over a fire of cone and fir bough ; while the girl spread the mossy table with a feast of country goody , and the child tumble about in everyone 's way till the toot of the horn make them settle down like a flock of hungry bird .
As soon a the merry meal and a brief interval of repose be over , it be unanimously vote to have some charade .
A smooth , green spot between two stately pine be choose for the stage ; shawl hang up , property collect , audience and actor separate , and a word quickly choose .
The first scene discover Mac in a despondent attitude and shabby dress , evidently much trouble in mind .
To him enter a remarkable creature with a brown paper bag over it head .
A little pink nose peep through one hole in the middle , white teeth through another , and above two eye glare fiercely .
Spires of grass stick in each side of the mouth seem meant to represent whisker ; the upper corner of the bag be twist like ear , and no one could doubt for a moment that the black scarf pin on behind be a tail .
This singular animal seem in pantomime to be comfort his master and offering advice , which be finally act upon , for Mac pull off his boot , help the little beast into them , and give him a bag ; then , kiss his paw , with a hopeful gesture , the creature retire , purr so successfully that there be a general cry of `` Cat , pus , boot ! ''
`` Cat be the word , '' reply a voice , and the curtain fell .
The next scene be a puzzler , for in come another animal , on all-fours this time , with a new sort of tail and long ear .
A gray shawl conceal it face , but an inquisitive sunbeam betray the glitter a of goggles under the fringe .
On it back rode a small gentleman in Eastern costume , who appear to find some difficulty in keep his seat a his steed jog along .
Suddenly a spirit appear , all in white , with long newspaper wing upon it back and golden lock about it face .
Singularly enough , the beast beheld this apparition and back instantly , but the rider evidently saw nothing and whip up unmercifully , also unsuccessfully , for the spirit stand directly in the path , and the amiable beast would not budge a foot .
A lively skirmish follow , which end in the Eastern gentleman be upset into a sweet-fern bush , while the good breed animal abase itself before the shin one .
The child be all in the dark till Mother Atkinson say , in an inquire tone , `` If that be n't Balaam and the as , I 'd like to know what it be .
Rose make a sweet angel , do n't she ? ''
`` Ass '' be evidently the word , and the angel retire , smile with mundane satisfaction over the compliment that reach her ear .
The next be a pretty little scene from the immortal story of `` Babes in the Wood . ''
Jamie and Pokey come trot in , hand in hand , and , have be through the part many time before , act with great ease and much fluency , audibly direct each other from time to time a they go along .
The berry be pick , the way lose , tear shed , baby consolation administer , and then the little pair lay down among the brake and die with their eye wide open and the toe of their four little boot turn up to the daisy in the most pathetic manner .
`` Now the wobins tum .
You be twite dead , Dimmy , and I 'll peep in and see 'em , '' one defunct innocent be hear to say .
`` I hope they 'll be quick , for I 'm lie on a stone , and ant be walk up my leg like fury , '' murmur the other .
Here the robin come flap in with red scarf over their breast and leaf in their mouth , which they carefully lay upon the babe wherever they would show best .
A prickly blackberry leaf place directly over Pokey 's nose cause her to sneeze so violently that her little legs fly into the air ; Jamie give a startled `` Ow ! ''
and the pitying fowl flee giggling .
After some discussion it be decide that the syllable must be `` strew or strow '' and then they wait to see if it be a good guess .
This scene discover Annette Snow in bed , evidently very ill ; Miss Jenny be her anxious mamma , and her merry conversation amuse the audience till Mac come in a a physician , and make great fun with his big watch , pompous manner , and absurd question .
He prescribe one pellet with an unpronounceable name , and leave after demand twenty dollar for his brief visit .
The pellet be administer , and such awful agony immediately set in that the distracted mamma bid a sympathetic neighbour run for Mother Know-all .
The neighbour ran , and in come a brisk little old lady in cap and spec , with a bundle of herb under her arm , which she at once apply in all sort of funny way , explain their virtue a she clap a plantain poultice here , put a pounded catnip plaster there , or tie a couple of mullein leave round the sufferer 's throat .
Instant relief ensue , the die child sit up and demand baked bean .
The grateful parent offer fifty dollar ; but Mother Know-all indignantly refuse it and go smile away , declare that a neighbourly turn need no reward , and a doctor 's fee be all a humbug .
The audience be in fit of laughter over this scene , for Rose imitate Mrs. Atkinson capitally , and the herb cure be a good hit at the excellent lady 's belief that `` yarbs '' would save mankind if properly apply .
No one enjoy it more than herself , and the saucy child prepare for the grand finale in high feather .
This closing scene be brief but striking , for two train of car whiz in from opposite side , meet with a terrible collision in the middle of the stage , and a general smash-up complete the word catastrophe .
`` Now let u act a proverb .
I 've get one all ready , '' say Rose , who be die to distinguish herself in some way before Uncle Alec .
So everyone but Mac , the gay Westerner , and Rose , take their place on the rocky seat and discuss the late beautiful and varied charade , in which Pokey frankly pronounce her own scene the `` best of all . ''
In five minute the curtain be lift ; nothing appear but a very large sheet of brown paper pin to a tree , and on it be draw a clock-face , the hand point to four .
A small note below inform the public that 4 A.M. be the time .
Hardly have the audience grasp this important fact when a long waterproof serpent be see uncoil itself from behind a stump .
An inch-worm , perhaps , would be a good description , for it travel in the same humpy way a that please reptile .
Suddenly a very wide-awake and active fowl advance , peck , chirp , and scratch vigorously .
A tuft of green leaf wave upon his crest , a large tuft of brake make an umbrageous tail , and a shawl of many colour form his flapping wing .
A truly noble bird , whose leg have the genuine strut , whose eye shine watchfully , and whose voice have a ring that evidently strike terror into the catterpillar 's soul , if it be a catterpillar .
He squirm , he wriggle , he hump as fast a he could , try to escape ; but all in vain .
The tufted bird espy him , give one warble sort of crow , pounce upon him , and flap triumphantly away .
`` That early bird get such a big worm he could hardly carry him off , '' laugh Aunt Jessie , a the child shout over the joke suggest by Mac 's nickname .
`` That be one of uncle 's favourite proverb , so I get it up for his especial benefit , '' say Rose , come up with the two-legged worm beside her .
`` Very clever ; what next ? ''
ask Dr. Alec a she sit down beside him .
`` The Dove boy be go to give u an ` Incident in the Life of Napoleon , ' a they call it ; the child think it very splendid , and the little fellow do it rather nicely , '' answer Mac with condescension .
A tent appear , and pace to and fro before it be a little sentinel , who , in a brief soliloquy , inform the observer that the element be in a great state of confusion , that he have march some hundred mile or so that day , and that he be die for want of sleep .
Then he pause , lean upon his gun , and seem to doze ; drop slowly down , overpower with slumber , and finally lay flat , with his gun beside him , a faithless little sentinel .
Enter Napoleon , cock hat , gray coat , high boot , fold arm , grim mouth , and a melodramatic stride .
Freddy Dove always cover himself with glory in this part , and `` take the stage '' with a Napoleonic attitude that bring down the house ; for the big-headed boy , with solemn , dark eye and square brow , be `` the very moral of that rascal , Boneyparty , '' Mother Atkinson say .
Some great scheme be evidently brew in his mighty mind a trip across the Alps , a bonfire at Moscow , or a little skirmish at Waterloo perhaps , for he march in silent majesty till suddenly a gentle snore disturb the imperial reverie .
He saw the sleep soldier and glare upon him , say in an awful tone , `` Ha !
asleep at his post !
Death be the penalty he must die ! ''
Picking up the musket , he be about to execute summary justice , a emperor be in the habit of do , when something in the face of the weary sentinel appear to touch him .
And well it might , for a most engaging little warrior be Jack a he lay with his shako half off , his childish face try to keep sober , and a great black moustache over his rosy mouth .
It would have soften the heart of any Napoleon , and the Little Corporal prove himself a man by relent , and say , with a lofty gesture of forgiveness , `` Brave fellow , he be wear out ; I will let him sleep , and mount guard in his place . ''
Then , shoulder the gun , this noble be strode to and fro with a dignity which thrill the young spectator .
The sentinel awakes , see what have happen , and give himself up for lose .
But the Emperor restore his weapon , and , with that smile which win all heart , say , point to a high rock whereon a crow happen to be sit , `` Be brave , be vigilant , and remember that from yonder Pyramid generation be behold you , '' and with these memorable word he vanish , leave the grateful soldier bolt upright , with his hand at his temple and deathless devotion stamp upon his youthful countenance .
The applause which follow this superb piece have hardly subside , when a sudden splash and a shrill cry cause a general rush toward the waterfall that go gambol down the rock , sing sweetly a it run .
Pokey have try to gambol also , and have tumble into a shallow pool , whither Jamie have gallantly follow , in a vain attempt to fish her out , and both be paddle about half frighten , half pleased with the unexpected bath .
This mishap make it necessary to get the dripping infants home as soon a possible ; so the wagon be load up , and away they go , as merry a if the mountain air have really be `` Oxygenated Sweets not Bitters , '' a Dr. Alec suggest when Mac say he felt as jolly a if he have be drink champagne instead of the current wine that come with a great frosted cake wreathe with sugar rose in Aunt Plenty 's hamper of goody .
Rose take part in all the fun , and never betray by look or word the twinge of pain she suffer in her ankle .
She excuse herself from the game in the evening , however , and sit talk to Uncle Alec in a lively way , that both amaze and delight him ; for she confide to him that she play horse with the child , drill with the light infantry , climb tree , and do other dreadful thing that would have cause the aunt to cry aloud if they know of them .
`` I do n't care a pin what they say if you do n't mind , uncle , '' she answer , when he picture the dismay of the good lady .
`` Ah , it 's all very well to defy them , but you be get so rampant , I 'm afraid you will defy me next , and then where be we ? ''
`` No , I wo n't !
I should n't dare ; because you be my guardian , and can put me in a strait-jacket if you like ; '' and Rose laugh in his face , even while she nestle closer with a confiding gesture pleasant to see .
`` Upon my word , Rosy , I begin to feel like the man who buy an elephant , and then do n't know what to do with him .
I think I have get a pet and plaything for year to come ; but here you be grow up like a bean-stalk , and I shall find I 've get a strong-minded little woman on my hand before I can turn round .
There 's predicament for a man and an uncle ! ''
Dr. Alec 's comic distress be mercifully relieve for the time be by a dance of goblin on the lawn , where the child , with pumpkin lantern on their head , frisk about like will-o ' - the-wisps , a a parting surprise .
When Rose go to bed , she find that Uncle Alec have not forget her ; for on the table stand a delicate little easel , hold two miniature set in velvet .
She know them both , and stand look at them till her eye brim over with tear that be both sweet and sad ; for they be the face of her father and mother , beautifully copy from portrait fast fade away .
Presently , she kneel down , and , put her arm round the little shrine , kiss one after the other , say with an earnest voice , `` I 'll truly try to make them glad to see me by and by . ''
And that be Rose 's little prayer on the night of her fourteenth birthday .
Two day later the Campbells go home , a large party than when they come ; for Dr. Alec be escort and Kitty Comet be bear in state in a basket , with a bottle of milk , some tiny sandwich , and a doll 's dish to drink out of , as well a a bit of carpet to lie on in her palace car , out of which she keep pop her head in the most fascinating manner .
There be a great kissing and cuddling , waving of handkerchief , and last good-byes , a they go ; and when they have start , Mother Atkinson come run after them , to tuck in some little pie , hot from the oven , `` for the dear , who might get tire of bread and butter during that long day 's travel . ''
Another start , and another halt ; for the Snow child come shriek up to demand the three kitten that Pokey be cooly carry off in a travelling bag .
The unhappy kit be rescue , half smother , and restore to their lawful owner , amid dire lamentation from the little kidnapper , who declare that she only `` tooked um 'cause they 'd want to go wid their sister Tomit . ''
Start number three and stoppage number three , a Frank hail them with the luncheon basket , which have be forget , after everyone have protest that it be safely in .
All go well after that , and the long journey be pleasantly beguile by Pokey and Pussy , who play together so prettily that they be consider public benefactor .
`` Rose do n't want to go home , for she know the aunt wo n't let her rampage a she do up at Cosey Corner , '' say Mac , a they approach the old house .
`` I ca n't rampage if I want to for a time , at least ; and I 'll tell you why .
I sprain my ankle when I tumble off of Barkis , and it get bad and bad ; though I 've do all I know to cure it and hide it , so it should n't trouble anyone , '' whisper Rose , knit her brow with pain , a she prepare to descend , wish her uncle would take her instead of her bundle .
How he do it , she never know ; but Mac have her up the step and on the parlour sofa before she could put her foot to the ground .
`` There you be right side up with care ; and mind , now , if your ankle bother you , and you be lay up with it , I be to be your footman .
It 's only fair , you know ; for I do n't forget how good you have be to me . ''
And Mac go to call Phebe , so full of gratitude and good-will that his very goggle shone .
Chapter 15 -- Ear-Rings Rose 's sprain prove to be a serious one , owe to neglect , and Dr. Alec order her to lie on the sofa for a fortnight at least ; whereat she groan dismally , but dare not openly complain , lest the boy turn upon her with some of the wise little sermon on patience which she have deliver for their benefit .
It be Mac 's turn now , and honourably do he repay his debt ; for , a school be still forbidden , he have plenty of leisure , and devote most of it to Rose .
He take many step for her , and even allow her to teach him to knit , after assure himself that many a brave Scotchman know how to `` click the prick . ''
She be oblige to take a solemn vow of secrecy , however , before he would consent ; for , though he do not mind be call `` Giglamps , '' `` Granny '' be more than his boyish soul could bear , and at the approach of any of the Clan his knit vanish a if by magic , which frequent `` chuck '' out of sight do not improve the stripe he be do for Rose 's new afghan .
She be busy with this pretty work one bright October afternoon , all nicely establish on her sofa in the upper hall , while Jamie and Pokey -LRB- lent for her amusement -RRB- be keep house in a corner , with Comet and Rose 's old doll for their `` childerns . ''
Presently , Phebe appear with a card .
Rose read it , make a grimace , then laugh and say , `` I 'll see Miss Blish , '' and immediately put on her company face , pull out her locket , and settle her curl .
`` You dear thing , how do you do ?
I 've be try to call every day since you get back , but I have so many engagement , I really could n't manage it till to-day .
So glad you be alone , for mamma say I could sit awhile , and I bring my lace-work to show you , for it 's perfectly lovely . ''
cry Miss Blish , greet Rose with a kiss , which be not very warmly return , though Rose politely thank her for come , and bid Phebe roll up the easy chair .
`` How nice to have a maid ! ''
say Ariadne , a she settle herself with much commotion .
`` Still , dear , you must be very lonely , and feel the need of a bosom friend . ''
`` I have my cousin , '' begin Rose , with dignity , for her visitor 's patronising manner ruffle her temper .
`` Gracious , child !
you do n't make friend of those great boy , do you ?
Mamma say she really do n't think it 's proper for you to be with them so much . ''
`` They be like brother , and my aunt do think it 's proper , '' reply Rose , rather sharply , for it strike her that this be none of Miss Blish 's business .
`` I be merely go to say I should be glad to have you for my bosom friend , for Hatty Mason and I have have an awful quarrel , and do n't speak .
She be too mean to live , so I give her up .
Just think , she never pay back one of the caramel I 've give her , and never invite me to her party .
I could have forgive the caramel , but to be leave out in that rude way be more than I could bear , and I tell her never to look at me again as long a she live . ''
`` You be very kind , but I do n't think I want a bosom friend , thank you , '' say Rose , a Ariadne stop to bridle and shake her flaxen head over the delinquent Hatty Mason .
Now , in her heart Miss Blish think Rose `` a stuck-up pus , '' but the other girl want to know her and could n't , the old house be a charming place to visit , the lad be consider fine fellow , and the Campbells `` be one of our first family , '' mamma say .
So Ariadne conceal her vexation at Rose 's coolness , and change the subject a fast a possible .
`` Studying French , I see ; who be your teacher ? ''
she ask , flit over the leaf of `` Paul and Virginia , '' that lay on the table .
`` I do n't study it , for I read French as well a English , and uncle and I often speak it for hour .
He talk like a native , and say I have a remarkably good accent . ''
Rose really could not help this small display of superiority , for French be one of her strong point , and she be vain of it , though she usually manage to hide this weakness .
She felt that Ariadne would be the good for a little crushing , and could not resist the temptation to patronise in her turn .
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
say Miss Blish , rather blankly , for French be not her strong point by any mean .
`` I be to go abroad with uncle in a year or two , and he know how important it be to understand the language .
Half the girl who leave school ca n't speak decent French , and when they go abroad they be so mortified .
I shall be very glad to help you , if you like , for , of course , you have no one to talk with at home . ''
Now Ariadne , though she look like a wax doll , have feeling within her instead of sawdust , and these feeling be hurt by Rose 's lofty tone .
She think her more `` stick up '' than ever , but do not know how to bring her down , yet long to do it , for she felt a if she have receive a box on the ear , and involuntarily put her hand up to it .
The touch of an ear-ring console her , and suggest a way of return tit for tat in a telling manner .
`` Thank you , dear ; I do n't need any help , for our teacher be from Paris , and of course he speak well French than your uncle . ''
Then she add , with a gesture of her head that set the little bell on her ear to tingling : `` How do you like my new ear-rings ?
Papa give them to me last week , and everyone say they be lovely . ''
Rose come down from her high horse with a rapidity that be comical , for Ariadne have the upper hand now .
Rose adored pretty thing , long to wear them , and the desire of her girlish soul be to have her ear bore , only Dr. Alec think it foolish , so she never have do it .
She would gladly have give all the French she could jabber for a pair of golden bell with pearl-tipped tongue , like those Ariadne wear ; and , clasp her hand , she answer , in a tone that go to the hearer 's heart , `` They be too sweet for anything !
If uncle would only let me wear some , I should be perfectly happy . ''
`` I would n't mind what he say .
Papa laugh at me at first , but he like them now , and say I shall have diamond solitaire when I be eighteen , '' say Ariadne , quite satisfied with her shot .
`` I 've get a pair now that be mamma 's , and a beautiful little pair of pearl and turquoise one , that I be die to wear , '' sigh Rose .
`` Then do it .
I 'll pierce your ear , and you must wear a bit of silk in them till they be well ; your curl will hide them nicely ; then , some day , slip in your small ear-rings , and see if your uncle do n't like them . ''
`` I ask him if it would n't do my eye good once when they be red , and he only laugh .
People do cure weak eye that way , do n't they ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , and yours be sort of red .
Let me see .
Yes , I really think you ought to do it before they get bad , '' say Ariadne , peer into the large clear eye offer for inspection .
`` Does it hurt much ? ''
ask Rose , waver .
`` Oh dear , no ; just a prick and a pull , and it 's all over .
I 've do lot of ear , and know just how .
Come , push up your hair and get a big needle . ''
`` I do n't quite like to do it without ask uncle 's leave , '' falter Rose , when all be ready for the operation .
`` Did he ever forbid it ? ''
demand Ariadne , hover over her prey like a vampire .
`` No , never ! ''
`` Then do it , unless you be afraid , '' cry Miss Blish , bent on accomplish the deed .
That last word settle the matter , and , close her eye , Rose say `` Punch ! ''
in the tone of one give the fatal order `` Fire ! ''
Ariadne punch , and the victim bore it in heroic silence , though she turn pale and her eye be full of tear of anguish .
`` There !
Now pull the bit of silk often , and cold-cream your ear every night , and you 'll soon be ready for the ring , '' say Ariadne , well pleased with her job , for the girl who speak French with `` a fine accent '' lay flat upon the sofa , look as exhaust a if she have have both ear cut off .
`` It do hurt dreadfully , and I know uncle wo n't like it , '' sigh Rose , a remorse begin to gnaw .
`` Promise not to tell , or I shall be tease to death , '' she add , anxiously , entirely forget the two little pitcher gift with eye as well a ear , who have be watch the whole performance from afar .
`` Never .
Mercy me , what 's that ? ''
and Ariadne start a a sudden sound of step and voice come up from below .
`` It 's the boy !
Hide the needle .
Do my ear show ?
Do n't breathe a word ! ''
whisper Rose , scramble about to conceal all trace of their iniquity from the sharp eye of the Clan .
Up they come , all in good order , laden with the proceeds of a nutting expedition , for they always report to Rose and pay tribute to their queen in the handsome manner .
`` How many , and how big !
We 'll have a grand roast frolic after tea , wo n't we ? ''
say Rose , plunge both hand into a bag of glossy brown nut , while the Clan `` stand at ease '' and nod to Ariadne .
`` That lot be pick especially for you , Rosy .
