So much of himself -- of his imagination and all other power -- have be lavish on the study of Walter and Elinor that he almost regard them a creation of his own , like the thousand with which he have people the realm of Picture .
Therefore do they flit through the twilight of the wood , hover on the mist of waterfall , look forth from the mirror of the lake , nor melt away in the noontide sun .
They haunt his pictorial fancy , not a mockery of life nor pale goblin of the dead , but in the guise of portrait , each with an unalterable expression which his magic have evoke from the cavern of the soul .
He could not recross the Atlantic till he have again behold the original of those airy picture .
`` O glorious Art ! ''
Thus muse the enthusiastic painter a he tread the street .
`` Thou art the image of the Creator 's own .
The innumerable form that wander in nothingness start into be at thy beck .
The dead live again ; thou recallest them to their old scene and givest their gray shadow the lustre of a good life , at once earthly and immortal .
Thou snatchest back the fleeting moment of history .
With then there be no past , for at thy touch all that be great becomes for ever present , and illustrious men live through long age in the visible performance of the very deeds which make them what they be .
O potent Art !
a thou bringest the faintly-revealed past to stand in that narrow strip of sunlight which we call ` now , ' canst thou summon the shrouded future to meet her there ?
Have I not achieve it ?
Am I not thy prophet ? ''
Thus with a proud yet melancholy fervor do he almost cry aloud a he pass through the toilsome street among people that know not of his revery nor could understand nor care for them .
It be not good for man to cherish a solitary ambition .
Unless there be those around him by whose example he may regulate himself , his thought , desire and hope will become extravagant and he the semblance -- perhaps the reality -- of a madman .
Reading other bosom with an acuteness almost preternatural , the painter fail to see the disorder of his own .
`` And this should be the house , '' say he , look up and down the front before he knock .
`` Heaven help my brain !
That picture !
Methinks it will never vanish .
Whether I look at the window or the door , there it be frame within them , paint strongly and glow in the rich tint -- the face of the portrait , the figure and action of the sketch ! ''
He knock .
`` The portrait -- be they within ? ''
inquire he of the domestic ; then , recollect himself , `` Your master and mistress -- be they at home ? ''
`` They be , sir , '' say the servant , add , a he notice that picturesque aspect of which the painter could never divest himself , `` and the portrait too . ''
The guest be admit into a parlor communicating by a central door with an interior room of the same size .
As the first apartment be empty , he pass to the entrance of the second , within which his eye be greet by those living personage , as well a their pictured representative , who have long be the object of so singular an interest .
He involuntarily pause on the threshold .
They have not perceive his approach .
Walter and Elinor be stand before the portrait , whence the former have just fling back the rich and voluminous fold of the silken curtain , hold it golden tassel with one hand , while the other grasp that of his bride .
The picture , conceal for month , gleam forth again in undiminished splendor , appear to throw a sombre light across the room rather than to be disclose by a borrow radiance .
That of Elinor have be almost prophetic .
A pensiveness , and next a gentle sorrow , have successively dwelt upon her countenance , deepen with the lapse of time into a quiet anguish .
A mixture of affright would now have make it the very expression of the portrait .
Walter 's face be moody and dull or animate only by fitful flash which leave a heavy darkness for their momentary illumination .
He look from Elinor to her portrait , and thence to his own , in the contemplation of which he finally stand absorbed .
The painter seem to hear the step of Destiny approach behind him on it progress toward it victim .
A strange thought dart into his mind .
Was not his own the form in which that Destiny have embody itself , and he a chief agent of the come evil which he have foreshadow ?
Still , Walter remain silent before the picture , commune with it a with his own heart and abandon himself to the spell of evil influence that the painter have cast upon the feature .
Gradually his eye kindle , while a Elinor watch the increase wildness of his face her own assume a look of terror ; and when , at last , he turn upon her , the resemblance of both to their portrait be complete .
`` Our fate be upon u ! ''
howl Walter .
`` Die ! ''
Drawing a knife , he sustain her a she be sink to the ground , and aim it at her bosom .
In the action and in the look and attitude of each the painter behold the figure of his sketch .
The picture , with all it tremendous coloring , be finish .
`` Hold , madman ! ''
cry he , sternly .
He have advance from the door and interpose himself between the wretched being with the same sense of power to regulate their destiny a to alter a scene upon the canvas .
He stand like a magician control the phantom which he have evoke .
`` What ! ''
mutter Walter Ludlow a he relapse from fierce excitement into sullen gloom .
`` Does Fate impede it own decree ? ''
`` Wretched lady , '' say the painter , `` do I not warn you ? ''
`` You do , '' reply Elinor , calmly , a her terror give place to the quiet grief which it have disturb .
`` But I love him . ''
Is there not a deep moral in the tale ?
Could the result of one or all our deed be shadow forth and set before u , some would call it fate and hurry onward , others be sweep along by their passionate desire , and none be turn aside by the prophetic picture .
DAVID SWAN .
A FANTASY .
We can be but partially acquaint even with the event which actually influence our course through life and our final destiny .
There be innumerable other event , if such they may be call , which come close upon u , yet pass away without actual result or even betray their near approach by the reflection of any light or shadow across our mind .
Could we know all the vicissitude of our fortune , life would be too full of hope and fear , exultation or disappointment , to afford u a single hour of true serenity .
This idea may be illustrate by a page from the secret history of David Swan .
We have nothing to do with David until we find him , at the age of twenty , on the high road from his native place to the city of Boston , where his uncle , a small dealer in the grocery line , be to take him behind the counter .
Be it enough to say that he be a native of New Hampshire , born of respectable parent , and have receive an ordinary school education with a classic finish by a year at Gilmanton Academy .
After journey on foot from sunrise till nearly noon of a summer 's day , his weariness and the increase heat determine him to sit down in the first convenient shade and await the come up of the stage-coach .
As if plant on purpose for him , there soon appear a little tuft of maple with a delightful recess in the midst , and such a fresh bubbling spring that it seem never to have sparkle for any wayfarer but David Swan .
Virgin or not , he kiss it with his thirsty lip and then fling himself along the brink , pillow his head upon some shirt and a pair of pantaloon tie up in a striped cotton handkerchief .
The sunbeam could not reach him ; the dust do not yet rise from the road after the heavy rain of yesterday , and his grassy lair suit the young man well than a bed of down .
The spring murmur drowsily beside him ; the branch wave dreamily across the blue sky overhead , and a deep sleep , perchance hiding dream within it depth , fell upon David Swan .
But we be to relate event which he do not dream of .
While he lay sound asleep in the shade other people be wide awake , and pass to and fro , afoot , on horseback and in all sort of vehicle , along the sunny road by his bedchamber .
Some look neither to the right hand nor the left and know not that he be there ; some merely glance that way without admit the slumberer among their busy thought ; some laugh to see how soundly he sleep , and several whose heart be brim full of scorn eject their venomous superfluity on David Swan .
A middle-aged widow , when nobody else be near , thrust her head a little way into the recess , and vow that the young fellow look charm in his sleep .
A temperance lecturer saw him , and work poor David into the texture of his evening 's discourse a an awful instance of dead drunkenness by the roadside .
But censure , praise , merriment , scorn and indifference be all one -- or , rather , all nothing -- to David Swan .
He have sleep only a few moment when a brown carriage draw by a handsome pair of horse bowl easily along and be bring to a standstill nearly in front of David 's resting-place .
A linch-pin have fall out and permit one of the wheel to slide off .
The damage be slight and occasion merely a momentary alarm to an elderly merchant and his wife , who be return to Boston in the carriage .
While the coachman and a servant be replace the wheel the lady and gentleman shelter themselves beneath the maple tree , and there espy the bubbling fountain and David Swan asleep beside it .
Impressed with the awe which the humble sleeper usually shed around him , the merchant trod as lightly a the gout would allow , and his spouse take good heed not to rustle her silk gown l David should start up all of a sudden .
`` How soundly he sleep ! ''
whisper the old gentleman .
`` From what a depth he draw that easy breath !
Such sleep a that , bring on without an opiate , would be worth more to me than half my income , for it would suppose health and an untroubled mind . ''
`` And youth besides , '' say the lady .
`` Healthy and quiet age do not sleep thus .
Our slumber be no more like his than our wakefulness . ''
The longer they look , the more do this elderly couple feel interested in the unknown youth to whom the wayside and the maple shade be a a secret chamber with the rich gloom of damask curtain brood over him .
Perceiving that a stray sunbeam glimmer down upon his face , the lady contrive to twist a branch aside so a to intercept it , and , have do this little act of kindness , she begin to feel like a mother to him .
`` Providence seem to have lay him here , '' whisper she to her husband , `` and to have bring u hither to find him , after our disappointment in our cousin 's son .
Methinks I can see a likeness to our departed Henry .
Shall we waken him ? ''
`` To what purpose ? ''
say the merchant , hesitate .
`` We know nothing of the youth 's character . ''
`` That open countenance ! ''
reply his wife , in the same hushed voice , yet earnestly .
`` This innocent sleep ! ''
While these whisper be pass , the sleeper 's heart do not throb , nor his breath become agitate , nor his feature betray the least token of interest .
Yet Fortune be bend over him , just ready to let fall a burden of gold .
The old merchant have lose his only son , and have no heir to his wealth except a distant relative with whose conduct he be dissatisfy .
In such case people sometimes do strange thing than to act the magician and awaken a young man to splendor who fell asleep in poverty .
`` Shall we not waken him ? ''
repeat the lady , persuasively .
`` The coach be ready , sir , '' say the servant , behind .
The old couple start , redden and hurry away , mutually wonder that they should ever have dream of do anything so very ridiculous .
The merchant throw himself back in the carriage and occupy his mind with the plan of a magnificent asylum for unfortunate men of business .
Meanwhile , David Swan enjoy his nap .
The carriage could not have go above a mile or two when a pretty young girl come along with a trip pace which show precisely how her little heart be dance in her bosom .
Perhaps it be this merry kind of motion that cause -- be there any harm in say it ?
-- her garter to slip it knot .
Conscious that the silken girth -- if silk it be -- be relax it hold , she turn aside into the shelter of the maple tree , and there find a young man asleep by the spring .
Blushing as red a any rise that she should have intrude into a gentleman 's bedchamber , and for such a purpose too , she be about to make her escape on tiptoe .
But there be peril near the sleeper .
A monster of a bee have be wander overhead -- buzz , buzz , buzz -- now among the leaf , now flash through the strip of sunshine , and now lose in the dark shade , till finally he appear to be settle on the eyelid of David Swan .
The sting of a bee be sometimes deadly .
As free-hearted a she be innocent , the girl attack the intruder with her handkerchief , brush him soundly and drive him from beneath the maple shade .
How sweet a picture !
This good deed accomplish , with quicken breath and a deep blush she steal a glance at the youthful stranger for whom she have be battle with a dragon in the air .
`` He be handsome ! ''
thought she , and blush redder yet .
How could it be that no dream of bliss grow so strong within him that , shatter by it very strength , it should part asunder and allow him to perceive the girl among it phantom ?
Why , at least , do no smile of welcome brighten upon his face ?
She be come , the maid whose soul , accord to the old and beautiful idea , have be sever from his own , and whom in all his vague but passionate desire he yearn to meet .
Her only could he love with a perfect love , him only could she receive into the depth of her heart , and now her image be faintly blush in the fountain by his side ; should it pass away , it happy lustre would never gleam upon his life again .
`` How sound he sleep ! ''
murmur the girl .
She depart , but do not trip along the road so lightly a when she come .
Now , this girl 's father be a thriving country merchant in the neighborhood , and happen at that identical time to be look out for just such a young man a David Swan .
Had David form a wayside acquaintance with the daughter , he would have become the father 's clerk , and all else in natural succession .
So here , again , have good fortune -- the best of fortune -- steal so near that her garment brush against him , and he know nothing of the matter .
The girl be hardly out of sight when two men turn aside beneath the maple shade .
Both have dark face set off by cloth cap , which be draw down aslant over their brow .
Their dress be shabby , yet have a certain smartness .
These be a couple of rascal who get their living by whatever the devil send them , and now , in the interim of other business , have stake the joint profit of their next piece of villainy on a game of card which be to have be decide here under the tree .
But , find David asleep by the spring , one of the rogue whisper to his fellow : `` Hist !
Do you see that bundle under his head ? ''
The other villain nod , wink and leer .
`` I 'll bet you a horn of brandy , '' say the first , `` that the chap have either a pocketbook or a snug little hoard of small change stow away amongst his shirt .
And if not there , we will find it in his pantaloon pocket . ''
`` But how if he wake ? ''
say the other .
His companion thrust aside his waistcoat , point to the handle of a dirk and nod .
`` So be it ! ''
mutter the second villain .
They approach the unconscious David , and , while one point the dagger toward his heart , the other begin to search the bundle beneath his head .
Their two face , grim , wrinkle and ghastly with guilt and fear , bent over their victim , look horrible enough to be mistake for fiend should he suddenly awake .
Nay , have the villain glance aside into the spring , even they would hardly have know themselves a reflect there .
But David Swan have never wear a more tranquil aspect , even when asleep on his mother 's breast .
`` I must take away the bundle , '' whisper one .
`` If he stir , I 'll strike , '' mutter the other .
But at this moment a dog scent along the ground come in beneath the maple tree and gaze alternately at each of these wicked men and then at the quiet sleeper .
He then lap out of the fountain .
`` Pshaw ! ''
say one villain .
`` We can do nothing now .
The dog 's master must be close behind . ''
`` Let 's take a drink and be off , '' say the other .
The man with the dagger thrust back the weapon into his bosom and draw forth a pocket-pistol , but not of that kind which kill by a single discharge .
It be a flask of liquor with a block-tin tumbler screw upon the mouth .
Each drank a comfortable dram , and leave the spot with so many jest and such laughter at their unaccomplished wickedness that they might be say to have go on their way rejoicing .
In a few hour they have forget the whole affair , nor once imagine that the recording angel have write down the crime of murder against their soul in letter as durable a eternity .
As for David Swan , he still sleep quietly , neither conscious of the shadow of death when it hang over him nor of the glow of renew life when that shadow be withdraw .
He sleep , but no longer so quietly a at first .
An hour 's repose have snatch from his elastic frame the weariness with which many hour of toil have burden it .
Now he stir , now move his lip without a sound , now talk in an inward tone to the noonday spectre of his dream .
But a noise of wheel come rattle louder and louder along the road , until it dash through the dispersing mist of David 's slumber ; and there be the stagecoach .
He start up with all his idea about him .
`` Halloo , driver !
Take a passenger ? ''
shout he .
`` Room on top ! ''
answer the driver .
Up mount David , and bowl away merrily toward Boston without so much a a parting glance at that fountain of dreamlike vicissitude .
He know not that a phantom of Wealth have throw a golden hue upon it water , nor that one of Love have sigh softly to their murmur , nor that one of Death have threaten to crimson them with his blood , all in the brief hour since he lay down to sleep .
Sleeping or wake , we hear not the airy footstep of the strange thing that almost happen .
Does it not argue a superintending Providence that , while viewless and unexpected event thrust themselves continually athwart our path , there should still be regularity enough in mortal life to render foresight even partially available ?
SIGHTS FROM A STEEPLE .
So !
I have climb high , and my reward be small .
Here I stand with wearied knee -- earth , indeed , at a dizzy depth below , but heaven far , far beyond me still .
Oh that I could soar up into the very zenith , where man never breathe nor eagle ever fly , and where the ethereal azure melt away from the eye and appear only a deepened shade of nothingness !
And yet I shiver at that cold and solitary thought .
What cloud be gather in the golden west with direful intent against the brightness and the warmth of this summer afternoon ?
They be ponderous air-ships , black a death and freight with the tempest , and at interval their thunder -- the signal-guns of that unearthly squadron -- roll distant along the deep of heaven .
These near heap of fleecy vapor -- methinks I could roll and toss upon them the whole day long -- seem scatter here and there for the repose of tired pilgrim through the sky .
Perhaps -- for who can tell ?
-- beautiful spirit be disport themselves there , and will bless my mortal eye with the brief appearance of their curly lock of golden light and laugh face fair and faint a the people of a rosy dream .
Or where the float mass so imperfectly obstruct the color of the firmament a slender foot and fairy limb rest too heavily upon the frail support may be thrust through and suddenly withdrawn , while long fancy follow them in vain .
Yonder , again , be an airy archipelago where the sunbeam love to linger in their journeying through space .
Every one of those little cloud have be dip and steep in radiance which the slight pressure might disengage in silvery profusion like water wrung from a sea-maid 's hair .
Bright they be a a young man 's vision , and , like them , would be realize in dullness , obscurity and tear .
I will look on them no more .
In three part of the visible circle whose centre be this spire I discern cultivate field , village , white country-seats , the wave line of rivulet , little placid lake , and here and there a rise ground that would fain be term a hill .
On the fourth side be the sea , stretch away toward a viewless boundary , blue and calm except where the passing anger of a shadow flit across it surface and be go .
Hitherward a broad inlet penetrate far into the land ; on the verge of the harbor form by it extremity be a town , and over it be I , a watchman , all-heeding and unheeded .
Oh that the multitude of chimney could speak , like those of Madrid , and betray in smoky whisper the secret of all who since their first foundation have assemble at the hearth within !
Oh that the Limping Devil of Le Sage would perch beside me here , extend his wand over this contiguity of roof , uncover every chamber and make me familiar with their inhabitant !
The most desirable mode of existence might be that of a spiritualized Paul Pry hover invisible round man and woman , witness their deed , search into their heart , borrow brightness from their felicity and shade from their sorrow , and retain no emotion peculiar to himself .
But none of these thing be possible ; and if I would know the interior of brick wall or the mystery of human bosom , I can but guess .
Yonder be a fair street extend north and south .
The stately mansion be place each on it carpet of verdant grass , and a long flight of step descends from every door to the pavement .
Ornamental tree -- the broadleafed horse-chestnut , the elm so lofty and bending , the graceful but infrequent willow , and others whereof I know not the name -- grow thrivingly among brick and stone .
The oblique ray of the sun be intercept by these green citizen and by the house , so that one side of the street be a shaded and pleasant walk .
On it whole extent there be now but a single passenger , advance from the upper end , and he , unless distance and the medium of a pocket spyglass do him more than justice , be a fine young man of twenty .
He saunter slowly forward , slap his left hand with his folded glove , bend his eye upon the pavement , and sometimes raise them to throw a glance before him .
Certainly he have a pensive air .
Is he in doubt or in debt ?
Is he -- if the question be allowable -- in love ?
Does he strive to be melancholy and gentlemanlike , or be he merely overcome by the heat ?
But I bid him farewell for the present .
The door of one of the house -- an aristocratic edifice with curtain of purple and gold waving from the window -- be now open , and down the step come two lady swing their parasol and lightly array for a summer ramble .
Both be young , both be pretty ; but methinks the left-hand lass be the fairer of the twain , and , though she be so serious at this moment , I could swear that there be a treasure of gentle fun within her .
They stand talk a little while upon the step , and finally proceed up the street .
Meantime , a their face be now turn from me , I may look elsewhere .
Upon that wharf and down the corresponding street be a busy contrast to the quiet scene which I have just notice .
Business evidently have it centre there , and many a man be waste the summer afternoon in labor and anxiety , in lose rich or in gain them , when he would be wise to flee away to some pleasant country village or shade lake in the forest or wild and cool sea-beach .
I see vessels unlade at the wharf and precious merchandise strown upon the ground abundantly a at the bottom of the sea -- that market whence no good return , and where there be no captain nor supercargo to render an account of sale .
Here the clerk be diligent with their paper and pencil and sailor ply the block and tackle that hang over the hold , accompany their toil with cry long-drawn and roughly melodious till the bale and puncheons ascend to upper air .
At a little distance a group of gentleman be assemble round the door of a warehouse .
Grave senior be they , and I would wager -- if it be safe , in these time , to be responsible for any one -- that the least eminent among them might vie with old Vincentio , that incomparable trafficker of Pisa .
I can even select the wealthy of the company .
It be the elderly personage in somewhat rusty black , with powdered hair the superfluous whiteness of which be visible upon the cape of his coat .
His twenty ship be waft on some of their many course by every breeze that blow , and his name , I will venture to say , though I know it not , be a familiar sound among the far-separated merchant of Europe and the Indies .
But I bestow too much of my attention in this quarter .
On look again to the long and shady walk I perceive that the two fair girl have encounter the young man .
After a sort of shyness in the recognition , he turn back with them .
Moreover , he have sanction my taste in regard to his companion by place himself on the inner side of the pavement , nearest the Venus to whom I , enact on a steeple-top the part of Paris on the top of Ida , adjudge the golden apple .
In two street converge at right angle toward my watch-tower I distinguish three different procession .
One be a proud array of voluntary soldier in bright uniform , resemble , from the height whence I look down , the painted veteran that garrison the window of a toy-shop .
And yet it stir my heart .
Their regular advance , their nodding plume , the sun-flash on their bayonet and musket-barrels , the roll of their drum ascend past me , and the fife ever and anon piercing through , -- these thing have waken a warlike fire , peaceful though I be .
Close to their rear march a battalion of schoolboy range in crooked and irregular platoon , shoulder stick , thump a harsh and unripe clatter from an instrument of tin and ridiculously ape the intricate manoeuvre of the foremost band .
Nevertheless , a slight difference be scarcely perceptible from a church-spire , one might be tempt to ask , `` Which be the boy ? ''
or , rather , `` Which the men ? ''
But , leave these , let u turn to the third procession , which , though sadder in outward show , may excite identical reflection in the thoughtful mind .
It be a funeral -- a hearse drawn by a black and bony steed and cover by a dusty pall , two or three coach rumble over the stone , their driver half asleep , a dozen couple of careless mourner in their every-day attire .
Such be not the fashion of our father when they carry a friend to his grave .
There be now no doleful clang of the bell to proclaim sorrow to the town .
Was the King of Terrors more awful in those day than in our own , that wisdom and philosophy have be able to produce this change ?
Not so .
Here be a proof that he retain his proper majesty .
The military men and the military boy be wheel round the corner , and meet the funeral full in the face .
Immediately the drum be silent , all but the tap that regulate each simultaneous footfall .
The soldier yield the path to the dusty hearse and unpretending train , and the child quit their rank and cluster on the sidewalk with timorous and instinctive curiosity .
The mourner enter the churchyard at the base of the steeple and pause by an open grave among the burial-stones ; the lightning glimmer on them a they lower down the coffin , and the thunder rattle heavily while they throw the earth upon it lid .
Verily , the shower be near , and I tremble for the young man and the girl , who have now disappear from the long and shady street .
How various be the situation of the people cover by the roof beneath me , and how diversified be the event at this moment befall them !
The new-born , the age , the dying , the strong in life and the recent dead be in the chamber of these many mansion .
The full of hope , the happy , the miserable and the desperate dwell together within the circle of my glance .
In some of the house over which my eye roam so coldly guilt be enter into heart that be still tenant by a debased and trodden virtue ; guilt be on the very edge of commission , and the impend deed might be avert ; guilt be do , and the criminal wonder if it be irrevocable .
There be broad thought struggle in my mind , and , be I able to give them distinctness , they would make their way in eloquence .
Lo !
the raindrop be descend .
The cloud within a little time have gather over all the sky , hang heavily , a if about to drop in one unbroken mass upon the earth .
At interval the lightning flash from their brooding heart , quiver , disappears , and then come the thunder , travel slowly after it twin-born flame .
A strong wind have spring up , howl through the darkened street , and raise the dust in dense body to rebel against the approach storm .
The disbanded soldier fly , the funeral have already vanish like it dead , and all people hurry homeward -- all that have a home -- while a few lounge by the corner or trudge on desperately at their leisure .
In a narrow lane which communicate with the shady street I discern the rich old merchant put himself to the top of his speed lest the rain should convert his hair-powder to a paste .
Unhappy gentleman !
By the slow vehemence and painful moderation wherewith he journey , it be but too evident that Podagra have leave it thrill tenderness in his great toe .
But yonder , at a far more rapid pace , come three other of my acquaintance , the two pretty girl and the young man unseasonably interrupt in their walk .
Their footstep be support by the risen dust , the wind lend them it velocity , they fly like three sea-birds drive landward by the tempestuous breeze .
The lady would not thus rival Atalanta if they but know that any one be at leisure to observe them .
Ah !
a they hasten onward , laugh in the angry face of nature , a sudden catastrophe have chance .
At the corner where the narrow lane enters into the street they come plump against the old merchant , whose tortoise-motion have just bring him to that point .
He like not the sweet encounter ; the darkness of the whole air gather speedily upon his visage , and there be a pause on both side .
Finally he thrust aside the youth with little courtesy , seize an arm of each of the two girl , and plod onward like a magician with a prize of captive fairy .
All this be easy to be understood .
How disconsolate the poor lover stand , regardless of the rain that threaten an exceed damage to his well-fashioned habiliment , till he catch a backward glance of mirth from a bright eye , and turn away with whatever comfort it convey !
The old man and his daughter be safely house , and now the storm let loose it fury .
In every dwelling I perceive the face of the chambermaid a they shut down the window , exclude the impetuous shower and shrink away from the quick fiery glare .
The large drop descend with force upon the slat roof and rise again in smoke .
There be a rush and roar a of a river through the air , and muddy stream bubble majestically along the pavement , whirl their dusky foam into the kennel , and disappear beneath iron grate .
Thus do Arethusa sink .
I love not my station here aloft in the midst of the tumult which I be powerless to direct or quell , with the blue lightning wrinkle on my brow and the thunder mutter it first awful syllable in my ear .
I will descend .
Yet let me give another glance to the sea , where the foam break out in long white line upon a broad expanse of blackness or boil up in far-distant point like snowy mountain-tops in the eddy of a flood ; and let me look once more at the green plain and little hill of the country , over which the giant of the storm be stride in robe of mist , and at the town whose obscured and desolate street might beseem a city of the dead ; and , turn a single moment to the sky , now gloomy a an author 's prospect , I prepare to resume my station on low earth .
But stay !
A little speck of azure have widen in the western heaven ; the sunbeam find a passage and go rejoice through the tempest , and on yonder darkest cloud , bear like hallowed hope of the glory of another world and the trouble and tear of this , brighten forth the rainbow .
THE HOLLOW OF THE THREE HILLS .
In those strange old time when fantastic dream and madman 's revery be realize among the actual circumstance of life , two person meet together at an appoint hour and place .
One be a lady graceful in form and fair of feature , though pale and troubled and smitten with an untimely blight in what should have be the full bloom of her year ; the other be an ancient and meanly-dressed woman of ill-favored aspect , and so withered , shrunken and decrepit that even the space since she begin to decay must have exceed the ordinary term of human existence .
In the spot where they encounter no mortal could observe them .
Three little hill stand near each other , and down in the midst of them sink a hollow basin almost mathematically circular , two or three hundred foot in breadth and of such depth that a stately cedar might but just be visible above the side .
Dwarf pine be numerous upon the hill and partly fringe the outer verge of the intermediate hollow , within which there be nothing but the brown grass of October and here and there a tree-trunk that have fall long ago and lay moulder with no green successor from it root .
One of these mass of decay wood , formerly a majestic oak , rest close beside a pool of green and sluggish water at the bottom of the basin .
Such scene a this -LRB- so gray tradition tell -RRB- be once the resort of a power of evil and his plighted subject , and here at midnight or on the dim verge of even they be say to stand round the mantling pool disturb it putrid water in the performance of an impious baptismal rite .
The chill beauty of an autumnal sunset be now gild the three hill-tops , whence a paler tint steal down their side into the hollow .
`` Here be our pleasant meeting come to pass , '' say the age crone , `` accord a thou hast desire .
Say quickly what thou wouldst have of me , for there be but a short hour that we may tarry here . ''
As the old withered woman speak a smile glimmer on her countenance like lamplight on the wall of a sepulchre .
The lady tremble and cast her eye upward to the verge of the basin , a if meditating to return with her purpose unaccomplished .
But it be not so ordain .
`` I be stranger in this land , a you know , '' say she , at length .
`` Whence I come it matter not , but I have leave those behind me with whom my fate be intimately bind , and from whom I be cut off for ever .
There be a weight in my bosom that I can not away with , and I have come hither to inquire of their welfare . ''
`` And who be there by this green pool that can bring thee news from the end of the earth ? ''
cry the old woman , peer into the lady 's face .
`` Not from my lip mayst thou hear these tidings ; yet be thou bold , and the daylight shall not pass away from yonder hilltop before thy wish be grant . ''
`` I will do your bidding though I die , '' reply the lady , desperately .
The old woman seat herself on the trunk of the fall tree , throw aside the hood that shroud her gray lock and beckon her companion to draw near .
`` Kneel down , '' she say , `` and lay your forehead on my knee . ''
She hesitate a moment , but the anxiety that have long be kindle burn fiercely up within her .
As she kneel down the border of her garment be dip into the pool ; she lay her forehead on the old woman 's knee , and the latter draw a cloak about the lady 's face , so that she be in darkness .
Then she hear the muttered word of prayer , in the midst of which she start and would have arise .
`` Let me flee !
Let me flee and hide myself , that they may not look upon me ! ''
she cry .
But , with return recollection , she hush herself and be still a death , for it seem a if other voice , familiar in infancy and unforgotten through many wandering and in all the vicissitude of her heart and fortune , be mingle with the accent of the prayer .
At first the word be faint and indistinct -- not render so by distance , but rather resemble the dim page of a book which we strive to read by an imperfect and gradually brighten light .
In such a manner , a the prayer proceed , do those voice strengthen upon the ear , till at length the petition end , and the conversation of an age man and of a woman broken and decay like himself become distinctly audible to the lady a she kneel .
But those stranger appear not to stand in the hollow depth between the three hill .
Their voice be encompass and re-echoed by the wall of a chamber the window of which be rattle in the breeze ; the regular vibration of a clock , the crackling of a fire and the tinkling of the ember a they fell among the ash render the scene almost as vivid a if paint to the eye .
By a melancholy hearth sit these two old people , the man calmly despondent , the woman querulous and tearful , and their word be all of sorrow .
They speak of a daughter , a wanderer they know not where , bear dishonor along with her and leave shame and affliction to bring their gray head to the grave .
They allude also to other and more recent woe , but in the midst of their talk their voice seem to melt into the sound of the wind sweeping mournfully among the autumn leave ; and when the lady lift her eye , there be she kneel in the hollow between three hill .
`` A weary and lonesome time yonder old couple have of it , '' remark the old woman , smile in the lady 's face .
`` And do you also hear them ? ''
exclaim she , a sense of intolerable humiliation triumphing over her agony and fear .
`` Yea , and we have yet more to hear , '' reply the old woman , `` wherefore cover thy face quickly . ''
Again the withered hag pour forth the monotonous word of a prayer that be not mean to be acceptable in heaven , and soon in the pause of her breath strange murmuring begin to thicken , gradually increase , so a to drown and overpower the charm by which they grow .
Shrieks pierce through the obscurity of sound and be succeed by the singing of sweet female voice , which in their turn give way to a wild roar of laughter break suddenly by groanings and sob , form altogether a ghastly confusion of terror and mourning and mirth .
Chains be rattle , fierce and stern voice uttered threat and the scourge resound at their command .
All these noise deepen and become substantial to the listener 's ear , till she could distinguish every soft and dreamy accent of the love-song that die causelessly into funeral-hymns .
She shudder at the unprovoked wrath which blaze up like the spontaneous kindling of flume , and she grow faint at the fearful merriment rag miserably around her .
In the midst of this wild scene , where unbound passion jostle each other in a drunken career , there be one solemn voice of a man , and a manly and melodious voice it might once have be .
He go to and fro continually , and his foot sound upon the floor .
In each member of that frenzied company whose own burning thought have become their exclusive world he seek an auditor for the story of his individual wrong , and interpret their laughter and tear a his reward of scorn or pity .
He speak of woman 's perfidy , of a wife who have break her holiest vow , of a home and heart make desolate .
Even a he go on , the shout , the laugh , the shriek , the sob , rise up in unison , till they change into the hollow , fitful and uneven sound of the wind a it fight among the pine tree on those three lonely hill .
The lady look up , and there be the withered woman smile in her face .
`` Couldst thou have think there be such merry time in a mad-house ? ''
inquire the latter .
`` True , true ! ''
say the lady to herself ; `` there be mirth within it wall , but misery , misery without . ''
`` Wouldst thou hear more ? ''
demand the old woman .
`` There be one other voice I would fain listen to again , '' reply the lady , faintly .
`` Then lay down thy head speedily upon my knee , that thou mayst get thee hence before the hour be past . ''
The golden skirt of day be yet linger upon the hill , but deep shade obscure the hollow and the pool , a if sombre night wear rise thence to overspread the world .
Again that evil woman begin to weave her spell .
Long do it proceed unanswered , till the knolling of a bell stole in among the interval of her word like a clang that have travel far over valley and rise ground and be just ready to die in the air .
The lady shook upon her companion 's knee a she hear that bode sound .
Stronger it grow , and sadder , and deepen into the tone of a death-bell , knolling dolefully from some ivy-mantled tower and bearing tidings of mortality and woe to the cottage , to the hall and to the solitary wayfarer , that all might weep for the doom appoint in turn to them .
Then come a measure tread , pass slowly , slowly on , a of mourner with a coffin , their garment trail on the ground , so that the ear could measure the length of their melancholy array .
Before them go the priest , read the burial-service , while the leaf of his book be rustle in the breeze .
And though no voice but his be hear to speak aloud , still there be revilings and anathema , whisper but distinct , from woman and from men , breathe against the daughter who have wrung the aged heart of her parent , the wife who have betray the trust fondness of her husband , the mother who have sin against natural affection and leave her child to die .
The sweeping sound of the funeral train fade away like a thin vapor , and the wind , that just before have seem to shake the coffin-pall , moan sadly round the verge of the hollow between three hill .
But when the old woman stir the kneeling lady , she lift not her head .
`` Here have be a sweet hour 's sport ! ''
say the withered crone , chuckle to herself .
THE TOLL-GATHERER 'S DAY .
A SKETCH OF TRANSITORY LIFE .
Methinks , for a person whose instinct bid him rather to pore over the current of life than to plunge into it tumultuous wave , no undesirable retreat be a toll-house beside some throng thoroughfare of the land .
In youth , perhaps , it be good for the observer to run about the earth , to leave the track of his footstep far and wide , to mingle himself with the action of numberless vicissitude , and , finally , in some calm solitude to fee a musing spirit on all that he have see and felt .
But there be nature too indolent or too sensitive to endure the dust , the sunshine or the rain , the turmoil of moral and physical element , to which all the wayfarer of the world expose themselves .
For such a man how pleasant a miracle could life be make to roll it variegated length by the threshold of his own hermitage , and the great globe , a it be , perform it revolution and shift it thousand scene before his eye without whirl him onward in it course !
If any mortal be favor with a lot analogous to this , it be the toll-gatherer .
So , at least , have I often fancy while lounge on a bench at the door of a small square edifice which stand between shore and shore in the midst of a long bridge .
Beneath the timber ebb and flow an arm of the sea , while above , like the life-blood through a great artery , the travel of the north and east be continually throb .
Sitting on the aforesaid bench , I amuse myself with a conception , illustrate by numerous pencil-sketches in the air , of the toll-gatherer 's day .
In the morning -- dim , gray , dewy summer 's morn -- the distant roll of ponderous wheel begin to mingle with my old friend 's slumber , creak more and more harshly through the midst of his dream and gradually replace it with reality .
Hardly conscious of the change from sleep to wakefulness , he find himself partly clothe and throw wide the toll-gates for the passage of a fragrant load of hay .
The timber groan beneath the slow-revolving wheel ; one sturdy yeoman stalk beside the ox , and , peer from the summit of the hay , by the glimmer of the half-extinguished lantern over the toll-house be see the drowsy visage of his comrade , who have enjoy a nap some ten mile long .
The toll be pay ; creak , creak , again go the wheel , and the huge hay-mow vanishes into the morning mist .
As yet nature be but half awake , and familiar object appear visionary .
But yonder , dash from the shore with a rattle thunder of the wheel and a confused clatter of hoof , come the never-tiring mail , which have hurry onward at the same headlong , restless rate all through the quiet night .
The bridge resound in one continued peal a the coach roll on without a pause , merely afford the toll-gatherer a glimpse at the sleepy passenger , who now bestir their torpid limb and snuff a cordial in the briny air .
The morn breathes upon them and blush , and they forget how wearily the darkness toil away .
And behold now the fervid day in his bright chariot , glitter aslant over the wave , nor scorn to throw a tribute of his golden beam on the toll-gatherer 's little hermitage .
The old man look eastward , and -LRB- for he be a moralizer -RRB- frame a simile of the stage-coach and the sun .
While the world be rouse itself we may glance slightly at the scene of our sketch .
It sit above the bosom of the broad flood -- a spot not of earth , but in the midst of water which rush with a murmur sound among the massive beam beneath .
Over the door be a weatherbeaten board inscribed with the rate of toll in letter so nearly efface that the gilding of the sunshine can hardly make them legible .
Beneath the window be a wooden bench on which a long succession of weary wayfarer have repose themselves .
Peeping within-doors , we perceive the whitewashed wall bedeck with sundry lithographic print and advertisement of various import and the immense show-bill of a wandering caravan .
And there sit our good old toll-gatherer , glorify by the early sunbeam .
He be a man , a his aspect may announce , of quiet soul and thoughtful , shrewd , yet simple mind , who of the wisdom which the passing world scatter along the wayside have gather a reasonable store .
Now the sun smile upon the landscape and earth smile back again upon the sky .
Frequent now be the traveller .
The toll-gatherer 's practised ear can distinguish the weight of every vehicle , the number of it wheel and how many horse beat the resounding timber with their iron tramp .
Here , in a substantial family chaise , set forth betimes to take advantage of the dewy road , come a gentleman and his wife with their rosy-cheeked little girl sit gladsomely between them .
The bottom of the chaise be heap with multifarious bandbox and carpet-bags , and beneath the axle swing a leathern trunk dusty with yesterday 's journey .
Next appear a four-wheeled carryall people with a round half dozen of pretty girl , all draw by a single horse and drive by a single gentleman .
Luckless wight doom through a whole summer day to be the butt of mirth and mischief among the frolicsome maidens !
Bolt upright in a sulky rid a thin , sour-visaged man who a he pay his toll hand the toll-gatherer a printed card to stick upon the wall .
The vinegar-faced traveller prove to be a manufacturer of pickle .
Now pace slowly from timber to timber a horseman clad in black , with a meditative brow , a of one who , whithersoever his steed might bear him , would still journey through a mist of brood thought .
He be a country preacher go to labor at a protracted meeting .
The next object pass townward be a butcher 's cart canopy with it arch of snow-white cotton .
Behind come a `` sauceman '' drive a wagon full of new potato , green ear of corn , beet , carrot , turnip and summer squash , and next two wrinkle , wither witch-looking old gossip in an antediluvian chaise draw by a horse of former generation and go to peddle out a lot of huckleberry .
See , there , a man trundle a wheelbarrow-load of lobster .
And now a milk-cart rattle briskly onward , cover with green canvas and convey the contribution of a whole herd of cow , in large tin canister .
But let all these pay their toll and pas .
Here come a spectacle that cause the old toll-gatherer to smile benignantly , a if the traveller bring sunshine with them and lavish it gladsome influence all along the road .
It be a barouche of the new style , the varnished panel of which reflect the whole move panorama of the landscape , and show a picture , likewise , of our friend with his visage broaden , so that his meditative smile be transform to grotesque merriment .
Within sits a youth fresh a the summer morn , and beside him a young lady in white with white glove upon her slender hand and a white veil flow down over her face .
But methinks her blushing cheek burn through the snowy veil .
Another white-robed virgin sits in front .
And who be these on whom , and on all that appertain to them , the dust of earth seem never to have settle ?
Two lover whom the priest have bless this bless morn and send them forth , with one of the bride-maids , on the matrimonial tour .
-- Take my bless too , ye happy one !
May the sky not frown upon you nor cloud bedew you with their chill and sullen rain !
May the hot sun kindle no fever in your heart !
May your whole life 's pilgrimage be as blissful a this first day 's journey , and it close be gladden with even bright anticipation than those which hallow your bridal-night !
They pass , and ere the reflection of their joy have fade from his face another spectacle throw a melancholy shadow over the spirit of the observe man .
In a close carriage sit a fragile figure muffle carefully and shrink even from the mild breath of summer .
She lean against a manly form , and his arm enfold her a if to guard his treasure from some enemy .
Let but a few week pas , and when he shall strive to embrace that love one , he will press only desolation to his heart .
And now have Morning gather up her dewy pearl and flee away .
The sun roll blaze through the sky , and can not find a cloud to cool his face with .
The horse toil sluggishly along the bridge , and heave their glistening side in short quick panting when the rein be tighten at the toll-house .
Glisten , too , the face of the traveller .
Their garment be thickly bestrewn with dust ; their whisker and hair look hoary ; their throat be choke with the dusty atmosphere which they have leave behind them .
No air be stir on the road .
Nature dare draw no breath l she should inhale a stifling cloud of dust .
`` A hot and dusty day ! ''
cry the poor pilgrim a they wipe their begrime forehead and woo the doubtful breeze which the river bear along with it .
-- `` Awful hot !
Dreadful dusty ! ''
answer the sympathetic toll-gatherer .
They start again to pass through the fiery furnace , while he re-enter his cool hermitage and besprinkle it with a pail of briny water from the stream beneath .
He think within himself that the sun be not so fierce here a elsewhere , and that the gentle air doth not forget him in these sultry day .
Yes , old friend , and a quiet heart will make a dog-day temperate .
He hear a weary footstep , and perceive a traveller with pack and staff , who sit down upon the hospitable bench and remove the hat from his wet brow .
The toll-gatherer administers a cup of cold water , and , discover his guest to be a man of homely sense , he engage him in profitable talk , utter the maxim of a philosophy which he have find in his own soul , but know not how it come there .
And a the wayfarer make ready to resume his journey he tell him a sovereign remedy for blistered foot .
Now come the noontide hour -- of all the hour , near akin to midnight , for each have it own calmness and repose .
Soon , however , the world begin to turn again upon it axis , and it seem the busy epoch of the day , when an accident impede the march of sublunary thing .
The draw be lift to permit the passage of a schooner laden with wood from the Eastern forest , she stick immovably right athwart the bridge .
Meanwhile , on both side of the chasm a throng of impatient traveller fret and fume .
Here be two sailor in a gig with the top thrown back , both puff cigar and swear all sort of forecastle oath ; there , in a smart chaise , a dashingly-dressed gentleman and lady , he from a tailor 's shop-board and she from a milliner 's back room -- the aristocrat of a summer afternoon .
And what be the haughtiest of u but the ephemeral aristocrat of a summer 's day ?
Here be a tin-pedler whose glitter ware bedazzle all beholder like a travel meteor or opposition sun , and on the other side a seller of spruce beer , which brisk liquor be confine in several dozen of stone bottle .
Here conic a party of lady on horseback , in green riding habit , and gentleman attendant , and there a flock of sheep for the market , patter over the bridge with a multitude nous clatter of their little hoof ; here a Frenchman with a hand-organ on his shoulder , and there an itinerant Swiss jeweller .
On this side , herald by a blast of clarion and bugle , appear a train of wagon convey all the wild beast of a caravan ; and on that a company of summer soldier march from village to village on a festival campaign , attend by the `` brass band . ''
Now look at the scene , and it present an emblem of the mysterious confusion , the apparently insolvable riddle , in which individual , or the great world itself , seem often to be involve .
What miracle shall set all thing right again ?
But see !
the schooner have thrust her bulky carcase through the chasm ; the draw descend ; horse and foot pas onward and leave the bridge vacant from end to end .
`` And thus , '' muse the toll-gatherer , `` have I find it with all stoppage , even though the universe seem to be at a stand . ''
The sage old man !
Far westward now the reddening sun throw a broad sheet of splendor across the flood , and to the eye of distant boatman gleam brightly among the timber of the bridge .
Strollers come from the town to quaff the freshening breeze .
One or two let down long line and haul up flap flounder or cunner or small cod , or perhaps an eel .
Others , and fair girl among them , with the flush of the hot day still on their cheek , bend over the railing and watch the heap of seaweed float upward with the flow tide .
The horse now tramp heavily along the bridge and wistfully bethink them of their stable .
-- Rest , rest , thou weary world !
for to-morrow 's round of toil and pleasure will be as wearisome a to-day 's have be , yet both shall bear thee onward a day 's march of eternity .
-- Now the old toll-gatherer look seaward and discern the lighthouse kindle on a far island , and the star , too , kindle in the sky , a if but a little way beyond ; and , mingle revery of heaven with remembrance of earth , the whole procession of mortal traveller , all the dusty pilgrimage which he have witness , seem like a flit show of phantom for his thoughtful soul to muse upon .
THE VISION OF THE FOUNTAIN .
At fifteen I become a resident in a country village more than a hundred mile from home .
The morning after my arrival -- a September morning , but warm and bright a any in July -- I ramble into a wood of oak with a few walnut tree intermix , form the close shade above my head .
The ground be rocky , uneven , overgrown with bush and clump of young sapling and traverse only by cattle-paths .
The track which I chance to follow lead me to a crystal spring with a border of grass a freshly green a on May morning , and overshadow by the limb of a great oak .
One solitary sunbeam find it way down and play like a goldfish in the water .
From my childhood I have love to gaze into a spring .
The water fill a circular basin , small but deep and set round with stone , some of which be cover with slimy moss , the others naked and of variegated hue -- reddish , white and brown .
The bottom be cover with coarse sand , which sparkle in the lonely sunbeam and seem to illuminate the spring with an unborrowed light .
In one spot the gush of the water violently agitate the sand , but without obscure the fountain or break the glassiness of it surface .
It appear a if some living creature be about to emerge -- the naiad of the spring , perhaps , in the shape of a beautiful young woman with a gown of filmy water-moss , a belt of rainbow-drops and a cold , pure , passionless countenance .
How would the beholder shiver , pleasantly yet fearfully , to see her sit on one of the stone , paddle her white foot in the ripple and throw up water to sparkle in the sun !
Wherever she lay her hand on grass and flower , they would immediately be moist , a with morning dew .
Then would she set about her labor , like a careful housewife , to clear the fountain of withered leaf , and bit of slimy wood , and old acorn from the oak above , and grain of corn leave by cattle in drinking , till the bright sand in the bright water be like a treasury of diamond .
But , should the intruder approach too near , he would find only the drop of a summer shower glisten about the spot where he have see her .
Reclining on the border of grass where the dewy goddess should have be , I bend forward , and a pair of eye meet mine within the watery mirror .
They be the reflection of my own .
I look again , and , lo !
another face , deep in the fountain than my own image , more distinct in all the feature , yet faint a thought .
The vision have the aspect of a fair young girl with lock of paly gold .
A mirthful expression laugh in the eye and dimple over the whole shadowy countenance , till it seem just what a fountain would be if , while dance merrily into the sunshine , it should assume the shape of woman .
Through the dim rosiness of the cheek I could see the brown leaf , the slimy twig , the acorn and the sparkling sand .
The solitary sunbeam be diffuse among the golden hair , which melt into it faint brightness and become a glory round that head so beautiful .
My description can give no idea how suddenly the fountain be thus tenant and how soon it be leave desolate .
I breathe , and there be the face ; I hold my breath , and it be go .
Had it pass away or fade into nothing ?
I doubt whether it have ever be .
My sweet reader , what a dreamy and delicious hour do I spend where that vision find and leave me !
For a long time I sit perfectly still , wait till it should reappear , and fearful that the slight motion , or even the flutter of my breath , might frighten it away .
Thus have I often start from a pleasant dream , and then keep quiet in hope to wile it back .
Deep be my musing a to the race and attribute of that ethereal be .
Had I create her ?
Was she the daughter of my fancy , akin to those strange shape which peep under the lid of child 's eye ?
And do her beauty gladden me for that one moment and then die ?
Or be she a water-nymph within the fountain , or fairy or woodland goddess peeping over my shoulder , or the ghost of some forsaken maid who have drown herself for love ?
Or , in good truth , have a lovely girl with a warm heart and lip that would bear pressure steal softly behind me and throw her image into the spring ?
I watch and wait , but no vision come again .
I depart , but with a spell upon me which draw me back that same afternoon to the haunt spring .
There be the water gushing , the sand sparkling and the sunbeam glimmering .
There the vision be not , but only a great frog , the hermit of that solitude , who immediately withdraw his speckle snout and make himself invisible -- all except a pair of long leg -- beneath a stone .
Methought he have a devilish look .
I could have slay him a an enchanter who keep the mysterious beauty imprison in the fountain .
Sad and heavy , I be return to the village .
Between me and the church-spire rise a little hill , and on it summit a group of tree insulate from all the rest of the wood , with their own share of radiance hover on them from the west and their own solitary shadow fall to the east .
The afternoon be far decline , the sunshine be almost pensive and the shade almost cheerful ; glory and gloom be mingle in the placid light , a if the spirit of the Day and Evening have meet in friendship under those tree and find themselves akin .
I be admire the picture when the shape of a young girl emerge from behind the clump of oak .
My heart know her : it be the vision , but so distant and ethereal do she seem , so unmixed with earth , so imbue with the pensive glory of the spot where she be stand , that my spirit sunk within me , sad than before .
How could I ever reach her ?
While I gaze a sudden shower come patter down upon the leaf .
In a moment the air be full of brightness , each raindrop catch a portion of sunlight a it fell , and the whole gentle shower appear like a mist , just substantial enough to bear the burden of radiance .
A rainbow vivid a Niagara 's be paint in the air .
Its southern limb come down before the group of tree and envelop the fair vision a if the hue of heaven be the only garment for her beauty .
When the rainbow vanish , she who have seem a part of it be no long there .
Was her existence absorb in nature 's lovely phenomenon , and do her pure frame dissolve away in the varied light ?
Yet I would not despair of her return , for , rob in the rainbow , she be the emblem of Hope .
Thus do the vision leave me , and many a doleful day succeed to the parting moment .
By the spring and in the wood and on the hill and through the village , at dewy sunrise , burn noon , and at that magic hour of sunset , when she have vanish from my sight , I seek her , but in vain .
Weeks come and go , month roll away , and she appear not in them .
I impart my mystery to none , but wander to and fro or sit in solitude like one that have catch a glimpse of heaven and could take no more joy on earth .
I withdraw into an inner world where my thought live and breathe , and the vision in the midst of them .
Without intend it , I become at once the author and hero of a romance , conjure up rival , imagine event , the action of others and my own , and experience every change of passion , till jealousy and despair have their end in bliss .
Oh , have I the burn fancy of my early youth with manhood 's colder gift , the power of expression , your heart , sweet lady , should flutter at my tale .
In the middle of January I be summon home .
The day before my departure , visit the spot which have be hallow by the vision , I find that the spring have a frozen bosom , and nothing but the snow and a glare of winter sunshine on the hill of the rainbow .
`` Let me hope , '' think I , `` or my heart will be as icy a the fountain and the whole world as desolate a this snowy hill . ''
Most of the day be spend in prepare for the journey , which be to commence at four o'clock the next morning .
About an hour after supper , when all be in readiness , I descend from my chamber to the sitting-room to take leave of the old clergyman and his family with whom I have be an inmate .
A gust of wind blew out my lamp a I pass through the entry .
According to their invariable custom -- so pleasant a one when the fire blaze cheerfully -- the family be sit in the parlor with no other light than what come from the hearth .
As the good clergyman 's scanty stipend compel him to use all sort of economy , the foundation of his fire be always a large heap of tan , or ground bark , which would smoulder away from morning till night with a dull warmth and no flame .
This even the heap of tan be newly put on and surmount with three stick of red oak full of moisture , and a few piece of dry pine that have not yet kindle .
There be no light except the little that come sullenly from two half-burnt brand , without even glimmer on the andiron .
But I know the position of the old minister 's arm-chair , and also where his wife sit with her knitting-work , and how to avoid his two daughter -- one a stout country lass , and the other a consumptive girl .
Groping through the gloom , I find my own place next to that of the son , a learned collegian who have come home to keep school in the village during the winter vacation .
I notice that there be less room than usual to-night between the collegian 's chair and mine .
As people be always taciturn in the dark , not a word be say for some time after my entrance .
Nothing break the stillness but the regular click of the matron 's knitting-needles .
At time the fire throw out a brief and dusky gleam which twinkle on the old man 's glass and hover doubtfully round our circle , but be far too faint to portray the individual who compose it .
Were we not like ghost ?
Dreamy a the scene be , might it not be a type of the mode in which departed people who have know and love each other here would hold communion in eternity ?
We be aware of each other 's presence , not by sight nor sound nor touch , but by an inward consciousness .
Would it not be so among the dead ?
The silence be interrupt by the consumptive daughter address a remark to some one in the circle whom she call Rachel .
Her tremulous and decayed accent be answer by a single word , but in a voice that make me start and bend toward the spot whence it have proceed .
Had I ever hear that sweet , low tone ?
If not , why do it rouse up so many old recollection , or mockery of such , the shadow of thing familiar yet unknown , and fill my mind with confused image of her feature who have speak , though bury in the gloom of the parlor ?
Whom have my heart recognize , that it throb so ?
I listen to catch her gentle breathing , and strive by the intensity of my gaze to picture forth a shape where none be visible .
Suddenly the dry pine caught ; the fire blaze up with a ruddy glow , and where the darkness have be , there be she -- the vision of the fountain .
A spirit of radiance only , she have vanish with the rainbow and appear again in the firelight , perhaps to flicker with the blaze and be go .
Vet her cheek be rosy and lifelike , and her feature , in the bright warmth of the room , be even sweet and tender than my recollection of them .
She know me .
The mirthful expression that have laugh in her eye and dimple over her countenance when I behold her faint beauty in the fountain be laugh and dimple there now .
One moment our glance mingle ; the next , down roll the heap of tan upon the kindle wood , and darkness snatch away that daughter of the light , and give her back to me no more !
Fair lady , there be nothing more to tell .
Must the simple mystery be reveal , then , that Rachel be the daughter of the village squire and have leave home for a boarding-school the morning after I arrive and return the day before my departure ?
If I transform her to an angel , it be what every youthful lover do for his mistress .
Therein consist the essence of my story .
But slight the change , sweet maid , to make angel of yourselves .
FANCY 'S SHOW-BOX .
A MORALITY .
What be guilt ?
A stain upon the soul .
And it be a point of vast interest whether the soul may contract such stain in all their depth and flagrancy from deed which may have be plot and resolve upon , but which physically have never have existence .
Must the fleshly hand and visible frame of man set it seal to the evil design of the soul , in order to give them their entire validity against the sinner ?
Or , while none but crime perpetrate be cognizable before an earthly tribunal , will guilty thought -- of which guilty deed be no more than shadow , -- will these draw down the full weight of a condemn sentence in the supreme court of eternity ?
In the solitude of a midnight chamber or in a desert afar from men or in a church while the body be kneel the soul may pollute itself even with those crime which we be accustom to deem altogether carnal .
If this be true , it be a fearful truth .
Let u illustrate the subject by an imaginary example .
A venerable gentleman -- one Mr. Smith -- who have long be regard a a pattern of moral excellence be warm his age blood with a glass or two of generous wine .
His child be go forth about their worldly business and his grandchild at school , he sit alone in a deep luxurious arm-chair with his foot beneath a richly-carved mahogany table .
Some old people have a dread of solitude , and when good company may not be have rejoice even to hear the quiet breathing of a babe asleep upon the carpet .
But Mr. Smith , whose silver hair be the bright symbol of a life unstained except by such spot a be inseparable from human nature -- he have no need of a babe to protect him by it purity , nor of a grown person to stand between him and his own soul .
Nevertheless , either manhood must converse with age , or womanhood must soothe him with gentle care , or infancy must sport around his chair , or his thought will stray into the misty region of the past and the old man be chill and sad .
Wine will not always cheer him .
Such might have be the case with Mr. Smith , when , through the brilliant medium of his glass of old Madeira , he behold three figure enter the room .
These be Fancy , who have assume the garb and aspect of an itinerant showman , with a box of picture on her back ; and Memory , in the likeness of a clerk , with a pen behind her ear , an inkhorn at her buttonhole and a huge manuscript volume beneath her arm ; and lastly , behind the other two , a person shroud in a dusky mantle which conceal both face and form .
But Mr. Smith have a shrewd idea that it be Conscience .
How kind of Fancy , Memory and Conscience to visit the old gentleman just a he be begin to imagine that the wine have neither so bright a sparkle nor so excellent a flavor a when himself and the liquor be less age !
Through the dim length of the apartment , where crimson curtain muffle the glare of sunshine and create a rich obscurity , the three guest draw near the silver-haired old man .
Memory , with a finger between the leaf of her huge volume , place herself at his right hand ; Conscience , with her face still hide in the dusky mantle , take her station on the left , so a to be next his heart ; while Fancy set down her picture-box upon the table with the magnifying-glass convenient to his eye .
We can sketch merely the outline of two or three out of the many picture which at the pulling of a string successively people the box with the semblance of living scene .
One be a moonlight picture , in the background a lowly dwelling , and in front , partly shadow by a tree , yet besprinkle with flake of radiance , two youthful figure , male and female .
The young man stand with folded arm , a haughty smile upon his lip and a gleam of triumph in his eye a he glance downward at the kneel girl .
She be almost prostrate at his foot , evidently sink under a weight of shame and anguish which hardly allow her to lift her clasped hand in supplication .
Her eye she could not lift .
But neither her agony , nor the lovely feature on which it be depict , nor the slender grace of the form which it convulse , appear to soften the obduracy of the young man .
He be the personification of triumphant scorn .
Now , strange to say , a old Mr. Smith peep through the magnifying-glass , which make the object start out from the canvas with magical deception , he begin to recognize the farmhouse , the tree and both the figure of the picture .
The young man in time long past have often meet his gaze within the looking-glass ; the girl be the very image of his first love -- his cottage-love , his Martha Burroughs .
Mr. Smith be scandalize .
`` Oh , vile and slanderous picture ! ''
he exclaim .
`` When have I triumph over ruin innocence ?
Was not Martha wed in her teen to David Tomkins , who win her girlish love and long enjoy her affection a a wife ?
And ever since his death she have live a reputable widow ! ''
Meantime , Memory be turn over the leaf of her volume , rustle them to and fro with uncertain finger , until among the early page she find one which have reference to this picture .
She read it close to the old gentleman 's ear : it be a record merely of sinful thought which never be embody in an act , but , while Memory be read , Conscience unveil her face and strike a dagger to the heart of Mr. Smith .
Though not a death-blow , the torture be extreme .
The exhibition proceed .
One after another Fancy display her picture , all of which appear to have be paint by some malicious artist on purpose to vex Mr. Smith .
Not a shadow of proof could have be adduce in any earthly court that he be guilty of the slight of those sin which be thus make to stare him in the face .
In one scene there be a table set out , with several bottle and glass half fill with wine , which throw back the dull ray of an expiring lamp .
There have be mirth and revelry until the hand of the clock stand just at midnight , when Murder step between the boon-companions .
A young man have fall on the floor , and lay stone dead with a ghastly wound crush into his temple , while over him , with a delirium of mingled rage and horror in his countenance , stand the youthful likeness of Mr. Smith .
The murder youth wear the feature of Edward Spencer .
`` What do this rascal of a painter mean ? ''
cry Mr. Smith , provoke beyond all patience .
`` Edward Spencer be my early and dear friend , true to me a I to him through more than half a century .
Neither I nor any other ever murder him .
Was he not alive within five year , and do he not , in token of our long friendship , bequeath me his gold-headed cane and a mourning-ring ? ''
Again have Memory be turn over her volume , and fix at length upon so confused a page that she surely must have scribble it when she be tipsy .
The purport be , however , that while Mr. Smith and Edward Spencer be heat their young blood with wine a quarrel have flash up between them , and Mr. Smith , in deadly wrath , have fling a bottle at Spencer 's head .
True , it miss it aim and merely smash a looking-glass ; and the next morning , when the incident be imperfectly remember , they have shake hand with a hearty laugh .
Yet , again , while Memory be read , Conscience unveil her face , strike a dagger to the heart of Mr. Smith and quell his remonstrance with her iron frown .
The pain be quite excruciate .
Some of the picture have be paint with so doubtful a touch , and in color so faint and pale , that the subject could barely be conjecture .
A dull , semi-transparent mist have be throw over the surface of the canvas , into which the figure seem to vanish while the eye seek most earnestly to fix them .
But in every scene , however dubiously portray , Mr. Smith be invariably haunt by his own lineament at various age a in a dusty mirror .
After pore several minute over one of these blur and almost indistinguishable picture , he begin to see that the painter have intend to represent him , now in the decline of life , a strip the clothes from the back of three half-starved child .
`` Really , this puzzle me ! ''
quoth Mr. Smith , with the irony of conscious rectitude .
`` Asking pardon of the painter , I pronounce him a fool as well a a scandalous knave .
A man of my standing in the world to be rob little child of their clothes !
Ridiculous ! ''
But while he speak Memory have search her fatal volume and find a page which with her sad calm voice she pour into his ear .
It be not altogether inapplicable to the misty scene .
It tell how Mr. Smith have be grievously tempt by many devilish sophistry , on the ground of a legal quibble , to commence a lawsuit against three orphan-children , joint-heirs to a considerable estate .
Fortunately , before he be quite decided , his claim have turn out nearly a devoid of law a justice .
As Memory cease to read Conscience again thrust aside her mantle , and would have strike her victim with the envenomed dagger only that he struggle and clasp his hand before his heart .
Even then , however , he sustain an ugly gash .
Why should we follow Fancy through the whole series of those awful picture ?
Painted by an artist of wondrous power and terrible acquaintance with the secret soul , they embody the ghost of all the never-perpetrated sin that have glide through the lifetime of Mr. Smith .
And could such being of cloudy fantasy , so near akin to nothingness , give valid evidence against him at the day of judgment ?
Be that the case or not , there be reason to believe that one truly penitential tear would have wash away each hateful picture and leave the canvas white a snow .
But Mr. Smith , at a prick of Conscience too keen to be endure , bellow aloud with impatient agony , and suddenly discover that his three guest be go .
There he sit alone , a silver-haired and highly-venerated old man , in the rich gloom of the crimsoned-curtained room , with no box of picture on the table , but only a decanter of most excellent Madeira .
Yet his heart still seem to fester with the venom of the dagger .
Nevertheless , the unfortunate old gentleman might have argue the matter with Conscience and allege many reason wherefore she should not smite him so pitilessly .
Were we to take up his cause , it should be somewhat in the following fashion .
A scheme of guilt , till it be put in execution , greatly resemble a train of incident in a projected tale .
The latter , in order to produce a sense of reality in the reader 's mind , must be conceive with such proportionate strength by the author a to seem in the glow of fancy more like truth , past , present or to come , than purely fiction .
The prospective sinner , on the other hand , weave his plot of crime , but seldom or never feel a perfect certainty that it will be execute .
There be a dreaminess diffuse about his thought ; in a dream , a it be , he strike the death-blow into his victim 's heart and start to find an indelible blood-stain on his hand .
Thus a novel-writer or a dramatist , in create a villain of romance and fit him with evil deed , and the villain of actual life in project crime that will be perpetrate , may almost meet each other halfway between reality and fancy .
It be not until the crime be accomplish that Guilt clench it gripe upon the guilty heart and claim it for his own .
Then , and not before , sin be actually felt and acknowledge , and , if unaccompanied by repentance , grow a thousandfold more virulent by it self-consciousness .
Be it consider , also , that men often overestimate their capacity for evil .
At a distance , while it attendant circumstance do not press upon their notice and it result be dimly see , they can bear to contemplate it .
They may take the step which lead to crime , impel by the same sort of mental action a in work out a mathematical problem , yet be powerless with compunction at the final moment .
They know not what deed it be that they deem themselves resolve to do .
In truth , there be no such thing in man 's nature a a settled and full resolve , either for good or evil , except at the very moment of execution .
Let u hope , therefore , that all the dreadful consequence of sin will not be incur unless the act have set it seal upon the thought .
Yet , with the slight fancy-work which we have frame , some sad and awful truth be interwoven .
Man must not disclaim his brotherhood even with the guilty , since , though his hand be clean , his heart have surely be pollute by the flitting phantom of iniquity .
He must feel that when he shall knock at the gate of heaven no semblance of an unspotted life can entitle him to entrance there .
Penitence must kneel and Mercy come from the footstool of the throne , or that golden gate will never open .
DR. HEIDEGGER 'S EXPERIMENT .
That very singular man old Dr. Heidegger once invite four venerable friend to meet him in his study .
There be three white-bearded gentleman -- Mr. Medbourne , Colonel Killigrew and Mr. Gascoigne -- and a withered gentlewoman whose name be the widow Wycherly .
They be all melancholy old creature who have be unfortunate in life , and whose great misfortune it be that they be not long ago in their graf .
Mr. Medbourne , in the vigor of his age , have be a prosperous merchant , but have lose his all by a frantic speculation , and be now little good than a mendicant .
Colonel Killigrew have waste his best year and his health and substance in the pursuit of sinful pleasure which have give birth to a brood of pain , such a the gout and diver other torment of soul and body .
Mr. Gascoigne be a ruined politician , a man of evil fame -- or , at least , have be so till time have bury him from the knowledge of the present generation and make him obscure instead of infamous .
As for the widow Wycherly , tradition tell u that she be a great beauty in her day , but for a long while past she have live in deep seclusion on account of certain scandalous story which have prejudice the gentry of the town against her .
It be a circumstance worth mention that each of these three old gentleman -- Mr. Medbourne , Colonel Killigrew and Mr. Gascoigne -- be early lover of the widow Wycherly , and have once be on the point of cut each other 's throat for her sake .
And before proceed farther I will merely hint that Dr. Heidegger and all his four guest be sometimes think to be a little beside themselves , as be not infrequently the case with old people when worry either by present trouble or woeful recollection .
`` My dear old friend , '' say Dr. Heidegger , motion them to be seat , `` I be desirous of your assistance in one of those little experiment with which I amuse myself here in my study . ''
If all story be true , Dr. Heidegger 's study must have be a very curious place .
It be a dim , old-fashioned chamber festoon with cobweb and besprinkle with antique dust .
Around the wall stand several oaken bookcase , the low shelf of which be fill with row of gigantic folio and black-letter quarto , and the upper with little parchment-covered duodecimos .
Over the central bookcase be a bronze bust of Hippocrates , with which , accord to some authority , Dr. Heidegger be accustom to hold consultation in all difficult case of his practice .
In the obscure corner of the room stand a tall and narrow oaken closet with it door ajar , within which doubtfully appear a skeleton .
Between two of the bookcase hang a looking-glass , present it high and dusty plate within a tarnished gilt frame .
Among many wonderful story relate of this mirror , it be fabled that the spirit of all the doctor 's deceased patient dwell within it verge and would stare him in the face whenever he look thitherward .
The opposite side of the chamber be ornament with the full-length portrait of a young lady array in the faded magnificence of silk , satin and brocade , and with a visage as fade a her dress .
Above half a century ago Dr. Heidegger have be on the point of marriage with this young lady , but , be affect with some slight disorder , she have swallow one of her lover 's prescription and die on the bridal-evening .
The great curiosity of the study remain to be mention : it be a ponderous folio volume bound in black leather , with massive silver clasp .
There be no letter on the back , and nobody could tell the title of the book .
But it be well know to be a book of magic , and once , when a chambermaid have lift it merely to brush away the dust , the skeleton have rattle in it closet , the picture of the young lady have step one foot upon the floor and several ghastly face have peep forth from the mirror , while the brazen head of Hippocrates frown and say , `` Forbear ! ''
Such be Dr. Heidegger 's study .
On the summer afternoon of our tale a small round table as black a ebony stood in the centre of the room , sustain a cut-glass vase of beautiful form and elaborate workmanship .
The sunshine come through the window between the heavy festoon of two fade damask curtain and fell directly across this vase , so that a mild splendor be reflect from it on the ashen visage of the five old people who sit around .
Four champagne-glasses be also on the table .
`` My dear old friend , '' repeat Dr. Heidegger , `` may I reckon on your aid in perform an exceedingly curious experiment ? ''
Now , Dr. Heidegger be a very strange old gentleman whose eccentricity have become the nucleus for a thousand fantastic story .
Some of these fable -- to my shame be it spoken -- might possibly be trace back to mine own veracious self ; and if any passage of the present tale should startle the reader 's faith , I must be content to bear the stigma of a fiction-monger .
When the doctor 's four guest hear him talk of his propose experiment , they anticipate nothing more wonderful than the murder of a mouse in an air-pump or the examination of a cobweb by the microscope , or some similar nonsense with which he be constantly in the habit of pester his intimate .
But without wait for a reply Dr. Heidegger hobble across the chamber and return with the same ponderous folio bound in black leather which common report affirm to be a book of magic .
Undoing the silver clasp , he open the volume and take from among it black-letter page a rise , or what be once a rise , though now the green leaf and crimson petal have assume one brownish hue and the ancient flower seem ready to crumble to dust in the doctor 's hand .
`` This rise , '' say Dr. Heidegger , with a sigh -- `` this same wither and crumble flower -- blossom five and fifty year ago .
It be give me by Sylvia Ward , whose portrait hang yonder , and I mean to wear it in my bosom at our wedding .
Five and fifty year it have be treasure between the leaf of this old volume .
Now , would you deem it possible that this rise of half a century could ever bloom again ? ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say the widow Wycherly , with a peevish toss of her head .
`` You might as well ask whether an old woman 's wrinkled face could ever bloom again . ''
`` See ! ''
answer Dr. Heidegger .
He uncover the vase and throw the fade rise into the water which it contain .
At first it lay lightly on the surface of the fluid , appear to imbibe none of it moisture .
Soon , however , a singular change begin to be visible .
The crushed and dried petal stir and assume a deepen tinge of crimson , a if the flower be revive from a deathlike slumber , the slender stalk and twig of foliage become green , and there be the rise of half a century , look as fresh a when Sylvia Ward have first give it to her lover .
It be scarcely full-blown , for some of it delicate red leave curl modestly around it moist bosom , within which two or three dewdrop be sparkle .
`` That be certainly a very pretty deception , '' say the doctor 's friend -- carelessly , however , for they have witness great miracle at a conjurer 's show .
`` Pray , how be it effect ? ''
`` Did you never hear of the Fountain of Youth ? ''
ask Dr. Heidegger , `` which Ponce de Leon , the Spanish adventurer , go in search of two or three century ago ? ''
`` But do Ponce de Leon ever find it ? ''
say the widow Wycherly .
`` No , '' answer Dr. Heidegger , `` for he never seek it in the right place .
The famous Fountain of Youth , if I be rightly inform , be situate in the southern part of the Floridian peninsula , not far from Lake Macaco .
Its source be overshadow by several gigantic magnolia which , though numberless century old , have be keep as fresh a violet by the virtue of this wonderful water .
An acquaintance of mine , know my curiosity in such matter , have send me what you see in the vase . ''
`` Ahem ! ''
say Colonel Killigrew , who believe not a word of the doctor 's story ; `` and what may be the effect of this fluid on the human frame ? ''
`` You shall judge for yourself , my dear colonel , '' reply Dr. Heidegger .
-- `` And all of you , my respected friend , be welcome to so much of this admirable fluid a may restore to you the bloom of youth .
For my own part , have have much trouble in grow old , I be in no hurry to grow young again .
With your permission , therefore , I will merely watch the progress of the experiment . ''
While he speak Dr. Heidegger have be fill the four champagne-glasses with the water of the Fountain of Youth .
It be apparently impregnate with an effervescent gas , for little bubble be continually ascend from the depth of the glass and burst in silvery spray at the surface .
As the liquor diffuse a pleasant perfume , the old people doubt not that it possess cordial and comfortable property , and , though utter sceptic a to it rejuvenescent power , they be incline to swallow it at once .
But Dr. Heidegger beseech them to stay a moment .
`` Before you drink , my respectable old friend , '' say he , `` it would be well that , with the experience of a lifetime to direct you , you should draw up a few general rule for your guidance in pass a second time through the peril of youth .
Think what a sin and shame it would be if , with your peculiar advantage , you should not become pattern of virtue and wisdom to all the young people of the age ! ''
The doctor 's four venerable friend make him no answer except by a feeble and tremulous laugh , so very ridiculous be the idea that , know how closely Repentance tread behind the step of Error , they should ever go astray again .
`` Drink , then , '' say the doctor , bowing ; `` I rejoice that I have so well select the subject of my experiment . ''
With palsy hand they raise the glass to their lip .
The liquor , if it really possess such virtue a Dr. Heidegger impute to it , could not have be bestow on four human being who need it more woefully .
They look a if they have never know what youth or pleasure be , but have be the offspring of Nature 's dotage , and always the gray , decrepit , sapless , miserable creature who now sit stoop round the doctor 's table without life enough in their soul or body to be animate even by the prospect of grow young again .
They drink off the water and replace their glass on the table .
Assuredly , there be an almost immediate improvement in the aspect of the party -- not unlike what might have be produce by a glass of generous wine -- together with a sudden glow of cheerful sunshine , brighten over all their visage at once .
There be a healthful suffusion on their cheek instead of the ashen hue that have make them look so corpse-like .
They gaze at one another , and fancy that some magic power have really begin to smooth away the deep and sad inscription which Father Time have be so long engrave on their brow .
The widow Wycherly adjust her cap , for she felt almost like a woman again .
`` Give u more of this wondrous water , '' cry they , eagerly .
`` We be young , but we be still too old .
Quick !
give u more ! ''
`` Patience , patience ! ''
quoth Dr. Heidegger , who sit , watch the experiment with philosophic coolness .
`` You have be a long time grow old ; surely you might be content to grow young in half an hour .
But the water be at your service . ''
Again he fill their glass with the liquor of youth , enough of which still remain in the vase to turn half the old people in the city to the age of their own grandchild .
While the bubble be yet sparkle on the brim the doctor 's four guest snatch their glass from the table and swallow the content at a single gulp .
Was it delusion ?
Even while the draught be pass down their throat it seem to have work a change on their whole system .
Their eye grow clear and bright ; a dark shade deepen among their silvery lock : they sit around the table three gentleman of middle age and a woman hardly beyond her buxom prime .
`` My dear widow , you be charm ! ''
cry Colonel Killigrew , whose eye have be fix upon her face while the shadow of age be flit from it like darkness from the crimson daybreak .
The fair widow knew of old that Colonel Killigrew 's compliment be not always measure by sober truth ; so she start up and run to the mirror , still dread that the ugly visage of an old woman would meet her gaze .
Meanwhile , the three gentleman behave in such a manner a prove that the water of the Fountain of Youth possess some intoxicating quality -- unless , indeed , their exhilaration of spirit be merely a lightsome dizziness cause by the sudden removal of the weight of year .
Mr. Gascoigne 's mind seem to run on political topic , but whether relate to the past , present or future could not easily be determine , since the same idea and phrase have be in vogue these fifty year .
Now he rattle forth full-throated sentence about patriotism , national glory and the people 's right ; now he mutter some perilous stuff or other in a sly and doubtful whisper , so cautiously that even his own conscience could scarcely catch the secret ; and now , again , he speak in measured accent and a deeply-deferential tone , a if a royal ear be listen to his well-turned period .
Colonel Killigrew all this time have be troll forth a jolly bottle-song and ring his glass in symphony with the chorus , while his eye wander toward the buxom figure of the widow Wycherly .
On the other side of the table , Mr. Medbourne be involve in a calculation of dollar and cent with which be strangely intermingle a project for supply the East Indies with ice by harness a team of whale to the polar iceberg .
As for the widow Wycherly , she stand before the mirror courtesying and simper to her own image and greet it a the friend whom she love good than all the world besides .
She thrust her face close to the glass to see whether some long-remembered wrinkle or crow 's - foot have indeed vanish ; she examine whether the snow have so entirely melt from her hair that the venerable cap could be safely thrown aside .
At last , turn briskly away , she come with a sort of dance step to the table .
`` My dear old doctor , '' cry she , `` pray favor me with another glass . ''
`` Certainly , my dear madam -- certainly , '' reply the complaisant doctor .
`` See !
I have already fill the glass . ''
There , in fact , stand the four glass brimful of this wonderful water , the delicate spray of which , a it effervesce from the surface , resemble the tremulous glitter of diamond .
It be now so nearly sunset that the chamber have grow duskier than ever , but a mild and moonlike splendor gleam from within the vase and rest alike on the four guest and on the doctor 's venerable figure .
He sit in a high-backed , elaborately-carved oaken arm-chair with a gray dignity of aspect that might have well befit that very Father Time whose power have never be dispute save by this fortunate company .
Even while quaff the third draught of the Fountain of Youth , they be almost awe by the expression of his mysterious visage .
But the next moment the exhilarate gush of young life shot through their vein .
They be now in the happy prime of youth .
Age , with it miserable train of care and sorrow and disease , be remember only a the trouble of a dream from which they have joyously awake .
The fresh gloss of the soul , so early lost and without which the world 's successive scene have be but a gallery of faded picture , again throw it enchantment over all their prospect .
They felt like new-created being in a new-created universe .
`` We be young !
We be young ! ''
they cry , exultingly .
Youth , like the extremity of age , have efface the strongly-marked characteristic of middle life and mutually assimilate them all .
They be a group of merry youngster almost madden with the exuberant frolicsomeness of their year .
The most singular effect of their gayety be an impulse to mock the infirmity and decrepitude of which they have so lately be the victim .
They laugh loudly at their old-fashioned attire -- the wide-skirted coat and flap waistcoat of the young men and the ancient cap and gown of the blooming girl .
One limp across the floor like a gouty grandfather ; one set a pair of spectacle astride of his nose and pretend to pore over the black-letter page of the book of magic ; a third seat himself in an arm-chair and strive to imitate the venerable dignity of Dr. Heidegger .
Then all shout mirthfully and leap about the room .
The widow Wycherly -- if so fresh a damsel could be call a widow -- trip up to the doctor 's chair with a mischievous merriment in her rosy face .
`` Doctor , you dear old soul , '' cry she , `` get up and dance with me ; '' and then the four young people laugh louder than ever to think what a queer figure the poor old doctor would cut .
`` Pray excuse me , '' answer the doctor , quietly .
`` I be old and rheumatic , and my dancing-days be over long ago .
But either of these gay young gentleman will be glad of so pretty a partner . ''
`` Dance with me , Clara , '' cry Colonel Killigrew .
`` No , no !
I will be her partner , '' shout Mr. Gascoigne .
`` She promise me her hand fifty year ago , '' exclaim Mr. Medbourne .
They all gather round her .
One caught both her hand in his passionate grasp , another throw his arm about her waist , the third bury his hand among the glossy curl that cluster beneath the widow 's cap .
Blushing , panting , struggle , chide , laugh , her warm breath fan each of their face by turn , she strive to disengage herself , yet still remain in their triple embrace .
Never be there a lively picture of youthful rivalship , with bewitch beauty for the prize .
Yet , by a strange deception , owe to the duskiness of the chamber and the antique dress which they still wear , the tall mirror be say to have reflect the figure of the three old , gray , wither grand-sires ridiculously contend for the skinny ugliness of a shrivelled grandam .
But they be young : their burning passion prove them so .
Inflamed to madness by the coquetry of the girl-widow , who neither grant nor quite withhold her favor , the three rival begin to interchange threatening glance .
Still keep hold of the fair prize , they grapple fiercely at one another 's throat .
As they struggle to and fro the table be overturn and the vase dash into a thousand fragment .
The precious Water of Youth flow in a bright stream across the floor , moisten the wing of a butterfly which , grow old in the decline of summer , have alight there to die .
The insect flutter lightly through the chamber and settle on the snowy head of Dr. Heidegger .
`` Come , come , gentleman !
Come , Madam Wycherly ! ''
exclaim the doctor .
`` I really must protest against this riot . ''
They stand still and shiver , for it seem a if gray Time be call them back from their sunny youth far down into the chill and darksome vale of year .
They look at old Dr. Heidegger , who sit in his carved armchair hold the rise of half a century , which he have rescue from among the fragment of the shattered vase .
At the motion of his hand the four rioter resume their seat -- the more readily because their violent exertion have weary them , youthful though they be .
`` My poor Sylvia 's rise ! ''
ejaculate Dr. Heidegger , hold it in the light of the sunset cloud .
`` It appear to be fade again . ''
And so it be .
Even while the party be look at it the flower continue to shrivel up , till it become a dry and fragile a when the doctor have first throw it into the vase .
He shake off the few drop of moisture which cling to it petal .
`` I love it as well thus a in it dewy freshness , '' observe he , press the wither rise to his withered lip .
While he speak the butterfly flutter down from the doctor 's snowy head and fell upon the floor .
His guest shiver again .
A strange dullness -- whether of the body or spirit they could not tell -- be creep gradually over them all .
They gaze at one another , and fancy that each fleeting moment snatch away a charm and leave a deepening furrow where none have be before .
Was it an illusion ?
Had the change of a lifetime be crowd into so brief a space , and be they now four age people sit with their old friend Dr. Heidegger ?
`` Are we grown old again so soon ? ''
cry they , dolefully .
In truth , they have .
The Water of Youth possess merely a virtue more transient than that of wine ; the delirium which it create have effervesce away .
Yes , they be old again .
With a shudder impulse that show her a woman still , the widow clasp her skinny hand before her face and wish that the coffin-lid be over it , since it could be no longer beautiful .
`` Yes , friend , ye be old again , '' say Dr. Heidegger , `` and , lo !
the Water of Youth be all lavish on the ground .
Well , I bemoan it not ; for if the fountain gush at my very doorstep , I would not stoop to bathe my lip in it -- no , though it delirium be for year instead of moment .
Such be the lesson ye have teach me . ''
But the doctor 's four friend have teach no such lesson to themselves .
They resolve forthwith to make a pilgrimage to Florida and quaff at morning , noon and night from the Fountain of Youth .
LEGENDS OF THE PROVINCE-HOUSE .
I . -- HOWE 'S MASQUERADE .
II .
-- EDWARD RANDOLPH 'S PORTRAIT .
III .
-- LADY ELEANORE 'S MANTLE .
IV .
-- OLD ESTHER DUDLEY .
I. HOWE 'S MASQUERADE .
One afternoon last summer , while walk along Washington street , my eye be attract by a sign-board protruding over a narrow archway nearly opposite the Old South Church .
The sign represent the front of a stately edifice which be designate a the `` OLD PROVINCE HOUSE , keep by Thomas Waite . ''
I be glad to be thus remind of a purpose , long entertain , of visit and ramble over the mansion of the old royal governor of Massachusetts , and , enter the arch passage which penetrate through the middle of a brick row of shop , a few step transport me from the busy heart of modern Boston into a small and secluded court-yard .
One side of this space be occupy by the square front of the Province House , three story high and surmount by a cupola , on the top of which a gild Indian be discernible , with his bow bent and his arrow on the string , a if aiming at the weathercock on the spire of the Old South .
The figure have keep this attitude for seventy year or more , ever since good Deacon Drowne , a cunning carver of wood , first station him on his long sentinel 's watch over the city .
The Province House be construct of brick , which seem recently to have be overlay with a coat of light-colored paint .
A flight of red freestone step fence in by a balustrade of curiously wrought iron ascends from the court-yard to the spacious porch , over which be a balcony with an iron balustrade of similar pattern and workmanship to that beneath .
These letter and figure -- `` 16 P.S . 79 '' -- be work into the ironwork of the balcony , and probably express the date of the edifice , with the initial of it founder 's name .
A wide door with double leaf admit me into the hall or entry , on the right of which be the entrance to the bar-room .
It be in this apartment , I presume , that the ancient governor hold their levee with vice-regal pomp , surround by the military men , the counsellor , the judge , and other officer of the Crown , while all the loyalty of the province throng to do them honor .
But the room in it present condition can not boast even of faded magnificence .
The panelled wainscot be cover with dingy paint and acquire a duskier hue from the deep shadow into which the Province House be throw by the brick block that shut it in from Washington street .
A ray of sunshine never visit this apartment any more than the glare of the festal torch which have be extinguish from the era of the Revolution .
The most venerable and ornamental object be a chimney-piece set round with Dutch tile of blue-figured china , represent scene from Scripture , and , for aught I know , the lady of Pownall or Bernard may have sit beside this fireplace and tell her child the story of each blue tile .
A bar in modern style , well replenish with decanter , bottle , cigar-boxes and network bag of lemon , and provide with a beer-pump and a soda-fount , extend along one side of the room .
At my entrance an elderly person be smack his lip with a zest which satisfy me that the cellar of the Province House still hold good liquor , though doubtless of other vintage than be quaff by the old governor .
After sip a glass of port-sangaree prepare by the skilful hand of Mr. Thomas Waite , I beseech that worthy successor and representative of so many historic personage to conduct me over their time-honored mansion .
He readily comply , but , to confess the truth , I be force to draw strenuously upon my imagination in order to find aught that be interest in a house which , without it historic association , would have seem merely such a tavern a be usually favor by the custom of decent city boarder and old-fashioned country gentleman .
The chamber , which be probably spacious in former time , be now cut up by partition and subdivide into little nooks , each afford scanty room for the narrow bed and chair and dressing-table of a single lodger : The great staircase , however , may be term , without much hyperbole , a feature of grandeur and magnificence .
It wind through the midst of the house by flight of broad step , each flight terminate in a square landing-place , whence the ascent be continue toward the cupola .
A carved balustrade , freshly paint in the low story , but grow dingier a we ascend , border the staircase with it quaintly twist and intertwine pillar , from top to bottom .
Up these stair the military boot , or perchance the gouty shoe , of many a governor have tread a the wearer mount to the cupola which afford them so wide a view over their metropolis and the surrounding country .
The cupola be an octagon with several window , and a door open upon the roof .
From this station , a I please myself with imagining , Gage may have behold his disastrous victory on Bunker Hill -LRB- unless one of the tri-mountains intervene -RRB- , and Howe have mark the approach of Washington 's besieging army , although the building since erect in the vicinity have shut out almost every object save the steeple of the Old South , which seem almost within arm 's length .
Descending from the cupola , I pause in the garret to observe the ponderous white-oak framework , so much more massive than the frame of modern house , and thereby resemble an antique skeleton .
The brick wall , the material of which be import from Holland , and the timber of the mansion , be still as sound a ever , but , the floor and other interior part be greatly decay , it be contemplate to gut the whole and build a new house within the ancient frame-and brickwork .
Among other inconvenience of the present edifice , mine host mention that any jar or motion be apt to shake down the dust of age out of the ceiling of one chamber upon the floor of that beneath it .
We step forth from the great front window into the balcony where in old time it be doubtless the custom of the king 's representative to show himself to a loyal populace , requite their huzzas and tossed-up hat with stately bending of his dignified person .
In those day the front of the Province House look upon the street , and the whole site now occupy by the brick range of store , as well a the present court-yard , be lay out in grass-plats overshadow by tree and border by a wrought-iron fence .
Now the old aristocratic edifice hide it time-worn visage behind an upstart modern building ; at one of the back window I observe some pretty tailoresses sew and chat and laugh , with now and then a careless glance toward the balcony .
Descending thence , we again enter the bar-room , where the elderly gentleman above mention -- the smack of whose lip have speak so favorably for Mr. Waite 's good liquor -- be still lounge in his chair .
He seem to be , if not a lodger , at least a familiar visitor of the house who might be suppose to have his regular score at the bar , his summer seat at the open window and his prescriptive corner at the winter 's fireside .
Being of a sociable aspect , I venture to address him with a remark calculate to draw forth his historical reminiscence , if any such be in his mind , and it gratify me to discover that , between memory and tradition , the old gentleman be really possess of some very pleasant gossip about the Province House .
The portion of his talk which chiefly interest me be the outline of the following legend .
He profess to have receive it at one or two remove from an eye-witness , but this derivation , together with the lapse of time , must have afford opportunity for many variation of the narrative ; so that , despair of literal and absolute truth , I have not scruple to make such further change a seemed conducive to the reader 's profit and delight .
* * * * * At one of the entertainment give at the province-house during the latter part of the siege of Boston there pass a scene which have never yet be satisfactorily explain .
The officer of the British army and the loyal gentry of the province , most of whom be collect within the beleaguered town , have be invite to a masqued ball , for it be the policy for Sir William Howe to hide the distress and danger of the period and the desperate aspect of the siege under an ostentation of festivity .
The spectacle of this evening , if the old member of the provincial court circle might be believe , be the most gay and gorgeous affair that have occur in the annals of the government .
The brilliantly-lighted apartment be throng with figure that seem to have step from the dark canvas of historic portrait or to have flit forth from the magic page of romance , or at least to have fly hither from one of the London theatre without a change of garment .
Steeled knight of the Conquest , beard statesman of Queen Elizabeth and high-ruffed lady of her court be mingle with character of comedy , such a a parti-colored Merry Andrew jingle his cap and bell , a Falstaff almost a provocative of laughter a his prototype , and a Don Quixote with a bean-pole for a lance and a pot-lid for a shield .
But the broad merriment be excite by a group of figure ridiculously dress in old regimentals which seem to have be purchase at a military rag-fair or pilfer from some receptacle of the cast-off clothes of both the French and British army .
Portions of their attire have probably be wear at the siege of Louisburg , and the coat of most recent cut might have be rent and tattered by sword , ball or bayonet a long ago a Wolfe 's victory .
One of these worthy -- a tall , lank figure brandish a rusty sword of immense longitude -- purport to be no less a personage than General George Washington , and the other principal officer of the American army , such a Gates , Lee , Putnam , Schuyler , Ward and Heath , be represent by similar scarecrow .
An interview in the mock-heroic style between the rebel warrior and the British commander-in-chief be receive with immense applause , which come loud of all from the loyalist of the colony .
There be one of the guest , however , who stand apart , eye these antic sternly and scornfully at once with a frown and a bitter smile .
It be an old man formerly of high station and great repute in the province , and who have be a very famous soldier in his day .
Some surprise have be express that a person of Colonel Joliffe 's know Whig principle , though now too old to take an active part in the contest , should have remain in Boston during the siege , and especially that he should consent to show himself in the mansion of Sir William Howe .
But thither he have come with a fair granddaughter under his arm , and there , amid all the mirth and buffoonery , stand this stern old figure , the best-sustained character in the masquerade , because so well represent the antique spirit of his native land .
The other guest affirm that Colonel Joliffe 's black puritanical scowl throw a shadow round about him , although , in spite of his sombre influence , their gayety continue to blaze high , like -- an ominous comparison -- the flickering brilliancy of a lamp which have but a little while to burn .
Eleven stroke full half an hour ago have peal from the clock of the Old South , when a rumor be circulate among the company that some new spectacle or pageant be about to be exhibit which should put a fitting close to the splendid festivity of the night .
`` What new jest have Your Excellency in hand ? ''
ask the Reverend Mather Byles , whose Presbyterian scruple have not keep him from the entertainment .
`` Trust me , sir , I have already laugh more than beseem my cloth at your Homeric confabulation with yonder ragamuffin general of the rebel .
One other such fit of merriment , and I must throw off my clerical wig and band . ''
`` Not so , good Dr. Byles , '' answer Sir William Howe ; `` if mirth be a crime , you have never gain your doctorate in divinity .
As to this new foolery , I know no more about it than yourself -- perhaps not so much .
Honestly , now , doctor , have you not stir up the sober brain of some of your countryman to enact a scene in our masquerade ? ''
`` Perhaps , '' slyly remark the granddaughter of Colonel Joliffe , whose high spirit have be sting by many taunt against New England -- `` perhaps we be to have a masque of allegorical figure -- Victory with trophy from Lexington and Bunker Hill , Plenty with her overflow horn to typify the present abundance in this good town , and Glory with a wreath for His Excellency 's brow . ''
Sir William Howe smile at word which he would have answer with one of his dark frown have they be utter by lip that wear a beard .
He be spar the necessity of a retort by a singular interruption .
A sound of music be hear without the house , a if proceeding from a full band of military instrument station in the street , play , not such a festal strain a be suit to the occasion , but a slow funeral-march .
The drum appear to be muffle , and the trumpet pour forth a wailing breath which at once hush the merriment of the auditor , fill all with wonder and some with apprehension .
The idea occur to many that either the funeral procession of some great personage have halt in front of the province-house , or that a corpse in a velvet-covered and gorgeously-decorated coffin be about to be bear from the portal .
After listen a moment , Sir William Howe call in a stern voice to the leader of the musician , who have hitherto enliven the entertainment with gay and lightsome melody .
The man be drum-major to one of the British regiment .
`` Dighton , '' demand the general , `` what mean this foolery ?
Bid your band silence that dead march , or , by my word , they shall have sufficient cause for their lugubrious strain .
Silence it , sirrah ! ''
`` Please , Your Honor , '' answer the drum-major , whose rubicund visage have lose all it color , `` the fault be none of mine .
I and my band be all here together , and I question whether there be a man of u that could play that march without book .
I never hear it but once before , and that be at the funeral of his late Majesty , King George II . ''
`` Well , well ! ''
say Sir William Howe , recover his composure ; `` it be the prelude to some masquerade antic .
Let it pass . ''
A figure now present itself , but among the many fantastic mask that be disperse through the apartment none could tell precisely from whence it come .
It be a man in an old-fashioned dress of black serge and have the aspect of a steward or principal domestic in the household of a nobleman or great English landholder .
This figure advance to the out door of the mansion , and , throw both it leaf wide open , withdraw a little to one side and look back toward the grand staircase , a if expect some person to descend .
At the same time , the music in the street sound a loud and doleful summons .
The eye of Sir William Howe and his guest be direct to the staircase , there appear on the uppermost landing-place , that be discernible from the bottom , several personage descend toward the door .
The foremost be a man of stern visage , wear a steeple-crowned hat and a skull-cap beneath it , a dark cloak and huge wrinkle boot that come halfway up his leg .
Under his arm be a rolled-up banner which seem to be the banner of England , but strangely rent and torn ; he have a sword in his right hand and grasp a Bible in his left .
The next figure be of milder aspect , yet full of dignity , wear a broad ruff , over which descend a beard , a gown of wrought velvet and a doublet and hose of black satin ; he carry a roll of manuscript in his hand .
Close behind these two come a young man of very striking countenance and demeanor with deep thought and contemplation on his brow , and perhaps a flash of enthusiasm in his eye ; his garb , like that of his predecessor , be of an antique fashion , and there be a stain of blood upon his ruff .
In the same group with these be three or four others , all men of dignity and evident command , and bear themselves like personage who be accustom to the gaze of the multitude .
It be the idea of the beholder that these figure go to join the mysterious funeral that have halt in front of the province-house , yet that supposition seem to be contradict by the air of triumph with which they wave their hand a they cross the threshold and vanish through the portal .
`` In the devil 's name , what be this ? ''
mutter Sir William Howe to a gentleman beside him .
`` A procession of the regicide judge of King Charles the martyr ? ''
`` These , '' say Colonel Joliffe , break silence almost for the first time that evening -- `` these , if I interpret them aright , be the Puritan governor , the ruler of the old original democracy of Massachusetts -- Endicott with the banner from which he have tear the symbol of subjection , and Winthrop and Sir Henry Vane and Dudley , Haynes , Bellingham and Leverett . ''
`` Why have that young man a stain of blood upon his ruff ? ''
ask Miss Joliffe .
`` Because in after-years , '' answer her grandfather , `` he lay down the wise head in England upon the block for the principle of liberty . ''
`` Will not Your Excellency order out the guard ? ''
whisper Lord Percy , who , with other British officer , have now assemble round the general .
`` There may be a plot under this mummery . ''
`` Tush !
we have nothing to fear , '' carelessly reply Sir William Howe .
`` There can be no bad treason in the matter than a jest , and that somewhat of the dullest .
Even be it a sharp and bitter one , our best policy would be to laugh it off .
See !
here come more of these gentry . ''
Another group of character have now partly descend the staircase .
The first be a venerable and white-bearded patriarch who cautiously felt his way downward with a staff .
Treading hastily behind him , and stretch forth his gauntleted hand a if to grasp the old man 's shoulder , come a tall soldier-like figure equip with a plumed cap of steel , a bright breastplate and a long sword , which rattle against the stair .
Next be see a stout man dress in rich and courtly attire , but not of courtly demeanor ; his gait have the swing motion of a seaman 's walk , and , chance to stumble on the staircase , he suddenly grow wrathful and be hear to mutter an oath .
He be follow by a noble-looking personage in a curled wig such a be represent in the portrait of Queen Anne 's time and earlier , and the breast of his coat be decorate with an embroidered star .
While advance to the door he bow to the right hand and to the leave in a very gracious and insinuating style , but a he cross the threshold , unlike the early Puritan governor , he seem to wring his hand with sorrow .
`` Prithee , play the part of a chorus , good Dr. Byles , '' say Sir William Howe .
`` What worthy be these ? ''
`` If it please Your Excellency , they live somewhat before my day , '' answer the doctor ; `` but doubtless our friend the colonel have be hand and glove with them . ''
`` Their living face I never look upon , '' say Colonel Joliffe , gravely ; `` although I have speak face to face with many ruler of this land , and shall greet yet another with an old man 's blessing ere I die .
But we talk of these figure .
I take the venerable patriarch to be Bradstreet , the last of the Puritans , who be governor at ninety or thereabouts .
The next be Sir Edmund Andros , a tyrant , a any New England schoolboy will tell you , and therefore the people cast him down from his high seat into a dungeon .
Then come Sir William Phipps , shepherd , cooper , sea-captain and governor .
May many of his countryman rise as high from a low an origin !
Lastly , you saw the gracious earl of Bellamont , who rule u under King William . ''
`` But what be the meaning of it all ? ''
ask Lord Percy .
`` Now , be I a rebel , '' say Miss Joliffe , half aloud , `` I might fancy that the ghost of these ancient governor have be summon to form the funeral procession of royal authority in New England . ''
Several other figure be now see at the turn of the staircase .
The one in advance have a thoughtful , anxious and somewhat crafty expression of face , and in spite of his loftiness of manner , which be evidently the result both of an ambitious spirit and of long continuance in high station , he seem not incapable of cringe to a great than himself .
A few step behind come an officer in a scarlet and embroider uniform cut in a fashion old enough to have be wear by the duke of Marlborough .
His nose have a rubicund tinge , which , together with the twinkle of his eye , might have mark him a a lover of the wine-cup and good-fellowship ; notwithstanding which tokens , he appear ill at ease , and often glance around him a if apprehensive of some secret mischief .
Next come a portly gentleman wear a coat of shaggy cloth line with silken velvet ; he have sense , shrewdness and humor in his face and a folio volume under his arm , but his aspect be that of a man vexed and torment beyond all patience and harass almost to death .
He go hastily down , and be follow by a dignified person dress in a purple velvet suit with very rich embroidery ; his demeanor would have possess much stateliness , only that a grievous fit of the gout compel him to hobble from stair to stair with contortion of face and body .
When Dr. Byles behold this figure on the staircase , he shiver a with an ague , but continue to watch him steadfastly until the gouty gentleman have reach the threshold , make a gesture of anguish and despair and vanish into the outer gloom , whither the funeral music summon him .
`` Governor Belcher -- my old patron -- in his very shape and dress ! ''
gasp Dr. Byles .
`` This be an awful mockery . ''
`` A tedious foolery , rather , '' say Sir William Howe , with an air of indifference .
`` But who be the three that precede him ? ''
`` Governor Dudley , a cunning politician ; yet his craft once bring him to a prison , '' reply Colonel Joliffe .
`` Governor Shute , formerly a colonel under Marlborough , and whom the people frighten out of the province , and learn Governor Burnett , whom the legislature torment into a mortal fever . ''
`` Methinks they be miserable men -- these royal governor of Massachusetts , '' observe Miss Joliffe .
`` Heavens !
how dim the light grows ! ''
It be certainly a fact that the large lamp which illuminate the staircase now burn dim and duskily ; so that several figure which pass hastily down the stair and go forth from the porch appear rather like shadow than person of fleshly substance .
Sir William Howe and his guest stand at the door of the contiguous apartment watch the progress of this singular pageant with various emotion of anger , contempt or half-acknowledged fear , but still with an anxious curiosity .
The shape which now seem hasten to join the mysterious procession be recognize rather by strike peculiarity of dress or broad characteristic of manner than by any perceptible resemblance of feature to their prototype .
Their face , indeed , be invariably keep in deep shadow , but Dr. Byles and other gentleman who have long be familiar with the successive ruler of the province be hear to whisper the name of Shirley , of Pownall , of Sir Francis Bernard and of the well-remembered Hutchinson , thereby confess that the actor , whoever they might be , in this spectral march of governor have succeed in put on some distant portraiture of the real personage .
As they vanish from the door , still do these shadow toss their arm into the gloom of night with a dread expression of woe .
Following the mimic representative of Hutchinson come a military figure hold before his face the cock hat which he have take from his powdered head , but his epaulette and other insignia of rank be those of a general officer , and something in his mien remind the beholder of one who have recently be master of the province-house and chief of all the land .
`` The shape of Gage , as true a in a looking-glass ! ''
exclaim Lord Percy , turn pale .
`` No , surely , '' cry Miss Joliffe , laugh hysterically ; `` it could not be Gage , or Sir William would have greet his old comrade in arm .
Perhaps he will not suffer the next to pass unchallenged . ''
`` Of that be assure , young lady , '' answer Sir William Howe , fix his eye with a very marked expression upon the immovable visage of her grandfather .
`` I have long enough delay to pay the ceremony of a host to these depart guest ; the next that take his leave shall receive due courtesy . ''
A wild and dreary burst of music come through the open door .
It seem a it the procession , which have be gradually fill up it rank , be now about to move , and that this loud peal of the wail trumpet and roll of the muffle drum be a call to some loiterer to make haste .
Many eye , by an irresistible impulse , be turn upon Sir William Howe , a if it be he whom the dreary music summon to the funeral of departed power .
`` See !
here come the last , '' whisper Miss Joliffe , point her tremulous finger to the staircase .
A figure have come into view a if descend the stair , although so dusky be the region whence it emerge some of the spectator fancy that they have see this human shape suddenly mould itself amid the gloom .
Downward the figure come with a stately and martial tread , and , reach the low stair , be observe to be a tall man boot and wrap in a military cloak , which be draw up around the face so a to meet the napped brim of a laced hat ; the feature , therefore , be completely hide .
But the British officer deem that they have see that military cloak before , and even recognize the frayed embroidery on the collar , as well a the gilded scabbard of a sword which protrude from the fold of the cloak and glitter in a vivid gleam of light .
Apart from these trifle particular there be characteristic of gait and bearing which impel the wondering guest to glance from the shrouded figure to Sir William Howe , a if to satisfy themselves that their host have not suddenly vanish from the midst of them .
With a dark flush of wrath upon his brow , they saw the general draw his sword and advance to meet the figure in the cloak before the latter have step one pace upon the floor .
`` Villain , unmuffle yourself ! ''
cry he .
`` You pass no farther . ''
The figure , without blench a hair 's - breadth from the sword which be point at his breast , make a solemn pause and lower the cape of the cloak from about his face , yet not sufficiently for the spectator to catch a glimpse of it .
But Sir William Howe have evidently see enough .
The sternness of his countenance give place to a look of wild amazement , if not horror , while he recoil several step from the figure and let fall his sword upon the floor .
The martial shape again draw the cloak about his feature and pass on , but , reach the threshold with his back toward the spectator , he be see to stamp his foot and shake his clenched hand in the air .
It be afterward affirm that Sir William Howe have repeat that selfsame gesture of rage and sorrow when for the last time , and a the last royal governor , he pass through the portal of the province-house .
`` Hark !
The procession move , '' say Miss Joliffe .
The music be die away along the street , and it dismal strain be mingle with the knell of midnight from the steeple of the Old South and with the roar of artillery which announce that the beleaguered army of Washington have intrench itself upon a nearer height than before .
As the deep boom of the cannon smote upon his ear Colonel Joliffe raise himself to the full height of his aged form and smile sternly on the British general .
`` Would Your Excellency inquire far into the mystery of the pageant ? ''
say he .
`` Take care of your gray head ! ''
cry Sir William Howe , fiercely , though with a quiver lip .
`` It have stand too long on a traitor 's shoulder . ''
`` You must make haste to chop it off , then , '' calmly reply the colonel , `` for a few hour longer , and not all the power of Sir William Howe , nor of his master , shall cause one of these gray hair to fall .
The empire of Britain in this ancient province be at it last gasp to-night ; almost while I speak it be a dead corpse , and methinks the shadow of the old governor be fit mourner at it funeral . ''
With these word Colonel Joliffe throw on his cloak , and , draw his granddaughter 's arm within his own , retire from the last festival that a British ruler ever hold in the old province of Massachusetts Bay .
It be suppose that the colonel and the young lady possess some secret intelligence in regard to the mysterious pageant of that night .
However this might be , such knowledge have never become general .
The actor in the scene have vanish into deep obscurity than even that wild Indian hand who scatter the cargo of the tea-ships on the wave and gain a place in history , yet leave no name .
But superstition , among other legend of this mansion , repeat the wondrous tale that on the anniversary night of Britain 's discomfiture the ghost of the ancient governor of Massachusetts still glide through the portal of the Province House .
And last of all come a figure shroud in a military cloak , toss his clenched hand into the air and stamp his iron-shod boot upon the broad freestone step with a semblance of feverish despair , but without the sound of a foot-tramp .
* * * * * When the truth-telling accent of the elderly gentleman be hush , I draw a long breath and look round the room , strive with the best energy of my imagination to throw a tinge of romance and historic grandeur over the reality of the scene .
But my nostril snuff up a scent of cigar-smoke , cloud of which the narrator have emit by way of visible emblem , I suppose , of the nebulous obscurity of his tale .
Moreover , my gorgeous fantasy be woefully disturb by the rattling of the spoon in a tumbler of whiskey-punch which Mr. Thomas Waite be mingle for a customer .
Nor do it add to the picturesque appearance of the panelled wall that the slate of the Brookline stage be suspend against them , instead of the armorial escutcheon of some far-descended governor .
A stage-driver sat at one of the window read a penny paper of the day -- the Boston Times -- and present a figure which could nowise be bring into any picture of `` Times in Boston '' seventy or a hundred year ago .
On the window-seat lay a bundle neatly do up in brown paper , the direction of which I have the idle curiosity to read : `` MISS SUSAN HUGGINS , at the PROVINCE HOUSE . ''
A pretty chambermaid , no doubt .
In truth , it be desperately hard work when we attempt to throw the spell of hoar antiquity over locality with which the living world and the day that be pass over u have aught to do .
Yet , a I glance at the stately staircase down which the procession of the old governor have descend , and a I emerge through the venerable portal whence their figure have precede me , it gladden me to be conscious of a thrill of awe .
Then , dive through the narrow archway , a few stride transport me into the dense throng of Washington street .
II .
EDWARD RANDOLPH 'S PORTRAIT .
The old legendary guest of the Province House abode in my remembrance from midsummer till January .
One idle even last winter , confident that he would be find in the snug corner of the bar-room , I resolve to pay him another visit , hop to deserve well of my country by snatch from oblivion some else unheard-of fact of history .
The night be chill and raw , and render boisterous by almost a gale of wind which whistle along Washington street , cause the gaslight to flare and flicker within the lamp .
As I hurry onward my fancy be busy with a comparison between the present aspect of the street and that which it probably wear when the British governor inhabit the mansion whither I be now go .
Brick edifice in those time be few till a succession of destructive fire have sweep , and swept again , the wooden dwelling and warehouse from the most populous quarter of the town .
The building stand insulated and independent , not , a now , merge their separate existence into connect range with a front of tiresome identity , but each possessing feature of it own , a if the owner 's individual taste have shape it , and the whole present a picturesque irregularity the absence of which be hardly compensate by any beauty of our modern architecture .
Such a scene , dimly vanish from the eye by the ray of here and there a tallow candle glimmer through the small pane of scattered window , would form a sombre contrast to the street a I behold it with the gaslight blaze from corner to corner , flame within the shop and throw a noonday brightness through the huge plate of glass .
But the black , lower sky , a I turn my eye upward , wear , doubtless , the same visage a when it frown upon the ante-Revolutionary New Englanders .
The wintry blast have the same shriek that be familiar to their ear .
The Old South Church , too , still point it antique spire into the darkness and be lose between earth and heaven , and , a I pass , it clock , which have warn so many generation how transitory be their lifetime , speak heavily and slow the same unregarded moral to myself .
`` Only seven o'clock ! ''
thought I . `` My old friend 's legend will scarcely kill the hour ` twixt this and bedtime . ''
Passing through the narrow arch , I cross the courtyard , the confined precinct of which be make visible by a lantern over the portal of the Province House .
On enter the bar-room , I find , a I expect , the old tradition-monger seat by a special good fire of anthracite , compel cloud of smoke from a corpulent cigar .
He recognize me with evident pleasure , for my rare property a a patient listener invariably make me a favorite with elderly gentleman and lady of narrative propensites .
Drawing a chair to the fire , I desire mine host to favor u with a glass apiece of whiskey-punch , which be speedily prepared , steam hot , with a slice of lemon at the bottom , a dark-red stratum of port wine upon the surface and a sprinkling of nutmeg strewn over all .
As we touch our glass together , my legendary friend make himself know to me a Mr. Bela Tiffany , and I rejoice at the oddity of the name , because it give his image and character a sort of individuality in my conception .
The old gentleman 's draught act a a solvent upon his memory , so that it overflow with tale , tradition , anecdote of famous dead people and trait of ancient manner , some of which be childish a a nurse 's lullaby , while others might have be worth the notice of the grave historian .
Nothing impress me more than a story of a black mysterious picture which use to hang in one of the chamber of the Province House , directly above the room where we be now sit .
The following be a correct a version of the fact a the reader would be likely to obtain from any other source , although , assuredly , it have a tinge of romance approach to the marvellous .
* * * * * In one of the apartment of the province-house there be long preserve an ancient picture the frame of which be as black a ebony , and the canvas itself so dark with age , damp and smoke that not a touch of the painter 's art could be discern .
Time have throw an impenetrable veil over it and leave to tradition and fable and conjecture to say what have once be there portray .
During the rule of many successive governor it have hang , by prescriptive and undisputed right , over the mantel piece of the same chamber , and it still keep it place when Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson assume the administration of the province on the departure of Sir Francis Bernard .
The lieutenant-governor sat one afternoon rest his head against the carve back of his stately arm-chair and gaze up thoughtfully at the void blackness of the picture .
It be scarcely a time for such inactive musing , when affair of the deep moment require the ruler 's decision ; for within that very hour Hutchinson have receive intelligence of the arrival of a British fleet bring three regiment from Halifax to overawe the insubordination of the people .
These troop await his permission to occupy the fortress of Castle William and the town itself , yet , instead of affix his signature to an official order , there sit the lieutenant-governor so carefully scrutinize the black waste of canvas that his demeanor attract the notice of two young person who attend him .
One , wear a military dress of buff , be his kinsman , Francis Lincoln , the provincial captain of Castle William ; the other , who sit on a low stool beside his chair , be Alice Vane , his favorite niece .
She be clad entirely in white -- a pale , ethereal creature who , though a native of New England , have be educate abroad and seem not merely a stranger from another clime , but almost a be from another world .
For several year , until leave an orphan , she have dwelt with her father in sunny Italy , and there have acquire a taste and enthusiasm for sculpture and painting which she find few opportunity of gratify in the undecorated dwelling of the colonial gentry .
It be say that the early production of her own pencil exhibit no inferior genius , though perhaps the rude atmosphere of New England have cramp her hand and dim the glowing color of her fancy .
But , observe her uncle 's steadfast gaze , which appear to search through the mist of year to discover the subject of the picture , her curiosity be excite .
`` Is it known , my dear uncle , '' inquire she , `` what this old picture once represent ?
Possibly , could it be make visible , it might prove a masterpiece of some great artist ; else why have it so long hold such a conspicuous place ? ''
As her uncle , contrary to his usual custom -- for he be as attentive to all the humor and caprice of Alice a if she have be his own best-beloved child -- do not immediately reply , the young captain of Castle William take that office upon himself .
`` This dark old square of canvas , my fair cousin , '' say he , `` have be an heirloom in the province-house from time immemorial .
As to the painter , I can tell you nothing ; but if half the story tell of it be true , not one of the great Italian master have ever produce so marvellous a piece of work a that before you . ''
Captain Lincoln proceed to relate some of the strange fable and fantasy which , a it be impossible to refute them by ocular demonstration , have grow to be article of popular belief in reference to this old picture .
One of the wild , and at the same time the best-accredited , account state it to be an original and authentic portrait of the evil one , take at a witch-meeting near Salem , and that it strong and terrible resemblance have be confirm by several of the confessing wizard and witch at their trial in open court .
It be likewise affirm that a familiar spirit or demon abode behind the blackness of the picture , and have show himself at season of public calamity to more than one of the royal governor .
Shirley , for instance , have behold this ominous apparition on the eve of General Abercrombie 's shameful and bloody defeat under the wall of Ticonderoga .
Many of the servant of the province-house have catch glimpse of a visage frown down upon them at morning or evening twilight , or in the depth of night while rake up the fire that glimmer on the hearth beneath , although , if any be , bold enough to hold a torch before the picture , it would appear a black and undistinguishable a ever .
The old inhabitant of Boston recollect that his father -- in whose day the portrait have not wholly fade out of sight -- have once look upon it , but would never suffer himself to be question a to the face which be there represent .
In connection with such story , it be remarkable that over the top of the frame there be some ragged remnant of black silk , indicate that a veil have formerly hang down before the picture until the duskiness of time have so effectually conceal it .
But , after all , it be the most singular part of the affair that so many of the pompous governor of Massachusetts have allow the obliterated picture to remain in the state-chamber of the province-house .
`` Some of these fable be really awful , '' observe Alice Vane , who have occasionally shudder as well a smile while her cousin spoke .
`` It would be almost worth while to wipe away the black surface of the canvas , since the original picture can hardly be so formidable a those which fancy paint instead of it . ''
`` But would it be possible , '' inquire her cousin , '' to restore this dark picture to it pristine hue ? ''
`` Such art be know in Italy , '' say Alice .
The lieutenant-governor have rouse himself from his abstracted mood , and listen with a smile to the conversation of his young relative .
Yet his voice have something peculiar in it tone when he undertake the explanation of the mystery .
`` I be sorry , Alice , to destroy your faith in the legend of which you be so fond , '' remark he , `` but my antiquarian research have long since make me acquainted with the subject of this picture -- if picture it can be call -- which be no more visible , nor ever will be , than the face of the long-buried man whom it once represent .
It be the portrait of Edward Randolph , the founder of this house , a person famous in the history of New England . ''
`` Of that Edward Randolph , '' exclaim Captain Lincoln , `` who obtain the repeal of the first provincial charter , under which our forefather have enjoy almost democratic privilege -- he that be style the arch-enemy of New England , and whose memory be still hold in detestation a the destroyer of our liberty ? ''
`` It be the same Randolph , '' answer Hutchinson , move uneasily in his chair .
`` It be his lot to taste the bitterness of popular odium . ''
`` Our annals tell u , '' continue the captain of Castle William , `` that the curse of the people follow this Randolph where he go and work evil in all the subsequent event of his life , and that it effect be see , likewise , in the manner of his death .
They say , too , that the inward misery of that curse work itself outward and be visible on the wretched man 's countenance , make it too horrible to be look upon .
If so , and if this picture truly represent his aspect , it be in mercy that the cloud of blackness have gather over it . ''
`` These tradition be folly to one who have prove , a I have , how little of historic truth lie at the bottom , '' say the lieutenant-governor .
`` As regard the life and character of Edward Randolph , too implicit credence have be give to Dr. Cotton Mather , who -- I must say it , though some of his blood run in my vein -- have fill our early history with old woman 's tale a fanciful and extravagant a those of Greece or Rome . ''
`` And yet , '' whisper Alice Vane , `` may not such fable have a moral ?
And methinks , if the visage of this portrait be so dreadful , it be not without a cause that it have hang so long in a chamber of the province-house .
When the ruler feel themselves irresponsible , it be well that they should be remind of the awful weight of a people 's curse . ''
The lieutenant-governor started and gaze for a moment at his niece , a if her girlish fantasy have strike upon some feeling in his own breast which all his policy or principle could not entirely subdue .
He know , indeed , that Alice , in spite of her foreign education , retain the native sympathy of a New England girl .
`` Peace , silly child ! ''
cry he , at last , more harshly than he have ever before address the gentle Alice .
`` The rebuke of a king ; be more to be dread than the clamor of a wild , misguided multitude .
-- Captain Lincoln , it be decide : the fortress of Castle William must be occupy by the royal troop .
The two remain regiment shall be billet in the town or encamp upon the Common .
It be time , after year of tumult , and almost rebellion , that His Majesty 's government should have a wall of strength about it . ''
`` Trust , sir -- trust yet a while to the loyalty of the people , '' say Captain Lincoln , `` nor teach them that they can ever be on other term with British soldier than those of brotherhood , a when they fight side by side through the French war .
Do not convert the street of your native town into a camp .
Think twice before you give up old Castle William , the key of the province , into other keep than that of true-born New Englanders . ''
`` Young man , it be decide , '' repeat Hutchinson , rise from his chair .
`` A British officer will be in attendance this evening to receive the necessary instruction for the disposal of the troop .
Your presence also will be require .
Till then , farewell . ''
With these word the lieutenant-governor hastily leave the room , while Alice and her cousin more slowly follow , whisper together , and once pause to glance back at the mysterious picture .
The captain of Castle William fancy that the girl 's air and mien be such a might have belong to one of those spirit of fable -- fairy or creature of a more antique mythology -- who sometimes mingle their agency with mortal affair , half in caprice , yet with a sensibility to human weal or woe .
As he hold the door for her to pass Alice beckon to the picture and smile .
`` Come forth , dark and evil shape ! ''
cry she .
`` It be thine hour . ''
In the evening Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson sit in the same chamber where the foregoing scene have occur , surround by several person whose various interest have summon them together .
There be the selectman of Boston -- plain patriarchal father of the people , excellent representative of the old puritanical founder whose sombre strength have stamp so deep an impress upon the New England character .
Contrasting with these be one or two member of council , richly dress in the white wig , the embroidered waistcoat and other magnificence of the time , and make a somewhat ostentatious display of courtier-like ceremonial .
In attendance , likewise , be a major of the British army , await the lieutenant-governor 's order for the landing of the troop , which still remain on board the transport .
The captain of Castle William stand beside Hutchinson 's chair , with folded arm , glance rather haughtily at the British officer by whom he be soon to be supersede in his command .
On a table in the centre of the chamber stand a branch silver candlestick , throw down the glow of half a dozen waxlights upon a paper apparently ready for the lieutenant-governor 's signature .
Partly shroud in the voluminous fold of one of the window-curtains , which fell from the ceiling to the floor , be see the white drapery of a lady 's robe .
It may appear strange that Alice Vane should have be there at such a time , but there be something so childlike , so wayward , in her singular character , so apart from ordinary rule , that her presence do not surprise the few who notice it .
Meantime , the chairman of the selectman be address to the lieutenant-governor a long and solemn protest against the reception of the British troop into the town .
`` And if Your Honor , '' conclude this excellent but somewhat prosy old gentleman , `` shall see fit to persist in bring these mercenary sworders and musketeer into our quiet street , not on our head be the responsibility .
Think , sir , while there be yet time , that if one drop of blood be shed , that blood shall be an eternal stain upon Your Honor 's memory .
You , sir , have write with an able pen the deed of our forefather ; the more to be desire be it , therefore , that yourself should deserve honorable mention a a true patriot and upright ruler when your own doings shall be write down in history . ''
`` I be not insensible , my good sir , to the natural desire to stand well in the annals of my country , '' reply Hutchinson , control his impatience into courtesy , `` nor know I any good method of attain that end than by withstand the merely temporary spirit of mischief which , with your pardon , seem to have infect old men than myself .
Would you have me wait till the mob shall sack the province-house a they do my private mansion ?
Trust me , sir , the time may come when you will be glad to flee for protection to the king 's banner , the raising of which be now so distasteful to you . ''
`` Yes , '' say the British major , who be impatiently expect the lieutenant-governor 's order .
`` The demagogue of this province have raise the devil , and can not lay him again .
We will exorcise him in God 's name and the king 's . ''
`` If you meddle with the devil , take care of his claw , '' answer the captain of Castle William , stir by the taunt against his countryman .
`` Craving your pardon , young sir , '' say the venerable selectman , `` let not an evil spirit enter into your word .
We will strive against the oppressor with prayer and fasting , a our forefather would have do .
Like them , moreover , we will submit to whatever lot a wise Providence may send u -- always after our own best exertion to amend it . ''
`` And there peep forth the devil 's claw ! ''
mutter Hutchinson , who well understood the nature of Puritan submission .
`` This matter shall be expedite forthwith .
When there shall be a sentinel at every corner and a court of guard before the town-house , a loyal gentleman may venture to walk abroad .
What to me be the outcry of a mob in this remote province of the realm ?
The king be my master , and England be my country ; uphold by their armed strength , I set my foot upon the rabble and defy them . ''
He snatch a pen and be about to affix his signature to the paper that lay on the table , when the captain of Castle William place his hand upon his shoulder .
The freedom of the action , so contrary to the ceremonious respect which be then consider due to rank and dignity , awaken general surprise , and in none more than in the lieutenant-governor himself .
Looking angrily up , he perceive that his young relative be point his finger to the opposite wall .
Hutchinson 's eye follow the signal , and he saw what have hitherto be unobserved -- that a black silk curtain be suspend before the mysterious picture , so as completely to conceal it .
His thought immediately recur to the scene of the precede afternoon , and in his surprise , confuse by indistinct emotion , yet sensible that his niece must have have an agency in this phenomenon , he call loudly upon her : `` Alice !
Come hither , Alice ! ''
No sooner have he spoken than Alice Vane glide from her station , and , press one hand across her eye , with the other snatch away the sable curtain that conceal the portrait .
An exclamation of surprise burst from every beholder , but the lieutenant-governor 's voice have a tone of horror .
`` By Heaven ! ''
say he , in a low inward murmur , speak rather to himself than to those around him ; `` if the spirit of Edward Randolph be to appear among u from the place of torment , he could not wear more of the terror of hell upon his face . ''
`` For some wise end , '' say the age selectman , solemnly , `` hath Providence scatter away the mist of year that have so long hid this dreadful effigy .
Until this hour no living man hath see what we behold . ''
Within the antique frame which so recently have enclose a sable waste of canvas now appear a visible picture-still dark , indeed , in it hue and shading , but thrown forward in strong relief .
It be a half-length figure of a gentleman in a rich but very old-fashioned dress of embroidered velvet , with a broad ruff and a beard , and wear a hat the brim of which overshadow his forehead .
Beneath this cloud the eye have a peculiar glare which be almost lifelike .
The whole portrait start so distinctly out of the background that it have the effect of a person look down from the wall at the astonished and awe-stricken spectator .
The expression of the face , if any word can convey an idea of it , be that of a wretch detect in some hideous guilt and expose to the bitter hatred and laughter and wither scorn of a vast surrounding multitude .
There be the struggle of defiance , beat down and overwhelm by the crush weight of ignominy .
The torture of the soul have come forth upon the countenance .
It seem a if the picture , while hide behind the cloud of immemorial year , have be all the time acquire an intenser depth and darkness of expression , till now it gloomed forth again and throw it evil omen over the present hour .
Such , if the wild legend may be credit , be the portrait of Edward Randolph a he appear when a people 's curse have work it influence upon his nature . ''
` Twould drive me mad , that awful face , '' say Hutchinson , who seem fascinate by the contemplation of it .
`` Be warn , then , '' whisper Alice .
`` He trample on a people 's right .
Behold his punishment , and avoid a crime like his . ''
The lieutenant-governor actually tremble for an instant , but , exert his energy -- which be not , however , his most characteristic feature -- he strive to shake off the spell of Randolph 's countenance .
`` Girl , '' cry he , laugh bitterly , a he turn to Alice , `` have you bring hither your painter 's art , your Italian spirit of intrigue , your trick of stage-effect , and think to influence the council of ruler and the affair of nation by such shallow contrivance ?
See here ! ''
`` Stay yet a while , '' say the selectman a Hutchinson again snatch the pen ; `` for if ever mortal man receive a warning from a tormented soul , Your Honor be that man . ''
`` Away ! ''
answered Hutchinson , fiercely .
`` Though yonder senseless picture cry ` Forbear ! '
it should not move me ! ''
Casting a scowl of defiance at the pictured face -- which seem at that moment to intensify the horror of it miserable and wicked look -- he scrawl on the paper , in character that betoken it a deed of desperation , the name of Thomas Hutchinson .
Then , it be say , he shudder , a if that signature have grant away his salvation .
`` It be do , '' say he , and place his hand upon his brow .
`` May Heaven forgive the deed ! ''
say the soft , sad accent of Alice Vane , like the voice of a good spirit flit away .
When morning come , there be a stifled whisper through the household , and spread thence about the town , that the dark mysterious picture have start from the wall and spoken face to face with Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson .
If such a miracle have be work , however , no trace of it remain behind ; for within the antique frame nothing could be discern save the impenetrable cloud which have cover the canvas since the memory of man .
If the figure have , indeed , step forth , it have flee back , spirit-like , at the day-dawn , and hide itself behind a century 's obscurity .
The truth probably be that Alice Vane 's secret for restore the hue of the picture have merely effect a temporary renovation .
But those who in that brief interval have behold the awful visage of Edward Randolph desire no second glance , and ever afterward tremble at the recollection of the scene , a if an evil spirit have appear visibly among them .
And , a for Hutchinson , when , far over the ocean , his dying-hour drew on , he gasp for breath and complain that he be choke with the blood of the Boston Massacre , and Francis Lincoln , the former captain of Castle William , who be stand at his bedside , perceive a likeness in his frenzied look to that of Edward Randolph .
Did his broken spirit feel at that dread hour the tremendous burden of a people 's curse ?
* * * * * At the conclusion of this miraculous legend I inquire of mine host whether the picture still remain in the chamber over our head , but Mr. Tiffany inform me that it have long since be remove , and be suppose to be hide in some out-of-the-way corner of the New England Museum .
Perchance some curious antiquary may light upon it there , and , with the assistance of Mr. Howorth , the picture-cleaner , may supply a not unnecessary proof of the authenticity of the fact here set down .
During the progress of the story a storm have be gather abroad and rag and rattle so loudly in the upper region of the Province House that it seem a if all the old governor and great men be run riot above stair while Mr. Bela Tiffany babble of them below .
In the course of generation , when many people have live and die in an ancient house , the whistling of the wind through it cranny and the creaking of it beam and rafter become strangely like the tone of the human voice , or thunder laughter , or heavy footstep tread the deserted chamber .
It be a if the echo of half a century be revive .
Such be the ghostly sound that roar and murmur in our ear when I take leave of the circle round the fireside of the Province House and , plunge down the doorstep , fight my way homeward against a drifting snow-storm .
III .
LADY ELEANORE 'S MANTLE .
Mine excellent friend the landlord of the Province House be please the other evening to invite Mr. Tiffany and myself to an oyster-supper .
This slight mark of respect and gratitude , a he handsomely observe , be far less than the ingenious tale-teller , and I , the humble note-taker of his narrative , have fairly earn by the public notice which our joint lucubration have attract to his establishment .
Many a cigar have be smoke within his premise , many a glass of wine or more potent aqua vit have be quaffed , many a dinner have be eat , by curious stranger who , save for the fortunate conjunction of Mr. Tiffany and me , would never have venture through that darksome avenue which give access to the historic precinct of the Province House .
In short , if any credit be due to the courteous assurance of Mr. Thomas Waite , we have bring his forgotten mansion almost a effectually into public view a if we have throw down the vulgar range of shoe-shop and dry-good store which hide it aristocratic front from Washington street .
It may be unadvisable , however , to speak too loudly of the increased custom of the house , lest Mr. Waite should find it difficult to renew the lease on so favorable term a heretofore .
Being thus welcome a benefactor , neither Mr. Tiffany nor myself felt any scruple in do full justice to the good thing that be set before u .
If the feast be less magnificent than those same panelled wall have witness in a bygone century ; if mine host preside with somewhat less of state than might have befit a successor of the royal governor ; if the guest make a less impose show than the bewigged and powder and embroider dignitary who erst banquet at the gubernatorial table and now sleep within their armorial tomb on Copp 's Hill or round King 's Chapel , -- yet never , I may boldly say , do a more comfortable little party assemble in the province-house from Queen Anne 's day to the Revolution .
The occasion be render more interesting by the presence of a venerable personage whose own actual reminiscence go back to the epoch of Gage and Howe , and even supply him with a doubtful anecdote or two of Hutchinson .
He be one of that small , and now all but extinguish , class whose attachment to royalty , and to the colonial institution and custom that be connect with it , have never yield to the democratic heresy of after-times .
The young queen of Britain have not a more loyal subject in her realm -- perhaps not one who would kneel before her throne with such reverential love -- a this old grandsire whose head have whiten beneath the mild sway of the republic which still in his mellower moment he term a usurpation .
Yet prejudice so obstinate have not make him an ungentle or impracticable companion .
If the truth must be tell , the life of the age loyalist have be of such a scrambling and unsettled character -- he have have so little choice of friend and be so often destitute of any -- that I doubt whether he would refuse a cup of kindness with either Oliver Cromwell or John Hancock , to say nothing of any democrat now upon the stage .
In another paper of this series I may perhaps give the reader a close glimpse of his portrait .
Our host in due season uncork a bottle of Madeira of such exquisite perfume and admirable flavor that he surely must have discover it in an ancient bin down deep beneath the deep cellar where some jolly old butler store away the governor 's choice wine and forget to reveal the secret on his death-bed .
Peace to his red-nosed ghost and a libation to his memory !
This precious liquor be imbibe by Mr. Tiffany with peculiar zest , and after sip the third glass it be his pleasure to give u one of the odd legend which he have yet rake from the storehouse where he keep such matter .
With some suitable adornment from my own fancy , it run pretty much a follow .
* * * * * Not long after Colonel Shute have assume the government of Massachusetts Bay -- now nearly a hundred and twenty year ago -- a young lady of rank and fortune arrive from England to claim his protection a her guardian .
He be her distant relative , but the near who have survive the gradual extinction of her family ; so that no more eligible shelter could be find for the rich and high-born Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe than within the province-house of a Transatlantic colony .
The consort of Governor Shute , moreover , have be a a mother to her childhood , and be now anxious to receive her in the hope that a beautiful young woman would be expose to infinitely less peril from the primitive society of New England than amid the artifice and corruption of a court .
If either the governor or his lady have especially consult their own comfort , they would probably have seek to devolve the responsibility on other hand , since with some noble and splendid trait of character Lady Eleanore be remarkable for a harsh , unyielding pride , a haughty consciousness of her hereditary and personal advantage , which make her almost incapable of control .
Judging from many traditionary anecdote , this peculiar temper be hardly less than a monomania ; or if the act which it inspire be those of a sane person , it seem due from Providence that pride so sinful should be follow by a severe a retribution .
That tinge of the marvellous which be throw over so many of these half-forgotten legend have probably impart an additional wildness to the strange story of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe .
The ship in which she come passenger have arrive at Newport , whence Lady Eleanore be convey to Boston in the governor 's coach , attend by a small escort of gentleman on horseback .
The ponderous equipage , with it four black horse , attract much notice a it rumble through Cornhill surround by the prance steed of half a dozen cavalier with sword dangle to their stirrup and pistol at their holster .
Through the large glass window of the coach , a it roll along , the people could discern the figure of Lady Eleanore , strangely combine an almost queenly stateliness with the grace and beauty of a maiden in her teen .
A singular tale have go abroad among the lady of the province that their fair rival be indebted for much of the irresistible charm of her appearance to a certain article of dress -- an embroidered mantle -- which have be work by the most skilful artist in London , and possess even magical property of adornment .
On the present occasion , however , she owe nothing to the witchery of dress , be clothe in a riding-habit of velvet which would have appear stiff and ungraceful on any other form .
The coachman rein in his four black steed , and the whole cavalcade come to a pause in front of the contorted iron balustrade that fence the province-house from the public street .
It be an awkward coincidence that the bell of the Old South be just then toll for a funeral ; so that , instead of a gladsome peal with which it be customary to announce the arrival of distinguished stranger , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe be usher by a doleful clang , a if calamity have come embody in her beautiful person .
`` A very great disrespect ! ''
exclaim Captain Langford , an English officer who have recently bring despatch to Governor Shute .
`` The funeral should have be defer l Lady Eleanore 's spirit be affect by such a dismal welcome . ''
`` With your pardon , sir , '' reply Dr. Clarke , a physician and a famous champion of the popular party , `` whatever the herald may pretend , a dead beggar must have precedence of a living queen .
King Death confers high privilege . ''
These remarks-were interchanged while the speaker wait a passage through the crowd which have gather on each side of the gateway , leave an open avenue to the portal of the province-house .
A black slave in livery now leap from behind the coach and throw open the door , while at the same moment Governor Shute descend the flight of step from his mansion to assist Lady Eleanore in alight .
But the governor 's stately approach be anticipate in a manner that excite general astonishment .
A pale young man with his black hair all in disorder rush from the throng and prostrate himself beside the coach , thus offer his person a a footstool for Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe to tread upon .
She hold back an instant , yet with an expression a if doubt whether the young man be worthy to bear the weight of her footstep rather than dissatisfy to receive such awful reverence from a fellow-mortal .
`` Up , sir ! ''
say the governor , sternly , at the same time lift his cane over the intruder .
`` What mean the Bedlamite by this freak ? ''
`` Nay , '' answer Lady Eleanore , playfully , but with more scorn than pity in her tone ; `` Your Excellency shall not strike him .
When men seek only to be trample upon , it be a pity to deny them a favor so easily grant -- and so well deserved ! ''
Then , though as lightly a a sunbeam on a cloud , she place her foot upon the cower form and extend her hand to meet that of the governor .
There be a brief interval during which Lady Eleanore retain this attitude , and never , surely , be there an apter emblem of aristocracy and hereditary pride trample on human sympathy and the kindred of nature than these two figure present at that moment .
Yet the spectator be so smitten with her beauty , and so essential do pride seem to the existence of such a creature , that they give a simultaneous acclamation of applause .
`` Who be this insolent young fellow ? ''
inquired Captain Langford , who still remain beside Dr. Clarke .
`` If he be in his sens , his impertinence demand the bastinado ; if mad , Lady Eleanore should be secure from further inconvenience by his confinement . ''
`` His name be Jervase Helwyse , '' answer the doctor -- `` a youth of no birth or fortune , or other advantage save the mind and soul that nature give him ; and , be secretary to our colonial agent in London , it be his misfortune to meet this Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe .
He love her , and her scorn have drive him mad . ''
`` He be mad so to aspire , '' observe the English officer .
`` It may be so , '' say Dr. Clarke , frown a he speak ; `` but I tell you , sir , I could wellnigh doubt the justice of the Heaven above u if no signal humiliation overtake this lady who now tread so haughtily into yonder mansion .
She seek to place herself above the sympathy of our common nature , which envelop all human soul ; see if that nature do not assert it claim over her in some mode that shall bring her level with the low . ''
`` Never ! ''
cry Captain Langford , indignantly -- `` neither in life nor when they lay her with her ancestor . ''
Not many day afterward the governor give a ball in honor of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe .
The principal gentry of the colony receive invitation , which be distribute to their residence far and near by messenger on horseback bearing missive seal with all the formality of official despatch .
In obedience to the summons , there be a general gathering of rank , wealth and beauty , and the wide door of the province-house have seldom give admittance to more numerous and honorable guest than on the evening of Lady Eleanore 's ball .
Without much extravagance of eulogy , the spectacle might even be term splendid , for , accord to the fashion of the time , the lady shine in rich silk and satin outspread over wide-projecting hoop , and the gentleman glitter in gold embroidery laid unsparingly upon the purple or scarlet or sky-blue velvet which be the material of their coat and waistcoat .
The latter article of dress be of great importance , since it envelop the wearer 's body nearly to the knee and be perhaps bedizen with the amount of his whole year 's income in golden flower and foliage .
The altered taste of the present day -- a taste symbolic of a deep change in the whole system of society -- would look upon almost any of those gorgeous figure a ridiculous , although that even the guest seek their reflection in the pier-glasses and rejoice to catch their own glitter amid the glittering crowd .
What a pity that one of the stately mirror have not preserve a picture of the scene which by the very traits that be so transitory might have teach u much that would be worth know and remember !
Would , at least , that either painter or mirror could convey to u some faint idea of a garment already notice in this legend -- the Lady Eleanore 's embroidered mantle , which the gossip whisper be invest with magic property , so a to lend a new and untried grace to her figure each time that she put it on !
Idle fancy a it be , this mysterious mantle have throw an awe around my image of her , partly from it fabled virtue and partly because it be the handiwork of a die woman , and perchance owe the fantastic grace of it conception to the delirium of approach death .
After the ceremonial greeting have be pay , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe stand apart from the mob of guest , insulate herself within a small and distinguished circle to whom she accord a more cordial favor than to the general throng .
The waxen torch throw their radiance vividly over the scene , bring out it brilliant point in strong relief , but she gaze carelessly , and with now and then an expression of weariness or scorn temper with such feminine grace that her auditor scarcely perceive the moral deformity of which it be the utterance .
She behold the spectacle not with vulgar ridicule , a disdaining to be please with the provincial mockery of a court-festival , but with the deep scorn of one whose spirit hold itself too high to participate in the enjoyment of other human soul .
Whether or no the recollection of those who saw her that even be influence by the strange event with which she be subsequently connect , so it be that her figure ever after recur to them a mark by something wild and unnatural , although at the time the general whisper be of her exceed beauty and of the indescribable charm which her mantle threw around her .
Some close observer , indeed , detect a feverish flush and alternate paleness of countenance , with a corresponding flow and revulsion of spirit , and once or twice a painful and helpless betrayal of lassitude , a if she be on the point of sink to the ground .
Then , with a nervous shudder , she seem to arouse her energy , and throw some bright and playful yet half-wicked sarcasm into the conversation .
There be so strange a characteristic in her manner and sentiment that it astonish every right-minded listener , till , look in her face , a lurking and incomprehensible glance and smile perplex them with doubt both a to her seriousness and sanity .
Gradually , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe 's circle grow small , till only four gentleman remain in it .
These be Captain Langford , the English officer before mention ; a Virginian planter who have come to Massachusetts on some political errand ; a young Episcopal clergyman , the grandson of a British earl ; and , lastly , the private secretary of Governor Shute , whose obsequiousness have win a sort of tolerance from Lady Eleanore .
At different period of the even the liveried servant of the province-house pass among the guest bear huge tray of refreshment and French and Spanish wine .
Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe , who refuse to wet her beautiful lip even with a bubble of champagne , have sink back into a large damask chair , apparently overwearied either with the excitement of the scene or it tedium ; and while , for an instant , she be unconscious of voice , laughter and music , a young man stole forward and kneel down at her foot .
He bore a salver in his hand on which be a chased silver goblet fill to the brim with wine , which he offer as reverentially a to a crown queen -- or , rather , with the awful devotion of a priest do sacrifice to his idol .
Conscious that some one touch her robe , Lady Eleanore start , and unclosed her eye upon the pale , wild feature and dishevel hair of Jervase Helwyse .
`` Why do you haunt me thus ? ''
say she , in a languid tone , but with a kindly feeling than she ordinarily permit herself to express .
`` They tell me that I have do you harm . ''
`` Heaven know if that be so , '' reply the young man , solemnly .
`` But , Lady Eleanore , in requital of that harm , if such there be , and for your own earthly and heavenly welfare , I pray you to take one sip of this holy wine and then to pass the goblet round among the guest .
And this shall be a symbol that you have not seek to withdraw yourself from the chain of human sympathy , which whoso would shake off must keep company with fallen angel . ''
`` Where have this mad fellow steal that sacramental vessel ? ''
exclaim the Episcopal clergyman .
This question draw the notice of the guest to the silver cup , which be recognize a appertain to the communion-plate of the Old South Church , and , for aught that could be know , it be brim over with the consecrated wine .
`` Perhaps it be poison , '' half whisper the governor 's secretary .
`` Pour it down the villain 's throat ! ''
cry the Virginian , fiercely .
`` Turn him out of the house ! ''
cry Captain Langford , seize Jervase Helwyse so roughly by the shoulder that the sacramental cup be overturn and it content sprinkle upon Lady Eleanore 's mantle .
`` Whether knave , fool or Bedlamite , it be intolerable that the fellow should go at large . ''
`` Pray , gentleman , do my poor admirer no harm , '' say Lady Eleanore , with a faint and weary smile .
`` Take him out of my sight , if such be your pleasure , for I can find in my heart to do nothing but laugh at him , whereas , in all decency and conscience , it would become me to weep for the mischief I have work . ''
But while the bystander be attempt to lead away the unfortunate young man he break from them and with a wild , impassioned earnestness offer a new and equally strange petition to Lady Eleanore .
It be no other than that she should throw off the mantle , which while he press the silver cup of wine upon her she have draw more closely around her form , so a almost to shroud herself within it .
`` Cast it from you , '' exclaim Jervase Helwyse , clasp his hand in an agony of entreaty .
`` It may not yet be too late .
Give the accursed garment to the flame . ''
But Lady Eleanore , with a laugh of scorn , draw the rich fold of the embroidered mantle over her head in such a fashion a to give a completely new aspect to her beautiful face , which , half hidden , half reveal , seem to belong to some be of mysterious character and purpose .
`` Farewell , Jervase Helwyse ! ''
say she .
`` Keep my image in your remembrance a you behold it now . ''
`` Alas , lady ! ''
he reply , in a tone no longer wild , but sad a a funeral-bell ; `` we must meet shortly when your face may wear another aspect , and that shall be the image that must abide within me . ''
He make no more resistance to the violent effort of the gentleman and servant who almost drag him out of the apartment and dismiss him roughly from the iron gate of the province-house .
Captain Langford , who have be very active in this affair , be return to the presence of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe , when he encounter the physician , Dr. Clarke , with whom he have hold some casual talk on the day of her arrival .
The doctor stand apart , separate from Lady Eleanore by the width of the room , but eye her with such keen sagacity that Captain Langford involuntarily give him credit for the discovery of some deep secret .
`` You appear to be smite , after all , with the charm of this queenly maiden , '' say he , hop thus to draw forth the physician 's hidden knowledge .
`` God forbid ! ''
answer Dr. Clarke , with a grave smile ; `` and if you be wise , you will put up the same prayer for yourself .
Woe to those who shall be smite by this beautiful Lady Eleanore !
But yonder stand the governor , and I have a word or two for his private ear .
Good-night ! ''
He accordingly advance to Governor Shute and address him in so low a tone that none of the bystander could catch a word of what he say , although the sudden change of His Excellency 's hitherto cheerful visage betoken that the communication could be of no agreeable import .
A very few moment afterward it be announce to the guest that an unforeseen circumstance render it necessary to put a premature close to the festival .
The ball at the province-house supply a topic of conversation for the colonial metropolis for some day after it occurrence , and might still longer have be the general theme , only that a subject of all-engrossing interest thrust it for a time from the public recollection .
This be the appearance of a dreadful epidemic which in that age , and long before and afterward , be wont to slay it hundred and thousand on both side of the Atlantic .
On the occasion of which we speak it be distinguish by a peculiar virulence , insomuch that it have leave it trace -- it pitmarks , to use an appropriate figure -- on the history of the country , the affair of which be throw into confusion by it ravage .
At first , unlike it ordinary course , the disease seem to confine itself to the high circle of society , select it victim from among the proud , the well-born and the wealthy , enter unabashed into stately chamber and lie down with the slumberer in silken bed .
Some of the most distinguished guest of the province-house -- even those whom the haughty Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe have deem not unworthy of her favor -- be stricken by this fatal scourge .
It be notice with an ungenerous bitterness of feeling that the four gentleman -- the Virginian , the British officer , the young clergyman and the governor 's secretary -- who have be her most devoted attendant on the evening of the ball be the foremost on whom the plague-stroke fell .
But the disease , pursue it onward progress , soon cease to be exclusively a prerogative of aristocracy .
Its red brand be no longer confer like a noble 's star or an order of knighthood .
It thread it way through the narrow and crooked street , and enter the low , mean , darksome dwelling and lay it hand of death upon the artisan and labor class of the town .
It compel rich and poor to feel themselves brother then , and stalk to and fro across the Three Hills with a fierceness which make it almost a new pestilence , there be that mighty conqueror -- that scourge and horror of our forefather -- the small-pox .
We can not estimate the affright which this plague inspire of yore by contemplate it a the fangless monster of the present day .
We must remember , rather , with what awe we watch the gigantic footstep of the Asiatic cholera stride from shore to shore of the Atlantic and march like Destiny upon city far remote which flight have already half depopulate .
There be no other fear so horrible and unhumanizing a that which make man dread to breathe heaven 's vital air l it be poison , or to grasp the hand of a brother or friend lest the grip of the pestilence should clutch him .
Such be the dismay that now follow in the track of the disease or ran before it throughout the town .
Graves be hastily dig and the pestilential relic a hastily cover , because the dead be enemy of the living and strive to draw them headlong , a it be , into their own dismal pit .
The public council be suspend , a if mortal wisdom might relinquish it device now that an unearthly usurper have find his way into the ruler 's mansion .
Had an enemy 's fleet be hover on the coast or his army trample on our soil , the people would probably have commit their defence to that same direful conqueror who have work their own calamity and would permit no interference with his sway .
This conqueror have a symbol of his triumph : it be a blood-red flag that flutter in the tainted air over the door of every dwelling into which the small-pox have enter .
Such a banner be long since waving over the portal of the province-house , for thence , a be prove by track it footstep back , have all this dreadful mischief issue .
It have be trace back to a lady 's luxurious chamber , to the proudest of the proud , to her that be so delicate and hardly own herself of earthly mould , to the haughty one who take her stand above human sympathy -- to Lady Eleanore .
There remain no room for doubt that the contagion have lurk in that gorgeous mantle which throw so strange a grace around her at the festival .
Its fantastic splendor have be conceive in the delirious brain of a woman on her death-bed and be the last toil of her stiffen finger , which have interweave fate and misery with it golden thread .
This dark tale , whisper at first , be now bruit far and wide .
The people rave against the Lady Eleanore and cry out that her pride and scorn have evoke a fiend , and that between them both this monstrous evil have be bear .
At time their rage and despair take the semblance of grin mirth ; and whenever the red flag of the pestilence be hoist over another and yet another door , they clap their hand and shout through the street in bitter mockery : `` Behold a new triumph for the Lady Eleanore ! ''
One day in the midst of these dismal time a wild figure approach the portal of the province-house , and , fold his arm , stand contemplate the scarlet banner , which a passing breeze shook fitfully , a if to fling abroad the contagion that it typify .
At length , climb one of the pillar by mean of the iron balustrade , he take down the flag , and enter the mansion wave it above his head .
At the foot of the staircase he meet the governor , boot and spur , with his cloak drawn around him , evidently on the point of set forth upon a journey .
`` Wretched lunatic , what do you seek here ? ''
exclaim Shute , extend his cane to guard himself from contact .
`` There be nothing here but Death ; back , or you will meet him . ''
`` Death will not touch me , the banner-bearer of the pestilence , '' cry Jervase Helwyse , shake the red flag aloft .
`` Death and the pestilence , who wear the aspect of the Lady Eleanore , will walk through the street to-night , and I must march before them with this banner . ''
`` Why do I waste word on the fellow ? ''
mutter the governor , draw his cloak across his mouth .
`` What matter his miserable life , when none of u be sure of twelve hour ' breath ?
-- On , fool , to your own destruction ! ''
He make way for Jervase Helwyse , who immediately ascend the staircase , but on the first landing-place be arrest by the firm grasp of a hand upon his shoulder .
Looking fiercely up with a madman 's impulse to struggle with and rend asunder his opponent , he find himself powerless beneath a calm , stern eye which possess the mysterious property of quell frenzy at it height .
The person whom he have now encounter be the physician , Dr. Clarke , the duty of whose sad profession have lead him to the province-house , where he be an infrequent guest in more prosperous time .
`` Young man , what be your purpose ? ''
demand he .
`` I seek the Lady Eleanore , '' answer Jervase Helwyse , submissively .
`` All have flee from her , '' say the physician .
`` Why do you seek her now ?
I tell you , youth , her nurse fell death-stricken on the threshold of that fatal chamber .
Know ye not that never come such a curse to our shore a this lovely Lady Eleanore , that her breath have fill the air with poison , that she have shake pestilence and death upon the land from the fold of her accursed mantle ? ''
`` Let me look upon her , '' rejoin the mad youth , more wildly .
`` Let me behold her in her awful beauty , clad in the regal garment of the pestilence .
She and Death sit on a throne together ; let me kneel down before them . ''
`` Poor youth ! ''
say Dr. Clarke , and , move by a deep sense of human weakness , a smile of caustic humor curl his lip even then .
`` Wilt thou still worship the destroyer and surround her image with fantasy the more magnificent the more evil she have work ?
Thus man doth ever to his tyrant .
Approach , then .
Madness , a I have note , have that good efficacy that it will guard you from contagion , and perhaps it own cure may be find in yonder chamber . ''
Ascending another flight of stair , he throw open a door and sign to Jervase Helwyse that he should enter .
The poor lunatic , it seem probable , have cherish a delusion that his haughty mistress sit in state , unharmed herself by the pestilential influence which a by enchantment she scatter round about her .
He dream , no doubt , that her beauty be not dim , but brighten into superhuman splendor .
With such anticipation he steal reverentially to the door at which the physician stand , but pause upon the threshold , gaze fearfully into the gloom of the darkened chamber .
`` Where be the Lady Eleanore ? ''
whisper he .
`` Call her , '' reply the physician .
`` Lady Eleanore !
princess !
queen of Death ! ''
cried Jervase Helwyse , advance three step into the chamber .
`` She be not here .
There , on yonder table , I behold the sparkle of a diamond which once she wear upon her bosom .
There '' -- and he shudder -- `` there hang her mantle , on which a dead woman embroider a spell of dreadful potency .
But where be the Lady Eleanore ? ''
Something stir within the silken curtain of a canopied bed and a low moan be utter , which , listen intently , Jervase Helwyse begin to distinguish a a woman 's voice complain dolefully of thirst .
He fancy , even , that he recognize it tone .
`` My throat !
My throat be scorch , '' murmur the voice .
`` A drop of water ! ''
`` What thing art thou ? ''
say the brain-stricken youth , draw near the bed and tear asunder it curtain .
`` Whose voice hast thou steal for thy murmur and miserable petition , a if Lady Eleanore could be conscious of mortal infirmity ?
Fie !
Heap of diseased mortality , why lurkest thou in my lady 's chamber ? ''
`` Oh , Jervase Helwyse , '' say the voice -- and a it speak the figure contort itself , struggle to hide it blasted face -- `` look not now on the woman you once love .
The curse of Heaven hath stricken me because I would not call man my brother nor woman sister .
I wrap myself in pride a in a mantle and scorn the sympathy of nature , and therefore have Nature make this wretched body the medium of a dreadful sympathy .
You be avenge , they be all avenge , Nature be avenge ; for I be Eleanore Rochcliffe . ''
The malice of his mental disease , the bitterness lurking at the bottom of his heart , mad a he be , for a blighted and ruined life and love that have be pay with cruel scorn , awake within the breast of Jervase Helwyse .
He shake his finger at the wretched girl , and the chamber echoed , the curtain of the bed be shake , with his outburst of insane merriment .
`` Another triumph for the Lady Eleanore ! ''
he cry .
`` All have be her victim ; who so worthy to be the final victim a herself ? ''
Impelled by some new fantasy of his crazed intellect , he snatch the fatal mantle and rush from the chamber and the house .
That night a procession pass by torchlight through the street , bearing in the midst the figure of a woman envelop with a richly-embroidered mantle , while in advance stalk Jervase Helwyse wave the red flag of the pestilence .
Arriving opposite the province-house , the mob burn the effigy , and a strong wind come and sweep away the ash .
It be say that from that very hour the pestilence abate , a if it sway have some mysterious connection , from the first plague-stroke to the last , with Lady Elcanore 's mantle .
A remarkable uncertainty brood over that unhappy lady 's fate .
There be a belief , however , that in a certain chamber of this mansion a female form may sometimes be duskily discern shrink into the dark corner and muffle her face within an embroidered mantle .
Supposing the legend true , can this be other than the once proud Lady Eleanore ?
* * * * * Mine host and the old loyalist and I bestow no little Warmth of applause upon this narrative , in which we have all be deeply interested ; for the reader can scarcely conceive how unspeakably the effect of such a tale be heighten when , a in the present case , we may repose perfect confidence in the veracity of him who tell it .
For my own part , know how scrupulous be Mr. Tiffany to settle the foundation of his fact , I could not have believe him one whit the more faithfully have he profess himself an eyewitness of the doings and suffering of poor Lady Eleanore .
Some sceptic , it be true , might demand documentary evidence , or even require him to produce the embroidered mantle , forget that -- Heaven be praise !
-- it be consume to ash .
But now the old loyalist , whose blood be warm by the good cheer , begin to talk , in his turn , about the tradition of the Province House , and hint that he , if it be agreeable , might add a few reminiscence to our legendary stock .
Mr. Tiffany , have no cause to dread a rival , immediately beseech him to favor u with a specimen ; my own entreaty , of course , be urge to the same effect ; and our venerable guest , well pleased to find willing auditor , await only the return of Mr. Thomas Waite , who have be summon forth to provide accommodation for several new arrival .
Perchance the public -- but be this a it own caprice and ours shall settle the matter -- may read the result in another tale of the Province House .
IV .
OLD ESTHER DUDLEY .
Our host have resume the chair , he as well a Mr. Tiffany and myself express much eagerness to be make acquaint with the story to which the loyalist have allude .
That venerable man first of all saw light to moisten his throat with another glass of wine , and then , turn his face toward our coal-fire , look steadfastly for a few moment into the depth of it cheerful glow .
Finally he pour forth a great fluency of speech .
The generous liquid that he have imbibe , while it warm his age-chilled blood , likewise take off the chill from his heart and mind , and give him an energy to think and feel which we could hardly have expect to find beneath the snow of fourscore winter .
His feeling , indeed , appear to me more excitable than those of a young man -- or , at least , the same degree of feeling manifest itself by more visible effect than if his judgment and will have possess the potency of meridian life .
At the pathetic passage of his narrative he readily melt into tear .
When a breath of indignation sweep across his spirit , the blood flush his withered visage even to the root of his white hair , and he shake his clinched fist at the trio of peaceful auditor , seem to fancy enemy in those who felt very kindly toward the desolate old soul .
But ever and anon , sometimes in the midst of his most earnest talk , this ancient person 's intellect would wander vaguely , lose it hold of the matter in hand and groping for it amid misty shadow .
Then would he cackle forth a feeble laugh and express a doubt whether his wit -- for by that phrase it please our ancient friend to signify his mental power -- be not get a little the bad for wear .
Under these disadvantage , the old loyalist 's story require more revision to render it fit for the public eye than those of the series which have precede it ; nor should it be conceal that the sentiment and tone of the affair may have undergone some slight -- or perchance more than slight -- metamorphosis in it transmission to the reader through the medium of a thoroughgoing democrat .
The tale itself be a mere sketch with no involution of plot nor any great interest of event , yet possess , if I have rehearse it aright , that pensive influence over the mind which the shadow of the old Province House fling upon the loiterer in it court-yard .
* * * * * The hour have come -- the hour of defeat and humiliation -- when Sir William Howe be to pass over the threshold of the province-house and embark , with no such triumphal ceremony a he once promise himself , on board the British fleet .
He bid his servant and military attendant go before him , and linger a moment in the loneliness of the mansion to quell the fierce emotion that struggle in his bosom a with a death-throb .
Preferable then would he have deem his fate have a warrior 's death leave him a claim to the narrow territory of a grave within the soil which the king have give him to defend .
With an ominous perception that a his depart footstep echoed adown the staircase the sway of Britain be pass for ever from New England , he smite his clenched hand on his brow and curse the destiny that have fling the shame of a dismembered empire upon him .
`` Would to God , '' cry he , hardly repress his tear of rage , `` that the rebel be even now at the doorstep !
A blood-stain upon the floor should then bear testimony that the last British ruler be faithful to his trust . ''
The tremulous voice of a woman reply to his exclamation .
`` Heaven 's cause and the king 's be one , '' it say .
`` Go forth , Sir William Howe , and trust in Heaven to bring back a royal governor in triumph . ''
Subduing at once the passion to which he have yield only in the faith that it be unwitnessed , Sir William Howe become conscious that an aged woman lean on a gold-headed staff be stand betwixt him and the door .
It be old Esther Dudley , who have dwell almost immemorial year in this mansion , until her presence seem a inseparable from it a the recollection of it history .
She be the daughter of an ancient and once eminent family which have fall into poverty and decay and leave it last descendant no resource save the bounty of the king , nor any shelter except within the wall of the province-house .
An office in the household with merely nominal duty have be assign to her a a pretext for the payment of a small pension , the great part of which she expend in adorn herself with an antique magnificence of attire .
The claim of Esther Dudley 's gentle blood be acknowledge by all the successive governor , and they treat her with the punctilious courtesy which it be her foible to demand , not always with success , from a neglectful world .
The only actual share which she assume in the business of the mansion be to glide through it passage and public chamber late at night to see that the servant have drop no fire from their flaring torch nor left ember crackle and blaze on the hearth .
Perhaps it be this invariable custom of walk her round in the hush of midnight that cause the superstition of the time to invest the old woman with attribute of awe and mystery , fabling that she have enter the portal of the province-house -- none know whence -- in the train of the first royal governor , and that it be her fate to dwell there till the last should have depart .
But Sir William Howe , if he ever hear this legend , have forget it .
`` Mistress Dudley , why be you loiter here ? ''
ask he , with some severity of tone .
`` It be my pleasure to be the last in this mansion of the king . ''
`` Not so , if it please Your Excellency , '' answer the time-stricken woman .
`` This roof have shelter me long ; I will not pass from it until they bear me to the tomb of my forefather .
What other shelter be there for old Esther Dudley save the province-house or the grave ? ''
`` Now , Heaven forgive me ! ''
say Sir William Howe to himself .
`` I be about to leave this wretched old creature to starve or beg .
-- Take this , good Mistress Dudley , '' he add , put a purse into her hand .
`` King George 's head on these golden guinea be sterling yet , and will continue so , I warrant you , even should the rebel crown John Hancock their king .
That purse will buy a good shelter than the province-house can now afford . ''
`` While the burden of life remain upon me I will have no other shelter than this roof , '' persist Esther Dudley , strike her stuff upon the floor with a gesture that express immovable resolve ; `` and when Your Excellency return in triumph , I will totter into the porch to welcome you . ''
`` My poor old friend ! ''
answer the British general , and all his manly and martial pride could no longer restrain a gush of bitter tear .
`` This be an evil hour for you and me .
The province which the king entrust to my charge be lose .
I go hence in misfortune -- perchance in disgrace -- to return no more .
And you , whose present be be incorporate with the past , who have see governor after governor in stately pageantry ascend these step , whose whole life have be an observance of majestic ceremony and a worship of the king , -- how will you endure the change ?
Come with u ; bid farewell to a land that have shake off it allegiance , and live still under a royal government at Halifax . ''
`` Never !
never ! ''
say the pertinacious old dame .
`` Here will I abide , and King George shall still have one true subject in his disloyal province . ''
`` Beshrew the old fool ! ''
mutter Sir William Howe , grow impatient of her obstinacy and ashamed of the emotion into which he have be betray .
`` She be the very moral of old-fashioned prejudice , and could exist nowhere but in this musty edifice .
-- Well , then , Mistress Dudley , since you will need tarry , I give the province-house in charge to you .
Take this key , and keep it safe until myself or some other royal governor shall demand it of you . ''
Smiling bitterly at himself and her , he take the heavy key of the province-house , and , deliver it into the old lady 's hand , draw his clonk around him for departure .
As the general glance back at Esther Dudley 's antique figure he deem her well fit for such a charge , a be so perfect a representative of the decayed past -- of an age go by , with it manner , opinion , faith and feeling all fall into oblivion or scorn , of what have once be a reality , but be now merely a vision of faded magnificence .
Then Sir William Howe strode forth , smite his clenched hand together in the fierce anguish of his spirit , and old Esther Dudley be leave to keep watch in the lonely province-house , dwell there with Memory ; and if Hope ever seem to flit around her , still it be Memory in disguise .
The total change of affair that ensue on the departure of the British troop do not drive the venerable lady from her stronghold .
There be not for many year afterward a governor of Massachusetts , and the magistrate who have charge of such matter saw no objection to Esther Dudley 's residence in the province-house , especially a they must otherwise have pay a hireling for take care of the premise , which with her be a labor of love ; and so they leave her the undisturbed mistress of the old historic edifice .
Many and strange be the fable which the gossip whisper about her in all the chimney-corners of the town .
Among the time-worn article of furniture that have be leave in the mansion , there be a tall antique mirror which be well worthy of a tale by itself , and perhaps may hereafter be the theme of one .
The gold of it heavily-wrought frame be tarnish , and it surface so blur that the old woman 's figure , whenever she pause before it , look indistinct and ghostlike .
But it be the general belief that Esther could cause the governor of the overthrown dynasty , with the beautiful lady who have once adorn their festival , the Indian chief who have come up to the province-house to hold council or swear allegiance , the grim provincial warrior , the severe clergyman -- in short , all the pageantry of go day , all the figure that ever sweep across the broad-plate of glass in former time , -- she could cause the whole to reappear and people the inner world of the mirror with shadow of old life .
Such legend a these , together with the singularity of her isolated existence , her age and the infirmity that each add winter flung upon her , make Mistress Dudley the object both of fear and pity , and it be partly the result of either sentiment that , amid all the angry license of the time , neither wrong nor insult ever fell upon her unprotected head .
Indeed , there be so much haughtiness in her demeanor toward intruder -- among whom she reckon all person act under the new authority -- that it be really an affair of no small nerve to look her in the face .
And , to do the people justice , stern republican a they have now become , they be well content that the old gentlewoman , in her hoop-petticoat and fade embroidery , should still haunt the palace of ruined pride and overthrown power , the symbol of a departed system , embody a history in her person .
So Esther Dudley dwell year after year in the province-house , still reverence all that others have fling aside , still faithful to her king , who , so long a the venerable dame yet hold her post , might be say to retain one true subject in New England and one spot of the empire that have be wrest from him .
And do she dwell there in utter loneliness ?
Rumor say , `` Not so . ''
Whenever her chill and wither heart desire warmth , she be wont to summon a black slave of Governor Shirley 's from the blur mirror and send him in search of guest who have long ago be familiar in those deserted chamber .
Forth go the sable messenger , with the starlight or the moonshine gleam through him , and do his errand in the burial-grounds , knock at the iron door of tomb or upon the marble slab that cover them , and whisper to those within , `` My mistress , old Esther Dudley , bid you to the province-house at midnight ; '' and punctually a the clock of the Old South tell twelve come the shadow of the Olivers , the Hutchinsons , the Dudleys -- all the grandee of a bygone generation -- glide beneath the portal into the well-known mansion , where Esther mingle with them a if she likewise be a shade .
Without vouch for the truth of such tradition , it be certain that Mistress Dudley sometimes assemble a few of the stanch though crestfallen old Tories who have linger in the rebel town during those day of wrath and tribulation .
Out of a cobwebbed bottle contain liquor that a royal governor might have smack his lip over they quaff health to the king and babble treason to the republic , feeling a if the protect shadow of the throne be still fling around them .
But , drain the last drop of their liquor , they steal timorously homeward , and answer not again if the rude mob revile them in the street .
Yet Esther Dudley 's most frequent and favored guest be the child of the town .
Toward them she be never stern .
A kindly and loving nature hinder elsewhere from it free course by a thousand rocky prejudice lavish itself upon these little one .
By bribe of gingerbread of her own making , stamp with a royal crown , she tempt their sunny sportiveness beneath the gloomy portal of the province-house , and would often beguile them to spend a whole play-day there , sit in a circle round the verge of her hoop-petticoat , greedily attentive to her story of a dead world .
And when these little boy and girl steal forth again from the dark , mysterious mansion , they go bewilder , full of old feeling that graver people have long ago forget , rub their eye at the world around them a if they have go astray into ancient time and become child of the past .
At home , when their parent ask where they have loiter such a weary while and with whom they have be at play , the child would talk of all the departed worthy of the province a far back a Governor Belcher and the haughty dame of Sir William Phipps .
It would seem a though they have be sit on the knee of these famous personage , whom the grave have hide for half a century , and have toy with the embroidery of their rich waistcoat or roguishly pull the long curl of their flowing wig .
`` But Governor Belcher have be dead this many a year , '' would the mother say to her little boy .
`` And do you really see him at the province-house ? ''
-- `` Oh yes , dear mother -- yes ! ''
the half-dreaming child would answer .
`` But when old Esther have do speak about him , he fade away out of his chair . ''
Thus , without affright her little guest , she lead them by the hand into the chamber of her own desolate heart and make childhood 's fancy discern the ghost that haunt there .
Living so continually in her own circle of idea , and never regulate her mind by a proper reference to present thing , Esther Dudley appear to have grow partially craze .
It be find that she have no right sense of the progress and true state of the Revolutionary war , but hold a constant faith that the army of Britain be victorious on every field and destine to be ultimately triumphant .
Whenever the town rejoice for a battle won by Washington or Gates or Morgan or Greene , the news , in pass through the door of the province-house a through the ivory gate of dream , become metamorphose into a strange tale of the prowess of Howe , Clinton or Cornwallis .
Sooner or later , it be her invincible belief , the colony would be prostrate at the footstool of the king .
Sometimes she seem to take for grant that such be already the case .
On one occasion she startle the townspeople by a brilliant illumination of the province-house with candle at every pane of glass and a transparency of the king 's initial and a crown of light in the great balcony-window .
The figure of the age woman in the most gorgeous of her mildewed velvet and brocade be see pass from casement to casement , until she pause before the balcony and flourish a huge key above her head .
Her wrinkled visage actually gleam with triumph , a if the soul within her be a festal lamp .
`` What mean this blaze of light ?
What do old Esther 's joy portend ? ''
whisper a spectator .
`` It be frightful to , see her glide about the chamber and rejoice there without a soul to bear her company . ''
`` It be a if she be make merry in a tomb , '' say another .
`` Pshaw !
It be no such mystery , '' observe an old man , after some brief exercise of memory .
`` Mistress Dudley be keep jubilee for the king of England 's birthday . ''
Then the people laugh aloud , and would have throw mud against the blazing transparency of the king 's crown and initial , only that they pity the poor old dame who be so dismally triumphant amid the wreck and ruin of the system to which she appertain .
Oftentimes it be her custom to climb the weary staircase that wind upward to the cupola , and thence strain her dimmed eyesight seaward and countryward , watch for a British fleet or for the march of a grand procession with the king 's banner floating over it .
The passenger in the street below would discern her anxious visage and send up a shout : `` When the golden Indian on the province-house shall shoot his arrow , and when the cock on the Old South spire shall crow , then look for a royal governor again ! ''
for this have grow a by-word through the town .
And at last , after long , long year , old Esther Dudley know -- or perchance she only dream -- that a royal governor be on the eve of return to the province-house to receive the heavy key which Sir William Howe have commit to her charge .
Now , it be the fact that intelligence bear some faint analogy to Esther 's version of it be current among the townspeople .
She set the mansion in the best order that her mean allow , and , array herself in silk and tarnish gold , stand long before the blurred mirror to admire her own magnificence .
As she gaze the gray and wither lady move her ashen lip , murmur half aloud , talk to shape that she saw within the mirror , to shadow of her own fantasy , to the household friend of memory , and bid them rejoice with her and come forth to meet the governor .
And while absorb in this communion Mistress Dudley hear the tramp of many footstep in the street , and , look out at the window , behold what she construe a the royal governor 's arrival .
`` Oh , happy day !
Oh , bless , bless hour ! ''
she exclaim .
`` Let me but bid him welcome within the portal , and my task in the province-house and on earth be do . ''
Then , with totter foot which age and tremulous joy cause to tread amiss , she hurry down the grand staircase , her silk sweeping and rustle a she go ; so that the sound be a if a train of special courtier be throng from the dim mirror .
And Esther Dudley fancy that as soon a the wide door should be fling open all the pomp and splendor of bygone time would pace majestically into the province-house and the gilded tapestry of the past would be brighten by the sunshine of the present .
She turn the key , withdraw it from the lock , unclosed the door and step across the threshold .
Advancing up the court-yard appear a person of most dignified mien , with token , a Esther interpret them , of gentle blood , high rank and long-accustomed authority even in his walk and every gesture .
He be richly dress , but wear a gouty shoe , which , however , do not lessen the stateliness of his gait .
Around and behind him be people in plain civic dress and two or three war-worn veteran -- evidently officer of rank -- array in a uniform of blue and buff .
But Esther Dudley , firm in the belief that have fasten it root about her heart , behold only the principal personage , and never doubt that this be the long-looked-for governor to whom she be to surrender up her charge .
As he approach she involuntarily sink down on her knee and tremblingly hold forth the heavy key .
`` Receive my trust !
Take it quickly , '' cry she , `` for methinks Death be strive to snatch away my triumph .
But he conies too late .
Thank Heaven for this blessed hour !
God save King George ! ''
`` That , madam , be a strange prayer to be offer up at such a moment , '' reply the unknown guest of the province-house , and , courteously remove his hat , he offer his arm to raise the aged woman .
`` Yet , in reverence for your gray hair and long-kept faith , Heaven forbid that any here should say you nay .
Over the realm which still acknowledge his sceptre , God save King George ! ''
Esther Dudley start to her foot , and , hastily clutch back the key , gaze with fearful earnestness at the stranger , and dimly and doubtfully , a if suddenly awaken from a dream , her bewildered eye half recognize his face .
Years ago she have know him among the gentry of the province , but the ban of the king have fall upon him .
How , then , come the doomed victim here ?
Proscribed , exclude from mercy , the monarch 's most dreaded and hated foe , this New England merchant have stand triumphantly against a kingdom 's strength , and his foot now tread upon humble royalty a he ascend the step of the province-house , the people 's choose governor of Massachusetts .
`` Wretch , wretch that I be ! ''
mutter the old woman , with such a heartbroken expression that the tear gush from the stranger 's eye .
`` Have I bid a traitor welcome ?
-- Come , Death !
come quickly ! ''
`` Alas , venerable lady ! ''
say Governor Hancock , lend her his support with all the reverence that a courtier would have show to a queen , `` your life have be prolong until the world have change around you .
You have treasure up all that time have render worthless -- the principle , feeling , manner , mode of be and act which another generation have fling aside -- and you be a symbol of the past .
And I and these around me -- we represent a new race of men , live no longer in the past , scarcely in the present , but project our life forward into the future .
Ceasing to model ourselves on ancestral superstition , it be our faith and principle to press onward -- onward .
-- Yet , '' continue he , turn to his attendant , `` let u reverence for the last time the stately and gorgeous prejudice of the tottering past . ''
While the republican governor speak he have continue to support the helpless form of Esther Dudley ; her weight grow heavy against his arm , but at last , with a sudden effort to free herself , the ancient woman sink down beside one of the pillar of the portal .
The key of the province-house fell from her grasp and clank against the stone .
`` I have be faithful unto death , '' murmur she .
`` God save the king ! ''
`` She hath do her office , '' say Hancock , solemnly .
`` We will follow her reverently to the tomb of her ancestor , and then , my fellow-citizens , onward -- onward .
We be no longer child of the past . ''
As the old loyalist conclude his narrative the enthusiasm which have be fitfully flash within his sunken eye and quiver across his wrinkled visage fade away , a if all the linger fire of his soul be extinguish .
Just then , too , a lamp upon the mantelpiece throw out a die gleam , which vanish as speedily a it shoot upward , compel our eye to grope for one another 's feature by the dim glow of the hearth .
With such a lingering fire , methought , with such a die gleam , have the glory of the ancient system vanish from the province-house when the spirit of old Esther Dudley take it flight .
And now , again , the clock of the Old South throw it voice of age on the breeze , knolling the hourly knell of the past , cry out far and wide through the multitudinous city , and fill our ear , a we sit in the dusky chamber , with it reverberate depth of tone .
In that same mansion -- in that very chamber -- what a volume of history have be tell off into hour by the same voice that be now tremble in the air !
Many a governor have hear those midnight accent and long to exchange his stately care for slumber .
And , a for mine host and Mr. Bela Tiffany and the old loyalist and me , we have babble about dream of the past until we almost fancy that the clock be still strike in a bygone century .
Neither of u would have wonder have a hoop-petticoated phantom of Esther Dudley totter into the chamber , walk her round in the hush of midnight a of yore , and motion u to quench the fading ember of the fire and leave the historic precinct to herself and her kindred shade .
But , a no such vision be vouchsafe , I retire unbidden , and would advise Mr. Tiffany to lay hold of another auditor , be resolve not to show my face in the Province House for a good while hence -- if ever .
THE HAUNTED MIND .
What a singular moment be the first one , when you have hardly begin to recollect yourself , after start from midnight slumber !
By unclosing your eye so suddenly you seem to have surprise the personage of your dream in full convocation round your bed , and catch one broad glance at them before they can flit into obscurity .
Or , to vary the metaphor , you find yourself for a single instant wide awake in that realm of illusion whither sleep have be the passport , and behold it ghostly inhabitant and wondrous scenery with a perception of their strangeness such a you never attain while the dream be undisturbed .
The distant sound of a church-clock be borne faintly on the wind .
You question with yourself , half seriously , whether it have steal to your wake ear from some gray tower that stand within the precinct of your dream .
While yet in suspense another clock fling it heavy clang over the slumber town with so full and distinct a sound , and such a long murmur in the neighboring air , that you be certain it must proceed from the steeple at the near corner ; You count the stroke -- one , two ; and there they cease with a booming sound like the gathering of a third stroke within the bell .
If you could choose an hour of wakefulness out of the whole night , it would be this .
Since your sober bedtime , at eleven , you have have rest enough to take off the pressure of yesterday 's fatigue , while before you , till the sun come from `` Far Cathay '' to brighten your window , there be almost the space of a summer night -- one hour to be spend in thought with the mind 's eye half shut , and two in pleasant dream , and two in that strangest of enjoyment the forgetfulness alike of joy and woe .
The moment of rise belongs to another period of time , and appear so distant that the plunge out of a warm bed into the frosty air can not yet be anticipate with dismay .
Yesterday have already vanish among the shadow of the past ; to-morrow have not yet emerge from the future .
You have find an intermediate space where the business of life do not intrude , where the passing moment lingers and become truly the present ; a spot where Father Time , when he think nobody be watch him , sit down by the wayside to take breath .
Oh that he would fall asleep and let mortal live on without grow old !
Hitherto you have lie perfectly still , because the slight motion would dissipate the fragment of your slumber .
Now , be irrevocably awake , you peep through the half-drawn window-curtain , and observe that the glass be ornament with fanciful device in frost-work , and that each pane present something like a frozen dream .
There will be time enough to trace out the analogy while wait the summons to breakfast .
Seen through the clear portion of the glass where the silvery mountain-peaks of the frost-scenery do not ascend , the most conspicuous object be the steeple , the white spire of which direct you to the wintry lustre of the firmament .
You may almost distinguish the figure on the clock that have just tell the hour .
Such a frosty sky and the snow-covered roof and the long vista of the frozen street , all white , and the distant water harden into rock , might make you shiver even under four blanket and a woollen comforter .
Yet look at that one glorious star !
Its beam be distinguishable from all the rest , and actually cast the shadow of the casement on the bed with a radiance of deep hue than moonlight , though not so accurate an outline .
You sink down and muffle your head in the clothes , shiver all the while , but less from bodily chill than the bare idea of a polar atmosphere .
It be too cold even for the thought to venture abroad .
You speculate on the luxury of wear out a whole existence in bed like an oyster in it shell , content with the sluggish ecstasy of inaction , and drowsily conscious of nothing but delicious warmth such a you now feel again .
Ah !
that idea have bring a hideous one in it train .
You think how the dead be lie in their cold shroud and narrow coffin through the drear winter of the grave , and can not persuade your fancy that they neither shrink nor shiver when the snow be drift over their little hillock and the bitter blast howl against the door of the tomb .
That gloomy thought will collect a gloomy multitude and throw it complexion over your wakeful hour .
In the depth of every heart there be a tomb and a dungeon , though the light , the music and revelry , above may cause u to forget their existence and the buried one or prisoner whom they hide .
But sometimes , and oftenest at midnight , those dark receptacle be flung wide open .
In an hour like this , when the mind have a passive sensibility , but no active strength -- when the imagination be a mirror impart vividness to all idea without the power of select or control them -- then pray that your grief may slumber and the brotherhood of remorse not break their chain .
It be too late .
A funeral train come glide by your bed in which passion and feeling assume bodily shape and thing of the mind become dim spectre to the eye .
There be your early sorrow , a pale young mourner wear a sister 's likeness to first love , sadly beautiful , with a hallowed sweetness in her melancholy feature and grace in the flow of her sable robe .
Next appear a shade of ruined loveliness with dust among her golden hair and her bright garment all fade and deface , steal from your glance with droop head , a fearful of reproach : she be your fond hope , but a delusive one ; so call her Disappointment now .
A sterner form succeed , with a brow of wrinkle , a look and gesture of iron authority ; there be no name for him unless it be Fatality -- an emblem of the evil influence that rule your fortune , a demon to whom you subject yourself by some error at the outset of life , and be bind his slave for ever by once obey him .
See those fiendish lineament grave on the darkness , the writhed lip of scorn , the mockery of that living eye , the pointed finger touch the sore place in your heart !
Do you remember any act of enormous folly at which you would blush even in the remote cavern of the earth ?
Then recognize your shame .
Pass , wretched band !
Well for the wakeful one if , riotously miserable , a fiercer tribe do not surround him -- the devil of a guilty heart that hold it hell within itself .
What if Remorse should assume the feature of an injured friend ?
What if the fiend should come in woman 's garment with a pale beauty amid sin and desolation , and lie down by your side ?
What if he should stand at your bed 's foot in the likeness of a corpse with a bloody stain upon the shroud ?
Sufficient without such guilt be this nightmare of the soul , this heavy , heavy sinking of the spirit , this wintry gloom about the heart , this indistinct horror of the mind blend itself with the darkness of the chamber .
By a desperate effort you start upright , break from a sort of conscious sleep and gaze wildly round the bed , a if the fiend be anywhere but in your haunt mind .
At the same moment the slumber ember on the hearth send forth a gleam which palely illuminate the whole outer room and flicker through the door of the bedchamber , but can not quite dispel it obscurity .
Your eye search for whatever may remind you of the living world .
With eager minuteness you take note of the table near the fireplace , the book with an ivory knife between it leaf , the unfolded letter , the hat and the fall glove .
Soon the flame vanishes , and with it the whole scene be go , though it image remain an instant in your mind 's eye when darkness have swallow the reality .
Throughout the chamber there be the same obscurity a before , but not the same gloom within your breast .
As your head fall back upon the pillow you think -- in a whisper be it speak -- how pleasant in these night solitude would be the rise and fall of a soft breathing than your own , the slight pressure of a tenderer bosom , the quiet throb of a pure heart , impart it peacefulness to your troubled one , a if the fond sleeper be involve you in her dream .
Her influence be over you , though she have no existence but in that momentary image .
You sink down in a flowery spot on the border of sleep and wakefulness , while your thought rise before you in picture , all disconnect , yet all assimilate by a pervading gladsomeness and beauty .
The wheeling of gorgeous squadron that glitter in the sun be succeed by the merriment of child round the door of a schoolhouse beneath the glimmer shadow of old tree at the corner of a rustic lane .
You stand in the sunny rain of a summer shower , and wander among the sunny tree of an autumnal wood , and look upward at the bright of all rainbow overarch the unbroken sheet of snow on the American side of Niagara .
Your mind struggle pleasantly between the dance radiance round the hearth of a young man and his recent bride and the twitter flight of bird in spring about their new-made nest .
You feel the merry bounding of a ship before the breeze , and watch the tuneful foot of rosy girl a they twine their last and merry dance in a splendid ball-room , and find yourself in the brilliant circle of a crowded theatre a the curtain fall over a light and airy scene .
With an involuntary start you seize hold on consciousness , and prove yourself but half awake by run a doubtful parallel between human life and the hour which have now elapse .
In both you emerge from mystery , pas through a vicissitude that you can but imperfectly control , and be borne onward to another mystery .
Now come the peal of the distant clock with fainter and fainter stroke a you plunge far into the wilderness of sleep .
It be the knell of a temporary death .
Your spirit have depart , and stray like a free citizen among the people of a shadowy world , behold strange sight , yet without wonder or dismay .
So calm , perhaps , will be the final change -- so undisturbed , a if among familiar thing , the entrance of the soul to it eternal home .
THE VILLAGE UNCLE .
AN IMAGINARY RETROSPECT .
Come !
another log upon the hearth .
True , our little parlor be comfortable , especially here where the old man sit in his old arm-chair ; but on Thanksgiving-night the blaze should dance high up the chimney and send a shower of spark into the outer darkness .
Toss on an armful of those dry oak chip , the last relict of the Mermaid 's knee-timbers -- the bone of your namesake , Susan .
Higher yet , and clearer , be the blaze , till our cottage windows glow the ruddiest in the village and the light of our household mirth flash far across the bay to Nahant .
And now come , Susan ; come , my child .
Draw your chair round me , all of you .
There be a dimness over your figure .
You sit quiver indistinctly with each motion of the blaze , which eddy about you like a flood ; so that you all have the look of vision or people that dwell only in the firelight , and will vanish from existence as completely a your own shadow when the flame shall sink among the ember .
Hark !
let me listen for the swell of the surf ; it should be audible a mile inland on a night like this .
Yes ; there I catch the sound , but only an uncertain murmur , a if a good way down over the beach , though by the almanac it be high tide at eight o'clock , and the billow must now be dash within thirty yard of our door .
Ah !
the old man 's ear be fail him , and so be his eyesight , and perhaps his mind , else you would not all be so shadowy in the blaze of his Thanksgiving fire .
How strangely the past be peep over the shoulder of the present !
To judge by my recollection , it be but a few moment since I sit in another room .
Yonder model of a vessel be not there , nor the old chest of drawer , nor Susan 's profile and mine in that gilt frame -- nothing , in short , except this same fire , which glimmer on book , paper and a picture , and half discover my solitary figure in a looking-glass .
But it be paler than my rugged old self , and young , too , by almost half a century .
Speak to me , Susan ; speak , my beloved one ; for the scene be glimmer on my sight again , and a it brighten you fade away .
Oh , I should be loth to lose my treasure of past happiness and become once more what I be then -- a hermit in the depth of my own mind , sometimes yawn over drowsy volume and anon a scribbler of weary trash than what I read ; a man who have wander out of the real world and get into it shadow , where his trouble , joy and vicissitude be of such slight stuff that he hardly know whether he live or only dream of living .
Thank Heaven I be an old man now and have do with all such vanity !
Still this dimness of mine eye !
-- Come nearer , Susan , and stand before the full blaze of the hearth .
Now I behold you illuminate from head to foot , in your clean cap and decent gown , with the dear lock of gray hair across your forehead and a quiet smile about your mouth , while the eye alone be conceal by the red gleam of the fire upon your spectacle .
There !
you make me tremble again .
When the flame quiver , my sweet Susan , you quiver with it and grow indistinct , a if melt into the warm light , that my last glimpse of you might be as visionary a the first be , full many a year since .
Do you remember it ?
You stand on the little bridge over the brook that run across King 's Beach into the sea .
It be twilight , the wave roll in , the wind sweeping by , the crimson cloud fading in the west and the silver moon brighten above the hill ; and on the bridge be you , flutter in the breeze like a sea-bird that might skim away at your pleasure .
You seem a daughter of the viewless wind , a creature of the ocean-foam and the crimson light , whose merry life be spend in dance on the crest of the billow that throw up their spray to support your footstep .
As I draw nearer I fancy you akin to the race of mermaid , and think how pleasant it would be to dwell with you among the quiet cove in the shadow of the cliff , and to roam along secluded beach of the purest sand , and , when our Northern shore grow bleak , to haunt the island , green and lonely , far amid summer sea .
And yet it gladden me , after all this nonsense , to find you nothing but a pretty young girl sadly perplex with the rude behavior of the wind about your petticoat .
Thus I do with Susan a with most other thing in my early day , dip her image into my mind and color it of a thousand fantastic hue before I could see her a she really be .
Now , Susan , for a sober picture of our village .
It be a small collection of dwelling that seem to have be cast up by the sea with the rock-weed and marine plant that it vomit after a storm , or to have come ashore among the pipe-staves and other lumber which have be wash from the deck of an Eastern schooner .
There be just space for the narrow and sandy street between the beach in front and a precipitous hill that lift it rocky forehead in the rear among a waste of juniper-bushes and the wild growth of a broken pasture .
The village be picturesque in the variety of it edifice , though all be rude .
Here stand a little old hovel , build , perhaps , of driftwood , there a row of boat-houses , and beyond them a two-story dwelling of dark and weatherbeaten aspect , the whole intermixed with one or two snug cottage paint white , a sufficiency of pig-styes and a shoemaker 's shop .
Two grocery store stand opposite each other in the centre of the village .
These be the place of resort at their idle hour of a hardy throng of fisherman in red baize shirt , oilcloth trouser and boot of brown leather cover the whole leg -- true seven-league boot , but fit to wade the ocean than walk the earth .
The wearer seem amphibious , a if they do but creep out of salt water to sun themselves ; nor would it have be wonderful to see their low limb cover with cluster of little shellfish such a cling to rock and old ship-timber over which the tide ebb and flow .
When their fleet of boat be weather-bound , the butcher raise their price , and the spit be busy than the frying-pan ; for this be a place of fish , and know a such to all the country round about .
The very air be fishy , be perfume with dead sculpin , hard-heads and dogfish strewn plentifully on the beach .
-- You see , child , the village be but little change since your mother and I be young .
How like a dream it be when I bend over a pool of water one pleasant morning and saw that the ocean have dash it spray over me and make me a fisherman !
There be the tarpaulin , the baize shirt , the oilcloth trouser and seven-league boot , and there my own feature , but so reddened with sunburn and sea-breezes that methought I have another face , and on other shoulder too .
The seagull and the loon and I have now all one trade : we skim the crest wave and seek our prey beneath them , the man with a keen enjoyment a the bird .
Always when the east grow purple I launch my dory , my little flat-bottomed skiff , and row cross-handed to Point Ledge , the Middle Ledge , or perhaps beyond Egg Rock ; often , too , do I anchor off Dread Ledge -- a spot of peril to ship unpiloted -- and sometimes spread an adventurous sail and track across the bay to South Shore , cast my line in sight of Scituate .
Ere nightfall I haul my skiff high and dry on the beach , laden with red rock-cod or the white-bellied one of deep water , haddock bear the black mark of St. Peter 's finger near the gill , the long-bearded hake whose liver hold oil enough for a midnight lamp , and now and then a mighty halibut with a back broad a my boat .
In the autumn I toled and catch those lovely fish the mackerel .
When the wind be high , when the whale-boats anchor off the Point nod their slender mast at each other and the dory pitch and toss in the surf , when Nahant Beach be thunder three mile off and the spray break a hundred foot in the air round the distant base of Egg Rock , when the brimful and boisterous sea threaten to tumble over the street of our village , -- then I make a holiday on shore .
Many such a day do I sit snugly in Mr. Bartlett 's store , attentive to the yarn of Uncle Parker -- uncle to the whole village by right of seniority , but of Southern blood , with no kindred in New England .
His figure be before me now enthrone upon a mackerel-barrel -- a lean old man of great height , but bent with year and twist into an uncouth shape by seven broken limb ; furrow , also , and weatherworn , a if every gale for the good part of a century have catch him somewhere on the sea .
He look like a harbinger of tempest -- a shipmate of the Flying Dutchman .
After innumerable voyage aboard men-of-war and merchantman , fishing-schooners and chebacco-boats , the old salt have become master of a hand-cart , which he daily trundle about the vicinity , and sometimes blow his fish-horn through the street of Salem .
One of Uncle Parker 's eye have be blow out with gunpowder , and the other do but glimmer in it socket .
Turning it upward a he speak , it be his delight to tell of cruise against the French and battle with his own shipmate , when he and an antagonist use to be seat astride of a sailor 's chest , each fasten down by a spike-nail through his trouser , and there to fight it out .
Sometimes he expatiate on the delicious flavor of the hagden , a greasy and goose-like fowl which the sailor catch with hook and line on the Grand Banks .
He dwell with rapture on an interminable winter at the Isle of Sables , where he have gladden himself amid polar snow with the rum and sugar save from the wreck of a West India schooner .
And wrathfully do he shake his fist a he relate how a party of Cape Cod men have rob him and his companion of their lawful spoil and sail away with every keg of old Jamaica , leave him not a drop to drown his sorrow .
Villains they be , and of that wicked brotherhood who be say to tie lantern to horse ' tail to mislead the mariner along the dangerous shore of the Cape .
Even now I seem to see the group of fisherman with that old salt in the midst .
One fellow sits on the counter , a second bestrides an oil-barrel , a third lolls at his length on a parcel of new cod-lines , and another have plant the tarry seat of his trouser on a heap of salt which will shortly be sprinkle over a lot of fish .
They be a likely set of men .
Some have voyage to the East Indies or the Pacific , and most of them have sail in Marblehead schooner to Newfoundland ; a few have be no farther than the Middle Banks , and one or two have always fish along the shore ; but , a Uncle Parker use to say , they have all be christen in salt water and know more than men ever learn in the bush .
A curious figure , by way of contrast , be a fish-dealer from far up-country listen with eye wide open to narrative that might startle Sinbad the Sailor .
-- Be it well with you , my brother !
Ye be all go -- some to your graf ashore and others to the depth of ocean -- but my faith be strong that ye be happy ; for whenever I behold your form , whether in dream or vision , each depart friend be puff his long nine , and a mug of the right blackstrap go round from lip to lip .
But where be the mermaid in those delightful time ?
At a certain window near the centre of the village appear a pretty display of gingerbread men and horse , picture-books and ballad , small fish-hooks , pin , needle , sugarplum and brass thimble -- article on which the young fisherman use to expend their money from pure gallantry .
What a picture be Susan behind the counter !
A slender maiden , though the child of rugged parent , she have the slim of all waist , brown hair curl on her neck , and a complexion rather pale except when the sea-breeze flush it .
A few freckle become beauty-spots beneath her eyelid .
-- How be it , Susan , that you talk and act so carelessly , yet always for the best , do whatever be right in your own eye , and never once do wrong in mine , nor shock a taste that have be morbidly sensitive till now ?
And whence have you that happy gift of brighten every topic with an unsought gayety , quiet but irresistible , so that even gloomy spirit felt your sunshine and do not shrink from it ?
Nature work the charm .
She make you a frank , simple , kind-hearted , sensible and mirthful girl .
Obeying Nature , you do free thing without indelicacy , display a maiden 's thought to every eye , and prove yourself as innocent a naked Eve .
-- It be beautiful to observe how her simple and happy nature mingle itself with mine .
She kindle a domestic fire within my heart and take up her dwelling there , even in that chill and lonesome cavern hung round with glitter icicle of fancy .
She give me warmth of feeling , while the influence of my mind make her contemplative .
I teach her to love the moonlight hour , when the expanse of the encircled bay be smooth a a great mirror and slept in a transparent shadow , while beyond Nahant the wind ripple the dim ocean into a dreamy brightness which grow faint afar off without become gloomier .
I hold her hand and point to the long surf-wave a it roll calmly on the beach in an unbroken line of silver ; we be silent together till it deep and peaceful murmur have sweep by u .
When the Sabbath sun shone down into the recess of the cliff , I lead the mermaid thither and tell her that those huge gray , shatter rock , and her native sea that rag for ever like a storm against them , and her own slender beauty in so stern a scene , be all combine into a strain of poetry .
But on the Sabbath-eve , when her mother have go early to bed and her gentle sister have smile and leave u , a we sit alone by the quiet hearth with household thing around , it be her turn to make me feel that here be a deep poetry , and that this be the dear hour of all .
Thus go on our wooing , till I have shoot wild-fowl enough to feather our bridal-bed , and the daughter of the sea be mine .
I build a cottage for Susan and myself , and make a gateway in the form of a Gothic arch by set up a whale 's jaw-bones .
We buy a heifer with her first calf , and have a little garden on the hillside to supply u with potato and green sauce for our fish .
Our parlor , small and neat , be ornament with our two profile in one gilt frame , and with shell and pretty pebble on the mantelpiece , select from the sea 's treasury of such thing on Nahant Beach .
On the desk , beneath the looking-glass , lay the Bible , which I have begin to read aloud at the book of Genesis , and the singing-book that Susan use for her evening psalm .
Except the almanac , we have no other literature .
All that I hear of book be when an Indian history or tale of shipwreck be sell by a pedler or wander subscription-man to some one in the village , and read through it owner 's nose to a slumbrous auditory .
Like my brother-fishermen , I grow into the belief that all human erudition be collect in our pedagogue , whose green spectacle and solemn phiz a he pass to his little schoolhouse amid a waste of sand might have gain him a diploma from any college in New England .
In truth , I dread him .
-- When our child be old enough to claim his care , you remember , Susan , how I frown , though you be please at this learned man 's encomium on their proficiency .
I fear to trust them even with the alphabet : it be the key to a fatal treasure .
But I love to lead them by their little hand along the beach and point to nature in the vast and the minute -- the sky , the sea , the green earth , the pebble and the shell .
Then do I discourse of the mighty work and coextensive goodness of the Deity with the simple wisdom of a man whose mind have profit by lonely day upon the deep and his heart by the strong and pure affection of his evening home .
Sometimes my voice lose itself in a tremulous depth , for I felt his eye upon me a I speak .
Once , while my wife and all of u be gaze at ourselves in the mirror leave by the tide in a hollow of the sand , I point to the picture heaven below and bid her observe how religion be strew everywhere in our path , since even a casual pool of water recall the idea of that home whither we be travel to rest for ever with our child .
Suddenly your image , Susan , and all the little face make up of yours and mine , seem to fade away and vanish around me , leave a pale visage like my own of former day within the frame of a large looking-glass .
Strange illusion !
My life glide on , the past appearing to mingle with the present and absorb the future , till the whole lie before me at a glance .
My manhood have long be wan with a stanch decay ; my early contemporary , after life of unbroken health , be all at rest without have know the weariness of late age ; and now with a wrinkled forehead and thin white hair a badge of my dignity I have become the patriarch -- the uncle -- of the village .
I love that name : it widen the circle of my sympathy ; it join all the youthful to my household in the kindred of affection .
Like Uncle Parker , whose rheumatic bone be dash against Egg Rock full forty year ago , I be a spinner of long yarn .
Seated on the gunnel of a dory or on the sunny side of a boat-house , where the warmth be grateful to my limb , or by my own hearth when a friend or two be there , I overflow with talk , and yet be never tedious .
With a broken voice I give utterance to much wisdom .
Such , Heaven be praise !
be the vigor of my faculty that many a forgotten usage , and tradition ancient in my youth , and early adventure of myself or others hitherto efface by thing more recent , acquire new distinctness in my memory .
I remember the happy day when the haddock be more numerous on all the fishing-grounds than sculpin in the surf -- when the deep-water cod swam close in-shore , and the dogfish , with his poisonous horn , have not learn to take the hook .
I can number every equinoctial storm in which the sea have overwhelm the street , flood the cellar of the village and hiss upon our kitchen hearth .
I give the history of the great whale that be land on Whale Beach , and whose jaw , be now my gateway , will last for age after my coffin shall have pass beneath them .
Thence it be an easy digression to the halibut -- scarcely small than the whale -- which run out six codlines and haul my dory to the mouth of Boston harbor before I could touch him with the gaff .
If melancholy accident be the theme of conversation , I tell how a friend of mine be take out of his boat by an enormous shark , and the sad , true tale of a young man on the eve of marriage who have be nine day miss , when his drown body float into the very pathway on Marble-head Neck that have often lead him to the dwelling of his bride , a if the dripping corpse would have come where the mourner be .
With such awful fidelity do that lover return to fulfil his vow !
Another favorite story be of a crazy maiden who converse with angel and have the gift of prophecy , and whom all the village love and pity , though she go from door to door accuse u of sin , exhort to repentance and foretell our destruction by flood or earthquake .
If the young men boast their knowledge of the ledge and sunken rock , I speak of pilot who know the wind by it scent and the wave by it taste , and could have steer blindfold to any port between Boston and Mount Desert guide only by the rote of the shore -- the peculiar sound of the surf on each island , beach and line of rock along the coast .
Thus do I talk , and all my auditor grow wise while they deem it pastime .
I recollect no happy portion of my life than this my calm old age .
It be like the sunny and shelter slope of a valley where late in the autumn the grass be green than in August , and intermixed with golden dandelion that have not be see till now since the first warmth of the year .
But with me the verdure and the flower be not frost-bitten in the midst of winter .
A playfulness have revisit my mind -- a sympathy with the young and gay , an unpainful interest in the business of others , a light and wandering curiosity -- arising , perhaps , from the sense that my toil on earth be end and the brief hour till bedtime may be spend in play .
Still , I have fancy that there be a depth of feeling and reflection under this superficial levity peculiar to one who have live long and be soon to die .
Show me anything that would make an infant smile , and you shall behold a gleam of mirth over the hoary ruin of my visage .
I can spend a pleasant hour in the sun watch the sport of the village child on the edge of the surf .
Now they chase the retreat wave far down over the wet sand ; now it steal softly up to kiss their naked foot ; now it come onward with threaten front , and roar after the laugh crew a they scamper beyond it reach .
Why should not an old man be merry too , when the great sea be at play with those little child ?
I delight , also , to follow in the wake of a pleasure-party of young men and girl stroll along the beach after an early supper at the Point .
Here , with handkerchief at nose , they bend over a heap of eel-grass entangle in which be a dead skate so oddly accoutred with two leg and a long tail that they mistake him for a drowned animal .
A few step far the lady scream , and the gentleman make ready to protect them against a young shark of the dogfish kind roll with a lifelike motion in the tide that have throw him up .
Next they be smite with wonder at the black shell of a wagon-load of live lobster pack in rock-weed for the country-market .
And when they reach the fleet of dory just haul ashore after the day 's fishing , how do I laugh in my sleeve , and sometimes roar outright , at the simplicity of these young folk and the sly humor of the fisherman !
In winter , when our village be throw into a bustle by the arrival of perhaps a score of country dealer bargain for frozen fish to be transport hundred of mile and eat fresh in Vermont or Canada , I be a pleased but idle spectator in the throng .
For I launch my boat no more .
When the shore be solitary , I have find a pleasure that seem even to exalt my mind in observe the sport or contention of two gull a they wheel and hover about each other with hoarse scream , one moment flap on the foam of the wave , and then soar aloft till their white bosom melt into the upper sunshine .
In the calm of the summer sunset I drag my aged limb with a little ostentation of activity , because I be so old , up to the rocky brow of the hill .
There I see the white sail of many a vessel outward bound or homeward from afar , and the black trail of a vapor behind the Eastern steamboat ; there , too , be the sun , go down , but not in gloom , and there the illimitable ocean mingling with the sky , to remind me of eternity .
But sweet of all be the hour of cheerful musing and pleasant talk that come between the dusk and the light candle by my glowing fireside .
And never , even on the first Thanksgiving-night , when Susan and I sit alone with our hope , nor the second , when a stranger have be send to gladden u and be the visible image of our affection , do I feel such joy a now .
All that belong to me be here : Death have take none , nor Disease keep them away , nor Strife divide them from their parent or each other ; with neither poverty nor rich to disturb them , nor the misery of desire beyond their lot , they have keep New England 's festival round the patriarch 's board .
For I be a patriarch .
Here I sit among my descendant , in my old arm-chair and immemorial corner , while the firelight throw an appropriate glory round my venerable frame .
-- Susan !
My child !
Something whisper me that this happy hour must be the final one , and that nothing remain but to bless you all and depart with a treasure of recollected joy to heaven .
Will you meet me there ?
Alas !
your figure grow indistinct , fade into picture on the air , and now to fainter outline , while the fire be glimmer on the wall of a familiar room , and show the book that I fling down and the sheet that I leave half write some fifty year ago .
I lift my eye to the looking-glass , and perceive myself alone , unless those be the mermaid 's feature retire into the depth of the mirror with a tender and melancholy smile .
Ah !
One feel a chilliness -- not bodily , but about the heart -- and , moreover , a foolish dread of look behind him , after these pastime .
I can imagine precisely how a magician would sit down in gloom and terror after dismiss the shadow that have personate dead or distant people and strip his cavern of the unreal splendor which have change it to a palace .
And now for a moral to my reverie .
Shall it be that , since fancy can create so bright a dream of happiness , it be good to dream on from youth to age than to awake and strive doubtfully for something real ?
Oh , the slight tissue of a dream can no more preserve u from the stern reality of misfortune than a robe of cobweb could repel the wintry blast .
Be this the moral , then : In chaste and warm affection , humble wish and honest toil for some useful end there be health for the mind and quiet for the heart , the prospect of a happy life and the fair hope of heaven .
THE AMBITIOUS GUEST .
One September night a family have gather round their hearth and pile it high with the driftwood of mountain-streams , the dry cone of the pine , and the splintered ruin of great tree that have come crash down the precipice .
Up the chimney roar the fire , and brighten the room with it broad blaze .
The face of the father and mother have a sober gladness ; the child laugh .
The eldest daughter be the image of Happiness at seventeen , and the age grandmother , who sit knit in the warm place , be the image of Happiness grown old .
They have find the `` herb heart 's - ease '' in the bleak spot of all New England .
This family be situate in the Notch of the White Hills , where the wind be sharp throughout the year and pitilessly cold in the winter , give their cottage all it fresh inclemency before it descend on the valley of the Saco .
They dwell in a cold spot and a dangerous one , for a mountain tower above their head so steep that the stone would often rumble down it side and startle them at midnight .
The daughter have just utter some simple jest that fill them all with mirth , when the wind come through the Notch and seem to pause before their cottage , rattle the door with a sound of wail and lamentation before it pass into the valley .
For a moment it sadden them , though there be nothing unusual in the tone .
But the family be glad again when they perceive that the latch be lift by some traveller whose footstep have be unheard amid the dreary blast which herald his approach and wail a he be enter and go moan away from the door .
Though they dwell in such a solitude , these people hold daily converse with the world .
The romantic pas of the Notch be a great artery through which the life-blood of internal commerce be continually throb between Maine on one side and the Green Mountains and the shore of the St. Lawrence on the other .
The stage-coach always draw up before the door of the cottage .
The wayfarer with no companion but his staff pause here to exchange a word , that the sense of loneliness might not utterly overcome him ere he could pass through the cleft of the mountain or reach the first house in the valley .
And here the teamster on his way to Portland market would put up for the night , and , if a bachelor , might sit an hour beyond the usual bedtime and steal a kiss from the mountain-maid at parting .
It be one of those primitive tavern where the traveller pay only for food and lodging , but meet with a homely kindness beyond all price .
When the footstep be hear , therefore , between the outer door and the inner one , the whole family rise up , grandmother , child and all , a if about to welcome some one who belong to them , and whose fate be link with theirs .
The door be open by a young man .
His face at first wear the melancholy expression , almost despondency , of one who travel a wild and bleak road at nightfall and alone , but soon brighten up when he saw the kindly warmth of his reception .
He felt his heart spring forward to meet them all , from the old woman who wipe a chair with her apron to the little child that hold out it arm to him .
One glance and smile place the stranger on a footing of innocent familiarity with the eldest daughter .
`` Ah !
this fire be the right thing , '' cry he , `` especially when there be such a pleasant circle round it .
I be quite benumbed , for the Notch be just like the pipe of a great pair of bellow ; it have blow a terrible blast in my face all the way from Bartlett . ''
`` Then you be go toward Vermont ? ''
say the master of the house a he help to take a light knapsack off the young man 's shoulder .
`` Yes , to Burlington , and far enough beyond , '' reply he .
`` I mean to have be at Ethan Crawford 's to-night , but a pedestrian lingers along such a road a this .
It be no matter ; for when I saw this good fire and all your cheerful face , I felt a if you have kindle it on purpose for me and be wait my arrival .
So I shall sit down among you and make myself at home . ''
The frank-hearted stranger have just draw his chair to the fire when something like a heavy footstep be hear without , rush down the steep side of the mountain a with long and rapid stride , and take such a leap in pass the cottage a to strike the opposite precipice .
The family hold their breath , because they know the sound , and their guest hold his by instinct .
`` The old mountain have throw a stone at u for fear we should forget him , '' say the landlord , recover himself .
`` He sometimes nod his head and threaten to come down , but we be old neighbor , and agree together pretty well , upon the whole .
Besides , we have a sure place of refuge hard by if he should be come in good earnest . ''
Let u now suppose the stranger to have finish his supper of bear 's meat , and by his natural felicity of manner to have place himself on a footing of kindness with the whole family ; so that they talk a freely together a if he belong to their mountain-brood .
He be of a proud yet gentle spirit , haughty and reserve among the rich and great , but ever ready to stoop his head to the lowly cottage door and be like a brother or a son at the poor man 's fireside .
In the household of the Notch he find warmth and simplicity of feeling , the pervade intelligence of New England , and a poetry of native growth which they have gather when they little thought of it from the mountain-peaks and chasm , and at the very threshold of their romantic and dangerous abode .
He have travel far and alone ; his whole life , indeed , have be a solitary path , for , with the lofty caution of his nature , he have keep himself apart from those who might otherwise have be his companion .
The family , too , though so kind and hospitable , have that consciousness of unity among themselves and separation from the world at large which in every domestic circle should still keep a holy place where no stranger may intrude .
But this even a prophetic sympathy impel the refine and educate youth to pour out his heart before the simple mountaineer , and constrain them to answer him with the same free confidence .
And thus it should have be .
Is not the kindred of a common fate a close tie than that of birth ?
The secret of the young man 's character be a high and abstracted ambition .
He could have bear to live an undistinguished life , but not to be forget in the grave .
Yearning desire have be transform to hope , and hope , long cherish , have become like certainty that , obscurely a he journey now , a glory be to beam on all his pathway , though not , perhaps , while he be tread it .
But when posterity should gaze back into the gloom of what be now the present , they would trace the brightness of his footstep , brighten a meaner glory fade , and confess that a gifted one have pass from his cradle to his tomb with none to recognize him .
`` As yet , '' cry the stranger , his cheek glowing and his eye flash with enthusiasm -- `` a yet I have do nothing .
Were I to vanish from the earth to-morrow , none would know so much of me a you -- that a nameless youth come up at nightfall from the valley of the Saco , and open his heart to you in the evening , and pass through the Notch by sunrise , and be see no more .
Not a soul would ask , ` Who be he ?
Whither do the wanderer go ? '
But I can not die till I have achieve my destiny .
Then let Death come : I shall have build my monument . ''
There be a continual flow of natural emotion gush forth amid abstracted reverie which enable the family to understand this young man 's sentiment , though so foreign from their own .
With quick sensibility of the ludicrous , he blush at the ardor into which he have be betray .
`` You laugh at me , '' say he , take the eldest daughter 's hand and laughing himself .
`` You think my ambition as nonsensical a if I be to freeze myself to death on the top of Mount Washington only that people might spy at me from the country roundabout .
And truly that would be a noble pedestal for a man 's statue . ''
`` It be well to sit here by this fire , '' answer the girl , blushing , `` and be comfortable and contented , though nobody think about u . ''
`` I suppose , '' say her father , after a fit of musing , `` there be something natural in what the young man say ; and if my mind have be turn that way , I might have felt just the same .
-- It be strange , wife , how his talk have set my head run on thing that be pretty certain never to come to pass . ''
`` Perhaps they may , '' observe the wife .
`` Is the man think what he will do when he be a widower ? ''
`` No , no ! ''
cry he , repel the idea with reproachful kindness .
`` When I think of your death , Esther , I think of mine too .
But I be wish we have a good farm in Bartlett or Bethlehem or Littleton , or some other township round the White Mountains , but not where they could tumble on our head .
I should want to stand well with my neighbor and be call squire and send to General Court for a term or two ; for a plain , honest man may do as much good there a a lawyer .
And when I should be grow quite an old man , and you an old woman , so a not to be long apart , I might die happy enough in my bed , and leave you all cry around me .
A slate gravestone would suit me as well a a marble one , with just my name and age , and a verse of a hymn , and something to let people know that I live an honest man and die a Christian . ''
`` There , now ! ''
exclaim the stranger ; `` it be our nature to desire a monument , be it slate or marble , or a pillar of granite , or a glorious memory in the universal heart of man . ''
`` We 're in a strange way to-night , '' say the wife , with tear in her eye .
`` They say it 's a sign of something when folk ' mind go a-wandering so .
Hark to the child ! ''
They listen accordingly .
The young child have be put to bed in another room , but with an open door between ; so that they could be hear talk busily among themselves .
One and all seem to have catch the infection from the fireside circle , and be outvying each other in wild wish and childish project of what they would do when they come to be men and woman .
At length a little boy , instead of address his brother and sister , call out to his mother .
`` I 'll tell you what I wish , mother , '' cry he : `` I want you and father and grandma 'm , and all of u , and the stranger too , to start right away and go and take a drink out of the basin of the Flume . ''
Nobody could help laugh at the child 's notion of leave a warm bed and drag them from a cheerful fire to visit the basin of the Flume -- a brook which tumble over the precipice deep within the Notch .
The boy have hardly speak , when a wagon rattle along the road and stop a moment before the door .
It appear to contain two or three men who be cheer their heart with the rough chorus of a song which resound in broken note between the cliff , while the singer hesitate whether to continue their journey or put up here for the night .
`` Father , '' say the girl , `` they be call you by name . ''
But the good man doubt whether they have really call him , and be unwilling to show himself too solicitous of gain by invite people to patronize his house .
He therefore do not hurry to the door , and , the lash be soon apply , the traveller plunge into the Notch , still sing and laughing , though their music and mirth come back drearily from the heart of the mountain .
`` There , mother ! ''
cry the boy , again ; `` they 'd have give u a ride to the Flume . ''
Again they laugh at the child 's pertinacious fancy for a night-ramble .
But it happen that a light cloud pass over the daughter 's spirit ; she look gravely into the fire and draw a breath that be almost a sigh .
It force it way , in spite of a little struggle to repress it .
Then , start and blushing , she look quickly around the circle , a if they have catch a glimpse into her bosom .
The stranger ask what she have be think of .
`` Nothing , '' answer she , with a downcast smile ; `` only I felt lonesome just then . ''
`` Oh , I have always have a gift of feel what be in other people 's heart , '' say he , half seriously .
`` Shall I tell the secret of yours ?
For I know what to think when a young girl shiver by a warm hearth and complains of lonesomeness at her mother 's side .
Shall I put these feeling into word ? ''
`` They would not be a girl 's feeling any longer if they could be put into word , '' reply the mountain-nymph , laughing , but avoid his eye .
All this be say apart .
Perhaps a germ of love be spring in their heart so pure that it might blossom in Paradise , since it could not be mature on earth ; for woman worship such gentle dignity a his , and the proud , contemplative , yet kindly , soul be oftenest captivate by simplicity like hers .
But while they speak softly , and he be watch the happy sadness , the lightsome shadow , the shy yearning , of a maiden 's nature , the wind through the Notch take a deeper and dreary sound .
It seem , a the fanciful stranger say , like the choral strain of the spirit of the blast who in old Indian time have their dwelling among these mountain and make their height and recess a sacred region .
There be a wail along the road a if a funeral be pass .
To chase away the gloom , the family throw pine-branches on their fire till the dry leaf crackle and the flame arise , discover once again a scene of peace and humble happiness .
The light hover about them fondly and caress them all .
There be the little face of the child peep from their bed apart , and here the father 's frame of strength , the mother 's subdue and careful mien , the high-browed youth , the budding girl and the good old grandam , still knit in the warm place .
The age woman look up from her task , and with finger ever busy be the next to speak .
`` Old folk have their notion , '' say she , `` as well a young one .
You 've be wish and planning and let your head run on one thing and another till you 've set my mind a-wandering too .
Now , what should an old woman wish for , when she can go but a step or two before she come to her grave ?
Children , it will haunt me night and day till I tell you . ''
`` What be it , mother ? ''
cry the husband and wife at once .
Then the old woman , with an air of mystery which draw the circle closer round the fire , inform them that she have provide her grave-clothes some year before -- a nice linen shroud , a cap with a muslin ruff , and everything of a finer sort than she have wear since her wedding-day .
But this even an old superstition have strangely recur to her .
It use to be say in her young day that if anything be amiss with a corpse -- if only the ruff be not smooth or the cap do not set right -- the corpse , in the coffin and beneath the clod , would strive to put up it cold hand and arrange it .
The bare thought make her nervous .
`` Do n't talk so , grandmother , '' say the girl , shudder .
`` Now , '' continue the old woman , with singular earnestness , yet smile strangely at her own folly , `` I want one of you , my child , when your mother be dress and in the coffin , -- I want one of you to hold a looking-glass over my face .
Who know but I may take a glimpse at myself and see whether all 's right ? ''
`` Old and young , we dream of graf and monument , '' murmur the stranger-youth .
`` I wonder how mariner feel when the ship be sink and they , unknown and undistinguished , be to be bury together in the ocean , that wide and nameless sepulchre ? ''
For a moment the old woman 's ghastly conception so engross the mind of her hearer that a sound abroad in the night , rise like the roar of a blast , have grow broad , deep and terrible before the fat group be conscious of it .
The house and all within it tremble ; the foundation of the earth seem to be shake , a if this awful sound be the peal of the last trump .
Young and old exchange one wild glance and remain an instant pale , affright , without utterance or power to move .
Then the same shriek burst simultaneously from all their lip : `` The slide !
The slide ! ''
The simple word must intimate , but not portray , the unutterable horror of the catastrophe .
The victim rush from their cottage and seek refuge in what they deem a safer spot , where , in contemplation of such an emergency , a sort of barrier have be rear .
Alas !
they have quit their security and flee right into the pathway of destruction .
Down come the whole side of the mountain in a cataract of ruin .
Just before it reach the house the stream break into two branch , shiver not a window there , but overwhelm the whole vicinity , block up the road and annihilate everything in it dreadful course .
Long ere the thunder of that great slide have cease to roar among the mountain the mortal agony have be endure and the victim be at peace .
Their body be never find .
The next morning the light smoke be see steal from the cottage chimney up the mountain-side .
Within , the fire be yet smoulder on the hearth , and the chair in a circle round it , a if the inhabitant have but go forth to view the devastation of the slide and would shortly return to thank Heaven for their miraculous escape .
All have leave separate token by which those who have know the family be make to shed a tear for each .
Who have not hear their name ?
The story have be tell far and wide , and will for ever be a legend of these mountain .
Poets have sing their fate .
There be circumstance which lead some to suppose that a stranger have be receive into the cottage on this awful night , and have share the catastrophe of all it inmate ; others deny that there be sufficient ground for such a conjecture .
Woe for the high-souled youth with his dream of earthly immortality !
His name and person utterly unknown , his history , his way of life , his plan , a mystery never to be solve , his death and his existence equally a doubt , -- whose be the agony of that death-moment ?
THE SISTER-YEARS .
Last night , between eleven and twelve o'clock , when the Old Year be leave her final footprint on the border of Time 's empire , she find herself in possession of a few spare moment , and sit down -- of all place in the world -- on the step of our new city-hall .
The wintry moonlight show that she look weary of body and sad of heart , like many another wayfarer of earth .
Her garment , have be expose to much foul weather and rough usage , be in very ill condition , and , a the hurry of her journey have never before allow her to take an instant 's rest , her shoe be so worn a to be scarcely worth the mending .
But after trudge only a little distance far this poor Old Year be destine to enjoy a long , long sleep .
I forget to mention that when she seat herself on the step she deposit by her side a very capacious bandbox in which , a be the custom among traveller of her sex , she carry a great deal of valuable property .
Besides this luggage , there be a folio book under her arm very much resemble the annual volume of a newspaper .
Placing this volume across her knee and rest her elbow upon it , with her forehead in her hand , the weary , bedraggle , world-worn Old Year heave a heavy sigh and appear to be take no very pleasant retrospect of her past existence .
While she thus await the midnight knell that be to summon her to the innumerable sisterhood of departed year , there come a young maiden tread lightsomely on tip-toe along the street from the direction of the railroad dpt .
She be evidently a stranger , and perhaps have come to town by the evening train of car .
There be a smile cheerfulness in this fair maiden 's face which bespeak her fully confident of a kind reception from the multitude of people with whom she be soon to form acquaintance .
Her dress be rather too airy for the season , and be bedizen with fluttering ribbon and other vanity which be likely soon to be rent away by the fierce storm or to fade in the hot sunshine amid which she be to pursue her changeful course .
But still she be a wonderfully pleasant-looking figure , and have so much promise and such an indescribable hopefulness in her aspect that hardly anybody could meet her without anticipate some very desirable thing -- the consummation of some long-sought good -- from her kind office .
A few dismal character there may be here and there about the world who have so often be trifle with by young maiden as promise a she that they have now cease to pin any faith upon the skirt of the New Year .
But , for my own part , I have great faith in her , and , should I live to see fifty more such , still from each of those successive sister I shall reckon upon receive something that will be worth live for .
The New Year -- for this young maiden be no less a personage -- carry all her good and chattel in a basket of no great size or weight , which hang upon her arm .
She greet the disconsolate Old Year with great affection , and sit down beside her on the step of the city-hall , wait for the signal to begin her ramble through the world .
The two be own sister , be both granddaughter of Time , and , though one look so much old than the other , it be rather owe to hardship and trouble than to age , since there be but a twelvemonth 's difference between them .
`` Well , my dear sister , '' say the New Year , after the first salutation , `` you look almost tire to death .
What have you be about during your sojourn in this part of infinite space ? ''
`` Oh , I have it all record here in my book of chronicle , '' answer the Old Year , in a heavy tone .
`` There be nothing that would amuse you , and you will soon get sufficient knowledge of such matter from your own personal experience .
It be but tiresome reading . ''
Nevertheless , she turn over the leaf of the folio and glance at them by the light of the moon , feel an irresistible spell of interest in her own biography , although it incident be remember without pleasure .
The volume , though she term it her book of chronicle , seem to be neither more nor less than the Salem Gazette for 1838 ; in the accuracy of which journal this sagacious Old Year have so much confidence that she deem it needless to record her history with her own pen .
`` What have you be do in the political way ? ''
ask the New Year .
`` Why , my course here in the United States , '' say the Old Year -- `` though perhaps I ought to blush at the confession -- my political course , I must acknowledge , have be rather vacillatory , sometimes incline toward the Whigs , then cause the administration party to shout for triumph , and now again uplift what seem the almost prostrate banner of the opposition ; so that historian will hardly know what to make of me in this respect .
But the Loco-Focos -- '' `` I do not like these party nickname , '' interrupt her sister , who seem remarkably touchy about some point .
`` Perhaps we shall part in good humor if we avoid any political discussion . ''
`` With all my heart , '' reply the Old Year , who have already be torment half to death with squabble of this kind .
`` I care not if the name of Whig or Tory , with their interminable brawl about bank and the sub-treasury , abolition , Texas , the Florida war , and a million of other topic which you will learn soon enough for your own comfort , -- I care not , I say , if no whisper of these matter ever reach my ear again .
Yet they have occupy so large a share of my attention that I scarcely know what else to tell you .
There have , indeed be a curious sort of war on the Canada border , where blood have stream in the name of liberty and patriotism ; but it must remain for some future , perhaps far-distant , year to tell whether or no those holy name have be rightfully invoke .
Nothing so much depresses me in my view of mortal affair a to see high energy waste and human life and happiness throw away for end that appear oftentimes unwise , and still oftener remain unaccomplished .
But the wise people and the best keep a steadfast faith that the progress of mankind be onward and upward , and that the toil and anguish of the path serve to wear away the imperfection of the immortal pilgrim , and will be felt no more when they have do their office . ''
`` Perhaps , '' cry the hopeful New Year -- `` perhaps I shall see that happy day . ''
`` I doubt whether it be so close at hand , '' answer the Old Year , gravely smile .
`` You will soon grow weary of look for that blessed consummation , and will turn for amusement -- a have frequently be my own practice -- to the affair of some sober little city like this of Salem .
Here we sit on the step of the new city-hall which have be complete under my administration , and it would make you laugh to see how the game of politics of which the Capitol at Washington be the great chess-board be here play in miniature .
Burning Ambition find it fuel here ; here patriotism speaks boldly in the people 's behalf and virtuous economy demand retrenchment in the emolument of a lamplighter ; here the alderman range their senatorial dignity around the mayor 's chair of state and the common council feel that they have liberty in charge .
In short , human weakness and strength , passion and policy , man 's tendency , his aim and mode of pursue them , his individual character and his character in the mass , may be study almost as well here a on the theatre of nation , and with this great advantage -- that , be the lesson ever so disastrous , it Liliputian scope still make the beholder smile . ''
`` Have you do much for the improvement of the city ? ''
ask the New Year .
`` Judging from what little I have see , it appear to be ancient and time-worn . ''
`` I have open the railroad , '' say the elder Year , `` and half a dozen time a day you will hear the bell which once summon the monk of a Spanish convent to their devotion announce the arrival or departure of the car .
Old Salem now wear a much lively expression than when I first behold her .
Strangers rumble down from Boston by hundred at a time .
New face throng in Essex street .
Railroad-hacks and omnibus rattle over the pavement .
There be a perceptible increase of oyster-shops and other establishment for the accommodation of a transitory diurnal multitude .
But a more important change await the venerable town .
An immense accumulation of musty prejudice will be carry off by the free circulation of society .
A peculiarity of character of which the inhabitant themselves be hardly sensible will be rub down and wear away by the attrition of foreign substance .
Much of the result will be good ; there will likewise be a few thing not so good .
Whether for good or bad , there will be a probable diminution of the moral influence of wealth , and the sway of an aristocratic class which from an era far beyond my memory have hold firm dominion here than in any other New England town . ''
The Old Year , have talk away nearly all of her little remaining breath , now close her book of chronicle , and be about to take her departure , but her sister detain her a while longer by inquire the content of the huge bandbox which she be so painfully lug along with her .
`` These be merely a few trifle , '' reply the Old Year , `` which I have pick up in my ramble and be go to deposit in the receptacle of thing past and forgotten .
We sisterhood of year never carry anything really valuable out of the world with u .
Here be pattern of most of the fashion which I bring into vogue , and which have already live out their allotted term ; you will supply their place with others equally ephemeral .
Here , put up in little china pot , like rouge , be a considerable lot of beautiful woman 's bloom which the disconsolate fair one owe me a bitter grudge for steal .
I have likewise a quantity of men 's dark hair , instead of which I have leave gray lock or none at all .
The tear of widow and other afflicted mortal who have receive comfort during the last twelve month be preserve in some dozen of essence-bottles well cork and seal .
I have several bundle of love-letters eloquently breathe an eternity of burn passion which grow cold and perish almost before the ink be dry .
Moreover , here be an assortment of many thousand broken promise and other broken ware , all very light and pack into little space .
The heavy article in my possession be a large parcel of disappointed hope which a little while ago be buoyant enough to have inflate Mr. Lauriat 's balloon . ''
`` I have a fine lot of hope here in my basket , '' remark the New Year .
`` They be a sweet-smelling flower -- a specie of rise . ''
`` They soon lose their perfume , '' reply the sombre Old Year .
`` What else have you bring to insure a welcome from the discontented race of mortal ? ''
`` Why , to say the truth , little or nothing else , '' say her sister , with a smile , `` save a few new Annuals and almanac , and some New Year 's gift for the child .
But I heartily wish well to poor mortal , and mean to do all I can for their improvement and happiness . ''
`` It be a good resolution , '' rejoin the Old Year .
`` And , by the way , I have a plentiful assortment of good resolution which have now grow so stale and musty that I be ashamed to carry them any farther .
Only for fear that the city authority would send Constable Mansfield with a warrant after me , I should toss them into the street at once .
Many other matter go to make up the content of my bandbox , but the whole lot would not fetch a single bid even at an auction of worn-out furniture ; and a they be worth nothing either to you or anybody else , I need not trouble you with a longer catalogue . ''
`` And must I also pick up such worthless luggage in my travel ? ''
ask the New Year .
`` Most certainly , and well if you have no heavy load to bear , '' reply the other .
`` And now , my dear sister , I must bid you farewell , earnestly advise and exhort you to expect no gratitude nor good-will from this peevish , unreasonable , inconsiderate , ill-intending and worse-behaving world .
However warmly it inhabitant may seem to welcome you , yet , do what you may and lavish on them what mean of happiness you please , they will still be complain , still crave what it be not in your power to give , still look forward to some other year for the accomplishment of project which ought never to have be form , and which , if successful , would only provide new occasion of discontent .
If these ridiculous people ever see anything tolerable in you , it will be after you be go for ever . ''
`` But I , '' cry the fresh-hearted New Year -- `` I shall try to leave men wise than I find them .
I will offer them freely whatever good gift Providence permit me to distribute , and will tell them to be thankful for what they have and humbly hopeful for more ; and surely , if they be not absolute fool , they will condescend to be happy , and will allow me to be a happy year .
For my happiness must depend on them . ''
`` Alas for you , then , my poor sister ! ''
say the Old Year , sighing , a she uplift her burden .
`` We grandchild of Time be bear to trouble .
Happiness , they say , dwells in the mansion of eternity , but we can only lead mortal thither step by step with reluctant murmuring , and ourselves must perish on the threshold .
But hark !
my task be do . ''
The clock in the tall steeple of Dr. Emerson 's church strike twelve ; there be a response from Dr. Flint 's , in the opposite quarter of the city ; and while the stroke be yet drop into the air the Old Year either flit or fade away , and not the wisdom and might of angel , to say nothing of the remorseful yearning of the million who have use her ill , could have prevail with that depart year to return one step .
But she , in the company of Time and all her kindred , must hereafter hold a reckoning with mankind .
So shall it be , likewise , with the maidenly New Year , who , a the clock cease to strike , arise from the step of the city-hall and set out rather timorously on her earthly course .
`` A happy New Year ! ''
cry a watchman , eye her figure very questionably , but without the least suspicion that he be address the New Year in person .
`` Thank you kindly , '' say the New Year ; and she give the watchman one of the rose of hope from her basket .
`` May this flower keep a sweet smell long after I have bid you good-bye ! ''
Then she step on more briskly through the silent street , and such a be awake at the moment hear her footfall and say , `` The New Year be come ! ''
Wherever there be a knot of midnight roisterer , they quaff her health .
She sigh , however , to perceive that the air be taint -- a the atmosphere of this world must continually be -- with the die breath of mortal who have linger just long enough for her to bury them .
But there be million leave alive to rejoice at her come , and so she pursue her way with confidence , strew emblematic flower on the doorstep of almost every dwelling , which some person will gather up and wear in their bosom , and others will trample under foot .
The carrier-boy can only say far that early this morning she fill his basket with New Year 's address , assure him that the whole city , with our new mayor and the alderman and common council at it head , would make a general rush to secure copy .
Kind patron , will not you redeem the pledge of the New Year ?
SNOWFLAKES .
There be snow in yonder cold gray sky of the morning , and through the partially-frosted window-panes I love to watch the gradual beginning of the storm .
A few feathery flake be scatter widely through the air and hover downward with uncertain flight , now almost alight on the earth , now whirl again aloft into remote region of the atmosphere .
These be not the big flake heavy with moisture which melt a they touch the ground and be portentous of a soaking rain .
It be to be in good earnest a wintry storm .
The two or three people visible on the sidewalk have an aspect of endurance , a blue-nosed , frosty fortitude , which be evidently assume in anticipation of a comfortless and blustering day .
By nightfall -- or , at least , before the sun shed another glimmer smile upon u -- the street and our little garden will be heap with mountain snowdrift .
The soil , already frozen for week past , be prepare to sustain whatever burden may be lay upon it , and to a Northern eye the landscape will lose it melancholy bleakness and acquire a beauty of it own when Mother Earth , like her child , shall have put on the fleecy garb of her winter 's wear .
The cloud-spirits be slowly weave her white mantle .
As yet , indeed , there be barely a rime like hoar-frost over the brown surface of the street ; the withered green of the grass-plat be still discernible , and the slated roof of the house do but begin to look gray instead of black .
All the snow that have yet fall within the circumference of my view , be it heap up together , would hardly equal the hillock of a grave .
Thus gradually by silent and stealthy influence be great change work .
These little snow-particles which the storm-spirit fling by handful through the air will bury the great Earth under their accumulated mass , nor permit her to behold her sister Sky again for dreary month .
We likewise shall lose sight of our mother 's familiar visage , and must content ourselves with look heavenward the oftener .
Now , leave the Storm to do his appoint office , let u sit down , pen in hand , by our fireside .
Gloomy a it may seem , there be an influence productive of cheerfulness and favorable to imaginative thought in the atmosphere of a snowy day .
The native of a Southern clime may woo the Muse beneath the heavy shade of summer foliage reclining on bank of turf , while the sound of singing-birds and warble rivulet chime in with the music of his soul .
In our brief summer I do not think , but only exist in the vague enjoyment of a dream .
My hour of inspiration -- if that hour ever come -- be when the green log hiss upon the hearth , and the bright flame , brighter for the gloom of the chamber , rustle high up the chimney , and the coal drop tinkle down among the grow heap of ash .
When the casement rattle in the gust and the snowflake or the sleety raindrops pelt hard against the window-panes , then I spread out my sheet of paper with the certainty that thought and fancy will gleam forth upon it like star at twilight or like violet in May , perhaps to fade a soon .
However transitory their glow , they at least shine amid the darksome shadow which the cloud of the outward sky fling through the room .
Blessed , therefore , and reverently welcome by me , her true-born son , be New England 's winter , which make u one and all the nursling of the storm and sing a familiar lullaby even in the wild shriek of the December blast .
Now look we forth again and see how much of his task the storm-spirit have do .
Slow and sure !
He have the day -- perchance the week -- before him , and may take his own time to accomplish Nature 's burial in snow .
A smooth mantle be scarcely yet throw over the withered grass-plat , and the dry stalk of annual still thrust themselves through the white surface in all part of the garden .
The leafless rose-bushes stand shiver in a shallow snowdrift , look , poor thing !
as disconsolate a if they possess a human consciousness of the dreary scene .
This be a sad time for the shrub that do not perish with the summer .
They neither live nor die ; what they retain of life seem but the chill sense of death .
Very sad be the flower-shrubs in midwinter .
The roof of the house be now all white , save where the eddying wind have keep them bare at the bleak corner .
To discern the real intensity of the storm , we must fix upon some distant object -- a yonder spire -- and observe how the riotous gust fight with the descending snow throughout the intervening space .
Sometimes the entire prospect be obscure ; then , again , we have a distinct but transient glimpse of the tall steeple , like a giant 's ghost ; and now the dense wreaths sweep between , a if demon be fling snowdrift at each other in mid-air .
Look next into the street , where we have an amusing parallel to the combat of those fancied demon in the upper region .
It be a snow-battle of schoolboy .
What a pretty satire on war and military glory might be write in the form of a child 's story by describe the snow-ball fight of two rival school , the alternate defeat and victory of each , and the final triumph of one party , or perhaps of neither !
What pitch battle worthy to be chant in Homeric strain !
What storming of fortress build all of massive snow-blocks !
What feat of individual prowess and embodied onset of martial enthusiasm !
And when some well-contested and decisive victory have put a period to the war , both army should unite to build a lofty monument of snow upon the battlefield and crown it with the victor 's statue hewn of the same frozen marble .
In a few day or week thereafter the passer-by would observe a shapeless mound upon the level common , and , unmindful of the famous victory , would ask , `` How come it there ?
Who rear it ?
And what mean it ? ''
The shattered pedestal of many a battle-monument have provoke these question when none could answer .
Turn we again to the fireside and sit musing there , lend our ear to the wind till perhaps it shall seem like an articulate voice and dictate wild and airy matter for the pen .
Would it might inspire me to sketch out the personification of a New England winter !
And that idea , if I can seize the snow-wreathed figure that flit before my fancy , shall be the theme of the next page .
How do Winter herald his approach ?
By the shriek blast of latter autumn which be Nature 's cry of lamentation a the destroyer rush among the shiver grove where she have linger and scatter the sear leave upon the tempest .
When that cry be hear , the people wrap themselves in cloak and shake their head disconsolately , say , `` Winter be at hand . ''
Then the axe of the woodcutter echo sharp and diligently in the forest ; then the coal-merchants rejoice because each shriek of Nature in her agony add something to the price of coal per ton ; then the peat-smoke spread it aromatic fragrance through the atmosphere .
A few day more , and at eventide the child look out of the window and dimly perceive the flaunting of a snowy mantle in the air .
It be stern Winter 's vesture .
They crowd around the hearth and cling to their mother 's gown or press between their father 's knee , affright by the hollow roar voice that bellow adown the wide flue of the chimney .
It be the voice of Winter ; and when parent and child hear it , they shudder and exclaim , `` Winter be come .
Cold Winter have begin his reign already . ''
Now throughout New England each hearth become an altar send up the smoke of a continued sacrifice to the immitigable deity who tyrannize over forest , country-side and town .
Wrapped in his white mantle , his staff a huge icicle , his beard and hair a wind-tossed snowdrift , he travel over the land in the midst of the northern blast , and woe to the homeless wanderer whom he find upon his path !
There he lie stark and stiff , a human shape of ice , on the spot where Winter overtake him .
On stride the tyrant over the rush river and broad lake , which turn to rock beneath his footstep .
His dreary empire be establish ; all around stretch the desolation of the pole .
Yet not ungrateful be his New England child -LRB- for Winter be our sire , though a stern and rough one -RRB- -- not ungrateful even for the severity which have nourish our unyielding strength of character .
And let u thank him , too , for the sleigh-rides cheer by the music of merry bell ; for the crackling and rustle hearth when the ruddy firelight gleam on hardy manhood and the bloom cheek of woman : for all the home-enjoyments and the kindred virtue which flourish in a frozen soil .
Not that we grieve when , after some seven month of storm and bitter frost , Spring , in the guise of a flower-crowned virgin , be see drive away the hoary despot , pelt him with violet by the handful and strew green grass on the path behind him .
Often ere he will give up his empire old Winter rush fiercely buck and hurl a snowdrift at the shrink form of Spring , yet step by step he be compel to retreat northward , and spend the summer month within the Arctic circle .
Such fantasy , intermix among graver toil of mind , have make the winter 's day pas pleasantly .
Meanwhile , the storm have rag without abatement , and now , a the brief afternoon decline , be toss denser volume to and fro about the atmosphere .
On the window-sill there be a layer of snow reach halfway up the low pane of glass .
The garden be one unbroken bed .
Along the street be two or three spot of uncovered earth where the gust have whirl away the snow , heap it elsewhere to the fence-tops or pile huge bank against the door of house .
A solitary passenger be see , now stride mid-leg deep across a drift , now scud over the bare ground , while his cloak be swell with the wind .
And now the jingling of bell -- a sluggish sound responsive to the horse 's toilsome progress through the unbroken drift -- announce the passage of a sleigh with a boy cling behind and duck his head to escape detection by the driver .
Next come a sledge laden with wood for some unthrifty housekeeper whom winter have surprise at a cold hearth .
But what dismal equipage now struggle along the uneven street ?
A sable hearse bestrewn with snow be bear a dead man through the storm to his frozen bed .
Oh how dreary be a burial in winter , when the bosom of Mother Earth have no warmth for her poor child !
Evening -- the early eve of December -- begin to spread it deepen veil over the comfortless scene .
The firelight gradually brighten and throw my flickering shadow upon the wall and ceiling of the chamber , but still the storm rage and rattle against the window .
Alas !
I shiver and think it time to be disconsolate , but , take a farewell glance at dead Nature in her shroud , I perceive a flock of snowbird skim lightsomely through the tempest and flit from drift to drift as sportively a swallow in the delightful prime of summer .
Whence come they ?
Where do they build their nest and seek their food ?
Why , have airy wing , do they not follow summer around the earth , instead of make themselves the playmate of the storm and fluttering on the dreary verge of the winter 's eve ?
I know not whence they come , nor why ; yet my spirit have be cheer by that wander flock of snow-birds .
THE SEVEN VAGABONDS .
Rambling on foot in the spring of my life and the summer of the year , I come one afternoon to a point which give me the choice of three direction .
Straight before me the main road extend it dusty length to Boston ; on the left a branch go toward the sea , and would have lengthen my journey a trifle of twenty or thirty mile , while by the right-hand path I might have go over hill and lake to Canada , visit in my way the celebrated town of Stamford .
On a level spot of grass at the foot of the guide-post appear an object which , though locomotive on a different principle , remind me of Gulliver 's portable mansion among the Brobdignags .
It be a huge cover wagon -- or , more properly , a small house on wheel -- with a door on one side and a window shade by green blind on the other .
Two horse munch provender out of the basket which muzzle them be fasten near the vehicle .
A delectable sound of music proceed from the interior , and I immediately conjecture that this be some itinerant show halting at the confluence of the road to intercept such idle traveller a myself .
A shower have long be climb up the western sky , and now hang so blackly over my onward path that it be a point of wisdom to seek shelter here .
`` Halloo !
Who stand guard here ?
Is the doorkeeper asleep ? ''
cry I , approach a ladder of two or three step which be let down from the wagon .
The music cease at my summons , and there appear at the door , not the sort of figure that I have mentally assign to the wander showman , but a most respectable old personage whom I be sorry to have address in so free a style .
He wear a snuff-colored coat and small-clothes , with white top-boots , and exhibit the mild dignity of aspect and manner which may often be notice in aged schoolmaster , and sometimes in deacon , selectman or other potentate of that kind .
A small piece of silver be my passport within his premise , where I find only one other person , hereafter to be describe .
`` This be a dull day for business , '' say the old gentleman a he usher me in ; `` but I merely tarry here to refresh the cattle , be bind for the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Perhaps the movable scene of this narrative be still peregrinate New England , and may enable the reader to test the accuracy of my description .
The spectacle -- for I will not use the unworthy term of `` puppet-show '' -- consist of a multitude of little people assemble on a miniature stage .
Among them be artisan of every kind in the attitude of their toil , and a group of fair lady and gay gentleman stand ready for the dance ; a company of foot-soldiers form a line across the stage , look stern , grim and terrible enough to make it a pleasant consideration that they be but three inch high ; and conspicuous above the whole be see a Merry Andrew in the pointed cap and motley coat of his profession .
All the inhabitant of this mimic world be motionless , like the figure in a picture , or like that people who one moment be alive in the midst of their business and delight and the next be transform to statue , preserve an eternal semblance of labor that be end and pleasure that could be felt no more .
Anon , however , the old gentleman turn the handle of a barrel-organ , the first note of which produce a most enlivening effect upon the figure and awake them all to their proper occupation and amusement .
By the selfsame impulse the tailor ply his needle , the blacksmith 's hammer descend upon the anvil and the dancer whirl away on feathery tiptoe ; the company of soldier break into platoon , retreat from the stage , and be succeed by a troop of horse , who come prance onward with such a sound of trumpet and trampling of hoof a might have startle Don Quixote himself ; while an old toper of inveterate ill-habits uplift his black bottle and take off a hearty swig .
Meantime , the Merry Andrew begin to caper and turn somerset , shake his side , nod his head and wink his eye in a lifelike a manner a if he be ridicule the nonsense of all human affair and make fun of the whole multitude beneath him .
At length the old magician -LRB- for I compare the showman to Prospero entertain his guest with a masque of shadow -RRB- pause that I might give utterance to my wonder .
`` What an admirable piece of work be this ! ''
exclaim I , lift up my hand in astonishment .
Indeed , I like the spectacle and be tickle with the old man 's gravity a he preside at it , for I have none of that foolish wisdom which reprove every occupation that be not useful in this world of vanity .
If there be a faculty which I possess more perfectly than most men , it be that of throw myself mentally into situation foreign to my own and detect with a cheerful eye the desirable circumstance of each .
I could have envy the life of this gray-headed showman , spend a it have be in a course of safe and pleasurable adventure in drive his huge vehicle sometimes through the sand of Cape Cod and sometimes over the rough forest-roads of the north and east , and halt now on the green before a village meeting-house and now in a paved square of the metropolis .
How often must his heart have be gladden by the delight of child a they view these animated figure , or his pride indulge by harangue learnedly to grow men on the mechanical power which produce such wonderful effect , or his gallantry bring into play -- for this be an attribute which such grave men do not lack -- by the visit of pretty maiden !
And then with how fresh a feeling must he return at interval to his own peculiar home !
`` I would I be assure of a happy a life a his , '' think I . Though the showman 's wagon might have accommodate fifteen or twenty spectator , it now contain only himself and me and a third person , at whom I throw a glance on entering .
He be a neat and trim young man of two or three and twenty ; his drab hat and green frock-coat with velvet collar be smart , though no long new , while a pair of green spectacle that seem needless to his brisk little eye give him something of a scholar-like and literary air .
After allow me a sufficient time to inspect the puppet , he advance with a bow and draw my attention to some book in a corner of the wagon .
These he forthwith begin to extol with an amazing volubility of well-sounding word and an ingenuity of praise that win him my heart a be myself one of the most merciful of critic .
Indeed , his stock require some considerable power of commendation in the salesman .
There be several ancient friend of mine -- the novel of those happy day when my affection waver between the Scottish Chiefs and Thomas Thumb -- besides a few of late date whose merit have not be acknowledge by the public .
I be glad to find that dear little venerable volume the New England Primer , look as antique a ever , though in it thousandth new edition ; a bundle of superannuated gilt picture-books make such a child of me that , partly for the glittering cover and partly for the fairy-tales within , I buy the whole , and an assortment of ballad and popular theatrical song draw largely on my purse .
To balance these expenditure , I meddle neither with sermon nor science nor morality , though volume of each be there , nor with a Life of Franklin in the coarsest of paper , but so showily bound that it be emblematical of the doctor himself in the court-dress which he refuse to wear at Paris , nor with Webster 's spelling-book , nor some of Byron 's minor poem , nor half a dozen little Testaments at twenty-five cent each .
Thus far the collection might have be sweep from some great bookstore or pick up at an even auction-room , but there be one small blue-covered pamphlet which the pedler hand me with so peculiar an air that I purchase it immediately at his own price ; and then for the first time the thought struck me that I have speak face to face with the veritable author of a printed book .
The literary-man now evince a great kindness for me , and I venture to inquire which way he be travel .
`` Oh , '' say he , `` I keep company with this old gentleman here , and we be move now toward the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
He then explain to me that for the present season he have rent a corner of the wagon a a book-store , which , a he wittily observe , be a true circulating library , since there be few part of the country where it have not go it round .
I approve of the plan exceedingly , and begin to sum up within my mind the many uncommon felicity in the life of a book-pedler , especially when his character resemble that of the individual before me .
At a high rate be to be reckon the daily and hourly enjoyment of such interview a the present , in which he seize upon the admiration of a passing stranger and make him aware that a man of literary taste , and even of literary achievement , be travel the country in a showman 's wagon .
A more valuable yet not infrequent triumph might be win in his conversation with some elderly clergyman long vegetate in a rocky , woody , watery back-settlement of New England , who a he recruit his library from the pedler 's stock of sermon would exhort him to seek a college education and become the first scholar in his class .
Sweeter and prouder yet would be his sensation when , talk poetry while he sell spelling-books , he should charm the mind , and haply touch the heart , of a fair country schoolmistress , herself an unhonored poetess , a wearer of blue stocking which none but himself take pain to look at .
But the scene of his complete glory would be when the wagon have halt for the night and his stock of book be transfer to some crowd bar-room .
Then would he recommend to the multifarious company , whether traveller from the city , or teamster from the hill , or neighbor squire , or the landlord himself , or his loutish hostler , work suit to each particular taste and capacity , prove , all the while , by acute criticism and profound remark , that the lore in his book be even exceed by that in his brain .
Thus happily would he traverse the land , sometimes a herald before the march of Mind , sometimes walk arm in arm with awful Literature , and reap everywhere a harvest of real and sensible popularity which the seclude bookworm by whose toil he live could never hope for .
`` If ever I meddle with literature , '' think I , fix myself in adamantine resolution , `` it shall be a a travel bookseller . ''
Though it be still mid-afternoon , the air have now grow dark about u , and a few drop of rain come down upon the roof of our vehicle , patter like the foot of bird that have fly thither to rest .
A sound of pleasant voice make u listen , and there soon appear halfway up the ladder the pretty person of a young damsel whose rosy face be so cheerful that even amid the gloomy light it seem a if the sunbeam be peep under her bonnet .
We next saw the dark and handsome feature of a young man who , with easy gallantry than might have be expect in the heart of Yankee-land , be assist her into the wagon .
It become immediately evident to u , when the two stranger stand within the door , that they be of a profession kindred to those of my companion , and I be delight with the more than hospitable -- the even paternal -- kindness of the old showman 's manner a he welcome them , while the man of literature hasten to lead the merry-eyed girl to a seat on the long bench .
`` You be house but just in time , my young friend , '' say the master of the wagon ; `` the sky would have be down upon you within five minute . ''
The young man 's reply mark him a a foreigner -- not by any variation from the idiom and accent of good English , but because he speak with more caution and accuracy than if perfectly familiar with the language .
`` We know that a shower be hang over u , '' say he , `` and consult whether it be best to enter the house on the top of yonder hill , but , see your wagon in the road -- '' `` We agree to come hither , '' interrupt the girl , with a smile , `` because we should be more at home in a wandering house like this . ''
I , meanwhile , with many a wild and undetermined fantasy be narrowly inspect these two dove that have fly into our ark .
The young man , tall , agile and athletic , wear a mass of black shin curl cluster round a dark and vivacious countenance which , if it have not great expression , be at least more active and attract ready notice , than the quiet face of our countryman .
At his first appearance he have be lade with a neat mahogany box of about two foot square , but very light in proportion to it size , which he have immediately unstrapped from his shoulder and deposit on the floor of the wagon .
The girl have nearly as fair a complexion a our own beauty , and a brighter one than most of them ; the lightness of her figure , which seem calculate to traverse the whole world without weariness , suit well with the glow cheerfulness of her face , and her gay attire , combine the rainbow hue of crimson , green and a deep orange , be a proper to her lightsome aspect a if she have be bear in it .
This gay stranger be appropriately burden with that mirth-inspiring instrument the fiddle , which her companion take from her hand , and shortly begin the process of tuning .
Neither of u the previous company of the wagon need to inquire their trade , for this could be no mystery to frequenter of brigade-musters , ordination , cattle-shows , commencement , and other festal meeting in our sober land ; and there be a dear friend of mine who will smile when this page recall to his memory a chivalrous deed perform by u in rescue the show-box of such a couple from a mob of great double-fisted countryman .
`` Come , '' say I to the damsel of gay attire ; `` shall we visit all the wonder of the world together ? ''
She understand the metaphor at once , though , indeed , it would not much have trouble me if she have assent to the literal meaning of my word .
The mahogany box be place in a proper position , and I peep in through it small round magnifying-window while the girl sat by my side and give short descriptive sketch a one after another the picture be unfolded to my view .
We visit together -- at least , our imagination do -- full many a famous city in the street of which I have long yearn to tread .
Once , I remember , we be in the harbor of Barcelona , gaze townward ; next , she bore me through the air to Sicily and bid me look up at blaze tna ; then we take wing to Venice and sit in a gondola beneath the arch of the Rialto , and anon she set me down among the thronged spectator at the coronation of Napoleon .
But there be one scene -- it locality she could not tell -- which charm my attention long than all those gorgeous palace and church , because the fancy haunt me that I myself the precede summer have behold just such a humble meeting-house , in just such a pine-surrounded nook , among our own green mountain .
All these picture be tolerably execute , though far inferior to the girl 's touch of description ; nor be it easy to comprehend how in so few sentence , and these , a I suppose , in a language foreign to her , she contrive to present an airy copy of each varied scene .
When we have travel through the vast extent of the mahogany box , I look into my guide 's face . ''
` Where be you go , my pretty maid ? ' ''
inquire I , in the word of an old song .
`` Ah ! ''
say the gay damsel ; `` you might as well ask where the summer wind be go .
We be wanderer here and there and everywhere .
Wherever there be mirth our merry heart be draw to it .
To-day , indeed , the people have tell u of a great frolic and festival in these part ; so perhaps we may be need at what you call the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Then , in my happy youth , and while her pleasant voice yet sound in my ear , I sigh ; for none but myself , I think , should have be her companion in a life which seem to realize my own wild fancy cherish all through visionary boyhood to that hour .
To these two stranger the world be in it Golden Age -- not that , indeed , it be less dark and sad than ever , but because it weariness and sorrow have no community with their ethereal nature .
Wherever they might appear in their pilgrimage of bliss , Youth would echo back their gladness , care-stricken Maturity would rest a moment from it toil , and Age , totter among the graf , would smile in withered joy for their sake .
The lonely cot , the narrow and gloomy street , the sombre shade , would catch a passing gleam like that now shin on ourselves a these bright spirit wander by .
Blessed pair , whose happy home be throughout all the earth !
I look at my shoulder , and think them broad enough to sustain those pictured town and mountain ; mine , too , be an elastic foot as tireless a the wing of the bird of Paradise ; mine be then an untroubled heart that would have go sing on it delightful way .
`` Oh , maiden , '' say I aloud , `` why do you not come hither alone ? ''
While the merry girl and myself be busy with the show-box the unceasing rain have drive another wayfarer into the wagon .
He seem pretty nearly of the old showman 's age , but much small , lean and more withered than he , and less respectably clad in a patched suit of gray ; withal , he have a thin , shrewd countenance and a pair of diminutive gray eye , which peep rather too keenly out of their puckered socket .
This old fellow have be joke with the showman in a manner which intimate previous acquaintance , but , perceive that the damsel and I have terminate our affair , he draw forth a folded document and present it to me .
As I have anticipate , it prove to be a circular , write in a very fair and legible hand and sign by several distinguish gentleman whom I have never hear of , state that the bearer have encounter every variety of misfortune and recommend him to the notice of all charitable people .
Previous disbursement have leave me no more than a five-dollar bill , out of which , however , I offer to make the beggar a donation provide he would give me change for it .
The object of my beneficence look keenly in my face , and discern that I have none of that abominable spirit , characteristic though it be , of a full-blooded Yankee , which take pleasure in detect every little harmless piece of knavery .
`` Why , perhaps , '' say the ragged old mendicant , `` if the bank be in good standing , I ca n't say but I may have enough about me to change your bill . ''
`` It be a bill of the Suffolk Bank , '' say I , `` and good than the specie . ''
As the beggar have nothing to object , he now produce a small buff leather bag tie up carefully with a shoe-string .
When this be open , there appear a very comfortable treasure of silver coin of all sort and size , and I even fancy that I saw gleam among them the golden plumage of that rare bird in our currency the American eagle .
In this precious heap be my bank-note deposit , the rate of exchange be considerably against me .
His want be thus relieve , the destitute man pull out of his pocket an old pack of greasy card which have probably contribute to fill the buff leather bag in more way than one .
`` Come ! ''
say he ; `` I spy a rare fortune in your face , and for twenty-five cent more I 'll tell you what it be . ''
I never refuse to take a glimpse into futurity ; so , after shuffle the card and when the fair damsel have cut them , I deal a portion to the prophetic beggar .
Like others of his profession , before predict the shadowy event that be move on to meet me he give proof of his preternatural science by describe scene through which I have already pass .
Here let me have credit for a sober fact .
When the old man have read a page in his book of fate , he bend his keen gray eye on mine and proceed to relate in all it minute particular what be then the most singular event of my life .
It be one which I have no purpose to disclose till the general unfolding of all secret , nor would it be a much strange instance of inscrutable knowledge or fortunate conjecture if the beggar be to meet me in the street today and repeat word for word the page which I have here write .
The fortune-teller , after predict a destiny which time seem loth to make good , put up his card , secrete his treasure-bag and begin to converse with the other occupant of the wagon .
`` Well , old friend , '' say the showman , `` you have not yet tell u which way your face be turn this afternoon . ''
`` I be take a trip northward this warm weather , '' reply the conjurer , `` across the Connecticut first , and then up through Vermont , and maybe into Canada before the fall .
But I must stop and see the break up of the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
I begin to think that all the vagrant in New England be converge to the camp-meeting and have make this wagon , their rendezvous by the way .
The showman now propose that when the shower be over they should pursue the road to Stamford together , it be sometimes the policy of these people to form a sort of league and confederacy .
`` And the young lady too , '' observe the gallant bibliopolist , bow to her profoundly , `` and this foreign gentleman , a I understand , be on a jaunt of pleasure to the same spot .
It would add incalculably to my own enjoyment , and I presume to that of my colleague and his friend , if they could be prevail upon to join our party . ''
This arrangement meet with approbation on all hand , nor be any of those concern more sensible of it advantage than myself , who have no title to be include in it .
Having already satisfy myself a to the several mode in which the four others attain felicity , I next set my mind at work to discover what enjoyment be peculiar to the old `` straggler , '' a the people of the country would have term the wandering mendicant and prophet .
As he pretend to familiarity with the devil , so I fancy that he be fit to pursue and take delight in his way of life by possess some of the mental and moral characteristic -- the light and more comic one -- of the devil in popular story .
Among them might be reckon a love of deception for it own sake , a shrewd eye and keen relish for human weakness and ridiculous infirmity , and the talent of petty fraud .
Thus to this old man there would be pleasure even in the consciousness -- so insupportable to some mind -- that his whole life be a cheat upon the world , and that , so far a he be concern with the public , his little cunning have the upper hand of it united wisdom .
Every day would furnish him with a succession of minute and pungent triumph -- a when , for instance , his importunity wring a pittance out of the heart of a miser , or when my silly good-nature transfer a part of my slender purse to his plump leather bag , or when some ostentatious gentleman should throw a coin to the ragged beggar who be rich than himself , or when -- though he would not always be so decidedly diabolical -- his pretended want should make him a sharer in the scanty living of real indigence .
And then what an inexhaustible field of enjoyment , both a enable him to discern so much folly and achieve such quantity of minor mischief , be open to his sneer spirit by his pretension to prophetic knowledge .
All this be a sort of happiness which I could conceive of , though I have little sympathy with it .
Perhaps , have I be then incline to admit it , I might have find that the rove life be more proper to him than to either of his companion ; for Satan , to whom I have compare the poor man , have delight , ever since the time of Job , in `` wander up and down upon the earth , '' and , indeed , a crafty disposition which operate not in deep-laid plan , but in disconnected trick , could not have an adequate scope , unless naturally impel to a continual change of scene and society .
My reflection be here interrupt .
`` Another visitor ! ''
exclaim the old showman .
The door of the wagon have be close against the tempest , which be roar and bluster with prodigious fury and commotion and beat violently against our shelter , a if it claim all those homeless people for it lawful prey , while we , care little for the displeasure of the element , sit comfortably talk .
There be now an attempt to open the door , succeed by a voice utter some strange , unintelligible gibberish which my companion mistake for Greek and I suspect to be thief ' Latin .
However , the showman step forward and give admittance to a figure which make me imagine either that our wagon have roll back two hundred year into past age or that the forest and it old inhabitant have spring up around u by enchantment .
It be a red Indian arm with his bow and arrow .
His dress be a sort of cap adorn with a single feather of some wild bird , and a frock of blue cotton gird tight about him ; on his breast , like order of knighthood , hang a crescent and a circle and other ornament of silver , while a small crucifix betoken that our father the pope have interpose between the Indian and the Great Spirit whom he have worship in his simplicity .
This son of the wilderness and pilgrim of the storm take his place silently in the midst of u .
When the first surprise be over , I rightly conjecture him to be one of the Penobscot tribe , party of which I have often see in their summer excursion down our Eastern river .
There they paddle their birch canoe among the coasting-schooners , and build their wigwam beside some roar mill-dam , and drive a little trade in basket-work where their father hunt deer .
Our new visitor be probably wander through the country toward Boston , subsist on the careless charity of the people while he turn his archery to profitable account by shoot at cent which be to be the prize of his successful aim .
The Indian have not long be seat ere our merry damsel seek to draw him into conversation .
She , indeed , seem all make up of sunshine in the month of May , for there be nothing so dark and dismal that her pleasant mind could not cast a glow over it ; and the wild man , like a fir tree in his native forest , soon begin to brighten into a sort of sombre cheerfulness .
At length she inquire whether his journey have any particular end or purpose .
`` I go shoot at the camp-meeting at Stamford , '' reply the Indian .
`` And here be five more , '' say the girl , `` all aiming at the camp-meeting too .
You shall be one of u , for we travel with light heart ; and , a for me , I sing merry song and tell merry tale and be full of merry thought , and I dance merrily along the road , so that there be never any sadness among them that keep me company .
But oh , you would find it very dull indeed to go all the way to Stamford alone . ''
My idea of the aboriginal character lead me to fear that the Indian would prefer his own solitary musing to the gay society thus offer him ; on the contrary , the girl 's proposal meet with immediate acceptance and seem to animate him with a misty expectation of enjoyment .
I now give myself up to a course of thought which , whether it flow naturally from this combination of event or be draw forth by a wayward fancy , cause my mind to thrill a if I be listen to deep music .
I saw mankind in this weary old age of the world either endure a sluggish existence amid the smoke and dust of city , or , if they breathe a purer air , still lie down at night with no hope but to wear out to-morrow , and all the to-morrows which make up life , among the same dull scene and in the same wretched toil that have darken the sunshine of today .
But there be some full of the primeval instinct who preserve the freshness of youth to their late year by the continual excitement of new object , new pursuit and new associate , and care little , though their birthplace might have be here in New England , if the grave should close over them in Central Asia .
Fate be summon a parliament of these free spirit ; unconscious of the impulse which direct them to a common centre , they have come hither from far and near , and last of all appear the representative of those mighty vagrant who have chase the deer during thousand of year , and be chase it now in the spirit-land .
Wandering down through the waste of age , the wood have vanish around his path ; his arm have lose somewhat of it strength , his foot of it fleetness , his mien of it wild regality , his heart and mind of their savage virtue and uncultured force , but here , untamable to the routine of artificial life , rove now along the dusty road a of old over the forest-leaves , -- here be the Indian still .
`` Well , '' say the old showman , in the midst of my meditation , `` here be an honest company of u -- one , two , three , four , five , six -- all go to the camp-meeting at Stamford .
Now , hop no offence , I should like to know where this young gentleman may be go ? ''
I start .
How come I among these wanderer ?
The free mind that prefer it own folly to another 's wisdom , the open spirit that find companion everywhere -- above all , the restless impulse that have so often make me wretched in the midst of enjoyment , -- these be my claim to be of their society .
`` My friend , '' cry I , step into the centre of the wagon , `` I be go with you to the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
`` But in what capacity ? ''
ask the old showman , after a moment 's silence .
`` All of u here can get our bread in some creditable way .
Every honest man should have his livelihood .
You , sir , a I take it , be a mere stroll gentleman . ''
I proceed to inform the company that when Nature give me a propensity to their way of life she have not leave me altogether destitute of qualification for it , though I could not deny that my talent be less respectable , and might be less profitable , than the mean of theirs .
My design , in short , be to imitate the story-tellers of whom Oriental traveller have tell u , and become an itinerant novelist , recite my own extemporaneous fiction to such audience a I could collect .
`` Either this , '' say I , `` be my vocation , or I have be bear in vain . ''
The fortune-teller , with a sly wink to the company , propose to take me a an apprentice to one or other of his profession , either of which undoubtedly would have give full scope to whatever inventive talent I might possess .
The bibliopolist speak a few word in opposition to my plan -- influence partly , I suspect , by the jealousy of authorship , and partly by an apprehension that the viv-voce practice would become general among novelist , to the infinite detriment of the book trade .
Dreading a rejection , I solicit the interest of the merry damsel . ''
` Mirth , ' '' cry I , most aptly appropriate the word of L'Allegro , '' ` to thee I sue !
Mirth , admit me of thy crew ! ' ''
`` Let u indulge the poor youth , '' say Mirth , with a kindness which make me love her dearly , though I be no such coxcomb a to misinterpret her motif .
`` I have espy much promise in him .
True , a shadow sometimes flit across his brow , but the sunshine be sure to follow in a moment .
He be never guilty of a sad thought but a merry one be twin-born with it .
We will take him with u , and you shall see that he will set u all a-laughing before we reach the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Her voice silence the scruple of the rest and gain me admittance into the league ; accord to the term of which , without a community of good or profit , we be to lend each other all the aid and avert all the harm that might be in our power .
This affair settle , a marvellous jollity enter into the whole tribe of u , manifest itself characteristically in each individual .
The old showman , sit down to his barrel-organ , stir up the soul of the pigmy people with one of the quick tune in the music-book ; tailor , blacksmith , gentleman and lady all seem to share in the spirit of the occasion , and the Merry Andrew play his part more facetiously than ever , nod and wink particularly at me .
The young foreigner flourish his fiddle-bow with a master 's hand , and give an inspiring echo to the showman 's melody .
The bookish man and the merry damsel start up simultaneously to dance , the former enact the double shuffle in a style which everybody must have witness ere election week be blot out of time , while the girl , set her arm akimbo with both hand at her slim waist , display such light rapidity of foot and harmony of vary attitude and motion that I could not conceive how she ever be to stop , imagine at the moment that Nature have make her , a the old showman have make his puppet , for no earthly purpose but to dance jig .
The Indian bellow forth a succession of most hideous outcry , somewhat affright u till we interpret them a the war-song with which , in imitation of his ancestor , he be preface the assault on Stamford .
The conjurer , meanwhile , sit demurely in a corner extract a sly enjoyment from the whole scene , and , like the facetious Merry Andrew , direct his queer glance particularly at me .
As for myself , with great exhilaration of fancy , I begin to arrange and color the incident of a tale wherewith I propose to amuse an audience that very even ; for I saw that my associate be a little ashamed of me , and that no time be to be lose in obtain a public acknowledgment of my ability .
`` Come , fellow-laborers , '' at last say the old showman , whom we have elect president ; `` the shower be over , and we must be do our duty by these poor soul at Stamford . ''
`` We 'll come among them in procession , with music and dancing , '' cry the merry damsel .
Accordingly -- for it must be understood that our pilgrimage be to be perform on foot -- we sallied joyously out of the wagon , each of u , even the old gentleman in his white top-boots , give a great skip a we come down the ladder .
Above our head there be such a glory of sunshine and splendor of cloud , and such brightness of verdure below , that , a I modestly remark at the time , Nature seem to have wash her face and put on the best of her jewelry and a fresh green gown in honor of our confederation .
Casting our eye northward , we behold a horseman approach leisurely and splash through the little puddle on the Stamford road .
Onward he come , stick up in his saddle with rigid perpendicularity , a tall , thin figure in rusty black , whom the showman and the conjurer shortly recognize to be what his aspect sufficiently indicate -- a travel preacher of great fame among the Methodists .
What puzzle u be the fact that his face appear turn from , instead of to , the camp-meeting at Stamford .
However , a this new votary of the wander life draw near the little green space where the guide-post and our wagon be situate , my six fellow-vagabonds and myself rush forward and surround him , cry out with united voice , `` What news ?
What news from the camp-meeting at Stamford ? ''
The missionary look down in surprise at a singular a knot of people a could have be select from all his heterogeneous auditor .
Indeed , consider that we might all be classify under the general head of Vagabond , there be great diversity of character among the grave old showman , the sly , prophetic beggar , the fiddling foreigner and his merry damsel , the smart bibliopolist , the sombre Indian and myself , the itinerant novelist , a slender youth of eighteen .
I even fancy that a smile be endeavor to disturb the iron gravity of the preacher 's mouth .
`` Good people , '' answer he , `` the camp-meeting be break up . ''
So say , the Methodist minister switch his steed and ride westward .
Our union be thus nullify by the removal of it object , we be sunder at once to the four wind of heaven .
The fortune-teller , give a nod to all and a peculiar wink to me , depart on his Northern tour , chuckle within himself a he take the Stamford road .
The old showman and his literary coadjutor be already tackle their horse to the wagon with a design to peregrinate south-west along the sea-coast .
The foreigner and the merry damsel take their laughing leave and pursue the eastern road , which I have that day trodden ; a they pass away the young man play a lively strain and the girl 's happy spirit break into a dance , and , thus dissolve , a it be , into sunbeam and gay music , that pleasant pair depart from my view .
Finally , with a pensive shadow throw across my mind , yet emulous of the light philosophy of my late companion , I join myself to the Penobscot Indian and set forth toward the distant city .
THE WHITE OLD MAID .
The moonbeam come through two deep and narrow window and show a spacious chamber richly furnish in an antique fashion .
From one lattice the shadow of the diamond pane be throw upon the floor ; the ghostly light through the other slept upon a bed , fall between the heavy silken curtain and illuminate the face of a young man .
But how quietly the slumberer lay !
how pale his feature !
And how like a shroud the sheet be wind about his frame !
Yes , it be a corpse in it burial-clothes .
Suddenly the fixed feature seem to move with dark emotion .
Strange fantasy !
It be but the shadow of the fringed curtain wave betwixt the dead face and the moonlight a the door of the chamber open and a girl stole softly to the bedside .
Was there delusion in the moonbeam , or do her gesture and her eye betray a gleam of triumph a she bend over the pale corpse , pale a itself , and press her living lip to the cold one of the dead ?
As she draw back from that long kiss her feature writhe a if a proud heart be fight with it anguish .
Again it seem that the feature of the corpse have move responsive to her own .
Still an illusion .
The silken curtain have wave a second time betwixt the dead face and the moonlight a another fair young girl unclosed the door and glide ghostlike to the bedside .
There the two maiden stand , both beautiful , with the pale beauty of the dead between them .
But she who have first enter be proud and stately , and the other a soft and fragile thing .
`` Away ! ''
cry the lofty one .
`` Thou hadst him live ; the dead be mine . ''
`` Thine ! ''
return the other , shudder .
`` Well hast thou speak ; the dead be thine . ''
The proud girl start and star into her face with a ghastly look , but a wild-and mournful expression pass across the feature of the gentle one , and , weak and helpless , she sink down on the bed , her head pillow beside that of the corpse and her hair mingle with his dark lock .
A creature of hope and joy , the first draught of sorrow have bewilder her .
`` Edith ! ''
cry her rival .
Edith groan a with a sudden compression of the heart , and , remove her cheek from the dead youth 's pillow , she stand upright , fearfully encounter the eye of the lofty girl .
`` Wilt thou betray me ? ''
say the latter , calmly .
`` Till the dead bid me speak I will be silent , '' answer Edith .
`` Leave u alone together .
Go and live many year , and then return and tell me of thy life .
He too will be here .
Then , if thou tellest of suffering more than death , we will both forgive thee . ''
`` And what shall be the token ? ''
ask the proud girl , a if her heart acknowledge a meaning in these wild word .
`` This lock of hair , '' say Edith , lift one of the dark cluster curl that lay heavily on the dead man 's brow .
The two maiden join their hand over the bosom of the corpse and appoint a day and hour far , far in time to come for their next meeting in that chamber .
The stately girl give one deep look at the motionless countenance and depart , yet turn again and tremble ere she close the door , almost believe that her dead lover frown upon her .
And Edith , too !
Was not her white form fading into the moonlight ?
Scorning her own weakness , she go forth and perceive that a negro slave be wait in the passage with a waxlight , which he hold between her face and his own and regard her , a she think , with an ugly expression of merriment .
Lifting his torch on high , the slave light her down the staircase and undo the portal of the mansion .
The young clergyman of the town have just ascend the step , and , bow to the lady , pass in without a word .
Years -- many year -- roll on .
The world seem new again , so much old be it grown since the night when those pale girl have clasp their hand across the bosom of the corpse .
In the interval a lonely woman have pass from youth to extreme age , and be know by all the town a the `` Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet . ''
A taint of insanity have affect her whole life , but so quiet , sad and gentle , so utterly free from violence , that she be suffer to pursue her harmless fantasy unmolested by the world with whose business or pleasures she have naught to do .
She dwell alone , and never come into the daylight except to follow funeral .
Whenever a corpse be bear along the street , in sunshine , rain or snow , whether a pompous train of the rich and proud thronged after it or few and humble be the mourner , behind them come the lonely woman in a long white garment which the people call her shroud .
She take no place among the kindred or the friend , but stand at the door to hear the funeral prayer , and walk in the rear of the procession a one whose earthly charge it be to haunt the house of mourning and be the shadow of affliction and see that the dead be duly bury .
So long have this be her custom that the inhabitant of the town deem her a part of every funeral , as much a the coffin-pall or the very corpse itself , and augur ill of the sinner 's destiny unless the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet come glide like a ghost behind .
Once , it be say , she affright a bridal-party with her pale presence , appear suddenly in the illuminated hall just a the priest be unite a false maid to a wealthy man before her lover have be dead a year .
Evil be the omen to that marriage .
Sometimes she stole forth by moonlight and visit the graf of venerable integrity and wed love and virgin innocence , and every spot where the ash of a kind and faithful heart be moulder .
Over the hillock of those favor dead would she stretch out her arm with a gesture a if she be scatter seed , and many believe that she bring them from the garden of Paradise , for the graf which she have visit be green beneath the snow and cover with sweet flower from April to November .
Her blessing be good than a holy verse upon the tombstone .
Thus wore away her long , sad , peaceful and fantastic life till few be so old a she , and the people of late generation wonder how the dead have ever be bury or mourner have endure their grief without the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
Still year go on , and still she follow funeral and be not yet summon to her own festival of death .
One afternoon the great street of the town be all alive with business and bustle , though the sun now gild only the upper half of the church-spire , have leave the housetop and lofty tree in shadow .
The scene be cheerful and animate in spite of the sombre shade between the high brick building .
Here be pompous merchant in white wig and lace velvet , the bronzed face of sea-captains , the foreign garb and air of Spanish Creoles , and the disdainful port of native of Old England , all contrast with the rough aspect of one or two back-settlers negotiate sale of timber from forest where axe have never sound .
Sometimes a lady pass , swell roundly forth in an embroidered petticoat , balance her step in high-heeled shoe and courtesying with lofty grace to the punctilious obeisance of the gentleman .
The life of the town seem to have it very centre not far from an old mansion that stand somewhat back from the pavement , surround by neglected grass , with a strange air of loneliness rather deepen than dispel by the throng so near it .
Its site would have be suitably occupy by a magnificent Exchange or a brick block letter all over with various sign , or the large house itself might have make a noble tavern with the `` King 's Arms '' swing before it and guest in every chamber , instead of the present solitude .
But , owe to some dispute about the right of inheritance , the mansion have be long without a tenant , decay from year to year and throw the stately gloom of it shadow over the busy part of the town .
Such be the scene , and such the time , when a figure unlike any that have be describe be observe at a distance down the street .
`` I espy a strange sail yonder , '' remark a Liverpool captain -- `` that woman in the long white garment . ''
The sailor seem much strike by the object , a be several others who at the same moment catch a glimpse of the figure that have attract his notice .
Almost immediately the various topic of conversation give place to speculation in an undertone on this unwonted occurrence .
`` Can there be a funeral so late this afternoon ? ''
inquire some .
They look for the sign of death at every door -- the sexton , the hearse , the assemblage of black-clad relative , all that make up the woeful pomp of funeral .
They raise their eye , also , to the sun-gilt spire of the church , and wonder that no clang proceed from it bell , which have always toll till now when this figure appear in the light of day .
But none have hear that a corpse be to be borne to it home that afternoon , nor be there any token of a funeral except the apparition of the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
`` What may this portend ? ''
ask each man of his neighbor .
All smile a they put the question , yet with a certain trouble in their eye , a if pestilence , or some other wide calamity , be prognosticate by the untimely intrusion among the living of one whose presence have always be associate with death and woe .
What a comet be to the earth be that sad woman to the town .
Still she move on , while the hum of surprise be hush at her approach , and the proud and the humble stood aside that her white garment might not wave against them .
It be a long , loose robe of spotless purity .
Its wearer appear very old , pale , emaciated and feeble , yet glide onward without the unsteady pace of extreme age .
At one point of her course a little rosy boy burst forth from a door and ran with open arm toward the ghostly woman , seem to expect a kiss from her bloodless lip .
She make a slight pause , fix her eye upon him with an expression of no earthly sweetness , so that the child shiver and stand awestruck rather than affright while the Old Maid pass on .
Perhaps her garment might have be pollute even by an infant 's touch ; perhaps her kiss would have be death to the sweet boy within the year .
`` She be but a shadow , '' whisper the superstitious .
`` The child put forth his arm and could not grasp her robe . ''
The wonder be increase when the Old Maid pass beneath the porch of the deserted mansion , ascend the moss-covered step , lift the iron knocker and give three rap .
The people could only conjecture that some old remembrance , trouble her bewildered brain , have impel the poor woman hither to visit the friend of her youth -- all go from their home long since and for ever unless their ghost still haunt it , fit company for the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
An elderly man approach the step , and , reverently uncover his gray lock , essay to explain the matter .
`` None , madam , '' say he , `` have dwell in this house these fifteen year agone -- no , not since the death of old Colonel Fenwicke , whose funeral you may remember to have follow .
His heir , be ill-agreed among themselves , have let the mansion-house go to ruin . ''
The Old Maid look slowly round with a slight gesture of one hand and a finger of the other upon her lip , appear more shadow-like than ever in the obscurity of the porch .
But again she lift the hammer , and give , this time , a single rap .
Could it be that a footstep be now heard come down the staircase of the old mansion which all conceive to have be so long untenanted ?
Slowly , feebly , yet heavily , like the pace of an age and infirm person , the step approach , more distinct on every downward stair , till it reach the portal .
The bar fell on the inside ; the door be open .
One upward glance toward the church-spire , whence the sunshine have just fade , be the last that the people saw of the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
`` Who undo the door ? ''
ask many .
This question , owe to the depth of shadow beneath the porch , no one could satisfactorily answer .
Two or three age men , while protest against an inference which might be draw , affirm that the person within be a negro and bore a singular resemblance to old Csar , formerly a slave in the house , but free by death some thirty year before .
`` Her summons have wake up a servant of the old family , '' say one , half seriously .
`` Let u wait here , '' reply another ; `` more guest will knock at the door anon .
But the gate of the graveyard should be throw open . ''
Twilight have overspread the town before the crowd begin to separate or the comment on this incident be exhaust .
One after another be wend his way homeward , when a coach -- no common spectacle in those day -- drive slowly into the street .
It be an old-fashioned equipage , hang close to the ground , with arm on the panel , a footman behind and a grave , corpulent coachman seat high in front , the whole give an idea of solemn state and dignity .
There be something awful in the heavy rumbling of the wheel .
The coach roll down the street , till , come to the gateway of the deserted mansion , it draw up , and the footman sprang to the ground .
`` Whose grand coach be this ? ''
ask a very inquisitive body .
The footman make no reply , but ascend the step of the old house , give three tap with the iron hammer , and return to open the coach door .
An old man possess of the heraldic lore so common in that day examine the shield of arm on the panel .
`` Azure , a lion 's head erase , between three flower de luce , '' say he , then whisper the name of the family to whom these bearing belong .
The last inheritor of it honor be recently dead , after a long residence amid the splendor of the British court , where his birth and wealth have give him no mean station .
`` He leave no child , '' continue the herald , `` and these arm , be in a lozenge , betoken that the coach appertain to his widow . ''
Further disclosure , perhaps , might have be make have not the speaker be suddenly strike dumb by the stern eye of an ancient lady who thrust forth her head from the coach , prepare to descend .
As she emerge the people saw that her dress be magnificent , and her figure dignify in spite of age and infirmity -- a stately ruin , but with a look at once of pride and wretchedness .
Her strong and rigid feature have an awe about them unlike that of the white Old Maid , but a of something evil .
She pass up the step , lean on a gold-headed cane .
The door swung open a she ascend , and the light of a torch glitter on the embroidery of her dress and gleam on the pillar of the porch .
After a momentary pause , a glance backward and then a desperate effort , she go in .
The decipherer of the coat-of-arms have venture up the low step , and , shrink back immediately , pale and tremulous , affirm that the torch be hold by the very image of old Csar .
`` But such a hideous grin , '' add he , `` be never see on the face of mortal man , black or white .
It will haunt me till my dying-day . ''
Meantime , the coach have wheel round with a prodigious clatter on the pavement and rumble up the street , disappear in the twilight , while the ear still track it course .
Scarcely be it go when the people begin to question whether the coach and attendant , the ancient lady , the spectre of old Csar and the Old Maid herself be not all a strangely-combined delusion with some dark purport in it mystery .
The whole town be astir , so that , instead of dispersing , the crowd continually increase , and stand gaze up at the window of the mansion , now silver by the brightening moon .
The elder , glad to indulge the narrative propensity of age , tell of the long-faded splendor of the family , the entertainment they have give and the guest , the great of the land , and even title and noble one from abroad , who have pass beneath that portal .
These graphic reminiscence seem to call up the ghost of those to whom they refer .
So strong be the impression on some of the more imaginative hearer that two or three be seize with tremble fit at one and the same moment , protest that they have distinctly hear three other rap of the iron knocker .
`` Impossible ! ''
exclaim others .
`` See !
The moon shine beneath the porch , and show every part of it except in the narrow shade of that pillar .
There be no one there . ''
`` Did not the door open ? ''
whisper one of these fanciful person .
`` Didst thou see it too ? ''
say his companion , in a startled tone .
But the general sentiment be oppose to the idea that a third visitant have make application at the door of the deserted house .
A few , however , adhere to this new marvel , and even declare that a red gleam like that of a torch have shine through the great front window , a if the negro be light a guest up the staircase .
This too be pronounce a mere fantasy .
But at once the whole multitude start , and each man behold his own terror paint in the face of all the rest .
`` What an awful thing be this ! ''
cry they .
A shriek too fearfully distinct for doubt have be hear within the mansion , break forth suddenly and succeed by a deep stillness , a if a heart have burst in give it utterance .
The people know not whether to fly from the very sight of the house or to rush tremble in and search out the strange mystery .
Amid their confusion and affright they be somewhat reassure by the appearance of their clergyman , a venerable patriarch , and equally a saint , who have teach them and their father the way to heaven for more than the space of an ordinary lifetime .
He be a reverend figure with long white hair upon his shoulder , a white beard upon his breast and a back so bent over his staff that he seem to be look downward continually , a if to choose a proper grave for his weary frame .
It be some time before the good old man , be deaf and of impaired intellect , could be make to comprehend such portion of the affair a be comprehensible at all .
But when possess of the fact , his energy assume unexpected vigor .
`` Verily , '' say the old gentleman , `` it will be fit that I enter the mansion-house of the worthy Colonel Fenwicke , l any harm should have befall that true Christian woman whom ye call the ` Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet . ' ''
Behold , then , the venerable clergyman ascend the step of the mansion with a torch-bearer behind him .
It be the elderly man who have speak to the Old Maid , and the same who have afterward explain the shield of arm and recognize the feature of the negro .
Like their predecessor , they give three rap with the iron hammer .
`` Old Csar cometh not , '' observe the priest .
`` Well , I wot he no longer doth service in this mansion . ''
`` Assuredly , then , it be something worse in old Csar 's likeness , '' say the other adventurer .
`` Be it a God will , '' answer the clergyman .
`` See !
my strength , though it be much decay , hath suffice to open this heavy door .
Let u enter and pass up the staircase . ''
Here occur a singular exemplification of the dreamy state of a very old man 's mind .
As they ascend the wide flight of stair the aged clergyman appear to move with caution , occasionally stand aside , and oftener bend his head , a it be in salutation , thus practise all the gesture of one who make his way through a throng .
Reaching the head of the staircase , he look around with sad and solemn benignity , lay aside his staff , bar his hoary lock , and be evidently on the point of commence a prayer .
`` Reverend sir , '' say his attendant , who conceive this a very suitable prelude to their further search , `` would it not be well that the people join with u in prayer ? ''
`` Well-a-day ! ''
cry the old clergyman , star strangely around him .
`` Art thou here with me , and none other ?
Verily , past time be present to me , and I deem that I be to make a funeral prayer , a many a time heretofore , from the head of this staircase .
Of a truth , I saw the shade of many that be go .
Yea , I have pray at their burial , one after another , and the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet hath see them to their graf . ''
Being now more thoroughly awake to their present purpose , he take his staff and struck forcibly on the floor , till there come an echo from each deserted chamber , but no menial to answer their summons .
They therefore walk along the passage , and again paused , opposite to the great front window , through which be see the crowd in the shadow and partial moonlight of the street beneath .
On their right hand be the open door of a chamber , and a closed one on their left .
The clergyman point his cane to the carve oak panel of the latter .
`` Within that chamber , '' observe he , `` a whole lifetime since , do I sit by the death-bed of a goodly young man who , be now at the last gasp -- '' Apparently , there be some powerful excitement in the idea which have now flash across his mind .
He snatch the torch from his companion 's hand , and throw open the door with such sudden violence that the flame be extinguish , leave them no other light than the moonbeam which fell through two window into the spacious chamber .
It be sufficient to discover all that could be know .
In a high-backed oaken arm-chair , upright , with her hand clasped across her breast and her head thrown back , sit the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
The stately dame have fall on her knee with her forehead on the holy knee of the Old Maid , one hand upon the floor and the other press convulsively against her heart .
It clutch a lock of hair -- once sable , now discolor with a greenish mould .
As the priest and layman advance into the chamber the Old Maid 's feature assume such a semblance of shift expression that they trust to hear the whole mystery explain by a single word .
But it be only the shadow of a tattered curtain wave betwixt the dead face and the moonlight .
`` Both dead ! ''
say the venerable man .
`` Then who shall divulge the secret ?
Methinks it glimmer to and fro in my mind like the light and shadow across the Old Maid 's face .
And now 't be go ! ''
PETER GOLDTHWAITE 'S TREASURE .
`` And so , Peter , you wo n't even consider of the business ? ''
say Mr. John Brown , button his surtout over the snug rotundity of his person and draw on his glove .
`` You positively refuse to let me have this crazy old house , and the land under and adjoin , at the price name ? ''
`` Neither at that , nor treble the sum , '' respond the gaunt , grizzle and threadbare Peter Goldthwaite .
`` The fact be , Mr. Brown , you must find another site for your brick block and be content to leave my estate with the present owner .
Next summer I intend to put a splendid new mansion over the cellar of the old house . ''
`` Pho , Peter ! ''
cried Mr. Brown a he open the kitchen door ; `` content yourself with building castle in the air , where house-lots be cheap than on earth , to say nothing of the cost of brick and mortar .
Such foundation be solid enough for your edifice , while this underneath u be just the thing for mine ; and so we may both be suit .
What say you , again ? ''
`` Precisely what I say before , Mr. Brown , '' answer Peter Goldthwaite .
`` And , a for castle in the air , mine may not be as magnificent a that sort of architecture , but perhaps a substantial , Mr. Brown , a the very respectable brick block with dry-goods store , tailor ' shop and banking-rooms on the low floor , and lawyer ' office in the second story , which you be so anxious to substitute . ''
`` And the cost , Peter ?
Eh ? ''
say Mr. Brown a he withdraw in something of a pet .
`` That , I suppose , will be provide for off-hand by draw a check on Bubble Bank ? ''
John Brown and Peter Goldthwaite have be jointly know to the commercial world between twenty and thirty year before under the firm of Goldthwaite & Brown ; which copartnership , however , be speedily dissolve by the natural incongruity of it constituent part .
Since that event , John Brown , with exactly the quality of a thousand other John Browns , and by just such plod method a they use , have prosper wonderfully and become one of the wealthy John Browns on earth .
Peter Goldthwaite , on the contrary , after innumerable scheme which ought to have collect all the coin and paper currency of the country into his coffer , be a needy a gentleman a ever wore a patch upon his elbow .
The contrast between him and his former partner may be briefly mark , for Brown never reckon upon luck , yet always have it , while Peter make luck the main condition of his project , and always miss it .
While the mean hold out his speculation have be magnificent , but be chiefly confine of late year to such small business a adventure in the lottery .
Once he have go on a gold-gathering expedition somewhere to the South , and ingeniously contrive to empty his pocket more thoroughly than ever , while others , doubtless , be fill theirs with native bullion by the handful .
More recently he have expend a legacy of a thousand or two of dollar in purchase Mexican scrip , and thereby become the proprietor of a province ; which , however , so far a Peter could find out , be situate where he might have have an empire for the same money -- in the cloud .
From a search after this valuable real estate Peter return so gaunt and threadbare that on reach New England the scarecrow in the corn-fields beckon to him a he pass by .
`` They do but flutter in the wind , '' quoth Peter Goldthwaite .
No , Peter , they beckon , for the scarecrow know their brother .
At the period of our story his whole visible income would not have pay the tax of the old mansion in which we find him .
It be one of those rusty , moss-grown , many-peaked wooden house which be scatter about the street of our elder town , with a beetle-browed second story projecting over the foundation , a if it frown at the novelty around it .
This old paternal edifice , needy a he be , and though , be centrally situate on the principal street of the town , it would have bring him a handsome sum , the sagacious Peter have his own reason for never part with , either by auction or private sale .
There seem , indeed , to be a fatality that connect him with his birthplace ; for , often a he have stand on the verge of ruin , and stand there even now , he have not yet take the step beyond it which would have compel him to surrender the house to his creditor .
So here he dwell with bad luck till good should come .
Here , then , in his kitchen -- the only room where a spark of fire take off the chill of a November evening -- poor Peter Goldthwaite have just be visit by his rich old partner .
At the close of their interview , Peter , with rather a mortified look , glance downward at his dress , part of which appear as ancient a the day of Goldthwaite & Brown .
His upper garment be a mixed surtout , woefully fade , and patch with new stuff on each elbow ; beneath this he wear a threadbare black coat , some of the silk button of which have be replace with others of a different pattern ; and , lastly , though he lack not a pair of gray pantaloon , they be very shabby one , and have be partially turn brown by the frequent toasting of Peter 's shin before a scanty fire .
Peter 's person be in keep with his goodly apparel .
Gray-headed , hollow-eyed , pale-cheeked and lean-bodied , he be the perfect picture of a man who have feed on windy scheme and empty hope till he could neither live on such unwholesome trash nor stomach more substantial food .
But , withal , this Peter Goldthwaite , crack-brained simpleton a , perhaps , he be , might have cut a very brilliant figure in the world have he employ his imagination in the airy business of poetry instead of make it a demon of mischief in mercantile pursuit .
After all , he be no bad fellow , but as harmless a a child , and a honest and honorable , and as much of the gentleman which Nature mean him for , a an irregular life and depressed circumstance will permit any man to be .
As Peter stand on the uneven brick of his hearth look round at the disconsolate old kitchen his eye begin to kindle with the illumination of an enthusiasm that never long desert him .
He raise his hand , clench it and smite it energetically against the smoky panel over the fireplace .
`` The time be come , '' say he ; `` with such a treasure at command , it be folly to be a poor man any long .
Tomorrow morning I will begin with the garret , nor desist till I have tear the house down . ''
Deep in the chimney-corner , like a witch in a dark cavern , sit a little old woman mend one of the two pair of stocking wherewith Peter Goldthwaite keep his toe from be frost-bitten .
As the foot be rag past all darning , she have cut piece out of a cast-off flannel petticoat to make new sol .
Tabitha Porter be an old maid upward of sixty year of age , fifty-five of which she have sit in that same chimney-corner , such be the length of time since Peter 's grandfather have take her from the almshouse .
She have no friend but Peter , nor Peter any friend but Tabitha ; so long a Peter might have a shelter for his own head , Tabitha would know where to shelter hers , or , be homeless elsewhere , she would take her master by the hand and bring him to her native home , the almshouse .
Should it ever be necessary , she love him well enough to fee him with her last morsel and clothe him with her under-petticoat .
But Tabitha be a queer old woman , and , though never infect with Peter 's flightiness , have become so accustomed to his freak and folly that she view them all a matter of course .
Hearing him threaten to tear the house down , she look quietly up from her work .
`` Best leave the kitchen till the last , Mr. Peter , '' say she .
`` The sooner we have it all down , the good , '' say Peter Goldthwaite .
`` I be tire to death of living in this cold , dark , windy , smoky , creak , groan , dismal old house .
I shall feel like a young man when we get into my splendid brick mansion , a , please Heaven , we shall by this time next autumn .
You shall have a room on the sunny side , old Tabby , finish and furnish a best may suit your own notion . ''
`` I should like it pretty much such a room a this kitchen , '' answer Tabitha .
`` It will never be like home to me till the chimney-corner get a black with smoke a this , and that wo n't be these hundred year .
How much do you mean to lay out on the house , Mr. Peter ? ''
`` What be that to the purpose ? ''
exclaim Peter , loftily .
`` Did not my great-grand-uncle , Peter Goldthwaite , who die seventy year ago , and whose namesake I be , leave treasure enough to build twenty such ? ''
`` I ca n't say but he do , Mr. Peter , '' say Tabitha , thread her needle .
Tabitha well understand that Peter have reference to an immense hoard of the precious metal which be say to exist somewhere in the cellar or wall , or under the floor , or in some concealed closet or other out-of-the-way nook of the old house .
This wealth , accord to tradition , have be accumulate by a former Peter Goldthwaite whose character seem to have bear a remarkable similitude to that of the Peter of our story .
Like him , he be a wild projector , seek to heap up gold by the bushel and the cart-load instead of scrap it together coin by coin .
Like Peter the second , too , his project have almost invariably fail , and , but for the magnificent success of the final one , would have leave him with hardly a coat and pair of breech to his gaunt and grizzle person .
Reports be various a to the nature of his fortunate speculation , one intimating that the ancient Peter have make the gold by alchemy ; another , that he have conjure it out of people 's pocket by the black art ; and a third -- still more unaccountable -- that the devil have give him free access to the old provincial treasury .
It be affirm , however , that some secret impediment have debar him from the enjoyment of his rich , and that he have a motive for conceal them from his heir , or , at any rate , have die without disclose the place of deposit .
The present Peter 's father have faith enough in the story to cause the cellar to be dig over .
Peter himself choose to consider the legend a an indisputable truth , and amid his many trouble have this one consolation -- that , should all other resource fail , he might build up his fortune by tear his house down .
Yet , unless he felt a lurking distrust of the golden tale , it be difficult to account for his permit the paternal roof to stand so long , since he have never yet see the moment when his predecessor 's treasure would not have find plenty of room in his own strong-box .
But now be the crisis .
Should he delay the search a little long , the house would pass from the lineal heir , and with it the vast heap of gold , to remain in it burial-place till the ruin of the aged wall should discover it to stranger of a future generation .
`` Yes , '' cry Peter Goldthwaite , again ; `` to-morrow I will set about it . ''
The deeper he look at the matter , the more certain of success grow Peter .
His spirit be naturally so elastic that even now , in the blasted autumn of his age , he could often compete with the springtime gayety of other people .
Enlivened by his brightening prospect , he begin to caper about the kitchen like a hobgoblin , with the queer antic of his lean limb and gesticulation of his starved feature .
Nay , in the exuberance of his feeling , he seize both of Tabitha 's hand and dance the old lady across the floor till the oddity of her rheumatic motion set him into a roar of laughter , which be echo back from the room and chamber , a if Peter Goldthwaite be laugh in every one .
Finally , he bound upward , almost out of sight , into the smoke that cloud the roof of the kitchen , and , alight safely on the floor again , endeavor to resume his customary gravity .
`` To-morrow , at sunrise , '' he repeat , take his lamp to retire to bed , `` I 'll see whether this treasure be hide in the wall of the garret . ''
`` And , a we 're out of wood , Mr. Peter , '' say Tabitha , puff and pant with her late gymnastics , `` as fast a you tear the house down I 'll make a fire with the piece . ''
Gorgeous that night be the dream of Peter Goldthwaite .
At one time he be turn a ponderous key in an iron door not unlike the door of a sepulchre , but which , be open , disclose a vault heap up with gold coin as plentifully a golden corn in a granary .
There be chase goblet , also , and tureen , salver , dinner-dishes and dish-covers of gold or silver-gilt , besides chain and other jewel , incalculably rich , though tarnish with the damp of the vault ; for , of all the wealth that be irrevocably lose to man , whether bury in the earth or sink in the sea , Peter Goldthwaite have find it in this one treasure-place .
Anon he have return to the old house as poor a ever , and be receive at the door by the gaunt and grizzled figure of a man whom he might have mistake for himself , only that his garment be of a much elder fashion .
But the house , without lose it former aspect , have be change into a palace of the precious metal .
The floor , wall and ceiling be of burnish silver ; the door , the window-frames , the cornice , the balustrade and the step of the staircase , of pure gold ; and silver , with gold bottom , be the chair , and gold , stand on silver leg , the high chest of drawer , and silver the bedstead , with blanket of woven gold and sheet of silver tissue .
The house have evidently be transmute by a single touch , for it retain all the mark that Peter remember , but in gold or silver instead of wood , and the initial of his name -- which when a boy he have cut in the wooden door-post -- remain a deep in the pillar of gold .
A happy man would have be Peter Goldthwaite except for a certain ocular deception which , whenever he glance backward , cause the house to darken from it glitter magnificence into the sordid gloom of yesterday .
Up betimes rise Peter , seize an axe , hammer and saw which he have place by his bedside , and hie him to the garret .
It be but scantily light up a yet by the frosty fragment of a sunbeam which begin to glimmer through the almost opaque bull-eyes of the window .
A moralizer might find abundant theme for his speculative and impracticable wisdom in a garret .
There be the limbo of departed fashion , age trifle of a day and whatever be valuable only to one generation of men , and which pass to the garret when that generation pass to the grave -- not for safekeeping , but to be out of the way .
Peter saw pile of yellow and musty account-books in parchment cover , wherein creditor long dead and bury have write the name of dead and buried debtor in ink now so fade that their moss-grown tombstone be more legible .
He find old moth-eaten garment , all in rag and tatter , or Peter would have put them on .
Here be a naked and rusty sword -- not a sword of service , but a gentleman 's small French rapier -- which have never leave it scabbard till it lose it .
Here be cane of twenty different sort , but no gold-headed one , and shoebuckles of various pattern and material , but not silver nor set with precious stone .
Here be a large box full of shoe with high heel and peak toe .
Here , on a shelf , be a multitude of phial half fill with old apothecary 's stuff which , when the other half have do it business on Peter 's ancestor , have be bring hither from the death-chamber .
Here -- not to give a long inventory of article that will never be put up at auction -- be the fragment of a full-length looking-glass which by the dust and dimness of it surface make the picture of these old thing look old than the reality .
When Peter , not know that there be a mirror there , catch the faint trace of his own figure , he partly imagine that the former Peter Goldthwaite have come back either to assist or impede his search for the hidden wealth .
And at that moment a strange notion glimmer through his brain that he be the identical Peter who have conceal the gold , and ought to know whereabout it lay .
This , however , he have unaccountably forget .
`` Well , Mr. Peter ! ''
cry Tabitha , on the garret stair .
`` Have you tear the house down enough to heat the teakettle ? ''
`` Not yet , old Tabby , '' answer Peter , `` but that 's soon do , a you shall see . ''
With the word in his mouth , he uplift the axe , and lay about him so vigorously that the dust fly , the board crash , and in a twinkle the old woman have an apron full of broken rubbish .
`` We shall get our winter 's wood cheap , '' quoth Tabitha .
The good work be thus commence , Peter beat down all before him , smite and hew at the joint and timber , unclenching spike-nails , rip and tear away board , with a tremendous racket from morning till night .
He take care , however , to leave the outside shell of the house untouched , so that the neighbor might not suspect what be go on .
Never , in any of his vagary , though each have make him happy while it last , have Peter be happy than now .
Perhaps , after all , there be something in Peter Goldthwaite 's turn of mind which bring him an inward recompense for all the external evil that it cause .
If he be poor , ill-clad , even hungry and exposed , a it be , to be utterly annihilate by a precipice of impend ruin , yet only his body remain in these miserable circumstance , while his aspire soul enjoy the sunshine of a bright futurity .
It be his nature to be always young , and the tendency of his mode of life to keep him so .
Gray hair be nothing -- no , nor wrinkle nor infirmity ; he might look old , indeed , and be somewhat disagreeably connect with a gaunt old figure much the worse for wear , but the true , the essential Peter be a young man of high hope just enter on the world .
At the kindling of each new fire his burnt-out youth rise afresh from the old ember and ash .
It rise exult now .
Having live thus long -- not too long , but just to the right age -- a susceptible bachelor with warm and tender dream , he resolve , so soon a the hidden gold should flash to light , to go a-wooing and win the love of the fair maid in town .
What heart could resist him ?
Happy Peter Goldthwaite !
Every evening -- a Peter have long absent himself from his former lounging-places at insurance office , news-rooms , and book-stores , and a the honor of his company be seldom request in private circle -- he and Tabitha use to sit down sociably by the kitchen hearth .
This be always heap plentifully with the rubbish of his day 's labor .
As the foundation of the fire there would be a goodly-sized back-log of red oak , which after be shelter from rain or damp above a century still hiss with the heat and distilled stream of water from each end , a if the tree have be cut down within a week or two .
Next there be large stick , sound , black and heavy , which have lose the principle of decay and be indestructible except by fire , wherein they glow like red-hot bar of iron .
On this solid basis Tabitha would rear a lighter structure , compose of the splinter of door-panels , ornament moulding , and such quick combustible , which catch like straw and throw a brilliant blaze high up the spacious flue , make it sooty side visible almost to the chimney-top .
Meantime , the gloom of the old kitchen would be chase out of the cobwebbed corner and away from the dusky cross-beams overhead , and drive nobody could tell whither , while Peter smile like a gladsome man and Tabitha seem a picture of comfortable age .
All this , of course , be but an emblem of the bright fortune which the destruction of the house would shed upon it occupant .
While the dry pine be flame and crackle like an irregular discharge of fairy-musketry , Peter sit look and listen in a pleasant state of excitement ; but when the brief blaze and uproar be succeed by the dark-red glow , the substantial heat and the deep singing sound which be to last throughout the evening , his humor become talkative .
One night -- the hundredth time -- he tease Tabitha to tell him something new about his great-granduncle .
`` You have be sit in that chimney-corner fifty-five year , old Tabby , and must have hear many a tradition about him , '' say Peter .
`` Did not you tell me that when you first come to the house there be an old woman sit where you sit now who have be housekeeper to the famous Peter Goldthwaite ? ''
`` So there be , Mr. Peter , '' answer Tabitha , `` and she be near about a hundred year old .
She use to say that she and old Peter Goldthwaite have often spend a sociable evening by the kitchen fire -- pretty much a you and I be do now , Mr. Peter . ''
`` The old fellow must have resemble me in more point than one , '' say Peter , complacently , `` or he never would have grow so rich .
But methinks he might have invest the money well than he do .
No interest !
nothing but good security !
and the house to be tear down to come at it !
What make him hide it so snug , Tabby ? ''
`` Because he could not spend it , '' say Tabitha , `` for as often a he go to unlock the chest the Old Scratch come behind and catch his arm .
The money , they say , be pay Peter out of his purse , and he want Peter to give him a deed of this house and land , which Peter swore he would not do . ''
`` Just a I swear to John Brown , my old partner , '' remark Peter .
`` But this be all nonsense , Tabby ; I do n't believe the story . ''
`` Well , it may not be just the truth , '' say Tabitha , `` for some folk say that Peter do make over the house to the Old Scratch , and that 's the reason it have always be so unlucky to them that live in it .
And as soon a Peter have give him the deed the chest flew open , and Peter catch up a handful of the gold .
But , lo and behold !
there be nothing in his fist but a parcel of old rag . ''
`` Hold your tongue , you silly old Tabby ! ''
cry Peter , in great wrath .
`` They be as good golden guinea a ever bore the effigy of the king of England .
It seem a if I could recollect the whole circumstance , and how I , or old Peter , or whoever it be , thrust in my hand , or his hand , and draw it out all of a blaze with gold .
Old rag indeed ! ''
But it be not an old woman 's legend that would discourage Peter Goldthwaite .
All night long he sleep among pleasant dream , and awake at daylight with a joyous throb of the heart which few be fortunate enough to feel beyond their boyhood .
Day after day he labor hard without waste a moment except at meal-times , when Tabitha summon him to the pork and cabbage , or such other sustenance a she have pick up or Providence have send them .
Being a truly pious man , Peter never fail to ask a blessing -- if the food be none of the best , then so much the more earnestly , a it be more needed -- nor to return thanks , if the dinner have be scanty , yet for the good appetite which be good than a sick stomach at a feast .
Then do he hurry back to his toil , and in a moment be lose to sight in a cloud of dust from the old wall , though sufficiently perceptible to the ear by the clatter which he raise in the midst of it .
How enviable be the consciousness of be usefully employ !
Nothing troubled Peter , or nothing but those phantom of the mind which seem like vague recollection , yet have also the aspect of presentiment .
He often pause with his axe uplift in the air , and say to himself , `` Peter Goldthwaite , do you never strike this blow before ? ''
or `` Peter , what need of tear the whole house down ?
Think a little while , and you will remember where the gold be hide . ''
Days and week pass on , however , without any remarkable discovery .
Sometimes , indeed , a lean gray rat peep forth at the lean gray man , wonder what devil have get into the old house , which have always be so peaceable till now .
And occasionally Peter sympathize with the sorrow of a female mouse who have bring five or six pretty , little , soft and delicate young one into the world just in time to see them crush by it ruin .
But a yet no treasure .
By this time , Peter , be as determine a fate and as diligent a time , have make an end with the uppermost region and get down to the second story , where he be busy in one of the front chamber .
It have formerly be the state-bedchamber , and be honor by tradition a the sleeping-apartment of Governor Dudley and many other eminent guest .
The furniture be go .
There be remnant of faded and tattered paper-hangings , but large space of bare wall ornament with charcoal sketch , chiefly of people 's head in profile .
These be specimen of Peter 's youthful genius , it go more to his heart to obliterate them than if they have be picture on a church wall by Michael Angelo .
One sketch , however , and that the best one , affect him differently .
It represent a ragged man partly support himself on a spade and bend his lean body over a hole in the earth , with one hand extend to grasp something that he have find .
But close behind him , with a fiendish laugh on his feature , appear a figure with horn , a tufted tail and a cloven hoof .
`` Avaunt , Satan ! ''
cry Peter .
`` The man shall have his gold . ''
Uplifting his axe , he hit the horned gentleman such a blow on the head a not only demolish him , but the treasure-seeker also , and cause the whole scene to vanish like magic .
Moreover , his axe break quite through the plaster and lath and discover a cavity .
`` Mercy on u , Mr. Peter !
Are you quarrel with the Old Scratch ? ''
say Tabitha , who be seek some fuel to put under the dinner-pot .
Without answer the old woman , Peter break down a further space of the wall , and lay open a small closet or cupboard on one side of the fireplace , about breast-high from the ground .
It contain nothing but a brass lamp cover with verdigris , and a dusty piece of parchment .
While Peter inspect the latter , Tabitha seize the lamp and begin to rub it with her apron .
`` There be no use in rub it , Tabitha , '' say Peter .
`` It be not Aladdin 's lamp , though I take it to be a token of as much luck .
Look here , Tabby ! ''
Tabitha take the parchment and hold it close to her nose , which be saddle with a pair of iron-bound spectacle .
But no sooner have she begin to puzzle over it than she burst into a chuckling laugh , hold both her hand against her side .
`` You ca n't make a fool of the old woman , '' cry she .
`` This be your own handwriting , Mr. Peter , the same a in the letter you send me from Mexico . ''
`` There be certainly a considerable resemblance , '' say Peter , again examine the parchment .
`` But you know yourself , Tabby , that this closet must have be plaster up before you come to the house or I come into the world .
No ; this be old Peter Goldthwaite 's writing .
These column of pound , shilling and penny be his figure , denote the amount of the treasure , and this , at the bottom , be doubtless a reference to the place of concealment .
But the ink have either fade or peel off , so that it be absolutely illegible .
What a pity ! ''
`` Well , this lamp be as good a new .
That 's some comfort , '' say Tabitha .
`` A lamp ! ''
think Peter .
`` That indicate light on my research . ''
For the present Peter felt more inclined to ponder on this discovery than to resume his labor .
After Tabitha have go down stairs he stand pore over the parchment at one of the front window , which be so obscured with dust that the sun could barely throw an uncertain shadow of the casement across the floor .
Peter force it open and look out upon the great street of the town , while the sun look in at his old house .
The air , though mild , and even warm , thrilled Peter a with a dash of water .
It be the first day of the January thaw .
The snow lay deep upon the housetop , but be rapidly dissolve into million of water-drops , which sparkle downward through the sunshine with the noise of a summer shower beneath the eaves .
Along the street the trodden snow be a hard and solid a a pavement of white marble , and have not yet grow moist in the spring-like temperature .
But when Peter thrust forth his head , he saw that the inhabitant , if not the town , be already thaw out by this warm day , after two or three week of winter weather .
It gladden him -- a gladness with a sigh breathing through it -- to see the stream of lady glide along the slippery sidewalk with their red cheek set off by quilted hood , boa and sable cape like rose amidst a new kind of foliage .
The sleigh bell jingle to and fro continually , sometimes announce the arrival of a sleigh from Vermont laden with the frozen body of porker or sheep , and perhaps a deer or two ; sometimes , of a regular marketman with chicken , geese and turkey , comprise the whole colony of a barn-yard ; and sometimes , of a farmer and his dame who have come to town partly for the ride , partly to go a-shopping and partly for the sale of some egg and butter .
This couple rode in an old-fashioned square sleigh which have serve them twenty winter and stand twenty summer in the sun beside their door .
Now a gentleman and lady skim the snow in an elegant car shape somewhat like a cockle-shell ; now a stage-sleigh with it cloth curtain thrust aside to admit the sun dash rapidly down the street , whirl in and out among the vehicle that obstruct it passage ; now come round a corner the similitude of Noah 's ark on runner , be an immense open sleigh with seat for fifty people and draw by a dozen horse .
This spacious receptacle be populous with merry maid and merry bachelor , merry girl and boy and merry old folk , all alive with fun and grinning to the full width of their mouth .
They keep up a buzz of babble voice and low laughter , and sometimes burst into a deep , joyous shout which the spectator answer with three cheer , while a gang of roguish boy let drive their snow-balls right among the pleasure-party .
The sleigh pass on , and when conceal by a bend of the street be still audible by a distant cry of merriment .
Never have Peter behold a lively scene than be constitute by all these accessory -- the bright sun , the flash water-drops , the gleaming snow , the cheerful multitude , the variety of rapid vehicle and the jingle-jangle of merry bell which make the heart dance to their music .
Nothing dismal be to be see except that peak piece of antiquity Peter Goldthwaite 's house , which might well look sad externally , since such a terrible consumption be prey on it inside .
And Peter 's gaunt figure , half visible in the projecting second story , be worthy of his house .
`` Peter !
How go it , friend Peter ? ''
cry a voice across the street a Peter be draw in his head .
`` Look out here , Peter ! ''
Peter look , and saw his old partner , Mr. John Brown , on the opposite sidewalk , portly and comfortable , with his furred cloak thrown open , disclose a handsome surtout beneath .
His voice have direct the attention of the whole town to Peter Goldthwaite 's window , and to the dusty scarecrow which appear at it .
`` I say , Peter ! ''
cried Mr. Brown , again ; `` what the devil be you about there , that I hear such a racket whenever I pass by ?
You be repair the old house , I suppose , make a new one of it ?
Eh ? ''
`` Too late for that , I be afraid , Mr. Brown , '' reply Peter .
`` If I make it new , it will be new inside and out , from the cellar upward . ''
`` Had not you better let me take the job ? ''
say Mr. Brown , significantly .
`` Not yet , '' answer Peter , hastily shut the window ; for ever since he have be in search of the treasure he hat to have people stare at him .
As he draw back , ashamed of his outward poverty , yet proud of the secret wealth within his grasp , a haughty smile shone out on Peter 's visage with precisely the effect of the dim sunbeam in the squalid chamber .
He endeavor to assume such a mien a his ancestor have probably wear when he glory in the building of a strong house for a home to many generation of his posterity .
But the chamber be very dark to his snow-dazzled eye , and very dismal , too , in contrast with the live scene that he have just look upon .
His brief glimpse into the street have give him a forcible impression of the manner in which the world keep itself cheerful and prosperous by social pleasure and an intercourse of business , while he in seclusion be pursue an object that might possibly be a phantasm by a method which most people would call madness .
It be one great advantage of a gregarious mode of life that each person rectify his mind by other mind and square his conduct to that of his neighbor , so a seldom to be lose in eccentricity .
Peter Goldthwaite have expose himself to this influence by merely look out of the window .
For a while he doubt whether there be any hidden chest of gold , and in that case whether it be so exceedingly wise to tear the house down only to be convince of it non-existence .
But this be momentary .
Peter the Destroyer resume the task which Fate have assign him , nor falter again till it be accomplish .
In the course of his search he meet with many thing that be usually find in the ruin of an old house , and also with some that be not .
What seem most to the purpose be a rusty key which have be thrust into a chink of the wall , with a wooden label append to the handle , bear the initial `` P.G. '' Another singular discovery be that of a bottle of wine wall up in an old oven .
A tradition ran in the family that Peter 's grandfather , a jovial officer in the old French war , have set aside many dozen of the precious liquor for the benefit of toper then unborn .
Peter need no cordial to sustain his hope , and therefore keep the wine to gladden his success .
Many half-pence do he pick up that have be lose through the crack of the floor , and some few Spanish coin , and the half of a broken sixpence which have doubtless be a love-token .
There be likewise a silver coronation medal of George III .
But old Peter Goldthwaite 's strong-box flee from one dark corner to another , or otherwise elude the second Peter 's clutch till , should he seek much far , he must burrow into the earth .
We will not follow him in his triumphant progress step by step .
Suffice it that Peter work like a steam-engine and finish in that one winter the job which all the former inhabitant of the house , with time and the element to aid them , have only half do in a century .
Except the kitchen , every room and chamber be now gutted .
The house be nothing but a shell , the apparition of a house , as unreal a the painted edifice of a theatre .
It be like the perfect rind of a great cheese in which a mouse have dwell and nibble till it be a cheese no more .
And Peter be the mouse .
What Peter have tear down , Tabitha have burn up , for she wisely consider that without a house they should need no wood to warm it , and therefore economy be nonsense .
Thus the whole house might be say to have dissolve in smoke and fly up among the cloud through the great black flue of the kitchen chimney .
It be an admirable parallel to the feat of the man who jump down his own throat .
On the night between the last day of winter and the first of spring every chink and cranny have be ransack except within the precinct of the kitchen .
This fat evening be an ugly one .
A snow-storm have set in some hour before , and be still drive and toss about the atmosphere by a real hurricane which fought against the house a if the prince of the air in person be put the final stroke to Peter 's labor .
The framework be so much weaken and the inward prop remove , it would have be no marvel if in some strong wrestle of the blast the rotten wall of the edifice and all the peaked roof have come crash down upon the owner 's head .
He , however , be careless of the peril , but a wild and restless a the night itself , or a the flame that quiver up the chimney at each roar of the tempestuous wind .
`` The wine , Tabitha , '' he cry -- `` my grandfather 's rich old wine !
We will drink it now . ''
Tabitha arose from her smoke-blackened bench in the chimney-corner and place the bottle before Peter , close beside the old brass lamp which have likewise be the prize of his research .
Peter hold it before his eye , and , look through the liquid medium , behold the kitchen illuminate with a golden glory which also envelop Tabitha and gild her silver hair and convert her mean garment into robe of queenly splendor .
It remind him of his golden dream .
`` Mr. Peter , '' remark Tabitha , `` must the wine be drink before the money be find ? ''
`` The money be find ! ''
exclaim Peter , with a sort of fierceness .
`` The chest be within my reach ; I will not sleep till I have turn this key in the rusty lock .
But first of all let u drink . ''
There be no corkscrew in the house , he smite the neck of the bottle with old Peter Goldthwaite 's rusty key , and decapitate the sealed cork at a single blow .
He then fill two little china teacup which Tabitha have bring from the cupboard .
So clear and brilliant be this aged wine that it shine within the cup and render the sprig of scarlet flower at the bottom of each more distinctly visible than when there have be no wine there .
Its rich and delicate perfume waste itself round the kitchen .
`` Drink , Tabitha ! ''
cry Peter .
`` Blessings on the honest old fellow who set aside this good liquor for you and me !
And here 's to Peter Goldthwaite 's memory ! ''
`` And good cause have we to remember him , '' quoth Tabitha a she drink .
How many year , and through what change of fortune and various calamity , have that bottle hoard up it effervescent joy , to be quaff at last by two such boon-companions !
A portion of the happiness of a former age have be keep for them , and be now set free in a crowd of rejoice vision to sport amid the storm and desolation of the present time .
Until they have finish the bottle we must turn our eye elsewhere .
It so chance that on this stormy night Mr. John Brown find himself ill at ease in his wire-cushioned arm-chair by the glow grate of anthracite which heat his handsome parlor .
He be naturally a good sort of a man , and kind and pitiful whenever the misfortune of others happen to reach his heart through the padded vest of his own prosperity .
This evening he have think much about his old partner , Peter Goldthwaite , his strange vagary and continual ill-luck , the poverty of his dwelling at Mr. Brown 's last visit , and Peter 's craze and haggard aspect when he have talk with him at the window .
`` Poor fellow ! ''
thought Mr. John Brown .
`` Poor crack-brained Peter Goldthwaite !
For old acquaintance ' sake I ought to have take care that he be comfortable this rough winter . ''
These feeling grow so powerful that , in spite of the inclement weather , he resolve to visit Peter Goldthwaite immediately .
The strength of the impulse be really singular .
Every shriek of the blast seem a summons , or would have seem so have Mr. Brown be accustom to hear the echo of his own fancy in the wind .
Much amaze at such active benevolence , he huddle himself in his cloak , muffle his throat and ear in comforter and handkerchief , and , thus fortify , bid defiance to the tempest .
But the power of the air have rather the best of the battle .
Mr. Brown be just weather the corner by Peter Goldthwaite 's house when the hurricane catch him off his foot , toss him face downward into a snow-bank and proceed to bury his protuberant part beneath fresh drift .
There seem little hope of his reappearance earlier than the next thaw .
At the same moment his hat be snatch away and whirl aloft into some far-distant region whence no tidings have a yet return .
Nevertheless Mr. Brown contrive to burrow a passage through the snow-drift , and with his bare head bent against the storm flounder onward to Peter 's door .
There be such a creaking and groaning and rattling , and such an ominous shaking , throughout the crazy edifice that the loud rap would have be inaudible to those within .
He therefore enter without ceremony , and grope his way to the kitchen .
His intrusion even there be unnoticed .
Peter and Tabitha stand with their back to the door , stoop over a large chest which apparently they have just drag from a cavity or conceal closet on the left side of the chimney .
By the lamp in the old woman 's hand Mr. Brown saw that the chest be bar and clamp with iron , strengthen with iron plate and stud with iron nail , so a to be a fit receptacle in which the wealth of one century might be hoard up for the want of another .
Peter Goldthwaite be insert a key into the lock .
`` Oh , Tabitha , '' cry he , with tremulous rapture , `` how shall I endure the effulgence ?
The gold !
-- the bright , bright gold !
Methinks I can remember my last glance at it just a the iron-plated lid fell down .
And ever since , be seventy year , it have be blaze in secret and gather it splendor against this glorious moment .
It will flash upon u like the noonday sun . ''
`` Then shade your eye , Mr. Peter ! ''
say Tabitha , with somewhat less patience than usual .
`` But , for mercy 's sake , do turn the key ! ''
And with a strong effort of both hand Peter do force the rusty key through the intricacy of the rusty lock .
Mr. Brown , in the mean time , have draw near and thrust his eager visage between those of the other two at the instant that Peter throw up the lid .
No sudden blaze illuminate the kitchen .
`` What 's here ? ''
exclaim Tabitha , adjust her spectacle and hold the lamp over the open chest .
`` Old Peter Goldthwaite 's hoard of old rag ! ''
`` Pretty much so , Tabby , '' say Mr. Brown , lift a handful of the treasure .
Oh what a ghost of dead and buried wealth have Peter Goldthwaite raise to scare himself out of his scanty wit withal !
Here be the semblance of an incalculable sum , enough to purchase the whole town and build every street anew , but which , vast a it be , no sane man would have give a solid sixpence for .
What , then , in sober earnest , be the delusive treasure of the chest ?
Why , here be old provincial bill of credit and treasury note and bill of land-banks , and all other bubble of the sort , from the first issue -- above a century and a half ago -- down nearly to the Revolution .
Bills of a thousand pound be intermix with parchment penny , and worth no more than they .
`` And this , then , be old Peter Goldthwaite 's treasure ! ''
say John Brown .
`` Your namesake , Peter , be something like yourself ; and when the provincial currency have depreciate fifty or seventy-five per cent , he buy it up in expectation of a rise .
I have hear my grandfather say that old Peter give his father a mortgage of this very house and land to raise cash for his silly project .
But the currency keep sink till nobody would take it a a gift , and there be old Peter Goldthwaite , like Peter the second , with thousand in his strong-box and hardly a coat to his back .
He go mad upon the strength of it .
But never mind , Peter ; it be just the sort of capital for building castle in the air . ''
`` The house will be down about our ear , '' cry Tabitha a the wind shake it with increase violence .
`` Let it fall , '' say Peter , fold his arm , a he seat himself upon the chest .
`` No , no , my old friend Peter ! ''
say John Brown .
`` I have house-room for you and Tabby , and a safe vault for the chest of treasure .
To-morrow we will try to come to an agreement about the sale of this old house ; real estate be well up , and I could afford you a pretty handsome price . ''
`` And I , '' observe Peter Goldthwaite , with revive spirit , `` have a plan for lay out the cash to great advantage . ''
`` Why , a to that , '' mutter John Brown to himself , `` we must apply to the next court for a guardian to take care of the solid cash ; and if Peter insist upon speculate , he may do it to his heart 's content with old Peter Goldthwaite 's treasure . ''
CHIPPINGS WITH A CHISEL .
Passing a summer several year since at Edgartown , on the island of Martha 's Vineyard , I become acquaint with a certain carver of tombstone who have travel and voyage thither from the interior of Massachusetts in search of professional employment .
The speculation have turn out so successful that my friend expect to transmute slate and marble into silver and gold to the amount of at least a thousand dollar during the few month of his sojourn at Nantucket and the Vineyard .
The secluded life and the simple and primitive spirit which still characterize the inhabitant of those island , especially of Martha 's Vineyard , insure their dead friends a longer and dear remembrance than the daily novelty and revolve bustle of the world can elsewhere afford to being of the past .
Yet , while every family be anxious to erect a memorial to it departed member , the untainted breath of Ocean bestows such health and length of day upon the people of the isle a would cause a melancholy dearth of business to a resident artist in that line .
His own monument , record his decease by starvation , would probably be an early specimen of his skill .
Gravestones , therefore , have generally be an article of imported merchandise .
In my walk through the burial-ground of Edgartown -- where the dead have lie so long that the soil , once enrich by their decay , have return to it original barrenness -- in that ancient burial-ground I notice much variety of monumental sculpture .
The elder stone , date a century back or more , have border elaborately carve with flower and be adorn with a multiplicity of death 's - head , crossbones , scythe , hour-glasses , and other lugubrious emblem of mortality , with here and there a winged cherub to direct the mourner 's spirit upward .
These production of Gothic taste must have be quite beyond the colonial skill of the day , and be probably carve in London and bring across the ocean to commemorate the defunct worthy of this lonely isle .
The more recent monument be mere slab of slate in the ordinary style , without any superfluous flourish to set off the bald inscription .
But others -- and those far the most impressive both to my taste and feeling -- be roughly hew from the gray rock of the island , evidently by the unskilled hand of survive friend and relative .
On some there be merely the initial of a name ; some be inscribe with misspelt prose or rhyme , in deep letter which the moss and wintry rain of many year have not be able to obliterate .
These , these be graf where love one sleep .
It be an old theme of satire , the falsehood and vanity of monumental eulogy ; but when affection and sorrow grave the letter with their own painful labor , then we may be sure that they copy from the record on their heart .
My acquaintance the sculptor -- he may share that title with Greenough , since the dauber of sign be a painter as well a Raphael -- have find a ready market for all his blank slab of marble and full occupation in letter and ornament them .
He be an elderly man , a descendant of the old Puritan family of Wigglesworth , with a certain simplicity and singleness both of heart and mind which , methinks , be more rarely find among u Yankees than in any other community of people .
In spite of his gray head and wrinkle brow , he be quite like a child in all matter save what have some reference to his own business ; he seem , unless my fancy mislead me , to view mankind in no other relation than a people in want of tombstone , and his literary attainment evidently comprehend very little either of prose of poetry which have not at one time or other be inscribe on slate or marble .
His sole task and office among the immortal pilgrim of the tomb -- the duty for which Providence have send the old man into the world , a it be with a chisel in his hand -- be to label the dead body , l their name should be forget at the resurrection .
Yet he have not fail , within a narrow scope , to gather a few sprig of earthly , and more than earthly , wisdom -- the harvest of many a grave .
And , lugubrious a his call might appear , he be as cheerful an old soul a health and integrity and lack of care could make him , and use to set to work upon one sorrowful inscription or another with that sort of spirit which impel a man to sing at his labor .
On the whole , I find Mr. Wigglesworth an entertaining , and often instructive , if not an interesting , character ; and , partly for the charm of his society , and still more because his work have an invariable attraction for `` man that be bear of woman , '' I be accustom to spend some hour a day at his workshop .
The quaintness of his remark and their not infrequent truth -- a truth condense and point by the limited sphere of his view -- give a raciness to his talk which mere worldliness and general cultivation would at once have destroy .
Sometimes we would discuss the respective merit of the various quality of marble , numerous slab of which be rest against the wall of the shop , or sometimes an hour or two would pass quietly without a word on either side while I watch how neatly his chisel strike out letter after letter of the name of the Nortons , the Mayhews , the Luces , the Daggets , and other immemorial family of the Vineyard .
Often with an artist 's pride the good old sculptor would speak of favorite production of his skill which be scatter throughout the village graveyard of New England .
But my chief and most instructive amusement be to witness his interview with his customer , who hold interminable consultation about the form and fashion of the desired monument , the buried excellence to be commemorate , the anguish to be express , and finally the low price in dollar and cent for which a marble transcript of their feeling might be obtain .
Really , my mind receive many fresh idea which perhaps may remain in it even longer than Mr. Wigglesworth 's hard marble will retain the deep stroke of his chisel .
An elderly lady come to bespeak a monument for her first love , who have be kill by a whale in the Pacific Ocean no less than forty year before .
It be singular that so strong an impression of early feeling should have survive through the change of her subsequent life , in the course of which she have be a wife and a mother , and , so far a I could judge , a comfortable and happy woman .
Reflecting within myself , it appear to me that this lifelong sorrow -- a , in all good faith , she deem it -- be one of the most fortunate circumstance of her history .
It have give an ideality to her mind ; it have keep her purer and less earthy than she would otherwise have be by draw a portion of her sympathy apart from earth .
Amid the throng of enjoyment and the pressure of worldly care and all the warm materialism of this life she have commune with a vision , and have be the good for such intercourse .
Faithful to the husband of her maturity , and love him with a far more real affection than she ever could have felt for this dream of her girlhood , there have still be an imaginative faith to the ocean-buried ; so that an ordinary character have thus be elevate and refine .
Her sigh have be the breath of Heaven to her soul .
The good lady earnestly desire that the propose monument should be ornament with a carved border of marine plant interwined with twisted sea-shells , such a be probably wave over her lover 's skeleton or strewn around it in the far depth of the Pacific .
But , Mr. Wigglesworth 's chisel be inadequate to the task , she be force to content herself with a rise hang it head from a broken stem .
After her departure I remark that the symbol be none of the most apt .
`` And yet , '' say my friend the sculptor , embody in this image the thought that have be pass through my own mind , `` that broken rise have shed it sweet smell through forty year of the good woman 's life . ''
It be seldom that I could find such pleasant food for contemplation a in the above instance .
None of the applicant , I think , affect me more disagreeably than an old man who come , with his fourth wife hang on his arm , to bespeak gravestone for the three former occupant of his marriage-bed .
I watch with some anxiety to see whether his remembrance of either be more affectionate than of the other two , but could discover no symptom of the kind .
The three monument be all to be of the same material and form , and each decorate in bas-relief with two weep willow , one of these sympathetic tree bend over it fellow , which be to be break in the midst and rest upon a sepulchral urn .
This , indeed , be Mr. Wigglesworth 's standing emblem of conjugal bereavement .
I shudder at the gray polygamist who have so utterly lose the holy sense of individuality in wedlock that methought he be fain to reckon upon his finger how many woman who have once sleep by his side be now sleep in their graf .
There be even -- if I wrong him , it be no great matter -- a glance sidelong at his living spouse , a if he be incline to drive a thriftier bargain by bespeak four gravestone in a lot .
I be well pleased with a rough old whaling-captain who give direction for a broad marble slab divide into two compartment , one of which be to contain an epitaph on his deceased wife and the other to be leave vacant till death should engrave his own name there .
As be frequently the case among the whaler of Martha 's Vineyard , so much of this storm-beaten widower 's life have be toss away on distant sea that out of twenty year of matrimony he have spend scarce three , and those at scattered interval , beneath his own roof .
Thus the wife of his youth , though she die in his and her decline age , retain the bridal dewdrop fresh around her memory .
My observation give me the idea , and Mr. Wigglesworth confirm it , that husband be more faithful in set up memorial to their dead wife than widow to their dead husband .
I be not ill-natured enough to fancy that woman less than men feel so sure of their own constancy a to be willing to give a pledge of it in marble .
It be more probably the fact that , while men be able to reflect upon their lose companion a remembrance apart from themselves , woman , on the other hand , be conscious that a portion of their be have go with the departed whithersoever he have go .
Soul cling to soul , the living dust have a sympathy with the dust of the grave ; and by the very strength of that sympathy the wife of the dead shrink the more sensitively from remind the world of it existence .
The link be already strong enough ; it need no visible symbol .
And , though a shadow walk ever by her side and the touch of a chill hand be on her bosom , yet life , and perchance it natural yearning , may still be warm within her and inspire her with new hope of happiness .
Then would she mark out the grave the scent of which would be perceptible on the pillow of the second bridal ?
No , but rather level it green mound with the surround earth , a if , when she dig up again her buried heart , the spot have cease to be a grave .
Yet , in spite of these sentimentality , I be prodigiously amuse by an incident of which I have not the good-fortune to be a witness , but which Mr. Wigglesworth relate with considerable humor .
A gentlewoman of the town , receive news of her husband 's loss at sea , have bespeak a handsome slab of marble , and come daily to watch the progress of my friend 's chisel .
One afternoon , when the good lady and the sculptor be in the very midst of the epitaph -- which the depart spirit might have be greatly comfort to read -- who should walk into the workshop but the deceased himself , in substance as well a spirit !
He have be pick up at sea , and stand in no present need of tombstone or epitaph .
`` And how , '' inquire I , `` do his wife bear the shock of joyful surprise ? ''
`` Why , '' say the old man , deepen the grin of a death 's - head on which his chisel be just then employ , `` I really felt for the poor woman ; it be one of my best piece of marble -- and to be throw away on a living man ! ''
A comely woman with a pretty rosebud of a daughter come to select a gravestone for a twin-daughter , who have die a month before .
I be impress with the different nature of their feeling for the dead .
The mother be calm and woefully resign , fully conscious of her loss , a of a treasure which she have not always possess , and therefore have be aware that it might be take from her ; but the daughter evidently have no real knowledge of what Death 's doings be .
Her thought knew , but not her heart .
It seem to me that by the print and pressure which the dead sister have leave upon the survivor 's spirit her feeling be almost the same a if she still stand side by side and arm in arm with the depart , look at the slab of marble , and once or twice she glance around with a sunny smile , which , a it sister-smile have fade for ever , soon grow confusedly overshadow .
Perchance her consciousness be truer than her reflection ; perchance her dead sister be a close companion than in life .
The mother and daughter talk a long while with Mr. Wigglesworth about a suitable epitaph , and finally choose an ordinary verse of ill-matched rhyme which have already be inscribe upon innumerable tombstone .
But when we ridicule the triteness of monumental verse , we forget that Sorrow read far deep in them than we can , and find a profound and individual purport in what seem so vague and inexpressive unless interpret by her .
She make the epitaph anew , though the selfsame word may have serve for a thousand graf .
`` And yet , '' say I afterward to Mr. Wigglesworth , `` they might have make a good choice than this .
While you be discuss the subject I be strike by at least a dozen simple and natural expression from the lip of both mother and daughter .
One of these would have form an inscription equally original and appropriate . ''
`` No , no ! ''
reply the sculptor , shake his head ; `` there be a good deal of comfort to be gather from these little old scrap of poetry , and so I always recommend them in preference to any new-fangled one .
And somehow they seem to stretch to suit a great grief and shrink to fit a small one . ''
It be not seldom that ludicrous image be excite by what take place between Mr. Wigglesworth and his customer .
A shrewd gentlewoman who keep a tavern in the town be anxious to obtain two or three gravestone for the deceased member of her family , and to pay for these solemn commodity by take the sculptor to board .
Hereupon a fantasy arose in my mind of good Mr. Wigglesworth sit down to dinner at a broad , flat tombstone carve one of his own plump little marble cherub , gnaw a pair of crossbones and drink out of a hollow death 's - head or perhaps a lachrymatory vase or sepulchral urn , while his hostess 's dead child wait on him at the ghastly banquet .
On communicate this nonsensical picture to the old man he laugh heartily and pronounce my humor to be of the right sort .
`` I have live at such a table all my day , '' say he , `` and eat no small quantity of slate and marble . ''
`` Hard fare , '' rejoin I , smile , `` but you seem to have find it excellent of digestion , too . ''
A man of fifty or thereabouts with a harsh , unpleasant countenance order a stone for the grave of his bitter enemy , with whom he have wag warfare half a lifetime , to their mutual misery and ruin .
The secret of this phenomenon be that hatred have become the sustenance and enjoyment of the poor wretch 's soul ; it have supply the place of all kindly affection ; it have be really a bond of sympathy between himself and the man who share the passion ; and when it object die , the unappeasable foe be the only mourner for the dead .
He express a purpose of be bury side by side with his enemy .
`` I doubt whether their dust will mingle , '' remark the old sculptor to me ; for often there be an earthliness in his conception .
`` Oh yes , '' reply I , who have muse long upon the incident ; `` and when they rise again , these bitter foe may find themselves dear friend .
Methinks what they mistake for hatred be but love under a mask . ''
A gentleman of antiquarian propensity provide a memorial for an Indian of Chabbiquidick -- one of the few of untainted blood remain in that region , and say to be a hereditary chieftain descend from the sachem who welcome Governor Mayhew to the Vineyard .
Mr. Wiggles-worth exert his best skill to carve a broken bow and scatter sheaf of arrow in memory of the hunter and warrior whose race be end here , but he likewise sculpture a cherub , to denote that the poor Indian have share the Christian 's hope of immortality .
`` Why , '' observe I , take a perverse view of the winged boy and the bow and arrow , `` it look more like Cupid 's tomb than an Indian chief 's . ''
`` You talk nonsense , '' say the sculptor , with the offended pride of art .
He then add with his usual good-nature , `` How can Cupid die when there be such pretty maiden in the Vineyard ? ''
`` Very true , '' answer I ; and for the rest of the day I think of other matter than tombstone .
At our next meeting I find him chisel an open book upon a marble headstone , and conclude that it be mean to express the erudition of some black-letter clergyman of the Cotton Mather school .
It turn out , however , to be emblematical of the scriptural knowledge of an old woman who have never read anything but her Bible , and the monument be a tribute to her piety and good work from the orthodox church of which she have be a member .
In strange contrast with this Christian woman 's memorial be that of an infidel whose gravestone , by his own direction , bore an avowal of his belief that the spirit within him would be extinguish like a flame , and that the nothingness whence he spring would receive him again .
Mr. Wigglesworth consult me a to the propriety of enable a dead man 's dust to utter this dreadful creed .
`` If I think , '' say he , `` that a single mortal would read the inscription without a shudder , my chisel should never cut a letter of it .
But when the grave speaks such falsehood , the soul of man will know the truth by it own horror . ''
`` So it will , '' say I , strike by the idea .
`` The poor infidel may strive to preach blasphemy from his grave , but it will be only another method of impress the soul with a consciousness of immortality . ''
There be an old man by the name of Norton , note throughout the island for his great wealth , which he have accumulate by the exercise of strong and shrewd faculty combine with a most penurious disposition .
This wretched miser , conscious that he have not a friend to be mindful of him in his grave , have himself take the needful precaution for posthumous remembrance by bespeak an immense slab of white marble with a long epitaph in raised letter , the whole to be as magnificent a Mr. Wigglesworth 's skill could make it .
There be something very characteristic in this contrivance to have his money 's worth even from his own tombstone , which , indeed , afford him more enjoyment in the few month that he live thereafter than it probably will in a whole century , now that it be lay over his bone .
This incident remind me of a young girl -- a pale , slender , feeble creature most unlike the other rosy and healthful damsel of the Vineyard , amid whose brightness she be fade away .
Day after day do the poor maiden come to the sculptor 's shop and pas from one piece of marble to another , till at last she pencil her name upon a slender slab which , I think , be of a more spotless white than all the rest .
I saw her no more , but soon afterward find Mr. Wigglesworth cut her virgin-name into the stone which she have choose .
`` She be dead , poor girl ! ''
say he , interrupt the tune which he be whistle , `` and she choose a good piece of stuff for her headstone .
Now , which of these slab would you like best to see your own name upon ? ''
`` Why , to tell you the truth , my good Mr. Wigglesworth , '' reply I , after a moment 's pause , for the abruptness of the question have somewhat startle me -- `` to be quite sincere with you , I care little or nothing about a stone for my own grave , and be somewhat inclined to scepticism a to the propriety of erect monument at all over the dust that once be human .
The weight of these heavy marble , though unfelt by the dead corpse or the enfranchised soul , press drearily upon the spirit of the survivor and cause him to connect the idea of death with the dungeon-like imprisonment of the tomb , instead of with the freedom of the sky .
Every gravestone that you ever make be the visible symbol of a mistaken system .
Our thought should soar upward with the butterfly , not linger with the exuvi that confine him .
In truth and reason , neither those whom we call the living , and still less the depart , have anything to do with the grave . ''
`` I never hear anything so heathenish , '' say Mr. Wigglesworth , perplexed and displease at sentiment which controvert all his notion and feeling and imply the utter waste , and bad , of his whole life 's labor .
`` Would you forget your dead friends the moment they be under the sod ? ''
`` They be not under the sod , '' I rejoin ; `` then why should I mark the spot where there be no treasure hide ?
Forget them ?
No ; but , to remember them aright , I would forget what they have cast off .
And to gain the truer conception of death I would forget the grave . ''
But still the good old sculptor murmur , and stumble , a it be , over the gravestone amid which he have walk through life .
Whether he be right or wrong , I have grow the wiser from our companionship and from my observation of nature and character a display by those who come , with their old grief or their new one , to get them record upon his slab of marble .
And yet with my gain of wisdom I have likewise gain perplexity ; for there be a strange doubt in my mind whether the dark shadowing of this life , the sorrow and regret , have not as much real comfort in them -- leave religious influence out of the question -- a what we term life 's joy .
THE SHAKER BRIDAL .
One day , in the sick-chamber of Father Ephraim , who have be forty year the preside elder over the Shaker settlement at Goshen , there be an assemblage of several of the chief men of the sect .
Individuals have come from the rich establishment at Lebanon , from Canterbury , Harvard and Alfred , and from all the other locality where this strange people have fertilize the rugged hill of New England by their systematic industry .
An elder be likewise there who have make a pilgrimage of a thousand mile from a village of the faithful in Kentucky to visit his spiritual kindred the child of the sainted Mother Ann .
He have partake of the homely abundance of their table , have quaff the far-famed Shaker cider , and have join in the sacred dance every step of which be believe to alienate the enthusiast from earth and bear him onward to heavenly purity and bliss .
His brother of the North have now courteously invite him to be present on an occasion when the concurrence of every eminent member of their community be peculiarly desirable .
The venerable Father Ephraim sit in his easy-chair , not only hoary-headed and infirm with age , but wear down by a lingering disease which it be evident would very soon transfer his patriarchal staff to other hand .
At his footstool stand a man and woman , both clad in the Shaker garb .
`` My brother , '' say Father Ephraim to the surround elder , feebly exert himself to utter these few word , `` here be the son and daughter to whom I would commit the trust of which Providence be about to lighten my weary shoulder .
Read their face , I pray you , and say whether the inward movement of the spirit hath guide my choice aright . ''
Accordingly , each elder look at the two candidate with a most scrutinizing gaze .
The man -- whose name be Adam Colburn -- have a face sunburnt with labor in the field , yet intelligent , thoughtful and trace with care enough for a whole lifetime , though he have barely reach middle age .
There be something severe in his aspect and a rigidity throughout his person -- characteristic that cause him generally to be take for a schoolmaster ; which vocation , in fact , he have formerly exercise for several year .
The woman , Martha Pierson , be somewhat above thirty , thin and pale , a a Shaker sister almost invariably be , and not entirely free from that corpse-like appearance which the garb of the sisterhood be so well calculate to impart .
`` This pair be still in the summer of their year , '' observe the elder from Harvard , a shrewd old man .
`` I would like good to see the hoar-frost of autumn on their head .
Methinks , also , they will be expose to peculiar temptation on account of the carnal desire which have heretofore subsist between them . ''
`` Nay , brother , '' say the elder from Canterbury ; `` the hoar-frost and the black frost hath do it work on Brother Adam and Sister Martha , even a we sometimes discern it trace in our cornfield while they be yet green .
And why should we question the wisdom of our venerable Father 's purpose , although this pair in their early youth have love one another a the world 's people love ?
Are there not many brother and sister among u who have live long together in wedlock , yet , adopt our faith , find their heart purify from all but spiritual affection ? ''
Whether or no the early love of Adam and Martha have render it inexpedient that they should now preside together over a Shaker village , it be certainly most singular that such should be the final result of many warm and tender hope .
Children of neighbor family , their affection be old even than their school-days ; it seem an innate principle interfused among all their sentiment and feeling , and not so much a distinct remembrance a connect with their whole volume of remembrance .
But just a they reach a proper age for their union misfortune have fall heavily on both and make it necessary that they should resort to personal labor for a bare subsistence .
Even under these circumstance Martha Pierson would probably have consent to unite her fate with Adam Colburn 's , and , secure of the bliss of mutual love , would patiently have await the less important gift of Fortune .
But Adam , be of a calm and cautious character , be loth to relinquish the advantage which a single man possess for raise himself in the world .
Year after year , therefore , their marriage have be defer .
Adam Colburn have follow many vocation , have travel far and see much of the world and of life .
Martha have earn her bread sometimes a a sempstress , sometimes a help to a farmer 's wife , sometimes a schoolmistress of the village child , sometimes a a nurse or watcher of the sick , thus acquire a varied experience the ultimate use of which she little anticipate .
But nothing have go prosperously with either of the lover ; at no subsequent moment would matrimony have be so prudent a measure a when they have first part , in the opening bloom of life , to seek a good fortune .
Still , they have hold fast their mutual faith .
Martha might have be the wife of a man who sit among the senator of his native State , and Adam could have win the hand , a he have unintentionally win the heart , of a rich and comely widow .
But neither of them desire good-fortune save to share it with the other .
At length that calm despair which occur only in a strong and somewhat stubborn character and yield to no second spring of hope settle down on the spirit of Adam Colburn .
He seek an interview with Martha and propose that they should join the Society of Shakers .
The convert of this sect be oftener driven within it hospitable gate by worldly misfortune than drawn thither by fanaticism , and be receive without inquisition a to their motif .
Martha , faithful still , have place her hand in that of her lover and accompany him to the Shaker village .
Here the natural capacity of each , cultivate and strengthen by the difficulty of their previous life , have soon gain them an important rank in the society , whose member be generally below the ordinary standard of intelligence .
Their faith and feeling have in some degree become assimilate to those of their fellow-worshippers .
Adam Colburn gradually acquire reputation not only in the management of the temporal affair of the society , but a a clear and efficient preacher of their doctrine .
Martha be not less distinguish in the duty proper to her sex .
Finally , when the infirmity of Father Ephraim have admonish him to seek a successor in his patriarchal office , he think of Adam and Martha , and propose to renew in their person the primitive form of Shaker government a establish by Mother Ann .
They be to be the father and mother of the village .
The simple ceremony which would constitute them such be now to be perform .
`` Son Adam and daughter Martha , '' say the venerable Father Ephraim , fix his aged eye piercingly upon them , `` if ye can conscientiously undertake this charge , speak , that the brother may not doubt of your fitness . ''
`` Father , '' reply Adam , speak with the calmness of his character , `` I come to your village a disappointed man , weary of the world , wear out with continual trouble , seek only a security against evil fortune , a I have no hope of good .
Even my wish of worldly success be almost dead within me .
I come hither a a man might come to a tomb willing to lie down in it gloom and coldness for the sake of it peace and quiet .
There be but one earthly affection in my breast , and it have grow calmer since my youth ; so that I be satisfy to bring Martha to be my sister in our new abode .
We be brother and sister , nor would I have it otherwise .
And in this peaceful village I have find all that I hope for -- all that I desire .
I will strive with my best strength for the spiritual and temporal good of our community .
My conscience be not doubtful in this matter .
I be ready to receive the trust . ''
`` Thou hast spoken well , son Adam , '' say the father .
`` God will bless thee in the office which I be about to resign . ''
`` But our sister , '' observe the elder from Harvard .
`` Hath she not likewise a gift to declare her sentiment ? ''
Martha start and move her lip a if she would have make a formal reply to this appeal .
But , have she attempt it , perhaps the old recollection , the long-repressed feeling of childhood , youth and womanhood , might have gush from her heart in word that it would have be profanation to utter there .
`` Adam have speak , '' say she , hurriedly ; `` his sentiment be likewise mine . ''
But while speak these few word Martha grow so pale that she look fitter to be lay in her coffin than to stand in the presence of Father Ephraim and the elder ; she shudder , also , a if there be something awful or horrible in her situation and destiny .
It require , indeed , a more than feminine strength of nerve to sustain the fixed observance of men so exalted and famous throughout the Beet a these be .
They have overcome their natural sympathy with human frailty and affection .
One , when he join the society , have bring with him his wife and child , but never from that hour have speak a fond word to the former or take his best-loved child upon his knee .
Another , whose family refuse to follow him , have be enable -- such be his gift of holy fortitude -- to leave them to the mercy of the world .
The young of the elder , a man of about fifty , have be breed from infancy in a Shaker village , and be say never to have clasp a woman 's hand in his own , and to have no conception of a close tie than the cold fraternal one of the sect .
Old Father Ephraim be the most awful character of all .
In his youth he have be a dissolute libertine , but be convert by Mother Ann herself , and have partake of the wild fanaticism of the early Shakers .
Tradition whisper at the fireside of the village that Mother Ann have be compel to sear his heart of flesh with a red-hot iron before it could be purify from earthly passion .
However that might be , poor Martha have a woman 's heart , and a tender one , and it quail within her a she look round at those strange old men , and from them to the calm feature of Adam Colburn .
But , perceive that the elder eye her doubtfully , she gasp for breath and again speak .
`` With what strength be leave me by my many trouble , '' say she , `` I be ready to undertake this charge , and to do my best in it . ''
`` My child , join your hand , '' say Father Ephraim .
They do so .
The elder stand up around , and the father feebly raise himself to a more erect position , but continue sit in his great chair .
`` I have bid you to join your hand , '' say he , `` not in earthly affection , for ye have cast off it chain for ever , but a brother and sister in spiritual love and helper of one another in your allotted task .
Teach unto others the faith which ye have receive .
Open wide your gate -- I deliver you the key thereof -- open them wide to all who will give up the iniquity of the world and come hither to lead life of purity and peace .
Receive the weary one who have know the vanity of earth ; receive the little child , that they may never learn that miserable lesson .
And a blessing be upon your labor ; so that the time may hasten on when the mission of Mother Ann shall have work it full effect , when child shall no more be bear and die , and the last survivor of mortal race -- some old and weary man like me -- shall see the sun go down nevermore to rise on a world of sin and sorrow . ''
The age father sank back exhaust , and the surround elder deem , with good reason , that the hour be come when the new head of the village must enter on their patriarchal duty .
In their attention to Father Ephraim their eye be turn from Martha Pierson , who grow paler and paler , unnoticed even by Adam Colburn .
He , indeed , have withdraw his hand from hers and fold his arm with a sense of satisfied ambition .
But paler and paler grow Martha by his side , till , like a corpse in it burial-clothes , she sink down at the foot of her early lover ; for , after many trial firmly borne , her heart could endure the weight of it desolate agony no longer .
NIGHT-SKETCHES , BENEATH AN UMBRELLA .
Pleasant be a rainy winter 's day within-doors .
The best study for such a day -- or the best amusement : call it what you will -- be a book of travel describe scene the most unlike that sombre one which be mistily present through the window .
I have experience that Fancy be then most successful in impart distinct shape and vivid color to the object which the author have spread upon his page , and that his word become magic spell to summon up a thousand varied picture .
Strange landscape glimmer through the familiar wall of the room , and outlandish figure thrust themselves almost within the sacred precinct of the hearth .
Small a my chamber be , it have space enough to contain the ocean-like circumference of an Arabian desert , it parched sand track by the long line of a caravan with the camel patiently journey through the heavy sunshine .
Though my ceiling be not lofty , yet I can pile up the mountain of Central Asia beneath it till their summit shine far above the cloud of the middle atmosphere .
And with my humble mean -- a wealth that be not taxable -- I can transport hither the magnificent merchandise of an Oriental bazaar , and call a crowd of purchaser from distant country to pay a fair profit for the precious article which be display on all side .
True it be , however , that amid the bustle of traffic , or whatever else may seem to be go on around me , the raindrop will occasionally be hear to patter against my window-panes , which look forth upon one of the quiet street in a New England town .
After a time , too , the vision vanish , and will not appear again at my bidding .
Then , it be nightfall , a gloomy sense of unreality depresses my spirit , and impels me to venture out before the clock shall strike bedtime to satisfy myself that the world be not entirely make up of such shadowy material a have busy me throughout the day .
A dreamer may dwell so long among fantasy that the thing without him will seem as unreal a those within .
When eve have fairly set in , therefore , I sally forth , tightly button my shaggy overcoat and hoist my umbrella , the silken dome of which immediately resound with the heavy drumming of the invisible raindrop .
Pausing on the low doorstep , I contrast the warmth and cheerfulness of my deserted fireside with the drear obscurity and chill discomfort into which I be about to plunge .
Now come fearful augury innumerable a the drop of rain .
Did not my manhood cry shame upon me , I should turn back within-doors , resume my elbow-chair , my slipper and my book , pas such an evening of sluggish enjoyment a the day have be , and go to bed inglorious .
The same shivering reluctance , no doubt , have quell for a moment the adventurous spirit of many a traveller when his foot , which be destine to measure the earth around , be leave their last track in the home-paths .
In my own case poor human nature may be allow a few misgiving .
I look upward and discern no sky , not even an unfathomable void , but only a black , impenetrable nothingness , a though heaven and all it light be blot from the system of the universe .
It be a if Nature be dead and the world have put on black and the cloud be weep for her .
With their tear upon my cheek I turn my eye earthward , but find little consolation here below .
A lamp be burn dimly at the distant corner , and throw just enough of light along the street to show , and exaggerate by so faintly show , the peril and difficulty which beset my path .
Yonder dingily-white remnant of a huge snowbank , which will yet cumber the sidewalk till the latter day of March , over or through that wintry waste must I stride onward .
Beyond lie a certain Slough of Despond , a concoction of mud and liquid filth , ankle-deep , leg-deep , neck-deep -- in a word , of unknown bottom -- on which the lamplight do not even glimmer , but which I have occasionally watch in the gradual growth of it horror from morn till nightfall .
Should I flounder into it depth , farewell to upper earth !
And hark !
how roughly resound the roaring of a stream the turbulent career of which be partially redden by the gleam of the lamp , but elsewhere brawls noisily through the dense gloom !
Oh , should I be sweep away in ford that impetuous and unclean torrent , the coroner will have a job with an unfortunate gentleman who would fain end his trouble anywhere but in a mud-puddle .
Pshaw !
I will linger not another instant at arm 's - length from these dim terror , which grow more obscurely formidable the longer I delay to grapple with them .
Now for the onset , and , lo !
with little damage save a dash of rain in the face and breast , a splash of mud high up the pantaloon and the left boot full of ice-cold water , behold me at the corner of the street .
The lamp throw down a circle of red light around me , and twinkle onward from corner to corner I discern other beacon , marshal my way to a brighter scene .
But this be a lonesome and dreary spot .
The tall edifice bid gloomy defiance to the storm with their blind all close , even a a man wink when he face a spattering gust .
How loudly tinkle the collected rain down the tin spout !
The puff of wind be boisterous , and seem to assail me from various quarter at once .
I have often observe that this corner be a haunt and loitering-place for those wind which have no work to do upon the deep dashing ship against our iron-bound shore , nor in the forest tear up the sylvan giant with half a rood of soil at their vast root .
Here they amuse themselves with less freak of mischief .
See , at this moment , how they assail yonder poor woman who be pass just within the verge of the lamplight !
One blast struggle for her umbrella and turn it wrong side outward , another whisk the cape of her cloak across her eye , while a third take most unwarrantable liberty with the low part of her attire .
Happily , the good dame be no gossamer , but a figure of rotundity and fleshly substance ; else would these aerial tormentor whirl her aloft like a witch upon a broomstick , and set her down , doubtless , in the filthy kennel hereabout .
From hence I tread upon firm pavement into the centre of the town .
Here there be almost a brilliant an illumination a when some great victory have be win either on the battlefield or at the poll .
Two row of shop with window down nearly to the ground cast a glow from side to side , while the black night hang overhead like a canopy , and thus keep the splendor from diffuse itself away .
The wet sidewalk gleam with a broad sheet of red light .
The raindrop glitter a if the sky be pour down ruby .
The spout gush with fire .
Methinks the scene be an emblem of the deceptive glare which mortal throw around their footstep in the moral world , thus bedazzle themselves till they forget the impenetrable obscurity that hem them in , and that can be dispel only by radiance from above .
And , after all , it be a cheerless scene , and cheerless be the wanderer in it .
Here come one who have so long be familiar with tempestuous weather that he take the bluster of the storm for a friendly greeting , a if it should say , `` How fare ye , brother ? ''
He be a retired sea-captain wrap in some nameless garment of the pea-jacket order , and be now lay his course toward the marine-insurance office , there to spin yarn of gale and shipwreck with a crew of old seadogs like himself .
The blast will put in it word among their hoarse voice , and be understand by all of them .
Next I meet an unhappy slipshod gentleman with a cloak flung hastily over his shoulder , run a race with boisterous wind and strive to glide between the drop of rain .
Some domestic emergency or other have blow this miserable man from his warm fireside in quest of a doctor .
See that little vagabond !
How carelessly he have take his stand right underneath a spout while star at some object of curiosity in a shop-window !
Surely the rain be his native element ; he must have fall with it from the cloud , a frog be suppose to do .
Here be a picture , and a pretty one -- a young man and a girl , both envelop in cloak and huddle beneath the scanty protection of a cotton umbrella .
She wear rubber overshoe , but he be in his dancing-pumps , and they be on their way no doubt , to some cotillon-party or subscription-ball at a dollar a head , refreshment include .
Thus they struggle against the gloomy tempest , lure onward by a vision of festal splendor .
But ah !
a most lamentable disaster !
Bewildered by the red , blue and yellow meteor in an apothecary 's window , they have step upon a slippery remnant of ice , and be precipitate into a confluence of swollen flood at the corner of two street .
Luckless lover !
Were it my nature to be other than a looker-on in life , I would attempt your rescue .
Since that may not be , I vow , should you be drown , to weave such a pathetic story of your fate a shall call forth tear enough to drown you both anew .
Do ye touch bottom , my young friend ?
Yes ; they emerge like a water-nymph and a river-deity , and paddle hand in hand out of the depth of the dark pool .
They hurry homeward , drip , disconsolate , abash , but with love too warm to be chill by the cold water .
They have stand a test which prove too strong for many .
Faithful though over head and ear in trouble !
Onward I go , derive a sympathetic joy or sorrow from the varied aspect of mortal affair even a my figure catch a gleam from the light window or be blacken by an interval of darkness .
Not that mine be altogether a chameleon spirit with no hue of it own .
Now I pass into a more retired street where the dwelling of wealth and poverty be intermingle , present a range of strongly-contrasted picture .
Here , too , may be find the golden mean .
Through yonder casement I discern a family circle -- the grandmother , the parent and the child -- all flickering , shadow-like , in the glow of a wood-fire .
-- Bluster , fierce blast , and beat , thou wintry rain , against the window-panes !
Ye can not damp the enjoyment of that fireside .
-- Surely my fate be hard that I should be wander homeless here , take to my bosom night and storm and solitude instead of wife and child .
Peace , murmurer !
Doubt not that darker guest be sit round the hearth , though the warm blaze hide all but blissful image .
Well , here be still a bright scene -- a stately mansion illuminate for a ball , with cut-glass chandelier and alabaster lamp in every room , and sunny landscape hang round the wall .
See !
a coach have stop , whence emerge a slender beauty who , canopy by two umbrella , glide within the portal and vanishes amid lightsome thrill of music .
Will she ever feel the night-wind and the rain ?
Perhaps -- perhaps !
And will Death and Sorrow ever enter that proud mansion ?
As surely a the dancer will be gay within it hall to-night .
Such thought sadden yet satisfy my heart , for they teach me that the poor man in this mean , weatherbeaten hovel , without a fire to cheer him , may call the rich his brother -- brother by Sorrow , who must be an inmate of both their household ; brother by Death , who will lead them both to other home .
Onward , still onward , I plunge into the night .
Now have I reach the utmost limit of the town , where the last lamp struggle feebly with the darkness like the farthest star that stand sentinel on the border of uncreated space .
It be strange what sensation of sublimity may spring from a very humble source .
Such be suggest by this hollow roar of a subterranean cataract where the mighty stream of a kennel precipitate itself beneath an iron grate and be see no more on earth .
Listen a while to it voice of mystery , and Fancy will magnify it till you start and smile at the illusion .
And now another sound -- the rumbling of wheel a the mail-coach , outward bound , roll heavily off the pavement and splash through the mud and water of the road .
All night long the poor passenger will be toss to and fro between drowsy watch and troubled sleep , and will dream of their own quiet bed and awake to find themselves still jolt onward .
Happier my lot , who will straightway hie me to my familiar room and toast myself comfortably before the fire , muse and fitfully doze and fancy a strangeness in such sight a all may see .
But first let me gaze at this solitary figure who come hitherward with a tin lantern which throw the circular pattern of it punched hole on the ground about him .
He pass fearlessly into the unknown gloom , whither I will not follow him .
This figure shall supply me with a moral wherewith , for lack of a more appropriate one , I may wind up my sketch .
He fear not to tread the dreary path before him , because his lantern , which be kindle at the fireside of his home , will light him back to that same fireside again .
And thus we , night-wanderers through a stormy and dismal world , if we bear the lamp of Faith enkindle at a celestial fire , it will surely lead u home to that heaven whence it radiance be borrow .
ENDICOTT AND THE RED CROSS .
At noon of an autumnal day more than two century ago the English color be display by the standard bearer of the Salem train-band , which have muster for martial exercise under the order of John Endicott .
It be a period when the religious exile be accustom often to buckle on their armor and practise the handling of their weapon of war .
Since the first settlement of New England it prospect have never be so dismal .
The dissension between Charles I. and his subject be then , and for several year afterward , confine to the floor of Parliament .
The measure of the king and ministry be render more tyrannically violent by an opposition which have not yet acquire sufficient confidence in it own strength to resist royal injustice with the sword .
The bigoted and haughty primate Laud , archbishop of Canterbury , control the religious affair of the realm , and be consequently invest with power which might have work the utter ruin of the two Puritan colony , Plymouth and Massachusetts .
There be evidence on record that our forefather perceive their danger , but be resolve that their infant country should not fall without a struggle , even beneath the giant strength of the king 's right arm .
Such be the aspect of the time when the fold of the English banner with the red cross in it field be fling out over a company of Puritans .
Their leader , the famous Endicott , be a man of stern and resolute countenance , the effect of which be heighten by a grizzled beard that sweep the upper portion of his breastplate .
This piece of armor be so highly polished that the whole surround scene have it image in the glittering steel .
The central object in the mirrored picture be an edifice of humble architecture with neither steeple nor bell to proclaim it -- what , nevertheless , it be -- the house of prayer .
A token of the peril of the wilderness be see in the grim head of a wolf which have just be slain within the precinct of the town , and , accord to the regular mode of claim the bounty , be nail on the porch of the meeting-house .
The blood be still plash on the doorstep .
There happen to be visible at the same noontide hour so many other characteristic of the time and manner of the Puritans that we must endeavor to represent them in a sketch , though far less vividly than they be reflect in the polished breastplate of John Endicott .
In close vicinity to the sacred edifice appear that important engine of Puritanic authority the whipping-post , with the soil around it well trodden by the foot of evil-doers who have there be discipline .
At one corner of the meeting-house be the pillory and at the other the stock , and , by a singular good fortune for our sketch , the head of an Episcopalian and suspect Catholic be grotesquely encase in the former machine , while a fellow-criminal who have boisterously quaff a health to the king be confine by the leg in the latter .
Side by side on the meeting-house step stand a male and a female figure .
The man be a tall , lean , haggard personification of fanaticism , bear on his breast this label , `` A WANTON GOSPELLER , '' which betoken that he have dare to give interpretation of Holy Writ unsanctioned by the infallible judgment of the civil and religious ruler .
His aspect show no lack of zeal to maintain his heterodoxy even at the stake .
The woman wear a cleft stick on her tongue , in appropriate retribution for have wag that unruly member against the elder of the church , and her countenance and gesture give much cause to apprehend that the moment the stick should be remove a repetition of the offence would demand new ingenuity in chastise it .
The above-mentioned individual have be sentence to undergo their various mode of ignominy for the space of one hour at noonday .
But among the crowd be several whose punishment would be lifelong -- some whose ear have be crop like those of puppy-dogs , others whose cheek have be brand with the initial of their misdemeanor ; one with his nostril slit and sear , and another with a halter about his neck , which he be forbidden ever to take off or to conceal beneath his garment .
Methinks he must have be grievously tempt to affix the other end of the rope to some convenient beam or bough .
There be likewise a young woman with no mean share of beauty whose doom it be to wear the letter A on the breast of her gown in the eye of all the world and her own child .
And even her own child know what that initial signify .
Sporting with her infamy , the lost and desperate creature have embroider the fatal token in scarlet cloth with golden thread and the nice art of needlework ; so that the capital A might have be think to mean `` Admirable , '' or anything rather than `` Adulteress . ''
Let not the reader argue from any of these evidence of iniquity that the time of the Puritans be more vicious than our own , when a we pass along the very street of this sketch we discern no badge of infamy on man or woman .
It be the policy of our ancestor to search out even the most secret sin and expose them to shame , without fear or favor , in the broad light of the noonday sun .
Were such the custom now , perchance we might find material for a no less piquant sketch than the above .
Except the malefactor whom we have describe and the diseased or infirm person , the whole male population of the town , between sixteen year and sixty be see in the rank of the train-band .
A few stately savage in all the pomp and dignity of the primeval Indian stand gaze at the spectacle .
Their flint-headed arrow be but childish weapon , compare with the matchlock of the Puritans , and would have rattle harmlessly against the steel cap and hammer iron breastplate which enclose each soldier in an individual fortress .
The valiant John Endicott glance with an eye of pride at his sturdy follower , and prepare to renew the martial toil of the day .
`` Come , my stout heart ! ''
quoth he , draw his sword .
`` Let u show these poor heathen that we can handle our weapon like men of might .
Well for them if they put u not to prove it in earnest ! ''
The iron-breasted company straighten their line , and each man draw the heavy butt of his matchlock close to his left foot , thus await the order of the captain .
But a Endicott glance right and leave along the front he discover a personage at some little distance with whom it behove him to hold a parley .
It be an elderly gentleman wear a black cloak and band and a high-crowned hat beneath which be a velvet skull-cap , the whole be the garb of a Puritan minister .
This reverend person bore a staff which seem to have be recently cut in the forest , and his shoe be bemire , a if he have be travel on foot through the swamp of the wilderness .
His aspect be perfectly that of a pilgrim , heighten also by an apostolic dignity .
Just a Endicott perceive him he lay aside his staff and stoop to drink at a bubbling fountain which gush into the sunshine about a score of yard from the corner of the meeting-house .
But ere the good man drank he turn his face heavenward in thankfulness , and then , hold back his gray beard with one hand , he scoop up his simple draught in the hollow of the other .
`` What ho , good Mr. Williams ! ''
shout Endicott .
`` You be welcome back again to our town of peace .
How do our worthy Governor Winthrop ?
And what news from Boston ? ''
`` The governor hath his health , worshipful sir , '' answer Roger Williams , now resume his staff and drawing near .
`` And , for the news , here be a letter which , know I be to travel hitherward to-day , His Excellency commit to my charge .
Belike it contain tidings of much import , for a ship arrive yesterday from England . ''
Mr. Williams , the minister of Salem , and of course know to all the spectator , have now reach the spot where Endicott be stand under the banner of his company , and put the governor 's epistle into his hand .
The broad seal be impressed with Winthrop 's coat-of-arms .
Endicott hastily unclosed the letter and begin to read , while , a his eye pass down the page , a wrathful change come over his manly countenance .
The blood glow through it till it seem to be kindle with an internal heat , nor be it unnatural to suppose that his breastplate would likewise become red hot with the angry fire of the bosom which it cover .
Arriving at the conclusion , he shake the letter fiercely in his hand , so that it rustle as loud a the flag above his head .
`` Black tide these , Mr. Williams , '' say he ; `` blacker never come to New England .
Doubtless you know their purport ? ''
`` Yea , truly , '' reply Roger Williams , `` for the governor consult respect this matter with my brother in the ministry at Boston , and my opinion be likewise ask .
And His Excellency entreats you by me that the news be not suddenly noise abroad , l the people be stir up unto some outbreak , and thereby give the king and the archbishop a handle against u . ''
`` The governor be a wise man -- a wise man , and a meek and moderate , '' say Endicott , set his teeth grimly .
`` Nevertheless , I must do accord to my own best judgment .
There be neither man , woman nor child in New England but have a concern as dear a life in these tidings ; and if John Endicott 's voice be loud enough , man , woman and child shall hear them .
-- Soldiers , wheel into a hollow square .
-- Ho , good people !
Here be news for one and all of you . ''
The soldier close in around their captain , and he and Roger Williams stand together under the banner of the red cross , while the woman and the age men press forward and the mother hold up their child to look Endicott in the face .
A few tap of the drum give signal for silence and attention .
`` Fellow-soldiers , fellow-exiles , '' begin Endicott , speak under strong excitement , yet powerfully restrain it , `` wherefore do ye leave your native country ?
Wherefore , I say , have we leave the green and fertile field , the cottage , or , perchance , the old gray hall , where we be bear and breed , the churchyard where our forefather lie bury ?
Wherefore have we come hither to set up our own tombstone in a wilderness ?
A howling wilderness it be .
The wolf and the bear meet u within halloo of our dwelling .
The savage lieth in wait for u in the dismal shadow of the wood .
The stubborn root of the tree break our ploughshare when we would till the earth .
Our child cry for bread , and we must dig in the sand of the seashore to satisfy them .
Wherefore , I say again , have we seek this country of a rugged soil and wintry sky ?
Was it not for the enjoyment of our civil right ?
Was it not for liberty to worship God accord to our conscience ? ''
`` Call you this liberty of conscience ? ''
interrupt a voice on the step of the meeting-house .
It be the wanton gospeller .
A sad and quiet smile flit across the mild visage of Roger Williams , but Endicott , in the excitement of the moment , shake his sword wrathfully at the culprit -- an ominous gesture from a man like him .
`` What hast thou to do with conscience , thou knave ? ''
cry he .
`` I say liberty to worship God , not license to profane and ridicule him .
Break not in upon my speech , or I will lay thee neck and heel till this time to-morrow .
-- Hearken to me , friend , nor heed that accursed rhapsodist .
As I be say , we have sacrifice all thing , and have come to a land whereof the Old World hath scarcely hear , that we might make a new world unto ourselves and painfully seek a path from hence to heaven .
But what think ye now ?
This son of a Scotch tyrant -- this grandson of a papistical and adulterous Scotch woman whose death prove that a golden crown doth not always save an anointed head from the block -- '' `` Nay , brother , nay , '' interpose Mr. Williams ; `` thy word be not meet for a secret chamber , far less for a public street . ''
`` Hold thy peace , Roger Williams ! ''
answer Endicott , imperiously .
`` My spirit be wise than thine for the business now in hand .
-- I tell ye , fellow-exiles , that Charles of England and Laud , our bitter persecutor , arch-priest of Canterbury , be resolute to pursue u even hither .
They be take counsel , saith this letter , to send over a governor-general in whose breast shall be deposit all the law and equity of the land .
They be mind , also , to establish the idolatrous form of English episcopacy ; so that when Laud shall kiss the pope 's toe a cardinal of Rome he may deliver New England , bound hand and foot , into the power of his master . ''
A deep groan from the auditor -- a sound of wrath as well a fear and sorrow -- respond to this intelligence .
`` Look ye to it , brother , '' resume Endicott , with increase energy .
`` If this king and this arch-prelate have their will , we shall briefly behold a cross on the spire of this tabernacle which we have build , and a high altar within it wall , with wax taper burn round it at noon-day .
We shall hear the sacring-bell and the voice of the Romish priest say the mass .
But think ye , Christian men , that these abomination may be suffer without a sword drawn , without a shot fire , without blood spilt -- yea , on the very stair of the pulpit ?
No !
Be ye strong of hand and stout of heart .
Here we stand on our own soil , which we have buy with our good , which we have win with our sword , which we have clear with our ax , which we have till with the sweat of our brow , which we have sanctify with our prayer to the God that bring u hither !
Who shall enslave u here ?
What have we to do with this mitred prelate -- with this crown king ?
What have we to do with England ? ''
Endicott gaze round at the excited countenance of the people , now full of his own spirit , and then turn suddenly to the standard-bearer , who stand close behind him .
`` Officer , low your banner , '' say he .
The officer obey , and , brandish his sword , Endicott thrust it through the cloth and with his left hand rent the red cross completely out of the banner .
He then wave the tattered ensign above his head .
`` Sacrilegious wretch ! ''
cry the high-churchman in the pillory , unable long to restrain himself ; `` thou hast reject the symbol of our holy religion . ''
`` Treason !
treason ! ''
roar the royalist in the stock .
`` He hath deface the king 's banner ! ''
`` Before God and man I will avouch the deed , '' answer Endicott .
-- `` Beat a flourish , drummer -- shout , soldier and people -- in honor of the ensign of New England .
Neither pope nor tyrant hath part in it now . ''
With a cry of triumph the people give their sanction to one of the bold exploit which our history record .
And for ever honor be the name of Endicott !
We look back through the mist of age , and recognize in the rending of the red cross from New England 's banner the first omen of that deliverance which our father consummate after the bone of the stern Puritan have lie more than a century in the dust .
THE LILY 'S QUEST .
AN APOLOGUE .
Two lover once upon a time have plan a little summer-house in the form of an antique temple which it be their purpose to consecrate to all manner of refined and innocent enjoyment .
There they would hold pleasant intercourse with one another and the circle of their familiar friend ; there they would give festival of delicious fruit ; there they would hear lightsome music intermingle with the strain of pathos which make joy more sweet ; there they would read poetry and fiction and permit their own mind to flit away in day-dreams and romance ; there , in short -- for why should we shape out the vague sunshine of their hope ?
-- there all pure delight be to cluster like rose among the pillar of the edifice and blossom ever new and spontaneously .
So one breezy and cloudless afternoon Adam Forrester and Lilias Fay set out upon a ramble over the wide estate which they be to possess together , seek a proper site for their temple of happiness .
They be themselves a fair and happy spectacle , fit priest and priestess for such a shrine , although , make poetry of the pretty name of Lilias , Adam Forrester be wont to call her `` Lily '' because her form be a fragile and her cheek almost a pale .
As they pass hand in hand down the avenue of droop elm that lead from the portal of Lilias Fay 's paternal mansion they seem to glance like winged creature through the strip of sunshine , and to scatter brightness where the deep shadow fell .
But , set forth at the same time with this youthful pair , there be a dismal figure wrap in a black velvet cloak that might have be make of a coffin-pall , and with a sombre hat such a mourner wear droop it broad brim over his heavy brow .
Glancing behind them , the lover well knew who it be that follow , but wish from their heart that he have be elsewhere , a be a companion so strangely unsuited to their joyous errand .
It be a near relative of Lilias Fay , an old man by the name of Walter Gascoigne , who have long labor under the burden of a melancholy spirit which be sometimes madden into absolute insanity and always have a tinge of it .
What a contrast between the young pilgrim of bliss and their unbidden associate !
They look a if mould of heaven 's sunshine and he of earth 's gloomy shade ; they flit along like Hope and Joy roam hand in hand through life , while his darksome figure stalk behind , a type of all the woeful influence which life could fling upon them .
But the three have not go far when they reach a spot that please the gentle Lily , and she pause .
`` What sweeter place shall we find than this ? ''
say she .
`` Why should we seek farther for the site of our temple ? ''
It be indeed a delightful spot of earth , though undistinguished by any very prominent beauty , be merely a nook in the shelter of a hill , with the prospect of a distant lake in one direction and of a church-spire in another .
There be vista and pathway lead onward and onward into the green woodland and vanish away in the glimmering shade .
The temple , if erect here , would look toward the west ; so that the lover could shape all sort of magnificent dream out of the purple , violet and gold of the sunset sky , and few of their anticipated pleasure be dear than this sport of fantasy .
`` Yes , '' say Adam Forrester ; `` we might seek all day and find no lovely spot .
We will build our temple here . ''
But their sad old companion , who have take his stand on the very site which they propose to cover with a marble floor , shake his head and frown , and the young man and the Lily deem it almost enough to blight the spot and desecrate it for their airy temple that his dismal figure have throw it shadow there .
He point to some scattered stone , the remnant of a former structure , and to flower such a young girl delight to nurse in their garden , but which have now relapse into the wild simplicity of nature .
`` Not here , '' cry old Walter Gascoigne .
`` Here , long ago , other mortal build their temple of happiness ; seek another site for yours . ''
`` What ! ''
exclaim Lilias Fay .
`` Have any ever plan such a temple save ourselves ? ''
`` Poor child ! ''
say her gloomy kinsman .
`` In one shape or other every mortal have dream your dream . ''
Then he tell the lover , how -- not , indeed , an antique temple , but a dwelling -- have once stand there , and that a dark-clad guest have dwell among it inmate , sit for ever at the fireside and poison all their household mirth .
Under this type Adam Forrester and Lilias saw that the old man spake of sorrow .
He tell of nothing that might not be record in the history of almost every household , and yet his hearer felt a if no sunshine ought to fall upon a spot where human grief have leave so deep a stain -- or , at least , that no joyous temple should be build there .
`` This be very sad , '' say the Lily , sigh .
`` Well , there be lovely spot than this , '' say Adam Forrester , soothingly -- `` spot which sorrow have not blight . ''
So they hasten away , and the melancholy Gascoigne follow them , look a if he have gather up all the gloom of the deserted spot and be bear it a a burden of inestimable treasure .
But still they ramble on , and soon find themselves in a rocky dell through the midst of which run a streamlet with ripple and foam and a continual voice of inarticulate joy .
It be a wild retreat wall on either side with gray precipice which would have frown somewhat too sternly have not a profusion of green shrubbery root itself into their crevice and wreathe gladsome foliage around their solemn brow .
But the chief joy of the dell be in the little stream which seem like the presence of a blissful child with nothing earthly to do save to babble merrily and disport itself , and make every living soul it playfellow , and throw the sunny gleam of it spirit upon all .
`` Here , here be the spot ! ''
cry the two lover , with one voice , a they reach a level space on the brink of a small cascade .
`` This glen be make on purpose for our temple . ''
`` And the glad song of the brook will be always in our ear , '' say Lilias Fay .
`` And it long melody shall sing the bliss of our lifetime , '' say Adam Forrester .
`` Ye must build no temple here , '' murmur their dismal companion .
And there again be the old lunatic standing just on the spot where they mean to rear their lightsome dome , and look like the embodied symbol of some great woe that in forgotten day have happen there .
And , ala !
there have be woe , nor that alone .
A young man more than a hundred year before have lure hither a girl that love him , and on this spot have murder her and wash his bloody hand in the stream which sing so merrily , and ever since the victim 's death-shrieks be often hear to echo between the cliff .
`` And see ! ''
cry old Gascoigne ; `` be the stream yet pure from the stain of the murderer 's hand ? ''
`` Methinks it have a tinge of blood , '' faintly answer the Lily ; and , be as slight a the gossamer , she tremble and clung to her lover 's arm , whispering , `` Let u flee from this dreadful vale . ''
`` Come , then , '' say Adam Forrester as cheerily a he could ; `` we shall soon find a happy spot . ''
They set forth again , young pilgrim on that quest which million -- which every child of earth -- have try in turn .
And be the Lily and her lover to be more fortunate than all those million ?
For a long time it seem not so .
The dismal shape of the old lunatic still glide behind them , and for every spot that look lovely in their eye he have some legend of human wrong or suffer so miserably sad that his auditor could never afterward connect the idea of joy with the place where it have happen .
Here a heartbroken woman kneel to her child have be spurn from his foot ; here a desolate old creature have pray to the evil one , and have receive a fiendish malignity of soul in answer to her prayer ; here a new-born infant , sweet blossom of life , have be find dead with the impress of it mother 's finger round it throat ; and here , under a shattered oak , two lover have be stricken by lightning and fell blacken corps in each other 's arm .
The dreary Gascoigne have a gift to know whatever evil and lamentable thing have stain the bosom of Mother Earth ; and when his funereal voice have tell the tale , it appear like a prophecy of future woe as well a a tradition of the past .
And now , by their sad demeanor , you would have fancy that the pilgrim-lovers be seek , not a temple of earthly joy , but a tomb for themselves and their posterity .
`` Where in this world , '' exclaim Adam Forrester , despondingly , `` shall we build our temple of happiness ? ''
`` Where in this world , indeed ? ''
repeat Lilias Fay ; and , be faint and weary -- the more so by the heaviness of her heart -- the Lily droop her head and sit down on the summit of a knoll , repeating , `` Where in this world shall we build our temple ? ''
`` Ah !
have you already ask yourselves that question ? ''
say their companion , his shaded feature grow even gloomier with the smile that dwell on them .
`` Yet there be a place even in this world where ye may build it . ''
While the old man speak Adam Forrester and Lilias have carelessly throw their eye around , and perceive that the spot where they have chance to pause possess a quiet charm which be well enough adapt to their present mood of mind .
It be a small rise of ground with a certain regularity of shape that have perhaps be bestow by art , and a group of tree which almost surround it throw their pensive shadow across and far beyond , although some softened glory of the sunshine find it way there .
The ancestral mansion wherein the lover would dwell together appear on one side , and the ivied church where they be to worship on another .
Happening to cast their eye on the ground , they smile , yet with a sense of wonder , to see that a pale lily be grow at their foot .
`` We will build our temple here , '' say they , simultaneously , and with an indescribable conviction that they have at last find the very spot .
Yet while they utter this exclamation the young man and the Lily turn an apprehensive glance at their dreary associate , deem it hardly possible that some tale of earthly affliction should not make those precinct loathsome , a in every former case .
The old man stand just behind them , so a to form the chief figure in the group , with his sable cloak muffle the low part of his visage and his sombre hat overshadow his brow .
But he give no word of dissent from their purpose , and an inscrutable smile be accept by the lover a a token that here have be no footprint of guilt or sorrow to desecrate the site of their temple of happiness .
In a little time longer , while summer be still in it prime , the fairy-structure of the temple arise on the summit of the knoll amid the solemn shadow of the tree , yet often gladden with bright sunshine .
It be build of white marble , with slender and graceful pillar support a vaulted dome , and beneath the centre of this dome , upon a pedestal , be a slab of dark-veined marble on which book and music might be strew .
But there be a fantasy among the people of the neighborhood that the edifice be plan after an ancient mausoleum and be intend for a tomb , and that the central slab of dark-veined marble be to be inscribe with the name of buried one .
They doubt , too , whether the form of Lilias Fay could appertain to a creature of this earth , be so very delicate and grow every day more fragile , so that she look a if the summer breeze should snatch her up and waft her heavenward .
But still she watch the daily growth of the temple , and so do old Walter Gascoigne , who now make that spot his continual haunt , lean whole hour together on his staff and give a deep attention to the work a though it have be indeed a tomb .
In due time it be finish and a day appoint for a simple rite of dedication .
On the precede evening , after Adam Forrester have take leave of his mistress , he look back toward the portal of her dwelling and felt a strange thrill of fear , for he imagine that a the set sunbeam fade from her figure she be exhale away , and that something of her ethereal substance be withdraw with each lessen gleam of light .
With his farewell glance a shadow have fall over the portal , and Lilias be invisible .
His forebode spirit deem it an omen at the time , and so it prove ; for the sweet earthly form by which the Lily have be manifest to the world be find lifeless the next morning in the temple with her head rest on her arm , which be fold upon the slab of dark-veined marble .
The chill wind of the earth have long since breathe a blight into this beautiful flower ; so that a loving hand have now transplant it to blossom brightly in the garden of Paradise .
But ala for the temple of happiness !
In his unutterable grief Adam Forrester have no purpose more at heart than to convert this temple of many delightful hope into a tomb and bury his dead mistress there .
And , lo !
a wonder !
Digging a grave beneath the temple 's marble floor , the sexton find no virgin earth such a be meet to receive the maiden 's dust , but an ancient sepulchre in which be treasure up the bone of generation that have die long ago .
Among those forgotten ancestor be the Lily to be lay ; and when the funeral procession bring Lilias thither in her coffin , they behold old Walter Gascoigne stand beneath the dome of the temple with his cloak of pall and face of darkest gloom , and wherever that figure might take it stand the spot would seem a sepulchre .
He watch the mourner a they lower the coffin down .
`` And so , '' say he to Adam Forrester , with the strange smile in which his insanity be wont to gleam forth , `` you have find no good foundation for your happiness than on a grave ? ''
But a the shadow of Affliction speak a vision of hope and joy have it birth in Adam 's mind even from the old man 's taunting word , for then he know what be betoken by the parable in which the Lily and himself have act , and the mystery of life and death be open to him .
`` Joy !
joy ! ''
he cry , throw his arm toward heaven .
`` On a grave be the site of our temple , and now our happiness be for eternity . ''
With those word a ray of sunshine break through the dismal sky and glimmer down into the sepulchre , while at the same moment the shape of old Walter Gascoigne stalk drearily away , because his gloom , symbolic of all earthly sorrow , might no longer abide there now that the dark riddle of humanity be read .
FOOTPRINTS ON THE SEASHORE .
It must be a spirit much unlike my own which can keep itself in health and vigor without sometimes steal from the sultry sunshine of the world to plunge into the cool bath of solitude .
At interval , and not infrequent one , the forest and the ocean summon me -- one with the roar of it wave , the other with the murmur of it bough -- forth from the haunt of men .
But I must wander many a mile ere I could stand beneath the shadow of even one primeval tree , much less be lose among the multitude of hoary trunk and hidden from the earth and sky by the mystery of darksome foliage .
Nothing be within my daily reach more like a forest than the acre or two of woodland near some suburban farmhouse .
When , therefore , the yearning for seclusion become a necessity within me , I be draw to the seashore which extend it line of rude rock and seldom-trodden sand for league around our bay .
Setting forth at my last ramble on a September morning , I bind myself with a hermit 's vow to interchange no thought with man or woman , to share no social pleasure , but to derive all that day 's enjoyment from shore and sea and sky , from my soul 's communion with these , and from fantasy and recollection or anticipated reality .
Surely here be enough to fee a human spirit for a single day .
-- Farewell , then , busy world !
Till your even light shall shine along the street -- till they gleam upon my sea-flushed face a I tread homeward -- free me from your tie and let me be a peaceful outlaw .
Highways and cross-paths be hastily traverse , and , clamber down a crag , I find myself at the extremity of a long beach .
How gladly do the spirit leap forth and suddenly enlarge it sense of be to the full extent of the broad blue , sunny deep !
A greeting and a homage to the sea !
I descend over it margin and dip my hand into the wave that meet me , and bathe my brow .
That far-resounding roar be Ocean 's voice of welcome .
His salt breath bring a blessing along with it .
Now let u pace together -- the reader 's fancy arm in arm with mine -- this noble beach , which extend a mile or more from that craggy promontory to yonder rampart of broken rock .
In front , the sea ; in the rear , a precipitous bank the grassy verge of which be break away year after year , and fling down it tuft of verdure upon the barrenness below .
The beach itself be a broad space of sand , brown and sparkling , with hardly any pebble intermix .
Near the water 's edge there be a wet margin which glisten brightly in the sunshine and reflect object like a mirror , and a we tread along the glisten border a dry spot flash around each footstep , but grow moist again a we lift our foot .
In some spot the sand receive a complete impression of the sole , square toe and all ; elsewhere it be of such marble firmness that we must stamp heavily to leave a print even of the iron-shod heel .
Along the whole of this extensive beach gambol the surf-wave .
Now it make a feint of dash onward in a fury , yet die away with a meek murmur and do but kiss the strand ; now , after many such abortive effort , it rear itself up in an unbroken line , heighten a it advance , without a speck of foam on it green crest .
With how fierce a roar it fling itself forward and rush far up the beach !
As I throw my eye along the edge of the surf I remember that I be startle , a Robinson Crusoe might have be , by the sense that human life be within the magic circle of my solitude .
Afar off in the remote distance of the beach , appear like sea-nymphs , or some airy thing such a might tread upon the feathery spray , be a group of girl .
Hardly have I behold them , when they pass into the shadow of the rock and vanished .
To comfort myself -- for truly I would fain have gaze a while longer -- I make acquaintance with a flock of beach-birds .
These little citizen of the sea and air precede me by about a stone 's - throw along the strand , seek , I suppose , for food upon it margin .
Yet , with a philosophy which mankind would do well to imitate , they draw a continual pleasure from their toil for a subsistence .
The sea be each little bird 's great playmate .
They chase it downward a it sweep back , and again run up swiftly before the impending wave , which sometimes overtake them and bore them off their foot .
But they float as lightly a one of their own feather on the breaking crest .
In their airy fluttering they seem to rest on the evanescent spray .
Their image -- long-legged little figure with gray back and snowy bosom -- be see as distinctly a the reality in the mirror of the glistening strand .
As I advance they fly a score or two of yard , and , again alight , recommence their dalliance with the surf-wave ; and thus they bore me company along the beach , the type of pleasant fantasy , till at it extremity they take wing over the ocean and be go .
After form a friendship with these small surf-spirits , it be really worth a sigh to find no memorial of them save their multitudinous little track in the sand .
When we have pace the length of the beach , it be pleasant and not unprofitable to retrace our step and recall the whole mood and occupation of the mind during the former passage .
Our track , be all discernible , will guide u with an observing consciousness through every unconscious wandering of thought and fancy .
Here we follow the surf in it reflux to pick up a shell which the sea seem loth to relinquish .
Here we find a seaweed with an immense brown leaf , and trail it behind u by it long snake-like stalk .
Here we seize a live horseshoe by the tail , and count the many claw of that queer monster .
Here we dig into the sand for pebble , and skip them upon the surface of the water .
Here we wet our foot while examine a jelly-fish which the wave , have just toss it up , now seek to snatch away again .
Here we tread along the brink of a fresh-water brooklet which flow across the beach , become shallow and more shallow , till at last it sink into the sand and perishes in the effort to bear it little tribute to the main .
Here some vagary appear to have bewilder u , for our track go round and round and be confusedly intermingled , a if we have find a labyrinth upon the level beach .
And here amid our idle pastime we sit down upon almost the only stone that break the surface of the sand , and be lose in an unlooked-for and overpower conception of the majesty and awfulness of the great deep .
Thus by track our footprint in the sand we track our own nature in it wayward course , and steal a glance upon it when it never dream of be so observe .
Such glance always make u wise .
This extensive beach affords room for another pleasant pastime .
With your staff you may write verse -- love-verses if they please you best -- and consecrate them with a woman 's name .
Here , too , may be inscribe thought , feeling , desire , warm outgushings from the heart 's secret place , which you would not pour upon the sand without the certainty that almost ere the sky have look upon them the sea will wash them out .
Stir not hence till the record be efface .
Now -LRB- for there be room enough on your canvas -RRB- draw huge face -- huge a that of the Sphynx on Egyptian sand -- and fit them with body of correspond immensity and leg which might stride halfway to yonder island .
Child 's - play become magnificent on so grand a scale .
But , after all , the most fascinating employment be simply to write your name in the sand .
Draw the letter gigantic , so that two stride may barely measure them , and three for the long stroke ; cut deep , that the record may be permanent .
Statesmen and warrior and poet have spend their strength in no good cause than this .
Is it accomplish ?
Return , then , in an hour or two , and seek for this mighty record of a name .
The sea will have sweep over it , even a time roll it efface wave over the name of statesman and warrior and poet .
Hark !
the surf-wave laugh at you .
Passing from the beach , I begin to clamber over the crag , make my difficult way among the ruin of a rampart shatter and break by the assault of a fierce enemy .
The rock rise in every variety of attitude .
Some of them have their foot in the foam and be shag halfway upward with seaweed ; some have be hollow almost into cavern by the unwearied toil of the sea , which can afford to spend century in wear away a rock , or even polish a pebble .
One huge rock ascends in monumental shape , with a face like a giant 's tombstone , on which the vein resemble inscription , but in an unknown tongue .
We will fancy them the forgotten character of an antediluvian race , or else that Nature 's own hand have here record a mystery which , could I read her language , would make mankind the wiser and the happier .
How many a thing have trouble me with that same idea !
Pass on and leave it unexplained .
Here be a narrow avenue which might seem to have be hew through the very heart of an enormous crag , afford passage for the rise sea to thunder back and forth , fill it with tumultuous foam and then leave it floor of black pebble bare and glistening .
In this chasm there be once an intersect vein of soft stone , which the wave have gnaw away piecemeal , while the granite wall remain entire on either side .
How sharply and with what harsh clamor do the sea rake back the pebble a it momentarily withdraw into it own depth !
At interval the floor of the chasm be leave nearly dry , but anon , at the outlet , two or three great wave be see struggle to get in at once ; two hit the wall athwart , while one rush straight through , and all three thunder a if with rage and triumph .
They heap the chasm with a snow-drift of foam and spray .
While watch this scene I can never rid myself of the idea that a monster endow with life and fierce energy be strive to burst his way through the narrow pas .
And what a contrast to look through the stormy chasm and catch a glimpse of the calm bright sea beyond !
Many interesting discovery may be make among these broken cliff .
Once , for example , I find a dead seal which a recent tempest have toss into the nook of the rock , where his shaggy carcase lay roll in a heap of eel-grass a if the sea-monster sought to hide himself from my eye .
Another time a shark seem on the point of leap from the surf to swallow me , nor do I wholly without dread approach near enough to ascertain that the man-eater have already meet his own death from some fisherman in the bay .
In the same ramble I encounter a bird -- a large gray bird -- but whether a loon or a wild goose or the identical albatross of the Ancient Mariner be beyond my ornithology to decide .
It repose so naturally on a bed of dry seaweed , with it head beside it wing , that I almost fancy it alive , and trod softly lest it should suddenly spread it wing skyward .
But the sea-bird would soar among the cloud no more , nor ride upon it native wave ; so I draw near and pull out one of it mottled tail-feathers for a remembrance .
Another day I discover an immense bone wedge into a chasm of the rock ; it be at least ten foot long , curve like a scymitar , bejewel with barnacle and small shellfish and partly cover with a growth of seaweed .
Some leviathan of former age have use this ponderous mass a a jaw-bone .
Curiosities of a minuter order may be observe in a deep reservoir which be replenish with water at every tide , but become a lake among the crag save when the sea be at it height .
At the bottom of this rocky basin grow marine plant , some of which tower high beneath the water and cast a shadow in the sunshine .
Small fish dart to and fro and hide themselves among the seaweed ; there be also a solitary crab who appear to lead the life of a hermit , commune with none of the other denizen of the place , and likewise several five-finger ; for I know no other name than that which child give them .
If your imagination be at all accustom to such freak , you may look down into the depth of this pool and fancy it the mysterious depth of ocean .
But where be the hulk and scattered timber of sunken ship ?
where the treasure that old Ocean hoard ?
where the corrode cannon ?
where the corps and skeleton of seaman who go down in storm and battle ?
On the day of my last ramble -- it be a September day , yet as warm a summer -- what should I behold a I approach the above-described basin but three girl sit on it margin and -- yes , it be veritably so -- lave their snowy foot in the sunny water ?
These , these be the warm reality of those three visionary shape that flit from me on the beach .
Hark their merry voice a they toss up the water with their foot !
They have not see me .
I must shrink behind this rock and steal away again .
In honest truth , vow to solitude a I be , there be something in this encounter that make the heart flutter with a strangely pleasant sensation .
I know these girl to be reality of flesh and blood , yet , glance at them so briefly , they mingle like kindred creature with the ideal being of my mind .
It be pleasant , likewise , to gaze down from some high crag and watch a group of child gather pebble and pearly shell and play with the surf a with old Ocean 's hoary beard .
Nor do it infringe upon my seclusion to see yonder boat at anchor off the shore swing dreamily to and fro and rise and sink with the alternate swell , while the crew -- four gentleman in roundabout jacket -- be busy with their fishing-lines .
But with an inward antipathy and a headlong flight do I eschew the presence of any meditative stroller like myself , know by his pilgrim-staff , his saunter step , his shy demeanor , his observant yet abstract eye .
From such a man a if another self have scar me I scramble hastily over the rock , and take refuge in a nook which many a secret hour have give me a right to call my own .
I would do battle for it even with the churl that should produce the title-deeds .
Have not my musing melt into it rocky wall and sandy floor and make them a portion of myself ?
It be a recess in the line of cliff , wall round by a rough , high precipice which almost encircles and shuts in a little space of sand .
In front the sea appear a between the pillar of a portal ; in the rear the precipice be break and intermix with earth which give nourishment not only to cling and twin shrub , but to tree that grip the rock with their naked root and seem to struggle hard for footing and for soil enough to live upon .
These be fir tree , but oak hang their heavy branch from above , and throw down acorn on the beach , and shed their withering foliage upon the wave .
At this autumnal season the precipice be deck with variegated splendor .
Trailing wreath of scarlet flaunt from the summit downward ; tuft of yellow-flowering shrub and rose-bushes , with their redden leaf and glossy seed-berries , sprout from each crevice ; at every glance I detect some new light or shade of beauty , all contrast with the stern gray rock .
A rill of water trickle down the cliff and fill a little cistern near the base .
I drain it at a draught , and find it fresh and pure .
This recess shall be my dining-hall .
And what the feast ?
A few biscuit make savory by soak them in sea-water , a tuft of samphire gather from the beach , and an apple for the dessert .
By this time the little rill have fill it reservoir again , and a I quaff it I thank God more heartily than for a civic banquet that he give me the healthful appetite to make a feast of bread and water .
Dinner be over , I throw myself at length upon the sand and , bask in the sunshine , let my mind disport itself at will .
The wall of this my hermitage have no tongue to tell my folly , though I sometimes fancy that they have ear to hear them and a soul to sympathize .
There be a magic in this spot .
Dreams haunt it precinct and flit around me in broad sunlight , nor require that sleep shall blindfold me to real object ere these be visible .
Here can I frame a story of two lover , and make their shadow live before me and be mirror in the tranquil water a they tread along the sand , leave no footprint .
Here , should I will it , I can summon up a single shade and be myself her lover .
-- Yes , dreamer , but your lonely heart will be the colder for such fancy .
-- Sometimes , too , the Past come back , and find me here , and in her train come face which be gladsome when I know them , yet seem not gladsome now .
Would that my hiding-place be lonely , so that the Past might not find me !
-- Get ye all go , old friend , and let me listen to the murmur of the sea -- a melancholy voice , but less sad than yours .
Of what mystery be it tell ?
Of sink ship and whereabouts they lie ?
Of island afar and undiscovered whose tawny child be unconscious of other island and of continent , and deem the star of heaven their near neighbor ?
Nothing of all this .
What , then ?
Has it talk for so many age and mean nothing all the while ?
No ; for those age find utterance in the sea 's unchanging voice , and warn the listener to withdraw his interest from mortal vicissitude and let the infinite idea of eternity pervade his soul .
This be wisdom , and therefore will I spend the next half-hour in shape little boat of driftwood and launch them on voyage across the cove , with the feather of a sea-gull for a sail .
If the voice of age tell me true , this be as wise an occupation a to build ship of five hundred ton and launch them forth upon the main , bound to `` Far Cathay . ''
Yet how would the merchant sneer at me !
And , after all , can such philosophy be true ?
Methinks I could find a thousand argument against it .
Well , then , let yonder shaggy rock mid-deep in the surf -- see !
he be somewhat wrathful : he rag and roar and foam , -- let that tall rock be my antagonist , and let me exercise my oratory like him of Athens who bandy word with an angry sea and get the victory .
My maiden-speech be a triumphant one , for the gentleman in seaweed have nothing to offer in reply save an immitigable roaring .
His voice , indeed , will be hear a long while after mine be hush .
Once more I shout and the cliff reverberate the sound .
Oh what joy for a shy man to feel himself so solitary that he may lift his voice to it high pitch without hazard of a listener !
-- But hush !
Be silent , my good friend !
Whence come that stifle laughter ?
It be musical , but how should there be such music in my solitude ?
Looking upward , I catch a glimpse of three face peep from the summit of the cliff like angel between me and their native sky .
-- Ah , fair girl !
you may make yourself merry at my eloquence , but it be my turn to smile when I saw your white foot in the pool .
Let u keep each other 's secret .
The sunshine have now pass from my hermitage , except a gleam upon the sand just where it meet the sea .
A crowd of gloomy fantasy will come and haunt me if I tarry longer here in the darken twilight of these gray rock .
This be a dismal place in some mood of the mind .
Climb we , therefore , the precipice , and pause a moment on the brink gaze down into that hollow chamber by the deep where we have be what few can be -- sufficient to our own pastime .
Yes , say the word outright : self-sufficient to our own happiness .
How lonesome look the recess now , and dreary too , like all other spot where happiness have be !
There lie my shadow in the depart sunshine with it head upon the sea .
I will pelt it with pebble .
A hit !
a hit !
I clap my hand in triumph , and see my shadow clap it unreal hand and claim the triumph for itself .
What a simpleton must I have be all day , since my own shadow make a mock of my foolery !
Homeward !
homeward !
It be time to hasten home .
It be time -- it be time ; for a the sun sink over the western wave the sea grow melancholy and the surf have a sadden tone .
The distant sail appear astray and not of earth in their remoteness amid the desolate waste .
My spirit wanders forth afar , but find no resting-place and come shiver back .
It be time that I be hence .
But grudge me not the day that have be spend in seclusion which yet be not solitude , since the great sea have be my companion , and the little sea-birds my friend , and the wind have tell me his secret , and airy shape have flit around me in my hermitage .
Such companionship work an effect upon a man 's character a if he have be admit to the society of creature that be not mortal .
And when , at noontide , I tread the crowded street , the influence of this day will still be felt ; so that I shall walk among men kindly and a a brother , with affection and sympathy , but yet shall not melt into the indistinguishable mass of humankind .
I shall think my own thought and feel my own emotion and possess my individuality unviolated .
But it be good at the eve of such a day to feel and know that there be men and woman in the world .
That feeling and that knowledge be mine at this moment , for on the shore , far below me , the fishing-party have land from their skiff and be cook their scaly prey by a fire of driftwood kindle in the angle of two rude rock .
The three visionary girl be likewise there .
In the deepening twilight , while the surf be dash near their hearth , the ruddy gleam of the fire throw a strange air of comfort over the wild cove , bestrewn a it be with pebble and seaweed and expose to the `` melancholy main . ''
Moreover , a the smoke climb up the precipice , it bring with it a savory smell from a pan of fried fish and a black kettle of chowder , and remind me that my dinner be nothing but bread and water and a tuft of samphire and an apple .
Methinks the party might find room for another guest at that flat rock which serve them for a table ; and if spoon be scarce , I could pick up a clam-shell on the beach .
They see me now ; and -- the blessing of a hungry man upon him !
-- one of them send up a hospitable shout : `` Halloo , Sir Solitary !
Come down and sup with u ! ''
The lady wave their handkerchief .
Can I decline ?
No ; and be it own , after all my solitary joy , that this be the sweet moment of a day by the seashore .
EDWARD FANE 'S ROSEBUD .
There be hardly a more difficult exercise of fancy than , while gaze at a figure of melancholy age , to recreate it youth , and without entirely obliterate the identity of form and feature to restore those grace which Time have snatch away .
Some old people -- especially woman -- so age-worn and woeful be they , seem never to have be young and gay .
It be easy to conceive that such gloomy phantom be send into the world a withered and decrepit a we behold them now , with sympathy only for pain and grief , to watch at death-beds and weep at funeral .
Even the sable garment of their widowhood appear essential to their existence ; all their attribute combine to render them darksome shadow creep strangely amid the sunshine of human life .
Yet it be no unprofitable task to take one of these doleful creature and set Fancy resolutely at work to brighten the dim eye , and darken the silvery lock , and paint the ashen cheek with rose-color , and repair the shrunken and crazy form , till a dewy maiden shall be see in the old matron 's elbow-chair .
The miracle be work , then let the year roll back again , each sadder than the last , and the whole weight of age and sorrow settle down upon the youthful figure .
Wrinkles and furrow , the handwriting of Time , may thus be decipher and find to contain deep lesson of thought and feeling .
Such profit might be derive by a skilful observer from my much-respected friend the Widow Toothaker , a nurse of great repute who have breathe the atmosphere of sick-chambers and dying-breaths these forty year .
See !
she sit cower over her lonesome hearth with her gown and upper petticoat drawn upward , gather thriftily into her person the whole warmth of the fire which now at nightfall begin to dissipate the autumnal chill of her chamber .
The blaze quiver capriciously in front , alternately glimmer into the deep chasm of her wrinkled visage , and then permit a ghostly dimness to mar the outline of her venerable figure .
And Nurse Toothaker hold a teaspoon in her right hand with which to stir up the content of a tumbler in her left , whence steam a vapory fragrance abhor of temperance society .
Now she sip , now stir , now sip again .
Her sad old heart have need to be revive by the rich infusion of Geneva which be mixed half and half with hot water in the tumbler .
All day long she have be sit by a death-pillow , and quit it for her home only when the spirit of her patient leave the clay and go homeward too .
But now be her melancholy meditation cheer and her torpid blood warm and her shoulder lighten of at least twenty ponderous year by a draught from the true fountain of youth in a case-bottle .
It be strange that men should deem that fount a fable , when it liquor fill more bottle than the Congress-water .
-- Sip it again , good nurse , and see whether a second draught will not take off another score of year , and perhaps ten more , and show u in your high-backed chair the blooming damsel who plight troth with Edward Fane .
-- Get you go , Age and Widowhood !
-- Come back , unwedded Youth !
-- But , ala !
the charm will not work .
In spite of Fancy 's most potent spell , I can see only an old dame cowering over the fire , a picture of decay and desolation , while the November blast roar at her in the chimney and fitful shower rush suddenly against the window .
Yet there be a time when Rose Grafton -- such be the pretty maiden-name of Nurse Toothaker -- possess beauty that would have gladden this dim and dismal chamber a with sunshine .
It win for her the heart of Edward Fane , who have since make so great a figure in the world and be now a grand old gentleman with powdered hair and as gouty a a lord .
These early lover think to have walk hand in hand through life .
They have weep together for Edward 's little sister Mary , whom Rose tend in her sickness -- partly because she be the sweet child that ever live or die , but more for love of him .
She be but three year old .
Being such an infant , Death could not embody his terror in her little corpse ; nor do Rose fear to touch the dead child 's brow , though chill , a she curl the silken hair around it , nor to take her tiny hand and clasp a flower within it finger .
Afterward , when she look through the pane of glass in the coffin-lid and behold Mary 's face , it seem not so much like death or life a like a wax-work wrought into the perfect image of a child asleep and dreaming of it mother 's smile .
Rose think her too fair a thing to be hide in the grave , and wonder that an angel do not snatch up little Mary 's coffin and bear the slumber babe to heaven and bid her wake immortal .
But when the sod be lay on little Mary , the heart of Rose be trouble .
She shudder at the fantasy that in grasp the child 's cold finger her virgin hand have exchange a first greeting with mortality and could never lose the earthy taint .
How many a greeting since !
But a yet she be a fair young girl with the dewdrop of fresh feeling in her bosom , and , instead of `` Rose '' -- which seem too mature a name for her half-opened beauty -- her lover call her `` Rosebud . ''
The rosebud be destine never to bloom for Edward Fane .
His mother be a rich and haughty dame with all the aristocratic prejudice of colonial time .
She scorn Rose Grafton 's humble parentage and cause her son to break his faith , though , have she let him choose , he would have prize his Rosebud above the rich diamond .
The lover part , and have seldom meet again .
Both may have visit the same mansion , but not at the same time , for one be bid to the festal hall and the other to the sick-chamber ; he be the guest of Pleasure and Prosperity , and she of Anguish .
Rose , after their separation , be long seclude within the dwelling of Mr. Toothaker , whom she marry with the revengeful hope of break her false lover 's heart .
She go to her bridegroom 's arm with bitterer tear , they say , than young girl ought to shed at the threshold of the bridal-chamber .
Yet , though her husband 's head be get gray and his heart have be chill with an autumnal frost , Rose soon begin to love him , and wonder at her own conjugal affection .
He be all she have to love ; there be no child .
In a year or two poor Mr. Toothaker be visit with a wearisome infirmity which settle in his joint and make him weak than a child .
He creep forth about his business , and come home at dinner-time and eventide , not with the manly tread that gladden a wife 's heart , but slowly , feebly , jot down each dull footstep with a melancholy dub of his staff .
We must pardon his pretty wife if she sometimes blush to own him .
Her visitor , when they hear him come , look for the appearance of some old , old man , but he drag his nerveless limb into the parlor -- and there be Mr. Toothaker !
The disease increase , he never go into the sunshine save with a staff in his right hand and his left on his wife 's shoulder , bear heavily downward like a dead man 's hand .
Thus , a slender woman still look maiden-like , she support his tall , broad-chested frame along the pathway of their little garden , and pluck the rose for her gray-haired husband , and speak soothingly a to an infant .
His mind be palsy with his body ; it utmost energy be peevishness .
In a few month more she help him up the staircase with a pause at every step , and a longer one upon the landing-place , and a heavy glance behind a he cross the threshold of his chamber .
He know , poor man !
that the precinct of those four wall would thenceforth be his world -- his world , his home , his tomb , at once a dwelling-and a burial-place -- till he be bear to a darker and a narrow one .
But Rose be with him in the tomb .
He lean upon her in his daily passage from the bed to the chair by the fireside , and back again from the weary chair to the joyless bed -- his bed and hers , their marriage-bed -- till even this short journey cease and his head lay all day upon the pillow and hers all night beside it .
How long poor Mr. Toothaker be keep in misery !
Death seem to draw near the door , and often to lift the latch , and sometimes to thrust his ugly skull into the chamber , nod to Rose and point at her husband , but still delay to enter .
`` This bedridden wretch can not escape me , '' quoth Death .
`` I will go forth and run a race with the swift and fight a battle with the strong , and come back for Toothaker at my leisure . ''
Oh , when the deliverer come so near , in the dull anguish of her worn-out sympathy do she never long to cry , `` Death , come in '' ?
But no ; we have no right to ascribe such a wish to our friend Rose .
She never fail in a wife 's duty to her poor sick husband .
She murmur not though a glimpse of the sunny sky be a strange to her a him , nor answered peevishly though his complain accent rouse her from sweetest dream only to share his wretchedness .
He know her faith , yet nourish a cankered jealousy ; and when the slow disease have chill all his heart save one lukewarm spot which Death 's frozen finger be search for , his last word be , `` What would my Rose have do for her first love , if she have be so true and kind to a sick old man like me ? ''
And then his poor soul creep away and leave the body lifeless , though hardly more so than for year before , and Rose a widow , though in truth it be the wedding-night that widow her .
She felt glad , it must be own , when Mr. Toothaker be bury , because his corpse have retain such a likeness to the man half alive that she hearken for the sad murmur of his voice bid her shift his pillow .
But all through the next winter , though the grave have hold him many a month , she fancy him call from that cold bed , `` Rose , Rose !
Come put a blanket on my foot ! ''
So now the Rosebud be the widow Toothaker .
Her trouble have come early , and , tedious a they seem , have pass before all her bloom be flee .
She be still fair enough to captivate a bachelor , or with a widow 's cheerful gravity she might have win a widower , steal into his heart in the very guise of his dead wife .
But the widow Toothaker have no such project .
By her watching and continual care her heart have become knit to her first husband with a constancy which change it very nature and make her love him for his infirmity , and infirmity for his sake .
When the palsied old man be go , even her early lover could not have supply his place .
She have dwell in a sick-chamber and be the companion of a half-dead wretch till she could scarcely breathe in a free air and felt ill at ease with the healthy and the happy .
She miss the fragrance of the doctor 's stuff .
She walk the chamber with a noiseless footfall .
If visitor come in , she speak in soft and soothing accent , and be startle and shock by their loud voice .
Often in the lonesome evening she look timorously from the fireside to the bed , with almost a hope of recognize a ghastly face upon the pillow .
Then go her thought sadly to her husband 's grave .
If one impatient throb have wrong him in his lifetime , if she have secretly repine because her buoyant youth be imprison with his torpid age , if ever while slumber beside him a treacherous dream have admit another into her heart , -- yet the sick man have be prepare a revenge which the dead now claim .
On his painful pillow he have cast a spell around her ; his groan and misery have prove more captivating charm than gayety and youthful grace ; in his semblance Disease itself have win the Rosebud for a bride , nor could his death dissolve the nuptials .
By that indissoluble bond she have gain a home in every sick-chamber , and nowhere else ; there be her brother and sister ; thither her husband summon her with that voice which have seem to issue from the grave of Toothaker .
At length she recognize her destiny .
We have behold her a the maid , the wife , the widow ; now we see her in a separate and insulated character : she be in all her attribute Nurse Toothaker .
And Nurse Toothaker alone , with her own shrivelled lip , could make known her experience in that capacity .
What a history might she record of the great sickness in which she have go hand in hand with the exterminate angel !
She remember when the small-pox hoist a red banner on almost every house along the street .
She have witness when the typhus fever sweep off a whole household , young and old , all but a lonely mother , who vainly shriek to follow her last loved one .
Where would be Death 's triumph if none live to weep ?
She can speak of strange malady that have break out a if spontaneously , but be find to have be import from foreign land with rich silk and other merchandise , the costly portion of the cargo .
And once , she recollect , the people die of what be consider a new pestilence , till the doctor trace it to the ancient grave of a young girl who thus cause many death a hundred year after her own burial .
Strange that such black mischief should lurk in a maiden 's grave !
She love to tell how strong men fight with fiery fever , utterly refuse to give up their breath , and how consumptive virgin fade out of the world , scarcely reluctant , a if their lover be woo them to a far country .
-- Tell u , thou fearful woman ; tell u the death-secrets .
Fain would I search out the meaning of word faintly gasp with intermingled sob and broken sentence half-audibly speak between earth and the judgment-seat .
An awful woman !
She be the patron-saint of young physician and the bosom-friend of old one .
In the mansion where she enter the inmate provide themselves black garment ; the coffin-maker follow her , and the bell toll a she come away from the threshold .
Death himself have meet her at so many a bedside that he put forth his bony hand to greet Nurse Toothaker .
She be an awful woman .
And oh , be it conceivable that this handmaid of human infirmity and affliction -- so darkly stain , so thoroughly imbue with all that be saddest in the doom of mortal -- can ever again be bright and gladsome even though bath in the sunshine of eternity ?
By her long communion with woe have she not forfeit her inheritance of immortal joy ?
Does any germ of bliss survive within her ?
Hark !
an eager knocking st Nurse Toothaker 's door .
She start from her drowsy reverie , set aside the empty tumbler and teaspoon , and light a lamp at the dim ember of the fire .
`` Rap , rap , rap ! ''
again , and she hurry adown the staircase , wonder which of her friend can be at death 's door now , since there be such an earnest messenger at Nurse Toothaker 's .
Again the peal resound just a her hand be on the lock .
`` Be quick , Nurse Toothaker ! ''
cry a man on the doorstep .
`` Old General Fane be take with the gout in his stomach and have send for you to watch by his death-bed .
Make haste , for there be no time to lose . ''
-- `` Fane !
Edward Fane !
And have he send for me at last ?
I be ready .
I will get on my cloak and begone .
So , '' add the sable-gowned , ashen-visaged , funereal old figure , `` Edward Fane remember his Rosebud . ''
Our question be answer .
There be a germ of bliss within her .
Her long-hoarded constancy , her memory of the bliss that be remain amid the gloom of her after-life like a sweet-smelling flower in a coffin , be a symbol that all may be renew .
In some happier clime the Rosebud may revive again with all the dewdrop in it bosom .
THE THREEFOLD DESTINY .
A FARY LEGEND .
I have sometimes produce a singular and not unpleasing effect , so far a my own mind be concern , by imagine a train of incident in which the spirit and mechanism of the fary legend should be combine with the character and manner of familiar life .
In the little tale which follow a subdued tinge of the wild and wonderful be throw over a sketch of New England personage and scenery , yet , it be hop , without entirely obliterate the sober hue of nature .
Rather than a story of event claim to be real , it may be consider a an allegory such a the writer of the last century would have express in the shape of an Eastern tale , but to which I have endeavor to give a more lifelike warmth than could be infuse into those fanciful production .
In the twilight of a summer eve a tall dark figure over which long and remote travel have throw an outlandish aspect be enter a village not in `` fary londe , '' but within our own familiar boundary .
The staff on which this traveller lean have be his companion from the spot where it grow in the jungle of Hindostan ; the hat that overshadow his sombre brow , have shield him from the sun of Spain ; but his cheek have be blacken by the red-hot wind of an Arabian desert and have felt the frozen breath of an Arctic region .
Long sojourn amid wild and dangerous men , he still wear beneath his vest the ataghan which he have once strike into the throat of a Turkish robber .
In every foreign clime he have lose something of his New England characteristic , and perhaps from every people he have unconsciously borrow a new peculiarity ; so that when the world-wanderer again trod the street of his native village it be no wonder that he pass unrecognized , though excite the gaze and curiosity of all .
Yet , a his arm casually touch that of a young woman who be wend her way to an evening lecture , she start and almost utter a cry .
`` Ralph Cranfield ! ''
be the name that she half articulate .
`` Can that be my old playmate Faith Egerton ? ''
think the traveller , look round at her figure , but without pause .
Ralph Cranfield from his youth upward have felt himself mark out for a high destiny .
He have imbibe the idea -- we say not whether it be reveal to him by witchcraft or in a dream of prophecy , or that his brooding fancy have palm it own dictate upon him a the oracle of a sybil , but he have imbibe the idea , and hold it firm among his article of faith -- that three marvellous event of his life be to be confirm to him by three sign .
The first of these three fatality , and perhaps the one on which his youthful imagination have dwell most fondly , be the discovery of the maid who alone of all the maid on earth could make him happy by her love .
He be to roam around the world till he should meet a beautiful woman wear on her bosom a jewel in the shape of a heart -- whether of pearl or ruby or emerald or carbuncle or a changeful opal , or perhaps a priceless diamond , Ralph Cranfield little care , so long a it be a heart of one peculiar shape .
On encounter this lovely stranger he be bind to address her thus : `` Maiden , I have bring you a heavy heart .
May I rest it weight on you ? ''
And if she be his fated bride -- if their kindred soul be destine to form a union here below which all eternity should only bind more closely -- she would reply , with her finger on the heart-shaped jewel , `` This token which I have wear so long be the assurance that you may . ''
And , secondly , Ralph Cranfield have a firm belief that there be a mighty treasure hidden somewhere in the earth of which the burial-place would be reveal to none but him .
When his foot should press upon the mysterious spot , there would be a hand before him point downward -- whether carve of marble or hewn in gigantic dimension on the side of a rocky precipice , or perchance a hand of flame in empty air , he could not tell , but at least he would discern a hand , the forefinger point downward , and beneath it the Latin word '' Effode '' -- `` Dig ! ''
And , dig thereabouts , the gold in coin or ingot , the precious stone , or of whatever else the treasure might consist , would be certain to reward his toil .
The third and last of the miraculous event in the life of this high-destined man be to be the attainment of extensive influence and sway over his fellow-creatures .
Whether he be to be a king and founder of a hereditary throne , or the victorious leader of a people contend for their freedom , or the apostle of a purified and regenerated faith , be leave for futurity to show .
As messenger of the sign by which Ralph Cranfield might recognize the summons , three venerable men be to claim audience of him .
The chief among them -- a dignified and majestic person array , it may be suppose , in the flowing garment of an ancient sage -- would be the bearer of a wand or prophet 's rod .
With this wand or rod or staff the venerable sage would trace a certain figure in the air , and then proceed to make know his Heaven-instructed message , which , if obey , must lead to glorious result .
With this proud fate before him , in the flush of his imaginative youth Ralph Cranfield have set forth to seek the maid , the treasure , and the venerable sage with his gift of extended empire .
And have he find them ?
Alas !
it be not with the aspect of a triumphant man who have achieve a nobler destiny than all his fellow , but rather with the gloom of one struggle against peculiar and continual adversity , that he now pass homeward to his mother 's cottage .
He have come back , but only for a time , to lay aside the pilgrim 's staff , trust that his weary manhood would regain somewhat of the elasticity of youth in the spot where his threefold fate have be foreshow him .
There have be few change in the village , for it be not one of those thriving place where a year 's prosperity make more than the havoc of a century 's decay , but , like a gray hair in a young man 's head , an antiquated little town full of old maid and age elm and moss-grown dwelling .
Few seem to be the change here .
The drooping elm , indeed , have a more majestic spread , the weather-blackened house be adorn with a denser thatch of verdant moss , and doubtless there be a few more gravestone in the burial-ground inscribed with name that have once be familiar in the village street ; yet , sum up all the mischief that ten year have work , it seem scarcely more than if Ralph Cranfield have go forth that very morning and dream a day-dream till the twilight , and then turn back again .
But his heart grow cold because the village do not remember him a he remember the village .
`` Here be the change , '' sigh he , strike his hand upon his breast .
`` Who be this man of thought and care , weary with world-wandering and heavy with disappointed hope ?
The youth return not who go forth so joyously . ''
And now Ralph Cranfield be at his mother 's gate , in front of the small house where the old lady , with slender but sufficient mean , have keep herself comfortable during her son 's long absence .
Admitting himself within the enclosure , he lean against a great old tree , trifle with his own impatience a people often do in those interval when year be sum into a moment .
He take a minute survey of the dwelling -- it window brighten with the sky-gleam , it doorway with the half of a millstone for a step , and the faintly-traced path wave thence to the gate .
He make friend again with his childhood 's friend -- the old tree against which he lean -- and , glance his eye down it trunk , behold something that excite a melancholy smile .
It be a half-obliterated inscription -- the Latin word '' Effode '' -- which he remember to have carve in the bark of the tree with a whole day 's toil when he have first begin to muse about his exalted destiny .
It might be account a rather singular coincidence that the bark just above the inscription have put forth an excrescence shape not unlike a hand , with the forefinger point obliquely at the word of fate .
Such , at least , be it appearance in the dusky light .
`` Now , a credulous man , '' say Ralph Cranfield , carelessly , to himself , `` might suppose that the treasure which I have seek round the world lie bury , after all , at the very door of my mother 's dwelling .
That would be a jest indeed . ''
More he think not about the matter , for now the door be open and an elderly woman appear on the threshold , peer into the dusk to discover who it might be that have intrude on her premise and be stand in the shadow of her tree .
It be Ralph Cranfield 's mother .
Pass we over their greeting , and leave the one to her joy and the other to his rest -- if quiet rest he find .
But when morning break , he arise with a troubled brow , for his sleep and his wakefulness have alike be full of dream .
All the fervor be rekindle with which he have burn of yore to unravel the threefold mystery of his fate .
The crowd of his early vision seem to have await him beneath his mother 's roof and throng riotously around to welcome his return .
In the well-remembered chamber , on the pillow where his infancy have slumber , he have pass a wilder night than ever in an Arab tent or when he have repose his head in the ghastly shade of a haunt forest .
A shadowy maid have steal to his bedside and lay her finger on the scintillating heart ; a hand of flame have glow amid the darkness , point downward to a mystery within the earth ; a hoary sage have wave his prophetic wand and beckon the dreamer onward to a chair of state .
The same phantom , though fainter in the daylight , still flit about , the cottage and mingle among the crowd of familiar face that be draw thither by the news of Ralph Cranfield 's return to bid him welcome for his mother 's sake .
There they find him , a tall , dark , stately man of foreign aspect , courteous in demeanor and mild of speech , yet with an abstract eye which seem often to snatch a glance at the invisible .
Meantime , the widow Cranfield go bustle about the house full of joy that she again have somebody to love and be careful of , and for whom she might vex and tease herself with the petty trouble of daily life .
It be nearly noon when she look forth from the door and descry three personage of note come along the street through the hot sunshine and the mass of elm-tree shade .
At length they reach her gate and undo the latch .
`` See , Ralph ! ''
exclaim she , with maternal pride ; `` here be Squire Hawkwood and the two other selectman come on purpose to see you .
Now , do tell them a good long story about what you have see in foreign part . ''
The foremost of the three visitor , Squire Hawkwood , be a very pompous but excellent old gentleman , the head and prime-mover in all the affair of the village , and universally acknowledge to be one of the sage men on earth .
He wear , accord to a fashion even then become antiquate , a three-cornered hat , and carry a silver-headed cane the use of which seem to be rather for flourish in the air than for assist the progress of his leg .
His two companion be elderly and respectable yeoman who , retain an ante-Revolutionary reverence for rank and hereditary wealth , keep a little in the squire 's rear .
As they approach along the pathway Ralph Cranfield sit in an oaken elbow-chair half unconsciously gaze at the three visitor and envelop their homely figure in the misty romance that pervade his mental world .
`` Here , '' think he , smile at the conceit -- `` here come three elderly personage , and the first of the three be a venerable sage with a staff .
What if this embassy should bring me the message of my fate ? ''
While Squire Hawkwood and his colleague enter , Ralph rise from his seat and advance a few step to receive them , and his stately figure and dark countenance a he bend courteously toward his guest have a natural dignity contrast well with the bustle importance of the squire .
The old gentleman , accord to invariable custom , give an elaborate preliminary flourish with his cane in the air , then remove his three-cornered hat in order to wipe his brow , and finally proceed to make know his errand .
`` My colleague and myself , '' begin the squire , `` be burden with momentous duty , be jointly selectman of this village .
Our mind for the space of three day past have be laboriously bent on the selection of a suitable person to fill a most important office and take upon himself a charge and rule which , wisely consider , may be rank no low than those of king and potentate .
And whereas you , our native townsman , be of good natural intellect and well cultivate by foreign travel , and that certain vagary and fantasy of your youth be doubtless long ago correct , -- take all these matter , I say , into due consideration , we be of opinion that Providence hath send you hither at this juncture for our very purpose . ''
During this harangue Cranfield gaze fixedly at the speaker , a if he behold something mysterious and unearthly in his pompous little figure , and a if the squire have wear the flow robe of an ancient sage instead of a square-skirted coat , flap waistcoat , velvet breech and silk stocking .
Nor be his wonder without sufficient cause , for the flourish of the squire 's staff , marvellous to relate , have describe precisely the signal in the air which be to ratify the message of the prophetic sage whom Cranfield have seek around the world .
`` And what , '' inquire Ralph Cranfield , with a tremor in his voice -- `` what may this office be which be to equal me with king and potentate ? ''
`` No less than instructor of our village school , '' answer Squire Hawkwood , `` the office be now vacant by the death of the venerable Master Whitaker after a fifty year ' incumbency . ''
`` I will consider of your proposal , '' reply Ralph Cranfield , hurriedly , `` and will make known my decision within three day . ''
After a few more word the village dignitary and his companion take their leave .
But to Cranfield 's fancy their image be still present , and become more and more invested with the dim awfulness of figure which have first appear to him in a dream , and afterward have show themselves in his waking moment , assume homely aspects among familiar thing .
His mind dwelt upon the feature of the squire till they grow confuse with those of the visionary sage and one appear but the shadow of the other .
The same visage , he now thought , have look forth upon him from the Pyramid of Cheops ; the same form have beckon to him among the colonnade of the Alhambra ; the same figure have mistily reveal itself through the ascend steam of the Great Geyser .
At every effort of his memory he recognize some trait of the dreamy messenger of destiny in this pompous , bustling , self-important , little-great man of the village .
Amid such musing Ralph Cranfield sit all day in the cottage , scarcely hear and vaguely answer his mother 's thousand question about his travel and adventure .
At sunset he rouse himself to take a stroll , and , pass the age elm tree , his eye be again catch by the semblance of a hand point downward at the half-obliterated inscription .
As Cranfield walk down the street of the village the level sunbeam throw his shadow far before him , and he fancy that , a his shadow walk among distant object , so have there be a presentiment stalk in advance of him throughout his life .
And when he draw near each object over which his tall shadow have precede him , still it prove to be one of the familiar recollection of his infancy and youth .
Every crook in the pathway be remember .
Even the more transitory characteristic of the scene be the same a in by-gone day .
A company of cow be graze on the grassy roadside , and refresh him with their fragrant breath .
`` It be sweeter , '' think he , `` than the perfume which be waft to our ship from the Spice Islands . ''
The round little figure of a child roll from a doorway and lay laugh almost beneath Cranfield 's foot .
The dark and stately man stoop down , and , lift the infant , restore him to his mother 's arm .
`` The child , '' say he to himself , and sigh and smile -- `` the child be to be my charge . ''
And while a flow of natural feeling gush like a well-spring in his heart he come to a dwelling which he could nowise forbear to enter .
A sweet voice which seem to come from a deep and tender soul be warble a plaintive little air within .
He bend his head and pass through the lowly door .
As his foot sound upon the threshold a young woman advance from the dusky interior of the house , at first hastily , and then with a more uncertain step , till they meet face to face .
There be a singular contrast in their two figure -- he dark and picturesque , one who have battle with the world , whom all sun have shine upon and whom all wind have blow on a varied course ; she neat , comely and quiet -- quiet even in her agitation -- a if all her emotion have be subdue to the peaceful tenor of her life .
Yet their face , all unlike a they be , have an expression that seem not so alien -- a glow of kindred feeling flash upward anew from half-extinguished ember .
`` You be welcome home , '' say Faith Egerton .
But Cranfield do not immediately answer , for his eye have , be catch by an ornament in the shape of a heart which Faith wear a a brooch upon her bosom .
The material be the ordinary white quartz , and he recollect have himself shape it out of one of those Indian arrowhead which be so often find in the ancient haunt of the red men .
It be precisely on the pattern of that worn by the visionary maid .
When Cranfield depart on his shadowy search , he have bestow this brooch , in a gold setting , a a part gift to Faith Egerton .
`` So , Faith , you have keep the heart ? ''
say he , at length .
`` Yes , '' say she , blush deeply ; then , more gayly , `` And what else have you bring me from beyond the sea ? ''
`` Faith , '' reply Ralph Cranfield , utter the fat word by an uncontrollable impulse , `` I have bring you nothing but a heavy heart .
May I rest it weight on you ? ''
`` This token which I have wear so long , '' say Faith , lay her tremulous finger on the heart , `` be the assurance that you may . ''
`` Faith , Faith ! ''
cried Cranfield , clasp her in his arm ; `` you have interpret my wild and weary dream ! ''
Yes , the wild dreamer be awake at last .
To find the mysterious treasure he be to till the earth around his mother 's dwelling and reap it product ; instead of warlike command or regal or religious sway , he be to rule over the village child ; and now the visionary maid have fade from his fancy , and in her place he saw the playmate of his childhood .
Would all who cherish such wild wish but look around them , they would oftenest find their sphere of duty , of prosperity and happiness , within those precinct and in that station where Providence itself have cast their lot .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Oscar_Wilde___The_Happy_Prince_and_Other_Tales.txt.out
High above the city , on a tall column , stand the statue of the Happy Prince .
He be gild all over with thin leaf of fine gold , for eye he have two bright sapphire , and a large red ruby glow on his sword-hilt .
He be very much admire indeed .
`` He be as beautiful a a weathercock , '' remark one of the Town Councillors who wish to gain a reputation for have artistic taste ; `` only not quite so useful , '' he add , fear l people should think him unpractical , which he really be not .
`` Why ca n't you be like the Happy Prince ? ''
ask a sensible mother of her little boy who be cry for the moon .
`` The Happy Prince never dream of cry for anything . ''
`` I be glad there be some one in the world who be quite happy , '' mutter a disappointed man a he gaze at the wonderful statue .
`` He look just like an angel , '' say the Charity Children a they come out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloak and their clean white pinafore .
`` How do you know ? ''
say the Mathematical Master , `` you have never see one . ''
`` Ah !
but we have , in our dream , '' answer the child ; and the Mathematical Master frown and look very severe , for he do not approve of child dream .
One night there fly over the city a little Swallow .
His friend have go away to Egypt six week before , but he have stay behind , for he be in love with the most beautiful Reed .
He have meet her early in the spring a he be fly down the river after a big yellow moth , and have be so attracted by her slender waist that he have stop to talk to her .
`` Shall I love you ? ''
say the Swallow , who like to come to the point at once , and the Reed make him a low bow .
So he fly round and round her , touch the water with his wing , and make silver ripple .
This be his courtship , and it last all through the summer .
`` It be a ridiculous attachment , '' twitter the other Swallows ; `` she have no money , and far too many relation '' ; and indeed the river be quite full of Reeds .
Then , when the autumn come they all fly away .
After they have go he felt lonely , and begin to tire of his lady - love .
`` She have no conversation , '' he say , `` and I be afraid that she be a coquette , for she be always flirt with the wind . ''
And certainly , whenever the wind blew , the Reed make the most graceful curtsey .
`` I admit that she be domestic , '' he continue , `` but I love travel , and my wife , consequently , should love travelling also . ''
`` Will you come away with me ? ''
he say finally to her ; but the Reed shake her head , she be so attached to her home .
`` You have be trifle with me , '' he cry .
`` I be off to the Pyramids .
Good-bye ! ''
and he fly away .
All day long he fly , and at night-time he arrive at the city .
`` Where shall I put up ? ''
he say ; `` I hope the town have make preparation . ''
Then he saw the statue on the tall column .
`` I will put up there , '' he cry ; `` it be a fine position , with plenty of fresh air . ''
So he alight just between the foot of the Happy Prince .
`` I have a golden bedroom , '' he say softly to himself a he look round , and he prepare to go to sleep ; but just a he be put his head under his wing a large drop of water fell on him .
`` What a curious thing ! ''
he cry ; `` there be not a single cloud in the sky , the star be quite clear and bright , and yet it be rain .
The climate in the north of Europe be really dreadful .
The Reed use to like the rain , but that be merely her selfishness . ''
Then another drop fell .
`` What be the use of a statue if it can not keep the rain off ? ''
he say ; `` I must look for a good chimney-pot , '' and he determine to fly away .
But before he have open his wing , a third drop fell , and he look up , and saw -- Ah !
what do he see ?
The eye of the Happy Prince be fill with tear , and tear be run down his golden cheek .
His face be so beautiful in the moonlight that the little Swallow be fill with pity .
`` Who be you ? ''
he say .
`` I be the Happy Prince . ''
`` Why be you weep then ? ''
ask the Swallow ; `` you have quite drench me . ''
`` When I be alive and have a human heart , '' answer the statue , `` I do not know what tear be , for I live in the Palace of Sans - Souci , where sorrow be not allow to enter .
In the daytime I play with my companion in the garden , and in the evening I lead the dance in the Great Hall .
Round the garden run a very lofty wall , but I never care to ask what lay beyond it , everything about me be so beautiful .
My courtier call me the Happy Prince , and happy indeed I be , if pleasure be happiness .
So I live , and so I die .
And now that I be dead they have set me up here so high that I can see all the ugliness and all the misery of my city , and though my heart be make of lead yet I can not choose but weep . ''
`` What !
be he not solid gold ? ''
say the Swallow to himself .
He be too polite to make any personal remark out loud .
`` Far away , '' continue the statue in a low musical voice , `` far away in a little street there be a poor house .
One of the window be open , and through it I can see a woman seat at a table .
Her face be thin and worn , and she have coarse , red hand , all prick by the needle , for she be a seamstress .
She be embroider passion - flower on a satin gown for the lovely of the Queen 's maids-of - honour to wear at the next Court-ball .
In a bed in the corner of the room her little boy be lie ill .
He have a fever , and be ask for orange .
His mother have nothing to give him but river water , so he be cry .
Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword-hilt ?
My foot be fasten to this pedestal and I can not move . ''
`` I be wait for in Egypt , '' say the Swallow .
`` My friend be fly up and down the Nile , and talk to the large lotus - flower .
Soon they will go to sleep in the tomb of the great King .
The King be there himself in his painted coffin .
He be wrap in yellow linen , and embalm with spice .
Round his neck be a chain of pale green jade , and his hand be like withered leaf . ''
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` will you not stay with me for one night , and be my messenger ?
The boy be so thirsty , and the mother so sad . ''
`` I do n't think I like boy , '' answer the Swallow .
`` Last summer , when I be stay on the river , there be two rude boy , the miller 's son , who be always throw stone at me .
They never hit me , of course ; we swallow fly far too well for that , and besides , I come of a family famous for it agility ; but still , it be a mark of disrespect . ''
But the Happy Prince look so sad that the little Swallow be sorry .
`` It be very cold here , '' he say ; `` but I will stay with you for one night , and be your messenger . ''
`` Thank you , little Swallow , '' say the Prince .
So the Swallow pick out the great ruby from the Prince 's sword , and fly away with it in his beak over the roof of the town .
He pass by the cathedral tower , where the white marble angel be sculpture .
He pass by the palace and hear the sound of dancing .
A beautiful girl come out on the balcony with her lover .
`` How wonderful the star be , '' he say to her , `` and how wonderful be the power of love ! ''
`` I hope my dress will be ready in time for the State-ball , '' she answer ; `` I have order passion-flowers to be embroider on it ; but the seamstress be so lazy . ''
He pass over the river , and saw the lantern hang to the mast of the ship .
He pass over the Ghetto , and saw the old Jews bargaining with each other , and weigh out money in copper scale .
At last he come to the poor house and look in .
The boy be toss feverishly on his bed , and the mother have fall asleep , she be so tired .
In he hop , and lay the great ruby on the table beside the woman 's thimble .
Then he fly gently round the bed , fan the boy 's forehead with his wing .
`` How cool I feel , '' say the boy , `` I must be get good '' ; and he sink into a delicious slumber .
Then the Swallow fly back to the Happy Prince , and tell him what he have do .
`` It be curious , '' he remark , `` but I feel quite warm now , although it be so cold . ''
`` That be because you have do a good action , '' say the Prince .
And the little Swallow begin to think , and then he fell asleep .
Thinking always make him sleepy .
When day break he fly down to the river and have a bath .
`` What a remarkable phenomenon , '' say the Professor of Ornithology a he be pass over the bridge .
`` A swallow in winter ! ''
And he write a long letter about it to the local newspaper .
Every one quote it , it be full of so many word that they could not understand .
`` To-night I go to Egypt , '' say the Swallow , and he be in high spirit at the prospect .
He visit all the public monument , and sit a long time on top of the church steeple .
Wherever he go the Sparrows chirrup , and say to each other , `` What a distinguished stranger ! ''
so he enjoy himself very much .
When the moon rise he fly back to the Happy Prince .
`` Have you any commission for Egypt ? ''
he cry ; `` I be just start . ''
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` will you not stay with me one night long ? ''
`` I be wait for in Egypt , '' answer the Swallow .
`` To-morrow my friend will fly up to the Second Cataract .
The river-horse couch there among the bulrush , and on a great granite throne sit the God Memnon .
All night long he watch the star , and when the morning star shine he utter one cry of joy , and then he be silent .
At noon the yellow lion come down to the water 's edge to drink .
They have eye like green beryl , and their roar be loud than the roar of the cataract .
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` far away across the city I see a young man in a garret .
He be lean over a desk cover with paper , and in a tumbler by his side there be a bunch of withered violet .
His hair be brown and crisp , and his lip be red a a pomegranate , and he have large and dreamy eye .
He be try to finish a play for the Director of the Theatre , but he be too cold to write any more .
There be no fire in the grate , and hunger have make him faint . ''
`` I will wait with you one night longer , '' say the Swallow , who really have a good heart .
`` Shall I take him another ruby ? ''
`` Alas !
I have no ruby now , '' say the Prince ; `` my eye be all that I have leave .
They be make of rare sapphire , which be bring out of India a thousand year ago .
Pluck out one of them and take it to him .
He will sell it to the jeweller , and buy food and firewood , and finish his play . ''
`` Dear Prince , '' say the Swallow , `` I can not do that '' ; and he begin to weep .
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` do a I command you . ''
So the Swallow pluck out the Prince 's eye , and fly away to the student 's garret .
It be easy enough to get in , a there be a hole in the roof .
Through this he dart , and come into the room .
The young man have his head bury in his hand , so he do not hear the flutter of the bird 's wing , and when he look up he find the beautiful sapphire lie on the withered violet .
`` I be begin to be appreciate , '' he cry ; `` this be from some great admirer .
Now I can finish my play , '' and he look quite happy .
The next day the Swallow fly down to the harbour .
He sit on the mast of a large vessel and watch the sailor haul big chest out of the hold with rope .
`` Heave a-hoy ! ''
they shout a each chest come up .
`` I be go to Egypt '' !
cry the Swallow , but nobody mind , and when the moon rise he fly back to the Happy Prince .
`` I be come to bid you good-bye , '' he cry .
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` will you not stay with me one night long ? ''
`` It be winter , '' answer the Swallow , `` and the chill snow will soon be here .
In Egypt the sun be warm on the green palm-trees , and the crocodile lie in the mud and look lazily about them .
My companion be build a nest in the Temple of Baalbec , and the pink and white dove be watch them , and coo to each other .
Dear Prince , I must leave you , but I will never forget you , and next spring I will bring you back two beautiful jewel in place of those you have give away .
The ruby shall be red than a red rise , and the sapphire shall be as blue a the great sea . ''
`` In the square below , '' say the Happy Prince , `` there stand a little match-girl .
She have let her match fall in the gutter , and they be all spoil .
Her father will beat her if she do not bring home some money , and she be cry .
She have no shoe or stocking , and her little head be bare .
Pluck out my other eye , and give it to her , and her father will not beat her . ''
`` I will stay with you one night longer , '' say the Swallow , `` but I can not pluck out your eye .
You would be quite blind then . ''
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` do a I command you . ''
So he pluck out the Prince 's other eye , and dart down with it .
He swoop past the match-girl , and slip the jewel into the palm of her hand .
`` What a lovely bit of glass , '' cry the little girl ; and she run home , laugh .
Then the Swallow come back to the Prince .
`` You be blind now , '' he say , `` so I will stay with you always . ''
`` No , little Swallow , '' say the poor Prince , `` you must go away to Egypt . ''
`` I will stay with you always , '' say the Swallow , and he sleep at the Prince 's foot .
All the next day he sit on the Prince 's shoulder , and tell him story of what he have see in strange land .
He tell him of the red ibis , who stand in long row on the bank of the Nile , and catch gold-fish in their beak ; of the Sphinx , who be as old a the world itself , and live in the desert , and know everything ; of the merchant , who walk slowly by the side of their camel , and carry amber bead in their hand ; of the King of the Mountains of the Moon , who be as black a ebony , and worship a large crystal ; of the great green snake that sleep in a palm-tree , and have twenty priest to fee it with honey-cakes ; and of the pygmy who sail over a big lake on large flat leaf , and be always at war with the butterfly .
`` Dear little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` you tell me of marvellous thing , but more marvellous than anything be the suffering of men and of woman .
There be no Mystery so great a Misery .
Fly over my city , little Swallow , and tell me what you see there . ''
So the Swallow fly over the great city , and saw the rich making merry in their beautiful house , while the beggar be sit at the gate .
He fly into dark lane , and saw the white face of starve child look out listlessly at the black street .
Under the archway of a bridge two little boy be lie in one another 's arm to try and keep themselves warm .
`` How hungry we be ! ''
they say .
`` You must not lie here , '' shout the Watchman , and they wander out into the rain .
Then he fly back and tell the Prince what he have see .
`` I be cover with fine gold , '' say the Prince , `` you must take it off , leaf by leaf , and give it to my poor ; the living always think that gold can make them happy . ''
Leaf after leaf of the fine gold the Swallow pick off , till the Happy Prince look quite dull and grey .
Leaf after leaf of the fine gold he bring to the poor , and the child 's face grow rosier , and they laugh and play game in the street .
`` We have bread now ! ''
they cry .
Then the snow come , and after the snow come the frost .
The street look a if they be make of silver , they be so bright and glistening ; long icicle like crystal dagger hang down from the eaves of the house , everybody go about in fur , and the little boy wear scarlet cap and skate on the ice .
The poor little Swallow grow colder and colder , but he would not leave the Prince , he love him too well .
He pick up crumb outside the baker 's door when the baker be not look and try to keep himself warm by flap his wing .
But at last he know that he be go to die .
He have just strength to fly up to the Prince 's shoulder once more .
`` Good-bye , dear Prince ! ''
he murmur , `` will you let me kiss your hand ? ''
`` I be glad that you be go to Egypt at last , little Swallow , '' say the Prince , `` you have stay too long here ; but you must kiss me on the lip , for I love you . ''
`` It be not to Egypt that I be go , '' say the Swallow .
`` I be go to the House of Death .
Death be the brother of Sleep , be he not ? ''
And he kiss the Happy Prince on the lip , and fell down dead at his foot .
At that moment a curious crack sound inside the statue , a if something have break .
The fact be that the leaden heart have snap right in two .
It certainly be a dreadfully hard frost .
Early the next morning the Mayor be walk in the square below in company with the Town Councillors .
As they pass the column he look up at the statue : `` Dear me !
how shabby the Happy Prince look ! ''
he say .
`` How shabby indeed ! ''
cry the Town Councillors , who always agree with the Mayor ; and they go up to look at it .
`` The ruby have fall out of his sword , his eye be go , and he be golden no longer , '' say the Mayor in fact , `` he be litttle beter than a beggar ! ''
`` Little good than a beggar , '' say the Town Councillors .
`` And here be actually a dead bird at his foot ! ''
continue the Mayor .
`` We must really issue a proclamation that bird be not to be allow to die here . ''
And the Town Clerk make a note of the suggestion .
So they pull down the statue of the Happy Prince .
`` As he be no longer beautiful he be no longer useful , '' say the Art Professor at the University .
Then they melt the statue in a furnace , and the Mayor hold a meeting of the Corporation to decide what be to be do with the metal .
`` We must have another statue , of course , '' he say , `` and it shall be a statue of myself . ''
`` Of myself , '' say each of the Town Councillors , and they quarrel .
When I last heard of them they be quarrel still .
`` What a strange thing ! ''
say the overseer of the workman at the foundry .
`` This broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace .
We must throw it away . ''
So they throw it on a dust-heap where the dead Swallow be also lie .
`` Bring me the two most precious thing in the city , '' say God to one of His Angels ; and the Angel bring Him the leaden heart and the dead bird .
`` You have rightly choose , '' say God , `` for in my garden of Paradise this little bird shall sing for evermore , and in my city of gold the Happy Prince shall praise me . ''
THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE ROSE `` She say that she would dance with me if I bring her red rose , '' cry the young Student ; `` but in all my garden there be no red rise . ''
From her nest in the holm-oak tree the Nightingale hear him , and she look out through the leaf , and wonder .
`` No red rise in all my garden ! ''
he cry , and his beautiful eye fill with tear .
`` Ah , on what little thing do happiness depend !
I have read all that the wise men have write , and all the secret of philosophy be mine , yet for want of a red rise be my life make wretched . ''
`` Here at last be a true lover , '' say the Nightingale .
`` Night after night have I sing of him , though I know him not : night after night have I tell his story to the star , and now I see him .
His hair be dark a the hyacinth-blossom , and his lip be red a the rise of his desire ; but passion have make his face like pale ivory , and sorrow have set her seal upon his brow . ''
`` The Prince give a ball to-morrow night , '' murmur the young Student , `` and my love will be of the company .
If I bring her a red rise she will dance with me till dawn .
If I bring her a red rise , I shall hold her in my arm , and she will lean her head upon my shoulder , and her hand will be clasp in mine .
But there be no red rise in my garden , so I shall sit lonely , and she will pass me by .
She will have no heed of me , and my heart will break . ''
`` Here indeed be the true lover , '' say the Nightingale .
`` What I sing of , he suffer -- what be joy to me , to him be pain .
Surely Love be a wonderful thing .
It be more precious than emerald , and dear than fine opal .
Pearls and pomegranate can not buy it , nor be it set forth in the marketplace .
It may not be purchase of the merchant , nor can it be weigh out in the balance for gold . ''
`` The musician will sit in their gallery , '' say the young Student , `` and play upon their stringed instrument , and my love will dance to the sound of the harp and the violin .
She will dance so lightly that her foot will not touch the floor , and the courtier in their gay dress will throng round her .
But with me she will not dance , for I have no red rise to give her '' ; and he fling himself down on the grass , and bury his face in his hand , and wept .
`` Why be he weep ? ''
ask a little Green Lizard , a he run past him with his tail in the air .
`` Why , indeed ? ''
say a Butterfly , who be flutter about after a sunbeam .
`` Why , indeed ? ''
whisper a Daisy to his neighbour , in a soft , low voice .
`` He be weep for a red rise , '' say the Nightingale .
`` For a red rise ? ''
they cry ; `` how very ridiculous ! ''
and the little Lizard , who be something of a cynic , laugh outright .
But the Nightingale understand the secret of the Student 's sorrow , and she sit silent in the oak-tree , and think about the mystery of Love .
Suddenly she spread her brown wing for flight , and soar into the air .
She pass through the grove like a shadow , and like a shadow she sail across the garden .
In the centre of the grass-plot be stand a beautiful Rose-tree , and when she saw it she fly over to it , and light upon a spray .
`` Give me a red rise , '' she cry , `` and I will sing you my sweet song . ''
But the Tree shake it head .
`` My rose be white , '' it answer ; `` as white a the foam of the sea , and white than the snow upon the mountain .
But go to my brother who grow round the old sun-dial , and perhaps he will give you what you want . ''
So the Nightingale fly over to the Rose-tree that be grow round the old sun-dial .
`` Give me a red rise , '' she cry , `` and I will sing you my sweet song . ''
But the Tree shake it head .
`` My rose be yellow , '' it answer ; `` as yellow a the hair of the mermaiden who sit upon an amber throne , and yellow than the daffodil that bloom in the meadow before the mower come with his scythe .
But go to my brother who grow beneath the Student 's window , and perhaps he will give you what you want . ''
So the Nightingale fly over to the Rose-tree that be grow beneath the Student 's window .
`` Give me a red rise , '' she cry , `` and I will sing you my sweet song . ''
But the Tree shake it head .
`` My rose be red , '' it answer , `` as red a the foot of the dove , and red than the great fan of coral that wave and wave in the ocean-cavern .
But the winter have chill my vein , and the frost have nip my bud , and the storm have break my branch , and I shall have no rose at all this year . ''
`` One red rise be all I want , '' cry the Nightingale , `` only one red rise !
Is there no way by which I can get it ? ''
`` There be away , '' answer the Tree ; `` but it be so terrible that I dare not tell it to you . ''
`` Tell it to me , '' say the Nightingale , `` I be not afraid . ''
`` If you want a red rise , '' say the Tree , `` you must build it out of music by moonlight , and stain it with your own heart 's - blood .
You must sing to me with your breast against a thorn .
All night long you must sing to me , and the thorn must pierce your heart , and your life-blood must flow into my vein , and become mine . ''
`` Death be a great price to pay for a red rise , '' cry the Nightingale , `` and Life be very dear to all .
It be pleasant to sit in the green wood , and to watch the Sun in his chariot of gold , and the Moon in her chariot of pearl .
Sweet be the scent of the hawthorn , and sweet be the bluebell that hide in the valley , and the heather that blow on the hill .
Yet Love be good than Life , and what be the heart of a bird compare to the heart of a man ? ''
So she spread her brown wing for flight , and soar into the air .
She sweep over the garden like a shadow , and like a shadow she sail through the grove .
The young Student be still lie on the grass , where she have leave him , and the tear be not yet dry in his beautiful eye .
`` Be happy , '' cry the Nightingale , `` be happy ; you shall have your red rise .
I will build it out of music by moonlight , and stain it with my own heart 's - blood .
All that I ask of you in return be that you will be a true lover , for Love be wise than Philosophy , though she be wise , and mighty than Power , though he be mighty .
Flame - colour be his wing , and colour like flame be his body .
His lip be sweet a honey , and his breath be like frankincense . ''
The Student look up from the grass , and listen , but he could not understand what the Nightingale be say to him , for he only know the thing that be write down in book .
But the Oak-tree understood , and felt sad , for he be very fond of the little Nightingale who have build her nest in his branch .
`` Sing me one last song , '' he whisper ; `` I shall feel very lonely when you be go . ''
So the Nightingale sang to the Oak-tree , and her voice be like water bubble from a silver jar .
When she have finish her song the Student get up , and pull a note-book and a lead-pencil out of his pocket .
`` She have form , '' he say to himself , a he walk away through the grove -- `` that can not be deny to her ; but have she get feel ?
I be afraid not .
In fact , she be like most artist ; she be all style , without any sincerity .
She would not sacrifice herself for others .
She think merely of music , and everybody know that the art be selfish .
Still , it must be admit that she have some beautiful note in her voice .
What a pity it be that they do not mean anything , or do any practical good . ''
And he go into his room , and lay down on his little pallet-bed , and begin to think of his love ; and , after a time , he fell asleep .
And when the Moon shone in the heaven the Nightingale fly to the Rose-tree , and set her breast against the thorn .
All night long she sing with her breast against the thorn , and the cold crystal Moon lean down and listen .
All night long she sing , and the thorn go deep and deeply into her breast , and her life-blood ebbed away from her .
She sing first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl .
And on the top-most spray of the Rose-tree there blossom a marvellous rise , petal follow petal , a song follow song .
Pale be it , at first , a the mist that hang over the river -- pale a the foot of the morning , and silver a the wing of the dawn .
As the shadow of a rise in a mirror of silver , a the shadow of a rise in a water-pool , so be the rise that blossom on the topmost spray of the Tree .
But the Tree cry to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn .
`` Press closer , little Nightingale , '' cry the Tree , `` or the Day will come before the rise be finish . ''
So the Nightingale press closer against the thorn , and louder and louder grow her song , for she sing of the birth of passion in the soul of a man and a maid .
And a delicate flush of pink come into the leaf of the rise , like the flush in the face of the bridegroom when he kiss the lip of the bride .
But the thorn have not yet reach her heart , so the rise 's heart remain white , for only a Nightingale 's heart 's - blood can crimson the heart of a rise .
And the Tree cry to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn .
`` Press closer , little Nightingale , '' cry the Tree , `` or the Day will come before the rise be finish . ''
So the Nightingale press closer against the thorn , and the thorn touch her heart , and a fierce pang of pain shot through her .
Bitter , bitter be the pain , and wilder and wilder grow her song , for she sing of the Love that be perfect by Death , of the Love that die not in the tomb .
And the marvellous rise become crimson , like the rise of the eastern sky .
Crimson be the girdle of petal , and crimson a a ruby be the heart .
But the Nightingale 's voice grow fainter , and her little wing begin to beat , and a film come over her eye .
Fainter and fainter grow her song , and she felt something choke her in her throat .
Then she give one last burst of music .
The white Moon heard it , and she forget the dawn , and linger on in the sky .
The red rise heard it , and it tremble all over with ecstasy , and open it petal to the cold morning air .
Echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hill , and wake the sleeping shepherd from their dream .
It float through the reed of the river , and they carry it message to the sea .
`` Look , look ! ''
cry the Tree , `` the rise be finish now '' ; but the Nightingale make no answer , for she be lie dead in the long grass , with the thorn in her heart .
And at noon the Student open his window and look out .
`` Why , what a wonderful piece of luck ! ''
he cry ; `` here be a red rise !
I have never see any rise like it in all my life .
It be so beautiful that I be sure it have a long Latin name '' ; and he lean down and pluck it .
Then he put on his hat , and run up to the Professor 's house with the rise in his hand .
The daughter of the Professor be sit in the doorway wind blue silk on a reel , and her little dog be lie at her foot .
`` You say that you would dance with me if I bring you a red rise , '' cry the Student .
`` Here be the reddest rise in all the world .
You will wear it to-night next your heart , and a we dance together it will tell you how I love you . ''
But the girl frown .
`` I be afraid it will not go with my dress , '' she answer ; `` and , besides , the Chamberlain 's nephew have send me some real jewel , and everybody know that jewel cost far more than flower . ''
`` Well , upon my word , you be very ungrateful , '' say the Student angrily ; and he throw the rise into the street , where it fell into the gutter , and a cart-wheel go over it .
`` Ungrateful ! ''
say the girl .
`` I tell you what , you be very rude ; and , after all , who be you ?
Only a Student .
Why , I do n't believe you have even get silver buckle to your shoe a the Chamberlain 's nephew have '' ; and she get up from her chair and go into the house .
`` What I a silly thing Love be , '' say the Student a he walk away .
`` It be not half as useful a Logic , for it do not prove anything , and it be always tell one of thing that be not go to happen , and make one believe thing that be not true .
In fact , it be quite unpractical , and , a in this age to be practical be everything , I shall go back to Philosophy and study Metaphysics . ''
So he return to his room and pull out a great dusty book , and begin to read .
THE SELFISH GIANT Every afternoon , a they be come from school , the child use to go and play in the Giant 's garden .
It be a large lovely garden , with soft green grass .
Here and there over the grass stand beautiful flower like star , and there be twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossom of pink and pearl , and in the autumn bore rich fruit .
The bird sit on the tree and sang so sweetly that the child use to stop their game in order to listen to them .
`` How happy we be here ! ''
they cry to each other .
One day the Giant come back .
He have be to visit his friend the Cornish ogre , and have stay with him for seven year .
After the seven year be over he have say all that he have to say , for his conversation be limit , and he determine to return to his own castle .
When he arrive he saw the child play in the garden .
`` What be you do here ? ''
he cry in a very gruff voice , and the child run away .
`` My own garden be my own garden , '' say the Giant ; `` any one can understand that , and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself . ''
So he build a high wall all round it , and put up a notice-board .
TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED He be a very selfish Giant .
The poor child have now nowhere to play .
They try to play on the road , but the road be very dusty and full of hard stone , and they do not like it .
They use to wander round the high wall when their lesson be over , and talk about the beautiful garden inside .
`` How happy we be there , '' they say to each other .
Then the Spring come , and all over the country there be little blossom and little bird .
Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it be still winter .
The bird do not care to sing in it a there be no child , and the tree forget to blossom .
Once a beautiful flower put it head out from the grass , but when it saw the notice-board it be so sorry for the child that it slip back into the ground again , and go off to sleep .
The only people who be pleased be the Snow and the Frost .
`` Spring have forget this garden , '' they cry , `` so we will live here all the year round . ''
The Snow cover up the grass with her great white cloak , and the Frost paint all the tree silver .
Then they invite the North Wind to stay with them , and he come .
He be wrap in fur , and he roar all day about the garden , and blow the chimney-pots down .
`` This be a delightful spot , '' he say , `` we must ask the Hail on a visit . ''
So the Hail come .
Every day for three hour he rattle on the roof of the castle till he break most of the slate , and then he run round and round the garden as fast a he could go .
He be dress in grey , and his breath be like ice .
`` I can not understand why the Spring be so late in coming , '' say the Selfish Giant , a he sit at the window and look out at his cold white garden ; `` I hope there will be a change in the weather . ''
But the Spring never come , nor the Summer .
The Autumn give golden fruit to every garden , but to the Giant 's garden she give none .
`` He be too selfish , '' she say .
So it be always Winter there , and the North Wind , and the Hail , and the Frost , and the Snow dance about through the tree .
One morning the Giant be lie awake in bed when he hear some lovely music .
It sound so sweet to his ear that he think it must be the King 's musician pass by .
It be really only a little linnet sing outside his window , but it be so long since he have hear a bird sing in his garden that it seem to him to be the most beautiful music in the world .
Then the Hail stop dance over his head , and the North Wind cease roaring , and a delicious perfume come to him through the open casement .
`` I believe the Spring have come at last , '' say the Giant ; and he jump out of bed and look out .
What do he see ?
He saw a most wonderful sight .
Through a little hole in the wall the child have creep in , and they be sit in the branch of the tree .
In every tree that he could see there be a little child .
And the tree be so glad to have the child back again that they have cover themselves with blossom , and be wave their arm gently above the child 's head .
The bird be fly about and twitter with delight , and the flower be look up through the green grass and laughing .
It be a lovely scene , only in one corner it be still winter .
It be the farthest corner of the garden , and in it be stand a little boy .
He be so small that he could not reach up to the branch of the tree , and he be wander all round it , cry bitterly .
The poor tree be still quite cover with frost and snow , and the North Wind be blow and roar above it .
`` Climb up !
little boy , '' say the Tree , and it bend it branch down as low a it could ; but the boy be too tiny .
And the Giant 's heart melt a he look out .
`` How selfish I have be ! ''
he say ; `` now I know why the Spring would not come here .
I will put that poor little boy on the top of the tree , and then I will knock down the wall , and my garden shall be the child 's playground for ever and ever . ''
He be really very sorry for what he have do .
So he creep downstairs and open the front door quite softly , and go out into the garden .
But when the child saw him they be so frighten that they all run away , and the garden become winter again .
Only the little boy do not run , for his eye be so full of tear that he do not see the Giant coming .
And the Giant steal up behind him and take him gently in his hand , and put him up into the tree .
And the tree broke at once into blossom , and the bird come and sing on it , and the little boy stretch out his two arm and fling them round the Giant 's neck , and kiss him .
And the other child , when they saw that the Giant be not wicked any longer , come run back , and with them come the Spring .
`` It be your garden now , little child , '' say the Giant , and he take a great axe and knock down the wall .
And when the people be go to market at twelve o'clock they find the Giant playing with the child in the most beautiful garden they have ever see .
All day long they play , and in the evening they come to the Giant to bid him good-bye .
`` But where be your little companion ? ''
he say : `` the boy I put into the tree . ''
The Giant love him the best because he have kiss him .
`` We do n't know , '' answer the child ; `` he have go away . ''
`` You must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow , '' say the Giant .
But the child say that they do not know where he live , and have never see him before ; and the Giant felt very sad .
Every afternoon , when school be over , the child come and play with the Giant .
But the little boy whom the Giant love be never see again .
The Giant be very kind to all the child , yet he long for his first little friend , and often speak of him .
`` How I would like to see him ! ''
he use to say .
Years go over , and the Giant grow very old and feeble .
He could not play about any more , so he sit in a huge armchair , and watch the child at their game , and admire his garden .
`` I have many beautiful flower , '' he say ; `` but the child be the most beautiful flower of all . ''
One winter morning he look out of his window a he be dress .
He do not hate the Winter now , for he know that it be merely the Spring asleep , and that the flower be rest .
Suddenly he rub his eye in wonder , and look and look .
It certainly be a marvellous sight .
In the farthest corner of the garden be a tree quite cover with lovely white blossom .
Its branch be all golden , and silver fruit hang down from them , and underneath it stand the little boy he have love .
Downstairs run the Giant in great joy , and out into the garden .
He hasten across the grass , and come near to the child .
And when he come quite close his face grow red with anger , and he say , `` Who hath dare to wind thee ? ''
For on the palm of the child 's hand be the print of two nail , and the print of two nail be on the little foot .
`` Who hath dare to wind thee ? ''
cry the Giant ; `` tell me , that I may take my big sword and slay him . ''
`` Nay ! ''
answer the child ; `` but these be the wound of Love . ''
`` Who art thou ? ''
say the Giant , and a strange awe fell on him , and he kneel before the little child .
And the child smile on the Giant , and say to him , `` You let me play once in your garden , to-day you shall come with me to my garden , which be Paradise . ''
And when the child run in that afternoon , they find the Giant lie dead under the tree , all cover with white blossom .
THE DEVOTED FRIEND One morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole .
He have bright beady eye and stiff grey whisker and his tail be like a long bit of black india-rubber .
The little duck be swim about in the pond , look just like a lot of yellow canary , and their mother , who be pure white with real red leg , be try to teach them how to stand on their head in the water .
`` You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your head , '' she keep say to them ; and every now and then she show them how it be do .
But the little duck pay no attention to her .
They be so young that they do not know what an advantage it be to be in society at all .
`` What disobedient child ! ''
cry the old Water-rat ; `` they really deserve to be drown . ''
`` Nothing of the kind , '' answer the Duck , `` every one must make a beginning , and parent can not be too patient . ''
`` Ah !
I know nothing about the feeling of parent , '' say the Water - rat ; `` I be not a family man .
In fact , I have never be marry , and I never intend to be .
Love be all very well in it way , but friendship be much high .
Indeed , I know of nothing in the world that be either nobler or rarer than a devoted friendship . ''
`` And what , pray , be your idea of the duty of a devote friend ? ''
ask a Green Linnet , who be sit in a willow-tree hard by , and have overhear the conversation .
`` Yes , that be just what I want to know , '' say the Duck ; and she swim away to the end of the pond , and stand upon her head , in order to give her child a good example .
`` What a silly question ! ''
cry the Water-rat .
`` I should expect my devoted friend to be devote to me , of course . ''
`` And what would you do in return ? ''
say the little bird , swing upon a silver spray , and flap his tiny wing .
`` I do n't understand you , '' answer the Water-rat .
`` Let me tell you a story on the subject , '' say the Linnet .
`` Is the story about me ? ''
ask the Water-rat .
`` If so , I will listen to it , for I be extremely fond of fiction . ''
`` It be applicable to you , '' answer the Linnet ; and he fly down , and alight upon the bank , he tell the story of The Devoted Friend .
`` Once upon a time , '' say the Linnet , `` there be an honest little fellow name Hans . ''
`` Was he very distinguish ? ''
ask the Water-rat .
`` No , '' answer the Linnet , `` I do n't think he be distinguish at all , except for his kind heart , and his funny round good-humoured face .
He live in a tiny cottage all by himself , and every day he work in his garden .
In all the country-side there be no garden so lovely a his .
Sweet-william grow there , and Gilly-flowers , and Shepherds ' - purse , and Fair-maids of France .
There be damask Roses , and yellow Roses , lilac Crocuses , and gold , purple Violets and white .
Columbine and Ladysmock , Marjoram and Wild Basil , the Cowslip and the Flower-de-luce , the Daffodil and the Clove-Pink bloom or blossom in their proper order a the month go by , one flower take another flower 's place , so that there be always beautiful thing to look at , and pleasant odour to smell .
`` Little Hans have a great many friend , but the most devoted friend of all be big Hugh the Miller .
Indeed , so devote be the rich Miller to little Hans , that be would never go by his garden without lean over the wall and pluck a large nosegay , or a handful of sweet herb , or fill his pocket with plum and cherry if it be the fruit season . ''
` Real friend should have everything in common , ' the Miller use to say , and little Hans nod and smile , and felt very proud of have a friend with such noble idea .
`` Sometimes , indeed , the neighbour think it strange that the rich Miller never give little Hans anything in return , though he have a hundred sack of flour store away in his mill , and six milch cow , and a large flock of woolly sheep ; but Hans never trouble his head about these thing , and nothing give him great pleasure than to listen to all the wonderful thing the Miller use to say about the unselfishness of true friendship .
`` So little Hans work away in his garden .
During the spring , the summer , and the autumn he be very happy , but when the winter come , and he have no fruit or flower to bring to the market , he suffer a good deal from cold and hunger , and often have to go to bed without any supper but a few dried pear or some hard nut .
In the winter , also , he be extremely lonely , a the Miller never come to see him then . ''
` There be no good in my go to see little Hans as long a the snow last , ' the Miller use to say to his wife , ` for when people be in trouble they should be leave alone , and not be bother by visitor .
That at least be my idea about friendship , and I be sure I be right .
So I shall wait till the spring come , and then I shall pay him a visit , and he will be able to give me a large basket of primrose and that will make him so happy . ' ''
` You be certainly very thoughtful about others , ' answer the Wife , a she sit in her comfortable armchair by the big pinewood fire ; ` very thoughtful indeed .
It be quite a treat to hear you talk about friendship .
I be sure the clergyman himself could not say such beautiful thing a you do , though he do live in a three-storied house , and wear a gold ring on his little finger . ' ''
` But could we not ask little Hans up here ? '
say the Miller 's young son .
` If poor Hans be in trouble I will give him half my porridge , and show him my white rabbit . ' ''
` What a silly boy you be ' !
cry the Miller ; ' I really do n't know what be the use of send you to school .
You seem not to learn anything .
Why , if little Hans come up here , and saw our warm fire , and our good supper , and our great cask of red wine , he might get envious , and envy be a most terrible thing , and would spoil anybody 's nature .
I certainly will not allow Hans ' nature to be spoil .
I be his best friend , and I will always watch over him , and see that he be not lead into any temptation .
Besides , if Hans come here , he might ask me to let him have some flour on credit , and that I could not do .
Flour be one thing , and friendship be another , and they should not be confuse .
Why , the word be spell differently , and mean quite different thing .
Everybody can see that . ' ''
` How well you talk ' !
say the Miller 's Wife , pour herself out a large glass of warm ale ; ` really I feel quite drowsy .
It be just like be in church . ' ''
` Lots of people act well , ' answer the Miller ; ` but very few people talk well , which show that talk be much the more difficult thing of the two , and much the finer thing also ' ; and he look sternly across the table at his little son , who felt so ashamed of himself that he hang his head down , and grow quite scarlet , and begin to cry into his tea .
However , he be so young that you must excuse him . ''
`` Is that the end of the story ? ''
ask the Water-rat .
`` Certainly not , '' answer the Linnet , `` that be the beginning . ''
`` Then you be quite behind the age , '' say the Water-rat .
`` Every good story-teller nowadays start with the end , and then go on to the beginning , and conclude with the middle .
That be the new method .
I hear all about it the other day from a critic who be walk round the pond with a young man .
He speak of the matter at great length , and I be sure he must have be right , for he have blue spectacle and a bald head , and whenever the young man make any remark , he always answer ` Pooh ! '
But pray go on with your story .
I like the Miller immensely .
I have all kind of beautiful sentiment myself , so there be a great sympathy between u . ''
`` Well , '' say the Linnet , hop now on one leg and now on the other , `` as soon a the winter be over , and the primrose begin to open their pale yellow star , the Miller say to his wife that he would go down and see little Hans . ''
` Why , what a good heart you have ' !
cry his Wife ; ` you be always think of others .
And mind you take the big basket with you for the flower . '
`` So the Miller tie the sail of the windmill together with a strong iron chain , and go down the hill with the basket on his arm . ''
` Good morning , little Hans , ' say the Miller . ''
` Good morning , ' say Hans , lean on his spade , and smile from ear to ear . ''
` And how have you be all the winter ? '
say the Miller . ''
` Well , really , ' cried Hans , ` it be very good of you to ask , very good indeed .
I be afraid I have rather a hard time of it , but now the spring have come , and I be quite happy , and all my flower be do well . ' ''
` We often talk of you during the winter , Hans , ' say the Miller , ` and wonder how you be get on . ' ''
` That be kind of you , ' say Hans ; ' I be half afraid you have forget me . ' ''
` Hans , I be surprise at you , ' say the Miller ; ` friendship never forgets .
That be the wonderful thing about it , but I be afraid you do n't understand the poetry of life .
How lovely your primrose be look , by-the-bye '' ! ''
` They be certainly very lovely , ' say Hans , ` and it be a most lucky thing for me that I have so many .
I be go to bring them into the market and sell them to the Burgomaster 's daughter , and buy back my wheelbarrow with the money . ' ''
` Buy back your wheelbarrow ?
You do n't mean to say you have sell it ?
What a very stupid thing to do ' ! ''
` Well , the fact be , ' say Hans , ` that I be oblige to .
You see the winter be a very bad time for me , and I really have no money at all to buy bread with .
So I first sell the silver button off my Sunday coat , and then I sell my silver chain , and then I sell my big pipe , and at last I sell my wheelbarrow .
But I be go to buy them all back again now . ' ''
` Hans , ' say the Miller , ' I will give you my wheelbarrow .
It be not in very good repair ; indeed , one side be go , and there be something wrong with the wheel-spokes ; but in spite of that I will give it to you .
I know it be very generous of me , and a great many people would think me extremely foolish for part with it , but I be not like the rest of the world .
I think that generosity be the essence of friendship , and , besides , I have get a new wheelbarrow for myself .
Yes , you may set your mind at ease , I will give you my wheelbarrow . ' ''
` Well , really , that be generous of you , ' say little Hans , and his funny round face glow all over with pleasure . '
I can easily put it in repair , a I have a plank of wood in the house . ' '' '
A plank of wood ' !
say the Miller ; ` why , that be just what I want for the roof of my barn .
There be a very large hole in it , and the corn will all get damp if I do n't stop it up .
How lucky you mention it !
It be quite remarkable how one good action always breed another .
I have give you my wheelbarrow , and now you be go to give me your plank .
Of course , the wheelbarrow be worth far more than the plank , but true , friendship never notice thing like that .
Pray get it at once , and I will set to work at my barn this very day . ' ''
` Certainly , ' cry little Hans , and he run into the shed and drag the plank out . ''
` It be not a very big plank , ' say the Miller , look at it , ` and I be afraid that after I have mend my barn-roof there wo n't be any left for you to mend the wheelbarrow with ; but , of course , that be not my fault .
And now , a I have give you my wheelbarrow , I be sure you would like to give me some flower in return .
Here be the basket , and mind you fill it quite full . ' ''
` Quite full ? '
say little Hans , rather sorrowfully , for it be really a very big basket , and he know that if he fill it he would have no flower leave for the market and he be very anxious to get his silver button back . ''
` Well , really , ' answer the Miller , ` a I have give you my wheelbarrow , I do n't think that it be much to ask you for a few flower .
I may be wrong , but I should have think that friendship , true friendship , be quite free from selfishness of any kind . ' ''
` My dear friend , my best friend , ' cry little Hans , ` you be welcome to all the flower in my garden .
I would much sooner have your good opinion than my silver button , any day ' ; and he run and pluck all his pretty primrose , and fill the Miller 's basket . ''
` Good-bye , little Hans , ' say the Miller , a he go up the hill with the plank on his shoulder , and the big basket in his hand . ''
` Good-bye , ' say little Hans , and he begin to dig away quite merrily , he be so pleased about the wheelbarrow .
`` The next day he be nail up some honeysuckle against the porch , when he hear the Miller 's voice call to him from the road .
So he jump off the ladder , and run down the garden , and look over the wall .
`` There be the Miller with a large sack of flour on his back . ''
` Dear little Hans , ' say the Miller , ` would you mind carry this sack of flour for me to market ? ' ''
` Oh , I be so sorry , ' say Hans , ` but I be really very busy to-day .
I have get all my creeper to nail up , and all my flower to water , and all my grass to roll . ' ''
` Well , really , ' say the Miller , ' I think that , consider that I be go to give you my wheelbarrow , it be rather unfriendly of you to refuse . ' ''
` Oh , do n't say that , ' cry little Hans , ' I would n't be unfriendly for the whole world ' ; and he run in for his cap , and trudge off with the big sack on his shoulder .
`` It be a very hot day , and the road be terribly dusty , and before Hans have reach the sixth milestone he be so tired that he have to sit down and rest .
However , he go on bravely , and a last he reach the market .
After he have wait there some time , he sell the sack of flour for a very good price , and then he return home at once , for he be afraid that if he stop too late he might meet some robber on the way . ''
` It have certainly be a hard day , ' say little Hans to himself a he be go to bed , ` but I be glad I do not refuse the Miller , for he be my best friend , and , besides , he be go to give me his wheelbarrow . '
`` Early the next morning the Miller come down to get the money for his sack of flour , but little Hans be so tired that he be still in bed . ''
` Upon my word , ' say the Miller , ` you be very lazy .
Really , consider that I be go to give you my wheelbarrow , I think you might work harder .
Idleness be a great sin , and I certainly do n't like any of my friend to be idle or sluggish .
You must not mind my speak quite plainly to you .
Of course I should not dream of do so if I be not your friend .
But what be the good of friendship if one can not say exactly what one mean ?
Anybody can say charming thing and try to please and to flatter , but a true friend always say unpleasant thing , and do not mind give pain .
Indeed , if he be a really true friend he prefer it , for he know that then he be do good . ' '' '
I be very sorry , ' say little Hans , rub his eye and pull off his night-cap , ` but I be so tired that I think I would lie in bed for a little time , and listen to the bird singing .
Do you know that I always work well after hear the bird sing ? ' ''
` Well , I be glad of that , ' say the Miller , clap little Hans on the back , ` for I want you to come up to the mill as soon a you be dress , and mend my barn-roof for me . '
`` Poor little Hans be very anxious to go and work in his garden , for his flower have not be water for two day , but he do not like to refuse the Miller , a he be such a good friend to him . ''
` Do you think it would be unfriendly of me if I say I be busy ? '
he inquire in a shy and timid voice . ''
` Well , really , ' answer the Miller , ' I do not think it be much to ask of you , consider that I be go to give you my wheelbarrow ; but of course if you refuse I will go and do it myself . ' ''
` Oh !
on no account , ' cry little Hans and he jump out of bed , and dress himself , and go up to the barn .
`` He work there all day long , till sunset , and at sunset the Miller come to see how he be get on . ''
` Have you mend the hole in the roof yet , little Hans ? '
cry the Miller in a cheery voice . ''
` It be quite mend , ' answer little Hans , come down the ladder . ''
` Ah ' !
say the Miller , ` there be no work so delightful a the work one do for others . ' ''
` It be certainly a great privilege to hear you talk , ' answer little Hans , sit down , and wipe his forehead , ' a very great privilege .
But I be afraid I shall never have such beautiful idea a you have . ' ''
` Oh !
they will come to you , ' say the Miller , ` but you must take more pain .
At present you have only the practice of friendship ; some day you will have the theory also . ' ''
` Do you really think I shall ? '
ask little Hans . '' '
I have no doubt of it , ' answer the Miller , ` but now that you have mend the roof , you have good go home and rest , for I want you to drive my sheep to the mountain to-morrow . '
`` Poor little Hans be afraid to say anything to this , and early the next morning the Miller bring his sheep round to the cottage , and Hans start off with them to the mountain .
It take him the whole day to get there and back ; and when he return he be so tired that he go off to sleep in his chair , and do not wake up till it be broad daylight . ''
` What a delightful time I shall have in my garden , ' he say , and he go to work at once .
`` But somehow he be never able to look after his flower at all , for his friend the Miller be always come round and send him off on long errand , or get him to help at the mill .
Little Hans be very much distress at time , a he be afraid his flower would think he have forget them , but he console himself by the reflection that the Miller be his best friend .
` Besides , ' he use to say , ` he be go to give me his wheelbarrow , and that be an act of pure generosity . '
`` So little Hans work away for the Miller , and the Miller say all kind of beautiful thing about friendship , which Hans take down in a note-book , and use to read over at night , for he be a very good scholar .
`` Now it happen that one even little Hans be sit by his fireside when a loud rap come at the door .
It be a very wild night , and the wind be blow and roar round the house so terribly that at first he think it be merely the storm .
But a second rap come , and then a third , louder than any of the others . ''
` It be some poor traveller , ' say little Hans to himself , and he run to the door .
`` There stand the Miller with a lantern in one hand and a big stick in the other . ''
` Dear little Hans , ' cry the Miller , ' I be in great trouble .
My little boy have fall off a ladder and hurt himself , and I be go for the Doctor .
But he live so far away , and it be such a bad night , that it have just occur to me that it would be much good if you go instead of me .
You know I be go to give you my wheelbarrow , and so , it be only fair that you should do something for me in return . ' ''
` Certainly , ' cry little Hans , ' I take it quite a a compliment your come to me , and I will start off at once .
But you must lend me your lantern , a the night be so dark that I be afraid I might fall into the ditch . ' '' '
I be very sorry , ' answer the Miller , ` but it be my new lantern , and it would be a great loss to me if anything happen to it . ' ''
` Well , never mind , I will do without it , ' cry little Hans , and he take down his great fur coat , and his warm scarlet cap , and tie a muffler round his throat , and start off .
`` What a dreadful storm it be !
The night be so black that little Hans could hardly see , and the wind be so strong that he could scarcely stand .
However , he be very courageous , and after he have be walk about three hour , he arrive at the Doctor 's house , and knock at the door . ''
` Who be there ? '
cry the Doctor , put his head out of his bedroom window . ''
` Little Hans , Doctor . ' ''
` What do you want , little Hans ? ' ''
` The Miller 's son have fall from a ladder , and have hurt himself , and the Miller want you to come at once . ' ''
` All right ! '
say the Doctor ; and he order his horse , and his big boot , and his lantern , and come downstairs , and ride off in the direction of the Miller 's house , little Hans trudge behind him .
`` But the storm grow bad and bad , and the rain fell in torrent , and little Hans could not see where he be go , or keep up with the horse .
At last he lose his way , and wander off on the moor , which be a very dangerous place , a it be full of deep hole , and there poor little Hans be drown .
His body be find the next day by some goatherd , float in a great pool of water , and be bring back by them to the cottage .
`` Everybody go to little Hans ' funeral , a he be so popular , and the Miller be the chief mourner . ''
` As I be his best friend , ' say the Miller , ` it be only fair that I should have the best place ' ; so he walk at the head of the procession in a long black cloak , and every now and then he wipe his eye with a big pocket-handkerchief . ''
` Little Hans be certainly a great loss to every one , ' say the Blacksmith , when the funeral be over , and they be all seat comfortably in the inn , drink spice wine and eat sweet cake . '' '
A great loss to me at any rate , ' answer the Miller ; ` why , I have as good a give him my wheelbarrow , and now I really do n't know what to do with it .
It be very much in my way at home , and it be in such bad repair that I could not get anything for it if I sell it .
I will certainly take care not to give away anything again .
One always suffer for be generous . ' ''
`` Well ? ''
say the Water-rat , after a long pause .
`` Well , that be the end , '' say the Linnet .
`` But what become of the Miller ? ''
ask the Water-rat .
`` Oh !
I really do n't know , '' reply the Linnet ; `` and I be sure that I do n't care . ''
`` It be quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature , '' say the Water-rat .
`` I be afraid you do n't quite see the moral of the story , '' remark the Linnet .
`` The what ? ''
scream the Water-rat .
`` The moral . ''
`` Do you mean to say that the story have a moral ? ''
`` Certainly , '' say the Linnet .
`` Well , really , '' say the Water-rat , in a very angry manner , `` I think you should have tell me that before you begin .
If you have do so , I certainly would not have listen to you ; in fact , I should have say ` Pooh , ' like the critic .
However , I can say it now '' ; so he shout out `` Pooh '' at the top of his voice , give a whisk with his tail , and go back into his hole .
`` And how do you like the Water-rat ? ''
ask the Duck , who come paddle up some minute afterwards .
`` He have a great many good point , but for my own part I have a mother 's feeling , and I can never look at a confirmed bachelor without the tear come into my eye . ''
`` I be rather afraid that I have annoy him , '' answer the Linnet .
`` The fact be , that I tell him a story with a moral . ''
`` Ah !
that be always a very dangerous thing to do , '' say the Duck .
And I quite agree with her .
THE REMARKABLE ROCKET The King 's son be go to be marry , so there be general rejoicing .
He have wait a whole year for his bride , and at last she have arrive .
She be a Russian Princess , and have drive all the way from Finland in a sledge drawn by six reindeer .
The sledge be shape like a great golden swan , and between the swan 's wing lay the little Princess herself .
Her long ermine-cloak reach right down to her foot , on her head be a tiny cap of silver tissue , and she be as pale a the Snow Palace in which she have always live .
So pale be she that a she drive through the street all the people wonder .
`` She be like a white rise ! ''
they cry , and they throw down flower on her from the balcony .
At the gate of the Castle the Prince be wait to receive her .
He have dreamy violet eye , and his hair be like fine gold .
When he saw her he sink upon one knee , and kiss her hand .
`` Your picture be beautiful , '' he murmur , `` but you be more beautiful than your picture '' ; and the little Princess blush .
`` She be like a white rise before , '' say a young Page to his neighbour , `` but she be like a red rise now '' ; and the whole Court be delight .
For the next three day everybody go about say , `` White rise , Red rise , Red rise , White rise '' ; and the King give order that the Page 's salary be to be double .
As he receive no salary at all this be not of much use to him , but it be consider a great honour , and be duly publish in the Court Gazette .
When the three day be over the marriage be celebrate .
It be a magnificent ceremony , and the bride and bridegroom walk hand in hand under a canopy of purple velvet embroider with little pearl .
Then there be a State Banquet , which last for five hour .
The Prince and Princess sit at the top of the Great Hall and drink out of a cup of clear crystal .
Only true lover could drink out of this cup , for if false lip touch it , it grow grey and dull and cloudy .
`` It 's quite clear that they love each other , '' say the little Page , `` as clear a crystal ! ''
and the King double his salary a second time .
`` What an honour ! ''
cry all the courtier .
After the banquet there be to be a Ball .
The bride and bridegroom be to dance the Rose-dance together , and the King have promise to play the flute .
He play very badly , but no one have ever dare to tell him so , because he be the King .
Indeed , he know only two air , and be never quite certain which one he be play ; but it make no matter , for , whatever he do , everybody cry out , `` Charming !
charm ! ''
The last item on the programme be a grand display of firework , to be let off exactly at midnight .
The little Princess have never see a firework in her life , so the King have give order that the Royal Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage .
`` What be firework like ? ''
she have ask the Prince , one morning , a she be walk on the terrace .
`` They be like the Aurora Borealis , '' say the King , who always answer question that be address to other people , `` only much more natural .
I prefer them to star myself , a you always know when they be go to appear , and they be as delightful a my own flute-playing .
You must certainly see them . ''
So at the end of the King 's garden a great stand have be set up , and as soon a the Royal Pyrotechnist have put everything in it proper place , the firework begin to talk to each other .
`` The world be certainly very beautiful , '' cry a little Squib .
`` Just look at those yellow tulip .
Why !
if they be real cracker they could not be lovely .
I be very glad I have travel .
Travel improve the mind wonderfully , and do away with all one 's prejudice . ''
`` The King 's garden be not the world , you foolish squib , '' say a big Roman Candle ; `` the world be an enormous place , and it would take you three day to see it thoroughly . ''
`` Any place you love be the world to you , '' exclaim a pensive Catherine Wheel , who have be attach to an old deal box in early life , and pride herself on her broken heart ; `` but love be not fashionable any more , the poet have kill it .
They write so much about it that nobody believe them , and I be not surprise .
True love suffers , and be silent .
I remember myself once -- But it be no matter now .
Romance be a thing of the past . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say the Roman Candle , `` Romance never die .
It be like the moon , and live for ever .
The bride and bridegroom , for instance , love each other very dearly .
I hear all about them this morning from a brown-paper cartridge , who happen to be stay in the same drawer a myself , and know the late Court news . ''
But the Catherine Wheel shake her head .
`` Romance be dead , Romance be dead , Romance be dead , '' she murmur .
She be one of those people who think that , if you say the same thing over and over a great many time , it become true in the end .
Suddenly , a sharp , dry cough be hear , and they all look round .
It come from a tall , supercilious-looking Rocket , who be tie to the end of a long stick .
He always cough before he make any observation , so a to attract attention .
`` Ahem !
ahem ! ''
he say , and everybody listen except the poor Catherine Wheel , who be still shake her head , and murmuring , `` Romance be dead . ''
`` Order !
order ! ''
cry out a Cracker .
He be something of a politician , and have always take a prominent part in the local election , so he know the proper Parliamentary expression to use .
`` Quite dead , '' whisper the Catherine Wheel , and she go off to sleep .
As soon a there be perfect silence , the Rocket cough a third time and begin .
He speak with a very slow , distinct voice , a if he be dictate his memoir , and always look over the shoulder of the person to whom he be talk .
In fact , he have a most distinguished manner .
`` How fortunate it be for the King 's son , '' he remark , `` that he be to be marry on the very day on which I be to be let off .
Really , if it have be arrange beforehand , it could not have turn out well for him ; but , Princes be always lucky . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
say the little Squib , `` I think it be quite the other way , and that we be to be let off in the Prince 's honour . ''
`` It may be so with you , '' he answer ; `` indeed , I have no doubt that it be , but with me it be different .
I be a very remarkable Rocket , and come of remarkable parent .
My mother be the most celebrated Catherine Wheel of her day , and be renowned for her graceful dancing .
When she make her great public appearance she spin round nineteen time before she go out , and each time that she do so she throw into the air seven pink star .
She be three foot and a half in diameter , and make of the very best gunpowder .
My father be a Rocket like myself , and of French extraction .
He fly so high that the people be afraid that he would never come down again .
He do , though , for he be of a kindly disposition , and he make a most brilliant descent in a shower of golden rain .
The newspaper write about his performance in very flattering term .
Indeed , the Court Gazette call him a triumph of Pylotechnic art . ''
`` Pyrotechnic , Pyrotechnic , you mean , '' say a Bengal Light ; `` I know it be Pyrotechnic , for I saw it write on my own canister . ''
`` Well , I say Pylotechnic , '' answer the Rocket , in a severe tone of voice , and the Bengal Light felt so crushed that he begin at once to bully the little squib , in order to show that he be still a person of some importance .
`` I be say , '' continue the Rocket , `` I be say -- What be I say ? ''
`` You be talk about yourself , '' reply the Roman Candle .
`` Of course ; I know I be discuss some interesting subject when I be so rudely interrupt .
I hate rudeness and bad manner of every kind , for I be extremely sensitive .
No one in the whole world be so sensitive a I be , I be quite sure of that . ''
`` What be a sensitive person ? ''
say the Cracker to the Roman Candle .
`` A person who , because he have corn himself , always tread on other people 's toe , '' answer the Roman Candle in a low whisper ; and the Cracker nearly explode with laughter .
`` Pray , what be you laugh at ? ''
inquire the Rocket ; `` I be not laugh . ''
`` I be laugh because I be happy , '' reply the Cracker .
`` That be a very selfish reason , '' say the Rocket angrily .
`` What right have you to be happy ?
You should be think about others .
In fact , you should be think about me .
I be always think about myself , and I expect everybody else to do the same .
That be what be call sympathy .
It be a beautiful virtue , and I possess it in a high degree .
Suppose , for instance , anything happen to me to-night , what a misfortune that would be for every one !
The Prince and Princess would never be happy again , their whole married life would be spoil ; and a for the King , I know he would not get over it .
Really , when I begin to reflect on the importance of my position , I be almost move to tear . ''
`` If you want to give pleasure to others , '' cry the Roman Candle , `` you have good keep yourself dry . ''
`` Certainly , '' exclaim the Bengal Light , who be now in good spirit ; `` that be only common sense . ''
`` Common sense , indeed ! ''
say the Rocket indignantly ; `` you forget that I be very uncommon , and very remarkable .
Why , anybody can have common sense , provide that they have no imagination .
But I have imagination , for I never think of thing a they really be ; I always think of them a be quite different .
As for keep myself dry , there be evidently no one here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature .
Fortunately for myself , I do n't care .
The only thing that sustain one through life be the consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else , and this be a feeling that I have always cultivate .
But none of you have any heart .
Here you be laugh and make merry just a if the Prince and Princess have not just be marry . ''
`` Well , really , '' exclaim a small Fire-balloon , `` why not ?
It be a most joyful occasion , and when I soar up into the air I intend to tell the star all about it .
You will see them twinkle when I talk to them about the pretty bride . ''
`` Ah !
what a trivial view of life ! ''
say the Rocket ; `` but it be only what I expect .
There be nothing in you ; you be hollow and empty .
Why , perhaps the Prince and Princess may go to live in a country where there be a deep river , and perhaps they may have one only son , a little fair-haired boy with violet eye like the Prince himself ; and perhaps some day he may go out to walk with his nurse ; and perhaps the nurse may go to sleep under a great elder-tree ; and perhaps the little boy may fall into the deep river and be drown .
What a terrible misfortune !
Poor people , to lose their only son !
It be really too dreadful !
I shall never get over it . ''
`` But they have not lose their only son , '' say the Roman Candle ; `` no misfortune have happen to them at all . ''
`` I never say that they have , '' reply the Rocket ; `` I say that they might .
If they have lose their only son there would be no use in say anything more about the matter .
I hate people who cry over spilt milk .
But when I think that they might lose their only son , I certainly be very much affect . ''
`` You certainly be ! ''
cry the Bengal Light .
`` In fact , you be the most affected person I ever meet . ''
`` You be the rude person I ever meet , '' say the Rocket , `` and you can not understand my friendship for the Prince . ''
`` Why , you do n't even know him , '' growl the Roman Candle .
`` I never say I know him , '' answer the Rocket .
`` I dare say that if I know him I should not be his friend at all .
It be a very dangerous thing to know one 's friend . ''
`` You have really good keep yourself dry , '' say the Fire-balloon .
`` That be the important thing . ''
`` Very important for you , I have no doubt , '' answer the Rocket , `` but I shall weep if I choose '' ; and he actually burst into real tear , which flow down his stick like rain-drops , and nearly drown two little beetle , who be just think of set up house together , and be look for a nice dry spot to live in .
`` He must have a truly romantic nature , '' say the Catherine Wheel , `` for he weep when there be nothing at all to weep about '' ; and she heave a deep sigh , and think about the deal box .
But the Roman Candle and the Bengal Light be quite indignant , and keep say , `` Humbug !
humbug ! ''
at the top of their voice .
They be extremely practical , and whenever they object to anything they call it humbug .
Then the moon rise like a wonderful silver shield ; and the star begin to shine , and a sound of music come from the palace .
The Prince and Princess be lead the dance .
They dance so beautifully that the tall white lily peep in at the window and watch them , and the great red poppy nod their head and beat time .
Then ten o'clock strike , and then eleven , and then twelve , and at the last stroke of midnight every one come out on the terrace , and the King sent for the Royal Pyrotechnist .
`` Let the firework begin , '' say the King ; and the Royal Pyrotechnist make a low bow , and march down to the end of the garden .
He have six attendant with him , each of whom carry a light torch at the end of a long pole .
It be certainly a magnificent display .
Whizz !
Whizz !
go the Catherine Wheel , a she spin round and round .
Boom !
Boom !
go the Roman Candle .
Then the Squibs dance all over the place , and the Bengal Lights make everything look scarlet .
`` Good-bye , '' cry the Fire-balloon , a he soar away , drop tiny blue spark .
Bang !
Bang !
answer the Crackers , who be enjoy themselves immensely .
Every one be a great success except the Remarkable Rocket .
He be so damp with cry that he could not go off at all .
The best thing in him be the gunpowder , and that be so wet with tear that it be of no use .
All his poor relation , to whom he would never speak , except with a sneer , shoot up into the sky like wonderful golden flower with blossom of fire .
Huzza !
Huzza !
cry the Court ; and the little Princess laugh with pleasure .
`` I suppose they be reserve me for some grand occasion , '' say the Rocket ; `` no doubt that be what it mean , '' and he look more supercilious than ever .
The next day the workman come to put everything tidy .
`` This be evidently a deputation , '' say the Rocket ; `` I will receive them with become dignity '' so he put his nose in the air , and begin to frown severely a if he be think about some very important subject .
But they take no notice of him at all till they be just go away .
Then one of them catch sight of him .
`` Hallo ! ''
he cry , `` what a bad rocket ! ''
and he throw him over the wall into the ditch .
`` BAD Rocket ?
BAD Rocket ? ''
he say , a he whirl through the air ; `` impossible !
GRAND Rocket , that be what the man say .
BAD and GRAND sound very much the same , indeed they often be the same '' ; and he fell into the mud .
`` It be not comfortable here , '' he remark , `` but no doubt it be some fashionable watering-place , and they have send me away to recruit my health .
My nerve be certainly very much shatter , and I require rest . ''
Then a little Frog , with bright jewelled eye , and a green mottle coat , swim up to him .
`` A new arrival , I see ! ''
say the Frog .
`` Well , after all there be nothing like mud .
Give me rainy weather and a ditch , and I be quite happy .
Do you think it will be a wet afternoon ?
I be sure I hope so , but the sky be quite blue and cloudless .
What a pity ! ''
`` Ahem !
ahem ! ''
say the Rocket , and he begin to cough .
`` What a delightful voice you have ! ''
cry the Frog .
`` Really it be quite like a croak , and croak be of course the most musical sound in the world .
You will hear our glee-club this evening .
We sit in the old duck pond close by the farmer 's house , and as soon a the moon rise we begin .
It be so entrancing that everybody lie awake to listen to u .
In fact , it be only yesterday that I hear the farmer 's wife say to her mother that she could not get a wink of sleep at night on account of u .
It be most gratifying to find oneself so popular . ''
`` Ahem !
ahem ! ''
say the Rocket angrily .
He be very much annoyed that he could not get a word in .
`` A delightful voice , certainly , '' continue the Frog ; `` I hope you will come over to the duck-pond .
I be off to look for my daughter .
I have six beautiful daughter , and I be so afraid the Pike may meet them .
He be a perfect monster , and would have no hesitation in breakfast off them .
Well , good-bye : I have enjoy our conversation very much , I assure you . ''
`` Conversation , indeed ! ''
say the Rocket .
`` You have talk the whole time yourself .
That be not conversation . ''
`` Somebody must listen , '' answer the Frog , `` and I like to do all the talk myself .
It save time , and prevents argument . ''
`` But I like argument , '' say the Rocket .
`` I hope not , '' say the Frog complacently .
`` Arguments be extremely vulgar , for everybody in good society hold exactly the same opinion .
Good-bye a second time ; I see my daughter in the distance and the little Frog swam away .
`` You be a very irritating person , '' say the Rocket , `` and very ill - breed .
I hate people who talk about themselves , a you do , when one want to talk about oneself , a I do .
It be what I call selfishness , and selfishness be a most detestable thing , especially to any one of my temperament , for I be well know for my sympathetic nature .
In fact , you should take example by me ; you could not possibly have a good model .
Now that you have the chance you have good avail yourself of it , for I be go back to Court almost immediately .
I be a great favourite at Court ; in fact , the Prince and Princess be marry yesterday in my honour .
Of course you know nothing of these matter , for you be a provincial . ''
`` There be no good talk to him , '' say a Dragon-fly , who be sit on the top of a large brown bulrush ; `` no good at all , for he have go away . ''
`` Well , that be his loss , not mine , '' answer the Rocket .
`` I be not go to stop talk to him merely because he pay no attention .
I like hear myself talk .
It be one of my great pleasure .
I often have long conversation all by myself , and I be so clever that sometimes I do n't understand a single word of what I be say . ''
`` Then you should certainly lecture on Philosophy , '' say the Dragon - fly ; and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wing and soar away into the sky .
`` How very silly of him not to stay here ! ''
say the Rocket .
`` I be sure that he have not often get such a chance of improve his mind .
However , I do n't care a bit .
Genius like mine be sure to be appreciate some day '' ; and he sink down a little deeper into the mud .
After some time a large White Duck swim up to him .
She have yellow leg , and web foot , and be consider a great beauty on account of her waddle .
`` Quack , quack , quack , '' she say .
`` What a curious shape you be !
May I ask be you bear like that , or be it the result of an accident ? ''
`` It be quite evident that you have always live in the country , '' answer the Rocket , `` otherwise you would know who I be .
However , I excuse your ignorance .
It would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable a oneself .
You will no doubt be surprise to hear that I can fly up into the sky , and come down in a shower of golden rain . ''
`` I do n't think much of that , '' say the Duck , `` a I can not see what use it be to any one .
Now , if you could plough the field like the ox , or draw a cart like the horse , or look after the sheep like the collie-dog , that would be something . ''
`` My good creature , '' cry the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice , `` I see that you belong to the low order .
A person of my position be never useful .
We have certain accomplishment , and that be more than sufficient .
I have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind , least of all with such industry a you seem to recommend .
Indeed , I have always be of opinion that hard work be simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do . ''
`` Well , well , '' say the Duck , who be of a very peaceable disposition , and never quarrel with any one , `` everybody have different taste .
I hope , at any rate , that you be go to take up your residence here . ''
`` Oh !
dear no , '' cry the Rocket .
`` I be merely a visitor , a distinguished visitor .
The fact be that I find this place rather tedious .
There be neither society here , nor solitude .
In fact , it be essentially suburban .
I shall probably go back to Court , for I know that I be destine to make a sensation in the world . ''
`` I have thought of enter public life once myself , '' remark the Duck ; `` there be so many thing that need reform .
Indeed , I take the chair at a meeting some time ago , and we pass resolution condemn everything that we do not like .
However , they do not seem to have much effect .
Now I go in for domesticity , and look after my family . ''
`` I be make for public life , '' say the Rocket , `` and so be all my relation , even the humble of them .
Whenever we appear we excite great attention .
I have not actually appear myself , but when I do so it will be a magnificent sight .
As for domesticity , it age one rapidly , and distract one 's mind from high thing . ''
`` Ah !
the high thing of life , how fine they be ! ''
say the Duck ; `` and that remind me how hungry I feel '' : and she swim away down the stream , say , `` Quack , quack , quack . ''
`` Come back !
come back ! ''
scream the Rocket , `` I have a great deal to say to you '' ; but the Duck pay no attention to him .
`` I be glad that she have go , '' he say to himself , `` she have a decidedly middle-class mind '' ; and he sink a little deep still into the mud , and begin to think about the loneliness of genius , when suddenly two little boy in white smock come run down the bank , with a kettle and some faggot .
`` This must be the deputation , '' say the Rocket , and he try to look very dignified .
`` Hallo ! ''
cried one of the boy , `` look at this old stick !
I wonder how it come here '' ; and he pick the rocket out of the ditch .
`` OLD Stick ! ''
say the Rocket , `` impossible !
GOLD Stick , that be what he say .
Gold Stick be very complimentary .
In fact , he mistake me for one of the Court dignitaries ! ''
`` Let u put it into the fire ! ''
say the other boy , `` it will help to boil the kettle . ''
So they pile the faggot together , and put the Rocket on top , and light the fire .
`` This be magnificent , '' cry the Rocket , `` they be go to let me off in broad day-light , so that every one can see me . ''
`` We will go to sleep now , '' they say , `` and when we wake up the kettle will be boil '' ; and they lay down on the grass , and shut their eye .
The Rocket be very damp , so he take a long time to burn .
At last , however , the fire catch him .
`` Now I be go off ! ''
he cry , and he make himself very stiff and straight .
`` I know I shall go much high than the star , much high than the moon , much high than the sun .
In fact , I shall go so high that -- '' Fizz !
Fizz !
Fizz !
and he go straight up into the air .
`` Delightful ! ''
he cry , `` I shall go on like this for ever .
What a success I be ! ''
But nobody saw him .
Then he begin to feel a curious tingle sensation all over him .
`` Now I be go to explode , '' he cry .
`` I shall set the whole world on fire , and make such a noise that nobody will talk about anything else for a whole year . ''
And he certainly do explode .
Bang !
Bang !
Bang !
go the gunpowder .
There be no doubt about it .
But nobody hear him , not even the two little boy , for they be sound asleep .
Then all that be leave of him be the stick , and this fell down on the back of a Goose who be take a walk by the side of the ditch .
`` Good heaven ! ''
cry the Goose .
`` It be go to rain stick '' ; and she rush into the water .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Robert_Louis_Stevenson___Kidnapped.txt.out
CHAPTER I I SET OFF UPON MY JOURNEY TO THE HOUSE OF SHAWS I will begin the story of my adventure with a certain morning early in the month of June , the year of grace 1751 , when I take the key for the last time out of the door of my father 's house .
The sun begin to shine upon the summit of the hill a I go down the road ; and by the time I have come as far a the manse , the blackbird be whistle in the garden lilac , and the mist that hung around the valley in the time of the dawn be begin to arise and die away .
Mr. Campbell , the minister of Essendean , be wait for me by the garden gate , good man !
He ask me if I have breakfast ; and hear that I lack for nothing , he take my hand in both of his and clap it kindly under his arm .
`` Well , Davie , lad , '' say he , `` I will go with you as far a the ford , to set you on the way . ''
And we begin to walk forward in silence .
`` Are ye sorry to leave Essendean ? ''
say he , after awhile .
`` Why , sir , '' say I , `` if I know where I be go , or what be likely to become of me , I would tell you candidly .
Essendean be a good place indeed , and I have be very happy there ; but then I have never be anywhere else .
My father and mother , since they be both dead , I shall be no nearer to in Essendean than in the Kingdom of Hungary , and , to speak truth , if I think I have a chance to good myself where I be go I would go with a good will . ''
`` Ay ? ''
say Mr. Campbell .
`` Very well , Davie .
Then it behove me to tell your fortune ; or so far a I may .
When your mother be go , and your father -LRB- the worthy , Christian man -RRB- begin to sicken for his end , he give me in charge a certain letter , which he say be your inheritance .
` So soon , ' say he , ` a I be go , and the house be redd up and the gear dispose of ' -LRB- all which , Davie , hath be do -RRB- , ` give my boy this letter into his hand , and start him off to the house of Shaws , not far from Cramond .
That be the place I come from , ' he say , ` and it 's where it befit that my boy should return .
He be a steady lad , ' your father say , ` and a canny goer ; and I doubt not he will come safe , and be well lived where he go . ' ''
`` The house of Shaws ! ''
I cry .
`` What have my poor father to do with the house of Shaws ? ''
`` Nay , '' say Mr. Campbell , `` who can tell that for a surety ?
But the name of that family , Davie , boy , be the name you bear -- Balfours of Shaws : an ancient , honest , reputable house , peradventure in these latter day decay .
Your father , too , be a man of learn a befit his position ; no man more plausibly conducted school ; nor have he the manner or the speech of a common dominie ; but -LRB- a ye will yourself remember -RRB- I take aye a pleasure to have him to the manse to meet the gentry ; and those of my own house , Campbell of Kilrennet , Campbell of Dunswire , Campbell of Minch , and others , all well-kenned gentleman , have pleasure in his society .
Lastly , to put all the element of this affair before you , here be the testamentary letter itself , superscrived by the own hand of our departed brother . ''
He give me the letter , which be address in these word : `` To the hand of Ebenezer Balfour , Esquire , of Shaws , in his house of Shaws , these will be deliver by my son , David Balfour . ''
My heart be beat hard at this great prospect now suddenly open before a lad of seventeen year of age , the son of a poor country dominie in the Forest of Ettrick .
`` Mr. Campbell , '' I stammer , `` and if you be in my shoe , would you go ? ''
`` Of a surety , '' say the minister , `` that would I , and without pause .
A pretty lad like you should get to Cramond -LRB- which be near in by Edinburgh -RRB- in two day of walk .
If the bad come to the bad , and your high relation -LRB- a I can not but suppose them to be somewhat of your blood -RRB- should put you to the door , ye can but walk the two day back again and risp at the manse door .
But I would rather hope that ye shall be well receive , a your poor father forecast for you , and for anything that I ken come to be a great man in time .
And here , Davie , laddie , '' he resume , `` it lie near upon my conscience to improve this parting , and set you on the right guard against the danger of the world . ''
Here he cast about for a comfortable seat , light on a big boulder under a birch by the trackside , sate down upon it with a very long , serious upper lip , and the sun now shin in upon u between two peak , put his pocket-handkerchief over his cocked hat to shelter him .
There , then , with uplifted forefinger , he first put me on my guard against a considerable number of heresy , to which I have no temptation , and urge upon me to be instant in my prayer and reading of the Bible .
That do , he draw a picture of the great house that I be bind to , and how I should conduct myself with it inhabitant .
`` Be soople , Davie , in thing immaterial , '' say he .
`` Bear ye this in mind , that , though gentle born , ye have have a country rearing .
Dinnae shame u , Davie , dinnae shame u !
In yon great , muckle house , with all these domestic , upper and under , show yourself a nice , a circumspect , a quick at the conception , and a slow of speech a any .
As for the laird -- remember he 's the laird ; I say no more : honour to whom honour .
It 's a pleasure to obey a laird ; or should be , to the young . ''
`` Well , sir , '' say I , `` it may be ; and I 'll promise you I 'll try to make it so . ''
`` Why , very well say , '' reply Mr. Campbell , heartily .
`` And now to come to the material , or -LRB- to make a quibble -RRB- to the immaterial .
I have here a little packet which contain four thing . ''
He tug it , a he speak , and with some great difficulty , from the skirt pocket of his coat .
`` Of these four thing , the first be your legal due : the little pickle money for your father 's book and plenishing , which I have buy -LRB- a I have explain from the first -RRB- in the design of re-selling at a profit to the incoming dominie .
The other three be gifties that Mrs. Campbell and myself would be blithe of your acceptance .
The first , which be round , will likely please ye best at the first off-go ; but , O Davie , laddie , it 's but a drop of water in the sea ; it 'll help you but a step , and vanish like the morning .
The second , which be flat and square and write upon , will stand by you through life , like a good staff for the road , and a good pillow to your head in sickness .
And a for the last , which be cubical , that 'll see you , it 's my prayerful wish , into a good land . ''
With that he get upon his foot , take off his hat , and pray a little while aloud , and in affect term , for a young man set out into the world ; then suddenly take me in his arm and embrace me very hard ; then hold me at arm 's length , look at me with his face all work with sorrow ; and then whip about , and cry good-bye to me , set off backward by the way that we have come at a sort of jogging run .
It might have be laughable to another ; but I be in no mind to laugh .
I watch him as long a he be in sight ; and he never stop hurry , nor once look back .
Then it come in upon my mind that this be all his sorrow at my departure ; and my conscience smite me hard and fast , because I , for my part , be overjoy to get away out of that quiet country-side , and go to a great , busy house , among rich and respect gentlefolk of my own name and blood .
`` Davie , Davie , '' I think , `` be ever see such black ingratitude ?
Can you forget old favour and old friend at the mere whistle of a name ?
Fie , fie ; think shame . ''
And I sit down on the boulder the good man have just leave , and open the parcel to see the nature of my gift .
That which he have call cubical , I have never have much doubt of ; sure enough it be a little Bible , to carry in a plaid-neuk .
That which he have call round , I find to be a shilling piece ; and the third , which be to help me so wonderfully both in health and sickness all the day of my life , be a little piece of coarse yellow paper , write upon thus in red ink : `` TO MAKE LILLY OF THE VALLEY WATER .
-- Take the flower of lilly of the valley and distil them in sack , and drink a spooneful or two a there be occasion .
It restore speech to those that have the dumb palsey .
It be good against the Gout ; it comfort the heart and strengthen the memory ; and the flower , put into a Glasse , close stopt , and set into ane hill of ant for a month , then take it out , and you will find a liquor which come from the flower , which keep in a vial ; it be good , ill or well , and whether man or woman . ''
And then , in the minister 's own hand , be add : `` Likewise for sprain , rub it in ; and for the cholic , a great spooneful in the hour . ''
To be sure , I laugh over this ; but it be rather tremulous laughter ; and I be glad to get my bundle on my staff 's end and set out over the ford and up the hill upon the farther side ; till , just a I come on the green drove-road run wide through the heather , I take my last look of Kirk Essendean , the tree about the manse , and the big rowan in the kirkyard where my father and my mother lay .
CHAPTER II I COME TO MY JOURNEY 'S END On the forenoon of the second day , come to the top of a hill , I saw all the country fall away before me down to the sea ; and in the midst of this descent , on a long ridge , the city of Edinburgh smoke like a kiln .
There be a flag upon the castle , and ship move or lie anchor in the firth ; both of which , for a far away a they be , I could distinguish clearly ; and both brought my country heart into my mouth .
Presently after , I come by a house where a shepherd live , and get a rough direction for the neighbourhood of Cramond ; and so , from one to another , work my way to the westward of the capital by Colinton , till I come out upon the Glasgow road .
And there , to my great pleasure and wonder , I behold a regiment marching to the fife , every foot in time ; an old red-faced general on a grey horse at the one end , and at the other the company of Grenadiers , with their Pope 's - hat .
The pride of life seem to mount into my brain at the sight of the red coat and the hearing of that merry music .
A little farther on , and I be tell I be in Cramond parish , and begin to substitute in my inquiry the name of the house of Shaws .
It be a word that seem to surprise those of whom I seek my way .
At first I think the plainness of my appearance , in my country habit , and that all dusty from the road , consort ill with the greatness of the place to which I be bind .
But after two , or maybe three , have give me the same look and the same answer , I begin to take it in my head there be something strange about the Shaws itself .
The good to set this fear at rest , I change the form of my inquiry ; and spy an honest fellow come along a lane on the shaft of his cart , I ask him if he have ever hear tell of a house they call the house of Shaws .
He stop his cart and look at me , like the others .
`` Ay '' say he .
`` What for ? ''
`` It 's a great house ? ''
I ask .
`` Doubtless , '' say he .
`` The house be a big , muckle house . ''
`` Ay , '' say I , `` but the folk that be in it ? ''
`` Folk ? ''
cry he .
`` Are ye daft ?
There 's nae folk there -- to call folk . ''
`` What ? ''
say I ; `` not Mr. Ebenezer ? ''
`` Ou , ay '' say the man ; `` there 's the laird , to be sure , if it 's him you 're want .
What 'll like be your business , mannie ? ''
`` I be lead to think that I would get a situation , '' I say , look as modest a I could .
`` What ? ''
cry the carter , in so sharp a note that his very horse start ; and then , `` Well , mannie , '' he add , `` it 's nane of my affair ; but ye seem a decent-spoken lad ; and if ye 'll take a word from me , ye 'll keep clear of the Shaws . ''
The next person I come across be a dapper little man in a beautiful white wig , whom I saw to be a barber on his round ; and know well that barber be great gossip , I ask him plainly what sort of a man be Mr. Balfour of the Shaws .
`` Hoot , hoot , hoot , '' say the barber , `` nae kind of a man , nae kind of a man at all ; '' and begin to ask me very shrewdly what my business be ; but I be more than a match for him at that , and he go on to his next customer no wise than he come .
I can not well describe the blow this dealt to my illusion .
The more indistinct the accusation be , the less I like them , for they leave the wider field to fancy .
What kind of a great house be this , that all the parish should start and stare to be ask the way to it ?
