No one take notice of me , only the bow oar say , `` Is that you , Jim ?
Keep your head down . ''
But Silver , from the other boat , look sharply over and call out to know if that be me ; and from that moment I begin to regret what I have do .
The crew race for the beach , but the boat I be in , have some start and be at once the lighter and the good man , shot far ahead of her consort , and the bow have strike among the shore-side tree and I have catch a branch and swing myself out and plunge into the near thicket while Silver and the rest be still a hundred yard behind .
`` Jim , Jim ! ''
I hear him shout .
But you may suppose I pay no heed ; jumping , ducking , and break through , I run straight before my nose till I could run no longer .
14 The First Blow I WAS so please at have give the slip to Long John that I begin to enjoy myself and look around me with some interest on the strange land that I be in .
I have cross a marshy tract full of willow , bulrush , and odd , outlandish , swampy tree ; and I have now come out upon the skirt of an open piece of undulating , sandy country , about a mile long , dot with a few pine and a great number of contorted tree , not unlike the oak in growth , but pale in the foliage , like willow .
On the far side of the open stand one of the hill , with two quaint , craggy peak shin vividly in the sun .
I now felt for the first time the joy of exploration .
The isle be uninhabited ; my shipmate I have leave behind , and nothing live in front of me but dumb brute and fowl .
I turn hither and thither among the tree .
Here and there be flower plant , unknown to me ; here and there I saw snake , and one raise his head from a ledge of rock and hiss at me with a noise not unlike the spinning of a top .
Little do I suppose that he be a deadly enemy and that the noise be the famous rattle .
Then I come to a long thicket of these oaklike tree -- live , or evergreen , oak , I hear afterwards they should be call -- which grow low along the sand like bramble , the bough curiously twist , the foliage compact , like thatch .
The thicket stretch down from the top of one of the sandy knoll , spread and grow taller a it go , until it reach the margin of the broad , reedy fen , through which the near of the little river soak it way into the anchorage .
The marsh be steam in the strong sun , and the outline of the Spy-glass tremble through the haze .
All at once there begin to go a sort of bustle among the bulrush ; a wild duck fly up with a quack , another follow , and soon over the whole surface of the marsh a great cloud of bird hung screaming and circling in the air .
I judge at once that some of my shipmate must be draw near along the border of the fen .
Nor be I deceive , for soon I hear the very distant and low tone of a human voice , which , a I continue to give ear , grow steadily louder and nearer .
This put me in a great fear , and I crawl under cover of the near live-oak and squat there , hearken , as silent a a mouse .
Another voice answer , and then the first voice , which I now recognize to be Silver 's , once more take up the story and ran on for a long while in a stream , only now and again interrupt by the other .
By the sound they must have be talk earnestly , and almost fiercely ; but no distinct word come to my hearing .
At last the speaker seem to have pause and perhaps to have sit down , for not only do they cease to draw any nearer , but the bird themselves begin to grow more quiet and to settle again to their place in the swamp .
And now I begin to feel that I be neglect my business , that since I have be so foolhardy a to come ashore with these desperado , the least I could do be to overhear them at their council , and that my plain and obvious duty be to draw as close a I could manage , under the favourable ambush of the crouching tree .
I could tell the direction of the speaker pretty exactly , not only by the sound of their voice but by the behaviour of the few bird that still hang in alarm above the head of the intruder .
Crawling on all four , I make steadily but slowly towards them , till at last , raise my head to an aperture among the leaf , I could see clear down into a little green dell beside the marsh , and closely set about with tree , where Long John Silver and another of the crew stand face to face in conversation .
The sun beat full upon them .
Silver have throw his hat beside him on the ground , and his great , smooth , blond face , all shin with heat , be lift to the other man 's in a kind of appeal .
`` Mate , '' he be say , `` it 's because I think gold dust of you -- gold dust , and you may lay to that !
If I have n't take to you like pitch , do you think I 'd have be here a-warning of you ?
All 's up -- you ca n't make nor mend ; it 's to save your neck that I 'm a-speaking , and if one of the wild uns know it , where 'd I be , Tom -- now , tell me , where 'd I be ? ''
`` Silver , '' say the other man -- and I observe he be not only red in the face , but speak as hoarse a a crow , and his voice shake too , like a taut rope -- `` Silver , '' say he , `` you 're old , and you 're honest , or have the name for it ; and you 've money too , which lot of poor sailor have n't ; and you 're brave , or I 'm mistook .
And will you tell me you 'll let yourself be lead away with that kind of a mess of swab ?
Not you !
As sure a God see me , I 'd sooner lose my hand .
If I turn agin my dooty -- '' And then all of a sudden he be interrupt by a noise .
I have find one of the honest hand -- well , here , at that same moment , come news of another .
Far away out in the marsh there arose , all of a sudden , a sound like the cry of anger , then another on the back of it ; and then one horrid , long-drawn scream .
The rock of the Spy-glass re-echoed it a score of time ; the whole troop of marsh-birds rise again , darken heaven , with a simultaneous whirr ; and long after that death yell be still ring in my brain , silence have re-established it empire , and only the rustle of the redescending bird and the boom of the distant surge disturb the languor of the afternoon .
Tom have leap at the sound , like a horse at the spur , but Silver have not wink an eye .
He stand where he be , rest lightly on his crutch , watch his companion like a snake about to spring .
`` John ! ''
say the sailor , stretch out his hand .
`` Hands off ! ''
cry Silver , leap back a yard , a it seem to me , with the speed and security of a trained gymnast .
`` Hands off , if you like , John Silver , '' say the other .
`` It 's a black conscience that can make you fear of me .
But in heaven 's name , tell me , what be that ? ''
`` That ? ''
return Silver , smile away , but wary than ever , his eye a mere pin-point in his big face , but gleam like a crumb of glass .
`` That ?
Oh , I reckon that 'll be Alan . ''
And at this point Tom flash out like a hero .
`` Alan ! ''
he cry .
`` Then rest his soul for a true seaman !
And a for you , John Silver , long you 've be a mate of mine , but you 're mate of mine no more .
If I die like a dog , I 'll die in my dooty .
You 've kill Alan , have you ?
Kill me too , if you can .
But I defy you . ''
And with that , this brave fellow turn his back directly on the cook and set off walk for the beach .
But he be not destine to go far .
With a cry John seize the branch of a tree , whip the crutch out of his armpit , and send that uncouth missile hurtle through the air .
It strike poor Tom , point foremost , and with stunning violence , right between the shoulder in the middle of his back .
His hand fly up , he give a sort of gasp , and fell .
Whether he be injure much or little , none could ever tell .
Like enough , to judge from the sound , his back be break on the spot .
But he have no time give him to recover .
Silver , agile a a monkey even without leg or crutch , be on the top of him next moment and have twice bury his knife up to the hilt in that defenceless body .
From my place of ambush , I could hear him pant aloud a he strike the blow .
I do not know what it rightly be to faint , but I do know that for the next little while the whole world swam away from before me in a whirling mist ; Silver and the bird , and the tall Spy-glass hilltop , go round and round and topsy-turvy before my eye , and all manner of bell ring and distant voice shout in my ear .
When I come again to myself the monster have pull himself together , his crutch under his arm , his hat upon his head .
Just before him Tom lay motionless upon the sward ; but the murderer mind him not a whit , cleanse his blood-stained knife the while upon a wisp of grass .
Everything else be unchanged , the sun still shin mercilessly on the steaming marsh and the tall pinnacle of the mountain , and I could scarce persuade myself that murder have be actually do and a human life cruelly cut short a moment since before my eye .
But now John put his hand into his pocket , bring out a whistle , and blow upon it several modulate blast that ring far across the heated air .
I could not tell , of course , the meaning of the signal , but it instantly awake my fear .
More men would be come .
I might be discover .
They have already slay two of the honest people ; after Tom and Alan , might not I come next ?
Instantly I begin to extricate myself and crawl back again , with what speed and silence I could manage , to the more open portion of the wood .
As I do so , I could hear hail come and go between the old buccaneer and his comrade , and this sound of danger lent me wing .
As soon a I be clear of the thicket , I run a I never run before , scarce mind the direction of my flight , so long a it lead me from the murderer ; and a I run , fear grow and grow upon me until it turn into a kind of frenzy .
Indeed , could anyone be more entirely lose than I ?
When the gun fire , how should I dare to go down to the boat among those fiend , still smoke from their crime ?
Would not the first of them who saw me wring my neck like a snipe 's ?
Would not my absence itself be an evidence to them of my alarm , and therefore of my fatal knowledge ?
It be all over , I think .
Good-bye to the HISPANIOLA ; good-bye to the squire , the doctor , and the captain !
There be nothing left for me but death by starvation or death by the hand of the mutineer .
All this while , a I say , I be still run , and without take any notice , I have draw near to the foot of the little hill with the two peak and have get into a part of the island where the live-oaks grow more widely apart and seem more like forest tree in their bearing and dimension .
Mingled with these be a few scattered pine , some fifty , some near seventy , foot high .
The air too smelt more freshly than down beside the marsh .
And here a fresh alarm bring me to a standstill with a thump heart .
15 The Man of the Island FROM the side of the hill , which be here steep and stony , a spout of gravel be dislodge and fell rattle and bound through the tree .
My eye turn instinctively in that direction , and I saw a figure leap with great rapidity behind the trunk of a pine .
What it be , whether bear or man or monkey , I could in no wise tell .
It seem dark and shaggy ; more I know not .
But the terror of this new apparition bring me to a stand .
I be now , it seem , cut off upon both side ; behind me the murderer , before me this lurk nondescript .
And immediately I begin to prefer the danger that I know to those I know not .
Silver himself appear less terrible in contrast with this creature of the wood , and I turn on my heel , and look sharply behind me over my shoulder , begin to retrace my step in the direction of the boat .
Instantly the figure reappear , and make a wide circuit , begin to head me off .
I be tire , at any rate ; but have I be as fresh a when I rise , I could see it be in vain for me to contend in speed with such an adversary .
From trunk to trunk the creature flit like a deer , run manlike on two leg , but unlike any man that I have ever see , stoop almost double a it run .
Yet a man it be , I could no longer be in doubt about that .
I begin to recall what I have hear of cannibal .
I be within an ace of call for help .
But the mere fact that he be a man , however wild , have somewhat reassure me , and my fear of Silver begin to revive in proportion .
I stand still , therefore , and cast about for some method of escape ; and a I be so thinking , the recollection of my pistol flash into my mind .
As soon a I remember I be not defenceless , courage glow again in my heart and I set my face resolutely for this man of the island and walk briskly towards him .
He be conceal by this time behind another tree trunk ; but he must have be watch me closely , for as soon a I begin to move in his direction he reappear and take a step to meet me .
Then he hesitate , draw back , come forward again , and at last , to my wonder and confusion , throw himself on his knee and hold out his clasped hand in supplication .
At that I once more stopped .
`` Who be you ? ''
I ask .
`` Ben Gunn , '' he answer , and his voice sound hoarse and awkward , like a rusty lock .
`` I 'm poor Ben Gunn , I be ; and I have n't speak with a Christian these three year . ''
I could now see that he be a white man like myself and that his feature be even please .
His skin , wherever it be expose , be burn by the sun ; even his lip be black , and his fair eye look quite startle in so dark a face .
Of all the beggar-men that I have see or fancy , he be the chief for raggedness .
He be clothe with tatter of old ship 's canvas and old sea-cloth , and this extraordinary patchwork be all hold together by a system of the most various and incongruous fastening , brass button , bit of stick , and loop of tarry gaskin .
About his waist he wear an old brass-buckled leather belt , which be the one thing solid in his whole accoutrement .
`` Three year ! ''
I cry .
`` Were you shipwreck ? ''
`` Nay , mate , '' say he ; `` maroon . ''
I have hear the word , and I know it stand for a horrible kind of punishment common enough among the buccaneer , in which the offender be put ashore with a little powder and shot and leave behind on some desolate and distant island .
`` Marooned three year agone , '' he continue , `` and live on goat since then , and berry , and oyster .
Wherever a man be , say I , a man can do for himself .
But , mate , my heart be sore for Christian diet .
You might n't happen to have a piece of cheese about you , now ?
No ?
Well , many 's the long night I 've dream of cheese -- toast , mostly -- and wake up again , and here I be . ''
`` If ever I can get aboard again , '' say I , `` you shall have cheese by the stone . ''
All this time he have be feel the stuff of my jacket , smooth my hand , look at my boot , and generally , in the interval of his speech , show a childish pleasure in the presence of a fellow creature .
But at my last word he perk up into a kind of startled slyness .
`` If ever you can get aboard again , say you ? ''
he repeat .
`` Why , now , who 's to hinder you ? ''
`` Not you , I know , '' be my reply .
`` And right you be , '' he cry .
`` Now you -- what do you call yourself , mate ? ''
`` Jim , '' I tell him .
`` Jim , Jim , '' say he , quite pleased apparently .
`` Well , now , Jim , I 've live that rough a you 'd be ashamed to hear of .
Now , for instance , you would n't think I have have a pious mother -- to look at me ? ''
he ask .
`` Why , no , not in particular , '' I answer .
`` Ah , well , '' say he , `` but I have -- remarkable pious .
And I be a civil , pious boy , and could rattle off my catechism that fast , a you could n't tell one word from another .
And here 's what it come to , Jim , and it begin with chuck-farthen on the bless grave-stones !
That 's what it begin with , but it go further 'n that ; and so my mother tell me , and predicked the whole , she do , the pious woman !
But it be Providence that put me here .
I 've think it all out in this here lonely island , and I 'm back on piety .
You do n't catch me taste rum so much , but just a thimbleful for luck , of course , the first chance I have .
I 'm bound I 'll be good , and I see the way to .
And , Jim '' -- look all round him and lower his voice to a whisper -- `` I 'm rich . ''
I now felt sure that the poor fellow have go crazy in his solitude , and I suppose I must have show the feeling in my face , for he repeat the statement hotly : `` Rich !
Rich !
I say .
And I 'll tell you what : I 'll make a man of you , Jim .
Ah , Jim , you 'll bless your star , you will , you be the first that find me ! ''
And at this there come suddenly a lowering shadow over his face , and he tighten his grasp upon my hand and raise a forefinger threateningly before my eye .
`` Now , Jim , you tell me true : that ai n't Flint 's ship ? ''
he ask .
At this I have a happy inspiration .
I begin to believe that I have find an ally , and I answer him at once .
`` It 's not Flint 's ship , and Flint be dead ; but I 'll tell you true , a you ask me -- there be some of Flint 's hand aboard ; bad luck for the rest of u . ''
`` Not a man -- with one -- leg ? ''
he gasp .
`` Silver ? ''
I ask .
`` Ah , Silver ! ''
say he .
`` That be his name . ''
`` He 's the cook , and the ringleader too . ''
He be still hold me by the wrist , and at that he give it quite a wring .
`` If you be send by Long John , '' he say , `` I 'm as good a pork , and I know it .
But where be you , do you suppose ? ''
I have make my mind up in a moment , and by way of answer tell him the whole story of our voyage and the predicament in which we find ourselves .
He hear me with the keen interest , and when I have do he pat me on the head .
`` You 're a good lad , Jim , '' he say ; `` and you 're all in a clove hitch , ai n't you ?
Well , you just put your trust in Ben Gunn -- Ben Gunn 's the man to do it .
Would you think it likely , now , that your squire would prove a liberal-minded one in case of help -- him be in a clove hitch , a you remark ? ''
I tell him the squire be the most liberal of men .
`` Aye , but you see , '' return Ben Gunn , `` I do n't mean give me a gate to keep , and a suit of livery clothes , and such ; that 's not my mark , Jim .
What I mean be , would he be likely to come down to the toon of , say one thousand pound out of money that 's as good a a man 's own already ? ''
`` I be sure he would , '' say I . `` As it be , all hand be to share . ''
`` AND a passage home ? ''
he add with a look of great shrewdness .
`` Why , '' I cry , `` the squire 's a gentleman .
And besides , if we get rid of the others , we should want you to help work the vessel home . ''
`` Ah , '' say he , `` so you would . ''
And he seem very much relieve .
`` Now , I 'll tell you what , '' he go on .
`` So much I 'll tell you , and no more .
I be in Flint 's ship when he bury the treasure ; he and six along -- six strong seaman .
They be ashore nigh on a week , and u stand off and on in the old WALRUS .
One fine day up go the signal , and here come Flint by himself in a little boat , and his head do up in a blue scarf .
The sun be get up , and mortal white he look about the cutwater .
But , there he be , you mind , and the six all dead -- dead and bury .
How he do it , not a man aboard u could make out .
It be battle , murder , and sudden death , leastways -- him against six .
Billy Bones be the mate ; Long John , he be quartermaster ; and they ask him where the treasure be .
` Ah , ' say he , ` you can go ashore , if you like , and stay , ' he say ; ` but a for the ship , she 'll beat up for more , by thunder ! '
That 's what he say .
`` Well , I be in another ship three year back , and we sight this island .
` Boys , ' say I , ` here 's Flint 's treasure ; let 's land and find it . '
The cap'n be displease at that , but my messmate be all of a mind and land .
Twelve day they look for it , and every day they have the bad word for me , until one fine morning all hand go aboard .
` As for you , Benjamin Gunn , ' say they , ` here 's a musket , ' they say , ` and a spade , and pick-axe .
You can stay here and find Flint 's money for yourself , ' they say .
`` Well , Jim , three year have I be here , and not a bite of Christian diet from that day to this .
But now , you look here ; look at me .
Do I look like a man before the mast ?
No , say you .
Nor I be n't , neither , I say . ''
And with that he wink and pinch me hard .
`` Just you mention them word to your squire , Jim , '' he go on .
`` Nor he be n't , neither -- that 's the word .
Three year he be the man of this island , light and dark , fair and rain ; and sometimes he would maybe think upon a prayer -LRB- say you -RRB- , and sometimes he would maybe think of his old mother , so be a she 's alive -LRB- you 'll say -RRB- ; but the most part of Gunn 's time -LRB- this be what you 'll say -RRB- -- the most part of his time be take up with another matter .
And then you 'll give him a nip , like I do . ''
And he pinch me again in the most confidential manner .
`` Then , '' he continue , `` then you 'll up , and you 'll say this : Gunn be a good man -LRB- you 'll say -RRB- , and he put a precious sight more confidence -- a precious sight , mind that -- in a gen ` leman born than in these gen ` leman of fortune , have be one hisself . ''
`` Well , '' I say , `` I do n't understand one word that you 've be say .
But that 's neither here nor there ; for how be I to get on board ? ''
`` Ah , '' say he , `` that 's the hitch , for sure .
Well , there 's my boat , that I make with my two hand .
I keep her under the white rock .
If the bad come to the bad , we might try that after dark .
Hi ! ''
he break out .
`` What 's that ? ''
For just then , although the sun have still an hour or two to run , all the echo of the island awoke and bellow to the thunder of a cannon .
`` They have begin to fight ! ''
I cry .
`` Follow me . ''
And I begin to run towards the anchorage , my terror all forgotten , while close at my side the maroon man in his goatskin trot easily and lightly .
`` Left , leave , '' say he ; `` keep to your left hand , mate Jim !
Under the tree with you !
Theer 's where I kill my first goat .
They do n't come down here now ; they 're all mastheaded on them mounting for the fear of Benjamin Gunn .
Ah !
And there 's the cetemery '' -- cemetery , he must have mean .
`` You see the mound ?
I come here and pray , now and then , when I think maybe a Sunday would be about doo .
It be n't quite a chapel , but it seem more solemn like ; and then , say you , Ben Gunn be short-handed -- no chapling , nor so much a a Bible and a flag , you say . ''
So he keep talk a I run , neither expect nor receive any answer .
The cannon-shot be follow after a considerable interval by a volley of small arm .
Another pause , and then , not a quarter of a mile in front of me , I behold the Union Jack flutter in the air above a wood .
PART FOUR -- The Stockade 16 Narrative Continued by the Doctor : How the Ship Was Abandoned IT be about half past one -- three bell in the sea phrase -- that the two boat go ashore from the HISPANIOLA .
The captain , the squire , and I be talk matter over in the cabin .
Had there be a breath of wind , we should have fall on the six mutineer who be leave aboard with u , slip our cable , and away to sea .
But the wind be want ; and to complete our helplessness , down come Hunter with the news that Jim Hawkins have slip into a boat and be go ashore with the rest .
It never occur to u to doubt Jim Hawkins , but we be alarm for his safety .
With the men in the temper they be in , it seem an even chance if we should see the lad again .
We run on deck .
The pitch be bubble in the seam ; the nasty stench of the place turn me sick ; if ever a man smelt fever and dysentery , it be in that abominable anchorage .
The six scoundrel be sit grumble under a sail in the forecastle ; ashore we could see the gig make fast and a man sit in each , hard by where the river run in .
One of them be whistle `` Lillibullero . ''
Waiting be a strain , and it be decide that Hunter and I should go ashore with the jolly-boat in quest of information .
The gig have lean to their right , but Hunter and I pull straight in , in the direction of the stockade upon the chart .
The two who be leave guard their boat seem in a bustle at our appearance ; `` Lillibullero '' stop off , and I could see the pair discuss what they ought to do .
Had they go and tell Silver , all might have turn out differently ; but they have their order , I suppose , and decide to sit quietly where they be and hark back again to `` Lillibullero . ''
There be a slight bend in the coast , and I steer so a to put it between u ; even before we land we have thus lose sight of the gig .
I jump out and come a near run a I durst , with a big silk handkerchief under my hat for coolness ' sake and a brace of pistol ready prim for safety .
I have not go a hundred yard when I reach the stockade .
This be how it be : a spring of clear water rise almost at the top of a knoll .
Well , on the knoll , and enclose the spring , they have clap a stout loghouse fit to hold two score of people on a pinch and loopholed for musketry on either side .
All round this they have clear a wide space , and then the thing be complete by a pal six foot high , without door or opening , too strong to pull down without time and labour and too open to shelter the besieger .
The people in the log-house have them in every way ; they stand quiet in shelter and shoot the others like partridge .
All they want be a good watch and food ; for , short of a complete surprise , they might have hold the place against a regiment .
What particularly take my fancy be the spring .
For though we have a good enough place of it in the cabin of the HISPANIOLA , with plenty of arm and ammunition , and thing to eat , and excellent wine , there have be one thing overlook -- we have no water .
I be think this over when there come ringing over the island the cry of a man at the point of death .
I be not new to violent death -- I have serve his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland , and get a wound myself at Fontenoy -- but I know my pulse go dot and carry one .
`` Jim Hawkins be go , '' be my first thought .
It be something to have be an old soldier , but more still to have be a doctor .
There be no time to dilly-dally in our work .
And so now I make up my mind instantly , and with no time lose return to the shore and jump on board the jolly-boat .
By good fortune Hunter pull a good oar .
We make the water fly , and the boat be soon alongside and I aboard the schooner .
I find them all shaken , a be natural .
The squire be sit down , as white a a sheet , thinking of the harm he have lead u to , the good soul !
And one of the six forecastle hand be little good .
`` There 's a man , '' say Captain Smollett , nod towards him , `` new to this work .
He come nigh-hand fainting , doctor , when he hear the cry .
Another touch of the rudder and that man would join u . ''
I tell my plan to the captain , and between u we settle on the detail of it accomplishment .
We put old Redruth in the gallery between the cabin and the forecastle , with three or four loaded musket and a mattress for protection .
Hunter bring the boat round under the stern-port , and Joyce and I set to work load her with powder tin , musket , bag of biscuit , keg of pork , a cask of cognac , and my invaluable medicine chest .
In the meantime , the squire and the captain stay on deck , and the latter hail the coxswain , who be the principal man aboard .
`` Mr . Hands , '' he say , `` here be two of u with a brace of pistol each .
If any one of you six make a signal of any description , that man 's dead . ''
They be a good deal take aback , and after a little consultation one and all tumble down the fore companion , think no doubt to take u on the rear .
But when they saw Redruth wait for them in the sparred galley , they go about ship at once , and a head pop out again on deck .
`` Down , dog ! ''
cry the captain .
And the head pop back again ; and we hear no more , for the time , of these six very faint-hearted seaman .
By this time , tumble thing in a they come , we have the jolly-boat load as much a we dare .
Joyce and I get out through the stern-port , and we make for shore again as fast a oar could take u .
This second trip fairly arouse the watcher along shore .
`` Lillibullero '' be drop again ; and just before we lose sight of them behind the little point , one of them whip ashore and disappear .
I have half a mind to change my plan and destroy their boat , but I fear that Silver and the others might be close at hand , and all might very well be lose by try for too much .
We have soon touch land in the same place a before and set to provision the block house .
All three make the first journey , heavily laden , and toss our store over the palisade .
Then , leave Joyce to guard them -- one man , to be sure , but with half a dozen musket -- Hunter and I return to the jolly-boat and load ourselves once more .
So we proceed without pause to take breath , till the whole cargo be bestow , when the two servant take up their position in the block house , and I , with all my power , scull back to the HISPANIOLA .
That we should have risk a second boat load seem more dare than it really be .
They have the advantage of number , of course , but we have the advantage of arm .
Not one of the men ashore have a musket , and before they could get within range for pistol shooting , we flatter ourselves we should be able to give a good account of a half-dozen at least .
The squire be wait for me at the stern window , all his faintness go from him .
He catch the painter and make it fast , and we fell to load the boat for our very live .
Pork , powder , and biscuit be the cargo , with only a musket and a cutlas apiece for the squire and me and Redruth and the captain .
The rest of the arm and powder we drop overboard in two fathom and a half of water , so that we could see the bright steel shin far below u in the sun , on the clean , sandy bottom .
By this time the tide be begin to ebb , and the ship be swing round to her anchor .
Voices be hear faintly halloaing in the direction of the two gig ; and though this reassure u for Joyce and Hunter , who be well to the eastward , it warn our party to be off .
Redruth retreat from his place in the gallery and drop into the boat , which we then bring round to the ship 's counter , to be handy for Captain Smollett .
`` Now , men , '' say he , `` do you hear me ? ''
There be no answer from the forecastle .
`` It 's to you , Abraham Gray -- it 's to you I be speak . ''
Still no reply .
`` Gray , '' resume Mr. Smollett , a little louder , `` I be leave this ship , and I order you to follow your captain .
I know you be a good man at bottom , and I dare say not one of the lot of you 's as bad a he make out .
I have my watch here in my hand ; I give you thirty second to join me in . ''
There be a pause .
`` Come , my fine fellow , '' continue the captain ; `` do n't hang so long in stay .
I 'm risk my life and the life of these good gentleman every second . ''
There be a sudden scuffle , a sound of blow , and out burst Abraham Gray with a knife cut on the side of the cheek , and come run to the captain like a dog to the whistle .
`` I 'm with you , sir , '' say he .
And the next moment he and the captain have drop aboard of u , and we have shove off and give way .
We be clear out of the ship , but not yet ashore in our stockade .
17 Narrative Continued by the Doctor : The Jolly-boat 's Last Trip THIS fifth trip be quite different from any of the others .
In the first place , the little gallipot of a boat that we be in be gravely overload .
Five grown men , and three of them -- Trelawney , Redruth , and the captain -- over six foot high , be already more than she be mean to carry .
Add to that the powder , pork , and bread-bags .
The gunwale be lipping astern .
Several time we ship a little water , and my breech and the tail of my coat be all soak wet before we have go a hundred yard .
The captain make u trim the boat , and we get her to lie a little more evenly .
All the same , we be afraid to breathe .
In the second place , the ebb be now make -- a strong rippling current run westward through the basin , and then south ` ard and seaward down the strait by which we have enter in the morning .
Even the ripple be a danger to our overloaded craft , but the bad of it be that we be sweep out of our true course and away from our proper landing-place behind the point .
If we let the current have it way we should come ashore beside the gig , where the pirate might appear at any moment .
`` I can not keep her head for the stockade , sir , '' say I to the captain .
I be steer , while he and Redruth , two fresh men , be at the oar .
`` The tide keep wash her down .
Could you pull a little strong ? ''
`` Not without swamp the boat , '' say he .
`` You must bear up , sir , if you please -- bear up until you see you 're gain . ''
I try and find by experiment that the tide keep sweeping u westward until I have lay her head due east , or just about right angle to the way we ought to go .
`` We 'll never get ashore at this rate , '' say I . `` If it 's the only course that we can lie , sir , we must even lie it , '' return the captain .
`` We must keep upstream .
You see , sir , '' he go on , `` if once we drop to leeward of the landing-place , it 's hard to say where we should get ashore , besides the chance of be board by the gig ; whereas , the way we go the current must slacken , and then we can dodge back along the shore . ''
`` The current 's less a ` ready , sir , '' say the man Gray , who be sit in the fore-sheets ; `` you can ease her off a bit . ''
`` Thank you , my man , '' say I , quite a if nothing have happen , for we have all quietly make up our mind to treat him like one of ourselves .
Suddenly the captain speak up again , and I think his voice be a little changed .
`` The gun ! ''
say he .
`` I have think of that , '' say I , for I make sure he be think of a bombardment of the fort .
`` They could never get the gun ashore , and if they do , they could never haul it through the wood . ''
`` Look astern , doctor , '' reply the captain .
We have entirely forget the long nine ; and there , to our horror , be the five rogue busy about her , get off her jacket , a they call the stout tarpaulin cover under which she sail .
Not only that , but it flash into my mind at the same moment that the round-shot and the powder for the gun have be leave behind , and a stroke with an axe would put it all into the possession of the evil one abroad .
`` Israel be Flint 's gunner , '' say Gray hoarsely .
At any risk , we put the boat 's head direct for the landing-place .
By this time we have get so far out of the run of the current that we keep steerage way even at our necessarily gentle rate of rowing , and I could keep her steady for the goal .
But the bad of it be that with the course I now hold we turn our broadside instead of our stern to the HISPANIOLA and offer a target like a barn door .
I could hear as well a see that brandy-faced rascal Israel Hands plump down a round-shot on the deck .
`` Who 's the best shot ? ''
ask the captain .
`` Mr. Trelawney , out and away , '' say I . `` Mr. Trelawney , will you please pick me off one of these men , sir ?
Hands , if possible , '' say the captain .
Trelawney be as cool a steel .
He look to the priming of his gun .
`` Now , '' cry the captain , `` easy with that gun , sir , or you 'll swamp the boat .
All hand stand by to trim her when he aim . ''
The squire raise his gun , the rowing cease , and we lean over to the other side to keep the balance , and all be so nicely contrive that we do not ship a drop .
They have the gun , by this time , slew round upon the swivel , and Hands , who be at the muzzle with the rammer , be in consequence the most exposed .
However , we have no luck , for just a Trelawney fire , down he stoop , the ball whistle over him , and it be one of the other four who fell .
The cry he give be echo not only by his companion on board but by a great number of voice from the shore , and look in that direction I saw the other pirate troop out from among the tree and tumble into their place in the boat .
`` Here come the gig , sir , '' say I . `` Give way , then , '' cry the captain .
`` We must n't mind if we swamp her now .
If we ca n't get ashore , all 's up . ''
`` Only one of the gig be be man , sir , '' I add ; `` the crew of the other most likely go round by shore to cut u off . ''
`` They 'll have a hot run , sir , '' return the captain .
`` Jack ashore , you know .
It 's not them I mind ; it 's the round-shot .
Carpet bowl !
My lady 's maid could n't miss .
Tell u , squire , when you see the match , and we 'll hold water . ''
In the meanwhile we have be make headway at a good pace for a boat so overloaded , and we have ship but little water in the process .
We be now close in ; thirty or forty stroke and we should beach her , for the ebb have already disclose a narrow belt of sand below the clustering tree .
The gig be no long to be fear ; the little point have already conceal it from our eye .
The ebb-tide , which have so cruelly delayed u , be now make reparation and delay our assailant .
The one source of danger be the gun .
`` If I durst , '' say the captain , `` I 'd stop and pick off another man . ''
But it be plain that they mean nothing should delay their shot .
They have never so much a look at their fall comrade , though he be not dead , and I could see him try to crawl away .
`` Ready ! ''
cry the squire .
`` Hold ! ''
cry the captain , quick a an echo .
And he and Redruth back with a great heave that send her stern bodily under water .
The report fell in at the same instant of time .
This be the first that Jim heard , the sound of the squire 's shot not have reach him .
Where the ball pass , not one of u precisely know , but I fancy it must have be over our head and that the wind of it may have contribute to our disaster .
At any rate , the boat sank by the stern , quite gently , in three foot of water , leave the captain and myself , face each other , on our foot .
The other three take complete header , and come up again drench and bubble .
So far there be no great harm .
No life be lose , and we could wade ashore in safety .
But there be all our store at the bottom , and to make thing bad , only two gun out of five remain in a state for service .
Mine I have snatch from my knee and hold over my head , by a sort of instinct .
As for the captain , he have carry his over his shoulder by a bandoleer , and like a wise man , lock uppermost .
The other three have go down with the boat .
To add to our concern , we hear voice already draw near u in the wood along shore , and we have not only the danger of be cut off from the stockade in our half-crippled state but the fear before u whether , if Hunter and Joyce be attack by half a dozen , they would have the sense and conduct to stand firm .
Hunter be steady , that we know ; Joyce be a doubtful case -- a pleasant , polite man for a valet and to brush one 's clothes , but not entirely fit for a man of war .
With all this in our mind , we wad ashore as fast a we could , leave behind u the poor jolly-boat and a good half of all our powder and provision .
18 Narrative Continued by the Doctor : End of the First Day 's Fighting WE make our best speed across the strip of wood that now divide u from the stockade , and at every step we take the voice of the buccaneer ring nearer .
Soon we could hear their footfall a they run and the cracking of the branch a they breast across a bit of thicket .
I begin to see we should have a brush for it in earnest and look to my priming .
`` Captain , '' say I , `` Trelawney be the dead shot .
Give him your gun ; his own be useless . ''
They exchange gun , and Trelawney , silent and cool a he have be since the beginning of the bustle , hang a moment on his heel to see that all be fit for service .
At the same time , observe Gray to be unarmed , I hand him my cutlas .
It do all our heart good to see him spit in his hand , knit his brow , and make the blade sing through the air .
It be plain from every line of his body that our new hand be worth his salt .
Forty pace far we come to the edge of the wood and saw the stockade in front of u .
We strike the enclosure about the middle of the south side , and almost at the same time , seven mutineer -- Job Anderson , the boatswain , at their head -- appear in full cry at the southwestern corner .
They pause a if take aback , and before they recover , not only the squire and I , but Hunter and Joyce from the block house , have time to fire .
The four shot come in rather a scattering volley , but they do the business : one of the enemy actually fell , and the rest , without hesitation , turn and plunge into the tree .
After reload , we walk down the outside of the palisade to see to the fall enemy .
He be stone dead -- shot through the heart .
We begin to rejoice over our good success when just at that moment a pistol crack in the bush , a ball whistle close past my ear , and poor Tom Redruth stumble and fell his length on the ground .
Both the squire and I return the shot , but a we have nothing to aim at , it be probable we only waste powder .
Then we reload and turn our attention to poor Tom .
The captain and Gray be already examine him , and I saw with half an eye that all be over .
I believe the readiness of our return volley have scatter the mutineer once more , for we be suffer without further molestation to get the poor old gamekeeper hoist over the stockade and carry , groan and bleeding , into the log-house .
Poor old fellow , he have not uttered one word of surprise , complaint , fear , or even acquiescence from the very beginning of our trouble till now , when we have lay him down in the log-house to die .
He have lie like a Trojan behind his mattress in the gallery ; he have follow every order silently , doggedly , and well ; he be the old of our party by a score of year ; and now , sullen , old , serviceable servant , it be he that be to die .
The squire drop down beside him on his knee and kiss his hand , cry like a child .
`` Be I go , doctor ? ''
he ask .
`` Tom , my man , '' say I , `` you 're go home . ''
`` I wish I have have a lick at them with the gun first , '' he reply .
`` Tom , '' say the squire , `` say you forgive me , wo n't you ? ''
`` Would that be respectful like , from me to you , squire ? ''
be the answer .
`` Howsoever , so be it , amen ! ''
After a little while of silence , he say he think somebody might read a prayer .
`` It 's the custom , sir , '' he add apologetically .
And not long after , without another word , he pass away .
In the meantime the captain , whom I have observe to be wonderfully swell about the chest and pocket , have turn out a great many various store -- the British colour , a Bible , a coil of stoutish rope , pen , ink , the log-book , and pound of tobacco .
He have find a longish fir-tree lying fell and trim in the enclosure , and with the help of Hunter he have set it up at the corner of the log-house where the trunk cross and make an angle .
Then , climb on the roof , he have with his own hand bent and run up the colour .
This seem mightily to relieve him .
He re-enter the log-house and set about count up the store a if nothing else exist .
But he have an eye on Tom 's passage for all that , and as soon a all be over , come forward with another flag and reverently spread it on the body .
`` Do n't you take on , sir , '' he say , shake the squire 's hand .
`` All 's well with him ; no fear for a hand that 's be shot down in his duty to captain and owner .
It may n't be good divinity , but it 's a fact . ''
Then he pull me aside .
`` Dr. Livesey , '' he say , `` in how many week do you and squire expect the consort ? ''
I tell him it be a question not of week but of month , that if we be not back by the end of August Blandly be to send to find u , but neither sooner nor later .
`` You can calculate for yourself , '' I say .
`` Why , yes , '' return the captain , scratch his head ; `` and make a large allowance , sir , for all the gift of Providence , I should say we be pretty close haul . ''
`` How do you mean ? ''
I ask .
`` It 's a pity , sir , we lose that second load .
That 's what I mean , '' reply the captain .
`` As for powder and shot , we 'll do .
But the ration be short , very short -- so short , Dr. Livesey , that we 're perhaps as well without that extra mouth . ''
And he point to the dead body under the flag .
Just then , with a roar and a whistle , a round-shot passed high above the roof of the log-house and plump far beyond u in the wood .
`` Oho ! ''
say the captain .
`` Blaze away !
You 've little enough powder already , my lad . ''
At the second trial , the aim be good , and the ball descend inside the stockade , scatter a cloud of sand but do no further damage .
`` Captain , '' say the squire , `` the house be quite invisible from the ship .
It must be the flag they be aim at .
Would it not be wise to take it in ? ''
`` Strike my colour ! ''
cry the captain .
`` No , sir , not I '' ; and as soon a he have say the word , I think we all agree with him .
For it be not only a piece of stout , seamanly , good feeling ; it be good policy besides and show our enemy that we despise their cannonade .
All through the evening they keep thunder away .
Ball after ball fly over or fell short or kick up the sand in the enclosure , but they have to fire so high that the shot fell dead and bury itself in the soft sand .
We have no ricochet to fear , and though one popped in through the roof of the log-house and out again through the floor , we soon get use to that sort of horse-play and mind it no more than cricket .
`` There be one good thing about all this , '' observe the captain ; `` the wood in front of u be likely clear .
The ebb have make a good while ; our store should be uncover .
Volunteers to go and bring in pork . ''
Gray and Hunter be the first to come forward .
Well arm , they steal out of the stockade , but it prove a useless mission .
The mutineer be bold than we fancy or they put more trust in Israel 's gunnery .
For four or five of them be busy carry off our store and wad out with them to one of the gig that lay close by , pull an oar or so to hold her steady against the current .
Silver be in the stern-sheets in command ; and every man of them be now provide with a musket from some secret magazine of their own .
The captain sit down to his log , and here be the beginning of the entry : Alexander Smollett , master ; David Livesey , ship 's doctor ; Abraham Gray , carpenter 's mate ; John Trelawney , owner ; John Hunter and Richard Joyce , owner 's servant , landsman -- be all that be leave faithful of the ship 's company -- with store for ten day at short ration , come ashore this day and fly British colour on the log-house in Treasure Island .
Thomas Redruth , owner 's servant , landsman , shoot by the mutineer ; James Hawkins , cabin-boy -- And at the same time , I be wonder over poor Jim Hawkins ' fate .
A hail on the land side .
`` Somebody hail u , '' say Hunter , who be on guard .
`` Doctor !
Squire !
Captain !
Hullo , Hunter , be that you ? ''
come the cry .
And I run to the door in time to see Jim Hawkins , safe and sound , come climb over the stockade .
19 Narrative Resumed by Jim Hawkins : The Garrison in the Stockade AS soon a Ben Gunn saw the colour he come to a halt , stop me by the arm , and sit down .
`` Now , '' say he , `` there 's your friend , sure enough . ''
`` Far more likely it 's the mutineer , '' I answer .
`` That ! ''
he cry .
`` Why , in a place like this , where nobody put in but gen ` lemen of fortune , Silver would fly the Jolly Roger , you do n't make no doubt of that .
No , that 's your friend .
There 's be blow too , and I reckon your friend have have the best of it ; and here they be ashore in the old stockade , a be make year and year ago by Flint .
Ah , he be the man to have a headpiece , be Flint !
Barring rum , his match be never see .
He be afraid of none , not he ; on ' y Silver -- Silver be that genteel . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` that may be so , and so be it ; all the more reason that I should hurry on and join my friend . ''
`` Nay , mate , '' return Ben , `` not you .
You 're a good boy , or I 'm mistook ; but you 're on ' y a boy , all tell .
Now , Ben Gunn be fly .
Rum would n't bring me there , where you 're go -- not rum would n't , till I see your born gen ` leman and get it on his word of honour .
And you wo n't forget my word ; ' A precious sight -LRB- that 's what you 'll say -RRB- , a precious sight more confidence ' -- and then nip him . ''
And he pinch me the third time with the same air of cleverness .
`` And when Ben Gunn be want , you know where to find him , Jim .
Just wheer you find him today .
And him that come be to have a white thing in his hand , and he 's to come alone .
Oh !
And you 'll say this : ` Ben Gunn , ' say you , ` have reason of his own . ' ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` I believe I understand .
You have something to propose , and you wish to see the squire or the doctor , and you 're to be find where I find you .
Is that all ? ''
`` And when ?
say you , '' he add .
`` Why , from about noon observation to about six bell . ''
`` Good , '' say I , `` and now may I go ? ''
`` You wo n't forget ? ''
he inquire anxiously .
`` Precious sight , and reason of his own , say you .
Reasons of his own ; that 's the mainstay ; a between man and man .
Well , then '' -- still hold me -- `` I reckon you can go , Jim .
And , Jim , if you be to see Silver , you would n't go for to sell Ben Gunn ?
Wild horse would n't draw it from you ?
No , say you .
And if them pirate camp ashore , Jim , what would you say but there 'd be widders in the morning ? ''
Here he be interrupt by a loud report , and a cannonball come tear through the tree and pitch in the sand not a hundred yard from where we two be talk .
The next moment each of u have take to his heel in a different direction .
For a good hour to come frequent report shake the island , and ball keep crash through the wood .
I move from hiding-place to hiding-place , always pursue , or so it seem to me , by these terrify missile .
But towards the end of the bombardment , though still I durst not venture in the direction of the stockade , where the ball fell oftenest , I have begin , in a manner , to pluck up my heart again , and after a long detour to the east , creep down among the shore-side tree .
The sun have just set , the sea breeze be rustle and tumble in the wood and ruffle the grey surface of the anchorage ; the tide , too , be far out , and great tract of sand lay uncover ; the air , after the heat of the day , chill me through my jacket .
The HISPANIOLA still lay where she have anchor ; but , sure enough , there be the Jolly Roger -- the black flag of piracy -- fly from her peak .
Even a I look , there come another red flash and another report that send the echo clattering , and one more round-shot whistle through the air .
It be the last of the cannonade .
I lay for some time watch the bustle which succeed the attack .
Men be demolish something with ax on the beach near the stockade -- the poor jolly-boat , I afterwards discover .
Away , near the mouth of the river , a great fire be glow among the tree , and between that point and the ship one of the gig keep come and go , the men , whom I have see so gloomy , shout at the oar like child .
But there be a sound in their voice which suggest rum .
At length I think I might return towards the stockade .
I be pretty far down on the low , sandy spit that enclose the anchorage to the east , and be join at half-water to Skeleton Island ; and now , a I rise to my foot , I saw , some distance far down the spit and rise from among low bush , an isolated rock , pretty high , and peculiarly white in colour .
It occur to me that this might be the white rock of which Ben Gunn have speak and that some day or other a boat might be want and I should know where to look for one .
Then I skirt among the wood until I have regain the rear , or shoreward side , of the stockade , and be soon warmly welcome by the faithful party .
I have soon tell my story and begin to look about me .
The log-house be make of unsquared trunk of pine -- roof , wall , and floor .
The latter stood in several place as much a a foot or a foot and a half above the surface of the sand .
There be a porch at the door , and under this porch the little spring well up into an artificial basin of a rather odd kind -- no other than a great ship 's kettle of iron , with the bottom knock out , and sink `` to her bearing , '' a the captain say , among the sand .
Little have be leave besides the framework of the house , but in one corner there be a stone slab lay down by way of hearth and an old rusty iron basket to contain the fire .
The slope of the knoll and all the inside of the stockade have be clear of timber to build the house , and we could see by the stump what a fine and lofty grove have be destroy .
Most of the soil have be wash away or bury in drift after the removal of the tree ; only where the streamlet run down from the kettle a thick bed of moss and some fern and little creep bush be still green among the sand .
Very close around the stockade -- too close for defence , they say -- the wood still flourish high and dense , all of fir on the land side , but towards the sea with a large admixture of live-oaks .
The cold evening breeze , of which I have speak , whistle through every chink of the rude building and sprinkle the floor with a continual rain of fine sand .
There be sand in our eye , sand in our teeth , sand in our supper , sand dancing in the spring at the bottom of the kettle , for all the world like porridge begin to boil .
Our chimney be a square hole in the roof ; it be but a little part of the smoke that find it way out , and the rest eddy about the house and keep u cough and pip the eye .
Add to this that Gray , the new man , have his face tie up in a bandage for a cut he have get in break away from the mutineer and that poor old Tom Redruth , still unburied , lay along the wall , stiff and stark , under the Union Jack .
If we have be allow to sit idle , we should all have fall in the blue , but Captain Smollett be never the man for that .
All hand be call up before him , and he divide u into watch .
The doctor and Gray and I for one ; the squire , Hunter , and Joyce upon the other .
Tired though we all be , two be send out for firewood ; two more be set to dig a grave for Redruth ; the doctor be name cook ; I be put sentry at the door ; and the captain himself go from one to another , keep up our spirit and lend a hand wherever it be want .
From time to time the doctor come to the door for a little air and to rest his eye , which be almost smoke out of his head , and whenever he do so , he have a word for me .
`` That man Smollett , '' he say once , `` be a good man than I be .
And when I say that it mean a deal , Jim . ''
Another time he come and be silent for a while .
Then he put his head on one side , and look at me .
`` Is this Ben Gunn a man ? ''
he ask .
`` I do not know , sir , '' say I . `` I be not very sure whether he 's sane . ''
`` If there 's any doubt about the matter , he be , '' return the doctor .
`` A man who have be three year bite his nail on a desert island , Jim , ca n't expect to appear as sane a you or me .
It do n't lie in human nature .
Was it cheese you say he have a fancy for ? ''
`` Yes , sir , cheese , '' I answer .
`` Well , Jim , '' say he , `` just see the good that come of be dainty in your food .
You 've see my snuff-box , have n't you ?
And you never saw me take snuff , the reason be that in my snuff-box I carry a piece of Parmesan cheese -- a cheese make in Italy , very nutritious .
Well , that 's for Ben Gunn ! ''
Before supper be eat we bury old Tom in the sand and stand round him for a while bare-headed in the breeze .
A good deal of firewood have be get in , but not enough for the captain 's fancy , and he shake his head over it and tell u we `` must get back to this tomorrow rather livelier . ''
Then , when we have eat our pork and each have a good stiff glass of brandy grog , the three chief get together in a corner to discuss our prospect .
It appear they be at their wit ' end what to do , the store be so low that we must have be starve into surrender long before help come .
But our best hope , it be decide , be to kill off the buccaneer until they either haul down their flag or run away with the HISPANIOLA .
From nineteen they be already reduce to fifteen , two others be wound , and one at least -- the man shot beside the gun -- severely wound , if he be not dead .
Every time we have a crack at them , we be to take it , save our own life , with the extreme care .
And besides that , we have two able ally -- rum and the climate .
As for the first , though we be about half a mile away , we could hear them roar and sing late into the night ; and a for the second , the doctor stake his wig that , camp where they be in the marsh and unprovided with remedy , the half of them would be on their back before a week .
`` So , '' he add , `` if we be not all shoot down first they 'll be glad to be pack in the schooner .
It 's always a ship , and they can get to buccaneer again , I suppose . ''
`` First ship that ever I lose , '' say Captain Smollett .
I be dead tired , a you may fancy ; and when I get to sleep , which be not till after a great deal of tossing , I sleep like a log of wood .
The rest have long be up and have already breakfast and increase the pile of firewood by about half a much again when I be waken by a bustle and the sound of voice .
`` Flag of truce ! ''
I hear someone say ; and then , immediately after , with a cry of surprise , `` Silver himself ! ''
And at that , up I jump , and rub my eye , run to a loophole in the wall .
20 Silver 's Embassy SURE enough , there be two men just outside the stockade , one of them wave a white cloth , the other , no less a person than Silver himself , stand placidly by .
It be still quite early , and the cold morning that I think I ever be abroad in -- a chill that pierce into the marrow .
The sky be bright and cloudless overhead , and the top of the tree shine rosily in the sun .
But where Silver stand with his lieutenant , all be still in shadow , and they wad knee-deep in a low white vapour that have crawl during the night out of the morass .
The chill and the vapour take together tell a poor tale of the island .
It be plainly a damp , feverish , unhealthy spot .
`` Keep indoors , men , '' say the captain .
`` Ten to one this be a trick . ''
Then he hail the buccaneer .
`` Who go ?
Stand , or we fire . ''
`` Flag of truce , '' cry Silver .
The captain be in the porch , keep himself carefully out of the way of a treacherous shot , should any be intend .
He turn and speak to u , `` Doctor 's watch on the lookout .
Dr. Livesey take the north side , if you please ; Jim , the east ; Gray , west .
The watch below , all hand to load musket .
Lively , men , and careful . ''
And then he turn again to the mutineer .
`` And what do you want with your flag of truce ? ''
he cry .
This time it be the other man who reply .
`` Cap'n Silver , sir , to come on board and make term , '' he shout .
`` Cap'n Silver !
Do n't know him .
Who 's he ? ''
cry the captain .
And we could hear him add to himself , `` Cap'n , be it ?
My heart , and here 's promotion ! ''
Long John answer for himself .
`` Me , sir .
These poor lad have choose me cap'n , after your desertion , sir '' -- lay a particular emphasis upon the word `` desertion . ''
`` We 're willing to submit , if we can come to term , and no bone about it .
All I ask be your word , Cap'n Smollett , to let me safe and sound out of this here stockade , and one minute to get out o ' shot before a gun be fire . ''
`` My man , '' say Captain Smollett , `` I have not the slight desire to talk to you .
If you wish to talk to me , you can come , that 's all .
If there 's any treachery , it 'll be on your side , and the Lord help you . ''
`` That 's enough , cap'n , '' shout Long John cheerily .
`` A word from you 's enough .
I know a gentleman , and you may lay to that . ''
We could see the man who carry the flag of truce attempt to hold Silver back .
Nor be that wonderful , see how cavalier have be the captain 's answer .
But Silver laugh at him aloud and slap him on the back a if the idea of alarm have be absurd .
Then he advance to the stockade , throw over his crutch , get a leg up , and with great vigour and skill succeed in surmount the fence and drop safely to the other side .
I will confess that I be far too much take up with what be go on to be of the slight use a sentry ; indeed , I have already desert my eastern loophole and creep up behind the captain , who have now seat himself on the threshold , with his elbow on his knee , his head in his hand , and his eye fix on the water a it bubble out of the old iron kettle in the sand .
He be whistle `` Come , Lasses and Lads . ''
Silver have terrible hard work get up the knoll .
What with the steepness of the incline , the thick tree stump , and the soft sand , he and his crutch be as helpless a a ship in stay .
But he stick to it like a man in silence , and at last arrive before the captain , whom he salute in the handsome style .
He be trick out in his best ; an immense blue coat , thick with brass button , hung as low a to his knee , and a fine lace hat be set on the back of his head .
`` Here you be , my man , '' say the captain , raise his head .
`` You have good sit down . ''
`` You ai n't a-going to let me inside , cap'n ? ''
complain Long John .
`` It 's a main cold morning , to be sure , sir , to sit outside upon the sand . ''
`` Why , Silver , '' say the captain , `` if you have please to be an honest man , you might have be sit in your galley .
It 's your own do .
You 're either my ship 's cook -- and then you be treat handsome -- or Cap'n Silver , a common mutineer and pirate , and then you can go hang ! ''
`` Well , well , cap'n , '' return the sea-cook , sit down a he be bid on the sand , `` you 'll have to give me a hand up again , that 's all .
A sweet pretty place you have of it here .
Ah , there 's Jim !
The top of the morning to you , Jim .
Doctor , here 's my service .
Why , there you all be together like a happy family , in a manner of speaking . ''
`` If you have anything to say , my man , good say it , '' say the captain .
`` Right you be , Cap'n Smollett , '' reply Silver .
`` Dooty be dooty , to be sure .
Well now , you look here , that be a good lay of yours last night .
I do n't deny it be a good lay .
Some of you pretty handy with a handspike-end .
And I 'll not deny neither but what some of my people be shake -- maybe all be shake ; maybe I be shake myself ; maybe that 's why I 'm here for term .
But you mark me , cap'n , it wo n't do twice , by thunder !
We 'll have to do sentry-go and ease off a point or so on the rum .
Maybe you think we be all a sheet in the wind 's eye .
But I 'll tell you I be sober ; I be on ' y dog tire ; and if I 'd awake a second sooner , I 'd ' a caught you at the act , I would .
He be n't dead when I get round to him , not he . ''
`` Well ? ''
say Captain Smollett as cool a can be .
All that Silver say be a riddle to him , but you would never have guess it from his tone .
As for me , I begin to have an inkling .
Ben Gunn 's last word come back to my mind .
I begin to suppose that he have pay the buccaneer a visit while they all lay drunk together round their fire , and I reckon up with glee that we have only fourteen enemy to deal with .
`` Well , here it be , '' say Silver .
`` We want that treasure , and we 'll have it -- that 's our point !
You would just as soon save your life , I reckon ; and that 's yours .
You have a chart , have n't you ? ''
`` That 's as may be , '' reply the captain .
`` Oh , well , you have , I know that , '' return Long John .
`` You need n't be so husky with a man ; there ai n't a particle of service in that , and you may lay to it .
What I mean be , we want your chart .
Now , I never mean you no harm , myself . ''
`` That wo n't do with me , my man , '' interrupt the captain .
`` We know exactly what you mean to do , and we do n't care , for now , you see , you ca n't do it . ''
And the captain look at him calmly and proceed to fill a pipe .
`` If Abe Gray -- '' Silver break out .
`` Avast there ! ''
cried Mr. Smollett .
`` Gray tell me nothing , and I ask him nothing ; and what 's more , I would see you and him and this whole island blow clean out of the water into blaze first .
So there 's my mind for you , my man , on that . ''
This little whiff of temper seem to cool Silver down .
He have be grow nettle before , but now he pull himself together .
`` Like enough , '' say he .
`` I would set no limit to what gentleman might consider shipshape , or might not , a the case be .
And seein ' a how you be about to take a pipe , cap'n , I 'll make so free a do likewise . ''
And he fill a pipe and light it ; and the two men sit silently smoke for quite a while , now look each other in the face , now stop their tobacco , now lean forward to spit .
It be as good a the play to see them .
`` Now , '' resume Silver , `` here it be .
You give u the chart to get the treasure by , and drop shoot poor seaman and stoving of their head in while asleep .
You do that , and we 'll offer you a choice .
Either you come aboard along of u , once the treasure ship , and then I 'll give you my affy-davy , upon my word of honour , to clap you somewhere safe ashore .
Or if that ai n't to your fancy , some of my hand be rough and have old score on account of hazing , then you can stay here , you can .
We 'll divide store with you , man for man ; and I 'll give my affy-davy , a before to speak the first ship I sight , and send 'em here to pick you up .
Now , you 'll own that 's talk .
Handsomer you could n't look to get , now you .
And I hope '' -- raise his voice -- `` that all hand in this here block house will overhaul my word , for what be speak to one be speak to all . ''
Captain Smollett rise from his seat and knock out the ash of his pipe in the palm of his left hand .
`` Is that all ? ''
he ask .
`` Every last word , by thunder ! ''
answer John .
`` Refuse that , and you 've see the last of me but musket-balls . ''
`` Very good , '' say the captain .
`` Now you 'll hear me .
If you 'll come up one by one , unarm , I 'll engage to clap you all in iron and take you home to a fair trial in England .
If you wo n't , my name be Alexander Smollett , I 've fly my sovereign 's colour , and I 'll see you all to Davy Jones .
You ca n't find the treasure .
You ca n't sail the ship -- there 's not a man among you fit to sail the ship .
You ca n't fight u -- Gray , there , get away from five of you .
Your ship 's in iron , Master Silver ; you 're on a lee shore , and so you 'll find .
I stand here and tell you so ; and they 're the last good word you 'll get from me , for in the name of heaven , I 'll put a bullet in your back when next I meet you .
Tramp , my lad .
Bundle out of this , please , hand over hand , and double quick . ''
Silver 's face be a picture ; his eye start in his head with wrath .
He shake the fire out of his pipe .
`` Give me a hand up ! ''
he cry .
`` Not I , '' return the captain .
`` Who 'll give me a hand up ? ''
he roar .
Not a man among u move .
Growling the foul imprecation , he crawl along the sand till he get hold of the porch and could hoist himself again upon his crutch .
Then he spat into the spring .
`` There ! ''
he cry .
`` That 's what I think of ye .
Before an hour 's out , I 'll stave in your old block house like a rum puncheon .
Laugh , by thunder , laugh !
Before an hour 's out , ye 'll laugh upon the other side .
Them that die 'll be the lucky one . ''
And with a dreadful oath he stumble off , plough down the sand , be help across the stockade , after four or five failure , by the man with the flag of truce , and disappear in an instant afterwards among the tree .
21 The Attack AS soon a Silver disappear , the captain , who have be closely watch him , turn towards the interior of the house and find not a man of u at his post but Gray .
It be the first time we have ever see him angry .
`` Quarters ! ''
he roar .
And then , a we all slink back to our place , `` Gray , '' he say , `` I 'll put your name in the log ; you 've stand by your duty like a seaman .
Mr. Trelawney , I 'm surprised at you , sir .
Doctor , I think you have wear the king 's coat !
If that be how you serve at Fontenoy , sir , you 'd have be well in your berth . ''
The doctor 's watch be all back at their loophole , the rest be busy load the spare musket , and everyone with a red face , you may be certain , and a flea in his ear , a the saying be .
The captain look on for a while in silence .
Then he speak .
`` My lad , '' say he , `` I 've give Silver a broadside .
I pitch it in red-hot on purpose ; and before the hour 's out , a he say , we shall be board .
We 're outnumber , I need n't tell you that , but we fight in shelter ; and a minute ago I should have say we fight with discipline .
I 've no manner of doubt that we can drub them , if you choose . ''
Then he go the round and saw , a he say , that all be clear .
On the two short side of the house , east and west , there be only two loophole ; on the south side where the porch be , two again ; and on the north side , five .
There be a round score of musket for the seven of u ; the firewood have be build into four pile -- table , you might say -- one about the middle of each side , and on each of these table some ammunition and four loaded musket be lay ready to the hand of the defender .
In the middle , the cutlass lay range .
`` Toss out the fire , '' say the captain ; `` the chill be past , and we must n't have smoke in our eye . ''
The iron fire-basket be carry bodily out by Mr. Trelawney , and the ember smother among sand .
`` Hawkins have n't have his breakfast .
Hawkins , help yourself , and back to your post to eat it , '' continue Captain Smollett .
`` Lively , now , my lad ; you 'll want it before you 've do .
Hunter , serve out a round of brandy to all hand . ''
And while this be go on , the captain complete , in his own mind , the plan of the defence .
`` Doctor , you will take the door , '' he resume .
`` See , and do n't expose yourself ; keep within , and fire through the porch .
Hunter , take the east side , there .
Joyce , you stand by the west , my man .
Mr. Trelawney , you be the best shot -- you and Gray will take this long north side , with the five loophole ; it 's there the danger be .
If they can get up to it and fire in upon u through our own port , thing would begin to look dirty .
Hawkins , neither you nor I be much account at the shooting ; we 'll stand by to load and bear a hand . ''
As the captain have say , the chill be past .
As soon a the sun have climb above our girdle of tree , it fell with all it force upon the clearing and drink up the vapour at a draught .
Soon the sand be bake and the resin melting in the log of the block house .
Jackets and coat be flung aside , shirt thrown open at the neck and roll up to the shoulder ; and we stand there , each at his post , in a fever of heat and anxiety .
An hour pass away .
`` Hang them ! ''
say the captain .
`` This be as dull a the doldrums .
Gray , whistle for a wind . ''
And just at that moment come the first news of the attack .
`` If you please , sir , '' say Joyce , `` if I see anyone , be I to fire ? ''
`` I tell you so ! ''
cry the captain .
`` Thank you , sir , '' return Joyce with the same quiet civility .
Nothing follow for a time , but the remark have set u all on the alert , strain ear and eye -- the musketeer with their piece balance in their hand , the captain out in the middle of the block house with his mouth very tight and a frown on his face .
So some second pass , till suddenly Joyce whip up his musket and fire .
The report have scarcely die away ere it be repeat and repeat from without in a scattering volley , shot behind shot , like a string of geese , from every side of the enclosure .
Several bullet strike the log-house , but not one enter ; and a the smoke clear away and vanish , the stockade and the wood around it look a quiet and empty a before .
Not a bough wave , not the gleam of a musket-barrel betrayed the presence of our foe .
`` Did you hit your man ? ''
ask the captain .
`` No , sir , '' reply Joyce .
`` I believe not , sir . ''
`` Next best thing to tell the truth , '' mutter Captain Smollett .
`` Load his gun , Hawkins .
How many should say there be on your side , doctor ? ''
`` I know precisely , '' say Dr. Livesey .
`` Three shot be fire on this side .
I saw the three flash -- two close together -- one farther to the west . ''
`` Three ! ''
repeat the captain .
`` And how many on yours , Mr. Trelawney ? ''
But this be not so easily answer .
There have come many from the north -- seven by the squire 's computation , eight or nine accord to Gray .
From the east and west only a single shot have be fire .
It be plain , therefore , that the attack would be develop from the north and that on the other three side we be only to be annoy by a show of hostility .
But Captain Smollett make no change in his arrangement .
If the mutineer succeed in cross the stockade , he argue , they would take possession of any unprotected loophole and shoot u down like rat in our own stronghold .
Nor have we much time leave to u for thought .
Suddenly , with a loud huzza , a little cloud of pirate leap from the wood on the north side and run straight on the stockade .
At the same moment , the fire be once more open from the wood , and a rifle ball sing through the doorway and knock the doctor 's musket into bit .
The boarder swarm over the fence like monkey .
Squire and Gray fire again and yet again ; three men fell , one forward into the enclosure , two back on the outside .
But of these , one be evidently more frightened than hurt , for he be on his foot again in a crack and instantly disappear among the tree .
Two have bit the dust , one have flee , four have make good their footing inside our defence , while from the shelter of the wood seven or eight men , each evidently supply with several musket , keep up a hot though useless fire on the log-house .
The four who have board make straight before them for the building , shout a they run , and the men among the tree shout back to encourage them .
Several shot be fire , but such be the hurry of the marksman that not one appear to have take effect .
In a moment , the four pirate have swarm up the mound and be upon u .
The head of Job Anderson , the boatswain , appear at the middle loophole .
`` At 'em , all hand -- all hand ! ''
he roar in a voice of thunder .
At the same moment , another pirate grasp Hunter 's musket by the muzzle , wrench it from his hand , pluck it through the loophole , and with one stun blow , lay the poor fellow senseless on the floor .
Meanwhile a third , run unharmed all around the house , appear suddenly in the doorway and fell with his cutlas on the doctor .
Our position be utterly reverse .
A moment since we be fire , under cover , at an exposed enemy ; now it be we who lay uncovered and could not return a blow .
The log-house be full of smoke , to which we owe our comparative safety .
Cries and confusion , the flash and report of pistol-shots , and one loud groan rang in my ear .
`` Out , lad , out , and fight 'em in the open !
Cutlasses ! ''
cry the captain .
I snatch a cutlas from the pile , and someone , at the same time snatch another , give me a cut across the knuckle which I hardly felt .
I dash out of the door into the clear sunlight .
Someone be close behind , I know not whom .
Right in front , the doctor be pursue his assailant down the hill , and just a my eye fell upon him , beat down his guard and send him sprawl on his back with a great slash across the face .
`` Round the house , lads !
Round the house ! ''
cry the captain ; and even in the hurly-burly , I perceive a change in his voice .
Mechanically , I obey , turn eastward , and with my cutlas raise , run round the corner of the house .
Next moment I be face to face with Anderson .
He roar aloud , and his hanger go up above his head , flash in the sunlight .
I have not time to be afraid , but a the blow still hang impend , leap in a trice upon one side , and miss my foot in the soft sand , roll headlong down the slope .
When I have first sallied from the door , the other mutineer have be already swarm up the palisade to make an end of u .
One man , in a red night-cap , with his cutlas in his mouth , have even get upon the top and throw a leg across .
Well , so short have be the interval that when I find my foot again all be in the same posture , the fellow with the red night-cap still half-way over , another still just show his head above the top of the stockade .
And yet , in this breath of time , the fight be over and the victory be ours .
Gray , follow close behind me , have cut down the big boatswain ere he have time to recover from his last blow .
Another have be shoot at a loophole in the very act of fire into the house and now lay in agony , the pistol still smoke in his hand .
A third , a I have see , the doctor have dispose of at a blow .
Of the four who have scale the palisade , one only remain unaccounted for , and he , have leave his cutlas on the field , be now clamber out again with the fear of death upon him .
`` Fire -- fire from the house ! ''
cry the doctor .
`` And you , lad , back into cover . ''
But his word be unheeded , no shot be fire , and the last boarder make good his escape and disappear with the rest into the wood .
In three second nothing remain of the attack party but the five who have fall , four on the inside and one on the outside of the palisade .
The doctor and Gray and I run full speed for shelter .
The survivor would soon be back where they have leave their musket , and at any moment the fire might recommence .
The house be by this time somewhat clear of smoke , and we saw at a glance the price we have pay for victory .
Hunter lay beside his loophole , stun ; Joyce by his , shot through the head , never to move again ; while right in the centre , the squire be support the captain , one as pale a the other .
`` The captain 's wound , '' say Mr. Trelawney .
`` Have they run ? ''
ask Mr. Smollett .
`` All that could , you may be bind , '' return the doctor ; `` but there 's five of them will never run again . ''
`` Five ! ''
cry the captain .
`` Come , that 's good .
Five against three leaf u four to nine .
That 's good odds than we have at start .
We be seven to nineteen then , or think we be , and that 's as bad to bear . ''
* * The mutineer be soon only eight in number , for the man shot by Mr. Trelawney on board the schooner die that same evening of his wound .
But this be , of course , not know till after by the faithful party .
PART FIVE -- My Sea Adventure 22 How My Sea Adventure Began THERE be no return of the mutineer -- not so much a another shot out of the wood .
They have `` get their ration for that day , '' a the captain put it , and we have the place to ourselves and a quiet time to overhaul the wounded and get dinner .
Squire and I cook outside in spite of the danger , and even outside we could hardly tell what we be at , for horror of the loud groan that reach u from the doctor 's patient .
Out of the eight men who have fall in the action , only three still breathe -- that one of the pirate who have be shoot at the loophole , Hunter , and Captain Smollett ; and of these , the first two be as good a dead ; the mutineer indeed die under the doctor 's knife , and Hunter , do what we could , never recover consciousness in this world .
He linger all day , breathe loudly like the old buccaneer at home in his apoplectic fit , but the bone of his chest have be crush by the blow and his skull fracture in fall , and some time in the following night , without sign or sound , he go to his Maker .
As for the captain , his wound be grievous indeed , but not dangerous .
No organ be fatally injure .
Anderson 's ball -- for it be Job that shoot him first -- have break his shoulder-blade and touch the lung , not badly ; the second have only torn and displace some muscle in the calf .
He be sure to recover , the doctor say , but in the meantime , and for week to come , he must not walk nor move his arm , nor so much a speak when he could help it .
My own accidental cut across the knuckle be a flea-bite .
Doctor Livesey patch it up with plaster and pull my ear for me into the bargain .
After dinner the squire and the doctor sat by the captain 's side awhile in consultation ; and when they have talk to their heart ' content , it be then a little past noon , the doctor take up his hat and pistol , girt on a cutlas , put the chart in his pocket , and with a musket over his shoulder cross the palisade on the north side and set off briskly through the tree .
Gray and I be sit together at the far end of the block house , to be out of earshot of our officer consult ; and Gray take his pipe out of his mouth and fairly forget to put it back again , so thunder-struck he be at this occurrence .
`` Why , in the name of Davy Jones , '' say he , `` be Dr. Livesey mad ? ''
`` Why no , '' say I . `` He 's about the last of this crew for that , I take it . ''
`` Well , shipmate , '' say Gray , `` mad he may not be ; but if HE 'S not , you mark my word , I be . ''
`` I take it , '' reply I , `` the doctor have his idea ; and if I be right , he 's go now to see Ben Gunn . ''
I be right , a appeared later ; but in the meantime , the house be stifle hot and the little patch of sand inside the palisade ablaze with midday sun , I begin to get another thought into my head , which be not by any mean so right .
What I begin to do be to envy the doctor walking in the cool shadow of the wood with the bird about him and the pleasant smell of the pine , while I sit grill , with my clothes stick to the hot resin , and so much blood about me and so many poor dead body lie all around that I take a disgust of the place that be almost as strong a fear .
All the time I be wash out the block house , and then wash up the thing from dinner , this disgust and envy keep grow strong and strong , till at last , be near a bread-bag , and no one then observe me , I take the first step towards my escapade and fill both pocket of my coat with biscuit .
I be a fool , if you like , and certainly I be go to do a foolish , over-bold act ; but I be determine to do it with all the precaution in my power .
These biscuit , should anything befall me , would keep me , at least , from starve till far on in the next day .
The next thing I lay hold of be a brace of pistol , and a I already have a powder-horn and bullet , I felt myself well supply with arm .
As for the scheme I have in my head , it be not a bad one in itself .
I be to go down the sandy spit that divide the anchorage on the east from the open sea , find the white rock I have observe last evening , and ascertain whether it be there or not that Ben Gunn have hide his boat , a thing quite worth do , a I still believe .
But a I be certain I should not be allow to leave the enclosure , my only plan be to take French leave and slip out when nobody be watch , and that be so bad a way of do it a make the thing itself wrong .
But I be only a boy , and I have make my mind up .
Well , a thing at last fell out , I find an admirable opportunity .
The squire and Gray be busy help the captain with his bandage , the coast be clear , I make a bolt for it over the stockade and into the thickest of the tree , and before my absence be observe I be out of cry of my companion .
This be my second folly , far bad than the first , a I leave but two sound men to guard the house ; but like the first , it be a help towards save all of u .
I take my way straight for the east coast of the island , for I be determine to go down the sea side of the spit to avoid all chance of observation from the anchorage .
It be already late in the afternoon , although still warm and sunny .
As I continue to thread the tall wood , I could hear from far before me not only the continuous thunder of the surf , but a certain tossing of foliage and grinding of bough which show me the sea breeze have set in high than usual .
Soon cool draught of air begin to reach me , and a few step far I come forth into the open border of the grove , and saw the sea lie blue and sunny to the horizon and the surf tumble and toss it foam along the beach .
I have never see the sea quiet round Treasure Island .
The sun might blaze overhead , the air be without a breath , the surface smooth and blue , but still these great roller would be run along all the external coast , thunder and thunder by day and night ; and I scarce believe there be one spot in the island where a man would be out of earshot of their noise .
I walk along beside the surf with great enjoyment , till , think I be now got far enough to the south , I take the cover of some thick bush and crept warily up to the ridge of the spit .
Behind me be the sea , in front the anchorage .
The sea breeze , a though it have the sooner blow itself out by it unusual violence , be already at an end ; it have be succeed by light , variable air from the south and south-east , carry great bank of fog ; and the anchorage , under lee of Skeleton Island , lay still and leaden a when first we enter it .
The HISPANIOLA , in that unbroken mirror , be exactly portray from the truck to the waterline , the Jolly Roger hang from her peak .
Alongside lay one of the gig , Silver in the stern-sheets -- him I could always recognize -- while a couple of men be lean over the stern bulwark , one of them with a red cap -- the very rogue that I have see some hour before stride-legs upon the palisade .
Apparently they be talk and laughing , though at that distance -- upwards of a mile -- I could , of course , hear no word of what be say .
All at once there begin the most horrid , unearthly screaming , which at first startle me badly , though I have soon remember the voice of Captain Flint and even think I could make out the bird by her bright plumage a she sit perched upon her master 's wrist .
Soon after , the jolly-boat shove off and pull for shore , and the man with the red cap and his comrade go below by the cabin companion .
Just about the same time , the sun have go down behind the Spy-glass , and a the fog be collect rapidly , it begin to grow dark in earnest .
I saw I must lose no time if I be to find the boat that even .
The white rock , visible enough above the brush , be still some eighth of a mile far down the spit , and it take me a goodish while to get up with it , crawl , often on all four , among the scrub .
Night have almost come when I lay my hand on it rough side .
Right below it there be an exceedingly small hollow of green turf , hide by bank and a thick underwood about knee-deep , that grow there very plentifully ; and in the centre of the dell , sure enough , a little tent of goat-skins , like what the gipsy carry about with them in England .
I drop into the hollow , lift the side of the tent , and there be Ben Gunn 's boat -- home-made if ever anything be home-made ; a rude , lop-sided framework of tough wood , and stretch upon that a covering of goat-skin , with the hair inside .
The thing be extremely small , even for me , and I can hardly imagine that it could have float with a full-sized man .
There be one thwart set as low a possible , a kind of stretcher in the bow , and a double paddle for propulsion .
I have not then see a coracle , such a the ancient Britons make , but I have see one since , and I can give you no fair idea of Ben Gunn 's boat than by say it be like the first and the bad coracle ever make by man .
But the great advantage of the coracle it certainly possess , for it be exceedingly light and portable .
Well , now that I have find the boat , you would have think I have have enough of truantry for once , but in the meantime I have take another notion and become so obstinately fond of it that I would have carry it out , I believe , in the teeth of Captain Smollett himself .
This be to slip out under cover of the night , cut the HISPANIOLA adrift , and let her go ashore where she fancy .
I have quite make up my mind that the mutineer , after their repulse of the morning , have nothing nearer their heart than to up anchor and away to sea ; this , I think , it would be a fine thing to prevent , and now that I have see how they leave their watchman unprovided with a boat , I think it might be do with little risk .
Down I sit to wait for darkness , and make a hearty meal of biscuit .
It be a night out of ten thousand for my purpose .
The fog have now bury all heaven .
As the last ray of daylight dwindle and disappear , absolute blackness settle down on Treasure Island .
And when , at last , I shoulder the coracle and grope my way stumblingly out of the hollow where I have sup , there be but two point visible on the whole anchorage .
One be the great fire on shore , by which the defeat pirate lay carouse in the swamp .
The other , a mere blur of light upon the darkness , indicate the position of the anchored ship .
She have swing round to the ebb -- her bow be now towards me -- the only light on board be in the cabin , and what I saw be merely a reflection on the fog of the strong ray that flow from the stern window .
The ebb have already run some time , and I have to wade through a long belt of swampy sand , where I sink several time above the ankle , before I come to the edge of the retreating water , and wad a little way in , with some strength and dexterity , set my coracle , keel downwards , on the surface .
23 The Ebb-tide Runs THE coracle -- a I have ample reason to know before I be do with her -- be a very safe boat for a person of my height and weight , both buoyant and clever in a seaway ; but she be the most cross-grained , lop-sided craft to manage .
Do a you please , she always make more leeway than anything else , and turn round and round be the manoeuvre she be best at .
Even Ben Gunn himself have admit that she be `` queer to handle till you know her way . ''
Certainly I do not know her way .
She turn in every direction but the one I be bound to go ; the most part of the time we be broadside on , and I be very sure I never should have make the ship at all but for the tide .
By good fortune , paddle a I please , the tide be still sweep me down ; and there lay the HISPANIOLA right in the fairway , hardly to be miss .
First she loom before me like a blot of something yet black than darkness , then her spar and hull begin to take shape , and the next moment , a it seem -LRB- for , the farther I go , the brisker grow the current of the ebb -RRB- , I be alongside of her hawser and have lay hold .
The hawser be as taut a a bowstring , and the current so strong she pull upon her anchor .
All round the hull , in the blackness , the ripple current bubble and chatter like a little mountain stream .
One cut with my sea-gully and the HISPANIOLA would go hum down the tide .
So far so good , but it next occur to my recollection that a taut hawser , suddenly cut , be a thing as dangerous a a kicking horse .
Ten to one , if I be so foolhardy a to cut the HISPANIOLA from her anchor , I and the coracle would be knock clean out of the water .
This bring me to a full stop , and if fortune have not again particularly favour me , I should have have to abandon my design .
But the light air which have begin blow from the south-east and south have haul round after nightfall into the south-west .
Just while I be meditate , a puff come , catch the HISPANIOLA , and force her up into the current ; and to my great joy , I felt the hawser slacken in my grasp , and the hand by which I hold it dip for a second under water .
With that I make my mind up , take out my gully , open it with my teeth , and cut one strand after another , till the vessel swung only by two .
Then I lay quiet , wait to sever these last when the strain should be once more lightened by a breath of wind .
All this time I have hear the sound of loud voice from the cabin , but to say truth , my mind have be so entirely take up with other thought that I have scarcely give ear .
Now , however , when I have nothing else to do , I begin to pay more heed .
One I recognize for the coxswain 's , Israel Hands , that have be Flint 's gunner in former day .
The other be , of course , my friend of the red night-cap .
Both men be plainly the worse of drink , and they be still drink , for even while I be listen , one of them , with a drunken cry , open the stern window and throw out something , which I divine to be an empty bottle .
But they be not only tipsy ; it be plain that they be furiously angry .
Oaths fly like hailstone , and every now and then there come forth such an explosion a I think be sure to end in blow .
But each time the quarrel pass off and the voice grumble low for a while , until the next crisis come and in it turn pass away without result .
On shore , I could see the glow of the great camp-fire burning warmly through the shore-side tree .
Someone be sing , a dull , old , drone sailor 's song , with a droop and a quaver at the end of every verse , and seemingly no end to it at all but the patience of the singer .
I have hear it on the voyage more than once and remember these word : `` But one man of her crew alive , What put to sea with seventy-five . ''
And I think it be a ditty rather too dolefully appropriate for a company that have meet such cruel loss in the morning .
But , indeed , from what I saw , all these buccaneer be as callous a the sea they sail on .
At last the breeze come ; the schooner sidle and draw nearer in the dark ; I felt the hawser slacken once more , and with a good , tough effort , cut the last fibre through .
The breeze have but little action on the coracle , and I be almost instantly sweep against the bow of the HISPANIOLA .
At the same time , the schooner begin to turn upon her heel , spin slowly , end for end , across the current .
I work like a fiend , for I expect every moment to be swamp ; and since I find I could not push the coracle directly off , I now shove straight astern .
At length I be clear of my dangerous neighbour , and just a I give the last impulsion , my hand come across a light cord that be trail overboard across the stern bulwark .
Instantly I grasp it .
Why I should have do so I can hardly say .
It be at first mere instinct , but once I have it in my hand and find it fast , curiosity begin to get the upper hand , and I determine I should have one look through the cabin window .
I pull in hand over hand on the cord , and when I judge myself near enough , rise at infinite risk to about half my height and thus command the roof and a slice of the interior of the cabin .
By this time the schooner and her little consort be glide pretty swiftly through the water ; indeed , we have already fetch up level with the camp-fire .
The ship be talk , a sailor say , loudly , tread the innumerable ripple with an incessant weltering splash ; and until I get my eye above the window-sill I could not comprehend why the watchman have take no alarm .
One glance , however , be sufficient ; and it be only one glance that I durst take from that unsteady skiff .
It show me Hands and his companion lock together in deadly wrestle , each with a hand upon the other 's throat .
I drop upon the thwart again , none too soon , for I be near overboard .
I could see nothing for the moment but these two furious , encrimsoned face sway together under the smoky lamp , and I shut my eye to let them grow once more familiar with the darkness .
The endless ballad have come to an end at last , and the whole diminish company about the camp-fire have break into the chorus I have hear so often : `` Fifteen men on the dead man 's chest -- Yo-ho-ho , and a bottle of rum !
Drink and the devil have do for the rest -- Yo-ho-ho , and a bottle of rum ! ''
I be just think how busy drink and the devil be at that very moment in the cabin of the HISPANIOLA , when I be surprise by a sudden lurch of the coracle .
At the same moment , she yaw sharply and seem to change her course .
The speed in the meantime have strangely increase .
I open my eye at once .
All round me be little ripple , comb over with a sharp , bristle sound and slightly phosphorescent .
The HISPANIOLA herself , a few yard in whose wake I be still be whirl along , seem to stagger in her course , and I saw her spar toss a little against the blackness of the night ; nay , a I look longer , I make sure she also be wheel to the southward .
I glance over my shoulder , and my heart jump against my rib .
There , right behind me , be the glow of the camp-fire .
The current have turn at right angle , sweep round along with it the tall schooner and the little dancing coracle ; ever quickening , ever bubble higher , ever mutter louder , it go spin through the narrow for the open sea .
Suddenly the schooner in front of me give a violent yaw , turn , perhaps , through twenty degree ; and almost at the same moment one shout follow another from on board ; I could hear foot pound on the companion ladder and I know that the two drunkard have at last be interrupt in their quarrel and awaken to a sense of their disaster .
I lay down flat in the bottom of that wretched skiff and devoutly recommend my spirit to it Maker .
At the end of the strait , I make sure we must fall into some bar of rag breaker , where all my trouble would be end speedily ; and though I could , perhaps , bear to die , I could not bear to look upon my fate a it approach .
So I must have lain for hour , continually beat to and fro upon the billow , now and again wet with fly spray , and never cease to expect death at the next plunge .
Gradually weariness grow upon me ; a numbness , an occasional stupor , fell upon my mind even in the midst of my terror , until sleep at last supervened and in my sea-tossed coracle I lay and dream of home and the old Admiral Benbow .
24 The Cruise of the Coracle IT be broad day when I awake and find myself toss at the south-west end of Treasure Island .
The sun be up but be still hide from me behind the great bulk of the Spy-glass , which on this side descend almost to the sea in formidable cliff .
Haulbowline Head and Mizzen-mast Hill be at my elbow , the hill bare and dark , the head bound with cliff forty or fifty foot high and fringe with great mass of fall rock .
I be scarce a quarter of a mile to seaward , and it be my first think to paddle in and land .
That notion be soon give over .
Among the fallen rock the breaker spout and bellow ; loud reverberation , heavy spray fly and fall , succeed one another from second to second ; and I saw myself , if I venture nearer , dash to death upon the rough shore or spending my strength in vain to scale the beetling crag .
Nor be that all , for crawl together on flat table of rock or let themselves drop into the sea with loud report I behold huge slimy monster -- soft snail , a it be , of incredible bigness -- two or three score of them together , make the rock to echo with their barkings .
I have understand since that they be sea lion , and entirely harmless .
But the look of them , add to the difficulty of the shore and the high running of the surf , be more than enough to disgust me of that landing-place .
I felt willing rather to starve at sea than to confront such peril .
In the meantime I have a good chance , a I suppose , before me .
North of Haulbowline Head , the land run in a long way , leave at low tide a long stretch of yellow sand .
To the north of that , again , there come another cape -- Cape of the Woods , a it be mark upon the chart -- bury in tall green pine , which descend to the margin of the sea .
I remember what Silver have say about the current that set northward along the whole west coast of Treasure Island , and see from my position that I be already under it influence , I prefer to leave Haulbowline Head behind me and reserve my strength for an attempt to land upon the kindlier-looking Cape of the Woods .
There be a great , smooth swell upon the sea .
The wind blow steady and gentle from the south , there be no contrariety between that and the current , and the billow rise and fell unbroken .
Had it be otherwise , I must long ago have perish ; but a it be , it be surprising how easily and securely my little and light boat could ride .
Often , a I still lay at the bottom and keep no more than an eye above the gunwale , I would see a big blue summit heave close above me ; yet the coracle would but bounce a little , dance a if on spring , and subside on the other side into the trough as lightly a a bird .
I begin after a little to grow very bold and sit up to try my skill at paddling .
But even a small change in the disposition of the weight will produce violent change in the behaviour of a coracle .
And I have hardly move before the boat , give up at once her gentle dancing movement , run straight down a slope of water so steep that it make me giddy , and strike her nose , with a spout of spray , deep into the side of the next wave .
I be drench and terrify , and fell instantly back into my old position , whereupon the coracle seem to find her head again and lead me as softly a before among the billow .
It be plain she be not to be interfere with , and at that rate , since I could in no way influence her course , what hope have I leave of reach land ?
I begin to be horribly frighten , but I keep my head , for all that .
First , move with all care , I gradually bale out the coracle with my sea-cap ; then , get my eye once more above the gunwale , I set myself to study how it be she manage to slip so quietly through the roller .
I find each wave , instead of the big , smooth glossy mountain it look from shore or from a vessel 's deck , be for all the world like any range of hill on dry land , full of peak and smooth place and valley .
The coracle , leave to herself , turn from side to side , thread , so to speak , her way through these low part and avoid the steep slope and high , topple summit of the wave .
`` Well , now , '' think I to myself , `` it be plain I must lie where I be and not disturb the balance ; but it be plain also that I can put the paddle over the side and from time to time , in smooth place , give her a shove or two towards land . ''
No sooner think upon than do .
There I lay on my elbow in the most try attitude , and every now and again give a weak stroke or two to turn her head to shore .
It be very tiring and slow work , yet I do visibly gain ground ; and a we draw near the Cape of the Woods , though I saw I must infallibly miss that point , I have still make some hundred yard of easting .
I be , indeed , close in .
I could see the cool green tree-tops sway together in the breeze , and I felt sure I should make the next promontory without fail .
It be high time , for I now begin to be torture with thirst .
The glow of the sun from above , it thousandfold reflection from the wave , the sea-water that fell and dry upon me , cake my very lips with salt , combine to make my throat burn and my brain ache .
The sight of the tree so near at hand have almost make me sick with longing , but the current have soon carry me past the point , and a the next reach of sea open out , I behold a sight that change the nature of my thought .
Right in front of me , not half a mile away , I behold the HISPANIOLA under sail .
I make sure , of course , that I should be take ; but I be so distressed for want of water that I scarce know whether to be glad or sorry at the thought , and long before I have come to a conclusion , surprise have take entire possession of my mind and I could do nothing but stare and wonder .
The HISPANIOLA be under her main-sail and two jib , and the beautiful white canvas shone in the sun like snow or silver .
When I first sight her , all her sail be draw ; she be lie a course about north-west , and I presume the men on board be go round the island on their way back to the anchorage .
Presently she begin to fetch more and more to the westward , so that I think they have sight me and be go about in chase .
At last , however , she fell right into the wind 's eye , be take dead aback , and stand there awhile helpless , with her sail shiver .
`` Clumsy fellow , '' say I ; `` they must still be drink a owl . ''
And I think how Captain Smollett would have set them skip .
Meanwhile the schooner gradually fell off and fill again upon another tack , sail swiftly for a minute or so , and bring up once more dead in the wind 's eye .
Again and again be this repeat .
To and fro , up and down , north , south , east , and west , the HISPANIOLA sail by swoop and dash , and at each repetition end a she have begin , with idly flap canvas .
It become plain to me that nobody be steer .
And if so , where be the men ?
Either they be dead drunk or have desert her , I think , and perhaps if I could get on board I might return the vessel to her captain .
The current be bear coracle and schooner southward at an equal rate .
As for the latter 's sailing , it be so wild and intermittent , and she hang each time so long in iron , that she certainly gain nothing , if she do not even lose .
If only I dare to sit up and paddle , I make sure that I could overhaul her .
The scheme have an air of adventure that inspire me , and the thought of the water breaker beside the fore companion double my grow courage .
Up I get , be welcome almost instantly by another cloud of spray , but this time stuck to my purpose and set myself , with all my strength and caution , to paddle after the unsteered HISPANIOLA .
Once I ship a sea so heavy that I have to stop and bail , with my heart flutter like a bird , but gradually I get into the way of the thing and guide my coracle among the wave , with only now and then a blow upon her bow and a dash of foam in my face .
I be now gain rapidly on the schooner ; I could see the brass glisten on the tiller a it bang about , and still no soul appear upon her deck .
I could not choose but suppose she be desert .
If not , the men be lie drunk below , where I might batten them down , perhaps , and do what I choose with the ship .
For some time she have be do the bad thing possible for me -- stand still .
She head nearly due south , yaw , of course , all the time .
Each time she fell off , her sail partly fill , and these bring her in a moment right to the wind again .
I have say this be the bad thing possible for me , for helpless a she look in this situation , with the canvas crack like cannon and the block trundle and bang on the deck , she still continue to run away from me , not only with the speed of the current , but by the whole amount of her leeway , which be naturally great .
But now , at last , I have my chance .
The breeze fell for some second , very low , and the current gradually turn her , the HISPANIOLA revolve slowly round her centre and at last presented me her stern , with the cabin window still gap open and the lamp over the table still burn on into the day .
The main-sail hung droop like a banner .
She be stock-still but for the current .
For the last little while I have even lose , but now redouble my effort , I begin once more to overhaul the chase .
I be not a hundred yard from her when the wind come again in a clap ; she fill on the port tack and be off again , stoop and skim like a swallow .
My first impulse be one of despair , but my second be towards joy .
Round she come , till she be broadside on to me -- round still till she have cover a half and then two third and then three quarter of the distance that separate u .
I could see the wave boil white under her forefoot .
Immensely tall she look to me from my low station in the coracle .
And then , of a sudden , I begin to comprehend .
I have scarce time to think -- scarce time to act and save myself .
I be on the summit of one swell when the schooner come stoop over the next .
The bowsprit be over my head .
I spring to my foot and leap , stamp the coracle under water .
With one hand I catch the jib-boom , while my foot be lodge between the stay and the brace ; and a I still cling there pant , a dull blow tell me that the schooner have charge down upon and strike the coracle and that I be leave without retreat on the HISPANIOLA .
25 I Strike the Jolly Roger I HAD scarce gain a position on the bowsprit when the fly jib flap and fill upon the other tack , with a report like a gun .
The schooner tremble to her keel under the reverse , but next moment , the other sail still draw , the jib flap back again and hang idle .
This have nearly toss me off into the sea ; and now I lose no time , crawl back along the bowsprit , and tumble head foremost on the deck .
I be on the lee side of the forecastle , and the mainsail , which be still draw , conceal from me a certain portion of the after-deck .
Not a soul be to be see .
The plank , which have not be swab since the mutiny , bore the print of many foot , and an empty bottle , break by the neck , tumble to and fro like a live thing in the scupper .
Suddenly the HISPANIOLA come right into the wind .
The jib behind me crack aloud , the rudder slam to , the whole ship give a sickening heave and shudder , and at the same moment the main-boom swung inboard , the sheet groaning in the block , and show me the lee after-deck .
There be the two watchman , sure enough : red-cap on his back , as stiff a a handspike , with his arm stretch out like those of a crucifix and his teeth show through his open lip ; Israel Hands prop against the bulwark , his chin on his chest , his hand lie open before him on the deck , his face a white , under it tan , a a tallow candle .
For a while the ship keep buck and sidle like a vicious horse , the sail fill , now on one tack , now on another , and the boom swing to and fro till the mast groan aloud under the strain .
Now and again too there would come a cloud of light spray over the bulwark and a heavy blow of the ship 's bow against the swell ; so much heavy weather be make of it by this great rig ship than by my home-made , lop-sided coracle , now go to the bottom of the sea .
At every jump of the schooner , red-cap slip to and fro , but -- what be ghastly to behold -- neither his attitude nor his fixed teeth-disclosing grin be anyway disturb by this rough usage .
At every jump too , Hands appear still more to sink into himself and settle down upon the deck , his foot slide ever the farther out , and the whole body cant towards the stern , so that his face become , little by little , hid from me ; and at last I could see nothing beyond his ear and the frayed ringlet of one whisker .
At the same time , I observe , around both of them , splash of dark blood upon the plank and begin to feel sure that they have kill each other in their drunken wrath .
While I be thus look and wonder , in a calm moment , when the ship be still , Israel Hands turn partly round and with a low moan writhe himself back to the position in which I have see him first .
The moan , which tell of pain and deadly weakness , and the way in which his jaw hung open go right to my heart .
But when I remember the talk I have overhear from the apple barrel , all pity leave me .
I walk aft until I reach the main-mast .
`` Come aboard , Mr . Hands , '' I say ironically .
He roll his eye round heavily , but he be too far go to express surprise .
All he could do be to utter one word , `` Brandy . ''
It occur to me there be no time to lose , and dodge the boom a it once more lurched across the deck , I slip aft and down the companion stairs into the cabin .
It be such a scene of confusion a you can hardly fancy .
All the lockfast place have be break open in quest of the chart .
The floor be thick with mud where ruffian have sit down to drink or consult after wad in the marsh round their camp .
The bulkhead , all paint in clear white and bead round with gilt , bore a pattern of dirty hand .
Dozens of empty bottle clink together in corner to the rolling of the ship .
One of the doctor 's medical book lay open on the table , half of the leaf gutted out , I suppose , for pipelights .
In the midst of all this the lamp still cast a smoky glow , obscure and brown a umber .
I go into the cellar ; all the barrel be go , and of the bottle a most surprising number have be drink out and throw away .
Certainly , since the mutiny begin , not a man of them could ever have be sober .
Foraging about , I find a bottle with some brandy leave , for Hands ; and for myself I rout out some biscuit , some pickle fruit , a great bunch of raisin , and a piece of cheese .
With these I come on deck , put down my own stock behind the rudder head and well out of the coxswain 's reach , go forward to the water-breaker , and have a good deep drink of water , and then , and not till then , give Hands the brandy .
He must have drunk a gill before he take the bottle from his mouth .
`` Aye , '' say he , `` by thunder , but I want some o ' that ! ''
I have sit down already in my own corner and begin to eat .
`` Much hurt ? ''
I ask him .
He grunt , or rather , I might say , he bark .
`` If that doctor be aboard , '' he say , `` I 'd be right enough in a couple of turn , but I do n't have no manner of luck , you see , and that 's what 's the matter with me .
As for that swab , he 's good and dead , he be , '' he add , indicate the man with the red cap .
`` He war n't no seaman anyhow .
And where mought you have come from ? ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` I 've come aboard to take possession of this ship , Mr . Hands ; and you 'll please regard me a your captain until further notice . ''
He look at me sourly enough but say nothing .
Some of the colour have come back into his cheek , though he still look very sick and still continue to slip out and settle down a the ship bang about .
`` By the by , '' I continue , `` I ca n't have these colour , Mr . Hands ; and by your leave , I 'll strike 'em .
Better none than these . ''
And again dodge the boom , I run to the colour line , hand down their cursed black flag , and chuck it overboard .
`` God save the king ! ''
say I , wave my cap .
`` And there 's an end to Captain Silver ! ''
He watch me keenly and slyly , his chin all the while on his breast .
`` I reckon , '' he say at last , `` I reckon , Cap'n Hawkins , you 'll kind of want to get ashore now .
S'pose we talk . ''
`` Why , yes , '' say I , `` with all my heart , Mr . Hands .
Say on . ''
And I go back to my meal with a good appetite .
`` This man , '' he begin , nod feebly at the corpse '' -- O'Brien be his name , a rank Irelander -- this man and me get the canvas on her , mean for to sail her back .
Well , HE 'S dead now , he be -- as dead a bilge ; and who 's to sail this ship , I do n't see .
Without I give you a hint , you ai n't that man , a far 's I can tell .
Now , look here , you give me food and drink and a old scarf or ankecher to tie my wound up , you do , and I 'll tell you how to sail her , and that 's about square all round , I take it . ''
`` I 'll tell you one thing , '' say I : `` I 'm not go back to Captain Kidd 's anchorage .
I mean to get into North Inlet and beach her quietly there . ''
`` To be sure you do , '' he cry .
`` Why , I ai n't sich an infernal lubber after all .
I can see , ca n't I ?
I 've try my fling , I have , and I 've lose , and it 's you have the wind of me .
North Inlet ?
Why , I have n't no ch ` ice , not I !
I 'd help you sail her up to Execution Dock , by thunder !
So I would . ''
Well , a it seem to me , there be some sense in this .
We strike our bargain on the spot .
In three minute I have the HISPANIOLA sail easily before the wind along the coast of Treasure Island , with good hope of turn the northern point ere noon and beat down again as far a North Inlet before high water , when we might beach her safely and wait till the subsiding tide permit u to land .
Then I lash the tiller and go below to my own chest , where I get a soft silk handkerchief of my mother 's .
With this , and with my aid , Hands bind up the great bleeding stab he have receive in the thigh , and after he have eat a little and have a swallow or two more of the brandy , he begin to pick up visibly , sit straighter up , speak louder and clearer , and look in every way another man .
The breeze serve u admirably .
We skim before it like a bird , the coast of the island flashing by and the view change every minute .
Soon we be past the high land and bowl beside low , sandy country , sparsely dot with dwarf pine , and soon we be beyond that again and have turn the corner of the rocky hill that end the island on the north .
I be greatly elate with my new command , and please with the bright , sunshiny weather and these different prospect of the coast .
I have now plenty of water and good thing to eat , and my conscience , which have smite me hard for my desertion , be quiet by the great conquest I have make .
I should , I think , have have nothing leave me to desire but for the eye of the coxswain a they follow me derisively about the deck and the odd smile that appear continually on his face .
It be a smile that have in it something both of pain and weakness -- a haggard old man 's smile ; but there be , besides that , a grain of derision , a shadow of treachery , in his expression a he craftily watch , and watch , and watch me at my work .
26 Israel Hands THE wind , serve u to a desire , now haul into the west .
We could run so much the easy from the north-east corner of the island to the mouth of the North Inlet .
Only , a we have no power to anchor and dare not beach her till the tide have flow a good deal far , time hung on our hand .
The coxswain tell me how to lay the ship to ; after a good many trial I succeed , and we both sit in silence over another meal .
`` Cap'n , '' say he at length with that same uncomfortable smile , `` here 's my old shipmate , O'Brien ; s ` pose you be to heave him overboard .
I ai n't partic ` lar a a rule , and I do n't take no blame for settle his hash , but I do n't reckon him ornamental now , do you ? ''
`` I 'm not strong enough , and I do n't like the job ; and there he lie , for me , '' say I . `` This here 's an unlucky ship , this HISPANIOLA , Jim , '' he go on , blink .
`` There 's a power of men be kill in this HISPANIOLA -- a sight o ' poor seaman dead and go since you and me take ship to Bristol .
I never see sich dirty luck , not I .
There be this here O'Brien now -- he 's dead , ai n't he ?
Well now , I 'm no scholar , and you 're a lad a can read and figure , and to put it straight , do you take it a a dead man be dead for good , or do he come alive again ? ''
`` You can kill the body , Mr . Hands , but not the spirit ; you must know that already , '' I reply .
`` O'Brien there be in another world , and may be watch u . ''
`` Ah ! ''
say he .
`` Well , that 's unfort ` nate -- appear a if kill party be a waste of time .
Howsomever , sperrits do n't reckon for much , by what I 've see .
I 'll chance it with the sperrits , Jim .
And now , you 've speak up free , and I 'll take it kind if you 'd step down into that there cabin and get me a -- well , a -- shiver my timber !
I ca n't hit the name on ` t ; well , you get me a bottle of wine , Jim -- this here brandy 's too strong for my head . ''
Now , the coxswain 's hesitation seem to be unnatural , and a for the notion of his prefer wine to brandy , I entirely disbelieve it .
The whole story be a pretext .
He want me to leave the deck -- so much be plain ; but with what purpose I could in no way imagine .
His eye never meet mine ; they keep wander to and fro , up and down , now with a look to the sky , now with a flitting glance upon the dead O'Brien .
All the time he keep smile and put his tongue out in the most guilty , embarrassed manner , so that a child could have tell that he be bent on some deception .
I be prompt with my answer , however , for I saw where my advantage lay and that with a fellow so densely stupid I could easily conceal my suspicion to the end .
`` Some wine ? ''
I say .
`` Far well .
Will you have white or red ? ''
`` Well , I reckon it 's about the blessed same to me , shipmate , '' he reply ; `` so it 's strong , and plenty of it , what 's the odds ? ''
`` All right , '' I answer .
`` I 'll bring you port , Mr . Hands .
But I 'll have to dig for it . ''
With that I scuttle down the companion with all the noise I could , slip off my shoe , run quietly along the sparred gallery , mount the forecastle ladder , and pop my head out of the fore companion .
I know he would not expect to see me there , yet I take every precaution possible , and certainly the bad of my suspicion prove too true .
He have rise from his position to his hand and knee , and though his leg obviously hurt him pretty sharply when he move -- for I could hear him stifle a groan -- yet it be at a good , rattle rate that he trail himself across the deck .
In half a minute he have reach the port scupper and pick , out of a coil of rope , a long knife , or rather a short dirk , discolour to the hilt with blood .
He look upon it for a moment , thrust forth his under jaw , try the point upon his hand , and then , hastily conceal it in the bosom of his jacket , trundle back again into his old place against the bulwark .
This be all that I require to know .
Israel could move about , he be now arm , and if he have be at so much trouble to get rid of me , it be plain that I be mean to be the victim .
What he would do afterwards -- whether he would try to crawl right across the island from North Inlet to the camp among the swamp or whether he would fire Long Tom , trust that his own comrade might come first to help him -- be , of course , more than I could say .
Yet I felt sure that I could trust him in one point , since in that our interest jump together , and that be in the disposition of the schooner .
We both desire to have her strand safe enough , in a sheltered place , and so that , when the time come , she could be get off again with as little labour and danger a might be ; and until that be do I consider that my life would certainly be spar .
While I be thus turn the business over in my mind , I have not be idle with my body .
I have steal back to the cabin , slip once more into my shoe , and lay my hand at random on a bottle of wine , and now , with this for an excuse , I make my reappearance on the deck .
Hands lay a I have leave him , all fall together in a bundle and with his eyelid lower a though he be too weak to bear the light .
He look up , however , at my come , knock the neck off the bottle like a man who have do the same thing often , and take a good swig , with his favourite toast of `` Here 's luck ! ''
Then he lay quiet for a little , and then , pull out a stick of tobacco , beg me to cut him a quid .
`` Cut me a junk o ' that , '' say he , `` for I have n't no knife and hardly strength enough , so be a I have .
Ah , Jim , Jim , I reckon I 've miss stay !
Cut me a quid , a 'll likely be the last , lad , for I 'm for my long home , and no mistake . ''
`` Well , '' say I , `` I 'll cut you some tobacco , but if I be you and think myself so badly , I would go to my prayer like a Christian man . ''
`` Why ? ''
say he .
`` Now , you tell me why . ''
`` Why ? ''
I cry .
`` You be ask me just now about the dead .
You 've break your trust ; you 've live in sin and lie and blood ; there 's a man you kill lie at your foot this moment , and you ask me why !
For God 's mercy , Mr . Hands , that 's why . ''
I speak with a little heat , thinking of the bloody dirk he have hide in his pocket and design , in his ill thought , to end me with .
He , for his part , take a great draught of the wine and spoke with the most unusual solemnity .
`` For thirty year , '' he say , `` I 've sail the sea and see good and bad , good and bad , fair weather and foul , provision run out , knives go , and what not .
Well , now I tell you , I never see good come o ' goodness yet .
Him a strike first be my fancy ; dead men do n't bite ; them 's my view -- amen , so be it .
And now , you look here , '' he add , suddenly change his tone , `` we 've have about enough of this foolery .
The tide 's make good enough by now .
You just take my order , Cap'n Hawkins , and we 'll sail slap in and be do with it . ''
All tell , we have scarce two mile to run ; but the navigation be delicate , the entrance to this northern anchorage be not only narrow and shoal , but lay east and west , so that the schooner must be nicely handle to be get in .
I think I be a good , prompt subaltern , and I be very sure that Hands be an excellent pilot , for we go about and about and dodge in , shave the bank , with a certainty and a neatness that be a pleasure to behold .
Scarcely have we pass the head before the land close around u .
The shore of North Inlet be a thickly wooded a those of the southern anchorage , but the space be longer and narrow and more like , what in truth it be , the estuary of a river .
Right before u , at the southern end , we saw the wreck of a ship in the last stage of dilapidation .
It have be a great vessel of three mast but have lain so long expose to the injury of the weather that it be hang about with great web of drip seaweed , and on the deck of it shore bush have take root and now flourish thick with flower .
It be a sad sight , but it show u that the anchorage be calm .
`` Now , '' say Hands , `` look there ; there 's a pet bit for to beach a ship in .
Fine flat sand , never a cat 's paw , tree all around of it , and flower a-blowing like a garding on that old ship . ''
`` And once beach , '' I inquire , `` how shall we get her off again ? ''
`` Why , so , '' he reply : `` you take a line ashore there on the other side at low water , take a turn about one of them big pine ; bring it back , take a turn around the capstan , and lie to for the tide .
Come high water , all hand take a pull upon the line , and off she come as sweet a natur ' .
And now , boy , you stand by .
We 're near the bit now , and she 's too much way on her .
Starboard a little -- so -- steady -- starboard -- larboard a little -- steady -- steady ! ''
So he issue his command , which I breathlessly obey , till , all of a sudden , he cry , `` Now , my hearty , luff ! ''
And I put the helm hard up , and the HISPANIOLA swung round rapidly and run stem on for the low , wooded shore .
The excitement of these last manoeuvre have somewhat interfere with the watch I have keep hitherto , sharply enough , upon the coxswain .
Even then I be still so much interested , wait for the ship to touch , that I have quite forget the peril that hung over my head and stand craning over the starboard bulwark and watch the ripple spread wide before the bow .
I might have fall without a struggle for my life have not a sudden disquietude seize upon me and make me turn my head .
Perhaps I have hear a creak or see his shadow move with the tail of my eye ; perhaps it be an instinct like a cat 's ; but , sure enough , when I look round , there be Hands , already half-way towards me , with the dirk in his right hand .
We must both have cry out aloud when our eye meet , but while mine be the shrill cry of terror , his be a roar of fury like a charge bully 's .
At the same instant , he throw himself forward and I leap sideways towards the bow .
As I do so , I let go of the tiller , which spring sharp to leeward , and I think this save my life , for it strike Hands across the chest and stop him , for the moment , dead .
Before he could recover , I be safe out of the corner where he have me trap , with all the deck to dodge about .
Just forward of the main-mast I stop , draw a pistol from my pocket , take a cool aim , though he have already turn and be once more come directly after me , and draw the trigger .
The hammer fell , but there follow neither flash nor sound ; the priming be useless with sea-water .
I curse myself for my neglect .
Why have not I , long before , reprimed and reload my only weapon ?
Then I should not have be as now , a mere flee sheep before this butcher .
Wounded a he be , it be wonderful how fast he could move , his grizzled hair tumble over his face , and his face itself as red a a red ensign with his haste and fury .
I have no time to try my other pistol , nor indeed much inclination , for I be sure it would be useless .
One thing I saw plainly : I must not simply retreat before him , or he would speedily hold me box into the bow , a a moment since he have so nearly boxed me in the stern .
Once so caught , and nine or ten inch of the blood-stained dirk would be my last experience on this side of eternity .
I place my palm against the main-mast , which be of a goodish bigness , and wait , every nerve upon the stretch .
Seeing that I mean to dodge , he also pause ; and a moment or two pass in feint on his part and corresponding movement upon mine .
It be such a game a I have often play at home about the rock of Black Hill Cove , but never before , you may be sure , with such a wildly beating heart a now .
Still , a I say , it be a boy 's game , and I think I could hold my own at it against an elderly seaman with a wounded thigh .
Indeed my courage have begin to rise so high that I allow myself a few dart thought on what would be the end of the affair , and while I saw certainly that I could spin it out for long , I saw no hope of any ultimate escape .
Well , while thing stand thus , suddenly the HISPANIOLA strike , stagger , ground for an instant in the sand , and then , swift a a blow , cant over to the port side till the deck stand at an angle of forty-five degree and about a puncheon of water splash into the scupper hole and lay , in a pool , between the deck and bulwark .
We be both of u capsize in a second , and both of u roll , almost together , into the scupper , the dead red-cap , with his arm still spread out , tumble stiffly after u .
So near be we , indeed , that my head come against the coxswain 's foot with a crack that make my teeth rattle .
Blow and all , I be the first afoot again , for Hands have get involve with the dead body .
The sudden canting of the ship have make the deck no place for run on ; I have to find some new way of escape , and that upon the instant , for my foe be almost touch me .
Quick a thought , I spring into the mizzen shroud , rattle up hand over hand , and do not draw a breath till I be seat on the cross-trees .
I have be save by be prompt ; the dirk have strike not half a foot below me a I pursue my upward flight ; and there stand Israel Hands with his mouth open and his face upturned to mine , a perfect statue of surprise and disappointment .
Now that I have a moment to myself , I lose no time in change the priming of my pistol , and then , have one ready for service , and to make assurance doubly sure , I proceed to draw the load of the other and recharge it afresh from the beginning .
My new employment strike Hands all of a heap ; he begin to see the dice go against him , and after an obvious hesitation , he also haul himself heavily into the shroud , and with the dirk in his teeth , begin slowly and painfully to mount .
It cost him no end of time and groan to haul his wounded leg behind him , and I have quietly finish my arrangement before he be much more than a third of the way up .
Then , with a pistol in either hand , I address him .
`` One more step , Mr . Hands , '' say I , `` and I 'll blow your brain out !
Dead men do n't bite , you know , '' I add with a chuckle .
He stop instantly .
I could see by the working of his face that he be try to think , and the process be so slow and laborious that , in my new-found security , I laugh aloud .
At last , with a swallow or two , he speak , his face still wear the same expression of extreme perplexity .
In order to speak he have to take the dagger from his mouth , but in all else he remain unmoved .
`` Jim , '' say he , `` I reckon we 're foul , you and me , and we 'll have to sign article .
I 'd have have you but for that there lurch , but I do n't have no luck , not I ; and I reckon I 'll have to strike , which come hard , you see , for a master mariner to a ship 's younker like you , Jim . ''
I be drink in his word and smile away , as conceited a a cock upon a wall , when , all in a breath , back go his right hand over his shoulder .
Something sang like an arrow through the air ; I felt a blow and then a sharp pang , and there I be pin by the shoulder to the mast .
In the horrid pain and surprise of the moment -- I scarce can say it be by my own volition , and I be sure it be without a conscious aim -- both my pistol go off , and both escape out of my hand .
They do not fall alone ; with a choked cry , the coxswain loose his grasp upon the shroud and plunge head first into the water .
27 `` Pieces of Eight '' OWING to the cant of the vessel , the mast hang far out over the water , and from my perch on the cross-trees I have nothing below me but the surface of the bay .
Hands , who be not so far up , be in consequence nearer to the ship and fell between me and the bulwark .
He rise once to the surface in a lather of foam and blood and then sink again for good .
As the water settle , I could see him lie huddle together on the clean , bright sand in the shadow of the vessel 's side .
A fish or two whip past his body .
Sometimes , by the quivering of the water , he appear to move a little , a if he be try to rise .
But he be dead enough , for all that , be both shot and drown , and be food for fish in the very place where he have design my slaughter .
I be no sooner certain of this than I begin to feel sick , faint , and terrify .
The hot blood be run over my back and chest .
The dirk , where it have pin my shoulder to the mast , seem to burn like a hot iron ; yet it be not so much these real suffering that distress me , for these , it seem to me , I could bear without a murmur ; it be the horror I have upon my mind of fall from the cross-trees into that still green water , beside the body of the coxswain .
I cling with both hand till my nail ache , and I shut my eye a if to cover up the peril .
Gradually my mind come back again , my pulse quiet down to a more natural time , and I be once more in possession of myself .
It be my first think to pluck forth the dirk , but either it stick too hard or my nerve fail me , and I desist with a violent shudder .
Oddly enough , that very shudder do the business .
The knife , in fact , have come the near in the world to miss me altogether ; it hold me by a mere pinch of skin , and this the shudder tear away .
The blood run down the faster , to be sure , but I be my own master again and only tack to the mast by my coat and shirt .
These last I break through with a sudden jerk , and then regain the deck by the starboard shroud .
For nothing in the world would I have again venture , shake a I be , upon the overhang port shroud from which Israel have so lately fall .
I go below and do what I could for my wound ; it pain me a good deal and still bleed freely , but it be neither deep nor dangerous , nor do it greatly gall me when I use my arm .
Then I look around me , and a the ship be now , in a sense , my own , I begin to think of clear it from it last passenger -- the dead man , O'Brien .
He have pitch , a I have say , against the bulwark , where he lay like some horrible , ungainly sort of puppet , life-size , indeed , but how different from life 's colour or life 's comeliness !
In that position I could easily have my way with him , and a the habit of tragical adventure have wear off almost all my terror for the dead , I take him by the waist a if he have be a sack of bran and with one good heave , tumble him overboard .
He go in with a sounding plunge ; the red cap come off and remain float on the surface ; and as soon a the splash subside , I could see him and Israel lie side by side , both waver with the tremulous movement of the water .
O'Brien , though still quite a young man , be very bald .
There he lay , with that bald head across the knee of the man who have kill him and the quick fish steer to and fro over both .
I be now alone upon the ship ; the tide have just turn .
The sun be within so few degree of set that already the shadow of the pine upon the western shore begin to reach right across the anchorage and fall in pattern on the deck .
The evening breeze have spring up , and though it be well ward off by the hill with the two peak upon the east , the cordage have begin to sing a little softly to itself and the idle sail to rattle to and fro .
I begin to see a danger to the ship .
The jib I speedily douse and bring tumble to the deck , but the main-sail be a harder matter .
Of course , when the schooner cant over , the boom have swing out-board , and the cap of it and a foot or two of sail hung even under water .
I think this make it still more dangerous ; yet the strain be so heavy that I half fear to meddle .
At last I get my knife and cut the halyard .
The peak drop instantly , a great belly of loose canvas float broad upon the water , and since , pull a I like , I could not budge the downhall , that be the extent of what I could accomplish .
For the rest , the HISPANIOLA must trust to luck , like myself .
By this time the whole anchorage have fall into shadow -- the last ray , I remember , fall through a glade of the wood and shin bright a jewel on the flowery mantle of the wreck .
It begin to be chill ; the tide be rapidly fleeting seaward , the schooner settle more and more on her beam-ends .
I scramble forward and look over .
It seem shallow enough , and hold the cut hawser in both hand for a last security , I let myself drop softly overboard .
The water scarcely reach my waist ; the sand be firm and cover with ripple mark , and I wad ashore in great spirit , leave the HISPANIOLA on her side , with her main-sail trailing wide upon the surface of the bay .
About the same time , the sun go fairly down and the breeze whistle low in the dusk among the toss pine .
At least , and at last , I be off the sea , nor have I return thence empty-handed .
There lay the schooner , clear at last from buccaneer and ready for our own men to board and get to sea again .
I have nothing nearer my fancy than to get home to the stockade and boast of my achievement .
Possibly I might be blame a bit for my truantry , but the recapture of the HISPANIOLA be a clench answer , and I hop that even Captain Smollett would confess I have not lose my time .
So thinking , and in famous spirit , I begin to set my face homeward for the block house and my companion .
I remember that the most easterly of the river which drain into Captain Kidd 's anchorage run from the two-peaked hill upon my left , and I bend my course in that direction that I might pass the stream while it be small .
The wood be pretty open , and keep along the low spur , I have soon turn the corner of that hill , and not long after wad to the mid-calf across the watercourse .
This bring me near to where I have encounter Ben Gunn , the maroon ; and I walk more circumspectly , keep an eye on every side .
The dusk have come nigh hand completely , and a I open out the cleft between the two peak , I become aware of a waver glow against the sky , where , a I judge , the man of the island be cook his supper before a roaring fire .
And yet I wonder , in my heart , that he should show himself so careless .
For if I could see this radiance , might it not reach the eye of Silver himself where he camp upon the shore among the marsh ?
Gradually the night fell blacker ; it be all I could do to guide myself even roughly towards my destination ; the double hill behind me and the Spy-glass on my right hand loom faint and fainter ; the star be few and pale ; and in the low ground where I wander I keep trip among bush and roll into sandy pit .
Suddenly a kind of brightness fell about me .
I look up ; a pale glimmer of moonbeam have alight on the summit of the Spy-glass , and soon after I saw something broad and silvery move low down behind the tree , and know the moon have rise .
With this to help me , I pass rapidly over what remain to me of my journey , and sometimes walking , sometimes run , impatiently draw near to the stockade .
Yet , a I begin to thread the grove that lie before it , I be not so thoughtless but that I slack my pace and go a trifle warily .
It would have be a poor end of my adventure to get shot down by my own party in mistake .
The moon be climb high and high , it light begin to fall here and there in mass through the more open district of the wood , and right in front of me a glow of a different colour appear among the tree .
It be red and hot , and now and again it be a little darkened -- a it be , the ember of a bonfire smouldering .
For the life of me I could not think what it might be .
At last I come right down upon the border of the clearing .
The western end be already steep in moonshine ; the rest , and the block house itself , still lay in a black shadow chequer with long silvery streak of light .
On the other side of the house an immense fire have burn itself into clear ember and shed a steady , red reverberation , contrast strongly with the mellow paleness of the moon .
There be not a soul stir nor a sound beside the noise of the breeze .
I stop , with much wonder in my heart , and perhaps a little terror also .
It have not be our way to build great fire ; we be , indeed , by the captain 's order , somewhat niggardly of firewood , and I begin to fear that something have go wrong while I be absent .
I steal round by the eastern end , keep close in shadow , and at a convenient place , where the darkness be thickest , cross the palisade .
To make assurance surer , I get upon my hand and knee and crawl , without a sound , towards the corner of the house .
As I draw nearer , my heart be suddenly and greatly lighten .
It be not a pleasant noise in itself , and I have often complain of it at other time , but just then it be like music to hear my friend snore together so loud and peaceful in their sleep .
The sea-cry of the watch , that beautiful `` All 's well , '' never fell more reassuringly on my ear .
In the meantime , there be no doubt of one thing ; they keep an infamous bad watch .
If it have be Silver and his lad that be now creep in on them , not a soul would have see daybreak .
That be what it be , think I , to have the captain wound ; and again I blame myself sharply for leave them in that danger with so few to mount guard .
By this time I have get to the door and stand up .
All be dark within , so that I could distinguish nothing by the eye .
As for sound , there be the steady drone of the snorer and a small occasional noise , a flickering or pecking that I could in no way account for .
With my arm before me I walk steadily in .
I should lie down in my own place -LRB- I think with a silent chuckle -RRB- and enjoy their face when they find me in the morning .
My foot strike something yielding -- it be a sleeper 's leg ; and he turn and groan , but without awake .
And then , all of a sudden , a shrill voice break forth out of the darkness : `` Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight ! ''
and so forth , without pause or change , like the clacking of a tiny mill .
Silver 's green parrot , Captain Flint !
It be she whom I have hear peck at a piece of bark ; it be she , keep well watch than any human be , who thus announce my arrival with her wearisome refrain .
I have no time leave me to recover .
At the sharp , clip tone of the parrot , the sleeper awake and spring up ; and with a mighty oath , the voice of Silver cry , `` Who go ? ''
I turn to run , strike violently against one person , recoil , and run full into the arm of a second , who for his part close upon and hold me tight .
`` Bring a torch , Dick , '' say Silver when my capture be thus assure .
And one of the men leave the log-house and presently return with a lighted brand .
PART SIX -- Captain Silver 28 In the Enemy 's Camp THE red glare of the torch , light up the interior of the block house , show me the bad of my apprehension realize .
The pirate be in possession of the house and store : there be the cask of cognac , there be the pork and bread , a before , and what tenfold increase my horror , not a sign of any prisoner .
I could only judge that all have perish , and my heart smite me sorely that I have not be there to perish with them .
There be six of the buccaneer , all tell ; not another man be leave alive .
Five of them be on their foot , flush and swell , suddenly call out of the first sleep of drunkenness .
The sixth have only rise upon his elbow ; he be deadly pale , and the blood-stained bandage round his head tell that he have recently be wound , and still more recently dress .
I remember the man who have be shoot and have run back among the wood in the great attack , and doubt not that this be he .
The parrot sit , preen her plumage , on Long John 's shoulder .
He himself , I think , look somewhat pale and more stern than I be use to .
He still wear the fine broadcloth suit in which he have fulfil his mission , but it be bitterly the worse for wear , daub with clay and torn with the sharp brier of the wood .
`` So , '' say he , `` here 's Jim Hawkins , shiver my timber !
Dropped in , like , eh ?
Well , come , I take that friendly . ''
And thereupon he sit down across the brandy cask and begin to fill a pipe .
`` Give me a loan of the link , Dick , '' say he ; and then , when he have a good light , `` That 'll do , lad , '' he add ; `` stick the glim in the wood heap ; and you , gentleman , bring yourselves to !
You need n't stand up for Mr. Hawkins ; HE 'LL excuse you , you may lay to that .
And so , Jim '' -- stop the tobacco -- `` here you be , and quite a pleasant surprise for poor old John .
I see you be smart when first I set my eye on you , but this here get away from me clean , it do . ''
To all this , a may be well suppose , I make no answer .
They have set me with my back against the wall , and I stand there , look Silver in the face , pluckily enough , I hope , to all outward appearance , but with black despair in my heart .
Silver take a whiff or two of his pipe with great composure and then run on again .
`` Now , you see , Jim , so be a you ARE here , '' say he , `` I 'll give you a piece of my mind .
I 've always like you , I have , for a lad of spirit , and the picter of my own self when I be young and handsome .
I always want you to jine and take your share , and die a gentleman , and now , my cock , you 've get to .
Cap'n Smollett 's a fine seaman , a I 'll own up to any day , but stiff on discipline .
` Dooty be dooty , ' say he , and right he be .
Just you keep clear of the cap'n .
The doctor himself be go dead again you -- ` ungrateful scamp ' be what he say ; and the short and the long of the whole story be about here : you ca n't go back to your own lot , for they wo n't have you ; and without you start a third ship 's company all by yourself , which might be lonely , you 'll have to jine with Cap'n Silver . ''
So far so good .
My friend , then , be still alive , and though I partly believe the truth of Silver 's statement , that the cabin party be incense at me for my desertion , I be more relieved than distress by what I hear .
`` I do n't say nothing a to your be in our hand , '' continue Silver , `` though there you be , and you may lay to it .
I 'm all for argyment ; I never see good come out o ' threatening .
If you like the service , well , you 'll jine ; and if you do n't , Jim , why , you 're free to answer no -- free and welcome , shipmate ; and if fairer can be say by mortal seaman , shiver my side ! ''
`` Am I to answer , then ? ''
I ask with a very tremulous voice .
Through all this sneer talk , I be make to feel the threat of death that overhung me , and my cheek burn and my heart beat painfully in my breast .
`` Lad , '' say Silver , `` no one 's a-pressing of you .
Take your bearing .
None of u wo n't hurry you , mate ; time go so pleasant in your company , you see . ''
`` Well , '' say I , grow a bit bolder , `` if I 'm to choose , I declare I have a right to know what 's what , and why you 're here , and where my friend be . ''
`` Wot 's wot ? ''
repeat one of the buccaneer in a deep growl .
`` Ah , he 'd be a lucky one a know that ! ''
`` You 'll perhaps batten down your hatch till you 're speak to , my friend , '' cry Silver truculently to this speaker .
And then , in his first gracious tone , he reply to me , `` Yesterday morning , Mr. Hawkins , '' say he , `` in the dog-watch , down come Doctor Livesey with a flag of truce .
Says he , ` Cap'n Silver , you 're sell out .
Ship 's go . '
Well , maybe we 'd be take a glass , and a song to help it round .
I wo n't say no .
Leastways , none of u have look out .
We look out , and by thunder , the old ship be go !
I never see a pack o ' fool look fishy ; and you may lay to that , if I tell you that look the fishy .
` Well , ' say the doctor , ` let 's bargain . '
We bargain , him and I , and here we be : store , brandy , block house , the firewood you be thoughtful enough to cut , and in a manner of speaking , the whole bless boat , from cross-trees to kelson .
As for them , they 've tramp ; I do n't know where 's they be . ''
He draw again quietly at his pipe .
`` And l you should take it into that head of yours , '' he go on , `` that you be include in the treaty , here 's the last word that be say : ` How many be you , ' say I , ` to leave ? '
` Four , ' say he ; ` four , and one of u wound .
As for that boy , I do n't know where he be , confound him , ' say he , ` nor I do n't much care .
We 're about sick of him . '
These be his word .
`` Is that all ? ''
I ask .
`` Well , it 's all that you 're to hear , my son , '' return Silver .
`` And now I be to choose ? ''
`` And now you be to choose , and you may lay to that , '' say Silver .
`` Well , '' say I , `` I be not such a fool but I know pretty well what I have to look for .
Let the bad come to the bad , it 's little I care .
I 've see too many die since I fell in with you .
But there 's a thing or two I have to tell you , '' I say , and by this time I be quite excited ; `` and the first be this : here you be , in a bad way -- ship lose , treasure lose , men lose , your whole business go to wreck ; and if you want to know who do it -- it be I !
I be in the apple barrel the night we sight land , and I hear you , John , and you , Dick Johnson , and Hands , who be now at the bottom of the sea , and tell every word you say before the hour be out .
And a for the schooner , it be I who cut her cable , and it be I that kill the men you have aboard of her , and it be I who bring her where you 'll never see her more , not one of you .
The laugh 's on my side ; I 've have the top of this business from the first ; I no more fear you than I fear a fly .
Kill me , if you please , or spare me .
But one thing I 'll say , and no more ; if you spare me , bygone be bygone , and when you fellows be in court for piracy , I 'll save you all I can .
It be for you to choose .
Kill another and do yourselves no good , or spare me and keep a witness to save you from the gallows . ''
I stop , for , I tell you , I be out of breath , and to my wonder , not a man of them move , but all sit star at me like a many sheep .
And while they be still star , I break out again , `` And now , Mr. Silver , '' I say , `` I believe you 're the best man here , and if thing go to the bad , I 'll take it kind of you to let the doctor know the way I take it . ''
`` I 'll bear it in mind , '' say Silver with an accent so curious that I could not , for the life of me , decide whether he be laugh at my request or have be favourably affect by my courage .
`` I 'll put one to that , '' cry the old mahogany-faced seaman -- Morgan by name -- whom I have see in Long John 's public-house upon the quay of Bristol .
`` It be him that know Black Dog . ''
`` Well , and see here , '' add the sea-cook .
`` I 'll put another again to that , by thunder !
For it be this same boy that fake the chart from Billy Bones .
First and last , we 've split upon Jim Hawkins ! ''
`` Then here go ! ''
say Morgan with an oath .
And he spring up , draw his knife a if he have be twenty .
`` Avast , there ! ''
cry Silver .
`` Who be you , Tom Morgan ?
Maybe you think you be cap'n here , perhaps .
By the power , but I 'll teach you good !
Cross me , and you 'll go where many a good man 's go before you , first and last , these thirty year back -- some to the yard-arm , shiver my timber , and some by the board , and all to fee the fish .
There 's never a man look me between the eye and see a good day a ` terwards , Tom Morgan , you may lay to that . ''
Morgan pause , but a hoarse murmur rise from the others .
`` Tom 's right , '' say one .
`` I stand haze long enough from one , '' add another .
`` I 'll be hang if I 'll be haze by you , John Silver . ''
`` Did any of you gentlemen want to have it out with ME ? ''
roar Silver , bend far forward from his position on the keg , with his pipe still glow in his right hand .
`` Put a name on what you 're at ; you ai n't dumb , I reckon .
Him that want shall get it .
Have I live this many year , and a son of a rum puncheon cock his hat athwart my hawse at the latter end of it ?
You know the way ; you 're all gentleman o ' fortune , by your account .
Well , I 'm ready .
Take a cutlas , him that dare , and I 'll see the colour of his inside , crutch and all , before that pipe 's empty . ''
Not a man stir ; not a man answer .
`` That 's your sort , be it ? ''
he add , return his pipe to his mouth .
`` Well , you 're a gay lot to look at , anyway .
Not much worth to fight , you ai n't .
P ` r ` aps you can understand King George 's English .
I 'm cap'n here by ` lection .
I 'm cap'n here because I 'm the best man by a long sea-mile .
You wo n't fight , a gentleman o ' fortune should ; then , by thunder , you 'll obey , and you may lay to it !
I like that boy , now ; I never see a good boy than that .
He 's more a man than any pair of rat of you in this here house , and what I say be this : let me see him that 'll lay a hand on him -- that 's what I say , and you may lay to it . ''
There be a long pause after this .
I stand straight up against the wall , my heart still go like a sledge-hammer , but with a ray of hope now shin in my bosom .
Silver lean back against the wall , his arm cross , his pipe in the corner of his mouth , as calm a though he have be in church ; yet his eye keep wander furtively , and he keep the tail of it on his unruly follower .
They , on their part , draw gradually together towards the far end of the block house , and the low hiss of their whispering sound in my ear continuously , like a stream .
One after another , they would look up , and the red light of the torch would fall for a second on their nervous face ; but it be not towards me , it be towards Silver that they turn their eye .
`` You seem to have a lot to say , '' remark Silver , spit far into the air .
`` Pipe up and let me hear it , or lay to . ''
`` Ax your pardon , sir , '' return one of the men ; `` you 're pretty free with some of the rule ; maybe you 'll kindly keep an eye upon the rest .
This crew 's dissatisfy ; this crew do n't vally bully a marlin-spike ; this crew have it right like other crew , I 'll make so free a that ; and by your own rule , I take it we can talk together .
I ax your pardon , sir , acknowledge you for to be captaing at this present ; but I claim my right , and step outside for a council . ''
And with an elaborate sea-salute , this fellow , a long , ill-looking , yellow-eyed man of five and thirty , step coolly towards the door and disappear out of the house .
One after another the rest follow his example , each make a salute a he pass , each add some apology .
`` According to rule , '' say one .
`` Forecastle council , '' say Morgan .
And so with one remark or another all march out and leave Silver and me alone with the torch .
The sea-cook instantly remove his pipe .
`` Now , look you here , Jim Hawkins , '' he say in a steady whisper that be no more than audible , `` you 're within half a plank of death , and what 's a long sight worse , of torture .
They 're go to throw me off .
But , you mark , I stand by you through thick and thin .
I do n't mean to ; no , not till you speak up .
I be about desperate to lose that much blunt , and be hang into the bargain .
But I see you be the right sort .
I say to myself , you stand by Hawkins , John , and Hawkins 'll stand by you .
You 're his last card , and by the living thunder , John , he 's yours !
Back to back , say I .
You save your witness , and he 'll save your neck ! ''
I begin dimly to understand .
`` You mean all 's lose ? ''
I ask .
`` Aye , by gum , I do ! ''
he answer .
`` Ship go , neck go -- that 's the size of it .
Once I look into that bay , Jim Hawkins , and see no schooner -- well , I 'm tough , but I give out .
As for that lot and their council , mark me , they 're outright fool and coward .
I 'll save your life -- if so be a I can -- from them .
But , see here , Jim -- tit for tat -- you save Long John from swing . ''
I be bewilder ; it seem a thing so hopeless he be ask -- he , the old buccaneer , the ringleader throughout .
`` What I can do , that I 'll do , '' I say .
`` It 's a bargain ! ''
cry Long John .
`` You speak up plucky , and by thunder , I 've a chance ! ''
He hobble to the torch , where it stand prop among the firewood , and take a fresh light to his pipe .
`` Understand me , Jim , '' he say , return .
`` I 've a head on my shoulder , I have .
I 'm on squire 's side now .
I know you 've get that ship safe somewhere .
How you do it , I do n't know , but safe it be .
I guess Hands and O'Brien turn soft .
I never much believe in neither of THEM .
Now you mark me .
I ask no question , nor I wo n't let others .
I know when a game 's up , I do ; and I know a lad that 's staunch .
Ah , you that 's young -- you and me might have do a power of good together ! ''
He draw some cognac from the cask into a tin cannikin .
`` Will you taste , messmate ? ''
he ask ; and when I have refuse : `` Well , I 'll take a drain myself , Jim , '' say he .
`` I need a caulker , for there 's trouble on hand .
And talk o ' trouble , why do that doctor give me the chart , Jim ? ''
My face express a wonder so unaffected that he saw the needlessness of further question .
`` Ah , well , he do , though , '' say he .
`` And there 's something under that , no doubt -- something , surely , under that , Jim -- bad or good . ''
And he take another swallow of the brandy , shake his great fair head like a man who look forward to the bad .
29 The Black Spot Again THE council of buccaneer have last some time , when one of them re-enter the house , and with a repetition of the same salute , which have in my eye an ironical air , beg for a moment 's loan of the torch .
Silver briefly agree , and this emissary retire again , leave u together in the dark .
`` There 's a breeze come , Jim , '' say Silver , who have by this time adopt quite a friendly and familiar tone .
I turn to the loophole nearest me and look out .
The ember of the great fire have so far burn themselves out and now glow so low and duskily that I understand why these conspirator desire a torch .
About half-way down the slope to the stockade , they be collect in a group ; one hold the light , another be on his knee in their midst , and I saw the blade of an open knife shine in his hand with varying colour in the moon and torchlight .
The rest be all somewhat stooping , a though watch the manoeuvre of this last .
I could just make out that he have a book as well a a knife in his hand , and be still wonder how anything so incongruous have come in their possession when the kneeling figure rise once more to his foot and the whole party begin to move together towards the house .
`` Here they come , '' say I ; and I return to my former position , for it seem beneath my dignity that they should find me watch them .
`` Well , let 'em come , lad -- let 'em come , '' say Silver cheerily .
`` I 've still a shot in my locker . ''
The door open , and the five men , stand huddle together just inside , push one of their number forward .
In any other circumstance it would have be comical to see his slow advance , hesitate a he set down each foot , but hold his close right hand in front of him .
`` Step up , lad , '' cry Silver .
`` I wo n't eat you .
Hand it over , lubber .
I know the rule , I do ; I wo n't hurt a depytation . ''
Thus encourage , the buccaneer step forth more briskly , and have pass something to Silver , from hand to hand , slip yet more smartly back again to his companion .
The sea-cook look at what have be give him .
`` The black spot !
I think so , '' he observe .
`` Where might you have get the paper ?
Why , hillo !
Look here , now ; this ai n't lucky !
You 've go and cut this out of a Bible .
What fool 's cut a Bible ? ''
`` Ah , there ! ''
say Morgan .
`` There !
Wot do I say ?
No good 'll come o ' that , I say . ''
`` Well , you 've about fix it now , among you , '' continue Silver .
`` You 'll all swing now , I reckon .
What soft-headed lubber have a Bible ? ''
`` It be Dick , '' say one .
`` Dick , be it ?
Then Dick can get to prayer , '' say Silver .
`` He 's see his slice of luck , have Dick , and you may lay to that . ''
But here the long man with the yellow eye strike in .
`` Belay that talk , John Silver , '' he say .
`` This crew have tip you the black spot in full council , a in dooty bound ; just you turn it over , a in dooty bound , and see what 's write there .
Then you can talk . ''
`` Thanky , George , '' reply the sea-cook .
`` You always be brisk for business , and have the rule by heart , George , a I 'm pleased to see .
Well , what be it , anyway ?
Ah !
` Deposed ' -- that 's it , be it ?
Very pretty write , to be sure ; like print , I swear .
Your hand o ' write , George ?
Why , you be gettin ' quite a leadin ' man in this here crew .
You 'll be cap'n next , I should n't wonder .
Just oblige me with that torch again , will you ?
This pipe do n't draw . ''
`` Come , now , '' say George , `` you do n't fool this crew no more .
You 're a funny man , by your account ; but you 're over now , and you 'll maybe step down off that barrel and help vote . ''
`` I think you say you know the rule , '' return Silver contemptuously .
`` Leastways , if you do n't , I do ; and I wait here -- and I 'm still your cap'n , mind -- till you out with your grievance and I reply ; in the meantime , your black spot ai n't worth a biscuit .
After that , we 'll see . ''
`` Oh , '' reply George , `` you do n't be under no kind of apprehension ; WE 'RE all square , we be .
First , you 've make a hash of this cruise -- you 'll be a bold man to say no to that .
Second , you let the enemy out o ' this here trap for nothing .
Why do they want out ?
I dunno , but it 's pretty plain they want it .
Third , you would n't let u go at them upon the march .
Oh , we see through you , John Silver ; you want to play booty , that 's what 's wrong with you .
And then , fourth , there 's this here boy . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
ask Silver quietly .
`` Enough , too , '' retort George .
`` We 'll all swing and sun-dry for your bungling . ''
`` Well now , look here , I 'll answer these four p ` ints ; one after another I 'll answer 'em .
I make a hash o ' this cruise , do I ?
Well now , you all know what I want , and you all know if that have be do that we 'd ' a be aboard the HISPANIOLA this night a ever be , every man of u alive , and fit , and full of good plum-duff , and the treasure in the hold of her , by thunder !
Well , who cross me ?
Who force my hand , a be the lawful cap'n ?
Who tip me the black spot the day we land and begin this dance ?
Ah , it 's a fine dance -- I 'm with you there -- and look mighty like a hornpipe in a rope 's end at Execution Dock by London town , it do .
But who do it ?
Why , it be Anderson , and Hands , and you , George Merry !
And you 're the last above board of that same meddling crew ; and you have the Davy Jones 's insolence to up and stand for cap'n over me -- you , that sink the lot of u !
By the power !
But this top the stiff yarn to nothing . ''
Silver pause , and I could see by the face of George and his late comrade that these word have not be say in vain .
`` That 's for number one , '' cry the accuse , wipe the sweat from his brow , for he have be talk with a vehemence that shake the house .
`` Why , I give you my word , I 'm sick to speak to you .
You 've neither sense nor memory , and I leave it to fancy where your mother be that let you come to sea .
Sea !
Gentlemen o ' fortune !
I reckon tailor be your trade . ''
`` Go on , John , '' say Morgan .
`` Speak up to the others . ''
`` Ah , the others ! ''
return John .
`` They 're a nice lot , ai n't they ?
You say this cruise be bungle .
Ah !
By gum , if you could understand how bad it 's bungle , you would see !
We 're that near the gibbet that my neck 's stiff with think on it .
You 've see 'em , maybe , hang in chain , bird about 'em , seaman p ` inting 'em out a they go down with the tide .
` Who 's that ? '
say one .
` That !
Why , that 's John Silver .
I know him well , ' say another .
And you can hear the chain a-jangle a you go about and reach for the other buoy .
Now , that 's about where we be , every mother 's son of u , thanks to him , and Hands , and Anderson , and other ruination fool of you .
And if you want to know about number four , and that boy , why , shiver my timber , be n't he a hostage ?
Are we a-going to waste a hostage ?
No , not u ; he might be our last chance , and I should n't wonder .
Kill that boy ?
Not me , mat !
And number three ?
Ah , well , there 's a deal to say to number three .
Maybe you do n't count it nothing to have a real college doctor to see you every day -- you , John , with your head break -- or you , George Merry , that have the ague shake upon you not six hour agone , and have your eye the colour of lemon peel to this same moment on the clock ?
And maybe , perhaps , you do n't know there be a consort come either ?
But there be , and not so long till then ; and we 'll see who 'll be glad to have a hostage when it come to that .
And a for number two , and why I make a bargain -- well , you come crawl on your knee to me to make it -- on your knee you come , you be that downhearted -- and you 'd have starve too if I have n't -- but that 's a trifle !
You look there -- that 's why ! ''
And he cast down upon the floor a paper that I instantly recognize -- none other than the chart on yellow paper , with the three red cross , that I have find in the oilcloth at the bottom of the captain 's chest .
Why the doctor have give it to him be more than I could fancy .
But if it be inexplicable to me , the appearance of the chart be incredible to the survive mutineer .
They leap upon it like cat upon a mouse .
It go from hand to hand , one tear it from another ; and by the oath and the cry and the childish laughter with which they accompany their examination , you would have think , not only they be finger the very gold , but be at sea with it , besides , in safety .
`` Yes , '' say one , `` that 's Flint , sure enough .
J. F. , and a score below , with a clove hitch to it ; so he do ever . ''
`` Mighty pretty , '' say George .
`` But how be we to get away with it , and u no ship . ''
Silver suddenly spring up , and support himself with a hand against the wall : `` Now I give you warning , George , '' he cry .
`` One more word of your sauce , and I 'll call you down and fight you .
How ?
Why , how do I know ?
You have ought to tell me that -- you and the rest , that lose me my schooner , with your interference , burn you !
But not you , you ca n't ; you hai n't get the invention of a cockroach .
But civil you can speak , and shall , George Merry , you may lay to that . ''
`` That 's fair enow , '' say the old man Morgan .
`` Fair !
I reckon so , '' say the sea-cook .
`` You lose the ship ; I find the treasure .
Who 's the good man at that ?
And now I resign , by thunder !
Elect whom you please to be your cap'n now ; I 'm do with it . ''
`` Silver ! ''
they cry .
`` Barbecue forever !
Barbecue for cap'n ! ''
`` So that 's the toon , be it ? ''
cry the cook .
`` George , I reckon you 'll have to wait another turn , friend ; and lucky for you a I 'm not a revengeful man .
But that be never my way .
And now , shipmate , this black spot ?
` Tai n't much good now , be it ?
Dick 's cross his luck and spoil his Bible , and that 's about all . ''
`` It 'll do to kiss the book on still , wo n't it ? ''
growl Dick , who be evidently uneasy at the curse he have bring upon himself .
`` A Bible with a bit cut out ! ''
return Silver derisively .
`` Not it .
It do n't bind no more 'n a ballad-book . ''
`` Do n't it , though ? ''
cry Dick with a sort of joy .
`` Well , I reckon that 's worth have too . ''
`` Here , Jim -- here 's a cur ` osity for you , '' say Silver , and he toss me the paper .
It be around about the size of a crown piece .
One side be blank , for it have be the last leaf ; the other contain a verse or two of Revelation -- these word among the rest , which strike sharply home upon my mind : `` Without be dog and murderer . ''
The printed side have be blacken with wood ash , which already begin to come off and soil my finger ; on the blank side have be write with the same material the one word `` Depposed . ''
I have that curiosity beside me at this moment , but not a trace of write now remain beyond a single scratch , such a a man might make with his thumb-nail .
That be the end of the night 's business .
Soon after , with a drink all round , we lay down to sleep , and the outside of Silver 's vengeance be to put George Merry up for sentinel and threaten him with death if he should prove unfaithful .
It be long ere I could close an eye , and heaven know I have matter enough for thought in the man whom I have slain that afternoon , in my own most perilous position , and above all , in the remarkable game that I saw Silver now engage upon -- keep the mutineer together with one hand and grasping with the other after every mean , possible and impossible , to make his peace and save his miserable life .
He himself sleep peacefully and snore aloud , yet my heart be sore for him , wicked a he be , to think on the dark peril that environ and the shameful gibbet that await him .
30 On Parole I WAS waken -- indeed , we be all waken , for I could see even the sentinel shake himself together from where he have fall against the door-post -- by a clear , hearty voice hail u from the margin of the wood : `` Block house , ahoy ! ''
it cry .
`` Here 's the doctor . ''
And the doctor it be .
Although I be glad to hear the sound , yet my gladness be not without admixture .
I remember with confusion my insubordinate and stealthy conduct , and when I saw where it have bring me -- among what companion and surround by what danger -- I felt ashamed to look him in the face .
He must have rise in the dark , for the day have hardly come ; and when I run to a loophole and look out , I saw him stand , like Silver once before , up to the mid-leg in creep vapour .
`` You , doctor !
Top o ' the morning to you , sir ! ''
cry Silver , broad awake and beaming with good nature in a moment .
`` Bright and early , to be sure ; and it 's the early bird , a the saying go , that get the ration .
George , shake up your timber , son , and help Dr. Livesey over the ship 's side .
All a-doin ' well , your patient be -- all well and merry . ''
So he patter on , stand on the hilltop with his crutch under his elbow and one hand upon the side of the log-house -- quite the old John in voice , manner , and expression .
`` We 've quite a surprise for you too , sir , '' he continue .
`` We 've a little stranger here -- he !
he !
A noo boarder and lodger , sir , and look fit and taut a a fiddle ; slep ' like a supercargo , he do , right alongside of John -- stem to stem we be , all night . ''
Dr. Livesey be by this time across the stockade and pretty near the cook , and I could hear the alteration in his voice a he say , `` Not Jim ? ''
`` The very same Jim a ever be , '' say Silver .
The doctor stop outright , although he do not speak , and it be some second before he seem able to move on .
`` Well , well , '' he say at last , `` duty first and pleasure afterwards , a you might have say yourself , Silver .
Let u overhaul these patient of yours . ''
A moment afterwards he have enter the block house and with one grim nod to me proceed with his work among the sick .
He seem under no apprehension , though he must have know that his life , among these treacherous demon , depend on a hair ; and he rattle on to his patient a if he be pay an ordinary professional visit in a quiet English family .
His manner , I suppose , react on the men , for they behave to him a if nothing have occur , a if he be still ship 's doctor and they still faithful hand before the mast .
`` You 're do well , my friend , '' he say to the fellow with the bandage head , `` and if ever any person have a close shave , it be you ; your head must be as hard a iron .
Well , George , how go it ?
You 're a pretty colour , certainly ; why , your liver , man , be upside down .
Did you take that medicine ?
Did he take that medicine , men ? ''
`` Aye , aye , sir , he take it , sure enough , '' return Morgan .
`` Because , you see , since I be mutineer ' doctor , or prison doctor a I prefer to call it , '' say Doctor Livesey in his pleasant way , `` I make it a point of honour not to lose a man for King George -LRB- God bless him ! -RRB-
and the gallows . ''
The rogue look at each other but swallow the home-thrust in silence .
`` Dick do n't feel well , sir , '' say one .
`` Do n't he ? ''
reply the doctor .
`` Well , step up here , Dick , and let me see your tongue .
No , I should be surprised if he do !
The man 's tongue be fit to frighten the French .
Another fever . ''
`` Ah , there , '' say Morgan , `` that comed of sp ` iling Bibles . ''
`` That come -- a you call it -- of be arrant ass , '' retort the doctor , `` and not have sense enough to know honest air from poison , and the dry land from a vile , pestiferous slough .
I think it most probable -- though of course it 's only an opinion -- that you 'll all have the deuce to pay before you get that malaria out of your system .
Camp in a bog , would you ?
Silver , I 'm surprised at you .
You 're less of a fool than many , take you all round ; but you do n't appear to me to have the rudiment of a notion of the rule of health .
`` Well , '' he add after he have dose them round and they have take his prescription , with really laughable humility , more like charity schoolchildren than blood-guilty mutineer and pirate -- `` well , that 's do for today .
And now I should wish to have a talk with that boy , please . ''
And he nod his head in my direction carelessly .
George Merry be at the door , spit and splutter over some bad-tasted medicine ; but at the first word of the doctor 's proposal he swing round with a deep flush and cry `` No ! ''
and swore .
Silver strike the barrel with his open hand .
`` Si-lence ! ''
he roar and look about him positively like a lion .
`` Doctor , '' he go on in his usual tone , `` I be a-thinking of that , know a how you have a fancy for the boy .
We 're all humbly grateful for your kindness , and a you see , put faith in you and take the drug down like that much grog .
And I take it I 've find a way a 'll suit all .
Hawkins , will you give me your word of honour a a young gentleman -- for a young gentleman you be , although poor born -- your word of honour not to slip your cable ? ''
I readily give the pledge require .
`` Then , doctor , '' say Silver , `` you just step outside o ' that stockade , and once you 're there I 'll bring the boy down on the inside , and I reckon you can yarn through the spar .
Good day to you , sir , and all our dooties to the squire and Cap'n Smollett . ''
The explosion of disapproval , which nothing but Silver 's black look have restrain , break out immediately the doctor have leave the house .
Silver be roundly accuse of play double -- of try to make a separate peace for himself , of sacrifice the interest of his accomplice and victim , and , in one word , of the identical , exact thing that he be do .
It seem to me so obvious , in this case , that I could not imagine how he be to turn their anger .
But he be twice the man the rest be , and his last night 's victory have give him a huge preponderance on their mind .
He call them all the fool and dolt you can imagine , say it be necessary I should talk to the doctor , flutter the chart in their face , ask them if they could afford to break the treaty the very day they be bind a-treasure-hunting .
`` No , by thunder ! ''
he cry .
`` It 's u must break the treaty when the time come ; and till then I 'll gammon that doctor , if I have to ile his boot with brandy . ''
And then he bid them get the fire lit , and stalk out upon his crutch , with his hand on my shoulder , leave them in a disarray , and silence by his volubility rather than convince .
`` Slow , lad , slow , '' he say .
`` They might round upon u in a twinkle of an eye if we be see to hurry . ''
Very deliberately , then , do we advance across the sand to where the doctor await u on the other side of the stockade , and as soon a we be within easy speak distance Silver stop .
`` You 'll make a note of this here also , doctor , '' say he , `` and the boy 'll tell you how I save his life , and be depose for it too , and you may lay to that .
Doctor , when a man 's steering a near the wind a me -- play chuck-farthing with the last breath in his body , like -- you would n't think it too much , mayhap , to give him one good word ?
You 'll please bear in mind it 's not my life only now -- it 's that boy 's into the bargain ; and you 'll speak me fair , doctor , and give me a bit o ' hope to go on , for the sake of mercy . ''
Silver be a changed man once he be out there and have his back to his friend and the block house ; his cheek seem to have fall in , his voice tremble ; never be a soul more dead in earnest .
`` Why , John , you 're not afraid ? ''
ask Dr. Livesey .
`` Doctor , I 'm no coward ; no , not I -- not SO much ! ''
and he snap his finger .
`` If I be I would n't say it .
But I 'll own up fairly , I 've the shake upon me for the gallows .
You 're a good man and a true ; I never see a good man !
And you 'll not forget what I do good , not any more than you 'll forget the bad , I know .
And I step aside -- see here -- and leave you and Jim alone .
And you 'll put that down for me too , for it 's a long stretch , be that ! ''
So say , he step back a little way , till he be out of earshot , and there sit down upon a tree-stump and begin to whistle , spin round now and again upon his seat so a to command a sight , sometimes of me and the doctor and sometimes of his unruly ruffian a they go to and fro in the sand between the fire -- which they be busy rekindle -- and the house , from which they bring forth pork and bread to make the breakfast .
`` So , Jim , '' say the doctor sadly , `` here you be .
As you have brew , so shall you drink , my boy .
Heaven know , I can not find it in my heart to blame you , but this much I will say , be it kind or unkind : when Captain Smollett be well , you dare not have go off ; and when he be ill and could n't help it , by George , it be downright cowardly ! ''
I will own that I here begin to weep .
`` Doctor , '' I say , `` you might spare me .
I have blame myself enough ; my life 's forfeit anyway , and I should have be dead by now if Silver have n't stand for me ; and doctor , believe this , I can die -- and I dare say I deserve it -- but what I fear be torture .
If they come to torture me -- '' `` Jim , '' the doctor interrupt , and his voice be quite change , `` Jim , I ca n't have this .
Whip over , and we 'll run for it . ''
`` Doctor , '' say I , `` I pass my word . ''
`` I know , I know , '' he cry .
`` We ca n't help that , Jim , now .
I 'll take it on my shoulder , holus bolus , blame and shame , my boy ; but stay here , I can not let you .
Jump !
One jump , and you 're out , and we 'll run for it like antelope . ''
`` No , '' I reply ; `` you know right well you would n't do the thing yourself -- neither you nor squire nor captain ; and no more will I . Silver trust me ; I pass my word , and back I go .
But , doctor , you do not let me finish .
If they come to torture me , I might let slip a word of where the ship be , for I get the ship , part by luck and part by risk , and she lie in North Inlet , on the southern beach , and just below high water .
At half tide she must be high and dry . ''
`` The ship ! ''
exclaim the doctor .
Rapidly I describe to him my adventure , and he hear me out in silence .
`` There be a kind of fate in this , '' he observe when I have do .
`` Every step , it 's you that save our life ; and do you suppose by any chance that we be go to let you lose yours ?
That would be a poor return , my boy .
You find out the plot ; you find Ben Gunn -- the best deed that ever you do , or will do , though you live to ninety .
Oh , by Jupiter , and talk of Ben Gunn !
Why , this be the mischief in person .
Silver ! ''
he cry .
`` Silver !
I 'll give you a piece of advice , '' he continue a the cook draw near again ; `` do n't you be in any great hurry after that treasure . ''
`` Why , sir , I do my possible , which that ai n't , '' say Silver .
`` I can only , ask your pardon , save my life and the boy 's by seek for that treasure ; and you may lay to that . ''
`` Well , Silver , '' reply the doctor , `` if that be so , I 'll go one step far : look out for squall when you find it . ''
`` Sir , '' say Silver , `` a between man and man , that 's too much and too little .
What you 're after , why you leave the block house , why you give me that there chart , I do n't know , now , do I ?
And yet I do your bidding with my eye shut and never a word of hope !
But no , this here 's too much .
If you wo n't tell me what you mean plain out , just say so and I 'll leave the helm . ''
`` No , '' say the doctor musingly ; `` I 've no right to say more ; it 's not my secret , you see , Silver , or , I give you my word , I 'd tell it you .
But I 'll go a far with you a I dare go , and a step beyond , for I 'll have my wig sort by the captain or I 'm mistaken !
And first , I 'll give you a bit of hope ; Silver , if we both get alive out of this wolf-trap , I 'll do my best to save you , short of perjury . ''
Silver 's face be radiant .
`` You could n't say more , I 'm sure , sir , not if you be my mother , '' he cry .
`` Well , that 's my first concession , '' add the doctor .
`` My second be a piece of advice : keep the boy close beside you , and when you need help , halloo .
I 'm off to seek it for you , and that itself will show you if I speak at random .
Good-bye , Jim . ''
And Dr. Livesey shake hand with me through the stockade , nod to Silver , and set off at a brisk pace into the wood .
31 The Treasure-hunt -- Flint 's Pointer `` JIM , '' say Silver when we be alone , `` if I save your life , you save mine ; and I 'll not forget it .
I see the doctor wave you to run for it -- with the tail of my eye , I do ; and I see you say no , as plain a hearing .
Jim , that 's one to you .
This be the first glint of hope I have since the attack fail , and I owe it you .
And now , Jim , we 're to go in for this here treasure-hunting , with sealed order too , and I do n't like it ; and you and me must stick close , back to back like , and we 'll save our neck in spite o ' fate and fortune . ''
Just then a man hail u from the fire that breakfast be ready , and we be soon seat here and there about the sand over biscuit and fry junk .
They have light a fire fit to roast an ox , and it be now grow so hot that they could only approach it from the windward , and even there not without precaution .
In the same wasteful spirit , they have cook , I suppose , three time more than we could eat ; and one of them , with an empty laugh , throw what be leave into the fire , which blaze and roar again over this unusual fuel .
I never in my life saw men so careless of the morrow ; hand to mouth be the only word that can describe their way of do ; and what with waste food and sleeping sentry , though they be bold enough for a brush and be do with it , I could see their entire unfitness for anything like a prolonged campaign .
Even Silver , eat away , with Captain Flint upon his shoulder , have not a word of blame for their recklessness .
And this the more surprised me , for I think he have never show himself so cunning a he do then .
`` Aye , mat , '' say he , `` it 's lucky you have Barbecue to think for you with this here head .
I get what I want , I do .
Sure enough , they have the ship .
Where they have it , I do n't know yet ; but once we hit the treasure , we 'll have to jump about and find out .
And then , mate , u that have the boat , I reckon , have the upper hand . ''
Thus he keep run on , with his mouth full of the hot bacon ; thus he restore their hope and confidence , and , I more than suspect , repair his own at the same time .
`` As for hostage , '' he continue , `` that 's his last talk , I guess , with them he love so dear .
I 've get my piece o ' news , and thanky to him for that ; but it 's over and do .
I 'll take him in a line when we go treasure-hunting , for we 'll keep him like so much gold , in case of accident , you mark , and in the meantime .
Once we get the ship and treasure both and off to sea like jolly companion , why then we 'll talk Mr. Hawkins over , we will , and we 'll give him his share , to be sure , for all his kindness . ''
It be no wonder the men be in a good humour now .
For my part , I be horribly cast down .
Should the scheme he have now sketch prove feasible , Silver , already doubly a traitor , would not hesitate to adopt it .
He have still a foot in either camp , and there be no doubt he would prefer wealth and freedom with the pirate to a bare escape from hang , which be the best he have to hope on our side .
Nay , and even if thing so fell out that he be force to keep his faith with Dr. Livesey , even then what danger lay before u !
What a moment that would be when the suspicion of his follower turn to certainty and he and I should have to fight for dear life -- he a cripple and I a boy -- against five strong and active seaman !
Add to this double apprehension the mystery that still hang over the behaviour of my friend , their unexplained desertion of the stockade , their inexplicable cession of the chart , or hard still to understand , the doctor 's last warning to Silver , `` Look out for squall when you find it , '' and you will readily believe how little taste I find in my breakfast and with how uneasy a heart I set forth behind my captor on the quest for treasure .
We make a curious figure , have anyone be there to see u -- all in soiled sailor clothes and all but me arm to the teeth .
Silver have two gun sling about him -- one before and one behind -- besides the great cutlas at his waist and a pistol in each pocket of his square-tailed coat .
To complete his strange appearance , Captain Flint sit perch upon his shoulder and gabble odds and end of purposeless sea-talk .
I have a line about my waist and follow obediently after the sea-cook , who hold the loose end of the rope , now in his free hand , now between his powerful teeth .
For all the world , I be lead like a dance bear .
The other men be variously burthen , some carry pick and shovel -- for that have be the very first necessary they bring ashore from the HISPANIOLA -- others lade with pork , bread , and brandy for the midday meal .
All the store , I observe , come from our stock , and I could see the truth of Silver 's word the night before .
Had he not strike a bargain with the doctor , he and his mutineer , desert by the ship , must have be drive to subsist on clear water and the proceeds of their hunting .
Water would have be little to their taste ; a sailor be not usually a good shot ; and besides all that , when they be so short of eatable , it be not likely they would be very flush of powder .
Well , thus equip , we all set out -- even the fellow with the broken head , who should certainly have keep in shadow -- and straggle , one after another , to the beach , where the two gig await u .
Even these bore trace of the drunken folly of the pirate , one in a broken thwart , and both in their muddy and unbailed condition .
Both be to be carry along with u for the sake of safety ; and so , with our number divide between them , we set forth upon the bosom of the anchorage .
As we pull over , there be some discussion on the chart .
The red cross be , of course , far too large to be a guide ; and the term of the note on the back , a you will hear , admit of some ambiguity .
They run , the reader may remember , thus : Tall tree , Spy-glass shoulder , bear a point to the N. of N.N.E . Skeleton Island E.S.E . and by E. Ten foot .
A tall tree be thus the principal mark .
Now , right before u the anchorage be bound by a plateau from two to three hundred foot high , adjoin on the north the sloping southern shoulder of the Spy-glass and rise again towards the south into the rough , cliffy eminence call the Mizzen-mast Hill .
The top of the plateau be dot thickly with pine-trees of vary height .
Every here and there , one of a different specie rise forty or fifty foot clear above it neighbour , and which of these be the particular `` tall tree '' of Captain Flint could only be decide on the spot , and by the reading of the compass .
Yet , although that be the case , every man on board the boat have pick a favourite of his own ere we be half-way over , Long John alone shrug his shoulder and bid them wait till they be there .
We pull easily , by Silver 's direction , not to weary the hand prematurely , and after quite a long passage , land at the mouth of the second river -- that which run down a woody cleft of the Spy-glass .
Thence , bend to our left , we begin to ascend the slope towards the plateau .
At the first outset , heavy , miry ground and a mat , marish vegetation greatly delay our progress ; but by little and little the hill begin to steepen and become stony under foot , and the wood to change it character and to grow in a more open order .
It be , indeed , a most pleasant portion of the island that we be now approach .
A heavy-scented broom and many flowering shrub have almost take the place of grass .
Thickets of green nutmeg-trees be dot here and there with the red column and the broad shadow of the pine ; and the first mingle their spice with the aroma of the others .
The air , besides , be fresh and stirring , and this , under the sheer sunbeam , be a wonderful refreshment to our sens .
The party spread itself abroad , in a fan shape , shout and leap to and fro .
About the centre , and a good way behind the rest , Silver and I follow -- I tether by my rope , he plough , with deep pant , among the slide gravel .
From time to time , indeed , I have to lend him a hand , or he must have miss his footing and fall backward down the hill .
We have thus proceed for about half a mile and be approach the brow of the plateau when the man upon the farthest left begin to cry aloud , a if in terror .
Shout after shout come from him , and the others begin to run in his direction .
`` He ca n't ' a find the treasure , '' say old Morgan , hurry past u from the right , `` for that 's clean a-top . ''
Indeed , a we find when we also reach the spot , it be something very different .
At the foot of a pretty big pine and involve in a green creeper , which have even partly lift some of the small bone , a human skeleton lay , with a few shred of clothing , on the ground .
I believe a chill strike for a moment to every heart .
`` He be a seaman , '' say George Merry , who , bold than the rest , have go up close and be examine the rag of clothing .
`` Leastways , this be good sea-cloth . ''
`` Aye , aye , '' say Silver ; `` like enough ; you would n't look to find a bishop here , I reckon .
But what sort of a way be that for bone to lie ?
` Tai n't in natur ' . ''
Indeed , on a second glance , it seem impossible to fancy that the body be in a natural position .
But for some disarray -LRB- the work , perhaps , of the bird that have feed upon him or of the slow-growing creeper that have gradually envelop his remains -RRB- the man lay perfectly straight -- his foot point in one direction , his hand , raise above his head like a diver 's , point directly in the opposite .
`` I 've take a notion into my old numbskull , '' observe Silver .
`` Here 's the compass ; there 's the tip-top p ` int o ' Skeleton Island , stickin ' out like a tooth .
Just take a bearing , will you , along the line of them bone . ''
It be do .
The body point straight in the direction of the island , and the compass read duly E.S.E . and by E. `` I think so , '' cry the cook ; `` this here be a p ` inter .
Right up there be our line for the Pole Star and the jolly dollar .
But , by thunder !
If it do n't make me cold inside to think of Flint .
This be one of HIS joke , and no mistake .
Him and these six be alone here ; he kill 'em , every man ; and this one he haul here and lay down by compass , shiver my timber !
They 're long bone , and the hair 's be yellow .
Aye , that would be Allardyce .
You mind Allardyce , Tom Morgan ? ''
`` Aye , aye , '' return Morgan ; `` I mind him ; he owe me money , he do , and take my knife ashore with him . ''
`` Speaking of knife , '' say another , `` why do n't we find his 'n lie round ?
Flint war n't the man to pick a seaman 's pocket ; and the bird , I guess , would leave it be . ''
`` By the power , and that 's true ! ''
cry Silver .
`` There ai n't a thing left here , '' say Merry , still feel round among the bone ; `` not a copper doit nor a baccy box .
It do n't look nat ` ral to me . ''
`` No , by gum , it do n't , '' agree Silver ; `` not nat ` ral , nor not nice , say you .
Great gun !
Messmates , but if Flint be live , this would be a hot spot for you and me .
Six they be , and six be we ; and bone be what they be now . ''
`` I saw him dead with these here deadlight , '' say Morgan .
`` Billy take me in .
There he lay , with penny-pieces on his eye . ''
`` Dead -- aye , sure enough he 's dead and go below , '' say the fellow with the bandage ; `` but if ever sperrit walk , it would be Flint 's .
Dear heart , but he die bad , do Flint ! ''
`` Aye , that he do , '' observe another ; `` now he rag , and now he holler for the rum , and now he sing .
` Fifteen Men ' be his only song , mat ; and I tell you true , I never rightly like to hear it since .
It be main hot , and the windy be open , and I hear that old song comin ' out as clear a clear -- and the death-haul on the man already . ''
`` Come , come , '' say Silver ; `` stow this talk .
He 's dead , and he do n't walk , that I know ; leastways , he wo n't walk by day , and you may lay to that .
Care kill a cat .
Fetch ahead for the doubloon . ''
We start , certainly ; but in spite of the hot sun and the staring daylight , the pirate no longer run separate and shout through the wood , but keep side by side and spoke with bated breath .
The terror of the dead buccaneer have fall on their spirit .
32 The Treasure-hunt -- The Voice Among the Trees PARTLY from the damp influence of this alarm , partly to rest Silver and the sick folk , the whole party sit down as soon a they have gain the brow of the ascent .
The plateau be somewhat tilt towards the west , this spot on which we have pause command a wide prospect on either hand .
Before u , over the tree-tops , we behold the Cape of the Woods fringe with surf ; behind , we not only look down upon the anchorage and Skeleton Island , but saw -- clear across the spit and the eastern lowland -- a great field of open sea upon the east .
Sheer above u rise the Spyglass , here dot with single pine , there black with precipice .
There be no sound but that of the distant breaker , mount from all round , and the chirp of countless insect in the brush .
Not a man , not a sail , upon the sea ; the very largeness of the view increase the sense of solitude .
Silver , a he sit , take certain bearing with his compass .
`` There be three ` tall tree ' '' say he , `` about in the right line from Skeleton Island .
` Spy-glass shoulder , ' I take it , mean that low p ` int there .
It 's child 's play to find the stuff now .
I 've half a mind to dine first . ''
`` I do n't feel sharp , '' growl Morgan .
`` Thinkin ' o ' Flint -- I think it be -- a do me . ''
`` Ah , well , my son , you praise your star he 's dead , '' say Silver .
`` He be an ugly devil , '' cry a third pirate with a shudder ; `` that blue in the face too ! ''
`` That be how the rum take him , '' add Merry .
`` Blue !
Well , I reckon he be blue .
That 's a true word . ''
Ever since they have find the skeleton and get upon this train of thought , they have speak lower and low , and they have almost get to whisper by now , so that the sound of their talk hardly interrupt the silence of the wood .
All of a sudden , out of the middle of the tree in front of u , a thin , high , trembling voice strike up the well-known air and word : `` Fifteen men on the dead man 's chest -- Yo-ho-ho , and a bottle of rum ! ''
I never have see men more dreadfully affect than the pirate .
The colour go from their six face like enchantment ; some leap to their foot , some claw hold of others ; Morgan grovel on the ground .
`` It 's Flint , by -- ! ''
cry Merry .
The song have stop as suddenly a it begin -- break off , you would have say , in the middle of a note , a though someone have lay his hand upon the singer 's mouth .
Coming through the clear , sunny atmosphere among the green tree-tops , I think it have sound airily and sweetly ; and the effect on my companion be the stranger .
`` Come , '' say Silver , struggle with his ashen lips to get the word out ; `` this wo n't do .
Stand by to go about .
This be a rum start , and I ca n't name the voice , but it 's someone skylarking -- someone that 's flesh and blood , and you may lay to that . ''
His courage have come back a he speak , and some of the colour to his face along with it .
Already the others have begin to lend an ear to this encouragement and be come a little to themselves , when the same voice break out again -- not this time singing , but in a faint distant hail that echoed yet fainter among the cleft of the Spy-glass .
`` Darby M'Graw , '' it wail -- for that be the word that best describe the sound -- `` Darby M'Graw !
Darby M'Graw ! ''
again and again and again ; and then rise a little high , and with an oath that I leave out : `` Fetch aft the rum , Darby ! ''
The buccaneer remain root to the ground , their eye start from their head .
Long after the voice have die away they still star in silence , dreadfully , before them .
`` That fix it ! ''
gasp one .
`` Let 's go . ''
`` They be his last word , '' moan Morgan , `` his last word above board . ''
Dick have his Bible out and be pray volubly .
He have be well bring up , have Dick , before he come to sea and fell among bad companion .
Still Silver be unconquered .
I could hear his teeth rattle in his head , but he have not yet surrender .
`` Nobody in this here island ever hear of Darby , '' he mutter ; `` not one but u that 's here . ''
And then , make a great effort : `` Shipmates , '' he cry , `` I 'm here to get that stuff , and I 'll not be beat by man or devil .
I never be fear of Flint in his life , and , by the power , I 'll face him dead .
There 's seven hundred thousand pound not a quarter of a mile from here .
When do ever a gentleman o ' fortune show his stern to that much dollar for a boozy old seaman with a blue mug -- and him dead too ? ''
But there be no sign of reawaken courage in his follower , rather , indeed , of grow terror at the irreverence of his word .
`` Belay there , John ! ''
say Merry .
`` Do n't you cross a sperrit . ''
And the rest be all too terrify to reply .
They would have run away severally have they dare ; but fear keep them together , and keep them close by John , a if his daring help them .
He , on his part , have pretty well fight his weakness down .
`` Sperrit ?
Well , maybe , '' he say .
`` But there 's one thing not clear to me .
There be an echo .
Now , no man ever see a sperrit with a shadow ; well then , what 's he do with an echo to him , I should like to know ?
That ai n't in natur ' , surely ? ''
This argument seem weak enough to me .
But you can never tell what will affect the superstitious , and to my wonder , George Merry be greatly relieve .
`` Well , that 's so , '' he say .
`` You 've a head upon your shoulder , John , and no mistake .
` Bout ship , mat !
This here crew be on a wrong tack , I do believe .
And come to think on it , it be like Flint 's voice , I grant you , but not just so clear-away like it , after all .
It be liker somebody else 's voice now -- it be liker -- '' `` By the power , Ben Gunn ! ''
roar Silver .
`` Aye , and so it be , '' cry Morgan , spring on his knee .
`` Ben Gunn it be ! ''
`` It do n't make much odds , do it , now ? ''
ask Dick .
`` Ben Gunn 's not here in the body any more 'n Flint . ''
But the old hand greet this remark with scorn .
`` Why , nobody mind Ben Gunn , '' cry Merry ; `` dead or alive , nobody mind him . ''
It be extraordinary how their spirit have return and how the natural colour have revive in their face .
Soon they be chat together , with interval of listening ; and not long after , hear no further sound , they shoulder the tool and set forth again , Merry walk first with Silver 's compass to keep them on the right line with Skeleton Island .
He have say the truth : dead or alive , nobody mind Ben Gunn .
Dick alone still hold his Bible , and look around him a he go , with fearful glance ; but he find no sympathy , and Silver even joke him on his precaution .
`` I tell you , '' say he -- `` I tell you you have sp ` iled your Bible .
If it ai n't no good to swear by , what do you suppose a sperrit would give for it ?
Not that ! ''
and he snap his big finger , halt a moment on his crutch .
But Dick be not to be comfort ; indeed , it be soon plain to me that the lad be fall sick ; hasten by heat , exhaustion , and the shock of his alarm , the fever , predict by Dr. Livesey , be evidently grow swiftly high .
It be fine open walking here , upon the summit ; our way lay a little downhill , for , a I have say , the plateau tilt towards the west .
The pine , great and small , grow wide apart ; and even between the clump of nutmeg and azalea , wide open space bake in the hot sunshine .
Striking , a we do , pretty near north-west across the island , we draw , on the one hand , ever near under the shoulder of the Spy-glass , and on the other , look ever wide over that western bay where I have once toss and tremble in the coracle .
The first of the tall tree be reach , and by the bearing prove the wrong one .
So with the second .
The third rise nearly two hundred foot into the air above a clump of underwood -- a giant of a vegetable , with a red column as big a a cottage , and a wide shadow around in which a company could have manoeuvre .
It be conspicuous far to sea both on the east and west and might have be enter a a sailing mark upon the chart .
But it be not it size that now impressed my companion ; it be the knowledge that seven hundred thousand pound in gold lay somewhere bury below it spread shadow .
The thought of the money , a they draw nearer , swallow up their previous terror .
Their eye burn in their head ; their foot grow speedy and lighter ; their whole soul be find up in that fortune , that whole lifetime of extravagance and pleasure , that lay wait there for each of them .
Silver hobble , grunt , on his crutch ; his nostril stand out and quiver ; he curse like a madman when the fly settle on his hot and shiny countenance ; he pluck furiously at the line that hold me to him and from time to time turn his eye upon me with a deadly look .
Certainly he take no pain to hide his thought , and certainly I read them like print .
In the immediate nearness of the gold , all else have be forget : his promise and the doctor 's warning be both thing of the past , and I could not doubt that he hop to seize upon the treasure , find and board the HISPANIOLA under cover of night , cut every honest throat about that island , and sail away a he have at first intend , laden with crime and rich .
Shaken a I be with these alarm , it be hard for me to keep up with the rapid pace of the treasure-hunters .
Now and again I stumble , and it be then that Silver pluck so roughly at the rope and launch at me his murderous glance .
Dick , who have drop behind u and now bring up the rear , be babble to himself both prayer and curse a his fever keep rise .
This also add to my wretchedness , and to crown all , I be haunt by the thought of the tragedy that have once be act on that plateau , when that ungodly buccaneer with the blue face -- he who die at Savannah , singing and shout for drink -- have there , with his own hand , cut down his six accomplice .
This grove that be now so peaceful must then have rung with cry , I think ; and even with the thought I could believe I hear it ring still .
We be now at the margin of the thicket .
`` Huzza , mat , all together ! ''
shout Merry ; and the foremost break into a run .
And suddenly , not ten yard far , we behold them stop .
A low cry arose .
Silver double his pace , dig away with the foot of his crutch like one possess ; and next moment he and I have come also to a dead halt .
Before u be a great excavation , not very recent , for the side have fall in and grass have sprout on the bottom .
In this be the shaft of a pick break in two and the board of several packing-cases strew around .
On one of these board I saw , brand with a hot iron , the name WALRUS -- the name of Flint 's ship .
All be clear to probation .
The CACHE have be find and rifle ; the seven hundred thousand pound be go !
33 The Fall of a Chieftain THERE never be such an overturn in this world .
Each of these six men be a though he have be strike .
But with Silver the blow pass almost instantly .
Every thought of his soul have be set full-stretch , like a racer , on that money ; well , he be bring up , in a single second , dead ; and he keep his head , find his temper , and change his plan before the others have have time to realize the disappointment .
`` Jim , '' he whisper , `` take that , and stand by for trouble . ''
And he pass me a double-barrelled pistol .
At the same time , he begin quietly move northward , and in a few step have put the hollow between u two and the other five .
Then he look at me and nod , as much a to say , `` Here be a narrow corner , '' a , indeed , I think it be .
His look be not quite friendly , and I be so revolt at these constant change that I could not forbear whispering , `` So you 've change side again . ''
There be no time leave for him to answer in .
The buccaneer , with oath and cry , begin to leap , one after another , into the pit and to dig with their finger , throw the board aside a they do so .
Morgan find a piece of gold .
He hold it up with a perfect spout of oath .
It be a two-guinea piece , and it go from hand to hand among them for a quarter of a minute .
`` Two guinea ! ''
roar Merry , shake it at Silver .
`` That 's your seven hundred thousand pound , be it ?
You 're the man for bargain , ai n't you ?
You 're him that never bungle nothing , you wooden-headed lubber ! ''
`` Dig away , boy , '' say Silver with the coolest insolence ; `` you 'll find some pig-nuts and I should n't wonder . ''
`` Pig-nuts ! ''
repeat Merry , in a scream .
`` Mates , do you hear that ?
I tell you now , that man there know it all along .
Look in the face of him and you 'll see it write there . ''
`` Ah , Merry , '' remark Silver , `` stand for cap'n again ?
You 're a push lad , to be sure . ''
But this time everyone be entirely in Merry 's favour .
They begin to scramble out of the excavation , dart furious glance behind them .
One thing I observe , which look well for u : they all get out upon the opposite side from Silver .
Well , there we stand , two on one side , five on the other , the pit between u , and nobody screw up high enough to offer the first blow .
Silver never move ; he watch them , very upright on his crutch , and look as cool a ever I saw him .
He be brave , and no mistake .
At last Merry seem to think a speech might help matter .
`` Mates , '' say he , `` there 's two of them alone there ; one 's the old cripple that bring u all here and blunder u down to this ; the other 's that cub that I mean to have the heart of .
Now , mate -- '' He be raise his arm and his voice , and plainly mean to lead a charge .
But just then -- crack !
crack !
crack !
-- three musket-shots flash out of the thicket .
Merry tumble head foremost into the excavation ; the man with the bandage spin round like a teetotum and fell all his length upon his side , where he lay dead , but still twitch ; and the other three turn and run for it with all their might .
Before you could wink , Long John have fire two barrel of a pistol into the struggle Merry , and a the man roll up his eye at him in the last agony , `` George , '' say he , `` I reckon I settle you . ''
At the same moment , the doctor , Gray , and Ben Gunn join u , with smoke musket , from among the nutmeg-trees .
`` Forward ! ''
cry the doctor .
`` Double quick , my lad .
We must head 'em off the boat . ''
And we set off at a great pace , sometimes plunge through the bush to the chest .
I tell you , but Silver be anxious to keep up with u .
The work that man go through , leap on his crutch till the muscle of his chest be fit to burst , be work no sound man ever equal ; and so think the doctor .
As it be , he be already thirty yard behind u and on the verge of strangle when we reach the brow of the slope .
`` Doctor , '' he hail , `` see there !
No hurry ! ''
Sure enough there be no hurry .
In a more open part of the plateau , we could see the three survivor still run in the same direction a they have start , right for Mizzenmast Hill .
We be already between them and the boat ; and so we four sit down to breathe , while Long John , mop his face , come slowly up with u .
`` Thank ye kindly , doctor , '' say he .
`` You come in in about the nick , I guess , for me and Hawkins .
And so it 's you , Ben Gunn ! ''
he add .
`` Well , you 're a nice one , to be sure . ''
`` I 'm Ben Gunn , I be , '' reply the maroon , wriggle like an eel in his embarrassment .
`` And , '' he add , after a long pause , `` how do , Mr. Silver ?
Pretty well , I thank ye , say you . ''
`` Ben , Ben , '' murmur Silver , `` to think a you 've do me ! ''
The doctor send back Gray for one of the pick-axes desert , in their flight , by the mutineer , and then a we proceed leisurely downhill to where the boat be lie , relate in a few word what have take place .
It be a story that profoundly interested Silver ; and Ben Gunn , the half-idiot maroon , be the hero from begin to end .
Ben , in his long , lonely wander about the island , have find the skeleton -- it be he that have rifle it ; he have find the treasure ; he have dug it up -LRB- it be the haft of his pick-axe that lay break in the excavation -RRB- ; he have carry it on his back , in many weary journey , from the foot of the tall pine to a cave he have on the two-pointed hill at the north-east angle of the island , and there it have lie store in safety since two month before the arrival of the HISPANIOLA .
When the doctor have worm this secret from him on the afternoon of the attack , and when next morning he saw the anchorage desert , he have go to Silver , give him the chart , which be now useless -- give him the store , for Ben Gunn 's cave be well supply with goat ' meat salt by himself -- give anything and everything to get a chance of move in safety from the stockade to the two-pointed hill , there to be clear of malaria and keep a guard upon the money .
`` As for you , Jim , '' he say , `` it go against my heart , but I do what I think best for those who have stand by their duty ; and if you be not one of these , whose fault be it ? ''
That morning , find that I be to be involve in the horrid disappointment he have prepare for the mutineer , he have run all the way to the cave , and leave the squire to guard the captain , have take Gray and the maroon and start , make the diagonal across the island to be at hand beside the pine .
Soon , however , he saw that our party have the start of him ; and Ben Gunn , be fleet of foot , have be dispatch in front to do his best alone .
Then it have occur to him to work upon the superstition of his former shipmate , and he be so far successful that Gray and the doctor have come up and be already ambush before the arrival of the treasure-hunters .
`` Ah , '' say Silver , `` it be fortunate for me that I have Hawkins here .
You would have let old John be cut to bit , and never give it a thought , doctor . ''
`` Not a thought , '' reply Dr. Livesey cheerily .
And by this time we have reach the gig .
The doctor , with the pick-axe , demolish one of them , and then we all get aboard the other and set out to go round by sea for North Inlet .
This be a run of eight or nine mile .
Silver , though he be almost kill already with fatigue , be set to an oar , like the rest of u , and we be soon skim swiftly over a smooth sea .
Soon we pass out of the strait and double the south-east corner of the island , round which , four day ago , we have tow the HISPANIOLA .
As we pass the two-pointed hill , we could see the black mouth of Ben Gunn 's cave and a figure standing by it , lean on a musket .
It be the squire , and we wave a handkerchief and give him three cheer , in which the voice of Silver join as heartily a any .
Three mile far , just inside the mouth of North Inlet , what should we meet but the HISPANIOLA , cruise by herself ?
The last flood have lift her , and have there be much wind or a strong tide current , a in the southern anchorage , we should never have find her more , or find her strand beyond help .
As it be , there be little amiss beyond the wreck of the main-sail .
Another anchor be get ready and drop in a fathom and a half of water .
We all pull round again to Rum Cove , the near point for Ben Gunn 's treasure-house ; and then Gray , single-handed , return with the gig to the HISPANIOLA , where he be to pass the night on guard .
A gentle slope run up from the beach to the entrance of the cave .
At the top , the squire meet u .
To me he be cordial and kind , say nothing of my escapade either in the way of blame or praise .
At Silver 's polite salute he somewhat flush .
`` John Silver , '' he say , `` you 're a prodigious villain and imposter -- a monstrous imposter , sir .
I be told I be not to prosecute you .
Well , then , I will not .
But the dead men , sir , hang about your neck like mill-stones . ''
`` Thank you kindly , sir , '' reply Long John , again salute .
`` I dare you to thank me ! ''
cry the squire .
`` It be a gross dereliction of my duty .
Stand back . ''
And thereupon we all enter the cave .
It be a large , airy place , with a little spring and a pool of clear water , overhung with fern .
The floor be sand .
Before a big fire lay Captain Smollett ; and in a far corner , only duskily flicker over by the blaze , I behold great heap of coin and quadrilateral build of bar of gold .
That be Flint 's treasure that we have come so far to seek and that have cost already the life of seventeen men from the HISPANIOLA .
How many it have cost in the amassing , what blood and sorrow , what good ship scuttle on the deep , what brave men walk the plank blindfold , what shot of cannon , what shame and lie and cruelty , perhaps no man alive could tell .
Yet there be still three upon that island -- Silver , and old Morgan , and Ben Gunn -- who have each take his share in these crime , a each have hop in vain to share in the reward .
`` Come in , Jim , '' say the captain .
`` You 're a good boy in your line , Jim , but I do n't think you and me 'll go to sea again .
You 're too much of the born favourite for me .
Is that you , John Silver ?
What bring you here , man ? ''
`` Come back to my dooty , sir , '' return Silver .
`` Ah ! ''
say the captain , and that be all he say .
What a supper I have of it that night , with all my friend around me ; and what a meal it be , with Ben Gunn 's salt goat and some delicacy and a bottle of old wine from the HISPANIOLA .
Never , I be sure , be people gayer or happier .
And there be Silver , sit back almost out of the firelight , but eat heartily , prompt to spring forward when anything be want , even join quietly in our laughter -- the same bland , polite , obsequious seaman of the voyage out .
34 And Last THE next morning we fell early to work , for the transportation of this great mass of gold near a mile by land to the beach , and thence three mile by boat to the HISPANIOLA , be a considerable task for so small a number of workman .
The three fellow still abroad upon the island do not greatly trouble u ; a single sentry on the shoulder of the hill be sufficient to ensure u against any sudden onslaught , and we think , besides , they have have more than enough of fight .
Therefore the work be push on briskly .
Gray and Ben Gunn come and go with the boat , while the rest during their absence pile treasure on the beach .
Two of the bar , slung in a rope 's end , make a good load for a grown man -- one that he be glad to walk slowly with .
For my part , a I be not much use at carrying , I be keep busy all day in the cave pack the minted money into bread-bags .
It be a strange collection , like Billy Bones 's hoard for the diversity of coinage , but so much large and so much more varied that I think I never have more pleasure than in sort them .
English , French , Spanish , Portuguese , Georges , and Louises , doubloon and double guinea and moidores and sequin , the picture of all the king of Europe for the last hundred year , strange Oriental piece stamp with what look like wisp of string or bit of spider 's web , round piece and square piece , and piece bore through the middle , a if to wear them round your neck -- nearly every variety of money in the world must , I think , have find a place in that collection ; and for number , I be sure they be like autumn leaf , so that my back ache with stooping and my finger with sort them out .
Day after day this work go on ; by every even a fortune have be stow aboard , but there be another fortune wait for the morrow ; and all this time we hear nothing of the three survive mutineer .
At last -- I think it be on the third night -- the doctor and I be stroll on the shoulder of the hill where it overlook the lowland of the isle , when , from out the thick darkness below , the wind bring u a noise between shriek and singing .
It be only a snatch that reach our ear , follow by the former silence .
`` Heaven forgive them , '' say the doctor ; '' 't be the mutineer ! ''
`` All drunk , sir , '' strike in the voice of Silver from behind u .
Silver , I should say , be allow his entire liberty , and in spite of daily rebuff , seem to regard himself once more a quite a privileged and friendly dependent .
Indeed , it be remarkable how well he bore these slight and with what unwearying politeness he keep on try to ingratiate himself with all .
Yet , I think , none treat him good than a dog , unless it be Ben Gunn , who be still terribly afraid of his old quartermaster , or myself , who have really something to thank him for ; although for that matter , I suppose , I have reason to think even bad of him than anybody else , for I have see him meditate a fresh treachery upon the plateau .
Accordingly , it be pretty gruffly that the doctor answer him .
`` Drunk or raving , '' say he .
`` Right you be , sir , '' reply Silver ; `` and precious little odds which , to you and me . ''
`` I suppose you would hardly ask me to call you a humane man , '' return the doctor with a sneer , `` and so my feeling may surprise you , Master Silver .
But if I be sure they be rave -- a I be morally certain one , at least , of them be down with fever -- I should leave this camp , and at whatever risk to my own carcass , take them the assistance of my skill . ''
`` Ask your pardon , sir , you would be very wrong , '' quoth Silver .
`` You would lose your precious life , and you may lay to that .
I 'm on your side now , hand and glove ; and I should n't wish for to see the party weaken , let alone yourself , see a I know what I owe you .
But these men down there , they could n't keep their word -- no , not suppose they wish to ; and what 's more , they could n't believe a you could . ''
`` No , '' say the doctor .
`` You 're the man to keep your word , we know that . ''
Well , that be about the last news we have of the three pirate .
Only once we hear a gunshot a great way off and suppose them to be hunt .
A council be hold , and it be decide that we must desert them on the island -- to the huge glee , I must say , of Ben Gunn , and with the strong approval of Gray .
We leave a good stock of powder and shot , the bulk of the salt goat , a few medicine , and some other necessary , tool , clothing , a spare sail , a fathom or two of rope , and by the particular desire of the doctor , a handsome present of tobacco .
That be about our last do on the island .
Before that , we have get the treasure stow and have ship enough water and the remainder of the goat meat in case of any distress ; and at last , one fine morning , we weigh anchor , which be about all that we could manage , and stand out of North Inlet , the same colour fly that the captain have fly and fight under at the palisade .
The three fellow must have be watch u close than we think for , a we soon have prove .
For come through the narrow , we have to lie very near the southern point , and there we saw all three of them kneel together on a spit of sand , with their arm raise in supplication .
It go to all our heart , I think , to leave them in that wretched state ; but we could not risk another mutiny ; and to take them home for the gibbet would have be a cruel sort of kindness .
The doctor hail them and tell them of the store we have leave , and where they be to find them .
But they continue to call u by name and appeal to u , for God 's sake , to be merciful and not leave them to die in such a place .
At last , see the ship still bore on her course and be now swiftly draw out of earshot , one of them -- I know not which it be -- leapt to his foot with a hoarse cry , whip his musket to his shoulder , and send a shot whistling over Silver 's head and through the main-sail .
After that , we keep under cover of the bulwark , and when next I look out they have disappear from the spit , and the spit itself have almost melt out of sight in the grow distance .
That be , at least , the end of that ; and before noon , to my inexpressible joy , the high rock of Treasure Island have sink into the blue round of sea .
We be so short of men that everyone on board have to bear a hand -- only the captain lie on a mattress in the stern and give his order , for though greatly recover he be still in want of quiet .
We lay her head for the near port in Spanish America , for we could not risk the voyage home without fresh hand ; and a it be , what with baffle wind and a couple of fresh gale , we be all wear out before we reach it .
It be just at sundown when we cast anchor in a most beautiful land-locked gulf , and be immediately surround by shore boat full of Negroes and Mexican Indians and half-bloods sell fruit and vegetable and offer to dive for bit of money .
The sight of so many good-humoured face -LRB- especially the black -RRB- , the taste of the tropical fruit , and above all the light that begin to shine in the town make a most charming contrast to our dark and bloody sojourn on the island ; and the doctor and the squire , take me along with them , go ashore to pass the early part of the night .
Here they meet the captain of an English man-of-war , fell in talk with him , go on board his ship , and , in short , have so agreeable a time that day be break when we come alongside the HISPANIOLA .
Ben Gunn be on deck alone , and as soon a we come on board he begin , with wonderful contortion , to make u a confession .
Silver be go .
The maroon have connive at his escape in a shore boat some hour ago , and he now assure u he have only do so to preserve our life , which would certainly have be forfeit if `` that man with the one leg have stay aboard . ''
But this be not all .
The sea-cook have not go empty-handed .
He have cut through a bulkhead unobserved and have remove one of the sack of coin , worth perhaps three or four hundred guinea , to help him on his further wandering .
I think we be all please to be so cheaply quit of him .
Well , to make a long story short , we get a few hand on board , make a good cruise home , and the HISPANIOLA reach Bristol just a Mr. Blandly be begin to think of fit out her consort .
Five men only of those who have sail return with her .
`` Drink and the devil have do for the rest , '' with a vengeance , although , to be sure , we be not quite in so bad a case a that other ship they sing about : With one man of her crew alive , What put to sea with seventy-five .
All of u have an ample share of the treasure and use it wisely or foolishly , accord to our nature .
Captain Smollett be now retire from the sea .
Gray not only save his money , but be suddenly smit with the desire to rise , also study his profession , and he be now mate and part owner of a fine full-rigged ship , marry besides , and the father of a family .
As for Ben Gunn , he get a thousand pound , which he spend or lose in three week , or to be more exact , in nineteen day , for he be back beg on the twentieth .
Then he be give a lodge to keep , exactly a he have fear upon the island ; and he still live , a great favourite , though something of a butt , with the country boys , and a notable singer in church on Sundays and saint ' day .
Of Silver we have hear no more .
That formidable seafaring man with one leg have at last go clean out of my life ; but I dare say he meet his old Negress , and perhaps still live in comfort with her and Captain Flint .
It be to be hop so , I suppose , for his chance of comfort in another world be very small .
The bar silver and the arm still lie , for all that I know , where Flint bury them ; and certainly they shall lie there for me .
Oxen and wain-ropes would not bring me back again to that accursed island ; and the bad dream that ever I have be when I hear the surf boom about it coast or start upright in bed with the sharp voice of Captain Flint still ring in my ear : `` Pieces of eight !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___Just_So_Stories.txt.out
HOW THE WHALE GOT HIS THROAT IN the sea , once upon a time , O my Best Beloved , there be a Whale , and he eat fish .
He eat the starfish and the garfish , and the crab and the dab , and the plaice and the dace , and the skate and his mate , and the mackereel and the pickereel , and the really truly twirly-whirly eel .
All the fish he could find in all the sea he eat with his mouth -- so !
Till at last there be only one small fish leave in all the sea , and he be a small ` Stute Fish , and he swim a little behind the Whale 's right ear , so a to be out of harm 's way .
Then the Whale stand up on his tail and say , ` I 'm hungry . '
And the small ` Stute Fish say in a small ` stute voice , ` Noble and generous Cetacean , have you ever taste Man ? '
` No , ' say the Whale .
` What be it like ? '
` Nice , ' say the small ` Stute Fish .
` Nice but nubbly . '
` Then fetch me some , ' say the Whale , and he make the sea froth up with his tail .
` One at a time be enough , ' say the ` Stute Fish .
` If you swim to latitude Fifty North , longitude Forty West -LRB- that be magic -RRB- , you will find , sit on a raft , in the middle of the sea , with nothing on but a pair of blue canvas breech , a pair of suspender -LRB- you must not forget the suspender , Best Beloved -RRB- , and a jack-knife , one ship-wrecked Mariner , who , it be only fair to tell you , be a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity . '
So the Whale swam and swam to latitude Fifty North , longitude Forty West , as fast a he could swim , and on a raft , in the middle of the sea , with nothing to wear except a pair of blue canvas breech , a pair of suspender -LRB- you must particularly remember the suspender , Best Beloved -RRB- , and a jack-knife , he find one single , solitary shipwreck Mariner , trail his toe in the water .
-LRB- He have his mummy 's leave to paddle , or else he would never have do it , because he be a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity . -RRB-
Then the Whale open his mouth back and back and back till it nearly touch his tail , and he swallow the shipwrecked Mariner , and the raft he be sit on , and his blue canvas breech , and the suspender -LRB- which you must not forget -RRB- , and the jack-knife -- He swallow them all down into his warm , dark , inside cup-boards , and then he smack his lip -- so , and turn round three time on his tail .
But as soon a the Mariner , who be a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity , find himself truly inside the Whale 's warm , dark , inside cup-boards , he stump and he jump and he thump and he bump , and he prance and he dance , and he bang and he clang , and he hit and he bit , and he leap and he creep , and he prowl and he howl , and he hop and he drop , and he cry and he sigh , and he crawl and he bawl , and he step and he lepped , and he dance hornpipe where he should n't , and the Whale felt most unhappy indeed .
-LRB- Have you forget the suspender ? -RRB-
So he say to the ` Stute Fish , ` This man be very nubbly , and besides he be make me hiccough .
What shall I do ? '
` Tell him to come out , ' say the ` Stute Fish .
So the Whale call down his own throat to the shipwrecked Mariner , ` Come out and behave yourself .
I 've get the hiccough . '
` Nay , nay ! '
say the Mariner .
` Not so , but far otherwise .
Take me to my natal-shore and the white-cliffs-of-Albion , and I 'll think about it . '
And he begin to dance more than ever .
` You have good take him home , ' say the ` Stute Fish to the Whale . '
I ought to have warn you that he be a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity . '
So the Whale swam and swam and swam , with both flipper and his tail , as hard a he could for the hiccough ; and at last he saw the Mariner 's natal-shore and the white-cliffs-of-Albion , and he rush half-way up the beach , and open his mouth wide and wide and wide , and say , ` Change here for Winchester , Ashuelot , Nashua , Keene , and station on the Fitch_burg Road ; ' and just a he say ` Fitch ' the Mariner walk out of his mouth .
But while the Whale have be swim , the Mariner , who be indeed a person of infinite-resource-and-sagacity , have take his jack-knife and cut up the raft into a little square grate all run criss-cross , and he have tie it firm with his suspender -LRB- now , you know why you be not to forget the suspender ! -RRB-
, and he drag that grate good and tight into the Whale 's throat , and there it stick !
Then he recite the following Sloka , which , a you have not hear it , I will now proceed to relate -- By mean of a grating I have stop your ating .
For the Mariner he be also an Hi-ber-ni-an .
And he step out on the shingle , and go home to his mother , who have give him leave to trail his toe in the water ; and he marry and live happily ever afterward .
So do the Whale .
But from that day on , the grating in his throat , which he could neither cough up nor swallow down , prevent him eat anything except very , very small fish ; and that be the reason why whale nowadays never eat men or boy or little girl .
The small ` Stute Fish go and hide himself in the mud under the Door-sills of the Equator .
He be afraid that the Whale might be angry with him .
The Sailor take the jack-knife home .
He be wear the blue canvas breech when he walk out on the shingle .
The suspender be leave behind , you see , to tie the grating with ; and that be the end of that tale .
WHEN the cabin port-holes be dark and green Because of the sea outside ; When the ship go wop -LRB- with a wiggle between -RRB- And the steward fall into the soup-tureen , And the trunk begin to slide ; When Nursey lie on the floor in a heap , And Mummy tell you to let her sleep , And you be n't wake or wash or dress , Why , then you will know -LRB- if you have n't guess -RRB- You 're ` Fifty North and Forty West ! '
HOW THE CAMEL GOT HIS HUMP NOW this be the next tale , and it tell how the Camel get his big hump .
In the beginning of year , when the world be so new and all , and the Animals be just begin to work for Man , there be a Camel , and he live in the middle of a Howling Desert because he do not want to work ; and besides , he be a Howler himself .
So he eat stick and thorn and tamarisk and milkweed and prickle , most ` scruciating idle ; and when anybody speak to him he say ` Humph ! '
Just ` Humph ! '
and no more .
Presently the Horse come to him on Monday morning , with a saddle on his back and a bit in his mouth , and say , ` Camel , O Camel , come out and trot like the rest of u . '
` Humph ! '
say the Camel ; and the Horse go away and tell the Man .
Presently the Dog come to him , with a stick in his mouth , and say , ` Camel , O Camel , come and fetch and carry like the rest of u . '
` Humph ! '
say the Camel ; and the Dog go away and tell the Man .
Presently the Ox come to him , with the yoke on his neck and say , ` Camel , O Camel , come and plough like the rest of u . '
` Humph ! '
say the Camel ; and the Ox go away and tell the Man .
At the end of the day the Man call the Horse and the Dog and the Ox together , and say , ` Three , O Three , I 'm very sorry for you -LRB- with the world so new-and-all -RRB- ; but that Humph-thing in the Desert ca n't work , or he would have be here by now , so I be go to leave him alone , and you must work double-time to make up for it . '
That make the Three very angry -LRB- with the world so new-and-all -RRB- , and they hold a palaver , and an indaba , and a punchayet , and a pow-wow on the edge of the Desert ; and the Camel come chew on milkweed most ` scruciating idle , and laugh at them .
Then he say ` Humph ! '
and go away again .
Presently there come along the Djinn in charge of All Deserts , roll in a cloud of dust -LRB- Djinns always travel that way because it be Magic -RRB- , and he stop to palaver and pow-pow with the Three .
` Djinn of All Deserts , ' say the Horse , ` be it right for any one to be idle , with the world so new-and-all ? '
` Certainly not , ' say the Djinn .
` Well , ' say the Horse , ` there 's a thing in the middle of your Howling Desert -LRB- and he 's a Howler himself -RRB- with a long neck and long leg , and he have n't do a stroke of work since Monday morning .
He wo n't trot . '
` Whew ! '
say the Djinn , whistle , ` that 's my Camel , for all the gold in Arabia !
What do he say about it ? '
` He say `` Humph ! '' '
say the Dog ; ` and he wo n't fetch and carry . '
` Does he say anything else ? '
` Only `` Humph ! ''
; and he wo n't plough , ' say the Ox .
` Very good , ' say the Djinn .
` I 'll humph him if you will kindly wait a minute . '
The Djinn roll himself up in his dust-cloak , and take a bearing across the desert , and find the Camel most ` scruciatingly idle , look at his own reflection in a pool of water .
` My long and bubble friend , ' say the Djinn , ` what 's this I hear of your do no work , with the world so new-and-all ? '
` Humph ! '
say the Camel .
The Djinn sit down , with his chin in his hand , and begin to think a Great Magic , while the Camel look at his own reflection in the pool of water .
` You 've give the Three extra work ever since Monday morning , all on account of your ` scruciating idleness , ' say the Djinn ; and he go on thinking Magics , with his chin in his hand .
` Humph ! '
say the Camel . '
I should n't say that again if I be you , ' say the Djinn ; you might say it once too often .
Bubbles , I want you to work . '
And the Camel say ` Humph ! '
again ; but no sooner have he say it than he saw his back , that he be so proud of , puff up and puff up into a great big lolloping humph .
` Do you see that ? '
say the Djinn .
` That 's your very own humph that you 've bring upon your very own self by not work .
To-day be Thursday , and you 've do no work since Monday , when the work begin .
Now you be go to work . '
` How can I , ' say the Camel , ` with this humph on my back ? '
` That 's make a-purpose , ' say the Djinn , ` all because you miss those three day .
You will be able to work now for three day without eating , because you can live on your humph ; and do n't you ever say I never do anything for you .
Come out of the Desert and go to the Three , and behave .
Humph yourself ! '
And the Camel humphed himself , humph and all , and go away to join the Three .
And from that day to this the Camel always wear a humph -LRB- we call it ` hump ' now , not to hurt his feeling -RRB- ; but he have never yet catch up with the three day that he miss at the beginning of the world , and he have never yet learn how to behave .
THE Camel 's hump be an ugly lump Which well you may see at the Zoo ; But ugly yet be the hump we get From have too little to do .
Kiddies and grown-ups too-oo-oo , If we have n't enough to do-oo-oo , We get the hump -- Cameelious hump -- The hump that be black and blue !
We climb out of bed with a frouzly head And a snarly-yarly voice .
We shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl At our bath and our boot and our toy ; And there ought to be a corner for me -LRB- And I know there be one for you -RRB- When we get the hump -- Cameelious hump -- The hump that be black and blue !
The cure for this ill be not to sit still , Or frowst with a book by the fire ; But to take a large hoe and a shovel also , And dig till you gently perspire ; And then you will find that the sun and the wind .
And the Djinn of the Garden too , Have lift the hump -- The horrible hump -- The hump that be black and blue !
I get it as well a you-oo-oo -- If I have n't enough to do-oo-oo -- We all get hump -- Cameelious hump -- Kiddies and grown-ups too !
HOW THE RHINOCEROS GOT HIS SKIN ONCE upon a time , on an uninhabited island on the shore of the Red Sea , there live a Parsee from whose hat the ray of the sun be reflect in more-than-oriental splendour .
And the Parsee live by the Red Sea with nothing but his hat and his knife and a cooking-stove of the kind that you must particularly never touch .
And one day he take flour and water and currant and plum and sugar and thing , and make himself one cake which be two foot across and three foot thick .
It be indeed a Superior Comestible -LRB- that 's magic -RRB- , and he put it on stove because he be allow to cook on the stove , and he bake it and he bake it till it be all do brown and smelt most sentimental .
But just a he be go to eat it there come down to the beach from the Altogether Uninhabited Interior one Rhinoceros with a horn on his nose , two piggy eye , and few manner .
In those day the Rhinoceros 's skin fit him quite tight .
There be no wrinkle in it anywhere .
He look exactly like a Noah 's Ark Rhinoceros , but of course much big .
All the same , he have no manner then , and he have no manner now , and he never will have any manner .
He say , ` How ! '
and the Parsee leave that cake and climb to the top of a palm tree with nothing on but his hat , from which the ray of the sun be always reflect in more-than-oriental splendour .
And the Rhinoceros upset the oil-stove with his nose , and the cake roll on the sand , and he spike that cake on the horn of his nose , and he eat it , and he go away , wave his tail , to the desolate and Exclusively Uninhabited Interior which abut on the island of Mazanderan , Socotra , and Promontories of the Larger Equinox .
Then the Parsee come down from his palm-tree and put the stove on it leg and recite the following Sloka , which , a you have not hear , I will now proceed to relate : -- Them that take cake Which the Parsee-man bakes Makes dreadful mistake .
And there be a great deal more in that than you would think .
Because , five week later , there be a heat wave in the Red Sea , and everybody take off all the clothes they have .
The Parsee take off his hat ; but the Rhinoceros take off his skin and carry it over his shoulder a he come down to the beach to bathe .
In those day it button underneath with three button and look like a waterproof .
He say nothing whatever about the Parsee 's cake , because he have eat it all ; and he never have any manner , then , since , or henceforward .
He waddle straight into the water and blew bubble through his nose , leave his skin on the beach .
Presently the Parsee come by and find the skin , and he smile one smile that run all round his face two time .
Then he dance three time round the skin and rub his hand .
Then he go to his camp and fill his hat with cake-crumbs , for the Parsee never eat anything but cake , and never sweep out his camp .
He take that skin , and he shake that skin , and he scrub that skin , and he rub that skin just a full of old , dry , stale , tickly cake-crumbs and some burned currant a ever it could possibly hold .
Then he climb to the top of his palm-tree and wait for the Rhinoceros to come out of the water and put it on .
And the Rhinoceros do .
He button it up with the three button , and it tickle like cake crumb in bed .
Then he want to scratch , but that make it bad ; and then he lay down on the sand and roll and roll and roll , and every time he roll the cake crumb tickle him bad and bad and bad .
Then he run to the palm-tree and rubbed and rubbed and rub himself against it .
He rub so much and so hard that he rub his skin into a great fold over his shoulder , and another fold underneath , where the button use to be -LRB- but he rub the button off -RRB- , and he rub some more fold over his leg .
And it spoil his temper , but it do n't make the least difference to the cake-crumbs .
They be inside his skin and they tickle .
So he go home , very angry indeed and horribly scratchy ; and from that day to this every rhinoceros have great fold in his skin and a very bad temper , all on account of the cake-crumbs inside .
But the Parsee come down from his palm-tree , wear his hat , from which the ray of the sun be reflect in more-than-oriental splendour , pack up his cooking-stove , and go away in the direction of Orotavo , Amygdala , the Upland Meadows of Anantarivo , and the Marshes of Sonaput .
THIS Uninhabited Island Is off Cape Gardafui , By the Beaches of Socotra And the Pink Arabian Sea : But it 's hot -- too hot from Suez For the like of you and me Ever to go In a P. and O . And call on the Cake-Parsee !
HOW THE LEOPARD GOT HIS SPOTS IN the day when everybody start fair , Best Beloved , the Leopard live in a place call the High Veldt .
` Member it be n't the Low Veldt , or the Bush Veldt , or the Sour Veldt , but the ` sclusively bare , hot , shiny High Veldt , where there be sand and sandy-coloured rock and ` sclusively tuft of sandy-yellowish grass .
The Giraffe and the Zebra and the Eland and the Koodoo and the Hartebeest live there ; and they be ` sclusively sandy-yellow-brownish all over ; but the Leopard , he be the ` sclusivest sandiest-yellowish-brownest of them all -- a greyish-yellowish catty-shaped kind of beast , and he match the ` sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish colour of the High Veldt to one hair .
This be very bad for the Giraffe and the Zebra and the rest of them ; for he would lie down by a ` sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish stone or clump of grass , and when the Giraffe or the Zebra or the Eland or the Koodoo or the Bush-Buck or the Bonte-Buck come by he would surprise them out of their jumpsome life .
He would indeed !
And , also , there be an Ethiopian with bow and arrows -LRB- a ` sclusively greyish-brownish-yellowish man he be then -RRB- , who live on the High Veldt with the Leopard ; and the two use to hunt together -- the Ethiopian with his bow and arrow , and the Leopard ` sclusively with his teeth and claw -- till the Giraffe and the Eland and the Koodoo and the Quagga and all the rest of them do n't know which way to jump , Best Beloved .
They do n't indeed !
After a long time -- thing live for ever so long in those day -- they learn to avoid anything that look like a Leopard or an Ethiopian ; and bite by bit -- the Giraffe begin it , because his leg be the long -- they go away from the High Veldt .
They scuttle for day and day and day till they come to a great forest , ` sclusively full of tree and bush and stripy , speckly , patchy-blatchy shadow , and there they hide : and after another long time , what with stand half in the shade and half out of it , and what with the slippery-slidy shadow of the tree fall on them , the Giraffe grow blotchy , and the Zebra grow stripy , and the Eland and the Koodoo grow darker , with little wavy grey line on their back like bark on a tree trunk ; and so , though you could hear them and smell them , you could very seldom see them , and then only when you know precisely where to look .
They have a beautiful time in the ` sclusively speckly-spickly shadow of the forest , while the Leopard and the Ethiopian ran about over the ` sclusively greyish-yellowish-reddish High Veldt outside , wonder where all their breakfast and their dinner and their tea have go .
At last they be so hungry that they eat rat and beetle and rock-rabbits , the Leopard and the Ethiopian , and then they have the Big Tummy-ache , both together ; and then they meet Baviaan -- the dog-headed , bark Baboon , who be Quite the Wisest Animal in All South Africa .
Said Leopard to Baviaan -LRB- and it be a very hot day -RRB- , ` Where have all the game go ? '
And Baviaan wink .
He know .
Said the Ethiopian to Baviaan , ` Can you tell me the present habitat of the aboriginal Fauna ? '
-LRB- That mean just the same thing , but the Ethiopian always use long word .
He be a grown-up . -RRB-
And Baviaan wink .
He know .
Then say Baviaan , ` The game have go into other spot ; and my advice to you , Leopard , be to go into other spot as soon a you can . '
And the Ethiopian say , ` That be all very fine , but I wish to know whither the aboriginal Fauna have migrate . '
Then say Baviaan , ` The aboriginal Fauna have join the aboriginal Flora because it be high time for a change ; and my advice to you , Ethiopian , be to change as soon a you can . '
That puzzle the Leopard and the Ethiopian , but they set off to look for the aboriginal Flora , and presently , after ever so many day , they saw a great , high , tall forest full of tree trunk all ` sclusively speckle and sprottled and spottled , dot and splash and slash and hatch and cross-hatched with shadow .
-LRB- Say that quickly aloud , and you will see how very shadowy the forest must have be . -RRB-
` What be this , ' say the Leopard , ` that be so ` sclusively dark , and yet so full of little piece of light ? ' '
I do n't know , say the Ethiopian , ` but it ought to be the aboriginal Flora .
I can smell Giraffe , and I can hear Giraffe , but I ca n't see Giraffe . '
` That 's curious , ' say the Leopard . '
I suppose it be because we have just come in out of the sunshine .
I can smell Zebra , and I can hear Zebra , but I ca n't see Zebra . '
` Wait a bit , say the Ethiopian .
` It 's a long time since we 've hunt 'em .
Perhaps we 've forget what they be like . '
` Fiddle ! '
say the Leopard . '
I remember them perfectly on the High Veldt , especially their marrow-bones .
Giraffe be about seventeen foot high , of a ` sclusively fulvous golden-yellow from head to heel ; and Zebra be about four and a half foot high , of a ` sclusively grey-fawn colour from head to heel . '
` Umm , say the Ethiopian , look into the speckly-spickly shadow of the aboriginal Flora-forest .
` Then they ought to show up in this dark place like ripe banana in a smokehouse . '
But they do n't .
The Leopard and the Ethiopian hunt all day ; and though they could smell them and hear them , they never saw one of them .
` For goodness ' sake , ' say the Leopard at tea-time , ` let u wait till it get dark .
This daylight hunting be a perfect scandal . '
So they wait till dark , and then the Leopard hear something breathe sniffily in the starlight that fell all stripy through the branch , and he jump at the noise , and it smelt like Zebra , and it felt like Zebra , and when he knock it down it kick like Zebra , but he could n't see it .
So he say , ` Be quiet , O you person without any form .
I be go to sit on your head till morning , because there be something about you that I do n't understand . '
Presently he hear a grunt and a crash and a scramble , and the Ethiopian call out , ` I 've catch a thing that I ca n't see .
It smell like Giraffe , and it kick like Giraffe , but it have n't any form . '
` Do n't you trust it , ' say the Leopard .
` Sit on it head till the morning -- same a me .
They have n't any form -- any of 'em . '
So they sit down on them hard till bright morning-time , and then Leopard say , ` What have you at your end of the table , Brother ? '
The Ethiopian scratch his head and say , ` It ought to be ` sclusively a rich fulvous orange-tawny from head to heel , and it ought to be Giraffe ; but it be cover all over with chestnut blotch .
What have you at your end of the table , Brother ? '
And the Leopard scratch his head and say , ` It ought to be ` sclusively a delicate greyish-fawn , and it ought to be Zebra ; but it be cover all over with black and purple stripe .
What in the world have you be do to yourself , Zebra ?
Do n't you know that if you be on the High Veldt I could see you ten mile off ?
You have n't any form . '
` Yes , ' say the Zebra , ` but this be n't the High Veldt .
Ca n't you see ? ' '
I can now , ' say the Leopard .
` But I could n't all yesterday .
How be it do ? '
` Let u up , ' say the Zebra , ` and we will show you .
They let the Zebra and the Giraffe get up ; and Zebra move away to some little thorn-bushes where the sunlight fell all stripy , and Giraffe move off to some tallish tree where the shadow fell all blotchy .
` Now watch , ' say the Zebra and the Giraffe .
` This be the way it 's do .
One -- two -- three !
And where 's your breakfast ? '
Leopard star , and Ethiopian star , but all they could see be stripy shadow and blotch shadow in the forest , but never a sign of Zebra and Giraffe .
They have just walk off and hidden themselves in the shadowy forest .
` Hi !
Hi ! '
say the Ethiopian .
` That 's a trick worth learning .
Take a lesson by it , Leopard .
You show up in this dark place like a bar of soap in a coal-scuttle . '
` Ho !
Ho ! '
say the Leopard .
` Would it surprise you very much to know that you show up in this dark place like a mustard-plaster on a sack of coal ? '
` Well , call name wo n't catch dinner , say the Ethiopian .
` The long and the little of it be that we do n't match our background .
I 'm go to take Baviaan 's advice .
He tell me I ought to change ; and a I 've nothing to change except my skin I 'm go to change that . '
` What to ? '
say the Leopard , tremendously excite .
` To a nice work blackish-brownish colour , with a little purple in it , and touch of slaty-blue .
It will be the very thing for hide in hollow and behind tree . '
So he change his skin then and there , and the Leopard be more excited than ever ; he have never see a man change his skin before .
` But what about me ? '
he say , when the Ethiopian have work his last little finger into his fine new black skin .
` You take Baviaan 's advice too .
He tell you to go into spot . '
` So I do , ' say the Leopard .
I go into other spot a fast a I could .
I go into this spot with you , and a lot of good it have do me . '
` Oh , ' say the Ethiopian , ` Baviaan do n't mean spot in South Africa .
He mean spot on your skin . '
` What 's the use of that ? '
say the Leopard .
` Think of Giraffe , ' say the Ethiopian .
` Or if you prefer stripe , think of Zebra .
They find their spot and stripe give them per-feet satisfaction . '
` Umm , ' say the Leopard . '
I would n't look like Zebra -- not for ever so . '
` Well , make up your mind , ' say the Ethiopian , ` because I 'd hate to go hunt without you , but I must if you insist on look like a sun-flower against a tarred fence . '
` I 'll take spot , then , ' say the Leopard ; ` but do n't make 'em too vulgar-big .
I would n't look like Giraffe -- not for ever so . '
` I 'll make 'em with the tip of my finger , ' say the Ethiopian .
` There 's plenty of black left on my skin still .
Stand over ! '
Then the Ethiopian put his five finger close together -LRB- there be plenty of black left on his new skin still -RRB- and press them all over the Leopard , and wherever the five finger touch they leave five little black mark , all close together .
You can see them on any Leopard 's skin you like , Best Beloved .
Sometimes the finger slip and the mark get a little blurred ; but if you look closely at any Leopard now you will see that there be always five spot -- off five fat black finger-tips .
` Now you be a beauty ! '
say the Ethiopian .
` You can lie out on the bare ground and look like a heap of pebble .
You can lie out on the naked rock and look like a piece of pudding-stone .
You can lie out on a leafy branch and look like sunshine sift through the leaf ; and you can lie right across the centre of a path and look like nothing in particular .
Think of that and purr ! '
` But if I 'm all this , ' say the Leopard , ` why do n't you go spotty too ? '
` Oh , plain black 's best for a nigger , ' say the Ethiopian .
` Now come along and we 'll see if we ca n't get even with Mr. One-Two-Three Where 's your Breakfast ! '
So they go away and live happily ever afterward , Best Beloved .
That be all .
Oh , now and then you will hear grown-ups say , ` Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the Leopard his spot ? '
I do n't think even grown-ups would keep on say such a silly thing if the Leopard and the Ethiopian have n't do it once -- do you ?
But they will never do it again , Best Beloved .
They be quite content a they be .
I AM the Most Wise Baviaan , say in most wise tone , ` Let u melt into the landscape -- just u two by our lones . '
People have come -- in a carriage -- call .
But Mummy be there ... Yes , I can go if you take me -- Nurse say she do n't care .
Let 's go up to the pig-sties and sit on the farmyard rail !
Let 's say thing to the bunny , and watch 'em skitter their tail !
Let 's -- oh , anything , daddy , so long a it 's you and me , And go truly explore , and not be in till tea !
Here 's your boots -LRB- I 've bring 'em -RRB- , and here 's your cap and stick , And here 's your pipe and tobacco .
Oh , come along out of it -- quick .
THE ELEPHANT 'S CHILD IN the High and Far-Off Times the Elephant , O Best Beloved , have no trunk .
He have only a blackish , bulgy nose , as big a a boot , that he could wriggle about from side to side ; but he could n't pick up thing with it .
But there be one Elephant -- a new Elephant -- an Elephant 's Child -- who be full of ` satiable curtiosity , and that mean he ask ever so many question .
And he live in Africa , and he fill all Africa with his ` satiable curtiosities .
He ask his tall aunt , the Ostrich , why her tail-feathers grow just so , and his tall aunt the Ostrich spank him with her hard , hard claw .
He ask his tall uncle , the Giraffe , what make his skin spotty , and his tall uncle , the Giraffe , spank him with his hard , hard hoof .
And still he be full of ` satiable curtiosity !
He ask his broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , why her eye be red , and his broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , spank him with her broad , broad hoof ; and he ask his hairy uncle , the Baboon , why melon taste just so , and his hairy uncle , the Baboon , spank him with his hairy , hairy paw .
And still he be full of ` satiable curtiosity !
He ask question about everything that he saw , or heard , or felt , or smelt , or touch , and all his uncle and his aunt spank him .
And still he be full of ` satiable curtiosity !
One fine morning in the middle of the Precession of the Equinoxes this ` satiable Elephant 's Child ask a new fine question that he have never ask before .
He ask , ` What do the Crocodile have for dinner ? '
Then everybody say , ` Hush ! '
in a loud and dretful tone , and they spank him immediately and directly , without stop , for a long time .
By and by , when that be finish , he come upon Kolokolo Bird sit in the middle of a wait-a-bit thorn-bush , and he say , ` My father have spank me , and my mother have spank me ; all my aunt and uncle have spank me for my ` satiable curtiosity ; and still I want to know what the Crocodile have for dinner ! '
Then Kolokolo Bird say , with a mournful cry , ` Go to the bank of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , and find out . '
That very next morning , when there be nothing left of the Equinoxes , because the Precession have precede accord to precedent , this ` satiable Elephant 's Child take a hundred pound of banana -LRB- the little short red kind -RRB- , and a hundred pound of sugar-cane -LRB- the long purple kind -RRB- , and seventeen melon -LRB- the greeny-crackly kind -RRB- , and say to all his dear family , ` Goodbye .
I be go to the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , to find out what the Crocodile have for dinner . '
And they all spank him once more for luck , though he ask them most politely to stop .
Then he go away , a little warm , but not at all astonish , eat melon , and throw the rind about , because he could not pick it up .
He go from Graham 's Town to Kimberley , and from Kimberley to Khama 's Country , and from Khama 's Country he go east by north , eating melon all the time , till at last he come to the bank of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , precisely a Kolokolo Bird have say .
Now you must know and understand , O Best Beloved , that till that very week , and day , and hour , and minute , this ` satiable Elephant 's Child have never see a Crocodile , and do not know what one be like .
It be all his ` satiable curtiosity .
The first thing that he find be a Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake curl round a rock . ''
Scuse me , ' say the Elephant 's Child most politely , ` but have you see such a thing a a Crocodile in these promiscuous part ? '
` Have I see a Crocodile ? '
say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , in a voice of dretful scorn .
` What will you ask me next ? ' ''
Scuse me , ' say the Elephant 's Child , ` but could you kindly tell me what he have for dinner ? '
Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake uncoil himself very quickly from the rock , and spank the Elephant 's Child with his scalesome , flailsome tail .
` That be odd , ' say the Elephant 's Child , ` because my father and my mother , and my uncle and my aunt , not to mention my other aunt , the Hippopotamus , and my other uncle , the Baboon , have all spank me for my ` satiable curtiosity -- and I suppose this be the same thing .
So he say good-bye very politely to the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , and help to coil him up on the rock again , and go on , a little warm , but not at all astonish , eat melon , and throw the rind about , because he could not pick it up , till he tread on what he think be a log of wood at the very edge of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees .
But it be really the Crocodile , O Best Beloved , and the Crocodile wink one eye -- like this ! ''
Scuse me , ' say the Elephant 's Child most politely , ` but do you happen to have see a Crocodile in these promiscuous part ? '
Then the Crocodile wink the other eye , and lift half his tail out of the mud ; and the Elephant 's Child step back most politely , because he do not wish to be spank again .
` Come hither , Little One , ' say the Crocodile .
` Why do you ask such thing ? ' ''
Scuse me , ' say the Elephant 's Child most politely , ` but my father have spank me , my mother have spank me , not to mention my tall aunt , the Ostrich , and my tall uncle , the Giraffe , who can kick ever so hard , as well a my broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , and my hairy uncle , the Baboon , and include the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , with the scalesome , flailsome tail , just up the bank , who spank hard than any of them ; and so , if it 's quite all the same to you , I do n't want to be spank any more . '
` Come hither , Little One , ' say the Crocodile , ` for I be the Crocodile , ' and he weep crocodile-tears to show it be quite true .
Then the Elephant 's Child grow all breathless , and pant , and kneel down on the bank and say , ` You be the very person I have be look for all these long day .
Will you please tell me what you have for dinner ? '
` Come hither , Little One , ' say the Crocodile , ` and I 'll whisper . '
Then the Elephant 's Child put his head down close to the Crocodile 's musky , tusky mouth , and the Crocodile catch him by his little nose , which up to that very week , day , hour , and minute , have be no big than a boot , though much more useful . '
I think , say the Crocodile -- and he say it between his teeth , like this -- ' I think to-day I will begin with Elephant 's Child ! '
At this , O Best Beloved , the Elephant 's Child be much annoyed , and he say , speak through his nose , like this , ` Led go !
You be hurtig be ! '
Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake scuffle down from the bank and say , ` My young friend , if you do not now , immediately and instantly , pull as hard a ever you can , it be my opinion that your acquaintance in the large-pattern leather ulster ' -LRB- and by this he mean the Crocodile -RRB- ` will jerk you into yonder limpid stream before you can say Jack Robinson . '
This be the way Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snakes always talk .
Then the Elephant 's Child sit back on his little haunch , and pull , and pull , and pull , and his nose begin to stretch .
And the Crocodile flounder into the water , make it all creamy with great sweep of his tail , and he pull , and pull , and pull .
And the Elephant 's Child 's nose kept on stretching ; and the Elephant 's Child spread all his little four leg and pull , and pull , and pull , and his nose kept on stretching ; and the Crocodile thresh his tail like an oar , and he pull , and pull , and pull , and at each pull the Elephant 's Child 's nose grow long and long -- and it hurt him hijjus !
Then the Elephant 's Child felt his legs slipping , and he say through his nose , which be now nearly five foot long , ` This be too butch for be ! '
Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake come down from the bank , and knot himself in a double-clove-hitch round the Elephant 's Child 's hind leg , and say , ` Rash and inexperienced traveller , we will now seriously devote ourselves to a little high tension , because if we do not , it be my impression that yonder self-propelling man-of-war with the armour-plated upper deck ' -LRB- and by this , O Best Beloved , he mean the Crocodile -RRB- , ` will permanently vitiate your future career .
That be the way all Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snakes always talk .
So he pull , and the Elephant 's Child pull , and the Crocodile pull ; but the Elephant 's Child and the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake pull hard ; and at last the Crocodile let go of the Elephant 's Child 's nose with a plop that you could hear all up and down the Limpopo .
Then the Elephant 's Child sit down most hard and sudden ; but first he be careful to say ` Thank you ' to the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake ; and next he be kind to his poor pull nose , and wrap it all up in cool banana leaf , and hang it in the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo to cool .
` What be you do that for ? '
say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake . ''
Scuse me , ' say the Elephant 's Child , ` but my nose be badly out of shape , and I be wait for it to shrink .
` Then you will have to wait a long time , say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` Some people do not know what be good for them . '
The Elephant 's Child sit there for three day wait for his nose to shrink .
But it never grow any shorter , and , besides , it make him squint .
For , O Best Beloved , you will see and understand that the Crocodile have pull it out into a really truly trunk same a all Elephants have to-day .
At the end of the third day a fly come and sting him on the shoulder , and before he know what he be do he lift up his trunk and hit that fly dead with the end of it . ''
Vantage number one ! '
say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` You could n't have do that with a mere-smear nose .
Try and eat a little now . '
Before he think what he be do the Elephant 's Child put out his trunk and pluck a large bundle of grass , dust it clean against his fore-legs , and stuff it into his own mouth .
` Vantage number two ! '
say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` You could n't have do that with a mear-smear nose .
Do n't you think the sun be very hot here ? '
` It be , ' say the Elephant 's Child , and before he think what he be do he schlooped up a schloop of mud from the bank of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo , and slap it on his head , where it make a cool schloopy-sloshy mud-cap all trickly behind his ear .
` Vantage number three ! '
say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` You could n't have do that with a mere-smear nose .
Now how do you feel about be spank again ? ' ''
Scuse me , ' say the Elephant 's Child , ` but I should not like it at all . '
` How would you like to spank somebody ? '
say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake . '
I should like it very much indeed , ' say the Elephant 's Child .
` Well , ' say the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , ` you will find that new nose of yours very useful to spank people with . '
` Thank you , ' say the Elephant 's Child , ` I 'll remember that ; and now I think I 'll go home to all my dear family and try . '
So the Elephant 's Child go home across Africa frisking and whisk his trunk .
When he want fruit to eat he pull fruit down from a tree , instead of wait for it to fall a he use to do .
When he want grass he pluck grass up from the ground , instead of go on his knee a he use to do .
When the fly bite him he break off the branch of a tree and use it a fly-whisk ; and he make himself a new , cool , slushy-squshy mud-cap whenever the sun be hot .
When he felt lonely walk through Africa he sing to himself down his trunk , and the noise be loud than several brass band .
He go especially out of his way to find a broad Hippopotamus -LRB- she be no relation of his -RRB- , and he spank her very hard , to make sure that the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake have speak the truth about his new trunk .
The rest of the time he pick up the melon rinds that he have drop on his way to the Limpopo -- for he be a Tidy Pachyderm .
One dark evening he come back to all his dear family , and he coil up his trunk and say , ` How do you do ? '
They be very glad to see him , and immediately say , ` Come here and be spank for your ` satiable curtiosity . '
` Pooh , ' say the Elephant 's Child . '
I do n't think you people know anything about spank ; but I do , and I 'll show you . '
Then he uncurl his trunk and knock two of his dear brother head over heel . '
O Bananas ! '
say they , ` where do you learn that trick , and what have you do to your nose ? ' '
I get a new one from the Crocodile on the bank of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , ' say the Elephant 's Child . '
I ask him what he have for dinner , and he give me this to keep . '
` It look very ugly , ' say his hairy uncle , the Baboon .
` It do , ' say the Elephant 's Child .
` But it 's very useful , ' and he pick up his hairy uncle , the Baboon , by one hairy leg , and heave him into a hornet 's nest .
Then that bad Elephant 's Child spank all his dear family for a long time , till they be very warm and greatly astonish .
He pull out his tall Ostrich aunt 's tail-feathers ; and he catch his tall uncle , the Giraffe , by the hind-leg , and drag him through a thorn-bush ; and he shout at his broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , and blow bubble into her ear when she be sleep in the water after meal ; but he never let any one touch Kolokolo Bird .
At last thing grow so exciting that his dear family go off one by one in a hurry to the bank of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , to borrow new nose from the Crocodile .
When they come back nobody spank anybody any more ; and ever since that day , O Best Beloved , all the Elephants you will ever see , besides all those that you wo n't , have trunk precisely like the trunk of the ` satiable Elephant 's Child .
I Keep six honest serving-men : -LRB- They teach me all I know -RRB- Their name be What and Where and When And How and Why and Who .
I send them over land and sea , I send them east and west ; But after they have work for me , I give them all a rest .
I let them rest from nine till five .
For I be busy then , As well a breakfast , lunch , and tea , For they be hungry men : But different folk have different view : I know a person small -- She keep ten million serving-men , Who get no rest at all !
She send 'em abroad on her own affair , From the second she open her eye -- One million Hows , two million Wheres , And seven million Whys !
THE SING-SONG OF OLD MAN KANGAROO NOT always be the Kangaroo a now we do behold him , but a Different Animal with four short leg .
He be grey and he be woolly , and his pride be inordinate : he dance on an outcrop in the middle of Australia , and he go to the Little God Nqa .
He go to Nqa at six before breakfast , say , ` Make me different from all other animal by five this afternoon . '
Up jump Nqa from his seat on the sandflat and shout , ` Go away ! '
He be grey and he be woolly , and his pride be inordinate : he dance on a rock-ledge in the middle of Australia , and he go to the Middle God Nquing .
He go to Nquing at eight after breakfast , say , ` Make me different from all other animal ; make me , also , wonderfully popular by five this afternoon . '
Up jump Nquing from his burrow in the spinifex and shout , ` Go away ! '
He be grey and he be woolly , and his pride be inordinate : he dance on a sandbank in the middle of Australia , and he go to the Big God Nqong .
He go to Nqong at ten before dinner-time , say , ` Make me different from all other animal ; make me popular and wonderfully run after by five this afternoon . '
Up jump Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan and shout , ` Yes , I will ! '
Nqong call Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- always hungry , dusty in the sunshine , and show him Kangaroo .
Nqong say , ` Dingo !
Wake up , Dingo !
Do you see that gentleman dance on an ashpit ?
He want to be popular and very truly run after .
Dingo , make him SO ! '
Up jump Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- and say , ` What , that cat-rabbit ? '
Off run Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- always hungry , grin like a coal-scuttle , -- run after Kangaroo .
Off go the proud Kangaroo on his four little leg like a bunny .
This , O Beloved of mine , end the first part of the tale !
He run through the desert ; he run through the mountain ; he run through the salt-pans ; he run through the reed-beds ; he run through the blue gum ; he run through the spinifex ; he run till his front leg ache .
He have to !
Still ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- always hungry , grin like a rat-trap , never get nearer , never get far , -- run after Kangaroo .
He have to !
Still ran Kangaroo -- Old Man Kangaroo .
He run through the ti-trees ; he run through the mulga ; he run through the long grass ; he run through the short grass ; he run through the Tropics of Capricorn and Cancer ; he run till his hind leg ache .
He have to !
Still ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- hungry and hungry , grin like a horse-collar , never get nearer , never get far ; and they come to the Wollgong River .
Now , there be n't any bridge , and there be n't any ferry-boat , and Kangaroo do n't know how to get over ; so he stand on his leg and hop .
He have to !
He hop through the Flinders ; he hop through the Cinders ; he hop through the desert in the middle of Australia .
He hop like a Kangaroo .
First he hop one yard ; then he hop three yard ; then he hop five yard ; his leg grow strong ; his leg grow longer .
He have n't any time for rest or refreshment , and he want them very much .
Still ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- very much bewilder , very much hungry , and wonder what in the world or out of it make Old Man Kangaroo hop .
For he hop like a cricket ; like a pea in a saucepan ; or a new rubber ball on a nursery floor .
He have to !
He tuck up his front leg ; he hop on his hind leg ; he stick out his tail for a balance-weight behind him ; and he hop through the Darling Downs .
He have to !
Still ran Dingo -- Tired-Dog Dingo -- hungry and hungry , very much bewilder , and wonder when in the world or out of it would Old Man Kangaroo stop .
Then come Nqong from his bath in the salt-pans , and say , ` It 's five o'clock . '
Down sit Dingo -- Poor Dog Dingo -- always hungry , dusky in the sunshine ; hung out his tongue and howl .
Down sit Kangaroo -- Old Man Kangaroo -- stick out his tail like a milking-stool behind him , and say , ` Thank goodness that 's finish ! '
Then say Nqong , who be always a gentleman , ` Why be n't you grateful to Yellow-Dog Dingo ?
Why do n't you thank him for all he have do for you ? '
Then say Kangaroo -- Tired Old Kangaroo -- He 's chase me out of the home of my childhood ; he 's chase me out of my regular meal-times ; he 's altered my shape so I 'll never get it back ; and he 's played Old Scratch with my leg . '
Then say Nqong , ` Perhaps I 'm mistaken , but do n't you ask me to make you different from all other animal , as well a to make you very truly seek after ?
And now it be five o'clock . '
` Yes , ' say Kangaroo . '
I wish that I have n't .
I think you would do it by charm and incantation , but this be a practical joke . '
` Joke ! '
say Nqong from his bath in the blue gum .
` Say that again and I 'll whistle up Dingo and run your hind legs off . '
` No , ' say the Kangaroo . '
I must apologise .
Legs be legs , and you need n't alter 'em so far a I be concerned .
I only mean to explain to Your Lordliness that I 've have nothing to eat since morning , and I 'm very empty indeed . '
` Yes , ' say Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo , -- ' I be just in the same situation .
I 've make him different from all other animal ; but what may I have for my tea ? '
Then say Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan , ` Come and ask me about it tomorrow , because I 'm go to wash . '
So they be leave in the middle of Australia , Old Man Kangaroo and Yellow-Dog Dingo , and each say , ` That 's your fault . '
THIS be the mouth-filling song Of the race that be run by a Boomer , Run in a single burst -- only event of it kind -- Started by big God Nqong from Warrigaborrigarooma , Old Man Kangaroo first : Yellow-Dog Dingo behind .
Kangaroo bound away , His back-legs working like piston -- Bounded from morning till dark , Twenty-five foot to a bound .
Yellow-Dog Dingo lay Like a yellow cloud in the distance -- Much too busy to bark .
My !
but they cover the ground !
Nobody know where they go , Or follow the track that they fly in , For that Continent Had n't be give a name .
They run thirty degree , From Torres Straits to the Leeuwin -LRB- Look at the Atlas , please -RRB- , And they run back a they come .
S'posing you could trot From Adelaide to the Pacific , For an afternoon 's run Half what these gentleman do You would feel rather hot , But your leg would develop terrific -- Yes , my importunate son , You 'd be a Marvellous Kid !
THE BEGINNING OF THE ARMADILLOS THIS , O Best Beloved , be another story of the High and Far-Off Times .
In the very middle of those time be a Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog , and he live on the bank of the turbid Amazon , eat shelly snail and thing .
And he have a friend , a Slow-Solid Tortoise , who live on the bank of the turbid Amazon , eat green lettuce and thing .
And so that be all right , Best Beloved .
Do you see ?
But also , and at the same time , in those High and Far-Off Times , there be a Painted Jaguar , and he live on the bank of the turbid Amazon too ; and he eat everything that he could catch .
When he could not catch deer or monkey he would eat frog and beetle ; and when he could not catch frog and beetle he go to his Mother Jaguar , and she tell him how to eat hedgehog and tortoise .
She say to him ever so many time , graciously wave her tail , ` My son , when you find a Hedgehog you must drop him into the water and then he will uncoil , and when you catch a Tortoise you must scoop him out of his shell with your paw . '
And so that be all right , Best Beloved .
One beautiful night on the bank of the turbid Amazon , Painted Jaguar find Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog and Slow-Solid Tortoise sit under the trunk of a fall tree .
They could not run away , and so Stickly-Prickly curl himself up into a ball , because he be a Hedgehog , and Slow-Solid Tortoise drew in his head and foot into his shell as far a they would go , because he be a Tortoise ; and so that be all right , Best Beloved .
Do you see ?
` Now attend to me , ' say Painted Jaguar , ` because this be very important .
My mother say that when I meet a Hedgehog I be to drop him into the water and then he will uncoil , and when I meet a Tortoise I be to scoop him out of his shell with my paw .
Now which of you be Hedgehog and which be Tortoise ?
because , to save my spot , I ca n't tell . '
` Are you sure of what your Mummy tell you ? '
say Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog .
` Are you quite sure ?
Perhaps she say that when you uncoil a Tortoise you must shell him out the water with a scoop , and when you paw a Hedgehog you must drop him on the shell . '
` Are you sure of what your Mummy tell you ? '
say Slow-and-Solid Tortoise .
` Are you quite sure ?
Perhaps she say that when you water a Hedgehog you must drop him into your paw , and when you meet a Tortoise you must shell him till he uncoils . ' '
I do n't think it be at all like that , ' say Painted Jaguar , but he felt a little puzzled ; ` but , please , say it again more distinctly . '
` When you scoop water with your paw you uncoil it with a Hedgehog , ' say Stickly-Prickly .
` Remember that , because it 's important . '
` But , ' say the Tortoise , ` when you paw your meat you drop it into a Tortoise with a scoop .
Why ca n't you understand ? '
` You be make my spot ache , ' say Painted Jaguar ; ` and besides , I do n't want your advice at all .
I only want to know which of you be Hedgehog and which be Tortoise . ' '
I sha n't tell you , ' say Stickly-Prickly , ` but you can scoop me out of my shell if you like . '
` Aha ! '
say Painted Jaguar .
` Now I know you 're Tortoise .
You think I would n't !
Now I will . '
Painted Jaguar dart out his paddy-paw just a Stickly-Prickly curl himself up , and of course Jaguar 's paddy-paw be just fill with prickle .
Worse than that , he knock Stickly-Prickly away and away into the wood and the bush , where it be too dark to find him .
Then he put his paddy-paw into his mouth , and of course the prickle hurt him bad than ever .
As soon a he could speak he say , ` Now I know he be n't Tortoise at all .
But ' -- and then he scratch his head with his un-prickly paw -- ` how do I know that this other be Tortoise ? '
` But I be Tortoise , ' say Slow-and-Solid .
Your mother be quite right .
She say that you be to scoop me out of my shell with your paw .
Begin . '
` You do n't say she say that a minute ago , say Painted Jaguar , suck the prickle out of his paddy-paw .
` You say she say something quite different . '
` Well , suppose you say that I say that she say something quite different , I do n't see that it make any difference ; because if she say what you say I say she say , it 's just the same a if I say what she say she say .
On the other hand , if you think she say that you be to uncoil me with a scoop , instead of paw me into drop with a shell , I ca n't help that , can I ? '
` But you say you want to be scoop out of your shell with my paw , ' say Painted Jaguar .
` If you 'll think again you 'll find that I do n't say anything of the kind .
I say that your mother say that you be to scoop me out of my shell , ' say Slow-and-Solid .
` What will happen if I do ? '
say the Jaguar most sniffily and most cautious . '
I do n't know , because I 've never be scoop out of my shell before ; but I tell you truly , if you want to see me swim away you 've only get to drop me into the water . '
I do n't believe it , ' say Painted Jaguar .
` You 've mix up all the thing my mother tell me to do with the thing that you ask me whether I be sure that she do n't say , till I do n't know whether I 'm on my head or my painted tail ; and now you come and tell me something I can understand , and it make me more mixy than before .
My mother tell me that I be to drop one of you two into the water , and a you seem so anxious to be drop I think you do n't want to be drop .
So jump into the turbid Amazon and be quick about it . ' '
I warn you that your Mummy wo n't be please .
Do n't tell her I do n't tell you , ' say Slow-Solid .
` If you say another word about what my mother say -- ' the Jaguar answer , but he have not finish the sentence before Slow-and-Solid quietly dive into the turbid Amazon , swam under water for a long way , and come out on the bank where Stickly-Prickly be wait for him .
` That be a very narrow escape , ' say Stickly-Prickly . '
I do n't rib Painted Jaguar .
What do you tell him that you be ? ' '
I tell him truthfully that I be a truthful Tortoise , but he would n't believe it , and he make me jump into the river to see if I be , and I be , and he be surprise .
Now he 's go to tell his Mummy .
Listen to him ! '
They could hear Painted Jaguar roar up and down among the tree and the bush by the side of the turbid Amazon , till his Mummy come .
` Son , son ! '
say his mother ever so many time , graciously wave her tail , ` what have you be do that you should n't have do ? ' '
I try to scoop something that say it want to be scoop out of it shell with my paw , and my paw be full of per-ickles , ' say Painted Jaguar .
` Son , son ! '
say his mother ever so many time , graciously wave her tail , ` by the prickle in your paddy-paw I see that that must have be a Hedgehog .
You should have drop him into the water . '
I do that to the other thing ; and he say he be a Tortoise , and I do n't believe him , and it be quite true , and he have dive under the turbid Amazon , and he wo n't come up again , and I have n't anything at all to eat , and I think we have well find lodging somewhere else .
They be too clever on the turbid Amazon for poor me ! '
` Son , son ! '
say his mother ever so many time , graciously wave her tail , ` now attend to me and remember what I say .
A Hedgehog curl himself up into a ball and his prickle stick out every which way at once .
By this you may know the Hedgehog . ' '
I do n't like this old lady one little bit , ' say Stickly-Prickly , under the shadow of a large leaf . '
I wonder what else she know ? ' '
A Tortoise ca n't curl himself up , ' Mother Jaguar go on , ever so many time , graciously wave her tail .
` He only draw his head and leg into his shell .
By this you may know the tortoise . ' '
I do n't like this old lady at all -- at all , ' say Slow-and-Solid Tortoise .
` Even Painted Jaguar ca n't forget those direction .
It 's a great pity that you ca n't swim , Stickly-Prickly . '
` Do n't talk to me , ' say Stickly-Prickly .
` Just think how much good it would be if you could curl up .
This be a mess !
Listen to Painted Jaguar . '
Painted Jaguar be sit on the bank of the turbid Amazon sucking prickle out of his Paws and say to himself -- ` Ca n't curl , but can swim -- Slow-Solid , that 's him !
Curls up , but ca n't swim -- Stickly-Prickly , that 's him ! '
` He 'll never forget that this month of Sundays , ' say Stickly-Prickly .
` Hold up my chin , Slow-and-Solid .
I 'm go to try to learn to swim .
It may be useful . '
` Excellent ! '
say Slow-and-Solid ; and he hold up Stickly-Prickly 's chin , while Stickly-Prickly kicked in the water of the turbid Amazon .
` You 'll make a fine swimmer yet , ' say Slow-and-Solid .
` Now , if you can unlace my back-plates a little , I 'll see what I can do towards curl up .
It may be useful . '
Stickly-Prickly help to unlace Tortoise 's back-plates , so that by twist and strain Slow-and-Solid actually manage to curl up a tiddy wee bit .
` Excellent ! '
say Stickly-Prickly ; ` but I should n't do any more just now .
It 's make you black in the face .
Kindly lead me into the water once again and I 'll practice that side-stroke which you say be so easy . '
And so Stickly-Prickly practice , and Slow-Solid swam alongside .
` Excellent ! '
say Slow-and-Solid . '
A little more practice will make you a regular whale .
Now , if I may trouble you to unlace my back and front plate two hole more , I 'll try that fascinate bend that you say be so easy .
Wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
` Excellent ! '
say Stickly-Prickly , all wet from the turbid Amazon . '
I declare , I should n't know you from one of my own family .
Two hole , I think , you say ?
A little more expression , please , and do n't grunt quite so much , or Painted Jaguar may hear u .
When you 've finish , I want to try that long dive which you say be so easy .
Wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
And so Stickly-Prickly dived , and Slow-and-Solid dive alongside .
` Excellent ! '
say Slow-and-Solid . '
A leetle more attention to hold your breath and you will be able to keep house at the bottom of the turbid Amazon .
Now I 'll try that exercise of put my hind leg round my ear which you say be so peculiarly comfortable .
Wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
` Excellent ! '
say Stickly-Prickly .
` But it 's strain your back-plates a little .
They be all overlap now , instead of lie side by side . '
` Oh , that 's the result of exercise , ' say Slow-and-Solid .
` I 've notice that your prickle seem to be melt into one another , and that you 're grow to look rather more like a pinecone , and less like a chestnut-burr , than you use to . '
` Am I ? '
say Stickly-Prickly .
` That come from my soaking in the water .
Oh , wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
They go on with their exercise , each help the other , till morning come ; and when the sun be high they rest and dry themselves .
Then they saw that they be both of them quite different from what they have be .
` Stickly-Prickly , ' say Tortoise after breakfast , ' I be not what I be yesterday ; but I think that I may yet amuse Painted Jaguar .
` That be the very thing I be think just now , ' say Stickly-Prickly . '
I think scale be a tremendous improvement on prickle -- to say nothing of be able to swim .
Oh , wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprise !
Let 's go and find him . '
By and by they find Painted Jaguar , still nurse his paddy-paw that have be hurt the night before .
He be so astonished that he fell three time backward over his own painted tail without stop .
` Good morning ! '
say Stickly-Prickly .
` And how be your dear gracious Mummy this morning ? '
` She be quite well , thank you , ' say Painted Jaguar ; ` but you must forgive me if I do not at this precise moment recall your name . '
` That 's unkind of you , ' say Stickly-Prickly , ` see that this time yesterday you try to scoop me out of my shell with your paw . '
` But you have n't any shell .
It be all prickle , ' say Painted Jaguar . '
I know it be .
Just look at my paw ! '
` You tell me to drop into the turbid Amazon and be drown , ' say Slow-Solid .
` Why be you so rude and forgetful to-day ? '
` Do n't you remember what your mother tell you ? '
say Stickly-Prickly , -- ` Ca n't curl , but can swim -- Stickly-Prickly , that 's him !
Curls up , but ca n't swim -- Slow-Solid , that 's him ! '
Then they both curl themselves up and roll round and round Painted Jaguar till his eye turn truly cart-wheels in his head .
Then he go to fetch his mother .
` Mother , ' he say , ` there be two new animal in the wood to-day , and the one that you say could n't swim , swim , and the one that you say could n't curl up , curl ; and they 've go share in their prickle , I think , because both of them be scaly all over , instead of one be smooth and the other very prickly ; and , besides that , they be roll round and round in circle , and I do n't feel comfy . '
` Son , son ! '
say Mother Jaguar ever so many time , graciously wave her tail , ' a Hedgehog be a Hedgehog , and ca n't be anything but a Hedgehog ; and a Tortoise be a Tortoise , and can never be anything else . '
` But it be n't a Hedgehog , and it be n't a Tortoise .
It 's a little bit of both , and I do n't know it proper name . '
` Nonsense ! '
say Mother Jaguar .
` Everything have it proper name .
I should call it `` Armadillo '' till I find out the real one .
And I should leave it alone . '
So Painted Jaguar do a he be tell , especially about leave them alone ; but the curious thing be that from that day to this , O Best Beloved , no one on the bank of the turbid Amazon have ever call Stickly-Prickly and Slow-Solid anything except Armadillo .
There be Hedgehogs and Tortoises in other place , of course -LRB- there be some in my garden -RRB- ; but the real old and clever kind , with their scale lie lippety-lappety one over the other , like pine-cone scale , that live on the bank of the turbid Amazon in the High and Far-Off Days , be always call Armadillos , because they be so clever .
So that ; all right , Best Beloved .
Do you see ?
I 'VE never sail the Amazon , I 've never reach Brazil ; But the Don and Magdelana , They can go there when they will !
Yes , weekly from Southampton , Great steamer , white and gold , Go roll down to Rio -LRB- Roll down -- roll down to Rio ! -RRB-
And I 'd like to roll to Rio Some day before I 'm old !
I 've never see a Jaguar , Nor yet an Armadill O dilloing in his armour , And I s ` pose I never will , Unless I go to Rio These wonder to behold -- Roll down -- roll down to Rio -- Roll really down to Rio !
Oh , I 'd love to roll to Rio Some day before I 'm old !
HOW THE FIRST LETTER WAS WRITTEN ONCE upon a most early time be a Neolithic man .
He be not a Jute or an Angle , or even a Dravidian , which he might well have be , Best Beloved , but never mind why .
He be a Primitive , and he live cavily in a Cave , and he wear very few clothes , and he could n't read and he could n't write and he do n't want to , and except when he be hungry he be quite happy .
His name be Tegumai Bopsulai , and that mean , ` Man-who-does-not-put-his-foot-forward-in-a-hurry ' ; but we , O Best Beloved , will call him Tegumai , for short .
And his wife 's name be Teshumai Tewindrow , and that mean , ` Lady-who-asks-a-very-many-questions ' ; but we , O Best Beloved , will call her Teshumai , for short .
And his little girl-daughter 's name be Taffimai Metallumai , and that mean , ` Small-person-without-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked ' ; but I 'm go to call her Taffy .
And she be Tegumai Bopsulai 's Best Beloved and her own Mummy 's Best Beloved , and she be not spanked half as much a be good for her ; and they be all three very happy .
As soon a Taffy could run about she go everywhere with her Daddy Tegumai , and sometimes they would not come home to the Cave till they be hungry , and then Teshumai Tewindrow would say , ` Where in the world have you two be to , to get so shock dirty ?
Really , my Tegumai , you 're no good than my Taffy . '
Now attend and listen !
One day Tegumai Bopsulai go down through the beaver-swamp to the Wagai river to spear carp-fish for dinner , and Taffy go too .
Tegumai 's spear be make of wood with shark 's teeth at the end , and before he have catch any fish at all he accidentally break it clean across by jab it down too hard on the bottom of the river .
They be mile and mile from home -LRB- of course they have their lunch with them in a little bag -RRB- , and Tegumai have forget to bring any extra spear .
` Here 's a pretty kettle of fish ! '
say Tegumai .
` It will take me half the day to mend this . '
` There 's your big black spear at home , ' say Taffy .
` Let me run back to the Cave and ask Mummy to give it me . '
` It 's too far for your little fat leg , ' say Tegumai .
` Besides , you might fall into the beaver-swamp and be drown .
We must make the best of a bad job . '
He sit down and take out a little leather mendy-bag , full of reindeer-sinews and strip of leather , and lump of bee 's - wax and resin , and begin to mend the spear .
Taffy sit down too , with her toe in the water and her chin in her hand , and think very hard .
Then she say -- ' I say , Daddy , it 's an awful nuisance that you and I do n't know how to write , be n't it ?
If we do we could send a message for the new spear . '
` Taffy , ' say Tegumai , ` how often have I tell you not to use slang ?
`` Awful '' be n't a pretty word , but it could be a convenience , now you mention it , if we could write home . '
Just then a Stranger-man come along the river , but he belong to a far tribe , the Tewaras , and he do not understand one word of Tegumai 's language .
He stand on the bank and smile at Taffy , because he have a little girl-daughter Of his own at home .
Tegumai draw a hank of deer-sinews from his mendy-bag and begin to mend his spear .
` Come here , say Taffy .
` Do you know where my Mummy live ? '
And the Stranger-man say ` Um ! '
be , a you know , a Tewara .
` Silly ! '
say Taffy , and she stamp her foot , because she saw a shoal of very big carp go up the river just when her Daddy could n't use his spear .
` Do n't bother grown-ups , ' say Tegumai , so busy with his spear-mending that he do not turn round . '
I be n't , say Taffy . '
I only want him to do what I want him to do , and he wo n't understand . '
` Then do n't bother me , say Tegumai , and he go on pulling and straining at the deer-sinews with his mouth full of loose end .
The Stranger-man -- a genuine Tewara he be -- sit down on the grass , and Taffy show him what her Daddy be do .
The Stranger-man thought , this be a very wonderful child .
She stamp her foot at me and she make face .
She must be the daughter of that noble Chief who be so great that he wo n't take any notice of me . '
So he smile more politely than ever .
` Now , ' say Taffy , ' I want you to go to my Mummy , because your leg be long than mine , and you wo n't fall into the beaver-swamp , and ask for Daddy 's other spear -- the one with the black handle that hang over our fireplace . '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he be a Tewara -RRB- think , ` This be a very , very wonderful child .
She wave her arm and she shout at me , but I do n't understand a word of what she say .
But if I do n't do what she want , I greatly fear that that haughty Chief , Man-who-turns-his-back-on-callers , will be angry . '
He get up and twist a big flat piece of bark off a birch-tree and give it to Taffy .
He do this , Best Beloved , to show that his heart be as white a the birch-bark and that he mean no harm ; but Taffy do n't quite understand .
` Oh ! '
say she .
` Now I see !
You want my Mummy 's living-address ?
Of course I ca n't write , but I can draw picture if I 've anything sharp to scratch with .
Please lend me the shark 's tooth off your necklace . '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he be a Tewara -RRB- do n't say anything , So Taffy put up her little hand and pull at the beautiful bead and seed and shark-tooth necklace round his neck .
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he be a Tewara -RRB- think , ` This be a very , very , very wonderful child .
The shark 's tooth on my necklace be a magic shark 's tooth , and I be always tell that if anybody touch it without my leave they would immediately swell up or burst , but this child do n't swell up or burst , and that important Chief , Man-who-attends-strictly-to-his-business , who have not yet take any notice of me at all , do n't seem to be afraid that she will swell up or burst .
I have good be more polite . '
So he give Taffy the shark 's tooth , and she lay down flat on her tummy with her leg in the air , like some people on the drawing-room floor when they want to draw picture , and she say , ` Now I 'll draw you some beautiful picture !
You can look over my shoulder , but you must n't joggle .
First I 'll draw Daddy fishing .
It be n't very like him ; but Mummy will know , because I 've draw his spear all break .
Well , now I 'll draw the other spear that he want , the black-handled spear .
It look a if it be stick in Daddy 's back , but that 's because the shark 's tooth slip and this piece of bark be n't big enough .
That 's the spear I want you to fetch ; so I 'll draw a picture of me myself ` splaining to you .
My hair do n't stand up like I 've draw , but it 's easy to draw that way .
Now I 'll draw you .
I think you 're very nice really , but I ca n't make you pretty in the picture , so you must n't be ` fend .
Are you ` fend ? '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he be a Tewara -RRB- smile .
He think , ` There must be a big battle go to be fight somewhere , and this extraordinary child , who take my magic shark 's tooth but who do not swell up or burst , be tell me to call all the great Chief 's tribe to help him .
He be a great Chief , or he would have notice me .
` Look , ' say Taffy , draw very hard and rather scratchily , ` now I 've draw you , and I 've put the spear that Daddy want into your hand , just to remind you that you 're to bring it .
Now I 'll show you how to find my Mummy 's living-address .
You go along till you come to two tree -LRB- those be tree -RRB- , and then you go over a hill -LRB- that 's a hill -RRB- , and then you come into a beaver-swamp all full of beaver .
I have n't put in all the beaver , because I ca n't draw beaver , but I 've draw their head , and that 's all you 'll see of them when you cross the swamp .
Mind you do n't fall in !
Then our Cave be just beyond the beaver-swamp .
It be n't as high a the hill really , but I ca n't draw thing very small .
That 's my Mummy outside .
She be beautiful .
She be the most beautifullest Mummy there ever be , but she wo n't be ` fend when she see I 've draw her so plain .
She 'll be please of me because I can draw .
Now , in case you forget , I 've draw the spear that Daddy want outside our Cave .
It 's inside really , but you show the picture to my Mummy and she 'll give it you .
I 've make her hold up her hand , because I know she 'll be so pleased to see you .
Is n't it a beautiful picture ?
And do you quite understand , or shall I ` splain again ? '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he be a Tewara -RRB- look at the picture and nodded very hard .
He say to himself , ' If I do not fetch this great Chief 's tribe to help him , he will be slay by his enemy who be come up on all side with spear .
Now I see why the great Chief pretend not to notice me !
He fear that his enemy be hide in the bush and would see him .
Therefore he turn to me his back , and let the wise and wonderful child draw the terrible picture show me his difficulty .
I will away and get help for him from his tribe . '
He do not even ask Taffy the road , but race off into the bush like the wind , with the birch-bark in his hand , and Taffy sit down most pleased .
Now this be the picture that Taffy have draw for him !
` What have you be do , Taffy ? '
say Tegumai .
He have mend his spear and be carefully wave it to and fro .
` It 's a little berangement of my own , Daddy dear , ' say Taffy .
` If you wo n't ask me question , you 'll know all about it in a little time , and you 'll be surprise .
You do n't know how surprised you 'll be , Daddy !
Promise you 'll be surprise . '
` Very well , ' say Tegumai , and go on fishing .
The Stranger-man -- do you know he be a Tewara ?
-- hurry away with the picture and ran for some mile , till quite by accident he find Teshumai Tewindrow at the door of her Cave , talk to some other Neolithic lady who have come in to a Primitive lunch .
Taffy be very like Teshumai , especially about the upper part of the face and the eye , so the Stranger-man -- always a pure Tewara -- smile politely and hand Teshumai the birch-bark .
He have run hard , so that he pant , and his leg be scratch with bramble , but he still try to be polite .
As soon a Teshumai saw the picture she scream like anything and flew at the Stranger-man .
The other Neolithic lady at once knock him down and sit on him in a long line of six , while Teshumai pull his hair .
` It 's as plain a the nose on this Stranger-man 's face , ' she say .
` He have stick my Tegumai all full of spear , and frighten poor Taffy so that her hair stand all on end ; and not content with that , he bring me a horrid picture of how it be do .
Look ! '
She show the picture to all the Neolithic lady sit patiently on the Stranger-man .
` Here be my Tegumai with his arm broken ; here be a spear sticking into his back ; here be a man with a spear ready to throw ; here be another man throw a spear from a Cave , and here be a whole pack of people ' -LRB- they be Taffy 's beaver really , but they do look rather like people -RRB- ` come up behind Tegumai .
Is n't it shock ! '
` Most shocking ! '
say the Neolithic lady , and they fill the Stranger-man 's hair with mud -LRB- at which he be surprised -RRB- , and they beat upon the Reverberating Tribal Drums , and call together all the chief of the Tribe of Tegumai , with their Hetmans and Dolmans , all Neguses , Woons , and Akhoonds of the organisation , in addition to the Warlocks , Angekoks , Juju-men , Bonzes , and the rest , who decide that before they chop the Stranger-man 's head off he should instantly lead them down to the river and show them where he have hide poor Taffy .
By this time the Stranger-man -LRB- in spite of be a Tewara -RRB- be really annoy .
They have fill his hair quite solid with mud ; they have roll him up and down on knobby pebble ; they have sit upon him in a long line of six ; they have thump him and bump him till he could hardly breathe ; and though he do not understand their language , he be almost sure that the name the Neolithic lady call him be not ladylike .
However , he say nothing till all the Tribe of Tegumai be assemble , and then he lead them back to the bank of the Wagai river , and there they find Taffy make daisy-chains , and Tegumai carefully spear small carp with his mended spear .
` Well , you have be quick ! '
say Taffy .
` But why do you bring so many people ?
Daddy dear , this be my surprise .
Are you surprise , Daddy ? '
` Very , ' say Tegumai ; ` but it have ruin all my fishing for the day .
Why , the whole dear , kind , nice , clean , quiet Tribe be here , Taffy . '
And so they be .
First of all walked Teshumai Tewindrow and the Neolithic lady , tightly hold on to the Stranger-man , whose hair be full of mud -LRB- although he be a Tewara -RRB- .
Behind them come the Head Chief , the Vice-Chief , the Deputy and Assistant Chiefs -LRB- all arm to the upper teeth -RRB- , the Hetmans and Heads of Hundreds , Platoffs with their Platoons , and Dolmans with their Detachments ; Woons , Neguses , and Akhoonds ranking in the rear -LRB- still arm to the teeth -RRB- .
Behind them be the Tribe in hierarchical order , from owner of four cave -LRB- one for each season -RRB- , a private reindeer-run , and two salmon-leaps , to feudal and prognathous Villeins , semi-entitled to half a bearskin of winter night , seven yard from the fire , and adscript serf , hold the reversion of a scraped marrow-bone under heriot -LRB- Are n't those beautiful word , Best Beloved ? -RRB-
.
They be all there , prance and shout , and they frighten every fish for twenty mile , and Tegumai thank them in a fluid Neolithic oration .
Then Teshumai Tewindrow run down and kiss and hug Taffy very much indeed ; but the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai take Tegumai by the top-knot feather and shake him severely .
` Explain !
Explain !
Explain ! '
cry all the Tribe of Tegumai .
` Goodness ' sake alive ! '
say Tegumai .
` Let go of my top-knot .
Ca n't a man break his carp-spear without the whole countryside descend on him ?
You 're a very interfering people . ' '
I do n't believe you 've bring my Daddy 's black-handled spear after all , ' say Taffy .
` And what be you do to my nice Stranger-man ? '
They be thump him by two and three and ten till his eye turn round and round .
He could only gasp and point at Taffy .
` Where be the bad people who spear you , my darling ? '
say Teshumai Tewindrow .
` There be n't any , ' say Tegumai .
` My only visitor this morning be the poor fellow that you be try to choke .
Are n't you well , or be you ill , O Tribe of Tegumai ? '
` He come with a horrible picture , ' say the Head Chief , -- ' a picture that show you be full of spear . '
` Er-um-Pr ` aps I 'd better ` splain that I give him that picture , ' say Taffy , but she do not feel quite comfy .
` You ! '
say the Tribe of Tegumai all together .
` Small-person-with-no-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked !
You ? '
` Taffy dear , I 'm afraid we 're in for a little trouble , ' say her Daddy , and put his arm round her , so she do n't care .
` Explain !
Explain !
Explain ! '
say the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai , and he hop on one foot . '
I want the Stranger-man to fetch Daddy 's spear , so I drawded it , ' say Taffy .
` There be n't lot of spear .
There be only one spear .
I drawded it three time to make sure .
I could n't help it look a if it stick into Daddy 's head -- there be n't room on the birch-bark ; and those thing that Mummy call bad people be my beaver .
I drawded them to show him the way through the swamp ; and I drawded Mummy at the mouth of the Cave look pleased because he be a nice Stranger-man , and I think you be just the stupid people in the world , ' say Taffy .
` He be a very nice man .
Why have you fill his hair with mud ?
Wash him ! '
Nobody say anything at all for a longtime , till the Head Chief laugh ; then the Stranger-man -LRB- who be at least a Tewara -RRB- laugh ; then Tegumai laugh till he fell down flat on the bank ; then all the Tribe laugh more and bad and louder .
The only people who do not laugh be Teshumai Tewindrow and all the Neolithic lady .
They be very polite to all their husband , and say ` Idiot ! '
ever so often .
Then the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai cry and say and sing , ' O Small-person-with-out-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked , you 've hit upon a great invention ! ' '
I do n't intend to ; I only want Daddy 's black-handled spear , ' say Taffy .
` Never mind .
It be a great invention , and some day men will call it write .
At present it be only picture , and , a we have see to-day , picture be not always properly understood .
But a time will come , O Babe of Tegumai , when we shall make letter -- all twenty-six of 'em , -- and when we shall be able to read as well a to write , and then we shall always say exactly what we mean without any mistake .
Let the Neolithic lady wash the mud out of the stranger 's hair . ' '
I shall be glad of that , ' say Taffy , ` because , after all , though you 've bring every single other spear in the Tribe of Tegumai , you 've forget my Daddy 's black-handled spear . '
Then the Head Chief cry and say and sing , ` Taffy dear , the next time you write a picture-letter , you 'd better send a man who can talk our language with it , to explain what it mean .
I do n't mind it myself , because I be a Head Chief , but it 's very bad for the rest of the Tribe of Tegumai , and , a you can see , it surprise the stranger . '
Then they adopt the Stranger-man -LRB- a genuine Tewara of Tewar -RRB- into the Tribe of Tegumai , because he be a gentleman and do not make a fuss about the mud that the Neolithic lady have put into his hair .
But from that day to this -LRB- and I suppose it be all Taffy 's fault -RRB- , very few little girl have ever like learning to read or write .
Most of them prefer to draw picture and play about with their Daddies -- just like Taffy .
THERE run a road by Merrow Down -- A grassy track to-day it be An hour out of Guildford town , Above the river Wey it be .
Here , when they hear the horse-bells ring , The ancient Britons dress and ride To watch the dark Phoenicians bring Their good along the Western Road .
And here , or hereabouts , they meet To hold their racial talk and such -- To barter bead for Whitby jet , And tin for gay shell torque and such .
But long and long before that time -LRB- When bison use to roam on it -RRB- Did Taffy and her Daddy climb That down , and have their home on it .
Then beaver build in Broadstone brook And make a swamp where Bramley stand : And hears from Shere would come and look For Taffimai where Shamley stand .
The Wey , that Taffy call Wagai , Was more than six time big then ; And all the Tribe of Tegumai They cut a noble figure then !
HOW THE ALPHABET WAS MADE THE week after Taffimai Metallumai -LRB- we will still call her Taffy , Best Beloved -RRB- make that little mistake about her Daddy 's spear and the Stranger-man and the picture-letter and all , she go carp-fishing again with her Daddy .
Her Mummy want her to stay at home and help hang up hide to dry on the big drying-poles outside their Neolithic Cave , but Taffy slip away down to her Daddy quite early , and they fish .
Presently she begin to giggle , and her Daddy say , ` Do n't be silly , child . '
` But be n't it incite ! '
say Taffy .
` Do n't you remember how the Head Chief puff out his cheek , and how funny the nice Stranger-man look with the mud in his hair ? '
` Well do I , ' say Tegumai . '
I have to pay two deerskin -- soft one with fringe -- to the Stranger-man for the thing we do to him . '
` We do n't do anything , ' say Taffy .
` It be Mummy and the other Neolithic lady -- and the mud . '
` We wo n't talk about that , ' say her Daddy , ` Let 's have lunch . '
Taffy take a marrow-bone and sit mousy-quiet for ten whole minute , while her Daddy scratch on piece of birch-bark with a shark 's tooth .
Then she say , ` Daddy , I 've think of a secret surprise .
You make a noise -- any sort of noise . '
` Ah ! '
say Tegumai .
` Will that do to begin with ? '
` Yes , ' say Taffy .
` You look just like a carp-fish with it mouth open .
Say it again , please . '
` Ah !
ah !
ah ! '
say her Daddy .
` Do n't be rude , my daughter . '
` I 'm not mean rude , really and truly , ' say Taffy .
` It 's part of my secret-surprise-think .
Do say ah , Daddy , and keep your mouth open at the end , and lend me that tooth .
I 'm go to draw a carp-fish 's mouth wide-open . '
` What for ? '
say her Daddy .
` Do n't you see ? '
say Taffy , scratch away on the bark .
` That will be our little secret s ` prise .
When I draw a carp-fish with his mouth open in the smoke at the back of our Cave -- if Mummy do n't mind -- it will remind you of that ah-noise .
Then we can play that it be me jump out of the dark and s ` prise you with that noise -- same a I do in the beaver-swamp last winter . '
` Really ? '
say her Daddy , in the voice that grown-ups use when they be truly attend .
` Go on , Taffy . '
` Oh bother ! '
she say . '
I ca n't draw all of a carp-fish , but I can draw something that mean a carp-fish 's mouth .
Do n't you know how they stand on their head root in the mud ?
Well , here 's a pretence carp-fish -LRB- we can play that the rest of him be draw -RRB- .
Here 's just his mouth , and that mean ah . '
And she draw this .
-LRB- 1 . -RRB-
` That 's not bad , ' say Tegumai , and scratch on his own piece of bark for himself ; but you 've forget the feeler that hang across his mouth . '
` But I ca n't draw , Daddy . '
` You need n't draw anything of him except just the opening of his mouth and the feeler across .
Then we 'll know he 's a carp-fish , 'cause the perch and trout have n't get feeler .
Look here , Taffy . '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 2 . -RRB-
` Now I 'll copy it . '
say Taffy .
` Will you understand this when you see it ? '
` Perfectly , ' say her Daddy .
And she draw this .
-LRB- 3 . -RRB-
` And I 'll be quite a s ` prise when I see it anywhere , a if you have jump out from behind a tree and say ' `` Ah ! '' '
` Now , make another noise , ' say Taffy , very proud .
` Yah ! '
say her Daddy , very loud .
` H 'm , ' say Taffy .
` That 's a mixy noise .
The end part be ah-carp-fish-mouth ; but what can we do about the front part ?
Yer-yer-yer and ah !
Ya ! '
` It 's very like the carp-fish-mouth noise .
Let 's draw another bit of the carp-fish and join 'em , ' say her Daddy .
He be quite incited too .
` No .
If they 're join , I 'll forget .
Draw it separate .
Draw his tail .
If he 's stand on his head the tail will come first .
` Sides , I think I can draw tail easy , ' say Taffy . '
A good notion , ' say Tegumai .
` Here 's a carp-fish tail for the yer-noise . '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 4 . -RRB-
` I 'll try now , ' say Taffy . ''
Member I ca n't draw like you , Daddy .
Will it do if I just draw the split part of the tail , and the sticky-down line for where it join ? '
And she draw this .
-LRB- 5 . -RRB-
Her Daddy nod , and his eye be shiny bright with ` citement .
` That 's beautiful , ' she say .
` Now make another noise , Daddy . '
` Oh ! '
say her Daddy , very loud .
` That 's quite easy , ' say Taffy .
` You make your mouth all around like an egg or a stone .
So an egg or a stone will do for that . '
` You ca n't always find eggs or stone .
We 'll have to scratch a round something like one . '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 6 . -RRB-
` My gracious ! '
say Taffy , ` what a lot of noise-pictures we 've make , -- carp-mouth , carp-tail , and egg !
Now , make another noise , Daddy . '
` Ssh ! '
say her Daddy , and frown to himself , but Taffy be too incite to notice .
` That 's quite easy , ' she say , scratch on the bark .
` Eh , what ? '
say her Daddy . '
I mean I be think , and do n't want to be disturb . '
` It 's a noise just the same .
It 's the noise a snake make , Daddy , when it be think and do n't want to be disturb .
Let 's make the ssh-noise a snake .
Will this do ? '
And she draw this .
-LRB- 7 . -RRB-
` There , ' she say .
` That 's another s ` prise-secret .
When you draw a hissy-snake by the door of your little back-cave where you mend the spear , I 'll know you 're think hard ; and I 'll come in most mousy-quiet .
And if you draw it on a tree by the river when you be fish , I 'll know you want me to walk most most mousy-quiet , so a not to shake the bank . '
` Perfectly true , ' say Tegumai .
And there 's more in this game than you think .
Taffy , dear , I 've a notion that your Daddy 's daughter have hit upon the fine thing that there ever be since the Tribe of Tegumai take to use shark 's teeth instead of flint for their spear-heads .
I believe we 've find out the big secret of the world . '
` Why ? '
say Taffy , and her eye shine too with incitement .
` I 'll show , ' say her Daddy .
` What 's water in the Tegumai language ? '
` Ya , of course , and it mean river too -- like Wagai-ya -- the Wagai river . '
` What be bad water that give you fever if you drink it -- black water -- swamp-water ? '
` Yo , of course . '
` Now look , ' say her Daddy .
'S ` pose you saw this scratch by the side of a pool in the beaver-swamp ? '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 8 . -RRB-
` Carp-tail and round egg .
Two noise mixed !
Yo , bad water , ' say Taffy . ''
Course I would n't drink that water because I 'd know you say it be bad . '
` But I need n't be near the water at all .
I might be mile away , hunt , and still -- ' ` And still it would be just the same a if you stand there and say , `` G'way , Taffy , or you 'll get fever . ''
All that in a carp-fish-tail and a round egg !
O Daddy , we must tell Mummy , quick ! '
and Taffy dance all round him .
` Not yet , ' say Tegumai ; ` not till we 've go a little further .
Let 's see .
Yo be bad water , but So be food cook on the fire , be n't it ? '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 9 . -RRB-
` Yes .
Snake and egg , ' say Taffy ` So that mean dinner 's ready .
If you saw that scratch on a tree you 'd know it be time to come to the Cave .
So 'd I. ' ` My Winkie ! '
say Tegumai .
` That 's true too .
But wait a minute .
I see a difficulty .
SO mean `` come and have dinner , '' but sho mean the drying-poles where we hang our hide . '
` Horrid old drying-poles ! '
say Taffy . '
I hate help to hang heavy , hot , hairy hide on them .
If you draw the snake and egg , and I think it mean dinner , and I come in from the wood and find that it mean I be to help Mummy hang the two hide on the drying-poles , what would I do ? '
` You 'd be cross .
So 'd Mummy .
We must make a new picture for sho .
We must draw a spotty snake that hiss sh-sh , and we 'll play that the plain snake only hiss sss . ' '
I could n't be sure how to put in the spot , ' say Taffy .
` And p ` rap if you be in a hurry you might leave them out , and I 'd think it be so when it be sho , and then Mummy would catch me just the same .
No !
I think we 'd better draw a picture of the horrid high drying-poles their very self , and make quite sure .
I 'll put them in just after the hissy-snake .
Look ! '
And she draw this .
-LRB- 10 . -RRB-
` P'raps that 's safe .
It 's very like our drying-poles , anyhow , ' say her Daddy , laugh .
` Now I 'll make a new noise with a snake and drying-pole sound in it .
I 'll say shi .
That 's Tegumai for spear , Taffy . '
And he laugh .
` Do n't make fun of me , ' say Taffy , a she think of her picture-letter and the mud in the Stranger-man 's hair .
` You draw it , Daddy . '
` We wo n't have beaver or hill this time , eh ? '
say her Daddy , ` I 'll just draw a straight line for my spear . '
and he draw this .
-LRB- 11 . -RRB-
` Even Mummy could n't mistake that for me be kill . '
` Please do n't , Daddy .
It make me uncomfy .
Do some more noise .
We 're get on beautifully . '
` Er-hm ! '
say Tegumai , look up .
` We 'll say shu .
That mean sky . '
Taffy draw the snake and the drying-pole .
Then she stop .
` We must make a new picture for that end sound , must n't we ? '
` Shu-shu-u-u-u ! '
say her Daddy .
` Why , it 's just like the round-egg-sound make thin . '
` Then s ` pose we draw a thin round egg , and pretend it 's a frog that have n't eat anything for year . '
` N-no , ' say her Daddy .
` If we draw that in a hurry we might mistake it for the round egg itself .
Shu-shu-shu ! '
I tell you what we 'll do .
We 'll open a little hole at the end of the round egg to show how the O-noise run out all thin , ooo-oo-oo .
Like this . '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 12 . -RRB-
` Oh , that 's lovely !
Much good than a thin frog .
Go on , ' say Taffy , use her shark 's tooth .
Her Daddy go on drawing , and his hand shook with incitement .
He go on till he have draw this .
-LRB- 13 . -RRB-
` Do n't look up , Taffy , ' he say .
` Try if you can make out what that mean in the Tegumai language .
If you can , we 've find the Secret . '
` Snake -- pole -- broken -- egg -- carp -- tail and carp-mouth , ' say Taffy .
` Shu-ya .
Sky-water -LRB- rain -RRB- . '
Just then a drop fell on her hand , for the day have cloud over .
` Why , Daddy , it 's rain .
Was that what you mean to tell me ? '
` Of course , ' say her Daddy .
` And I tell it you without say a word , do n't I ? '
` Well , I think I would have know it in a minute , but that raindrop make me quite sure .
I 'll always remember now .
Shu-ya mean rain , or `` it be go to rain . ''
Why , Daddy ! '
She get up and dance round him .
'S ` pose you go out before I be awake , and draw shu-ya in the smoke on the wall , I 'd know it be go to rain and I 'd take my beaver-skin hood .
Would n't Mummy be surprise ? '
Tegumai get up and dance .
-LRB- Daddies do n't mind do those thing in those day . -RRB-
` More than that !
More than that ! '
he say .
'S ` pose I want to tell you it be n't go to rain much and you must come down to the river , what would we draw ?
Say the word in Tegumai-talk first . '
` Shu-ya-las , ya maru .
-LRB- Sky-water end .
River come to . -RRB-
what a lot of new sound !
I do n't see how we can draw them . '
` But I do -- but I do ! '
say Tegumai .
` Just attend a minute , Taffy , and we wo n't do any more to-day .
We 've get shu-ya all right , have n't we ?
But this la be a teaser .
La-la-la ' and he wave his shark-tooth .
` There 's the hissy-snake at the end and the carp-mouth before the snake -- as-as-as .
We only want la-la , ' say Taffy . '
I know it , but we have to make la-la .
And we 're the first people in all the world who 've ever try to do it , Taffimai ! '
` Well , ' say Taffy , yawning , for she be rather tired .
` Las mean break or finish as well a end , do n't it ? '
` So it do , ' say Tegumai .
` To-las mean that there 's no water in the tank for Mummy to cook with -- just when I 'm go hunting , too . '
` And shi-las mean that your spear be break .
If I 'd only think of that instead of draw silly beaver picture for the Stranger ! '
` La !
La !
La ! '
say Tegumai , waive his stick and frowning .
` Oh bother ! ' '
I could have draw shi quite easily , ' Taffy go on .
` Then I 'd have draw your spear all break -- this way ! '
And she draw .
-LRB- 14 . -RRB-
` The very thing , ' say Tegumai .
` That 's la all over .
It be n't like any of the other mark either . '
And he draw this .
-LRB- 15 . -RRB-
` Now for ya .
Oh , we 've do that before .
Now for maru .
Mum-mum-mum .
Mum shut one 's mouth up , do n't it ?
We 'll draw a shut mouth like this . '
And he draw .
-LRB- 16 . -RRB-
` Then the carp-mouth open .
That make Ma-ma-ma !
But what about this rrrrr-thing , Taffy ? '
` It sound all rough and edgy , like your shark-tooth saw when you 're cut out a plank for the canoe , ' say Taffy .
` You mean all sharp at the edge , like this ? '
say Tegumai .
And he draw .
-LRB- 17 . -RRB- ''
Xactly , ' say Taffy .
` But we do n't want all those teeth : only put two . '
` I 'll only put in one , ' say Tegumai .
` If this game of ours be go to be what I think it will , the easy we make our sound-pictures the good for everybody . '
And he draw .
-LRB- 18 . -RRB-
` Now , we 've get it , ' say Tegumai , stand on one leg .
` I 'll draw 'em all in a string like fish . '
` Had n't we good put a little bit of stick or something between each word , so 's they wo n't rub up against each other and jostle , same a if they be carp ? '
` Oh , I 'll leave a space for that , ' say her Daddy .
And very incitedly he draw them all without stop , on a big new bit of birch-bark .
-LRB- 19 . -RRB-
` Shu-ya-las ya-maru , ' say Taffy , read it out sound by sound .
` That 's enough for to-day , ' say Tegumai .
` Besides , you 're get tire , Taffy .
Never mind , dear .
We 'll finish it all to-morrow , and then we 'll be remember for year and year after the big tree you can see be all chop up for firewood . '
So they go home , and all that even Tegumai sit on one side of the fire and Taffy on the other , draw ya 's and yo 's and shu 's and shi 's in the smoke on the wall and giggle together till her Mummy say , ` Really , Tegumai , you 're bad than my Taffy . '
` Please do n't mind , ' say Taffy .
` It 's only our secret-s ` prise , Mummy dear , and we 'll tell you all about it the very minute it 's do ; but please do n't ask me what it be now , or else I 'll have to tell . '
So her Mummy most carefully do n't ; and bright and early next morning Tegumai go down to the river to think about new sound picture , and when Taffy get up she saw Ya-las -LRB- water be end or run out -RRB- chalk on the side of the big stone water-tank , outside the Cave .
` Um , ' say Taffy .
` These picture-sounds be rather a bother !
Daddy 's just as good a come here himself and tell me to get more water for Mummy to cook with . '
She go to the spring at the back of the house and fill the tank from a bark bucket , and then she run down to the river and pull her Daddy 's left ear -- the one that belong to her to pull when she be good .
` Now come along and we 'll draw all the left-over sound-pictures , ' say her Daddy , and they have a most inciting day of it , and a beautiful lunch in the middle , and two game of romp .
When they come to T , Taffy say that a her name , and her Daddy 's , and her Mummy 's all begin with that sound , they should draw a sort of family group of themselves hold hand .
That be all very well to draw once or twice ; but when it come to draw it six or seven time , Taffy and Tegumai draw it scratchier and scratchier , till at last the T-sound be only a thin long Tegumai with his arm out to hold Taffy and Teshumai .
You can see from these three picture partly how it happen .
-LRB- 20 , 21 , 22 . -RRB-
Many of the other picture be much too beautiful to begin with , especially before lunch , but a they be draw over and over again on birch-bark , they become plainer and easy , till at last even Tegumai say he could find no fault with them .
They turn the hissy-snake the other way round for the Z-sound , to show it be hiss backwards in a soft and gentle way -LRB- 23 -RRB- ; and they just make a twiddle for E , because it come into the picture so often -LRB- 24 -RRB- ; and they draw picture of the sacred Beaver of the Tegumais for the B-sound -LRB- 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 -RRB- ; and because it be a nasty , nosy noise , they just draw nose for the N-sound , till they be tire -LRB- 29 -RRB- ; and they draw a picture of the big lake-pike 's mouth for the greedy Ga-sound -LRB- 30 -RRB- ; and they draw the pike 's mouth again with a spear behind it for the scratchy , hurty Ka-sound -LRB- 31 -RRB- ; and they draw picture of a little bit of the wind Wagai river for the nice windy-windy Wa-sound -LRB- 32 , 33 -RRB- ; and so on and so forth and so follow till they have do and draw all the sound-pictures that they want , and there be the Alphabet , all complete .
And after thousand and thousand and thousand of year , and after Hieroglyphics and Demotics , and Nilotics , and Cryptics , and Cufics , and Runics , and Dorics , and Ionics , and all sort of other rick and trick -LRB- because the Woons , and the Neguses , and the Akhoonds , and the Repositories of Tradition would never leave a good thing alone when they saw it -RRB- , the fine old easy , understandable Alphabet -- A , B , C , D , E , and the rest of 'em -- get back into it proper shape again for all Best Beloveds to learn when they be old enough .
But I remember Tegumai Bopsulai , and Taffimai Metallumai and Teshumai Tewindrow , her dear Mummy , and all the day go by .
And it be so -- just so -- a little time ago -- on the bank of the big Wagai !
OF all the Tribe of Tegumai Who cut that figure , none remain , -- On Merrow Down the cuckoo cry The silence and the sun remain .
But a the faithful year return And heart unwounded sing again , Comes Taffy dance through the fern To lead the Surrey spring again .
Her brow be bind with bracken-fronds , And golden elf-locks fly above ; Her eye be bright a diamond And bluer than the sky above .
In mocassin and deer-skin cloak , Unfearing , free and fair she flit , And light her little damp-wood smoke To show her Daddy where she flit .
For far -- oh , very far behind , So far she can not call to him , Comes Tegumai alone to find The daughter that be all to him .
THE CRAB THAT PLAYED WITH THE SEA BEFORE the High and Far-Off Times , O my Best Beloved , come the Time of the Very Beginnings ; and that be in the day when the Eldest Magician be get Things ready .
First he get the Earth ready ; then he get the Sea ready ; and then he tell all the Animals that they could come out and play .
And the Animals say , ' O Eldest Magician , what shall we play at ? '
and he say , ' I will show you .
He take the Elephant -- All-the-Elephant-there-was -- and say , ` Play at be an Elephant , ' and All-the-Elephant-there-was play .
He take the Beaver -- All-the-Beaver-there-was and say , ` Play at be a Beaver , ' and All-the Beaver-there-was played .
He take the Cow -- All-the Cow-there-was -- and say , ` Play at be a Cow , ' and All-the-Cow-there-was play .
He take the Turtle -- All-the-Turtle there-was and say , ` Play at be a Turtle , ' and All-the-Turtle-there-was play .
One by one he take all the beast and bird and fish and tell them what to play at .
But towards evening , when people and thing grow restless and tire , there come up the Man -LRB- With his own little girl-daughter ? -RRB-
-- Yes , with his own best beloved little girl-daughter sit upon his shoulder , and he say , ` What be this play , Eldest Magician ? '
And the Eldest Magician say , ` Ho , Son of Adam , this be the play of the Very Beginning ; but you be too wise for this play . '
And the Man salute and say , ` Yes , I be too wise for this play ; but see that you make all the Animals obedient to me . '
Now , while the two be talk together , Pau Amma the Crab , who be next in the game , scuttle off sideways and step into the sea , say to himself , ' I will play my play alone in the deep water , and I will never be obedient to this son of Adam . '
Nobody saw him go away except the little girl-daughter where she lean on the Man 's shoulder .
And the play go on till there be no more Animals leave without order ; and the Eldest Magician wipe the fine dust off his hand and walk about the world to see how the Animals be play .
He go North , Best Beloved , and he find All-the-Elephant-there-was dig with his tusk and stamp with his foot in the nice new clean earth that have be make ready for him .
` Kun ? '
say All-the-Elephant-there-was , meaning , ` Is this right ? '
` Payah kun , ' say the Eldest Magician , meaning , ` That be quite right ' ; and he breathe upon the great rock and lump of earth that All-the-Elephant-there-was have throw up , and they become the great Himalayan Mountains , and you can look them out on the map .
He go East , and he find All-the-Cow there-was feeding in the field that have be make ready for her , and she lick her tongue round a whole forest at a time , and swallow it and sit down to chew her cud .
` Kun ? '
say All-the-Cow-there-was .
` Payah kun , ' say the Eldest Magician ; and he breathe upon the bare patch where she have eat , and upon the place where she have sit down , and one become the great Indian Desert , and the other become the Desert of Sahara , and you can look them out on the map .
He go West , and he find All-the-Beaver-there-was make a beaver-dam across the mouth of broad river that have be get ready for him .
` Kun ? '
say All-the-Beaver-there-was .
` Payah kun , ' say the Eldest Magician ; and he breathe upon the fall tree and the still water , and they become the Everglades in Florida , and you may look them out on the map .
Then he go South and find All-the-Turtle-there-was scratch with his flipper in the sand that have be get ready for him , and the sand and the rock whirl through the air and fell far off into the sea .
` Kun ? '
say All-the-Turtle-there-was .
` Payah kun , ' say the Eldest Magician ; and he breathe upon the sand and the rock , where they have fall in the sea , and they become the most beautiful island of Borneo , Celebes , Sumatra , Java , and the rest of the Malay Archipelago , and you can look them out on the map !
By and by the Eldest Magician meet the Man on the bank of the Perak river , and say , ` Ho !
Son of Adam , be all the Animals obedient to you ? '
` Yes , ' say the Man .
` Is all the Earth obedient to you ? '
` Yes , ' say the Man .
` Is all the Sea obedient to you ? '
` No , ' say the Man .
` Once a day and once a night the Sea run up the Perak river and drive the sweet-water back into the forest , so that my house be make wet ; once a day and once a night it run down the river and draw all the water after it , so that there be nothing left but mud , and my canoe be upset .
Is that the play you tell it to play ? '
` No , ' say the Eldest Magician .
` That be a new and a bad play . '
` Look ! '
say the Man , and a he speak the great Sea come up the mouth of the Perak river , drive the river backwards till it overflowed all the dark forest for mile and mile , and flood the Man 's house .
` This be wrong .
Launch your canoe and we will find out who be play with the Sea , ' say the Eldest Magician .
They step into the canoe ; the little girl-daughter come with them ; and the Man take his kris -- a curving , wavy dagger with a blade like a flame , -- and they push out on the Perak river .
Then the sea begin to run back and back , and the canoe be suck out of the mouth of the Perak river , past Selangor , past Malacca , past Singapore , out and out to the Island of Bingtang , a though it have be pull by a string .
Then the Eldest Magician stand up and shout , ` Ho !
beast , bird , and fish , that I take between my hand at the Very Beginning and teach the play that you should play , which one of you be play with the Sea ? '
Then all the beast , bird , and fish say together , ` Eldest Magician , we play the play that you teach u to play -- we and our child 's child .
But not one of u play with the Sea . '
Then the Moon rise big and full over the water , and the Eldest Magician say to the hunchbacked old man who sit in the Moon spin a fishing-line with which he hop one day to catch the world , ` Ho !
Fisher of the Moon , be you play with the Sea ? '
` No , ' say the Fisherman , ' I be spin a line with which I shall some day catch the world ; but I do not play with the Sea . '
And he go on spin his line .
Now there be also a Rat up in the Moon who always bite the old Fisherman 's line as fast a it be make , and the Eldest Magician say to him , ` Ho !
Rat of the Moon , be you play with the Sea ? '
And the Rat say , ' I be too busy bite through the line that this old Fisherman be spin .
I do not play with the Sea . '
And he go on bite the line .
Then the little girl-daughter put up her little soft brown arm with the beautiful white shell bracelet and say , ' O Eldest Magician !
when my father here talk to you at the Very Beginning , and I lean upon his shoulder while the beast be be teach their play , one beast go away naughtily into the Sea before you have teach him his play .
And the Eldest Magician say , ` How wise be little child who see and be silent !
What be the beast like ? '
And the little girl-daughter say , ` He be round and he be flat ; and his eye grow upon stalk ; and he walk sideways like this ; and he be cover with strong armour upon his back . '
And the Eldest Magician say , ` How wise be little child who speak truth !
Now I know where Pau Amma go .
Give me the paddle ! '
So he take the paddle ; but there be no need to paddle , for the water flow steadily past all the island till they come to the place call Pusat Tasek -- the Heart of the Sea -- where the great hollow be that lead down to the heart of the world , and in that hollow grow the Wonderful Tree , Pauh Janggi , that bear the magic twin nut .
Then the Eldest Magician slide his arm up to the shoulder through the deep warm water , and under the root of the Wonderful Tree he touch the broad back of Pau Amma the Crab .
And Pau Amma settle down at the touch , and all the Sea rise up a water rise in a basin when you put your hand into it .
` Ah ! '
say the Eldest Magician .
` Now I know who have be play with the Sea ; ' and he call out , ` What be you do , Pau Amma ? '
And Pau Amma , deep down below , answer , ` Once a day and once a night I go out to look for my food .
Once a day and once a night I return .
Leave me alone . '
Then the Eldest Magician say , ` Listen , Pau Amma .
When you go out from your cave the water of the Sea pour down into Pusat Tasek , and all the beach of all the island be leave bare , and the little fish die , and Raja Moyang Kaban , the King of the Elephants , his leg be make muddy .
When you come back and sit in Pusat Tasek , the water of the Sea rise , and half the little island be drown , and the Man 's house be flood , and Raja Abdullah , the King of the Crocodiles , his mouth be fill with the salt water .
Then Pau Amma , deep down below , laugh and say , ' I do not know I be so important .
Henceforward I will go out seven time a day , and the water shall never be still . '
And the Eldest Magician say , ' I can not make you play the play you be mean to play , Pau Amma , because you escape me at the Very Beginning ; but if you be not afraid , come up and we will talk about it . ' '
I be not afraid , ' say Pau Amma , and he rise to the top of the sea in the moonlight .
There be nobody in the world so big a Pau Amma -- for he be the King Crab of all Crabs .
Not a common Crab , but a King Crab .
One side of his great shell touch the beach at Sarawak ; the other touch the beach at Pahang ; and he be taller than the smoke of three volcano !
As he rise up through the branch of the Wonderful Tree he tear off one of the great twin fruit -- the magic double kernelled nut that make people young , -- and the little girl-daughter saw it bob alongside the canoe , and pull it in and begin to pick out the soft eye of it with her little golden scissors .
` Now , ' say the Magician , ` make a Magic , Pau Amma , to show that you be really important . '
Pau Amma roll his eye and wave his leg , but he could only stir up the Sea , because , though he be a King Crab , he be nothing more than a Crab , and the Eldest Magician laugh .
` You be not so important after all , Pau Amma , ' he say .
` Now , let me try , ' and he make a Magic with his left hand -- with just the little finger of his left hand -- and -- lo and behold , Best Beloved , Pau Amma 's hard , blue-green-black shell fell off him a a husk fall off a cocoa-nut , and Pau Amma be leave all soft -- soft a the little crab that you sometimes find on the beach , Best Beloved .
` Indeed , you be very important , ' say the Eldest Magician .
` Shall I ask the Man here to cut you with kris ?
Shall I send for Raja Moyang Kaban , the King of the Elephants , to pierce you with his tusk , or shall I call Raja Abdullah , the King of the Crocodiles , to bite you ? '
And Pau Amma say , ' I be ashamed !
Give me back my hard shell and let me go back to Pusat Tasek , and I will only stir out once a day and once a night to get my food . '
And the Eldest Magician say , ` No , Pau Amma , I will not give you back your shell , for you will grow big and prouder and strong , and perhaps you will forget your promise , and you will play with the Sea once more .
Then Pau Amma say , ` What shall I do ?
I be so big that I can only hide in Pusat Tasek , and if I go anywhere else , all soft a I be now , the shark and the dogfish will eat me .
And if I go to Pusat Tasek , all soft a I be now , though I may be safe , I can never stir out to get my food , and so I shall die . '
Then he wave his leg and lament .
` Listen , Pau Amma , ' say the Eldest Magician . '
I can not make you play the play you be mean to play , because you escape me at the Very Beginning ; but if you choose , I can make every stone and every hole and every bunch of weed in all the sea a safe Pusat Tasek for you and your child for always . '
Then Pau Amma say , ` That be good , but I do not choose yet .
Look !
there be that Man who talk to you at the Very Beginning .
If he have not take up your attention I should not have grow tired of wait and run away , and all this would never have happen .
What will he do for me ? '
And the Man say , ` If you choose , I will make a Magic , so that both the deep water and the dry ground will be a home for you and your child -- so that you shall be able to hide both on the land and in the sea . '
And Pau Amma say , ' I do not choose yet .
Look !
there be that girl who saw me run away at the Very Beginning .
If she have speak then , the Eldest Magician would have call me back , and all this would never have happen .
What will she do for me ? '
And the little girl-daughter say , ` This be a good nut that I be eat .
If you choose , I will make a Magic and I will give you this pair of scissors , very sharp and strong , so that you and your child can eat cocoa-nuts like this all day long when you come up from the Sea to the land ; or you can dig a Pusat Tasek for yourself with the scissors that belong to you when there be no stone or hole near by ; and when the earth be too hard , by the help of these same scissors you can run up a tree . '
And Pau Amma say , ' I do not choose yet , for , all soft a I be , these gift would not help me .
Give me back my shell , O Eldest Magician , and then I will play your play . '
And the Eldest Magician say , ' I will give it back , Pau Amma , for eleven month of the year ; but on the twelfth month of every year it shall grow soft again , to remind you and all your child that I can make magic , and to keep you humble , Pau Amma ; for I see that if you can run both under the water and on land , you will grow too bold ; and if you can climb tree and crack nut and dig hole with your scissors , you will grow too greedy , Pau Amma . '
Then Pau Amma think a little and say , ' I have make my choice .
I will take all the gift . '
Then the Eldest Magician make a Magic with the right hand , with all five finger of his right hand , and lo and behold , Best Beloved , Pau Amma grow small and small and small , till at last there be only a little green crab swimming in the water alongside the canoe , cry in a very small voice , ` Give me the scissors ! '
And the girl-daughter pick him up on the palm of her little brown hand , and sit him in the bottom of the canoe and give him her scissors , and he wave them in his little arm , and open them and shut them and snap them , and say , ' I can eat nut .
I can crack shell .
I can dig hole .
I can climb tree .
I can breathe in the dry air , and I can find a safe Pusat Tasek under every stone .
I do not know I be so important .
Kun ? '
-LRB- Is this right ? -RRB-
` Payah-kun , ' say the Eldest Magician , and he laugh and give him his blessing ; and little Pau Amma scuttle over the side of the canoe into the water ; and he be so tiny that he could have hide under the shadow of a dry leaf on land or of a dead shell at the bottom of the sea .
` Was that well do ? '
say the Eldest Magician .
` Yes , ' say the Man .
` But now we must go back to Perak , and that be a weary way to paddle .
If we have wait till Pau Amma have go out of Pusat Tasek and come home , the water would have carry u there by itself . '
` You be lazy , ' say the Eldest Magician .
` So your child shall be lazy .
They shall be the lazy people in the world .
They shall be call the Malazy -- the lazy people ; ' and he hold up his finger to the Moon and say , ' O Fisherman , here be the Man too lazy to row home .
Pull his canoe home with your line , Fisherman . '
` No , ' say the Man .
` If I be to be lazy all my day , let the Sea work for me twice a day for ever .
That will save paddling . '
And the Eldest Magician laugh and say , ` Payah kun ' -LRB- That be right -RRB- .
And the Rat of the Moon stop bite the line ; and the Fisherman let his line down till it touch the Sea , and he pull the whole deep Sea along , past the Island of Bintang , past Singapore , past Malacca , past Selangor , till the canoe whirl into the mouth of the Perak River again .
Kun ? '
say the Fisherman of the Moon .
` Payah kun , ' say the Eldest Magician .
` See now that you pull the Sea twice a day and twice a night for ever , so that the Malazy fisherman may be save paddling .
But be careful not to do it too hard , or I shall make a magic on you a I do to Pau Amma . '
Then they all go up the Perak River and go to bed , Best Beloved .
Now listen and attend !
From that day to this the Moon have always pull the sea up and down and make what we call the tide .
Sometimes the Fisher of the Sea pull a little too hard , and then we get spring tide ; and sometimes he pull a little too softly , and then we get what be call neap-tides ; but nearly always he be careful , because of the Eldest Magician .
And Pau Amma ?
You can see when you go to the beach , how all Pau Amma 's baby make little Pusat Taseks for themselves under every stone and bunch of weed on the sand ; you can see them wave their little scissors ; and in some part of the world they truly live on the dry land and run up the palm tree and eat cocoa-nuts , exactly a the girl-daughter promise .
But once a year all Pau Ammas must shake off their hard armour and be soft-to remind them of what the Eldest Magician could do .
And so it be n't fair to kill or hunt Pau Amma 's baby just because old Pau Amma be stupidly rude a very long time ago .
Oh yes !
And Pau Amma 's baby hate be take out of their little Pusat Taseks and bring home in pickle-bottles .
That be why they nip you with their scissors , and it serve you right !
CHINA-GOING P 's and O 's Pass Pau Amma 's playground close , And his Pusat Tasek lie Near the track of most B.I . 's .
U.Y.K . and N.D.L . Know Pau Amma 's home as well As the fisher of the Sea know ` Bens , ' M.M . 's , and Rubattinos .
But -LRB- and this be rather queer -RRB- A.T.L . 's can not come here ; O. and O. and D.O.A . Must go round another way .
Orient , Anchor , Bibby , Hall , Never go that way at all .
U.C.S . would have a fit If it find itself on it .
And if ` Beavers ' take their cargo To Penang instead of Lagos , Or a fat Shaw-Savill bore Passengers to Singapore , Or a White Star be to try a Little trip to Sourabaya , Or a B.S.A . go on Past Natal to Cheribon , Then great Mr. Lloyds would come With a wire and drag them home !
You 'll know what my riddle mean When you 've eat mangosteen .
Or if you ca n't wait till then , ask them to let you have the outside page of the Times ; turn over to page 2 where it be mark ` Shipping ' on the top left hand ; then take the Atlas -LRB- and that be the fine picture-book in the world -RRB- and see how the name of the place that the steamer go to fit into the name of the place on the map .
Any steamer-kiddy ought to be able to do that ; but if you ca n't read , ask some one to show it you .
THE CAT THAT WALKED BY HIMSELF HEAR and attend and listen ; for this befell and behappened and become and be , O my Best Beloved , when the Tame animal be wild .
The Dog be wild , and the Horse be wild , and the Cow be wild , and the Sheep be wild , and the Pig be wild -- as wild a wild could be -- and they walk in the Wet Wild Woods by their wild lones .
But the wild of all the wild animal be the Cat .
He walk by himself , and all place be alike to him .
Of course the Man be wild too .
He be dreadfully wild .
He do n't even begin to be tame till he meet the Woman , and she tell him that she do not like living in his wild way .
She pick out a nice dry Cave , instead of a heap of wet leaf , to lie down in ; and she strew clean sand on the floor ; and she light a nice fire of wood at the back of the Cave ; and she hang a dried wild-horse skin , tail-down , across the opening of the Cave ; and she say , ` Wipe you foot , dear , when you come in , and now we 'll keep house . '
That night , Best Beloved , they eat wild sheep roast on the hot stone , and flavour with wild garlic and wild pepper ; and wild duck stuffed with wild rice and wild fenugreek and wild coriander ; and marrow-bones of wild ox ; and wild cherry , and wild grenadillas .
Then the Man go to sleep in front of the fire ever so happy ; but the Woman sit up , comb her hair .
She take the bone of the shoulder of mutton -- the big fat blade-bone -- and she look at the wonderful mark on it , and she throw more wood on the fire , and she make a Magic .
She make the First Singing Magic in the world .
Out in the Wet Wild Woods all the wild animal gather together where they could see the light of the fire a long way off , and they wonder what it mean .
Then Wild Horse stamp with his wild foot and say , ' O my Friends and O my Enemies , why have the Man and the Woman make that great light in that great Cave , and what harm will it do u ? '
Wild Dog lift up his wild nose and smell the smell of roast mutton , and say , ' I will go up and see and look , and say ; for I think it be good .
Cat , come with me . '
` Nenni ! '
say the Cat . '
I be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to me .
I will not come . '
` Then we can never be friend again , ' say Wild Dog , and he trot off to the Cave .
But when he have go a little way the Cat say to himself , ` All place be alike to me .
Why should I not go too and see and look and come away at my own liking . '
So he slip after Wild Dog softly , very softly , and hid himself where he could hear everything .
When Wild Dog reach the mouth of the Cave he lift up the dry horse-skin with his nose and sniff the beautiful smell of the roast mutton , and the Woman , look at the blade-bone , hear him , and laugh , and say , ` Here come the first .
Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , what do you want ? '
Wild Dog say , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , what be this that smell so good in the Wild Woods ? '
Then the Woman pick up a roast mutton-bone and throw it to Wild Dog , and say , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , taste and try . '
Wild Dog gnaw the bone , and it be more delicious than anything he have ever taste , and he say , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , give me another . '
The Woman say , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , help my Man to hunt through the day and guard this Cave at night , and I will give you a many roast bone a you need . '
` Ah ! '
say the Cat , listening .
` This be a very wise Woman , but she be not so wise a I be . '
Wild Dog crawl into the Cave and lay his head on the Woman 's lap , and say , ' O my Friend and Wife of my Friend , I will help Your Man to hunt through the day , and at night I will guard your Cave . '
` Ah ! '
say the Cat , listening .
` That be a very foolish Dog . '
And he go back through the Wet Wild Woods wave his wild tail , and walk by his wild lone .
But he never tell anybody .
When the Man wake up he say , ` What be Wild Dog do here ? '
And the Woman say , ` His name be not Wild Dog any more , but the First Friend , because he will be our friend for always and always and always .
Take him with you when you go hunt . '
Next night the Woman cut great green armful of fresh grass from the water-meadows , and dry it before the fire , so that it smelt like new-mown hay , and she sit at the mouth of the Cave and plait a halter out of horse-hide , and she look at the shoulder of mutton-bone -- at the big broad blade-bone -- and she make a Magic .
She make the Second Singing Magic in the world .
Out in the Wild Woods all the wild animal wonder what have happen to Wild Dog , and at last Wild Horse stamp with his foot and say , ' I will go and see and say why Wild Dog have not return .
Cat , come with me . '
` Nenni ! '
say the Cat . '
I be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to me .
I will not come . '
But all the same he follow Wild Horse softly , very softly , and hid himself where he could hear everything .
When the Woman hear Wild Horse tripping and stumble on his long mane , she laugh and say , ` Here come the second .
Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods what do you want ? '
Wild Horse say , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , where be Wild Dog ? '
The Woman laugh , and pick up the blade-bone and look at it , and say , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , you do not come here for Wild Dog , but for the sake of this good grass . '
And Wild Horse , trip and stumble on his long mane , say , ` That be true ; give it me to eat . '
The Woman say , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , bend your wild head and wear what I give you , and you shall eat the wonderful grass three time a day . '
` Ah , ' say the Cat , listen , ` this be a clever Woman , but she be not so clever a I be . '
Wild Horse bent his wild head , and the Woman slip the plaited hide halter over it , and Wild Horse breathe on the Woman 's foot and say , ' O my Mistress , and Wife of my Master , I will be your servant for the sake of the wonderful grass . '
` Ah , ' say the Cat , listen , ` that be a very foolish Horse . '
And he go back through the Wet Wild Woods , wave his wild tail and walking by his wild lone .
But he never tell anybody .
When the Man and the Dog come back from hunting , the Man say , ` What be Wild Horse do here ? '
And the Woman say , ` His name be not Wild Horse any more , but the First Servant , because he will carry u from place to place for always and always and always .
Ride on his back when you go hunt .
Next day , hold her wild head high that her wild horn should not catch in the wild tree , Wild Cow come up to the Cave , and the Cat follow , and hide himself just the same a before ; and everything happen just the same a before ; and the Cat say the same thing a before , and when Wild Cow have promise to give her milk to the Woman every day in exchange for the wonderful grass , the Cat go back through the Wet Wild Woods wave his wild tail and walking by his wild lone , just the same a before .
But he never tell anybody .
And when the Man and the Horse and the Dog come home from hunt and ask the same question same a before , the Woman say , ` Her name be not Wild Cow any more , but the Giver of Good Food .
She will give u the warm white milk for always and always and always , and I will take care of her while you and the First Friend and the First Servant go hunting .
Next day the Cat wait to see if any other Wild thing would go up to the Cave , but no one move in the Wet Wild Woods , so the Cat walk there by himself ; and he saw the Woman milk the Cow , and he saw the light of the fire in the Cave , and he smelt the smell of the warm white milk .
Cat say , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , where do Wild Cow go ? '
The Woman laugh and say , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , go back to the Woods again , for I have braid up my hair , and I have put away the magic blade-bone , and we have no more need of either friend or servant in our Cave .
Cat say , ' I be not a friend , and I be not a servant .
I be the Cat who walk by himself , and I wish to come into your cave . '
Woman say , ` Then why do you not come with First Friend on the first night ? '
Cat grow very angry and say , ` Has Wild Dog tell tale of me ? '
Then the Woman laugh and say , ` You be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to you .
Your be neither a friend nor a servant .
You have say it yourself .
Go away and walk by yourself in all place alike . '
Then Cat pretend to be sorry and say , ` Must I never come into the Cave ?
Must I never sit by the warm fire ?
Must I never drink the warm white milk ?
You be very wise and very beautiful .
You should not be cruel even to a Cat . '
Woman say , ' I know I be wise , but I do not know I be beautiful .
So I will make a bargain with you .
If ever I say one word in your praise you may come into the Cave . '
` And if you say two word in my praise ? '
say the Cat . '
I never shall , ' say the Woman , ` but if I say two word in your praise , you may sit by the fire in the Cave . '
` And if you say three word ? '
say the Cat . '
I never shall , ' say the Woman , ` but if I say three word in your praise , you may drink the warm white milk three time a day for always and always and always . '
Then the Cat arch his back and say , ` Now let the Curtain at the mouth of the Cave , and the Fire at the back of the Cave , and the Milk-pots that stand beside the Fire , remember what my Enemy and the Wife of my Enemy have say . '
And he go away through the Wet Wild Woods wave his wild tail and walking by his wild lone .
That night when the Man and the Horse and the Dog come home from hunt , the Woman do not tell them of the bargain that she have make with the Cat , because she be afraid that they might not like it .
Cat go far and far away and hide himself in the Wet Wild Woods by his wild lone for a long time till the Woman forget all about him .
Only the Bat -- the little upside-down Bat -- that hung inside the Cave , know where Cat hid ; and every evening Bat would fly to Cat with news of what be happen .
One evening Bat say , ` There be a Baby in the Cave .
He be new and pink and fat and small , and the Woman be very fond of him . '
` Ah , ' say the Cat , listen , ` but what be the Baby fond of ? '
` He be fond of thing that be soft and tickle , ' say the Bat .
` He be fond of warm thing to hold in his arm when he go to sleep .
He be fond of be play with .
He be fond of all those thing . '
` Ah , ' say the Cat , listen , ` then my time have come . '
Next night Cat walk through the Wet Wild Woods and hide very near the Cave till morning-time , and Man and Dog and Horse go hunt .
The Woman be busy cooking that morning , and the Baby cry and interrupt .
So she carry him outside the Cave and give him a handful of pebble to play with .
But still the Baby cry .
Then the Cat put out his paddy paw and pat the Baby on the cheek , and it coo ; and the Cat rub against it fat knee and tickle it under it fat chin with his tail .
And the Baby laugh ; and the Woman hear him and smile .
Then the Bat -- the little upside-down bat -- that hung in the mouth of the Cave say , ' O my Hostess and Wife of my Host and Mother of my Host 's Son , a Wild Thing from the Wild Woods be most beautifully play with your Baby . ' '
A blessing on that Wild Thing whoever he may be , ' say the Woman , straighten her back , ` for I be a busy woman this morning and he have do me a service . '
That very minute and second , Best Beloved , the dried horse-skin Curtain that be stretch tail-down at the mouth of the Cave fell down -- whoosh !
-- because it remember the bargain she have make with the Cat , and when the Woman go to pick it up -- lo and behold !
-- the Cat be sit quite comfy inside the Cave . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , ' say the Cat , ` it be I : for you have speak a word in my praise , and now I can sit within the Cave for always and always and always .
But still I be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to me . '
The Woman be very angry , and shut her lip tight and take up her spinning-wheel and begin to spin .
But the Baby cry because the Cat have go away , and the Woman could not hush it , for it struggle and kick and grow black in the face . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , ' say the Cat , ` take a strand of the wire that you be spin and tie it to your spinning-whorl and drag it along the floor , and I will show you a magic that shall make your Baby laugh as loudly a he be now cry . ' '
I will do so , ' say the Woman , ` because I be at my wit ' end ; but I will not thank you for it . '
She tie the thread to the little clay spindle whorl and draw it across the floor , and the Cat ran after it and pat it with his paw and roll head over heel , and toss it backward over his shoulder and chase it between his hind-legs and pretend to lose it , and pounce down upon it again , till the Baby laugh as loudly a it have be cry , and scramble after the Cat and frolic all over the Cave till it grow tired and settle down to sleep with the Cat in it arm .
` Now , ' say the Cat , ' I will sing the Baby a song that shall keep him asleep for an hour .
And he begin to purr , loud and low , low and loud , till the Baby fell fast asleep .
The Woman smile a she look down upon the two of them and say , ` That be wonderfully do .
No question but you be very clever , O Cat . '
That very minute and second , Best Beloved , the smoke of the fire at the back of the Cave come down in cloud from the roof -- puff !
-- because it remember the bargain she have make with the Cat , and when it have clear away -- lo and behold !
-- the Cat be sit quite comfy close to the fire . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of My Enemy , ' say the Cat , ` it be I , for you have speak a second word in my praise , and now I can sit by the warm fire at the back of the Cave for always and always and always .
But still I be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to me . '
Then the Woman be very very angry , and let down her hair and put more wood on the fire and bring out the broad blade-bone of the shoulder of mutton and begin to make a Magic that should prevent her from say a third word in praise of the Cat .
It be not a Singing Magic , Best Beloved , it be a Still Magic ; and by and by the Cave grow so still that a little wee-wee mouse creep out of a corner and run across the floor . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , ' say the Cat , ` be that little mouse part of your magic ? '
` Ouh !
Chee !
No indeed ! '
say the Woman , and she drop the blade-bone and jump upon the footstool in front of the fire and braid up her hair very quick for fear that the mouse should run up it .
` Ah , ' say the Cat , watch , ` then the mouse will do me no harm if I eat it ? '
` No , ' say the Woman , braid up her hair , ` eat it quickly and I will ever be grateful to you . '
Cat make one jump and catch the little mouse , and the Woman say , ' A hundred thanks .
Even the First Friend be not quick enough to catch little mouse a you have do .
You must be very wise . '
That very moment and second , O Best Beloved , the Milk-pot that stood by the fire crack in two piece -- ffft -- because it remember the bargain she have make with the Cat , and when the Woman jump down from the footstool -- lo and behold !
-- the Cat be lap up the warm white milk that lay in one of the broken piece . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , say the Cat , ` it be I ; for you have speak three word in my praise , and now I can drink the warm white milk three time a day for always and always and always .
But still I be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to me . '
Then the Woman laugh and set the Cat a bowl of the warm white milk and say , ' O Cat , you be as clever a a man , but remember that your bargain be not make with the Man or the Dog , and I do not know what they will do when they come home . '
` What be that to me ? '
say the Cat .
` If I have my place in the Cave by the fire and my warm white milk three time a day I do not care what the Man or the Dog can do . '
That evening when the Man and the Dog come into the Cave , the Woman tell them all the story of the bargain while the Cat sat by the fire and smile .
Then the Man say , ` Yes , but he have not make a bargain with me or with all proper Men after me . '
Then he take off his two leather boot and he take up his little stone axe -LRB- that make three -RRB- and he fetch a piece of wood and a hatchet -LRB- that be five altogether -RRB- , and he set them out in a row and he say , ` Now we will make our bargain .
If you do not catch mouse when you be in the Cave for always and always and always , I will throw these five thing at you whenever I see you , and so shall all proper Men do after me . '
` Ah , ' say the Woman , listen , ` this be a very clever Cat , but he be not so clever a my Man . '
The Cat count the five thing -LRB- and they look very knobby -RRB- and he say , ' I will catch mouse when I be in the Cave for always and always and always ; but still I be the Cat who walk by himself , and all place be alike to me . '
` Not when I be near , ' say the Man .
` If you have not say that last I would have put all these thing away for always and always and always ; but I be now go to throw my two boot and my little stone axe -LRB- that make three -RRB- at you whenever I meet you .
And so shall all proper Men do after me ! '
Then the Dog say , ` Wait a minute .
He have not make a bargain with me or with all proper Dogs after me . '
And he show his teeth and say , ` If you be not kind to the Baby while I be in the Cave for always and always and always , I will hunt you till I catch you , and when I catch you I will bite you .
And so shall all proper Dogs do after me . '
` Ah , ' say the Woman , listen , ` this be a very clever Cat , but he be not so clever a the Dog . '
Cat count the Dog 's teeth -LRB- and they look very pointed -RRB- and he say , ' I will be kind to the Baby while I be in the Cave , as long a he do not pull my tail too hard , for always and always and always .
But still I be the Cat that walk by himself , and all place be alike to me . '
` Not when I be near , ' say the Dog .
` If you have not say that last I would have shut my mouth for always and always and always ; but now I be go to hunt you up a tree whenever I meet you .
And so shall all proper Dogs do after me . '
Then the Man throw his two boot and his little stone axe -LRB- that make three -RRB- at the Cat , and the Cat run out of the Cave and the Dog chase him up a tree ; and from that day to this , Best Beloved , three proper Men out of five will always throw thing at a Cat whenever they meet him , and all proper Dogs will chase him up a tree .
But the Cat keep his side of the bargain too .
He will kill mouse and he will be kind to Babies when he be in the house , just as long a they do not pull his tail too hard .
But when he have do that , and between time , and when the moon get up and night come , he be the Cat that walk by himself , and all place be alike to him .
Then he go out to the Wet Wild Woods or up the Wet Wild Trees or on the Wet Wild Roofs , wave his wild tail and walking by his wild lone .
PUSSY can sit by the fire and sing , Pussy can climb a tree , Or play with a silly old cork and string To ` muse herself , not me .
But I like Binkie my dog , because He Lnows how to behave ; So , Binkie 's the same a the First Friend be , And I be the Man in the Cave .
Pussy will play man-Friday till It 's time to wet her paw And make her walk on the window-sill -LRB- For the footprint Crusoe saw -RRB- ; Then she fluffles her tail and mew , And scratch and wo n't attend .
But Binkie will play whatever I choose , And he be my true First Friend .
Pussy will rub my knee with her head Pretending she love me hard ; But the very minute I go to my bed Pussy run out in the yard , And there she stay till the morning-light ; So I know it be only pretend ; But Binkie , he snore at my foot all night , And he be my Firstest Friend !
THE BUTTERFLY THAT STAMPED THIS , O my Best Beloved , be a story -- a new and a wonderful story -- a story quite different from the other story -- a story about The Most Wise Sovereign Suleiman-bin-Daoud -- Solomon the Son of David .
There be three hundred and fifty-five story about Suleiman-bin-Daoud ; but this be not one of them .
It be not the story of the Lapwing who find the Water ; or the Hoopoe who shade Suleimanbin-Daoud from the heat .
It be not the story of the Glass Pavement , or the Ruby with the Crooked Hole , or the Gold Bars of Balkis .
It be the story of the Butterfly that Stamped .
Now attend all over again and listen !
Suleiman-bin-Daoud be wise .
He understand what the beast say , what the bird say , what the fish say , and what the insect say .
He understand what the rock say deep under the earth when they bow in towards each other and groan ; and he understand what the tree say when they rustle in the middle of the morning .
He understand everything , from the bishop on the bench to the hyssop on the wall , and Balkis , his Head Queen , the Most Beautiful Queen Balkis , be nearly as wise a he be .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud be strong .
Upon the third finger of the right hand he wear a ring .
When he turn it once , Afrits and Djinns come Out of the earth to do whatever he tell them .
When he turn it twice , Fairies come down from the sky to do whatever he tell them ; and when he turn it three time , the very great angel Azrael of the Sword come dress a a water-carrier , and tell him the news of the three world , Above -- Below -- and Here .
And yet Suleiman-bin-Daoud be not proud .
He very seldom show off , and when he do he be sorry for it .
Once he try to fee all the animal in all the world in one day , but when the food be ready an Animal come out of the deep sea and ate it up in three mouthful .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud be very surprised and say , ' O Animal , who be you ? '
And the Animal say , ' O King , live for ever !
I be the small of thirty thousand brother , and our home be at the bottom of the sea .
We hear that you be go to fee all the animal in all the world , and my brother send me to ask when dinner would be ready . '
Suleiman-bin-Daoud be more surprised than ever and say , ' O Animal , you have eat all the dinner that I make ready for all the animal in the world . '
And the Animal say , ' O King , live for ever , but do you really call that a dinner ?
Where I come from we each eat twice as much a that between meal . '
Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud fell flat on his face and say , ' O Animal !
I give that dinner to show what a great and rich king I be , and not because I really want to be kind to the animal .
Now I be ashamed , and it serve me right .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud be a really truly wise man , Best Beloved .
After that he never forget that it be silly to show off ; and now the real story part of my story begin .
He marry ever so many wife .
He marry nine hundred and ninety-nine wife , besides the Most Beautiful Balkis ; and they all live in a great golden palace in the middle of a lovely garden with fountain .
He do n't really want nine-hundred and ninety-nine wife , but in those day everybody married ever so many wife , and of course the King have to marry ever so many more just to show that he be the King .
Some of the wife be nice , but some be simply horrid , and the horrid one quarrel with the nice one and make them horrid too , and then they would all quarrel with Suleiman-bin-Daoud , and that be horrid for him .
But Balkis the Most Beautiful never quarrel with Suleiman-bin-Daoud .
She love him too much .
She sit in her room in the Golden Palace , or walk in the Palace garden , and be truly sorry for him .
Of course if he have choose to turn his ring on his finger and call up the Djinns and the Afrits they would have magicked all those nine hundred and ninety-nine quarrelsome wife into white mule of the desert or greyhound or pomegranate seed ; but Suleiman-bin-Daoud think that that would be show off .
So , when they quarrel too much , he only walk by himself in one part of the beautiful Palace garden and wish he have never be bear .
One day , when they have quarrel for three week -- all nine hundred and ninety-nine wife together -- Suleiman-bin-Daoud go out for peace and quiet a usual ; and among the orange tree he meet Balkis the Most Beautiful , very sorrowful because Suleiman-bin-Daoud be so worried .
And she say to him , ' O my Lord and Light of my Eyes , turn the ring upon your finger and show these Queens of Egypt and Mesopotamia and Persia and China that you be the great and terrible King . '
But Suleiman-bin-Daoud shook his head and say , ' O my Lady and Delight of my Life , remember the Animal that come out of the sea and make me ashamed before all the animal in all the world because I show off .
Now , if I show off before these Queens of Persia and Egypt and Abyssinia and China , merely because they worry me , I might be make even more ashamed than I have be . '
And Balkis the Most Beautiful say , ' O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul , what will you do ? '
And Suleiman-bin-Daoud say , ' O my Lady and Content of my Heart , I shall continue to endure my fate at the hand of these nine hundred and ninety-nine Queens who vex me with their continual quarrelling . '
So he go on between the lily and the loquat and the rose and the canna and the heavy-scented ginger-plants that grow in the garden , till he come to the great camphor-tree that be call the Camphor Tree of Suleiman-bin-Daoud .
But Balkis hide among the tall iris and the spotted bamboo and the red lillie behind the camphor-tree , so a to be near her own true love , Suleiman-bin-Daoud .
Presently two Butterflies fly under the tree , quarrel .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud heard one say to the other , ' I wonder at your presumption in talk like this to me .
Do n't you know that if I stamp with my foot all Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's Palace and this garden here would immediately vanish in a clap of thunder . '
Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud forget his nine hundred and ninety-nine bothersome wife , and laugh , till the camphor-tree shook , at the Butterfly 's boast .
And he hold out his finger and say , ` Little man , come here . '
The Butterfly be dreadfully frighten , but he manage to fly up to the hand of Suleiman-bin-Daoud , and clung there , fan himself .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud bent his head and whisper very softly , ` Little man , you know that all your stamping would n't bend one blade of grass .
What make you tell that awful fib to your wife ?
-- for doubtless she be your wife . '
The Butterfly look at Suleiman-bin-Daoud and saw the most wise King 's eye twinkle like star on a frosty night , and he pick up his courage with both wing , and he put his head on one side and say , ' O King , live for ever .
She be my wife ; and you know what wife be like .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud smile in his beard and say , ` Yes , I know , little brother .
` One must keep them in order somehow , say the Butterfly , and she have be quarrel with me all the morning .
I say that to quiet her . '
And Suleiman-bin-Daoud say , ` May it quiet her .
Go back to your wife , little brother , and let me hear what you say . '
Back fly the Butterfly to his wife , who be all of a twitter behind a leaf , and she say , ` He hear you !
Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself heard you ! '
` Heard me ! '
say the Butterfly .
` Of course he do .
I mean him to hear me . '
` And what do he say ?
Oh , what do he say ? '
` Well , ' say the Butterfly , fan himself most importantly , ` between you and me , my dear -- of course I do n't blame him , because his Palace must have cost a great deal and the orange be just ripen , -- he ask me not to stamp , and I promise I would n't . '
` Gracious ! '
say his wife , and sit quite quiet ; but Suleiman-bin-Daoud laugh till the tear run down his face at the impudence of the bad little Butterfly .
Balkis the Most Beautiful stand up behind the tree among the red lily and smile to herself , for she have hear all this talk .
She think , ` If I be wise I can yet save my Lord from the persecution of these quarrelsome Queens , ' and she hold out her finger and whisper softly to the Butterfly 's Wife , ` Little woman , come here . '
Up flew the Butterfly 's Wife , very frightened , and clung to Balkis 's white hand .
Balkis bend her beautiful head down and whisper , ` Little woman , do you believe what your husband have just say ? '
The Butterfly 's Wife look at Balkis , and saw the most beautiful Queen 's eye shin like deep pool with starlight on them , and she pick up her courage with both wing and say , ' O Queen , be lovely for ever .
You know what men-folk be like . '
And the Queen Balkis , the Wise Balkis of Sheba , put her hand to her lip to hide a smile and say , ` Little sister , I know . '
` They get angry , ' say the Butterfly 's Wife , fan herself quickly , ` over nothing at all , but we must humour them , O Queen .
They never mean half they say .
If it please my husband to believe that I believe he can make Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's Palace disappear by stamp his foot , I 'm sure I do n't care .
He 'll forget all about it to-morrow . '
` Little sister , ' say Balkis , ` you be quite right ; but next time he begin to boast , take him at his word .
Ask him to stamp , and see what will happen .
We know what men-folk be like , do n't we ?
He 'll be very much ashamed . '
Away fly the Butterfly 's Wife to her husband , and in five minute they be quarrel bad than ever .
` Remember ! '
say the Butterfly .
` Remember what I can do if I stamp my foot . ' '
I do n't believe you one little bit , ' say the Butterfly 's Wife . '
I should very much like to see it do .
Suppose you stamp now . ' '
I promise Suleiman-bin-Daoud that I would n't , ' say the Butterfly , ` and I do n't want to break my promise . '
` It would n't matter if you do , ' say his wife .
` You could n't bend a blade of grass with your stamping .
I dare you to do it , ' she say .
Stamp !
Stamp !
Stamp ! '
Suleiman-bin-Daoud , sit under the camphor-tree , heard every word of this , and he laugh a he have never laugh in his life before .
He forget all about his Queens ; he forget all about the Animal that come out of the sea ; he forget about show off .
He just laugh with joy , and Balkis , on the other side of the tree , smile because her own true love be so joyful .
Presently the Butterfly , very hot and puffy , come whirl back under the shadow of the camphor-tree and say to Suleiman , ` She want me to stamp !
She want to see what will happen , O Suleiman-bin-Daoud !
You know I ca n't do it , and now she 'll never believe a word I say .
She 'll laugh at me to the end of my day ! '
` No , little brother , ' say Suleiman-bin-Daoud , ` she will never laugh at you again , ' and he turn the ring on his finger -- just for the little Butterfly 's sake , not for the sake of show off , -- and , lo and behold , four huge Djinns come out of the earth !
` Slaves , ' say Suleiman-bin-Daoud , ` when this gentleman on my finger ' -LRB- that be where the impudent Butterfly be sit -RRB- ` stamp his left front forefoot you will make my Palace and these garden disappear in a clap of thunder .
When he stamps again you will bring them back carefully . '
` Now , little brother , ' he say , ` go back to your wife and stamp all you 've a mind to . '
Away fly the Butterfly to his wife , who be cry , ' I dare you to do it !
I dare you to do it !
Stamp !
Stamp now !
Stamp ! '
Balkis saw the four vast Djinns stoop down to the four corner of the garden with the Palace in the middle , and she clap her hand softly and say , ` At last Suleiman-bin-Daoud will do for the sake of a Butterfly what he ought to have do long ago for his own sake , and the quarrelsome Queens will be frighten ! '
The the butterfly stamp .
The Djinns jerk the Palace and the garden a thousand mile into the air : there be a most awful thunder-clap , and everything grow inky-black .
The Butterfly 's Wife flutter about in the dark , cry , ` Oh , I 'll be good !
I 'm so sorry I speak .
Only bring the garden back , my dear darling husband , and I 'll never contradict again . '
The Butterfly be nearly as frighten a his wife , and Suleiman-bin-Daoud laugh so much that it be several minute before he find breath enough to whisper to the Butterfly , ` Stamp again , little brother .
Give me back my Palace , most great magician . '
` Yes , give him back his Palace , ' say the Butterfly 's Wife , still fly about in the dark like a moth .
` Give him back his Palace , and do n't let 's have any more horrid.magic . '
` Well , my dear , ' say the Butterfly as bravely a he could , ` you see what your nagging have lead to .
Of course it do n't make any difference to me -- I 'm use to this kind of thing -- but a a favour to you and to Suleiman-bin-Daoud I do n't mind put thing right . '
So he stamp once more , and that instant the Djinns let down the Palace and the garden , without even a bump .
The sun shone on the dark-green orange leave ; the fountain play among the pink Egyptian lily ; the bird go on singing , and the Butterfly 's Wife lay on her side under the camphor-tree waggling her wing and panting , ` Oh , I 'll be good !
I 'll be good ! '
Suleiman-bin-Daolld could hardly speak for laugh .
He lean back all weak and hiccoughy , and shake his finger at the Butterfly and say , ' O great wizard , what be the sense of return to me my Palace if at the same time you slay me with mirth ! '
Then come a terrible noise , for all the nine hundred and ninety-nine Queens run out of the Palace shrieking and shouting and call for their baby .
They hurry down the great marble step below the fountain , one hundred abreast , and the Most Wise Balkis go statelily forward to meet them and say , ` What be your trouble , O Queens ? '
They stand on the marble step one hundred abreast and shout , ` What be our trouble ?
We be live peacefully in our golden palace , a be our custom , when upon a sudden the Palace disappear , and we be leave sit in a thick and noisome darkness ; and it thunder , and Djinns and Afrits move about in the darkness !
That be our trouble , O Head Queen , and we be most extremely troubled on account of that trouble , for it be a troublesome trouble , unlike any trouble we have know . '
Then Balkis the Most Beautiful Queen -- Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's Very Best Beloved -- Queen that be of Sheba and Sable and the Rivers of the Gold of the South -- from the Desert of Zinn to the Towers of Zimbabwe -- Balkis , almost as wise a the Most Wise Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself , say , ` It be nothing , O Queens !
A Butterfly have make complaint against his wife because she quarrel with him , and it have please our Lord Suleiman-bin-Daoud to teach her a lesson in low-speaking and humbleness , for that be count a virtue among the wife of the butterfly . '
Then up and speak an Egyptian Queen -- the daughter of a Pharoah -- and she say , ` Our Palace can not be pluck up by the root like a leek for the sake of a little insect .
No !
Suleiman-bin-Daoud must be dead , and what we hear and saw be the earth thunder and darken at the news . '
Then Balkis beckon that bold Queen without look at her , and say to her and to the others , ` Come and see . '
They come down the marble step , one hundred abreast , and beneath his camphor-tree , still weak with laugh , they saw the Most Wise King Suleiman-bin-Daoud rock back and forth with a Butterfly on either hand , and they hear him say , ' O wife of my brother in the air , remember after this , to please your husband in all thing , l he be provoke to stamp his foot yet again ; for he have say that he be use to this magic , and he be most eminently a great magician -- one who steal away the very Palace of Suleirnan-bin-Daoud himself .
Go in peace , little folk ! '
And he kiss them on the wing , and they fly away .
Then all the Queens except Balkis -- the Most Beautiful and Splendid Balkis , who stand apart smile -- fell flat on their face , for they say , ` If these thing be do when a Butterfly be displease with his wife , what shall be do to u who have vex our King with our loud-speaking and open quarrel through many day ? '
Then they put their veil over their head , and they put their hand over their mouth , and they tiptoe back to the Palace most mousy-quiet .
Then Balkis -- The Most Beautiful and Excellent Balkis -- go forward through the red lily into the shade of the camphor-tree and lay her hand upon Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's shoulder and say , ' O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul , rejoice , for we have teach the Queens of Egypt and Ethiopia and Abyssinia and Persia and India and China with a great and a memorable teaching . '
And Suleiman-bin-Daoud , still look after the Butterflies where they play in the sunlight , say , ' O my Lady and Jewel of my Felicity , when do this happen ?
For I have be jest with a Butterfly ever since I come into the garden . '
And he tell Balkis what he have do .
Balkis -- The tender and Most Lovely Balkis -- say , ' O my Lord and Regent of my Existence , I hide behind the camphor-tree and saw it all .
It be I who tell the Butterfly 's Wife to ask the Butterfly to stamp , because I hop that for the sake of the jest my Lord would make some great magic and that the Queens would see it and be frighten . '
And she tell him what the Queens have say and see and think .
Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud rise up from his seat under the camphor-tree , and stretch his arm and rejoice and say , ' O my Lady and Sweetener of my Days , know that if I have make a magic against my Queens for the sake of pride or anger , a I make that feast for all the animal , I should certainly have be put to shame .
But by mean of your wisdom I make the magic for the sake of a jest and for the sake of a little Butterfly , and -- behold -- it have also deliver me from the vexation of my vexatious wife !
Tell me , therefore , O my Lady and Heart of my Heart , how do you come to be so wise ? '
And Balkis the Queen , beautiful and tall , look up into Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's eye and put her head a little on one side , just like the Butterfly , and say , ` First , O my Lord , because I love you ; and secondly , O my Lord , because I know what women-folk be . '
Then they go up to the Palace and live happily ever afterwards .
But be n't it clever of Balkis ?
THERE be never a Queen like Balkis , From here to the wide world 's end ; But Balkis tail to a butterfly As you would talk to a friend .
There be never a King like Solomon , Not since the world begin ; But Solomon talk to a butterfly As a man would talk to a man .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___Kim.txt.out
Chapter 1 O ye who tread the Narrow Way By Tophet-flare to Judgment Day , Be gentle when ` the heathen ' pray To Buddha at Kamakura !
Buddha at Kamakura .
He sit , in defiance of municipal order , astride the gun Zam Zammah on her brick platform opposite the old Ajaib-Gher -- the Wonder House , a the native call the Lahore Museum .
Who hold Zam-Zammah , that ` fire-breathing dragon ' , hold the Punjab , for the great green-bronze piece be always first of the conqueror 's loot .
There be some justification for Kim -- he have kick Lala Dinanath 's boy off the trunnions -- since the English hold the Punjab and Kim be English .
Though he be burn black a any native ; though he speak the vernacular by preference , and his mother-tongue in a clipped uncertain sing-song ; though he consort on term of perfect equality with the small boy of the bazar ; Kim be white -- a poor white of the very poor .
The half-caste woman who look after him -LRB- she smoke opium , and pretend to keep a second-hand furniture shop by the square where the cheap cab wait -RRB- tell the missionary that she be Kim 's mother 's sister ; but his mother have be nursemaid in a Colonel 's family and have marry Kimball O'Hara , a young colour-sergeant of the Mavericks , an Irish regiment .
He afterwards take a post on the Sind , Punjab , and Delhi Railway , and his Regiment go home without him .
The wife die of cholera in Ferozepore , and O'Hara fell to drink and loaf up and down the line with the keen-eyed three-year-old baby .
Societies and chaplain , anxious for the child , try to catch him , but O'Hara drift away , till he come across the woman who take opium and learn the taste from her , and die a poor white die in India .
His estate at death consist of three paper -- one he call his ` ne varietur ' because those word be write below his signature thereon , and another his ` clearance-certificate ' .
The third be Kim 's birth-certificate .
Those thing , he be use to say , in his glorious opium-hours , would yet make little Kimball a man .
On no account be Kim to part with them , for they belong to a great piece of magic -- such magic a men practise over yonder behind the Museum , in the big blue-and-white Jadoo-Gher -- the Magic House , a we name the Masonic Lodge .
It would , he say , all come right some day , and Kim 's horn would be exalt between pillar -- monstrous pillar -- of beauty and strength .
The Colonel himself , rid on a horse , at the head of the fine Regiment in the world , would attend to Kim -- little Kim that should have be good off than his father .
Nine hundred first-class devil , whose God be a Red Bull on a green field , would attend to Kim , if they have not forget O'Hara -- poor O'Hara that be gang-foreman on the Ferozepore line .
Then he would weep bitterly in the broken rush chair on the veranda .
So it come about after his death that the woman sew parchment , paper , and birth-certificate into a leather amulet-case which she string round Kim 's neck .
` And some day , ' she say , confusedly remember O'Hara 's prophecy , ` there will come for you a great Red Bull on a green field , and the Colonel rid on his tall horse , yes , and ' drop into English -- ` nine hundred devil . '
` Ah , ' say Kim , ' I shall remember .
A Red Bull and a Colonel on a horse will come , but first , my father say , will come the two men make ready the ground for these matter .
That be how my father say they always do ; and it be always so when men work magic . '
If the woman have send Kim up to the local Jadoo-Gher with those paper , he would , of course , have be take over by the Provincial Lodge , and send to the Masonic Orphanage in the Hills ; but what she have heard of magic she distrust .
Kim , too , hold view of his own .
As he reach the year of indiscretion , he learn to avoid missionary and white men of serious aspect who ask who he be , and what he do .
For Kim do nothing with an immense success .
True , he know the wonderful walled city of Lahore from the Delhi Gate to the outer Fort Ditch ; be hand in glove with men who lead life strange than anything Haroun al Raschid dreamed of ; and he live in a life wild a that of the Arabian Nights , but missionary and secretary of charitable society could not see the beauty of it .
His nickname through the ward be ` Little Friend of all the World ' ; and very often , be lithe and inconspicuous , he execute commission by night on the crowded housetop for sleek and shiny young men of fashion .
It be intrigue , -- of course he know that much , a he have know all evil since he could speak , -- but what he love be the game for it own sake -- the stealthy prowl through the dark gully and lane , the crawl up a waterpipe , the sight and sound of the woman 's world on the flat roof , and the headlong flight from housetop to housetop under cover of the hot dark .
Then there be holy men , ash-smeared fakir by their brick shrine under the tree at the riverside , with whom he be quite familiar -- greet them a they return from begging-tours , and , when no one be by , eat from the same dish .
The woman who look after him insist with tear that he should wear European clothes -- trouser , a shirt and a battered hat .
Kim find it easy to slip into Hindu or Mohammedan garb when engage on certain business .
One of the young men of fashion -- he who be find dead at the bottom of a well on the night of the earthquake -- have once give him a complete suit of Hindu kit , the costume of a lowcaste street boy , and Kim store it in a secret place under some baulk in Nila Ram 's timber-yard , beyond the Punjab High Court , where the fragrant deodar log lie season after they have drive down the Ravi .
When there be business or frolic afoot , Kim would use his property , return at dawn to the veranda , all tire out from shout at the heel of a marriage procession , or yell at a Hindu festival .
Sometimes there be food in the house , more often there be not , and then Kim go out again to eat with his native friend .
As he drum his heel against Zam-Zammah he turn now and again from his king-of-the-castle game with little Chota Lal and Abdullah the sweetmeat-seller 's son , to make a rude remark to the native policeman on guard over row of shoe at the Museum door .
The big Punjabi grin tolerantly : he know Kim of old .
So do the water-carrier , sluice water on the dry road from his goat-skin bag .
So do Jawahir Singh , the Museum carpenter , bent over new packing-cases .
So do everybody in sight except the peasant from the country , hurry up to the Wonder House to view the thing that men make in their own province and elsewhere .
The Museum be give up to Indian art and manufacture , and anybody who seek wisdom could ask the Curator to explain .
` Off !
Off !
Let me up ! '
cry Abdullah , climb up Zam-Zammah 's wheel .
` Thy father be a pastry-cook , Thy mother steal the ghi , ' sang Kim .
` All Mussalmans fell off Zam-Zammah long ago ! '
` Let me up ! '
shrill little Chota Lal in his gilt-embroidered cap .
His father be worth perhaps half a million sterling , but India be the only democratic land in the world .
` The Hindus fell off Zam-Zammah too .
The Mussalmans push them off .
Thy father be a pastry-cook -- ' He stop ; for there shuffle round the corner , from the roar Motee Bazar , such a man a Kim , who think he know all caste , have never see .
He be nearly six foot high , dress in fold upon fold of dingy stuff like horse-blanketing , and not one fold of it could Kim refer to any know trade or profession .
At his belt hang a long open-work iron pencase and a wooden rosary such a holy men wear .
On his head be a gigantic sort of tam-o ' - shanter .
His face be yellow and wrinkle , like that of Fook Shing , the Chinese bootmaker in the bazar .
His eye turn up at the corner and look like little slit of onyx .
` Who be that ? '
say Kim to his companion .
` Perhaps it be a man , ' say Abdullah , finger in mouth , star .
` Without doubt , ' return Kim ; ` but he be no man of India that I have ever see . ' '
A priest , perhaps , ' say Chota Lal , spy the rosary .
` See !
He go into the Wonder House ! '
` Nay , nay , ' say the policeman , shake his head . '
I do not understand your talk . '
The constable spoke Punjabi . '
O Friend of all the World , what do he say ? '
` Send him hither , ' say Kim , drop from Zam-Zammah , flourish his bare heel .
` He be a foreigner , and thou art a buffalo . '
The man turn helplessly and drift towards the boy .
He be old , and his woollen gaberdine still reek of the stink artemisia of the mountain pass . '
O Children , what be that big house ? '
he say in very fair Urdu .
` The Ajaib-Gher , the Wonder House ! '
Kim give him no title -- such a Lala or Mian .
He could not divine the man 's creed .
` Ah !
The Wonder House !
Can any enter ? '
` It be write above the door -- all can enter . '
` Without payment ? ' '
I go in and out .
I be no banker , ' laugh Kim .
` Alas !
I be an old man .
I do not know . '
Then , finger his rosary , he half turn to the Museum .
` What be your caste ?
Where be your house ?
Have you come far ? '
Kim ask . '
I come by Kulu -- from beyond the Kailas -- but what know you ?
From the Hills where ' -- he sigh -- ` the air and water be fresh and cool . '
` Aha !
Khitai -LSB- a Chinaman -RSB- , ' say Abdullah proudly .
Fook Shing have once chase him out of his shop for spit at the joss above the boot .
` Pahari -LSB- a hillman -RSB- , ' say little Chota Lal .
` Aye , child -- a hillman from hill thou ` lt never see .
Didst hear of Bhotiyal -LSB- Tibet -RSB- ?
I be no Khitai , but a Bhotiya -LSB- Tibetan -RSB- , since you must know -- a lama -- or , say , a guru in your tongue . ' '
A guru from Tibet , ' say Kim . '
I have not see such a man .
They be Hindus in Tibet , then ? '
` We be follower of the Middle Way , live in peace in our lamasseries , and I go to see the Four Holy Places before I die .
Now do you , who be child , know as much a I do who be old . '
He smile benignantly on the boy .
` Hast thou eat ? '
He fumble in his bosom and draw forth a worn , wooden begging-bowl .
The boy nod .
All priest of their acquaintance beg . '
I do not wish to eat yet . '
He turn his head like an old tortoise in the sunlight .
` Is it true that there be many image in the Wonder House of Lahore ? '
He repeat the last word a one make sure of an address .
` That be true , ' say Abdullah .
` It be full of heathen bust .
Thou also art an idolater . '
` Never mind him , ' say .
Kim .
` That be the Government 's house and there be no idolatry in it , but only a Sahib with a white beard .
Come with me and I will show . '
` Strange priest eat boy , ' whisper Chota Lal .
` And he be a stranger and a but-parast -LSB- idolater -RSB- , ' say Abdullah , the Mohammedan .
Kim laugh .
` He be new .
Run to your mother ' lap , and be safe .
Come ! '
Kim click round the self-registering turnstile ; the old man follow and halt amaze .
In the entrance-hall stand the large figure of the Greco-Buddhist sculpture do , savant know how long since , by forgotten workman whose hand be feel , and not unskilfully , for the mysteriously transmitted Grecian touch .
There be hundred of piece , frieze of figure in relief , fragment of statue and slab crowd with figure that have encrust the brick wall of the Buddhist stupa and viharas of the North Country and now , dig up and label , make the pride of the Museum .
In open-mouthed wonder the lama turn to this and that , and finally check in rapt attention before a large alto-relief represent a coronation or apotheosis of the Lord Buddha .
The Master be represent seat on a lotus the petal of which be so deeply undercut a to show almost detach .
Round Him be an adoring hierarchy of king , elder , and old-time Buddhas .
Below be lotus-covered water with fish and water-birds .
Two butterfly-winged devas hold a wreath over His head ; above them another pair support an umbrella surmount by the jewelled headdress of the Bodhisat .
` The Lord !
The Lord !
It be Sakya Muni himself , ' the lama half sob ; and under his breath begin the wonderful Buddhist invocation : To Him the Way , the Law , apart , Whom Maya hold beneath her heart , Ananda 's Lord , the Bodhisat .
` And He be here !
The Most Excellent Law be here also .
My pilgrimage be well begin .
And what work !
What work ! '
` Yonder be the Sahib . '
say Kim , and dodge sideways among the case of the art and manufacturer wing .
A white-bearded Englishman be look at the lama , who gravely turn and salute him and after some fumbling draw forth a note-book and a scrap of paper .
` Yes , that be my name , ' smile at the clumsy , childish print .
` One of u who have make pilgrimage to the Holy Places -- he be now Abbot of the Lung-Cho Monastery -- give it me , ' stammer the lama .
` He speak of these . '
His lean hand move tremulously round .
` Welcome , then , O lama from Tibet .
Here be the image , and I be here ' -- he glance at the lama 's face -- ` to gather knowledge .
Come to my office awhile . '
The old man be tremble with excitement .
The office be but a little wooden cubicle partition off from the sculpture-lined gallery .
Kim lay himself down , his ear against a crack in the heat-split cedar door , and , follow his instinct , stretch out to listen and watch .
Most of the talk be altogether above his head .
The lama , haltingly at first , speak to the Curator of his own lamassery , the Such-zen , opposite the Painted Rocks , four month ' march away .
The Curator bring out a huge book of photo and show him that very place , perch on it crag , overlook the gigantic valley of many-hued stratum .
` Ay , ay ! '
The lama mount a pair of horn-rimmed spectacle of Chinese work .
` Here be the little door through which we bring wood before winter .
And thou -- the English know of these thing ?
He who be now Abbot of Lung-Cho tell me , but I do not believe .
The Lord -- the Excellent One -- He have honour here too ?
And His life be know ? '
` It be all carven upon the stone .
Come and see , if thou art rest . '
Out shuffle the lama to the main hall , and , the Curator beside him , go through the collection with the reverence of a devotee and the appreciative instinct of a craftsman .
Incident by incident in the beautiful story he identify on the blurred stone , puzzle here and there by the unfamiliar Greek convention , but delight a a child at each new trove .
Where the sequence fail , a in the Annunciation , the Curator supply it from his mound of book -- French and German , with photograph and reproduction .
Here be the devout Asita , the pendant of Simeon in the Christian story , hold the Holy Child on his knee while mother and father listen ; and here be incident in the legend of the cousin Devadatta .
Here be the wicked woman who accuse the Master of impurity , all confound ; here be the teaching in the Deer-park ; the miracle that stun the fire-worshippers ; here be the Bodhisat in royal state a a prince ; the miraculous birth ; the death at Kusinagara , where the weak disciple faint ; while there be almost countless repetition of the meditation under the Bodhi tree ; and the adoration of the alms-bowl be everywhere .
In a few minute the Curator saw that his guest be no mere bead-telling mendicant , but a scholar of part .
And they go at it all over again , the lama take snuff , wipe his spectacle , and talk at railway speed in a bewildering mixture of Urdu and Tibetan .
He have hear of the travel of the Chinese pilgrim , Fu-Hiouen and Hwen-Tsiang , and be anxious to know if there be any translation of their record .
He draw in his breath a he turn helplessly over the page of Beal and Stanislas Julien . ''
Tis all here .
A treasure lock . '
Then he compose himself reverently to listen to fragment hastily render into Urdu .
For the first time he hear of the labour of European scholar , who by the help of these and a hundred other document have identify the Holy Places of Buddhism .
Then he be show a mighty map , spot and trace with yellow .
The brown finger follow the Curator 's pencil from point to point .
Here be Kapilavastu , here the Middle Kingdom , and here Mahabodhi , the Mecca of Buddhism ; and here be Kusinagara , sad place of the Holy One 's death .
The old man bow his head over the sheet in silence for a while , and the Curator light another pipe .
Kim have fall asleep .
When he wake , the talk , still in spate , be more within his comprehension .
` And thus it be , O Fountain of Wisdom , that I decide to go to the Holy Places which His foot have tread -- to the Birthplace , even to Kapila ; then to Mahabodhi , which be Buddh Gaya -- to the Monastery -- to the Deer-park -- to the place of His death . '
The lama lower his voice .
` And I come here alone .
For five -- seven -- eighteen -- forty year it be in my mind that the Old Law be not well follow ; be overlay , a thou knowest , with devildom , charm , and idolatry .
Even a the child outside say but now .
Ay , even a the child say , with but-parasti . '
` So it come with all faith . '
` Thinkest thou ?
The book of my lamassery I read , and they be dry pith ; and the late ritual with which we of the Reformed Law have cumber ourselves -- that , too , have no worth to these old eye .
Even the follower of the Excellent One be at feud on feud with one another .
It be all illusion .
Ay , maya , illusion .
But I have another desire ' -- the seamed yellow face draw within three inch of the Curator , and the long forefinger-nail tap on the table .
` Your scholar , by these book , have follow the Blessed Feet in all their wandering ; but there be thing which they have not seek out .
I know nothing -- nothing do I know -- but I go to free myself from the Wheel of Things by a broad and open road . '
He smile with most simple triumph .
` As a pilgrim to the Holy Places I acquire merit .
But there be more .
Listen to a true thing .
When our gracious Lord , be a yet a youth , seek a mate , men say , in His father 's Court , that He be too tender for marriage .
Thou knowest ? '
The Curator nod , wonder what would come next .
` So they make the triple trial of strength against all comer .
And at the test of the Bow , our Lord first break that which they give Him , call for such a bow a none might bend .
Thou knowest ? '
` It be write .
I have read . '
` And , overshoot all other mark , the arrow pass far and far beyond sight .
At the last it fell ; and , where it touch earth , there break out a stream which presently become a River , whose nature , by our Lord 's beneficence , and that merit He acquire ere He free himself , be that whoso bathe in it wash away all taint and speckle of sin . '
` So it be write , ' say the Curator sadly .
The lama draw a long breath .
` Where be that River ?
Fountain of Wisdom , where fell the arrow ? '
` Alas , my brother , I do not know , ' say the Curator .
` Nay , if it please thee to forget -- the one thing only that thou hast not tell me .
Surely thou must know ?
See , I be an old man !
I ask with my head between thy foot , O Fountain of Wisdom .
We know He draw the bow !
We know the arrow fell !
We know the stream gush !
Where , then , be the River ?
My dream tell me to find it .
So I come .
I be here .
But where be the River ? '
` If I know , think you I would not cry it aloud ? '
` By it one attain freedom from the Wheel of Things , ' the lama go on , unheeding .
` The River of the Arrow !
Think again !
Some little stream , maybe -- dry in the heat ?
But the Holy One would never so cheat an old man . ' '
I do not know .
I do not know . '
The lama bring his thousand-wrinkled face once more a handsbreadth from the Englishman 's . '
I see thou dost not know .
Not be of the Law , the matter be hide from thee . '
` Ay -- hidden -- hidden . '
` We be both bound , thou and I , my brother .
But I ' -- he rise with a sweep of the soft thick drapery -- ' I go to cut myself free .
Come also ! ' '
I be bound , ' say the Curator .
` But whither go thou ? '
` First to Kashi -LSB- Benares -RSB- : where else ?
There I shall meet one of the pure faith in a Jain temple of that city .
He also be a Seeker in secret , and from him haply I may learn .
Maybe he will go with me to Buddh Gaya .
Thence north and west to Kapilavastu , and there will I seek for the River .
Nay , I will seek everywhere a I go -- for the place be not know where the arrow fell . '
` And how wilt thou go ?
It be a far cry to Delhi , and far to Benares . '
` By road and the train .
From Pathankot , have leave the Hills , I come hither in a te-rain .
It go swiftly .
At first I be amaze to see those tall pole by the side of the road snatch up and snatch up their thread , ' -- he illustrate the stoop and whirl of a telegraph-pole flashing past the train .
` But later , I be cramp and desire to walk , a I be use . '
` And thou art sure of thy road ? '
say the Curator .
` Oh , for that one but ask a question and pay money , and the appoint person despatch all to the appoint place .
That much I know in my lamassery from sure report , ' say the lama proudly .
` And when dost thou go ? '
The Curator smile at the mixture of old-world piety and modern progress that be the note of India today .
` As soon a may be .
I follow the place of His life till I come to the River of the Arrow .
There be , moreover , a write paper of the hour of the train that go south . '
` And for food ? '
Lamas , a a rule , have good store of money somewhere about them , but the Curator wish to make sure .
` For the journey , I take up the Master 's begging-bowl .
Yes .
Even a He go so go I , forsake the ease of my monastery .
There be with me when I leave the hill a chela -LSB- disciple -RSB- who beg for me a the Rule demand , but halt in Kulu awhile a fever take him and he die .
I have now no chela , but I will take the alms-bowl and thus enable the charitable to acquire merit . '
He nod his head valiantly .
Learned doctor of a lamassery do not beg , but the lama be an enthusiast in this quest .
` Be it so , ' say the Curator , smile .
` Suffer me now to acquire merit .
We be craftsmen together , thou and I .
Here be a new book of white English paper : here be sharpen pencils two and three -- thick and thin , all good for a scribe .
Now lend me thy spectacle . '
The Curator look through them .
They be heavily scratch , but the power be almost exactly that of his own pair , which he slide into the lama 's hand , say : ` Try these . ' '
A feather !
A very feather upon the face . '
The old man turn his head delightedly and wrinkle up his nose .
` How scarcely do I feel them !
How clearly do I see ! '
` They be bilaur -- crystal -- and will never scratch .
May they help thee to thy River , for they be thine . ' '
I will take them and the pencil and the white note-book , ' say the lama , ` a a sign of friendship between priest and priest -- and now -- ' He fumble at his belt , detach the open-work iron pincer , and lay it on the Curator 's table .
` That be for a memory between thee and me -- my pencase .
It be something old -- even a I be . '
It be a piece of ancient design , Chinese , of an iron that be not smelt these day ; and the collector 's heart in the Curator 's bosom have go out to it from the first .
For no persuasion would the lama resume his gift .
` When I return , have find the River , I will bring thee a write picture of the Padma Samthora such a I use to make on silk at the lamassery .
Yes -- and of the Wheel of Life , ' he chuckle , ` for we be craftsmen together , thou and I. ' The Curator would have detain him : they be few in the world who still have the secret of the conventional brush-pen Buddhist picture which be , a it be , half write and half drawn .
But the lama strode out , head high in air , and pause an instant before the great statue of a Bodhisat in meditation , brush through the turnstile .
Kim follow like a shadow .
What he have overheard excite him wildly .
This man be entirely new to all his experience , and he mean to investigate further , precisely a he would have investigate a new building or a strange festival in Lahore city .
The lama be his trove , and he purpose to take possession .
Kim 's mother have be Irish , too .
The old man halt by Zam-Zammah and look round till his eye fell on Kim .
The inspiration of his pilgrimage have leave him for awhile , and he felt old , forlorn , and very empty .
` Do not sit under that gun , ' say the policeman loftily .
` Huh !
Owl ! '
be Kim 's retort on the lama 's behalf .
` Sit under that gun if it please thee .
When didst thou steal the milkwoman 's slipper , Dunnoo ? '
That be an utterly unfounded charge sprung on the spur of the moment , but it silence Dunnoo , who know that Kim 's clear yell could call up legion of bad bazaar boy if need arose .
` And whom didst thou worship within ? '
say Kim affably , squat in the shade beside the lama . '
I worship none , child .
I bow before the Excellent Law . '
Kim accept this new God without emotion .
He know already a few score .
` And what dost thou do ? ' '
I beg .
I remember now it be long since I have eat or drink .
What be the custom of charity in this town ?
In silence , a we do of Tibet , or speak aloud ? '
` Those who beg in silence starve in silence , ' say Kim , quote a native proverb .
The lama try to rise , but sink back again , sigh for his disciple , dead in far-away Kulu .
Kim watch head to one side , consider and interested .
` Give me the bowl .
I know the people of this city -- all who be charitable .
Give , and I will bring it back fill . '
Simply a a child the old man hand him the bowl .
` Rest , thou .
I know the people . '
He trot off to the open shop of a kunjri , a low-caste vegetable-seller , which lay opposite the belt-tramway line down the Motee Bazar .
She know Kim of old .
` Oho , hast thou turn yogi with thy begging-bowl ? '
she cry .
` Nay . '
say Kim proudly .
` There be a new priest in the city -- a man such a I have never see . '
` Old priest -- young tiger , ' say the woman angrily . '
I be tire of new priest !
They settle on our ware like fly .
Is the father of my son a well of charity to give to all who ask ? '
` No , ' say Kim .
` Thy man be rather yagi -LSB- bad-tempered -RSB- than yogi -LSB- a holy man -RSB- .
But this priest be new .
The Sahib in the Wonder House have talk to him like a brother .
O my mother , fill me this bowl .
He wait . '
` That bowl indeed !
That cow-bellied basket !
Thou hast a much grace a the holy bull of Shiv .
He have take the best of a basket of onion already , this morn ; and forsooth , I must fill thy bowl .
He come here again . '
The huge , mouse-coloured Brahmini bull of the ward be shoulder his way through the many-coloured crowd , a steal plantain hang out of his mouth .
He head straight for the shop , well know his privilege a a sacred beast , lower his head , and puff heavily along the line of basket ere make his choice .
Up flew Kim 's hard little heel and catch him on his moist blue nose .
He snort indignantly , and walk away across the tram-rails , his hump quiver with rage .
` See !
I have save more than the bowl will cost thrice over .
Now , mother , a little rice and some dried fish atop -- yes , and some vegetable curry . '
A growl come out of the back of the shop , where a man lay .
` He drive away the bull , ' say the woman in an undertone .
` It be good to give to the poor . '
She take the bowl and return it full of hot rice .
` But my yogi be not a cow , ' say Kim gravely , make a hole with his finger in the top of the mound . '
A little curry be good , and a fried cake , and a morsel of conserve would please him , I think . '
` It be a hole as big a thy head , ' say the woman fretfully .
But she fill it , none the le , with good , steam vegetable curry , clap a fried cake atop , and a morsel of clarified butter on the cake , dab a lump of sour tamarind conserve at the side ; and Kim look at the load lovingly .
` That be good .
When I be in the bazar the bull shall not come to this house .
He be a bold beggar-man . '
` And thou ? '
laugh the woman .
` But speak well of bull .
Hast thou not tell me that some day a Red Bull will come out of a field to help thee ?
Now hold all straight and ask for the holy man 's blessing upon me .
Perhaps , too , he know a cure for my daughter 's sore eye .
Ask .
him that also , O thou Little Friend of all the World . '
But Kim have dance off ere the end of the sentence , dodge pariah dog and hungry acquaintance .
` Thus do we beg who know the way of it , ' say he proudly to the lama , who open his eye at the content of the bowl .
` Eat now and -- I will eat with thee .
Ohe , bhisti ! '
he call to the water-carrier , sluice the croton by the Museum .
` Give water here .
We men be thirsty . '
` We men ! '
say the bhisti , laugh .
` Is one skinful enough for such a pair ?
Drink , then , in the name of the Compassionate . '
He loose a thin stream into Kim 's hand , who drink native fashion ; but the lama must need pull out a cup from his inexhaustible upper drapery and drink ceremonially .
` Pardesi -LSB- a foreigner -RSB- , ' Kim explain , a the old man deliver in an unknown tongue what be evidently a blessing .
They eat together in great content , clear the beggingbowl .
Then the lama take snuff from a portentous wooden snuff-gourd , finger his rosary awhile , and so drop into the easy sleep of age , a the shadow of Zam-Zammah grow long .
Kim loaf over to the near tobacco-seller , a rather lively young Mohammedan woman , and beg a rank cigar of the brand that they sell to student of the Punjab University who copy English custom .
Then he smoke and think , knee to chin , under the belly of the gun , and the outcome of his thought be a sudden and stealthy departure in the direction of Nila Ram 's timber-yard .
The lama do not wake till the evening life of the city have begin with lamp-lighting and the return of white-robed clerk and subordinate from the Government office .
He star dizzily in all direction , but none look at him save a Hindu urchin in a dirty turban and Isabella-coloured clothes .
Suddenly he bow his head on his knee and wail .
` What be this ? '
say the boy , stand before him .
` Hast thou be rob ? '
` It be my new chela -LSB- disciple -RSB- that be go away from me , and I know not where he be . '
` And what like of man be thy disciple ? '
` It be a boy who come to me in place of him who die , on account of the merit which I have gain when I bow before the Law within there . '
He point towards the Museum .
` He come upon me to show me a road which I have lose .
He lead me into the Wonder House , and by his talk embolden me to speak to the Keeper of the Images , so that I be cheer and make strong .
And when I be faint with hunger he beg for me , as would a chela for his teacher .
Suddenly be he send .
Suddenly have he go away .
It be in my mind to have teach him the Law upon the road to Benares . '
Kim stand amaze at this , because he have overheard the talk in the Museum , and know that the old man be speak the truth , which be a thing a native on the road seldom present to a stranger .
` But I see now that he be but send for a purpose .
By this I know that I shall find a certain River for which I seek . '
` The River of the Arrow ? '
say Kim , with a superior smile .
` Is this yet another Sending ? '
cry the lama .
` To none have I speak of my search , save to the Priest of the Images .
Who art thou ? '
` Thy chela , ' say Kim simply , sit on his heel . '
I have never see anyone like to thee in all this my life .
I go with thee to Benares .
And , too , I think that so old a man a thou , speak the truth to chance-met people at dusk , be in great need of a disciple . '
` But the River -- the River of the Arrow ? '
` Oh , that I hear when thou wast speaking to the Englishman .
I lay against the door . '
The lama sigh . '
I think thou hadst be a guide permit .
Such thing fall sometimes -- but I be not worthy .
Thou dost not , then , know the River ? '
` Not I , ' Kim laugh uneasily . '
I go to look for -- for a bull -- a Red .
Bull on a green field who shall help me . '
Boylike , if an acquaintance have a scheme , Kim be quite ready with one of his own ; and , boylike , he have really think for as much a twenty minute at a time of his father 's prophecy .
` To what , child ? '
say the lama .
` God know , but so my father tell me ' .
I hear thy talk in the Wonder House of all those new strange place in the Hills , and if one so old and so little -- so used to truth-telling -- may go out for the small matter of a river , it seem to me that I too must go a-travelling .
If it be our fate to find those thing we shall find them -- thou , thy River ; and I , my Bull , and the Strong Pillars and some other matter that I forget . '
` It be not pillar but a Wheel from which I would be free , ' say the lama .
` That be all one .
Perhaps they will make me a king , ' say Kim , serenely prepared for anything . '
I will teach thee other and good desire upon the road , ' the lama reply in the voice of authority .
` Let u go to Benares . '
` Not by night .
Thieves be abroad .
Wait till the day . '
` But there be no place to sleep . '
The old man be use to the order of his monastery , and though he sleep on the ground , a the Rule decree , prefer a decency in these thing .
` We shall get good lodging at the Kashmir Serai , ' say Kim , laugh at his perplexity . '
I have a friend there .
Come ! '
The hot and crowded bazar blaze with light a they make their way through the press of all the race in Upper India , and the lama moon through it like a man in a dream .
It be his first experience of a large manufacturing city , and the crowd tram-car with it continually squeal brake frighten him .
Half push , half tow , he arrive at the high gate of the Kashmir Serai : that huge open square over against the railway station , surround with arched cloister , where the camel and horse caravan put up on their return from Central Asia .
Here be all manner of Northern folk , tend tethered pony and kneel camel ; load and unloading bale and bundle ; draw water for the evening meal at the creak well-windlasses ; pile grass before the shrieking , wild-eyed stallion ; cuff the surly caravan dog ; pay off camel-drivers ; take on new groom ; swear , shout , argue , and chaffer in the packed square .
The cloister , reach by three or four masonry step , make a haven of refuge around this turbulent sea .
Most of them be rent to trader , a we rent the arch of a viaduct ; the space between pillar and pillar be bricked or board off into room , which be guard by heavy wooden door and cumbrous native padlock .
Locked door show that the owner be away , and a few rude -- sometimes very rude -- chalk or paint scratch tell where he have go .
Thus : ` Lutuf Ullah be go to Kurdistan . '
Below , in coarse verse : ' O Allah , who sufferest louse to live on the coat of a Kabuli , why hast thou allow this louse Lutuf to live so long ? '
Kim , fend the lama between excite men and excited beast , sidle along the cloister to the far end , near therailway station , where Mahbub Ali , the horse-trader , live when he come in from that mysterious land beyond the Passes of the North .
Kim have have many dealing with Mahbub in his little life , especially between his tenth and his thirteenth year -- and the big burly Afghan , his beard dye scarlet with lime -LRB- for he be elderly and do not wish his grey hair to show -RRB- , know the boy 's value a a gossip .
Sometimes he would tell Kim to watch a man who have nothing whatever to do with horse : to follow him for one whole day and report every soul with whom he talk .
Kim would deliver himself of his tale at evening , and Mahbub would listen without a word or gesture .
It be intrigue of some kind , Kim know ; but it worth lay in say nothing whatever to anyone except Mahbub , who give him beautiful meal all hot from the cookshop at the head of the serai , and once as much a eight anna in money .
` He be here , ' say Kim , hit a bad-tempered camel on the nose .
` Ohe .
Mahbub Ali ! '
He halt at a dark arch and slip behind the bewildered lama .
The horse-trader , his deep , embroidered Bokhariot belt unloose , be lie on a pair of silk carpet saddle-bags , pull lazily at an immense silver hookah .
He turn his head very slightly at the cry ; and see only the tall silent figure , chuckle in his deep chest .
` Allah !
A lama !
A Red Lama !
It be far from Lahore to the Passes .
What dost thou do here ? '
The lama hold out the begging-bowl mechanically .
` God 's curse on all unbeliever ! '
say Mahbub . '
I do not give to a lousy Tibetan ; but ask my Baltis over yonder behind the camel .
They may value your blessing .
Oh , horseboys , here be a countryman of yours .
See if he be hungry . '
A shaven , crouch Balti , who have come down with the horse , and who be nominally some sort of degraded Buddhist , fawn upon the priest , and in thick guttural beseech the Holy One to sit at the horseboys ' fire .
` Go ! '
say Kim , push him lightly , and the lama strode away , leave Kim at the edge of the cloister .
` Go ! '
say Mahbub Ali , return to his hookah .
` Little Hindu , run away .
God 's curse on all unbeliever !
Beg from those of my tail who be of thy faith . '
` Maharaj , ' whine Kim , use the Hindu form of address , and thoroughly enjoy the situation ; ` my father be dead -- my mother be dead -- my stomach be empty . '
` Beg from my men among the horse , I say .
There must be some Hindus in my tail . '
` Oh , Mahbub Ali , but be I a Hindu ? '
say Kim in English .
The trader give no sign of astonishment , but look under shaggy eyebrow .
` Little Friend of all the World , ' say he , ` what be this ? '
` Nothing .
I be now that holy man 's disciple ; and we go a pilgrimage together -- to Benares , he say .
He be quite mad , and I be tire of Lahore city .
I wish new air and water . '
` But for whom dost thou work ?
Why come to me ? '
The voice be harsh with suspicion .
` To whom else should I come ?
I have no money .
It be not good to go about without money .
Thou wilt sell many horse to the officer .
They be very fine horse , these new one : I have see them .
Give me a rupee , Mahbub Ali , and when I come to my wealth I will give thee a bond and pay . '
` Um ! '
say Mahbub Ali , think swiftly .
` Thou hast never before lie to me .
Call that lama -- stand back in the dark . '
` Oh , our tale will agree , ' say Kim , laugh .
` We go to Benares , ' say the lama , as soon a he understand the drift of Mahbub Ali 's question .
` The boy and I , I go to seek for a certain River . '
` Maybe -- but the boy ? '
` He be my disciple .
He be send , I think , to guide me to that River .
Sitting under a gun be I when he come suddenly .
Such thing have befall the fortunate to whom guidance be allow .
But I remember now , he say he be of this world -- a Hindu . '
` And his name ? '
` That I do not ask .
Is he not my disciple ? '
` His country -- his race -- his village ?
Mussalman -- Sikh Hindu -- Jain -- low caste or high ? '
` Why should I ask ?
There be neither high nor low in the Middle Way .
If he be my chela -- do -- will -- can anyone take him from me ?
for , look you , without him I shall not find my River . '
He wag his head solemnly .
` None shall take him from thee .
Go , sit among my Baltis , ' say Mahbub Ali , and the lama drift off , soothe by the promise .
` Is he not quite mad ? '
say Kim , come forward to the light again .
` Why should I lie to thee , Hajji ? '
Mahbub puff his hookah in silence .
Then he begin , almost whispering : ` Umballa be on the road to Benares -- if indeed ye two go there . '
` Tck !
Tck !
I tell thee he do not know how to lie -- a we two know . '
` And if thou wilt carry a message for me as far a Umballa , I will give thee money .
It concern a horse -- a white stallion which I have sell to an officer upon the last time I return from the Passes .
But then -- stand nearer and hold up hand a begging -- the pedigree of the white stallion be not fully establish , and that officer , who be now at Umballa , bid me make it clear . '
-LRB- Mahbub here describe the horse and the appearance of the officer . -RRB-
` So the message to that officer will be : `` The pedigree of the white stallion be fully establish . ''
By this will he know that thou comest from me .
He will then say `` What proof hast thou ? ''
and thou wilt answer : `` Mahbub Ali have give me the proof . '' '
` And all for the sake of a white stallion , ' say Kim , with a giggle , his eye aflame .
` That pedigree I will give thee now -- in my own fashion and some hard word a well . '
A shadow pass behind Kim , and a feeding camel .
Mahbub Ali raise his voice .
` Allah !
Art thou the only beggar in the city ?
Thy mother be dead .
Thy father be dead .
So be it with all of them .
Well , well -- ' He turn a feeling on the floor beside him and toss a flap of soft , greasy Mussalman bread to the boy .
` Go and lie down among my horseboys for tonight -- thou and the lama .
Tomorrow I may give thee service . '
Kim slink away , his teeth in the bread , and , a he expect , he find a small wad of folded tissue-paper wrap in oilskin , with three silver rupee -- enormous largesse .
He smile and thrust money and paper into his leather amulet-case .
The lama , sumptuously feed by Mahbub 's Baltis , be already asleep in a corner of one of the stall .
Kim lay down beside him and laugh .
He know he have render a service to Mahbub Ali , and not for one little minute do he believe the tale of the stallion 's pedigree .
But Kim do not suspect that Mahbub Ali , know a one of the best horse-dealers in the Punjab , a wealthy and enterprising trader , whose caravan penetrate far and far into the Back of Beyond , be register in one of the locked book of the Indian Survey Department a C25 IB .
Twice or thrice yearly C25 would send in a little story , baldly tell but most interesting , and generally -- it be check by the statement of R17 and M4 -- quite true .
It concern all manner of out-of-the-way mountain principality , explorer of nationality other than English , and the guntrade -- be , in brief , a small portion of that vast mass of ` information receive ' on which the Indian Government act .
But , recently , five confederated Kings , who have no business to confederate , have be inform by a kindly Northern Power that there be a leakage of news from their territory into British India .
So those Kings ' Prime Ministers be seriously annoy and take step , after the Oriental fashion .
They suspect , among many others , the bullying , red-bearded horsedealer whose caravan plough through their fastness belly-deep in snow .
At least , his caravan that season have be ambush and shoot at twice on the way down , when Mahbub 's men account for three strange ruffian who might , or might not , have be hire for the job .
Therefore Mahbub have avoid halting at the insalubrious city of Peshawur , and have come through without stop to Lahore , where , know his country-people , he anticipate curious development .
And there be that on Mahbub Ali which he do not wish to keep an hour long than be necessary -- a wad of closely fold tissue-paper , wrap in oilskin -- an impersonal , unaddressed statement , with five microscopic pin-holes in one corner , that most scandalously betray the five confederated Kings , the sympathetic Northern Power , a Hindu banker in Peshawur , a firm of gun-makers in Belgium , and an important , semi-independent Mohammedan ruler to the south .
This last be R17 's work , which Mahbub have pick up beyond the Dora Pass and be carry in for R17 , who , owe to circumstance over which he have no control , could not leave his post of observation .
Dynamite be milky and innocuous beside that report of C25 ; and even an Oriental , with an Oriental 's view of the value of time , could see that the sooner it be in the proper hand the good .
Mahbub have no particular desire to die by violence , because two or three family blood-feuds across the Border hung unfinished on his hand , and when these score be clear he intend to settle down a a more or less virtuous citizen .
He have never pass the serai gate since his arrival two day ago , but have be ostentatious in send telegram to Bombay , where he bank some of his money ; to Delhi , where a sub-partner of his own clan be sell horse to the agent of a Rajputana state ; and to Umballa , where an Englishman be excitedly demand the pedigree of a white stallion .
The public letter-writer , who know English , compose excellent telegram , such a : ` Creighton , Laurel Bank , Umballa .
Horse be Arabian a already advise .
Sorrowful delay pedigree which be translate . '
And later to the same address : ` Much sorrowful delay .
Will forward pedigree . '
To his sub-partner at Delhi he wire : ` Lutuf Ullah .
Have wire two thousand rupee your credit Luchman Narain 's bank -- ' This be entirely in the way of trade , but every one of those telegram be discuss and rediscussed , by party who conceive themselves to be interested , before they go over to the railway station in charge of a foolish Balti , who allow all sort of people to read them on the road .
When , in Mahbub 's own picturesque language , he have muddy the well of inquiry with the stick of precaution , Kim have drop on him , send from Heaven ; and , be as prompt a he be unscrupulous , Mahbub Ali use to take all sort of gusty chance , press him into service on the spot .
A wandering lama with a low-caste boy-servant might attract a moment 's interest a they wander about India , the land of pilgrim ; but no one would suspect them or , what be more to the point , rob .
He call for a new light-ball to his hookah , and consider the case .
If the bad come to the bad , and the boy come to harm , the paper would incriminate nobody .
And he would go up to Umballa leisurely and -- at a certain risk of excite fresh suspicion -- repeat his tale by word of mouth to the people concern .
But R17 's report be the kernel of the whole affair , and it would be distinctly inconvenient if that fail to come to hand .
However , God be great , and Mahbub Ali felt he have do all he could for the time be .
Kim be the one soul in the world who have never tell him a lie .
That would have be a fatal blot on Kim 's character if Mahbub have not know that to others , for his own end or Mahbub 's business , Kim could lie like an Oriental .
Then Mahbub Ali roll across the serai to the Gate of the Harpies who paint their eye and trap the stranger , and be at some pain to call on the one girl who , he have reason to believe , be a particular friend of a smooth-faced Kashmiri pundit who have waylay his simple Balti in the matter of the telegram .
It be an utterly foolish thing to do ; because they fell to drink perfumed brandy against the Law of the Prophet , and Mahbub grow wonderfully drunk , and the gate of his mouth be loosen , and he pursue the Flower of Delight with the foot of intoxication till he fell flat among the cushion , where the Flower of Delight , aid by a smooth-faced Kashmiri pundit , search him from head to foot most thoroughly .
About the same hour Kim hear soft foot in Mahbub 's deserted stall .
The horse-trader , curiously enough , have leave his door unlock , and his men be busy celebrate their return to India with a whole sheep of Mahbub 's bounty .
A sleek young gentleman from Delhi , arm with a bunch of key which the Flower have unshackled from the senseless one 's belt , go through every single box , bundle , mat , and saddle-bag in Mahbub 's possession even more systematically than the Flower and the pundit be search the owner .
` And I think . '
say the Flower scornfully an hour later , one round elbow on the snoring carcass , ` that he be no more than a pig of an Afghan horse-dealer , with no thought except woman and horse .
Moreover , he may have send it away by now -- if ever there be such a thing . '
` Nay -- in a matter touch Five Kings it would be next his black heart , ' say the pundit .
` Was there nothing ? '
The Delhi man laugh and resettle his turban a he enter . '
I search between the sol of his slipper a the Flower search his clothes .
This be not the man but another .
I leave little unseen . '
` They do not say he be the very man , ' say the pundit thoughtfully .
` They say , `` Look if he be the man , since our counsel be trouble . '' '
` That North country be full of horse-dealers a an old coat of louse .
There be Sikandar Khan , Nur Ali Beg , and Farrukh Shah all head of kafilas -LSB- caravan -RSB- -- who deal there , ' say the Flower .
` They have not yet come in , ' say the pundit .
` Thou must ensnare them later . '
Phew ! '
say the Flower with deep disgust , roll Mahbub 's head from her lap . '
I earn my money .
Farrukh Shah be a bear , Ali Beg a swashbuckler , and old Sikandar Khan -- yaie !
Go !
I sleep now .
This swine will not stir till dawn . '
When Mahbub wake , the Flower talk to him severely on the sin of drunkenness .
Asiatics do not wink when they have outmanoeuvre an enemy , but a Mahbub Ali clear his throat , tighten his belt , and stagger forth under the early morning star , he come very near to it .
` What a colt 's trick ! '
say he to himself .
` As if every girl in Peshawur do not use it !
But 't be prettily do .
Now God He know how many more there be upon the Road who have order to test me -- perhaps with the knife .
So it stand that the boy must go to Umballa -- and by rail -- for the writing be something urgent .
I abide here , follow the Flower and drink wine a an Afghan coper should . '
He halt at the stall next but one to his own .
His men lay there heavy with sleep .
There be no sign of Kim or the lama .
` Up ! '
He stir a sleeper .
` Whither go those who lay here last even -- the lama and the boy ?
Is aught miss ? '
` Nay , ' grunt the man , ` the old madman rise at second cockcrow say he would go to Benares , and the young one lead him away . '
` The curse of Allah on all unbeliever ! '
say Mahbub heartily , and climb into his own stall , growl in his beard .
But it be Kim who have waken the lama -- Kim with one eye lay against a knot-hole in the planking , who have see the Delhi man 's search through the box .
This be no common thief that turn over letter , bill , and saddle -- no mere burglar who run a little knife sideways into the sol of Mahbub 's slipper , or pick the seam of the saddle-bags so deftly .
At first Kim have be mind to give the alarm -- the long-drawn choor -- choor !
-LSB- thief !
thief ! -RSB-
that set the serai ablaze of night ; but he look more carefully , and , hand on amulet , draw his own conclusion .
` It must be the pedigree of that made-up horse-lie , ' say he , ` the thing that I carry to Umballa .
Better that we go now .
Those who search bag with knife may presently search belly with knife .
Surely there be a woman behind this .
Hai !
Hai !
in a whisper to the light-sleeping old man .
` Come .
It be time -- time to go to Benares . '
The lama rise obediently , and they pass out of the serai like shadow .
Chapter 2 And whoso will , from Pride release ; Contemning neither creed nor priest , May feel the Soul of all the East .
About him at Kamakura .
Buddha at Kamakura .
They enter the fort-like railway station , black in the end of night ; the electric sizzle over the goods-yard where they handle the heavy Northern grain-traffic .
` This be the work of devil ! '
say the lama , recoil from the hollow echo darkness , the glimmer of rail between the masonry platform , and the maze of girder above .
He stand in a gigantic stone hall pave , it seem , with the sheet dead third-class passenger who have take their ticket overnight and be sleep in the waiting-rooms .
All hour of the twenty-four be alike to Orientals , and their passenger traffic be regulate accordingly .
` This be where the fire-carriages come .
One stand behind that hole ' -- Kim point to the ticket-office -- ` who will give thee a paper to take thee to Umballa . '
` But we go to Benares , ' he reply petulantly .
` All one .
Benares then .
Quick : she come ! '
` Take thou the purse . '
The lama , not so well use to train a he have pretend , start a the 3.25 a.m. south-bound roar in .
The sleeper spring to life , and the station fill with clamour and shouting , cry of water and sweetmeat vendor , shout of native policeman , and shrill yell of woman gather up their basket , their family , and their husband .
` It be the train -- only the te-rain .
It will not come here .
Wait ! '
Amazed at the lama 's immense simplicity -LRB- he have hand him a small bag full of rupee -RRB- , Kim ask and pay for a ticket to Umballa .
A sleepy clerk grunt and fling out a ticket to the next station , just six mile distant .
` Nay , ' say Kim , scan it with a grin .
` This may serve for farmer , but I live in the city of Lahore .
It be cleverly do , Babu .
Now give the ticket to Umballa . '
The Babu scowl and deal the proper ticket .
` Now another to Amritzar , ' say Kim , who have no notion of spending Mahbub Ali 's money on anything so crude a a pay ride to Umballa .
` The price be so much .
The small money in return be just so much .
I know the way of the te-rain ... Never do yogi need chela a thou dost , ' he go on merrily to the bewilder lama .
` They would have fling thee out at Mian Mir but for me .
This way !
Come ! '
He return the money , keep only one anna in each rupee of the price of the Umballa ticket a his commission -- the immemorial commission of Asia .
The lama jibbed at the open door of a crowded third-class carriage .
` Were it not well to walk ? '
say he weakly .
A burly Sikh artisan thrust forth his bearded head .
` Is he afraid ?
Do not be afraid .
I remember the time when I be afraid of the te-rain .
Enter !
This thing be the work of the Government . ' '
I do not fear , ' say the lama .
` Have ye room within for two ? '
` There be no room even for a mouse , ' shrill the wife of a well-to-do cultivator -- a Hindu Jat from the rich Jullundur , district .
Our night train be not as well looked after a the day one , where the sex be very strictly keep to separate carriage .
` Oh , mother of my son , we can make space , ' say the blueturbaned husband .
` Pick up the child .
It be a holy man , see ` st thou ? '
` And my lap full of seventy time seven bundle !
Why not bid him sit on my knee , Shameless ?
But men be ever thus ! '
She look round for approval .
An Amritzar courtesan near the window sniffed behind her head drapery .
` Enter !
Enter ! '
cry a fat Hindu money-lender , his folded account-book in a cloth under his arm .
With an oily smirk : ` It be well to be kind to the poor . '
` Ay , at seven per cent a month with a mortgage on the unborn calf , ' say a young Dogra soldier go south on leave ; and they all laugh .
` Will it travel to Benares ? '
say the lama .
` Assuredly .
Else why should we come ?
Enter , or we be leave , ' cry Kim .
` See ! '
shrill the Amritzar girl .
` He have never enter a train .
Oh , see ! '
` Nay , help , ' say the cultivator , put out a large brown hand and haul him in .
` Thus be it do , father . '
` But -- but -- I sit on the floor .
It be against the Rule to sit on a bench , ' say the lama .
` Moreover , it cramp me . ' '
I say , ' begin the money-lender , purse his lip , ` that there be not one rule of right living which these te-rains do not cause u to break .
We sit , for example , side by side with all caste and people . '
` Yea , and with most outrageously shameless one , ' say the wife , scowl at the Amritzar girl make eye at the young sepoy . '
I say we might have go by cart along the road , ' say the husband , ` and thus have save some money . '
` Yes -- and spent twice over what we save on food by the way .
That be talk out ten thousand time . '
` Ay , by ten thousand tongue , ' grunt he .
` The Gods help u poor woman if we may not speak .
Oho !
He be of that sort which may not look at or reply to a woman . '
For the lama , constrain by his Rule , take not the faint notice of her .
` And his disciple be like him ? '
` Nay , mother , ' say Kim most promptly .
` Not when the woman be well-looking and above all charitable to the hungry . ' '
A beggar 's answer , ' say the Sikh , laugh .
` Thou hast bring it on thyself , sister ! '
Kim 's hand be crook in supplication .
` And whither goest thou ? '
say the woman , hand him the half of a cake from a greasy package .
` Even to Benares . '
` Jugglers belike ? '
the young soldier suggest .
` Have ye any trick to pass the time ?
Why do not that yellow man answer ? '
` Because , ' say Kim stoutly , ` he be holy , and think upon matter hide from thee . '
` That may be well .
We of the Ludhiana Sikhs ' -- he roll it out sonorously -- ` do not trouble our head with doctrine .
We fight . '
` My sister 's brother 's son be naik -LSB- corporal -RSB- in that regiment , ' say the Sikh craftsman quietly .
` There be also some Dogra company there . '
The soldier glare , for a Dogra be of other caste than a Sikh , and the banker titter .
` They be all one to me , ' say the Amritzar girl .
` That we believe , ' snort the cultivator 's wife malignantly .
` Nay , but all who serve the Sirkar with weapon in their hand be , a it be , one brotherhood .
There be one brotherhood of the caste , but beyond that again ' -- she look round timidly -- ` the bond of the Pulton -- the Regiment -- eh ? '
` My brother be in a Jat regiment , ' say the cultivator .
` Dogras be good men . '
` Thy Sikhs at least be of that opinion , ' say the soldier , with a scowl at the placid old man in the corner .
` Thy Sikhs think so when our two company come to help them at the Pirzai Kotal in the face of eight Afridi standard on the ridge not three month go . '
He tell the story of a Border action in which the Dogra company of the Ludhiana Sikhs have acquit themselves well .
The Amritzar girl smile ; for she know the talk be to win her approval .
` Alas ! '
say the cultivator 's wife at the end .
` So their village be burnt and their little child make homeless ? '
` They have mark our dead .
They pay a great payment after we of the Sikhs have school them .
So it be .
Is this Amritzar ? '
` Ay , and here they cut our ticket , ' say the banker , fumble at his belt .
The lamp be pal in the dawn when the half-caste guard come round .
Ticket-collecting be a slow business in the East , where people secrete their ticket in all sort of curious place .
Kim produce his and be tell to get out .
` But I go to Umballa , ' he protest . '
I go with this holy man . '
` Thou canst go to Jehannum for aught I care .
This ticket be only -- ' Kim burst into a flood of tear , protest that the lama be his father and his mother , that he be the prop of the lama 's decline year , and that the lama would die without his care .
All the carriage bid the guard be merciful -- the banker be specially eloquent here -- but the guard haul Kim on to the platform .
The lama blink -- he could not overtake the situation and Kim lift up his voice and weep outside the carriage window . '
I be very poor .
My father be dead -- my mother be dead .
O charitable one , if I be left here , who shall tend that old man ? '
` What -- what be this ? '
the lama repeat .
` He must go to Benares .
He must come with me .
He be my chela .
If there be money to be pay -- ' ` Oh , be silent , ' whisper Kim ; ` be we Rajahs to throw away good silver when the world be so charitable ? '
The Amritzar girl step out with her bundle , and it be on her that Kim keep his watchful eye .
Ladies of that persuasion , he know , be generous . '
A ticket -- a little tikkut to Umballa -- O Breaker of Hearts ! '
She laugh .
` Hast thou no charity ? '
` Does the holy man come from the North ? '
` From far and far in the North he come , ' cry Kim .
` From among the hill . '
` There be snow among the pine-trees in the North -- in the hill there be snow .
My mother be from Kulu .
Get thee a ticket .
Ask him for a blessing . '
` Ten thousand blessing , ' shrill Kim . '
O Holy One , a woman have give u in charity so that I can come with thee -- a woman with a golden heart .
I run for the tikkut . '
The girl look up at the lama , who have mechanically follow Kim to the platform .
He bow his head that he might not see her , and mutter in Tibetan a she pass on with the crowd .
` Light come -- light go , ' say the cultivator 's wife viciously .
` She have acquire merit , ' return the lama .
` Beyond doubt it be a nun . '
` There be ten thousand such nun in Amritzar alone .
Return , old man , or the te-rain may depart without thee , ' cry the banker .
` Not only be it sufficient for the ticket , but for a little food also , ' say Kim , leap to his place .
` Now eat , Holy One .
Look .
Day come ! '
Golden , rise , saffron , and pink , the morning mist smoke away across the flat green level .
All the rich Punjab lay out in the splendour of the keen sun .
The lama flinch a little a the telegraph-posts swung by .
` Great be the speed of the te-rain , ' say the banker , with a patronize grin .
` We have go far since Lahore than thou couldst walk in two day : at even , we shall enter Umballa . '
` And that be still far from Benares , ' say the lama wearily , mumble over the cake that Kim offer .
They all unloose their bundle and make their morning meal .
Then the banker , the cultivator , and the soldier prepare their pipe and wrap the compartment in choking , acrid smoke , spit and cough and enjoy themselves .
The Sikh and the cultivator 's wife chew pan ; the lama take snuff and tell his bead , while Kim , cross-legged , smile over the comfort of a full stomach .
` What river have ye by Benares ? '
say the lama of a sudden to the carriage at large .
` We have Gunga , ' return the banker , when the little titter have subside .
` What others ? '
` What other than Gunga ? '
` Nay , but in my mind be the thought of a certain River of heal . '
` That be Gunga .
Who bath in her be make clean and go to the Gods .
Thrice have I make pilgrimage to Gunga . '
He look round proudly .
` There be need , ' say the young sepoy drily , and the traveller ' laugh turn against the banker .
` Clean -- to return again to the Gods , ' the lama mutter .
` And to go forth on the round of life anew -- still tie to the Wheel . '
He shake his head testily .
` But maybe there be a mistake .
Who , then , make Gunga in the beginning ? '
` The Gods .
Of what know faith art thou ? '
the banker say , appal . '
I follow the Law -- the Most Excellent Law .
So it be the Gods that make Gunga .
What like of Gods be they ? '
The carriage look at him in amazement .
It be inconceivable that anyone should be ignorant of Gunga .
` What -- what be thy God ? '
say the money-lender at last .
` Hear ! '
say the lama , shift the rosary to his hand .
` Hear : for I speak of Him now !
O people of Hind , listen ! '
He begin in Urdu the tale of the Lord Buddha , but , borne by his own thought , slide into Tibetan and long-droned text from a Chinese book of the Buddha 's life .
The gentle , tolerant folk look on reverently .
All India be full of holy men stammer gospel in strange tongue ; shake and consume in the fire of their own zeal ; dreamer , babbler , and visionary : a it have be from the beginning and will continue to the end .
` Um ! '
say the soldier of the Ludhiana Sikhs .
` There be a Mohammedan regiment lay next to u at the Pirzai Kotal , and a priest of theirs -- he be , a I remember , a naik -- when the fit be on him , spake prophecy .
But the mad all be in God 's keep .
His officer overlook much in that man . '
The lama fell back on Urdu , remember that he be in a strange land .
` Hear the tale of the Arrow which our Lord loose from the bow , ' he say .
This be much more to their taste , and they listen curiously while he tell it .
` Now , O people of Hind , I go to seek that River .
Know ye aught that may guide me , for we be all men and woman in evil case . '
` There be Gunga -- and Gunga alone -- who wash away sin . '
run the murmur round the carriage .
` Though past question we have good Gods Jullundur-way , ' say the cultivator 's wife , look out of the window .
` See how they have bless the crop . '
` To search every river in the Punjab be no small matter , ' say her husband .
` For me , a stream that leave good silt on my land suffices , and I thank Bhumia , the God of the Home-stead . '
He shrug one knot , bronze shoulder .
` Think you our Lord come so far North ? '
say the lama , turn to Kim .
` It may be , ' Kim reply soothingly , a he spat red pan-juice on the floor .
` The last of the Great Ones , ' say the Sikh with authority , ` be Sikander Julkarn -LSB- Alexander the Great -RSB- .
He pave the street of Jullundur and build a great tank near Umballa .
That pavement hold to this day ; and the tank be there also .
I never heard of thy God . '
` Let thy hair grow long and talk Punjabi , ' say the young soldier jestingly to Kim , quote a Northern proverb .
` That be all that make a Sikh . '
But he do not say this very loud .
The lama sigh and shrink into himself , a dingy , shapeless mass .
In the pause of their talk they could hear the low droning ` Om mane pudme hum !
Om mane pudme hum ! '
-- and the thick click of the wooden rosary bead .
` It irk me , ' he say at last .
` The speed and the clatter irk me .
Moreover , my chela , I think that maybe we have over-passed that River . '
` Peace , peace , ' say Kim .
` Was not the River near Benares ?
We be yet far from the place . '
` But -- if our Lord come North , it may be any one of these little one that we have run across . ' '
I do not know . '
` But thou wast send to me -- wast thou send to me ?
-- for the merit I have acquire over yonder at Such-zen .
From beside the cannon didst thou come -- bear two face -- and two garb . '
` Peace .
One must not speak of these thing here , ' whisper Kim .
` There be but one of me .
Think again and thou wilt remember .
A boy -- a Hindu boy -- by the great green cannon . '
` But be there not also an Englishman with a white beard holy among image -- who himself make more sure my assurance of the River of the Arrow ? '
` He -- we -- go to the Ajaib-Gher in Lahore to pray before the Gods there , ' Kim explain to the openly listen company .
` And the Sahib of the Wonder House talk to him -- yes , this be truth a a brother .
He be a very holy man , from far beyond the Hills .
Rest , thou .
In time we come to Umballa . '
` But my River -- the River of my healing ? '
` And then , if it please thee , we will go hunt for that River on foot .
So that we miss nothing -- not even a little rivulet in a field-side . '
` But thou hast a Search of thine own ? '
The lama -- very pleased that he remember so well -- sit bolt upright .
` Ay , ' say Kim , humour him .
The boy be entirely happy to be out chew pan and see new people in the great good-tempered world .
` It be a bull -- a Red Bull that shall come and help thee and carry thee -- whither ?
I have forget .
A Red Bull on a green field , be it not ? '
` Nay , it will carry me nowhere , ' say Kim .
` It be but a tale I tell thee . '
` What be this ? '
The cultivator 's wife lean forward , her bracelet clink on her arm .
` Do ye both dream dream ?
A Red Bull on a green field , that shall carry thee to the heaven or what ?
Was it a vision ?
Did one make a prophecy ?
We have a Red Bull in our village behind Jullundur city , and he graze by choice in the very green of our field ! '
` Give a woman an old wife 's tale and a weaver-bird a leaf and a thread ' , they will weave wonderful thing , ' say the Sikh .
` All holy men dream dream , and by follow holy men their disciple attain that power . ' '
A Red Bull on a green field , be it ? '
the lama repeat .
` In a former life it may be thou hast acquire merit , and the Bull will come to reward thee . '
` Nay -- nay -- it be but a tale one told to me -- for a jest belike .
But I will seek the Bull about Umballa , and thou canst look for thy River and rest from the clatter of the train . '
` It may be that the Bull know -- that he be send to guide u both . '
say the lama , hopefully a a child .
Then to the company , indicate Kim : ` This one be send to me but yesterday .
He be not , I think , of this world . '
` Beggars aplenty have I meet , and holy men to boot , but never such a yogi nor such a disciple , ' say the woman .
Her husband touch his forehead lightly with one finger and smile .
But the next time the lama would eat they take care to give him of their best .
And at last -- tire , sleepy , and dusty -- they reach Umballa City Station .
` We abide here upon a law-suit , ' say the cultivator 's wife to Kim .
` We lodge with my man 's cousin 's young brother .
There be room also in the courtyard for thy yogi and for thee .
Will -- will he give me a blessing ? ' '
O holy man !
A woman with a heart of gold give u lodge for the night .
It be a kindly land , this land of the South .
See how we have be help since the dawn ! '
The lama bow his head in benediction .
` To fill my cousin 's young brother 's house with wastrel -- ' the husband begin , a he shoulder his heavy bamboo staff .
` Thy cousin 's young brother owes my father 's cousin something yet on his daughter 's marriage-feast , ' say the woman crisply .
` Let him put their food to that account .
The yogi will beg , I doubt not . '
` Ay , I beg for him , ' say Kim , anxious only to get the lama under shelter for the night , that he might seek Mahbub Ali 's Englishman and deliver himself of the white stallion 's pedigree .
` Now , ' say he , when the lama have come to an anchor in the inner courtyard of a decent Hindu house behind the cantonment , ' I go away for a while -- to -- to buy u victual in the bazar .
Do not stray abroad till I return . '
` Thou wilt return ?
