Now that he have make them rich , they give him every day all that a dog like best to eat , and the cushion on which he lay be fit for a prince .
The story of the dog and his treasure soon become know , and a neighbour whose garden be next the old people 's grow so envious of their good luck that he could neither eat nor sleep .
As the dog have discover a treasure once , this foolish man think he must be able to discover one always , and beg the old couple to lend him their pet for a little while , so that he might be make rich also .
` How can you ask such a thing ? '
answer the old man indignantly .
` You know how much we love him , and that he be never out of our sight for five minute . '
But the envious neighbour would not heed his word , and come daily with the same request , till at last the old people , who could not bear to say no to anyone , promise to lend the dog , just for a night or two .
No sooner do the man get hold of the dog than he turn him into the garden , but the dog do nothing but race about , and the man be force to wait with what patience he could .
The next morning the man open the house door , and the dog bound joyfully into the garden , and , run up to the foot of a tree , begin to scratch wildly .
The man call loudly to his wife to bring a spade , and follow the dog , a he long to catch the first glimpse of the expected treasure .
But when he have dig up the ground , what do he find ?
Why , nothing but a parcel of old bone , which smelt so badly that he could not stay there a moment longer .
And his heart be fill with rage against the dog who have play him this trick , and he seize a pickaxe and kill it on the spot , before he know what he be do .
When he remember that he would have to go with his story to the old man and his wife he be rather frightened , but there be nothing to be gain by put it off , so he pull a very long face and go to his neighbour 's garden .
` Your dog , ' say he , pretend to weep , ` have suddenly fall down dead , though I take every care of him , and give him everything he could wish for .
And I think I have well come straight and tell you . '
Weeping bitterly , the old man go to fetch the body of his favourite , and bring it home and bury it under the fig-tree where he have find the treasure .
From morning till night he and his wife mourn over their loss , and nothing could comfort them .
At length , one night when he be asleep , he dream that the dog appear to him and tell him to cut down the fig-tree over his grave , and out of it wood to make a mortar .
But when the old man wake and think of his dream he do not feel at all incline to cut down the tree , which bore well every year , and consult his wife about it .
The woman do not hesitate a moment , and say that after what have happen before , the dog 's advice must certainly be obey , so the tree be fell , and a beautiful mortar make from it .
And when the season come for the rice crop to be gather the mortar be take down from it shelf , and the grain place in it for pound , when , lo and behold !
in a twinkling of an eye , they all turn into gold piece .
At the sight of all this gold the heart of the old people be glad , and once more they bless their faithful dog .
But it be not long before this story also come to the ear of their envious neighbour , and he lose no time in go to the old people and ask if they happen to have a mortar which they could lend him .
The old man do not at all like part with his precious treasure , but he never could say no , so the neighbour go off with the mortar under his arm .
The moment he get into his own house he take a great handful of rice , and begin to shell off the husk , with the help of his wife .
But , instead of the gold piece for which they look , the rice turn into berry with such a horrible smell that they be oblige to run away , after smash the mortar in a rage and set fire to the bit .
The old people next door be naturally very much put out when they learn the fate of their mortar , and be not at all comfort by the explanation and excuse make by their neighbour .
But that night the dog again appear in a dream to his master , and tell him that he must go and collect the ash of the burnt mortar and bring them home .
Then , when he hear that the Daimio , or great lord to whom this part of the country belong , be expect at the capital , he be to carry the ash to the high road , through which the procession would have to pass .
And as soon a it be in sight he be to climb up all the cherry-trees and sprinkle the ash on them , and they would soon blossom a they have never blossom before .
This time the old man do not wait to consult his wife a to whether he be to do what his dog have tell him , but directly he get up he go to his neighbour 's house and collect the ash of the burnt mortar .
He put them carefully in a china vase , and carry it to the high road , Sitting down on a seat till the Daimio should pass .
The cherry-trees be bare , for it be the season when small pot of them be sell to rich people , who keep them in hot place , so that they might blossom early and decorate their room .
As to the tree in the open air , no one would ever think of look for the tiny bud for more than a month yet .
The old man have not be wait very long before he saw a cloud of dust in the far distance , and know that it must be the procession of the Daimio .
On they come , every man dress in his finest clothes , and the crowd that be line the road bow their face to the ground a they go by .
Only the old man do not bow himself , and the great lord saw this , and bid one of his courtier , in anger , go and inquire why he have disobey the ancient custom .
But before the messenger could reach him the old man have climb the near tree and scatter his ash far and wide , and in an instant the white flower have flash into life , and the heart of the Daimio rejoice , and he give rich present to the old man , whom he send for to his castle .
We may be sure that in a very little while the envious neighbour have hear this also , and his bosom be fill with hate .
He hasten to the place where he have burn the mortar , collect a few of the ash which the old man have leave behind , and take them to the road , hop that his luck might be as good a the old man 's , or perhaps even well .
His heart beat with pleasure when he catch the first glimpse of the Daimio 's train , and he hold himself ready for the right moment .
As the Daimio draw near he fling a great handful of ash over the tree , but no bud or flower follow the action : instead , the ash be all blow back into the eye of the Daimio and his warrior , till they cry out from pain .
Then the prince order the evil-doer to be seize and bind and throw into prison , where he be keep for many month .
By the time he be set free everybody in his native village have find out his wickedness , and they would not let him live there any long ; and a he would not leave off his evil way he soon go from bad to worse , and come to a miserable end .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE FAIRY OF THE DAWN Once upon a time what should happen DID happen ; and if it have not happen this tale would never have be tell .
There be once an emperor , very great and mighty , and he rule over an empire so large that no one know where it begin and where it end .
But if nobody could tell the exact extent of his sovereignty everybody be aware that the emperor 's right eye laugh , while his left eye wept .
One or two men of valour have the courage to go and ask him the reason of this strange fact , but he only laugh and say nothing ; and the reason of the deadly enmity between his two eye be a secret only know to the monarch himself .
And all the while the emperor 's son be grow up .
And such son !
All three like the morning star in the sky !
Florea , the eldest , be so tall and broad-shouldered that no man in the kingdom could approach him .
Costan , the second , be quite different .
Small of stature , and slightly build , he have a strong arm and strong wrist .
Petru , the third and young , be tall and thin , more like a girl than a boy .
He speak very little , but laugh and sing , sang and laugh , from morning till night .
He be very seldom serious , but then he have a way when he be think of stroke his hair over his forehead , which make him look old enough to sit in his father 's council !
` You be grow up , Florea , ' say Petru one day to his eldest brother ; ` do go and ask father why one eye laugh and the other weeps . '
But Florea would not go .
He have learn by experience that this question always put the emperor in a rage .
Petru next go to Costan , but do not succeed any good with him .
` Well , well , a everyone else be afraid , I suppose I must do it myself , ' observe Petru at length .
No sooner say than do ; the boy go straight to his father and put his question .
` May you go blind ! '
exclaim the emperor in wrath ; ` what business be it of yours ? '
and box Petru 's ear soundly .
Petru return to his brother , and tell them what have befall him ; but not long after it strike him that his father 's left eye seem to weep less , and the right to laugh more . '
I wonder if it have anything to do with my question , ' think he .
` I 'll try again !
After all , what do two box on the ear matter ? '
So he put his question for the second time , and have the same answer ; but the left eye only weep now and then , while the right eye look ten year younger .
` It really MUST be true , ' think Petru .
` Now I know what I have to do .
I shall have to go on put that question , and get box on the ear , till both eye laugh together . '
No sooner say than do .
Petru never , never forswear himself .
` Petru , my dear boy , ' cry the emperor , both his eye laugh together , ' I see you have get this on the brain .
Well , I will let you into the secret .
My right eye laugh when I look at my three son , and see how strong and handsome you all be , and the other eye weeps because I fear that after I die you will not be able to keep the empire together , and to protect it from it enemy .
But if you can bring me water from the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn , to bathe my eye , then they will laugh for evermore ; for I shall know that my son be brave enough to overcome any foe . '
Thus speak the emperor , and Petru pick up his hat and go to find his brother .
The three young men take counsel together , and talk the subject well over , a brother should do .
And the end of it be that Florea , a the eldest , go to the stable , choose the best and handsome horse they contain , saddle him , and take leave of the court . '
I be start at once , ' say he to his brother , ` and if after a year , a month , a week , and a day I have not return with the water from the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn , you , Costan , have well come after me . '
So say he disappear round a corner of the palace .
For three day and three night he never draw rein .
Like a spirit the horse fly over mountain and valley till he come to the border of the empire .
Here be a deep , deep trench that girdle it the whole way round , and there be only a single bridge by which the trench could be cross .
Florea make instantly for the bridge , and there pull up to look around him once more , to take leave of his native land Then he turn , but before him be stand a dragon -- oh !
SUCH a dragon !
-- a dragon with three head and three horrible face , all with their mouth wide open , one jaw reach to heaven and the other to earth .
At this awful sight Florea do not wait to give battle .
He put spur to his horse and dash off , WHERE he neither know nor care .
The dragon heave a sigh and vanish without leave a trace behind him .
A week go by .
Florea do not return home .
Two pass ; and nothing be hear of him .
After a month Costan begin to haunt the stable and to look out a horse for himself .
And the moment the year , the month , the week , and the day be over Costan mount his horse and take leave of his young brother .
` If I fail , then you come , ' say he , and follow the path that Florea have take .
The dragon on the bridge be more fearful and his three head more terrible than before , and the young hero ride away still fast than his brother have do .
Nothing more be hear either of him or Florea ; and Petru remain alone . '
I must go after my brother , ' say Petru one day to his father .
` Go , then , ' say his father , ` and may you have good luck than they ' ; and he bid farewell to Petru , who ride straight to the border of the kingdom .
The dragon on the bridge be yet more dreadful than the one Florea and Costan have see , for this one have seven head instead of only three .
Petru stop for a moment when he catch sight of this terrible creature .
Then he find his voice .
` Get out of the way ! '
cry he .
` Get out of the way ! '
he repeat again , a the dragon do not move .
` Get out of the way ! '
and with this last summons he draw his sword and rush upon him .
In an instant the heaven seem to darken round him and he be surround by fire -- fire to right of him , fire to left of him , fire to front of him , fire to rear of him ; nothing but fire whichever way he look , for the dragon 's seven head be vomit flame .
The horse neigh and rear at the horrible sight , and Petru could not use the sword he have in readiness .
` Be quiet !
this wo n't do ! '
he say , dismount hastily , but hold the bridle firmly in his left hand and grasp his sword in his right .
But even so he get on no good , for he could see nothing but fire and smoke .
` There be no help for it ; I must go back and get a good horse , ' say he , and mount again and ride homewards .
At the gate of the palace his nurse , old Birscha , be wait for him eagerly .
` Ah , Petru , my son , I know you would have to come back , ' she cry .
` You do not set about the matter properly . '
` How ought I to have set about it ? '
ask Petru , half angrily , half sadly .
` Look here , my boy , ' reply old Birscha .
` You can never reach the spring of the Fairy of the Dawn unless you ride the horse which your father , the emperor , rode in his youth .
Go and ask where it be to be find , and then mount it and be off with you . '
Petru thank her heartily for her advice , and go at once to make inquiry about the horse .
` By the light of my eye ! '
exclaim the emperor when Petru have put his question .
` Who have tell you anything about that ?
It must have be that old witch of a Birscha ?
Have you lose your wit ?
Fifty year have pass since I be young , and who know where the bone of my horse may be rot , or whether a scrap of his rein still lie in his stall ?
I have forget all about him long ago . '
Petru turn away in anger , and go back to his old nurse .
` Do not be cast down , ' she say with a smile ; ` if that be how the affair stand all will go well .
Go and fetch the scrap of the rein ; I shall soon know what must be do . '
The place be full of saddle , bridle , and bit of leather .
Petru pick out the old , and black , and most decayed pair of rein , and bring them to the old woman , who murmur something over them and sprinkle them with incense , and hold them out to the young man .
` Take the rein , ' say she , ` and strike them violently against the pillar of the house . '
Petru do what he be tell , and scarcely have the rein touch the pillar when something happen -- HOW I have no idea -- that make Petru stare with surprise .
A horse stand before him -- a horse whose equal in beauty the world have never see ; with a saddle on him of gold and precious stone , and with such a dazzling bridle you hardly dare to look at it , lest you should lose your sight .
A splendid horse , a splendid saddle , and a splendid bridle , all ready for the splendid young prince !
` Jump on the back of the brown horse , ' say the old woman , and she turn round and go into the house .
The moment Petru be seat on the horse he felt his arm three time as strong a before , and even his heart felt braver .
` Sit firmly in the saddle , my lord , for we have a long way to go and no time to waste , ' say the brown horse , and Petru soon saw that they be rid a no man and horse have ever ride before .
On the bridge stand a dragon , but not the same one a he have try to fight with , for this dragon have twelve head , each more hideous and shoot forth more terrible flame than the other .
But , horrible though he be , he have meet his match .
Petru show no fear , but roll up his sleeve , that his arm might be free .
` Get out of the way ! '
he say when he have do , but the dragon 's head only breathe forth more flame and smoke .
Petru waste no more word , but draw his sword and prepare to throw himself on the bridge .
` Stop a moment ; be careful , my lord , ' put in the horse , ` and be sure you do what I tell you .
Dig your spur in my body up to the rowel , draw your sword , and keep yourself ready , for we shall have to leap over both bridge and dragon .
When you see that we be right above the dragon cut off his big head , wipe the blood off the sword , and put it back clean in the sheath before we touch earth again . '
So Petru dug in his spur , draw his sword , cut of the head , wipe the blood , and put the sword back in the sheath before the horse 's hoof touch the ground again .
And in this fashion they pass the bridge .
` But we have get to go far still , ' say Petru , after he have take a farewell glance at his native land .
` Yes , forward , ' answer the horse ; ` but you must tell me , my lord , at what speed you wish to go .
Like the wind ?
Like think ?
Like desire ?
or like a curse ? '
Petru look about him , up at the heaven and down again to the earth .
A desert lay spread out before him , whose aspect make his hair stand on end .
` We will ride at different speed , ' say he , ` not so fast a to grow tired nor so slow a to waste time . '
And so they ride , one day like the wind , the next like thought , the third and fourth like desire and like a curse , till they reach the border of the desert .
` Now walk , so that I may look about , and see what I have never see before , ' say Petru , rub his eye like one who wake from sleep , or like him who behold something so strange that it seem a if ... Before Petru lay a wood make of copper , with copper tree and copper leaf , with bush and flower of copper also .
Petru stand and star a a man do when he see something that he have never see , and of which he have never hear .
Then he ride right into the wood .
On each side of the way the row of flower begin to praise Petru , and to try and persuade him to pick some of them and make himself a wreath .
` Take me , for I be lovely , and can give strength to whoever pluck me , ' say one .
` No , take me , for whoever wear me in his hat will be love by the most beautiful woman in the world , ' plead the second ; and then one after another bestir itself , each more charming than the last , all promising , in soft sweet voice , wonderful thing to Petru , if only he would pick them .
Petru be not deaf to their persuasion , and be just stoop to pick one when the horse sprang to one side .
` Why do n't you stay still ? '
ask Petru roughly .
` Do not pick the flower ; it will bring you bad luck ; answer the horse .
` Why should it do that ? '
` These flower be under a curse .
Whoever pluck them must fight the Welwa -LRB- 1 -RRB- of the wood . '
-LRB- 1 -RRB- A goblin .
` What kind of a goblin be the Welwa ? '
` Oh , do leave me in peace !
But listen .
Look at the flower as much a you like , but pick none , ' and the horse walk on slowly .
Petru knew by experience that he would do well to attend to the horse 's advice , so he make a great effort and tear his mind away from the flower .
But in vain !
If a man be fat to be unlucky , unlucky he will be , whatever he may do !
The flower go on beseech him , and his heart grow ever weak and weak .
` What must come will come , ' say Petru at length ; ` at any rate I shall see the Welwa of the wood , what she be like , and which way I have best fight her .
If she be ordain to be the cause of my death , well , then it will be so ; but if not I shall conquer her though she be twelve hundred Welwas , ' and once more he stoop down to gather the flower .
` You have do very wrong , ' say the horse sadly .
` But it ca n't be help now .
Get yourself ready for battle , for here be the Welwa ! '
Hardly have he do speaking , scarcely have Petru twist his wreath , when a soft breeze arise on all side at once .
Out of the breeze come a storm wind , and the storm wind swell and swell till everything around be blot out in darkness , and darkness cover them a with a thick cloak , while the earth sway and shake under their foot .
` Are you afraid ? '
ask the horse , shake his mane .
` Not yet , ' reply Petru stoutly , though cold shiver be run down his back .
` What must come will come , whatever it be . '
` Do n't be afraid , ' say the horse . '
I will help you .
Take the bridle from my neck , and try to catch the Welwa with it . '
The word be hardly speak , and Petru have no time even to unbuckle the bridle , when the Welwa herself stand before him ; and Petru could not bear to look at her , so horrible be she .
She have not exactly a head , yet neither be she without one .
She do not fly through the air , but neither do she walk upon the earth .
She have a mane like a horse , horn like a deer , a face like a bear , eye like a polecat ; while her body have something of each .
And that be the Welwa .
Petru plant himself firmly in his stirrup , and begin to lay about him with his sword , but could feel nothing .
A day and a night go by , and the fight be still undecided , but at last the Welwa begin to pant for breath .
` Let u wait a little and rest , ' gasp she .
Petru stop and lower his sword .
` You must not stop an instant , ' say the horse , and Petru gather up all his strength , and lay about him hard than ever .
The Welwa give a neigh like a horse and a howl like a wolf , and throw herself afresh on Petru .
For another day and night the battle rag more furiously than before .
And Petru grow so exhausted he could scarcely move his arm .
` Let u wait a little and rest , ' cry the Welwa for the second time , ` for I see you be as weary a I be . '
` You must not stop an instant , ' say the horse .
And Petru go on fighting , though he barely have strength to move his arm .
But the Welwa have cease to throw herself upon him , and begin to deliver her blow cautiously , a if she have no longer power to strike .
And on the third day they be still fight , but a the morning sky begin to redden Petru somehow manage -- how I can not tell -- to throw the bridle over the head of the tired Welwa .
In a moment , from the Welwa spring a horse -- the most beautiful horse in the world .
` Sweet be your life , for you have deliver me from my enchantment , ' say he , and begin to rub his nose against his brother 's .
And he tell Petru all his story , and how he have be bewitch for many year .
So Petru tie the Welwa to his own horse and rode on .
Where do he ride ?
That I can not tell you , but he ride on fast till he get out of the copper wood .
` Stay still , and let me look about , and see what I never have see before , ' say Petru again to his horse .
For in front of him stretch a forest that be far more wonderful , a it be make of glisten tree and shin flower .
It be the silver wood .
As before , the flower begin to beg the young man to gather them .
` Do not pluck them , ' warn the Welwa , trot beside him , ` for my brother be seven time strong than I ' ; but though Petru knew by experience what this meant , it be no use , and after a moment 's hesitation he begin to gather the flower , and to twist himself a wreath .
Then the storm wind howl louder , the earth tremble more violently , and the night grow darker , than the first time , and the Welwa of the silver wood come rush on with seven time the speed of the other .
For three day and three night they fight , but at last Petru cast the bridle over the head of the second Welwa .
` Sweet be your life , for you have deliver me from enchantment , ' say the second Welwa , and they all journey on a before .
But soon they come to a gold wood more lovely far than the other two , and again Petru 's companion plead with him to ride through it quickly , and to leave the flower alone .
But Petru turn a deaf ear to all they say , and before he have weave his golden crown he felt that something terrible , that he could not see , be come near him right out of the earth .
He draw his sword and make himself ready for the fight . '
I will die ! '
cry he , ` or he shall have my bridle over his head . '
He have hardly say the word when a thick fog wrap itself around him , and so thick be it that he could not see his own hand , or hear the sound of his voice .
For a day and a night he fight with his sword , without ever once see his enemy , then suddenly the fog begin to lighten .
By dawn of the second day it have vanish altogether , and the sun shone brightly in the heaven .
It seem to Petru that he have be bear again .
And the Welwa ?
She have vanish .
` You have good take breath now you can , for the fight will have to begin all over again , ' say the horse .
` What be it ? '
ask Petru .
` It be the Welwa , ' reply the horse , ` change into a fog ` Listen !
She be come ! '
And Petru have hardly draw a long breath when he felt something approach from the side , though what he could not tell .
A river , yet not a river , for it seem not to flow over the earth , but to go where it like , and to leave no trace of it passage .
` Woe be to me ! '
cry Petru , frighten at last .
` Beware , and never stand still , ' call the brown horse , and more he could not say , for the water be choke him .
The battle begin anew .
For a day and a night Petru fought on , without know at whom or what he strike .
At dawn on the second , he felt that both his foot be lame .
` Now I be do for , ' think he , and his blow fell thicker and harder in his desperation .
And the sun come out and the water disappear , without his know how or when .
` Take breath , ' say the horse , ` for you have no time to lose .
The Welwa will return in a moment . '
Petru make no reply , only wonder how , exhaust a he be , he should ever be able to carry on the fight .
But he settle himself in his saddle , grasp his sword , and wait .
And then something come to him -- WHAT I can not tell you .
Perhaps , in his dream , a man may see a creature which have what it have not get , and have not get what it have .
At least , that be what the Welwa seem like to Petru .
She fly with her foot , and walk with her wing ; her head be in her back , and her tail be on top of her body ; her eye be in her neck , and her neck in her forehead , and how to describe her further I do not know .
Petru felt for a moment a if he be wrap in a garment of fear ; then he shake himself and take heart , and fought a he have never yet fight before .
As the day wear on , his strength begin to fail , and when darkness fell he could hardly keep his eye open .
By midnight he know he be no long on his horse , but stand on the ground , though he could not have tell how he get there .
When the grey light of morning come , he be past standing on his foot , but fought now upon his knee .
` Make one more struggle ; it be nearly over now , ' say the horse , see that Petru 's strength be wan fast .
Petru wipe the sweat from his brow with his gauntlet , and with a desperate effort rise to his foot .
` Strike the Welwa on the mouth with the bridle , ' say the horse , and Petru do it .
The Welwa utter a neigh so loud that Petru think he would be deaf for life , and then , though she too be nearly spent , flung herself upon her enemy ; but Petru be on the watch and throw the bridle over her head , a she rush on , so that when the day break there be three horse trot beside him .
` May your wife be the most beautiful of woman , ' say the Welwa , ` for you have deliver me from my enchantment . '
So the four horse gallop fast , and by nightfall they be at the border of the golden forest .
Then Petru begin to think of the crown that he wear , and what they have cost him .
` After all , what do I want with so many ?
I will keep the best , ' he say to himself ; and take off first the copper crown and then the silver , he throw them away .
` Stay ! '
cry the horse , ` do not throw them away !
Perhaps we shall find them of use .
Get down and pick them up . '
So Petru get down and pick them up , and they all go on .
In the evening , when the sun be get low , and all the midge be begin to bite , Peter saw a wide heath stretch before him .
At the same instant the horse stand still of itself .
` What be the matter ? '
ask Petru . '
I be afraid that something evil will happen to u , ' answer the horse .
` But why should it ? '
` We be go to enter the kingdom of the goddess Mittwoch , -LRB- 2 -RRB- and the further we ride into it the colder we shall get .
But all along the road there be huge fire , and I dread l you should stop and warm yourself at them . '
-LRB- 2 -RRB- In German ` Mittwoch , ' the feminine form of Mercury .
` And why should I not warm myself ? '
` Something fearful will happen to you if you do , ' reply the horse sadly .
` Well , forward ! '
cry Petru lightly , ` and if I have to bear cold , I must bear it ! '
With every step they go into the kingdom of Mittwoch , the air grow cold and more icy , till even the marrow in their bone be frozen .
But Petru be no coward ; the fight he have go through have strengthen his power of endurance , and he stand the test bravely .
Along the road on each side be great fire , with men stand by them , who speak pleasantly to Petru a he go by , and invite him to join them .
The breath froze in his mouth , but he take no notice , only bid his horse ride on the faster .
How long Petru may have wag battle silently with the cold one can not tell , for everybody know that the kingdom of Mittwoch be not to be cross in a day , but he struggle on , though the frozen rock burst around , and though his teeth chatter , and even his eyelid be frozen .
At length they reach the dwelling of Mittwoch herself , and , jump from his horse , Petru throw the rein over his horse 's neck and enter the hut .
` Good-day , little mother ! '
say he .
` Very well , thank you , my frozen friend ! '
Petru laugh , and wait for her to speak .
` You have bear yourself bravely , ' go on the goddess , tap him on the shoulder .
` Now you shall have your reward , ' and she open an iron chest , out of which she take a little box .
` Look ! '
say she ; ` this little box have be lie here for age , wait for the man who could win his way through the Ice Kingdom .
Take it , and treasure it , for some day it may help you .
If you open it , it will tell you anything you want , and give you news of your fatherland . '
Petru thank her gratefully for her gift , mount his horse , and ride away .
When he be some distance from the hut , he open the casket .
` What be your command ? '
ask a voice inside .
` Give me news of my father , ' he reply , rather nervously .
` He be sit in council with his noble , ' answer the casket .
` Is he well ? '
` Not particularly , for he be furiously angry . '
` What have anger him ? '
` Your brother Costan and Florea , ' reply the casket .
` It seem to me they be try to rule him and the kingdom as well , and the old man say they be not fit to do it . '
` Push on , good horse , for we have no time to lose ! '
cried Petru ; then he shut up the box , and put it in his pocket .
They rush on a fast a ghost , a whirlwind , a vampire when they hunt at midnight , and how long they ride no man can tell , for the way be far .
` Stop !
I have some advice to give you , ' say the horse at last .
` What be it ? '
ask Petru .
` You have know what it be to suffer cold ; you will have to endure heat , such a you have never dream of .
Be a brave now a you be then .
Let no one tempt you to try to cool yourself , or evil will befall you . '
` Forwards ! '
answer Petru .
` Do not worry yourself .
If I have escape without be frozen , there be no chance of my melting . '
` Why not ?
This be a heat that will melt the marrow in your bone -- a heat that be only to be felt in the kingdom of the Goddess of Thunder . '
-LRB- 3 -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- In the German ` Donnerstag ' -- the day of the Thunder God , i.e . Jupiter .
And it WAS hot .
The very iron of the horse 's shoe begin to melt , but Petru give no heed .
The sweat run down his face , but he dry it with his gauntlet .
What heat could be he never know before , and on the way , not a stone 's throw from the road , lay the most delicious valley , full of shady tree and bubble stream .
When Petru look at them his heart burn within him , and his mouth grow parch .
And stand among the flower be lovely maiden who call to him in soft voice , till he have to shut his eye against their spell .
` Come , my hero , come and rest ; the heat will kill you , ' say they .
Petru shake his head and say nothing , for he have lose the power of speech .
Long he ride in this awful state , how long none can tell .
Suddenly the heat seem to become less , and , in the distance , he saw a little hut on a hill .
This be the dwelling of the Goddess of Thunder , and when he draw rein at her door the goddess herself come out to meet him .
She welcome him , and kindly invite him in , and bid him tell her all his adventure .
So Petru tell her all that have happen to him , and why he be there , and then take farewell of her , a he have no time to lose .
` For , ' he say , ` who know how far the Fairy of the Dawn may yet be ? '
` Stay for one moment , for I have a word of advice to give you .
You be about to enter the kingdom of Venus ; -LRB- 4 -RRB- go and tell her , a a message from me , that I hope she will not tempt you to delay .
On your way back , come to me again , and I will give you something that may be of use to you . '
-LRB- 4 -RRB- ` Vineri ' be Friday , and also ` Venus . '
So Petru mount his horse , and have hardly ridden three step when he find himself in a new country .
Here it be neither hot nor cold , but the air be warm and soft like spring , though the way run through a heath cover with sand and thistle .
` What can that be ? '
ask Petru , when he saw a long , long way off , at the very end of the heath , something resemble a house .
` That be the house of the goddess Venus , ' reply the horse , ` and if we ride hard we may reach it before dark ' ; and he dart off like an arrow , so that a twilight fell they find themselves near the house .
Petru 's heart leap at the sight , for all the way along he have be follow by a crowd of shadowy figure who dance about him from right to leave , and from back to front , and Petru , though a brave man , felt now and then a thrill of fear .
` They wo n't hurt you , ' say the horse ; ` they be just the daughter of the whirlwind amuse themselves while they be wait for the ogre of the moon . '
Then he stop in front of the house , and Petru jump off and go to the door .
` Do not be in such a hurry , ' cry the horse .
` There be several thing I must tell you first .
You can not enter the house of the goddess Venus like that .
She be always watch and guard by the whirlwind . '
` What be I to do then ? '
` Take the copper wreath , and go with it to that little hill over there .
When you reach it , say to yourself , `` Were there ever such lovely maiden !
such angel !
such fairy soul ! ''
Then hold the wreath high in the air and cry , `` Oh !
if I know whether any one would accept this wreath from me ... if I know !
if I know ! ''
and throw the wreath from you ! '
` And why should I do all this ? '
say Petru .
` Ask no question , but go and do it , ' reply the horse .
And Petru do .
Scarcely have he fling away the copper wreath than the whirlwind flung himself upon it , and tear it in piece .
Then Petru turn once more to the horse .
` Stop ! '
cry the horse again . '
I have other thing to tell you .
Take the silver wreath and knock at the window of the goddess Venus .
When she say , `` Who be there ? ''
answer that you have come on foot and lose your way on the heath .
She will then tell you to go your way back again ; but take care not to stir from the spot .
Instead , be sure you say to her , `` No , indeed I shall do nothing of the sort , a from my childhood I have hear story of the beauty of the goddess Venus , and it be not for nothing that I have shoe make of leather with sol of steel , and have travel for nine year and nine month , and have win in battle the silver wreath , which I hope you may allow me to give you , and have do and suffer everything to be where I now be . ''
This be what you must say .
What happen after be your affair . '
Petru ask no more , but go towards the house .
By this time it be pitch dark , and there be only the ray of light that stream through the window to guide him , and at the sound of his footstep two dog begin to bark loudly .
` Which of those dog be bark ?
Is he tire of life ? '
ask the goddess Venus .
` It be I , O goddess ! '
reply Petru , rather timidly . '
I have lose my way on the heath , and do not know where I be to sleep this night . '
` Where do you leave your horse ? '
ask the goddess sharply .
Petru do not answer .
He be not sure if he be to lie , or whether he have well tell the truth .
` Go away , my son , there be no place for you here , ' reply she , draw back from the window .
Then Petru repeat hastily what the horse have tell him to say , and no sooner have he do so than the goddess open the window , and in gentle tone she ask him : ` Let me see this wreath , my son , ' and Petru hold it out to her .
` Come into the house , ' go on the goddess ; ` do not fear the dog , they always know my will . '
And so they do , for a the young man pass they wag their tail to him .
` Good evening , ' say Petru a he enter the house , and , seat himself near the fire , listen comfortably to whatever the goddess might choose to talk about , which be for the most part the wickedness of men , with whom she be evidently very angry .
But Petru agree with her in everything , a he have be teach be only polite .
But be anybody ever so old a she !
I do not know why Petru devour her so with his eye , unless it be to count the wrinkle on her face ; but if so he would have have to live seven life , and each life seven time the length of an ordinary one , before he could have reckon them up .
But Venus be joyful in her heart when she saw Petru 's eye fix upon her .
` Nothing be that be , and the world be not a world when I be bear , ' say she .
` When I grow up and the world come into be , everyone think I be the most beautiful girl that ever be see , though many hat me for it .
But every hundred year there come a wrinkle on my face .
And now I be old . '
Then she go on to tell Petru that she be the daughter of an emperor , and their near neighbour be the Fairy of the Dawn , with whom she have a violent quarrel , and with that she break out into loud abuse of her .
Petru do not know what to do .
He listen in silence for the most part , but now and then he would say , ` Yes , yes , you must have be badly treat , ' just for politeness ' sake ; what more could he do ? '
I will give you a task to perform , for you be brave , and will carry it through , ' continue Venus , when she have talk a long time , and both of them be get sleepy .
` Close to the Fairy 's house be a well , and whoever drink from it will blossom again like a rise .
Bring me a flagon of it , and I will do anything to prove my gratitude .
It be not easy !
no one know that good than I do !
The kingdom be guard on every side by wild beast and horrible dragon ; but I will tell you more about that , and I also have something to give you . '
Then she rise and lift the lid of an iron-bound chest , and take out of it a very tiny flute .
` Do you see this ? '
she ask .
` An old man give it to me when I be young : whoever listen to this flute go to sleep , and nothing can wake him .
Take it and play on it as long a you remain in the kingdom of the Fairy of the Dawn , and you will be safe .
At this , Petru tell her that he have another task to fulfil at the well of the Fairy of the Dawn , and Venus be still well pleased when she hear his tale .
So Petru bid her good-night , put the flute in it case , and lay himself down in the low chamber to sleep .
Before the dawn he be awake again , and his first care be to give to each of his horse a much corn a he could eat , and then to lead them to the well to water .
Then he dress himself and make ready to start .
` Stop , ' cry Venus from her window , ' I have still a piece of advice to give you .
Leave one of your horse here , and only take three .
Ride slowly till you get to the fairy 's kingdom , then dismount and go on foot .
When you return , see that all your three horse remain on the road , while you walk .
But above all beware never to look the Fairy of the Dawn in the face , for she have eye that will bewitch you , and glance that will befool you .
She be hideous , more hideous than anything you can imagine , with owl 's eye , foxy face , and cat 's claw .
Do you hear ?
do you hear ?
Be sure you never look at her . '
Petru thank her , and manage to get off at last .
Far , far away , where the heaven touch the earth , where the star kiss the flower , a soft red light be see , such a the sky sometimes have in spring , only lovely , more wonderful .
That light be behind the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn , and it take Petru two day and night through flowery meadow to reach it .
And besides , it be neither hot nor cold , bright nor dark , but something of them all , and Petru do not find the way a step too long .
After some time Petru saw something white rise up out of the red of the sky , and when he draw nearer he saw it be a castle , and so splendid that his eye be dazzle when they look at it .
He do not know there be such a beautiful castle in the world .
But no time be to be lose , so he shake himself , jump down from his horse , and , leave him on the dewy grass , begin to play on his flute a he walk along .
He have hardly go many step when he stumble over a huge giant , who have be lull to sleep by the music .
This be one of the guard of the castle !
As he lay there on his back , he seem so big that in spite of Petru 's haste he stop to measure him .
The further go Petru , the more strange and terrible be the sight he saw -- lion , tiger , dragon with seven head , all stretch out in the sun fast asleep .
It be needless to say what the dragon be like , for nowadays everyone know , and dragon be not thing to joke about .
Petru run through them like the wind .
Was it haste or fear that spur him on ?
At last he come to a river , but let nobody think for a moment that this river be like other river ?
Instead of water , there flow milk , and the bottom be of precious stone and pearl , instead of sand and pebble .
And it run neither fast nor slow , but both fast and slow together .
And the river flow round the castle , and on it bank sleep lion with iron teeth and claw ; and beyond be garden such a only the Fairy of the Dawn can have , and on the flower sleep a fairy !
All this saw Petru from the other side .
But how be he to get over ?
To be sure there be a bridge , but , even if it have not be guard by sleep lion , it be plainly not mean for man to walk on .
Who could tell what it be make of ?
It look like soft little woolly cloud !
So he stand think what be to be do , for get across he must .
After a while , he determine to take the risk , and stride back to the sleep giant .
` Wake up , my brave man ! '
he cry , give him a shake .
The giant woke and stretch out his hand to pick up Petru , just a we should catch a fly .
But Petru play on his flute , and the giant fell back again .
Petru try this three time , and when he be satisfy that the giant be really in his power he take out a handkerchief , bound the two little finger of the giant together , draw his sword , and cry for the fourth time , ` Wake up , my brave man . '
When the giant saw the trick which have be play on him he say to Petru .
` Do you call this a fair fight ?
Fight accord to rule , if you really be a hero ! ' '
I will by-and-by , but first I want to ask you a question !
Will you swear that you will carry me over the river if I fight honourably with you ? '
And the giant swore .
When his hand be free , the giant flung himself upon Petru , hop to crush him by his weight .
But he have meet his match .
It be not yesterday , nor the day before , that Petru have fight his first battle , and he bore himself bravely .
For three day and three night the battle rag , and sometimes one have the upper hand , and sometimes the other , till at length they both lay struggle on the ground , but Petru be on top , with the point of his sword at the giant 's throat .
` Let me go !
let me go ! '
shriek he . '
I own that I be beaten ! '
` Will you take me over the river ? '
ask Petru . '
I will , ' gasp the giant .
` What shall I do to you if you break your word ? '
` Kill me , any way you like !
But let me live now . '
` Very well , ' say Petru , and he bind the giant 's left hand to his right foot , tie one handkerchief round his mouth to prevent him cry out , and another round his eye , and lead him to the river .
Once they have reach the bank he stretch one leg over to the other side , and , catch up Petru in the palm of his hand , set him down on the further shore .
` That be all right , ' say Petru .
Then he play a few note on his flute , and the giant go to sleep again .
Even the fairy who have be bath a little low down hear the music and fell asleep among the flower on the bank .
Petru saw them a he pass , and think , ` If they be so beautiful , why should the Fairy of the Dawn be so ugly ? '
But he dare not linger , and push on .
And now he be in the wonderful garden , which seem more wonderful still than they have do from afar .
But Petru could see no faded flower , nor any bird , a he hasten through them to the castle .
No one be there to bar his way , for all be asleep .
Even the leaf have cease to move .
He pass through the courtyard , and enter the castle itself .
What he behold there need not be tell , for all the world know that the palace of the Fairy of the Dawn be no ordinary place .
Gold and precious stone be as common a wood with u , and the stable where the horse of the sun be keep be more splendid than the palace of the great emperor in the world .
Petru go up the stair and walk quickly through eight-and-forty room , hung with silken stuff , and all empty .
In the forty-ninth he find the Fairy of the Dawn herself .
In the middle of this room , which be as large a a church , Petru saw the celebrate well that he have come so far to seek .
It be a well just like other well , and it seem strange that the Fairy of the Dawn should have it in her own chamber ; yet anyone could tell it have be there for hundred of year .
And by the well slept the Fairy of the Dawn -- the Fairy of the Dawn -- herself !
And a Petru look at her the magic flute drop by his side , and he hold his breath .
Near the well be a table , on which stand bread make with do ' milk , and a flagon of wine .
It be the bread of strength and the wine of youth , and Petru long for them .
He look once at the bread and once at the wine , and then at the Fairy of the Dawn , still sleep on her silken cushion .
As he look a mist come over his sens .
The fairy open her eye slowly and look at Petru , who lose his head still far ; but he just manage to remember his flute , and a few note of it send the Fairy to sleep again , and he kiss her thrice .
Then he stoop and lay his golden wreath upon her forehead , eat a piece of the bread and drink a cupful of the wine of youth , and this he do three time over .
Then he fill a flask with water from the well , and vanish swiftly .
As he pass through the garden it seem quite different from what it be before .
The flower be lovely , the stream run quicker , the sunbeam shine brighter , and the fairy seem gayer .
And all this have be cause by the three kiss Petru have give the Fairy of the Dawn .
He pass everything safely by , and be soon seat in his saddle again .
Faster than the wind , fast than thought , fast than longing , fast than hatred rode Petru .
At length he dismount , and , leave his horse at the roadside , go on foot to the house of Venus .
The goddess Venus know that he be come , and go to meet him , bear with her white bread and red wine .
` Welcome back , my prince , ' say she .
` Good day , and many thanks , ' reply the young man , hold out the flask contain the magic water .
She receive it with joy , and after a short rest Petru set forth , for he have no time to lose .
He stop a few minute , a he have promise , with the Goddess of Thunder , and be take a hasty farewell of her , when she call him back .
` Stay , I have a warning to give you , ' say she .
` Beware of your life ; make friend with no man ; do not ride fast , or let the water go out of your hand ; believe no one , and flee flatter tongue .
Go , and take care , for the way be long , the world be bad , and you hold something very precious .
But I will give you this cloth to help you .
It be not much to look at , but it be enchant , and whoever carry it will never be strike by lightning , pierce by a lance , or smite with a sword , and the arrow will glance off his body . '
Petru thank her and ride off , and , take out his treasure box , inquire how matter be go at home .
Not well , it say .
The emperor be blind altogether now , and Florea and Costan have beseech him to give the government of the kingdom into their hand ; but he would not , say that he do not mean to resign the government till he have wash his eye from the well of the Fairy of the Dawn .
Then the brother have go to consult old Birscha , who tell them that Petru be already on his way home bear the water .
They have set out to meet him , and would try to take the magic water from him , and then claim a their reward the government of the emperor .
` You be lie ! '
cry Petru angrily , throw the box on the ground , where it break into a thousand piece .
It be not long before he begin to catch glimpse of his native land , and he draw rein near a bridge , the good to look at it .
He be still gaze , when he hear a sound in the distance a if some one be call hit by his name .
` You , Petru ! '
it say .
` On !
on ! '
cry the horse ; ` it will fare ill with you if you stop . '
` No , let u stop , and see who and what it be ! '
answer Petru , turn his horse round , and come face to face with his two brother .
He have forget the warn give him by the Goddess of Thunder , and when Costan and Florea draw near with soft and flattering word he jump straight off his horse , and rush to embrace them .
He have a thousand question to ask , and a thousand thing to tell .
But his brown horse stand sadly hang his head .
` Petru , my dear brother , ' at length say Florea , ` would it not be well if we carry the water for you ?
Some one might try to take it from you on the road , while no one would suspect u . '
` So it would , ' add Costan .
` Florea speaks well . '
But Petru shake his head , and tell them what the Goddess of Thunder have say , and about the cloth she have give him .
And both brother understand there be only one way in which they could kill him .
At a stone 's throw from where they stand run a rushing stream , with clear deep pool .
` Do n't you feel thirsty , Costan ? '
ask Florea , wink at him .
` Yes , ' reply Costan , understand directly what be want .
` Come , Petru , let u drink now we have the chance , and then we will set out on our way home .
It be a good thing you have u with you , to protect you from harm . '
The horse neigh , and Petru know what it mean , and do not go with his brother .
No , he go home to his father , and cure his blindness ; and a for his brother , they never return again .
-LRB- From Rumanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE ENCHANTED KNIFE Once upon a time there live a young man who vow that he would never marry any girl who have not royal blood in her vein .
One day he pluck up all his courage and go to the palace to ask the emperor for his daughter .
The emperor be not much please at the thought of such a match for his only child , but be very polite , he only say : ` Very well , my son , if you can win the princess you shall have her , and the condition be these .
In eight day you must manage to tame and bring to me three horse that have never felt a master .
The first be pure white , the second a foxy-red with a black head , the third coal black with a white head and foot .
And besides that , you must also bring a a present to the empress , my wife , a much gold a the three horse can carry . '
The young man listen in dismay to these word , but with an effort he thank the emperor for his kindness and leave the palace , wonder how he be to fulfil the task allot to him .
Luckily for him , the emperor 's daughter have overheard everything her father have say , and peep through a curtain have see the youth , and think him handsome than anyone she have ever behold .
So return hastily to her own room , she write him a letter which she give to a trusty servant to deliver , beg her wooer to come to her room early the next day , and to undertake nothing without her advice , if he ever wish her to be his wife .
That night , when her father be asleep , she creep softly into his chamber and take out an enchanted knife from the chest where he keep his treasure , and hid it carefully in a safe place before she go to bed .
The sun have hardly rise the follow morning when the princess 's nurse bring the young man to her apartment .
Neither spoke for some minute , but stand hold each other 's hand for joy , till at last they both cry out that nothing but death should part them .
Then the maiden say : ` Take my horse , and ride straight through the wood towards the sunset till you come to a hill with three peak .
When you get there , turn first to the right and then to the left , and you will find yourself in a sun meadow , where many horse be feed .
Out of these you must pick out the three describe to you by my father .
If they prove shy , and refuse to let you get near them , draw out your knife , and let the sun shine on it so that the whole meadow be light up by it ray , and the horse will then approach you of their own accord , and will let you lead them away .
When you have them safely , look about till you see a cypress tree , whose root be of brass , whose bough be of silver , and whose leaf be of gold .
Go to it , and cut away the root with your knife , and you will come to countless bag of gold .
Load the horse with all they can carry , and return to my father , and tell him that you have do your task , and can claim me for your wife . '
The princess have finish all she have to say , and now it depend on the young man to do his part .
He hide the knife in the fold of his girdle , mount his horse , and ride off in search of the meadow .
This he find without much difficulty , but the horse be all so shy that they gallop away directly he approach them .
Then he draw his knife , and hold it up towards the sun , and directly there shone such a glory that the whole meadow be bath in it .
From all side the horse rush press round , and each one that pass him fell on it knee to do him honour .
But he only choose from them all the three that the emperor have describe .
These he secure by a silken rope to his own horse , and then look about for the cypress tree .
It be stand by itself in one corner , and in a moment he be beside it , tear away the earth with his knife .
Deeper and deep he dig , till far down , below the root of brass , his knife strike upon the buried treasure , which lay heap up in bag all around .
With a great effort he lift them from their hiding place , and lay them one by one on his horse ' back , and when they could carry no more he lead them back to the emperor .
And when the emperor saw him , he wonder , but never guess how it be the young man have be too clever for him , till the betrothal ceremony be over .
Then he ask his newly make son-in-law what dowry he would require with his bride .
To which the bridegroom make answer , ` Noble emperor !
all I desire be that I may have your daughter for my wife , and enjoy for ever the use of your enchanted knife . '
-LRB- Volksmarchen der Serben . -RRB-
JESPER WHO HERDED THE HARES There be once a king who rule over a kingdom somewhere between sunrise and sunset .
It be as small a kingdom usually be in old time , and when the king go up to the roof of his palace and take a look round he could see to the end of it in every direction .
But a it be all his own , he be very proud of it , and often wonder how it would get along without him .
He have only one child , and that be a daughter , so he foresee that she must be provide with a husband who would be fit to be king after him .
Where to find one rich enough and clever enough to be a suitable match for the princess be what trouble him , and often keep him awake at night .
At last he devise a plan .
He make a proclamation over all his kingdom -LRB- and ask his near neighbour to publish it in theirs as well -RRB- that whoever could bring him a dozen of the fine pearl the king have ever see , and could perform certain task that would be set him , should have his daughter in marriage and in due time succeed to the throne .
The pearl , he think , could only be bring by a very wealthy man , and the task would require unusual talent to accomplish them .
There be plenty who try to fulfil the term which the king propose .
Rich merchant and foreign prince present themselves one after the other , so that some day the number of them be quite annoying ; but , though they could all produce magnificent pearl , not one of them could perform even the simple of the task set them .
Some turn up , too , who be mere adventurer , and try to deceive the old king with imitation pearl ; but he be not to be take in so easily , and they be soon send about their business .
At the end of several week the stream of suitor begin to fall off , and still there be no prospect of a suitable son-in-law .
Now it so happen that in a little corner of the king 's dominion , beside the sea , there live a poor fisher , who have three son , and their name be Peter , Paul , and Jesper .
Peter and Paul be grow men , while Jesper be just come to manhood .
The two elder brother be much big and strong than the young , but Jesper be far the clever of the three , though neither Peter nor Paul would admit this .
It be a fact , however , a we shall see in the course of our story .
One day the fisherman go out fishing , and among his catch for the day he bring home three dozen oyster .
When these be open , every shell be find to contain a large and beautiful pearl .
Hereupon the three brother , at one and the same moment , fell upon the idea of offer themselves a suitor for the princess .
After some discussion , it be agree that the pearl should be divide by lot , and that each should have his chance in the order of his age : of course , if the old be successful the other two would be save the trouble of try .
Next morning Peter put his pearl in a little basket , and set off for the king 's palace .
He have not go far on his way when he come upon the King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles , who , with their army behind them , be face each other and prepare for battle .
` Come and help me , ' say the King of the Ants ; ` the beetle be too big for u .
I may help you some day in return . ' '
I have no time to waste on other people 's affair , ' say Peter ; ` just fight away a best you can ; ' and with that he walk off and leave them .
A little further on the way he meet an old woman .
` Good morning , young man , ' say she ; ` you be early astir .
What have you get in your basket ? '
` Cinders , ' say Peter promptly , and walk on , add to himself , ` Take that for be so inquisitive . '
` Very well , cinder be it , ' the old woman call after him , but he pretend not to hear her .
Very soon he reach the palace , and be at once bring before the king .
When he take the cover off the basket , the king and all his courtier say with one voice that these be the fine pearl they have ever see , and they could not take their eye off them .
But then a strange thing happen : the pearl begin to lose their whiteness and grow quite dim in colour ; then they grow blacker and blacker till at last they be just like so many cinder .
Peter be so amazed that he could say nothing for himself , but the king say quite enough for both , and Peter be glad to get away home again as fast a his leg would carry him .
To his father and brother , however , he give no account of his attempt , except that it have be a failure .
Next day Paul set out to try his luck .
He soon come upon the King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles , who with their army have encamp on the field of battle all night , and be ready to begin the fight again .
` Come and help me , ' say the King of the Ants ; ` we get the bad of it yesterday .
I may help you some day in return . ' '
I do n't care though you get the bad of it to-day too , ' say Paul . '
I have more important business on hand than mix myself up in your quarrel . '
So he walk on , and presently the same old woman meet him .
` Good morning , ' say she ; ` what have YOU get in your basket ? '
` Cinders , ' say Paul , who be quite as insolent a his brother , and quite as anxious to teach other people good manner .
` Very well , cinder be it , ' the old woman shout after him , but Paul neither look back nor answer her .
He think more of what she say , however , after his pearl also turn to cinder before the eye of king and court : then he lose no time in get home again , and be very sulky when ask how he have succeed .
The third day come , and with it come Jesper 's turn to try his fortune .
He get up and have his breakfast , while Peter and Paul lay in bed and make rude remark , tell him that he would come back quicker than he go , for if they have fail it could not be suppose that he would succeed .
Jesper make no reply , but put his pearl in the little basket and walk off .
The King of the Ants and the King of the Beetles be again marshal their host , but the ant be greatly reduce in number , and have little hope of hold out that day .
` Come and help u , ' say their king to Jesper , ` or we shall be completely defeat .
I may help you some day in return . '
Now Jesper have always hear the ant spoken of a clever and industrious little creature , while he never hear anyone say a good word for the beetle , so he agree to give the wished-for help .
At the first charge he make , the rank of the beetle break and flee in dismay , and those escaped best that be nearest a hole , and could get into it before Jesper 's boot come down upon them .
In a few minute the ant have the field all to themselves ; and their king make quite an eloquent speech to Jesper , thank him for the service he have do them , and promise to assist him in any difficulty .
` Just call on me when you want me , ' he say , ` where-ever you be .
I 'm never far away from anywhere , and if I can possibly help you , I shall not fail to do it . '
Jesper be incline to laugh at this , but he keep a grave face , say he would remember the offer , and walk on .
At a turn of the road he suddenly come upon the old woman .
` Good morning , ' say she ; ` what have YOU get in your basket ? '
` Pearls , ' say Jesper ; ` I 'm go to the palace to win the princess with them . '
And in case she might not believe him , he lift the cover and let her see them .
` Beautiful , ' say the old woman ; ` very beautiful indeed ; but they will go a very little way towards win the princess , unless you can also perform the task that be set you .
However , ' she say , ' I see you have bring something with you to eat .
Wo n't you give that to me : you be sure to get a good dinner at the palace . '
` Yes , of course , ' say Jesper , ' I have n't think of that ' ; and he hand over the whole of his lunch to the old woman .
He have already take a few step on the way again , when the old woman call him back .
` Here , ' she say ; ` take this whistle in return for your lunch .
It be n't much to look at , but if you blow it , anything that you have lose or that have be take from you will find it way back to you in a moment . '
Jesper thank her for the whistle , though he do not see of what use it be to be to him just then , and hold on his way to the palace .
When Jesper present his pearl to the king there be exclamation of wonder and delight from everyone who saw them .
It be not pleasant , however , to discover that Jesper be a mere fisher-lad ; that be n't the kind of son-in-law that the king have expect , and he say so to the queen .
` Never mind , ' say she , ` you can easily set him such task a he will never be able to perform : we shall soon get rid of him . '
` Yes , of course , ' say the king ; ` really I forget thing nowadays , with all the bustle we have have of late . '
That day Jesper din with the king and queen and their noble , and at night be put into a bedroom grander than anything of the kind he have ever see .
It be all so new to him that he could not sleep a wink , especially a he be always wonder what kind of task would be set him to do , and whether he would be able to perform them .
In spite of the softness of the bed , he be very glad when morning come at last .
After breakfast be over , the king say to Jesper , ` Just come with me , and I 'll show you what you must do first . '
He lead him out to the barn , and there in the middle of the floor be a large pile of grain .
` Here , ' say the king , ` you have a mixed heap of wheat , barley , oat , and rye , a sackful of each .
By an hour before sunset you must have these sort out into four heap , and if a single grain be find to be in a wrong heap you have no further chance of marry my daughter .
I shall lock the door , so that no one can get in to assist you , and I shall return at the appointed time to see how you have succeed . '
The king walk off , and Jesper look in despair at the task before him .
Then he sit down and try what he could do at it , but it be soon very clear that single-handed he could never hope to accomplish it in the time .
Assistance be out of the question -- unless , he suddenly think -- unless the King of the Ants could help .
On him he begin to call , and before many minute have pass that royal personage make his appearance .
Jesper explain the trouble he be in .
` Is that all ? '
say the ant ; ` we shall soon put that to right . '
He give the royal signal , and in a minute or two a stream of ant come pour into the barn , who under the king 's order set to work to separate the grain into the proper heap .
Jesper watch them for a while , but through the continual movement of the little creature , and his not have sleep during the previous night , he soon fell sound asleep .
When he wake again , the king have just come into the barn , and be amaze to find that not only be the task accomplish , but that Jesper have find time to take a nap as well .
` Wonderful , ' say he ; ' I could n't have believe it possible .
However , the hardest be yet to come , a you will see to-morrow . '
Jesper think so too when the next day 's task be set before him .
The king 's gamekeeper have catch a hundred live hare , which be to be let loose in a large meadow , and there Jesper must herd them all day , and bring them safely home in the evening : if even one be miss , he must give up all thought of marry the princess .
Before he have quite grasp the fact that this be an impossible task , the keeper have open the sack in which the hare be bring to the field , and , with a whisk of the short tail and a flap of the long ear , each one of the hundred flew in a different direction .
` Now , ' say the king , ` a he walk away , ` let 's see what your cleverness can do here . '
Jesper star round him in bewilderment , and have nothing well to do with his hand , thrust them into his pocket , a he be in the habit of do .
Here he find something which turn out to be the whistle give to him by the old woman .
He remember what she have say about the virtue of the whistle , but be rather doubtful whether it power would extend to a hundred hare , each of which have go in a different direction and might be several mile distant by this time .
However , he blow the whistle , and in a few minute the hare come bound through the hedge on all the four side of the field , and before long be all sit round him in a circle .
After that , Jesper allow them to run about a they please , so long a they stay in the field .
The king have tell one of the keeper to hang about for a little and see what become of Jesper , not doubt , however , that as soon a he saw the coast clear he would use his leg to the best advantage , and never show face at the palace again .
It be therefore with great surprise and annoyance that he now learn of the mysterious return of the hare and the likelihood of Jesper carry out his task with success .
` One of them must be get out of his hand by hook or crook , ' say he .
` I 'll go and see the queen about it ; she 's good at devise plan . '
A little later , a girl in a shabby dress come into the field and walk up to Jesper .
` Do give me one of those hare , ' she say ; ` we have just get visitor who be go to stay to dinner , and there 's nothing we can give them to eat . ' '
I ca n't , ' say Jesper .
` For one thing , they 're not mine ; for another , a great deal depend on my have them all here in the evening . '
But the girl -LRB- and she be a very pretty girl , though so shabbily dress -RRB- beg so hard for one of them that at last he say : ` Very well ; give me a kiss and you shall have one of them . '
He could see that she do n't quite care for this , but she consent to the bargain , and give him the kiss , and go away with a hare in her apron .
Scarcely have she get outside the field , however , when Jesper blow his whistle , and immediately the hare wriggle out of it prison like an eel , and go back to it master at the top of it speed .
Not long after this the hare-herd have another visit .
This time it be a stout old woman in the dress of a peasant , who also be after a hare to provide a dinner for unexpected visitor .
Jesper again refuse , but the old lady be so pressing , and would take no refusal , that at last he say : ` Very well , you shall have a hare , and pay nothing for it either , if you will only walk round me on tiptoe , look up to the sky , and cackle like a hen . '
` Fie , ' say she ; ` what a ridiculous thing to ask anyone to do ; just think what the neighbour would say if they saw me .
They would think I have take leave of my sens . '
` Just a you like , ' say Jesper ; ` you know best whether you want the hare or not . '
There be no help for it , and a pretty figure the old lady make in carry out her task ; the cackling be n't very well do , but Jesper say it would do , and give her the hare .
As soon a she have leave the field , the whistle be sound again , and back come long-legs-and-ears at a marvellous speed .
The next to appear on the same errand be a fat old fellow in the dress of a groom : it be the royal livery he wear , and he plainly think a good deal of himself .
` Young man , ' say he , ' I want one of those hare ; name your price , but I MUST have one of them . '
` All right , ' say Jesper ; ` you can have one at an easy rate .
Just stand on your head , whack your heel together , and cry `` Hurrah , '' and the hare be yours . '
` Eh , what ! '
say the old fellow ; ` ME stand on my head , what an idea ! '
` Oh , very well , ' say Jesper , ` you need n't unless you like , you know ; but then you wo n't get the hare . '
It go very much against the grain , one could see , but after some effort the old fellow have his head on the grass and his heel in the air ; the whacking and the ` Hurrah ' be rather feeble , but Jesper be not very exact , and the hare be hand over .
Of course , it be n't long in come back again , like the others .
Evening come , and home come Jesper with the hundred hare behind him .
Great be the wonder over all the palace , and the king and queen seem very much put out , but it be notice that the princess actually smile to Jesper .
` Well , well , ' say the king ; ` you have do that very well indeed .
If you be a successful with a little task which I shall give you to-morrow we shall consider the matter settle , and you shall marry the princess . '
Next day it be announce that the task would be perform in the great hall of the palace , and everyone be invite to come and witness it .
The king and queen sat on their throne , with the princess beside them , and the lord and lady be all round the hall .
At a sign from the king , two servant carry in a large empty tub , which they set down in the open space before the throne , and Jesper be tell to stand beside it .
` Now , ' say the king , ` you must tell u a many undoubted truth a will fill that tub , or you ca n't have the princess . '
` But how be we to know when the tub be full ? '
say Jesper .
` Do n't you trouble about that , ' say the king ; ` that 's my part of the business . '
This seem to everybody present rather unfair , but no one like to be the first to say so , and Jesper have to put the best face he could on the matter , and begin his story .
` Yesterday , ' he say , ` when I be herd the hare , there come to me a girl , in a shabby dress , and beg me to give her one of them .
She get the hare , but she have to give me a kiss for it ; AND THAT GIRL WAS THE PRINCESS .
Is n't that true ? '
say he , look at her .
The princess blush and look very uncomfortable , but have to admit that it be true .
` That have n't fill much of the tub , ' say the king .
` Go on again . '
` After that , ' say Jesper , ' a stout old woman , in a peasant 's dress , come and beg for a hare .
Before she get it , she have to walk round me on tiptoe , turn up her eye , and cackle like a hen ; AND THAT OLD WOMAN WAS THE QUEEN .
Is n't that true , now ? '
The queen turn very red and hot , but could n't deny it .
` H-m , ' say the king ; ` that be something , but the tub be n't full yet . '
To the queen he whisper , ' I do n't think you would be such a fool . '
` What do YOU do ? '
she whisper in return .
` Do you suppose I would do anything for HIM ? '
say the king , and then hurriedly order Jesper to go on .
` In the next place , ' say Jesper , ` there come a fat old fellow on the same errand .
He be very proud and dignified , but in order to get the hare he actually stand on his head , whack his heel together , and cry `` Hurrah '' ; and that old fellow be the -- ' ` Stop , stop , ' shout the king ; ` you need n't say another word ; the tub be full . '
Then all the court applaud , and the king and queen accept Jesper a their son-in-law , and the princess be very well pleased , for by this time she have quite fall in love with him , because he be so handsome and so clever .
When the old king get time to think over it , he be quite convinced that his kingdom would be safe in Jesper 's hand if he look after the people as well a he herd the hare .
-LRB- Scandinavian . -RRB-
THE UNDERGROUND WORKERS On a bitter night somewhere between Christmas and the New Year , a man set out to walk to the neighbouring village .
It be not many mile off , but the snow be so thick that there be no road , or wall , or hedge leave to guide him , and very soon he lose his way altogether , and be glad to get shelter from the wind behind a thick juniper tree .
Here he resolve to spend the night , think that when the sun rise he would be able to see his path again .
So he tuck his legs snugly under him like a hedgehog , roll himself up in his sheepskin , and go to sleep .
How long he sleep , I can not tell you , but after awhile he become aware that some one be gently shake him , while a stranger whisper , ` My good man , get up !
If you lie there any more , you will be bury in the snow , and no one will ever know what become of you . '
The sleeper slowly raise his head from his fur , and open his heavy eye .
Near him stand a long thin man , hold in his hand a young fir tree taller than himself .
` Come with me , ' say the man , ' a little way off we have make a large fire , and you will rest far good there than out upon this moor . '
The sleeper do not wait to be ask twice , but rise at once and follow the stranger .
The snow be fall so fast that he could not see three step in front of him , till the stranger wave his staff , when the drift part before them .
Very soon they reach a wood , and saw the friendly glow of a fire .
` What be your name ? '
ask the stranger , suddenly turn round . '
I be call Hans , the son of Long Hans , ' say the peasant .
In front of the fire three men be sit clothe in white , just a if it be summer , and for about thirty foot all round winter have be banish .
The moss be dry and the plant green , while the grass seem all alive with the hum of bee and cockchafer .
But above the noise the son of Long Hans could hear the whistling of the wind and the crackling of the branch a they fell beneath the weight of the snow .
` Well !
you son of Long Hans , be n't this more comfortable than your juniper bush ? '
laugh the stranger , and for answer Hans reply he could not thank his friend enough for have bring him here , and , throw off his sheepskin , roll it up a a pillow .
Then , after a hot drink which warm both their heart , they lay down on the ground .
The stranger talk for a little to the other men in a language Hans do not understand , and after listen for a short time he once more fell asleep .
When he awake , neither wood nor fire be to be see , and he do not know where he be .
He rub his eye , and begin to recall the event of the night , think he must have be dream ; but for all that , he could not make out how he come to be in this place .
Suddenly a loud noise struck on his ear , and he felt the earth tremble beneath his foot .
Hans listen for a moment , then resolve to go towards the place where the sound come from , hop he might come across some human be .
He find himself at length at the mouth of a rocky cave in which a fire seem burning .
He enter , and saw a huge forge , and a crowd of men in front of it , blow bellow and wield hammer , and to each anvil be seven men , and a set of more comical smith could not be find if you search all the world through !
Their head be big than their little body , and their hammer twice the size of themselves , but the strong men on earth could not have handle their iron club more stoutly or give lusty blow .
The little blacksmith be clothe in leather apron , which cover them from their neck to their foot in front , and leave their back naked .
On a high stool against the wall sit the man with the pinewood staff , watch sharply the way the little fellow do their work , and near him stand a large can , from which every now and then the worker would come and take a drink .
The master no longer wear the white garment of the day before , but a black jerkin , hold in it place by a leathern girdle with huge clasp .
From time to time he would give his workman a sign with his staff , for it be useless to speak amid such a noise .
If any of them have notice that there be a stranger present they take no heed of him , but go on with what they be do .
After some hour ' hard labour come the time for rest , and they all fling their hammer to the ground and troop out of the cave .
Then the master get down from his seat and say to Hans : ' I saw you come in , but the work be press , and I could not stop to speak to you .
To-day you must be my guest , and I will show you something of the way in which I live .
Wait here for a moment , while I lay aside these dirty clothes . '
With these word he unlock a door in the cave , and bid Hans pas in before him .
Oh , what riches and treasure meet Hans ' astonished eye !
Gold and silver bar lay pile on the floor , and glitter so that you could not look at them !
Hans think he would count them for fun , and have already reach the five hundred and seventieth when his host return and cry , laugh : ` Do not try to count them , it would take too long ; choose some of the bar from the heap , a I should like to make you a present of them . '
Hans do not wait to be ask twice , and stoop to pick up a bar of gold , but though he put forth all his strength he could not even move it with both hand , still less lift it off the ground .
` Why , you have no more power than a flea , ' laugh the host ; ` you will have to content yourself with feast your eye upon them ! '
So he bid Hans follow him through other room , till they enter one big than a church , fill , like the rest , with gold and silver .
Hans wonder to see these vast rich , which might have buy all the kingdom of the world , and lay bury , useless , he think , to anyone .
` What be the reason , ' he ask of his guide , ` that you gather up these treasure here , where they can do good to nobody ?
If they fell into the hand of men , everyone would be rich , and none need work or suffer hunger . '
` And it be exactly for that reason , ' answer he , ` that I must keep these rich out of their way .
The whole world would sink to idleness if men be not force to earn their daily bread .
It be only through work and care that man can ever hope to be good for anything . '
Hans star at these word , and at last he beg that his host would tell him what use it be to anybody that this gold and silver should lie moulder there , and the owner of it be continually try to increase his treasure , which already overflow his store room . '
I be not really a man , ' reply his guide , ` though I have the outward form of one , but one of those being to whom be give the care of the world .
It be my task and that of my workman to prepare under the earth the gold and silver , a small portion of which find it way every year to the upper world , but only just enough to help them carry on their business .
To none come wealth without trouble : we must first dig out the gold and mix the grain with earth , clay , and sand .
Then , after long and hard seek , it will be find in this state , by those who have good luck or much patience .
But , my friend , the hour of dinner be at hand .
If you wish to remain in this place , and feast your eye on this gold , then stay till I call you . '
In his absence Hans wander from one treasure chamber to another , sometimes try to break off a little lump of gold , but never able to do it .
After awhile his host come back , but so change that Hans could not believe it be really he .
His silken clothes be of the bright flame colour , richly trim with gold fringe and lace ; a golden girdle be round his waist , while his head be encircle with a crown of gold , and precious stone twinkle about him like star in a winter 's night , and in place of his wooden stick he hold a finely work golden staff .
The lord of all this treasure lock the door and put the key in his pocket , then lead Hans into another room , where dinner be lay for them .
Table and seat be all of silver , while the dish and plate be of solid gold .
Directly they sit down , a dozen little servant appear to wait on them , which they do so cleverly and so quickly that Hans could hardly believe they have no wing .
As they do not reach as high a the table , they be often oblige to jump and hop right on to the top to get at the dish .
Everything be new to Hans , and though he be rather bewilder he enjoy himself very much , especially when the man with the golden crown begin to tell him many thing he have never hear of before .
` Between Christmas and the New Year , ' say he , ' I often amuse myself by wander about the earth watch the doings of men and learn something about them .
But as far a I have see and hear I can not speak well of them .
The great part of them be always quarrel and complaining of each other 's fault , while nobody think of his own . '
Hans try to deny the truth of these word , but he could not do it , and sit silent , hardly listen to what his friend be say .
Then he go to sleep in his chair , and know nothing of what be happen .
Wonderful dream come to him during his sleep , where the bar of gold continually hover before his eye .
He felt strong than he have ever felt during his wake moment , and lift two bar quite easily on to his back .
He do this so often that at length his strength seem exhausted , and he sink almost breathless on the ground .
Then he hear the sound of cheerful voice , and the song of the blacksmith a they blow their bellow -- he even felt a if he saw the spark flash before his eye .
Stretching himself , he awake slowly , and here he be in the green forest , and instead of the glow of the fire in the underworld the sun be stream on him , and he sit up wonder why he felt so strange .
At length his memory come back to him , and a he call to mind all the wonderful thing he have see he try in vain to make them agree with those that happen every day .
After think it over till he be nearly mad , he try at last to believe that one night between Christmas and the New Year he have meet a stranger in the forest , and have sleep all night in his company before a big fire ; the next day they have din together , and have drink a great deal more than be good for them -- in short , he have spend two whole day revel with another man .
But here , with the full tide of summer around him , he could hardly accept his own explanation , and felt that he must have be the plaything or sport of some magician .
Near him , in the full sunlight , be the trace of a dead fire , and when he draw close to it he saw that what he have take for ash be really fine silver dust , and that the half burnt firewood be make of gold .
Oh , how lucky Hans think himself ; but where should he get a sack to carry his treasure home before anyone else find it ?
But necessity be the mother of invention : Hans throw off his fur coat , gather up the silver ash so carefully in it that none remain behind , lay the gold stick on top , and tie up the bag thus make with his girdle , so that nothing should fall out .
The load be not , in point of fact , very heavy , although it seem so to his imagination , and he move slowly along till he find a safe hiding-place for it .
In this way Hans suddenly become rich -- rich enough to buy a property of his own .
But be a prudent man , he finally decide that it would be best for him to leave his old neighbourhood and look for a home in a distant part of the country , where nobody know anything about him .
It do not take him long to find what he want , and after he have pay for it there be plenty of money leave over .
When he be settle , he marry a pretty girl who live near by , and have some child , to whom on his death-bed he tell the story of the lord of the underworld , and how he have make Hans rich .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE HISTORY OF DWARF LONG NOSE It be a great mistake to think that fairy , witch , magician , and such people live only in Eastern country and in such time a those of the Caliph Haroun Al-Raschid .
Fairies and their like belong to every country and every age , and no doubt we should see plenty of them now -- if we only know how .
In a large town in Germany there live , some couple of hundred year ago , a cobbler and his wife .
They be poor and hard-working .
The man sit all day in a little stall at the street corner and mend any shoe that be bring him .
His wife sell the fruit and vegetable they grow in their garden in the Market Place , and a she be always neat and clean and her good be temptingly spread out she have plenty of customer .
The couple have one boy call Jem .
A handsome , pleasant-faced boy of twelve , and tall for his age .
He use to sit by his mother in the market and would carry home what people buy from her , for which they often give him a pretty flower , or a slice of cake , or even some small coin .
One day Jem and his mother sit a usual in the Market Place with plenty of nice herb and vegetable spread out on the board , and in some small basket early pear , apple , and apricot .
Jem cry his ware at the top of his voice : ` This way , gentleman !
See these lovely cabbage and these fresh herb !
Early apple , lady ; early pear and apricot , and all cheap .
Come , buy , buy ! '
As he cry an old woman come across the Market Place .
She look very torn and ragged , and have a small sharp face , all wrinkle , with red eye , and a thin hooked nose which nearly meet her chin .
She lean on a tall stick and limp and shuffle and stumble along a if she be go to fall on her nose at any moment .
In this fashion she come along till she get to the stall where Jem and his mother be , and there she stop .
` Are you Hannah the herb seller ? '
she ask in a croaky voice a her head shook to and fro .
` Yes , I be , ' be the answer .
` Can I serve you ? '
` We 'll see ; we 'll see !
Let me look at those herb .
I wonder if you 've get what I want , ' say the old woman a she thrust a pair of hideous brown hand into the herb basket , and begin turn over all the neatly pack herb with her skinny finger , often hold them up to her nose and sniff at them .
The cobbler 's wife felt much disgust at see her ware treat like this , but she dare not speak .
When the old hag have turn over the whole basket she mutter , ` Bad stuff , bad stuff ; much good fifty year ago -- all bad . '
This make Jem very angry ` You be a very rude old woman , ' he cry out .
` First you mess all our nice herb about with your horrid brown finger and sniff at them with your long nose till no one else will care to buy them , and then you say it 's all bad stuff , though the duke 's cook himself buy all his herb from u . '
The old woman look sharply at the saucy boy , laugh unpleasantly , and say : ` So you do n't like my long nose , sonny ?
Well , you shall have one yourself , right down to your chin . '
As she speak she shuffle towards the hamper of cabbage , take up one after another , squeeze them hard , and throw them back , mutter again , ` Bad stuff , bad stuff . '
` Do n't waggle your head in that horrid way , ' beg Jem anxiously .
` Your neck be as thin a a cabbage-stalk , and it might easily break and your head fall into the basket , and then who would buy anything ? '
` Do n't you like thin neck ? '
laugh the old woman .
` Then you sha 'n ' t have any , but a head stuck close between your shoulder so that it may be quite sure not to fall off . '
` Do n't talk such nonsense to the child , ' say the mother at last .
` If you wish to buy , please make haste , a you be keep other customer away . '
` Very well , I will do a you ask , ' say the old woman , with an angry look . '
I will buy these six cabbage , but , a you see , I can only walk with my stick and can carry nothing .
Let your boy carry them home for me and I 'll pay him for his trouble . '
The little fellow do n't like this , and begin to cry , for he be afraid of the old woman , but his mother order him to go , for she think it wrong not to help such a weakly old creature ; so , still cry , he gather the cabbage into a basket and follow the old woman across the Market Place .
It take her more than half an hour to get to a distant part of the little town , but at last she stop in front of a small tumble-down house .
She draw a rusty old hook from her pocket and stick it into a little hole in the door , which suddenly fly open .
How surprised Jem be when they go in !
The house be splendidly furnish , the wall and ceiling of marble , the furniture of ebony inlaid with gold and precious stone , the floor of such smooth slippery glass that the little fellow tumble down more than once .
The old woman take out a silver whistle and blow it till the sound ring through the house .
Immediately a lot of guinea pig come run down the stair , but Jem think it rather odd that they all walk on their hind leg , wear nutshell for shoe , and men 's clothes , whilst even their hat be put on in the new fashion .
` Where be my slipper , lazy crew ? '
cry the old woman , and hit about with her stick .
` How long be I to stand wait here ? '
They rush upstairs again and return with a pair of cocoa nut line with leather , which she put on her foot .
Now all limping and shuffling be at an end .
She throw away her stick and walk briskly across the glass floor , draw little Jem after her .
At last she pause in a room which look almost like a kitchen , it be so full of pot and pan , but the table be of mahogany and the sofa and chair cover with the rich stuff .
` Sit down , ' say the old woman pleasantly , and she push Jem into a corner of a sofa and put a table close in front of him .
` Sit down , you 've have a long walk and a heavy load to carry , and I must give you something for your trouble .
Wait a bit , and I 'll give you some nice soup , which you 'll remember as long a you live . '
So say , she whistle again .
First come in guinea pig in men 's clothing .
They have tie on large kitchen apron , and in their belt be stick carve knife and sauce ladle and such thing .
After them hop in a number of squirrel .
They too walk on their hind leg , wear full Turkish trouser , and little green velvet cap on their head .
They seem to be the scullion , for they clamber up the wall and bring down pot and pan , egg , flour , butter , and herb , which they carry to the stove .
Here the old woman be bustle about , and Jem could see that she be cook something very special for him .
At last the broth begin to bubble and boil , and she draw off the saucepan and pour it content into a silver bowl , which she set before Jem .
` There , my boy , ' say she , ` eat this soup and then you 'll have everything which please you so much about me .
And you shall be a clever cook too , but the real herb -- no , the REAL herb you 'll never find .
Why have your mother not get it in her basket ? '
The child could not think what she be talk about , but he quite understand the soup , which taste most delicious .
His mother have often give him nice thing , but nothing have ever seem so good a this .
The smell of the herb and spice rise from the bowl , and the soup taste both sweet and sharp at the same time , and be very strong .
As he be finish it the guinea pig light some Arabian incense , which gradually fill the room with cloud of blue vapour .
They grow thicker and thicker and the scent nearly overpower the boy .
He remind himself that he must get back to his mother , but whenever he try to rouse himself to go he sink back again drowsily , and at last he fell sound asleep in the corner of the sofa .
Strange dream come to him .
He think the old woman take off all his clothes and wrap him up in a squirrel skin , and that he go about with the other squirrel and guinea pig , who be all very pleasant and well mannered , and wait on the old woman .
First he learn to clean her cocoa-nut shoe with oil and to rub them up .
Then he learn to catch the little sun moth and rub them through the fine sieve , and the flour from them he make into soft bread for the toothless old woman .
In this way he pass from one kind of service to another , spend a year in each , till in the fourth year he be promote to the kitchen .
Here he work his way up from under-scullion to head-pastrycook , and reach the great perfection .
He could make all the most difficult dish , and two hundred different kind of patty , soup flavour with every sort of herb -- he have learn it all , and learn it well and quickly .
When he have live seven year with the old woman she order him one day , a she be go out , to kill and pluck a chicken , stuff it with herb , and have it very nicely roast by the time she get back .
He do this quite accord to rule .
He wring the chicken 's neck , plunge it into boil water , carefully pluck out all the feather , and rub the skin nice and smooth .
Then he go to fetch the herb to stuff it with .
In the store-room he notice a half-opened cupboard which he do not remember have see before .
He peep in and saw a lot of basket from which come a strong and pleasant smell .
He open one and find a very uncommon herb in it .
The stem and leaf be a bluish green , and above them be a little flower of a deep bright red , edge with yellow .
He gaze at the flower , smelt it , and find it give the same strong strange perfume which come from the soup the old woman have make him .
But the smell be so sharp that he begin to sneeze again and again , and at last -- he wake up !
There he lay on the old woman 's sofa and star about him in surprise .
` Well , what odd dream one do have to be sure ! '
he say to himself .
` Why , I could have swear I have be a squirrel , a companion of guinea pig and such creature , and have become a great cook , too .
How mother will laugh when I tell her !
But wo n't she scold me , though , for sleep away here in a strange house , instead of help her at market ! '
He jump up and prepare to go : all his limb still seem quite stiff with his long sleep , especially his neck , for he could not move his head easily , and he laugh at his own stupidity at be still so drowsy that he keep knock his nose against the wall or cupboard .
The squirrel and guinea pig run whimper after him , a though they would like to go too , and he beg them to come when he reach the door , but they all turn and run quickly back into the house again .
The part of the town be out of the way , and Jem do not know the many narrow street in it and be puzzle by their winding and by the crowd of people , who seem excite about some show .
From what he hear , he fancy they be go to see a dwarf , for he hear them call out : ` Just look at the ugly dwarf ! '
` What a long nose he have , and see how his head be stick in between his shoulder , and only look at his ugly brown hand ! '
If he have not be in such a hurry to get back to his mother , he would have go too , for he love show with giant and dwarf and the like .
He be quite puzzled when he reach the market-place .
There sit his mother , with a good deal of fruit still in her basket , so he felt he could not have sleep so very long , but it strike him that she be sad , for she do not call to the passer-by , but sit with her head rest on her hand , and a he come nearer he think she look paler than usual .
He hesitate what to do , but at last he slip behind her , lay a hand on her arm , and say : ` Mammy , what 's the matter ?
Are you angry with me ? '
She turn round quickly and jump up with a cry of horror .
` What do you want , you hideous dwarf ? '
she cry ; ` get away ; I ca n't bear such trick . '
` But , mother dear , what 's the matter with you ? '
repeat Jem , quite frighten .
` You ca n't be well .
Why do you want to drive your son away ? ' '
I have say already , get away , ' reply Hannah , quite angrily .
` You wo n't get anything out of me by your game , you monstrosity . '
` Oh dear , oh dear !
she must be wander in her mind , ' murmur the lad to himself .
` How can I manage to get her home ?
Dearest mother , do look at me close .
Ca n't you see I be your own son Jem ? '
` Well , do you ever hear such impudence ? '
ask Hannah , turn to a neighbour .
` Just see that frightful dwarf -- would you believe that he want me to think he be my son Jem ? '
Then all the market woman come round and talk all together and scold as hard a they could , and say what a shame it be to make game of Mrs. Hannah , who have never get over the loss of her beautiful boy , who have be steal from her seven year ago , and they threaten to fall upon Jem and scratch him well if he do not go away at once .
Poor Jem do not know what to make of it all .
He be sure he have go to market with his mother only that morning , have help to set out the stall , have go to the old woman 's house , where he have some soup and a little nap , and now , when he come back , they be all talk of seven year .
And they call him a horrid dwarf !
Why , what have happen to him ?
When he find that his mother would really have nothing to do with him he turn away with tear in his eye , and go sadly down the street towards his father 's stall .
` Now I 'll see whether he will know me , ' think he .
` I 'll stand by the door and talk to him . '
When he get to the stall he stand in the doorway and look in .
The cobbler be so busy at work that he do not see him for some time , but , happen to look up , he catch sight of his visitor , and let shoe , thread , and everything fall to the ground , he cry with horror : ` Good heaven !
what be that ? '
` Good evening , master , ' say the boy , a he step in .
` How do you do ? '
` Very ill , little sir , reply the father , to Jem 's surprise , for he do not seem to know him .
` Business do not go well .
I be all alone , and be get old , and a workman be costly . '
` But have n't you a son who could learn your trade by degree ? '
ask Jem . '
I have one : he be call Jem , and would have be a tall sturdy lad of twenty by this time , and able to help me well .
Why , when he be only twelve he be quite sharp and quick , and have learn many little thing , and a good-looking boy too , and pleasant , so that customer be take by him .
Well , well !
so go the world ! '
` But where be your son ? '
ask Jem , with a trembling voice .
` Heaven only know ! '
reply the man ; ` seven year ago he be steal from the market-place , and we have hear no more of him . '
` SEVEN YEARS AGO ! '
cry Jem , with horror .
` Yes , indeed , seven year ago , though it seem but yesterday that my wife come back howl and cry , and say the child have not come back all day .
I always think and say that something of the kind would happen .
Jem be a beautiful boy , and everyone make much of him , and my wife be so proud of him , and like him to carry the vegetable and thing to grand folk ' house , where he be pet and make much of .
But I use to say , `` Take care -- the town be large , there be plenty of bad people in it -- keep a sharp eye on Jem . ''
And so it happen ; for one day an old woman come and buy a lot of thing -- more than she could carry ; so my wife , be a kindly soul , lend her the boy , and -- we have never see him since . '
` And that be seven year ago , you say ? '
` Yes , seven year : we have him cry -- we go from house to house .
Many know the pretty boy , and be fond of him , but it be all in vain .
No one seem to know the old woman who buy the vegetable either ; only one old woman , who be ninety year old , say it might have be the fairy Herbaline , who come into the town once in every fifty year to buy thing . '
As his father speak , thing grow clear to Jem 's mind , and he saw now that he have not be dream , but have really serve the old woman seven year in the shape of a squirrel .
As he think it over rage fill his heart .
Seven year of his youth have be steal from him , and what have he get in return ?
To learn to rub up cocoa nut , and to polish glass floor , and to be teach cook by guinea pig !
He stand there think , till at last his father ask him : ` Is there anything I can do for you , young gentleman ?
Shall I make you a pair of slipper , or perhaps ' with a smile -- ' a case for your nose ? '
` What have you to do with my nose ? '
ask Jem .
` And why should I want a case for it ? '
` Well , everyone to his taste , ' reply the cobbler ; ` but I must say if I have such a nose I would have a nice red leather cover make for it .
Here be a nice piece ; and think what a protection it would be to you .
As it be , you must be constantly knock up against thing . '
The lad be dumb with fright .
He felt his nose .
It be thick , and quite two hand long .
So , then , the old woman have change his shape , and that be why his own mother do not know him , and call him a horrid dwarf !
` Master , ' say he , ` have you get a glass that I could see myself in ? '
` Young gentleman , ' be the answer , ` your appearance be hardly one to be vain of , and there be no need to waste your time look in a glass .
Besides , I have none here , and if you must have one you have good ask Urban the barber , who live over the way , to lend you his .
Good morning . '
So say , he gently push Jem into the street , shut the door , and go back to his work .
Jem step across to the barber , whom he have know in old day .
` Good morning , Urban , ' say he ; ` may I look at myself in your glass for a moment ? '
` With pleasure , ' say the barber , laughing , and all the people in his shop fell to laugh also .
` You be a pretty youth , with your swan-like neck and white hand and small nose .
No wonder you be rather vain ; but look as long a you like at yourself . '
So speak the barber , and a titter ran round the room .
Meantime Jem have step up to the mirror , and stand gaze sadly at his reflection .
Tears come to his eye .
` No wonder you do not know your child again , dear mother , ' think he ; ` he be n't like this when you be so proud of his look . '
His eye have grow quite small , like pig ' eye , his nose be huge and hang down over his mouth and chin , his throat seem to have disappear altogether , and his head be fix stiffly between his shoulder .
He be no taller than he have be seven year ago , when he be not much more than twelve year old , but he make up in breadth , and his back and chest have grow into lump like two great sack .
His leg be small and spindly , but his arm be as large a those of a well-grown man , with large brown hand , and long skinny finger .
Then he remember the morning when he have first see the old woman , and her threat to him , and without say a word he leave the barber 's shop .
He determine to go again to his mother , and find her still in the market-place .
He beg her to listen quietly to him , and he remind her of the day when he go away with the old woman , and of many thing in his childhood , and tell her how the fairy have bewitch him , and he have serve her seven year .
Hannah do not know what to think -- the story be so strange ; and it seem impossible to think her pretty boy and this hideous dwarf be the same .
At last she decide to go and talk to her husband about it .
She gather up her basket , tell Jem to follow her , and go straight to the cobbler 's stall .
` Look here , ' say she , ` this creature say he be our lost son .
He have be tell me how he be steal seven year ago , and bewitch by a fairy . '
` Indeed ! '
interrupt the cobbler angrily .
` Did he tell you this ?
Wait a minute , you rascal !
Why I tell him all about it myself only an hour ago , and then he go off to humbug you .
So you be bewitch , my son be you ?
Wait a bit , and I 'll bewitch you ! '
So say , he catch up a bundle of strap , and hit out at Jem so hard that he run off cry .
The poor little dwarf roam about all the rest of the day without food or drink , and at night be glad to lie down and sleep on the step of a church .
He wake next morning with the first ray of light , and begin to think what he could do to earn a living .
Suddenly he remember that he be an excellent cook , and he determine to look out for a place .
As soon a it be quite daylight he set out for the palace , for he know that the grand duke who reign over the country be fond of good thing .
When he reach the palace all the servant crowd about him , and make fun of him , and at last their shout and laughter grow so loud that the head steward rush out , cry , ` For goodness sake , be quiet , ca n't you .
Do n't you know his highness be still asleep ? '
Some of the servant run off at once , and others point out Jem .
Indeed , the steward find it hard to keep himself from laugh at the comic sight , but he order the servant off and lead the dwarf into his own room .
When he hear him ask for a place a cook , he say : ` You make some mistake , my lad .
I think you want to be the grand duke 's dwarf , do n't you ? '
` No , sir , ' reply Jem . '
I be an experienced cook , and if you will kindly take me to the head cook he may find me of some use . '
` Well , a you will ; but believe me , you would have an easy place a the grand ducal dwarf . '
So say , the head steward lead him to the head cook 's room .
` Sir , ' ask Jem , a he bow till his nose nearly touch the floor , ` do you want an experienced cook ? '
The head cook look him over from head to foot , and burst out laughing .
` You a cook !
Do you suppose our cooking stove be so low that you can look into any saucepan on them ?
Oh , my dear little fellow , whoever send you to me want to make fun of you . '
But the dwarf be not to be put off .
` What matter an extra egg or two , or a little butter or flour and spice more or less , in such a house a this ? '
say he .
` Name any dish you wish to have cook , and give me the material I ask for , and you shall see . '
He say much more , and at last persuade the head cook to give him a trial .
They go into the kitchen -- a huge place with at least twenty fireplace , always alight .
A little stream of clear water run through the room , and live fish be keep at one end of it .
Everything in the kitchen be of the best and most beautiful kind , and swarm of cook and scullion be busy prepare dish .
When the head cook come in with Jem everyone stand quite still .
` What have his highness order for luncheon ? '
ask the head cook .
` Sir , his highness have graciously order a Danish soup and red Hamburg dumpling . '
` Good , ' say the head cook .
` Have you hear , and do you feel equal to make these dish ?
Not that you will be able to make the dumpling , for they be a secret receipt . '
` Is that all ! '
say Jem , who have often make both dish .
` Nothing easier .
Let me have some egg , a piece of wild boar , and such and such root and herb for the soup ; and a for the dumpling , ' he add in a low voice to the head cook , ' I shall want four different kind of meat , some wine , a duck 's marrow , some ginger , and a herb call heal-well . '
` Why , ' cry the astonished cook , ` where do you learn cook ?
Yes , those be the exact material , but we never use the herb heal-well , which , I be sure , must be an improvement . '
And now Jem be allow to try his hand .
He could not nearly reach up to the kitchen range , but by put a wide plank on two chair he manage very well .
All the cook stand round to look on , and could not help admire the quick , clever way in which he set to work .
At last , when all be ready , Jem order the two dish to be put on the fire till he give the word .
Then he begin to count : ` One , two , three , ' till he get to five hundred when he cry , ` Now ! '
The saucepan be take off , and he invite the head cook to taste .
The first cook take a golden spoon , wash and wipe it , and hand it to the head cook , who solemnly approach , taste the dish , and smack his lip over them .
` First rate , indeed ! '
he exclaim .
` You certainly be a master of the art , little fellow , and the herb heal-well give a particular relish . '
As he be speak , the duke 's valet come to say that his highness be ready for luncheon , and it be serve at once in silver dish .
The head cook take Jem to his own room , but have hardly have time to question him before he be order to go at once to the grand duke .
He hurry on his best clothes and follow the messenger .
The grand duke be look much please .
He have empty the dish , and be wipe his mouth a the head cook come in .
` Who cook my luncheon to-day ? '
ask he . '
I must say your dumpling be always very good ; but I do n't think I ever taste anything so delicious a they be to-day .
Who make them ? '
` It be a strange story , your highness , ' say the cook , and tell him the whole matter , which surprise the duke so much that he send for the dwarf and ask him many question .
Of course , Jem could not say he have be turn into a squirrel , but he say he be without parent and have be teach cook by an old woman .
` If you will stay with me , ' say the grand duke , ` you shall have fifty ducat a year , besides a new coat and a couple of pair of trouser .
You must undertake to cook my luncheon yourself and to direct what I shall have for dinner , and you shall be call assistant head cook . '
Jem bow to the ground , and promise to obey his new master in all thing .
He lose no time in set to work , and everyone rejoice at have him in the kitchen , for the duke be not a patient man , and have be know to throw plate and dish at his cook and servant if the thing serve be not quite to his taste .
Now all be change .
He never even grumble at anything , have five meal instead of three , think everything delicious , and grow fat daily .
And so Jem live on for two year , much respect and consider , and only sadden when he think of his parent .
One day pass much like another till the following incident happen .
Dwarf Long Nose -- a he be always call -- make a practice of do his marketing as much a possible himself , and whenever time allow go to the market to buy his poultry and fruit .
One morning he be in the goose market , look for some nice fat goose .
No one thought of laugh at his appearance now ; he be know a the duke 's special body cook , and every goose-woman felt honour if his nose turn her way .
He notice one woman sit apart with a number of geese , but not cry or praise them like the rest .
He go up to her , felt and weigh her geese , and , find them very good , buy three and the cage to put them in , hoist them on his broad shoulder , and set off on his way back .
As he go , it strike him that two of the geese be gobble and scream a geese do , but the third sat quite still , only heave a deep sigh now and then , like a human be .
` That goose be ill , ' say he ; ' I must make haste to kill and dress her . '
But the goose answer him quite distinctly : ` Squeeze too tight And I 'll bite , If my neck a twist you give I 'd bring you to an early grave . '
Quite frighten , the dwarf set down the cage , and the goose gaze at him with sad wise-looking eye and sigh again .
` Good gracious ! '
say Long Nose .
` So you can speak , Mistress Goose .
I never should have think it !
Well , do n't be anxious .
I know good than to hurt so rare a bird .
But I could bet you be not always in this plumage -- be n't I a squirrel myself for a time ? '
` You be right , ' say the goose , ` in suppose I be not bear in this horrid shape .
Ah !
no one ever think that Mimi , the daughter of the great Weatherbold , would be kill for the ducal table . '
` Be quite easy , Mistress Mimi , ' comfort Jem .
` As sure a I 'm an honest man and assistant head cook to his highness , no one shall harm you .
I will make a hutch for you in my own room , and you shall be well feed , and I 'll come and talk to you as much a I can .
I 'll tell all the other cook that I be fatten up a goose on very special food for the grand duke , and at the first good opportunity I will set you free . '
The goose thank him with tear in her eye , and the dwarf keep his word .
He kill the other two geese for dinner , but build a little shed for Mimi in one of his room , under the pretence of fatten her under his own eye .
He spend all his spare time talk to her and comfort her , and feed her on all the dainty dish .
They confide their history to each other , and Jem learn that the goose be the daughter of the wizard Weatherbold , who live on the island of Gothland .
He fell out with an old fairy , who get the good of him by cunning and treachery , and to revenge herself turn his daughter into a goose and carry her off to this distant place .
When Long Nose tell her his story she say : ' I know a little of these matter , and what you say show me that you be under a herb enchantment -- that be to say , that if you can find the herb whose smell wake you up the spell would be break . '
This be but small comfort for Jem , for how and where be he to find the herb ?
About this time the grand duke have a visit from a neighbouring prince , a friend of his .
He send for Long Nose and say to him : ` Now be the time to show what you can really do .
This prince who be stay with me have good dinner than any one except myself , and be a great judge of cooking .
As long a he be here you must take care that my table shall be serve in a manner to surprise him constantly .
At the same time , on pain of my displeasure , take care that no dish shall appear twice .
Get everything you wish and spare nothing .
If you want to melt down gold and precious stone , do so .
I would rather be a poor man than have to blush before him . '
The dwarf bow and answer : ` Your highness shall be obey .
I will do all in my power to please you and the prince . '
From this time the little cook be hardly see except in the kitchen , where , surround by his helper , he give order , bake , stew , flavour and dish up all manner of dish .
The prince have be a fortnight with the grand duke , and enjoy himself mightily .
They eat five time a day , and the duke have every reason to be content with the dwarf 's talent , for he saw how pleased his guest look .
On the fifteenth day the duke send for the dwarf and present him to the prince .
` You be a wonderful cook , ' say the prince , ` and you certainly know what be good .
All the time I have be here you have never repeat a dish , and all be excellent .
But tell me why you have never serve the queen of all dish , a Suzeraine Pasty ? '
The dwarf felt frightened , for he have never hear of this Queen of Pasties before .
But he do not lose his presence of mind , and reply : ' I have wait , hop that your highness ' visit here would last some time , for I propose to celebrate the last day of your stay with this truly royal dish . '
` Indeed , ' laugh the grand duke ; ` then I suppose you would have wait for the day of my death to treat me to it , for you have never send it up to me yet .
However , you will have to invent some other farewell dish , for the pasty must be on my table to-morrow . '
` As your highness plea , ' say the dwarf , and take leave .
But it do not please HIM at all .
The moment of disgrace seem at hand , for he have no idea how to make this pasty .
He go to his room very sad .
As he sit there lose in thought the goose Mimi , who be leave free to walk about , come up to him and ask what be the matter ?
When she hear she say : ` Cheer up , my friend .
I know the dish quite well : we often have it at home , and I can guess pretty well how it be make . '
Then she tell him what to put in , add : ' I think that will be all right , and if some trifle be leave out perhaps they wo n't find it out . '
Sure enough , next day a magnificent pasty all wreathe round with flower be place on the table .
Jem himself put on his best clothes and go into the din hall .
As he enter the head carver be in the act of cut up the pie and help the duke and his guest .
The grand duke take a large mouthful and throw up his eye a he swallow it .
` Oh !
oh !
this may well be call the Queen of Pasties , and at the same time my dwarf must be call the king of cook .
Do n't you think so , dear friend ? '
The prince take several small piece , taste and examine carefully , and then say with a mysterious and sarcastic smile : ` The dish be very nicely make , but the Suzeraine be not quite complete -- a I expect . '
The grand duke fly into a rage .
` Dog of a cook , ' he shout ; ` how dare you serve me so ?
I 've a good mind to chop off your great head a a punishment . '
` For mercy 's sake , do n't , your highness !
I make the pasty accord to the best rule ; nothing have be leave out .
Ask the prince what else I should have put in . '
The prince laugh . '
I be sure you could not make this dish as well a my cook , friend Long Nose .
Know , then , that a herb be want call Relish , which be not know in this country , but which give the pasty it peculiar flavour , and without which your master will never taste it to perfection . '
The grand duke be more furious than ever .
` But I WILL taste it to perfection , ' he roar .
` Either the pasty must be make properly to-morrow or this rascal 's head shall come off .
Go , scoundrel , I give you twenty-four hour respite . '
The poor dwarf hurry back to his room , and pour out his grief to the goose .
` Oh , be that all , ' say she , ` then I can help you , for my father teach me to know all plant and herb .
Luckily this be a new moon just now , for the herb only spring up at such time .
But tell me , be there chestnut tree near the palace ? '
` Oh , yes ! '
cry Long Nose , much relieve ; ` near the lake -- only a couple of hundred yard from the palace -- be a large clump of them .
But why do you ask ? '
` Because the herb only grow near the root of chestnut tree , ' reply Mimi ; ` so let u lose no time in find it .
Take me under your arm and put me down out of door , and I 'll hunt for it . '
He do a she bid , and as soon a they be in the garden put her on the ground , when she waddle off as fast a she could towards the lake , Jem hurrying after her with an anxious heart , for he know that his life depend on her success .
The goose hunt everywhere , but in vain .
She search under each chestnut tree , turn every blade of grass with her bill -- nothing to be see , and evening be draw on !
Suddenly the dwarf notice a big old tree stand alone on the other side of the lake .
` Look , ' cry he , ` let u try our luck there . '
The goose flutter and skip in front , and he run after as fast a his little leg could carry him .
The tree cast a wide shadow , and it be almost dark beneath it , but suddenly the goose stand still , flap her wing with joy , and pluck something , which she hold out to her astonished friend , say : ` There it be , and there be more grow here , so you will have no lack of it . '
The dwarf stand gaze at the plant .
It give out a strong sweet scent , which remind him of the day of his enchantment .
The stem and leaf be a bluish green , and it bore a dark , bright red flower with a yellow edge .
` What a wonder ! '
cry Long Nose . '
I do believe this be the very herb which change me from a squirrel into my present miserable form .
Shall I try an experiment ? '
` Not yet , ' say the goose .
` Take a good handful of the herb with you , and let u go to your room .
We will collect all your money and clothes together , and then we will test the power of the herb . '
So they go back to Jem 's room , and here he gather together some fifty ducat he have save , his clothes and shoe , and tie them all up in a bundle .
Then he plunge his face into the bunch of herb , and draw in their perfume .
As he do so , all his limb begin to crack and stretch ; he felt his head rise above his shoulder ; he glance down at his nose , and saw it grow small and small ; his chest and back grow flat , and his leg grow long .
The goose look on in amazement .
` Oh , how big and how beautiful you be ! '
she cry .
` Thank heaven , you be quite change . '
Jem fold his hand in thanks , a his heart swell with gratitude .
But his joy do not make him forget all he owe to his friend Mimi . '
I owe you my life and my release , ' he say , ` for without you I should never have regain my natural shape , and , indeed , would soon have be behead .
I will now take you back to your father , who will certainly know how to disenchant you . '
The goose accept his offer with joy , and they manage to slip out of the palace unnoticed by anyone .
They get through the journey without accident , and the wizard soon release his daughter , and load Jem with thanks and valuable present .
He lose no time in hasten back to his native town , and his parent be very ready to recognise the handsome , well-made young man a their long-lost son .
With the money give him by the wizard he open a shop , which prosper well , and he live long and happily .
I must not forget to mention that much disturbance be cause in the palace by Jem 's sudden disappearance , for when the grand duke send order next day to behead the dwarf , if he have not find the necessary herb , the dwarf be not to be find .
The prince hint that the duke have allow his cook to escape , and have therefore break his word .
The matter end in a great war between the two prince , which be know in history a the ` Herb War . '
After many battle and much loss of life , a peace be at last concluded , and this peace become know a the ` Pasty Peace , ' because at the banquet give in it honour the prince 's cook dish up the Queen of Pasties -- the Suzeraine -- and the grand duke declare it to be quite excellent .
THE NUNDA , EATER OF PEOPLE Once upon a time there live a sultan who love his garden dearly , and plant it with tree and flower and fruit from all part of the world .
He go to see them three time every day : first at seven o'clock , when he get up , then at three , and lastly at half-past five .
There be no plant and no vegetable which escape his eye , but he linger long of all before his one date tree .
Now the sultan have seven son .
Six of them he be proud of , for they be strong and manly , but the young he dislike , for he spend all his time among the woman of the house .
The sultan have talk to him , and he pay no heed ; and he have beat him , and he pay no heed ; and he have tie him up , and he pay no heed , till at last his father grow tire of try to make him change his way , and let him alone .
Time pass , and one day the sultan , to his great joy , saw sign of fruit on his date tree .
And he tell his vizir , ` My date tree be bear ; ' and he tell the officer , ` My date tree be bear ; ' and he tell the judge , ` My date tree be bear ; ' and he tell all the rich men of the town .
He wait patiently for some day till the date be nearly ripe , and then he call his six son , and say : ` One of you must watch the date tree till the date be ripe , for if it be not watch the slave will steal them , and I shall not have any for another year . '
And the eldest son answer , ' I will go , father , ' and he go .
The first thing the youth do be to summon his slave , and bid them beat drum all night under the date tree , for he fear to fall asleep .
So the slave beat the drum , and the young man dance till four o'clock , and then it grow so cold he could dance no longer , and one of the slave say to him : ` It be get light ; the tree be safe ; lie down , master , and go to sleep . '
So he lay down and sleep , and his slave sleep likewise .
A few minute go by , and a bird fly down from a neighbour thicket , and eat all the date , without leave a single one .
And when the tree be strip bare , the bird go a it have come .
Soon after , one of the slave wake up and look for the date , but there be no date to see .
Then he run to the young man and shake him , say : ` Your father set you to watch the tree , and you have not watch , and the date have all be eat by a bird . '
The lad jump up and run to the tree to see for himself , but there be not a date anywhere .
And he cry aloud , ` What be I to say to my father ?
Shall I tell him that the date have be steal , or that a great rain fell and a great storm blew ?
But he will send me to gather them up and bring them to him , and there be none to bring !
Shall I tell him that Bedouins drive me away , and when I return there be no date ?
And he will answer , `` You have slave , do they not fight with the Bedouins ? ''
It be the truth that will be best , and that will I tell him . '
Then he go straight to his father , and find him sit in his verandah with his five son round him ; and the lad bow his head .
` Give me the news from the garden , ' say the sultan .
And the youth answer , ` The date have all be eat by some bird : there be not one leave . '
The sultan be silent for a moment : then he ask , ` Where be you when the bird come ? '
The lad answer : ' I watch the date tree till the cock be crow and it be get light ; then I lay down for a little , and I sleep .
When I wake a slave be stand over me , and he say , `` There be not one date leave on the tree ! ''
And I go to the date tree , and saw it be true ; and that be what I have to tell you . '
And the sultan reply , ' A son like you be only good for eat and sleep .
I have no use for you .
Go your way , and when my date tree bear again , I will send another son ; perhaps he will watch well . '
So he wait many month , till the tree be cover with more date than any tree have ever bear before .
When they be near ripen he send one of his son to the garden : saying , ` My son , I be long to taste those date : go and watch over them , for to-day 's sun will bring them to perfection . '
And the lad answer : ` My father , I be go now , and to-morrow , when the sun have pass the hour of seven , bid a slave come and gather the date . '
` Good , ' say the sultan .
The youth go to the tree , and lay down and sleep .
And about midnight he arise to look at the tree , and the date be all there -- beautiful date , swing in bunch .
` Ah , my father will have a feast , indeed , ' think he .
` What a fool my brother be not to take more heed !
Now he be in disgrace , and we know him no more .
Well , I will watch till the bird come .
I should like to see what manner of bird it be . '
And he sit and read till the cock crew and it grow light , and the date be still on the tree .
` Oh my father will have his date ; they be all safe now , ' he think to himself . '
I will make myself comfortable against this tree , ' and he lean against the trunk , and sleep come on him , and the bird fly down and eat all the date .
When the sun rise , the head-man come and look for the date , and there be no date .
And he wake the young man , and say to him , ` Look at the tree . '
And the young man look , and there be no date .
And his ear be stop , and his leg tremble , and his tongue grow heavy at the thought of the sultan .
His slave become frightened a he look at him , and ask , ` My master , what be it ? '
He answer , ' I have no pain anywhere , but I be ill everywhere .
My whole body be well , and my whole body be sick I fear my father , for do I not say to him , `` To-morrow at seven you shall taste the date '' ?
And he will drive me away , a he drive away my brother !
I will go away myself , before he send me . '
Then he get up and take a road that lead straight past the palace , but he have not walk many step before he meet a man carry a large silver dish , cover with a white cloth to cover the date .
And the young man say , ` The date be not ripe yet ; you must return to-morrow . '
And the slave go with him to the palace , where the sultan be sit with his four son .
` Good greeting , master ! '
say the youth .
And the sultan answer , ` Have you see the man I send ? ' '
I have , master ; but the date be not yet ripe . '
But the sultan do not believe his word , and say ; ` This second year I have eat no date , because of my son .
Go your way , you be my son no longer ! '
And the sultan look at the four son that be leave him , and promise rich gift to whichever of them would bring him the date from the tree .
But year by year pass , and he never get them .
One son try to keep himself awake with playing card ; another mount a horse and rode round and round the tree , while the two others , whom their father a a last hope send together , lit bonfire .
But whatever they do , the result be always the same .
Towards dawn they fell asleep , and the bird eat the date on the tree .
The sixth year have come , and the date on the tree be thick than ever .
And the head-man go to the palace and tell the sultan what he have see .
But the sultan only shake his head , and say sadly , ` What be that to me ?
I have have seven son , yet for five year a bird have devour my date ; and this year it will be the same a ever . '
Now the young son be sit in the kitchen , a be his custom , when he hear his father say those word .
And he rise up , and go to his father , and kneel before him .
` Father , this year you shall eat date , ' cry he .
` And on the tree be five great bunch , and each bunch I will give to a separate nation , for the nation in the town be five .
This time , I will watch the date tree myself . '
But his father and his mother laugh heartily , and think his word idle talk .
One day , news be bring to the sultan that the date be ripe , and he order one of his men to go and watch the tree .
His son , who happen to be stand by , hear the order , and he say : ` How be it that you have bid a man to watch the tree , when I , your son , be leave ? '
And his father answer , ` Ah , six be of no use , and where they fail , will you succeed ? '
But the boy reply : ` Have patience to-day , and let me go , and to-morrow you shall see whether I bring you date or not . '
` Let the child go , Master , ' say his wife ; ` perhaps we shall eat the date -- or perhaps we shall not -- but let him go . '
And the sultan answer : ' I do not refuse to let him go , but my heart distrust him .
His brother all promise fair , and what do they do ? '
But the boy entreat , say , ` Father , if you and I and mother be alive to-morrow , you shall eat the date . '
` Go then , ' say his father .
When the boy reach the garden , he tell the slave to leave him , and to return home themselves and sleep .
When he be alone , he lay himself down and sleep fast till one o'clock , when he arise , and sit opposite the date tree .
Then he take some Indian corn out of one fold of his dress , and some sandy grit out of another .
And he chew the corn till he felt he be grow sleepy , and then he put some grit into his mouth , and that keep him awake till the bird come .
It look about at first without see him , and whisper to itself , ` There be no one here , ' flutter lightly on to the tree and stretch out his beak for the date .
Then the boy stole softly up , and catch it by the wing .
The bird turn and fly quickly away , but the boy never let go , not even when they soar high into the air .
` Son of Adam , ' the bird say when the top of the mountain look small below them , ` if you fall , you will be dead long before you reach the ground , so go your way , and let me go mine . '
But the boy answer , ` Wherever you go , I will go with you .
You can not get rid of me . ' '
I do not eat your date , ' persist the bird , ` and the day be dawn .
Leave me to go my way . '
But again the boy answer him : ` My six brother be hateful to my father because you come and steal the date , and to-day my father shall see you , and my brother shall see you , and all the people of the town , great and small , shall see you .
And my father 's heart will rejoice . '
` Well , if you will not leave me , I will throw you off , ' say the bird .
So it fly up high still -- so high that the earth shone like one of the other star .
` How much of you will be leave if you fall from here ? '
ask the bird .
` If I die , I die , ' say the boy , ` but I will not leave you . '
And the bird saw it be no use talk , and go down to the earth again .
` Here you be at home , so let me go my way , ' it beg once more ; ` or at least make a covenant with me . '
` What covenant ? '
say the boy .
` Save me from the sun , ' reply the bird , ` and I will save you from rain . '
` How can you do that , and how can I tell if I can trust you ? '
` Pull a feather from my tail , and put it in the fire , and if you want me I will come to you , wherever I be . '
And the boy answer , ` Well , I agree ; go your way . '
` Farewell , my friend .
When you call me , if it be from the depth of the sea , I will come . '
The lad watch the bird out of sight ; then he go straight to the date tree .
And when he saw the date his heart be glad , and his body felt strong and his eye brighter than before .
And he laugh out loud with joy , and say to himself , ` This be MY luck , mine , Sit-in-the-kitchen !
Farewell , date tree , I be go to lie down .
What ate you will eat you no more . '
The sun be high in the sky before the head-man , whose business it be , come to look at the date tree , expect to find it stripped of all it fruit , but when he saw the date so thick that they almost hide the leaf he run back to his house , and beat a big drum till everybody come run , and even the little child want to know what have happen .
` What be it ?
What be it , head-man ? '
cry they .
` Ah , it be not a son that the master have , but a lion !
This day Sit-in-the-kitchen have uncover his face before his father ! '
` But how , head-man ? '
` To day the people may eat the date . '
` Is it true , head-man ? '
` Oh yes , it be true , but let him sleep till each man have bring forth a present .
He who have fowl , let him take fowl ; he who have a goat , let him take a goat ; he who have rice , let him take rice . '
And the people do a he have say .
Then they take the drum , and go to the tree where the boy lay sleep .
And they pick him up , and carry him away , with horn and clarionets and drum , with clapping of hand and shriek of joy , straight to his father 's house .
When his father hear the noise and saw the basket make of green leaf , brim over with date , and his son borne high on the neck of slave , his heart leap , and he say to himself ` To-day at last I shall eat date . '
And he call his wife to see what her son have do , and order his soldier to take the boy and bring him to his father .
` What news , my son ? '
say he .
` News ?
I have no news , except that if you will open your mouth you shall see what date taste like . '
And he pluck a date , and put it into his father 's mouth .
` Ah !
You be indeed my son , ' cry the sultan .
` You do not take after those fool , those good-for-nothing .
But , tell me , what do you do with the bird , for it be you , and you only who watch for it ? '
` Yes , it be I who watch for it and who saw it .
And it will not come again , neither for it life , nor for your life , nor for the life of your child . '
` Oh , once I have six son , and now I have only one .
It be you , whom I call a fool , who have give me the date : a for the others , I want none of them . '
But his wife rise up and go to him , and say , ` Master , do not , I pray you , reject them , ' and she entreat long , till the sultan grant her prayer , for she love the six elder one more than her last one .
So they all live quietly at home , till the sultan 's cat go and catch a calf .
And the owner of the calf go and tell the sultan , but he answer , ` The cat be mine , and the calf mine , ' and the man dare not complain far .
Two day after , the cat catch a cow , and the sultan be tell , ` Master , the cat have catch a cow , ' but he only say , ` It be my cow and my cat . '
And the cat wait a few day , and then it catch a donkey , and they tell the sultan , ` Master , the cat have catch a donkey , ' and he say , ` My cat and my donkey . '
Next it be a horse , and after that a camel , and when the sultan be tell he say , ` You do n't like this cat , and want me to kill it .
And I shall not kill it .
Let it eat the camel : let it even eat a man . '
And it wait till the next day , and catch some one 's child .
And the sultan be tell , ` The cat have catch a child . '
And he say , ` The cat be mine and the child mine . '
Then it catch a grown-up man .
After that the cat leave the town and take up it abode in a thicket near the road .
So if any one pass , go for water , it devour him .
If it saw a cow go to fee , it devour him .
If it saw a goat , it devour him .
Whatever go along that road the cat caught and ate .
Then the people go to the sultan in a body , and tell him of all the misdeed of that cat .
But he answer a before , ` The cat be mine and the people be mine . '
And no man dare kill the cat , which grow bolder and bolder , and at last come into the town to look for it prey .
One day , the sultan say to his six son , ' I be go into the country , to see how the wheat be grow , and you shall come with me . '
They go on merrily along the road , till they come to a thicket , when out spring the cat , and kill three of the son .
` The cat !
The cat ! '
shriek the soldier who be with him .
And this time the sultan say : ` Seek for it and kill it .
It be no longer a cat , but a demon ! '
And the soldier answer him , ` Did we not tell you , master , what the cat be do , and do you not say , `` My cat and my people '' ? '
And he answer : ` True , I say it . '
Now the young son have not go with the rest , but have stay at home with his mother ; and when he hear that his brother have be kill by the cat he say , ` Let me go , that it may slay me also . '
His mother entreat him not to leave her , but he would not listen , and he take his sword and a spear and some rice cake , and go after the cat , which by this time have run of to a great distance .
The lad spend many day hunt the cat , which now bore the name of ` The Nunda , eater of people , ' but though he kill many wild animal he saw no trace of the enemy he be hunt for .
There be no beast , however fierce , that he be afraid of , till at last his father and mother beg him to give up the chase after the Nunda .
But he answer : ` What I have say , I can not take back .
If I be to die , then I die , but every day I must go and seek for the Nunda . '
And again his father offer him what he would , even the crown itself , but the boy would hear nothing , and go on his way .
Many time his slave come and tell him , ` We have see footprint , and to-day we shall behold the Nunda . '
But the footprint never turn out to be those of the Nunda .
They wander far through desert and through forest , and at length come to the foot of a great hill .
And something in the boy 's soul whisper that here be the end of all their seek , and to-day they would find the Nunda .
But before they begin to climb the mountain the boy order his slave to cook some rice , and they rub the stick to make a fire , and when the fire be kindle they cook the rice and eat it .
Then they begin their climb .
Suddenly , when they have almost reach the top , a slave who be on in front cry : ` Master !
Master ! '
And the boy push on to where the slave stand , and the slave say : ` Cast your eye down to the foot of the mountain . '
And the boy look , and his soul tell him it be the Nunda .
And he creep down with his spear in his hand , and then he stop and gaze below him .
` This MUST be the real Nunda , ' think he .
` My mother tell me it ear be small , and this one 's be small .
She tell me it be broad and not long , and this be broad and not long .
She tell me it have spot like a civet-cat , and this have spot like a civet-cat . '
Then he leave the Nunda lie asleep at the foot of the mountain , and go back to his slave .
` We will feast to-day , ' he say ; ` make cake of batter , and bring water , ' and they eat and drank .
And when they have finish he bid them hide the rest of the food in the thicket , that if they slew the Nunda they might return and eat and sleep before go back to the town .
And the slave do a he bid them .
It be now afternoon , and the lad say : ` It be time we go after the Nunda . '
And they go till they reach the bottom and come to a great forest which lay between them and the Nunda .
Here the lad stop , and order every slave that wear two cloth to cast one away and tuck up the other between his leg .
` For , ' say he , ` the wood be not a little one .
Perhaps we may be catch by the thorn , or perhaps we may have to run before the Nunda , and the cloth might bind our leg , and cause u to fall before it . '
And they answer , ` Good , master , ' and do a he bid them .
Then they crawl on their hand and knee to where the Nunda lay asleep .
Noiselessly they creep along till they be quite close to it ; then , at a sign from the boy , they throw their spear .
The Nunda do not stir : the spear have do their work , but a great fear seize them all , and they run away and climb the mountain .
The sun be set when they reach the top , and glad they be to take out the fruit and the cake and the water which they have hide away , and sit down and rest themselves .
And after they have eat and be fill , they lay down and sleep till morning .
When the dawn break they rise up and cook more rice , and drink more water .
After that they walk all round the back of the mountain to the place where they have leave the Nunda , and they saw it stretch out where they have find it , stiff and dead .
And they take it up and carry it back to the town , sing a they go , ` He have kill the Nunda , the eater of people . '
And when his father hear the news , and that his son be come , and be bring the Nunda with him , he felt that the man do not dwell on the earth whose joy be great than his .
And the people bow down to the boy and give him present , and love him , because he have deliver them from the bondage of fear , and have slay the Nunda .
-LRB- Adapted from Swahili Tales . -RRB-
THE STORY OF HASSEBU Once upon a time there live a poor woman who have only one child , and he be a little boy call Hassebu .
When he cease to be a baby , and his mother think it be time for him to learn to read , she send him to school .
And , after he have do with school , he be put into a shop to learn how to make clothes , and do not learn ; and he be put to do silversmith 's work , and do not learn ; and whatsoever he be taught , he do not learn it .
His mother never wish him to do anything he do not like , so she say : ` Well , stay at home , my son . '
And he stay at home , eat and sleep .
One day the boy say to his mother : ` What be my father 's business ? '
` He be a very learned doctor , ' answer she .
` Where , then , be his book ? '
ask Hassebu .
` Many day have pass , and I have think nothing of them .
But look inside and see if they be there . '
So Hassebu look , and saw they be eat by insect , all but one book , which he take away and read .
He be sit at home one morning poring over the medicine book , when some neighbour come by and say to his mother : ` Give u this boy , that we may go together to cut wood . '
For wood-cutting be their trade , and they load several donkey with the wood , and sell it in the town .
And his mother answer , ` Very well ; to-morrow I will buy him a donkey , and you can all go together . '
So the donkey be buy , and the neighbour come , and they work hard all day , and in the evening they bring the wood back into the town , and sell it for a good sum of money .
And for six day they go and do the like , but on the seventh it rain , and the wood-cutters ran and hid in the rock , all but Hassebu , who do not mind wetting , and stay where he be .
While he be sit in the place where the wood-cutters have leave him , he take up a stone that lay near him , and idly drop it on the ground .
It ring with a hollow sound , and he call to his companion , and say , ` Come here and listen ; the ground seem hollow ! '
` Knock again ! '
cry they .
And he knock and listen .
` Let u dig , ' say the boy .
And they dig , and find a large pit like a well , fill with honey up to the brim .
` This be good than firewood , ' say they ; ` it will bring u more money .
And a you have find it , Hassebu , it be you who must go inside and dip out the honey and give to u , and we will take it to the town and sell it , and will divide the money with you . '
The following day each man bring every bowl and vessel he could find at home , and Hassebu fill them all with honey .
And this he do every day for three month .
At the end of that time the honey be very nearly finish , and there be only a little left , quite at the bottom , and that be very deep down , so deep that it seem a if it must be right in the middle of the earth .
Seeing this , the men say to Hassebu , ` We will put a rope under your arm , and let you down , so that you may scrape up all the honey that be leave , and when you have do we will lower the rope again , and you shall make it fast , and we will draw you up . '
` Very well , ' answer the boy , and he go down , and he scrap and scrap till there be not so much honey leave as would cover the point of a needle .
` Now I be ready ! '
he cry ; but they consult together and say , ` Let u leave him there inside the pit , and take his share of the money , and we will tell his mother , `` Your son be catch by a lion and carry off into the forest , and we try to follow him , but could not . '' '
Then they arise and go into the town and tell his mother a they have agree , and she weep much and make her mourning for many month .
And when the men be divide the money , one say , ` Let u send a little to our friend 's mother , ' and they send some to her ; and every day one take her rice , and one oil ; one take her meat , and one take her cloth , every day .
It do not take long for Hassebu to find out that his companion have leave him to die in the pit , but he have a brave heart , and hop that he might be able to find a way out for himself .
So he at once begin to explore the pit and find it run back a long way underground .
And by night he sleep , and by day he take a little of the honey he have gather and eat it ; and so many day pass by .
One morning , while he be sit on a rock have his breakfast , a large scorpion drop down at his foot , and he take a stone and kill it , fear it would sting him .
Then suddenly the thought dart into his head , ` This scorpion must have come from somewhere !
Perhaps there be a hole .
I will go and look for it , ' and he felt all round the wall of the pit till he find a very little hole in the roof of the pit , with a tiny glimmer of light at the far end of it .
Then his heart felt glad , and he take out his knife and dug and dug , till the little hole become a big one , and he could wriggle himself through .
And when he have get outside , he saw a large open space in front of him , and a path lead out of it .
He go along the path , on and on , till he reach a large house , with a golden door stand open .
Inside be a great hall , and in the middle of the hall a throne set with precious stone and a sofa spread with the soft cushion .
And he go in and lay down on it , and fell fast asleep , for he have wander far .
By-and-by there be a sound of people come through the courtyard , and the measured tramp of soldier .
This be the King of the Snakes come in state to his palace .
They enter the hall , but all stop in surprise at find a man lie on the king 's own bed .
The soldier wish to kill him at once , but the king say , ` Leave him alone , put me on a chair , ' and the soldier who be carry him kneel on the floor , and he slide from their shoulder on to a chair .
When he be comfortably seat , he turn to his soldier , and bid them wake the stranger gently .
And they wake him , and he sit up and saw many snake all round him , and one of them very beautiful , deck in royal robe .
` Who be you ? '
ask Hassebu . '
I be the King of the Snakes , ' be the reply , ` and this be my palace .
And will you tell me who you be , and where you come from ? '
` My name be Hassebu , but whence I come I know not , nor whither I go . '
` Then stay for a little with me , ' say the king , and he bid his soldier bring water from the spring and fruit from the forest , and to set them before the guest .
For some day Hassebu rest and feast in the palace of the King of the Snakes , and then he begin to long for his mother and his own country .
So he say to the King of the Snakes , ` Send me home , I pray . '
But the King of the Snakes answer , ` When you go home , you will do me evil ! ' '
I will do you no evil , ' reply Hassebu ; ` send me home , I pray . '
But the king say , ' I know it .
If I send you home , you will come back , and kill me .
I dare not do it . '
But Hassebu beg so hard that at last the king say , ` Swear that when you get home you will not go to bathe where many people be gather . '
And Hassebu swore , and the king order his soldier to take Hassebu in sight of his native city .
Then he go straight to his mother 's house , and the heart of his mother be glad .
Now the Sultan of the city be very ill , and all the wise men say that the only thing to cure him be the flesh of the King of the Snakes , and that the only man who could get it be a man with a strange mark on his chest .
So the Vizir have set people to watch at the public bath , to see if such a man come there .
For three day Hassebu remember his promise to the King of the Snakes , and do not go near the bath ; then come a morning so hot he could hardly breathe , and he forget all about it .
The moment he have slip off his robe he be take before the Vizir , who say to him , ` Lead u to the place where the King of the Snakes live . ' '
I do not know it ! '
answer he , but the Vizir do not believe him , and have him bound and beat till his back be all torn .
Then Hassebu cry , ` Loose me , that I may take you . '
They go together a long , long way , till they reach the palace of the King of the Snakes .
And Hassebu say to the King : ` It be not I : look at my back and you will see how they drive me to it . '
` Who have beat you like this ? '
ask the King .
` It be the Vizir , ' reply Hassebu .
` Then I be already dead , ' say the King sadly , ` but you must carry me there yourself . '
So Hassebu carry him .
And on the way the King say , ` When I arrive , I shall be kill , and my flesh will be cook .
But take some of the water that I be boil in , and put it in a bottle and lay it on one side .
The Vizir will tell you to drink it , but be careful not to do so .
Then take some more of the water , and drink it , and you will become a great physician , and the third supply you will give to the Sultan .
And when the Vizir come to you and ask , `` Did you drink what I give you ? ''
you must answer , `` I do , and this be for you , '' and he will drink it and die !
and your soul will rest . '
And they go their way into the town , and all happen a the King of the Snakes have say .
And the Sultan love Hassebu , who become a great physician , and cure many sick people .
But he be always sorry for the poor King of the Snakes .
-LRB- Adapted from Swahili Tales , -RRB- THE MAIDEN WITH THE WOODEN HELMET In a little village in the country of Japan there live long , long ago a man and his wife .
For many year they be happy and prosperous , but bad time come , and at last nothing be leave them but their daughter , who be as beautiful a the morning .
The neighbour be very kind , and would have do anything they could to help their poor friend , but the old couple felt that since everything have change they would rather go elsewhere , so one day they set off to bury themselves in the country , take their daughter with them .
Now the mother and daughter have plenty to do in keep the house clean and look after the garden , but the man would sit for hour together gaze straight in front of him , and thinking of the rich that once be his .
Each day he grow more and more wretched , till at length he take to his bed and never get up again .
His wife and daughter weep bitterly for his loss , and it be many month before they could take pleasure in anything .
Then one morning the mother suddenly look at the girl , and find that she have grow still more lovely than before .
Once her heart would have be glad at the sight , but now that they two be alone in the world she fear some harm might come of it .
So , like a good mother , she try to teach her daughter all she know , and to bring her up to be always busy , so that she would never have time to think about herself .
And the girl be a good girl , and listen to all her mother 's lesson , and so the year pass away .
At last one wet spring the mother catch cold , and though in the beginning she do not pay much attention to it , she gradually grow more and more ill , and know that she have not long to live .
Then she call her daughter and tell her that very soon she would be alone in the world ; that she must take care of herself , a there would be no one to take care of her .
And because it be more difficult for beautiful woman to pass unheeded than for others , she bid her fetch a wooden helmet out of the next room , and put it on her head , and pull it low down over her brow , so that nearly the whole of her face should lie in it shadow .
The girl do a she be bid , and her beauty be so hidden beneath the wooden cap , which cover up all her hair , that she might have go through any crowd , and no one would have look twice at her .
And when she saw this the heart of the mother be at rest , and she lay back in her bed and die .
The girl weep for many day , but by-and-by she felt that , be alone in the world , she must go and get work , for she have only herself to depend upon .
There be none to be get by stay where she be , so she make her clothes into a bundle , and walk over the hill till she reach the house of the man who own the field in that part of the country .
And she take service with him and labour for him early and late , and every night when she go to bed she be at peace , for she have not forget one thing that she have promise her mother ; and , however hot the sun might be , she always keep the wooden helmet on her head , and the people give her the nickname of Hatschihime .
In spite , however , of all her care the fame of her beauty spread abroad : many of the impudent young men that be always to be find in the world stole softly up behind her while she be at work , and try to lift off the wooden helmet .
But the girl would have nothing to say to them , and only bid them be off ; then they begin to talk to her , but she never answer them , and go on with what she be do , though her wage be low and food not very plentiful .
Still she could manage to live , and that be enough .
One day her master happen to pass through the field where she be work , and be strike by her industry and stop to watch her .
After a while he put one or two question to her , and then lead her into his house , and tell her that henceforward her only duty should be to tend his sick wife .
From this time the girl felt a if all her trouble be end , but the bad of them be yet to come .
Not very long after Hatschihime have become maid to the sick woman , the eldest son of the house return home from Kioto , where he have be study all sort of thing .
He be tire of the splendour of the town and it pleasure , and be glad enough to be back in the green country , among the peach-blossoms and sweet flower .
Strolling about in the early morning , he catch sight of the girl with the odd wooden helmet on her head , and immediately he go to his mother to ask who she be , and where she come from , and why she wear that strange thing over her face .
His mother answer that it be a whim , and nobody could persuade her to lay it aside ; whereat the young man laugh , but keep his thought to himself .
One hot day , however , he happen to be go towards home when he catch sight of his mother 's wait maid kneeling by a little stream that flow through the garden , splash some water over her face .
The helmet be push on one side , and a the youth stand watch from behind a tree he have a glimpse of the girl 's great beauty ; and he determine that no one else should be his wife .
But when he tell his family of his resolve to marry her they be very angry , and make up all sort of wicked story about her .
However , they might have spar themselves the trouble , a he know it be only idle talk . '
I have merely to remain firm , ' think he , ` and they will have to give in . '
It be such a good match for the girl that it never occur to anyone that she would refuse the young man , but so it be .
It would not be right , she felt , to make a quarrel in the house , and though in secret she weep bitterly , for a long while , nothing would make her change her mind .
At length one night her mother appear to her in a dream , and bid her marry the young man .
So the next time he ask her -- a he do nearly every day -- to his surprise and joy she consent .
The parent then saw they have well make the best of a bad business , and set about make the grand preparation suitable to the occasion .
Of course the neighbour say a great many ill-natured thing about the wooden helmet , but the bridegroom be too happy to care , and only laugh at them .
When everything be ready for the feast , and the bride be dress in the most beautiful embroidered dress to be find in Japan , the maid take hold of the helmet to lift it off her head , so that they might do her hair in the late fashion .
But the helmet would not come , and the harder they pull , the faster it seem to be , till the poor girl yell with pain .
Hearing her cry the bridegroom ran in and soothe her , and declare that she should be marry in the helmet , a she could not be marry without .
Then the ceremony begin , and the bridal pair sit together , and the cup of wine be bring them , out of which they have to drink .
And when they have drink it all , and the cup be empty , a wonderful thing happen .
The helmet suddenly burst with a loud noise , and fell in piece on the ground ; and a they all turn to look they find the floor cover with precious stone which have fall out of it .
But the guest be less astonish at the brilliancy of the diamond than at the beauty of the bride , which be beyond anything they have ever see or hear of .
The night be pass in singing and dancing , and then the bride and bridegroom go to their own house , where they live till they die , and have many child , who be famous throughout Japan for their goodness and beauty .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE MONKEY AND THE JELLY-FISH Children must often have wonder why jelly-fishes have no shell , like so many of the creature that be wash up every day on the beach .
In old time this be not so ; the jelly-fish have a hard a shell a any of them , but he lose it through his own fault , a may be see in this story .
The sea-queen Otohime , whom you read of in the story of Uraschimatoro , grow suddenly very ill .
The swift messenger be send hurry to fetch the best doctor from every country under the sea , but it be all of no use ; the queen grow rapidly bad instead of good .
Everyone have almost give up hope , when one day a doctor arrive who be clever than the rest , and say that the only thing that would cure her be the liver of an ape .
Now ape do not dwell under the sea , so a council of the wise head in the nation be call to consider the question how a liver could be obtain .
At length it be decide that the turtle , whose prudence be well know , should swim to land and contrive to catch a living ape and bring him safely to the ocean kingdom .
It be easy enough for the council to entrust this mission to the turtle , but not at all so easy for him to fulfil it .
However he swim to a part of the coast that be cover with tall tree , where he think the ape be likely to be ; for he be old , and have see many thing .
It be some time before he catch sight of any monkey , and he often grow tire with watch for them , so that one hot day he fell fast asleep , in spite of all his effort to keep awake .
By-and-by some ape , who have be peep at him from the top of the tree , where they have be carefully hide from the turtle 's eye , steal noiselessly down , and stand round staring at him , for they have never see a turtle before , and do not know what to make of it .
At last one young monkey , bold than the rest , stoop down and stroke the shining shell that the strange new creature wear on it back .
The movement , gentle though it be , wake the turtle .
With one sweep he seize the monkey 's hand in his mouth , and hold it tight , in spite of every effort to pull it away .
The other ape , see that the turtle be not to be trifle with , run off , leave their young brother to his fate .
Then the turtle say to the monkey , ` If you will be quiet , and do what I tell you , I wo n't hurt you .
But you must get on my back and come with me . '
The monkey , see there be no help for it , do a he be bid ; indeed he could not have resist , a his hand be still in the turtle 's mouth .
Delighted at have secure his prize , the turtle hasten back to the shore and plunge quickly into the water .
He swim fast than he have ever do before , and soon reach the royal palace .
Shouts of joy break forth from the attendant when he be see approach , and some of them run to tell the queen that the monkey be there , and that before long she would be as well a ever she be .
In fact , so great be their relief that they give the monkey such a kind welcome , and be so anxious to make him happy and comfortable , that he soon forget all the fear that have beset him a to his fate , and be generally quite at his ease , though every now and then a fit of home-sickness would come over him , and he would hide himself in some dark corner till it have pass away .
It be during one of these attack of sadness that a jelly-fish happen to swim by .
At that time jelly-fishes have shell .
At the sight of the gay and lively monkey crouch under a tall rock , with his eye close and his head bent , the jelly-fish be fill with pity , and stop , say , ` Ah , poor fellow , no wonder you weep ; a few day more , and they will come and kill you and give your liver to the queen to eat . '
The monkey shrink back horrify at these word and ask the jelly-fish what crime he have commit that deserve death .
` Oh , none at all , ' reply the jelly-fish , ` but your liver be the only thing that will cure our queen , and how can we get at it without kill you ?
You have good submit to your fate , and make no noise about it , for though I pity you from my heart there be no way of help you . '
Then he go away , leave the ape cold with horror .
At first he felt a if his liver be already be take from his body , but soon he begin to wonder if there be no mean of escape this terrible death , and at length he invent a plan which he think would do .
For a few day he pretend to be gay and happy a before , but when the sun go in , and rain fell in torrent , he weep and howl from dawn to dark , till the turtle , who be his head keeper , hear him , and come to see what be the matter .
Then the monkey tell him that before he leave home he have hang his liver out on a bush to dry , and if it be always go to rain like this it would become quite useless .
And the rogue make such a fuss and moaning that he would have melt a heart of stone , and nothing would content him but that somebody should carry him back to land and let him fetch his liver again .
The queen 's councillor be not the wise of people , and they decide between them that the turtle should take the monkey back to his native land and allow him to get his liver off the bush , but desire the turtle not to lose sight of his charge for a single moment .
The monkey know this , but trust to his power of beguile the turtle when the time come , and mount on his back with feeling of joy , which he be , however , careful to conceal .
They set out , and in a few hour be wander about the forest where the ape have first be catch , and when the monkey saw his family peer out from the tree top , he swing himself up by the near branch , just manage to save his hind leg from be seize by the turtle .
He tell them all the dreadful thing that have happen to him , and give a war cry which bring the rest of the tribe from the neighbouring hill .
At a word from him they rush in a body to the unfortunate turtle , throw him on his back , and tear off the shield that cover his body .
Then with mock word they hunt him to the shore , and into the sea , which he be only too thankful to reach alive .
Faint and exhaust he enter the queen 's palace for the cold of the water strike upon his naked body , and make him feel ill and miserable .
But wretched though he be , he have to appear before the queen 's adviser and tell them all that have befall him , and how he have suffer the monkey to escape .
But , a sometimes happen , the turtle be allow to go scot-free , and have his shell give back to him , and all the punishment fell on the poor jelly-fish , who be condemn by the queen to go shieldless for ever after .
-LRB- Japanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE HEADLESS DWARFS There be once a minister who spend his whole time in try to find a servant who would undertake to ring the church bell at midnight , in addition to all his other duty .
Of course it be not everyone who care to get up in the middle of the night , when he have be work hard all day ; still , a good many have agree to do it .
But the strange thing be that no sooner have the servant set forth to perform his task than he disappear , a if the earth have swallow him up .
No bell be rung , and no ringer ever come back .
The minister do his best to keep the matter secret , but it leak out for all that , and the end of it be that no one would enter his service .
Indeed , there be even those who whisper that the minister himself have murder the miss men !
It be to no purpose that Sunday after Sunday the minister give out from his pulpit that double wage would be pay to anyone that would fulfil the sacred duty of ring the bell of the church .
No one take the slight notice of any offer he might make , and the poor man be in despair , when one day , a he be stand at his house door , a youth know in the village a Clever Hans come up to him . '
I be tire of living with a miser who will not give me enough to eat and drink , ' say he , ` and I be ready to do all you want . '
` Very good , my son , ' reply the minister , ` you shall have the chance of prove your courage this very night .
To-morrow we will settle what your wage be to be . '
Hans be quite content with this proposal , and go straight into the kitchen to begin his work , not know that his new master be quite as stingy a his old one .
In the hope that his presence might be a restraint upon them , the minister use to sit at the table during his servant ' meal , and would exhort them to drink much and often , think that they would not be able to eat as well , and beef be dear than beer .
But in Hans he have meet his match , and the minister soon find to his cost that in his case at any rate a full cup do not mean an empty plate .
About an hour before midnight , Hans enter the church and lock the door behind him , but what be his surprise when , in place of the darkness and silence he expect , he find the church brilliantly light , and a crowd of people sit round a table playing card .
Hans felt no fear at this strange sight , or be prudent enough to hide it if he do , and , go up to the table , sit down amongst the player .
One of them look up and ask , ` My friend , what be you do here ? '
and Hans gaze at him for a moment , then laugh and answer , ` Well , if anybody have a right to put that question , it be I !
And if I do not put it , it will certainly be wise for you not to do so ! '
Then he pick up some card , and play with the unknown men a if he have know them all his life .
The luck be on his side , and soon the money of the other gambler find it way from their pocket into his .
On the stroke of midnight the cock crew , and in an instant light , table , card , and people all have vanish , and Hans be leave alone .
He grope about for some time , till he find the staircase in the tower , and then begin to feel his way up the step .
On the first land a glimmer of light come through a slit in the wall , and he saw a tiny man sit there , without a head .
` Ho !
ho !
my little fellow , what be you do there ? '
ask Hans , and , without wait for an answer , give him a kick which send him fly down the stair .
Then he climb high still , and find a he go dumb watcher sit on every landing , treat them a he have do the first .
At last he reach the top , and a he pause for a moment to look round him he saw another headless man cower in the very bell itself , wait till Hans should seize the bell-pull in order to strike him a blow with the clapper , which would soon have make an end of him .
` Stop , my little friend ! '
cried Hans .
` That be not part of the bargain !
Perhaps you saw how your comrade walk down stair , and you be go after them .
But a you be in the high place you shall make a more dignified exit , and follow them through the window ! '
With these word he begin to climb the ladder , in order to take the little man from the bell and carry out his threat .
At this the dwarf cry out imploringly , ` Oh , brother !
spare my life , and I promise that neither I nor my comrade will ever trouble you any more .
I be small and weak , but who know whether some day I shall not be able to reward you . '
` You wretched little shrimp , ' reply Hans , ' a great deal of good your gratitude be likely to do me !
But a I happen to be feel in a cheerful mood to-night I will let you have your life .
But take care how you come across me again , or you may not escape so easily ! '
The headless man thank him humbly , slide hastily down the bell rope , and run down the step of the tower a if he have leave a fire behind him .
Then Hans begin to ring lustily .
When the minister hear the sound of the midnight bell he wonder greatly , but rejoice that he have at last find some one to whom he could trust this duty .
Hans ring the bell for some time , then go to the hay-loft , and fell fast asleep .
Now it be the custom of the minister to get up very early , and to go round to make sure that the men be all at their work .
This morning everyone be in his place except Hans , and no one know anything about him .
Nine o'clock come , and no Hans , but when eleven strike the minister begin to fear that he have vanish like the ringer who have go before him .
When , however , the servant all gather round the table for dinner , Hans at last make his appearance stretch himself and yawn .
` Where have you be all this time ? '
ask the minister .
` Asleep , ' say Hans .
` Asleep ! '
exclaim the minister in astonishment .
` You do n't mean to tell me that you can go on sleep till mid-day ? '
` That be exactly what I do mean , ' reply Hans .
` If one work in the night one must sleep in the day , just a if one work in the day one sleep in the night .
If you can find somebody else to ring the bell at midnight I be ready to begin work at dawn ; but if you want me to ring them I must go on sleep till noon at the very early . '
The minister try to argue the point with him , but at length the following agreement be come to .
Hans be to give up the ringing , and be to work like the rest from sunrise to sunset , with the exception of an hour after breakfast and an hour after dinner , when he might go to sleep .
` But , of course , ' add the minister carelessly , ` it may happen now and then , especially in winter , when the day be short , that you will have to work a little long , to get something finish . '
` Not at all ! '
answered Hans .
` Unless I be to leave off work earlier in summer , I will not do a stroke more than I have promise , and that be from dawn to dark ; so you know what you have to expect . '
A few week later the minister be ask to attend a christening in the neighbouring town .
He bid Hans come with him , but , a the town be only a few hour ' ride from where he live , the minister be much surprise to see Hans come forth laden with a bag contain food .
` What be you take that for ? '
ask the minister .
` We shall be there before dark . '
` Who know ? '
replied Hans .
` Many thing may happen to delay our journey , and I need not remind you of our contract that the moment the sun set I cease to be your servant .
If we do n't reach the town while it be still daylight I shall leave you to shift for yourself . '
The minister think he be joke , and make no further remark .
But when they have leave the village behind them , and have ride a few mile , they find that snow have fall during the night , and have be blow by the wind into drift .
This hinder their progress , and by the time they have enter the thick wood which lay between them and their destination the sun be already touch the top of the tree .
The horse plough their way slowly through the deep soft snow and a they go Hans keep turn to look at the sun , which lay at their back .
` Is there anything behind you ? '
ask the minister .
` Or what be it you be always turn round for ? ' '
I turn round because I have no eye in the back of my neck , ' say Hans .
` Cease talk nonsense , ' reply the minister , ` and give all your mind to get u to the town before nightfall . '
Hans do not answer , but rode on steadily , though every now and then he cast a glance over his shoulder .
When they arrive in the middle of the wood the sun sink altogether .
Then Hans rein up his horse , take his knapsack , and jump out of the sledge .
` What be you do ?
Are you mad ? '
ask the minister , but Hans answer quietly , ` The sun be set and my work be over , and I be go to camp here for the night . '
In vain the master prayed and threaten , and promise Hans a large reward if he would only drive him on .
The young man be not to be move .
` Are you not ashamed to urge me to break my word ? '
say he .
` If you want to reach the town to-night you must go alone .
The hour of my freedom have strike , and I can not go with you . '
` My good Hans , ' entreat the minister , ' I really ought not to leave you here .
Consider what danger you would be in !
Yonder , a you see , a gallows be set up , and two evil-doers be hang on it .
You could not possibly sleep with such ghastly neighbour . '
` Why not ? '
ask Hans .
` Those gallows bird hang high in the air , and my camp will be on the ground ; we shall have nothing to do with each other . '
As he speak , he turn his back on the minister , and go his way .
There be no help for it , and the minister have to push on by himself , if he expect to arrive in time for the christening .
His friend be much surprise to see him drive up without a coachman , and think some accident have happen .
But when he tell them of his conversation with Hans they do not know which be the most foolish , master or man .
It would have matter little to Hans have he know what they be say or thinking of him .
He satisfy his hunger with the food he have in his knapsack , light his pipe , pitch his tent under the bough of a tree , wrap himself in his fur , and go sound asleep .
After some hour , he be awaken by a sudden noise , and sit up and look about him .
The moon be shin brightly above his head , and close by stood two headless dwarf , talk angrily .
At the sight of Hans the little dwarf cry out : ` It be he !
It be he ! '
and one of them step nearer exclaim , ` Ah , my old friend !
it be a lucky chance that have bring u here .
My bone still ache from my fall down the step of the tower .
I dare say you have not forget that night !
Now it be the turn of your bone .
Hi !
comrade , make haste !
make haste ! '
Like a swarm of midge , a host of tiny headless creature seem to spring straight out of the ground , and every one be arm with a club .
Although they be so small , yet there be such number of them and they strike so hard that even a strong man could do nothing against them .
Hans think his last hour be come , when just a the fight be at the hot another little dwarf arrive on the scene .
` Hold , comrade ! '
he shout , turn to the attack party .
` This man once do me a service , and I be his debtor .
When I be in his power he grant me my life .
And even if he do throw you downstairs , well , a warm bath soon cure your bruise , so you must just forgive him and go quietly home . '
The headless dwarf listen to his word and disappear as suddenly a they have come .
As soon a Hans recover himself a little he look at his rescuer , and saw he be the dwarf he have find seat in the church bell .
` Ah ! '
say the dwarf , seat himself quietly under the tree .
` You laugh at me when I tell you that some day I might do you a good turn .
Now you see I be right , and perhaps you will learn for the future not to despise any creature , however small . ' '
I thank you from my heart , ' answered Hans .
` My bone be still sore from their blow , and have it not be for you I should indeed have fare badly . ' '
I have almost pay my debt , ' go on the little man , ` but a you have suffer already , I will do more , and give you a piece of information .
You need not remain any longer in the service of that stingy minister , but when you get home to-morrow go at once to the north corner of the church , and there you will find a large stone build into the wall , but not cement like the rest .
The day after to-morrow the moon be full , and at midnight you must go to the spot and get the stone out of the wall with a pickaxe .
Under the stone lie a great treasure , which have be hide there in time of war .
Besides church plate , you will find bag of money , which have be lie in this place for over a hundred year , and no one know to whom it all belongs .
A third of this money you must give to the poor , but the rest you may keep for yourself . '
As he finish , the cock in the village crow , and the little man be nowhere to be see .
Hans find that his limbs no longer pain him , and lay for some time thinking of the hidden treasure .
Towards morning he fell asleep .
The sun be high in the heaven when his master return from the town .
` Hans , ' say he , ` what a fool you be not to come with me yesterday !
I be well feast and entertain , and I have money in my pocket into the bargain , ' he go on , rattle some coin while he speak , to make Hans understand how much he have lose .
` Ah , sir , ' reply Hans calmly , ` in order to have gain so much money you must have lie awake all night , but I have earn a hundred time that amount while I be sleep soundly . '
` How do you manage that ? '
ask the minister eagerly , but Hans answer , ` It be only fool who boast of their farthing ; wise men take care to hide their crown . '
They drive home , and Hans neglect none of his duty , but put up the horse and give them their food before go to the church corner , where he find the loose stone , exactly in the place describe by the dwarf .
Then he return to his work .
The first night of the full moon , when the whole village be asleep , he steal out , arm with a pickaxe , and with much difficulty succeed in dislodge the stone from it place .
Sure enough , there be the hole , and in the hole lay the treasure , exactly a the little man have say .
The following Sunday he hand over the third part to the village poor , and inform the minister that he wish to break his bond of service .
As , however , he do not claim any wage , the minister make no objection , but allow him to do a he wish .
So Hans go his way , buy himself a large house , and marry a young wife , and live happily and prosperously to the end of his day .
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE YOUNG MAN WHO WOULD HAVE HIS EYES OPENED Once upon a time there live a youth who be never happy unless he be pry into something that other people know nothing about .
After he have learn to understand the language of bird and beast , he discover accidentally that a great deal take place under cover of night which mortal eye never saw .
From that moment he felt he could not rest till these hidden secret be lay bare to him , and he spend his whole time wander from one wizard to another , beg them to open his eye , but find none to help him .
At length he reach an old magician call Mana , whose learning be great than that of the rest , and who could tell him all he want to know .
But when the old man have listen attentively to him , he say , warningly : ` My son , do not follow after empty knowledge , which will not bring you happiness , but rather evil .
Much be hide from the eye of men , because do they know everything their heart would no longer be at peace .
Knowledge kill joy , therefore think well what you be do , or some day you will repent .
But if you will not take my advice , then truly I can show you the secret of the night .
Only you will need more than a man 's courage to bear the sight . '
He stop and look at the young man , who nod his head , and then the wizard continue , ` To-morrow night you must go to the place where , once in seven year , the serpent-king give a great feast to his whole court .
In front of him stand a golden bowl fill with goat ' milk , and if you can manage to dip a piece of bread in this milk , and eat it before you be oblige to fly , you will understand all the secret of the night that be hide from other men .
It be lucky for you that the serpent-king 's feast happen to fall this year , otherwise you would have have long to wait for it .
But take care to be quick and bold , or it will be the bad for you . '
The young man thank the wizard for his counsel , and go his way firmly resolve to carry out his purpose , even if he pay for it with his life ; and when night come he set out for a wide , lonely moor , where the serpent-king hold his feast .
With sharpened eye , he look eagerly all round him , but could see nothing but a multitude of small hillock , that lay motionless under the moonlight .
He crouch behind a bush for some time , till he felt that midnight could not be far off , when suddenly there arose in the middle of the moor a brilliant glow , a if a star be shin over one of the hillock .
At the same moment all the hillock begin to writhe and to crawl , and from each one come hundred of serpent and make straight for the glow , where they know they should find their king .
When they reach the hillock where he dwell , which be high and broad than the rest , and have a bright light hang over the top , they coil themselves up and wait .
The whirr and confusion from all the serpent-houses be so great that the youth do not dare to advance one step , but remain where he be , watch intently all that go on ; but at last he begin to take courage , and move on softly step by step .
What he saw be creepy than creepy , and surpass all he have ever dream of .
Thousands of snake , big and little and of every colour , be gather together in one great cluster round a huge serpent , whose body be as thick a a beam , and which have on it head a golden crown , from which the light sprang .
Their hissing and dart tongue so terrify the young man that his heart sank , and he felt he should never have courage to push on to certain death , when suddenly he catch sight of the golden bowl in front of the serpent-king , and know that if he lose this chance it would never come back .
So , with his hair stand on end and his blood frozen in his vein , he creep forward .
Oh !
what a noise and a whirr rise afresh among the serpent .
Thousands of head be rear , and tongue be stretch out to sting the intruder to death , but happily for him their body be so closely entwined one in the other that they could not disentangle themselves quickly .
Like lightning he seize a bit of bread , dip it in the bowl , and put it in his mouth , then dash away a if fire be pursue him .
On he fly a if a whole army of foe be at his heel , and he seem to hear the noise of their approach grow near and nearer .
At length his breath fail him , and he throw himself almost senseless on the turf .
While he lay there dreadful dream haunt him .
He think that the serpent-king with the fiery crown have twin himself round him , and be crush out his life .
With a loud shriek he spring up to do battle with his enemy , when he saw that it be ray of the sun which have waken him .
He rub his eye and look all round , but nothing could he see of the foe of the past night , and the moor where he have run into such danger must be at least a mile away .
But it be no dream that he have run hard and far , or that he have drunk of the magic goat ' milk .
And when he felt his limb , and find them whole , his joy be great that he have come through such peril with a sound skin .
After the fatigue and terror of the night , he lay still till mid-day , but he make up his mind he would go that very even into the forest to try what the goat ' milk could really do for him , and if he would now be able to understand all that have be a mystery to him .
And once in the forest his doubt be set at rest , for he saw what no mortal eye have ever see before .
Beneath the tree be golden pavilion , with flag of silver all brightly light up .
He be still wonder why the pavilion be there , when a noise be hear among the tree , a if the wind have suddenly get up , and on all side beautiful maiden step from the tree into the bright light of the moon .
These be the wood-nymphs , daughter of the earth-mother , who come every night to hold their dance , in the forest .
The young man , watch from his hide place , wish he have a hundred eye in his head , for two be not nearly enough for the sight before him , the dance last till the first streak of dawn .
Then a silvery veil seem to be draw over the lady , and they vanish from sight .
But the young man remain where he be till the sun be high in the heaven , and then go home .
He felt that day to be endless , and count the minute till night should come , and he might return to the forest .
But when at last he get there he find neither pavilion nor nymphs , and though he go back many night after he never saw them again .
Still , he think about them night and day , and cease to care about anything else in the world , and be sick to the end of his life with long for that beautiful vision .
And that be the way he learn that the wizard have speak truly when he say , ` Blindness be man 's high good . '
-LRB- Ehstnische Marchen . -RRB-
THE BOYS WITH THE GOLDEN STARS Once upon a time what happen do happen : and if it have not happen , you would never have hear this story .
Well , once upon a time there live an emperor who have half a world all to himself to rule over , and in this world dwell an old herd and his wife and their three daughter , Anna , Stana , and Laptitza .
Anna , the eldest , be so beautiful that when she take the sheep to pasture they forget to eat as long a she be walk with them .
Stana , the second , be so beautiful that when she be drive the flock the wolf protect the sheep .
But Laptitza , the young , with a skin as white a the foam on the milk , and with hair as soft a the fine lamb 's wool , be as beautiful a both her sister put together -- as beautiful a she alone could be .
One summer day , when the ray of the sun be pour down on the earth , the three sister go to the wood on the outskirt of the mountain to pick strawberry .
As they be look about to find where the large berry grow they hear the tramp of horse approach , so loud that you would have think a whole army be rid by .
But it be only the emperor go to hunt with his friend and attendant .
They be all fine handsome young men , who sit their horse a if they be part of them , but the fine and handsome of all be the young emperor himself .
As they draw near the three sister , and mark their beauty , they check their horse and rode slowly by .
` Listen , sister ! '
say Anna , a they pass on .
` If one of those young men should make me his wife , I would bake him a loaf of bread which should keep him young and brave for ever . '
` And if I , ' say Stana , ` should be the one chosen , I would weave my husband a shirt which will keep him unscathed when he fight with dragon ; when he go through water he will never even be wet ; or if through fire , it will not scorch him . '
` And I , ' say Laptitza , ` will give the man who choose me two boy , twin , each with a golden star on his forehead , as bright a those in the sky . '
And though they speak low the young men hear , and turn their horse ' head . '
I take you at your word , and mine shall you be , most lovely of empress ! '
cry the emperor , and swung Laptitza and her strawberry on the horse before him .
` And I will have you , ' ` And I you , ' exclaim two of his friend , and they all ride back to the palace together .
The following morning the marriage ceremony take place , and for three day and three night there be nothing but feasting over the whole kingdom .
And when the rejoicing be over the news be in everybody 's mouth that Anna have send for corn , and have make the loaf of which she have speak at the strawberry bed .
And then more day and night pass , and this rumour be succeed by another one -- that Stana have procure some flax , and have dry it , and comb it , and spin it into linen , and sew it herself into the shirt of which she have speak over the strawberry bed .
Now the emperor have a stepmother , and she have a daughter by her first husband , who live with her in the palace .
The girl 's mother have always believe that her daughter would be empress , and not the ` Milkwhite Maiden , ' the child of a mere shepherd .
So she hat the girl with all her heart , and only bid her time to do her ill .
But she could do nothing as long a the emperor remain with his wife night and day , and she begin to wonder what she could do to get him away from her .
At last , when everything else have fail , she manage to make her brother , who be king of the neighbouring country , declare war against the emperor , and besiege some of the frontier town with a large army .
This time her scheme be successful .
The young emperor spring up in wrath the moment he hear the news , and vow that nothing , not even his wife , should hinder his give them battle .
And hastily assemble whatever soldier happen to be at hand he set off at once to meet the enemy .
The other king have not reckon on the swiftness of his movement , and be not ready to receive him .
The emperor fell on him when he be off his guard , and rout his army completely .
Then when victory be win , and the term of peace hastily draw up , he ride home as fast a his horse would carry him , and reach the palace on the third day .
But early that morning , when the star be grow pale in the sky , two little boy with golden hair and star on their forehead be bear to Laptitza .
And the stepmother , who be watch , take them away , and dig a hole in the corner of the palace , under the window of the emperor , and put them in it , while in their stead she place two little puppy .
The emperor come into the palace , and when they tell him the news he go straight to Laptitza 's room .
No word be need ; he saw with his own eye that Laptitza have not keep the promise she have make at the strawberry bed , and , though it nearly break his heart , he must give order for her punishment .
So he go out sadly and tell his guard that the empress be to be bury in the earth up to her neck , so that everyone might know what would happen to those who dare to deceive the emperor .
Not many day after , the stepmother 's wish be fulfil .
The emperor take her daughter to wife , and again the rejoicing last for three day and three night .
Let u now see what happen to the two little boy .
The poor little baby have find no rest even in their graf .
In the place where they have be bury there spring up two beautiful young aspen , and the stepmother , who hat the sight of the tree , which remind her of her crime , give order that they should be uproot .
But the emperor heard of it , and forbid the tree to be touch , say , ` Let them alone ; I like to see them there !
They be the fine aspen I have ever behold ! '
And the aspen grow a no aspen have ever grow before .
In each day they add a year 's growth , and each night they add a year 's growth , and at dawn , when the star fade out of the sky , they grow three year ' growth in the twinkling of an eye , and their bough sweep across the palace window .
And when the wind move them softly , the emperor would sit and listen to them all the day long .
The stepmother know what it all mean , and her mind never cease from try to invent some way of destroy the tree .
It be not an easy thing , but a woman 's will can press milk out of a stone , and her cunning will overcome hero .
What craft will not do soft word may attain , and if these do not succeed there still remain the resource of tear .
One morning the empress sit on the edge of her husband 's bed , and begin to coax him with all sort of pretty way .
It be some time before the bait take , but at length -- even emperor be only men !
` Well , well , ' he say at last , ` have your way and cut down the tree ; but out of one they shall make a bed for me , and out of the other , one for you ! '
And with this the empress be force to be content .
The aspen be cut down next morning , and before night the new bed have be place in the emperor 's room .
Now when the emperor lay down in it he seem a if he have grow a hundred time heavy than usual , yet he felt a kind of calm that be quite new to him .
But the empress felt a if she be lie on thorn and nettle , and could not close her eye .
When the emperor be fast asleep , the bed begin to crack loudly , and to the empress each crack have a meaning .
She felt a if she be listen to a language which no one but herself could understand .
` Is it too heavy for you , little brother ? '
ask one of the bed .
` Oh , no , it be not heavy at all , ' answer the bed in which the emperor be sleep . '
I feel nothing but joy now that my beloved father rest over me . '
` It be very heavy for me ! '
say the other bed , ` for on me lie an evil soul . '
And so they talk on till the morning , the empress listen all the while .
By daybreak the empress have determine how to get rid of the bed .
She would have two others make exactly like them , and when the emperor have go hunt they should be place in his room .
This be do and the aspen bed be burn in a large fire , till only a little heap of ash be leave .
Yet while they be burn the empress seem to hear the same word , which she alone could understand .
Then she stoop and gather up the ash , and scatter them to the four wind , so that they might blow over fresh land and fresh sea , and nothing remain of them .
But she have not see that where the fire burnt bright two spark fly up , and , after float in the air for a few moment , fell down into the great river that flow through the heart of the country .
Here the spark have turn into two little fish with golden scale , and one be so exactly like the other that everyone could tell at the first glance that they must be twin .
Early one morning the emperor 's fisherman go down to the river to get some fish for their master 's breakfast , and cast their net into the stream .
As the last star twinkle out of the sky they draw them in , and among the multitude of fish lay two with scale of gold , such a no man have ever look on .
They all gather round and wonder , and after some talk they decide that they would take the little fish alive a they be , and give them a a present to the emperor .
` Do not take u there , for that be whence we come , and yonder lie our destruction , ' say one of the fish .
` But what be we to do with you ? '
ask the fisherman .
` Go and collect all the dew that lie on the leaf , and let u swim in it .
Then lay u in the sun , and do not come near u till the sun 's ray shall have dry off the dew , ' answer the other fish .
The fisherman do a they tell him -- gather the dew from the leaf and let them swim in it , then put them to lie in the sun till the dew should be all dry up .
And when he come back , what do you think he saw ?
Why , two boy , two beautiful young prince , with hair as golden a the star on their forehead , and each so like the other , that at the first glance every one would have know them for twin .
The boy grow fast .
In every day they grow a year 's growth , and in every night another year 's growth , but at dawn , when the star be fade , they grow three year ' growth in the twinkling of an eye .
And they grow in other thing besides height , too .
Thrice in age , and thrice in wisdom , and thrice in knowledge .
And when three day and three night have pass they be twelve year in age , twenty-four in strength , and thirty-six in wisdom .
` Now take u to our father , ' say they .
So the fisherman give them each a lambskin cap which half cover their face , and completely hide their golden hair and the star on their forehead , and lead them to the court .
By the time they arrive there it be midday , and the fisherman and his charge go up to an official who be stand about .
` We wish to speak with the emperor , ' say one of the boy .
` You must wait until he have finish his dinner , ' reply the porter .
` No , while he be eat it , ' say the second boy , step across the threshold .
The attendant all run forward to thrust such impudent youngster outside the palace , but the boy slip through their finger like quicksilver , and enter a large hall , where the emperor be din , surround by his whole court .
` We desire to enter , ' say one of the prince sharply to a servant who stand near the door .
` That be quite impossible , ' reply the servant .
` Is it ?
let u see ! '
say the second prince , push the servant to right and leave .
But the servant be many , and the prince only two .
There be the noise of a struggle , which reach the emperor 's ear .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he angrily .
The prince stop at the sound of their father 's voice .
` Two boy who want to force their way in , ' reply one of the servant , approach the emperor .
` To FORCE their way in ?
Who dare to use force in my palace ?
What boys be they ? '
say the emperor all in one breath .
` We know not , O mighty emperor , ' answer the servant , ` but they must surely be akin to you , for they have the strength of lion , and have scatter the guard at the gate .
And they be as proud a they be strong , for they will not take their cap from their head . '
The emperor , a he listen , grow red with anger .
` Thrust them out , ' cry he .
` Set the dog after them . '
` Leave u alone , and we will go quietly , ' say the prince , and step backwards , weep silently at the harsh word .
They have almost reach the gate when a servant run up to them .
` The emperor command you to return , ' pant he : ` the empress wish to see you . '
The prince think a moment : then they go back the way they have come , and walk straight up to the emperor , their cap still on their head .
He sit at the top of a long table cover with flower and fill with guest .
And beside him sit the empress , support by twelve cushion .
When the prince enter one of the cushion fell down , and there remain only eleven .
` Take off your cap , ' say one of the courtier . '
A covered head be among men a sign of honour .
We wish to seem what we be . '
` Never mind , ' say the emperor , whose anger have drop before the silvery tone of the boy 's voice .
` Stay a you be , but tell me WHO you be !
Where do you come from , and what do you want ? '
` We be twin , two shoot from one stem , which have be break , and half lie in the ground and half sits at the head of this table .
We have travel a long way , we have speak in the rustle of the wind , have whisper in the wood , we have sing in the water , but now we wish to tell you a story which you know without know it , in the speech of men . '
And a second cushion fell down .
` Let them take their silliness home , ' say the empress .
` Oh , no , let them go on , ' say the emperor .
` You wish to see them , but I wish to hear them .
Go on , boy , sing me the story . '
The empress be silent , but the prince begin to sing the story of their life .
` There be once an emperor , ' begin they , and the third cushion fell down .
When they reach the warlike expedition of the emperor three of the cushion fell down at once .
And when the tale be finish there be no more cushion under the empress , but the moment that they lift their cap , and show their golden hair and the golden star , the eye of the emperor and of all his guest be bend on them , and they could hardly bear the power of so many glance .
And there happen in the end what should have happen in the beginning .
Laptitza sit next her husband at the top of the table .
The stepmother 's daughter become the mean sewing maid in the palace , the stepmother be tie to a wild horse , and every one knew and have never forget that whoever have a mind turn to wickedness be sure to end badly .
-LRB- Rumanische Marchen . -RRB-
THE FROG Once upon a time there be a woman who have three son .
Though they be peasant they be well off , for the soil on which they live be fruitful , and yield rich crop .
One day they all three tell their mother they mean to get marry .
To which their mother reply : ` Do a you like , but see that you choose good housewife , who will look carefully after your affair ; and , to make certain of this , take with you these three skein of flax , and give it to them to spin .
Whoever spin the best will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
Now the two eldest son have already choose their wife ; so they take the flax from their mother , and carry it off with them , to have it spun a she have say .
But the young son be puzzle what to do with his skein , a he know no girl -LRB- never have speak to any -RRB- to whom he could give it to be spin .
He wander hither and thither , ask the girl that he meet if they would undertake the task for him , but at the sight of the flax they laugh in his face and mock at him .
Then in despair he leave their village , and go out into the country , and , seat himself on the bank of a pond begin to cry bitterly .
Suddenly there be a noise close beside him , and a frog jump out of the water on to the bank and ask him why he be cry .
The youth tell her of his trouble , and how his brother would bring home linen spun for them by their promised wife , but that no one would spin his thread .
Then the frog answer : ` Do not weep on that account ; give me the thread , and I will spin it for you . '
And , have say this , she take it out of his hand , and flop back into the water , and the youth go back , not know what would happen next .
In a short time the two elder brother come home , and their mother ask to see the linen which have be weave out of the skein of flax she have give them .
They all three leave the room ; and in a few minute the two eldest return , bring with them the linen that have be spin by their chosen wife .
But the young brother be greatly troubled , for he have nothing to show for the skein of flax that have be give to him .
Sadly he betook himself to the pond , and sit down on the bank , begin to weep .
Flop !
and the frog appear out of the water close beside him .
` Take this , ' she say ; ` here be the linen that I have spin for you . '
You may imagine how delighted the youth be .
She put the linen into his hand , and he take it straight back to his mother , who be so pleased with it that she declare she have never see linen so beautifully spun , and that it be far fine and white than the web that the two elder brother have bring home .
Then she turn to her son and say : ` But this be not enough , my son , I must have another proof a to what sort of wife you have choose .
In the house there be three puppy .
Each of you take one , and give it to the woman whom you mean to bring home a your wife .
She must train it and bring it up .
Whichever dog turn out the best , it mistress will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
So the young men set out on their different way , each take a puppy with him .
The young , not know where to go , return to the pond , sit down once more on the bank , and begin to weep .
Flop !
and close beside him , he saw the frog .
` Why be you weep ? '
she say .
Then he tell her his difficulty , and that he do not know to whom he should take the puppy .
` Give it to me , ' she say , ` and I will bring it up for you . '
And , see that the youth hesitate , she take the little creature out of his arm , and disappear with it into the pond .
The week and month pass , till one day the mother say she would like to see how the dog have be train by her future daughter-in-law .
The two eldest son depart , and return shortly , lead with them two great mastiff , who growl so fiercely , and look so savage , that the mere sight of them make the mother tremble with fear .
The young son , a be his custom , go to the pond , and call on the frog to come to his rescue .
In a minute she be at his side , bring with her the most lovely little dog , which she put into his arm .
It sit up and beg with it paw , and go through the prettiest trick , and be almost human in the way it understand and do what it be tell .
In high spirit the youth carry it off to his mother .
As soon a she saw it , she exclaim : ` This be the most beautiful little dog I have ever see .
You be indeed fortunate , my son ; you have win a pearl of a wife . '
Then , turn to the others , she say : ` Here be three shirt ; take them to your chosen wife .
Whoever sew the best will be my favourite daughter-in-law . '
So the young men set out once more ; and again , this time , the work of the frog be much the best and the neat .
This time the mother say : ` Now that I be content with the test I give , I want you to go and fetch home your bride , and I will prepare the wedding-feast . '
You may imagine what the young brother felt on hear these word .
Whence be he to fetch a bride ?
Would the frog be able to help him in this new difficulty ?
With bow head , and feel very sad , he sit down on the edge of the pond .
Flop !
and once more the faithful frog be beside him .
` What be trouble you so much ? '
she ask him , and then the youth tell her everything .
` Will you take me for a wife ? '
she ask .
` What should I do with you a a wife , ' he reply , wonder at her strange proposal .
` Once more , will you have me or will you not ? '
she say . '
I will neither have you , nor will I refuse you , ' say he .
At this the frog disappear ; and the next minute the youth behold a lovely little chariot , draw by two tiny pony , stand on the road .
The frog be hold the carriage door open for him to step in .
` Come with me , ' she say .
And he get up and follow her into the chariot .
As they drive along the road they meet three witch ; the first of them be blind , the second be hunchbacked , and the third have a large thorn in her throat .
When the three witch behold the chariot , with the frog seat pompously among the cushion , they break into such fit of laughter that the eyelid of the blind one burst open , and she recover her sight ; the hunchback roll about on the ground in merriment till her back become straight , and in a roar of laughter the thorn fell out of the throat of the third witch .
Their first thought be to reward the frog , who have unconsciously be the mean of cure them of their misfortune .
The first witch wave her magic wand over the frog , and change her into the lovely girl that have ever be see .
The second witch wave the wand over the tiny chariot and pony , and they be turn into a beautiful large carriage with prance horse , and a coachman on the seat .
The third witch give the girl a magic purse , fill with money .
Having do this , the witch disappear , and the youth with his lovely bride drove to his mother 's home .
Great be the delight of the mother at her young son 's good fortune .
A beautiful house be build for them ; she be the favourite daughter-in-law ; everything go well with them , and they live happily ever after .
-LRB- From the Italian . -RRB-
THE PRINCESS WHO WAS HIDDEN UNDERGROUND Once there be a king who have great rich , which , when he die , he divide among his three son .
The two eldest of these live in rioting and feasting , and thus waste and squander their father 's wealth till nothing remain , and they find themselves in want and misery .
The young of the three son , on the contrary , make good use of his portion .
He marry a wife and soon they have a most beautiful daughter , for whom , when she be grow up , he cause a great palace to be build underground , and then kill the architect who have build it .
Next he shut up his daughter inside , and then send herald all over the world to make known that he who should find the king 's daughter should have her to wife .
If he be not capable of find her then he must die .
Many young men seek to discover her , but all perish in the attempt .
After many have meet their death thus , there come a young man , beautiful to behold , and as clever a he be beautiful , who have a great desire to attempt the enterprise .
First he go to a herdsman , and beg him to hide him in a sheepskin , which have a golden fleece , and in this disguise to take him to the king .
The shepherd let himself be persuade so to do , take a skin have a golden fleece , sew the young man in it , put in also food and drink , and so bring him before the king .
When the latter saw the golden lamb , he ask the herd : ` Will you sell me this lamb ? '
But the herd answer : ` No , oh king ; I will not sell it ; but if you find pleasure therein , I will be willing to oblige you , and I will lend it to you , free of charge , for three day , after that you must give it back to me . '
This the king agree to do , and he arise and take the lamb to his daughter .
When he have lead it into her palace , and through many room , he come to a shut door .
Then he call ` Open , Sartara Martara of the earth ! '
and the door open of itself .
After that they go through many more room , and come to another closed door .
Again the king call out : ` Open , Sartara Martara of the earth ! '
and this door open like the other , and they come into the apartment where the princess dwelt , the floor , wall , and roof of which be all of silver .
When the king have embrace the princess , he give her the lamb , to her great joy .
She stroke it , caress it , and play with it .
After a while the lamb get loose , which , when the princess saw , she say : ` See , father , the lamb be free . '
But the king answer : ` It be only a lamb , why should it not be free ? '
Then he leave the lamb with the princess , and go his way .
In the night , however , the young man throw off the skin .
When the princess saw how beautiful he be , she fell in love with him , and ask him : ` Why do you come here disguise in a sheepskin like that ? '
Then he answer : ` When I saw how many people seek you , and could not find you , and lose their life in so do , I invent this trick , and so I be come safely to you . '
The princess exclaim : ` You have do well so to do ; but you must know that your wager be not yet win , for my father will change me and my maiden into duck , and will ask you , `` Which of these duck be the princess ? ''
Then I will turn my head back , and with my bill will clean my wing , so that you may know me . '
When they have spend three day together , chat and caress one another , the herd come back to the king , and demand his lamb .
Then the king go to his daughter to bring it away , which trouble the princess very much , for she say they have play so nicely together .
But the king say : ' I can not leave it with you , my daughter , for it be only lent to me . '
So he take it away with him , and give it back to the shepherd .
Then the young man throw the skin from off him , and go to the king , say : ` Sire , I be persuaded I can find your daughter . '
When the king saw how handsome he be , he say : ` My lad , I have pity on your youth .
This enterprise have already cost the life of many , and will certainly be your death as well . '
But the young man answer , ' I accept your condition , oh king ; I will either find her or lose my head . '
Thereupon he go before the king , who follow after him , till they come to the great door .
Then the young man say to the king : ` Speak the word that it may open . '
And the king answer : ` What be the word ?
Shall I say something like this : `` Shut ; shut ; shut '' ? '
` No , ' say he ; ` say `` Open , Sartara Martara of the earth . '' '
When the king have so say , the door open of itself , and they go in , while the king gnaw his moustache in anger .
Then they come to the second door , where the same thing happen a at the first , and they go in and find the princess .
Then speak the king and say : ` Yes , truly , you have find the princess .
Now I will turn her as well a all her maiden into duck , and if you can guess which of these duck be my daughter , then you shall have her to wife . '
And immediately the king change all the maiden into duck , and he drive them before the young man , and say : ` Now show me which be my daughter . '
Then the princess , accord to their understanding , begin to clean her wing with her bill , and the lad say : ` She who clean her wing be the princess . '
Now the king could do nothing more but give her to the young man to wife , and they live together in great joy and happiness .
-LRB- From the German . -RRB-
THE GIRL WHO PRETENDED TO BE A BOY Once upon a time there live an emperor who be a great conqueror , and reign over more country than anyone in the world .
And whenever he subdue a fresh kingdom , he only grant peace on condition that the king should deliver him one of his son for ten year ' service .
Now on the border of his kingdom lay a country whose emperor be as brave a his neighbour , and as long a he be young he be the victor in every war .
But a year pass away , his head grow weary of make plan of campaign , and his people want to stay at home and till their field , and at last he too felt that he must do homage to the other emperor .
One thing , however , hold him back from this step which day by day he saw more clearly be the only one possible .
His new overlord would demand the service of one of his son .
And the old emperor have no son ; only three daughter .
Look on which side he would , nothing but ruin seem to lie before him , and he become so gloomy , that his daughter be frighten , and do everything they could think of to cheer him up , but all to no purpose .
At length one day when they be at dinner , the eldest of the three summon up all her courage and say to her father : ` What secret grief be trouble you ?
Are your subject discontent ?
or have we give you cause for displeasure ?
To smooth away your wrinkle , we would gladly shed our blood , for our life be bind up in yours ; and this you know . '
` My daughter , ' answer the emperor , ` what you say be true .
Never have you give me one moment 's pain .
Yet now you can not help me .
Ah !
why be not one of you a boy ! ' '
I do n't understand , ' she answer in surprise .
` Tell u what be wrong : and though we be not boys , we be not quite useless ! '
` But what can you do , my dear child ?
Spin , sew , and weave -- that be all your learning .
Only a warrior can deliver me now , a young giant who be strong to wield the battle-axe : whose sword deal deadly blow . '
` But WHY do you need a son so much at present ?
Tell u all about it !
It will not make matter bad if we know ! '
` Listen then , my daughter , and learn the reason of my sorrow .
You have hear that as long a I be young no man ever bring an army against me without it cost him dear .
But the year have chill my blood and drink my strength .
And now the deer can roam the forest , my arrow will never pierce his heart ; strange soldier will set fire to my house and water their horse at my well , and my arm can not hinder them .
No , my day be past , and the time have come when I too must bow my head under the yoke of my foe !
But who be to give him the ten year ' service that be part of the price which the vanquished must pay ? ' '
I will , ' cry the eldest girl , spring to her foot .
But her father only shake his head sadly .
` Never will I bring shame upon you , ' urge the girl .
` Let me go .
Am I not a princess , and the daughter of an emperor ? '
` Go then ! '
he say .
The brave girl 's heart almost stop beat from joy , a she set about her preparation .
She be not still for a single moment , but dance about the house , turn chest and wardrobes upside down .
She set aside enough thing for a whole year -- dress embroider with gold and precious stone , and a great store of provision .
And she choose the most spirited horse in the stable , with eye of flame , and a coat of shin silver .
When her father saw her mounted and curvet about the court , he give her much wise advice , a to how she be to behave like the young man she appear to be , and also how to behave a the girl she really be .
Then he give her his blessing , and she touch her horse with the spur .
The silver armour of herself and her steed dazzle the eye of the people a she dart past .
She be soon out of sight , and if after a few mile she have not pull up to allow her escort to join her , the rest of the journey would have be perform alone .
But though none of his daughter be aware of the fact , the old emperor be a magician , and have lay his plan accordingly .
He manage , unseen , to overtake his daughter , and throw a bridge of copper over a stream which she would have to cross .
Then , change himself into a wolf , he lay down under one of the arch , and wait .
He have choose his time well , and in about half an hour the sound of a horse 's hoof be hear .
His foot be almost on the bridge , when a big grey wolf with grin teeth appear before the princess .
With a deep growl that freeze the blood , he draw himself up , and prepare to spring .
The appearance of the wolf be so sudden and so unexpected , that the girl be almost paralyse , and never even dreamt of flight , till the horse leap violently to one side .
Then she turn him round , and urge him to his full speed , never draw rein till she saw the gate of the palace rise before her .
The old emperor , who have get back long since , come to the door to meet her , and touch her shin armour , he say , ` Did I not tell you , my child , that fly do not make honey ? '
The day pass on , and one morning the second princess implore her father to allow her to try the adventure in which her sister have make such a failure .
He listen unwillingly , feel sure it be no use , but she beg so hard that in the end he consent , and have choose her arm , she ride away .
But though , unlike her sister , she be quite prepared for the appearance of the wolf when she reach the copper bridge , she show no great courage , and gallop home as fast a her horse could carry her .
On the step of the castle her father be stand , and a still tremble with fright she kneel at his foot , he say gently , ` Did I not tell you , my child , that every bird be not catch in a net ? '
The three girl stay quietly in the palace for a little while , embroider , spin , weave , and tend their bird and flower , when early one morning , the young princess enter the door of the emperor 's private apartment .
` My father , it be my turn now .
Perhaps I shall get the good of that wolf ! '
` What , do you think you be braver than your sister , vain little one ?
You who have hardly leave your long clothes behind you ! '
but she do not mind be laugh at , and answer , ` For your sake , father , I would cut the devil himself into small bit , or even become a devil myself .
I think I shall succeed , but if I fail , I shall come home without more shame than my sister . '
Still the emperor hesitate , but the girl pet and coax him till at last he say , ` Well , well , if you must go , you must .
It remain to be see what I shall get by it , except perhaps a good laugh when I see you come back with your head bent and your eye on the ground . '
` He laugh best who laugh last , ' say the princess .
Happy at have get her way , the princess decide that the first thing to be do be to find some old white-haired boyard , whose advice she could trust , and then to be very careful in choose her horse .
So she go straight to the stable where the most beautiful horse in the empire be feed in the stall , but none of them seem quite what she want .
Almost in despair she reach the last box of all , which be occupy by her father 's ancient war-horse , old and worn like himself , stretch sadly out on the straw .
The girl 's eye fill with tear , and she stand gaze at him .
The horse lift his head , give a little neigh , and say softly , ` You look gentle and pitiful , but I know it be your love for your father which make you tender to me .
Ah , what a warrior he be , and what good time we share together !
But now I too have grow old , and my master have forget me , and there be no reason to care whether my coat be dull or shin .
Yet , it be not too late , and if I be properly tend , in a week I could vie with any horse in the stable ! '
` And how should you be tend ? '
ask the girl . '
I must be rub down morning and evening with rain water , my barley must be boil in milk , because of my bad teeth , and my foot must be wash in oil . ' '
I should like to try the treatment , a you might help me in carry out my scheme . '
` Try it then , mistress , and I promise you will never repent . '
So in a week 's time the horse wake up one morning with a sudden shiver through all his limb ; and when it have pass away , he find his skin shining like a mirror , his body as fat a a water melon , his movement light a a chamois .
Then look at the princess who have come early to the stable , he say joyfully , ` May success await on the step of my master 's daughter , for she have give me back my life .
Tell me what I can do for you , princess , and I will do it . ' '
I want to go to the emperor who be our over-lord , and I have no one to advise me .
Which of all the white-headed boyards shall I choose a counsellor ? '
` If you have me , you need no one else : I will serve you a I serve your father , if you will only listen to what I say . ' '
I will listen to everything .
Can you start in three day ? '
` This moment , if you like , ' say the horse .
The preparation of the emperor 's young daughter be much few and simple than those of her sister .
They only consist of some boy 's clothes , a small quantity of linen and food , and a little money in case of necessity .
Then she bid farewell to her father , and ride away .
A day 's journey from the palace , she reach the copper bridge , but before they come in sight of it , the horse , who be a magician , have warn her of the mean her father would take to prove her courage .
Still in spite of his warn she tremble all over when a huge wolf , as thin a if he have fast for a month , with claw like saw , and mouth as wide a an oven , bound howling towards her .
For a moment her heart fail her , but the next , touch the horse lightly with her spur , she draw her sword from it sheath , ready to separate the wolf 's head from it body at a single blow .
The beast saw the sword , and shrink back , which be the best thing it could do , a now the girl 's blood be up , and the light of battle in her eye .
Then without look round , she ride across the bridge .
The emperor , proud of this first victory , take a short cut , and wait for her at the end of another day 's journey , close to a river , over which he throw a bridge of silver .
And this time he take the shape of a lion .
But the horse guess this new danger and tell the princess how to escape it .
But it be one thing to receive advice when we feel safe and comfortable , and quite another to be able to carry it out when some awful peril be threaten u .
And if the wolf have make the girl quake with terror , it seem like a lamb beside this dreadful lion .
At the sound of his roar the very trees quiver and his claw be so large that every one of them look like a cutlas .
The breath of the princess come and go , and her foot rattle in the stirrup .
Suddenly the remembrance flash across her of the wolf whom she have put to flight , and wave her sword , she rush so violently on the lion that he have barely time to spring on one side , so a to avoid the blow .
Then , like a flash , she cross this bridge also .
Now during her whole life , the princess have be so carefully bring up , that she have never leave the garden of the palace , so that the sight of the hill and valley and tinkle stream , and the song of the lark and blackbird , make her almost beside herself with wonder and delight .
She long to get down and bathe her face in the clear pool , and pick the brilliant flower , but the horse say ` No , ' and quicken his pace , neither turn to the right or the left .
` Warriors , ' he tell her , ` only rest when they have win the victory .
You have still another battle to fight , and it be the hard of all . '
This time it be neither a wolf nor a lion that be wait for her at the end of the third day 's journey , but a dragon with twelve head , and a golden bridge behind it .
The princess ride up without see anything to frighten her , when a sudden puff of smoke and flame from beneath her foot , cause her to look down , and there be the horrible creature twist and writhe , it twelve head rear up a if to seize her between them .
The bridle fell from her hand : and the sword which she have just grasp slide back into it sheath , but the horse bid her fear nothing , and with a mighty effort she sit upright and spurred straight on the dragon .
The fight last an hour and the dragon press her hard .
But in the end , by a well-directed side blow , she cut off one of the head , and with a roar that seem to rend the heaven in two , the dragon fell back on the ground , and rise a a man before her .
Although the horse have inform the princess the dragon be really her own father , the girl have hardly believe him , and star in amazement at the transformation .
But he fling his arm round her and press her to his heart say , ` Now I see that you be as brave a the bravest , and as wise a the wise .
You have choose the right horse , for without his help you would have return with a bent head and downcast eye .
You have fill me with the hope that you may carry out the task you have undertake , but be careful to forget none of my counsel , and above all to listen to those of your horse . '
When he have do speaking , the princess kneel down to receive his blessing , and they go their different way .
The princess rode on and on , till at last she come to the mountain which hold up the roof of the world .
There she meet two Genii who have be fight fiercely for two year , without one have get the least advantage over the other .
Seeing what they take to be a young man seek adventure , one of the combatant call out , ` Fet-Fruners !
deliver me from my enemy , and I will give you the horn that can be hear the distance of a three day ' journey ; ' while the other cry , ` Fet-Fruners !
help me to conquer this pagan thief , and you shall have my horse , Sunlight . '
Before answer , the princess consult her own horse a to which offer she should accept , and he advise her to side with the genius who be master of Sunlight , his own younger brother , and still more active than himself .
So the girl at once attack the other genius , and soon cleave his skull ; then the one who be leave victor beg her to come back with him to his house and he would hand her over Sunlight , a he have promise .
The mother of the genius be rejoice to see her son return safe and sound , and prepare her best room for the princess , who , after so much fatigue , need rest badly .
But the girl declare that she must first make her horse comfortable in his stable ; but this be really only an excuse , a she want to ask his advice on several matter .
But the old woman have suspect from the very first that the boy who have come to the rescue of her son be a girl in disguise , and tell the genius that she be exactly the wife he need .
The genius scoffed , and inquire what female hand could ever wield a sabre like that ; but , in spite of his sneer , his mother persist , and a a proof of what she say , lay at night on each of their pillow a handful of magic flower , that fade at the touch of man , but remain eternally fresh in the finger of a woman .
It be very clever of her , but unluckily the horse have warn the princess what to expect , and when the house be silent , she steal very softly to the genius 's room , and exchange his faded flower for those she hold .
Then she creep back to her own bed and fell fast asleep .
At break of day , the old woman run to see her son , and found , a she know she would , a bunch of dead flower in his hand .
She next pass on to the bedside of the princess , who still lay asleep grasp the withered flower .
But she do not believe any the more that her guest be a man , and so she tell her son .
So they put their head together and lay another trap for her .
After breakfast the genius give his arm to his guest , and ask her to come with him into the garden .
For some time they walk about look at the flower , the genius all the while press her to pick any she fancy .
But the princess , suspect a trap , inquire roughly why they be waste the precious hour in the garden , when , a men , they should be in the stable look after their horse .
Then the genius tell his mother that she be quite wrong , and his deliverer be certainly a man .
But the old woman be not convince for all that .
She would try once more she say , and her son must lead his visitor into the armoury , where hung every kind of weapon use all over the world -- some plain and bare , others ornament with precious stone -- and beg her to make choice of one of them .
The princess look at them closely , and felt the edge and point of their blade , then she hang at her belt an old sword with a curved blade , that would have do credit to an ancient warrior .
After this she inform the genius that she would start early next day and take Sunlight with her .
And there be nothing for the mother to do but to submit , though she still stick to her own opinion .
The princess mount Sunlight , and touch him with her spur , when the old horse , who be gallop at her side , suddenly say : ` Up to this time , mistress , you have obey my counsel and all have go well .
Listen to me once more , and do what I tell you .
I be old , and -- now that there be someone to take my place , I will confess it -- I be afraid that my strength be not equal to the task that lie before me .
Give me leave , therefore , to return home , and do you continue your journey under the care of my brother .
Put your faith in him a you put it in me , and you will never repent .
Wisdom have come early to Sunlight . '
` Yes , my old comrade , you have serve me well ; and it be only through your help that up to now I have be victorious .
So grieved though I be to say farewell , I will obey you yet once more , and will listen to your brother a I would to yourself .
Only , I must have a proof that he love me as well a you do . '
` How should I not love you ? '
answered Sunlight ; ` how should I not be proud to serve a warrior such a you ?
Trust me , mistress , and you shall never regret the absence of my brother .
I know there will be difficulty in our path , but we will face them together . '
Then , with tear in her eye , the princess take leave of her old horse , who gallop back to her father .
She have ride only a few mile far , when she saw a golden curl lie on the road before her .
Checking her horse , she ask whether it would be good to take it or let it lie .
` If you take it , ' say Sunlight , ` you will repent , and if you do n't , you will repent too : so take it . '
On this the girl dismount , and pick up the curl , wound it round her neck for safety .
They pass by hill , they pass by mountain , they pass through valley , leave behind them thick forest , and field cover with flower ; and at length they reach the court of the over-lord .
He be sit on his throne , surround by the son of the other emperor , who serve him a page .
These youth come forward to greet their new companion , and wonder why they felt so attracted towards him .
However , there be no time for talk and conceal her fright .
The princess be lead straight up to the throne , and explain , in a low voice , the reason of her come .
The emperor receive her kindly , and declare himself fortunate at find a vassal so brave and so charming , and beg the princess to remain in attendance on his person .
She be , however , very careful in her behaviour towards the other page , whose way of life do not please her .
One day , however , she have be amuse herself by make sweetmeat , when two of the young prince look in to pay her a visit .
She offer them some of the food which be already on the table , and they think it so delicious that they even lick their finger so a not to lose a morsel .
Of course they do not keep the news of their discovery to themselves , but tell all their companion that they have just be enjoy the best supper they have have since they be bear .
And from that moment the princess be leave no peace , till she have promise to cook them all a dinner .
Now it happen that , on the very day fix , all the cook in the palace become intoxicated , and there be no one to make up the fire .
When the page heard of this shock state of thing , they go to their companion and implore her to come to the rescue .
The princess be fond of cooking , and be , besides , very good-natured ; so she put on an apron and go down to the kitchen without delay .
When the dinner be place before the emperor he find it so nice that he eat much more than be good for him .
The next morning , as soon a he wake , he send for his head cook , and tell him to send up the same dish a before .
The cook , seize with fright at this command , which he know he could not fulfil , fell on his knee , and confess the truth .
The emperor be so astonished that he forget to scold , and while he be think over the matter , some of his page come in and say that their new companion have be hear to boast that he know where Iliane be to be find -- the celebrated Iliane of the song which begin : ` Golden Hair The field be green , ' and that to their certain knowledge he have a curl of her hair in his possession .
When he hear that , the emperor desire the page to be bring before him , and , as soon a the princess obey his summons , he say to her abruptly : ` Fet-Fruners , you have hide from me the fact that you know the golden-haired Iliane !
Why do you do this ?
for I have treat you more kindly than all my other page . '
Then , after make the princess show him the golden curl which she wear round her neck , he add : ` Listen to me ; unless by some mean or other you bring me the owner of this lock , I will have your head cut off in the place where you stand .
Now go ! '
In vain the poor girl try to explain how the lock of hair come into her possession ; the emperor would listen to nothing , and , bow low , she leave his presence and go to consult Sunlight what she be to do .
At his first word she brighten up .
` Do not be afraid , mistress ; only last night my brother appear to me in a dream and tell me that a genius have carry off Iliane , whose hair you pick up on the road .
But Iliane declare that , before she marry her captor , he must bring her , a a present , the whole stud of mare which belong to her .
The genius , half crazy with love , think of nothing night and day but how this can be do , and meanwhile she be quite safe in the island swamp of the sea .
Go back to the emperor and ask him for twenty ship fill with precious merchandise .
The rest you shall know by-and-by . '
On hear this advice , the princess go at once into the emperor 's presence .
` May a long life be yours , O Sovereign all mighty ! '
say she . '
I have come to tell you that I can do a you command if you will give me twenty ship , and load them with the most precious ware in your kingdom . '
` You shall have all that I possess if you will bring me the golden-haired Iliane , ' say the emperor .
The ship be soon ready , and the princess enter the large and fine , with Sunlight at her side .
Then the sail be spread and the voyage begin .
For seven week the wind blow them straight towards the west , and early one morning they catch sight of the island swamp of the sea .
They cast anchor in a little bay , and the princess make haste to disembark with Sunlight , but , before leave the ship , she tie to her belt a pair of tiny gold slipper , adorn with precious stone .
Then mount Sunlight , she ride about till she come to several palace , build on hinge , so that they could always turn towards the sun .
The most splendid of these be guard by three slave , whose greedy eye be catch by the glisten gold of the slipper .
They hasten up to the owner of these treasure , and inquire who he be . '
A merchant , ' reply the princess , ` who have somehow miss his road , and lose himself among the island swamp of the sea . '
Not know if it be proper to receive him or not , the slave return to their mistress and tell her all they have see , but not before she have catch sight of the merchant from the roof of her palace .
Luckily her gaoler be away , always try to catch the stud of mare , so for the moment she be free and alone .
The slave tell their tale so well that their mistress insist on go down to the shore and see the beautiful slipper for herself .
They be even lovely than she expect , and when the merchant beseech her to come on board , and inspect some that he think be finer still , her curiosity be too great to refuse , and she go .
Once on board ship , she be so busy turn over all the precious thing store there , that she never know that the sail be spread , and that they be fly along with the wind behind them ; and when she do know , she rejoice in her heart , though she pretend to weep and lament at be carry captive a second time .
Thus they arrive at the court of the emperor .
They be just about to land , when the mother of the genius stand before them .
She have learnt that Iliane have flee from her prison in company with a merchant , and , a her son be absent , have come herself in pursuit .
Striding over the blue water , hop from wave to wave , one foot reach to heaven , and the other plant in the foam , she be close at their heel , breathe fire and flame , when they step on shore from the ship .
One glance tell Iliane who the horrible old woman be , and she whisper hastily to her companion .
Without say a word , the princess swing her into Sunlight 's saddle , and leap up behind her , they be off like a flash .
It be not till they draw near the town that the princess stoop and ask Sunlight what they should do .
` Put your hand into my left ear , ' say he , ` and take out a sharp stone , which you must throw behind you . '
The princess do a she be tell , and a huge mountain spring up behind them .
The mother of the genius begin to climb up it , and though they gallop quickly , she be quicker still .
They hear her come , faster , faster ; and again the princess stoop to ask what be to be do now .
` Put your hand into my right ear , ' say the horse , ` and throw the brush you will find there behind you . '
The princess do so , and a great forest sprang up behind them , and , so thick be it leaf , that even a wren could not get through .
But the old woman seize hold of the branch and fling herself like a monkey from one to the others , and always she draw nearer -- always , always -- till their hair be sing by the flame of her mouth .
Then , in despair , the princess again bent down and ask if there be nothing more to be do , and Sunlight reply ` Quick , quick , take off the betrothal ring on the finger of Iliane and throw it behind you . '
This time there spring up a great tower of stone , smooth a ivory , hard a steel , which reach up to heaven itself .
And the mother of the genius give a howl of rage , know that she could neither climb it nor get through it .
But she be not beat yet , and gather herself together , she make a prodigious leap , which land her on the top of the tower , right in the middle of Iliane 's ring which lay there , and hold her tight .
Only her claw could be see grasp the battlement .
All that could be do the old witch do ; but the fire that pour from her mouth never reach the fugitive , though it lay waste the country a hundred mile round the tower , like the flame of a volcano .
Then , with one last effort to free herself , her hand give way , and , fall down to the bottom of the tower , she be break in piece .
When the fly princess saw what have happen she ride back to the spot , a Sunlight counsel her , and place her finger on the top of the tower , which be gradually shrink into the earth .
In an instant the tower have vanish a if it have never be , and in it place be the finger of the princess with a ring round it .
The emperor receive Iliane with all the respect that be due to her , and fell in love at first sight besides .
But this do not seem to please Iliane , whose face be sad a she walk about the palace or garden , wonder how it be that , while other girl do a they like , she be always in the power of someone whom she hat .
So when the emperor ask her to share his throne Iliane answer : ` Noble Sovereign , I may not think of marriage till my stud of horse have be bring me , with their trapping all complete . '
When he hear this , the emperor once more sent for Fet-Fruners , and say : ` Fet-Fruners , fetch me instantly the stud of mare , with their trapping all complete .
If not , your head shall pay the forfeit . '
` Mighty Emperor , I kiss your hand !
I have but just return from do your bidding , and , behold , you send me on another mission , and stake my head on it fulfilment , when your court be full of valiant young men , pin to win their spur .
They say you be a just man ; then why not entrust this quest to one of them ?
Where be I to seek these mare that I be to bring you ? '
` How do I know ?
They may be anywhere in heaven or earth ; but , wherever they be , you will have to find them . '
The princess bow and go to consult Sunlight .
He listen while she tell her tale , and then say : ` Fetch quickly nine buffalo skin ; smear them well with tar , and lay them on my back .
Do not fear ; you will succeed in this also ; but , in the end , the emperor 's desire will be his undo . '
The buffalo skin be soon get , and the princess start off with Sunlight .
The way be long and difficult , but at length they reach the place where the mare be graze .
Here the genius who have carry off Iliane be wander about , try to discover how to capture them , all the while believe that Iliane be safe in the palace where he have leave her .
As soon a she catch sight of him , the princess go up and tell him that Iliane have escape , and that his mother , in her effort to recapture her , have die of rage .
At this news a blind fury take possession of the genius , and he rush madly upon the princess , who await his onslaught with perfect calmness .
As he come on , with his sabre lift high in the air , Sunlight bound right over his head , so that the sword fell harmless .
And when in her turn the princess prepare to strike , the horse sink upon his knee , so that the blade pierce the genius 's thigh .
The fight be so fierce that it seem a if the earth would give way under them , and for twenty mile round the beast in the forest flee to their cave for shelter .
At last , when her strength be almost go , the genius lower his sword for an instant .
The princess saw her chance , and , with one swoop of her arm , sever her enemy 's head from his body .
Still tremble from the long struggle , she turn away , and go to the meadow where the stud be feed .
By the advice of Sunlight , she take care not to let them see her , and climb a thick tree , where she could see and hear without be see herself .
Then he neigh , and the mare come gallop up , eager to see the new comer -- all but one horse , who do not like stranger , and think they be very well a they be .
As Sunlight stand his ground , well pleased with the attention pay him , this sulky creature suddenly advance to the charge , and bit so violently that have it not be for the nine buffalo skin Sunlight 's last moment would have come .
When the fight be end , the buffalo skin be in ribbon , and the beaten animal writhe with pain on the grass .
Nothing now remain to be do but to drive the whole stud to the emperor 's court .
So the princess come down from the tree and mount Sunlight , while the stud follow meekly after , the wounded horse bring up the rear .
On reach the palace , she drive them into a yard , and go to inform the emperor of her arrival .
The news be tell at once to Iliane , who run down directly and call them to her one by one , each mare by it name .
And at the first sight of her the wounded animal shake itself quickly , and in a moment it wound be heal , and there be not even a mark on it glossy skin .
By this time the emperor , on hearing where she be , join her in the yard , and at her request order the mare to be milk , so that both he and she might bathe in the milk and keep young for ever .
But they would suffer no one to come near them , and the princess be command to perform this service also .
At this , the heart of the girl swell within her .
The hard task be always give to her , and long before the two year be up , she would be wear out and useless .
But while these thought pass through her mind , a fearful rain fell , such a no man remember before , and rise till the mare be stand up to their knee in water .
Then a suddenly it stop , and , behold !
the water be ice , which hold the animal firmly in it grasp .
And the princess 's heart grow light again , and she sit down gaily to milk them , a if she have do it every morning of her life .
The love of the emperor for Iliane wax great day by day , but she pay no heed to him , and always have an excuse ready to put off their marriage .
At length , when she have come to the end of everything she could think of , she say to him one day : ` Grant me , Sire , just one request more , and then I will really marry you ; for you have wait patiently this long time . '
` My beautiful dove , ' reply the emperor , ` both I and all I possess be yours , so ask your will , and you shall have it . '
` Get me , then , ' she say , ' a flask of the holy water that be keep in a little church beyond the river Jordan , and I will be your wife . '
Then the emperor order Fet-Fruners to ride without delay to the river Jordan , and to bring back , at whatever cost , the holy water for Iliane .
` This , my mistress , ' say Sunlight , when she be saddle him , ` be the last and most difficult of your task .
But fear nothing , for the hour of the emperor have strike . '
So they start ; and the horse , who be not a wizard for nothing , tell the princess exactly where she be to look for the holy water .
` It stand , ' he say , ` on the altar of a little church , and be guard by a troop of nun .
They never sleep , night or day , but every now and then a hermit come to visit them , and from him they learn certain thing it be needful for them to know .
When this happen , only one of the nun remain on guard at a time , and if we be lucky enough to hit upon this moment , we may get hold of the vase at once ; if not , we shall have to wait the arrival of the hermit , however long it may be ; for there be no other mean of obtain the holy water . '
They come in sight of the church beyond the Jordan , and , to their great joy , behold the hermit just arrive at the door .
They could hear him call the nun around him , and saw them settle themselves under a tree , with the hermit in their midst -- all but one , who remain on guard , a be the custom .
The hermit have a great deal to say , and the day be very hot , so the nun , tire of sit by herself , lay down right across the threshold , and fell sound asleep .
Then Sunlight tell the princess what she be to do , and the girl step softly over the sleep nun , and crept like a cat along the dark aisle , feel the wall with her finger , l she should fall over something and ruin it all by a noise .
But she reach the altar in safety , and find the vase of holy water stand on it .
This she thrust into her dress , and go back with the same care a she come .
With a bound she be in the saddle , and seize the rein bid Sunlight take her home a fast a his leg could carry him .
The sound of the fly hoof arouse the nun , who understand instantly that the precious treasure be steal , and her shriek be so loud and pierce that all the rest come fly to see what be the matter .
The hermit follow at their heel , but see it be impossible to overtake the thief , he fell on his knee and call his most deadly curse down on her head , pray that if the thief be a man , he might become a woman ; and if she be a woman , that she might become a man .
In either case he think that the punishment would be severe .
But punishment be thing about which people do not always agree , and when the princess suddenly felt she be really the man she have pretend to be , she be delight , and if the hermit have only be within reach she would have thank him from her heart .
By the time she reach the emperor 's court , Fet-Fruners look a young man all over in the eye of everyone ; and even the mother of the genius would now have have her doubt set at rest .
He draw forth the vase from his tunic and hold it up to the emperor , say : ` Mighty Sovereign , all hail !
I have fulfil this task also , and I hope it be the last you have for me ; let another now take his turn . ' '
I be content , Fet-Fruners , ' reply the emperor , ` and when I be dead it be you who will sit upon my throne ; for I have yet no son to come after me .
But if one be give me , and my dear wish be accomplish , then you shall be his right hand , and guide him with your counsel . '
But though the emperor be satisfied , Iliane be not , and she determine to revenge herself on the emperor for the danger which he have cause Fet-Fruners to run .
And a for the vase of holy water , she think that , in common politeness , her suitor ought to have fetch it himself , which he could have do without any risk at all .
So she order the great bath to be fill with the milk of her mare , and beg the emperor to clothe himself in white robe , and enter the bath with her , an invitation he accept with joy .
Then , when both be stand with the milk reach to their neck , she send for the horse which have fight Sunlight , and make a secret sign to him .
The horse understand what he be to do , and from one nostril he breathe fresh air over Iliane , and from the other , he snort a burning wind which shrivel up the emperor where he stand , leave only a little heap of ash .
His strange death , which no one could explain , make a great sensation throughout the country , and the funeral his people give him be the most splendid ever know .
When it be over , Iliane summon Fet-Fruners before her , and address him thus : ` Fet-Fruners !
it be you who bring me and have save my life , and obey my wish .
It be you who give me back my stud ; you who kill the genius , and the old witch his mother ; you who bring me the holy water .
And you , and none other , shall be my husband . '
` Yes , I will marry you , ' say the young man , with a voice almost as soft a when he be a princess .
` But know that in OUR house , it will be the cock who sings and not the hen ! '
-LRB- From Sept Contes Roumains , Jules Brun and Leo Bachelin . -RRB-
THE STORY OF HALFMAN In a certain town there live a judge who be marry but have no child .
One day he be stand lose in thought before his house , when an old man pass by .
` What be the matter , sir , say he , ` you look trouble ? '
` Oh , leave me alone , my good man ! '
` But what be it ? '
persist the other .
` Well , I be successful in my profession and a person of importance , but I care nothing for it all , a I have no child . '
Then the old man say , ` Here be twelve apple .
If your wife eat them , she will have twelve son . '
The judge thank him joyfully a he take the apple , and go to seek his wife .
` Eat these apple at once , ' he cry , ` and you will have twelve son . '
So she sit down and eat eleven of them , but just a she be in the middle of the twelfth her sister come in , and she give her the half that be leave .
The eleven son come into the world , strong and handsome boy ; but when the twelfth be bear , there be only half of him .
By-and-by they all grow into men , and one day they tell their father it be high time he find wife for them . '
I have a brother , ' he answer , ` who live away in the East , and he have twelve daughter ; go and marry them . '
So the twelve son saddle their horse and rode for twelve day , till they meet an old woman .
` Good greeting to you , young men ! '
say she , ` we have wait long for you , your uncle and I .
The girl have become woman , and be seek , in marriage by many , but I know you would come one day , and I have keep them for you .
Follow me into my house . '
And the twelve brother follow her gladly , and their father 's brother stand at the door , and give them meat and drink .
But at night , when every one be asleep , Halfman creep softly to his brother , and say to them , ` Listen , all of you !
This man be no uncle of ours , but an ogre . '
` Nonsense ; of course he be our uncle , ' answer they .
` Well , this very night you will see ! '
say Halfman .
And he do not go to bed , but hide himself and watch .
Now in a little while he saw the wife of the ogre steal into the room on tiptoe and spread a red cloth over the brother and then go and cover her daughter with a white cloth .
After that she lay down and be soon snore loudly .
When Halfman be quite sure she be sound asleep , he take the red cloth from his brother and put it on the girl , and lay their white cloth over his brother .
Next he draw their scarlet cap from their head and exchange them for the veil which the ogre 's daughter be wear .
This be hardly do when he hear step come along the floor , so he hide himself quickly in the fold of a curtain .
There be only half of him !
The ogress come slowly and gently along , stretch out her hand before her , so that she might not fall against anything unawares , for she have only a tiny lantern slung at her waist , which do not give much light .
And when she reach the place where the sister be lie , she stoop down and hold a corner of the cloth up to the lantern .
Yes !
it certainly be red !
Still , to make sure that there be no mistake , she pass her hand lightly over their head , and felt the cap that cover them .
Then she be quite certain the brother lay sleep before her , and begin to kill them one by one .
And Halfman whisper to his brother , ` Get up and run for your life , a the ogress be kill her daughter . '
The brother need no second bidding , and in a moment be out of the house .
By this time the ogress have slay all her daughter but one , who awake suddenly and saw what have happen .
` Mother , what be you do ? '
cry she .
` Do you know that you have kill my sister ? '
` Oh , woe be me ! '
wail the ogress .
` Halfman have outwit me after all ! '
And she turn to wreak vengeance on him , but he and his brother be far away .
They ride all day till they get to the town where their real uncle live , and inquire the way to his house .
` Why have you be so long in come ? '
ask he , when they have find him .
` Oh , dear uncle , we be very nearly not come at all ! '
reply they .
` We fell in with an ogress who take u home and would have kill u if it have not be for Halfman .
He know what be in her mind and save u , and here we be .
Now give u each a daughter to wife , and let u return whence we come . '
` Take them ! '
say the uncle ; ` the eldest for the eldest , the second for the second , and so on to the young . '
But the wife of Halfman be the pretty of them all , and the other brother be jealous and say to each other : ` What , be he who be only half a man to get the best ?
Let u put him to death and give his wife to our eldest brother ! '
And they wait for a chance .
After they have all ridden , in company with their bride , for some distance , they arrive at a brook , and one of them ask , ` Now , who will go and fetch water from the brook ? '
` Halfman be the young , ' say the elder brother , ` he must go . '
So Halfman get down and fill a skin with water , and they draw it up by a rope and drank .
When they have do drinking , Halfman , who be stand in the middle of the stream , call out : ` Throw me the rope and draw me up , for I can not get out alone . '
And the brother throw him a rope to draw him up the steep bank ; but when he be half-way up they cut the rope , and he fell back into the stream .
Then the brother ride away as fast a they could , with his bride .
Halfman sink down under the water from the force of the fall , but before he touch the bottom a fish come and say to him , ` Fear nothing , Halfman ; I will help you . '
And the fish guide him to a shallow place , so that he scramble out .
On the way it say to him , ` Do you understand what your brother , whom you save from death , have do to you ? '
` Yes ; but what be I to do ? '
ask Halfman .
` Take one of my scale , ' say the fish , ` and when you find yourself in danger , throw it in the fire .
Then I will appear before you . '
` Thank you , ' say Halfman , and go his way , while the fish swam back to it home .
The country be strange to Halfman , and he wander about without know where he be go , till he suddenly find the ogress standing before him .
` Ah , Halfman , have I get you at last ?
You kill my daughter and help your brother to escape .
What do you think I shall do with you ? '
` Whatever you like ! '
say Halfman .
` Come into my house , then , ' say the ogress , and he follow her .
` Look here ! '
she call to her husband , ' I have get hold of Halfman .
I be go to roast him , so be quick and make up the fire ! '
So the ogre bring wood , and heap it up till the flame roar up the chimney .
Then he turn to his wife and say : ` It be all ready , let u put him on ! '
` What be the hurry , my good ogre ? '
ask Halfman .
` You have me in your power , and I can not escape .
I be so thin now , I shall hardly make one mouthful .
Better fatten me up ; you will enjoy me much more . '
` That be a very sensible remark , ' reply the ogre ; ` but what fatten you quick ? '
` Butter , meat , and red wine , ' answered Halfman .
` Very good ; we will lock you into this room , and here you shall stay till you be ready for eat . '
So Halfman be lock into the room , and the ogre and his wife bring him his food .
At the end of three month he say to his gaoler : ` Now I have get quite fat ; take me out , and kill me . '
` Get out , then ! '
say the ogre .
` But , ' go on Halfman , ` you and your wife have well go to invite your friend to the feast , and your daughter can stay in the house and look after me ! '
` Yes , that be a good idea , ' answer they .
` You have well bring the wood in here , ' continued Halfman , ` and I will split it up small , so that there may be no delay in cook me . '
So the ogress give Halfman a pile of wood and an axe , and then set out with her husband , leave Halfman and her daughter busy in the house .
After he have chop for a little while he call to the girl , ` Come and help me , or else I sha n't have it all ready when your mother get back . '
` All right , ' say she , and hold a billet of wood for him to chop .
But he raise his axe and cut off her head , and run away like the wind .
By-and-by the ogre and his wife return and find their daughter lie without her head , and they begin to cry and sob , say , ` This be Halfman 's work , why do we listen to him ? '
But Halfman be far away .
When he escape from the house he run on straight before him for some time , look for a safe shelter , a he know that the ogre 's leg be much long than his , and that it be his only chance .
At last he saw an iron tower which he climb up .
Soon the ogre appear , look right and leave l his prey should be shelter behind a rock or tree , but he do not know Halfman be so near till he hear his voice call , ` Come up !
come up !
you will find me here ! '
` But how can I come up ? '
say the ogre , ' I see no door , and I could not possibly climb that tower . '
` Oh , there be no door , ' reply Halfman .
` Then how do you climb up ? ' '
A fish carry me on his back . '
` And what be I to do ? '
` You must go and fetch all your relation , and tell them to bring plenty of stick ; then you must light a fire , and let it burn till the tower become red hot .
After that you can easily throw it down . '
` Very good , ' say the ogre , and he go round to every relation he have , and tell them to collect wood and bring it to the tower where Halfman be .
The men do a they be order , and soon the tower be glow like coral , but when they fling themselves against it to overthrow it , they catch themselves on fire and be burnt to death .
And overhead sat Halfman , laugh heartily .
But the ogre 's wife be still alive , for she have take no part in kindle the fire .
` Oh , ' she shriek with rage , ` you have kill my daughter and my husband , and all the men belong to me ; how can I get at you to avenge myself ? '
` Oh , that be easy enough , ' say Halfman . '
I will let down a rope , and if you tie it tightly round you , I will draw it up . '
` All right , ' return the ogress , fasten the rope which Halfman let down .
` Now pull me up . '
` Are you sure it be secure ? '
` Yes , quite sure . '
` Do n't be afraid . '
` Oh , I be not afraid at all ! '
So Halfman slowly draw her up , and when she be near the top he let go the rope , and she fell down and break her neck .
Then Halfman heave a great sigh and say , ` That be hard work ; the rope have hurt my hand badly , but now I be rid of her for ever . '
So Halfman come down from the tower , and go on , till he get to a desert place , and a he be very tired , he lay down to sleep .
While it be still dark , an ogress pass by , and she wake him and say , ` Halfman , to-morrow your brother be to marry your wife . '
` Oh , how can I stop it ? '
ask he .
` Will you help me ? '
` Yes , I will , ' reply the ogress .
` Thank you , thank you ! '
cry Halfman , kiss her on the forehead .
` My wife be dearer to me than anything else in the world , and it be not my brother 's fault that I be not dead long ago . '
` Very well , I will rid you of him , ' say the ogress , ` but only on one condition .
If a boy be bear to you , you must give him to me ! '
` Oh , anything , ' answered Halfman , ` as long a you deliver me from my brother , and get me my wife . '
` Mount on my back , then , and in a quarter of an hour we shall be there . '
The ogress be as good a her word , and in a few minute they arrive at the outskirt of the town where Halfman and his brother live .
Here she leave him , while she go into the town itself , and find the wedding guests just leave the brother 's house .
Unnoticed by anyone , the ogress creep into a curtain , change herself into a scorpion , and when the brother be go to get into bed , she sting him behind the ear , so that he fell dead where he stand .
Then she return to Halfman and tell him to go and claim his bride .
He jump up hastily from his seat , and take the road to his father 's house .
As he draw near he hear sound of weep and lamentation , and he say to a man he meet : ` What be the matter ? '
` The judge 's eldest son be marry yesterday , and die suddenly before night . '
` Well , ' thought Halfman , ` my conscience be clear anyway , for it be quite plain he covet my wife , and that be why he try to drown me . '
He go at once to his father 's room , and find him sit in tear on the floor .
` Dear father , ' say Halfman , ` be you not glad to see me ?
You weep for my brother , but I be your son too , and he steal my bride from me and try to drown me in the brook .
If he be dead , I at least be alive . '
` No , no , he be good than you ! '
moan the father .
` Why , dear father ? '
` He tell me you have behave very ill , ' say he .
` Well , call my brother , ' answered Halfman , ` a I have a story to tell them . '
So the father call them all into his presence .
Then Halfman begin : ` After we be twelve day ' journey from home , we meet an ogress , who give u greeting and say , `` Why have you be so long come ?
The daughter of your uncle have wait for you in vain , '' and she bid u follow her to the house , say , `` Now there need be no more delay ; you can marry your cousin as soon a you please , and take them with you to your own home . ''
But I warn my brother that the man be not our uncle , but an ogre .
` When we lay down to sleep , she spread a red cloth over u , and cover her daughter with a white one ; but I change the cloth , and when the ogress come back in the middle of the night , and look at the cloth , she mistake her own daughter for my brother , and kill them one by one , all but the young .
Then I wake my brother , and we all steal softly from the house , and we ride like the wind to our real uncle .
` And when he saw u , he bid u welcome , and marry u to his twelve daughter , the eldest to the eldest , and so on to me , whose bride be the young of all and also the prettiest .
And my brother be fill with envy , and leave me to drown in a brook , but I be save by a fish who show me how to get out .
Now , you be a judge !
Who do well , and who do evil -- I or my brother ? '
` Is this story true ? '
say the father , turn to his son .
` It be true , my father , ' answer they .
` It be even a Halfman have say , and the girl belongs to him . '
Then the judge embrace Halfman and say to him : ` You have do well , my son .
Take your bride , and may you both live long and happily together ! '
At the end of the year Halfman 's wife have a son , and not long after she come one day hastily into the room , and find her husband weeping .
` What be the matter ? '
she ask .
` The matter ? '
say he .
` Yes , why be you weep ? '
` Because , ' reply Halfman , ` the baby be not really ours , but belong to an ogress . '
` Are you mad ? '
cry the wife .
` What do you mean by talk like that ? ' '
I promise , ' say Halfman , ` when she undertake to kill my brother and to give you to me , that the first son we have should be hers . '
` And will she take him from u now ? '
say the poor woman .
` No , not quite yet , ' replied Halfman ; ` when he be big . '
` And be she to have all our child ? '
ask she .
` No , only this one , ' return Halfman .
Day by day the boy grow big , and one day a he be play in the street with the other child , the ogress come by .
` Go to your father , ' she say , ` and repeat this speech to him : `` I want my forfeit ; when be I to have it ? '' '
` All right , ' reply the child , but when he go home forgot all about it .
The next day the ogress come again , and ask the boy what answer the father have give . '
I forget all about it , ' say he .
` Well , put this ring on your finger , and then you wo n't forget . '
` Very well , ' reply the boy , and go home .
The next morning , a he be at breakfast , his mother say to him , ` Child , where do you get that ring ? ' '
A woman give it to me yesterday , and she tell me , father , to tell you that she want her forfeit , and when be she to have it ? '
Then his father burst into tear and say , ` If she come again you must say to her that your parent bid her take her forfeit at once , and depart . '
At this they both begin to weep afresh , and his mother kiss him , and put on his new clothes and say , ` If the woman bid you to follow her , you must go , ' but the boy do not heed her grief , he be so pleased with his new clothes .
And when he go out , he say to his play-fellows , ` Look how smart I be ; I be go away with my aunt to foreign land . '
At that moment the ogress come up and ask him , ` Did you give my message to your father and mother ? '
` Yes , dear aunt , I do . '
` And what do they say ? '
` Take it away at once ! '
So she take him .
But when dinner-time come , and the boy do not return , his father and mother know that he would never come back , and they sit down and weep all day .
At last Halfman rise up and say to his wife , ` Be comfort ; we will wait a year , and then I will go to the ogress and see the boy , and how he be care for . '
` Yes , that will be the best , ' say she .
The year pass away , then Halfman saddle his horse , and rode to the place where the ogress have find him sleep .
She be not there , but not know what to do next , he get off his horse and wait .
About midnight she suddenly stand before him .
` Halfman , why do you come here ? '
say she . '
I have a question I want to ask you . '
` Well , ask it ; but I know quite well what it be .
Your wife wish you to ask whether I shall carry off your second son a I do the first . '
` Yes , that be it , ' reply Halfman .
Then he seize her hand and say , ` Oh , let me see my son , and how he look , and what he be do . '
The ogress be silent , but stick her staff hard in the earth , and the earth open , and the boy appear and say , ` Dear father , have you come too ? '
And his father clasp him in his arm , and begin to cry .
But the boy struggle to be free , say ` Dear father , put me down .
I have get a new mother , who be good than the old one ; and a new father , who be good than you . '
Then his father sit him down and say , ` Go in peace , my boy , but listen first to me .
Tell your father the ogre and your mother the ogress , that never more shall they have any child of mine . '
` All right , ' reply the boy , and call ` Mother ! '
` What be it ? '
` You be never to take away any more of my father and mother 's child ! '
` Now that I have get you , I do n't want any more , ' answer she .
Then the boy turn to his father and say , ` Go in peace , dear father , and give my mother greeting and tell her not to be anxious any more , for she can keep all her child . '
And Halfman mount his horse and rode home , and tell his wife all he have see , and the message send by Mohammed -- Mohammed the son of Halfman , the son of the judge .
-LRB- Marchen und Gedichte au der Stadt Tripolis .
Hans von Stumme . -RRB-
THE PRINCE WHO WANTED TO SEE THE WORLD There be once a king who have only one son , and this young man torment his father from morning till night to allow him to travel in far country .
For a long time the king refuse to give him leave ; but at last , weary out , he grant permission , and order his treasurer to produce a large sum of money for the prince 's expense .
The youth be overjoy at the thought that he be really go to see the world , and after tenderly embrace his father he set forth .
He ride on for some week without meet with any adventure ; but one night when he be rest at an inn , he come across another traveller , with whom he fell into conversation , in the course of which the stranger inquire if he never play card .
The young man reply that he be very fond of do so .
Cards be bring , and in a very short time the prince have lose every penny he possess to his new acquaintance .
When there be absolutely nothing leave at the bottom of the bag , the stranger propose that they should have just one more game , and that if the prince win he should have the money restore to him , but in case he lose , should remain in the inn for three year , and besides that should be his servant for another three .
The prince agree to those term , play , and lose ; so the stranger take room for him , and furnish him with bread and water every day for three year .
The prince lament his lot , but it be no use ; and at the end of three year he be release and have to go to the house of the stranger , who be really the king of a neighbouring country , and be his servant .
Before he have go very far he meet a woman carry a child , which be cry from hunger .
The prince take it from her , and feed it with his last crust of bread and last drop of water , and then give it back to it mother .
The woman thank him gratefully , and say : ` Listen , my lord .
You must walk straight on till you notice a very strong scent , which come from a garden by the side of the road .
Go in and hide yourself close to a tank , where three dove will come to bathe .
As the last one fly past you , catch hold of it robe of feather , and refuse to give it back till the dove have promise you three thing . '
The young man do a he be tell , and everything happen a the woman have say .
He take the robe of feather from the dove , who give him in exchange for it a ring , a collar , and one of it own plume , say : ` When you be in any trouble , cry `` Come to my aid , O dove ! ''
I be the daughter of the king you be go to serve , who hat your father and make you gamble in order to cause your ruin . '
Thus the prince go on his way , and in course of time he arrive at the king 's palace .
As soon a his master know he be there , the young man be send for into his presence , and three bag be hand to him with these word : ` Take this wheat , this millet , and this barley , and sow them at once , so that I may have loaf of them all to-morrow . '
The prince stand speechless at this command , but the king do not condescend to give any further explanation , and when he be dismiss the young man fly to the room which have be set aside for him , and pull out his feather , he cry : ` Dove , dive !
be quick and come . '
` What be it ? '
say the dove , fly in through the open window , and the prince tell her of the task before him , and of his despair at be unable to accomplish it .
` Fear nothing ; it will be all right , ' reply the dove , a she fly away again .
The next morning when the prince awake he saw the three loaf stand beside his bed .
He jump up and dress , and he be scarcely ready when a page arrive with the message that he be to go at once into the king 's chamber .
Taking the loaf in his arm he follow the boy , and , bow low , lay them down before the king .
The monarch look at the loaf for a moment without speaking , then he say : ` Good .
The man who can do this can also find the ring which my eldest daughter drop into the sea . '
The prince hasten back to his room and summon the dove , and when she hear this new command she say : ` Now listen .
To-morrow take a knife and a basin and go down to the shore and get into a boat you will find there . '
The young man do not know what he be to do when he be in the boat or where he be to go , but a the dove have come to his rescue before , he be ready to obey her blindly .
When he reach the boat he find the dove perch on one of the mast , and at a signal from her he put to sea ; the wind be behind them and they soon lose sight of land .
The dove then speak for the first time and say , ` Take that knife and cut off my head , but be careful that not a single drop of blood fall to the ground .
Afterwards you must throw it into the sea . '
Wondering at this strange order , the prince pick up his knife and sever the dove 's head from her body at one stroke .
A little while after a dove rise from the water with a ring in it beak , and lay it in the prince 's hand , dabble itself with the blood that be in the basin , when it head become that of a beautiful girl .
Another moment and it have vanish completely , and the prince take the ring and make his way back to the palace .
The king star with surprise at the sight of the ring , but he think of another way of get rid of the young man which be sure even than the other two .
` This evening you will mount my colt and ride him to the field , and break him in properly . '
The prince receive this command as silently a he have receive the rest , but no sooner be he in his room than he call for the dove , who say : ` Attend to me .
My father longs to see you dead , and think he will kill you by this mean .
He himself be the colt , my mother be the saddle , my two sister be the stirrup , and I be the bridle .
Do not forget to take a good club , to help you in deal with such a crew . '
So the prince mount the colt , and give him such a beating that when he come to the palace to announce that the animal be now so meek that it could be ride by the small child , he find the king so bruise that he have to be wrap in cloth dip in vinegar , the mother be too stiff to move , and several of the daughter ' rib be break .
The young , however , be quite unharmed .
That night she come to the prince and whisper to him : ` Now that they be all in too much pain to move , we have well seize our chance and run away .
Go to the stable and saddle the lean horse you can find there . '
But the prince be foolish enough to choose the fattest : and when they have start and the princess saw what he have do , she be very sorry , for though this horse run like the wind , the other flash like thought .
However , it be dangerous to go back , and they ride on as fast a the horse would go .
In the night the king sent for his young daughter , and a she do not come he send again ; but she do not come any the more for that .
The queen , who be a witch , discover that her daughter have go off with the prince , and tell her husband he must leave his bed and go after them .
The king get slowly up , groan with pain , and drag himself to the stable , where he saw the lean horse still in his stall .
Leaping on his back he shake the rein , and his daughter , who know what to expect and have her eye open , saw the horse start forward , and in the twinkling of an eye change her own steed into a cell , the prince into a hermit , and herself into a nun .
When the king reach the chapel , he pull up his horse and ask if a girl and a young man have pass that way .
The hermit raise his eye , which be bent on the ground , and say that he have not see a living creature .
The king , much disgust at this news , and not know what to do , return home and tell his wife that , though he have ride for mile , he have come across nothing but a hermit and a nun in a cell .
` Why those be the runaway , of course , ' she cry , fly into a passion , ` and if you have only bring a scrap of the nun 's dress , or a bit of stone from the wall , I should have have them in my power . '
At these word the king hasten back to the stable , and bring out the lean horse who travel quick than thought .
But his daughter saw him come , and change her horse into a plot of ground , herself into a rose-tree covered with rose , and the prince into a gardener .
As the king rode up , the gardener look up from the tree which he be trim and ask if anything be the matter .
` Have you see a young man and a girl go by ? '
say the king , and the gardener shake his head and reply that no one have pass that way since he have be work there .
So the king turn his step homewards and tell his wife .
` Idiot ! '
cry she , ` if you have only bring me one of the rose , or a handful of earth , I should have have them in my power .
But there be no time to waste .
I shall have to go with you myself . '
The girl saw them from afar , and a great fear fell on her , for she know her mother 's skill in magic of all kind .
However , she determine to fight to the end , and change the horse into a deep pool , herself into an eel , and the prince into a turtle .
But it be no use .
Her mother recognise them all , and , pull up , ask her daughter if she do not repent and would not like to come home again .
The eel wag ` No ' with her tail , and the queen tell her husband to put a drop of water from the pool into a bottle , because it be only by that mean that she could seize hold of her daughter .
The king do a he be bid , and be just in the act of draw the bottle out of the water after he have fill it , when the turtle knock against and spill it all .
The king then fill it a second time , but again the turtle be too quick for him .
The queen saw that she be beat , and call down a curse on her daughter that the prince should forget all about her .
After have relieve her feeling in this manner , she and the king go back to the palace .
The others resume their proper shape and continue their journey , but the princess be so silent that at last the prince ask her what be the matter .
` It be because I know you will soon forget all about me , ' say she , and though he laugh at her and tell her it be impossible , she do not cease to believe it .
They ride on and on and on , till they reach the end of the world , where the prince live , and leave the girl in an inn he go himself to the palace to ask leave of his father to present her to him a his bride ; but in his joy at see his family once more he forget all about her , and even listen when the king spoke of arrange a marriage for him .
When the poor girl heard this she weep bitterly , and cry out , ` Come to me , my sister , for I need you badly ! '
In a moment they stand beside her , and the elder one say , ` Do not be sad , all will go well , ' and they tell the innkeeper that if any of the king 's servant want any bird for their master they be to be send up to them , a they have three dove for sale .
And so it fell out , and a the dove be very beautiful the servant buy them for the king , who admire them so much that he call his son to look at them .
The prince be much please with the dove and be coax them to come to him , when one flutter on to the top of the window and say , ` If you could only hear u speak , you would admire u still more . '
And another perch on a table and add , ` Talk away , it might help him to remember ! '
And the third flew on his shoulder and whisper to him , ` Put on this ring , prince , and see if it fit you . '
And it do .
Then they hang a collar round his neck , and hold a feather on which be write the name of the dove .
And at last his memory come back to him , and he declare he would marry the princess and nobody else .
So the next day the wedding take place , and they live happy till they die .
-LRB- From the Portuguese . -RRB-
VIRGILIUS THE SORCERER Long , long ago there be bear to a Roman knight and his wife Maja a little boy call Virgilius .
While he be still quite little , his father die , and the kinsman , instead of be a help and protection to the child and his mother , rob them of their land and money , and the widow , fear that they might take the boy 's life also , send him away to Spain , that he might study in the great University of Toledo .
Virgilius be fond of book , and pore over them all day long .
But one afternoon , when the boy be give a holiday , he take a long walk , and find himself in a place where he have never be before .
In front of him be a cave , and , a no boy ever see a cave without enter it , he go in .
The cave be so deep that it seem to Virgilius a if it must run far into the heart of the mountain , and he think he would like to see if it come out anywhere on the other side .
For some time he walk on in pitch darkness , but he go steadily on , and by-and-by a glimmer of light shot across the floor , and he hear a voice call , ` Virgilius !
Virgilius ! '
` Who call ? '
he ask , stop and look round .
` Virgilius ! '
answer the voice , ` do you mark upon the ground where you be stand a slide or bolt ? ' '
I do , ' reply Virgilius .
` Then , ' say the voice , ` draw back that bolt , and set me free . '
` But who be you ? '
ask Virgilius , who never do anything in a hurry . '
I be an evil spirit , ' say the voice , ` shut up here till Doomsday , unless a man set me free .
If you will let me out I will give you some magic book , which will make you wise than any other man . '
Now Virgilius love wisdom , and be tempt by these promise , but again his prudence come to his aid , and he demand that the book should be hand over to him first , and that he should be tell how to use them .
The evil spirit , unable to help itself , do a Virgilius bid him , and then the bolt be draw back .
Underneath be a small hole , and out of this the evil spirit gradually wriggle himself ; but it take some time , for when at last he stand upon the ground he prove to be about three time as large a Virgilius himself , and coal black besides .
` Why , you ca n't have be as big a that when you be in the hole ! '
cry Virgilius .
` But I be ! '
reply the spirit . '
I do n't believe it ! '
answered Virgilius .
` Well , I 'll just get in and show you , ' say the spirit , and after turn and twisting , and curl himself up , then he lay neatly pack into the hole .
Then Virgilius draw the bolt , and , pick the book up under his arm , he leave the cave .
For the next few week Virgilius hardly eat or slept , so busy be he in learn the magic the book contain .
But at the end of that time a messenger from his mother arrive in Toledo , beg him to come at once to Rome , a she have be ill , and could look after their affair no longer .
Though sorry to leave Toledo , where he be much thought of a show promise of great learning , Virgilius would willingly have set out at once , but there be many thing he have first to see to .
So he entrust to the messenger four pack-horses laden with precious thing , and a white palfrey on which she be to ride out every day .
Then he set about his own preparation , and , follow by a large train of scholar , he at length start for Rome , from which he have be absent twelve year .
His mother welcome him back with tear in her eye , and his poor kinsman press round him , but the rich one keep away , for they fear that they would no longer be able to rob their kinsman a they have do for many year past .
Of course , Virgilius pay no attention to this behaviour , though he notice they look with envy on the rich present he bestow on the poorer relation and on anyone who have be kind to his mother .
Soon after this have happen the season of tax-gathering come round , and everyone who own land be bind to present himself before the emperor .
Like the rest , Virgilius go to court , and demand justice from the emperor against the men who have rob him .
But a these be kinsman to the emperor he gain nothing , a the emperor tell him he would think over the matter for the next four year , and then give judgment .
This reply naturally do not satisfy Virgilius , and , turn on his heel , he go back to his own home , and , gather in his harvest , he store it up in his various house .
When the enemy of Virgilius heard of this , they assemble together and lay siege to his castle .
But Virgilius be a match for them .
Coming forth from the castle so a to meet them face to face , he cast a spell over them of such power that they could not move , and then bid them defiance .
After which he lift the spell , and the invading army slunk back to Rome , and report what Virgilius have say to the emperor .
Now the emperor be accustom to have his light word obeyed , almost before it be utter , and he hardly know how to believe his ear .
But he get together another army , and march straight off to the castle .
But directly they take up their position Virgilius gird them about with a great river , so that they could neither move hand nor foot , then , hail the emperor , he offer him peace , and ask for his friendship .
The emperor , however , be too angry to listen to anything , so Virgilius , whose patience be exhaust , feast his own follower in the presence of the starving host , who could not stir hand or foot .
Things seem get desperate , when a magician arrive in the camp and offer to sell his service to the emperor .
His proposal be gladly accept , and in a moment the whole of the garrison sink down as if they be dead , and Virgilius himself have much ado to keep awake .
He do not know how to fight the magician , but with a great effort struggle to open his Black Book , which tell him what spell to use .
In an instant all his foe seem turned to stone , and where each man be there he stay .
Some be half way up the ladder , some have one foot over the wall , but wherever they might chance to be there every man remain , even the emperor and his sorcerer .
All day they stay there like fly upon the wall , but during the night Virgilius steal softly to the emperor , and offer him his freedom , as long a he would do him justice .
The emperor , who by this time be thoroughly frighten , say he would agree to anything Virgilius desire .
So Virgilius take off his spell , and , after feast the army and bestowing on every man a gift , bid them return to Rome .
And more than that , he build a square tower for the emperor , and in each corner all that be say in that quarter of the city might be hear , while if you stand in the centre every whisper throughout Rome would reach your ear .
Having settle his affair with the emperor and his enemy , Virgilius have time to think of other thing , and his first act be to fall in love !
The lady 's name be Febilla , and her family be noble , and her face fairer than any in Rome , but she only mock Virgilius , and be always play trick upon him .
To this end , she bid him one day come to visit her in the tower where she live , promise to let down a basket to draw him up as far a the roof .
Virgilius be enchant at this quite unexpected favour , and step with glee into the basket .
It be draw up very slowly , and by-and-by come altogether to a standstill , while from above rang the voice of Febilla cry , ` Rogue of a sorcerer , there shalt thou hang ! '
And there he hang over the market-place , which be soon throng with people , who make fun of him till he be mad with rage .
At last the emperor , hearing of his plight , command Febilla to release him , and Virgilius go home vowing vengeance .
The next morning every fire in Rome go out , and a there be no match in those day this be a very serious matter .
The emperor , guess that this be the work of Virgilius , beseech him to break the spell .
Then Virgilius order a scaffold to be erect in the market-place , and Febilla to be bring clothe in a single white garment .
And far , he bid every one to snatch fire from the maiden , and to suffer no neighbour to kindle it .
And when the maiden appear , clad in her white smock , flame of fire curl about her , and the Romans bring some torch , and some straw , and some shaving , and fire be kindle in Rome again .
For three day she stand there , till every hearth in Rome be alight , and then she be suffer to go where she would .
But the emperor be wroth at the vengeance of Virgilius , and throw him into prison , vow that he should be put to death .
And when everything be ready he be lead out to the Viminal Hill , where he be to die .
He go quietly with his guard , but the day be hot , and on reach his place of execution he beg for some water .
A pail be bring , and he , cry 'Em peror , all hail !
seek for me in Sicily , ' jump headlong into the pail , and vanish from their sight .
For some time we hear no more of Virgilius , or how he make his peace with the emperor , but the next event in his history be his be send for to the palace to give the emperor advice how to guard Rome from foe within as well a foe without .
Virgilius spend many day in deep thought , and at length invent a plan which be know to all a the ` Preservation of Rome . '
On the roof of the Capitol , which be the most famous public building in the city , he set up statue represent the god worship by every nation subject to Rome , and in the middle stand the god of Rome herself .
Each of the conquered god hold in it hand a bell , and if there be even a thought of treason in any of the country it god turn it back upon the god of Rome and ring it bell furiously , and the senator come hurry to see who be rebel against the majesty of the empire .
Then they make ready their army , and march against the foe .
Now there be a country which have long felt bitter jealousy of Rome , and be anxious for some way of bring about it destruction .
So the people choose three men who could be trust , and , load them with money , send them to Rome , bid them to pretend that they be diviner of dream .
No sooner have the messenger reach the city than they steal out at night and bury a pot of gold far down in the earth , and let down another into the bed of the Tiber , just where a bridge span the river .
Next day they go to the senate house , where the law be make , and , bow low , they say , ` Oh , noble lord , last night we dream that beneath the foot of a hill there lie bury a pot of gold .
Have we your leave to dig for it ? '
And leave have be give , the messenger take workman and dig up the gold and make merry with it .
A few day later the diviner again appear before the senate , and say , ` Oh , noble lord , grant u leave to seek out another treasure , which have be reveal to u in a dream a lie under the bridge over the river . '
And the senator give leave , and the messenger hire boat and men , and let down rope with hook , and at length draw up the pot of gold , some of which they give a present to the senator .
A week or two pass by , and once more they appear in the senate house .
` O , noble lord ! '
say they , ` last night in a vision we behold twelve cask of gold lie under the foundation stone of the Capitol , on which stand the statue of the Preservation of Rome .
Now , see that by your goodness we have be greatly enrich by our former dream , we wish , in gratitude , to bestow this third treasure on you for your own profit ; so give u worker , and we will begin to dig without delay . '
And receive permission they begin to dig , and when the messenger have almost undermine the Capitol they steal away as secretly a they have come .
And next morning the stone give way , and the sacred statue fell on it face and be break .
And the senator know that their greed have be their ruin .
From that day thing go from bad to worse , and every morning crowd present themselves before the emperor , complaining of the robbery , murder , and other crime that be commit nightly in the street .
The emperor , desire nothing so much a the safety of his subject , take counsel with Virgilius how this violence could be put down .
Virgilius think hard for a long time , and then he speak : ` Great prince , ' say he , 'cause a copper horse and rider to be make , and station in front of the Capitol .
Then make a proclamation that at ten o'clock a bell will toll , and every man be to enter his house , and not leave it again . '
The emperor do a Virgilius advise , but thief and murderer laugh at the horse , and go about their misdeed a usual .
But at the last stroke of the bell the horse set off at full gallop through the street of Rome , and by daylight men count over two hundred corps that it have tread down .
The rest of the thief -- and there be still many remain -- instead of be frighten into honesty , a Virgilius have hop , prepared rope ladder with hook to them , and when they hear the sound of the horse 's hoof they stick their ladder into the wall , and climb up above the reach of the horse and it rider .
Then the emperor command two copper dog to be make that would run after the horse , and when the thief , hang from the wall , mock and jeer at Virgilius and the emperor , the dog leap high after them and pull them to the ground , and bite them to death .
Thus do Virgilius restore peace and order to the city .
Now about this time there come to be noise abroad the fame of the daughter of the sultan who rule over the province of Babylon , and indeed she be say to be the most beautiful princess in the world .
Virgilius , like the rest , listen to the story that be tell of her , and fell so violently in love with all he hear that he build a bridge in the air , which stretch all the way between Rome and Babylon .
He then pass over it to visit the princess , who , though somewhat surprised to see him , give him welcome , and after some conversation become in her turn anxious to see the distant country where this stranger live , and he promise that he would carry her there himself , without wet the sol of his foot .
The princess spend some day in the palace of Virgilius , look at wonder of which she have never dream , though she decline to accept the present he long to heap on her .
The hour pass a if they be minute , till the princess say that she could be no longer absent from her father .
Then Virgilius conduct her himself over the airy bridge , and lay her gently down on her own bed , where she be find next morning by her father .
She tell him all that have happen to her , and he pretend to be very much interested , and beg that the next time Virgilius come he might be introduce to him .
Soon after , the sultan receive a message from his daughter that the stranger be there , and he command that a feast should be make ready , and , send for the princess deliver into her hand a cup , which he say she be to present to Virgilius herself , in order to do him honour .
When they be all seat at the feast the princess rise and present the cup to Virgilius , who directly he have drunk fell into a deep sleep .
Then the sultan order his guard to bind him , and leave him there till the following day .
Directly the sultan be up he summon his lord and noble into his great hall , and command that the cord which bind Virgilius should be take off , and the prisoner bring before him .
The moment he appear the sultan 's passion break forth , and he accuse his captive of the crime of convey the princess into distant land without his leave .
Virgilius reply that if he have take her away he have also bring her back , when he might have keep her , and that if they would set him free to return to his own land he would come hither no more .
` Not so ! '
cry the sultan , ` but a shameful death you shall die ! '
And the princess fell on her knee , and beg she might die with him .
` You be out in your reckoning , Sir Sultan ! '
say Virgilius , whose patience be at an end , and he cast a spell over the sultan and his lord , so that they believe that the great river of Babylon be flow through the hall , and that they must swim for their life .
So , leave them to plunge and leap like frog and fish , Virgilius take the princess in his arm , and carry her over the airy bridge back to Rome .
Now Virgilius do not think that either his palace , or even Rome itself , be good enough to contain such a pearl a the princess , so he build her a city whose foundation stand upon egg , bury far away down in the depth of the sea .
And in the city be a square tower , and on the roof of the tower be a rod of iron , and across the rod he lay a bottle , and on the bottle he place an egg , and from the egg there hung chain an apple , which hang there to this day .
And when the egg shake the city quake , and when the egg shall be break the city shall be destroy .
And the city Virgilius fill full of wonder , such a never be see before , and he call it name Naples .
-LRB- Adapted from ` Virgilius the Sorcerer . ' -RRB-
MOGARZEA AND HIS SON There be once a little boy , whose father and mother , when they be die , leave him to the care of a guardian .
But the guardian whom they choose turn out to be a wicked man , and spend all the money , so the boy determine to go away and strike out a path for himself .
So one day he set off , and walk and walk through wood and meadow till when evening come he be very tired , and do not know where to sleep .
He climb a hill and look about him to see if there be no light shin from a window .
At first all seem dark , but at length he notice a tiny spark far , far off , and , pluck up his spirit , he at once go in search of it .
The night be nearly half over before he reach the spark , which turn out to be a big fire , and by the fire a man be sleep who be so tall he might have be a giant .
The boy hesitate for a moment what he should do ; then he creep close up to the man , and lay down by his leg .
When the man awoke in the morning he be much surprise to find the boy nestle up close to him .
` Dear me !
where do you come from ? '
say he . '
I be your son , bear in the night , ' reply the boy .
` If that be true , ' say the man , ` you shall take care of my sheep , and I will give you food .
But take care you never cross the border of my land , or you will repent it . '
Then he point out where the border of his land lay , and bid the boy begin his work at once .
The young shepherd lead his flock out to the richest meadow and stay with them till even , when he bring them back , and help the man to milk them .
When this be do , they both sit down to supper , and while they be eat the boy ask the big man : ` What be your name , father ? '
` Mogarzea , ' answer he . '
I wonder you be not tire of living by yourself in this lonely place . '
` There be no reason you should wonder !
Do n't you know that there be never a bear yet who dance of his own free will ? '
` Yes , that be true , ' reply the boy .
` But why be it you be always so sad ?
Tell me your history , father . '
` What be the use of my tell you thing that would only make you sad too ? '
` Oh , never mind that !
I should like to hear .
Are you not my father , and be I not your son ? '
` Well , if you really want to know my story , this be it : As I tell you , my name be Mogarzea , and my father be an emperor .
I be on my way to the Sweet Milk Lake , which lie not far from here , to marry one of the three fairy who have make the lake their home .
But on the road three wicked elf fell on me , and rob me of my soul , so that ever since I have stay in this spot watch my sheep without wish for anything different , without have felt one moment 's joy , or ever once be able to laugh .
And the horrible elf be so ill-natured that if anyone set one foot on their land he be instantly punish .
That be why I warn you to be careful , l you should share my fate . '
` All right , I will take great care .
Do let me go , father , ' say the boy , a they stretch themselves out to sleep .
At sunrise the boy get up and lead his sheep out to fee , and for some reason he do not feel tempt to cross into the grassy meadow belong to the elf , but let his flock pick up what pasture they could on Mogarzea 's dry ground .
On the third day he be sit under the shadow of a tree , play on his flute -- and there be nobody in the world who could play a flute better -- when one of his sheep stray across the fence into the flowery field of the elf , and another and another follow it .
But the boy be so absorb in his flute that he notice nothing till half the flock be on the other side .
He jump up , still play on his flute , and go after the sheep , mean to drive them back to their own side of the border , when suddenly he saw before him three beautiful maiden who stop in front of him , and begin to dance .
The boy understand what he must do , and play with all his might , but the maiden dance on till evening .
` Now let me go , ' he cry at last , ` for poor Mogarzea must be die of hunger .
I will come and play for you to-morrow . '
` Well , you may go ! '
they say , ` but remember that even if you break your promise you will not escape u . '
So they both agree that the next day he should come straight there with the sheep , and play to them till the sun go down .
This be settle , they each return home .
Mogarzea be surprise to find that his sheep give so much more milk than usual , but a the boy declare he have never cross the border the big man do not trouble his head far , and eat his supper heartily .
With the early gleam of light , the boy be off with his sheep to the elfin meadow , and at the first note of his flute the maiden appear before him and dance and dance and dance till even come .
Then the boy let the flute slip through his finger , and trod on it , a if by accident .
If you have hear the noise he make , and how he wring his hand and wept and cry that he have lose his only companion , you would have be sorry for him .
The heart of the elf be quite melt , and they do all they could to comfort him . '
I shall never find another flute like that , moan he . '
I have never hear one whose tone be as sweet a mine !
It be cut from the centre of a seven-year-old cherry tree ! '
` There be a cherry tree in our garden that be exactly seven year old , ' say they .
` Come with u , and you shall make yourself another flute . '
So they all go to the cherry tree , and when they be stand round it the youth explain that if he try to cut it down with an axe he might very likely split open the heart of the tree , which be need for the flute .
In order to prevent this , he would make a little cut in the bark , just large enough for them to put their finger in , and with this help he could manage to tear the tree in two , so that the heart should run no risk of damage .
The elf do a he tell them without a thought ; then he quickly draw out the axe , which have be stick into the cleft , and behold !
all their finger be imprison tight in the tree .
It be in vain that they shriek with pain and try to free themselves .
They could do nothing , and the young man remain cold a marble to all their entreaty .
Then he demand of them Mogarzea 's soul .
` Oh , well , if you must have it , it be in a bottle on the window sill , ' say they , hop that they might obtain their freedom at once .
But they be mistake .
` You have make so many men suffer , ' answer he sternly , ` that it be but just you should suffer yourselves , but to-morrow I will let you go . '
And he turn towards home , take his sheep and the soul of Mogarzea with him .
Mogarzea be wait at the door , and a the boy draw near he begin scold him for be so late .
But at the first word of explanation the man become beside himself with joy , and he spring so high into the air that the false soul which the elf have give him fly out of his mouth , and his own , which have be shut tightly into the flask of water , take it place .
When his excitement have somewhat calm down , he cry to the boy , ` Whether you be really my son matter nothing to me ; tell me , how can I repay you for what you have do for me ? '
` By show me where the Milk Lake be , and how I can get one of the three fairy who live there to wife , and by let me remain your son for ever . '
The night be pass by Mogarzea and his son in song and feasting , for both be too happy to sleep , and when day dawn they set out together to free the elf from the tree .
When they reach the place of their imprisonment , Mogarzea take the cherry tree and all the elf with it on his back , and carry them off to his father 's kingdom , where everyone rejoice to see him home again .
But all he do be to point to the boy who have save him , and have follow him with his flock .
For three day the boy stay in the palace , receive the thanks and praise of the whole court .
Then he say to Mogarzea : ` The time have come for me to go hence , but tell me , I pray you , how to find the Sweet Milk Lake , and I will return , and will bring my wife back with me . '
Mogarzea try in vain to make him stay , but , find it be useless , he tell him all he know , for he himself have never see the lake .
For three summer day the boy and his flute journeyed on , till one evening he reach the lake , which lay in the kingdom of a powerful fairy .
The next morning have scarcely dawn when the youth go down to the shore , and begin to play on his flute , and the first note have hardly sound when he saw a beautiful fairy stand before him , with hair and robe that shone like gold .
He gaze at her in wonder , when suddenly she begin to dance .
Her movement be so graceful that he forget to play , and as soon a the note of his flute cease she vanish from his sight .
The next day the same thing happen , but on the third he take courage , and draw a little nearer , play on his flute all the while .
Suddenly he spring forward , seize her in his arm and kiss her , and pluck a rise from her hair .
The fairy give a cry , and beg him to give her back her rise , but he would not .
He only stick the rise in his hat , and turn a deaf ear to all her prayer .
At last she saw that her entreaty be vain , and agree to marry him , a he wish .
And they go together to the palace , where Mogarzea be still wait for him , and the marriage be celebrate by the emperor himself .
But every May they return to the Milk Lake , they and their child , and bath in it water .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Charles_Dickens___A_Christmas_Carol.txt.out
STAVE ONE MARLEY 'S GHOST Marley be dead , to begin with .
There be no doubt whatever about that .
The register of his burial be sign by the clergyman , the clerk , the undertaker , and the chief mourner .
Scrooge sign it .
And Scrooge 's name be good upon ` Change for anything he choose to put his hand to .
Old Marley be as dead a a door-nail .
Mind !
I do n't mean to say that I know , of my own knowledge , what there be particularly dead about a door-nail .
I might have be incline , myself , to regard a coffin-nail a the dead piece of ironmongery in the trade .
But the wisdom of our ancestor be in the simile ; and my unhallowed hand shall not disturb it , or the Country 's do for .
You will , therefore , permit me to repeat , emphatically , that Marley be as dead a a door-nail .
Scrooge know he be dead ?
Of course he do .
How could it be otherwise ?
Scrooge and he be partner for I do n't know how many year .
Scrooge be his sole executor , his sole administrator , his sole assign , his sole residuary legatee , his sole friend , and sole mourner .
And even Scrooge be not so dreadfully cut up by the sad event , but that he be an excellent man of business on the very day of the funeral , and solemnise it with an undoubted bargain .
The mention of Marley 's funeral brings me back to the point I start from .
There be no doubt that Marley be dead .
This must be distinctly understood , or nothing wonderful can come of the story I be go to relate .
If we be not perfectly convince that Hamlet 's Father die before the play begin , there would be nothing more remarkable in his take a stroll at night , in an easterly wind , upon his own rampart , than there would be in any other middle-aged gentleman rashly turn out after dark in a breezy spot -- say St. Paul 's Church-yard , for instance -- literally to astonish his son 's weak mind .
Scrooge never paint out Old Marley 's name .
There it stand , year afterwards , above the warehouse door : Scrooge and Marley .
The firm be know a Scrooge and Marley .
Sometimes people new to the business call Scrooge Scrooge , and sometimes Marley , but he answer to both name .
It be all the same to him .
Oh !
but he be a tight-fisted hand at the grindstone , Scrooge !
a squeezing , wrench , grasp , scrap , clutch , covetous , old sinner !
Hard and sharp a flint , from which no steel have ever strike out generous fire ; secret , and self-contained , and solitary a an oyster .
The cold within him freeze his old feature , nip his pointed nose , shrivel his cheek , stiffen his gait ; make his eye red , his thin lip blue ; and speak out shrewdly in his grating voice .
A frosty rime be on his head , and on his eyebrow , and his wiry chin .
He carry his own low temperature always about with him ; he ice his office in the dog-days ; and do n't thaw it one degree at Christmas .
External heat and cold have little influence on Scrooge .
No warmth could warm , no wintry weather chill him .
No wind that blew be bitter than he , no fall snow be more intent upon it purpose , no pelt rain less open to entreaty .
Foul weather do n't know where to have him .
The heavy rain , and snow , and hail , and sleet could boast of the advantage over him in only one respect .
They often `` come down '' handsomely and Scrooge never do .
Nobody ever stop him in the street to say , with gladsome look , `` My dear Scrooge , how be you ?
When will you come to see me ? ''
No beggar implore him to bestow a trifle , no child ask him what it be o'clock , no man or woman ever once in all his life inquire the way to such and such a place , of Scrooge .
Even the blind men 's dog appear to know him ; and , when they saw him come on , would tug their owner into doorway and up court ; and then would wag their tail a though they say , `` No eye at all be good than an evil eye , dark master ! ''
But what do Scrooge care ?
It be the very thing he like .
To edge his way along the crowded path of life , warn all human sympathy to keep it distance , be what the know one call `` nut '' to Scrooge .
Once upon a time -- of all the good day in the year , on Christmas Eve -- old Scrooge sit busy in his counting-house .
It be cold , bleak , bite weather : foggy withal : and he could hear the people in the court outside go wheeze up and down , beat their hand upon their breast , and stamp their foot upon the pavement stone to warm them .
The City clock have only just go three , but it be quite dark already -- it have not be light all day -- and candle be flare in the window of the neighbouring office , like ruddy smear upon the palpable brown air .
The fog come pour in at every chink and keyhole , and be so dense without , that , although the court be of the narrow , the house opposite be mere phantom .
To see the dingy cloud come droop down , obscure everything , one might have think that nature live hard by and be brew on a large scale .
The door of Scrooge 's counting-house be open , that he might keep his eye upon his clerk , who in a dismal little cell beyond , a sort of tank , be copy letter .
Scrooge have a very small fire , but the clerk 's fire be so very much small that it look like one coal .
But he could n't replenish it , for Scrooge keep the coal-box in his own room ; and so surely a the clerk come in with the shovel , the master predict that it would be necessary for them to part .
Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter , and try to warm himself at the candle ; in which effort , not be a man of strong imagination , he fail .
`` A merry Christmas , uncle !
God save you ! ''
cry a cheerful voice .
It be the voice of Scrooge 's nephew , who come upon him so quickly that this be the first intimation he have of his approach .
`` Bah ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` Humbug ! ''
He have so heat himself with rapid walk in the fog and frost , this nephew of Scrooge 's , that he be all in a glow ; his face be ruddy and handsome ; his eye sparkle , and his breath smoke again .
`` Christmas a humbug , uncle ! ''
say Scrooge 's nephew .
`` You do n't mean that , I be sure ? ''
`` I do , '' say Scrooge .
`` Merry Christmas !
What right have you to be merry ?
What reason have you to be merry ?
You 're poor enough . ''
`` Come , then , '' return the nephew gaily .
`` What right have you to be dismal ?
What reason have you to be morose ?
You 're rich enough . ''
Scrooge , have no good answer ready on the spur of the moment , say , `` Bah ! ''
again ; and follow it up with `` Humbug ! ''
`` Do n't be cross , uncle ! ''
say the nephew .
-LSB- Illustration : `` A Merry Christmas , uncle !
God save you ! ''
cry a cheerful voice .
-RSB- `` What else can I be , '' return the uncle , `` when I live in such a world of fool a this ?
Merry Christmas !
Out upon merry Christmas !
What 's Christmas-time to you but a time for pay bill without money ; a time for find yourself a year older , and not an hour richer ; a time for balance your book , and have every item in 'em through a round dozen of month present dead against you ?
If I could work my will , '' say Scrooge indignantly , `` every idiot who go about with ` Merry Christmas ' on his lip should be boil with his own pudding , and bury with a stake of holly through his heart .
He should ! ''
`` Uncle ! ''
plead the nephew .
`` Nephew ! ''
return the uncle sternly , `` keep Christmas in your own way , and let me keep it in mine . ''
`` Keep it ! ''
repeat Scrooge 's nephew .
`` But you do n't keep it . ''
`` Let me leave it alone , then , '' say Scrooge .
`` Much good may it do you !
Much good it have ever do you ! ''
`` There be many thing from which I might have derive good , by which I have not profit , I dare say , '' return the nephew ; `` Christmas among the rest .
But I be sure I have always think of Christmas-time , when it have come round -- apart from the veneration due to it sacred name and origin , if anything belong to it can be apart from that -- a a good time ; a kind , forgiving , charitable , pleasant time ; the only time I know of , in the long calendar of the year , when men and woman seem by one consent to open their shut-up heart freely , and to think of people below them a if they really be fellow-passengers to the grave , and not another race of creature bind on other journey .
And therefore , uncle , though it have never put a scrap of gold or silver in my pocket , I believe that it have do me good , and will do me good ; and I say , God bless it ! ''
The clerk in the tank involuntarily applaud .
Becoming immediately sensible of the impropriety , he poke the fire , and extinguish the last frail spark for ever .
`` Let me hear another sound from you , '' say Scrooge , `` and you 'll keep your Christmas by lose your situation !
You 're quite a powerful speaker , sir , '' he add , turn to his nephew .
`` I wonder you do n't go into Parliament . ''
`` Do n't be angry , uncle .
Come !
Dine with u to-morrow . ''
Scrooge say that he would see him -- Yes , indeed he do .
He go the whole length of the expression , and say that he would see him in that extremity first .
`` But why ? ''
cry Scrooge 's nephew .
`` Why ? ''
`` Why do you get marry ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` Because I fell in love . ''
`` Because you fell in love ! ''
growl Scrooge , a if that be the only one thing in the world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas .
`` Good afternoon ! ''
`` Nay , uncle , but you never come to see me before that happen .
Why give it a a reason for not come now ? ''
`` Good afternoon , '' say Scrooge .
`` I want nothing from you ; I ask nothing of you ; why can not we be friends ? ''
`` Good afternoon ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` I be sorry , with all my heart , to find you so resolute .
We have never have any quarrel to which I have be a party .
But I have make the trial in homage to Christmas , and I 'll keep my Christmas humour to the last .
So A Merry Christmas , uncle ! ''
`` Good afternoon , '' say Scrooge .
`` And A Happy New Year ! ''
`` Good afternoon ! ''
say Scrooge .
His nephew leave the room without an angry word , notwithstanding .
He stop at the outer door to bestow the greeting of the season on the clerk , who , cold a he be , be warm than Scrooge ; for he return them cordially .
`` There 's another fellow , '' mutter Scrooge , who overhear him : `` my clerk , with fifteen shilling a week , and a wife and family , talk about a merry Christmas .
I 'll retire to Bedlam . ''
This lunatic , in let Scrooge 's nephew out , have let two other people in .
They be portly gentleman , pleasant to behold , and now stand , with their hat off , in Scrooge 's office .
They have book and paper in their hand , and bow to him .
`` Scrooge and Marley 's , I believe , '' say one of the gentleman , refer to his list .
`` Have I the pleasure of address Mr. Scrooge , or Mr. Marley ? ''
`` Mr. Marley have be dead these seven year , '' Scrooge reply .
`` He die seven year ago , this very night . ''
`` We have no doubt his liberality be well represent by his survive partner , '' say the gentleman , present his credential .
It certainly be ; for they have be two kindred spirit .
At the ominous word `` liberality '' Scrooge frown , and shake his head , and hand the credential back .
`` At this festive season of the year , Mr. Scrooge , '' say the gentleman , take up a pen , `` it be more than usually desirable that we should make some slight provision for the poor and destitute , who suffer greatly at the present time .
Many thousand be in want of common necessary ; hundred of thousand be in want of common comfort , sir . ''
`` Are there no prison ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` Plenty of prison , '' say the gentleman , lay down the pen again .
`` And the Union workhouse ? ''
demand Scrooge .
`` Are they still in operation ? ''
`` They be .
Still , '' return the gentleman , `` I wish I could say they be not . ''
`` The Treadmill and the Poor Law be in full vigour , then ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` Both very busy , sir . ''
`` Oh !
I be afraid , from what you say at first , that something have occur to stop them in their useful course , '' say Scrooge .
`` I be very glad to hear it . ''
`` Under the impression that they scarcely furnish Christian cheer of mind or body to the multitude , '' return the gentleman , `` a few of u be endeavour to raise a fund to buy the Poor some meat and drink , and mean of warmth .
We choose this time , because it be a time , of all others , when Want be keenly felt , and Abundance rejoices .
What shall I put you down for ? ''
`` Nothing ! ''
Scrooge reply .
`` You wish to be anonymous ? ''
`` I wish to be leave alone , '' say Scrooge .
`` Since you ask me what I wish , gentleman , that be my answer .
I do n't make merry myself at Christmas , and I ca n't afford to make idle people merry .
I help to support the establishment I have mention -- they cost enough ; and those who be badly off must go there . ''
`` Many ca n't go there ; and many would rather die . ''
`` If they would rather die , '' say Scrooge , `` they have well do it , and decrease the surplus population .
Besides -- excuse me -- I do n't know that . ''
`` But you might know it , '' observe the gentleman .
`` It 's not my business , '' Scrooge return .
`` It 's enough for a man to understand his own business , and not to interfere with other people 's .
Mine occupy me constantly .
Good afternoon , gentleman ! ''
Seeing clearly that it would be useless to pursue their point , the gentleman withdraw .
Scrooge resume his labour with an improved opinion of himself , and in a more facetious temper than be usual with him .
Meanwhile the fog and darkness thicken so , that people run about with flare link , proffer their service to go before horse in carriage , and conduct them on their way .
The ancient tower of a church , whose gruff old bell be always peep slily down at Scrooge out of a Gothic window in the wall , become invisible , and strike the hour and quarter in the cloud , with tremulous vibration afterwards , a if it teeth be chatter in it frozen head up there .
The cold become intense .
In the main street , at the corner of the court , some labourer be repair the gas-pipes , and have light a great fire in a brazier , round which a party of ragged men and boy be gather : warm their hand and wink their eye before the blaze in rapture .
The water-plug be leave in solitude , it overflowings suddenly congeal , and turn to misanthropic ice .
The brightness of the shop , where holly sprig and berry crackle in the lamp heat of the window , make pale face ruddy a they pass .
Poulterers ' and grocer ' trade become a splendid joke : a glorious pageant , with which it be next to impossible to believe that such dull principle a bargain and sale have anything to do .
The Lord Mayor , in the stronghold of the mighty Mansion House , give order to his fifty cook and butler to keep Christmas a a Lord Mayor 's household should ; and even the little tailor , whom he have fin five shilling on the previous Monday for be drunk and blood-thirsty in the street , stir up to-morrow 's pudding in his garret , while his lean wife and the baby sallied out to buy the beef .
Foggier yet , and colder !
Piercing , search , bite cold .
If the good St. Dunstan have but nip the Evil Spirit 's nose with a touch of such weather a that , instead of use his familiar weapon , then indeed he would have roar to lusty purpose .
The owner of one scant young nose , gnaw and mumble by the hungry cold a bone be gnaw by dog , stoop down at Scrooge 's keyhole to regale him with a Christmas carol ; but , at the first sound of `` God bless you , merry gentleman , May nothing you dismay ! ''
Scrooge seize the ruler with such energy of action , that the singer flee in terror , leave the keyhole to the fog , and even more congenial frost .
At length the hour of shut up the counting-house arrive .
With an ill-will Scrooge dismount from his stool , and tacitly admit the fact to the expectant clerk in the tank , who instantly snuff his candle out , and put on his hat .
`` You 'll want all day to-morrow , I suppose ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` If quite convenient , sir . ''
`` It 's not convenient , '' say Scrooge , `` and it 's not fair .
If I be to stop half-a-crown for it , you 'd think yourself ill use , I 'll be bind ? ''
The clerk smile faintly .
`` And yet , '' say Scrooge , `` you do n't think me ill use when I pay a day 's wage for no work . ''
The clerk observe that it be only once a year .
`` A poor excuse for pick a man 's pocket every twenty-fifth of December ! ''
say Scrooge , button his great-coat to the chin .
`` But I suppose you must have the whole day .
Be here all the early next morning . ''
The clerk promise that he would ; and Scrooge walk out with a growl .
The office be close in a twinkling , and the clerk , with the long end of his white comforter dangle below his waist -LRB- for he boast no great-coat -RRB- , go down a slide on Cornhill , at the end of a lane of boy , twenty time , in honour of it be Christmas-eve , and then run home to Camden Town as hard a he could pelt , to play at blindman 's buff .
Scrooge take his melancholy dinner in his usual melancholy tavern ; and have read all the newspaper , and beguile the rest of the evening with his banker 's book , go home to bed .
He live in chamber which have once belong to his deceased partner .
They be a gloomy suite of room , in a lower pile of build up a yard , where it have so little business to be , that one could scarcely help fancy it must have run there when it be a young house , play at hide-and-seek with other house , and have forget the way out again .
It be old enough now , and dreary enough ; for nobody live in it but Scrooge , the other room be all let out a office .
The yard be so dark that even Scrooge , who know it every stone , be fain to grope with his hand .
The fog and frost so hung about the black old gateway of the house , that it seem a if the Genius of the Weather sit in mournful meditation on the threshold .
Now , it be a fact that there be nothing at all particular about the knocker on the door , except that it be very large .
It be also a fact that Scrooge have see it , night and morning , during his whole residence in that place ; also that Scrooge have a little of what be call fancy about him a any man in the City of London , even include -- which be a bold word -- the corporation , alderman , and livery .
Let it also be bear in mind that Scrooge have not bestow one thought on Marley since his last mention of his seven-years ' - dead partner that afternoon .
And then let any man explain to me , if he can , how it happen that Scrooge , have his key in the lock of the door , saw in the knocker , without it undergo any intermediate process of change -- not a knocker , but Marley 's face .
Marley 's face .
It be not in impenetrable shadow , a the other object in the yard be , but have a dismal light about it , like a bad lobster in a dark cellar .
It be not angry or ferocious , but look at Scrooge a Marley use to look : with ghostly spectacle turn up on it ghostly forehead .
The hair be curiously stir , a if by breath of hot air ; and , though the eye be wide open , they be perfectly motionless .
That , and it livid colour , make it horrible ; but it horror seem to be in spite of the face , and beyond it control , rather than a part of it own expression .
As Scrooge look fixedly at this phenomenon , it be a knocker again .
To say that he be not startle , or that his blood be not conscious of a terrible sensation to which it have be a stranger from infancy , would be untrue .
But he put his hand upon the key he have relinquish , turn it sturdily , walk in , and light his candle .
He do pause , with a moment 's irresolution , before he shut the door ; and he do look cautiously behind it first , a if he half expect to be terrify with the sight of Marley 's pigtail stick out into the hall .
But there be nothing on the back of the door , except the screw and nut that hold the knocker on , so he say , `` Pooh , pooh ! ''
and close it with a bang .
The sound resound through the house like thunder .
Every room above , and every cask in the wine merchant 's cellar below , appear to have a separate peal of echo of it own .
Scrooge be not a man to be frighten by echo .
He fasten the door , and walk across the hall , and up the stair : slowly , too : trim his candle a he go .
You may talk vaguely about drive a coach and six up a good old flight of stair , or through a bad young Act of Parliament ; but I mean to say you might have get a hearse up that staircase , and take it broadwise , with the splinter-bar towards the wall , and the door towards the balustrade : and do it easy .
There be plenty of width for that , and room to spare ; which be perhaps the reason why Scrooge think he saw a locomotive hearse go on before him in the gloom .
Half-a-dozen gas-lamps out of the street would n't have light the entry too well , so you may suppose that it be pretty dark with Scrooge 's dip .
Up Scrooge go , not care a button for that .
Darkness be cheap , and Scrooge like it .
But , before he shut his heavy door , he walk through his room to see that all be right .
He have just enough recollection of the face to desire to do that .
Sitting-room , bedroom , lumber-room .
All a they should be .
Nobody under the table , nobody under the sofa ; a small fire in the grate ; spoon and basin ready ; and the little saucepan of gruel -LRB- Scrooge have a cold in his head -RRB- upon the hob .
Nobody under the bed ; nobody in the closet ; nobody in his dressing-gown , which be hang up in a suspicious attitude against the wall .
Lumber-room a usual .
Old fire-guard , old shoe , two fish basket , washing-stand on three leg , and a poker .
Quite satisfied , he close his door , and lock himself in ; double lock himself in , which be not his custom .
Thus secure against surprise , he take off his cravat ; put on his dressing-gown and slipper , and his nightcap ; and sit down before the fire to take his gruel .
It be a very low fire indeed ; nothing on such a bitter night .
He be oblige to sit close to it , and brood over it , before he could extract the least sensation of warmth from such a handful of fuel .
The fire-place be an old one , build by some Dutch merchant long ago , and pave all round with quaint Dutch tile , design to illustrate the Scriptures .
There be Cains and Abels , Pharaoh 's daughter , Queens of Sheba , Angelic messenger descend through the air on cloud like feather bed , Abrahams , Belshazzars , Apostles put off to sea in butter-boats , hundred of figure to attract his thought ; and yet that face of Marley , seven year dead , come like the ancient Prophet 's rod , and swallow up the whole .
If each smooth tile have be a blank at first , with power to shape some picture on it surface from the disjointed fragment of his thought , there would have be a copy of old Marley 's head on every one .
`` Humbug ! ''
say Scrooge ; and walk across the room .
After several turn he sit down again .
As he throw his head back in the chair , his glance happen to rest upon a bell , a disused bell , that hang in the room , and communicate , for some purpose now forget , with a chamber in the high story of the building .
It be with great astonishment , and with a strange , inexplicable dread , that , a he look , he saw this bell begin to swing .
It swing so softly in the outset that it scarcely make a sound ; but soon it ring out loudly , and so do every bell in the house .
This might have last half a minute , or a minute , but it seem an hour .
The bell cease , a they have begin , together .
They be succeed by a clanking noise , deep down below , a if some person be drag a heavy chain over the cask in the wine merchant 's cellar .
Scrooge then remember to have hear that ghost in haunt house be describe a dragging chain .
The cellar door fly open with a booming sound , and then he hear the noise much louder on the floor below ; then come up the stair ; then come straight towards his door .
`` It 's humbug still ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` I wo n't believe it . ''
His colour change , though , when , without a pause , it come on through the heavy door , and pass into the room before his eye .
Upon it come in , the die flame leap up , a though it cry , `` I know him !
Marley 's Ghost ! ''
and fell again .
The same face : the very same .
Marley in his pigtail , usual waistcoat , tights , and boot ; the tassel on the latter bristling , like his pigtail , and his coat-skirts , and the hair upon his head .
The chain he draw be clasp about his middle .
It be long , and wind about him like a tail ; and it be make -LRB- for Scrooge observe it closely -RRB- of cash-boxes , key , padlock , ledger , deed , and heavy purse work in steel .
His body be transparent ; so that Scrooge , observe him , and look through his waistcoat , could see the two button on his coat behind .
Scrooge have often hear it say that Marley have no bowel , but he have never believe it until now .
No , nor do he believe it even now .
Though he look the phantom through and through , and saw it stand before him ; though he felt the chill influence of it death-cold eye ; and mark the very texture of the folded kerchief bound about it head and chin , which wrapper he have not observe before ; he be still incredulous , and fought against his sens .
`` How now ! ''
say Scrooge , caustic and cold a ever .
`` What do you want with me ? ''
`` Much ! ''
-- Marley 's voice , no doubt about it .
`` Who be you ? ''
`` Ask me who I be . ''
`` Who be you , then ? ''
say Scrooge , raise his voice .
`` You 're particular , for a shade . ''
He be go to say '' to a shade , '' but substitute this , a more appropriate .
`` In life I be your partner , Jacob Marley . ''
`` Can you -- can you sit down ? ''
ask Scrooge , look doubtfully at him .
`` I can . ''
`` Do it , then . ''
Scrooge ask the question , because he do n't know whether a ghost so transparent might find himself in a condition to take a chair ; and felt that , in the event of it be impossible , it might involve the necessity of an embarrassing explanation .
But the Ghost sit down on the opposite side of the fire-place , a if he be quite use to it .
`` You do n't believe in me , '' observe the Ghost .
`` I do n't , '' say Scrooge .
`` What evidence would you have of my reality beyond that of your own sens ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' say Scrooge .
`` Why do you doubt your sens ? ''
`` Because , '' say Scrooge , `` a little thing affect them .
A slight disorder of the stomach make them cheat .
You may be an undigested bit of beef , a blot of mustard , a crumb of cheese , a fragment of an underdone potato .
There 's more of gravy than of grave about you , whatever you be ! ''
Scrooge be not much in the habit of crack joke , nor do he feel in his heart by any mean waggish then .
The truth be , that he try to be smart , a a mean of distract his own attention , and keep down his terror ; for the spectre 's voice disturb the very marrow in his bone .
To sit star at those fixed glazed eye in silence , for a moment , would play , Scrooge felt , the very deuce with him .
There be something very awful , too , in the spectre 's be provide with an infernal atmosphere of his own .
Scrooge could not feel it himself , but this be clearly the case ; for though the Ghost sit perfectly motionless , it hair , and skirt , and tassel be still agitate a by the hot vapour from an oven .
`` You see this toothpick ? ''
say Scrooge , return quickly to the charge , for the reason just assign ; and wishing , though it be only for a second , to divert the vision 's stony gaze from himself .
`` I do , '' reply the Ghost .
`` You be not look at it , '' say Scrooge .
`` But I see it , '' say the Ghost , `` notwithstanding . ''
`` Well ! ''
return Scrooge , `` I have but to swallow this , and be for the rest of my day persecute by a legion of goblin , all of my own creation .
Humbug , I tell you ; humbug ! ''
At this the spirit raise a frightful cry , and shake it chain with such a dismal and appalling noise , that Scrooge hold on tight to his chair , to save himself from fall in a swoon .
But how much great be his horror when the phantom , take off the bandage round his head , a if it be too warm to wear indoors , it low jaw drop down upon it breast !
Scrooge fell upon his knee , and clasp his hand before his face .
`` Mercy ! ''
he say .
`` Dreadful apparition , why do you trouble me ? ''
`` Man of the worldly mind ! ''
reply the Ghost , `` do you believe in me or not ? ''
`` I do , '' say Scrooge .
`` I must .
But why do spirit walk the earth , and why do they come to me ? ''
-LSB- Illustration : To sit star at those fixed glazed eye in silence , for a moment , would play , Scrooge felt , the very deuce with him .
-RSB- `` It be require of every man , '' the Ghost return , `` that the spirit within him should walk abroad among his fellow-men , and travel far and wide ; and , if that spirit go not forth in life , it be condemn to do so after death .
It be doom to wander through the world -- oh , woe be me !
-- and witness what it can not share , but might have share on earth , and turn to happiness ! ''
Again the spectre raise a cry , and shake it chain and wring it shadowy hand .
`` You be fetter , '' say Scrooge , tremble .
`` Tell me why ? ''
`` I wear the chain I forge in life , '' reply the Ghost .
`` I make it link by link , and yard by yard ; I gird it on of my own free-will , and of my own free-will I wear it .
Is it pattern strange to you ? ''
Scrooge tremble more and more .
`` Or would you know , '' pursue the Ghost , `` the weight and length of the strong coil you bear yourself ?
It be full a heavy and as long a this , seven Christmas-eves ago .
You have labour on it since .
It be a ponderous chain ! ''
Scrooge glance about him on the floor , in the expectation of find himself surround by some fifty or sixty fathom of iron cable , but he could see nothing .
`` Jacob ! ''
he say imploringly .
`` Old Jacob Marley , tell me more !
Speak comfort to me , Jacob ! ''
`` I have none to give , '' the Ghost reply .
`` It come from other region , Ebenezer Scrooge , and be convey by other minister , to other kind of men .
Nor can I tell you what I would .
A very little more be all permit to me .
I can not rest , I can not stay , I can not linger anywhere .
My spirit never walk beyond our counting-house -- mark me ; -- in life my spirit never rove beyond the narrow limit of our money-changing hole ; and weary journey lie before me ! ''
It be a habit with Scrooge , whenever he become thoughtful , to put his hand in his breech pocket .
Pondering on what the Ghost have say , he do so now , but without lift up his eye , or get off his knee .
`` You must have be very slow about it , Jacob , '' Scrooge observe in a business-like manner , though with humility and deference .
`` Slow ! ''
the Ghost repeat .
`` Seven year dead , '' muse Scrooge .
`` And travel all the time ? ''
`` The whole time , '' say the Ghost .
`` No rest , no peace .
Incessant torture of remorse . ''
`` You travel fast ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` On the wing of the wind , '' reply the Ghost .
`` You might have get over a great quantity of ground in seven year , '' say Scrooge .
The Ghost , on hear this , set up another cry , and clank it chain so hideously in the dead silence of the night , that the Ward would have be justify in indict it for a nuisance .
`` Oh !
captive , bound , and double-ironed , '' cry the phantom , `` not to know that age of incessant labour , by immortal creature , for this earth must pass into eternity before the good of which it be susceptible be all developed !
Not to know that any Christian spirit work kindly in it little sphere , whatever it may be , will find it mortal life too short for it vast mean of usefulness !
Not to know that no space of regret can make amends for one life 's opportunity misuse !
Yet such be I !
Oh , such be I ! ''
`` But you be always a good man of business , Jacob , '' falter Scrooge , who now begin to apply this to himself .
`` Business ! ''
cry the Ghost , wring it hand again .
`` Mankind be my business .
The common welfare be my business ; charity , mercy , forbearance , and benevolence be , all , my business .
The dealing of my trade be but a drop of water in the comprehensive ocean of my business ! ''
It hold up it chain at arm 's length , a if that be the cause of all it unavailing grief , and fling it heavily upon the ground again .
`` At this time of the rolling year , '' the spectre say , `` I suffer most .
Why do I walk through crowd of fellow-beings with my eye turn down , and never raise them to that bless Star which lead the Wise Men to a poor abode ?
Were there no poor home to which it light would have conduct me ? ''
Scrooge be very much dismayed to hear the spectre go on at this rate , and begin to quake exceedingly .
`` Hear me ! ''
cry the Ghost .
`` My time be nearly go . ''
`` I will , '' say Scrooge .
`` But do n't be hard upon me !
Do n't be flowery , Jacob !
Pray ! ''
`` How it be that I appear before you in a shape that you can see , I may not tell .
I have sit invisible beside you many and many a day . ''
It be not an agreeable idea .
Scrooge shiver , and wipe the perspiration from his brow .
`` That be no light part of my penance , '' pursue the Ghost .
`` I be here to-night to warn you that you have yet a chance and hope of escape my fate .
A chance and hope of my procuring , Ebenezer . ''
`` You be always a good friend to me , '' say Scrooge .
`` Thankee ! ''
`` You will be haunt , '' resume the Ghost , `` by Three Spirits . ''
Scrooge 's countenance fell almost as low a the Ghost 's have do .
`` Is that the chance and hope you mention , Jacob ? ''
he demand in a faltering voice .
`` It be . ''
`` I -- I think I 'd rather not , '' say Scrooge .
`` Without their visit , '' say the Ghost , `` you can not hope to shun the path I tread .
Expect the first to-morrow when the bell toll One . ''
`` Could n't I take 'em all at once , and have it over , Jacob ? ''
hint Scrooge .
`` Expect the second on the next night at the same hour .
The third , upon the next night when the last stroke of Twelve have cease to vibrate .
Look to see me no more ; and look that , for your own sake , you remember what have pass between u ! ''
When it have say these word , the spectre take it wrapper from the table , and bound it round it head a before .
Scrooge know this by the smart sound it teeth make when the jaw be bring together by the bandage .
He venture to raise his eye again , and find his supernatural visitor confront him in an erect attitude , with it chain wound over and about it arm .
The apparition walk backward from him ; and , at every step it take , the window raise itself a little , so that , when the spectre reach it , it be wide open .
It beckon Scrooge to approach , which he do .
When they be within two pace of each other , Marley 's Ghost hold up it hand , warn him to come no nearer .
Scrooge stop .
Not so much in obedience a in surprise and fear ; for , on the raising of the hand , he become sensible of confused noise in the air ; incoherent sound of lamentation and regret ; wailing inexpressibly sorrowful and self-accusatory .
The spectre , after listen for a moment , join in the mournful dirge ; and float out upon the bleak , dark night .
Scrooge follow to the window : desperate in his curiosity .
He look out .
The air be fill with phantom , wander hither and thither in restless haste , and moan a they go .
Every one of them wear chain like Marley 's Ghost ; some few -LRB- they might be guilty government -RRB- be link together ; none be free .
Many have be personally know to Scrooge in their life .
He have be quite familiar with one old ghost in a white waistcoat , with a monstrous iron safe attach to it ankle , who cry piteously at be unable to assist a wretched woman with an infant , whom it saw below upon a doorstep .
The misery with them all be , clearly , that they seek to interfere , for good , in human matter , and have lose the power for ever .
Whether these creature fade into mist , or mist enshroud them , he could not tell .
But they and their spirit voice fade together ; and the night become a it have be when he walk home .
Scrooge close the window , and examine the door by which the Ghost have enter .
It be double locked , a he have lock it with his own hand , and the bolt be undisturbed .
He try to say `` Humbug ! ''
but stop at the first syllable .
And be , from the emotion he have undergone , or the fatigue of the day , or his glimpse of the Invisible World , or the dull conversation of the Ghost , or the lateness of the hour , much in need of repose , go straight to bed without undressing , and fell asleep upon the instant .
STAVE TWO THE FIRST OF THE THREE SPIRITS When Scrooge awake it be so dark , that , look out of bed , he could scarcely distinguish the transparent window from the opaque wall of his chamber .
He be endeavour to pierce the darkness with his ferret eye , when the chime of a neighbouring church strike the four quarter .
So he listen for the hour .
To his great astonishment , the heavy bell go on from six to seven , and from seven to eight , and regularly up to twelve ; then stop .
Twelve !
It be past two when he go to bed .
The clock be wrong .
An icicle must have get into the work .
Twelve !
He touch the spring of his repeater , to correct this most preposterous clock .
Its rapid little pulse beat twelve , and stop .
`` Why , it be n't possible , '' say Scrooge , `` that I can have sleep through a whole day and far into another night .
It be n't possible that anything have happen to the sun , and this be twelve at noon ! ''
The idea be an alarm one , he scramble out of bed , and grope his way to the window .
He be oblige to rub the frost off with the sleeve of his dressing-gown before he could see anything ; and could see very little then .
All he could make out be , that it be still very foggy and extremely cold , and that there be no noise of people run to and fro , and make a great stir , a there unquestionably would have be if night have beat off bright day , and take possession of the world .
This be a great relief , because `` Three day after sight of this First of Exchange pay to Mr. Ebenezer Scrooge or his order , '' and so forth , would have become a mere United States security if there be no day to count by .
Scrooge go to bed again , and think , and think , and think it over and over , and could make nothing of it .
The more he think , the more perplexed he be ; and , the more he endeavour not to think , the more he think .
Marley 's Ghost bother him exceedingly .
Every time he resolve within himself , after mature inquiry , that it be all a dream , his mind fly back again , like a strong spring release , to it first position , and present the same problem to be work all through , `` Was it a dream or not ? ''
Scrooge lay in this state until the chime have go three quarter more , when he remember , on a sudden , that the Ghost have warn him of a visitation when the bell toll one .
He resolve to lie awake until the hour be pass ; and , consider that he could no more go to sleep than go to Heaven , this be , perhaps , the wise resolution in his power .
The quarter be so long , that he be more than once convince he must have sink into a doze unconsciously , and miss the clock .
At length it break upon his listen ear .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` A quarter past , '' say Scrooge , counting .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` Half past , '' say Scrooge .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` A quarter to it , '' say Scrooge .
`` Ding , dong ! ''
`` The hour itself , '' say Scrooge triumphantly , `` and nothing else ! ''
He speak before the hour bell sound , which it now do with a deep , dull , hollow , melancholy ONE .
Light flash up in the room upon the instant , and the curtain of his bed be draw .
The curtain of his bed be draw aside , I tell you , by a hand .
Not the curtain at his foot , nor the curtain at his back , but those to which his face be address .
The curtain of his bed be draw aside ; and Scrooge , start up into a half-recumbent attitude , find himself face to face with the unearthly visitor who draw them : a close to it a I be now to you , and I be stand in the spirit at your elbow .
It be a strange figure -- like a child : yet not so like a child a like an old man , view through some supernatural medium , which give him the appearance of have recede from the view , and be diminish to a child 's proportion .
Its hair , which hang about it neck and down it back , be white , a if with age ; and yet the face have not a wrinkle in it , and the tender bloom be on the skin .
The arm be very long and muscular ; the hand the same , a if it hold be of uncommon strength .
Its leg and foot , most delicately form , be , like those upper member , bare .
It wear a tunic of the pure white ; and round it waist be bound a lustrous belt , the sheen of which be beautiful .
It hold a branch of fresh green holly in it hand : and , in singular contradiction of that wintry emblem , have it dress trim with summer flower .
But the strange thing about it be , that from the crown of it head there spring a bright clear jet of light , by which all this be visible ; and which be doubtless the occasion of it use , in it duller moment , a great extinguisher for a cap , which it now hold under it arm .
Even this , though , when Scrooge look at it with increase steadiness , be not it strange quality .
For , a it belt sparkle and glitter , now in one part and now in another , and what be light one instant at another time be dark , so the figure itself fluctuate in it distinctness : be now a thing with one arm , now with one leg , now with twenty leg , now a pair of leg without a head , now a head without a body : of which dissolve part no outline would be visible in the dense gloom wherein they melt away .
And , in the very wonder of this , it would be itself again ; distinct and clear a ever .
`` Are you the Spirit , sir , whose come be foretell to me ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` I be ! ''
The voice be soft and gentle .
Singularly low , a if , instead of be so close beside him , it be at a distance .
`` Who and what be you ? ''
Scrooge demand .
`` I be the Ghost of Christmas Past . ''
`` Long Past ? ''
inquired Scrooge ; observant of it dwarfish stature .
`` No .
Your past . ''
Perhaps Scrooge could not have tell anybody why , if anybody could have ask him ; but he have a special desire to see the Spirit in his cap ; and beg him to be cover .
`` What ! ''
exclaim the Ghost , `` would you so soon put out , with worldly hand , the light I give ?
Is it not enough that you be one of those whose passion make this cap , and force me through whole train of year to wear it low upon my brow ? ''
Scrooge reverently disclaim all intention to offend or any knowledge of have wilfully `` bonnet '' the Spirit at any period of his life .
He then make bold to inquire what business bring him there .
`` Your welfare ! ''
say the Ghost .
Scrooge express himself much oblige , but could not help think that a night of unbroken rest would have be more conducive to that end .
The Spirit must have hear him think , for it say immediately : `` Your reclamation , then .
Take heed ! ''
It put out it strong hand a it speak , and clasp him gently by the arm .
`` Rise !
and walk with me ! ''
It would have be in vain for Scrooge to plead that the weather and the hour be not adapt to pedestrian purpose ; that bed be warm , and the thermometer a long way below freezing ; that he be clad but lightly in his slipper , dressing-gown , and nightcap ; and that he have a cold upon him at that time .
The grasp , though gentle a a woman 's hand , be not to be resist .
He rise : but , find that the Spirit make towards the window , clasp it robe in supplication .
`` I be a mortal , '' Scrooge remonstrate , `` and liable to fall . ''
`` Bear but a touch of my hand there , '' say the Spirit , lay it upon his heart , `` and you shall be uphold in more than this ! ''
As the word be speak , they pass through the wall , and stand upon an open country road , with field on either hand .
The city have entirely vanish .
Not a vestige of it be to be see .
The darkness and the mist have vanish with it , for it be a clear , cold , winter day , with the snow upon the ground .
`` Good Heaven ! ''
say Scrooge , clasp his hand together a he look about him .
`` I be breed in this place .
I be a boy here ! ''
The Spirit gaze upon him mildly .
Its gentle touch , though it have be light and instantaneous , appear still present to the old man 's sense of feeling .
He be conscious of a thousand odours float in the air , each one connect with a thousand thought , and hope , and joy , and care long , long forgotten !
`` Your lip be tremble , '' say the Ghost .
`` And what be that upon your cheek ? ''
Scrooge mutter , with an unusual catching in his voice , that it be a pimple ; and beg the Ghost to lead him where he would .
`` You recollect the way ? ''
inquire the Spirit .
`` Remember it ! ''
cry Scrooge with fervour ; `` I could walk it blindfold . ''
`` Strange to have forget it for so many year ! ''
observe the Ghost .
`` Let u go on . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` You recollect the way ? ''
inquire the spirit .
`` Remember it ! ''
cry Scrooge with fervour ; `` I could walk it blindfold . ''
-RSB- They walk along the road , Scrooge recognise every gate , and post , and tree , until a little market-town appear in the distance , with it bridge , it church , and wind river .
Some shaggy pony now be see trot towards them with boy upon their back , who call to other boy in country gig and cart , drive by farmer .
All these boy be in great spirit , and shout to each other , until the broad field be so full of merry music , that the crisp air laugh to hear it .
`` These be but shadow of the thing that have be , '' say the Ghost .
`` They have no consciousness of u . ''
The jocund traveller come on ; and a they come , Scrooge know and name them every one .
Why be he rejoice beyond all bound to see them ?
Why do his cold eye glisten , and his heart leap up a they go past ?
Why be he fill with gladness when he hear them give each other Merry Christmas , a they part at cross-roads and by-ways for their several home ?
What be merry Christmas to Scrooge ?
Out upon merry Christmas !
What good have it ever do to him ?
`` The school be not quite desert , '' say the Ghost .
`` A solitary child , neglect by his friend , be leave there still . ''
Scrooge say he know it .
And he sob .
They leave the high-road by a well-remembered lane , and soon approach a mansion of dull red brick , with a little weather-cock surmount cupola on the roof and a bell hang in it .
It be a large house , but one of broken fortune : for the spacious office be little used , their wall be damp and mossy , their window break , and their gate decay .
Fowls cluck and strut in the stable ; and the coach-houses and shed be overrun with grass .
Nor be it more retentive of it ancient state within ; for , enter the dreary hall , and glance through the open door of many room , they find them poorly furnish , cold , and vast .
There be an earthly savour in the air , a chilly bareness in the place , which associate itself somehow with too much get up by candle-light , and not too much to eat .
They go , the Ghost and Scrooge , across the hall , to a door at the back of the house .
It open before them , and disclose a long , bare , melancholy room , make barer still by line of plain deal form and desk .
At one of these a lonely boy be read near a feeble fire ; and Scrooge sit down upon a form , and weep to see his poor forgotten self a he have use to be .
Not a latent echo in the house , not a squeak and scuffle from the mouse behind the panelling , not a drip from the half-thawed water-spout in the dull yard behind , not a sigh among the leafless bough of one despondent poplar , not the idle swinging of an empty storehouse door , no , not a clicking in the fire , but fell upon the heart of Scrooge with soften influence , and give a freer passage to his tear .
The Spirit touch him on the arm , and point to his young self , intent upon his reading .
Suddenly a man in foreign garment : wonderfully real and distinct to look at : stood outside the window , with an axe stuck in his belt , and lead by the bridle an as laden with wood .
`` Why , it 's Ali Baba ! ''
Scrooge exclaim in ecstasy .
`` It 's dear old honest Ali Baba !
Yes , yes , I know .
One Christmas-time when yonder solitary child be leave here all alone , he do come , for the first time , just like that .
Poor boy !
And Valentine , '' say Scrooge , `` and his wild brother , Orson ; there they go !
And what 's his name , who be put down in his drawer , asleep , at the gate of Damascus ; do n't you see him ?
And the Sultan 's Groom turn upside down by the Genii : there he be upon his head !
Serve him right !
I 'm glad of it .
What business have he to be marry to the Princess ? ''
To hear Scrooge expend all the earnestness of his nature on such subject , in a most extraordinary voice between laugh and cry ; and to see his heighten and excited face ; would have be a surprise to his business friend in the City , indeed .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Why , it 's Ali Baba ! ''
Scrooge exclaim in ecstasy .
`` It 's dear old honest Ali Baba . ''
-RSB- `` There 's the Parrot ! ''
cry Scrooge .
`` Green body and yellow tail , with a thing like a lettuce grow out of the top of his head ; there he be !
Poor Robin Crusoe he call him , when he come home again after sail round the island .
` Poor Robin Crusoe , where have you be , Robin Crusoe ? '
The man think he be dream , but he be n't .
It be the Parrot , you know .
There go Friday , run for his life to the little creek !
Halloa !
Hoop !
Halloo ! ''
Then , with a rapidity of transition very foreign to his usual character , he say , in pity for his former self , `` Poor boy ! ''
and cry again .
`` I wish , '' Scrooge mutter , put his hand in his pocket , and look about him , after dry his eye with his cuff : `` but it 's too late now . ''
`` What be the matter ? ''
ask the Spirit .
`` Nothing , '' say Scrooge .
`` Nothing .
There be a boy sing a Christmas Carol at my door last night .
I should like to have give him something : that 's all . ''
The Ghost smile thoughtfully , and wave it hand : saying , a it do so , `` Let u see another Christmas ! ''
Scrooge 's former self grow large at the word , and the room become a little darker and more dirty .
The panel shrunk , the window crack ; fragment of plaster fell out of the ceiling , and the naked lath be show instead ; but how all this be bring about Scrooge know no more than you do .
He only know that it be quite correct : that everything have happen so ; that there he be , alone again , when all the other boy have go home for the jolly holiday .
He be not read now , but walk up and down despairingly .
Scrooge look at the Ghost , and , with a mournful shaking of his head , glance anxiously towards the door .
It open ; and a little girl , much young than the boy , come dart in , and , put her arm about his neck , and often kiss him , address him a her `` dear , dear brother . ''
`` I have come to bring you home , dear brother ! ''
say the child , clap her tiny hand , and bend down to laugh .
`` To bring you home , home , home ! ''
`` Home , little Fan ? ''
return the boy .
`` Yes ! ''
say the child , brimful of glee .
`` Home for good and all .
Home for ever and ever .
Father be so much kind than he use to be , that home 's like Heaven !
He speak so gently to me one dear night when I be go to bed , that I be not afraid to ask him once more if you might come home ; and he say Yes , you should ; and send me in a coach to bring you .
And you 're to be a man ! ''
say the child , open her eye ; `` and be never to come back here ; but first we 're to be together all the Christmas long , and have the merry time in all the world . ''
`` You be quite a woman , little Fan ! ''
exclaim the boy .
She clap her hand and laugh , and try to touch his head ; but , be too little , laugh again , and stand on tiptoe to embrace him .
Then she begin to drag him , in her childish eagerness , towards the door ; and he , nothing loath to go , accompany her .
A terrible voice in the hall cry , `` Bring down Master Scrooge 's box , there ! ''
and in the hall appear the schoolmaster himself , who glare on Master Scrooge with a ferocious condescension , and throw him into a dreadful state of mind by shake hand with him .
He then convey him and his sister into the veriest old well of a shivering best parlour that ever be see , where the map upon the wall , and the celestial and terrestrial globe in the window , be waxy with cold .
Here he produce a decanter of curiously light wine , and a block of curiously heavy cake , and administer instalment of those dainty to the young people : at the same time send out a meagre servant to offer a glass of `` something '' to the postboy who answer that he thank the gentleman , but , if it be the same tap a he have taste before , he have rather not .
Master Scrooge 's trunk be by this time tie on to the top of the chaise , the child bid the schoolmaster good-bye right willingly ; and , get into it , drive gaily down the garden sweep ; the quick wheel dash the hoar frost and snow from off the dark leaf of the evergreen like spray .
`` Always a delicate creature , whom a breath might have wither , '' say the Ghost .
`` But she have a large heart ! ''
`` So she have , '' cry Scrooge .
`` You 're right .
I will not gainsay it , Spirit .
God forbid ! ''
`` She die a woman , '' say the Ghost , `` and have , a I think , child . ''
`` One child , '' Scrooge return .
`` True , '' say the Ghost .
`` Your nephew ! ''
Scrooge seem uneasy in his mind ; and answer briefly , `` Yes . ''
Although they have but that moment leave the school behind them , they be now in the busy thoroughfare of a city , where shadowy passenger pass and repassed ; where shadowy cart and coach battle for the way , and all the strife and tumult of a real city be .
It be make plain enough , by the dressing of the shop , that here , too , it be Christmas-time again ; but it be even , and the street be light up .
The Ghost stop at a certain warehouse door , and ask Scrooge if he know it .
`` Know it ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` Was I apprentice here ? ''
They go in .
At sight of an old gentleman in a Welsh wig , sit behind such a high desk , that if he have be two inch taller , he must have knock his head against the ceiling , Scrooge cry in great excitement : `` Why , it 's old Fezziwig !
Bless his heart , it 's Fezziwig alive again ! ''
Old Fezziwig lay down his pen , and look up at the clock , which point to the hour of seven .
He rub his hand ; adjust his capacious waistcoat ; laugh all over himself , from his shoe to his organ of benevolence ; and call out , in a comfortable , oily , rich , fat , jovial voice : `` Yo ho , there !
Ebenezer !
Dick ! ''
Scrooge 's former self , now grow a young man , come briskly in , accompany by his fellow - ` prentice .
`` Dick Wilkins , to be sure ! ''
say Scrooge to the Ghost .
`` Bless me , yes .
There he be .
He be very much attach to me , be Dick .
Poor Dick !
Dear , dear ! ''
`` Yo ho , my boy ! ''
say Fezziwig .
`` No more work to-night .
Christmas-eve , Dick .
Christmas , Ebenezer !
Let 's have the shutter up , '' cry old Fezziwig with a sharp clap of his hand , `` before a man can say Jack Robinson ! ''
You would n't believe how those two fellow go at it !
They charge into the street with the shutter -- one , two , three -- have 'em up in their place -- four , five , six -- bar 'em and pin 'em -- seven , eight , nine -- and come back before you could have get to twelve , pant like race-horses .
`` Hilli-ho ! ''
cry old Fezziwig , skip down from the high desk with wonderful agility .
`` Clear away , my lad , and let 's have lot of room here !
Hilli-ho , Dick !
Chirrup , Ebenezer ! ''
Clear away !
There be nothing they would n't have clear away , or could n't have clear away , with old Fezziwig look on .
It be do in a minute .
Every movable be pack off , a if it be dismiss from public life for evermore ; the floor be sweep and water , the lamp be trim , fuel be heap upon the fire ; and the warehouse be a snug , and warm , and dry , and bright a ball-room a you would desire to see upon a winter 's night .
In come a fiddler with a music-book , and go up to the lofty desk , and make an orchestra of it , and tune like fifty stomachache .
In come Mrs. Fezziwig , one vast substantial smile .
In come the three Miss Fezziwigs , beam and lovable .
In come the six young follower whose heart they break .
In come all the young men and woman employ in the business .
In come the housemaid , with her cousin the baker .
In come the cook , with her brother 's particular friend the milkman .
In come the boy from over the way , who be suspect of not have board enough from his master ; try to hide himself behind the girl from next door but one , who be prove to have have her ear pull by her mistress .
In they all come , one after another ; some shyly , some boldly , some gracefully , some awkwardly , some push , some pulling ; in they all come , any how and every how .
Away they all go , twenty couple at once ; hand half round and back again the other way ; down the middle and up again ; round and round in various stage of affectionate grouping ; old top couple always turn up in the wrong place ; new top couple start off again as soon a they get there ; all top couple at last , and not a bottom one to help them !
When this result be bring about , old Fezziwig , clap his hand to stop the dance , cry out , `` Well do ! ''
and the fiddler plunge his hot face into a pot of porter , especially provide for that purpose .
But , scorn rest upon his reappearance , he instantly begin again , though there be no dancer yet , a if the other fiddler have be carry home , exhaust , on a shutter , and he be a bran-new man resolve to beat him out of sight , or perish .
There be more dance , and there be forfeit , and more dance , and there be cake , and there be negus , and there be a great piece of Cold Roast , and there be a great piece of Cold Boiled , and there be mince-pies , and plenty of beer .
But the great effect of the evening come after the Roast and Boiled , when the fiddler -LRB- an artful dog , mind !
The sort of man who know his business well than you or I could have tell it him ! -RRB-
strike up `` Sir Roger de Coverley . ''
Then old Fezziwig stand out to dance with Mrs. Fezziwig .
Top couple , too ; with a good stiff piece of work cut out for them ; three or four and twenty pair of partner ; people who be not to be trifle with ; people who would dance , and have no notion of walking .
But if they have be twice as many -- ah !
four time -- old Fezziwig would have be a match for them , and so would Mrs. Fezziwig .
As to her , she be worthy to be his partner in every sense of the term .
If that 's not high praise , tell me high , and I 'll use it .
A positive light appear to issue from Fezziwig 's calf .
They shine in every part of the dance like moon .
You could n't have predict , at any give time , what would become of them next .
And when old Fezziwig and Mrs. Fezziwig have go all through the dance ; advance and retire , both hand to your partner , bow and curtsy , cork-screw , thread-the-needle , and back again to your place ; Fezziwig `` cut '' -- cut so deftly , that he appear to wink with his leg , and come upon his foot again without a stagger .
When the clock strike eleven , this domestic ball break up .
Mr. and Mrs. Fezziwig take their station , one on either side the door , and , shake hand with every person individually a he or she go out , wish him or her a Merry Christmas .
When everybody have retire but the two ` prentice , they do the same to them ; and thus the cheerful voice die away , and the lad be leave to their bed ; which be under a counter in the back-shop .
During the whole of this time Scrooge have act like a man out of his wit .
His heart and soul be in the scene , and with his former self .
He corroborate everything , remember everything , enjoy everything , and undergo the strange agitation .
It be not until now , when the bright face of his former self and Dick be turn from them , that he remember the Ghost , and become conscious that it be look full upon him , while the light upon it head burnt very clear .
`` A small matter , '' say the Ghost , `` to make these silly folk so full of gratitude . ''
`` Small ! ''
echoed Scrooge .
The Spirit sign to him to listen to the two apprentice , who be pour out their heart in praise of Fezziwig ; and , when he have do so , say : `` Why !
Is it not ?
He have spend but a few pound of your mortal money : three or four , perhaps .
Is that so much that he deserve this praise ? ''
`` It be n't that , '' say Scrooge , heat by the remark , and speak unconsciously like his former , not his latter self .
`` It be n't that , Spirit .
He have the power to render u happy or unhappy ; to make our service light or burdensome ; a pleasure or a toil .
Say that his power lie in word and look ; in thing so slight and insignificant that it be impossible to add and count 'em up : what then ?
The happiness he give be quite as great a if it cost a fortune . ''
He felt the Spirit 's glance , and stop .
`` What be the matter ? ''
ask the Ghost .
`` Nothing particular , '' say Scrooge .
`` Something , I think ? ''
the Ghost insist .
`` No , '' say Scrooge , `` no .
I should like to be able to say a word or two to my clerk just now .
That 's all . ''
His former self turn down the lamp a he give utterance to the wish ; and Scrooge and the Ghost again stand side by side in the open air .
`` My time grow short , '' observe the Spirit .
`` Quick ! ''
This be not address to Scrooge , or to any one whom he could see , but it produce an immediate effect .
For again Scrooge saw himself .
He be old now ; a man in the prime of life .
His face have not the harsh and rigid line of late year ; but it have begin to wear the sign of care and avarice .
There be an eager , greedy , restless motion in the eye , which show the passion that have take root , and where the shadow of the grow tree would fall .
He be not alone , but sat by the side of a fair young girl in a mourning dress : in whose eye there be tear , which sparkle in the light that shine out of the Ghost of Christmas Past .
`` It matter little , '' she say softly .
`` To you , very little .
Another idol have displace me ; and , if it can cheer and comfort you in time to come a I would have try to do , I have no just cause to grieve . ''
`` What Idol have displace you ? ''
he rejoin .
`` A golden one . ''
`` This be the even-handed dealing of the world ! ''
he say .
`` There be nothing on which it be so hard a poverty ; and there be nothing it profess to condemn with such severity a the pursuit of wealth ! ''
`` You fear the world too much , '' she answer gently .
`` All your other hope have merge into the hope of be beyond the chance of it sordid reproach .
I have see your noble aspiration fall off one by one , until the master passion , Gain , engross you .
Have I not ? ''
`` What then ? ''
he retort .
`` Even if I have grow so much wiser , what then ?
I be not change towards you . ''
She shake her head .
`` Am I ? ''
`` Our contract be an old one .
It be make when we be both poor , and content to be so , until , in good season , we could improve our worldly fortune by our patient industry .
You be change .
When it be make you be another man . ''
`` I be a boy , '' he say impatiently .
`` Your own feeling tell you that you be not what you be , '' she return .
`` I be .
That which promise happiness when we be one in heart be fraught with misery now that we be two .
How often and how keenly I have think of this I will not say .
It be enough that I have think of it , and can release you . ''
`` Have I ever seek release ? ''
`` In word .
No .
Never . ''
`` In what , then ? ''
`` In a changed nature ; in an altered spirit ; in another atmosphere of life ; another Hope a it great end .
In everything that make my love of any worth or value in your sight .
If this have never be between u , '' say the girl , look mildly , but with steadiness , upon him , `` tell me , would you seek me out and try to win me now ?
Ah , no ! ''
He seem to yield to the justice of this supposition in spite of himself .
But he say , with a struggle , `` You think not . ''
`` I would gladly think otherwise if I could , '' she answer .
`` Heaven know !
When I have learn a Truth like this , I know how strong and irresistible it must be .
But if you be free to-day , to-morrow , yesterday , can even I believe that you would choose a dowerless girl -- you who , in your very confidence with her , weigh everything by Gain : or , choose her , if for a moment you be false enough to your one guide principle to do so , do I not know that your repentance and regret would surely follow ?
I do ; and I release you .
With a full heart , for the love of him you once be . ''
He be about to speak ; but , with her head turn from him , she resume .
`` You may -- the memory of what be past half make me hope you will -- have pain in this .
A very , very brief time , and you will dismiss the recollection of it gladly , a an unprofitable dream , from which it happen well that you awake .
May you be happy in the life you have choose ! ''
She leave him , and they part .
`` Spirit ! ''
say Scrooge , `` show me no more !
Conduct me home .
Why do you delight to torture me ? ''
`` One shadow more ! ''
exclaim the Ghost .
`` No more ! ''
cry Scrooge .
`` No more !
I do n't wish to see it .
Show me no more ! ''
But the relentless Ghost pinion him in both his arm , and force him to observe what happen next .
They be in another scene and place ; a room , not very large or handsome , but full of comfort .
Near to the winter fire sit a beautiful young girl , so like that last that Scrooge believe it be the same , until he saw her , now a comely matron , sit opposite her daughter .
The noise in this room be perfectly tumultuous , for there be more child there than Scrooge in his agitated state of mind could count ; and , unlike the celebrated herd in the poem , they be not forty child conduct themselves like one , but every child be conduct itself like forty .
The consequence be uproarious beyond belief ; but no one seem to care ; on the contrary , the mother and daughter laugh heartily , and enjoy it very much ; and the latter , soon begin to mingle in the sport , get pillage by the young brigands most ruthlessly .
What would I not have give to be one of them !
Though I never could have be so rude , no , no !
I would n't for the wealth of all the world have crush that braid hair , and tear it down ; and , for the precious little shoe , I would n't have pluck it off , God bless my soul !
to save my life .
As to measure her waist in sport , a they do , bold young brood , I could n't have do it ; I should have expect my arm to have grow round it for a punishment , and never come straight again .
And yet I should have dearly like , I own , to have touch her lip ; to have question her , that she might have open them ; to have look upon the lash of her downcast eye , and never raise a blush ; to have let loose wave of hair , an inch of which would be a keepsake beyond price : in short , I should have like , I do confess , to have have the light licence of a child , and yet to have be man enough to know it value .
But now a knocking at the door be hear , and such a rush immediately ensue that she , with laugh face and plundered dress , be borne towards it in the centre of a flushed and boisterous group , just in time to greet the father , who come home attend by a man laden with Christmas toy and present .
Then the shouting and the struggling , and the onslaught that be make on the defenceless porter !
The scaling him , with chair for ladder , to dive into his pocket , despoil him of brown-paper parcel , hold on tight by his cravat , hug him round the neck , pummel his back , and kick his leg in irrepressible affection !
The shout of wonder and delight with which the development of every package be receive !
The terrible announcement that the baby have be take in the act of put a doll 's frying-pan into his mouth , and be more than suspect of have swallow a fictitious turkey , glue on a wooden platter !
The immense relief of find this a false alarm !
The joy , and gratitude , and ecstasy !
They be all indescribable alike .
It be enough that by degree , the child and their emotion get out of the parlour , and , by one stair at a time , up to the top of the house , where they go to bed , and so subsided .
And now Scrooge look on more attentively than ever , when the master of the house , have his daughter lean fondly on him , sit down with her and her mother at his own fireside ; and when he think that such another creature , quite a graceful and a full of promise , might have call him father , and be a spring-time in the haggard winter of his life , his sight grow very dim indeed .
`` Belle , '' say the husband , turn to his wife with a smile , `` I saw an old friend of yours this afternoon . ''
`` Who be it ? ''
`` Guess ! ''
`` How can I ?
Tut , do n't I know ? ''
she add in the same breath , laugh a he laugh .
`` Mr. Scrooge . ''
`` Mr. Scrooge it be .
I pass his office window ; and a it be not shut up , and he have a candle inside , I could scarcely help see him .
His partner lie upon the point of death , I hear ; and there he sit alone .
Quite alone in the world , I do believe . ''
`` Spirit ! ''
say Scrooge in a broken voice , `` remove me from this place . ''
`` I tell you these be shadow of the thing that have be , '' say the Ghost .
`` That they be what they be , do not blame me ! ''
`` Remove me ! ''
Scrooge exclaim .
`` I can not bear it ! ''
He turn upon the Ghost , and see that it look upon him with a face in which in some strange way there be fragment of all the face it have show him , wrestle with it .
`` Leave me !
Take me back !
Haunt me no longer ! ''
In the struggle -- if that can be call a struggle in which the Ghost , with no visible resistance on it own part , be undisturbed by any effort of it adversary -- Scrooge observe that it light be burn high and bright ; and dimly connect that with it influence over him , he seize the extinguisher cap , and by a sudden action press it down upon it head .
The Spirit drop beneath it , so that the extinguisher cover it whole form ; but , though Scrooge press it down with all his force , he could not hide the light , which stream from under it in an unbroken flood upon the ground .
He be conscious of be exhaust , and overcome by an irresistible drowsiness ; and , far , of be in his own bedroom .
He give the cap a parting squeeze , in which his hand relax ; and have barely time to reel to bed before he sink into a heavy sleep .
STAVE THREE THE SECOND OF THE THREE SPIRITS Awaking in the middle of a prodigiously tough snore , and sit up in bed to get his thought together , Scrooge have no occasion to be tell that the bell be again upon the stroke of One .
He felt that he be restore to consciousness in the right nick of time , for the especial purpose of hold a conference with the second messenger dispatch to him through Jacob Marley 's intervention .
But , find that he turn uncomfortably cold when he begin to wonder which of his curtain this new spectre would draw back , he put them every one aside with his own hand , and , lie down again , establish a sharp look-out all round the bed .
For he wish to challenge the Spirit on the moment of it appearance , and do not wish to be take by surprise and make nervous .
Gentlemen of the free-and-easy sort , who plume themselves on be acquaint with a move or two , and be usually equal to the time of day , express the wide range of their capacity for adventure by observe that they be good for anything from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter ; between which opposite extreme , no doubt , there lie a tolerably wide and comprehensive range of subject .
Without venture for Scrooge quite as hardily a this , I do n't mind call on you to believe that he be ready for a good broad field of strange appearance , and that nothing between a baby and a rhinoceros would have astonish him very much .
Now , be prepare for almost anything , he be not by any mean prepare for nothing ; and consequently , when the bell strike One , and no shape appear , he be take with a violent fit of trembling .
Five minute , ten minute , a quarter of an hour go by , yet nothing come .
All this time he lay upon his bed , the very core and centre of a blaze of ruddy light , which stream upon it when the clock proclaim the hour ; and which , be only light , be more alarming than a dozen ghost , a he be powerless to make out what it mean , or would be at ; and be sometimes apprehensive that he might be at that very moment an interesting case of spontaneous combustion , without have the consolation of know it .
At last , however , he begin to think -- a you or I would have think at first ; for it be always the person not in the predicament who know what ought to have be do in it , and would unquestionably have do it too -- at last , I say , he begin to think that the source and secret of this ghostly light might be in the adjoining room , from whence , on further trace it , it seem to shine .
This idea take full possession of his mind , he get up softly , and shuffle in his slipper to the door .
The moment Scrooge 's hand be on the lock , a strange voice call him by his name , and bid him enter .
He obey .
It be his own room .
There be no doubt about that .
But it have undergone a surprising transformation .
The wall and ceiling be so hung with living green , that it look a perfect grove ; from every part of which bright gleam berry glisten .
The crisp leave of holly , mistletoe , and ivy reflect back the light , a if so many little mirror have be scatter there ; and such a mighty blaze go roar up the chimney a that dull petrifaction of a hearth have never know in Scrooge 's time , or Marley 's , or for many and many a winter season go .
Heaped up on the floor , to form a kind of throne , be turkey , geese , game , poultry , brawn , great joint of meat , sucking-pigs , long wreath of sausage , mince-pies , plum-puddings , barrel of oyster , red-hot chestnut , cherry-cheeked apple , juicy orange , luscious pear , immense twelfth-cakes , and seethe bowl of punch , that make the chamber dim with their delicious steam .
In easy state upon this couch there sit a jolly Giant , glorious to see ; who bore a glowing torch , in shape not unlike Plenty 's horn , and hold it up , high up , to shed it light on Scrooge a he come peep round the door .
`` Come in ! ''
exclaim the Ghost .
`` Come in !
and know me good , man ! ''
Scrooge enter timidly , and hang his head before this Spirit .
He be not the dogged Scrooge he have be ; and , though the Spirit 's eye be clear and kind , he do not like to meet them .
`` I be the Ghost of Christmas Present , '' say the Spirit .
`` Look upon me ! ''
Scrooge reverently do so .
It be clothe in one simple deep green robe , or mantle , border with white fur .
This garment hung so loosely on the figure , that it capacious breast be bare , a if disdaining to be ward or conceal by any artifice .
Its foot , observable beneath the ample fold of the garment , be also bare ; and on it head it wear no other cover than a holly wreath , set here and there with shin icicle .
Its dark brown curl be long and free ; free a it genial face , it sparkle eye , it open hand , it cheery voice , it unconstrained demeanour , and it joyful air .
Girded round it middle be an antique scabbard ; but no sword be in it , and the ancient sheath be eat up with rust .
`` You have never see the like of me before ! ''
exclaim the Spirit .
`` Never , '' Scrooge make answer to it .
`` Have never walk forth with the young member of my family ; mean -LRB- for I be very young -RRB- my elder brother bear in these late year ? ''
pursue the Phantom .
`` I do n't think I have , '' say Scrooge .
`` I be afraid I have not .
Have you have many brother , Spirit ? ''
`` More than eighteen hundred , '' say the Ghost .
`` A tremendous family to provide for , '' mutter Scrooge .
The Ghost of Christmas Present rise .
`` Spirit , '' say Scrooge submissively , `` conduct me where you will .
I go forth last night on compulsion , and I learn a lesson which be work now .
To-night , if you have aught to teach me , let me profit by it . ''
`` Touch my robe ! ''
Scrooge do a he be tell , and hold it fast .
Holly , mistletoe , red berry , ivy , turkey , geese , game , poultry , brawn , meat , pig , sausage , oyster , pie , pudding , fruit , and punch , all vanish instantly .
So do the room , the fire , the ruddy glow , the hour of night , and they stand in the city street on Christmas morning , where -LRB- for the weather be severe -RRB- the people make a rough , but brisk and not unpleasant kind of music , in scrap the snow from the pavement in front of their dwelling , and from the top of their house , whence it be mad delight to the boy to see it come plump down into the road below , and split into artificial little snow-storms .
The house-fronts look black enough , and the window blacker , contrast with the smooth white sheet of snow upon the roof , and with the dirtier snow upon the ground ; which last deposit have be plough up in deep furrow by the heavy wheel of cart and waggon ; furrow that cross and recrossed each other hundred of time where the great street branch off ; and make intricate channel , hard to trace , in the thick yellow mud and icy water .
The sky be gloomy , and the short street be choke up with a dingy mist , half thaw , half frozen , whose heavy particle descend in a shower of sooty atom , a if all the chimney in Great Britain have , by one consent , caught fire , and be blaze away to their dear heart ' content .
There be nothing very cheerful in the climate or the town , and yet be there an air of cheerfulness abroad that the clear summer air and bright summer sun might have endeavour to diffuse in vain .
For , the people who be shovel away on the housetop be jovial and full of glee ; call out to one another from the parapet , and now and then exchange a facetious snowball -- better-natured missile far than many a wordy jest -- laugh heartily if it go right , and not less heartily if it go wrong .
The poulterer ' shop be still half open , and the fruiterer ' be radiant in their glory .
There be great , round , pot-bellied basket of chestnut , shape like the waistcoat of jolly old gentleman , loll at the door , and tumble out into the street in their apoplectic opulence .
There be ruddy , brown-faced , broad-girthed Spanish onion , shin in the fatness of their growth like Spanish Friars , and wink from their shelf in wanton slyness at the girl a they go by , and glance demurely at the hung-up mistletoe .
There be pear and apple cluster high in bloom pyramid ; there be bunch of grape , make , in the shopkeeper ' benevolence , to dangle from conspicuous hook that people 's mouth might water gratis a they pass ; there be pile of filbert , mossy and brown , recall , in their fragrance , ancient walk among the wood , and pleasant shuffling ankle deep through withered leaf ; there be Norfolk Biffins , squab and swarthy , set off the yellow of the orange and lemon , and , in the great compactness of their juicy person , urgently entreat and beseech to be carry home in paper bag , and eaten after dinner .
The very gold and silver fish , set forth among these choice fruit in a bowl , though member of a dull and stagnant-blooded race , appear to know that there be something go on ; and , to a fish , go gasp round and round their little world in slow and passionless excitement .
The Grocers ' !
oh , the Grocers ' !
nearly close , with perhaps two shutter down , or one ; but through those gap such glimpse !
It be not alone that the scale descend on the counter make a merry sound , or that the twine and roller part company so briskly , or that the canister be rattle up and down like juggle trick , or even that the blended scent of tea and coffee be so grateful to the nose , or even that the raisin be so plentiful and rare , the almond so extremely white , the stick of cinnamon so long and straight , the other spice so delicious , the candied fruit so caked and spot with molten sugar a to make the cold lookers-on feel faint , and subsequently bilious .
Nor be it that the fig be moist and pulpy , or that the French plum blush in modest tartness from their highly-decorated box , or that everything be good to eat and in it Christmas dress ; but the customer be all so hurried and so eager in the hopeful promise of the day , that they tumble up against each other at the door , crash their wicker basket wildly , and leave their purchase upon the counter , and come run back to fetch them , and commit hundred of the like mistake , in the best humour possible ; while the Grocer and his people be so frank and fresh , that the polished heart with which they fasten their apron behind might have be their own , worn outside for general inspection , and for Christmas daw to peck at if they choose .
But soon the steeple call good people all to church and chapel , and away they come , flock through the street in their best clothes , and with their gay face .
And at the same time there emerge , from score of by-streets , lane , and nameless turning , innumerable people , carry their dinner to the baker ' shop .
The sight of these poor reveller appear to interest the Spirit very much , for he stand with Scrooge beside him in a baker 's doorway , and , take off the cover a their bearer pass , sprinkle incense on their dinner from his torch .
And it be a very uncommon kind of torch , for once or twice , when there be angry word between some dinner-carriers who have jostle each other , he shed a few drop of water on them from it , and their good-humour be restore directly .
For they say , it be a shame to quarrel upon Christmas-day .
And so it be !
God love it , so it be !
In time the bell cease , and the baker be shut up ; and yet there be a genial shadow forth of all these dinner , and the progress of their cooking , in the thawed blotch of wet above each baker 's oven ; where the pavement smoke a if it stone be cook too .
`` Is there a peculiar flavour in what you sprinkle from your torch ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` There be .
My own . ''
`` Would it apply to any kind of dinner on this day ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` To any kindly give .
To a poor one most . ''
`` Why to a poor one most ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` Because it need it most . ''
`` Spirit ! ''
say Scrooge after a moment 's thought .
`` I wonder you , of all the being in the many world about u , should desire to cramp these people 's opportunity of innocent enjoyment . ''
`` I ! ''
cry the Spirit .
`` You would deprive them of their mean of din every seventh day , often the only day on which they can be say to dine at all , '' say Scrooge ; `` would n't you ? ''
`` I ! ''
cry the Spirit .
`` You seek to close these place on the Seventh Day , '' say Scrooge .
`` And it come to the same thing . '' ''
I seek ! ''
exclaim the Spirit .
`` Forgive me if I be wrong .
It have be do in your name , or at least in that of your family , '' say Scrooge .
`` There be some upon this earth of yours , '' return the Spirit , `` who lay claim to know u , and who do their deed of passion , pride , ill-will , hatred , envy , bigotry , and selfishness in our name , who be a strange to u , and all our kith and kin , a if they have never live .
Remember that , and charge their doings on themselves , not u . ''
Scrooge promise that he would ; and they go on , invisible , a they have be before , into the suburb of the town .
It be a remarkable quality of the Ghost -LRB- which Scrooge have observe at the baker 's -RRB- , that , notwithstanding his gigantic size , he could accommodate himself to any place with ease ; and that he stand beneath a low roof quite a gracefully and like a supernatural creature a it be possible he could have do in any lofty hall .
And perhaps it be the pleasure the good Spirit have in show off this power of his , or else it be his own kind , generous , hearty nature , and his sympathy with all poor men , that lead him straight to Scrooge 's clerk 's ; for there he go , and take Scrooge with him , hold to his robe ; and , on the threshold of the door , the Spirit smile , and stop to bless Bob Cratchit 's dwell with the sprinkling of his torch .
Think of that !
Bob have but fifteen `` Bob '' a week himself ; he pocket on Saturdays but fifteen copy of his Christian name ; and yet the Ghost of Christmas Present bless his four-roomed house !
Then up rise Mrs. Cratchit , Cratchit 's wife , dress out but poorly in a twice-turned gown , but brave in ribbon , which be cheap , and make a goodly show for sixpence ; and she lay the cloth , assist by Belinda Cratchit , second of her daughter , also brave in ribbon ; while Master Peter Cratchit plunge a fork into the saucepan of potato , and , get the corner of his monstrous shirt collar -LRB- Bob 's private property , confer upon his son and heir in honour of the day -RRB- into his mouth , rejoice to find himself so gallantly attire , and yearn to show his linen in the fashionable Parks .
And now two small Cratchits , boy and girl , come tear in , scream that outside the baker 's they have smelt the goose , and know it for their own ; and , bask in luxurious thought of sage and onion , these young Cratchits dance about the table , and exalt Master Peter Cratchit to the sky , while he -LRB- not proud , although his collar nearly choke him -RRB- blew the fire , until the slow potato , bubble up , knock loudly at the saucepan lid to be let out and peel .
`` What have ever get your precious father , then ? ''
say Mrs. Cratchit .
`` And your brother , Tiny Tim ?
And Martha war n't as late last Christmas-day by half an hour ! ''
`` Here 's Martha , mother ! ''
say a girl , appear a she speak .
`` Here 's Martha , mother ! ''
cry the two young Cratchits .
`` Hurrah !
There 's such a goose , Martha ! ''
`` Why , bless your heart alive , my dear , how late you be ! ''
say Mrs. Cratchit , kiss her a dozen time , and take off her shawl and bonnet for her with officious zeal .
`` We 'd a deal of work to finish up last night , '' reply the girl , `` and have to clear away this morning , mother ! ''
`` Well !
never mind so long a you be come , '' say Mrs. Cratchit .
`` Sit ye down before the fire , my dear , and have a warm , Lord bless ye ! ''
`` No , no !
There 's father come , '' cry the two young Cratchits , who be everywhere at once .
`` Hide , Martha , hide ! ''
So Martha hid herself , and in come little Bob , the father , with at least three foot of comforter , exclusive of the fringe , hang down before him ; and his threadbare clothes darn up and brush to look seasonable ; and Tiny Tim upon his shoulder .
Alas for Tiny Tim , he bore a little crutch , and have his limb support by an iron frame !
`` Why , where 's our Martha ? ''
cry Bob Cratchit , look round .
`` Not come , '' say Mrs. Cratchit .
`` Not come ! ''
say Bob with a sudden declension in his high spirit ; for he have be Tim 's blood horse all the way from church , and have come home rampant .
`` Not come upon Christmas-day ! ''
Martha do n't like to see him disappointed , if it be only in joke ; so she come out prematurely from behind the closet door , and run into his arm , while the two young Cratchits hustle Tiny Tim , and bore him off into the wash-house , that he might hear the pudding singing in the copper .
`` And how do little Tim behave ? ''
ask Mrs. Cratchit when she have rally Bob on his credulity , and Bob have hug his daughter to his heart 's content .
`` As good a gold , '' say Bob , `` and good .
Somehow , he get thoughtful , sit by himself so much , and think the strange thing you ever hear .
He tell me , come home , that he hop the people saw him in the church , because he be a cripple , and it might be pleasant to them to remember upon Christmas-day who make lame beggar walk and blind men see . ''
Bob 's voice be tremulous when he tell them this , and tremble more when he say that Tiny Tim be grow strong and hearty .
His active little crutch be hear upon the floor , and back come Tiny Tim before another word be speak , escort by his brother and sister to his stool beside the fire ; and while Bob , turn up his cuff -- a if , poor fellow , they be capable of be make more shabby -- compound some hot mixture in a jug with gin and lemon , and stir it round and round , and put it on the hob to simmer , Master Peter and the two ubiquitous young Cratchits go to fetch the goose , with which they soon return in high procession .
Such a bustle ensued that you might have think a goose the rarest of all bird ; a feathered phenomenon , to which a black swan be a matter of course -- and , in truth , it be something very like it in that house .
Mrs. Cratchit make the gravy -LRB- ready beforehand in a little saucepan -RRB- hiss hot ; Master Peter mash the potato with incredible vigour ; Miss Belinda sweeten up the apple sauce ; Martha dust the hot plate ; Bob take Tiny Tim beside him in a tiny corner at the table ; the two young Cratchits set chair for everybody , not forget themselves , and , mount guard upon their post , cram spoon into their mouth , l they should shriek for goose before their turn come to be help .
At last the dish be set on , and grace be say .
It be succeed by a breathless pause , a Mrs. Cratchit , look slowly all along the carving-knife , prepare to plunge it in the breast ; but when she do , and when the long-expected gush of stuff issue forth , one murmur of delight arise all round the board , and even Tiny Tim , excite by the two young Cratchits , beat on the table with the handle of his knife , and feebly cry Hurrah !
There never be such a goose .
Bob say he do n't believe there ever be such a goose cooked .
Its tenderness and flavour , size and cheapness , be the theme of universal admiration .
Eked out by apple sauce and mash potato , it be a sufficient dinner for the whole family ; indeed , a Mrs. Cratchit say with great delight -LRB- survey one small atom of a bone upon the dish -RRB- , they have n't eat it all at last !
Yet every one have have enough , and the young Cratchits , in particular , be steep in sage and onion to the eyebrow !
But now , the plate be change by Miss Belinda , Mrs. Cratchit leave the room alone -- too nervous to bear witness -- to take the pudding up , and bring it in .
Suppose it should not be do enough !
Suppose it should break in turn out !
Suppose somebody should have get over the wall of the back-yard and steal it , while they be merry with the goose -- a supposition at which the two young Cratchits become livid !
All sort of horror be suppose .
Hallo !
A great deal of steam !
The pudding be out of the copper .
A smell like a washing-day !
That be the cloth .
A smell like an eating-house and a pastrycook 's next door to each other , with a laundress 's next door to that !
That be the pudding !
In half a minute Mrs. Cratchit enter -- flush , but smile proudly -- with the pudding , like a speckled cannon-ball , so hard and firm , blaze in half of half-a-quartern of ignited brandy , and bedight with Christmas holly stick into the top .
Oh , a wonderful pudding !
Bob Cratchit say , and calmly too , that he regard it a the great success achieve by Mrs. Cratchit since their marriage .
Mrs. Cratchit say that , now the weight be off her mind , she would confess she have her doubt about the quantity of flour .
Everybody have something to say about it , but nobody say or think it be at all a small pudding for a large family .
It would have be flat heresy to do so .
Any Cratchit would have blush to hint at such a thing .
At last the dinner be all do , the cloth be clear , the hearth sweep , and the fire make up .
The compound in the jug be taste , and consider perfect , apple and orange be put upon the table , and a shovel full of chestnut on the fire .
Then all the Cratchit family draw round the hearth in what Bob Cratchit call a circle , mean half a one ; and at Bob Cratchit 's elbow stand the family display of glass .
Two tumbler and a custard cup without a handle .
These hold the hot stuff from the jug , however , as well a golden goblet would have do ; and Bob serve it out with beam look , while the chestnut on the fire sputter and crack noisily .
Then Bob propose : `` A merry Christmas to u all , my dear .
God bless u ! ''
Which all the family re-echoed .
`` God bless u every one ! ''
say Tiny Tim , the last of all .
He sit very close to his father 's side , upon his little stool .
Bob hold his withered little hand in his , a if he love the child , and wish to keep him by his side , and dread that he might be take from him .
`` Spirit , '' say Scrooge with an interest he have never felt before , `` tell me if Tiny Tim will live . ''
`` I see a vacant seat , '' reply the Ghost , `` in the poor chimney-corner , and a crutch without an owner , carefully preserve .
If these shadow remain unaltered by the Future , the child will die . ''
`` No , no , '' say Scrooge .
`` Oh , no , kind Spirit !
say he will be spar . ''
`` If these shadow remain unaltered by the Future , none other of my race , '' return the Ghost , `` will find him here .
What then ?
If he be like to die , he have well do it , and decrease the surplus population . ''
Scrooge hang his head to hear his own word quote by the Spirit , and be overcome with penitence and grief .
`` Man , '' say the Ghost , `` if man you be in heart , not adamant , forbear that wicked cant until you have discover What the surplus be , and Where it be .
Will you decide what men shall live , what men shall die ?
It may be that , in the sight of Heaven , you be more worthless and less fit to live than million like this poor man 's child .
Oh God !
to hear the Insect on the leaf pronounce on the too much life among his hungry brother in the dust ! ''
Scrooge bent before the Ghost 's rebuke , and , tremble , cast his eye upon the ground .
But he raise them speedily on hear his own name .
`` Mr. Scrooge ! ''
say Bob .
`` I 'll give you Mr. Scrooge , the Founder of the Feast ! ''
`` The Founder of the Feast , indeed ! ''
cried Mrs. Cratchit , redden .
`` I wish I have him here .
I 'd give him a piece of my mind to feast upon , and I hope he 'd have a good appetite for it . ''
`` My dear , '' say Bob , `` the child !
Christmas-day . ''
`` It should be Christmas-day , I be sure , '' say she , `` on which one drink the health of such an odious , stingy , hard , unfeeling man a Mr. Scrooge .
You know he be , Robert !
Nobody know it good than you do , poor fellow ! ''
`` My dear ! ''
be Bob 's mild answer .
`` Christmas-day . ''
`` I 'll drink his health for your sake and the Day 's , '' say Mrs. Cratchit , `` not for his .
Long life to him !
A merry Christmas and a happy New Year !
He 'll be very merry and very happy , I have no doubt ! ''
The child drink the toast after her .
It be the first of their proceeding which have no heartiness in it .
Tiny Tim drink it last of all , but he do n't care twopence for it .
Scrooge be the Ogre of the family .
The mention of his name cast a dark shadow on the party , which be not dispel for full five minute .
After it have pass away they be ten time merrier than before , from the mere relief of Scrooge the Baleful be do with .
Bob Cratchit tell them how he have a situation in his eye for Master Peter , which would bring in , if obtain , full five-and-sixpence weekly .
The two young Cratchits laugh tremendously at the idea of Peter 's be a man of business ; and Peter himself look thoughtfully at the fire from between his collar , a if he be deliberate what particular investment he should favour when he come into the receipt of that bewildering income .
Martha , who be a poor apprentice at a milliner 's , then tell them what kind of work she have to do , and how many hour she work at a stretch , and how she mean to lie abed to-morrow morning for a good long rest ; to-morrow be a holiday she pass at home .
Also how she have see a countess and a lord some day before , and how the lord `` be much about as tall a Peter '' ; at which Peter pull up his collar so high , that you could n't have see his head if you have be there .
All this time the chestnut and the jug go round and round ; and by-and-by they have a song , about a lost child travel in the snow , from Tiny Tim , who have a plaintive little voice , and sing it very well indeed .
There be nothing of high mark in this .
They be not a handsome family ; they be not well dress ; their shoe be far from be waterproof ; their clothes be scanty ; and Peter might have know , and very likely do , the inside of a pawn-broker 's .
But they be happy , grateful , pleased with one another , and content with the time ; and when they fade , and look happy yet in the bright sprinkling of the Spirit 's torch at parting , Scrooge have his eye upon them , and especially on Tiny Tim , until the last .
By this time it be get dark , and snow pretty heavily ; and a Scrooge and the Spirit go along the street , the brightness of the roaring fire in kitchen , parlour , and all sort of room be wonderful .
Here , the flickering of the blaze show preparation for a cosy dinner , with hot plate bake through and through before the fire , and deep red curtain , ready to be draw to shut out cold and darkness .
There , all the child of the house be run out into the snow to meet their married sister , brother , cousin , uncle , aunt , and be the first to greet them .
Here , again , be shadow on the window blind of guest assemble ; and there a group of handsome girl , all hood and fur-booted , and all chattering at once , trip lightly off to some near neighbour 's house ; where , woe upon the single man who saw them enter -- artful witch , well they know it -- in a glow !
But , if you have judge from the number of people on their way to friendly gathering , you might have think that no one be at home to give them welcome when they get there , instead of every house expect company , and pile up it fire half-chimney high .
Blessings on it , how the Ghost exult !
How it bar it breadth of breast , and open it capacious palm , and float on , outpouring , with a generous hand , it bright and harmless mirth on everything within it reach !
The very lamp-lighter , who run on before , dot the dusky street with speck of light , and who be dress to spend the evening somewhere , laugh out loudly a the Spirit pass , though little kenned the lamp-lighter that he have any company but Christmas .
And now , without a word of warn from the Ghost , they stand upon a bleak and desert moor , where monstrous mass of rude stone be cast about , a though it be the burial-place or giant ; and water spread itself wheresoever it list ; or would have do so , but for the frost that hold it prisoner ; and nothing grow but moss and furze , and coarse , rank grass .
Down in the west the set sun have leave a streak of fiery red , which glare upon the desolation for an instant , like a sullen eye , and , frown lower , low , low yet , be lose in the thick gloom of darkest night .
`` What place be this ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` A place where Miners live , who labour in the bowel of the earth , '' return the Spirit .
`` But they know me .
See ! ''
A light shone from the window of a hut , and swiftly they advance towards it .
Passing through the wall of mud and stone , they find a cheerful company assemble round a glowing fire .
An old , old man and woman , with their child and their child 's child , and another generation beyond that , all deck out gaily in their holiday attire .
The old man , in a voice that seldom rise above the howling of the wind upon the barren waste , be sing them a Christmas song ; it have be a very old song when he be a boy ; and from time to time they all join in the chorus .
So surely a they raise their voice , the old man get quite blithe and loud ; and , so surely a they stop , his vigour sank again .
The Spirit do not tarry here , but bid Scrooge hold his robe , and , pass on above the moor , speed whither ?
Not to sea ?
To sea .
To Scrooge 's horror , look back , he saw the last of the land , a frightful range of rock , behind them ; and his ear be deafen by the thundering of water , a it roll and roar , and rag among the dreadful cavern it have wear , and fiercely try to undermine the earth .
Built upon a dismal reef of sunken rock , some league or so from shore , on which the water chafe and dash , the wild year through , there stand a solitary lighthouse .
Great heap of seaweed clung to it base , and storm-birds -- born of the wind , one might suppose , a seaweed of the water -- rise and fell about it , like the wave they skim .
But , even here , two men who watch the light have make a fire that through the loophole in the thick stone wall shed out a ray of brightness on the awful sea .
Joining their horny hand over the rough table at which they sit , they wish each other Merry Christmas in their can of grog ; and one of them , the elder too , with his face all damage and scar with hard weather , a the figure-head of an old ship might be , strike up a sturdy song that be like a gale in itself .
Again the Ghost speed on , above the black and heave sea -- on , on -- until , be far away , a he tell Scrooge , from any shore , they light on a ship .
They stand beside the helmsman at the wheel , the look-out in the bow , the officer who have the watch ; dark , ghostly figure in their several station ; but every man among them hum a Christmas tune , or have a Christmas thought , or speak below his breath to his companion of some bygone Christmas-day , with homeward hope belong to it .
And every man on board , wake or sleeping , good or bad , have have a kinder word for one another on that day than on any day in the year ; and have share to some extent in it festivity ; and have remember those he care for at a distance , and have know that they delight to remember him .
It be a great surprise to Scrooge , while listen to the moaning of the wind , and think what a solemn thing it be to move on through the lonely darkness over an unknown abyss , whose depth be secret as profound a death : it be a great surprise to Scrooge , while thus engage , to hear a hearty laugh .
It be a much great surprise to Scrooge to recognise it a his own nephew 's , and to find himself in a bright , dry , gleaming room , with the Spirit stand smile by his side , and look at that same nephew with approve affability !
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laugh Scrooge 's nephew .
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
If you should happen , by any unlikely chance , to know a man more bless in a laugh than Scrooge 's nephew , all I can say be , I should like to know him too .
Introduce him to me , and I 'll cultivate his acquaintance .
It be a fair , even-handed , noble adjustment of thing , that , while there be infection in disease and sorrow , there be nothing in the world so irresistibly contagious a laughter and good-humour .
When Scrooge 's nephew laugh in this way , hold his side , roll his head , and twist his face into the most extravagant contortion , Scrooge 's niece , by marriage , laugh as heartily a he .
And their assembled friend , be not a bit behindhand , roar out lustily .
`` Ha , ha !
Ha , ha , ha , ha ! ''
`` He say that Christmas be a humbug , a I live ! ''
cry Scrooge 's nephew .
`` He believe it , too ! ''
`` More shame for him , Fred ! ''
say Scrooge 's niece indignantly .
Bless those woman !
they never do anything by half .
They be always in earnest .
She be very pretty ; exceedingly pretty .
With a dimpled , surprised-looking , capital face ; a ripe little mouth , that seem make to be kiss -- a no doubt it be ; all kind of good little dot about her chin , that melt into one another when she laugh ; and the sunny pair of eye you ever saw in any little creature 's head .
Altogether she be what you would have call provoking , you know ; but satisfactory , too .
Oh , perfectly satisfactory !
`` He 's a comical old fellow , '' say Scrooge 's nephew , `` that 's the truth ; and not so pleasant a he might be .
However , his offence carry their own punishment , and I have nothing to say against him . ''
`` I 'm sure he be very rich , Fred , '' hint Scrooge 's niece .
`` At least , you always tell me so . ''
`` What of that , my dear ? ''
say Scrooge 's nephew .
`` His wealth be of no use to him .
He do n't do any good with it .
He do n't make himself comfortable with it .
He have n't the satisfaction of thinking -- ha , ha , ha !
-- that he be ever go to benefit Us with it . ''
`` I have no patience with him , '' observe Scrooge 's niece .
Scrooge 's niece 's sister , and all the other lady , express the same opinion .
`` Oh , I have ! ''
say Scrooge 's nephew .
`` I be sorry for him ; I could n't be angry with him if I try .
Who suffer by his ill whim ?
Himself always .
Here he take it into his head to dislike u , and he wo n't come and dine with u .
What 's the consequence ?
He do n't lose much of a dinner . ''
`` Indeed , I think he lose a very good dinner , '' interrupt Scrooge 's niece .
Everybody else say the same , and they must be allow to have be competent judge , because they have just have dinner ; and , with the dessert upon the table , be cluster round the fire , by lamp-light .
`` Well !
I be very glad to hear it , '' say Scrooge 's nephew , `` because I have n't any great faith in these young housekeeper .
What do you say , Topper ? ''
Topper have clearly get his eye upon one of Scrooge 's niece 's sister , for he answer that a bachelor be a wretched outcast , who have no right to express an opinion on the subject .
Whereat Scrooge 's niece 's sister -- the plump one with the lace tucker , not the one with the rose -- blush .
`` Do go on , Fred , '' say Scrooge 's niece , clap her hand .
`` He never finish what he begin to say !
He be such a ridiculous fellow ! ''
Scrooge 's nephew revel in another laugh , and , a it be impossible to keep the infection off , though the plump sister try hard to do it with aromatic vinegar , his example be unanimously follow .
`` I be only go to say , '' say Scrooge 's nephew , `` that the consequence of his take a dislike to u , and not make merry with u , be , a I think , that he lose some pleasant moment , which could do him no harm .
I be sure he lose pleasanter companion than he can find in his own thought , either in his mouldy old office or his dusty chamber .
I mean to give him the same chance every year , whether he like it or not , for I pity him .
He may rail at Christmas till he die , but he ca n't help think good of it -- I defy him -- if he find me go there in good temper , year after year , and say , ` Uncle Scrooge , how be you ? '
If it only put him in the vein to leave his poor clerk fifty pound , that 's something ; and I think I shake him yesterday . ''
It be their turn to laugh , now , at the notion of his shake Scrooge .
But , be thoroughly good-natured , and not much care what they laugh at , so that they laugh at any rate , he encourage them in their merriment , and pass the bottle , joyously .
After tea they have some music .
For they be a musical family , and know what they be about when they sing a Glee or Catch , I can assure you : especially Topper , who could growl away in the bass like a good one , and never swell the large vein in his forehead , or get red in the face over it .
Scrooge 's niece play well upon the harp ; and play , among other tune , a simple little air -LRB- a mere nothing : you might learn to whistle it in two minute -RRB- , which have be familiar to the child who fetch Scrooge from the boarding-school , a he have be remind by the Ghost of Christmas Past .
When this strain of music sound , all the thing that Ghost have show him come upon his mind ; he soften more and more ; and think that if he could have listen to it often , year ago , he might have cultivate the kindness of life for his own happiness with his own hand , without resort to the sexton 's spade that bury Jacob Marley .
But they do n't devote the whole evening to music .
After awhile they play at forfeit ; for it be good to be child sometimes , and never good than at Christmas , when it mighty Founder be a child himself .
Stop !
There be first a game at blindman 's buff .
Of course there be .
And I no more believe Topper be really blind than I believe he have eye in his boot .
My opinion be , that it be a do thing between him and Scrooge 's nephew ; and that the Ghost of Christmas Present know it .
The way he go after that plump sister in the lace tucker be an outrage on the credulity of human nature .
Knocking down the fire-irons , tumble over the chair , bump up against the piano , smother himself amongst the curtain , wherever she go , there go he !
He always know where the plump sister be .
He would n't catch anybody else .
If you have fall up against him -LRB- a some of them do -RRB- on purpose , he would have make a feint of endeavour to seize you , which would have be an affront to your understanding , and would instantly have sidle off in the direction of the plump sister .
She often cry out that it be n't fair ; and it really be not .
But when , at last , he catch her ; when , in spite of all her silken rustling , and her rapid fluttering past him , he get her into a corner whence there be no escape , then his conduct be the most execrable .
For his pretend not to know her ; his pretending that it be necessary to touch her head-dress , and far to assure himself of her identity by press a certain ring upon her finger , and a certain chain about her neck , be vile , monstrous !
No doubt she tell him her opinion of it when , another blind man be in office , they be so very confidential together behind the curtain .
Scrooge 's niece be not one of the blindman 's buff party , but be make comfortable with a large chair and a footstool , in a snug corner where the Ghost and Scrooge be close behind her .
But she join in the forfeit , and love her love to admiration with all the letter of the alphabet .
Likewise at the game of How , When , and Where , she be very great , and , to the secret joy of Scrooge 's nephew , beat her sister hollow : though they be sharp girl too , a Topper could have tell you .
There might have be twenty people there , young and old , but they all play , and so do Scrooge ; for , wholly forget , in the interest he have in what be go on , that his voice make no sound in their ear , he sometimes come out with his guess quite loud , and very often guess right , too , for the sharp needle , best Whitechapel , warrant not to cut in the eye , be not sharp than Scrooge ; blunt a he take it in his head to be .
The Ghost be greatly pleased to find him in this mood , and look upon him with such favour , that he beg like a boy to be allow to stay until the guest depart .
But this the Spirit say could not be do .
`` Here be a new game , '' say Scrooge .
`` One half-hour , Spirit , only one ! ''
It be a game call Yes and No , where Scrooge 's nephew have to think of something , and the rest must find out what ; he only answer to their question yes or no , a the case be .
The brisk fire of question to which he be expose elicit from him that he be think of an animal , a live animal , rather a disagreeable animal , a savage animal , an animal that growl and grunt sometimes , and talk sometimes , and live in London , and walk about the street , and be n't make a show of , and be n't lead by anybody , and do n't live in a menagerie , and be never kill in a market , and be not a horse , or an as , or a cow , or a bull , or a tiger , or a dog , or a pig , or a cat , or a bear .
At every fresh question that be put to him , this nephew burst into a fresh roar of laughter ; and be so inexpressibly tickle , that he be oblige to get up off the sofa , and stamp .
At last the plump sister , fall into a similar state , cry out : `` I have find it out !
I know what it be , Fred !
I know what it be ! ''
`` What be it ? ''
cry Fred .
`` It 's your uncle Scro-o-o-o-oge ! ''
Which it certainly be .
Admiration be the universal sentiment , though some object that the reply to `` Is it a bear ? ''
ought to have be `` Yes '' : inasmuch a an answer in the negative be sufficient to have divert their thought from Mr. Scrooge , suppose they have ever have any tendency that way .
`` He have give u plenty of merriment , I be sure , '' say Fred , `` and it would be ungrateful not to drink his health .
Here be a glass of mulled wine ready to our hand at the moment ; and I say , ` Uncle Scrooge ! ' ''
`` Well !
Uncle Scrooge ! ''
they cry .
`` A merry Christmas and a happy New Year to the old man , whatever he be ! ''
say Scrooge 's nephew .
`` He would n't take it from me , but may he have it nevertheless .
Uncle Scrooge ! ''
Uncle Scrooge have imperceptibly become so gay and light of heart , that he would have pledge the unconscious company in return , and thank them in an inaudible speech , if the Ghost have give him time .
But the whole scene pass off in the breath of the last word speak by his nephew ; and he and the Spirit be again upon their travel .
Much they saw , and far they go , and many home they visit , but always with a happy end .
The Spirit stand beside sick-beds , and they be cheerful ; on foreign land , and they be close at home ; by struggle men , and they be patient in their great hope ; by poverty , and it be rich .
In almshouse , hospital , and gaol , in misery 's every refuge , where vain man in his little brief authority have not make fast the door , and bar the Spirit out , he leave his blessing , and teach Scrooge his precept .
It be a long night , if it be only a night ; but Scrooge have his doubt of this , because the Christmas holiday appear to be condense into the space of time they pass together .
It be strange , too , that , while Scrooge remain unaltered in his outward form , the Ghost grow old , clearly old .
Scrooge have observe this change , but never speak of it , until they leave a child 's Twelfth-Night party , when , look at the Spirit a they stand together in an open place , he notice that it hair be grey .
`` Are spirit ' life so short ? ''
ask Scrooge .
`` My life upon this globe be very brief , '' reply the Ghost .
`` It end to-night . ''
`` To-night ! ''
cry Scrooge .
`` To-night at midnight .
Hark !
The time be draw near . ''
The chime be ring the three-quarters past eleven at that moment .
`` Forgive me if I be not justify in what I ask , '' say Scrooge , look intently at the Spirit 's robe , `` but I see something strange , and not belong to yourself , protrude from your skirt .
Is it a foot or a claw ? ''
`` It might be a claw , for the flesh there be upon it , '' be the Spirit 's sorrowful reply .
`` Look here . ''
From the folding of it robe it bring two child ; wretched , abject , frightful , hideous , miserable .
They kneel down at it foot , and clung upon the outside of it garment .
`` Oh , Man !
look here !
Look , look , down here ! ''
exclaim the Ghost .
They be a boy and girl .
Yellow , meagre , rag , scowl , wolfish ; but prostrate , too , in their humility .
Where graceful youth should have fill their feature out , and touch them with it fresh tint , a stale and shrivelled hand , like that of age , have pinch , and twist them , and pull them into shred .
Where angel might have sit enthrone , devil lurk , and glare out menacing .
No change , no degradation , no perversion of humanity , in any grade , through all the mystery of wonderful creation , have monster half so horrible and dread .
Scrooge start back , appal .
Having them show to him in this way , he try to say they be fine child , but the word choke themselves , rather than be party to a lie of such enormous magnitude .
`` Spirit !
be they yours ? ''
Scrooge could say no more .
`` They be Man 's , '' say the Spirit , look down upon them .
`` And they cling to me , appeal from their father .
This boy be Ignorance .
This girl be Want .
Beware of them both , and all of their degree , but most of all beware this boy , for on his brow I see that write which be Doom , unless the writing be erase .
Deny it ! ''
cry the Spirit , stretch out it hand towards the city .
`` Slander those who tell it ye !
Admit it for your factious purpose , and make it bad !
And bide the end ! ''
`` Have they no refuge or resource ? ''
cry Scrooge .
`` Are there no prison ? ''
say the Spirit , turn on him for the last time with his own word .
`` Are there no workhouse ? ''
The bell strike Twelve .
Scrooge look about him for the Ghost , and saw it not .
As the last stroke cease to vibrate , he remember the prediction of old Jacob Marley , and , lift up his eye , behold a solemn Phantom , drape and hood , come like a mist along the ground towards him .
STAVE FOUR THE LAST OF THE SPIRITS The Phantom slowly , gravely , silently approach .
When it come near him , Scrooge bend down upon his knee ; for in the very air through which this Spirit move it seem to scatter gloom and mystery .
It be shroud in a deep black garment , which conceal it head , it face , it form , and leave nothing of it visible , save one outstretched hand .
But for this , it would have be difficult to detach it figure from the night , and separate it from the darkness by which it be surround .
He felt that it be tall and stately when it come beside him , and that it mysterious presence fill him with a solemn dread .
He know no more , for the Spirit neither speak nor move .
`` I be in the presence of the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come ? ''
say Scrooge .
The Spirit answer not , but point onward with it hand .
`` You be about to show me shadow of the thing that have not happen , but will happen in the time before u , '' Scrooge pursue .
`` Is that so , Spirit ? ''
The upper portion of the garment be contract for an instant in it fold , a if the Spirit have incline it head .
That be the only answer he receive .
Although well use to ghostly company by this time , Scrooge fear the silent shape so much that his leg tremble beneath him , and he find that he could hardly stand when he prepare to follow it .
The Spirit pause a moment , a observe his condition , and give him time to recover .
But Scrooge be all the bad for this .
It thrill him with a vague uncertain horror to know that , behind the dusky shroud , there be ghostly eye intently fix upon him , while he , though he stretch his own to the utmost , could see nothing but a spectral hand and one great heap of black .
`` Ghost of the Future ! ''
he exclaim , `` I fear you more than any spectre I have see .
But , a I know your purpose be to do me good , and a I hope to live to be another man from what I be , I be prepared to bear you company , and do it with a thankful heart .
Will you not speak to me ? ''
It give him no reply .
The hand be point straight before them .
`` Lead on ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` Lead on !
The night be wan fast , and it be precious time to me , I know .
Lead on , Spirit ! ''
The phantom move away a it have come towards him .
Scrooge follow in the shadow of it dress , which bore him up , he think , and carry him along .
They scarcely seem to enter the City ; for the City rather seem to spring up about them , and encompass them of it own act .
But there they be in the heart of it ; on ` Change , amongst the merchant ; who hurry up and down , and chink the money in their pocket , and converse in group , and look at their watch , and trifle thoughtfully with their great gold seal ; and so forth , a Scrooge have see them often .
The Spirit stop beside one little knot of business men .
Observing that the hand be point to them , Scrooge advance to listen to their talk .
`` No , '' say a great fat man with a monstrous chin , `` I do n't know much about it either way .
I only know he 's dead . ''
`` When do he die ? ''
inquire another .
`` Last night , I believe . ''
`` Why , what be the matter with him ? ''
ask a third , take a vast quantity of snuff out of a very large snuff-box .
`` I think he 'd never die . ''
`` God know , '' say the first with a yawn .
`` What have he do with his money ? ''
ask a red-faced gentleman with a pendulous excrescence on the end of his nose , that shake like the gill of a turkey-cock .
`` I have n't hear , '' say the man with the large chin , yawn again .
`` Left it to his company , perhaps .
He have n't leave it to me .
That 's all I know . ''
This pleasantry be receive with a general laugh .
`` It 's likely to be a very cheap funeral , '' say the same speaker ; `` for , upon my life , I do n't know of anybody to go to it .
Suppose we make up a party , and volunteer ? ''
`` I do n't mind go if a lunch be provide , '' observe the gentleman with the excrescence on his nose .
`` But I must be feed if I make one . ''
Another laugh .
`` Well , I be the most disinterested among you , after all , '' say the first speaker , `` for I never wear black glove , and I never eat lunch .
But I 'll offer to go if anybody else will .
When I come to think of it , I 'm not at all sure that I be n't his most particular friend ; for we use to stop and speak whenever we meet .
Bye , bye ! ''
Speakers and listener stroll away , and mixed with other group .
Scrooge know the men , and look towards the Spirit for an explanation .
The Phantom glide on into a street .
Its finger point to two person meeting .
Scrooge listen again , think that the explanation might lie here .
He know these men , also , perfectly .
They be men of business : very wealthy , and of great importance .
He have make a point always of stand well in their esteem : in a business point of view , that be ; strictly in a business point of view .
`` How be you ? ''
say one .
`` How be you ? ''
return the other .
`` Well ! ''
say the first .
`` Old Scratch have get his own at last , hey ? ''
`` So I be told , '' return the second .
`` Cold , be n't it ? ''
`` Seasonable for Christmas-time .
You be not a skater , I suppose ? ''
`` No .
No .
Something else to think of .
Good morning ! ''
Not another word .
That be their meeting , their conversation , and their parting .
Scrooge be at first incline to be surprise that the Spirit should attach importance to conversation apparently so trivial ; but , feel assure that they must have some hidden purpose , he set himself to consider what it be likely to be .
They could scarcely be suppose to have any bearing on the death of Jacob , his old partner , for that be Past , and this Ghost 's province be the Future .
Nor could he think of any one immediately connect with himself , to whom he could apply them .
But nothing doubting that , to whomsoever they apply , they have some latent moral for his own improvement , he resolve to treasure up every word he hear , and everything he saw ; and especially to observe the shadow of himself when it appear .
For he have an expectation that the conduct of his future self would give him the clue he miss , and would render the solution of these riddle easy .
He look about in that very place for his own image , but another man stand in his accustomed corner , and , though the clock point to his usual time of day for be there , he saw no likeness of himself among the multitude that pour in through the Porch .
It give him little surprise , however ; for he have be revolve in his mind a change of life , and think and hop he saw his new-born resolution carry out in this .
Quiet and dark , beside him stand the Phantom , with it outstretched hand .
When he rouse himself from his thoughtful quest , he fancy , from the turn of the hand , and it situation in reference to himself , that the Unseen Eyes be look at him keenly .
It make him shudder , and feel very cold .
They leave the busy scene , and go into an obscure part of the town , where Scrooge have never penetrate before , although he recognise it situation and it bad repute .
The way be foul and narrow ; the shop and house wretched ; the people half naked , drunken , slipshod , ugly .
Alleys and archway , like so many cesspool , disgorge their offence of smell , and dirt , and life upon the straggle street ; and the whole quarter reek with crime , with filth and misery .
Far in this den of infamous resort , there be a low-browed , beetle shop , below a pent-house roof , where iron , old rag , bottle , bone , and greasy offal be buy .
Upon the floor within be pile up heap of rusty key , nail , chain , hinge , file , scale , weight , and refuse iron of all kind .
Secrets that few would like to scrutinise be breed and hide in mountain of unseemly rag , mass of corrupted fat , and sepulchre of bone .
Sitting in among the ware he deal in , by a charcoal stove make of old brick , be a grey-haired rascal , nearly seventy year of age , who have screen himself from the cold air without by a frouzy curtaining of miscellaneous tatter hang upon a line , and smoke his pipe in all the luxury of calm retirement .
Scrooge and the Phantom come into the presence of this man , just a a woman with a heavy bundle slunk into the shop .
But she have scarcely enter , when another woman , similarly laden , come in too , and she be closely follow by a man in faded black , who be no less startle by the sight of them than they have be upon the recognition of each other .
After a short period of blank astonishment , in which the old man with the pipe have join them , they all three burst into a laugh .
`` Let the charwoman alone to be the first ! ''
cry she who have enter first .
`` Let the laundress alone to be the second ; and let the undertaker 's man alone to be the third .
Look here , old Joe , here 's a chance !
If we have n't all three meet here without mean it ! ''
`` You could n't have meet in a good place , '' say old Joe , remove his pipe from his mouth .
`` Come into the parlour .
You be make free of it long ago , you know ; and the other two a n't stranger .
Stop till I shut the door of the shop .
Ah !
How it skreeks !
There a n't such a rusty bit of metal in the place a it own hinge , I believe ; and I 'm sure there 's no such old bone here a mine .
Ha !
ha !
We 're all suitable to our call , we 're well match .
Come into the parlour .
Come into the parlour . ''
The parlour be the space behind the screen of rag .
The old man rake the fire together with an old stair-rod , and , have trim his smoky lamp -LRB- for it be night -RRB- with the stem of his pipe , put it into his mouth again .
While he do this , the woman who have already speak threw her bundle on the floor , and sit down in a flaunting manner on a stool ; cross her elbow on her knee , and look with a bold defiance at the other two .
`` What odds , then ?
What odds , Mrs. Dilber ? ''
say the woman .
`` Every person have a right to take care of themselves .
He always do ! ''
`` That 's true , indeed ! ''
say the laundress .
`` No man more so . ''
`` Why , then , do n't stand star a if you be afraid , woman !
Who 's the wiser ?
We 're not go to pick hole in each other 's coat , I suppose ? ''
`` No , indeed ! ''
say Mrs. Dilber and the man together .
`` We should hope not . ''
`` Very well , then ! ''
cry the woman .
`` That 's enough .
Who 's the worse for the loss of a few thing like these ?
Not a dead man , I suppose ? ''
`` No , indeed , '' say Mrs. Dilber , laugh .
`` If he want to keep 'em after he be dead , a wicked old screw , '' pursue the woman , `` why be n't he natural in his lifetime ?
If he have be , he 'd have have somebody to look after him when he be strike with Death , instead of lie gasp out his last there , alone by himself . ''
`` It 's the truest word that ever be speak , '' say Mrs. Dilber , `` It 's a judgment on him . ''
`` I wish it be a little heavy judgment , '' reply the woman ; `` and it should have be , you may depend upon it , if I could have lay my hand on anything else .
Open that bundle , old Joe , and let me know the value of it .
Speak out plain .
I 'm not afraid to be the first , nor afraid for them to see it .
We know pretty well that we be help ourselves before we meet here , I believe .
It 's no sin .
Open the bundle , Joe . ''
But the gallantry of her friend would not allow of this ; and the man in faded black , mount the breach first , produce his plunder .
It be not extensive .
A seal or two , a pencil-case , a pair of sleeve-buttons , and a brooch of no great value , be all .
They be severally examine and appraise by old Joe , who chalk the sum he be dispose to give for each upon the wall , and add them up into a total when he find that there be nothing more to come .
`` That 's your account , '' say Joe , `` and I would n't give another sixpence , if I be to be boil for not do it .
Who 's next ? ''
Mrs. Dilber be next .
Sheets and towel , a little wearing apparel , two old-fashioned silver tea-spoons , a pair of sugar-tongs , and a few boot .
Her account be state on the wall in the same manner .
`` I always give too much to lady .
It 's a weakness of mine , and that 's the way I ruin myself , '' say old Joe .
`` That 's your account .
If you ask me for another penny , and make it an open question , I 'd repent of be so liberal , and knock off half-a-crown . ''
`` And now undo my bundle , Joe , '' say the first woman .
Joe go down on his knee for the great convenience of open it , and , have unfasten a great many knot , drag out a large heavy roll of some dark stuff .
`` What do you call this ? ''
say Joe .
`` Bed-curtains ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
return the woman , laugh and lean forward on her crossed arm .
`` Bed-curtains ! ''
`` You do n't mean to say you take 'em down , ring and all , with him lie there ? ''
say Joe .
`` Yes , I do , '' reply the woman .
`` Why not ? ''
`` You be bear to make your fortune , '' say Joe , `` and you 'll certainly do it . ''
`` I certainly sha n't hold my hand , when I can get anything in it by reach it out , for the sake of such a man a He be , I promise you , Joe , '' return the woman coolly .
`` Do n't drop that oil upon the blanket , now . ''
`` His blanket ? ''
ask Joe .
`` Whose else 's do you think ? ''
reply the woman .
`` He be n't likely to take cold without 'em , I dare say . ''
`` I hope he do n't die of anything catch ?
Eh ? ''
say old Joe , stop in his work , and look up .
`` Do n't you be afraid of that , '' return the woman .
`` I a n't so fond of his company that I 'd loiter about him for such thing , if he do .
Ah !
You may look through that shirt till your eye ache ; but you wo n't find a hole in it , nor a threadbare place .
It 's the best he have , and a fine one too .
They 'd have waste it , if it have n't be for me . ''
`` What do you call wasting of it ? ''
ask old Joe .
`` Putting it on him to be bury in , to be sure , '' reply the woman with a laugh .
`` Somebody be fool enough to do it , but I take it off again .
If calico a n't good enough for such a purpose , it be n't good enough for anything .
It 's quite a become to the body .
He ca n't look ugly than he do in that one . ''
Scrooge listen to this dialogue in horror .
As they sit group about their spoil , in the scanty light afford by the old man 's lamp , he view them with a detestation and disgust which could hardly have be great , though they have be obscene demon , market the corpse itself .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
laugh the same woman when old Joe , produce a flannel bag with money in it , tell out their several gain upon the ground .
`` This be the end of it , you see !
He frighten every one away from him when he be alive , to profit u when he be dead !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
`` Spirit ! ''
say Scrooge , shudder from head to foot .
`` I see , I see .
The case of this unhappy man might be my own .
My life tend that way now .
Merciful Heaven , what be this ? ''
He recoil in terror , for the scene have change , and now he almost touch a bed : a bare , uncurtained bed : on which , beneath a ragged sheet , there lay a something cover up , which , though it be dumb , announce itself in awful language .
The room be very dark , too dark to be observe with any accuracy , though Scrooge glance round it in obedience to a secret impulse , anxious to know what kind of room it be .
A pale light , rise in the outer air , fell straight upon the bed : and on it , plunder and bereft , unwatched , unwept , uncared for , be the body of this man .
Scrooge glance towards the Phantom .
Its steady hand be point to the head .
The cover be so carelessly adjust that the slight raising of it , the motion of a finger upon Scrooge 's part , would have disclose the face .
He think of it , felt how easy it would be to do , and long to do it ; but have no more power to withdraw the veil than to dismiss the spectre at his side .
Oh , cold , cold , rigid , dreadful Death , set up thine altar here , and dress it with such terror a thou hast at thy command : for this be thy dominion !
But of the love , revere , and honour head thou canst not turn one hair to thy dread purpose , or make one feature odious .
It be not that the hand be heavy , and will fall down when release ; it be not that the heart and pulse be still ; but that the hand WAS open , generous , and true ; the heart brave , warm , and tender ; and the pulse a man 's .
Strike , Shadow , strike !
And see his good deed spring from the wound , to sow the world with life immortal !
No voice pronounce these word in Scrooge 's ear , and yet he hear them when he look upon the bed .
He think , if this man could be raise up now , what would be his foremost thought ?
Avarice , hard dealing , grip care ?
They have bring him to a rich end , truly !
He lay , in the dark , empty house , with not a man , a woman , or a child to say he be kind to me in this or that , and for the memory of one kind word I will be kind to him .
A cat be tear at the door , and there be a sound of gnaw rat beneath the hearth-stone .
What they want in the room of death , and why they be so restless and disturbed , Scrooge do not dare to think .
`` Spirit ! ''
he say , `` this be a fearful place .
In leave it , I shall not leave it lesson , trust me .
Let u go ! ''
Still the Ghost point with an unmoved finger to the head .
`` I understand you , '' Scrooge return , `` and I would do it if I could .
But I have not the power , Spirit .
I have not the power . ''
Again it seem to look upon him .
`` If there be any person in the town who feel emotion cause by this man 's death , '' say Scrooge , quite agonise , `` show that person to me , Spirit !
I beseech you . ''
The Phantom spread it dark robe before him for a moment , like a wing ; and , withdraw it , reveal a room by daylight , where a mother and her child be .
She be expect some one , and with anxious eagerness ; for she walk up and down the room ; start at every sound ; look out from the window ; glance at the clock ; try , but in vain , to work with her needle ; and could hardly bear the voice of her child in their play .
At length the long-expected knock be hear .
She hurry to the door , and meet her husband ; a man whose face be careworn and depress , though he be young .
There be a remarkable expression in it now ; a kind of serious delight of which he felt ashamed , and which he struggle to repress .
He sit down to the dinner that have be hoard for him by the fire , and , when she ask him faintly what news -LRB- which be not until after a long silence -RRB- , he appear embarrass how to answer .
`` Is it good , '' she say , `` or bad ? ''
to help him .
`` Bad , '' he answer .
`` We be quite ruin ? ''
`` No .
There be hope yet , Caroline . ''
`` If he relent , '' she say , amaze , `` there be !
Nothing be past hope , if such a miracle have happen . ''
`` He be past relenting , '' say her husband .
`` He be dead . ''
She be a mild and patient creature , if her face speak truth ; but she be thankful in her soul to hear it , and she say so with clasped hand .
She pray forgiveness the next moment , and be sorry ; but the first be the emotion of her heart .
`` What the half-drunken woman , whom I tell you of last night , say to me when I try to see him and obtain a week 's delay , and what I think be a mere excuse to avoid me , turn out to have be quite true .
He be not only very ill , but die , then . ''
`` To whom will our debt be transfer ? ''
`` I do n't know .
But , before that time , we shall be ready with the money ; and , even though we be not , it would be bad fortune indeed to find so merciless a creditor in his successor .
We may sleep to-night with light heart , Caroline ! ''
Yes .
Soften it a they would , their heart be light .
The child 's face , hush and cluster round to hear what they so little understood , be brighter ; and it be a happy house for this man 's death !
The only emotion that the Ghost could show him , cause by the event , be one of pleasure .
`` Let me see some tenderness connect with a death , '' say Scrooge ; `` or that dark chamber , Spirit , which we leave just now , will be for ever present to me . ''
The Ghost conduct him through several street familiar to his foot ; and , a they go along , Scrooge look here and there to find himself , but nowhere be he to be see .
They enter poor Bob Cratchit 's house , -- the dwelling he have visit before , -- and find the mother and the child seat round the fire .
Quiet .
Very quiet .
The noisy little Cratchits be as still a statue in one corner , and sit look up at Peter , who have a book before him .
The mother and her daughter be engage in sew .
But surely they be very quiet ! ''
` And he take a child , and set him in the midst of them . ' ''
Where have Scrooge hear those word ?
He have not dream them .
The boy must have read them out , a he and the Spirit cross the threshold .
Why do he not go on ?
The mother lay her work upon the table , and put her hand up to her face .
`` The colour hurt my eye , '' she say .
The colour ?
Ah , poor Tiny Tim !
`` They 're well now again , '' say Cratchit 's wife .
`` It make them weak by candle-light ; and I would n't show weak eye to your father , when he come home , for the world .
It must be near his time . ''
`` Past it rather , '' Peter answer , shut up his book .
`` But I think he have walk a little slow than he use , these few last evening , mother . ''
They be very quiet again .
At last she say , and in a steady , cheerful voice , that only falter once : `` I have know him walk with -- I have know him walk with Tiny Tim upon his shoulder very fast indeed . ''
`` And so have I , '' cry Peter .
`` Often . ''
`` And so have I , '' exclaim another .
So have all .
`` But he be very light to carry , '' she resume , intent upon her work , `` and his father love him so , that it be no trouble : no trouble .
And there be your father at the door ! ''
She hurry out to meet him ; and little Bob in his comforter -- he have need of it , poor fellow -- come in .
His tea be ready for him on the hob , and they all try who should help him to it most .
Then the two young Cratchits get upon his knee , and laid , each child , a little cheek against his face , a if they say , `` Do n't mind it , father .
Do n't be grieve ! ''
Bob be very cheerful with them , and speak pleasantly to all the family .
He look at the work upon the table , and praise the industry and speed of Mrs. Cratchit and the girl .
They would be do long before Sunday , he say .
`` Sunday !
You go to-day , then , Robert ? ''
say his wife .
`` Yes , my dear , '' return Bob .
`` I wish you could have go .
It would have do you good to see how green a place it be .
But you 'll see it often .
I promise him that I would walk there on a Sunday .
My little , little child ! ''
cry Bob .
`` My little child ! ''
He break down all at once .
He could n't help it .
If he could have help it , he and his child would have be farther apart , perhaps , than they be .
He leave the room , and go up-stairs into the room above , which be light cheerfully , and hung with Christmas .
There be a chair set close beside the child , and there be sign of some one have be there lately .
Poor Bob sit down in it , and , when he have think a little and compose himself , he kiss the little face .
He be reconcile to what have happen , and go down again quite happy .
They draw about the fire , and talk ; the girl and mother work still .
Bob tell them of the extraordinary kindness of Mr. Scrooge 's nephew , whom he have scarcely see but once , and who , meet him in the street that day , and see that he look a little -- `` just a little down , you know , '' say Bob , inquire what have happen to distress him .
`` On which , '' say Bob , `` for he be the pleasantest-spoken gentleman you ever hear , I tell him . '
I be heartily sorry for it , Mr. Cratchit , ' he say , ` and heartily sorry for your good wife . '
By-the-bye , how he ever know that I do n't know . ''
`` Knew what , my dear ? ''
`` Why , that you be a good wife , '' reply Bob .
`` Everybody know that , '' say Peter .
`` Very well observe , my boy ! ''
cry Bob .
`` I hope they do .
` Heartily sorry , ' he say , ` for your good wife .
If I can be of service to you in any way , ' he say , give me his card , ` that 's where I live .
Pray come to me . '
Now , it be n't , '' cry Bob , `` for the sake of anything he might be able to do for u , so much a for his kind way , that this be quite delightful .
It really seem a if he have know our Tiny Tim , and felt with u . ''
`` I 'm sure he 's a good soul ! ''
say Mrs. Cratchit .
`` You would be sure of it , my dear , '' return Bob , `` if you saw and speak to him .
I should n't be at all surprised -- mark what I say !
-- if he get Peter a good situation . ''
`` Only hear that , Peter , '' say Mrs. Cratchit .
`` And then , '' cry one of the girl , `` Peter will be keep company with some one , and set up for himself . ''
`` Get along with you ! ''
retort Peter , grinning .
`` It 's just as likely a not , '' say Bob , `` one of these day ; though there 's plenty of time for that , my dear .
But , however and whenever we part from one another , I be sure we shall none of u forget poor Tiny Tim -- shall we -- or this first parting that there be among u ? ''
`` Never , father ! ''
cry they all .
`` And I know , '' say Bob , `` I know , my dear , that when we recollect how patient and how mild he be , although he be a little , little child , we shall not quarrel easily among ourselves , and forget poor Tiny Tim in do it . ''
`` No , never , father ! ''
they all cry again .
`` I be very happy , '' say little Bob , `` I be very happy ! ''
Mrs. Cratchit kiss him , his daughter kiss him , the two young Cratchits kiss him , and Peter and himself shake hand .
Spirit of Tiny Tim , thy childish essence be from God !
`` Spectre , '' say Scrooge , `` something informs me that our part moment be at hand .
I know it , but I know not how .
Tell me what man that be whom we saw lie dead ? ''
The Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come conveyed him , a before -- though at a different time , he think : indeed , there seem no order in these latter vision , save that they be in the Future -- into the resort of business men , but show him not himself .
Indeed , the Spirit do not stay for anything , but go straight on , a to the end just now desire , until beseech by Scrooge to tarry for a moment .
`` This court , '' say Scrooge , `` through which we hurry now , be where my place of occupation be , and have be for a length of time .
I see the house .
Let me behold what I shall be in day to come . ''
The Spirit stop ; the hand be point elsewhere .
`` The house be yonder , '' Scrooge exclaim .
`` Why do you point away ? ''
The inexorable finger underwent no change .
Scrooge hasten to the window of his office , and look in .
It be an office still , but not his .
The furniture be not the same , and the figure in the chair be not himself .
The Phantom point a before .
He join it once again , and , wonder why and whither he have go , accompany it until they reach an iron gate .
He pause to look round before enter .
A churchyard .
Here , then , the wretched man , whose name he have now to learn , lay underneath the ground .
It be a worthy place .
Walled in by house ; overrun by grass and weed , the growth of vegetation 's death , not life ; choke up with too much burying ; fat with repleted appetite .
A worthy place !
The Spirit stand among the graf , and point down to One .
He advance towards it tremble .
The Phantom be exactly a it have be , but he dread that he saw new meaning in it solemn shape .
`` Before I draw nearer to that stone to which you point , '' say Scrooge , `` answer me one question .
Are these the shadow of the thing that Will be , or be they shadow of the thing that May be only ? ''
Still the Ghost point downward to the grave by which it stand .
`` Men 's course will foreshadow certain end , to which , if persevere in , they must lead , '' say Scrooge .
`` But if the course be depart from , the end will change .
Say it be thus with what you show me ! ''
The Spirit be immovable a ever .
Scrooge creep towards it , tremble a he go ; and , follow the finger , read upon the stone of the neglect grave his own name , EBENEZER SCROOGE .
`` Am I that man who lay upon the bed ? ''
he cry upon his knee .
The finger point from the grave to him , and back again .
`` No , Spirit !
Oh no , no ! ''
The finger still be there .
`` Spirit ! ''
he cry , tight clutching at it robe , `` hear me !
I be not the man I be .
I will not be the man I must have be but for this intercourse .
Why show me this , if I be past all hope ? ''
For the first time the hand appear to shake .
`` Good Spirit , '' he pursue , a down upon the ground he fell before it : `` your nature intercedes for me , and pity me .
Assure me that I yet may change these shadow you have show me by an altered life ? ''
The kind hand tremble .
`` I will honour Christmas in my heart , and try to keep it all the year .
I will live in the Past , the Present , and the Future .
The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me .
I will not shut out the lesson that they teach .
Oh , tell me I may sponge away the writing on this stone ! ''
In his agony , he catch the spectral hand .
It seek to free itself , but he be strong in his entreaty , and detain it .
The Spirit , strong yet , repulse him .
Holding up his hand in a last prayer to have his fate reverse , he saw an alteration in the Phantom 's hood and dress .
It shrink , collapse , and dwindle down into a bedpost .
STAVE FIVE THE END OF IT Yes !
and the bedpost be his own .
The bed be his own , the room be his own .
Best and happy of all , the Time before him be his own , to make amends in !
`` I will live in the Past , the Present , and the Future ! ''
Scrooge repeat a he scramble out of bed .
`` The Spirits of all Three shall strive within me .
Oh , Jacob Marley !
Heaven and the Christmas Time be praise for this !
I say it on my knee , old Jacob ; on my knee ! ''
He be so fluttered and so glow with his good intention , that his broken voice would scarcely answer to his call .
He have be sob violently in his conflict with the Spirit , and his face be wet with tear .
`` They be not tear down , '' cry Scrooge , fold one of his bed-curtains in his arm , `` they be not tear down , ring and all .
They be here -- I be here -- the shadow of the thing that would have be may be dispel .
They will be .
I know they will ! ''
His hand be busy with his garment all this time ; turn them inside out , put them on upside down , tear them , mislay them , make them party to every kind of extravagance .
`` I do n't know what to do ! ''
cry Scrooge , laugh and cry in the same breath ; and make a perfect Laocon of himself with his stocking .
`` I be as light a a feather , I be as happy a an angel , I be as merry a a school-boy .
I be as giddy a a drunken man .
A merry Christmas to everybody !
A happy New Year to all the world !
Hallo here !
Whoop !
Hallo ! ''
He have frisk into the sitting-room , and be now stand there : perfectly wind .
`` There 's the saucepan that the gruel be in ! ''
cry Scrooge , start off again , and go round the fire-place .
`` There 's the door by which the Ghost of Jacob Marley enter !
There 's the corner where the Ghost of Christmas Present sit !
There 's the window where I saw the wander Spirits !
It 's all right , it 's all true , it all happen .
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
Really , for a man who have be out of practice for so many year , it be a splendid laugh , a most illustrious laugh .
The father of a long , long line of brilliant laugh !
`` I do n't know what day of the month it be , '' say Scrooge .
`` I do n't know how long I have be among the Spirits .
I do n't know anything .
I 'm quite a baby .
Never mind .
I do n't care .
I 'd rather be a baby .
Hallo !
Whoop !
Hallo here ! ''
He be check in his transport by the church ring out the lusty peal he have ever hear .
Clash , clash , hammer ; ding , dong , bell !
Bell , dong , ding ; hammer , clang , clash !
Oh , glorious , glorious !
Running to the window , he open it , and put out his head .
No fog , no mist ; clear , bright , jovial , stir , cold ; cold , pip for the blood to dance to ; Golden sun-light ; Heavenly sky ; sweet fresh air ; merry bell .
Oh , glorious !
Glorious !
`` What 's to-day ? ''
cry Scrooge , call downward to a boy in Sunday clothes , who perhaps have loiter in to look about him .
`` EH ? ''
return the boy with all his might of wonder .
`` What 's to-day , my fine fellow ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` To-day ! ''
reply the boy .
`` Why , CHRISTMAS DAY . ''
`` It 's Christmas Day ! ''
say Scrooge to himself .
`` I have n't miss it .
The Spirits have do it all in one night .
They can do anything they like .
Of course they can .
Of course they can .
Hallo , my fine fellow ! ''
`` Hallo ! ''
return the boy .
`` Do you know the Poulterer 's in the next street but one , at the corner ? ''
Scrooge inquire .
`` I should hope I do , '' reply the lad .
`` An intelligent boy ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` A remarkable boy !
Do you know whether they 've sell the prize Turkey that be hang up there ?
-- Not the little prize Turkey : the big one ? ''
`` What !
the one as big a me ? ''
return the boy .
`` What a delightful boy ! ''
say Scrooge .
`` It 's a pleasure to talk to him .
Yes , my buck ! ''
`` It 's hang there now , '' reply the boy .
`` Is it ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` Go and buy it . ''
`` Walk-ER ! ''
exclaim the boy .
`` No , no , '' say Scrooge , `` I be in earnest .
Go and buy it , and tell 'em to bring it here , that I may give them the direction where to take it .
Come back with the man , and I 'll give you a shilling .
Come back with him in less than five minute , and I 'll give you half-a-crown ! ''
The boy be off like a shot .
He must have have a steady hand at a trigger who could have get a shot off half so fast .
`` I 'll send it to Bob Cratchit 's , '' whisper Scrooge , rub his hand , and split with a laugh .
`` He sha n't know who send it .
It 's twice the size of Tiny Tim .
Joe Miller never make such a joke a send it to Bob 's will be ! ''
The hand in which he write the address be not a steady one ; but write it he do , somehow , and go down-stairs to open the street-door , ready for the come of the poulterer 's man .
As he stand there , wait his arrival , the knocker catch his eye .
`` I shall love it as long a I live ! ''
cry Scrooge , pat it with his hand .
`` I scarcely ever look at it before .
What an honest expression it have in it face !
It 's a wonderful knocker !
-- Here 's the Turkey .
Hallo !
Whoop !
How be you ?
Merry Christmas ! ''
It be a Turkey !
He never could have stand upon his leg , that bird .
He would have snap 'em short off in a minute , like stick of sealing-wax .
`` Why , it 's impossible to carry that to Camden Town , '' say Scrooge .
`` You must have a cab . ''
The chuckle with which he say this , and the chuckle with which he pay for the Turkey , and the chuckle with which he pay for the cab , and the chuckle with which he recompense the boy , be only to be exceed by the chuckle with which he sit down breathless in his chair again , and chuckle till he cry .
Shaving be not an easy task , for his hand continue to shake very much ; and shave require attention , even when you do n't dance while you be at it .
But , if he have cut the end of his nose off , he would have put a piece of sticking-plaster over it , and be quite satisfied .
He dress himself `` all in his best , '' and at last get out into the street .
The people be by this time pour forth , a he have see them with the Ghost of Christmas Present ; and , walk with his hand behind him , Scrooge regard every one with a delighted smile .
He look so irresistibly pleasant , in a word , that three or four good-humoured fellow say , `` Good morning , sir !
A merry Christmas to you ! ''
And Scrooge say often afterwards that , of all the blithe sound he have ever hear , those be the blithe in his ear .
He have not go far when , come on towards him , he behold the portly gentleman who have walk into his counting-house the day before , and say , `` Scrooge and Marley 's , I believe ? ''
It send a pang across his heart to think how this old gentleman would look upon him when they meet ; but he know what path lay straight before him , and he take it .
`` My dear sir , '' say Scrooge , quicken his pace , and take the old gentleman by both his hand , `` how do you do ?
I hope you succeed yesterday .
It be very kind of you .
A merry Christmas to you , sir ! ''
`` Mr. Scrooge ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Scrooge .
`` That be my name , and I fear it may not be pleasant to you .
Allow me to ask your pardon .
And will you have the goodness -- '' Here Scrooge whisper in his ear .
`` Lord bless me ! ''
cry the gentleman , a if his breath be take away .
`` My dear Mr. Scrooge , be you serious ? ''
`` If you please , '' say Scrooge .
`` Not a farthing less .
A great many back-payments be include in it , I assure you .
Will you do me that favour ? ''
`` My dear sir , '' say the other , shake hand with him , `` I do n't know what to say to such munifi -- '' `` Do n't say anything , please , '' retort Scrooge .
`` Come and see me .
Will you come and see me ? ''
`` I will ! ''
cry the old gentleman .
And it be clear he mean to do it .
`` Thankee , '' say Scrooge .
`` I be much oblige to you .
I thank you fifty time .
Bless you ! ''
He go to church , and walk about the street , and watch the people hurry to and fro , and pat the child on the head , and question beggar , and look down into the kitchen of house , and up to the window ; and find that everything could yield him pleasure .
He have never dream that any walk -- that anything -- could give him so much happiness .
In the afternoon he turn his step towards his nephew 's house .
He pass the door a dozen time before he have the courage to go up and knock .
But he make a dash , and do it .
`` Is your master at home , my dear ? ''
say Scrooge to the girl .
Nice girl !
Very .
`` Yes sir . ''
`` Where be he , my love ? ''
say Scrooge .
`` He 's in the dining-room , sir , along with mistress .
I 'll show you up-stairs , if you please . ''
`` Thankee .
He know me , '' say Scrooge , with his hand already on the dining-room lock .
`` I 'll go in here , my dear . ''
He turn it gently , and sidle his face in round the door .
They be look at the table -LRB- which be spread out in great array -RRB- ; for these young housekeeper be always nervous on such point , and like to see that everything be right .
`` Fred ! ''
say Scrooge .
Dear heart alive , how his niece by marriage start !
Scrooge have forget , for the moment , about her sitting in the corner with the footstool , or he would n't have do it on any account .
`` Why , bless my soul ! ''
cry Fred , `` who 's that ? ''
`` It 's I . Your uncle Scrooge .
I have come to dinner .
Will you let me in , Fred ? ''
Let him in !
It be a mercy he do n't shake his arm off .
He be at home in five minute .
Nothing could be hearty .
His niece look just the same .
So do Topper when he come .
So do the plump sister when she come .
So do every one when they come .
Wonderful party , wonderful game , wonderful unanimity , won-der-ful happiness !
But he be early at the office next morning .
Oh , he be early there !
If he could only be there first , and catch Bob Cratchit come late !
That be the thing he have set his heart upon .
And he do it ; yes , he do !
The clock strike nine .
No Bob .
A quarter past .
No Bob .
He be full eighteen minute and a half behind his time .
Scrooge sit with his door wide open , that he might see him come into the tank .
His hat be off before he open the door ; his comforter too .
He be on his stool in a jiffy ; drive away with his pen , a if he be try to overtake nine o'clock .
`` Hallo ! ''
growl Scrooge in his accustomed voice as near a he could feign it .
`` What do you mean by come here at this time of day ? ''
`` I be very sorry , sir , '' say Bob .
`` I be behind my time . ''
`` You be ! ''
repeat Scrooge .
`` Yes .
I think you be .
Step this way , sir , if you please . ''
`` It 's only once a year , sir , '' plead Bob , appear from the tank .
`` It shall not be repeat .
I be make rather merry yesterday , sir . ''
`` Now , I 'll tell you what , my friend , '' say Scrooge .
`` I be not go to stand this sort of thing any long .
And therefore , '' he continue , leap from his stool , and give Bob such a dig in the waistcoat that he stagger back into the tank again : `` and therefore I be about to raise your salary ! ''
Bob tremble , and get a little nearer to the ruler .
He have a momentary idea of knock Scrooge down with it , hold him , and call to the people in the court for help and a strait-waistcoat .
`` A merry Christmas , Bob ! ''
say Scrooge with an earnestness that could not be mistake , a he clap him on the back .
`` A merrier Christmas , Bob , my good fellow , than I have give you for many a year !
I 'll raise your salary , and endeavour to assist your struggle family , and we will discuss your affair this very afternoon , over a Christmas bowl of smoke bishop , Bob !
Make up the fire and buy another coal-scuttle before you dot another i , Bob Cratchit ! ''
* * * * * Scrooge be good than his word .
He do it all , and infinitely more ; and to Tiny Tim , who do NOT die , he be a second father .
He become as good a friend , a good a master , and as good a man a the good old City knew , or any other good old city , town , or borough in the good old world .
Some people laugh to see the alteration in him , but he let them laugh , and little heed them ; for he be wise enough to know that nothing ever happen on this globe , for good , at which some people do not have their fill of laughter in the outset ; and , know that such a these would be blind anyway , he think it quite as well that they should wrinkle up their eye in grin a have the malady in less attractive form .
His own heart laugh : and that be quite enough for him .
He have no further intercourse with Spirits , but live upon the Total-Abstinence Principle ever afterwards ; and it be always say of him that he know how to keep Christmas well , if any man alive possess the knowledge .
May that be truly say of u , and all of u !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Charles_Dickens___The_Cricket_on_the_Hearth.txt.out
THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH A FAIRY TALE OF HOME CHIRP THE FIRST The kettle begin it !
Do n't tell me what Mrs. Peerybingle say .
I know well .
Mrs. Peerybingle may leave it on record to the end of time that she could n't say which of them begin it ; but I say the kettle do .
I ought to know , I hope ?
The kettle begin it , full five minute by the little waxy-faced Dutch clock in the corner , before the Cricket utter a chirp .
As if the clock have n't finish striking , and the convulsive little Hay-maker at the top of it , jerk away right and leave with a scythe in front of a Moorish Palace , have n't mow down half an acre of imaginary grass before the Cricket join in at all !
