Do you think it could be call auburn now , Diana ? ''
`` Yes , and I think it be real pretty , '' say Diana , look admiringly at the short , silky curl that cluster over Anne 's head and be hold in place by a very jaunty black velvet ribbon and bow .
They be stand on the bank of the pond , below Orchard Slope , where a little headland fringe with birch run out from the bank ; at it tip be a small wooden platform build out into the water for the convenience of fisherman and duck hunter .
Ruby and Jane be spend the midsummer afternoon with Diana , and Anne have come over to play with them .
Anne and Diana have spend most of their playtime that summer on and about the pond .
Idlewild be a thing of the past , Mr. Bell have ruthlessly cut down the little circle of tree in his back pasture in the spring .
Anne have sit among the stump and wept , not without an eye to the romance of it ; but she be speedily console , for , after all , a she and Diana say , big girl of thirteen , go on fourteen , be too old for such childish amusement a playhouse , and there be more fascinating sport to be find about the pond .
It be splendid to fish for trout over the bridge and the two girl learn to row themselves about in the little flat-bottomed dory Mr. Barry keep for duck shooting .
It be Anne 's idea that they dramatize Elaine .
They have study Tennyson 's poem in school the precede winter , the Superintendent of Education have prescribe it in the English course for the Prince Edward Island school .
They have analyze and parse it and tear it to piece in general until it be a wonder there be any meaning at all left in it for them , but at least the fair lily maid and Lancelot and Guinevere and King Arthur have become very real people to them , and Anne be devour by secret regret that she have not be bear in Camelot .
Those day , she say , be so much more romantic than the present .
Anne 's plan be hail with enthusiasm .
The girl have discover that if the flat be push off from the land place it would drift down with the current under the bridge and finally strand itself on another headland lower down which run out at a curve in the pond .
They have often go down like this and nothing could be more convenient for play Elaine .
`` Well , I 'll be Elaine , '' say Anne , yield reluctantly , for , although she would have be delight to play the principal character , yet her artistic sense demand fitness for it and this , she felt , her limitation make impossible .
`` Ruby , you must be King Arthur and Jane will be Guinevere and Diana must be Lancelot .
But first you must be the brother and the father .
We ca n't have the old dumb servitor because there be n't room for two in the flat when one be lie down .
We must pall the barge all it length in black samite .
That old black shawl of your mother 's will be just the thing , Diana . ''
The black shawl have be procure , Anne spread it over the flat and then lay down on the bottom , with closed eye and hand fold over her breast .
`` Oh , she do look really dead , '' whisper Ruby Gillis nervously , watch the still , white little face under the flickering shadow of the birch .
`` It make me feel frighten , girl .
Do you suppose it 's really right to act like this ?
Mrs. Lynde say that all play-acting be abominably wicked . ''
`` Ruby , you should n't talk about Mrs. Lynde , '' say Anne severely .
`` It spoil the effect because this be hundred of year before Mrs. Lynde be bear .
Jane , you arrange this .
It 's silly for Elaine to be talk when she 's dead . ''
Jane rise to the occasion .
Cloth of gold for coverlet there be none , but an old piano scarf of yellow Japanese crepe be an excellent substitute .
A white lily be not obtainable just then , but the effect of a tall blue iris place in one of Anne 's folded hand be all that could be desire .
`` Now , she 's all ready , '' say Jane .
`` We must kiss her quiet brow and , Diana , you say , ` Sister , farewell forever , ' and Ruby , you say , ` Farewell , sweet sister , ' both of you as sorrowfully a you possibly can .
Anne , for goodness sake smile a little .
You know Elaine ` lay a though she smile . '
That 's good .
Now push the flat off . ''
The flat be accordingly push off , scrap roughly over an old embedded stake in the process .
Diana and Jane and Ruby only wait long enough to see it catch in the current and head for the bridge before scamper up through the wood , across the road , and down to the low headland where , a Lancelot and Guinevere and the King , they be to be in readiness to receive the lily maid .
For a few minute Anne , drift slowly down , enjoy the romance of her situation to the full .
Then something happen not at all romantic .
The flat begin to leak .
In a very few moment it be necessary for Elaine to scramble to her foot , pick up her cloth of gold coverlet and pall of black samite and gaze blankly at a big crack in the bottom of her barge through which the water be literally pour .
That sharp stake at the landing have tear off the strip of bat nail on the flat .
Anne do not know this , but it do not take her long to realize that she be in a dangerous plight .
At this rate the flat would fill and sink long before it could drift to the low headland .
Where be the oar ?
Left behind at the landing !
Anne give one gasping little scream which nobody ever hear ; she be white to the lip , but she do not lose her self-possession .
There be one chance -- just one .
`` I be horribly frighten , '' she tell Mrs. Allan the next day , `` and it seem like year while the flat be drift down to the bridge and the water rise in it every moment .
I pray , Mrs. Allan , most earnestly , but I do n't shut my eye to pray , for I know the only way God could save me be to let the flat float close enough to one of the bridge pile for me to climb up on it .
You know the pile be just old tree trunk and there be lot of knot and old branch stub on them .
It be proper to pray , but I have to do my part by watch out and right well I know it .
I just say , ` Dear God , please take the flat close to a pile and I 'll do the rest , ' over and over again .
Under such circumstance you do n't think much about make a flowery prayer .
But mine be answer , for the flat bump right into a pile for a minute and I fling the scarf and the shawl over my shoulder and scramble up on a big providential stub .
And there I be , Mrs. Allan , cling to that slippery old pile with no way of get up or down .
It be a very unromantic position , but I do n't think about that at the time .
You do n't think much about romance when you have just escape from a watery grave .
I say a grateful prayer at once and then I give all my attention to hold on tight , for I know I should probably have to depend on human aid to get back to dry land . ''
The flat drift under the bridge and then promptly sink in midstream .
Ruby , Jane , and Diana , already await it on the low headland , saw it disappear before their very eye and have not a doubt but that Anne have go down with it .
For a moment they stand still , white a sheet , frozen with horror at the tragedy ; then , shriek at the top of their voice , they start on a frantic run up through the wood , never pause a they cross the main road to glance the way of the bridge .
Anne , cling desperately to her precarious foothold , saw their flying form and hear their shriek .
Help would soon come , but meanwhile her position be a very uncomfortable one .
The minute pass by , each seem an hour to the unfortunate lily maid .
Why do n't somebody come ?
Where have the girl go ?
Suppose they have faint , one and all !
Suppose nobody ever come !
Suppose she grow so tired and cramp that she could hold on no longer !
Anne look at the wicked green depth below her , waver with long , oily shadow , and shiver .
Her imagination begin to suggest all manner of gruesome possibility to her .
Then , just a she think she really could not endure the ache in her arm and wrists another moment , Gilbert Blythe come row under the bridge in Harmon Andrews 's dory !
Gilbert glance up and , much to his amazement , behold a little white scornful face look down upon him with big , frighten but also scornful gray eye .
`` Anne Shirley !
How on earth do you get there ? ''
he exclaim .
Without wait for an answer he pull close to the pile and extend his hand .
There be no help for it ; Anne , cling to Gilbert Blythe 's hand , scramble down into the dory , where she sit , drabbled and furious , in the stern with her arm full of drip shawl and wet crepe .
It be certainly extremely difficult to be dignify under the circumstance !
`` What have happen , Anne ? ''
ask Gilbert , take up his oar .
`` We be play Elaine '' explain Anne frigidly , without even look at her rescuer , `` and I have to drift down to Camelot in the barge -- I mean the flat .
The flat begin to leak and I climb out on the pile .
The girl go for help .
Will you be kind enough to row me to the landing ? ''
Gilbert obligingly row to the landing and Anne , disdain assistance , sprang nimbly on shore .
`` I 'm very much oblige to you , '' she say haughtily a she turn away .
But Gilbert have also spring from the boat and now lay a detaining hand on her arm .
`` Anne , '' he say hurriedly , `` look here .
Ca n't we be good friend ?
I 'm awfully sorry I make fun of your hair that time .
I do n't mean to vex you and I only mean it for a joke .
Besides , it 's so long ago .
I think your hair be awfully pretty now -- honest I do .
Let 's be friend . ''
For a moment Anne hesitate .
She have an odd , newly awaken consciousness under all her outraged dignity that the half-shy , half-eager expression in Gilbert 's hazel eye be something that be very good to see .
Her heart give a quick , queer little beat .
But the bitterness of her old grievance promptly stiffen up her waver determination .
That scene of two year before flash back into her recollection as vividly a if it have take place yesterday .
Gilbert have call her `` carrots '' and have bring about her disgrace before the whole school .
Her resentment , which to other and old people might be as laughable a it cause , be in no whit allay and soften by time seemingly .
She hat Gilbert Blythe !
She would never forgive him !
`` No , '' she say coldly , `` I shall never be friend with you , Gilbert Blythe ; and I do n't want to be ! ''
`` All right ! ''
Gilbert sprang into his skiff with an angry color in his cheek .
`` I 'll never ask you to be friend again , Anne Shirley .
And I do n't care either ! ''
He pull away with swift defiant stroke , and Anne go up the steep , ferny little path under the maple .
She hold her head very high , but she be conscious of an odd feeling of regret .
She almost wish she have answer Gilbert differently .
Of course , he have insult her terribly , but still -- !
Altogether , Anne rather think it would be a relief to sit down and have a good cry .
She be really quite unstrung , for the reaction from her fright and cramp clinging be make itself felt .
Halfway up the path she meet Jane and Diana rush back to the pond in a state narrowly remove from positive frenzy .
They have find nobody at Orchard Slope , both Mr. and Mrs. Barry be away .
Here Ruby Gillis have succumb to hysteric , and be leave to recover from them a best she might , while Jane and Diana fly through the Haunted Wood and across the brook to Green Gables .
There they have find nobody either , for Marilla have go to Carmody and Matthew be make hay in the back field .
`` Oh , Anne , '' gasp Diana , fairly fall on the former 's neck and weep with relief and delight , `` oh , Anne -- we think -- you be -- drown -- and we felt like murderer -- because we have make -- you be -- Elaine .
And Ruby be in hysteric -- oh , Anne , how do you escape ? ''
`` I climb up on one of the pile , '' explain Anne wearily , `` and Gilbert Blythe come along in Mr. Andrews 's dory and bring me to land . ''
`` Oh , Anne , how splendid of him !
Why , it 's so romantic ! ''
say Jane , find breath enough for utterance at last .
`` Of course you 'll speak to him after this . ''
`` Of course I wo n't , '' flash Anne , with a momentary return of her old spirit .
`` And I do n't want ever to hear the word ` romantic ' again , Jane Andrews .
I 'm awfully sorry you be so frightened , girl .
It be all my fault .
I feel sure I be bear under an unlucky star .
Everything I do get me or my dear friend into a scrape .
We 've go and lose your father 's flat , Diana , and I have a presentiment that we 'll not be allow to row on the pond any more . ''
Anne 's presentiment prove more trustworthy than presentiment be apt to do .
Great be the consternation in the Barry and Cuthbert household when the event of the afternoon become know .
`` Will you ever have any sense , Anne ? ''
groan Marilla .
`` Oh , yes , I think I will , Marilla , '' return Anne optimistically .
A good cry , indulge in the grateful solitude of the east gable , have soothe her nerve and restore her to her wonted cheerfulness .
`` I think my prospect of become sensible be brighter now than ever . ''
`` I do n't see how , '' say Marilla .
`` Well , '' explain Anne , `` I 've learn a new and valuable lesson today .
Ever since I come to Green Gables I 've be make mistake , and each mistake have help to cure me of some great shortcoming .
The affair of the amethyst brooch cure me of meddle with thing that do n't belong to me .
The Haunted Wood mistake cure me of let my imagination run away with me .
The liniment cake mistake cure me of carelessness in cooking .
Dyeing my hair cure me of vanity .
I never think about my hair and nose now -- at least , very seldom .
And today 's mistake be go to cure me of be too romantic .
I have come to the conclusion that it be no use try to be romantic in Avonlea .
It be probably easy enough in towered Camelot hundred of year ago , but romance be not appreciate now .
I feel quite sure that you will soon see a great improvement in me in this respect , Marilla . ''
`` I 'm sure I hope so , '' say Marilla skeptically .
But Matthew , who have be sit mutely in his corner , lay a hand on Anne 's shoulder when Marilla have go out .
`` Do n't give up all your romance , Anne , '' he whisper shyly , `` a little of it be a good thing -- not too much , of course -- but keep a little of it , Anne , keep a little of it . ''
CHAPTER XXIX .
An Epoch in Anne 's Life Anne be bring the cow home from the back pasture by way of Lover 's Lane .
It be a September evening and all the gap and clearing in the wood be brim up with ruby sunset light .
Here and there the lane be splash with it , but for the most part it be already quite shadowy beneath the maple , and the space under the fir be fill with a clear violet dusk like airy wine .
The wind be out in their top , and there be no sweeter music on earth than that which the wind make in the fir tree at evening .
The cow swing placidly down the lane , and Anne follow them dreamily , repeat aloud the battle canto from MARMION -- which have also be part of their English course the precede winter and which Miss Stacy have make them learn off by heart -- and exult in it rushing line and the clash of spear in it imagery .
When she come to the line The stubborn spearsmen still make good Their dark impenetrable wood , she stop in ecstasy to shut her eye that she might the good fancy herself one of that heroic ring .
When she open them again it be to behold Diana come through the gate that lead into the Barry field and look so important that Anne instantly divine there be news to be tell .
But betray too eager curiosity she would not .
`` Is n't this evening just like a purple dream , Diana ?
It make me so glad to be alive .
In the morning I always think the morning be best ; but when even come I think it 's lovely still . ''
`` It 's a very fine evening , '' say Diana , `` but oh , I have such news , Anne .
Guess .
You can have three guess . ''
`` Charlotte Gillis be go to be marry in the church after all and Mrs. Allan want u to decorate it , '' cry Anne .
`` No .
Charlotte 's beau wo n't agree to that , because nobody ever have be marry in the church yet , and he think it would seem too much like a funeral .
It 's too mean , because it would be such fun .
Guess again . ''
`` Jane 's mother be go to let her have a birthday party ? ''
Diana shake her head , her black eye dance with merriment .
`` I ca n't think what it can be , '' say Anne in despair , `` unless it 's that Moody Spurgeon MacPherson saw you home from prayer meeting last night .
Did he ? ''
`` I should think not , '' exclaim Diana indignantly .
`` I would n't be likely to boast of it if he do , the horrid creature !
I know you could n't guess it .
Mother have a letter from Aunt Josephine today , and Aunt Josephine want you and me to go to town next Tuesday and stop with her for the Exhibition .
There ! ''
`` Oh , Diana , '' whisper Anne , find it necessary to lean up against a maple tree for support , `` do you really mean it ?
But I 'm afraid Marilla wo n't let me go .
She will say that she ca n't encourage gad about .
That be what she say last week when Jane invite me to go with them in their double-seated buggy to the American concert at the White Sands Hotel .
I want to go , but Marilla say I 'd be good at home learn my lesson and so would Jane .
I be bitterly disappointed , Diana .
I felt so heartbroken that I would n't say my prayer when I go to bed .
But I repent of that and get up in the middle of the night and say them . ''
`` I 'll tell you , '' say Diana , `` we 'll get Mother to ask Marilla .
She 'll be more likely to let you go then ; and if she do we 'll have the time of our life , Anne .
I 've never be to an Exhibition , and it 's so aggravating to hear the other girl talk about their trip .
Jane and Ruby have be twice , and they 're go this year again . ''
`` I 'm not go to think about it at all until I know whether I can go or not , '' say Anne resolutely .
`` If I do and then be disappoint , it would be more than I could bear .
But in case I do go I 'm very glad my new coat will be ready by that time .
Marilla do n't think I need a new coat .
She say my old one would do very well for another winter and that I ought to be satisfy with have a new dress .
The dress be very pretty , Diana -- navy blue and make so fashionably .
Marilla always make my dress fashionably now , because she say she do n't intend to have Matthew go to Mrs. Lynde to make them .
I 'm so glad .
It be ever so much easy to be good if your clothes be fashionable .
At least , it be easy for me .
I suppose it do n't make such a difference to naturally good people .
But Matthew say I must have a new coat , so Marilla buy a lovely piece of blue broadcloth , and it 's be make by a real dressmaker over at Carmody .
It 's to be do Saturday night , and I 'm try not to imagine myself walk up the church aisle on Sunday in my new suit and cap , because I 'm afraid it be n't right to imagine such thing .
But it just slip into my mind in spite of me .
My cap be so pretty .
Matthew buy it for me the day we be over at Carmody .
It be one of those little blue velvet one that be all the rage , with gold cord and tassel .
Your new hat be elegant , Diana , and so become .
When I saw you come into church last Sunday my heart swell with pride to think you be my dear friend .
Do you suppose it 's wrong for u to think so much about our clothes ?
Marilla say it be very sinful .
But it be such an interesting subject , be n't it ? ''
Marilla agree to let Anne go to town , and it be arrange that Mr. Barry should take the girl in on the following Tuesday .
As Charlottetown be thirty mile away and Mr. Barry wish to go and return the same day , it be necessary to make a very early start .
But Anne count it all joy , and be up before sunrise on Tuesday morning .
A glance from her window assure her that the day would be fine , for the eastern sky behind the fir of the Haunted Wood be all silvery and cloudless .
Through the gap in the tree a light be shin in the western gable of Orchard Slope , a token that Diana be also up .
Anne be dress by the time Matthew have the fire on and have the breakfast ready when Marilla come down , but for her own part be much too excited to eat .
After breakfast the jaunty new cap and jacket be don , and Anne hasten over the brook and up through the fir to Orchard Slope .
Mr. Barry and Diana be wait for her , and they be soon on the road .
It be a long drive , but Anne and Diana enjoy every minute of it .
It be delightful to rattle along over the moist road in the early red sunlight that be creep across the shorn harvest field .
The air be fresh and crisp , and little smoke-blue mist curl through the valley and float off from the hill .
Sometimes the road go through wood where maple be begin to hang out scarlet banner ; sometimes it cross river on bridge that make Anne 's flesh cringe with the old , half-delightful fear ; sometimes it wind along a harbor shore and pass by a little cluster of weather-gray fishing hut ; again it mount to hill whence a far sweep of curve upland or misty-blue sky could be see ; but wherever it go there be much of interest to discuss .
It be almost noon when they reach town and find their way to `` Beechwood . ''
It be quite a fine old mansion , set back from the street in a seclusion of green elm and branch beech .
Miss Barry meet them at the door with a twinkle in her sharp black eye .
`` So you 've come to see me at last , you Anne-girl , '' she say .
`` Mercy , child , how you have grow !
You 're tall than I be , I declare .
And you 're ever so much well look than you use to be , too .
But I dare say you know that without be tell . ''
`` Indeed I do n't , '' say Anne radiantly .
`` I know I 'm not so freckled a I use to be , so I 've much to be thankful for , but I really have n't dare to hope there be any other improvement .
I 'm so glad you think there be , Miss Barry . ''
Miss Barry 's house be furnish with `` great magnificence , '' a Anne tell Marilla afterward .
The two little country girl be rather abash by the splendor of the parlor where Miss Barry leave them when she go to see about dinner .
`` Is n't it just like a palace ? ''
whisper Diana .
`` I never be in Aunt Josephine 's house before , and I 'd no idea it be so grand .
I just wish Julia Bell could see this -- she put on such air about her mother 's parlor . ''
`` Velvet carpet , '' sigh Anne luxuriously , `` and silk curtain !
I 've dream of such thing , Diana .
But do you know I do n't believe I feel very comfortable with them after all .
There be so many thing in this room and all so splendid that there be no scope for imagination .
That be one consolation when you be poor -- there be so many more thing you can imagine about . ''
Their sojourn in town be something that Anne and Diana date from for year .
From first to last it be crowd with delight .
On Wednesday Miss Barry take them to the Exhibition ground and keep them there all day .
`` It be splendid , '' Anne relate to Marilla later on .
`` I never imagine anything so interesting .
I do n't really know which department be the most interesting .
I think I like the horse and the flower and the fancywork best .
Josie Pye take first prize for knitted lace .
I be real glad she do .
And I be glad that I felt glad , for it show I 'm improve , do n't you think , Marilla , when I can rejoice in Josie 's success ?
Mr. Harmon Andrews take second prize for Gravenstein apple and Mr. Bell take first prize for a pig .
Diana say she think it be ridiculous for a Sunday-school superintendent to take a prize in pig , but I do n't see why .
Do you ?
She say she would always think of it after this when he be pray so solemnly .
Clara Louise MacPherson take a prize for painting , and Mrs. Lynde get first prize for homemade butter and cheese .
So Avonlea be pretty well represent , be n't it ?
Mrs. Lynde be there that day , and I never know how much I really like her until I saw her familiar face among all those stranger .
There be thousand of people there , Marilla .
It make me feel dreadfully insignificant .
And Miss Barry take u up to the grandstand to see the horse race .
Mrs. Lynde would n't go ; she say horse racing be an abomination and , she be a church member , think it her bounden duty to set a good example by stay away .
But there be so many there I do n't believe Mrs. Lynde 's absence would ever be notice .
I do n't think , though , that I ought to go very often to horse race , because they ARE awfully fascinating .
Diana get so excited that she offer to bet me ten cent that the red horse would win .
I do n't believe he would , but I refuse to bet , because I want to tell Mrs. Allan all about everything , and I felt sure it would n't do to tell her that .
It 's always wrong to do anything you ca n't tell the minister 's wife .
It 's as good a an extra conscience to have a minister 's wife for your friend .
And I be very glad I do n't bet , because the red horse DID win , and I would have lose ten cent .
So you see that virtue be it own reward .
We saw a man go up in a balloon .
I 'd love to go up in a balloon , Marilla ; it would be simply thrill ; and we saw a man sell fortune .
You pay him ten cent and a little bird pick out your fortune for you .
Miss Barry give Diana and me ten cent each to have our fortune tell .
Mine be that I would marry a dark-complected man who be very wealthy , and I would go across water to live .
I look carefully at all the dark men I saw after that , but I do n't care much for any of them , and anyhow I suppose it 's too early to be look out for him yet .
Oh , it be a never-to-be-forgotten day , Marilla .
I be so tired I could n't sleep at night .
Miss Barry put u in the spare room , accord to promise .
It be an elegant room , Marilla , but somehow sleeping in a spare room be n't what I use to think it be .
That 's the bad of grow up , and I 'm begin to realize it .
The thing you want so much when you be a child do n't seem half so wonderful to you when you get them . ''
Thursday the girl have a drive in the park , and in the evening Miss Barry take them to a concert in the Academy of Music , where a noted prima donna be to sing .
To Anne the evening be a glittering vision of delight .
`` Oh , Marilla , it be beyond description .
I be so excited I could n't even talk , so you may know what it be like .
I just sit in enraptured silence .
Madame Selitsky be perfectly beautiful , and wear white satin and diamond .
But when she begin to sing I never think about anything else .
Oh , I ca n't tell you how I felt .
But it seem to me that it could never be hard to be good any more .
I felt like I do when I look up to the star .
Tears come into my eye , but , oh , they be such happy tear .
I be so sorry when it be all over , and I tell Miss Barry I do n't see how I be ever to return to common life again .
She say she think if we go over to the restaurant across the street and have an ice cream it might help me .
That sound so prosaic ; but to my surprise I find it true .
The ice cream be delicious , Marilla , and it be so lovely and dissipate to be sit there eat it at eleven o'clock at night .
Diana say she believe she be bear for city life .
Miss Barry ask me what my opinion be , but I say I would have to think it over very seriously before I could tell her what I really think .
So I think it over after I go to bed .
That be the best time to think thing out .
And I come to the conclusion , Marilla , that I be n't bear for city life and that I be glad of it .
It 's nice to be eat ice cream at brilliant restaurant at eleven o'clock at night once in a while ; but a a regular thing I 'd rather be in the east gable at eleven , sound asleep , but kind of know even in my sleep that the star be shin outside and that the wind be blow in the fir across the brook .
I tell Miss Barry so at breakfast the next morning and she laugh .
Miss Barry generally laugh at anything I say , even when I say the most solemn thing .
I do n't think I like it , Marilla , because I be n't try to be funny .
But she be a most hospitable lady and treat u royally . ''
Friday bring going-home time , and Mr. Barry drive in for the girl .
`` Well , I hope you 've enjoy yourselves , '' say Miss Barry , a she bid them good-bye .
`` Indeed we have , '' say Diana .
`` And you , Anne-girl ? ''
`` I 've enjoy every minute of the time , '' say Anne , throw her arm impulsively about the old woman 's neck and kiss her wrinkled cheek .
Diana would never have dare to do such a thing and felt rather aghast at Anne 's freedom .
But Miss Barry be pleased , and she stand on her veranda and watch the buggy out of sight .
Then she go back into her big house with a sigh .
It seem very lonely , lack those fresh young life .
Miss Barry be a rather selfish old lady , if the truth must be tell , and have never care much for anybody but herself .
She value people only a they be of service to her or amuse her .
Anne have amuse her , and consequently stand high in the old lady 's good grace .
But Miss Barry find herself think less about Anne 's quaint speech than of her fresh enthusiasm , her transparent emotion , her little winning way , and the sweetness of her eye and lip .
`` I think Marilla Cuthbert be an old fool when I hear she 'd adopt a girl out of an orphan asylum , '' she say to herself , `` but I guess she do n't make much of a mistake after all .
If I 'd a child like Anne in the house all the time I 'd be a good and happy woman . ''
Anne and Diana find the drive home as pleasant a the drive in -- pleasanter , indeed , since there be the delightful consciousness of home waiting at the end of it .
It be sunset when they pass through White Sands and turn into the shore road .
Beyond , the Avonlea hill come out darkly against the saffron sky .
Behind them the moon be rise out of the sea that grow all radiant and transfigure in her light .
Every little cove along the curve road be a marvel of dance ripple .
The wave break with a soft swish on the rock below them , and the tang of the sea be in the strong , fresh air .
`` Oh , but it 's good to be alive and to be go home , '' breathe Anne .
When she cross the log bridge over the brook the kitchen light of Green Gables wink her a friendly welcome back , and through the open door shine the hearth fire , send out it warm red glow athwart the chilly autumn night .
Anne run blithely up the hill and into the kitchen , where a hot supper be wait on the table .
`` So you 've get back ? ''
say Marilla , fold up her knitting .
`` Yes , and oh , it 's so good to be back , '' say Anne joyously .
`` I could kiss everything , even to the clock .
Marilla , a broiled chicken !
You do n't mean to say you cook that for me ! ''
`` Yes , I do , '' say Marilla .
`` I think you 'd be hungry after such a drive and need something real appetizing .
Hurry and take off your thing , and we 'll have supper as soon a Matthew come in .
I 'm glad you 've get back , I must say .
It 's be fearful lonesome here without you , and I never put in four long day . ''
After supper Anne sit before the fire between Matthew and Marilla , and give them a full account of her visit .
`` I 've have a splendid time , '' she conclude happily , `` and I feel that it mark an epoch in my life .
But the best of it all be the coming home . ''
CHAPTER XXX .
The Queens Class Is Organized Marilla lay her knitting on her lap and lean back in her chair .
Her eye be tire , and she think vaguely that she must see about have her glass change the next time she go to town , for her eye have grow tired very often of late .
It be nearly dark , for the full November twilight have fall around Green Gables , and the only light in the kitchen come from the dancing red flame in the stove .
Anne be curl up Turk-fashion on the hearthrug , gaze into that joyous glow where the sunshine of a hundred summer be be distil from the maple cordwood .
She have be read , but her book have slip to the floor , and now she be dream , with a smile on her parted lip .
Glittering castle in Spain be shape themselves out of the mist and rainbow of her lively fancy ; adventure wonderful and enthral be happen to her in cloudland -- adventure that always turn out triumphantly and never involve her in scrape like those of actual life .
Marilla look at her with a tenderness that would never have be suffer to reveal itself in any clear light than that soft mingling of fireshine and shadow .
The lesson of a love that should display itself easily in spoken word and open look be one Marilla could never learn .
But she have learn to love this slim , gray-eyed girl with an affection all the deep and strong from it very undemonstrativeness .
Her love make her afraid of be unduly indulgent , indeed .
She have an uneasy feeling that it be rather sinful to set one 's heart so intensely on any human creature a she have set hers on Anne , and perhaps she perform a sort of unconscious penance for this by be strict and more critical than if the girl have be less dear to her .
Certainly Anne herself have no idea how Marilla love her .
She sometimes think wistfully that Marilla be very hard to please and distinctly lack in sympathy and understanding .
But she always check the thought reproachfully , remember what she owe to Marilla .
`` Anne , '' say Marilla abruptly , `` Miss Stacy be here this afternoon when you be out with Diana . ''
Anne come back from her other world with a start and a sigh .
`` Was she ?
Oh , I 'm so sorry I be n't in .
Why do n't you call me , Marilla ?
Diana and I be only over in the Haunted Wood .
It 's lovely in the wood now .
All the little wood thing -- the fern and the satin leave and the crackerberry -- have go to sleep , just a if somebody have tuck them away until spring under a blanket of leaf .
I think it be a little gray fairy with a rainbow scarf that come tiptoe along the last moonlight night and do it .
Diana would n't say much about that , though .
Diana have never forget the scold her mother give her about imagine ghost into the Haunted Wood .
It have a very bad effect on Diana 's imagination .
It blight it .
Mrs. Lynde say Myrtle Bell be a blighted be .
I ask Ruby Gillis why Myrtle be blight , and Ruby say she guess it be because her young man have go back on her .
Ruby Gillis think of nothing but young men , and the old she get the bad she be .
Young men be all very well in their place , but it do n't do to drag them into everything , do it ?
Diana and I be think seriously of promise each other that we will never marry but be nice old maid and live together forever .
Diana have n't quite make up her mind though , because she think perhaps it would be nobler to marry some wild , dash , wicked young man and reform him .
Diana and I talk a great deal about serious subject now , you know .
We feel that we be so much old than we use to be that it be n't become to talk of childish matter .
It 's such a solemn thing to be almost fourteen , Marilla .
Miss Stacy take all u girl who be in our teen down to the brook last Wednesday , and talk to u about it .
She say we could n't be too careful what habit we form and what ideals we acquire in our teen , because by the time we be twenty our character would be develop and the foundation laid for our whole future life .
And she say if the foundation be shaky we could never build anything really worth while on it .
Diana and I talk the matter over coming home from school .
We felt extremely solemn , Marilla .
And we decide that we would try to be very careful indeed and form respectable habit and learn all we could and be as sensible a possible , so that by the time we be twenty our character would be properly develop .
It 's perfectly appalling to think of be twenty , Marilla .
It sound so fearfully old and grow up .
But why be Miss Stacy here this afternoon ? ''
`` That be what I want to tell you , Anne , if you 'll ever give me a chance to get a word in edgewise .
She be talk about you . ''
`` About me ? ''
Anne look rather scar .
Then she flush and exclaim : `` Oh , I know what she be say .
I mean to tell you , Marilla , honestly I do , but I forget .
Miss Stacy catch me read Ben Hur in school yesterday afternoon when I should have be study my Canadian history .
Jane Andrews lend it to me .
I be read it at dinner hour , and I have just get to the chariot race when school go in .
I be simply wild to know how it turn out -- although I felt sure Ben Hur must win , because it would n't be poetical justice if he do n't -- so I spread the history open on my desk lid and then tuck Ben Hur between the desk and my knee .
I just look a if I be study Canadian history , you know , while all the while I be revel in Ben Hur .
I be so interested in it that I never notice Miss Stacy come down the aisle until all at once I just look up and there she be look down at me , so reproachful-like .
I ca n't tell you how ashamed I felt , Marilla , especially when I hear Josie Pye giggling .
Miss Stacy take Ben Hur away , but she never say a word then .
She keep me in at recess and talk to me .
She say I have do very wrong in two respect .
First , I be waste the time I ought to have put on my study ; and secondly , I be deceive my teacher in try to make it appear I be read a history when it be a storybook instead .
I have never realize until that moment , Marilla , that what I be do be deceitful .
I be shock .
I cry bitterly , and ask Miss Stacy to forgive me and I 'd never do such a thing again ; and I offer to do penance by never so much a look at Ben Hur for a whole week , not even to see how the chariot race turn out .
But Miss Stacy say she would n't require that , and she forgive me freely .
So I think it be n't very kind of her to come up here to you about it after all . ''
`` Miss Stacy never mention such a thing to me , Anne , and it only your guilty conscience that 's the matter with you .
You have no business to be take storybook to school .
You read too many novel anyhow .
When I be a girl I be n't so much a allow to look at a novel . ''
`` Oh , how can you call Ben Hur a novel when it 's really such a religious book ? ''
protest Anne .
`` Of course it 's a little too excite to be proper reading for Sunday , and I only read it on weekday .
And I never read ANY book now unless either Miss Stacy or Mrs. Allan think it be a proper book for a girl thirteen and three-quarters to read .
Miss Stacy make me promise that .
She find me read a book one day call , The Lurid Mystery of the Haunted Hall .
It be one Ruby Gillis have lend me , and , oh , Marilla , it be so fascinating and creepy .
It just curdle the blood in my vein .
But Miss Stacy say it be a very silly , unwholesome book , and she ask me not to read any more of it or any like it .
I do n't mind promise not to read any more like it , but it be AGONIZING to give back that book without know how it turn out .
But my love for Miss Stacy stand the test and I do .
It 's really wonderful , Marilla , what you can do when you 're truly anxious to please a certain person . ''
`` Well , I guess I 'll light the lamp and get to work , '' say Marilla .
`` I see plainly that you do n't want to hear what Miss Stacy have to say .
You 're more interested in the sound of your own tongue than in anything else . ''
`` Oh , indeed , Marilla , I do want to hear it , '' cry Anne contritely .
`` I wo n't say another word -- not one .
I know I talk too much , but I be really try to overcome it , and although I say far too much , yet if you only know how many thing I want to say and do n't , you 'd give me some credit for it .
Please tell me , Marilla . ''
`` Well , Miss Stacy want to organize a class among her advanced student who mean to study for the entrance examination into Queen 's .
She intend to give them extra lesson for an hour after school .
And she come to ask Matthew and me if we would like to have you join it .
What do you think about it yourself , Anne ?
Would you like to go to Queen 's and pas for a teacher ? ''
`` Oh , Marilla ! ''
Anne straighten to her knee and clasp her hand .
`` It 's be the dream of my life -- that be , for the last six month , ever since Ruby and Jane begin to talk of study for the Entrance .
But I do n't say anything about it , because I suppose it would be perfectly useless .
I 'd love to be a teacher .
But wo n't it be dreadfully expensive ?
Mr. Andrews say it cost him one hundred and fifty dollar to put Prissy through , and Prissy be n't a dunce in geometry . ''
`` I guess you need n't worry about that part of it .
When Matthew and I take you to bring up we resolve we would do the best we could for you and give you a good education .
I believe in a girl be fit to earn her own living whether she ever have to or not .
You 'll always have a home at Green Gables as long a Matthew and I be here , but nobody know what be go to happen in this uncertain world , and it 's just as well to be prepare .
So you can join the Queen 's class if you like , Anne . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , thank you . ''
Anne fling her arm about Marilla 's waist and look up earnestly into her face .
`` I 'm extremely grateful to you and Matthew .
And I 'll study as hard a I can and do my very best to be a credit to you .
I warn you not to expect much in geometry , but I think I can hold my own in anything else if I work hard . ''
`` I dare say you 'll get along well enough .
Miss Stacy say you be bright and diligent . ''
Not for world would Marilla have tell Anne just what Miss Stacy have say about her ; that would have be to pamper vanity .
`` You need n't rush to any extreme of kill yourself over your book .
There be no hurry .
You wo n't be ready to try the Entrance for a year and a half yet .
But it 's well to begin in time and be thoroughly ground , Miss Stacy say . ''
`` I shall take more interest than ever in my study now , '' say Anne blissfully , `` because I have a purpose in life .
Mr. Allan say everybody should have a purpose in life and pursue it faithfully .
Only he say we must first make sure that it be a worthy purpose .
I would call it a worthy purpose to want to be a teacher like Miss Stacy , would n't you , Marilla ?
I think it 's a very noble profession . ''
The Queen 's class be organize in due time .
Gilbert Blythe , Anne Shirley , Ruby Gillis , Jane Andrews , Josie Pye , Charlie Sloane , and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson join it .
Diana Barry do not , a her parent do not intend to send her to Queen 's .
This seem nothing short of a calamity to Anne .
Never , since the night on which Minnie May have have the croup , have she and Diana be separate in anything .
On the evening when the Queen 's class first remain in school for the extra lesson and Anne saw Diana go slowly out with the others , to walk home alone through the Birch Path and Violet Vale , it be all the former could do to keep her seat and refrain from rush impulsively after her chum .
A lump come into her throat , and she hastily retire behind the page of her uplifted Latin grammar to hide the tear in her eye .
Not for world would Anne have have Gilbert Blythe or Josie Pye see those tear .
`` But , oh , Marilla , I really felt that I have taste the bitterness of death , a Mr. Allan say in his sermon last Sunday , when I saw Diana go out alone , '' she say mournfully that night .
`` I think how splendid it would have be if Diana have only be go to study for the Entrance , too .
But we ca n't have thing perfect in this imperfect world , a Mrs. Lynde say .
Mrs. Lynde be n't exactly a comfort person sometimes , but there 's no doubt she say a great many very true thing .
And I think the Queen 's class be go to be extremely interesting .
Jane and Ruby be just go to study to be teacher .
That be the height of their ambition .
Ruby say she will only teach for two year after she get through , and then she intend to be marry .
Jane say she will devote her whole life to teaching , and never , never marry , because you be pay a salary for teaching , but a husband wo n't pay you anything , and growl if you ask for a share in the egg and butter money .
I expect Jane speaks from mournful experience , for Mrs. Lynde say that her father be a perfect old crank , and mean than second skimming .
Josie Pye say she be just go to college for education 's sake , because she wo n't have to earn her own living ; she say of course it be different with orphan who be live on charity -- THEY have to hustle .
Moody Spurgeon be go to be a minister .
Mrs. Lynde say he could n't be anything else with a name like that to live up to .
I hope it be n't wicked of me , Marilla , but really the thought of Moody Spurgeon be a minister make me laugh .
He 's such a funny-looking boy with that big fat face , and his little blue eye , and his ear stick out like flap .
But perhaps he will be more intellectual look when he grow up .
Charlie Sloane say he 's go to go into politics and be a member of Parliament , but Mrs. Lynde say he 'll never succeed at that , because the Sloanes be all honest people , and it 's only rascal that get on in politics nowadays . ''
`` What be Gilbert Blythe go to be ? ''
queried Marilla , see that Anne be open her Caesar .
`` I do n't happen to know what Gilbert Blythe 's ambition in life be -- if he have any , '' say Anne scornfully .
There be open rivalry between Gilbert and Anne now .
Previously the rivalry have be rather onesided , but there be no longer any doubt that Gilbert be as determine to be first in class a Anne be .
He be a foeman worthy of her steel .
The other member of the class tacitly acknowledge their superiority , and never dream of try to compete with them .
Since the day by the pond when she have refuse to listen to his plea for forgiveness , Gilbert , save for the aforesaid determine rivalry , have evince no recognition whatever of the existence of Anne Shirley .
He talk and jest with the other girl , exchange book and puzzle with them , discuss lesson and plan , sometimes walk home with one or the other of them from prayer meeting or Debating Club .
But Anne Shirley he simply ignore , and Anne find out that it be not pleasant to be ignore .
It be in vain that she tell herself with a toss of her head that she do not care .
Deep down in her wayward , feminine little heart she know that she do care , and that if she have that chance of the Lake of Shining Waters again she would answer very differently .
All at once , a it seem , and to her secret dismay , she find that the old resentment she have cherish against him be go -- go just when she most need it sustain power .
It be in vain that she recall every incident and emotion of that memorable occasion and try to feel the old satisfying anger .
That day by the pond have witness it last spasmodic flicker .
Anne realize that she have forgive and forget without know it .
But it be too late .
And at least neither Gilbert nor anybody else , not even Diana , should ever suspect how sorry she be and how much she wish she have n't be so proud and horrid !
She determine to `` shroud her feeling in deep oblivion , '' and it may be state here and now that she do it , so successfully that Gilbert , who possibly be not quite so indifferent a he seem , could not console himself with any belief that Anne felt his retaliatory scorn .
The only poor comfort he have be that she snub Charlie Sloane , unmercifully , continually , and undeservedly .
Otherwise the winter pass away in a round of pleasant duty and study .
For Anne the day slip by like golden bead on the necklace of the year .
She be happy , eager , interested ; there be lesson to be learn and honor to be win ; delightful book to read ; new piece to be practice for the Sunday-school choir ; pleasant Saturday afternoon at the manse with Mrs. Allan ; and then , almost before Anne realize it , spring have come again to Green Gables and all the world be abloom once more .
Studies pal just a wee bit then ; the Queen 's class , leave behind in school while the others scatter to green lane and leafy wood cut and meadow byway , look wistfully out of the window and discover that Latin verb and French exercise have somehow lose the tang and zest they have possess in the crisp winter month .
Even Anne and Gilbert lag and grow indifferent .
Teacher and taught be alike glad when the term be end and the glad vacation day stretch rosily before them .
`` But you 've do good work this past year , '' Miss Stacy tell them on the last evening , `` and you deserve a good , jolly vacation .
Have the best time you can in the out-of-door world and lay in a good stock of health and vitality and ambition to carry you through next year .
It will be the tug of war , you know -- the last year before the Entrance . ''
`` Are you go to be back next year , Miss Stacy ? ''
ask Josie Pye .
Josie Pye never scruple to ask question ; in this instance the rest of the class felt grateful to her ; none of them would have dare to ask it of Miss Stacy , but all want to , for there have be alarm rumor run at large through the school for some time that Miss Stacy be not come back the next year -- that she have be offer a position in the grade school of her own home district and meant to accept .
The Queen 's class listen in breathless suspense for her answer .
`` Yes , I think I will , '' say Miss Stacy .
`` I think of take another school , but I have decide to come back to Avonlea .
To tell the truth , I 've grow so interested in my pupil here that I find I could n't leave them .
So I 'll stay and see you through . ''
`` Hurrah ! ''
say Moody Spurgeon .
Moody Spurgeon have never be so carry away by his feeling before , and he blush uncomfortably every time he think about it for a week .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad , '' say Anne , with shin eye .
`` Dear Stacy , it would be perfectly dreadful if you do n't come back .
I do n't believe I could have the heart to go on with my study at all if another teacher come here . ''
When Anne get home that night she stack all her textbook away in an old trunk in the attic , lock it , and throw the key into the blanket box .
`` I 'm not even go to look at a schoolbook in vacation , '' she tell Marilla .
`` I 've study a hard all the term a I possibly could and I 've pore over that geometry until I know every proposition in the first book off by heart , even when the letter ARE change .
I just feel tired of everything sensible and I 'm go to let my imagination run riot for the summer .
Oh , you need n't be alarm , Marilla .
I 'll only let it run riot within reasonable limit .
But I want to have a real good jolly time this summer , for maybe it 's the last summer I 'll be a little girl .
Mrs. Lynde say that if I keep stretch out next year a I 've do this I 'll have to put on long skirt .
She say I 'm all running to legs and eye .
And when I put on long skirt I shall feel that I have to live up to them and be very dignified .
It wo n't even do to believe in fairy then , I 'm afraid ; so I 'm go to believe in them with all my whole heart this summer .
I think we 're go to have a very gay vacation .
Ruby Gillis be go to have a birthday party soon and there 's the Sunday school picnic and the missionary concert next month .
And Mr. Barry say that some evening he 'll take Diana and me over to the White Sands Hotel and have dinner there .
They have dinner there in the evening , you know .
Jane Andrews be over once last summer and she say it be a dazzling sight to see the electric light and the flower and all the lady guest in such beautiful dress .
Jane say it be her first glimpse into high life and she 'll never forget it to her die day . ''
Mrs. Lynde come up the next afternoon to find out why Marilla have not be at the Aid meeting on Thursday .
When Marilla be not at Aid meeting people know there be something wrong at Green Gables .
`` Matthew have a bad spell with his heart Thursday , '' Marilla explain , `` and I do n't feel like leave him .
Oh , yes , he 's all right again now , but he take them spell oftener than he use to and I 'm anxious about him .
The doctor say he must be careful to avoid excitement .
That 's easy enough , for Matthew do n't go about look for excitement by any mean and never do , but he 's not to do any very heavy work either and you might as well tell Matthew not to breathe a not to work .
Come and lay off your thing , Rachel .
You 'll stay to tea ? ''
`` Well , see you 're so pressing , perhaps I might as well , stay '' say Mrs. Rachel , who have not the slight intention of do anything else .
Mrs. Rachel and Marilla sit comfortably in the parlor while Anne get the tea and make hot biscuit that be light and white enough to defy even Mrs. Rachel 's criticism .
`` I must say Anne have turn out a real smart girl , '' admit Mrs. Rachel , a Marilla accompany her to the end of the lane at sunset .
`` She must be a great help to you . ''
`` She be , '' say Marilla , `` and she 's real steady and reliable now .
I use to be afraid she 'd never get over her featherbrained way , but she have and I would n't be afraid to trust her in anything now . ''
`` I never would have think she 'd have turn out so well that first day I be here three year ago , '' say Mrs. Rachel .
`` Lawful heart , shall I ever forget that tantrum of hers !
When I go home that night I say to Thomas , say I , ` Mark my word , Thomas , Marilla Cuthbert 'll live to rue the step she 's take . '
But I be mistake and I 'm real glad of it .
I ai n't one of those kind of people , Marilla , a can never be bring to own up that they 've make a mistake .
No , that never be my way , thank goodness .
I do make a mistake in judge Anne , but it be n't no wonder , for an odder , unexpected witch of a child there never be in this world , that 's what .
There be no cipher her out by the rule that work with other child .
It 's nothing short of wonderful how she 's improved these three year , but especially in look .
She 's a real pretty girl get to be , though I ca n't say I 'm overly partial to that pale , big-eyed style myself .
I like more snap and color , like Diana Barry have or Ruby Gillis .
Ruby Gillis 's look be real showy .
But somehow -- I do n't know how it be but when Anne and them be together , though she ai n't half a handsome , she make them look kind of common and overdone -- something like them white June lily she call narcissus alongside of the big , red peony , that 's what . ''
CHAPTER XXXI .
Where the Brook and River Meet Anne have her `` good '' summer and enjoy it wholeheartedly .
She and Diana fairly live outdoors , revel in all the delight that Lover 's Lane and the Dryad 's Bubble and Willowmere and Victoria Island afford .
Marilla offer no objection to Anne 's gypsyings .
The Spencervale doctor who have come the night Minnie May have the croup meet Anne at the house of a patient one afternoon early in vacation , look her over sharply , screw up his mouth , shake his head , and send a message to Marilla Cuthbert by another person .
It be : `` Keep that redheaded girl of yours in the open air all summer and do n't let her read book until she get more spring into her step . ''
This message frighten Marilla wholesomely .
She read Anne 's death warrant by consumption in it unless it be scrupulously obey .
As a result , Anne have the golden summer of her life as far a freedom and frolic go .
She walk , row , berry , and dream to her heart 's content ; and when September come she be bright-eyed and alert , with a step that would have satisfy the Spencervale doctor and a heart full of ambition and zest once more .
`` I feel just like study with might and main , '' she declare a she bring her book down from the attic .
`` Oh , you good old friend , I 'm glad to see your honest face once more -- yes , even you , geometry .
I 've have a perfectly beautiful summer , Marilla , and now I 'm rejoice a a strong man to run a race , a Mr. Allan say last Sunday .
Does n't Mr. Allan preach magnificent sermon ?
Mrs. Lynde say he be improve every day and the first thing we know some city church will gobble him up and then we 'll be leave and have to turn to and break in another green preacher .
But I do n't see the use of meet trouble halfway , do you , Marilla ?
I think it would be well just to enjoy Mr. Allan while we have him .
If I be a man I think I 'd be a minister .
They can have such an influence for good , if their theology be sound ; and it must be thrill to preach splendid sermon and stir your hearer ' heart .
Why ca n't woman be minister , Marilla ?
I ask Mrs. Lynde that and she be shock and say it would be a scandalous thing .
She say there might be female minister in the States and she believe there be , but thank goodness we have n't get to that stage in Canada yet and she hop we never would .
But I do n't see why .
I think woman would make splendid minister .
When there be a social to be get up or a church tea or anything else to raise money the woman have to turn to and do the work .
I 'm sure Mrs. Lynde can pray every bit as well a Superintendent Bell and I 've no doubt she could preach too with a little practice . ''
`` Yes , I believe she could , '' say Marilla dryly .
`` She do plenty of unofficial preaching a it be .
Nobody have much of a chance to go wrong in Avonlea with Rachel to oversee them . ''
`` Marilla , '' say Anne in a burst of confidence , `` I want to tell you something and ask you what you think about it .
It have worry me terribly -- on Sunday afternoon , that be , when I think specially about such matter .
I do really want to be good ; and when I 'm with you or Mrs. Allan or Miss Stacy I want it more than ever and I want to do just what would please you and what you would approve of .
But mostly when I 'm with Mrs. Lynde I feel desperately wicked and a if I want to go and do the very thing she tell me I ought n't to do .
I feel irresistibly tempt to do it .
Now , what do you think be the reason I feel like that ?
Do you think it 's because I 'm really bad and unregenerate ? ''
Marilla look dubious for a moment .
Then she laugh .
`` If you be I guess I be too , Anne , for Rachel often have that very effect on me .
I sometimes think she 'd have more of an influence for good , a you say yourself , if she do n't keep nag people to do right .
There should have be a special commandment against nagging .
But there , I should n't talk so .
Rachel be a good Christian woman and she mean well .
There be n't a kinder soul in Avonlea and she never shirk her share of work . ''
`` I 'm very glad you feel the same , '' say Anne decidedly .
`` It 's so encouraging .
I sha n't worry so much over that after this .
But I dare say there 'll be other thing to worry me .
They keep come up new all the time -- thing to perplex you , you know .
You settle one question and there 's another right after .
There be so many thing to be think over and decide when you 're begin to grow up .
It keep me busy all the time think them over and decide what be right .
It 's a serious thing to grow up , be n't it , Marilla ?
But when I have such good friend a you and Matthew and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy I ought to grow up successfully , and I 'm sure it will be my own fault if I do n't .
I feel it 's a great responsibility because I have only the one chance .
If I do n't grow up right I ca n't go back and begin over again .
I 've grow two inch this summer , Marilla .
Mr. Gillis measure me at Ruby 's party .
I 'm so glad you make my new dress longer .
That dark-green one be so pretty and it be sweet of you to put on the flounce .
Of course I know it be n't really necessary , but flounce be so stylish this fall and Josie Pye have flounce on all her dress .
I know I 'll be able to study good because of mine .
I shall have such a comfortable feeling deep down in my mind about that flounce . ''
`` It 's worth something to have that , '' admit Marilla .
Miss Stacy come back to Avonlea school and find all her pupil eager for work once more .
Especially do the Queen 's class gird up their loin for the fray , for at the end of the come year , dimly shadow their pathway already , loom up that fateful thing know a `` the Entrance , '' at the thought of which one and all felt their heart sink into their very shoe .
Suppose they do not pas !
That think be doom to haunt Anne through the waking hour of that winter , Sunday afternoon inclusive , to the almost entire exclusion of moral and theological problem .
When Anne have bad dream she find herself star miserably at pas list of the Entrance exam , where Gilbert Blythe 's name be blazon at the top and in which hers do not appear at all .
But it be a jolly , busy , happy swift-flying winter .
Schoolwork be a interesting , class rivalry a absorbing , a of yore .
New world of thought , feeling , and ambition , fresh , fascinating field of unexplored knowledge seem to be open out before Anne 's eager eye .
`` Hills peep o'er hill and Alps on Alps arise . ''
Much of all this be due to Miss Stacy 's tactful , careful , broadminded guidance .
She lead her class to think and explore and discover for themselves and encourage stray from the old beaten path to a degree that quite shocked Mrs. Lynde and the school trustee , who view all innovation on establish method rather dubiously .
Apart from her study Anne expand socially , for Marilla , mindful of the Spencervale doctor 's dictum , no longer vetoed occasional outing .
The Debating Club flourish and give several concert ; there be one or two party almost verge on grown-up affair ; there be sleigh drive and skate frolic galore .
Betweentimes Anne grow , shoot up so rapidly that Marilla be astonish one day , when they be stand side by side , to find the girl be tall than herself .
`` Why , Anne , how you 've grow ! ''
she say , almost unbelievingly .
A sigh follow on the word .
Marilla felt a queer regret over Anne 's inch .
The child she have learn to love have vanish somehow and here be this tall , serious-eyed girl of fifteen , with the thoughtful brow and the proudly poise little head , in her place .
Marilla love the girl as much a she have love the child , but she be conscious of a queer sorrowful sense of loss .
And that night , when Anne have go to prayer meeting with Diana , Marilla sit alone in the wintry twilight and indulge in the weakness of a cry .
Matthew , come in with a lantern , catch her at it and gaze at her in such consternation that Marilla have to laugh through her tear .
`` I be think about Anne , '' she explain .
`` She 's get to be such a big girl -- and she 'll probably be away from u next winter .
I 'll miss her terrible . ''
`` She 'll be able to come home often , '' comfort Matthew , to whom Anne be a yet and always would be the little , eager girl he have bring home from Bright River on that June even four year before .
`` The branch railroad will be build to Carmody by that time . ''
`` It wo n't be the same thing a have her here all the time , '' sigh Marilla gloomily , determine to enjoy her luxury of grief uncomforted .
`` But there -- men ca n't understand these thing ! ''
There be other change in Anne no less real than the physical change .
For one thing , she become much quieter .
Perhaps she think all the more and dream as much a ever , but she certainly talk less .
Marilla notice and comment on this also .
`` You do n't chatter half as much a you use to , Anne , nor use half a many big word .
What have come over you ? ''
Anne color and laugh a little , a she drop her book and look dreamily out of the window , where big fat red bud be burst out on the creeper in response to the lure of the spring sunshine .
`` I do n't know -- I do n't want to talk a much , '' she say , dent her chin thoughtfully with her forefinger .
`` It 's nice to think dear , pretty thought and keep them in one 's heart , like treasure .
I do n't like to have them laugh at or wonder over .
And somehow I do n't want to use big word any more .
It 's almost a pity , be n't it , now that I 'm really grow big enough to say them if I do want to .
It 's fun to be almost grow up in some way , but it 's not the kind of fun I expect , Marilla .
There 's so much to learn and do and think that there be n't time for big word .
Besides , Miss Stacy say the short one be much strong and well .
She make u write all our essay as simply a possible .
It be hard at first .
I be so used to crowd in all the fine big word I could think of -- and I think of any number of them .
But I 've get use to it now and I see it 's so much good . ''
`` What have become of your story club ?
I have n't hear you speak of it for a long time . ''
`` The story club be n't in existence any long .
We have n't time for it -- and anyhow I think we have get tire of it .
It be silly to be write about love and murder and elopement and mystery .
Miss Stacy sometimes have u write a story for training in composition , but she wo n't let u write anything but what might happen in Avonlea in our own life , and she criticize it very sharply and make u criticize our own too .
I never think my composition have so many fault until I begin to look for them myself .
I felt so ashamed I want to give up altogether , but Miss Stacy say I could learn to write well if I only train myself to be my own severe critic .
And so I be try to . ''
`` You 've only two more month before the Entrance , '' say Marilla .
`` Do you think you 'll be able to get through ? ''
Anne shiver .
`` I do n't know .
Sometimes I think I 'll be all right -- and then I get horribly afraid .
We 've study hard and Miss Stacy have drill u thoroughly , but we may n't get through for all that .
We 've each get a stumbling block .
Mine be geometry of course , and Jane 's be Latin , and Ruby and Charlie 's be algebra , and Josie 's be arithmetic .
Moody Spurgeon say he feel it in his bone that he be go to fail in English history .
Miss Stacy be go to give u examination in June just as hard a we 'll have at the Entrance and mark u just a strictly , so we 'll have some idea .
I wish it be all over , Marilla .
It haunt me .
Sometimes I wake up in the night and wonder what I 'll do if I do n't pass . ''
`` Why , go to school next year and try again , '' say Marilla unconcernedly .
`` Oh , I do n't believe I 'd have the heart for it .
It would be such a disgrace to fail , especially if Gil -- if the others pass .
And I get so nervous in an examination that I 'm likely to make a mess of it .
I wish I have nerve like Jane Andrews .
Nothing rattle her . ''
Anne sigh and , drag her eye from the witchery of the spring world , the beckon day of breeze and blue , and the green thing upspringing in the garden , bury herself resolutely in her book .
There would be other spring , but if she do not succeed in pass the Entrance , Anne felt convince that she would never recover sufficiently to enjoy them .
CHAPTER XXXII .
The Pass List Is Out With the end of June come the close of the term and the close of Miss Stacy 's rule in Avonlea school .
Anne and Diana walk home that even feel very sober indeed .
Red eye and damp handkerchief bore convince testimony to the fact that Miss Stacy 's farewell word must have be quite as touch a Mr. Phillips 's have be under similar circumstance three year before .
Diana look back at the schoolhouse from the foot of the spruce hill and sigh deeply .
`` It do seem a if it be the end of everything , do n't it ? ''
she say dismally .
`` You ought n't to feel half as badly a I do , '' say Anne , hunt vainly for a dry spot on her handkerchief .
`` You 'll be back again next winter , but I suppose I 've leave the dear old school forever -- if I have good luck , that be . ''
`` It wo n't be a bit the same .
Miss Stacy wo n't be there , nor you nor Jane nor Ruby probably .
I shall have to sit all alone , for I could n't bear to have another deskmate after you .
Oh , we have have jolly time , have n't we , Anne ?
It 's dreadful to think they 're all over . ''
Two big tear roll down by Diana 's nose .
`` If you would stop cry I could , '' say Anne imploringly .
`` Just as soon a I put away my hanky I see you brim up and that start me off again .
As Mrs. Lynde say , ` If you ca n't be cheerful , be as cheerful a you can . '
After all , I dare say I 'll be back next year .
This be one of the time I KNOW I 'm not go to pass .
They 're get alarmingly frequent . ''
`` Why , you come out splendidly in the exam Miss Stacy give . ''
`` Yes , but those exam do n't make me nervous .
When I think of the real thing you ca n't imagine what a horrid cold fluttery feeling come round my heart .
And then my number be thirteen and Josie Pye say it 's so unlucky .
I be NOT superstitious and I know it can make no difference .
But still I wish it be n't thirteen . ''
`` I do wish I be go in with you , '' say Diana .
`` Would n't we have a perfectly elegant time ?
But I suppose you 'll have to cram in the evening . ''
`` No ; Miss Stacy have make u promise not to open a book at all .
She say it would only tire and confuse u and we be to go out walk and not think about the exam at all and go to bed early .
It 's good advice , but I expect it will be hard to follow ; good advice be apt to be , I think .
Prissy Andrews tell me that she sit up half the night every night of her Entrance week and cram for dear life ; and I have determine to sit up AT LEAST as long a she do .
It be so kind of your Aunt Josephine to ask me to stay at Beechwood while I 'm in town . ''
`` You 'll write to me while you 're in , wo n't you ? ''
`` I 'll write Tuesday night and tell you how the first day go , '' promise Anne .
`` I 'll be haunt the post office Wednesday , '' vow Diana .
Anne go to town the follow Monday and on Wednesday Diana haunt the post office , a agree , and get her letter .
`` Dearest Diana '' -LSB- write Anne -RSB- , `` Here it be Tuesday night and I 'm write this in the library at Beechwood .
Last night I be horribly lonesome all alone in my room and wish so much you be with me .
I could n't `` cram '' because I 'd promise Miss Stacy not to , but it be as hard to keep from open my history a it use to be to keep from read a story before my lesson be learn .
`` This morning Miss Stacy come for me and we go to the Academy , call for Jane and Ruby and Josie on our way .
Ruby ask me to feel her hand and they be as cold a ice .
Josie say I look a if I have n't sleep a wink and she do n't believe I be strong enough to stand the grind of the teacher 's course even if I do get through .
There be time and season even yet when I do n't feel that I 've make any great headway in learn to like Josie Pye !
`` When we reach the Academy there be score of student there from all over the Island .
The first person we saw be Moody Spurgeon sit on the step and mutter away to himself .
Jane ask him what on earth he be do and he say he be repeat the multiplication table over and over to steady his nerve and for pity 's sake not to interrupt him , because if he stop for a moment he get frightened and forget everything he ever know , but the multiplication table keep all his fact firmly in their proper place !
`` When we be assign to our room Miss Stacy have to leave u .
Jane and I sit together and Jane be so composed that I envy her .
No need of the multiplication table for good , steady , sensible Jane !
I wonder if I look a I felt and if they could hear my heart thump clear across the room .
Then a man come in and begin distribute the English examination sheet .
My hand grow cold then and my head fairly whirl around a I pick it up .
Just one awful moment -- Diana , I felt exactly a I do four year ago when I ask Marilla if I might stay at Green Gables -- and then everything clear up in my mind and my heart begin beat again -- I forget to say that it have stop altogether !
-- for I know I could do something with THAT paper anyhow .
`` At noon we go home for dinner and then back again for history in the afternoon .
The history be a pretty hard paper and I get dreadfully mix up in the date .
Still , I think I do fairly well today .
But oh , Diana , tomorrow the geometry exam come off and when I think of it it take every bit of determination I possess to keep from open my Euclid .
If I think the multiplication table would help me any I would recite it from now till tomorrow morning .
`` I go down to see the other girl this evening .
On my way I meet Moody Spurgeon wander distractedly around .
He say he know he have fail in history and he be bear to be a disappointment to his parent and he be go home on the morning train ; and it would be easy to be a carpenter than a minister , anyhow .
I cheer him up and persuade him to stay to the end because it would be unfair to Miss Stacy if he do n't .
Sometimes I have wish I be bear a boy , but when I see Moody Spurgeon I 'm always glad I 'm a girl and not his sister .
`` Ruby be in hysteric when I reach their boardinghouse ; she have just discover a fearful mistake she have make in her English paper .
When she recover we go uptown and have an ice cream .
How we wish you have be with u .
`` Oh , Diana , if only the geometry examination be over !
But there , a Mrs. Lynde would say , the sun will go on rise and set whether I fail in geometry or not .
That be true but not especially comfort .
I think I 'd rather it do n't go on if I fail !
`` Yours devotedly , `` Anne '' The geometry examination and all the others be over in due time and Anne arrive home on Friday evening , rather tire but with an air of chasten triumph about her .
Diana be over at Green Gables when she arrive and they meet a if they have be part for year .
`` You old darling , it 's perfectly splendid to see you back again .
It seem like an age since you go to town and oh , Anne , how do you get along ? ''
`` Pretty well , I think , in everything but the geometry .
I do n't know whether I pass in it or not and I have a creepy , crawly presentiment that I do n't .
Oh , how good it be to be back !
Green Gables be the dear , lovely spot in the world . ''
`` How do the others do ? ''
`` The girl say they know they do n't pass , but I think they do pretty well .
Josie say the geometry be so easy a child of ten could do it !
Moody Spurgeon still think he fail in history and Charlie say he fail in algebra .
But we do n't really know anything about it and wo n't until the pas list be out .
That wo n't be for a fortnight .
Fancy live a fortnight in such suspense !
I wish I could go to sleep and never wake up until it be over . ''
Diana know it would be useless to ask how Gilbert Blythe have fare , so she merely say : `` Oh , you 'll pass all right .
Do n't worry . ''
`` I 'd rather not pass at all than not come out pretty well up on the list , '' flash Anne , by which she mean -- and Diana know she mean -- that success would be incomplete and bitter if she do not come out ahead of Gilbert Blythe .
With this end in view Anne have strain every nerve during the examination .
So have Gilbert .
They have meet and pass each other on the street a dozen time without any sign of recognition and every time Anne have hold her head a little high and wish a little more earnestly that she have make friend with Gilbert when he ask her , and vow a little more determinedly to surpass him in the examination .
She know that all Avonlea junior be wonder which would come out first ; she even know that Jimmy Glover and Ned Wright have a bet on the question and that Josie Pye have say there be no doubt in the world that Gilbert would be first ; and she felt that her humiliation would be unbearable if she fail .
But she have another and nobler motive for wish to do well .
She want to `` pass high '' for the sake of Matthew and Marilla -- especially Matthew .
Matthew have declare to her his conviction that she `` would beat the whole Island . ''
That , Anne felt , be something it would be foolish to hope for even in the wild dream .
But she do hope fervently that she would be among the first ten at least , so that she might see Matthew 's kindly brown eye gleam with pride in her achievement .
That , she felt , would be a sweet reward indeed for all her hard work and patient grubbing among unimaginative equation and conjugation .
At the end of the fortnight Anne take to `` haunt '' the post office also , in the distracted company of Jane , Ruby , and Josie , open the Charlottetown daily with shake hand and cold , sinkaway feeling as bad a any experienced during the Entrance week .
Charlie and Gilbert be not above do this too , but Moody Spurgeon stay resolutely away .
`` I have n't get the grit to go there and look at a paper in cold blood , '' he tell Anne .
`` I 'm just go to wait until somebody come and tell me suddenly whether I 've pass or not . ''
When three week have go by without the pas list appear Anne begin to feel that she really could n't stand the strain much longer .
Her appetite fail and her interest in Avonlea doings languish .
Mrs. Lynde want to know what else you could expect with a Tory superintendent of education at the head of affair , and Matthew , note Anne 's paleness and indifference and the lagging step that bore her home from the post office every afternoon , begin seriously to wonder if he have n't good vote Grit at the next election .
But one even the news come .
Anne be sit at her open window , for the time forgetful of the woe of examination and the care of the world , a she drink in the beauty of the summer dusk , sweet-scented with flower breath from the garden below and sibilant and rustle from the stir of poplar .
The eastern sky above the fir be flush faintly pink from the reflection of the west , and Anne be wonder dreamily if the spirit of color look like that , when she saw Diana come fly down through the fir , over the log bridge , and up the slope , with a flutter newspaper in her hand .
Anne sprang to her foot , know at once what that paper contain .
The pas list be out !
Her head whirl and her heart beat until it hurt her .
She could not move a step .
It seem an hour to her before Diana come rush along the hall and burst into the room without even knock , so great be her excitement .
`` Anne , you 've pass , '' she cry , `` pass the VERY FIRST -- you and Gilbert both -- you 're tie -- but your name be first .
Oh , I 'm so proud ! ''
Diana fling the paper on the table and herself on Anne 's bed , utterly breathless and incapable of further speech .
Anne light the lamp , oversetting the match safe and use up half a dozen match before her shaking hand could accomplish the task .
Then she snatch up the paper .
Yes , she have pass -- there be her name at the very top of a list of two hundred !
That moment be worth living for .
`` You do just splendidly , Anne , '' puff Diana , recover sufficiently to sit up and speak , for Anne , starry eye and rapt , have not utter a word .
`` Father bring the paper home from Bright River not ten minute ago -- it come out on the afternoon train , you know , and wo n't be here till tomorrow by mail -- and when I saw the pas list I just rush over like a wild thing .
You 've all pass , every one of you , Moody Spurgeon and all , although he 's condition in history .
Jane and Ruby do pretty well -- they 're halfway up -- and so do Charlie .
Josie just scrap through with three mark to spare , but you 'll see she 'll put on a many air a if she 'd lead .
Wo n't Miss Stacy be delight ?
Oh , Anne , what do it feel like to see your name at the head of a pass list like that ?
If it be me I know I 'd go crazy with joy .
I be pretty near crazy a it be , but you 're a calm and cool a a spring evening . ''
`` I 'm just dazzle inside , '' say Anne .
`` I want to say a hundred thing , and I ca n't find word to say them in .
I never dream of this -- yes , I do too , just once !
I let myself think ONCE , ` What if I should come out first ? '
quakingly , you know , for it seem so vain and presumptuous to think I could lead the Island .
Excuse me a minute , Diana .
I must run right out to the field to tell Matthew .
Then we 'll go up the road and tell the good news to the others . ''
They hurry to the hayfield below the barn where Matthew be coil hay , and , a luck would have it , Mrs. Lynde be talk to Marilla at the lane fence .
`` Oh , Matthew , '' exclaim Anne , `` I 've pass and I 'm first -- or one of the first !
I 'm not vain , but I 'm thankful . ''
`` Well now , I always say it , '' say Matthew , gaze at the pas list delightedly .
`` I know you could beat them all easy . ''
`` You 've do pretty well , I must say , Anne , '' say Marilla , try to hide her extreme pride in Anne from Mrs. Rachel 's critical eye .
But that good soul say heartily : `` I just guess she have do well , and far be it from me to be backward in say it .
You 're a credit to your friend , Anne , that 's what , and we 're all proud of you . ''
That night Anne , who have wind up the delightful evening with a serious little talk with Mrs. Allan at the manse , kneel sweetly by her open window in a great sheen of moonshine and murmur a prayer of gratitude and aspiration that come straight from her heart .
There be in it thankfulness for the past and reverent petition for the future ; and when she sleep on her white pillow her dream be a fair and bright and beautiful a maidenhood might desire .
CHAPTER XXXIII .
The Hotel Concert `` Put on your white organdy , by all mean , Anne , '' advise Diana decidedly .
They be together in the east gable chamber ; outside it be only twilight -- a lovely yellowish-green twilight with a clear-blue cloudless sky .
A big round moon , slowly deepen from her pallid luster into burnish silver , hung over the Haunted Wood ; the air be full of sweet summer sound -- sleepy bird twitter , freakish breeze , faraway voice and laughter .
But in Anne 's room the blind be draw and the lamp light , for an important toilet be be make .
The east gable be a very different place from what it have be on that night four year before , when Anne have felt it bareness penetrate to the marrow of her spirit with it inhospitable chill .
Changes have creep in , Marilla connive at them resignedly , until it be a sweet and dainty a nest a a young girl could desire .
The velvet carpet with the pink rose and the pink silk curtain of Anne 's early vision have certainly never materialize ; but her dream have keep pace with her growth , and it be not probable she lament them .
The floor be cover with a pretty matting , and the curtain that soften the high window and flutter in the vagrant breeze be of pale-green art muslin .
The wall , hang not with gold and silver brocade tapestry , but with a dainty apple-blossom paper , be adorn with a few good picture give Anne by Mrs. Allan .
Miss Stacy 's photograph occupy the place of honor , and Anne make a sentimental point of keep fresh flower on the bracket under it .
Tonight a spike of white lily faintly perfume the room like the dream of a fragrance .
There be no `` mahogany furniture , '' but there be a white-painted bookcase fill with book , a cushioned wicker rocker , a toilet table befrilled with white muslin , a quaint , gilt-framed mirror with chubby pink Cupids and purple grape paint over it arched top , that use to hang in the spare room , and a low white bed .
Anne be dress for a concert at the White Sands Hotel .
The guest have get it up in aid of the Charlottetown hospital , and have hunt out all the available amateur talent in the surround district to help it along .
Bertha Sampson and Pearl Clay of the White Sands Baptist choir have be ask to sing a duet ; Milton Clark of Newbridge be to give a violin solo ; Winnie Adella Blair of Carmody be to sing a Scotch ballad ; and Laura Spencer of Spencervale and Anne Shirley of Avonlea be to recite .
As Anne would have say at one time , it be `` an epoch in her life , '' and she be deliciously athrill with the excitement of it .
Matthew be in the seventh heaven of gratified pride over the honor confer on his Anne and Marilla be not far behind , although she would have die rather than admit it , and say she do n't think it be very proper for a lot of young folk to be gad over to the hotel without any responsible person with them .
Anne and Diana be to drive over with Jane Andrews and her brother Billy in their double-seated buggy ; and several other Avonlea girl and boy be go too .
There be a party of visitor expect out from town , and after the concert a supper be to be give to the performer .
`` Do you really think the organdy will be best ? ''
query Anne anxiously .
`` I do n't think it 's as pretty a my blue-flowered muslin -- and it certainly be n't so fashionable . ''
`` But it suit you ever so much good , '' say Diana .
`` It 's so soft and frilly and cling .
The muslin be stiff , and make you look too dress up .
But the organdy seem a if it grow on you . ''
Anne sigh and yield .
Diana be begin to have a reputation for notable taste in dressing , and her advice on such subject be much sought after .
She be look very pretty herself on this particular night in a dress of the lovely wild-rose pink , from which Anne be forever debar ; but she be not to take any part in the concert , so her appearance be of minor importance .
All her pain be bestow upon Anne , who , she vow , must , for the credit of Avonlea , be dress and comb and adorn to the Queen 's taste .
`` Pull out that frill a little more -- so ; here , let me tie your sash ; now for your slipper .
I 'm go to braid your hair in two thick braid , and tie them halfway up with big white bow -- no , do n't pull out a single curl over your forehead -- just have the soft part .
There be no way you do your hair suit you so well , Anne , and Mrs. Allan say you look like a Madonna when you part it so .
I shall fasten this little white house rise just behind your ear .
There be just one on my bush , and I save it for you . ''
`` Shall I put my pearl bead on ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Matthew bring me a string from town last week , and I know he 'd like to see them on me . ''
Diana purse up her lip , put her black head on one side critically , and finally pronounce in favor of the bead , which be thereupon tie around Anne 's slim milk-white throat .
`` There 's something so stylish about you , Anne , '' say Diana , with unenvious admiration .
`` You hold your head with such an air .
I suppose it 's your figure .
I be just a dumpling .
I 've always be afraid of it , and now I know it be so .
Well , I suppose I shall just have to resign myself to it . ''
`` But you have such dimple , '' say Anne , smile affectionately into the pretty , vivacious face so near her own .
`` Lovely dimple , like little dent in cream .
I have give up all hope of dimple .
My dimple-dream will never come true ; but so many of my dream have that I must n't complain .
Am I all ready now ? ''
`` All ready , '' assure Diana , a Marilla appear in the doorway , a gaunt figure with grayer hair than of yore and no few angle , but with a much soft face .
`` Come right in and look at our elocutionist , Marilla .
Does n't she look lovely ? ''
Marilla emit a sound between a sniff and a grunt .
`` She look neat and proper .
I like that way of fix her hair .
But I expect she 'll ruin that dress driving over there in the dust and dew with it , and it look most too thin for these damp night .
Organdy 's the most unserviceable stuff in the world anyhow , and I tell Matthew so when he get it .
But there be no use in say anything to Matthew nowadays .
Time be when he would take my advice , but now he just buy thing for Anne regardless , and the clerk at Carmody know they can palm anything off on him .
Just let them tell him a thing be pretty and fashionable , and Matthew plunk his money down for it .
Mind you keep your skirt clear of the wheel , Anne , and put your warm jacket on . ''
Then Marilla stalk downstairs , think proudly how sweet Anne look , with that `` One moonbeam from the forehead to the crown '' and regret that she could not go to the concert herself to hear her girl recite .
`` I wonder if it IS too damp for my dress , '' say Anne anxiously .
`` Not a bit of it , '' say Diana , pull up the window blind .
`` It 's a perfect night , and there wo n't be any dew .
Look at the moonlight . ''
`` I 'm so glad my window look east into the sunrising , '' say Anne , go over to Diana .
`` It 's so splendid to see the morning come up over those long hill and glow through those sharp fir top .
It 's new every morning , and I feel a if I wash my very soul in that bath of early sunshine .
Oh , Diana , I love this little room so dearly .
I do n't know how I 'll get along without it when I go to town next month . ''
`` Do n't speak of your go away tonight , '' beg Diana .
`` I do n't want to think of it , it make me so miserable , and I do want to have a good time this evening .
What be you go to recite , Anne ?
And be you nervous ? ''
`` Not a bit .
I 've recite so often in public I do n't mind at all now .
I 've decide to give ` The Maiden 's Vow . '
It 's so pathetic .
Laura Spencer be go to give a comic recitation , but I 'd rather make people cry than laugh . ''
`` What will you recite if they encore you ? ''
`` They wo n't dream of encore me , '' scoff Anne , who be not without her own secret hope that they would , and already visioned herself tell Matthew all about it at the next morning 's breakfast table .
`` There be Billy and Jane now -- I hear the wheel .
Come on . ''
Billy Andrews insist that Anne should ride on the front seat with him , so she unwillingly climb up .
She would have much prefer to sit back with the girl , where she could have laugh and chatter to her heart 's content .
There be not much of either laughter or chatter in Billy .
He be a big , fat , stolid youth of twenty , with a round , expressionless face , and a painful lack of conversational gift .
But he admire Anne immensely , and be puff up with pride over the prospect of drive to White Sands with that slim , upright figure beside him .
Anne , by dint of talk over her shoulder to the girl and occasionally pass a sop of civility to Billy -- who grin and chuckle and never could think of any reply until it be too late -- contrive to enjoy the drive in spite of all .
It be a night for enjoyment .
The road be full of buggy , all bound for the hotel , and laughter , silver clear , echoed and reecho along it .
When they reach the hotel it be a blaze of light from top to bottom .
They be meet by the lady of the concert committee , one of whom take Anne off to the performer ' dressing room which be fill with the member of a Charlottetown Symphony Club , among whom Anne felt suddenly shy and frightened and countrified .
Her dress , which , in the east gable , have seem so dainty and pretty , now seem simple and plain -- too simple and plain , she think , among all the silk and lace that glisten and rustle around her .
What be her pearl bead compare to the diamond of the big , handsome lady near her ?
And how poor her one wee white rise must look beside all the hothouse flower the others wear !
Anne lay her hat and jacket away , and shrank miserably into a corner .
She wish herself back in the white room at Green Gables .
It be still bad on the platform of the big concert hall of the hotel , where she presently find herself .
The electric light dazzle her eye , the perfume and hum bewilder her .
She wish she be sit down in the audience with Diana and Jane , who seem to be have a splendid time away at the back .
She be wedge in between a stout lady in pink silk and a tall , scornful-looking girl in a white-lace dress .
The stout lady occasionally turn her head squarely around and survey Anne through her eyeglass until Anne , acutely sensitive of be so scrutinize , felt that she must scream aloud ; and the white-lace girl keep talk audibly to her next neighbor about the `` country bumpkin '' and `` rustic belle '' in the audience , languidly anticipate `` such fun '' from the display of local talent on the program .
Anne believe that she would hate that white-lace girl to the end of life .
Unfortunately for Anne , a professional elocutionist be stay at the hotel and have consent to recite .
She be a lithe , dark-eyed woman in a wonderful gown of shimmer gray stuff like woven moonbeam , with gem on her neck and in her dark hair .
She have a marvelously flexible voice and wonderful power of expression ; the audience go wild over her selection .
Anne , forget all about herself and her trouble for the time , listen with rapt and shin eye ; but when the recitation end she suddenly put her hand over her face .
She could never get up and recite after that -- never .
Had she ever think she could recite ?
Oh , if she be only back at Green Gables !
At this unpropitious moment her name be call .
Somehow Anne -- who do not notice the rather guilty little start of surprise the white-lace girl give , and would not have understand the subtle compliment imply therein if she have -- get on her foot , and move dizzily out to the front .
She be so pale that Diana and Jane , down in the audience , clasp each other 's hand in nervous sympathy .
Anne be the victim of an overwhelming attack of stage fright .
Often a she have recite in public , she have never before face such an audience a this , and the sight of it paralyze her energy completely .
Everything be so strange , so brilliant , so bewilder -- the row of lady in even dress , the critical face , the whole atmosphere of wealth and culture about her .
Very different this from the plain bench at the Debating Club , fill with the homely , sympathetic face of friend and neighbor .
These people , she think , would be merciless critic .
Perhaps , like the white-lace girl , they anticipate amusement from her `` rustic '' effort .
She felt hopelessly , helplessly ashamed and miserable .
Her knee tremble , her heart flutter , a horrible faintness come over her ; not a word could she utter , and the next moment she would have flee from the platform despite the humiliation which , she felt , must ever after be her portion if she do so .
But suddenly , a her dilated , frightened eye gaze out over the audience , she saw Gilbert Blythe away at the back of the room , bend forward with a smile on his face -- a smile which seem to Anne at once triumphant and taunting .
In reality it be nothing of the kind .
Gilbert be merely smile with appreciation of the whole affair in general and of the effect produce by Anne 's slender white form and spiritual face against a background of palm in particular .
Josie Pye , whom he have drive over , sat beside him , and her face certainly be both triumphant and taunting .
But Anne do not see Josie , and would not have care if she have .
She draw a long breath and fling her head up proudly , courage and determination tingling over her like an electric shock .
She WOULD NOT fail before Gilbert Blythe -- he should never be able to laugh at her , never , never !
Her fright and nervousness vanish ; and she begin her recitation , her clear , sweet voice reach to the farthest corner of the room without a tremor or a break .
Self-possession be fully restore to her , and in the reaction from that horrible moment of powerlessness she recite a she have never do before .
When she finish there be burst of honest applause .
Anne , step back to her seat , blush with shyness and delight , find her hand vigorously clasp and shake by the stout lady in pink silk .
`` My dear , you do splendidly , '' she puff .
`` I 've be cry like a baby , actually I have .
There , they 're encore you -- they 're bind to have you back ! ''
`` Oh , I ca n't go , '' say Anne confusedly .
`` But yet -- I must , or Matthew will be disappoint .
He say they would encore me . ''
`` Then do n't disappoint Matthew , '' say the pink lady , laugh .
Smiling , blush , limpid eye , Anne trip back and give a quaint , funny little selection that captivate her audience still far .
The rest of the evening be quite a little triumph for her .
When the concert be over , the stout , pink lady -- who be the wife of an American millionaire -- take her under her wing , and introduce her to everybody ; and everybody be very nice to her .
The professional elocutionist , Mrs. Evans , come and chat with her , tell her that she have a charming voice and `` interpreted '' her selection beautifully .
Even the white-lace girl pay her a languid little compliment .
They have supper in the big , beautifully decorate dining room ; Diana and Jane be invite to partake of this , also , since they have come with Anne , but Billy be nowhere to be find , have decamp in mortal fear of some such invitation .
He be in wait for them , with the team , however , when it be all over , and the three girl come merrily out into the calm , white moonshine radiance .
Anne breathe deeply , and look into the clear sky beyond the dark bough of the fir .
Oh , it be good to be out again in the purity and silence of the night !
How great and still and wonderful everything be , with the murmur of the sea sound through it and the darkling cliff beyond like grim giant guard enchanted coast .
`` Has n't it be a perfectly splendid time ? ''
sigh Jane , a they drive away .
`` I just wish I be a rich American and could spend my summer at a hotel and wear jewel and low-necked dress and have ice cream and chicken salad every bless day .
I 'm sure it would be ever so much more fun than teach school .
Anne , your recitation be simply great , although I think at first you be never go to begin .
I think it be good than Mrs. Evans 's . ''
`` Oh , no , do n't say thing like that , Jane , '' say Anne quickly , `` because it sound silly .
It could n't be good than Mrs. Evans 's , you know , for she be a professional , and I 'm only a schoolgirl , with a little knack of reciting .
I 'm quite satisfied if the people just like mine pretty well . ''
`` I 've a compliment for you , Anne , '' say Diana .
`` At least I think it must be a compliment because of the tone he say it in .
Part of it be anyhow .
There be an American sitting behind Jane and me -- such a romantic-looking man , with coal-black hair and eye .
Josie Pye say he be a distinguished artist , and that her mother 's cousin in Boston be marry to a man that use to go to school with him .
Well , we hear him say -- do n't we , Jane ?
-- ` Who be that girl on the platform with the splendid Titian hair ?
She have a face I should like to paint . '
There now , Anne .
But what do Titian hair mean ? ''
`` Being interpret it mean plain red , I guess , '' laugh Anne .
`` Titian be a very famous artist who like to paint red-haired woman . ''
`` DID you see all the diamond those lady wear ? ''
sigh Jane .
`` They be simply dazzle .
Would n't you just love to be rich , girl ? ''
`` We ARE rich , '' say Anne staunchly .
`` Why , we have sixteen year to our credit , and we 're happy a queen , and we 've all get imagination , more or less .
Look at that sea , girl -- all silver and shadow and vision of thing not see .
We could n't enjoy it loveliness any more if we have million of dollar and rope of diamond .
You would n't change into any of those woman if you could .
Would you want to be that white-lace girl and wear a sour look all your life , a if you 'd be bear turn up your nose at the world ?
Or the pink lady , kind and nice a she be , so stout and short that you 'd really no figure at all ?
Or even Mrs. Evans , with that sad , sad look in her eye ?
She must have be dreadfully unhappy sometime to have such a look .
You KNOW you would n't , Jane Andrews ! ''
`` I DO N'T know -- exactly , '' say Jane unconvinced .
`` I think diamond would comfort a person for a good deal . ''
`` Well , I do n't want to be anyone but myself , even if I go uncomforted by diamond all my life , '' declare Anne .
`` I 'm quite content to be Anne of Green Gables , with my string of pearl bead .
I know Matthew give me a much love with them a ever go with Madame the Pink Lady 's jewel . ''
CHAPTER XXXIV .
A Queen 's Girl The next three week be busy one at Green Gables , for Anne be get ready to go to Queen 's , and there be much sewing to be do , and many thing to be talk over and arrange .
Anne 's outfit be ample and pretty , for Matthew saw to that , and Marilla for once make no objection whatever to anything he purchase or suggest .
More -- one evening she go up to the east gable with her arm full of a delicate pale green material .
`` Anne , here 's something for a nice light dress for you .
I do n't suppose you really need it ; you 've plenty of pretty waist ; but I think maybe you 'd like something real dressy to wear if you be ask out anywhere of an evening in town , to a party or anything like that .
I hear that Jane and Ruby and Josie have get ` evening dress , ' a they call them , and I do n't mean you shall be behind them .
I get Mrs. Allan to help me pick it in town last week , and we 'll get Emily Gillis to make it for you .
Emily have get taste , and her fit be n't to be equal . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , it 's just lovely , '' say Anne .
`` Thank you so much .
I do n't believe you ought to be so kind to me -- it 's make it hard every day for me to go away . ''
The green dress be make up with as many tuck and frill and shirring a Emily 's taste permit .
Anne put it on one evening for Matthew 's and Marilla 's benefit , and recite `` The Maiden 's Vow '' for them in the kitchen .
As Marilla watch the bright , animate face and graceful motion her thought go back to the evening Anne have arrive at Green Gables , and memory recall a vivid picture of the odd , frighten child in her preposterous yellowish-brown wincey dress , the heartbreak look out of her tearful eye .
Something in the memory bring tear to Marilla 's own eye .
`` I declare , my recitation have make you cry , Marilla , '' say Anne gaily stoop over Marilla 's chair to drop a butterfly kiss on that lady 's cheek .
`` Now , I call that a positive triumph . ''
`` No , I be n't cry over your piece , '' say Marilla , who would have scorn to be betray into such weakness by any poetry stuff .
`` I just could n't help thinking of the little girl you use to be , Anne .
And I be wish you could have stay a little girl , even with all your queer way .
You 've grow up now and you 're go away ; and you look so tall and stylish and so -- so -- different altogether in that dress -- a if you do n't belong in Avonlea at all -- and I just get lonesome think it all over . ''
`` Marilla ! ''
Anne sit down on Marilla 's gingham lap , take Marilla 's lined face between her hand , and look gravely and tenderly into Marilla 's eye .
`` I 'm not a bit change -- not really .
I 'm only just prune down and branch out .
The real ME -- back here -- be just the same .
It wo n't make a bit of difference where I go or how much I change outwardly ; at heart I shall always be your little Anne , who will love you and Matthew and dear Green Gables more and good every day of her life . ''
Anne lay her fresh young cheek against Marilla 's faded one , and reach out a hand to pat Matthew 's shoulder .
Marilla would have give much just then to have possess Anne 's power of put her feeling into word ; but nature and habit have will it otherwise , and she could only put her arm close about her girl and hold her tenderly to her heart , wish that she need never let her go .
Matthew , with a suspicious moisture in his eye , get up and go out-of-doors .
Under the star of the blue summer night he walk agitatedly across the yard to the gate under the poplar .
`` Well now , I guess she ai n't be much spoil , '' he mutter , proudly .
`` I guess my put in my oar occasional never do much harm after all .
She 's smart and pretty , and loving , too , which be good than all the rest .
She 's be a blessing to u , and there never be a lucky mistake than what Mrs. Spencer make -- if it WAS luck .
I do n't believe it be any such thing .
It be Providence , because the Almighty saw we need her , I reckon . ''
The day finally come when Anne must go to town .
She and Matthew drive in one fine September morning , after a tearful parting with Diana and an untearful practical one -- on Marilla 's side at least -- with Marilla .
But when Anne have go Diana dry her tear and go to a beach picnic at White Sands with some of her Carmody cousin , where she contrive to enjoy herself tolerably well ; while Marilla plunge fiercely into unnecessary work and keep at it all day long with the bitter kind of heartache -- the ache that burn and gnaws and can not wash itself away in ready tear .
But that night , when Marilla go to bed , acutely and miserably conscious that the little gable room at the end of the hall be untenanted by any vivid young life and unstirred by any soft breathing , she bury her face in her pillow , and wept for her girl in a passion of sob that appal her when she grow calm enough to reflect how very wicked it must be to take on so about a sinful fellow creature .
Anne and the rest of the Avonlea scholar reach town just in time to hurry off to the Academy .
That first day pass pleasantly enough in a whirl of excitement , meet all the new student , learn to know the professor by sight and be assort and organize into class .
Anne intend take up the Second Year work be advise to do so by Miss Stacy ; Gilbert Blythe elect to do the same .
This mean get a First Class teacher 's license in one year instead of two , if they be successful ; but it also mean much more and hard work .
Jane , Ruby , Josie , Charlie , and Moody Spurgeon , not be trouble with the stirring of ambition , be content to take up the Second Class work .
Anne be conscious of a pang of loneliness when she find herself in a room with fifty other student , not one of whom she know , except the tall , brown-haired boy across the room ; and know him in the fashion she do , do not help her much , a she reflect pessimistically .
Yet she be undeniably glad that they be in the same class ; the old rivalry could still be carry on , and Anne would hardly have know what to do if it have be lack .
`` I would n't feel comfortable without it , '' she think .
`` Gilbert look awfully determine .
I suppose he 's make up his mind , here and now , to win the medal .
What a splendid chin he have !
I never notice it before .
I do wish Jane and Ruby have go in for First Class , too .
I suppose I wo n't feel so much like a cat in a strange garret when I get acquaint , though .
I wonder which of the girl here be go to be my friend .
It 's really an interesting speculation .
Of course I promise Diana that no Queen 's girl , no matter how much I like her , should ever be a dear to me a she be ; but I 've lot of second-best affection to bestow .
I like the look of that girl with the brown eye and the crimson waist .
She look vivid and red-rosy ; there 's that pale , fair one gaze out of the window .
She have lovely hair , and look a if she know a thing or two about dream .
I 'd like to know them both -- know them well -- well enough to walk with my arm about their waist , and call them nicknames .
But just now I do n't know them and they do n't know me , and probably do n't want to know me particularly .
Oh , it 's lonesome ! ''
It be lonesome still when Anne find herself alone in her hall bedroom that night at twilight .
She be not to board with the other girl , who all have relative in town to take pity on them .
Miss Josephine Barry would have like to board her , but Beechwood be so far from the Academy that it be out of the question ; so miss Barry hunt up a boarding-house , assure Matthew and Marilla that it be the very place for Anne .
`` The lady who keep it be a reduced gentlewoman , '' explain Miss Barry .
`` Her husband be a British officer , and she be very careful what sort of boarder she take .
Anne will not meet with any objectionable person under her roof .
The table be good , and the house be near the Academy , in a quiet neighborhood . ''
All this might be quite true , and indeed , prove to be so , but it do not materially help Anne in the first agony of homesickness that seize upon her .
She look dismally about her narrow little room , with it dull-papered , pictureless wall , it small iron bedstead and empty book-case ; and a horrible choke come into her throat a she think of her own white room at Green Gables , where she would have the pleasant consciousness of a great green still outdoors , of sweet pea grow in the garden , and moonlight fall on the orchard , of the brook below the slope and the spruce boughs toss in the night wind beyond it , of a vast starry sky , and the light from Diana 's window shin out through the gap in the tree .
Here there be nothing of this ; Anne know that outside of her window be a hard street , with a network of telephone wire shut out the sky , the tramp of alien foot , and a thousand light gleam on stranger face .
She know that she be go to cry , and fought against it .
`` I WO N'T cry .
It 's silly -- and weak -- there 's the third tear splash down by my nose .
There be more coming !
I must think of something funny to stop them .
But there 's nothing funny except what be connect with Avonlea , and that only make thing bad -- four -- five -- I 'm go home next Friday , but that seem a hundred year away .
Oh , Matthew be nearly home by now -- and Marilla be at the gate , look down the lane for him -- six -- seven -- eight -- oh , there 's no use in count them !
They 're come in a flood presently .
I ca n't cheer up -- I do n't WANT to cheer up .
It 's nice to be miserable ! ''
The flood of tear would have come , no doubt , have not Josie Pye appear at that moment .
In the joy of see a familiar face Anne forget that there have never be much love lose between her and Josie .
As a part of Avonlea life even a Pye be welcome .
`` I 'm so glad you come up , '' Anne say sincerely .
`` You 've be cry , '' remark Josie , with aggravating pity .
`` I suppose you 're homesick -- some people have so little self-control in that respect .
I 've no intention of be homesick , I can tell you .
Town 's too jolly after that poky old Avonlea .
I wonder how I ever exist there so long .
You should n't cry , Anne ; it be n't become , for your nose and eye get red , and then you seem ALL red .
I 'd a perfectly scrumptious time in the Academy today .
Our French professor be simply a duck .
His moustache would give you kerwollowps of the heart .
Have you anything eatable around , Anne ?
I 'm literally starve .
Ah , I guess likely Marilla 'd load you up with cake .
That 's why I call round .
Otherwise I 'd have go to the park to hear the band play with Frank Stockley .
He board same place a I do , and he 's a sport .
He notice you in class today , and ask me who the red-headed girl be .
I tell him you be an orphan that the Cuthberts have adopt , and nobody know very much about what you 'd be before that . ''
Anne be wonder if , after all , solitude and tear be not more satisfactory than Josie Pye 's companionship when Jane and Ruby appear , each with an inch of Queen 's color ribbon -- purple and scarlet -- pin proudly to her coat .
As Josie be not `` speak '' to Jane just then she have to subside into comparative harmlessness .
`` Well , '' say Jane with a sigh , `` I feel a if I 'd live many moon since the morning .
I ought to be home study my Virgil -- that horrid old professor give u twenty line to start in on tomorrow .
But I simply could n't settle down to study tonight .
Anne , methinks I see the trace of tear .
If you 've be cry DO own up .
It will restore my self-respect , for I be shed tear freely before Ruby come along .
I do n't mind be a goose so much if somebody else be goosey , too .
Cake ?
You 'll give me a teeny piece , wo n't you ?
Thank you .
It have the real Avonlea flavor . ''
Ruby , perceive the Queen 's calendar lying on the table , want to know if Anne mean to try for the gold medal .
Anne blush and admit she be think of it .
`` Oh , that remind me , '' say Josie , `` Queen 's be to get one of the Avery scholarship after all .
The word come today .
Frank Stockley tell me -- his uncle be one of the board of governor , you know .
It will be announce in the Academy tomorrow . ''
An Avery scholarship !
Anne felt her heart beat more quickly , and the horizon of her ambition shift and broaden a if by magic .
Before Josie have tell the news Anne 's high pinnacle of aspiration have be a teacher 's provincial license , First Class , at the end of the year , and perhaps the medal !
But now in one moment Anne saw herself win the Avery scholarship , take an Arts course at Redmond College , and graduate in a gown and mortar board , before the echo of Josie 's word have die away .
For the Avery scholarship be in English , and Anne felt that here her foot be on native heath .
A wealthy manufacturer of New Brunswick have die and leave part of his fortune to endow a large number of scholarship to be distribute among the various high school and academy of the Maritime Provinces , accord to their respective standing .
There have be much doubt whether one would be allot to Queen 's , but the matter be settle at last , and at the end of the year the graduate who make the high mark in English and English Literature would win the scholarship -- two hundred and fifty dollar a year for four year at Redmond College .
No wonder that Anne go to bed that night with tingle cheek !
`` I 'll win that scholarship if hard work can do it , '' she resolve .
`` Would n't Matthew be proud if I get to be a B.A . ?
Oh , it 's delightful to have ambition .
I 'm so glad I have such a lot .
And there never seem to be any end to them -- that 's the best of it .
Just as soon a you attain to one ambition you see another one glittering high up still .
It do make life so interesting . ''
CHAPTER XXXV .
The Winter at Queen 's Anne 's homesickness wear off , greatly help in the wearing by her weekend visit home .
As long a the open weather last the Avonlea student go out to Carmody on the new branch railway every Friday night .
Diana and several other Avonlea young folk be generally on hand to meet them and they all walk over to Avonlea in a merry party .
Anne think those Friday evening gypsyings over the autumnal hill in the crisp golden air , with the homelights of Avonlea twinkle beyond , be the best and dear hour in the whole week .
Gilbert Blythe nearly always walk with Ruby Gillis and carry her satchel for her .
Ruby be a very handsome young lady , now think herself quite a grow up a she really be ; she wear her skirt as long a her mother would let her and do her hair up in town , though she have to take it down when she go home .
She have large , bright-blue eye , a brilliant complexion , and a plump showy figure .
She laugh a great deal , be cheerful and good-tempered , and enjoy the pleasant thing of life frankly .
`` But I should n't think she be the sort of girl Gilbert would like , '' whisper Jane to Anne .
Anne do not think so either , but she would not have say so for the Avery scholarship .
She could not help thinking , too , that it would be very pleasant to have such a friend a Gilbert to jest and chatter with and exchange idea about book and study and ambition .
Gilbert have ambition , she know , and Ruby Gillis do not seem the sort of person with whom such could be profitably discuss .
There be no silly sentiment in Anne 's idea concern Gilbert .
Boys be to her , when she think about them at all , merely possible good comrade .
If she and Gilbert have be friend she would not have care how many other friend he have nor with whom he walk .
She have a genius for friendship ; girl friends she have in plenty ; but she have a vague consciousness that masculine friendship might also be a good thing to round out one 's conception of companionship and furnish broad standpoint of judgment and comparison .
Not that Anne could have put her feeling on the matter into just such clear definition .
But she think that if Gilbert have ever walk home with her from the train , over the crisp field and along the ferny byway , they might have have many and merry and interesting conversation about the new world that be open around them and their hope and ambition therein .
Gilbert be a clever young fellow , with his own thought about thing and a determination to get the best out of life and put the best into it .
Ruby Gillis tell Jane Andrews that she do n't understand half the thing Gilbert Blythe say ; he talk just like Anne Shirley do when she have a thoughtful fit on and for her part she do n't think it any fun to be bother about book and that sort of thing when you do n't have to .
Frank Stockley have lot more dash and go , but then he be n't half as good-looking a Gilbert and she really could n't decide which she like best !
In the Academy Anne gradually draw a little circle of friend about her , thoughtful , imaginative , ambitious student like herself .
With the `` rose-red '' girl , Stella Maynard , and the `` dream girl , '' Priscilla Grant , she soon become intimate , find the latter pale spiritual-looking maiden to be full to the brim of mischief and prank and fun , while the vivid , black-eyed Stella have a heartful of wistful dream and fancy , a aerial and rainbow-like a Anne 's own .
After the Christmas holiday the Avonlea student give up go home on Fridays and settle down to hard work .
By this time all the Queen 's scholar have gravitate into their own place in the rank and the various class have assume distinct and settled shading of individuality .
Certain fact have become generally accept .
It be admit that the medal contestant have practically narrow down to three -- Gilbert Blythe , Anne Shirley , and Lewis Wilson ; the Avery scholarship be more doubtful , any one of a certain six be a possible winner .
The bronze medal for mathematics be consider as good a win by a fat , funny little up-country boy with a bumpy forehead and a patched coat .
Ruby Gillis be the handsome girl of the year at the Academy ; in the Second Year class Stella Maynard carry off the palm for beauty , with small but critical minority in favor of Anne Shirley .
Ethel Marr be admit by all competent judge to have the most stylish mode of hair-dressing , and Jane Andrews -- plain , plodding , conscientious Jane -- carry off the honor in the domestic science course .
Even Josie Pye attain a certain preeminence a the sharpest-tongued young lady in attendance at Queen 's .
So it may be fairly state that Miss Stacy 's old pupil hold their own in the wider arena of the academical course .
Anne work hard and steadily .
Her rivalry with Gilbert be as intense a it have ever be in Avonlea school , although it be not know in the class at large , but somehow the bitterness have go out of it .
Anne no longer wish to win for the sake of defeat Gilbert ; rather , for the proud consciousness of a well-won victory over a worthy foeman .
It would be worth while to win , but she no longer thought life would be insupportable if she do not .
In spite of lesson the student find opportunity for pleasant time .
Anne spend many of her spare hour at Beechwood and generally eat her Sunday dinner there and go to church with Miss Barry .
The latter be , a she admit , grow old , but her black eye be not dim nor the vigor of her tongue in the least abated .
But she never sharpen the latter on Anne , who continue to be a prime favorite with the critical old lady .
`` That Anne-girl improve all the time , '' she say .
`` I get tire of other girl -- there be such a provoking and eternal sameness about them .
Anne have as many shade a a rainbow and every shade be the pretty while it last .
I do n't know that she be as amusing a she be when she be a child , but she make me love her and I like people who make me love them .
It save me so much trouble in make myself love them . ''
Then , almost before anybody realize it , spring have come ; out in Avonlea the Mayflowers be peep pinkly out on the sere barrens where snow-wreaths linger ; and the `` mist of green '' be on the wood and in the valley .
But in Charlottetown harass Queen 's student think and talk only of examination .
`` It do n't seem possible that the term be nearly over , '' say Anne .
`` Why , last fall it seem so long to look forward to -- a whole winter of study and class .
And here we be , with the exam loom up next week .
Girls , sometimes I feel a if those exam mean everything , but when I look at the big bud swell on those chestnut tree and the misty blue air at the end of the street they do n't seem half so important . ''
Jane and Ruby and Josie , who have drop in , do not take this view of it .
To them the come examination be constantly very important indeed -- far more important than chestnut bud or Maytime haze .
It be all very well for Anne , who be sure of pass at least , to have her moment of belittle them , but when your whole future depend on them -- a the girl truly think theirs do -- you could not regard them philosophically .
`` I 've lose seven pound in the last two week , '' sigh Jane .
`` It 's no use to say do n't worry .
I WILL worry .
Worrying help you some -- it seem a if you be do something when you 're worry .
It would be dreadful if I fail to get my license after go to Queen 's all winter and spending so much money . '' ''
I do n't care , '' say Josie Pye .
`` If I do n't pass this year I 'm come back next .
My father can afford to send me .
Anne , Frank Stockley say that Professor Tremaine say Gilbert Blythe be sure to get the medal and that Emily Clay would likely win the Avery scholarship . ''
`` That may make me feel badly tomorrow , Josie , '' laugh Anne , `` but just now I honestly feel that as long a I know the violet be come out all purple down in the hollow below Green Gables and that little fern be poke their head up in Lovers ' Lane , it 's not a great deal of difference whether I win the Avery or not .
I 've do my best and I begin to understand what be mean by the ` joy of the strife . '
Next to try and win , the best thing be try and fail .
Girls , do n't talk about exam !
Look at that arch of pale green sky over those house and picture to yourself what it must look like over the purply-dark beech-woods back of Avonlea . ''
`` What be you go to wear for commencement , Jane ? ''
ask Ruby practically .
Jane and Josie both answer at once and the chatter drift into a side eddy of fashion .
But Anne , with her elbow on the window sill , her soft cheek laid against her clasped hand , and her eye fill with vision , look out unheedingly across city roof and spire to that glorious dome of sunset sky and weave her dream of a possible future from the golden tissue of youth 's own optimism .
All the Beyond be hers with it possibility lurk rosily in the oncoming year -- each year a rise of promise to be weave into an immortal chaplet .
CHAPTER XXXVI .
The Glory and the Dream On the morning when the final result of all the examination be to be post on the bulletin board at Queen 's , Anne and Jane walk down the street together .
Jane be smile and happy ; examination be over and she be comfortably sure she have make a pas at least ; further consideration trouble Jane not at all ; she have no soar ambition and consequently be not affect with the unrest attendant thereon .
For we pay a price for everything we get or take in this world ; and although ambition be well worth have , they be not to be cheaply won , but exact their due of work and self-denial , anxiety and discouragement .
Anne be pale and quiet ; in ten more minute she would know who have win the medal and who the Avery .
Beyond those ten minute there do not seem , just then , to be anything worth be call Time .
`` Of course you 'll win one of them anyhow , '' say Jane , who could n't understand how the faculty could be so unfair a to order it otherwise .
`` I have not hope of the Avery , '' say Anne .
`` Everybody say Emily Clay will win it .
And I 'm not go to march up to that bulletin board and look at it before everybody .
I have n't the moral courage .
I 'm go straight to the girl ' dressing room .
You must read the announcement and then come and tell me , Jane .
And I implore you in the name of our old friendship to do it as quickly a possible .
If I have fail just say so , without try to break it gently ; and whatever you do DO N'T sympathize with me .
Promise me this , Jane . ''
Jane promise solemnly ; but , a it happen , there be no necessity for such a promise .
When they go up the entrance step of Queen 's they find the hall full of boy who be carry Gilbert Blythe around on their shoulder and yell at the top of their voice , `` Hurrah for Blythe , Medalist ! ''
For a moment Anne felt one sicken pang of defeat and disappointment .
So she have fail and Gilbert have win !
Well , Matthew would be sorry -- he have be so sure she would win .
And then !
Somebody call out : `` Three cheer for Miss Shirley , winner of the Avery ! ''
`` Oh , Anne , '' gasp Jane , a they flee to the girl ' dressing room amid hearty cheer .
`` Oh , Anne I 'm so proud !
Is n't it splendid ? ''
And then the girl be around them and Anne be the center of a laughing , congratulate group .
Her shoulder be thumped and her hand shake vigorously .
She be push and pull and hug and among it all she manage to whisper to Jane : `` Oh , wo n't Matthew and Marilla be please !
I must write the news home right away . ''
Commencement be the next important happening .
The exercise be hold in the big assembly hall of the Academy .
Addresses be give , essay read , song sung , the public award of diploma , prize and medal make .
Matthew and Marilla be there , with eye and ear for only one student on the platform -- a tall girl in pale green , with faintly flush cheek and starry eye , who read the best essay and be point out and whisper about a the Avery winner .
`` Reckon you 're glad we keep her , Marilla ? ''
whisper Matthew , speak for the first time since he have enter the hall , when Anne have finish her essay .
`` It 's not the first time I 've be glad , '' retort Marilla .
`` You do like to rub thing in , Matthew Cuthbert . ''
Miss Barry , who be sit behind them , lean forward and poke Marilla in the back with her parasol .
`` Are n't you proud of that Anne-girl ?
I be , '' she say .
Anne go home to Avonlea with Matthew and Marilla that even .
She have not be home since April and she felt that she could not wait another day .
The apple blossom be out and the world be fresh and young .
Diana be at Green Gables to meet her .
In her own white room , where Marilla have set a flowering house rise on the window sill , Anne look about her and draw a long breath of happiness .
`` Oh , Diana , it 's so good to be back again .
It 's so good to see those pointed fir come out against the pink sky -- and that white orchard and the old Snow Queen .
Is n't the breath of the mint delicious ?
And that tea rise -- why , it 's a song and a hope and a prayer all in one .
And it 's GOOD to see you again , Diana ! ''
`` I think you like that Stella Maynard good than me , '' say Diana reproachfully .
`` Josie Pye tell me you do .
Josie say you be INFATUATED with her . ''
Anne laugh and pelt Diana with the fade `` June lily '' of her bouquet .
`` Stella Maynard be the dear girl in the world except one and you be that one , Diana , '' she say .
`` I love you more than ever -- and I 've so many thing to tell you .
But just now I feel a if it be joy enough to sit here and look at you .
I 'm tired , I think -- tire of be studious and ambitious .
I mean to spend at least two hour tomorrow lie out in the orchard grass , thinking of absolutely nothing . ''
`` You 've do splendidly , Anne .
I suppose you wo n't be teach now that you 've win the Avery ? ''
`` No .
I 'm go to Redmond in September .
Does n't it seem wonderful ?
I 'll have a brand new stock of ambition lay in by that time after three glorious , golden month of vacation .
Jane and Ruby be go to teach .
Is n't it splendid to think we all get through even to Moody Spurgeon and Josie Pye ? ''
`` The Newbridge trustee have offer Jane their school already , '' say Diana .
`` Gilbert Blythe be go to teach , too .
He have to .
His father ca n't afford to send him to college next year , after all , so he mean to earn his own way through .
I expect he 'll get the school here if Miss Ames decide to leave . ''
Anne felt a queer little sensation of dismayed surprise .
She have not know this ; she have expect that Gilbert would be go to Redmond also .
What would she do without their inspiring rivalry ?
Would not work , even at a coeducational college with a real degree in prospect , be rather flat without her friend the enemy ?
The next morning at breakfast it suddenly strike Anne that Matthew be not look well .
Surely he be much gray than he have be a year before .
`` Marilla , '' she say hesitatingly when he have go out , `` be Matthew quite well ? ''
`` No , he be n't , '' say Marilla in a troubled tone .
`` He 's have some real bad spell with his heart this spring and he wo n't spare himself a mite .
I 've be real worry about him , but he 's some well this while back and we 've get a good hired man , so I 'm hop he 'll kind of rest and pick up .
Maybe he will now you 're home .
You always cheer him up . ''
Anne lean across the table and take Marilla 's face in her hand .
`` You be not look as well yourself a I 'd like to see you , Marilla .
You look tire .
I 'm afraid you 've be work too hard .
You must take a rest , now that I 'm home .
I 'm just go to take this one day off to visit all the dear old spot and hunt up my old dream , and then it will be your turn to be lazy while I do the work . ''
Marilla smile affectionately at her girl .
`` It 's not the work -- it 's my head .
I 've get a pain so often now -- behind my eye .
Doctor Spencer 's be fuss with glass , but they do n't do me any good .
There be a distinguished oculist come to the Island the last of June and the doctor say I must see him .
I guess I 'll have to .
I ca n't read or sew with any comfort now .
Well , Anne , you 've do real well at Queen 's I must say .
To take First Class License in one year and win the Avery scholarship -- well , well , Mrs. Lynde say pride go before a fall and she do n't believe in the high education of woman at all ; she say it unfit them for woman 's true sphere .
I do n't believe a word of it .
Speaking of Rachel remind me -- do you hear anything about the Abbey Bank lately , Anne ? ''
`` I hear it be shaky , '' answer Anne .
`` Why ? ''
`` That be what Rachel say .
She be up here one day last week and say there be some talk about it .
Matthew felt real worried .
All we have save be in that bank -- every penny .
I want Matthew to put it in the Savings Bank in the first place , but old Mr. Abbey be a great friend of father 's and he 'd always bank with him .
Matthew say any bank with him at the head of it be good enough for anybody . ''
`` I think he have only be it nominal head for many year , '' say Anne .
`` He be a very old man ; his nephew be really at the head of the institution . ''
`` Well , when Rachel tell u that , I want Matthew to draw our money right out and he say he 'd think of it .
But Mr. Russell tell him yesterday that the bank be all right . ''
Anne have her good day in the companionship of the outdoor world .
She never forget that day ; it be so bright and golden and fair , so free from shadow and so lavish of blossom .
Anne spend some of it rich hour in the orchard ; she go to the Dryad 's Bubble and Willowmere and Violet Vale ; she call at the manse and have a satisfying talk with Mrs. Allan ; and finally in the evening she go with Matthew for the cow , through Lovers ' Lane to the back pasture .
The wood be all glory through with sunset and the warm splendor of it stream down through the hill gap in the west .
Matthew walk slowly with bent head ; Anne , tall and erect , suit her spring step to his .
`` You 've be work too hard today , Matthew , '' she say reproachfully .
`` Why wo n't you take thing easy ? ''
`` Well now , I ca n't seem to , '' say Matthew , a he open the yard gate to let the cow through .
`` It 's only that I 'm get old , Anne , and keep forget it .
Well , well , I 've always work pretty hard and I 'd rather drop in harness . ''
`` If I have be the boy you send for , '' say Anne wistfully , `` I 'd be able to help you so much now and spare you in a hundred way .
I could find it in my heart to wish I have be , just for that . ''
`` Well now , I 'd rather have you than a dozen boy , Anne , '' say Matthew pat her hand .
`` Just mind you that -- rather than a dozen boy .
Well now , I guess it be n't a boy that take the Avery scholarship , be it ?
It be a girl -- my girl -- my girl that I 'm proud of . ''
He smile his shy smile at her a he go into the yard .
Anne take the memory of it with her when she go to her room that night and sat for a long while at her open window , thinking of the past and dreaming of the future .
Outside the Snow Queen be mistily white in the moonshine ; the frog be sing in the marsh beyond Orchard Slope .
Anne always remember the silvery , peaceful beauty and fragrant calm of that night .
It be the last night before sorrow touch her life ; and no life be ever quite the same again when once that cold , sanctify touch have be lay upon it .
CHAPTER XXXVII .
The Reaper Whose Name Is Death `` Matthew -- Matthew -- what be the matter ?
Matthew , be you sick ? ''
It be Marilla who speak , alarm in every jerky word .
Anne come through the hall , her hand full of white narcissus , -- it be long before Anne could love the sight or odor of white narcissus again , -- in time to hear her and to see Matthew stand in the porch doorway , a folded paper in his hand , and his face strangely draw and gray .
Anne drop her flower and sprang across the kitchen to him at the same moment a Marilla .
They be both too late ; before they could reach him Matthew have fall across the threshold .
`` He 's faint , '' gasp Marilla .
`` Anne , run for Martin -- quick , quick !
He 's at the barn . ''
Martin , the hired man , who have just drive home from the post office , start at once for the doctor , call at Orchard Slope on his way to send Mr. and Mrs. Barry over .
Mrs. Lynde , who be there on an errand , come too .
They find Anne and Marilla distractedly try to restore Matthew to consciousness .
Mrs. Lynde push them gently aside , try his pulse , and then lay her ear over his heart .
She look at their anxious face sorrowfully and the tear come into her eye .
`` Oh , Marilla , '' she say gravely .
`` I do n't think -- we can do anything for him . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde , you do n't think -- you ca n't think Matthew be -- be -- '' Anne could not say the dreadful word ; she turn sick and pallid .
`` Child , yes , I 'm afraid of it .
Look at his face .
When you 've see that look as often a I have you 'll know what it mean . ''
Anne look at the still face and there behold the seal of the Great Presence .
When the doctor come he say that death have be instantaneous and probably painless , cause in all likelihood by some sudden shock .
The secret of the shock be discover to be in the paper Matthew have hold and which Martin have bring from the office that morning .
It contain an account of the failure of the Abbey Bank .
The news spread quickly through Avonlea , and all day friend and neighbor throng Green Gables and come and go on errand of kindness for the dead and living .
For the first time shy , quiet Matthew Cuthbert be a person of central importance ; the white majesty of death have fall on him and set him apart a one crown .
When the calm night come softly down over Green Gables the old house be hush and tranquil .
In the parlor lay Matthew Cuthbert in his coffin , his long gray hair frame his placid face on which there be a little kindly smile a if he but sleep , dream pleasant dream .
There be flower about him -- sweet old-fashioned flower which his mother have plant in the homestead garden in her bridal day and for which Matthew have always have a secret , wordless love .
Anne have gather them and bring them to him , her anguish , tearless eye burn in her white face .
It be the last thing she could do for him .
The Barrys and Mrs. Lynde stay with them that night .
Diana , go to the east gable , where Anne be stand at her window , say gently : `` Anne dear , would you like to have me sleep with you tonight ? ''
`` Thank you , Diana . ''
Anne look earnestly into her friend 's face .
`` I think you wo n't misunderstand me when I say I want to be alone .
I 'm not afraid .
I have n't be alone one minute since it happen -- and I want to be .
I want to be quite silent and quiet and try to realize it .
I ca n't realize it .
Half the time it seem to me that Matthew ca n't be dead ; and the other half it seem a if he must have be dead for a long time and I 've have this horrible dull ache ever since . ''
Diana do not quite understand .
Marilla 's impassioned grief , break all the bound of natural reserve and lifelong habit in it stormy rush , she could comprehend good than Anne 's tearless agony .
But she go away kindly , leave Anne alone to keep her first vigil with sorrow .
Anne hop that the tear would come in solitude .
It seem to her a terrible thing that she could not shed a tear for Matthew , whom she have love so much and who have be so kind to her , Matthew who have walk with her last evening at sunset and be now lie in the dim room below with that awful peace on his brow .
But no tear come at first , even when she kneel by her window in the darkness and prayed , look up to the star beyond the hill -- no tear , only the same horrible dull ache of misery that keep on ache until she fell asleep , wear out with the day 's pain and excitement .
In the night she awaken , with the stillness and the darkness about her , and the recollection of the day come over her like a wave of sorrow .
She could see Matthew 's face smiling at her a he have smile when they part at the gate that last evening -- she could hear his voice say , `` My girl -- my girl that I 'm proud of . ''
Then the tear come and Anne weep her heart out .
Marilla hear her and crept in to comfort her .
`` There -- there -- do n't cry so , dearie .
It ca n't bring him back .
It -- it -- be n't right to cry so .
I know that today , but I could n't help it then .
He 'd always be such a good , kind brother to me -- but God know best . ''
`` Oh , just let me cry , Marilla , '' sob Anne .
`` The tear do n't hurt me like that ache do .
Stay here for a little while with me and keep your arm round me -- so .
I could n't have Diana stay , she 's good and kind and sweet -- but it 's not her sorrow -- she 's outside of it and she could n't come close enough to my heart to help me .
It 's our sorrow -- yours and mine .
Oh , Marilla , what will we do without him ? ''
`` We 've get each other , Anne .
I do n't know what I 'd do if you be n't here -- if you 'd never come .
Oh , Anne , I know I 've be kind of strict and harsh with you maybe -- but you must n't think I do n't love you as well a Matthew do , for all that .
I want to tell you now when I can .
It 's never be easy for me to say thing out of my heart , but at time like this it 's easy .
I love you as dear a if you be my own flesh and blood and you 've be my joy and comfort ever since you come to Green Gables . ''
Two day afterwards they carry Matthew Cuthbert over his homestead threshold and away from the field he have till and the orchard he have love and the tree he have plant ; and then Avonlea settle back to it usual placidity and even at Green Gables affair slip into their old groove and work be do and duty fulfil with regularity a before , although always with the ache sense of `` loss in all familiar thing . ''
Anne , new to grief , think it almost sad that it could be so -- that they COULD go on in the old way without Matthew .
She felt something like shame and remorse when she discover that the sunrise behind the fir and the pale pink bud open in the garden give her the old inrush of gladness when she saw them -- that Diana 's visit be pleasant to her and that Diana 's merry word and way move her to laughter and smile -- that , in brief , the beautiful world of blossom and love and friendship have lose none of it power to please her fancy and thrill her heart , that life still call to her with many insistent voice .
`` It seem like disloyalty to Matthew , somehow , to find pleasure in these thing now that he have go , '' she say wistfully to Mrs. Allan one even when they be together in the manse garden .
`` I miss him so much -- all the time -- and yet , Mrs. Allan , the world and life seem very beautiful and interesting to me for all .
Today Diana say something funny and I find myself laugh .
I think when it happen I could never laugh again .
And it somehow seem a if I ought n't to . ''
`` When Matthew be here he like to hear you laugh and he like to know that you find pleasure in the pleasant thing around you , '' say Mrs. Allan gently .
`` He be just away now ; and he like to know it just the same .
I be sure we should not shut our heart against the healing influence that nature offer u .
But I can understand your feeling .
I think we all experience the same thing .
We resent the thought that anything can please u when someone we love be no longer here to share the pleasure with u , and we almost feel a if we be unfaithful to our sorrow when we find our interest in life return to u . ''
`` I be down to the graveyard to plant a rosebush on Matthew 's grave this afternoon , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` I take a slip of the little white Scotch rosebush his mother bring out from Scotland long ago ; Matthew always like those rose the best -- they be so small and sweet on their thorny stem .
It make me feel glad that I could plant it by his grave -- a if I be do something that must please him in take it there to be near him .
I hope he have rose like them in heaven .
Perhaps the soul of all those little white rose that he have love so many summer be all there to meet him .
I must go home now .
Marilla be all alone and she get lonely at twilight . ''
`` She will be lonely still , I fear , when you go away again to college , '' say Mrs. Allan .
Anne do not reply ; she say good night and go slowly back to green Gables .
Marilla be sit on the front door-steps and Anne sit down beside her .
The door be open behind them , hold back by a big pink conch shell with hint of sea sunset in it smooth inner convolution .
Anne gather some spray of pale-yellow honeysuckle and put them in her hair .
She like the delicious hint of fragrance , a some aerial benediction , above her every time she move .
`` Doctor Spencer be here while you be away , '' Marilla say .
`` He say that the specialist will be in town tomorrow and he insist that I must go in and have my eye examine .
I suppose I 'd better go and have it over .
I 'll be more than thankful if the man can give me the right kind of glass to suit my eye .
You wo n't mind stay here alone while I 'm away , will you ?
Martin will have to drive me in and there 's ironing and baking to do . ''
`` I shall be all right .
Diana will come over for company for me .
I shall attend to the ironing and baking beautifully -- you need n't fear that I 'll starch the handkerchief or flavor the cake with liniment . ''
Marilla laugh .
`` What a girl you be for make mistake in them day , Anne .
You be always get into scrape .
I do use to think you be possess .
Do you mind the time you dye your hair ? ''
`` Yes , indeed .
I shall never forget it , '' smile Anne , touch the heavy braid of hair that be wound about her shapely head .
`` I laugh a little now sometimes when I think what a worry my hair use to be to me -- but I do n't laugh MUCH , because it be a very real trouble then .
I do suffer terribly over my hair and my freckle .
My freckle be really go ; and people be nice enough to tell me my hair be auburn now -- all but Josie Pye .
She inform me yesterday that she really think it be redder than ever , or at least my black dress make it look redder , and she ask me if people who have red hair ever get use to have it .
Marilla , I 've almost decide to give up try to like Josie Pye .
I 've make what I would once have call a heroic effort to like her , but Josie Pye wo n't BE like . ''
`` Josie be a Pye , '' say Marilla sharply , `` so she ca n't help be disagreeable .
I suppose people of that kind serve some useful purpose in society , but I must say I do n't know what it be any more than I know the use of thistle .
Is Josie go to teach ? ''
`` No , she be go back to Queen 's next year .
So be Moody Spurgeon and Charlie Sloane .
Jane and Ruby be go to teach and they have both get school -- Jane at Newbridge and Ruby at some place up west . ''
`` Gilbert Blythe be go to teach too , be n't he ? ''
`` Yes '' -- briefly .
`` What a nice-looking fellow he be , '' say Marilla absently .
`` I saw him in church last Sunday and he seem so tall and manly .
He look a lot like his father do at the same age .
John Blythe be a nice boy .
We use to be real good friend , he and I . People call him my beau . ''
Anne look up with swift interest .
`` Oh , Marilla -- and what happen ?
-- why do n't you -- '' `` We have a quarrel .
I would n't forgive him when he ask me to .
I mean to , after awhile -- but I be sulky and angry and I want to punish him first .
He never come back -- the Blythes be all mighty independent .
But I always felt -- rather sorry .
I 've always kind of wished I 'd forgive him when I have the chance . ''
`` So you 've have a bit of romance in your life , too , '' say Anne softly .
`` Yes , I suppose you might call it that .
You would n't think so to look at me , would you ?
But you never can tell about people from their outside .
Everybody have forget about me and John .
I 'd forget myself .
But it all come back to me when I saw Gilbert last Sunday . ''
CHAPTER XXXVIII .
The Bend in the road Marilla go to town the next day and return in the evening .
Anne have go over to Orchard Slope with Diana and come back to find Marilla in the kitchen , sit by the table with her head lean on her hand .
Something in her dejected attitude strike a chill to Anne 's heart .
She have never see Marilla sit limply inert like that .
`` Are you very tire , Marilla ? ''
`` Yes -- no -- I do n't know , '' say Marilla wearily , look up .
`` I suppose I be tired but I have n't think about it .
It 's not that . ''
`` Did you see the oculist ?
What do he say ? ''
ask Anne anxiously .
`` Yes , I saw him .
He examine my eye .
He say that if I give up all reading and sew entirely and any kind of work that strain the eye , and if I 'm careful not to cry , and if I wear the glass he 's give me he think my eye may not get any bad and my headache will be cure .
But if I do n't he say I 'll certainly be stone-blind in six month .
Blind !
Anne , just think of it ! ''
For a minute Anne , after her first quick exclamation of dismay , be silent .
It seem to her that she could NOT speak .
Then she say bravely , but with a catch in her voice : `` Marilla , DO N'T think of it .
You know he have give you hope .
If you be careful you wo n't lose your sight altogether ; and if his glass cure your headache it will be a great thing . ''
`` I do n't call it much hope , '' say Marilla bitterly .
`` What be I to live for if I ca n't read or sew or do anything like that ?
I might as well be blind -- or dead .
And a for cry , I ca n't help that when I get lonesome .
But there , it 's no good talk about it .
If you 'll get me a cup of tea I 'll be thankful .
I 'm about do out .
Do n't say anything about this to any one for a spell yet , anyway .
I ca n't bear that folk should come here to question and sympathize and talk about it . ''
When Marilla have eat her lunch Anne persuade her to go to bed .
Then Anne go herself to the east gable and sit down by her window in the darkness alone with her tear and her heaviness of heart .
How sadly thing have change since she have sit there the night after come home !
Then she have be full of hope and joy and the future have look rosy with promise .
Anne felt a if she have live year since then , but before she go to bed there be a smile on her lip and peace in her heart .
She have look her duty courageously in the face and find it a friend -- a duty ever be when we meet it frankly .
One afternoon a few day later Marilla come slowly in from the front yard where she have be talk to a caller -- a man whom Anne knew by sight a Sadler from Carmody .
Anne wonder what he could have be say to bring that look to Marilla 's face .
`` What do Mr. Sadler want , Marilla ? ''
Marilla sit down by the window and look at Anne .
There be tear in her eye in defiance of the oculist 's prohibition and her voice break a she say : `` He hear that I be go to sell Green Gables and he want to buy it . ''
`` Buy it !
Buy Green Gables ? ''
Anne wonder if she have hear aright .
`` Oh , Marilla , you do n't mean to sell Green Gables ! ''
`` Anne , I do n't know what else be to be do .
I 've think it all over .
If my eye be strong I could stay here and make out to look after thing and manage , with a good hired man .
But a it be I ca n't .
I may lose my sight altogether ; and anyway I 'll not be fit to run thing .
Oh , I never think I 'd live to see the day when I 'd have to sell my home .
But thing would only go behind bad and bad all the time , till nobody would want to buy it .
Every cent of our money go in that bank ; and there 's some note Matthew give last fall to pay .
Mrs. Lynde advise me to sell the farm and board somewhere -- with her I suppose .
It wo n't bring much -- it 's small and the building be old .
But it 'll be enough for me to live on I reckon .
I 'm thankful you 're provide for with that scholarship , Anne .
I 'm sorry you wo n't have a home to come to in your vacation , that 's all , but I suppose you 'll manage somehow . ''
Marilla break down and weep bitterly .
`` You must n't sell Green Gables , '' say Anne resolutely .
`` Oh , Anne , I wish I do n't have to .
But you can see for yourself .
I ca n't stay here alone .
I 'd go crazy with trouble and loneliness .
And my sight would go -- I know it would . ''
`` You wo n't have to stay here alone , Marilla .
I 'll be with you .
I 'm not go to Redmond . ''
`` Not go to Redmond ! ''
Marilla lift her worn face from her hand and look at Anne .
`` Why , what do you mean ? ''
`` Just what I say .
I 'm not go to take the scholarship .
I decide so the night after you come home from town .
You surely do n't think I could leave you alone in your trouble , Marilla , after all you 've do for me .
I 've be think and planning .
Let me tell you my plan .
Mr. Barry want to rent the farm for next year .
So you wo n't have any bother over that .
And I 'm go to teach .
I 've apply for the school here -- but I do n't expect to get it for I understand the trustee have promise it to Gilbert Blythe .
But I can have the Carmody school -- Mr. Blair tell me so last night at the store .
Of course that wo n't be quite a nice or convenient a if I have the Avonlea school .
But I can board home and drive myself over to Carmody and back , in the warm weather at least .
And even in winter I can come home Fridays .
We 'll keep a horse for that .
Oh , I have it all plan out , Marilla .
And I 'll read to you and keep you cheer up .
You sha 'n ' t be dull or lonesome .
And we 'll be real cozy and happy here together , you and I. '' Marilla have listen like a woman in a dream .
`` Oh , Anne , I could get on real well if you be here , I know .
But I ca n't let you sacrifice yourself so for me .
It would be terrible . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
Anne laugh merrily .
`` There be no sacrifice .
Nothing could be bad than give up Green Gables -- nothing could hurt me more .
We must keep the dear old place .
My mind be quite make up , Marilla .
I 'm NOT go to Redmond ; and I AM go to stay here and teach .
Do n't you worry about me a bit . ''
`` But your ambition -- and -- '' `` I 'm just as ambitious a ever .
Only , I 've change the object of my ambition .
I 'm go to be a good teacher -- and I 'm go to save your eyesight .
Besides , I mean to study at home here and take a little college course all by myself .
Oh , I 've dozen of plan , Marilla .
I 've be think them out for a week .
I shall give life here my best , and I believe it will give it best to me in return .
When I leave Queen 's my future seem to stretch out before me like a straight road .
I think I could see along it for many a milestone .
Now there be a bend in it .
I do n't know what lie around the bend , but I 'm go to believe that the best do .
It have a fascination of it own , that bend , Marilla .
I wonder how the road beyond it go -- what there be of green glory and soft , checkered light and shadow -- what new landscape -- what new beauty -- what curve and hill and valley far on . ''
`` I do n't feel a if I ought to let you give it up , '' say Marilla , refer to the scholarship .
`` But you ca n't prevent me .
I 'm sixteen and a half , ` obstinate a a mule , ' a Mrs. Lynde once tell me , '' laugh Anne .
`` Oh , Marilla , do n't you go pity me .
I do n't like to be pity , and there be no need for it .
I 'm heart glad over the very thought of stay at dear Green Gables .
Nobody could love it a you and I do -- so we must keep it . ''
`` You bless girl ! ''
say Marilla , yielding .
`` I feel a if you 'd give me new life .
I guess I ought to stick out and make you go to college -- but I know I ca n't , so I ai n't go to try .
I 'll make it up to you though , Anne . ''
When it become noised abroad in Avonlea that Anne Shirley have give up the idea of go to college and intend to stay home and teach there be a good deal of discussion over it .
Most of the good folk , not know about Marilla 's eye , think she be foolish .
Mrs. Allan do not .
She tell Anne so in approve word that bring tear of pleasure to the girl 's eye .
Neither do good Mrs. Lynde .
She come up one evening and find Anne and Marilla sit at the front door in the warm , scent summer dusk .
They like to sit there when the twilight come down and the white moth fly about in the garden and the odor of mint fill the dewy air .
Mrs. Rachel deposit her substantial person upon the stone bench by the door , behind which grow a row of tall pink and yellow hollyhock , with a long breath of mingled weariness and relief .
`` I declare I 'm get glad to sit down .
I 've be on my foot all day , and two hundred pound be a good bit for two foot to carry round .
It 's a great blessing not to be fat , Marilla .
I hope you appreciate it .
Well , Anne , I hear you 've give up your notion of go to college .
I be real glad to hear it .
You 've get a much education now a a woman can be comfortable with .
I do n't believe in girl go to college with the men and cram their head full of Latin and Greek and all that nonsense . ''
`` But I 'm go to study Latin and Greek just the same , Mrs. Lynde , '' say Anne laughing .
`` I 'm go to take my Arts course right here at Green Gables , and study everything that I would at college . ''
Mrs. Lynde lift her hand in holy horror .
`` Anne Shirley , you 'll kill yourself . ''
`` Not a bit of it .
I shall thrive on it .
Oh , I 'm not go to overdo thing .
As ` Josiah Allen 's wife , ' say , I shall be ` mejum ' .
But I 'll have lot of spare time in the long winter evening , and I 've no vocation for fancy work .
I 'm go to teach over at Carmody , you know . ''
`` I do n't know it .
I guess you 're go to teach right here in Avonlea .
The trustee have decide to give you the school . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde ! ''
cry Anne , spring to her foot in her surprise .
`` Why , I think they have promise it to Gilbert Blythe ! ''
`` So they do .
But as soon a Gilbert hear that you have apply for it he go to them -- they have a business meeting at the school last night , you know -- and tell them that he withdraw his application , and suggest that they accept yours .
He say he be go to teach at White Sands .
Of course he know how much you want to stay with Marilla , and I must say I think it be real kind and thoughtful in him , that 's what .
Real self-sacrificing , too , for he 'll have his board to pay at White Sands , and everybody know he 's get to earn his own way through college .
So the trustee decide to take you .
I be tickle to death when Thomas come home and tell me . ''
`` I do n't feel that I ought to take it , '' murmur Anne .
`` I mean -- I do n't think I ought to let Gilbert make such a sacrifice for -- for me . ''
`` I guess you ca n't prevent him now .
He 's signed paper with the White Sands trustee .
So it would n't do him any good now if you be to refuse .
Of course you 'll take the school .
You 'll get along all right , now that there be no Pyes go .
Josie be the last of them , and a good thing she be , that 's what .
There 's be some Pye or other go to Avonlea school for the last twenty year , and I guess their mission in life be to keep school teacher remind that earth be n't their home .
Bless my heart !
What do all that wink and blink at the Barry gable mean ? ''
`` Diana be signal for me to go over , '' laugh Anne .
`` You know we keep up the old custom .
Excuse me while I run over and see what she want . ''
Anne run down the clover slope like a deer , and disappear in the firry shadow of the Haunted Wood .
Mrs. Lynde look after her indulgently .
`` There 's a good deal of the child about her yet in some way . ''
`` There 's a good deal more of the woman about her in others , '' retort Marilla , with a momentary return of her old crispness .
But crispness be no long Marilla 's distinguish characteristic .
As Mrs. Lynde tell her Thomas that night .
`` Marilla Cuthbert have get MELLOW .
That 's what . ''
Anne go to the little Avonlea graveyard the next evening to put fresh flower on Matthew 's grave and water the Scotch rosebush .
She linger there until dusk , like the peace and calm of the little place , with it poplar whose rustle be like low , friendly speech , and it whispering grass grow at will among the graf .
When she finally leave it and walk down the long hill that slop to the Lake of Shining Waters it be past sunset and all Avonlea lay before her in a dreamlike afterlight -- `` a haunt of ancient peace . ''
There be a freshness in the air a of a wind that have blow over honey-sweet field of clover .
Home light twinkle out here and there among the homestead tree .
Beyond lay the sea , misty and purple , with it haunting , unceasing murmur .
The west be a glory of soft mingle hue , and the pond reflect them all in still soft shading .
The beauty of it all thrill Anne 's heart , and she gratefully open the gate of her soul to it .
`` Dear old world , '' she murmur , `` you be very lovely , and I be glad to be alive in you . ''
Halfway down the hill a tall lad come whistle out of a gate before the Blythe homestead .
It be Gilbert , and the whistle die on his lip a he recognize Anne .
He lift his cap courteously , but he would have pass on in silence , if Anne have not stop and hold out her hand .
`` Gilbert , '' she say , with scarlet cheek , `` I want to thank you for give up the school for me .
It be very good of you -- and I want you to know that I appreciate it . ''
Gilbert take the offer hand eagerly .
`` It be n't particularly good of me at all , Anne .
I be please to be able to do you some small service .
Are we go to be friend after this ?
Have you really forgive me my old fault ? ''
Anne laugh and try unsuccessfully to withdraw her hand .
`` I forgive you that day by the pond landing , although I do n't know it .
What a stubborn little goose I be .
I 've be -- I may as well make a complete confession -- I 've be sorry ever since . ''
`` We be go to be the best of friend , '' say Gilbert , jubilantly .
`` We be bear to be good friend , Anne .
You 've thwart destiny enough .
I know we can help each other in many way .
You be go to keep up your study , be n't you ?
So be I . Come , I 'm go to walk home with you . ''
Marilla look curiously at Anne when the latter enter the kitchen .
`` Who be that come up the lane with you , Anne ? ''
`` Gilbert Blythe , '' answer Anne , vex to find herself blushing .
`` I meet him on Barry 's hill . ''
`` I do n't think you and Gilbert Blythe be such good friend that you 'd stand for half an hour at the gate talk to him , '' say Marilla with a dry smile .
`` We have n't be -- we 've be good enemy .
But we have decide that it will be much more sensible to be good friend in the future .
Were we really there half an hour ?
It seem just a few minute .
But , you see , we have five year ' lose conversation to catch up with , Marilla . ''
Anne sit long at her window that night companion by a glad content .
The wind purr softly in the cherry boughs , and the mint breath come up to her .
The star twinkle over the pointed fir in the hollow and Diana 's light gleam through the old gap .
Anne 's horizon have close in since the night she have sit there after come home from Queen 's ; but if the path set before her foot be to be narrow she know that flower of quiet happiness would bloom along it .
The joy of sincere work and worthy aspiration and congenial friendship be to be hers ; nothing could rob her of her birthright of fancy or her ideal world of dream .
And there be always the bend in the road ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Anne_Of_The_Island.txt.out
Chapter I The Shadow of Change `` Harvest be end and summer be go , '' quote Anne Shirley , gaze across the shorn field dreamily .
She and Diana Barry have be pick apple in the Green Gables orchard , but be now rest from their labor in a sunny corner , where airy fleet of thistledown drift by on the wing of a wind that be still summer-sweet with the incense of fern in the Haunted Wood .
But everything in the landscape around them speak of autumn .
The sea be roar hollowly in the distance , the field be bare and sere , scarf with golden rod , the brook valley below Green Gables overflow with aster of ethereal purple , and the Lake of Shining Waters be blue -- blue -- blue ; not the changeful blue of spring , nor the pale azure of summer , but a clear , steadfast , serene blue , a if the water be past all mood and tense of emotion and have settle down to a tranquility unbroken by fickle dream .
`` It have be a nice summer , '' say Diana , twist the new ring on her left hand with a smile .
`` And Miss Lavendar 's wedding seem to come a a sort of crown to it .
I suppose Mr. and Mrs. Irving be on the Pacific coast now . ''
`` It seem to me they have be go long enough to go around the world , '' sigh Anne .
`` I ca n't believe it be only a week since they be marry .
Everything have change .
Miss Lavendar and Mr. and Mrs. Allan go -- how lonely the manse look with the shutter all close !
I go past it last night , and it make me feel a if everybody in it have die . ''
`` We 'll never get another minister as nice a Mr. Allan , '' say Diana , with gloomy conviction .
`` I suppose we 'll have all kind of supply this winter , and half the Sundays no preaching at all .
And you and Gilbert go -- it will be awfully dull . ''
`` Fred will be here , '' insinuate Anne slyly .
`` When be Mrs. Lynde go to move up ? ''
ask Diana , a if she have not hear Anne 's remark .
`` Tomorrow .
I 'm glad she 's come -- but it will be another change .
Marilla and I clear everything out of the spare room yesterday .
Do you know , I hat to do it ?
Of course , it be silly -- but it do seem a if we be commit sacrilege .
That old spare room have always seem like a shrine to me .
When I be a child I think it the most wonderful apartment in the world .
You remember what a consuming desire I have to sleep in a spare room bed -- but not the Green Gables spare room .
Oh , no , never there !
It would have be too terrible -- I could n't have sleep a wink from awe .
I never WALKED through that room when Marilla send me in on an errand -- no , indeed , I tiptoe through it and hold my breath , a if I be in church , and felt relieve when I get out of it .
The picture of George Whitefield and the Duke of Wellington hung there , one on each side of the mirror , and frown so sternly at me all the time I be in , especially if I dare peep in the mirror , which be the only one in the house that do n't twist my face a little .
I always wonder how Marilla dare houseclean that room .
And now it 's not only clean but strip bare .
George Whitefield and the Duke have be relegate to the upstairs hall .
` So pass the glory of this world , ' '' conclude Anne , with a laugh in which there be a little note of regret .
It be never pleasant to have our old shrine desecrate , even when we have outgrow them .
`` I 'll be so lonesome when you go , '' moan Diana for the hundredth time .
`` And to think you go next week ! ''
`` But we 're together still , '' say Anne cheerily .
`` We must n't let next week rob u of this week 's joy .
I hate the thought of go myself -- home and I be such good friend .
Talk of be lonesome !
It 's I who should groan .
YOU 'LL be here with any number of your old friend -- AND Fred !
While I shall be alone among stranger , not know a soul ! ''
`` EXCEPT Gilbert -- AND Charlie Sloane , '' say Diana , imitate Anne 's italic and slyness .
`` Charlie Sloane will be a great comfort , of course , '' agree Anne sarcastically ; whereupon both those irresponsible damsel laugh .
Diana know exactly what Anne thought of Charlie Sloane ; but , despite sundry confidential talk , she do not know just what Anne thought of Gilbert Blythe .
To be sure , Anne herself do not know that .
`` The boy may be board at the other end of Kingsport , for all I know , '' Anne go on .
`` I be glad I 'm go to Redmond , and I be sure I shall like it after a while .
But for the first few week I know I wo n't .
I sha n't even have the comfort of look forward to the weekend visit home , a I have when I go to Queen 's .
Christmas will seem like a thousand year away . ''
`` Everything be change -- or go to change , '' say Diana sadly .
`` I have a feeling that thing will never be the same again , Anne . ''
`` We have come to a parting of the way , I suppose , '' say Anne thoughtfully .
`` We have to come to it .
Do you think , Diana , that be grown-up be really as nice a we use to imagine it would be when we be child ? ''
`` I do n't know -- there be SOME nice thing about it , '' answer Diana , again caress her ring with that little smile which always have the effect of make Anne feel suddenly leave out and inexperienced .
`` But there be so many puzzle thing , too .
Sometimes I feel a if be grown-up just frighten me -- and then I would give anything to be a little girl again . ''
`` I suppose we 'll get use to be grownup in time , '' say Anne cheerfully .
`` There wo n't be so many unexpected thing about it by and by -- though , after all , I fancy it 's the unexpected thing that give spice to life .
We 're eighteen , Diana .
In two more year we 'll be twenty .
When I be ten I think twenty be a green old age .
In no time you 'll be a staid , middle-aged matron , and I shall be nice , old maid Aunt Anne , come to visit you on vacation .
You 'll always keep a corner for me , wo n't you , Di darling ?
Not the spare room , of course -- old maid ca n't aspire to spare room , and I shall be a ` umble a Uriah Heep , and quite content with a little over-the-porch or off-the-parlor cubby hole . ''
`` What nonsense you do talk , Anne , '' laugh Diana .
`` You 'll marry somebody splendid and handsome and rich -- and no spare room in Avonlea will be half gorgeous enough for you -- and you 'll turn up your nose at all the friend of your youth . ''
`` That would be a pity ; my nose be quite nice , but I fear turn it up would spoil it , '' say Anne , pat that shapely organ .
`` I have n't so many good feature that I could afford to spoil those I have ; so , even if I should marry the King of the Cannibal Islands , I promise you I wo n't turn up my nose at you , Diana . ''
With another gay laugh the girl separate , Diana to return to Orchard Slope , Anne to walk to the Post Office .
She find a letter await her there , and when Gilbert Blythe overtook her on the bridge over the Lake of Shining Waters she be sparkle with the excitement of it .
`` Priscilla Grant be go to Redmond , too , '' she exclaim .
`` Is n't that splendid ?
I hop she would , but she do n't think her father would consent .
He have , however , and we 're to board together .
I feel that I can face an army with banner -- or all the professor of Redmond in one fell phalanx -- with a chum like Priscilla by my side . ''
`` I think we 'll like Kingsport , '' say Gilbert .
`` It 's a nice old burg , they tell me , and have the fine natural park in the world .
I 've hear that the scenery in it be magnificent . ''
`` I wonder if it will be -- can be -- any more beautiful than this , '' murmur Anne , look around her with the loving , enrapture eye of those to whom `` home '' must always be the lovely spot in the world , no matter what fairer land may lie under alien star .
They be lean on the bridge of the old pond , drink deep of the enchantment of the dusk , just at the spot where Anne have climb from her sink Dory on the day Elaine float down to Camelot .
The fine , empurple dye of sunset still stain the western sky , but the moon be rise and the water lay like a great , silver dream in her light .
Remembrance weave a sweet and subtle spell over the two young creature .
`` You be very quiet , Anne , '' say Gilbert at last .
`` I 'm afraid to speak or move for fear all this wonderful beauty will vanish just like a broken silence , '' breathe Anne .
Gilbert suddenly lay his hand over the slender white one lying on the rail of the bridge .
His hazel eye deepen into darkness , his still boyish lip open to say something of the dream and hope that thrill his soul .
But Anne snatch her hand away and turn quickly .
The spell of the dusk be break for her .
`` I must go home , '' she exclaim , with a rather overdone carelessness .
`` Marilla have a headache this afternoon , and I 'm sure the twin will be in some dreadful mischief by this time .
I really should n't have stay away so long . ''
She chatter ceaselessly and inconsequently until they reach the Green Gables lane .
Poor Gilbert hardly have a chance to get a word in edgewise .
Anne felt rather relieve when they part .
There have be a new , secret self-consciousness in her heart with regard to Gilbert , ever since that fleet moment of revelation in the garden of Echo Lodge .
Something alien have intrude into the old , perfect , school-day comradeship -- something that threaten to mar it .
`` I never felt glad to see Gilbert go before , '' she think , half-resentfully , half-sorrowfully , a she walk alone up the lane .
`` Our friendship will be spoil if he go on with this nonsense .
It must n't be spoil -- I wo n't let it .
Oh , WHY ca n't boys be just sensible ! ''
Anne have an uneasy doubt that it be not strictly `` sensible '' that she should still feel on her hand the warm pressure of Gilbert 's , as distinctly a she have felt it for the swift second his have rest there ; and still less sensible that the sensation be far from be an unpleasant one -- very different from that which have attend a similar demonstration on Charlie Sloane 's part , when she have be sit out a dance with him at a White Sands party three night before .
Anne shiver over the disagreeable recollection .
But all problem connect with infatuated swain vanish from her mind when she enter the homely , unsentimental atmosphere of the Green Gables kitchen where an eight-year-old boy be cry grievously on the sofa .
`` What be the matter , Davy ? ''
ask Anne , take him up in her arm .
`` Where be Marilla and Dora ? ''
`` Marilla 's put Dora to bed , '' sob Davy , `` and I 'm cry 'cause Dora fell down the outside cellar step , heel over head , and scrap all the skin off her nose , and -- '' `` Oh , well , do n't cry about it , dear .
Of course , you be sorry for her , but cry wo n't help her any .
She 'll be all right tomorrow .
Crying never help any one , Davy-boy , and -- '' `` I ai n't cry 'cause Dora fell down cellar , '' say Davy , cut short Anne 's wellmeant preachment with increase bitterness .
`` I 'm cry , cause I be n't there to see her fall .
I 'm always miss some fun or other , seem to me . ''
`` Oh , Davy ! ''
Anne choke back an unholy shriek of laughter .
`` Would you call it fun to see poor little Dora fall down the step and get hurt ? ''
`` She be n't MUCH hurt , '' say Davy , defiantly . ''
` Course , if she 'd be kill I 'd have be real sorry , Anne .
But the Keiths ai n't so easy kill .
They 're like the Blewetts , I guess .
Herb Blewett fell off the hayloft last Wednesday , and roll right down through the turnip chute into the box stall , where they have a fearful wild , cross horse , and roll right under his heel .
And still he get out alive , with only three bone break .
Mrs. Lynde say there be some folk you ca n't kill with a meat-axe .
Is Mrs. Lynde come here tomorrow , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , Davy , and I hope you 'll be always very nice and good to her . ''
`` I 'll be nice and good .
But will she ever put me to bed at night , Anne ? ''
`` Perhaps .
Why ? '' ''
'Cause , '' say Davy very decidedly , `` if she do I wo n't say my prayer before her like I do before you , Anne . ''
`` Why not ? '' ''
'Cause I do n't think it would be nice to talk to God before stranger , Anne .
Dora can say hers to Mrs. Lynde if she like , but I wo n't .
I 'll wait till she 's go and then say 'em .
Wo n't that be all right , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , if you be sure you wo n't forget to say them , Davy-boy . ''
`` Oh , I wo n't forget , you bet .
I think say my prayer be great fun .
But it wo n't be as good fun say them alone a say them to you .
I wish you 'd stay home , Anne .
I do n't see what you want to go away and leave u for . ''
`` I do n't exactly WANT to , Davy , but I feel I ought to go . ''
`` If you do n't want to go you need n't .
You 're grow up .
When I 'm grown up I 'm not go to do one single thing I do n't want to do , Anne . ''
`` All your life , Davy , you 'll find yourself do thing you do n't want to do . ''
`` I wo n't , '' say Davy flatly .
`` Catch me !
I have to do thing I do n't want to now 'cause you and Marilla 'll send me to bed if I do n't .
But when I grow up you ca n't do that , and there 'll be nobody to tell me not to do thing .
Wo n't I have the time !
Say , Anne , Milty Boulter say his mother say you 're go to college to see if you can catch a man .
Are you , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
For a second Anne burn with resentment .
Then she laugh , remind herself that Mrs. Boulter 's crude vulgarity of thought and speech could not harm her .
`` No , Davy , I 'm not .
I 'm go to study and grow and learn about many thing . ''
`` What thing ? '' ''
` Shoes and ship and seal wax And cabbage and king , ' '' quote Anne .
`` But if you DID want to catch a man how would you go about it ?
I want to know , '' persist Davy , for whom the subject evidently possess a certain fascination .
`` You 'd better ask Mrs. Boulter , '' say Anne thoughtlessly .
`` I think it 's likely she know more about the process than I do . ''
`` I will , the next time I see her , '' say Davy gravely .
`` Davy !
If you do ! ''
cry Anne , realize her mistake .
`` But you just tell me to , '' protest Davy aggrieve .
`` It 's time you go to bed , '' decreed Anne , by way of get out of the scrape .
After Davy have go to bed Anne wander down to Victoria Island and sit there alone , curtain with fine-spun , moonlit gloom , while the water laugh around her in a duet of brook and wind .
Anne have always love that brook .
Many a dream have she spin over it sparkling water in day go by .
She forget lovelorn youth , and the cayenne speech of malicious neighbor , and all the problem of her girlish existence .
In imagination she sail over storied sea that wash the distant shining shore of `` faery land forlorn , '' where lose Atlantis and Elysium lie , with the evening star for pilot , to the land of Heart 's Desire .
And she be richer in those dream than in reality ; for thing see pas away , but the thing that be unseen be eternal .
Chapter II Garlands of Autumn The following week speed swiftly , crowd with innumerable `` last thing , '' a Anne call them .
Good-bye call have to be make and receive , be pleasant or otherwise , accord to whether caller and called-upon be heartily in sympathy with Anne 's hope , or think she be too much puffed-up over go to college and that it be their duty to `` take her down a peg or two . ''
The A.V.I.S . give a farewell party in honor of Anne and Gilbert one evening at the home of Josie Pye , choose that place , partly because Mr. Pye 's house be large and convenient , partly because it be strongly suspect that the Pye girl would have nothing to do with the affair if their offer of the house for the party be not accept .
It be a very pleasant little time , for the Pye girl be gracious , and say and do nothing to mar the harmony of the occasion -- which be not accord to their wont .
Josie be unusually amiable -- so much so that she even remark condescendingly to Anne , `` Your new dress be rather become to you , Anne .
Really , you look ALMOST PRETTY in it . ''
`` How kind of you to say so , '' respond Anne , with dance eye .
Her sense of humor be develop , and the speech that would have hurt her at fourteen be become merely food for amusement now .
Josie suspect that Anne be laugh at her behind those wicked eye ; but she content herself with whisper to Gertie , a they go downstairs , that Anne Shirley would put on more air than ever now that she be go to college -- you 'd see !
All the `` old crowd '' be there , full of mirth and zest and youthful lightheartedness .
Diana Barry , rosy and dimple , shadow by the faithful Fred ; Jane Andrews , neat and sensible and plain ; Ruby Gillis , look her handsomest and brightest in a cream silk blouse , with red geranium in her golden hair ; Gilbert Blythe and Charlie Sloane , both try to keep a near the elusive Anne a possible ; Carrie Sloane , look pale and melancholy because , so it be report , her father would not allow Oliver Kimball to come near the place ; Moody Spurgeon MacPherson , whose round face and objectionable ear be a round and objectionable a ever ; and Billy Andrews , who sit in a corner all the evening , chuckle when any one spoke to him , and watch Anne Shirley with a grin of pleasure on his broad , freckled countenance .
Anne have know beforehand of the party , but she have not know that she and Gilbert be , a the founder of the Society , to be present with a very complimentary `` address '' and `` token of respect '' -- in her case a volume of Shakespeare 's play , in Gilbert 's a fountain pen .
She be so take by surprise and please by the nice thing say in the address , read in Moody Spurgeon 's most solemn and ministerial tone , that the tear quite drown the sparkle of her big gray eye .
She have work hard and faithfully for the A.V.I.S . , and it warm the cockle of her heart that the member appreciate her effort so sincerely .
And they be all so nice and friendly and jolly -- even the Pye girl have their merit ; at that moment Anne love all the world .
She enjoy the evening tremendously , but the end of it rather spoil all .
Gilbert again make the mistake of say something sentimental to her a they eat their supper on the moonlit verandah ; and Anne , to punish him , be gracious to Charlie Sloane and allow the latter to walk home with her .
She find , however , that revenge hurt nobody quite so much a the one who try to inflict it .
Gilbert walk airily off with Ruby Gillis , and Anne could hear them laugh and talk gaily a they loiter along in the still , crisp autumn air .
They be evidently have the best of good time , while she be horribly bore by Charlie Sloane , who talk unbrokenly on , and never , even by accident , say one thing that be worth listen to .
Anne give an occasional absent `` yes '' or `` no , '' and think how beautiful Ruby have look that night , how very goggly Charlie 's eye be in the moonlight -- bad even than by daylight -- and that the world , somehow , be n't quite such a nice place a she have believe it to be earlier in the evening .
`` I 'm just tire out -- that be what be the matter with me , '' she say , when she thankfully find herself alone in her own room .
And she honestly believe it be .
But a certain little gush of joy , a from some secret , unknown spring , bubble up in her heart the next evening , when she saw Gilbert stride down through the Haunted Wood and cross the old log bridge with that firm , quick step of his .
So Gilbert be not go to spend this last evening with Ruby Gillis after all !
`` You look tired , Anne , '' he say .
`` I be tire , and , bad than that , I 'm disgruntled .
I 'm tired because I 've be pack my trunk and sew all day .
But I 'm disgruntled because six woman have be here to say good-bye to me , and every one of the six manage to say something that seem to take the color right out of life and leave it a gray and dismal and cheerless a a November morning . ''
`` Spiteful old cat ! ''
be Gilbert 's elegant comment .
`` Oh , no , they be n't , '' say Anne seriously .
`` That be just the trouble .
If they have be spiteful cat I would n't have mind them .
But they be all nice , kind , motherly soul , who like me and whom I like , and that be why what they say , or hint , have such undue weight with me .
They let me see they think I be crazy go to Redmond and try to take a B.A . , and ever since I 've be wonder if I be .
Mrs. Peter Sloane sigh and say she hop my strength would hold out till I get through ; and at once I saw myself a hopeless victim of nervous prostration at the end of my third year ; Mrs. Eben Wright say it must cost an awful lot to put in four year at Redmond ; and I felt all over me that it be unpardonable of me to squander Marilla 's money and my own on such a folly .
Mrs. Jasper Bell say she hop I would n't let college spoil me , a it do some people ; and I felt in my bone that the end of my four Redmond year would see me a most insufferable creature , think I know it all , and look down on everything and everybody in Avonlea ; Mrs. Elisha Wright say she understand that Redmond girl , especially those who belong to Kingsport , be ` dreadful dressy and stuck-up , ' and she guess I would n't feel much at home among them ; and I saw myself , a snubbed , dowdy , humiliate country girl , shuffle through Redmond 's classic hall in coppertoned boot . ''
Anne end with a laugh and a sigh commingled .
With her sensitive nature all disapproval have weight , even the disapproval of those for whose opinion she have scant respect .
For the time be life be savorless , and ambition have go out like a snuffed candle .
`` You surely do n't care for what they say , '' protest Gilbert .
`` You know exactly how narrow their outlook on life be , excellent creature though they be .
To do anything THEY have never do be anathema maranatha .
You be the first Avonlea girl who have ever go to college ; and you know that all pioneer be consider to be afflict with moonstruck madness . ''
`` Oh , I know .
But FEELING be so different from KNOWING .
My common sense tell me all you can say , but there be time when common sense have no power over me .
Common nonsense take possession of my soul .
Really , after Mrs. Elisha go away I hardly have the heart to finish packing . ''
`` You 're just tire , Anne .
Come , forget it all and take a walk with me -- a ramble back through the wood beyond the marsh .
There should be something there I want to show you . ''
`` Should be !
Do n't you know if it be there ? ''
`` No .
I only know it should be , from something I saw there in spring .
Come on .
We 'll pretend we be two child again and we 'll go the way of the wind . ''
They start gaily off .
Anne , remember the unpleasantness of the precede evening , be very nice to Gilbert ; and Gilbert , who be learn wisdom , take care to be nothing save the schoolboy comrade again .
Mrs. Lynde and Marilla watch them from the kitchen window .
`` That 'll be a match some day , '' Mrs. Lynde say approvingly .
Marilla wince slightly .
In her heart she hop it would , but it go against her grain to hear the matter spoken of in Mrs. Lynde 's gossipy matter-of-fact way .
`` They 're only child yet , '' she say shortly .
Mrs. Lynde laugh good-naturedly .
`` Anne be eighteen ; I be marry when I be that age .
We old folk , Marilla , be too much give to think child never grow up , that 's what .
Anne be a young woman and Gilbert 's a man , and he worship the ground she walk on , a any one can see .
He 's a fine fellow , and Anne ca n't do good .
I hope she wo n't get any romantic nonsense into her head at Redmond .
I do n't approve of them coeducational place and never do , that 's what .
I do n't believe , '' conclude Mrs. Lynde solemnly , `` that the student at such college ever do much else than flirt . ''
`` They must study a little , '' say Marilla , with a smile .
`` Precious little , '' sniff Mrs. Rachel .
`` However , I think Anne will .
She never be flirtatious .
But she do n't appreciate Gilbert at his full value , that 's what .
Oh , I know girl !
Charlie Sloane be wild about her , too , but I 'd never advise her to marry a Sloane .
The Sloanes be good , honest , respectable people , of course .
But when all 's say and do , they 're SLOANES . ''
Marilla nod .
To an outsider , the statement that Sloanes be Sloanes might not be very illuminating , but she understand .
Every village have such a family ; good , honest , respectable people they may be , but SLOANES they be and must ever remain , though they speak with the tongue of men and angel .
Gilbert and Anne , happily unconscious that their future be thus be settle by Mrs. Rachel , be saunter through the shadow of the Haunted Wood .
Beyond , the harvest hill be bask in an amber sunset radiance , under a pale , aerial sky of rise and blue .
The distant spruce grove be burnish bronze , and their long shadow bar the upland meadow .
But around them a little wind sang among the fir tassel , and in it there be the note of autumn .
`` This wood really be haunt now -- by old memory , '' say Anne , stoop to gather a spray of fern , bleach to waxen whiteness by frost .
`` It seem to me that the little girls Diana and I use to be play here still , and sit by the Dryad 's Bubble in the twilight , trysting with the ghost .
Do you know , I can never go up this path in the dusk without feel a bit of the old fright and shiver ?
There be one especially horrify phantom which we create -- the ghost of the murdered child that creep up behind you and lay cold finger on yours .
I confess that , to this day , I can not help fancy it little , furtive footstep behind me when I come here after nightfall .
I 'm not afraid of the White Lady or the headless man or the skeleton , but I wish I have never imagine that baby 's ghost into existence .
How angry Marilla and Mrs. Barry be over that affair , '' conclude Anne , with reminiscent laughter .
The wood around the head of the marsh be full of purple vista , thread with gossamer .
Past a dour plantation of gnarled spruce and a maple-fringed , sun-warm valley they find the `` something '' Gilbert be look for .
`` Ah , here it be , '' he say with satisfaction .
`` An apple tree -- and away back here ! ''
exclaim Anne delightedly .
`` Yes , a veritable apple-bearing apple tree , too , here in the very midst of pine and beech , a mile away from any orchard .
I be here one day last spring and find it , all white with blossom .
So I resolve I 'd come again in the fall and see if it have be apple .
See , it 's load .
They look good , too -- tawny a russet but with a dusky red cheek .
Most wild seedling be green and uninviting . ''
`` I suppose it spring year ago from some chance-sown seed , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` And how it have grow and flourish and hold it own here all alone among alien , the brave determine thing ! ''
`` Here 's a fallen tree with a cushion of moss .
Sit down , Anne -- it will serve for a woodland throne .
I 'll climb for some apple .
They all grow high -- the tree have to reach up to the sunlight . ''
The apple prove to be delicious .
Under the tawny skin be a white , white flesh , faintly vein with red ; and , besides their own proper apple taste , they have a certain wild , delightful tang no orchard-grown apple ever possess .
`` The fatal apple of Eden could n't have have a rarer flavor , '' comment Anne .
`` But it 's time we be go home .
See , it be twilight three minute ago and now it 's moonlight .
What a pity we could n't have catch the moment of transformation .
But such moment never be catch , I suppose . ''
`` Let 's go back around the marsh and home by way of Lover 's Lane .
Do you feel a disgruntle now a when you start out , Anne ? ''
`` Not I . Those apple have be a manna to a hungry soul .
I feel that I shall love Redmond and have a splendid four year there . ''
`` And after those four year -- what ? ''
`` Oh , there 's another bend in the road at their end , '' answer Anne lightly .
`` I 've no idea what may be around it -- I do n't want to have .
It 's nice not to know . ''
Lover 's Lane be a dear place that night , still and mysteriously dim in the pale radiance of the moonlight .
They loiter through it in a pleasant chummy silence , neither care to talk .
`` If Gilbert be always a he have be this even how nice and simple everything would be , '' reflect Anne .
Gilbert be look at Anne , a she walk along .
In her light dress , with her slender delicacy , she make him think of a white iris .
`` I wonder if I can ever make her care for me , '' he think , with a pang of self-distrust .
Chapter III Greeting and Farewell Charlie Sloane , Gilbert Blythe and Anne Shirley leave Avonlea the following Monday morning .
Anne have hop for a fine day .
Diana be to drive her to the station and they want this , their last drive together for some time , to be a pleasant one .
But when Anne go to bed Sunday night the east wind be moan around Green Gables with an ominous prophecy which be fulfil in the morning .
Anne awake to find raindrops patter against her window and shadow the pond 's gray surface with widening ring ; hill and sea be hide in mist , and the whole world seem dim and dreary .
Anne dress in the cheerless gray dawn , for an early start be necessary to catch the boat train ; she struggle against the tear that WOULD well up in her eye in spite of herself .
She be leave the home that be so dear to her , and something tell her that she be leave it forever , save a a holiday refuge .
Things would never be the same again ; come back for vacation would not be live there .
And oh , how dear and beloved everything be -- that little white porch room , sacred to the dream of girlhood , the old Snow Queen at the window , the brook in the hollow , the Dryad 's Bubble , the Haunted Woods , and Lover 's Lane -- all the thousand and one dear spot where memory of the old year bid .
Could she ever be really happy anywhere else ?
Breakfast at Green Gables that morning be a rather doleful meal .
Davy , for the first time in his life probably , could not eat , but blubber shamelessly over his porridge .
Nobody else seem to have much appetite , save Dora , who tuck away her ration comfortably .
Dora , like the immortal and most prudent Charlotte , who `` go on cut bread and butter '' when her frenzied lover 's body have be carry past on a shutter , be one of those fortunate creature who be seldom disturb by anything .
Even at eight it take a great deal to ruffle Dora 's placidity .
She be sorry Anne be go away , of course , but be that any reason why she should fail to appreciate a poached egg on toast ?
Not at all .
And , see that Davy could not eat his , Dora eat it for him .
Promptly on time Diana appear with horse and buggy , her rosy face glow above her raincoat .
The good-bye have to be say then somehow .
Mrs. Lynde come in from her quarter to give Anne a hearty embrace and warn her to be careful of her health , whatever she do .
Marilla , brusque and tearless , peck Anne 's cheek and say she suppose they 'd hear from her when she get settle .
A casual observer might have conclude that Anne 's go mattered very little to her -- unless say observer have happen to get a good look in her eye .
Dora kiss Anne primly and squeeze out two decorous little tear ; but Davy , who have be cry on the back porch step ever since they rise from the table , refuse to say good-bye at all .
When he saw Anne come towards him he spring to his foot , bolt up the back stair , and hid in a clothes closet , out of which he would not come .
His muffled howl be the last sound Anne hear a she leave Green Gables .
It rain heavily all the way to Bright River , to which station they have to go , since the branch line train from Carmody do not connect with the boat train .
Charlie and Gilbert be on the station platform when they reach it , and the train be whistle .
Anne have just time to get her ticket and trunk check , say a hurried farewell to Diana , and hasten on board .
She wish she be go back with Diana to Avonlea ; she know she be go to die of homesickness .
And oh , if only that dismal rain would stop pour down as if the whole world be weep over summer vanish and joy depart !
Even Gilbert 's presence bring her no comfort , for Charlie Sloane be there , too , and Sloanishness could be tolerate only in fine weather .
It be absolutely insufferable in rain .
But when the boat steam out of Charlottetown harbor thing take a turn for the good .
The rain cease and the sun begin to burst out goldenly now and again between the rent in the cloud , burnish the gray sea with copper-hued radiance , and light up the mist that curtain the Island 's red shore with gleam of gold foretokening a fine day after all .
Besides , Charlie Sloane promptly become so seasick that he have to go below , and Anne and Gilbert be leave alone on deck .
`` I be very glad that all the Sloanes get seasick as soon a they go on water , '' think Anne mercilessly .
`` I be sure I could n't take my farewell look at the ` ould sod ' with Charlie stand there pretend to look sentimentally at it , too . ''
`` Well , we 're off , '' remark Gilbert unsentimentally .
`` Yes , I feel like Byron 's ` Childe Harold ' -- only it be n't really my ` native shore ' that I 'm watch , '' say Anne , wink her gray eye vigorously .
`` Nova Scotia be that , I suppose .
But one 's native shore be the land one love the best , and that 's good old P.E.I . for me .
I ca n't believe I do n't always live here .
Those eleven year before I come seem like a bad dream .
It 's seven year since I cross on this boat -- the evening Mrs. Spencer bring me over from Hopetown .
I can see myself , in that dreadful old wincey dress and fade sailor hat , explore deck and cabin with enraptured curiosity .
It be a fine evening ; and how those red Island shore do gleam in the sunshine .
Now I 'm cross the strait again .
Oh , Gilbert , I do hope I 'll like Redmond and Kingsport , but I 'm sure I wo n't ! ''
`` Where 's all your philosophy go , Anne ? ''
`` It 's all submerge under a great , swamp wave of loneliness and homesickness .
I 've long for three year to go to Redmond -- and now I 'm go -- and I wish I be n't !
Never mind !
I shall be cheerful and philosophical again after I have just one good cry .
I MUST have that , ` a a go ' -- and I 'll have to wait until I get into my boardinghouse bed tonight , wherever it may be , before I can have it .
Then Anne will be herself again .
I wonder if Davy have come out of the closet yet . ''
It be nine that night when their train reach Kingsport , and they find themselves in the blue-white glare of the crowded station .
Anne felt horribly bewilder , but a moment later she be seize by Priscilla Grant , who have come to Kingsport on Saturday .
`` Here you be , beloved !
And I suppose you 're as tired a I be when I get here Saturday night . ''
`` Tired !
Priscilla , do n't talk of it .
I 'm tired , and green , and provincial , and only about ten year old .
For pity 's sake take your poor , broken-down chum to some place where she can hear herself think . ''
`` I 'll take you right up to our boardinghouse .
I 've a cab ready outside . ''
`` It 's such a blessing you 're here , Prissy .
If you be n't I think I should just sit down on my suitcase , here and now , and weep bitter tear .
What a comfort one familiar face be in a howling wilderness of stranger ! ''
`` Is that Gilbert Blythe over there , Anne ?
How he have grow up this past year !
He be only a schoolboy when I teach in Carmody .
And of course that 's Charlie Sloane .
HE have n't change -- could n't !
He look just like that when he be bear , and he 'll look like that when he 's eighty .
This way , dear .
We 'll be home in twenty minute . ''
`` Home ! ''
groan Anne .
`` You mean we 'll be in some horrible boardinghouse , in a still more horrible hall bedroom , look out on a dingy back yard . ''
`` It be n't a horrible boardinghouse , Anne-girl .
Here 's our cab .
Hop in -- the driver will get your trunk .
Oh , yes , the boardinghouse -- it 's really a very nice place of it kind , a you 'll admit tomorrow morning when a good night 's sleep have turn your blue rosy pink .
It 's a big , old-fashioned , gray stone house on St. John Street , just a nice little constitutional from Redmond .
It use to be the ` residence ' of great folk , but fashion have desert St. John Street and it house only dream now of good day .
They 're so big that people live in them have to take boarder just to fill up .
At least , that be the reason our landlady be very anxious to impress on u .
They 're delicious , Anne -- our landlady , I mean . ''
`` How many be there ? ''
`` Two .
Miss Hannah Harvey and Miss Ada Harvey .
They be bear twin about fifty year ago . ''
`` I ca n't get away from twin , it seem , '' smile Anne .
`` Wherever I go they confront me . ''
`` Oh , they 're not twin now , dear .
After they reach the age of thirty they never be twin again .
Miss Hannah have grow old , not too gracefully , and Miss Ada have stay thirty , less gracefully still .
I do n't know whether Miss Hannah can smile or not ; I 've never catch her at it so far , but Miss Ada smile all the time and that 's bad .
However , they 're nice , kind soul , and they take two boarder every year because Miss Hannah 's economical soul can not bear to ` waste room space ' -- not because they need to or have to , a Miss Ada have tell me seven time since Saturday night .
As for our room , I admit they be hall bedroom , and mine do look out on the back yard .
Your room be a front one and look out on Old St. John 's graveyard , which be just across the street . ''
`` That sound gruesome , '' shiver Anne .
`` I think I 'd rather have the back yard view . ''
`` Oh , no , you would n't .
Wait and see .
Old St. John 's be a darling place .
It 's be a graveyard so long that it 's cease to be one and have become one of the sight of Kingsport .
I be all through it yesterday for a pleasure exertion .
There 's a big stone wall and a row of enormous tree all around it , and row of tree all through it , and the queer old tombstone , with the queerest and quaint inscription .
You 'll go there to study , Anne , see if you do n't .
Of course , nobody be ever bury there now .
But a few year ago they put up a beautiful monument to the memory of Nova Scotian soldier who fell in the Crimean War .
It be just opposite the entrance gate and there 's ` scope for imagination ' in it , a you use to say .
Here 's your trunk at last -- and the boy come to say good night .
Must I really shake hand with Charlie Sloane , Anne ?
His hand be always so cold and fishy-feeling .
We must ask them to call occasionally .
Miss Hannah gravely tell me we could have ` young gentleman caller ' two evening in the week , if they go away at a reasonable hour ; and Miss Ada ask me , smile , please to be sure they do n't sit on her beautiful cushion .
I promise to see to it ; but goodness know where else they CAN sit , unless they sit on the floor , for there be cushion on EVERYTHING .
Miss Ada even have an elaborate Battenburg one on top of the piano . ''
Anne be laugh by this time .
Priscilla 's gay chatter have the intended effect of cheer her up ; homesickness vanish for the time be , and do not even return in full force when she finally find herself alone in her little bedroom .
She go to her window and look out .
The street below be dim and quiet .
Across it the moon be shin above the tree in Old St. John 's , just behind the great dark head of the lion on the monument .
Anne wonder if it could have be only that morning that she have leave Green Gables .
She have the sense of a long passage of time which one day of change and travel give .
`` I suppose that very moon be look down on Green Gables now , '' she muse .
`` But I wo n't think about it -- that way homesickness lie .
I 'm not even go to have my good cry .
I 'll put that off to a more convenient season , and just now I 'll go calmly and sensibly to bed and to sleep . ''
Chapter IV April 's Lady Kingsport be a quaint old town , hearking back to early Colonial day , and wrap in it ancient atmosphere , a some fine old dame in garment fashion like those of her youth .
Here and there it sprout out into modernity , but at heart it be still unspoiled ; it be full of curious relic , and haloed by the romance of many legend of the past .
Once it be a mere frontier station on the fringe of the wilderness , and those be the day when Indians keep life from be monotonous to the settler .
Then it grow to be a bone of contention between the British and the French , be occupy now by the one and now by the other , emerge from each occupation with some fresh scar of battle nation brand on it .
It have in it park a martello tower , autograph all over by tourist , a dismantled old French fort on the hill beyond the town , and several antiquate cannon in it public square .
It have other historic spot also , which may be hunt out by the curious , and none be more quaint and delightful than Old St. John 's Cemetery at the very core of the town , with street of quiet , old-time house on two side , and busy , bustling , modern thoroughfare on the others .
Every citizen of Kingsport feel a thrill of possessive pride in Old St. John 's , for , if he be of any pretension at all , he have an ancestor bury there , with a queer , crook slab at his head , or else sprawl protectively over the grave , on which all the main fact of his history be record .
For the most part no great art or skill be lavish on those old tombstone .
The large number be of roughly chisel brown or gray native stone , and only in a few case be there any attempt at ornamentation .
Some be adorn with skull and cross-bones , and this grizzly decoration be frequently couple with a cherub 's head .
Many be prostrate and in ruin .
Into almost all Time 's tooth have be gnaw , until some inscription have be completely efface , and others can only be decipher with difficulty .
The graveyard be very full and very bowery , for it be surround and intersect by row of elm and willow , beneath whose shade the sleeper must lie very dreamlessly , forever croon to by the wind and leave over them , and quite undisturbed by the clamor of traffic just beyond .
Anne take the first of many ramble in Old St. John 's the next afternoon .
She and Priscilla have go to Redmond in the forenoon and register a student , after which there be nothing more to do that day .
The girl gladly make their escape , for it be not exhilarate to be surround by crowd of stranger , most of whom have a rather alien appearance , a if not quite sure where they belong .
The `` freshettes '' stand about in detached group of two or three , look askance at each other ; the `` freshies , '' wiser in their day and generation , have band themselves together on the big staircase of the entrance hall , where they be shout out glee with all the vigor of youthful lung , a a specie of defiance to their traditional enemy , the Sophomores , a few of whom be prowl loftily about , look properly disdainful of the `` unlicked cub '' on the stair .
Gilbert and Charlie be nowhere to be see .
`` Little do I think the day would ever come when I 'd be glad of the sight of a Sloane , '' say Priscilla , a they cross the campus , `` but I 'd welcome Charlie 's goggle eye almost ecstatically .
At least , they 'd be familiar eye . ''
`` Oh , '' sigh Anne .
`` I ca n't describe how I felt when I be stand there , wait my turn to be register -- as insignificant a the teeny drop in a most enormous bucket .
It 's bad enough to feel insignificant , but it 's unbearable to have it grain into your soul that you will never , can never , be anything but insignificant , and that be how I do feel -- a if I be invisible to the naked eye and some of those Sophs might step on me .
I know I would go down to my grave unwept , unhonored and unsung . ''
`` Wait till next year , '' comfort Priscilla .
`` Then we 'll be able to look a bored and sophisticated a any Sophomore of them all .
No doubt it be rather dreadful to feel insignificant ; but I think it 's good than to feel a big and awkward a I do -- a if I be sprawl all over Redmond .
That 's how I felt -- I suppose because I be a good two inch taller than any one else in the crowd .
I be n't afraid a Soph might walk over me ; I be afraid they 'd take me for an elephant , or an overgrown sample of a potato-fed Islander . ''
`` I suppose the trouble be we ca n't forgive big Redmond for not be little Queen 's , '' say Anne , gather about her the shred of her old cheerful philosophy to cover her nakedness of spirit .
`` When we leave Queen 's we know everybody and have a place of our own .
I suppose we have be unconsciously expect to take life up at Redmond just where we leave off at Queen 's , and now we feel a if the ground have slip from under our foot .
I 'm thankful that neither Mrs. Lynde nor Mrs. Elisha Wright know , or ever will know , my state of mind at present .
They would exult in say ' I tell you so , ' and be convince it be the beginning of the end .
Whereas it be just the end of the beginning . ''
`` Exactly .
That sound more Anneish .
In a little while we 'll be acclimate and acquaint , and all will be well .
Anne , do you notice the girl who stand alone just outside the door of the coeds ' dress room all the morning -- the pretty one with the brown eye and crook mouth ? ''
`` Yes , I do .
I notice her particularly because she seem the only creature there who LOOKED a lonely and friendless a I FELT .
I have YOU , but she have no one . ''
`` I think she felt pretty all-by-herselfish , too .
Several time I saw her make a motion a if to cross over to u , but she never do it -- too shy , I suppose .
I wish she would come .
If I have n't felt so much like the aforesaid elephant I 'd have go to her .
But I could n't lumber across that big hall with all those boy howl on the stair .
She be the pretty freshette I saw today , but probably favor be deceitful and even beauty be vain on your first day at Redmond , '' conclude Priscilla with a laugh .
`` I 'm go across to Old St. John 's after lunch , '' say Anne .
`` I do n't know that a graveyard be a very good place to go to get cheer up , but it seem the only get-at-able place where there be tree , and tree I must have .
I 'll sit on one of those old slab and shut my eye and imagine I 'm in the Avonlea wood . ''
Anne do not do that , however , for she find enough of interest in Old St. John 's to keep her eye wide open .
They go in by the entrance gate , past the simple , massive , stone arch surmount by the great lion of England . ''
` And on Inkerman yet the wild bramble be gory , And those bleak height henceforth shall be famous in story , ' '' quote Anne , look at it with a thrill .
They find themselves in a dim , cool , green place where wind be fond of purring .
Up and down the long grassy aisle they wander , read the quaint , voluminous epitaph , carve in an age that have more leisure than our own . ''
` Here lieth the body of Albert Crawford , Esq . , ' '' read Anne from a worn , gray slab , '' ` for many year Keeper of His Majesty 's Ordnance at Kingsport .
He serve in the army till the peace of 1763 , when he retire from bad health .
He be a brave officer , the best of husband , the best of father , the best of friend .
He die October 29th , 1792 , age 84 year . '
There 's an epitaph for you , Prissy .
There be certainly some ` scope for imagination ' in it .
How full such a life must have be of adventure !
And a for his personal quality , I 'm sure human eulogy could n't go far .
I wonder if they tell him he be all those best thing while he be alive . ''
`` Here 's another , '' say Priscilla .
`` Listen -- ` To the memory of Alexander Ross , who die on the 22nd of September , 1840 , age 43 year .
This be raise a a tribute of affection by one whom he serve so faithfully for 27 year that he be regard a a friend , deserve the full confidence and attachment . ' ''
`` A very good epitaph , '' comment Anne thoughtfully .
`` I would n't wish a good .
We be all servant of some sort , and if the fact that we be faithful can be truthfully inscribe on our tombstone nothing more need be add .
Here 's a sorrowful little gray stone , Prissy -- ` to the memory of a favorite child . '
And here be another ` erect to the memory of one who be bury elsewhere . '
I wonder where that unknown grave be .
Really , Pris , the graveyard of today will never be as interesting a this .
You be right -- I shall come here often .
I love it already .
I see we 're not alone here -- there 's a girl down at the end of this avenue . ''
`` Yes , and I believe it 's the very girl we saw at Redmond this morning .
I 've be watch her for five minute .
She have start to come up the avenue exactly half a dozen time , and half a dozen time have she turn and go back .
Either she 's dreadfully shy or she have get something on her conscience .
Let 's go and meet her .
It 's easy to get acquaint in a graveyard than at Redmond , I believe . ''
They walk down the long grassy arcade towards the stranger , who be sit on a gray slab under an enormous willow .
She be certainly very pretty , with a vivid , irregular , bewitch type of prettiness .
There be a gloss a of brown nut on her satin-smooth hair and a soft , ripe glow on her round cheek .
Her eye be big and brown and velvety , under oddly-pointed black brow , and her crooked mouth be rose-red .
She wear a smart brown suit , with two very modish little shoe peep from beneath it ; and her hat of dull pink straw , wreathe with golden-brown poppy , have the indefinable , unmistakable air which pertain to the `` creation '' of an artist in millinery .
Priscilla have a sudden stinging consciousness that her own hat have be trim by her village store milliner , and Anne wonder uncomfortably if the blouse she have make herself , and which Mrs. Lynde have fit , look VERY countrified and home-made besides the stranger 's smart attire .
For a moment both girl felt like turn back .
But they have already stop and turn towards the gray slab .
It be too late to retreat , for the brown-eyed girl have evidently conclude that they be come to speak to her .
Instantly she spring up and come forward with outstretched hand and a gay , friendly smile in which there seem not a shadow of either shyness or burden conscience .
`` Oh , I want to know who you two girl be , '' she exclaim eagerly .
`` I 've be DYING to know .
I saw you at Redmond this morning .
Say , be n't it AWFUL there ?
For the time I wish I have stay home and get marry . ''
Anne and Priscilla both break into unconstrained laughter at this unexpected conclusion .
The brown-eyed girl laugh , too .
`` I really do .
I COULD have , you know .
Come , let 's all sit down on this gravestone and get acquaint .
It wo n't be hard .
I know we 're go to adore each other -- I know it as soon a I saw you at Redmond this morning .
I want so much to go right over and hug you both . ''
`` Why do n't you ? ''
ask Priscilla .
`` Because I simply could n't make up my mind to do it .
I never can make up my mind about anything myself -- I 'm always afflict with indecision .
Just as soon a I decide to do something I feel in my bone that another course would be the correct one .
It 's a dreadful misfortune , but I be bear that way , and there be no use in blame me for it , a some people do .
So I could n't make up my mind to go and speak to you , much a I want to . ''
`` We think you be too shy , '' say Anne .
`` No , no , dear .
Shyness be n't among the many failing -- or virtue -- of Philippa Gordon -- Phil for short .
Do call me Phil right off .
Now , what be your handle ? ''
`` She 's Priscilla Grant , '' say Anne , point .
`` And SHE 'S Anne Shirley , '' say Priscilla , point in turn .
`` And we 're from the Island , '' say both together .
`` I hail from Bolingbroke , Nova Scotia , '' say Philippa .
`` Bolingbroke ! ''
exclaim Anne .
`` Why , that be where I be bear . ''
`` Do you really mean it ?
Why , that make you a Bluenose after all . ''
`` No , it do n't , '' retort Anne .
`` Was n't it Dan O'Connell who say that if a man be bear in a stable it do n't make him a horse ?
I 'm Island to the core . ''
`` Well , I 'm glad you be bear in Bolingbroke anyway .
It make u kind of neighbor , do n't it ?
And I like that , because when I tell you secrets it wo n't be a if I be tell them to a stranger .
I have to tell them .
I ca n't keep secret -- it 's no use to try .
That 's my bad failing -- that , and indecision , a aforesaid .
Would you believe it ?
-- it take me half an hour to decide which hat to wear when I be come here -- HERE , to a graveyard !
At first I incline to my brown one with the feather ; but as soon a I put it on I think this pink one with the floppy brim would be more become .
When I get IT pin in place I like the brown one good .
At last I put them close together on the bed , shut my eye , and jabbed with a hat pin .
The pin spear the pink one , so I put it on .
It be become , be n't it ?
Tell me , what do you think of my look ? ''
At this naive demand , make in a perfectly serious tone , Priscilla laugh again .
But Anne say , impulsively squeeze Philippa 's hand , `` We think this morning that you be the pretty girl we saw at Redmond . ''
Philippa 's crooked mouth flash into a bewitching , crook smile over very white little teeth .
`` I think that myself , '' be her next astounding statement , `` but I want some one else 's opinion to bolster mine up .
I ca n't decide even on my own appearance .
Just as soon a I 've decide that I 'm pretty I begin to feel miserably that I 'm not .
Besides , have a horrible old great-aunt who be always say to me , with a mournful sigh , ` You be such a pretty baby .
It 's strange how child change when they grow up . '
I adore aunt , but I detest great-aunt .
Please tell me quite often that I be pretty , if you do n't mind .
I feel so much more comfortable when I can believe I 'm pretty .
And I 'll be just a oblige to you if you want me to -- I CAN be , with a clear conscience . ''
`` Thanks , '' laugh Anne , `` but Priscilla and I be so firmly convince of our own good look that we do n't need any assurance about them , so you need n't trouble . ''
`` Oh , you 're laugh at me .
I know you think I 'm abominably vain , but I 'm not .
There really be n't one spark of vanity in me .
And I 'm never a bit grudge about pay compliment to other girl when they deserve them .
I 'm so glad I know you folk .
I come up on Saturday and I 've nearly die of homesickness ever since .
It 's a horrible feeling , be n't it ?
In Bolingbroke I 'm an important personage , and in Kingsport I 'm just nobody !
There be time when I could feel my soul turn a delicate blue .
Where do you hang out ? ''
`` Thirty-eight St. John 's Street . ''
`` Better and well .
Why , I 'm just around the corner on Wallace Street .
I do n't like my boardinghouse , though .
It 's bleak and lonesome , and my room look out on such an unholy back yard .
It 's the ugly place in the world .
As for cat -- well , surely ALL the Kingsport cat ca n't congregate there at night , but half of them must .
I adore cat on hearth rug , snooze before nice , friendly fire , but cat in back yard at midnight be totally different animal .
The first night I be here I cry all night , and so do the cat .
You should have see my nose in the morning .
How I wish I have never leave home ! ''
`` I do n't know how you manage to make up your mind to come to Redmond at all , if you be really such an undecided person , '' say amuse Priscilla .
`` Bless your heart , honey , I do n't .
It be father who want me to come here .
His heart be set on it -- why , I do n't know .
It seem perfectly ridiculous to think of me study for a B.A . degree , do n't it ?
Not but what I can do it , all right .
I have heap of brain . ''
`` Oh ! ''
say Priscilla vaguely .
`` Yes .
But it 's such hard work to use them .
And B.A . 's be such learn , dignify , wise , solemn creature -- they must be .
No , I do n't want to come to Redmond .
I do it just to oblige father .
He IS such a duck .
Besides , I know if I stay home I 'd have to get marry .
Mother want that -- want it decidedly .
Mother have plenty of decision .
But I really hat the thought of be marry for a few year yet .
I want to have heap of fun before I settle down .
And , ridiculous a the idea of my be a B.A . be , the idea of my be an old married woman be still more absurd , be n't it ?
I 'm only eighteen .
No , I conclude I would rather come to Redmond than be marry .
Besides , how could I ever have make up my mind which man to marry ? ''
`` Were there so many ? ''
laugh Anne .
`` Heaps .
The boy like me awfully -- they really do .
But there be only two that matter .
The rest be all too young and too poor .
I must marry a rich man , you know . ''
`` Why must you ? ''
`` Honey , you could n't imagine ME be a poor man 's wife , could you ?
I ca n't do a single useful thing , and I be VERY extravagant .
Oh , no , my husband must have heap of money .
So that narrow them down to two .
But I could n't decide between two any easy than between two hundred .
I know perfectly well that whichever one I choose I 'd regret all my life that I have n't marry the other . ''
`` Did n't you -- love -- either of them ? ''
ask Anne , a little hesitatingly .
It be not easy for her to speak to a stranger of the great mystery and transformation of life .
`` Goodness , no .
I could n't love anybody .
It be n't in me .
Besides I would n't want to .
Being in love make you a perfect slave , I think .
And it would give a man such power to hurt you .
I 'd be afraid .
No , no , Alec and Alonzo be two dear boy , and I like them both so much that I really do n't know which I like the good .
That be the trouble .
Alec be the best look , of course , and I simply could n't marry a man who be n't handsome .
He be good-tempered too , and have lovely , curly , black hair .
He 's rather too perfect -- I do n't believe I 'd like a perfect husband -- somebody I could never find fault with . ''
`` Then why not marry Alonzo ? ''
ask Priscilla gravely .
`` Think of marry a name like Alonzo ! ''
say Phil dolefully .
`` I do n't believe I could endure it .
But he have a classic nose , and it WOULD be a comfort to have a nose in the family that could be depend on .
I ca n't depend on mine .
So far , it take after the Gordon pattern , but I 'm so afraid it will develop Byrne tendency a I grow old .
I examine it every day anxiously to make sure it 's still Gordon .
Mother be a Byrne and have the Byrne nose in the Byrnest degree .
Wait till you see it .
I adore nice nose .
Your nose be awfully nice , Anne Shirley .
Alonzo 's nose nearly turn the balance in his favor .
But ALONZO !
No , I could n't decide .
If I could have do a I do with the hat -- stand them both up together , shut my eye , and jabbed with a hatpin -- it would have be quite easy . ''
`` What do Alec and Alonzo feel like when you come away ? ''
query Priscilla .
`` Oh , they still have hope .
I tell them they 'd have to wait till I could make up my mind .
They 're quite willing to wait .
They both worship me , you know .
Meanwhile , I intend to have a good time .
I expect I shall have heap of beau at Redmond .
I ca n't be happy unless I have , you know .
But do n't you think the freshman be fearfully homely ?
I saw only one really handsome fellow among them .
He go away before you come .
I hear his chum call him Gilbert .
His chum have eye that stick out THAT FAR .
But you 're not go yet , girl ?
Do n't go yet . ''
`` I think we must , '' say Anne , rather coldly .
`` It 's get late , and I 've some work to do . ''
`` But you 'll both come to see me , wo n't you ? ''
ask Philippa , get up and put an arm around each .
`` And let me come to see you .
I want to be chummy with you .
I 've take such a fancy to you both .
And I have n't quite disgust you with my frivolity , have I ? ''
`` Not quite , '' laugh Anne , respond to Phil 's squeeze , with a return of cordiality .
`` Because I 'm not half so silly a I seem on the surface , you know .
You just accept Philippa Gordon , a the Lord make her , with all her fault , and I believe you 'll come to like her .
Is n't this graveyard a sweet place ?
I 'd love to be bury here .
Here 's a grave I do n't see before -- this one in the iron railing -- oh , girl , look , see -- the stone say it 's the grave of a middy who be kill in the fight between the Shannon and the Chesapeake .
Just fancy ! ''
Anne pause by the railing and look at the worn stone , her pulse thrill with sudden excitement .
The old graveyard , with it over-arching tree and long aisle of shadow , fade from her sight .
Instead , she saw the Kingsport Harbor of nearly a century agone .
Out of the mist come slowly a great frigate , brilliant with `` the meteor flag of England . ''
Behind her be another , with a still , heroic form , wrap in his own starry flag , lie on the quarter deck -- the gallant Lawrence .
Time 's finger have turn back his page , and that be the Shannon sailing triumphant up the bay with the Chesapeake a her prize .
`` Come back , Anne Shirley -- come back , '' laugh Philippa , pull her arm .
`` You 're a hundred year away from u .
Come back . ''
Anne come back with a sigh ; her eye be shin softly .
`` I 've always love that old story , '' she say , `` and although the English win that victory , I think it be because of the brave , defeat commander I love it .
This grave seem to bring it so near and make it so real .
This poor little middy be only eighteen .
He ` die of desperate wound receive in gallant action ' -- so read his epitaph .
It be such a a soldier might wish for . ''
Before she turn away , Anne unpin the little cluster of purple pansy she wear and drop it softly on the grave of the boy who have perish in the great sea-duel .
`` Well , what do you think of our new friend ? ''
ask Priscilla , when Phil have leave them .
`` I like her .
There be something very lovable about her , in spite of all her nonsense .
I believe , a she say herself , that she be n't half as silly a she sound .
She 's a dear , kissable baby -- and I do n't know that she 'll ever really grow up . ''
`` I like her , too , '' say Priscilla , decidedly .
`` She talk as much about boy a Ruby Gillis do .
But it always enrage or sicken me to hear Ruby , whereas I just want to laugh good-naturedly at Phil .
Now , what be the why of that ? ''
`` There be a difference , '' say Anne meditatively .
`` I think it 's because Ruby be really so CONSCIOUS of boy .
She play at love and love-making .
Besides , you feel , when she be boast of her beau that she be do it to rub it well into you that you have n't half so many .
Now , when Phil talk of her beau it sound a if she be just speak of chum .
She really look upon boy a good comrade , and she be pleased when she have dozen of them tag round , simply because she like to be popular and to be think popular .
Even Alex and Alonzo -- I 'll never be able to think of those two name separately after this -- be to her just two playfellow who want her to play with them all their life .
I 'm glad we meet her , and I 'm glad we go to Old St. John 's .
I believe I 've put forth a tiny soul-root into Kingsport soil this afternoon .
I hope so .
I hate to feel transplanted . ''
Chapter V Letters from Home For the next three week Anne and Priscilla continue to feel a stranger in a strange land .
Then , suddenly , everything seem to fall into focus -- Redmond , professor , class , student , study , social doings .
Life become homogeneous again , instead of be make up of detached fragment .
The Freshmen , instead of be a collection of unrelated individual , find themselves a class , with a class spirit , a class yell , class interest , class antipathy and class ambition .
They win the day in the annual `` Arts Rush '' against the Sophomores , and thereby gain the respect of all the class , and an enormous , confidence-giving opinion of themselves .
For three year the Sophomores have win in the `` rush '' ; that the victory of this year perch upon the Freshmen 's banner be attribute to the strategic generalship of Gilbert Blythe , who marshal the campaign and originate certain new tactic , which demoralize the Sophs and sweep the Freshmen to triumph .
As a reward of merit he be elect president of the Freshman Class , a position of honor and responsibility -- from a Fresh point of view , at least -- covet by many .
He be also invite to join the `` Lambs '' -- Redmondese for Lamba Theta -- a compliment rarely pay to a Freshman .
As a preparatory initiation ordeal he have to parade the principal business street of Kingsport for a whole day wear a sunbonnet and a voluminous kitchen apron of gaudily flower calico .
This he do cheerfully , doff his sunbonnet with courtly grace when he meet lady of his acquaintance .
Charlie Sloane , who have not be ask to join the Lambs , tell Anne he do not see how Blythe could do it , and HE , for his part , could never humiliate himself so .
`` Fancy Charlie Sloane in a ` caliker ' apron and a ` sunbunnit , ' '' giggle Priscilla .
`` He 'd look exactly like his old Grandmother Sloane .
Gilbert , now , look a much like a man in them a in his own proper habiliment . ''
Anne and Priscilla find themselves in the thick of the social life of Redmond .
That this come about so speedily be due in great measure to Philippa Gordon .
Philippa be the daughter of a rich and well-known man , and belong to an old and exclusive `` Bluenose '' family .
This , combine with her beauty and charm -- a charm acknowledge by all who meet her -- promptly open the gate of all clique , club and class in Redmond to her ; and where she go Anne and Priscilla go , too .
Phil `` adore '' Anne and Priscilla , especially Anne .
She be a loyal little soul , crystal-free from any form of snobbishness .
`` Love me , love my friend '' seem to be her unconscious motto .
Without effort , she take them with her into her ever widen circle of acquaintanceship , and the two Avonlea girl find their social pathway at Redmond make very easy and pleasant for them , to the envy and wonderment of the other freshettes , who , lack Philippa 's sponsorship , be doom to remain rather on the fringe of thing during their first college year .
To Anne and Priscilla , with their more serious view of life , Phil remain the amusing , lovable baby she have seem on their first meeting .
Yet , a she say herself , she have `` heap '' of brain .
When or where she find time to study be a mystery , for she seem always in demand for some kind of `` fun , '' and her home evening be crowd with caller .
She have all the `` beau '' that heart could desire , for nine-tenths of the Freshmen and a big fraction of all the other class be rival for her smile .
She be naively delight over this , and gleefully recount each new conquest to Anne and Priscilla , with comment that might have make the unlucky lover 's ear burn fiercely .
`` Alec and Alonzo do n't seem to have any serious rival yet , '' remark Anne , teasingly .
`` Not one , '' agree Philippa .
`` I write them both every week and tell them all about my young men here .
I 'm sure it must amuse them .
But , of course , the one I like best I ca n't get .
Gilbert Blythe wo n't take any notice of me , except to look at me a if I be a nice little kitten he 'd like to pat .
Too well I know the reason .
I owe you a grudge , Queen Anne .
I really ought to hate you and instead I love you madly , and I 'm miserable if I do n't see you every day .
You 're different from any girl I ever know before .
When you look at me in a certain way I feel what an insignificant , frivolous little beast I be , and I long to be good and wiser and strong .
And then I make good resolution ; but the first nice-looking mannie who come my way knock them all out of my head .
Is n't college life magnificent ?
It 's so funny to think I hat it that first day .
But if I have n't I might never get really acquaint with you .
Anne , please tell me over again that you like me a little bit .
I yearn to hear it . ''
`` I like you a big bit -- and I think you 're a dear , sweet , adorable , velvety , clawless , little -- kitten , '' laugh Anne , `` but I do n't see when you ever get time to learn your lesson . ''
Phil must have find time for she hold her own in every class of her year .
Even the grumpy old professor of Mathematics , who detest coeds , and have bitterly oppose their admission to Redmond , could n't floor her .
She lead the freshettes everywhere , except in English , where Anne Shirley leave her far behind .
Anne herself find the study of her Freshman year very easy , thanks in great part to the steady work she and Gilbert have put in during those two past year in Avonlea .
This leave her more time for a social life which she thoroughly enjoy .
But never for a moment do she forget Avonlea and the friend there .
To her , the happy moment in each week be those in which letter come from home .
It be not until she have get her first letter that she begin to think she could ever like Kingsport or feel at home there .
Before they come , Avonlea have seem thousand of mile away ; those letter bring it near and link the old life to the new so closely that they begin to seem one and the same , instead of two hopelessly segregated existence .
The first batch contain six letter , from Jane Andrews , Ruby Gillis , Diana Barry , Marilla , Mrs. Lynde and Davy .
Jane 's be a copperplate production , with every `` t '' nicely cross and every `` i '' precisely dot , and not an interesting sentence in it .
She never mention the school , concern which Anne be avid to hear ; she never answer one of the question Anne have ask in her letter .
But she tell Anne how many yard of lace she have recently crochet , and the kind of weather they be have in Avonlea , and how she intend to have her new dress make , and the way she felt when her head ache .
Ruby Gillis write a gushing epistle deplore Anne 's absence , assure her she be horribly miss in everything , ask what the Redmond `` fellow '' be like , and fill the rest with account of her own harrowing experience with her numerous admirer .
It be a silly , harmless letter , and Anne would have laugh over it have it not be for the postscript .
`` Gilbert seem to be enjoy Redmond , judge from his letter , '' write Ruby .
`` I do n't think Charlie be so stuck on it . ''
So Gilbert be write to Ruby !
Very well .
He have a perfect right to , of course .
Only -- ! !
Anne do not know that Ruby have write the first letter and that Gilbert have answer it from mere courtesy .
She toss Ruby 's letter aside contemptuously .
But it take all Diana 's breezy , newsy , delightful epistle to banish the sting of Ruby 's postscript .
Diana 's letter contain a little too much Fred , but be otherwise crowd and cross with item of interest , and Anne almost felt herself back in Avonlea while read it .
Marilla 's be a rather prim and colorless epistle , severely innocent of gossip or emotion .
Yet somehow it convey to Anne a whiff of the wholesome , simple life at Green Gables , with it savor of ancient peace , and the steadfast abide love that be there for her .
Mrs. Lynde 's letter be full of church news .
Having break up housekeeping , Mrs. Lynde have more time than ever to devote to church affair and have fling herself into them heart and soul .
She be at present much work up over the poor `` supply '' they be have in the vacant Avonlea pulpit .
`` I do n't believe any but fool enter the ministry nowadays , '' she write bitterly .
`` Such candidate a they have send u , and such stuff a they preach !
Half of it ai n't true , and , what 's bad , it ai n't sound doctrine .
The one we have now be the bad of the lot .
He mostly take a text and preaches about something else .
And he say he do n't believe all the heathen will be eternally lose .
The idea !
If they wo n't all the money we 've be give to Foreign Missions will be clean waste , that 's what !
Last Sunday night he announce that next Sunday he 'd preach on the axe-head that swam .
I think he 'd better confine himself to the Bible and leave sensational subject alone .
Things have come to a pretty pas if a minister ca n't find enough in Holy Writ to preach about , that 's what .
What church do you attend , Anne ?
I hope you go regularly .
People be apt to get so careless about church-going away from home , and I understand college student be great sinner in this respect .
I 'm told many of them actually study their lesson on Sunday .
I hope you 'll never sink that low , Anne .
Remember how you be bring up .
And be very careful what friends you make .
You never know what sort of creature be in them college .
Outwardly they may be a whited sepulcher and inwardly a raven wolf , that 's what .
You 'd better not have anything to say to any young man who be n't from the Island .
`` I forget to tell you what happen the day the minister call here .
It be the funny thing I ever saw .
I say to Marilla , ` If Anne have be here would n't she have have a laugh ? '
Even Marilla laugh .
You know he 's a very short , fat little man with bow leg .
Well , that old pig of Mr. Harrison 's -- the big , tall one -- have wander over here that day again and break into the yard , and it get into the back porch , unbeknowns to u , and it be there when the minister appear in the doorway .
It make one wild bolt to get out , but there be nowhere to bolt to except between them bow leg .
So there it go , and , be a it be so big and the minister so little , it take him clean off his foot and carry him away .
His hat go one way and his cane another , just a Marilla and I get to the door .
I 'll never forget the look of him .
And that poor pig be near scar to death .
I 'll never be able to read that account in the Bible of the swine that rush madly down the steep place into the sea without see Mr. Harrison 's pig career down the hill with that minister .
I guess the pig think he have the Old Boy on his back instead of inside of him .
I be thankful the twin be n't about .
It would n't have be the right thing for them to have see a minister in such an undignified predicament .
Just before they get to the brook the minister jump off or fell off .
The pig rush through the brook like mad and up through the wood .
Marilla and I run down and help the minister get up and brush his coat .
He be n't hurt , but he be mad .
He seem to hold Marilla and me responsible for it all , though we tell him the pig do n't belong to u , and have be pester u all summer .
Besides , what do he come to the back door for ?
You 'd never have catch Mr. Allan do that .
It 'll be a long time before we get a man like Mr. Allan .
But it 's an ill wind that blow no good .
We 've never see hoof or hair of that pig since , and it 's my belief we never will .
`` Things be pretty quiet in Avonlea .
I do n't find Green Gables as lonesome a I expect .
I think I 'll start another cotton warp quilt this winter .
Mrs. Silas Sloane have a handsome new apple-leaf pattern .
`` When I feel that I must have some excitement I read the murder trial in that Boston paper my niece sends me .
I never use to do it , but they 're real interesting .
The States must be an awful place .
I hope you 'll never go there , Anne .
But the way girl roam over the earth now be something terrible .
It always make me think of Satan in the Book of Job , go to and fro and walk up and down .
I do n't believe the Lord ever intend it , that 's what .
`` Davy have be pretty good since you go away .
One day he be bad and Marilla punish him by make him wear Dora 's apron all day , and then he go and cut all Dora 's apron up .
I spank him for that and then he go and chase my rooster to death .
`` The MacPhersons have move down to my place .
She 's a great housekeeper and very particular .
She 's root all my June lilies up because she say they make a garden look so untidy .
Thomas set them lilies out when we be marry .
Her husband seem a nice sort of a man , but she ca n't get over be an old maid , that 's what .
`` Do n't study too hard , and be sure and put your winter underclothes on as soon a the weather get cool .
Marilla worry a lot about you , but I tell her you 've get a lot more sense than I ever think you would have at one time , and that you 'll be all right . ''
Davy 's letter plunge into a grievance at the start .
`` Dear anne , please write and tell marilla not to tie me to the rale of the bridge when I go fish the boy make fun of me when she do .
Its awful lonesome here without you but grate fun in school .
Jane andrew be cross than you .
I scar mrs. lynde with a jacky lantern last nite .
She be offel mad and she be mad cause I chase her old rooster round the yard till he fell down ded .
I do n't mean to make him fall down ded .
What make him die , anne , I want to know .
mrs. lynde throw him into the pig pen she mite of sell him to mr. blair .
mr. blair be give 50 sense apeace for good ded rooster now .
I herd mrs. lynde ask the minister to pray for her .
What do she do that be so bad , anne , I want to know .
I 've get a kite with a magnificent tail , anne .
Milty bolter tell me a grate story in school yesterday .
it be troo .
old Joe Mosey and Leon be play card one nite last week in the wood .
The card be on a stump and a big black man big than the tree come along and grab the card and the stump and disapered with a noys like thunder .
Ill bet they be skared .
Milty say the black man be the old harry .
be he , anne , I want to know .
Mr. kimball over at spenservale be very sick and will have to go to the hospitable .
please excuse me while I ask marilla if thats spell rite .
Marilla say it the silem he have to go to not the other place .
He think he have a snake inside of him .
whats it like to have a snake inside of you , anne .
I want to know .
mrs. lawrence bell be sick to .
mrs. lynde say that all that be the matter with her be that she think too much about her inside . ''
`` I wonder , '' say Anne , a she fold up her letter , `` what Mrs. Lynde would think of Philippa . ''
Chapter VI In the Park `` What be you go to do with yourselves today , girl ? ''
ask Philippa , pop into Anne 's room one Saturday afternoon .
`` We be go for a walk in the park , '' answer Anne .
`` I ought to stay in and finish my blouse .
But I could n't sew on a day like this .
There 's something in the air that get into my blood and make a sort of glory in my soul .
My finger would twitch and I 'd sew a crooked seam .
So it 's ho for the park and the pine . ''
`` Does ` we ' include any one but yourself and Priscilla ? ''
`` Yes , it include Gilbert and Charlie , and we 'll be very glad if it will include you , also . ''
`` But , '' say Philippa dolefully , `` if I go I 'll have to be gooseberry , and that will be a new experience for Philippa Gordon . ''
`` Well , new experience be broaden .
Come along , and you 'll be able to sympathize with all poor soul who have to play gooseberry often .
But where be all the victim ? ''
`` Oh , I be tire of them all and simply could n't be bother with any of them today .
Besides , I 've be feel a little blue -- just a pale , elusive azure .
It be n't serious enough for anything darker .
I write Alec and Alonzo last week .
I put the letter into envelope and address them , but I do n't seal them up .
That even something funny happen .
That be , Alec would think it funny , but Alonzo would n't be likely to .
I be in a hurry , so I snatch Alec 's letter -- a I think -- out of the envelope and scribble down a postscript .
Then I mail both letter .
I get Alonzo 's reply this morning .
Girls , I have put that postscript to his letter and he be furious .
Of course he 'll get over it -- and I do n't care if he do n't -- but it spoil my day .
So I think I 'd come to you darling to get cheer up .
After the football season open I wo n't have any spare Saturday afternoon .
I adore football .
I 've get the most gorgeous cap and sweater strip in Redmond color to wear to the game .
To be sure , a little way off I 'll look like a walk barber 's pole .
Do you know that that Gilbert of yours have be elect Captain of the Freshman football team ? ''
`` Yes , he tell u so last evening , '' say Priscilla , see that outrage Anne would not answer .
`` He and Charlie be down .
We know they be come , so we painstakingly put out of sight or out of reach all Miss Ada 's cushion .
That very elaborate one with the raise embroidery I drop on the floor in the corner behind the chair it be on .
I think it would be safe there .
But would you believe it ?
Charlie Sloane make for that chair , notice the cushion behind it , solemnly fish it up , and sit on it the whole evening .
Such a wreck of a cushion a it be !
Poor Miss Ada ask me today , still smile , but oh , so reproachfully , why I have allow it to be sit upon .
I tell her I have n't -- that it be a matter of predestination couple with inveterate Sloanishness and I be n't a match for both combine . ''
`` Miss Ada 's cushion be really get on my nerve , '' say Anne .
`` She finish two new one last week , stuffed and embroider within an inch of their life .
There be absolutely no other cushionless place to put them she stand them up against the wall on the stair landing .
They topple over half the time and if we come up or down the stair in the dark we fall over them .
Last Sunday , when Dr. Davis pray for all those expose to the peril of the sea , I add in thought ` and for all those who live in house where cushion be love not wisely but too well ! '
There !
we 're ready , and I see the boy come through Old St. John 's .
Do you cast in your lot with u , Phil ? ''
`` I 'll go , if I can walk with Priscilla and Charlie .
That will be a bearable degree of gooseberry .
That Gilbert of yours be a darling , Anne , but why do he go around so much with Goggle-eyes ? ''
Anne stiffen .
She have no great liking for Charlie Sloane ; but he be of Avonlea , so no outsider have any business to laugh at him .
`` Charlie and Gilbert have always be friend , '' she say coldly .
`` Charlie be a nice boy .
He 's not to blame for his eye . ''
`` Do n't tell me that !
He be !
He must have do something dreadful in a previous existence to be punish with such eye .
Pris and I be go to have such sport with him this afternoon .
We 'll make fun of him to his face and he 'll never know it . ''
Doubtless , `` the abandon P 's , '' a Anne call them , do carry out their amiable intention .
But Sloane be blissfully ignorant ; he think he be quite a fine fellow to be walk with two such coeds , especially Philippa Gordon , the class beauty and belle .
It must surely impress Anne .
She would see that some people appreciate him at his real value .
Gilbert and Anne loiter a little behind the others , enjoy the calm , still beauty of the autumn afternoon under the pine of the park , on the road that climb and twisted round the harbor shore .
`` The silence here be like a prayer , be n't it ? ''
say Anne , her face upturned to the shin sky .
`` How I love the pine !
They seem to strike their root deep into the romance of all the age .
It be so comforting to creep away now and then for a good talk with them .
I always feel so happy out here . '' ''
` And so in mountain solitude o'ertaken As by some spell divine , Their care drop from them like the needle shake From out the gusty pine , ' '' quote Gilbert .
`` They make our little ambition seem rather petty , do n't they , Anne ? ''
`` I think , if ever any great sorrow come to me , I would come to the pine for comfort , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` I hope no great sorrow ever will come to you , Anne , '' say Gilbert , who could not connect the idea of sorrow with the vivid , joyous creature beside him , unwitting that those who can soar to the high height can also plunge to the deep depth , and that the nature which enjoy most keenly be those which also suffer most sharply .
`` But there must -- sometime , '' muse Anne .
`` Life seem like a cup of glory hold to my lip just now .
But there must be some bitterness in it -- there be in every cup .
I shall taste mine some day .
Well , I hope I shall be strong and brave to meet it .
And I hope it wo n't be through my own fault that it will come .
Do you remember what Dr. Davis say last Sunday evening -- that the sorrow God send u bring comfort and strength with them , while the sorrow we bring on ourselves , through folly or wickedness , be by far the hard to bear ?
But we must n't talk of sorrow on an afternoon like this .
It 's mean for the sheer joy of living , be n't it ? ''
`` If I have my way I 'd shut everything out of your life but happiness and pleasure , Anne , '' say Gilbert in the tone that mean `` danger ahead . ''
`` Then you would be very unwise , '' rejoin Anne hastily .
`` I 'm sure no life can be properly develop and round out without some trial and sorrow -- though I suppose it be only when we be pretty comfortable that we admit it .
Come -- the others have get to the pavilion and be beckon to u . ''
They all sit down in the little pavilion to watch an autumn sunset of deep red fire and pallid gold .
To their left lay Kingsport , it roof and spire dim in their shroud of violet smoke .
To their right lay the harbor , take on tint of rise and copper a it stretch out into the sunset .
Before them the water shimmer , satin smooth and silver gray , and beyond , clean shave William 's Island loom out of the mist , guard the town like a sturdy bulldog .
Its lighthouse beacon flare through the mist like a baleful star , and be answer by another in the far horizon .
`` Did you ever see such a strong-looking place ? ''
ask Philippa .
`` I do n't want William 's Island especially , but I 'm sure I could n't get it if I do .
Look at that sentry on the summit of the fort , right beside the flag .
Does n't he look a if he have step out of a romance ? ''
`` Speaking of romance , '' say Priscilla , `` we 've be look for heather -- but , of course , we could n't find any .
It 's too late in the season , I suppose . ''
`` Heather ! ''
exclaim Anne .
`` Heather do n't grow in America , do it ? ''
`` There be just two patch of it in the whole continent , '' say Phil , `` one right here in the park , and one somewhere else in Nova Scotia , I forget where .
The famous Highland Regiment , the Black Watch , camp here one year , and , when the men shake out the straw of their bed in the spring , some seed of heather take root . ''
`` Oh , how delightful ! ''
say enchant Anne .
`` Let 's go home around by Spofford Avenue , '' suggest Gilbert .
`` We can see all ` the handsome house where the wealthy noble dwell . '
Spofford Avenue be the fine residential street in Kingsport .
Nobody can build on it unless he 's a millionaire . ''
`` Oh , do , '' say Phil .
`` There 's a perfectly kill little place I want to show you , Anne .
IT be n't build by a millionaire .
It 's the first place after you leave the park , and must have grow while Spofford Avenue be still a country road .
It DID grow -- it be n't build !
I do n't care for the house on the Avenue .
They 're too brand new and plateglassy .
But this little spot be a dream -- and it name -- but wait till you see it . ''
They saw it a they walk up the pine-fringed hill from the park .
Just on the crest , where Spofford Avenue petered out into a plain road , be a little white frame house with group of pine on either side of it , stretch their arm protectingly over it low roof .
It be cover with red and gold vine , through which it green-shuttered window peep .
Before it be a tiny garden , surround by a low stone wall .
October though it be , the garden be still very sweet with dear , old-fashioned , unworldly flower and shrub -- sweet may , southern-wood , lemon verbena , alyssum , petunia , marigold and chrysanthemum .
A tiny brick wall , in herring-bone pattern , lead from the gate to the front porch .
The whole place might have be transplant from some remote country village ; yet there be something about it that make it near neighbor , the big lawn-encircled palace of a tobacco king , look exceedingly crude and showy and ill-bred by contrast .
As Phil say , it be the difference between be bear and be make .
`` It 's the dear place I ever saw , '' say Anne delightedly .
`` It give me one of my old , delightful funny ache .
It 's dearer and quainter than even Miss Lavendar 's stone house . ''
`` It 's the name I want you to notice especially , '' say Phil .
`` Look -- in white letter , around the archway over the gate .
` Patty 's Place . '
Is n't that kill ?
Especially on this Avenue of Pinehursts and Elmwolds and Cedarcrofts ?
` Patty 's Place , ' if you please !
I adore it . ''
`` Have you any idea who Patty be ? ''
ask Priscilla .
`` Patty Spofford be the name of the old lady who own it , I 've discover .
She live there with her niece , and they 've live there for hundred of year , more or less -- maybe a little less , Anne .
Exaggeration be merely a flight of poetic fancy .
I understand that wealthy folk have try to buy the lot time and again -- it 's really worth a small fortune now , you know -- but ` Patty ' wo n't sell upon any consideration .
And there 's an apple orchard behind the house in place of a back yard -- you 'll see it when we get a little past -- a real apple orchard on Spofford Avenue ! ''
`` I 'm go to dream about ` Patty 's Place ' tonight , '' say Anne .
`` Why , I feel a if I belong to it .
I wonder if , by any chance , we 'll ever see the inside of it . ''
`` It be n't likely , '' say Priscilla .
Anne smile mysteriously .
`` No , it be n't likely .
But I believe it will happen .
I have a queer , creepy , crawly feeling -- you can call it a presentiment , if you like -- that ` Patty 's Place ' and I be go to be well acquaint yet . ''
Chapter VII Home Again Those first three week at Redmond have seem long ; but the rest of the term fly by on wing of wind .
Before they realize it the Redmond student find themselves in the grind of Christmas examination , emerge therefrom more or less triumphantly .
The honor of lead in the Freshman class fluctuate between Anne , Gilbert and Philippa ; Priscilla do very well ; Charlie Sloane scrap through respectably , and comport himself as complacently a if he have lead in everything .
`` I ca n't really believe that this time tomorrow I 'll be in Green Gables , '' say Anne on the night before departure .
`` But I shall be .
And you , Phil , will be in Bolingbroke with Alec and Alonzo . ''
`` I 'm long to see them , '' admit Phil , between the chocolate she be nibble .
`` They really be such dear boy , you know .
There 's to be no end of dance and drive and general jamboree .
I shall never forgive you , Queen Anne , for not come home with me for the holiday . '' ''
` Never ' mean three day with you , Phil .
It be dear of you to ask me -- and I 'd love to go to Bolingbroke some day .
But I ca n't go this year -- I MUST go home .
You do n't know how my heart long for it . ''
`` You wo n't have much of a time , '' say Phil scornfully .
`` There 'll be one or two quilt party , I suppose ; and all the old gossip will talk you over to your face and behind your back .
You 'll die of lonesomeness , child . ''
`` In Avonlea ? ''
say Anne , highly amuse .
`` Now , if you 'd come with me you 'd have a perfectly gorgeous time .
Bolingbroke would go wild over you , Queen Anne -- your hair and your style and , oh , everything !
You 're so DIFFERENT .
You 'd be such a success -- and I would bask in reflected glory -- ` not the rise but near the rise . '
Do come , after all , Anne . ''
`` Your picture of social triumph be quite fascinating , Phil , but I 'll paint one to offset it .
I 'm go home to an old country farmhouse , once green , rather fade now , set among leafless apple orchard .
There be a brook below and a December fir wood beyond , where I 've hear harp sweep by the finger of rain and wind .
There be a pond nearby that will be gray and brood now .
There will be two oldish lady in the house , one tall and thin , one short and fat ; and there will be two twin , one a perfect model , the other what Mrs. Lynde call a ` holy terror . '
There will be a little room upstairs over the porch , where old dream hang thick , and a big , fat , glorious feather bed which will almost seem the height of luxury after a boardinghouse mattress .
How do you like my picture , Phil ? ''
`` It seem a very dull one , '' say Phil , with a grimace .
`` Oh , but I 've leave out the transform thing , '' say Anne softly .
`` There 'll be love there , Phil -- faithful , tender love , such a I 'll never find anywhere else in the world -- love that 's wait for me .
That make my picture a masterpiece , do n't it , even if the color be not very brilliant ? ''
Phil silently get up , toss her box of chocolate away , go up to Anne , and put her arm about her .
`` Anne , I wish I be like you , '' she say soberly .
Diana meet Anne at the Carmody station the next night , and they drive home together under silent , star-sown depth of sky .
Green Gables have a very festal appearance a they drive up the lane .
There be a light in every window , the glow break out through the darkness like flame-red blossom swung against the dark background of the Haunted Wood .
And in the yard be a brave bonfire with two gay little figure dance around it , one of which give an unearthly yell a the buggy turn in under the poplar .
`` Davy mean that for an Indian war-whoop , '' say Diana .
`` Mr. Harrison 's hired boy teach it to him , and he 's be practice it up to welcome you with .
Mrs. Lynde say it have wear her nerve to a frazzle .
He creep up behind her , you know , and then let go .
He be determine to have a bonfire for you , too .
He 's be pile up branch for a fortnight and pester Marilla to be let pour some kerosene oil over it before set it on fire .
I guess she do , by the smell , though Mrs. Lynde say up to the last that Davy would blow himself and everybody else up if he be let . ''
Anne be out of the buggy by this time , and Davy be rapturously hug her knee , while even Dora be cling to her hand .
`` Is n't that a bully bonfire , Anne ?
Just let me show you how to poke it -- see the spark ?
I do it for you , Anne , 'cause I be so glad you be come home . ''
The kitchen door open and Marilla 's spare form darken against the inner light .
She prefer to meet Anne in the shadow , for she be horribly afraid that she be go to cry with joy -- she , stern , repressed Marilla , who think all display of deep emotion unseemly .
Mrs. Lynde be behind her , sonsy , kindly , matronly , a of yore .
The love that Anne have tell Phil be wait for her surround her and enfold her with it blessing and it sweetness .
Nothing , after all , could compare with old tie , old friend , and old Green Gables !
How starry Anne 's eye be a they sit down to the load supper table , how pink her cheek , how silver-clear her laughter !
And Diana be go to stay all night , too .
How like the dear old time it be !
And the rose-bud tea-set grace the table !
With Marilla the force of nature could no far go .
`` I suppose you and Diana will now proceed to talk all night , '' say Marilla sarcastically , a the girl go upstairs .
Marilla be always sarcastic after any self-betrayal .
`` Yes , '' agree Anne gaily , `` but I 'm go to put Davy to bed first .
He insist on that . ''
`` You bet , '' say Davy , a they go along the hall .
`` I want somebody to say my prayer to again .
It 's no fun say them alone . ''
`` You do n't say them alone , Davy .
God be always with you to hear you . ''
`` Well , I ca n't see Him , '' object Davy .
`` I want to pray to somebody I can see , but I WO N'T say them to Mrs. Lynde or Marilla , there now ! ''
Nevertheless , when Davy be garb in his gray flannel nighty , he do not seem in a hurry to begin .
He stand before Anne , shuffle one bare foot over the other , and look undecided .
`` Come , dear , kneel down , '' say Anne .
Davy come and bury his head in Anne 's lap , but he do not kneel down .
`` Anne , '' he say in a muffled voice .
`` I do n't feel like pray after all .
I have n't felt like it for a week now .
I -- I DID N'T pray last night nor the night before . ''
`` Why not , Davy ? ''
ask Anne gently .
`` You -- you wo n't be mad if I tell you ? ''
implore Davy .
Anne lift the little gray-flannelled body on her knee and cuddle his head on her arm .
`` Do I ever get ` mad ' when you tell me thing , Davy ? ''
`` No-o-o , you never do .
But you get sorry , and that 's bad .
You 'll be awful sorry when I tell you this , Anne -- and you 'll be ` sham of me , I s ` pose . ''
`` Have you do something naughty , Davy , and be that why you ca n't say your prayer ? ''
`` No , I have n't do anything naughty -- yet .
But I want to do it . ''
`` What be it , Davy ? ''
`` I -- I want to say a bad word , Anne , '' blurt out Davy , with a desperate effort .
`` I hear Mr. Harrison 's hired boy say it one day last week , and ever since I 've be want to say it ALL the time -- even when I 'm say my prayer . ''
`` Say it then , Davy . ''
Davy lift his flushed face in amazement .
`` But , Anne , it 's an AWFUL bad word . ''
`` SAY IT ! ''
Davy give her another incredulous look , then in a low voice he say the dreadful word .
The next minute his face be burrow against her .
`` Oh , Anne , I 'll never say it again -- never .
I 'll never WANT to say it again .
I know it be bad , but I do n't s ` pose it be so -- so -- I do n't s ` pose it be like THAT . ''
`` No , I do n't think you 'll ever want to say it again , Davy -- or think it , either .
And I would n't go about much with Mr. Harrison 's hire boy if I be you . ''
`` He can make bully war-whoops , '' say Davy a little regretfully .
`` But you do n't want your mind fill with bad word , do you , Davy -- word that will poison it and drive out all that be good and manly ? ''
`` No , '' say Davy , owl-eyed with introspection .
`` Then do n't go with those people who use them .
And now do you feel a if you could say your prayer , Davy ? ''
`` Oh , yes , '' say Davy , eagerly wriggle down on his knee , `` I can say them now all right .
I ai n't scar now to say ` if I should die before I wake , ' like I be when I be want to say that word . ''
Probably Anne and Diana do empty out their soul to each other that night , but no record of their confidence have be preserve .
They both look a fresh and bright-eyed at breakfast a only youth can look after unlawful hour of revelry and confession .
There have be no snow up to this time , but a Diana cross the old log bridge on her homeward way the white flake be begin to flutter down over the field and wood , russet and gray in their dreamless sleep .
Soon the far-away slope and hill be dim and wraith-like through their gauzy scarfing , a if pale autumn have fling a misty bridal veil over her hair and be wait for her wintry bridegroom .
So they have a white Christmas after all , and a very pleasant day it be .
In the forenoon letter and gift come from Miss Lavendar and Paul ; Anne open them in the cheerful Green Gables kitchen , which be fill with what Davy , sniff in ecstasy , call `` pretty smell . ''
`` Miss Lavendar and Mr. Irving be settle in their new home now , '' report Anne .
`` I be sure Miss Lavendar be perfectly happy -- I know it by the general tone of her letter -- but there 's a note from Charlotta the Fourth .
She do n't like Boston at all , and she be fearfully homesick .
Miss Lavendar want me to go through to Echo Lodge some day while I 'm home and light a fire to air it , and see that the cushion be n't get moldy .
I think I 'll get Diana to go over with me next week , and we can spend the evening with Theodora Dix .
I want to see Theodora .
By the way , be Ludovic Speed still go to see her ? ''
`` They say so , '' say Marilla , `` and he 's likely to continue it .
Folks have give up expect that that courtship will ever arrive anywhere . ''
`` I 'd hurry him up a bit , if I be Theodora , that 's what , '' say Mrs. Lynde .
And there be not the slight doubt but that she would .
There be also a characteristic scrawl from Philippa , full of Alec and Alonzo , what they say and what they do , and how they look when they saw her .
`` But I ca n't make up my mind yet which to marry , '' write Phil .
`` I do wish you have come with me to decide for me .
Some one will have to .
When I saw Alec my heart give a great thump and I think , ` He might be the right one . '
And then , when Alonzo come , thump go my heart again .
So that 's no guide , though it should be , accord to all the novel I 've ever read .
Now , Anne , YOUR heart would n't thump for anybody but the genuine Prince Charming , would it ?
There must be something radically wrong with mine .
But I 'm have a perfectly gorgeous time .
How I wish you be here !
It 's snow today , and I 'm rapturous .
I be so afraid we 'd have a green Christmas and I loathe them .
You know , when Christmas be a dirty grayey-browney affair , look a if it have be leave over a hundred year ago and have be in soak ever since , it be call a GREEN Christmas !
Do n't ask me why .
As Lord Dundreary say , ` there be thome thingth no fellow can underthtand . '
`` Anne , do you ever get on a street car and then discover that you have n't any money with you to pay your fare ?
I do , the other day .
It 's quite awful .
I have a nickel with me when I get on the car .
I think it be in the left pocket of my coat .
When I get settle down comfortably I felt for it .
It be n't there .
I have a cold chill .
I felt in the other pocket .
Not there .
I have another chill .
Then I felt in a little inside pocket .
All in vain .
I have two chill at once .
`` I take off my glove , lay them on the seat , and go over all my pocket again .
It be not there .
I stand up and shake myself , and then look on the floor .
The car be full of people , who be go home from the opera , and they all star at me , but I be past caring for a little thing like that .
`` But I could not find my fare .
I conclude I must have put it in my mouth and swallow it inadvertently .
`` I do n't know what to do .
Would the conductor , I wonder , stop the car and put me off in ignominy and shame ?
Was it possible that I could convince him that I be merely the victim of my own absentmindedness , and not an unprincipled creature try to obtain a ride upon false pretense ?
How I wish that Alec or Alonzo be there .
But they be n't because I want them .
If I HAD N'T want them they would have be there by the dozen .
And I could n't decide what to say to the conductor when he come around .
As soon a I get one sentence of explanation map out in my mind I felt nobody could believe it and I must compose another .
It seem there be nothing to do but trust in Providence , and for all the comfort that give me I might as well have be the old lady who , when tell by the captain during a storm that she must put her trust in the Almighty exclaim , ` Oh , Captain , be it as bad a that ? '
`` Just at the conventional moment , when all hope have flee , and the conductor be hold out his box to the passenger next to me , I suddenly remember where I have put that wretched coin of the realm .
I have n't swallow it after all .
I meekly fish it out of the index finger of my glove and poke it in the box .
I smile at everybody and felt that it be a beautiful world . ''
The visit to Echo Lodge be not the least pleasant of many pleasant holiday outing .
Anne and Diana go back to it by the old way of the beech wood , carry a lunch basket with them .
Echo Lodge , which have be close ever since Miss Lavendar 's wedding , be briefly thrown open to wind and sunshine once more , and firelight glimmer again in the little room .
The perfume of Miss Lavendar 's rise bowl still fill the air .
It be hardly possible to believe that Miss Lavendar would not come trip in presently , with her brown eye a-star with welcome , and that Charlotta the Fourth , blue of bow and wide of smile , would not pop through the door .
Paul , too , seem hover around , with his fairy fancy .
`` It really make me feel a little bit like a ghost revisit the old time glimpse of the moon , '' laugh Anne .
`` Let 's go out and see if the echo be at home .
Bring the old horn .
It be still behind the kitchen door . ''
The echo be at home , over the white river , a silver-clear and multitudinous a ever ; and when they have cease to answer the girl lock up Echo Lodge again and go away in the perfect half hour that follow the rise and saffron of a winter sunset .
Chapter VIII Anne 's First Proposal The old year do not slip away in a green twilight , with a pinky-yellow sunset .
Instead , it go out with a wild , white bluster and blow .
It be one of the night when the storm-wind hurtles over the frozen meadow and black hollow , and moan around the eaves like a lost creature , and drive the snow sharply against the shaking pane .
`` Just the sort of night people like to cuddle down between their blanket and count their mercy , '' say Anne to Jane Andrews , who have come up to spend the afternoon and stay all night .
But when they be cuddle between their blanket , in Anne 's little porch room , it be not her mercy of which Jane be think .
`` Anne , '' she say very solemnly , `` I want to tell you something .
May I '' Anne be feel rather sleepy after the party Ruby Gillis have give the night before .
She would much rather have go to sleep than listen to Jane 's confidence , which she be sure would bore her .
She have no prophetic inkling of what be come .
Probably Jane be engage , too ; rumor aver that Ruby Gillis be engage to the Spencervale schoolteacher , about whom all the girl be say to be quite wild .
`` I 'll soon be the only fancy-free maiden of our old quartet , '' think Anne , drowsily .
Aloud she say , `` Of course . ''
`` Anne , '' say Jane , still more solemnly , `` what do you think of my brother Billy ? ''
Anne gasp over this unexpected question , and flounder helplessly in her thought .
Goodness , what DID she think of Billy Andrews ?
She have never think ANYTHING about him -- round-faced , stupid , perpetually smile , good-natured Billy Andrews .
Did ANYBODY ever think about Billy Andrews ?
`` I -- I do n't understand , Jane , '' she stammer .
`` What do you mean -- exactly ? ''
`` Do you like Billy ? ''
ask Jane bluntly .
`` Why -- why -- yes , I like him , of course , '' gasp Anne , wonder if she be tell the literal truth .
Certainly she do not DISlike Billy .
But could the indifferent tolerance with which she regard him , when he happen to be in her range of vision , be consider positive enough for like ?
WHAT be Jane try to elucidate ?
`` Would you like him for a husband ? ''
ask Jane calmly .
`` A husband ! ''
Anne have be sit up in bed , the good to wrestle with the problem of her exact opinion of Billy Andrews .
Now she fell flatly back on her pillow , the very breath go out of her .
`` Whose husband ? ''
`` Yours , of course , '' answer Jane .
`` Billy want to marry you .
He 's always be crazy about you -- and now father have give him the upper farm in his own name and there 's nothing to prevent him from get marry .
But he 's so shy he could n't ask you himself if you 'd have him , so he get me to do it .
I 'd rather not have , but he give me no peace till I say I would , if I get a good chance .
What do you think about it , Anne ? ''
Was it a dream ?
Was it one of those nightmare thing in which you find yourself engage or marry to some one you hate or do n't know , without the slight idea how it ever come about ?
No , she , Anne Shirley , be lie there , wide awake , in her own bed , and Jane Andrews be beside her , calmly propose for her brother Billy .
Anne do not know whether she want to writhe or laugh ; but she could do neither , for Jane 's feeling must not be hurt .
`` I -- I could n't marry Bill , you know , Jane , '' she manage to gasp .
`` Why , such an idea never occur to me -- never ! ''
`` I do n't suppose it do , '' agree Jane .
`` Billy have always be far too shy to think of courting .
But you might think it over , Anne .
Billy be a good fellow .
I must say that , if he be my brother .
He have no bad habit and he 's a great worker , and you can depend on him . '
A bird in the hand be worth two in the bush . '
He tell me to tell you he 'd be quite willing to wait till you get through college , if you insist , though he 'd RATHER get marry this spring before the planting begin .
He 'd always be very good to you , I 'm sure , and you know , Anne , I 'd love to have you for a sister . ''
`` I ca n't marry Billy , '' say Anne decidedly .
She have recover her wit , and be even feel a little angry .
It be all so ridiculous .
`` There be no use thinking of it , Jane .
I do n't care anything for him in that way , and you must tell him so . ''
`` Well , I do n't suppose you would , '' say Jane with a resigned sigh , feel that she have do her best .
`` I tell Billy I do n't believe it be a bit of use to ask you , but he insist .
Well , you 've make your decision , Anne , and I hope you wo n't regret it . ''
Jane speak rather coldly .
She have be perfectly sure that the enamor Billy have no chance at all of induce Anne to marry him .
Nevertheless , she felt a little resentment that Anne Shirley , who be , after all , merely an adopt orphan , without kith or kin , should refuse her brother -- one of the Avonlea Andrews .
Well , pride sometimes go before a fall , Jane reflect ominously .
Anne permit herself to smile in the darkness over the idea that she might ever regret not marry Billy Andrews .
`` I hope Billy wo n't feel very badly over it , '' she say nicely .
Jane make a movement a if she be toss her head on her pillow .
`` Oh , he wo n't break his heart .
Billy have too much good sense for that .
He like Nettie Blewett pretty well , too , and mother would rather he marry her than any one .
She 's such a good manager and saver .
I think , when Billy be once sure you wo n't have him , he 'll take Nettie .
Please do n't mention this to any one , will you , Anne ? ''
`` Certainly not , '' say Anne , who have no desire whatever to publish abroad the fact that Billy Andrews want to marry her , prefer her , when all be say and do , to Nettie Blewett .
Nettie Blewett !
`` And now I suppose we 'd well go to sleep , '' suggest Jane .
To sleep go Jane easily and speedily ; but , though very unlike MacBeth in most respect , she have certainly contrive to murder sleep for Anne .
That proposed-to damsel lay on a wakeful pillow until the wee sma 's , but her meditation be far from be romantic .
It be not , however , until the next morning that she have an opportunity to indulge in a good laugh over the whole affair .
When Jane have go home -- still with a hint of frost in voice and manner because Anne have decline so ungratefully and decidedly the honor of an alliance with the House of Andrews -- Anne retreat to the porch room , shut the door , and have her laugh out at last .
`` If I could only share the joke with some one ! ''
she think .
`` But I ca n't .
Diana be the only one I 'd want to tell , and , even if I have n't swear secrecy to Jane , I ca n't tell Diana thing now .
She tell everything to Fred -- I know she do .
Well , I 've have my first proposal .
I suppose it would come some day -- but I certainly never think it would be by proxy .
It 's awfully funny -- and yet there 's a sting in it , too , somehow . ''
Anne know quite well wherein the sting consist , though she do not put it into word .
She have have her secret dream of the first time some one should ask her the great question .
And it have , in those dream , always be very romantic and beautiful : and the `` some one '' be to be very handsome and dark-eyed and distinguished-looking and eloquent , whether he be Prince Charming to be enrapture with `` yes , '' or one to whom a regretful , beautifully word , but hopeless refusal must be give .
If the latter , the refusal be to be express so delicately that it would be next best thing to acceptance , and he would go away , after kiss her hand , assure her of his unalterable , life-long devotion .
And it would always be a beautiful memory , to be proud of and a little sad about , also .
And now , this thrill experience have turn out to be merely grotesque .
Billy Andrews have get his sister to propose for him because his father have give him the upper farm ; and if Anne would n't `` have him '' Nettie Blewett would .
There be romance for you , with a vengeance !
Anne laugh -- and then sigh .
The bloom have be brush from one little maiden dream .
Would the painful process go on until everything become prosaic and hum-drum ?
Chapter IX An Unwelcome Lover and a Welcome Friend The second term at Redmond speed as quickly a have the first -- `` actually whiz away , '' Philippa say .
Anne enjoy it thoroughly in all it phase -- the stimulating class rivalry , the making and deepening of new and helpful friendship , the gay little social stunt , the doings of the various society of which she be a member , the widening of horizon and interest .
She study hard , for she have make up her mind to win the Thorburn Scholarship in English .
This be win , mean that she could come back to Redmond the next year without trench on Marilla 's small saving -- something Anne be determine she would not do .
Gilbert , too , be in full chase after a scholarship , but find plenty of time for frequent call at Thirty-eight , St. John 's .
He be Anne 's escort at nearly all the college affair , and she know that their name be couple in Redmond gossip .
Anne rag over this but be helpless ; she could not cast an old friend like Gilbert aside , especially when he have grow suddenly wise and wary , a behoove him in the dangerous proximity of more than one Redmond youth who would gladly have take his place by the side of the slender , red-haired coed , whose gray eye be as allure a star of evening .
Anne be never attend by the crowd of willing victim who hover around Philippa 's conquering march through her Freshman year ; but there be a lanky , brainy Freshie , a jolly , little , round Sophomore , and a tall , learn Junior who all like to call at Thirty-eight , St. John 's , and talk over ` ology and ` isms , as well a light subject , with Anne , in the becushioned parlor of that domicile .
Gilbert do not love any of them , and he be exceedingly careful to give none of them the advantage over him by any untimely display of his real feeling Anne-ward .
To her he have become again the boy-comrade of Avonlea day , and a such could hold his own against any smitten swain who have so far enter the list against him .
As a companion , Anne honestly acknowledge nobody could be so satisfactory a Gilbert ; she be very glad , so she tell herself , that he have evidently drop all nonsensical idea -- though she spend considerable time secretly wonder why .
Only one disagreeable incident mar that winter .
Charlie Sloane , sit bolt upright on Miss Ada 's most dearly beloved cushion , ask Anne one night if she would promise `` to become Mrs. Charlie Sloane some day . ''
Coming after Billy Andrews ' proxy effort , this be not quite the shock to Anne 's romantic sensibility that it would otherwise have be ; but it be certainly another heart-rending disillusion .
She be angry , too , for she felt that she have never give Charlie the slight encouragement to suppose such a thing possible .
But what could you expect of a Sloane , a Mrs. Rachel Lynde would ask scornfully ?
Charlie 's whole attitude , tone , air , word , fairly reek with Sloanishness .
`` He be confer a great honor -- no doubt whatever about that .
And when Anne , utterly insensible to the honor , refuse him , a delicately and considerately a she could -- for even a Sloane have feeling which ought not to be unduly lacerate -- Sloanishness still far betray itself .
Charlie certainly do not take his dismissal a Anne 's imaginary reject suitor do .
Instead , he become angry , and show it ; he say two or three quite nasty thing ; Anne 's temper flash up mutinously and she retort with a cut little speech whose keenness pierce even Charlie 's protective Sloanishness and reach the quick ; he catch up his hat and flung himself out of the house with a very red face ; Anne rush upstairs , fall twice over Miss Ada 's cushion on the way , and throw herself on her bed , in tear of humiliation and rage .
Had she actually stoop to quarrel with a Sloane ?
Was it possible anything Charlie Sloane could say have power to make her angry ?
Oh , this be degradation , indeed -- bad even than be the rival of Nettie Blewett !
`` I wish I need never see the horrible creature again , '' she sob vindictively into her pillow .
She could not avoid see him again , but the outraged Charlie take care that it should not be at very close quarter .
Miss Ada 's cushion be henceforth safe from his depredation , and when he meet Anne on the street , or in Redmond 's hall , his bow be icy in the extreme .
Relations between these two old schoolmate continue to be thus strain for nearly a year !
Then Charlie transfer his blighted affection to a round , rosy , snub-nosed , blue-eyed , little Sophomore who appreciate them a they deserve , whereupon he forgive Anne and condescend to be civil to her again ; in a patronizing manner intend to show her just what she have lose .
One day Anne scurry excitedly into Priscilla 's room .
`` Read that , '' she cry , toss Priscilla a letter .
`` It 's from Stella -- and she 's come to Redmond next year -- and what do you think of her idea ?
I think it 's a perfectly splendid one , if we can only carry it out .
Do you suppose we can , Pris ? ''
`` I 'll be well able to tell you when I find out what it be , '' say Priscilla , cast aside a Greek lexicon and take up Stella 's letter .
Stella Maynard have be one of their chum at Queen 's Academy and have be teach school ever since .
`` But I 'm go to give it up , Anne dear , '' she write , `` and go to college next year .
As I take the third year at Queen 's I can enter the Sophomore year .
I 'm tired of teach in a back country school .
Some day I 'm go to write a treatise on ` The Trials of a Country Schoolmarm . '
It will be a harrowing bit of realism .
It seem to be the prevailing impression that we live in clover , and have nothing to do but draw our quarter 's salary .
My treatise shall tell the truth about u .
Why , if a week should pass without some one tell me that I be do easy work for big pay I would conclude that I might as well order my ascension robe ` immediately and to onct . '
` Well , you get your money easy , ' some rate-payer will tell me , condescendingly .
` All you have to do be to sit there and hear lesson . '
I use to argue the matter at first , but I 'm wiser now .
Facts be stubborn thing , but a some one have wisely say , not half so stubborn a fallacy .
So I only smile loftily now in eloquent silence .
Why , I have nine grade in my school and I have to teach a little of everything , from investigate the interior of earthworm to the study of the solar system .
My young pupil be four -- his mother send him to school to ` get him out of the way ' -- and my old twenty -- it ` suddenly strike him ' that it would be easy to go to school and get an education than follow the plough any long .
In the wild effort to cram all sort of research into six hour a day I do n't wonder if the child feel like the little boy who be take to see the biograph . '
I have to look for what 's come next before I know what go last , ' he complain .
I feel like that myself .
`` And the letter I get , Anne !
Tommy 's mother write me that Tommy be not come on in arithmetic a fast a she would like .
He be only in simple reduction yet , and Johnny Johnson be in fraction , and Johnny be n't half as smart a her Tommy , and she ca n't understand it .
And Susy 's father want to know why Susy ca n't write a letter without misspell half the word , and Dick 's aunt want me to change his seat , because that bad Brown boy he be sit with be teach him to say naughty word .
`` As to the financial part -- but I 'll not begin on that .
Those whom the god wish to destroy they first make country schoolmarm !
`` There , I feel well , after that growl .
After all , I 've enjoy these past two year .
But I 'm come to Redmond .
`` And now , Anne , I 've a little plan .
You know how I loathe board .
I 've board for four year and I 'm so tired of it .
I do n't feel like endure three year more of it .
`` Now , why ca n't you and Priscilla and I club together , rent a little house somewhere in Kingsport , and board ourselves ?
It would be cheap than any other way .
Of course , we would have to have a housekeeper and I have one ready on the spot .
You 've hear me speak of Aunt Jamesina ?
She 's the sweetest aunt that ever live , in spite of her name .
She ca n't help that !
She be call Jamesina because her father , whose name be James , be drown at sea a month before she be bear .
I always call her Aunt Jimsie .
Well , her only daughter have recently marry and go to the foreign mission field .
Aunt Jamesina be leave alone in a great big house , and she be horribly lonesome .
She will come to Kingsport and keep house for u if we want her , and I know you 'll both love her .
The more I think of the plan the more I like it .
We could have such good , independent time .
`` Now , if you and Priscilla agree to it , would n't it be a good idea for you , who be on the spot , to look around and see if you can find a suitable house this spring ?
That would be good than leave it till the fall .
If you could get a furnished one so much the good , but if not , we can scare up a few stick of finiture between u and old family friends with attic .
Anyhow , decide as soon a you can and write me , so that Aunt Jamesina will know what plan to make for next year . ''
`` I think it 's a good idea , '' say Priscilla .
`` So do I , '' agree Anne delightedly .
`` Of course , we have a nice boardinghouse here , but , when all 's say and do , a boardinghouse be n't home .
So let 's go house-hunting at once , before exams come on . ''
`` I 'm afraid it will be hard enough to get a really suitable house , '' warn Priscilla .
`` Do n't expect too much , Anne .
Nice house in nice locality will probably be away beyond our mean .
We 'll likely have to content ourselves with a shabby little place on some street whereon live people whom to know be to be unknown , and make life inside compensate for the outside . ''
Accordingly they go house-hunting , but to find just what they want prove even hard than Priscilla have fear .
Houses there be galore , furnish and unfurnished ; but one be too big , another too small ; this one too expensive , that one too far from Redmond .
Exams be on and over ; the last week of the term come and still their `` house o'dreams , '' a Anne call it , remain a castle in the air .
`` We shall have to give up and wait till the fall , I suppose , '' say Priscilla wearily , a they ramble through the park on one of April 's darling day of breeze and blue , when the harbor be cream and shimmer beneath the pearl-hued mist float over it .
`` We may find some shack to shelter u then ; and if not , boardinghouses we shall have always with u . ''
`` I 'm not go to worry about it just now , anyway , and spoil this lovely afternoon , '' say Anne , gaze around her with delight .
The fresh chill air be faintly charge with the aroma of pine balsam , and the sky above be crystal clear and blue -- a great inverted cup of blessing .
`` Spring be sing in my blood today , and the lure of April be abroad on the air .
I 'm see vision and dream dream , Pris .
That 's because the wind be from the west .
I do love the west wind .
It sings of hope and gladness , do n't it ?
When the east wind blow I always think of sorrowful rain on the eaves and sad wave on a gray shore .
When I get old I shall have rheumatism when the wind be east . ''
`` And be n't it jolly when you discard fur and winter garment for the first time and sally forth , like this , in spring attire ? ''
laugh Priscilla .
`` Do n't you feel a if you have be make over new ? ''
`` Everything be new in the spring , '' say Anne .
`` Springs themselves be always so new , too .
No spring be ever just like any other spring .
It always have something of it own to be it own peculiar sweetness .
See how green the grass be around that little pond , and how the willow bud be burst . ''
`` And exam be over and go -- the time of Convocation will come soon -- next Wednesday .
This day next week we 'll be home . ''
`` I 'm glad , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` There be so many thing I want to do .
I want to sit on the back porch step and feel the breeze blow down over Mr. Harrison 's field .
I want to hunt fern in the Haunted Wood and gather violet in Violet Vale .
Do you remember the day of our golden picnic , Priscilla ?
I want to hear the frog singing and the poplar whisper .
But I 've learn to love Kingsport , too , and I 'm glad I 'm come back next fall .
If I have n't win the Thorburn I do n't believe I could have .
I COULD N'T take any of Marilla 's little hoard . ''
`` If we could only find a house ! ''
sigh Priscilla .
`` Look over there at Kingsport , Anne -- house , house everywhere , and not one for u . ''
`` Stop it , Pris .
` The best be yet to be . '
Like the old Roman , we 'll find a house or build one .
On a day like this there 's no such word a fail in my bright lexicon . ''
They linger in the park until sunset , live in the amazing miracle and glory and wonder of the springtide ; and they go home a usual , by way of Spofford Avenue , that they might have the delight of look at Patty 's Place .
`` I feel a if something mysterious be go to happen right away -- ` by the pricking of my thumb , ' '' say Anne , a they go up the slope .
`` It 's a nice story-bookish feeling .
Why -- why -- why !
Priscilla Grant , look over there and tell me if it 's true , or be I seein ' thing ? ''
Priscilla look .
Anne 's thumb and eye have not deceive her .
Over the arched gateway of Patty 's Place dangle a little , modest sign .
It say `` To Let , Furnished .
Inquire Within . ''
`` Priscilla , '' say Anne , in a whisper , `` do you suppose it 's possible that we could rent Patty 's Place ? ''
`` No , I do n't , '' aver Priscilla .
`` It would be too good to be true .
Fairy tale do n't happen nowadays .
I wo n't hope , Anne .
The disappointment would be too awful to bear .
They 're sure to want more for it than we can afford .
Remember , it 's on Spofford Avenue . ''
`` We must find out anyhow , '' say Anne resolutely .
`` It 's too late to call this evening , but we 'll come tomorrow .
Oh , Pris , if we can get this darling spot !
I 've always felt that my fortune be link with Patty 's Place , ever since I saw it first . ''
Chapter X Patty 's Place The next evening find them tread resolutely the herring-bone walk through the tiny garden .
The April wind be fill the pine tree with it roundelay , and the grove be alive with robin -- great , plump , saucy fellow , strut along the path .
The girl ring rather timidly , and be admit by a grim and ancient handmaiden .
The door open directly into a large living-room , where by a cheery little fire sit two other lady , both of whom be also grim and ancient .
Except that one look to be about seventy and the other fifty , there seem little difference between them .
Each have amazingly big , light-blue eye behind steel-rimmed spectacle ; each wear a cap and a gray shawl ; each be knit without haste and without rest ; each rock placidly and look at the girl without speaking ; and just behind each sit a large white china dog , with round green spot all over it , a green nose and green ear .
Those dog capture Anne 's fancy on the spot ; they seem like the twin guardian deity of Patty 's Place .
For a few minute nobody speak .
The girl be too nervous to find word , and neither the ancient lady nor the china dog seem conversationally incline .
Anne glance about the room .
What a dear place it be !
Another door open out of it directly into the pine grove and the robin come boldly up on the very step .
The floor be spot with round , braid mat , such a Marilla make at Green Gables , but which be consider out of date everywhere else , even in Avonlea .
And yet here they be on Spofford Avenue !
A big , polish grandfather 's clock tick loudly and solemnly in a corner .
There be delightful little cupboard over the mantelpiece , behind whose glass door gleam quaint bit of china .
The wall be hang with old print and silhouette .
In one corner the stair go up , and at the first low turn be a long window with an inviting seat .
It be all just a Anne have know it must be .
By this time the silence have grow too dreadful , and Priscilla nudge Anne to intimate that she must speak .
`` We -- we -- saw by your sign that this house be to let , '' say Anne faintly , address the old lady , who be evidently Miss Patty Spofford .
`` Oh , yes , '' say Miss Patty .
`` I intend to take that sign down today . ''
`` Then -- then we be too late , '' say Anne sorrowfully .
`` You 've let it to some one else ? ''
`` No , but we have decide not to let it at all . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry , '' exclaim Anne impulsively .
`` I love this place so .
I do hope we could have get it . ''
Then do Miss Patty lay down her knitting , take off her spec , rub them , put them on again , and for the first time look at Anne a at a human be .
The other lady follow her example so perfectly that she might as well have be a reflection in a mirror .
`` You LOVE it , '' say Miss Patty with emphasis .
`` Does that mean that you really LOVE it ?
Or that you merely like the look of it ?
The girl nowadays indulge in such exaggerated statement that one never can tell what they DO mean .
It be n't so in my young day .
THEN a girl do not say she LOVED turnip , in just the same tone a she might have say she love her mother or her Savior . ''
Anne 's conscience bore her up .
`` I really do love it , '' she say gently .
`` I 've love it ever since I saw it last fall .
My two college chum and I want to keep house next year instead of boarding , so we be look for a little place to rent ; and when I saw that this house be to let I be so happy . ''
`` If you love it , you can have it , '' say Miss Patty .
`` Maria and I decide today that we would not let it after all , because we do not like any of the people who have want it .
We do n't HAVE to let it .
We can afford to go to Europe even if we do n't let it .
It would help u out , but not for gold will I let my home pas into the possession of such people a have come here and look at it .
YOU be different .
I believe you do love it and will be good to it .
You can have it . ''
`` If -- if we can afford to pay what you ask for it , '' hesitate Anne .
Miss Patty name the amount require .
Anne and Priscilla look at each other .
Priscilla shake her head .
`` I 'm afraid we ca n't afford quite so much , '' say Anne , choke back her disappointment .
`` You see , we be only college girl and we be poor . ''
`` What be you think you could afford ? ''
demand Miss Patty , cease not to knit .
Anne name her amount .
Miss Patty nod gravely .
`` That will do .
As I tell you , it be not strictly necessary that we should let it at all .
We be not rich , but we have enough to go to Europe on .
I have never be in Europe in my life , and never expect or want to go .
But my niece there , Maria Spofford , have take a fancy to go .
Now , you know a young person like Maria ca n't go globetrotting alone . ''
`` No -- I -- I suppose not , '' murmur Anne , see that Miss Patty be quite solemnly in earnest .
`` Of course not .
So I have to go along to look after her .
I expect to enjoy it , too ; I 'm seventy year old , but I 'm not tire of living yet .
I daresay I 'd have go to Europe before if the idea have occur to me .
We shall be away for two year , perhaps three .
We sail in June and we shall send you the key , and leave all in order for you to take possession when you choose .
We shall pack away a few thing we prize especially , but all the rest will be leave . ''
`` Will you leave the china dog ? ''
ask Anne timidly .
`` Would you like me to ? ''
`` Oh , indeed , yes .
They be delightful . ''
A pleased expression come into Miss Patty 's face .
`` I think a great deal of those dog , '' she say proudly .
`` They be over a hundred year old , and they have sit on either side of this fireplace ever since my brother Aaron bring them from London fifty year ago .
Spofford Avenue be call after my brother Aaron . ''
`` A fine man he be , '' say Miss Maria , speak for the first time .
`` Ah , you do n't see the like of him nowadays . ''
`` He be a good uncle to you , Maria , '' say Miss Patty , with evident emotion .
`` You do well to remember him . ''
`` I shall always remember him , '' say Miss Maria solemnly .
`` I can see him , this minute , stand there before that fire , with his hand under his coat-tails , beam on u . ''
Miss Maria take out her handkerchief and wipe her eye ; but Miss Patty come resolutely back from the region of sentiment to those of business .
`` I shall leave the dog where they be , if you will promise to be very careful of them , '' she say .
`` Their name be Gog and Magog .
Gog look to the right and Magog to the left .
And there 's just one thing more .
You do n't object , I hope , to this house be call Patty 's Place ? ''
`` No , indeed .
We think that be one of the nice thing about it . ''
`` You have sense , I see , '' say Miss Patty in a tone of great satisfaction .
`` Would you believe it ?
All the people who come here to rent the house want to know if they could n't take the name off the gate during their occupation of it .
I tell them roundly that the name go with the house .
This have be Patty 's Place ever since my brother Aaron leave it to me in his will , and Patty 's Place it shall remain until I die and Maria dy .
After that happen the next possessor can call it any fool name he like , '' conclude Miss Patty , much a she might have say , `` After that -- the deluge . ''
`` And now , would n't you like to go over the house and see it all before we consider the bargain make ? ''
Further exploration still far delight the girl .
Besides the big living-room , there be a kitchen and a small bedroom downstairs .
Upstairs be three room , one large and two small .
Anne take an especial fancy to one of the small one , look out into the big pine , and hop it would be hers .
It be paper in pale blue and have a little , old-timey toilet table with sconce for candle .
There be a diamond-paned window with a seat under the blue muslin frill that would be a satisfying spot for study or dream .
`` It 's all so delicious that I know we be go to wake up and find it a fleeting vision of the night , '' say Priscilla a they go away .
`` Miss Patty and Miss Maria be hardly such stuff a dream be make of , '' laugh Anne .
`` Can you fancy them ` globe-trotting ' -- especially in those shawl and cap ? ''
`` I suppose they 'll take them off when they really begin to trot , '' say Priscilla , `` but I know they 'll take their knitting with them everywhere .
They simply could n't be part from it .
They will walk about Westminster Abbey and knit , I feel sure .
Meanwhile , Anne , we shall be live in Patty 's Place -- and on Spofford Avenue .
I feel like a millionairess even now . ''
`` I feel like one of the morning star that sang for joy , '' say Anne .
Phil Gordon creep into Thirty-eight , St. John 's , that night and flung herself on Anne 's bed .
`` Girls , dear , I 'm tired to death .
I feel like the man without a country -- or be it without a shadow ?
I forget which .
Anyway , I 've be pack up . ''
`` And I suppose you be wear out because you could n't decide which thing to pack first , or where to put them , '' laugh Priscilla .
`` E-zackly .
And when I have get everything jam in somehow , and my landlady and her maid have both sit on it while I lock it , I discover I have pack a whole lot of thing I want for Convocation at the very bottom .
I have to unlock the old thing and poke and dive into it for an hour before I fish out what I want .
I would get hold of something that felt like what I be look for , and I 'd yank it up , and it would be something else .
No , Anne , I do NOT swear . ''
`` I do n't say you do . ''
`` Well , you look it .
But I admit my thought verge on the profane .
And I have such a cold in the head -- I can do nothing but sniffle , sigh and sneeze .
Is n't that alliterative agony for you ?
Queen Anne , do say something to cheer me up . ''
`` Remember that next Thursday night , you 'll be back in the land of Alec and Alonzo , '' suggest Anne .
Phil shake her head dolefully .
`` More alliteration .
No , I do n't want Alec and Alonzo when I have a cold in the head .
But what have happen you two ?
Now that I look at you closely you seem all light up with an internal iridescence .
Why , you 're actually SHINING !
What 's up ? ''
`` We be go to live in Patty 's Place next winter , '' say Anne triumphantly .
`` Live , mark you , not board !
We 've rent it , and Stella Maynard be come , and her aunt be go to keep house for u . ''
Phil bounce up , wipe her nose , and fell on her knee before Anne .
`` Girls -- girl -- let me come , too .
Oh , I 'll be so good .
If there 's no room for me I 'll sleep in the little doghouse in the orchard -- I 've see it .
Only let me come . ''
`` Get up , you goose . ''
`` I wo n't stir off my marrow bone till you tell me I can live with you next winter . ''
Anne and Priscilla look at each other .
Then Anne say slowly , `` Phil dear , we 'd love to have you .
But we may as well speak plainly .
I 'm poor -- Pris be poor -- Stella Maynard be poor -- our housekeeping will have to be very simple and our table plain .
You 'd have to live a we would .
Now , you be rich and your boardinghouse fare attest the fact . ''
`` Oh , what do I care for that ? ''
demand Phil tragically .
`` Better a dinner of herb where your chum be than a stalled ox in a lonely boardinghouse .
Do n't think I 'm ALL stomach , girl .
I 'll be willing to live on bread and water -- with just a LEETLE jam -- if you 'll let me come . ''
`` And then , '' continue Anne , `` there will be a good deal of work to be do .
Stella 's aunt ca n't do it all .
We all expect to have our chore to do .
Now , you -- '' `` Toil not , neither do I spin , '' finish Philippa .
`` But I 'll learn to do thing .
You 'll only have to show me once .
I CAN make my own bed to begin with .
And remember that , though I ca n't cook , I CAN keep my temper .
That 's something .
And I NEVER growl about the weather .
That 's more .
Oh , please , please !
I never want anything so much in my life -- and this floor be awfully hard . ''
`` There 's just one more thing , '' say Priscilla resolutely .
`` You , Phil , a all Redmond know , entertain caller almost every evening .
Now , at Patty 's Place we ca n't do that .
We have decide that we shall be at home to our friend on Friday even only .
If you come with u you 'll have to abide by that rule . ''
`` Well , you do n't think I 'll mind that , do you ?
Why , I 'm glad of it .
I know I should have have some such rule myself , but I have n't enough decision to make it or stick to it .
When I can shuffle off the responsibility on you it will be a real relief .
If you wo n't let me cast in my lot with you I 'll die of the disappointment and then I 'll come back and haunt you .
I 'll camp on the very doorstep of Patty 's Place and you wo n't be able to go out or come in without fall over my spook . ''
Again Anne and Priscilla exchange eloquent look .
`` Well , '' say Anne , `` of course we ca n't promise to take you until we 've consult with Stella ; but I do n't think she 'll object , and , as far a we be concern , you may come and glad welcome . ''
`` If you get tire of our simple life you can leave u , and no question ask , '' add Priscilla .
Phil spring up , hug them both jubilantly , and go on her way rejoicing .
`` I hope thing will go right , '' say Priscilla soberly .
`` We must MAKE them go right , '' avow Anne .
`` I think Phil will fit into our ` appy little ` ome very well . ''
`` Oh , Phil 's a dear to rattle round with and be chum .
And , of course , the more there be of u the easy it will be on our slim purse .
But how will she be to live with ?
You have to summer and winter with any one before you know if she 's LIVABLE or not . ''
`` Oh , well , we 'll all be put to the test , as far a that go .
And we must quit u like sensible folk , live and let live .
Phil be n't selfish , though she 's a little thoughtless , and I believe we will all get on beautifully in Patty 's Place . ''
Chapter XI The Round of Life Anne be back in Avonlea with the luster of the Thorburn Scholarship on her brow .
People tell her she have n't change much , in a tone which hint they be surprise and a little disappointed she have n't .
Avonlea have not change , either .
At least , so it seem at first .
But a Anne sit in the Green Gables pew , on the first Sunday after her return , and look over the congregation , she saw several little change which , all come home to her at once , make her realize that time do not quite stand still , even in Avonlea .
A new minister be in the pulpit .
In the pew more than one familiar face be miss forever .
Old `` Uncle Abe , '' his prophesying over and do with , Mrs. Peter Sloane , who have sigh , it be to be hop , for the last time , Timothy Cotton , who , a Mrs. Rachel Lynde say `` have actually manage to die at last after practice at it for twenty year , '' and old Josiah Sloane , whom nobody know in his coffin because he have his whisker neatly trim , be all sleep in the little graveyard behind the church .
And Billy Andrews be marry to Nettie Blewett !
They `` appear out '' that Sunday .
When Billy , beam with pride and happiness , show his be-plumed and be-silked bride into the Harmon Andrews ' pew , Anne drop her lid to hide her dance eye .
She recall the stormy winter night of the Christmas holiday when Jane have propose for Billy .
He certainly have not break his heart over his rejection .
Anne wonder if Jane have also propose to Nettie for him , or if he have muster enough spunk to ask the fateful question himself .
All the Andrews family seem to share in his pride and pleasure , from Mrs. Harmon in the pew to Jane in the choir .
Jane have resign from the Avonlea school and intend to go West in the fall .
`` Ca n't get a beau in Avonlea , that 's what , '' say Mrs. Rachel Lynde scornfully .
`` SAYS she think she 'll have good health out West .
I never hear her health be poor before . ''
`` Jane be a nice girl , '' Anne have say loyally .
`` She never try to attract attention , a some do . ''
`` Oh , she never chase the boy , if that 's what you mean , '' say Mrs. Rachel .
`` But she 'd like to be marry , just as much a anybody , that 's what .
What else would take her out West to some forsaken place whose only recommendation be that men be plenty and woman scarce ?
Do n't you tell me ! ''
But it be not at Jane , Anne gaze that day in dismay and surprise .
It be at Ruby Gillis , who sit beside her in the choir .
What have happen to Ruby ?
She be even handsome than ever ; but her blue eye be too bright and lustrous , and the color of her cheek be hectically brilliant ; besides , she be very thin ; the hand that hold her hymn-book be almost transparent in their delicacy .
`` Is Ruby Gillis ill ? ''
Anne ask of Mrs. Lynde , a they go home from church .
`` Ruby Gillis be die of gallop consumption , '' say Mrs. Lynde bluntly .
`` Everybody know it except herself and her FAMILY .
They wo n't give in .
If you ask THEM , she 's perfectly well .
She have n't be able to teach since she have that attack of congestion in the winter , but she say she 's go to teach again in the fall , and she 's after the White Sands school .
She 'll be in her grave , poor girl , when White Sands school open , that 's what . ''
Anne listen in shocked silence .
Ruby Gillis , her old school-chum , die ?
Could it be possible ?
Of late year they have grow apart ; but the old tie of school-girl intimacy be there , and make itself felt sharply in the tug the news give at Anne 's heartstrings .
Ruby , the brilliant , the merry , the coquettish !
It be impossible to associate the thought of her with anything like death .
She have greet Anne with gay cordiality after church , and urge her to come up the next evening .
`` I 'll be away Tuesday and Wednesday evening , '' she have whisper triumphantly .
`` There 's a concert at Carmody and a party at White Sands .
Herb Spencer 's go to take me .
He 's my LATEST .
Be sure to come up tomorrow .
I 'm die for a good talk with you .
I want to hear all about your doings at Redmond . ''
Anne know that Ruby mean that she want to tell Anne all about her own recent flirtation , but she promise to go , and Diana offer to go with her .
`` I 've be want to go to see Ruby for a long while , '' she tell Anne , when they leave Green Gables the next evening , `` but I really could n't go alone .
It 's so awful to hear Ruby rattle on a she do , and pretend there be nothing the matter with her , even when she can hardly speak for cough .
She 's fight so hard for her life , and yet she have n't any chance at all , they say . ''
The girl walk silently down the red , twilit road .
The robin be sing vesper in the high treetop , fill the golden air with their jubilant voice .
The silver fluting of the frog come from marsh and pond , over field where seed be begin to stir with life and thrill to the sunshine and rain that have drift over them .
The air be fragrant with the wild , sweet , wholesome smell of young raspberry copse .
White mist be hover in the silent hollow and violet star be shin bluely on the brooklands .
`` What a beautiful sunset , '' say Diana .
`` Look , Anne , it 's just like a land in itself , be n't it ?
That long , low back of purple cloud be the shore , and the clear sky far on be like a golden sea . ''
`` If we could sail to it in the moonshine boat Paul write of in his old composition -- you remember ?
-- how nice it would be , '' say Anne , rouse from her reverie .
`` Do you think we could find all our yesterday there , Diana -- all our old spring and blossom ?
The bed of flower that Paul saw there be the rose that have bloom for u in the past ? ''
`` Do n't ! ''
say Diana .
`` You make me feel a if we be old woman with everything in life behind u . ''
`` I think I 've almost felt a if we be since I hear about poor Ruby , '' say Anne .
`` If it be true that she be die any other sad thing might be true , too . ''
`` You do n't mind call in at Elisha Wright 's for a moment , do you ? ''
ask Diana .
`` Mother ask me to leave this little dish of jelly for Aunt Atossa . ''
`` Who be Aunt Atossa ? ''
`` Oh , have n't you hear ?
She 's Mrs. Samson Coates of Spencervale -- Mrs. Elisha Wright 's aunt .
She 's father 's aunt , too .
Her husband die last winter and she be leave very poor and lonely , so the Wrights take her to live with them .
Mother think we ought to take her , but father put his foot down .
Live with Aunt Atossa he would not . ''
`` Is she so terrible ? ''
ask Anne absently .
`` You 'll probably see what she 's like before we can get away , '' say Diana significantly .
`` Father say she have a face like a hatchet -- it cut the air .
But her tongue be sharp still . ''
Late a it be Aunt Atossa be cut potato set in the Wright kitchen .
She wear a faded old wrapper , and her gray hair be decidedly untidy .
Aunt Atossa do not like be `` catch in a kilter , '' so she go out of her way to be disagreeable .
`` Oh , so you 're Anne Shirley ? ''
she say , when Diana introduce Anne .
`` I 've hear of you . ''
Her tone imply that she have hear nothing good .
`` Mrs. Andrews be tell me you be home .
She say you have improve a good deal . ''
There be no doubt Aunt Atossa think there be plenty of room for further improvement .
She cease not from cut set with much energy .
`` Is it any use to ask you to sit down ? ''
she inquire sarcastically .
`` Of course , there 's nothing very entertain here for you .
The rest be all away . ''
`` Mother sent you this little pot of rhubarb jelly , '' say Diana pleasantly .
`` She make it today and think you might like some . ''
`` Oh , thanks , '' say Aunt Atossa sourly .
`` I never fancy your mother 's jelly -- she always make it too sweet .
However , I 'll try to worry some down .
My appetite 's be dreadful poor this spring .
I 'm far from well , '' continue Aunt Atossa solemnly , `` but still I keep a-doing .
People who ca n't work be n't want here .
If it be n't too much trouble will you be condescend enough to set the jelly in the pantry ?
I 'm in a hurry to get these spud do tonight .
I suppose you two LADIES never do anything like this .
You 'd be afraid of spoil your hand . ''
`` I use to cut potato set before we rent the farm , '' smile Anne .
`` I do it yet , '' laugh Diana .
`` I cut set three day last week .
Of course , '' she add teasingly , `` I do my hand up in lemon juice and kid glove every night after it . ''
Aunt Atossa sniffed .
`` I suppose you get that notion out of some of those silly magazine you read so many of .
I wonder your mother allow you .
But she always spoil you .
We all think when George marry her she would n't be a suitable wife for him . ''
Aunt Atossa sigh heavily , a if all foreboding upon the occasion of George Barry 's marriage have be amply and darkly fulfil .
`` Going , be you ? ''
she inquire , a the girl rise .
`` Well , I suppose you ca n't find much amusement talk to an old woman like me .
It 's such a pity the boy ai n't home . ''
`` We want to run in and see Ruby Gillis a little while , '' explain Diana .
`` Oh , anything do for an excuse , of course , '' say Aunt Atossa , amiably .
`` Just whip in and whip out before you have time to say how-do decently .
It 's college air , I s ` pose .
You 'd be wise to keep away from Ruby Gillis .
The doctor say consumption 's catching .
I always know Ruby 'd get something , gad off to Boston last fall for a visit .
People who ai n't content to stay home always catch something . ''
`` People who do n't go visit catch thing , too .
Sometimes they even die , '' say Diana solemnly .
`` Then they do n't have themselves to blame for it , '' retort Aunt Atossa triumphantly .
`` I hear you be to be marry in June , Diana . ''
`` There be no truth in that report , '' say Diana , blushing .
`` Well , do n't put it off too long , '' say Aunt Atossa significantly .
`` You 'll fade soon -- you 're all complexion and hair .
And the Wrights be terrible fickle .
You ought to wear a hat , MISS SHIRLEY .
Your nose be freckle scandalous .
My , but you ARE redheaded !
Well , I s ` pose we 're all a the Lord make u !
Give Marilla Cuthbert my respect .
She 's never be to see me since I come to Avonlea , but I s ` pose I ought n't to complain .
The Cuthberts always do think themselves a cut high than any one else round here . ''
`` Oh , be n't she dreadful ? ''
gasp Diana , a they escape down the lane .
`` She 's bad than Miss Eliza Andrews , '' say Anne .
`` But then think of live all your life with a name like Atossa !
Would n't it sour almost any one ?
She should have try to imagine her name be Cordelia .
It might have help her a great deal .
It certainly help me in the day when I do n't like ANNE . ''
`` Josie Pye will be just like her when she grow up , '' say Diana .
`` Josie 's mother and Aunt Atossa be cousin , you know .
Oh , dear , I 'm glad that 's over .
She 's so malicious -- she seem to put a bad flavor in everything .
Father tell such a funny story about her .
One time they have a minister in Spencervale who be a very good , spiritual man but very deaf .
He could n't hear any ordinary conversation at all .
Well , they use to have a prayer meeting on Sunday evening , and all the church member present would get up and pray in turn , or say a few word on some Bible verse .
But one evening Aunt Atossa bounce up .
She do n't either pray or preach .
Instead , she light into everybody else in the church and give them a fearful rake down , call them right out by name and tell them how they all have behave , and cast up all the quarrel and scandal of the past ten year .
Finally she wind up by say that she be disgust with Spencervale church and she never mean to darken it door again , and she hop a fearful judgment would come upon it .
Then she sit down out of breath , and the minister , who have n't hear a word she say , immediately remark , in a very devout voice , ` amen !
The Lord grant our dear sister 's prayer ! '
You ought to hear father tell the story . ''
`` Speaking of story , Diana , '' remark Anne , in a significant , confidential tone , `` do you know that lately I have be wonder if I could write a short story -- a story that would be good enough to be publish ? ''
`` Why , of course you could , '' say Diana , after she have grasp the amazing suggestion .
`` You use to write perfectly thrill story year ago in our old Story Club . ''
`` Well , I hardly mean one of that kind of story , '' smile Anne .
`` I 've be think about it a little of late , but I 'm almost afraid to try , for , if I should fail , it would be too humiliate . ''
`` I hear Priscilla say once that all Mrs. Morgan 's first story be reject .
But I 'm sure yours would n't be , Anne , for it 's likely editor have more sense nowadays . ''
`` Margaret Burton , one of the Junior girl at Redmond , write a story last winter and it be publish in the Canadian Woman .
I really do think I could write one at least a good . ''
`` And will you have it publish in the Canadian Woman ? ''
`` I might try one of the big magazine first .
It all depend on what kind of a story I write . ''
`` What be it to be about ? ''
`` I do n't know yet .
I want to get hold of a good plot .
I believe this be very necessary from an editor 's point of view .
The only thing I 've settle on be the heroine 's name .
It be to be AVERIL LESTER .
Rather pretty , do n't you think ?
Do n't mention this to any one , Diana .
I have n't tell anybody but you and Mr. Harrison .
HE be n't very encouraging -- he say there be far too much trash write nowadays a it be , and he 'd expect something good of me , after a year at college . ''
`` What do Mr. Harrison know about it ? ''
demand Diana scornfully .
They find the Gillis home gay with light and caller .
Leonard Kimball , of Spencervale , and Morgan Bell , of Carmody , be glare at each other across the parlor .
Several merry girl have drop in .
Ruby be dress in white and her eye and cheek be very brilliant .
She laugh and chatter incessantly , and after the other girl have go she take Anne upstairs to display her new summer dress .
`` I 've a blue silk to make up yet , but it 's a little heavy for summer wear .
I think I 'll leave it until the fall .
I 'm go to teach in White Sands , you know .
How do you like my hat ?
That one you have on in church yesterday be real dinky .
But I like something brighter for myself .
Did you notice those two ridiculous boy downstairs ?
They 've both come determine to sit each other out .
I do n't care a single bit about either of them , you know .
Herb Spencer be the one I like .
Sometimes I really do think he 's MR . RIGHT .
At Christmas I think the Spencervale schoolmaster be that .
But I find out something about him that turn me against him .
He nearly go insane when I turn him down .
I wish those two boy have n't come tonight .
I want to have a nice good talk with you , Anne , and tell you such heap of thing .
You and I be always good chum , be n't we ? ''
Ruby slip her arm about Anne 's waist with a shallow little laugh .
But just for a moment their eye meet , and , behind all the luster of Ruby 's , Anne saw something that make her heart ache .
`` Come up often , wo n't you , Anne ? ''
whisper Ruby .
`` Come alone -- I want you . ''
`` Are you feel quite well , Ruby ? ''
`` Me !
Why , I 'm perfectly well .
I never felt well in my life .
Of course , that congestion last winter pull me down a little .
But just see my color .
I do n't look much like an invalid , I 'm sure . ''
Ruby 's voice be almost sharp .
She pull her arm away from Anne , a if in resentment , and run downstairs , where she be gayer than ever , apparently so much absorb in banter her two swain that Diana and Anne felt rather out of it and soon go away .
Chapter XII `` Averil 's Atonement '' `` What be you dream of , Anne ? ''
The two girl be loiter one evening in a fairy hollow of the brook .
Ferns nod in it , and little grass be green , and wild pear hang finely-scented , white curtain around it .
Anne rouse herself from her reverie with a happy sigh .
`` I be think out my story , Diana . ''
`` Oh , have you really begin it ? ''
cry Diana , all alight with eager interest in a moment .
`` Yes , I have only a few page write , but I have it all pretty well think out .
I 've have such a time to get a suitable plot .
None of the plot that suggest themselves suit a girl name AVERIL . ''
`` Could n't you have change her name ? ''
`` No , the thing be impossible .
I try to , but I could n't do it , any more than I could change yours .
AVERIL be so real to me that no matter what other name I try to give her I just thought of her a AVERIL behind it all .
But finally I get a plot that match her .
Then come the excitement of choose name for all my character .
You have no idea how fascinating that be .
I 've lain awake for hour think over those name .
The hero 's name be PERCEVAL DALRYMPLE . ''
`` Have you name ALL the character ? ''
ask Diana wistfully .
`` If you have n't I be go to ask you to let me name one -- just some unimportant person .
I 'd feel a if I have a share in the story then . ''
`` You may name the little hired boy who live with the LESTERS , '' concede Anne .
`` He be not very important , but he be the only one leave unnamed . ''
`` Call him RAYMOND FITZOSBORNE , '' suggest Diana , who have a store of such name lay away in her memory , relic of the old `` Story Club , '' which she and Anne and Jane Andrews and Ruby Gillis have have in their schooldays .
Anne shake her head doubtfully .
`` I 'm afraid that be too aristocratic a name for a chore boy , Diana .
I could n't imagine a Fitzosborne feeding pig and pick up chip , could you ? ''
Diana do n't see why , if you have an imagination at all , you could n't stretch it to that extent ; but probably Anne know best , and the chore boy be finally christen ROBERT RAY , to be call BOBBY should occasion require .
`` How much do you suppose you 'll get for it ? ''
ask Diana .
But Anne have not think about this at all .
She be in pursuit of fame , not filthy lucre , and her literary dream be a yet untainted by mercenary consideration .
`` You 'll let me read it , wo n't you ? ''
plead Diana .
`` When it be finish I 'll read it to you and Mr. Harrison , and I shall want you to criticize it SEVERELY .
No one else shall see it until it be publish . ''
`` How be you go to end it -- happily or unhappily ? ''
`` I 'm not sure .
I 'd like it to end unhappily , because that would be so much more romantic .
But I understand editor have a prejudice against sad ending .
I hear Professor Hamilton say once that nobody but a genius should try to write an unhappy end .
And , '' conclude Anne modestly , `` I 'm anything but a genius . ''
`` Oh I like happy ending best .
You 'd better let him marry her , '' say Diana , who , especially since her engagement to Fred , think this be how every story should end .
`` But you like to cry over story ? ''
`` Oh , yes , in the middle of them .
But I like everything to come right at last . ''
`` I must have one pathetic scene in it , '' say Anne thoughtfully .
`` I might let ROBERT RAY be injure in an accident and have a death scene . ''
`` No , you must n't kill BOBBY off , '' declare Diana , laugh .
`` He belong to me and I want him to live and flourish .
Kill somebody else if you have to . ''
For the next fortnight Anne writhe or revel , accord to mood , in her literary pursuit .
Now she would be jubilant over a brilliant idea , now despair because some contrary character would NOT behave properly .
Diana could not understand this .
`` MAKE them do a you want them to , '' she say .
`` I ca n't , '' mourn Anne .
`` Averil be such an unmanageable heroine .
She WILL do and say thing I never mean her to .
Then that spoil everything that go before and I have to write it all over again . ''
Finally , however , the story be finish , and Anne read it to Diana in the seclusion of the porch gable .
She have achieve her `` pathetic scene '' without sacrifice ROBERT RAY , and she keep a watchful eye on Diana a she read it .
Diana rise to the occasion and cry properly ; but , when the end come , she look a little disappointed .
`` Why do you kill MAURICE LENNOX ? ''
she ask reproachfully .
`` He be the villain , '' protest Anne .
`` He have to be punish . ''
`` I like him best of them all , '' say unreasonable Diana .
`` Well , he 's dead , and he 'll have to stay dead , '' say Anne , rather resentfully .
`` If I have let him live he 'd have go on persecute AVERIL and PERCEVAL . ''
`` Yes -- unless you have reform him . ''
`` That would n't have be romantic , and , besides , it would have make the story too long . ''
`` Well , anyway , it 's a perfectly elegant story , Anne , and will make you famous , of that I 'm sure .
Have you get a title for it ? ''
`` Oh , I decide on the title long ago .
I call it AVERIL 'S ATONEMENT .
Does n't that sound nice and alliterative ?
Now , Diana , tell me candidly , do you see any fault in my story ? ''
`` Well , '' hesitate Diana , `` that part where AVERIL make the cake do n't seem to me quite romantic enough to match the rest .
It 's just what anybody might do .
Heroines should n't do cook , I think . ''
`` Why , that be where the humor come in , and it 's one of the best part of the whole story , '' say Anne .
And it may be state that in this she be quite right .
Diana prudently refrain from any further criticism , but Mr. Harrison be much hard to please .
First he tell her there be entirely too much description in the story .
`` Cut out all those flowery passage , '' he say unfeelingly .
Anne have an uncomfortable conviction that Mr. Harrison be right , and she force herself to expunge most of her beloved description , though it take three re-writings before the story could be prune down to please the fastidious Mr. Harrison .
`` I 've leave out ALL the description but the sunset , '' she say at last .
`` I simply COULD N'T let it go .
It be the best of them all . ''
`` It have n't anything to do with the story , '' say Mr. Harrison , `` and you should n't have lay the scene among rich city people .
What do you know of them ?
Why do n't you lay it right here in Avonlea -- change the name , of course , or else Mrs. Rachel Lynde would probably think she be the heroine . ''
`` Oh , that would never have do , '' protest Anne .
`` Avonlea be the dear place in the world , but it be n't quite romantic enough for the scene of a story . ''
`` I daresay there 's be many a romance in Avonlea -- and many a tragedy , too , '' say Mr. Harrison drily .
`` But your folk ai n't like real folk anywhere .
They talk too much and use too high-flown language .
There 's one place where that DALRYMPLE chap talk even on for two page , and never let the girl get a word in edgewise .
If he 'd do that in real life she 'd have pitch him . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' say Anne flatly .
In her secret soul she think that the beautiful , poetical thing say to AVERIL would win any girl 's heart completely .
Besides , it be gruesome to hear of AVERIL , the stately , queen-like AVERIL , `` pitching '' any one .
AVERIL `` decline her suitor . ''
`` Anyhow , '' resume the merciless Mr. Harrison , `` I do n't see why MAURICE LENNOX do n't get her .
He be twice the man the other be .
He do bad thing , but he do them .
Perceval have n't time for anything but mooning . ''
`` Mooning . ''
That be even bad than `` pitching ! ''
`` MAURICE LENNOX be the villain , '' say Anne indignantly .
`` I do n't see why every one like him good than PERCEVAL . ''
`` Perceval be too good .
He 's aggravate .
Next time you write about a hero put a little spice of human nature in him . ''
`` AVERIL could n't have marry MAURICE .
He be bad . ''
`` She 'd have reform him .
You can reform a man ; you ca n't reform a jelly-fish , of course .
Your story be n't bad -- it 's kind of interesting , I 'll admit .
But you 're too young to write a story that would be worth while .
Wait ten year . ''
Anne make up her mind that the next time she write a story she would n't ask anybody to criticize it .
It be too discourage .
She would not read the story to Gilbert , although she tell him about it .
`` If it be a success you 'll see it when it be publish , Gilbert , but if it be a failure nobody shall ever see it . ''
Marilla know nothing about the venture .
In imagination Anne saw herself read a story out of a magazine to Marilla , entrap her into praise of it -- for in imagination all thing be possible -- and then triumphantly announce herself the author .
One day Anne take to the Post Office a long , bulky envelope , address , with the delightful confidence of youth and inexperience , to the very big of the `` big '' magazine .
Diana be a excite over it a Anne herself .
`` How long do you suppose it will be before you hear from it ? ''
she ask .
`` It should n't be long than a fortnight .
Oh , how happy and proud I shall be if it be accept ! ''
`` Of course it will be accept , and they will likely ask you to send them more .
You may be as famous a Mrs. Morgan some day , Anne , and then how proud I 'll be of know you , '' say Diana , who possess , at least , the striking merit of an unselfish admiration of the gift and grace of her friend .
A week of delightful dreaming follow , and then come a bitter awakening .
One evening Diana find Anne in the porch gable , with suspicious-looking eye .
On the table lay a long envelope and a crumpled manuscript .
`` Anne , your story have n't come back ? ''
cry Diana incredulously .
`` Yes , it have , '' say Anne shortly .
`` Well , that editor must be crazy .
What reason do he give ? ''
`` No reason at all .
There be just a printed slip say that it be n't find acceptable . ''
`` I never think much of that magazine , anyway , '' say Diana hotly .
`` The story in it be not half as interesting a those in the Canadian Woman , although it cost so much more .
I suppose the editor be prejudice against any one who be n't a Yankee .
Do n't be discourage , Anne .
Remember how Mrs. Morgan 's story come back .
Send yours to the Canadian Woman . ''
`` I believe I will , '' say Anne , pluck up heart .
`` And if it be publish I 'll send that American editor a marked copy .
But I 'll cut the sunset out .
I believe Mr. Harrison be right . ''
Out come the sunset ; but in spite of this heroic mutilation the editor of the Canadian Woman send Averil 's Atonement back so promptly that the indignant Diana declare that it could n't have be read at all , and vow she be go to stop her subscription immediately .
Anne take this second rejection with the calmness of despair .
She lock the story away in the garret trunk where the old Story Club tale repose ; but first she yield to Diana 's entreaty and give her a copy .
`` This be the end of my literary ambition , '' she say bitterly .
She never mention the matter to Mr. Harrison , but one evening he ask her bluntly if her story have be accept .
`` No , the editor would n't take it , '' she answer briefly .
Mr. Harrison look sidewise at the flushed , delicate profile .
`` Well , I suppose you 'll keep on write them , '' he say encouragingly .
`` No , I shall never try to write a story again , '' declare Anne , with the hopeless finality of nineteen when a door be shut in it face .
`` I would n't give up altogether , '' say Mr. Harrison reflectively .
`` I 'd write a story once in a while , but I would n't pester editor with it .
I 'd write of people and place like I know , and I 'd make my character talk everyday English ; and I 'd let the sun rise and set in the usual quiet way without much fuss over the fact .
If I have to have villain at all , I 'd give them a chance , Anne -- I 'd give them a chance .
There be some terrible bad men in the world , I suppose , but you 'd have to go a long piece to find them -- though Mrs. Lynde believe we 're all bad .
But most of u have get a little decency somewhere in u .
Keep on writing , Anne . ''
`` No .
It be very foolish of me to attempt it .
When I 'm through Redmond I 'll stick to teach .
I can teach .
I ca n't write story . ''
`` It 'll be time for you to be get a husband when you 're through Redmond , '' say Mr. Harrison .
`` I do n't believe in put marry off too long -- like I do . ''
Anne get up and march home .
There be time when Mr. Harrison be really intolerable .
`` Pitching , '' `` mooning , '' and `` get a husband . ''
Ow ! !
Chapter XIII The Way of Transgressors Davy and Dora be ready for Sunday School .
They be go alone , which do not often happen , for Mrs. Lynde always attend Sunday School .
But Mrs. Lynde have twist her ankle and be lame , so she be stay home this morning .
The twin be also to represent the family at church , for Anne have go away the evening before to spend Sunday with friend in Carmody , and Marilla have one of her headache .
Davy come downstairs slowly .
Dora be wait in the hall for him , have be make ready by Mrs. Lynde .
Davy have attend to his own preparation .
He have a cent in his pocket for the Sunday School collection , and a five-cent piece for the church collection ; he carry his Bible in one hand and his Sunday School quarterly in the other ; he know his lesson and his Golden Text and his catechism question perfectly .
Had he not study them -- perforce -- in Mrs. Lynde 's kitchen , all last Sunday afternoon ?
Davy , therefore , should have be in a placid frame of mind .
As a matter of fact , despite text and catechism , he be inwardly a a ravening wolf .
Mrs. Lynde limp out of her kitchen a he join Dora .
`` Are you clean ? ''
she demand severely .
`` Yes -- all of me that show , '' Davy answer with a defiant scowl .
Mrs. Rachel sigh .
She have her suspicion about Davy 's neck and ear .
But she know that if she attempt to make a personal examination Davy would likely take to his heel and she could not pursue him today .
`` Well , be sure you behave yourselves , '' she warn them .
`` Do n't walk in the dust .
Do n't stop in the porch to talk to the other child .
Do n't squirm or wriggle in your place .
Do n't forget the Golden Text .
Do n't lose your collection or forget to put it in .
Do n't whisper at prayer time , and do n't forget to pay attention to the sermon . ''
Davy deign no response .
He march away down the lane , follow by the meek Dora .
But his soul seethe within .
Davy have suffer , or think he have suffer , many thing at the hand and tongue of Mrs. Rachel Lynde since she have come to Green Gables , for Mrs. Lynde could not live with anybody , whether they be nine or ninety , without try to bring them up properly .
And it be only the precede afternoon that she have interfere to influence Marilla against allow Davy to go fishing with the Timothy Cottons .
Davy be still boil over this .
As soon a he be out of the lane Davy stop and twist his countenance into such an unearthly and terrific contortion that Dora , although she know his gift in that respect , be honestly alarmed lest he should never in the world be able to get it straighten out again .
`` Darn her , '' explode Davy .
`` Oh , Davy , do n't swear , '' gasp Dora in dismay . ''
` Darn ' be n't swear -- not real swearing .
And I do n't care if it be , '' retort Davy recklessly .
`` Well , if you MUST say dreadful word do n't say them on Sunday , '' plead Dora .
Davy be a yet far from repentance , but in his secret soul he felt that , perhaps , he have go a little too far .
`` I 'm go to invent a swear word of my own , '' he declare .
`` God will punish you if you do , '' say Dora solemnly .
`` Then I think God be a mean old scamp , '' retort Davy .
`` Does n't He know a fellow must have some way of ` spressing his feeling ? ''
`` Davy ! ! ! ''
say Dora .
She expect that Davy would be strike down dead on the spot .
But nothing happen .
`` Anyway , I ai n't go to stand any more of Mrs. Lynde 's bossing , '' splutter Davy .
`` Anne and Marilla may have the right to boss me , but SHE have n't .
I 'm go to do every single thing she tell me not to do .
You watch me . ''
In grim , deliberate silence , while Dora watch him with the fascination of horror , Davy step off the green grass of the roadside , ankle deep into the fine dust which four week of rainless weather have make on the road , and march along in it , shuffle his foot viciously until he be envelop in a hazy cloud .
`` That 's the beginning , '' he announce triumphantly .
`` And I 'm go to stop in the porch and talk as long a there 's anybody there to talk to .
I 'm go to squirm and wriggle and whisper , and I 'm go to say I do n't know the Golden Text .
And I 'm go to throw away both of my collection RIGHT NOW . ''
And Davy hurl cent and nickel over Mr. Barry 's fence with fierce delight .
`` Satan make you do that , '' say Dora reproachfully .
`` He do n't , '' cry Davy indignantly .
`` I just think it out for myself .
And I 've think of something else .
I 'm not go to Sunday School or church at all .
I 'm go up to play with the Cottons .
They tell me yesterday they be n't go to Sunday School today , 'cause their mother be away and there be nobody to make them .
Come along , Dora , we 'll have a great time . ''
`` I do n't want to go , '' protest Dora .
`` You 've get to , '' say Davy .
`` If you do n't come I 'll tell Marilla that Frank Bell kiss you in school last Monday . ''
`` I could n't help it .
I do n't know he be go to , '' cry Dora , blush scarlet .
`` Well , you do n't slap him or seem a bit cross , '' retort Davy .
`` I 'll tell her THAT , too , if you do n't come .
We 'll take the short cut up this field . ''
`` I 'm afraid of those cow , '' protest poor Dora , see a prospect of escape .
`` The very idea of your be scar of those cow , '' scoff Davy .
`` Why , they 're both young than you . ''
`` They 're big , '' say Dora .
`` They wo n't hurt you .
Come along , now .
This be great .
When I grow up I ai n't go to bother go to church at all .
I believe I can get to heaven by myself . ''
`` You 'll go to the other place if you break the Sabbath day , '' say unhappy Dora , follow him sorely against her will .
But Davy be not scar -- yet .
Hell be very far off , and the delight of a fishing expedition with the Cottons be very near .
He wish Dora have more spunk .
She keep look back a if she be go to cry every minute , and that spoil a fellow 's fun .
Hang girl , anyway .
Davy do not say `` darn '' this time , even in thought .
He be not sorry -- yet -- that he have say it once , but it might be as well not to tempt the Unknown Powers too far on one day .
The small Cottons be play in their back yard , and hail Davy 's appearance with whoop of delight .
Pete , Tommy , Adolphus , and Mirabel Cotton be all alone .
Their mother and old sister be away .
Dora be thankful Mirabel be there , at least .
She have be afraid she would be alone in a crowd of boy .
Mirabel be almost as bad a a boy -- she be so noisy and sunburned and reckless .
But at least she wear dress .
`` We 've come to go fishing , '' announce Davy .
`` Whoop , '' yell the Cottons .
They rush away to dig worm at once , Mirabel lead the van with a tin can .
Dora could have sit down and cried .
Oh , if only that hateful Frank Bell have never kiss her !
Then she could have defy Davy , and go to her beloved Sunday School .
They dare not , of course , go fish on the pond , where they would be see by people go to church .
They have to resort to the brook in the wood behind the Cotton house .
But it be full of trout , and they have a glorious time that morning -- at least the Cottons certainly have , and Davy seem to have it .
Not be entirely bereft of prudence , he have discard boot and stocking and borrow Tommy Cotton 's overall .
Thus accouter , bog and marsh and undergrowth have no terror for him .
Dora be frankly and manifestly miserable .
She follow the others in their peregrination from pool to pool , clasp her Bible and quarterly tightly and think with bitterness of soul of her beloved class where she should be sit that very moment , before a teacher she adore .
Instead , here she be roam the wood with those half-wild Cottons , try to keep her boots clean and her pretty white dress free from rent and stain .
Mirabel have offer the loan of an apron but Dora have scornfully refuse .
The trout bit a they always do on Sundays .
In an hour the transgressor have all the fish they want , so they return to the house , much to Dora 's relief .
She sit primly on a hencoop in the yard while the others play an uproarious game of tag ; and then they all climb to the top of the pig-house roof and cut their initial on the saddleboard .
The flat-roofed henhouse and a pile of straw beneath give Davy another inspiration .
They spend a splendid half hour climb on the roof and dive off into the straw with whoop and yell .
But even unlawful pleasure must come to an end .
When the rumble of wheel over the pond bridge tell that people be go home from church Davy know they must go .
He discard Tommy 's overall , resume his own rightful attire , and turn away from his string of trout with a sigh .
No use to think of take them home .
`` Well , have n't we a splendid time ? ''
he demand defiantly , a they go down the hill field .
`` I have n't , '' say Dora flatly .
`` And I do n't believe you have -- really -- either , '' she add , with a flash of insight that be not to be expect of her .
`` I have so , '' cry Davy , but in the voice of one who doth protest too much .
`` No wonder you have n't -- just sit there like a -- like a mule . ''
`` I ai n't go to , ` sociate with the Cottons , '' say Dora loftily .
`` The Cottons be all right , '' retort Davy .
`` And they have far good time than we have .
They do just a they please and say just what they like before everybody .
I 'm go to do that , too , after this . ''
`` There be lot of thing you would n't dare say before everybody , '' aver Dora .
`` No , there be n't . ''
`` There be , too .
Would you , '' demand Dora gravely , `` would you say ` tomcat ' before the minister ? ''
This be a staggerer .
Davy be not prepared for such a concrete example of the freedom of speech .
But one do not have to be consistent with Dora .
`` Of course not , '' he admit sulkily . ''
` Tomcat ' be n't a holy word .
I would n't mention such an animal before a minister at all . ''
`` But if you have to ? ''
persist Dora .
`` I 'd call it a Thomas pussy , '' say Davy . ''
I think ` gentleman cat ' would be more polite , '' reflect Dora .
`` YOU thinking ! ''
retort Davy with wither scorn .
Davy be not feel comfortable , though he would have die before he admit it to Dora .
Now that the exhilaration of truant delight have die away , his conscience be begin to give him salutary twinge .
After all , perhaps it would have be good to have go to Sunday School and church .
Mrs. Lynde might be bossy ; but there be always a box of cooky in her kitchen cupboard and she be not stingy .
At this inconvenient moment Davy remember that when he have tear his new school pant the week before , Mrs. Lynde have mend them beautifully and never say a word to Marilla about them .
But Davy 's cup of iniquity be not yet full .
He be to discover that one sin demand another to cover it .
They have dinner with Mrs. Lynde that day , and the first thing she ask Davy be , `` Were all your class in Sunday School today ? ''
`` Yes 'm , '' say Davy with a gulp .
`` All be there -- ` cept one . ''
`` Did you say your Golden Text and catechism ? ''
`` Yes 'm . ''
`` Did you put your collection in ? ''
`` Yes 'm . ''
`` Was Mrs. Malcolm MacPherson in church ? ''
`` I do n't know . ''
This , at least , be the truth , think wretched Davy .
`` Was the Ladies ' Aid announce for next week ? ''
`` Yes 'm '' -- quakingly .
`` Was prayer-meeting ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know . ''
`` YOU should know .
You should listen more attentively to the announcement .
What be Mr. Harvey 's text ? ''
Davy take a frantic gulp of water and swallow it and the last protest of conscience together .
He glibly recite an old Golden Text learn several week ago .
Fortunately Mrs. Lynde now stop question him ; but Davy do not enjoy his dinner .
He could only eat one help of pudding .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
demand justly astonish Mrs. Lynde .
`` Are you sick ? ''
`` No , '' mutter Davy .
`` You look pale .
You 'd better keep out of the sun this afternoon , '' admonish Mrs. Lynde .
`` Do you know how many lie you tell Mrs. Lynde ? ''
ask Dora reproachfully , as soon a they be alone after dinner .
Davy , goad to desperation , turn fiercely .
`` I do n't know and I do n't care , '' he say .
`` You just shut up , Dora Keith . ''
Then poor Davy betook himself to a seclude retreat behind the woodpile to think over the way of transgressor .
Green Gables be wrap in darkness and silence when Anne reach home .
She lose no time go to bed , for she be very tired and sleepy .
There have be several Avonlea jollification the precede week , involve rather late hour .
Anne 's head be hardly on her pillow before she be half asleep ; but just then her door be softly open and a pleading voice say , `` Anne . ''
Anne sit up drowsily .
`` Davy , be that you ?
What be the matter ? ''
A white-clad figure fling itself across the floor and on to the bed .
`` Anne , '' sob Davy , get his arm about her neck .
`` I 'm awful glad you 're home .
I could n't go to sleep till I 'd tell somebody . ''
`` Told somebody what ? ''
`` How mis ` rubul I be . ''
`` Why be you miserable , dear ? '' ''
'Cause I be so bad today , Anne .
Oh , I be awful bad -- badder 'n I 've ever be yet . ''
`` What do you do ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm afraid to tell you .
You 'll never like me again , Anne .
I could n't say my prayer tonight .
I could n't tell God what I 'd do .
I be ` sham to have Him know . ''
`` But He know anyway , Davy . ''
`` That 's what Dora say .
But I think p ` rap He might n't have notice just at the time .
Anyway , I 'd rather tell you first . ''
`` WHAT be it you do ? ''
Out it all come in a rush .
`` I run away from Sunday School -- and go fish with the Cottons -- and I tell ever so many whopper to Mrs. Lynde -- oh !
` most half a dozen -- and -- and -- I -- I say a swear word , Anne -- a pretty near swear word , anyhow -- and I call God name . ''
There be silence .
Davy do n't know what to make of it .
Was Anne so shock that she never would speak to him again ?
`` Anne , what be you go to do to me ? ''
he whisper .
`` Nothing , dear .
You 've be punish already , I think . ''
`` No , I have n't .
Nothing 's be do to me . ''
`` You 've be very unhappy ever since you do wrong , have n't you ? ''
`` You bet ! ''
say Davy emphatically .
`` That be your conscience punishing you , Davy . ''
`` What 's my conscience ?
I want to know . ''
`` It 's something in you , Davy , that always tell you when you be do wrong and make you unhappy if you persist in do it .
Have n't you notice that ? ''
`` Yes , but I do n't know what it be .
I wish I do n't have it .
I 'd have lot more fun .
Where be my conscience , Anne ?
I want to know .
Is it in my stomach ? ''
`` No , it 's in your soul , '' answer Anne , thankful for the darkness , since gravity must be preserve in serious matter .
`` I s ` pose I ca n't get clear of it then , '' say Davy with a sigh .
`` Are you go to tell Marilla and Mrs. Lynde on me , Anne ? ''
`` No , dear , I 'm not go to tell any one .
You be sorry you be naughty , be n't you ? ''
`` You bet ! ''
`` And you 'll never be bad like that again . ''
`` No , but -- '' add Davy cautiously , `` I might be bad some other way . ''
`` You wo n't say naughty word , or run away on Sundays , or tell falsehood to cover up your sin ? ''
`` No .
It do n't pay , '' say Davy .
`` Well , Davy , just tell God you be sorry and ask Him to forgive you . ''
`` Have YOU forgive me , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , dear . ''
`` Then , '' say Davy joyously , `` I do n't care much whether God do or not . ''
`` Davy ! ''
`` Oh -- I 'll ask Him -- I 'll ask Him , '' say Davy quickly , scramble off the bed , convince by Anne 's tone that he must have say something dreadful .
`` I do n't mind ask Him , Anne .
-- Please , God , I 'm awful sorry I behave bad today and I 'll try to be good on Sundays always and please forgive me .
-- There now , Anne . ''
`` Well , now , run off to bed like a good boy . ''
`` All right .
Say , I do n't feel mis ` rubul any more .
I feel fine .
Good night . ''
`` Good night . ''
Anne slip down on her pillow with a sigh of relief .
Oh -- how sleepy -- she be !
In another second -- `` Anne ! ''
Davy be back again by her bed .
Anne drag her eye open .
`` What be it now , dear ? ''
she ask , try to keep a note of impatience out of her voice .
`` Anne , have you ever notice how Mr. Harrison spit ?
Do you s ` pose , if I practice hard , I can learn to spit just like him ? ''
Anne sit up .
`` Davy Keith , '' she say , `` go straight to your bed and do n't let me catch you out of it again tonight !
Go , now ! ''
Davy go , and stand not upon the order of his go .
Chapter XIV The Summons Anne be sit with Ruby Gillis in the Gillis ' garden after the day have creep lingeringly through it and be go .
It have be a warm , smoky summer afternoon .
The world be in a splendor of out-flowering .
The idle valley be full of haze .
The woodways be prank with shadow and the field with the purple of the aster .
Anne have give up a moonlight drive to the White Sands beach that she might spend the evening with Ruby .
She have so spent many evening that summer , although she often wonder what good it do any one , and sometimes go home deciding that she could not go again .
Ruby grow paler a the summer wan ; the White Sands school be give up -- `` her father think it good that she should n't teach till New Year 's '' -- and the fancy work she love oftener and oftener fell from hand grow too weary for it .
But she be always gay , always hopeful , always chatter and whispering of her beau , and their rivalry and despair .
It be this that make Anne 's visit hard for her .
What have once be silly or amuse be gruesome , now ; it be death peering through a wilful mask of life .
Yet Ruby seem to cling to her , and never let her go until she have promise to come again soon .
Mrs. Lynde grumble about Anne 's frequent visit , and declare she would catch consumption ; even Marilla be dubious .
`` Every time you go to see Ruby you come home look tire out , '' she say .
`` It 's so very sad and dreadful , '' say Anne in a low tone .
`` Ruby do n't seem to realize her condition in the least .
And yet I somehow feel she need help -- crave it -- and I want to give it to her and ca n't .
All the time I 'm with her I feel a if I be watch her struggle with an invisible foe -- try to push it back with such feeble resistance a she have .
That be why I come home tire . ''
But tonight Anne do not feel this so keenly .
Ruby be strangely quiet .
She say not a word about party and drive and dress and `` fellow . ''
She lay in the hammock , with her untouched work beside her , and a white shawl wrap about her thin shoulder .
Her long yellow braid of hair -- how Anne have envy those beautiful braid in old schooldays !
-- lay on either side of her .
She have take the pin out -- they make her head ache , she say .
The hectic flush be go for the time , leave her pale and childlike .
The moon rise in the silvery sky , empearling the cloud around her .
Below , the pond shimmer in it hazy radiance .
Just beyond the Gillis homestead be the church , with the old graveyard beside it .
The moonlight shone on the white stone , bring them out in clear-cut relief against the dark tree behind .
`` How strange the graveyard look by moonlight ! ''
say Ruby suddenly .
`` How ghostly ! ''
she shudder .
`` Anne , it wo n't be long now before I 'll be lie over there .
You and Diana and all the rest will be go about , full of life -- and I 'll be there -- in the old graveyard -- dead ! ''
The surprise of it bewilder Anne .
For a few moment she could not speak .
`` You know it 's so , do n't you ? ''
say Ruby insistently .
`` Yes , I know , '' answer Anne in a low tone .
`` Dear Ruby , I know . ''
`` Everybody know it , '' say Ruby bitterly .
`` I know it -- I 've know it all summer , though I would n't give in .
And , oh , Anne '' -- she reach out and catch Anne 's hand pleadingly , impulsively -- `` I do n't want to die .
I 'm AFRAID to die . ''
`` Why should you be afraid , Ruby ? ''
ask Anne quietly .
`` Because -- because -- oh , I 'm not afraid but that I 'll go to heaven , Anne .
I 'm a church member .
But -- it 'll be all so different .
I think -- and think -- and I get so frighten -- and -- and -- homesick .
Heaven must be very beautiful , of course , the Bible say so -- but , Anne , IT WO N'T BE WHAT I 'VE BEEN USED TO . ''
Through Anne 's mind drift an intrusive recollection of a funny story she have hear Philippa Gordon tell -- the story of some old man who have say very much the same thing about the world to come .
It have sound funny then -- she remember how she and Priscilla have laugh over it .
But it do not seem in the least humorous now , come from Ruby 's pale , tremble lip .
It be sad , tragic -- and true !
Heaven could not be what Ruby have be use to .
There have be nothing in her gay , frivolous life , her shallow ideal and aspiration , to fit her for that great change , or make the life to come seem to her anything but alien and unreal and undesirable .
Anne wonder helplessly what she could say that would help her .
Could she say anything ?
`` I think , Ruby , '' she begin hesitatingly -- for it be difficult for Anne to speak to any one of the deep thought of her heart , or the new idea that have vaguely begin to shape themselves in her mind , concern the great mystery of life here and hereafter , supersede her old childish conception , and it be hard of all to speak of them to such a Ruby Gillis -- `` I think , perhaps , we have very mistake idea about heaven -- what it be and what it hold for u .
I do n't think it can be so very different from life here a most people seem to think .
I believe we 'll just go on living , a good deal a we live here -- and be OURSELVES just the same -- only it will be easy to be good and to -- follow the high .
All the hindrance and perplexity will be take away , and we shall see clearly .
Do n't be afraid , Ruby . ''
`` I ca n't help it , '' say Ruby pitifully .
`` Even if what you say about heaven be true -- and you ca n't be sure -- it may be only that imagination of yours -- it wo n't be JUST the same .
It CA N'T be .
I want to go on living HERE .
I 'm so young , Anne .
I have n't have my life .
I 've fight so hard to live -- and it be n't any use -- I have to die -- and leave EVERYTHING I care for . ''
Anne sit in a pain that be almost intolerable .
She could not tell comfort falsehood ; and all that Ruby say be so horribly true .
She WAS leave everything she care for .
She have lay up her treasure on earth only ; she have live solely for the little thing of life -- the thing that pass -- forget the great thing that go onward into eternity , bridge the gulf between the two life and make of death a mere passing from one dwell to the other -- from twilight to unclouded day .
God would take care of her there -- Anne believe -- she would learn -- but now it be no wonder her soul clung , in blind helplessness , to the only thing she know and love .
Ruby raise herself on her arm and lift up her bright , beautiful blue eye to the moonlit sky .
`` I want to live , '' she say , in a trembling voice .
`` I want to live like other girl .
I -- I want to be marry , Anne -- and -- and -- have little child .
You know I always love baby , Anne .
I could n't say this to any one but you .
I know you understand .
And then poor Herb -- he -- he love me and I love him , Anne .
The others mean nothing to me , but HE do -- and if I could live I would be his wife and be so happy .
Oh , Anne , it 's hard . ''
Ruby sink back on her pillow and sob convulsively .
Anne press her hand in an agony of sympathy -- silent sympathy , which perhaps help Ruby more than broken , imperfect word could have do ; for presently she grow calmer and her sob cease .
`` I 'm glad I 've tell you this , Anne , '' she whisper .
`` It have help me just to say it all out .
I 've want to all summer -- every time you come .
I want to talk it over with you -- but I COULD N'T .
It seem a if it would make death so SURE if I SAID I be go to die , or if any one else say it or hint it .
I would n't say it , or even think it .
In the daytime , when people be around me and everything be cheerful , it be n't so hard to keep from thinking of it .
But in the night , when I could n't sleep -- it be so dreadful , Anne .
I could n't get away from it then .
Death just come and star me in the face , until I get so frightened I could have scream .
`` But you wo n't be frighten any more , Ruby , will you ?
You 'll be brave , and believe that all be go to be well with you . ''
`` I 'll try .
I 'll think over what you have say , and try to believe it .
And you 'll come up as often a you can , wo n't you , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , dear . ''
`` It -- it wo n't be very long now , Anne .
I feel sure of that .
And I 'd rather have you than any one else .
I always like you best of all the girl I go to school with .
You be never jealous , or mean , like some of them be .
Poor Em White be up to see me yesterday .
You remember Em and I be such chum for three year when we go to school ?
And then we quarrel the time of the school concert .
We 've never speak to each other since .
Was n't it silly ?
Anything like that seem silly NOW .
But Em and I make up the old quarrel yesterday .
She say she 'd have speak year ago , only she think I would n't .
And I never speak to her because I be sure she would n't speak to me .
Is n't it strange how people misunderstand each other , Anne ? ''
`` Most of the trouble in life come from misunderstand , I think , '' say Anne .
`` I must go now , Ruby .
It 's get late -- and you should n't be out in the damp . ''
`` You 'll come up soon again . ''
`` Yes , very soon .
And if there 's anything I can do to help you I 'll be so glad . ''
`` I know .
You HAVE help me already .
Nothing seem quite so dreadful now .
Good night , Anne . ''
`` Good night , dear . ''
Anne walk home very slowly in the moonlight .
The evening have change something for her .
Life hold a different meaning , a deep purpose .
On the surface it would go on just the same ; but the deep have be stir .
It must not be with her a with poor butterfly Ruby .
When she come to the end of one life it must not be to face the next with the shrink terror of something wholly different -- something for which accustom thought and ideal and aspiration have unfit her .
The little thing of life , sweet and excellent in their place , must not be the thing live for ; the high must be seek and follow ; the life of heaven must be begin here on earth .
That good night in the garden be for all time .
Anne never saw Ruby in life again .
The next night the A.V.I.S . give a farewell party to Jane Andrews before her departure for the West .
And , while light foot dance and bright eye laugh and merry tongue chatter , there come a summons to a soul in Avonlea that might not be disregard or evade .
The next morning the word go from house to house that Ruby Gillis be dead .
She have die in her sleep , painlessly and calmly , and on her face be a smile -- a if , after all , death have come a a kindly friend to lead her over the threshold , instead of the grisly phantom she have dread .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde say emphatically after the funeral that Ruby Gillis be the handsome corpse she ever lay eye on .
Her loveliness , a she lay , white-clad , among the delicate flower that Anne have place about her , be remember and talk of for year in Avonlea .
Ruby have always be beautiful ; but her beauty have be of the earth , earthy ; it have have a certain insolent quality in it , a if it flaunt itself in the beholder 's eye ; spirit have never shine through it , intellect have never refine it .
But death have touch it and consecrate it , bring out delicate modeling and purity of outline never see before -- do what life and love and great sorrow and deep womanhood joy might have do for Ruby .
Anne , look down through a mist of tear , at her old playfellow , think she saw the face God have mean Ruby to have , and remember it so always .
Mrs. Gillis call Anne aside into a vacant room before the funeral procession leave the house , and give her a small packet .
`` I want you to have this , '' she sob .
`` Ruby would have like you to have it .
It 's the embroidered centerpiece she be work at .
It be n't quite finish -- the needle be stick in it just where her poor little finger put it the last time she lay it down , the afternoon before she die . ''
`` There 's always a piece of unfinished work leave , '' say Mrs. Lynde , with tear in her eye .
`` But I suppose there 's always some one to finish it . ''
`` How difficult it be to realize that one we have always know can really be dead , '' say Anne , a she and Diana walk home .
`` Ruby be the first of our schoolmate to go .
One by one , sooner or later , all the rest of u must follow . ''
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' say Diana uncomfortably .
She do not want to talk of that .
She would have prefer to have discuss the detail of the funeral -- the splendid white velvet casket Mr. Gillis have insist on have for Ruby -- `` the Gillises must always make a splurge , even at funeral , '' quoth Mrs. Rachel Lynde -- Herb Spencer 's sad face , the uncontrolled , hysteric grief of one of Ruby 's sister -- but Anne would not talk of these thing .
She seem wrap in a reverie in which Diana felt lonesomely that she have neither lot nor part .
`` Ruby Gillis be a great girl to laugh , '' say Davy suddenly .
`` Will she laugh as much in heaven a she do in Avonlea , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` Yes , I think she will , '' say Anne .
`` Oh , Anne , '' protest Diana , with a rather shock smile .
`` Well , why not , Diana ? ''
ask Anne seriously .
`` Do you think we 'll never laugh in heaven ? ''
`` Oh -- I -- I do n't know '' flounder Diana .
`` It do n't seem just right , somehow .
You know it 's rather dreadful to laugh in church . ''
`` But heaven wo n't be like church -- all the time , '' say Anne .
`` I hope it ai n't , '' say Davy emphatically .
`` If it be I do n't want to go .
Church be awful dull .
Anyway , I do n't mean to go for ever so long .
I mean to live to be a hundred year old , like Mr. Thomas Blewett of White Sands .
He say he 's live so long 'cause he always smoke tobacco and it kill all the germ .
Can I smoke tobacco pretty soon , Anne ? ''
`` No , Davy , I hope you 'll never use tobacco , '' say Anne absently .
`` What 'll you feel like if the germ kill me then ? ''
demand Davy .
Chapter XV A Dream Turned Upside Down `` Just one more week and we go back to Redmond , '' say Anne .
She be happy at the thought of return to work , class and Redmond friend .
Pleasing vision be also be weave around Patty 's Place .
There be a warm pleasant sense of home in the thought of it , even though she have never live there .
But the summer have be a very happy one , too -- a time of glad living with summer sun and sky , a time of keen delight in wholesome thing ; a time of renew and deepening of old friendship ; a time in which she have learn to live more nobly , to work more patiently , to play more heartily .
`` All life lesson be not learn at college , '' she think .
`` Life teach them everywhere . ''
But ala , the final week of that pleasant vacation be spoil for Anne , by one of those impish happening which be like a dream turn upside down .
`` Been write any more story lately ? ''
inquired Mr. Harrison genially one evening when Anne be take tea with him and Mrs. Harrison .
`` No , '' answer Anne , rather crisply .
`` Well , no offense meant .
Mrs. Hiram Sloane tell me the other day that a big envelope address to the Rollings Reliable Baking Powder Company of Montreal have be drop into the post office box a month ago , and she suspicioned that somebody be try for the prize they 'd offer for the best story that introduce the name of their baking powder .
She say it be n't address in your writing , but I think maybe it be you . ''
`` Indeed , no !
I saw the prize offer , but I 'd never dream of compete for it .
I think it would be perfectly disgraceful to write a story to advertise a baking powder .
It would be almost as bad a Judson Parker 's patent medicine fence . ''
So spake Anne loftily , little dreaming of the valley of humiliation await her .
That very evening Diana pop into the porch gable , bright-eyed and rosy cheeked , carry a letter .
`` Oh , Anne , here 's a letter for you .
I be at the office , so I think I 'd bring it along .
Do open it quick .
If it be what I believe it be I shall just be wild with delight . ''
Anne , puzzle , open the letter and glance over the typewritten content .
Miss Anne Shirley , Green Gables , Avonlea , P.E . Island .
`` DEAR MADAM : We have much pleasure in inform you that your charm story ` Averil 's Atonement ' have win the prize of twenty-five dollar offer in our recent competition .
We enclose the check herewith .
We be arrange for the publication of the story in several prominent Canadian newspaper , and we also intend to have it print in pamphlet form for distribution among our patron .
Thanking you for the interest you have show in our enterprise , we remain , `` Yours very truly , `` THE ROLLINGS RELIABLE `` BAKING POWDER Co. '' `` I do n't understand , '' say Anne , blankly .
Diana clap her hand .
`` Oh , I KNEW it would win the prize -- I be sure of it .
I send your story into the competition , Anne . ''
`` Diana -- Barry ! ''
`` Yes , I do , '' say Diana gleefully , perch herself on the bed .
`` When I saw the offer I think of your story in a minute , and at first I think I 'd ask you to send it in .
But then I be afraid you would n't -- you have so little faith leave in it .
So I just decide I 'd send the copy you give me , and say nothing about it .
Then , if it do n't win the prize , you 'd never know and you would n't feel badly over it , because the story that fail be not to be return , and if it do you 'd have such a delightful surprise . ''
Diana be not the most discerning of mortal , but just at this moment it strike her that Anne be not look exactly overjoy .
The surprise be there , beyond doubt -- but where be the delight ?
`` Why , Anne , you do n't seem a bit pleased ! ''
she exclaim .
Anne instantly manufacture a smile and put it on .
`` Of course I could n't be anything but please over your unselfish wish to give me pleasure , '' she say slowly .
`` But you know -- I 'm so amazed -- I ca n't realize it -- and I do n't understand .
There be n't a word in my story about -- about -- '' Anne choke a little over the word -- `` baking powder . ''
`` Oh , I put that in , '' say Diana , reassure .
`` It be as easy a wink -- and of course my experience in our old Story Club help me .
You know the scene where Averil make the cake ?
Well , I just state that she use the Rollings Reliable in it , and that be why it turn out so well ; and then , in the last paragraph , where PERCEVAL clasp AVERIL in his arm and say , ` Sweetheart , the beautiful come year will bring u the fulfilment of our home of dream , ' I add , ` in which we will never use any baking powder except Rollings Reliable . ' ''
`` Oh , '' gasp poor Anne , a if some one have dash cold water on her .
`` And you 've win the twenty-five dollar , '' continue Diana jubilantly .
`` Why , I hear Priscilla say once that the Canadian Woman only pay five dollar for a story ! ''
Anne hold out the hateful pink slip in shake finger .
`` I ca n't take it -- it 's yours by right , Diana .
You send the story in and make the alteration .
I -- I would certainly never have send it .
So you must take the check . ''
`` I 'd like to see myself , '' say Diana scornfully .
`` Why , what I do be n't any trouble .
The honor of be a friend of the prizewinner be enough for me .
Well , I must go .
I should have go straight home from the post office for we have company .
But I simply have to come and hear the news .
I 'm so glad for your sake , Anne . ''
Anne suddenly bend forward , put her arm about Diana , and kiss her cheek .
`` I think you be the sweetest and true friend in the world , Diana , '' she say , with a little tremble in her voice , `` and I assure you I appreciate the motive of what you 've do . ''
Diana , please and embarrass , get herself away , and poor Anne , after fling the innocent check into her bureau drawer a if it be blood-money , cast herself on her bed and wept tear of shame and outraged sensibility .
Oh , she could never live this down -- never !
Gilbert arrive at dusk , brim over with congratulation , for he have call at Orchard Slope and hear the news .
But his congratulation die on his lip at sight of Anne 's face .
`` Why , Anne , what be the matter ?
I expect to find you radiant over win Rollings Reliable prize .
Good for you ! ''
`` Oh , Gilbert , not you , '' implore Anne , in an ET-TU BRUTE tone .
`` I think YOU would understand .
Ca n't you see how awful it be ? ''
`` I must confess I ca n't .
WHAT be wrong ? ''
`` Everything , '' moan Anne .
`` I feel a if I be disgrace forever .
What do you think a mother would feel like if she find her child tattooed over with a bake powder advertisement ?
I feel just the same .
I love my poor little story , and I write it out of the best that be in me .
And it be SACRILEGE to have it degrade to the level of a baking powder advertisement .
Do n't you remember what Professor Hamilton use to tell u in the literature class at Queen 's ?
He say we be never to write a word for a low or unworthy motive , but always to cling to the very high ideal .
What will he think when he hear I 've write a story to advertise Rollings Reliable ?
And , oh , when it get out at Redmond !
Think how I 'll be tease and laugh at ! ''
`` That you wo n't , '' say Gilbert , wonder uneasily if it be that confound Junior 's opinion in particular over which Anne be worry .
`` The Reds will think just a I think -- that you , be like nine out of ten of u , not overburden with worldly wealth , have take this way of earn an honest penny to help yourself through the year .
I do n't see that there 's anything low or unworthy about that , or anything ridiculous either .
One would rather write masterpiece of literature no doubt -- but meanwhile board and tuition fee have to be pay . ''
This commonsense , matter-of-fact view of the case cheer Anne a little .
At least it remove her dread of be laugh at , though the deep hurt of an outraged ideal remain .
Chapter XVI Adjusted Relationships `` It 's the homey spot I ever saw -- it 's homey than home , '' avow Philippa Gordon , look about her with delighted eye .
They be all assemble at twilight in the big living-room at Patty 's Place -- Anne and Priscilla , Phil and Stella , Aunt Jamesina , Rusty , Joseph , the Sarah-Cat , and Gog and Magog .
The firelight shadow be dance over the wall ; the cat be purr ; and a huge bowl of hothouse chrysanthemum , send to Phil by one of the victim , shone through the golden gloom like creamy moon .
It be three week since they have consider themselves settle , and already all believe the experiment would be a success .
The first fortnight after their return have be a pleasantly excite one ; they have be busy set up their household good , organize their little establishment , and adjust different opinion .
Anne be not over-sorry to leave Avonlea when the time come to return to college .
The last few day of her vacation have not be pleasant .
Her prize story have be publish in the Island paper ; and Mr. William Blair have , upon the counter of his store , a huge pile of pink , green and yellow pamphlet , contain it , one of which he give to every customer .
He send a complimentary bundle to Anne , who promptly drop them all in the kitchen stove .
Her humiliation be the consequence of her own ideal only , for Avonlea folk think it quite splendid that she should have win the prize .
Her many friend regard her with honest admiration ; her few foe with scornful envy .
Josie Pye say she believe Anne Shirley have just copy the story ; she be sure she remember read it in a paper year before .
The Sloanes , who have find out or guess that Charlie have be `` turn down , '' say they do n't think it be much to be proud of ; almost any one could have do it , if she try .
Aunt Atossa tell Anne she be very sorry to hear she have take to write novel ; nobody born and breed in Avonlea would do it ; that be what come of adopt orphan from goodness knew where , with goodness know what kind of parent .
Even Mrs. Rachel Lynde be darkly dubious about the propriety of write fiction , though she be almost reconcile to it by that twenty-five dollar check .
`` It be perfectly amazing , the price they pay for such lie , that 's what , '' she say , half-proudly , half-severely .
All thing consider , it be a relief when going-away time come .
And it be very jolly to be back at Redmond , a wise , experience Soph with host of friend to greet on the merry open day .
Pris and Stella and Gilbert be there , Charlie Sloane , look more important than ever a Sophomore look before , Phil , with the Alec-and-Alonzo question still unsettle , and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson .
Moody Spurgeon have be teach school ever since leave Queen 's , but his mother have conclude it be high time he give it up and turn his attention to learn how to be a minister .
Poor Moody Spurgeon fell on hard luck at the very beginning of his college career .
Half a dozen ruthless Sophs , who be among his fellow-boarders , swoop down upon him one night and shave half of his head .
In this guise the luckless Moody Spurgeon have to go about until his hair grow again .
He tell Anne bitterly that there be time when he have his doubt a to whether he be really call to be a minister .
Aunt Jamesina do not come until the girl have Patty 's Place ready for her .
Miss Patty have send the key to Anne , with a letter in which she say Gog and Magog be pack in a box under the spare-room bed , but might be take out when want ; in a postscript she add that she hop the girl would be careful about put up picture .
The living room have be newly paper five year before and she and Miss Maria do not want any more hole make in that new paper than be absolutely necessary .
For the rest she trust everything to Anne .
How those girl enjoy put their nest in order !
As Phil say , it be almost as good a get marry .
You have the fun of homemaking without the bother of a husband .
All bring something with them to adorn or make comfortable the little house .
Pris and Phil and Stella have knick-knacks and picture galore , which latter they proceed to hang accord to taste , in reckless disregard of Miss Patty 's new paper .
`` We 'll putty the hole up when we leave , dear -- she 'll never know , '' they say to protest Anne .
Diana have give Anne a pine needle cushion and Miss Ada have give both her and Priscilla a fearfully and wonderfully embroider one .
Marilla have send a big box of preserve , and darkly hint at a hamper for Thanksgiving , and Mrs. Lynde give Anne a patchwork quilt and loan her five more .
`` You take them , '' she say authoritatively .
`` They might as well be in use a packed away in that trunk in the garret for moth to gnaw . ''
No moth would ever have venture near those quilt , for they reek of mothball to such an extent that they have to be hang in the orchard of Patty 's Place a full fortnight before they could be endure indoors .
Verily , aristocratic Spofford Avenue have rarely behold such a display .
The gruff old millionaire who live `` next door '' come over and want to buy the gorgeous red and yellow `` tulip-pattern '' one which Mrs. Rachel have give Anne .
He say his mother use to make quilt like that , and by Jove , he want one to remind him of her .
Anne would not sell it , much to his disappointment , but she write all about it to Mrs. Lynde .
That highly-gratified lady send word back that she have one just like it to spare , so the tobacco king get his quilt after all , and insist on have it spread on his bed , to the disgust of his fashionable wife .
Mrs. Lynde 's quilt serve a very useful purpose that winter .
Patty 's Place for all it many virtue , have it fault also .
It be really a rather cold house ; and when the frosty night come the girl be very glad to snuggle down under Mrs. Lynde 's quilt , and hop that the loan of them might be account unto her for righteousness .
Anne have the blue room she have covet at sight .
Priscilla and Stella have the large one .
Phil be blissfully content with the little one over the kitchen ; and Aunt Jamesina be to have the downstairs one off the living-room .
Rusty at first slept on the doorstep .
Anne , walk home from Redmond a few day after her return , become aware that the people that she meet survey her with a covert , indulgent smile .
Anne wonder uneasily what be the matter with her .
Was her hat crook ?
Was her belt loose ?
Craning her head to investigate , Anne , for the first time , saw Rusty .
Trotting along behind her , close to her heel , be quite the most forlorn specimen of the cat tribe she have ever behold .
The animal be well past kitten-hood , lank , thin , disreputable look .
Pieces of both ear be lack , one eye be temporarily out of repair , and one jowl ludicrously swell .
As for color , if a once black cat have be well and thoroughly sing the result would have resemble the hue of this waif 's thin , draggle , unsightly fur .
Anne `` shooed , '' but the cat would not `` shoo . ''
As long a she stand he sit back on his haunch and gaze at her reproachfully out of his one good eye ; when she resume her walk he follow .
Anne resign herself to his company until she reach the gate of Patty 's Place , which she coldly shut in his face , fondly suppose she have see the last of him .
But when , fifteen minute later , Phil open the door , there sit the rusty-brown cat on the step .
More , he promptly dart in and spring upon Anne 's lap with a half-pleading , half-triumphant `` miaow . ''
`` Anne , '' say Stella severely , `` do you own that animal ? ''
`` No , I do NOT , '' protest disgusted Anne .
`` The creature follow me home from somewhere .
I could n't get rid of him .
Ugh , get down .
I like decent cat reasonably well ; but I do n't like beasties of your complexion . ''
Pussy , however , refuse to get down .
He coolly curl up in Anne 's lap and begin to purr .
`` He have evidently adopt you , '' laugh Priscilla .
`` I wo n't BE adopt , '' say Anne stubbornly .
`` The poor creature be starve , '' say Phil pityingly .
`` Why , his bone be almost come through his skin . ''
`` Well , I 'll give him a square meal and then he must return to whence he come , '' say Anne resolutely .
The cat be feed and put out .
In the morning he be still on the doorstep .
On the doorstep he continue to sit , bolt in whenever the door be open .
No coolness of welcome have the least effect on him ; of nobody save Anne do he take the least notice .
Out of compassion the girl feed him ; but when a week have pass they decide that something must be do .
The cat 's appearance have improve .
His eye and cheek have resume their normal appearance ; he be not quite so thin ; and he have be see wash his face .
`` But for all that we ca n't keep him , '' say Stella .
`` Aunt Jimsie be come next week and she will bring the Sarah-cat with her .
We ca n't keep two cat ; and if we do this Rusty Coat would fight all the time with the Sarah-cat .
He 's a fighter by nature .
He have a pitch battle last evening with the tobacco-king 's cat and rout him , horse , foot and artillery . ''
`` We must get rid of him , '' agree Anne , look darkly at the subject of their discussion , who be purr on the hearth rug with an air of lamb-like meekness .
`` But the question be -- how ?
How can four unprotected female get rid of a cat who wo n't be get rid of ? ''
`` We must chloroform him , '' say Phil briskly .
`` That be the most humane way . ''
`` Who of u know anything about chloroform a cat ? ''
demand Anne gloomily .
`` I do , honey .
It 's one of my few -- sadly few -- useful accomplishment .
I 've dispose of several at home .
You take the cat in the morning and give him a good breakfast .
Then you take an old burlap bag -- there 's one in the back porch -- put the cat on it and turn over him a wooden box .
Then take a two-ounce bottle of chloroform , uncork it , and slip it under the edge of the box .
Put a heavy weight on top of the box and leave it till even .
The cat will be dead , curl up peacefully a if he be asleep .
No pain -- no struggle . ''
`` It sound easy , '' say Anne dubiously .
`` It IS easy .
Just leave it to me .
I 'll see to it , '' say Phil reassuringly .
Accordingly the chloroform be procure , and the next morning Rusty be lure to his doom .
He eat his breakfast , lick his chop , and climb into Anne 's lap .
Anne 's heart misgive her .
This poor creature love her -- trust her .
How could she be a party to this destruction ?
`` Here , take him , '' she say hastily to Phil .
`` I feel like a murderess . ''
`` He wo n't suffer , you know , '' comfort Phil , but Anne have flee .
The fatal deed be do in the back porch .
Nobody go near it that day .
But at dusk Phil declare that Rusty must be bury .
`` Pris and Stella must dig his grave in the orchard , '' declare Phil , `` and Anne must come with me to lift the box off .
That 's the part I always hate . ''
The two conspirator tip-toed reluctantly to the back porch .
Phil gingerly lift the stone she have put on the box .
Suddenly , faint but distinct , sound an unmistakable mew under the box .
`` He -- he be n't dead , '' gasp Anne , sit blankly down on the kitchen doorstep .
`` He must be , '' say Phil incredulously .
Another tiny mew prove that he be n't .
The two girl star at each other .
`` What will we do ? ''
question Anne .
`` Why in the world do n't you come ? ''
demand Stella , appear in the doorway .
`` We 've get the grave ready .
` What silent still and silent all ? ' ''
she quote teasingly . ''
` Oh , no , the voice of the dead Sound like the distant torrent 's fall , ' '' promptly counter-quoted Anne , point solemnly to the box .
A burst of laughter break the tension .
`` We must leave him here till morning , '' say Phil , replace the stone .
`` He have n't mew for five minute .
Perhaps the mew we hear be his die groan .
Or perhaps we merely imagine them , under the strain of our guilty conscience . ''
But , when the box be lift in the morning , Rusty bound at one gay leap to Anne 's shoulder where he begin to lick her face affectionately .
Never be there a cat more decidedly alive .
`` Here 's a knot hole in the box , '' groan Phil .
`` I never saw it .
That 's why he do n't die .
Now , we 've get to do it all over again . ''
`` No , we have n't , '' declare Anne suddenly .
`` Rusty be n't go to be kill again .
He 's my cat -- and you 've just get to make the best of it . ''
`` Oh , well , if you 'll settle with Aunt Jimsie and the Sarah-cat , '' say Stella , with the air of one wash her hand of the whole affair .
From that time Rusty be one of the family .
He sleep o'nights on the scrub cushion in the back porch and live on the fat of the land .
By the time Aunt Jamesina come he be plump and glossy and tolerably respectable .
But , like Kipling 's cat , he `` walk by himself . ''
His paw be against every cat , and every cat 's paw against him .
One by one he vanquish the aristocratic feline of Spofford Avenue .
As for human being , he love Anne and Anne alone .
Nobody else even dare stroke him .
An angry spit and something that sound much like very improper language greet any one who do .
`` The air that cat put on be perfectly intolerable , '' declare Stella .
`` Him be a nice old pussens , him be , '' vow Anne , cuddle her pet defiantly .
`` Well , I do n't know how he and the Sarah-cat will ever make out to live together , '' say Stella pesimistically .
`` Cat-fights in the orchard o'nights be bad enough .
But cat-fights here in the livingroom be unthinkable . ''
In due time Aunt Jamesina arrive .
Anne and Priscilla and Phil have await her advent rather dubiously ; but when Aunt Jamesina be enthrone in the rock chair before the open fire they figuratively bow down and worship her .
Aunt Jamesina be a tiny old woman with a little , softly-triangular face , and large , soft blue eye that be alight with unquenchable youth , and a full of hope a a girl 's .
She have pink cheek and snow-white hair which she wear in quaint little puff over her ear .
`` It 's a very old-fashioned way , '' she say , knit industriously at something a dainty and pink a a sunset cloud .
`` But I be old-fashioned .
My clothes be , and it stand to reason my opinion be , too .
I do n't say they 're any the good of that , mind you .
In fact , I daresay they 're a good deal the bad .
But they 've wear nice and easy .
New shoe be smart than old one , but the old one be more comfortable .
I 'm old enough to indulge myself in the matter of shoe and opinion .
I mean to take it real easy here .
I know you expect me to look after you and keep you proper , but I 'm not go to do it .
You 're old enough to know how to behave if you 're ever go to be .
So , as far a I be concerned , '' conclude Aunt Jamesina , with a twinkle in her young eye , `` you can all go to destruction in your own way . ''
`` Oh , will somebody separate those cat ? ''
plead Stella , shudderingly .
Aunt Jamesina have bring with her not only the Sarah-cat but Joseph .
Joseph , she explain , have belong to a dear friend of hers who have go to live in Vancouver .
`` She could n't take Joseph with her so she beg me to take him .
I really could n't refuse .
He 's a beautiful cat -- that be , his disposition be beautiful .
She call him Joseph because his coat be of many color . ''
It certainly be .
Joseph , a the disgusted Stella say , look like a walk rag-bag .
It be impossible to say what his ground color be .
His leg be white with black spot on them .
His back be gray with a huge patch of yellow on one side and a black patch on the other .
His tail be yellow with a gray tip .
One ear be black and one yellow .
A black patch over one eye give him a fearfully rakish look .
In reality he be meek and inoffensive , of a sociable disposition .
In one respect , if in no other , Joseph be like a lily of the field .
He toil not neither do he spin or catch mouse .
Yet Solomon in all his glory sleep not on soft cushion , or feast more fully on fat thing .
Joseph and the Sarah-cat arrive by express in separate box .
After they have be release and feed , Joseph select the cushion and corner which appeal to him , and the Sarah-cat gravely sit herself down before the fire and proceed to wash her face .
She be a large , sleek , gray-and-white cat , with an enormous dignity which be not at all impair by any consciousness of her plebian origin .
She have be give to Aunt Jamesina by her washerwoman .
`` Her name be Sarah , so my husband always call puss the Sarah-cat , '' explain Aunt Jamesina .
`` She be eight year old , and a remarkable mouser .
Do n't worry , Stella .
The Sarah-cat NEVER fight and Joseph rarely . ''
`` They 'll have to fight here in self-defense , '' say Stella .
At this juncture Rusty arrive on the scene .
He bound joyously half way across the room before he saw the intruder .
Then he stop short ; his tail expand until it be as big a three tail .
The fur on his back rise up in a defiant arch ; Rusty lower his head , utter a fearful shriek of hatred and defiance , and launch himself at the Sarah-cat .
The stately animal have stop wash her face and be look at him curiously .
She meet his onslaught with one contemptuous sweep of her capable paw .
Rusty go roll helplessly over on the rug ; he pick himself up dazedly .
What sort of a cat be this who have box his ear ?
He look dubiously at the Sarah-cat .
Would he or would he not ?
The Sarah-cat deliberately turn her back on him and resume her toilet operation .
Rusty decide that he would not .
He never do .
From that time on the Sarah-cat rule the roost .
Rusty never again interfered with her .
But Joseph rashly sit up and yawn .
Rusty , burn to avenge his disgrace , swoop down upon him .
Joseph , pacific by nature , could fight upon occasion and fight well .
The result be a series of drawn battle .
Every day Rusty and Joseph fight at sight .
Anne take Rusty 's part and detest Joseph .
Stella be in despair .
But Aunt Jamesina only laugh .
`` Let them fight it out , '' she say tolerantly .
`` They 'll make friend after a bit .
Joseph need some exercise -- he be get too fat .
And Rusty have to learn he be n't the only cat in the world . ''
Eventually Joseph and Rusty accept the situation and from swear enemy become sworn friend .
They sleep on the same cushion with their paw about each other , and gravely wash each other 's face .
`` We 've all get use to each other , '' say Phil .
`` And I 've learn how to wash dish and sweep a floor . ''
`` But you need n't try to make u believe you can chloroform a cat , '' laugh Anne .
`` It be all the fault of the knothole , '' protest Phil .
`` It be a good thing the knothole be there , '' say Aunt Jamesina rather severely .
`` Kittens HAVE to be drown , I admit , or the world would be overrun .
But no decent , grown-up cat should be do to death -- unless he suck egg . ''
`` You would n't have think Rusty very decent if you 'd see him when he come here , '' say Stella .
`` He positively look like the Old Nick . ''
`` I do n't believe Old Nick can be so very , ugly '' say Aunt Jamesina reflectively .
`` He would n't do so much harm if he be .
I always think of him a a rather handsome gentleman . ''
Chapter XVII A Letter from Davy `` It 's begin to snow , girl , '' say Phil , come in one November evening , `` and there be the lovely little star and cross all over the garden walk .
I never notice before what exquisite thing snowflake really be .
One have time to notice thing like that in the simple life .
Bless you all for permit me to live it .
It 's really delightful to feel worried because butter have go up five cent a pound . ''
`` Has it ? ''
demand Stella , who keep the household account .
`` It have -- and here 's your butter .
I 'm get quite expert at marketing .
It 's good fun than flirting , '' conclude Phil gravely .
`` Everything be go up scandalously , '' sigh Stella .
`` Never mind .
Thank goodness air and salvation be still free , '' say Aunt Jamesina .
`` And so be laughter , '' add Anne .
`` There 's no tax on it yet and that be well , because you 're all go to laugh presently .
I 'm go to read you Davy 's letter .
His spelling have improve immensely this past year , though he be not strong on apostrophe , and he certainly possess the gift of write an interesting letter .
Listen and laugh , before we settle down to the evening 's study-grind . ''
`` Dear Anne , '' run Davy 's letter , `` I take my pen to tell you that we be all pretty well and hope this will find you the same .
It 's snow some today and Marilla say the old woman in the sky be shake her feather bed .
Is the old woman in the sky God 's wife , Anne ?
I want to know .
`` Mrs. Lynde have be real sick but she be well now .
She fell down the cellar stair last week .
When she fell she grab hold of the shelf with all the milk pail and stewpan on it , and it give way and go down with her and make a splendid crash .
Marilla think it be an earthquake at first .
`` One of the stewpan be all ding up and Mrs. Lynde straned her rib .
The doctor come and give her medicine to rub on her rib but she do n't under stand him and take it all inside instead .
The doctor say it be a wonder it dident kill her but it dident and it cure her rib and Mrs. Lynde say doctor dont know much anyhow .
But we couldent fix up the stewpan .
Marilla have to throw it out .
Thanksgiving be last week .
There be no school and we have a great dinner .
I et mince pie and rost turkey and frut cake and donut and cheese and jam and choklut cake .
Marilla say I 'd die but I dident .
Dora have earake after it , only it wasent in her ear it be in her stummick .
I dident have earake anywhere .
`` Our new teacher be a man .
He do thing for joke .
Last week he make all u third-class boy write a composishun on what kind of a wife we 'd like to have and the girl on what kind of a husband .
He laugh fit to kill when he read them .
This be mine .
I think youd like to see it . ''
` The kind of a wife I 'd like to Have . ''
` She must have good manner and get my meal on time and do what I tell her and always be very polite to me .
She must be fifteen yers old .
She must be good to the poor and keep her house tidy and be good tempered and go to church regularly .
She must be very handsome and have curly hair .
If I get a wife that be just what I like Ill be an awful good husband to her .
I think a woman ought to be awful good to her husband .
Some poor woman have n't any husband . ''
` THE END . ' ''
`` I be at Mrs. Isaac Wrights funeral at White Sands last week .
The husband of the corpse felt real sorry .
Mrs. Lynde say Mrs. Wrights grandfather steal a sheep but Marilla say we mustent speak ill of the dead .
Why mustent we , Anne ?
I want to know .
It 's pretty safe , ai n't it ?
`` Mrs. Lynde be awful mad the other day because I ask her if she be alive in Noah 's time .
I dident mean to hurt her feeling .
I just want to know .
Was she , Anne ?
`` Mr. Harrison want to get rid of his dog .
So he hunged him once but he come to life and scoot for the barn while Mr. Harrison be dig the grave , so he hunged him again and he stay dead that time .
Mr. Harrison have a new man work for him .
He 's awful okward .
Mr. Harrison say he be leave hand in both his foot .
Mr. Barry 's hired man be lazy .
Mrs. Barry say that but Mr. Barry say he aint lazy exactly only he think it easy to pray for thing than to work for them .
`` Mrs. Harmon Andrews prize pig that she talk so much of die in a fit .
Mrs. Lynde say it be a judgment on her for pride .
But I think it be hard on the pig .
Milty Boulter have be sick .
The doctor give him medicine and it taste horrid .
I offer to take it for him for a quarter but the Boulters be so mean .
Milty say he 'd rather take it himself and save his money .
I ask Mrs. Boulter how a person would go about catch a man and she get awful mad and say she dident know , shed never chase men .
`` The A.V.I.S . be go to paint the hall again .
They 're tire of have it blue .
`` The new minister be here to tea last night .
He take three piece of pie .
If I do that Mrs. Lynde would call me piggy .
And he et fast and take big bite and Marilla be always tell me not to do that .
Why can minister do what boys ca n't ?
I want to know .
`` I have n't any more news .
Here be six kiss .
xxxxxx .
Dora send one .
Heres hers .
x . `` Your love friend DAVID KEITH '' `` P.S . Anne , who be the devil father ?
I want to know . ''
Chapter XVIII Miss Josepine Remembers the Anne-girl When Christmas holiday come the girl of Patty 's Place scatter to their respective home , but Aunt Jamesina elect to stay where she be .
`` I could n't go to any of the place I 've be invite and take those three cat , '' she say .
`` And I 'm not go to leave the poor creature here alone for nearly three week .
If we have any decent neighbor who would fee them I might , but there 's nothing except millionaire on this street .
So I 'll stay here and keep Patty 's Place warm for you . ''
Anne go home with the usual joyous anticipation -- which be not wholly fulfil .
She find Avonlea in the grip of such an early , cold , and stormy winter a even the `` old inhabitant '' could not recall .
Green Gables be literally hem in by huge drift .
Almost every day of that ill-starred vacation it storm fiercely ; and even on fine day it drift unceasingly .
No sooner be the road break than they fill in again .
It be almost impossible to stir out .
The A.V.I.S . try , on three evening , to have a party in honor of the college student , and on each even the storm be so wild that nobody could go , so they give up the attempt in despair .
Anne , despite her love of and loyalty to Green Gables , could not help think longingly of Patty 's Place , it cosy open fire , Aunt Jamesina 's mirthful eye , the three cat , the merry chatter of the girl , the pleasantness of Friday evening when college friend drop in to talk of grave and gay .
Anne be lonely ; Diana , during the whole of the holiday , be imprison at home with a bad attack of bronchitis .
She could not come to Green Gables and it be rarely Anne could get to Orchard Slope , for the old way through the Haunted Wood be impassable with drift , and the long way over the frozen Lake of Shining Waters be almost a bad .
Ruby Gillis be sleep in the white-heaped graveyard ; Jane Andrews be teach a school on western prairie .
Gilbert , to be sure , be still faithful , and wad up to Green Gables every possible evening .
But Gilbert 's visit be not what they once be .
Anne almost dread them .
It be very disconcert to look up in the midst of a sudden silence and find Gilbert 's hazel eye fix upon her with a quite unmistakable expression in their grave depth ; and it be still more disconcerting to find herself blush hotly and uncomfortably under his gaze , just a if -- just a if -- well , it be very embarrassing .
Anne wish herself back at Patty 's Place , where there be always somebody else about to take the edge off a delicate situation .
At Green Gables Marilla go promptly to Mrs. Lynde 's domain when Gilbert come and insist on take the twin with her .
The significance of this be unmistakable and Anne be in a helpless fury over it .
Davy , however , be perfectly happy .
He revel in get out in the morning and shovel out the path to the well and henhouse .
He glory in the Christmas-tide delicacy which Marilla and Mrs. Lynde vie with each other in prepare for Anne , and he be read an enthral tale , in a school library book , of a wonderful hero who seem bless with a miraculous faculty for get into scrape from which he be usually deliver by an earthquake or a volcanic explosion , which blow him high and dry out of his trouble , land him in a fortune , and close the story with proper ECLAT .
`` I tell you it 's a bully story , Anne , '' he say ecstatically .
`` I 'd ever so much rather read it than the Bible . ''
`` Would you ? ''
smile Anne .
Davy peer curiously at her .
`` You do n't seem a bit shocked , Anne .
Mrs. Lynde be awful shock when I say it to her . ''
`` No , I 'm not shock , Davy .
I think it 's quite natural that a nine-year-old boy would sooner read an adventure story than the Bible .
But when you be old I hope and think that you will realize what a wonderful book the Bible be . ''
`` Oh , I think some part of it be fine , '' concede Davy .
`` That story about Joseph now -- it 's bully .
But if I 'd be Joseph I would n't have forgive the brother .
No , siree , Anne .
I 'd have cut all their head off .
Mrs. Lynde be awful mad when I say that and shut the Bible up and say she 'd never read me any more of it if I talk like that .
So I do n't talk now when she read it Sunday afternoons ; I just think thing and say them to Milty Boulter next day in school .
I tell Milty the story about Elisha and the bear and it scar him so he 's never make fun of Mr. Harrison 's bald head once .
Are there any bear on P.E . Island , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` Not nowadays , '' say Anne , absently , a the wind blow a scud of snow against the window .
`` Oh , dear , will it ever stop storming . ''
`` God know , '' say Davy airily , prepare to resume his reading .
Anne WAS shock this time .
`` Davy ! ''
she exclaim reproachfully .
`` Mrs. Lynde say that , '' protest Davy .
`` One night last week Marilla say ` Will Ludovic Speed and Theodora Dix EVER get marry ? ''
and Mrs. Lynde say , '' ` God know ' -- just like that . ''
`` Well , it be n't right for her to say it , '' say Anne , promptly decide upon which horn of this dilemma to empale herself .
`` It be n't right for anybody to take that name in vain or speak it lightly , Davy .
Do n't ever do it again . ''
`` Not if I say it slow and solemn , like the minister ? ''
query Davy gravely .
`` No , not even then . ''
`` Well , I wo n't .
Ludovic Speed and Theodora Dix live in Middle Grafton and Mrs. Rachel say he have be court her for a hundred year .
Wo n't they soon be too old to get married , Anne ?
I hope Gilbert wo n't court YOU that long .
When be you go to be marry , Anne ?
Mrs. Lynde say it 's a sure thing . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde be a -- '' begin Anne hotly ; then stop .
`` Awful old gossip , '' complete Davy calmly .
`` That 's what every one call her .
But be it a sure thing , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` You 're a very silly little boy , Davy , '' say Anne , stalk haughtily out of the room .
The kitchen be desert and she sit down by the window in the fast fall wintry twilight .
The sun have set and the wind have die down .
A pale chilly moon look out behind a bank of purple cloud in the west .
The sky fade out , but the strip of yellow along the western horizon grow brighter and fiercer , a if all the stray gleam of light be concentrate in one spot ; the distant hill , rim with priest-like fir , stand out in dark distinctness against it .
Anne look across the still , white field , cold and lifeless in the harsh light of that grim sunset , and sigh .
She be very lonely ; and she be sad at heart ; for she be wonder if she would be able to return to Redmond next year .
It do not seem likely .
The only scholarship possible in the Sophomore year be a very small affair .
She would not take Marilla 's money ; and there seem little prospect of be able to earn enough in the summer vacation .
`` I suppose I 'll just have to drop out next year , '' she think drearily , `` and teach a district school again until I earn enough to finish my course .
And by that time all my old class will have graduate and Patty 's Place will be out of the question .
But there !
I 'm not go to be a coward .
I 'm thankful I can earn my way through if necessary . ''
`` Here 's Mr. Harrison wad up the lane , '' announce Davy , run out .
`` I hope he 's bring the mail .
It 's three day since we get it .
I want to see what them pesky Grits be do .
I 'm a Conservative , Anne .
And I tell you , you have to keep your eye on them Grits . ''
Mr. Harrison have bring the mail , and merry letter from Stella and Priscilla and Phil soon dissipate Anne 's blue .
Aunt Jamesina , too , have write , say that she be keep the hearth-fire alight , and that the cat be all well , and the house plant do fine .
`` The weather have be real cold , '' she write , `` so I let the cat sleep in the house -- Rusty and Joseph on the sofa in the living-room , and the Sarah-cat on the foot of my bed .
It 's real company to hear her purr when I wake up in the night and think of my poor daughter in the foreign field .
If it be anywhere but in India I would n't worry , but they say the snake out there be terrible .
It take all the Sarah-cats 's purring to drive away the thought of those snake .
I have enough faith for everything but the snake .
I ca n't think why Providence ever make them .
Sometimes I do n't think He do .
I 'm inclined to believe the Old Harry have a hand in make THEM . ''
Anne have leave a thin , typewritten communication till the last , think it unimportant .
When she have read it she sit very still , with tear in her eye .
`` What be the matter , Anne ? ''
ask Marilla .
`` Miss Josephine Barry be dead , '' say Anne , in a low tone .
`` So she have go at last , '' say Marilla .
`` Well , she have be sick for over a year , and the Barrys have be expect to hear of her death any time .
It be well she be at rest for she have suffer dreadfully , Anne .
She be always kind to you . ''
`` She have be kind to the last , Marilla .
This letter be from her lawyer .
She have leave me a thousand dollar in her will . ''
`` Gracious , ai n't that an awful lot of money , '' exclaim Davy .
`` She 's the woman you and Diana light on when you jump into the spare room bed , ai n't she ?
Diana tell me that story .
Is that why she leave you so much ? ''
`` Hush , Davy , '' say Anne gently .
She slip away to the porch gable with a full heart , leave Marilla and Mrs. Lynde to talk over the news to their heart ' content .
