Thou wilt surely return ? '
The old man caught at his wrist .
` And thou wilt return in this very same shape ?
Is it too late to look tonight for the River ? '
` Too late and too dark .
Be comfort .
Think how far thou art on the road -- an hundred mile from Lahore already . '
` Yea -- and far from my monastery .
Alas !
It be a great and terrible world . '
Kim steal out and away , a unremarkable a figure a ever carry his own and a few score thousand other folk 's fate slung round his neck .
Mahbub Ali 's direction leave him little doubt of the house in which his Englishman live ; and a groom , bring a dog-cart home from the Club , make him quite sure .
It remain only to identify his man , and Kim slip through the garden hedge and hid in a clump of plumed grass close to the veranda .
The house blaze with light , and servant move about table dress with flower , glass , and silver .
Presently forth come an Englishman , dress in black and white , hum a tune .
It be too dark to see his face , so Kim , beggar-wise , try an old experiment .
` Protector of the Poor ! '
The man back towards the voice .
` Mahbub Ali say -- ' ` Hah !
What say Mahbub Ali ? '
He make no attempt to look for the speaker , and that show Kim that he know .
` The pedigree of the white stallion be fully establish . '
` What proof be there ? '
The Englishman switch at the rose-hedge in the side of the drive .
` Mahbub Ali have give me this proof . '
Kim flip the wad of folded paper into the air , and it fell in the path beside the man , who put his foot on it a a gardener come round the corner .
When the servant pass he pick it up , drop a rupee -- Kim could hear the clink -- and stride into the house , never turn round .
Swiftly Kim take up the money ; but for all his training , he be Irish enough by birth to reckon silver the least part of any game .
What he desire be the visible effect of action ; so , instead of slink away , he lay close in the grass and worm nearer to the house .
He saw -- Indian bungalow be open through and through -- the Englishman return to a small dressing-room , in a comer of the veranda , that be half office , litter with paper and despatch-boxes , and sit down to study Mahbub Ali 's message .
His face , by the full ray of the kerosene lamp , change and darken , and Kim , use a every beggar must be to watch countenance , take good note .
` Will !
Will , dear ! '
call a woman 's voice .
` You ought to be in the drawing-room .
They 'll be here in a minute . '
The man still read intently .
` Will ! '
say the voice , five minute later .
` He 's come .
I can hear the trooper in the drive . '
The man dash out bareheaded a a big landau with four native trooper behind it halt at the veranda , and a tall , black haired man , erect a an arrow , swung out , precede by a young officer who laugh pleasantly .
Flat on his belly lay Kim , almost touch the high wheel .
His man and the black stranger exchange two sentence .
` Certainly , sir , ' say the young officer promptly .
` Everything wait while a horse be concern . '
` We sha n't be more than twenty minute , ' say Kim 's man .
` You can do the honour -- keep 'em amuse , and all that . '
` Tell one of the trooper to wait , ' say the tall man , and they both pass into the dressing-room together a the landau roll away .
Kim saw their head bent over Mahbub Ali 's message , and hear the voice -- one low and deferential , the other sharp and decisive .
` It be n't a question of week .
It be a question of day -- hour almost , ' say the elder .
` I 'd be expect it for some time , but this ' -- he tap Mahbub Ali 's paper -- ` clinch it .
Grogan 's dining here to-night , be n't he ? '
` Yes , sir , and Macklin too . '
` Very good .
I 'll speak to them myself .
The matter will be refer to the Council , of course , but this be a case where one be justify in assume that we take action at once .
Warn the Pined and Peshawar brigade .
It will disorganize all the summer relief , but we ca n't help that .
This come of not smash them thoroughly the first time .
Eight thousand should be enough . '
` What about artillery , sir ? ' '
I must consult Macklin . '
` Then it mean war ? '
` No .
Punishment .
When a man be bind by the action of his predecessor -- ' ` But C25 may have lie . '
` He bear out the other 's information .
Practically , they show their hand six month back .
But Devenish would have it there be a chance of peace .
Of course they use it to make themselves strong .
Send off those telegram at once -- the new code , not the old -- mine and Wharton 's .
I do n't think we need keep the lady wait any long .
We can settle the rest over the cigar .
I think it be come .
It 's punishment -- not war . '
As the trooper canter off , Kim crawl round to the back of the house , where , go on his Lahore experience , he judge there would be food -- and information .
The kitchen be crowd with excited scullion , one of whom kick him .
` Aie , ' say Kim , feign tear . '
I come only to wash dish in return for a bellyful . '
` All Umballa be on the same errand .
Get hence .
They go in now with the soup .
Think you that we who serve Creighton Sahib need strange scullion to help u through a big dinner ? '
` It be a very big dinner , ' say Kim , look at the plate .
` Small wonder .
The guest of honour be none other than the Jang-i-Lat Sahib -LSB- the Commander-in-Chief -RSB- . '
` Ho ! '
say Kim , with the correct guttural note of wonder .
He have learn what he want , and when the scullion turn he be go .
` And all that trouble , ' say he to himself , think a usual in Hindustani , ` for a horse 's pedigree !
Mahbub Ali should have come to me to learn a little lying .
Every time before that I have bear a message it concern a woman .
Now it be men .
Better .
The tall man say that they will loose a great army to punish someone -- somewhere -- the news go to Pindi and Peshawur .
There be also gun .
Would I have creep nearer .
It be big news ! '
He return to find the cultivator 's cousin 's young brother discuss the family law-suit in all it bearing with the cultivator and his wife and a few friend , while the lama doze .
After the evening meal some one pass him a water-pipe ; and Kim felt very much of a man a he pull at the smooth coconut-shell , his leg spread abroad in the moonlight , his tongue clicking in remark from time to time .
His host be most polite ; for the cultivator 's wife have tell them of his vision of the Red Bull , and of his probable descent from another world .
Moreover , the lama be a great and venerable curiosity .
The family priest , an old , tolerant Sarsut Brahmin , drop in later , and naturally start a theological argument to impress the family .
By creed , of course , they be all on their priest 's side , but the lama be the guest and the novelty .
His gentle kindliness , and his impressive Chinese quotation , that sound like spell , delight them hugely ; and in this sympathetic , simple air , he expand like the Bodhisat 's own lotus , speaking of his life in the great hill of Such-zen , before , a he say , ' I rise up to seek enlightenment . '
Then it come out that in those worldly day he have be a master-hand at cast horoscope and nativity ; and the family priest lead him on to describe his method ; each give the planet name that the other could not understand , and point upwards a the big star sail across the dark .
The child of the house tug unrebuked at his rosary ; and he clean forget the Rule which forbid look at woman a he talk of endure snow , landslip , block pass , the remote cliff where men find sapphire and turquoise , and that wonderful upland road that lead at last into Great China itself .
` How thinkest thou of this one ? '
say the cultivator aside to the priest . '
A holy man -- a holy man indeed .
His Gods be not the Gods , but his foot be upon the Way , ' be the answer .
` And his method of nativity , though that be beyond thee , be wise and sure . '
` Tell me , ' say Kim lazily , ` whether I find my Red Bull on a green field , a be promise me . '
` What knowledge hast thou of thy birth-hour ? '
the priest ask , swell with importance .
` Between first and second cockcrow of the first night in May . '
` Of what year ? ' '
I do not know ; but upon the hour that I cry first fell the great earthquake in Srinagar which be in Kashmir . '
This Kim have from the woman who take care of him , and she again from Kimball O'Hara .
The earthquake have be felt in India , and for long stand a lead date in the Punjab .
` Ai ! '
say a woman excitedly .
This seem to make Kim 's supernatural origin more certain .
` Was not such an one 's daughter bear then -- ' ` And her mother bore her husband four son in four year all likely boys , ' cry the cultivator 's wife , sit outside the circle in the shadow .
` None rear in the knowledge , ' say the family priest , ` forget how the planet stand in their Houses upon that night . '
He begin to draw in the dust of the courtyard .
` At least thou hast good claim to a half of the House of the Bull .
How run thy prophecy ? '
` Upon a day , ' say Kim , delight at the sensation he be create , ' I shall be make great by mean of a Red Bull on a green field , but first there will enter two men make all thing ready . '
` Yes : thus ever at the opening of a vision .
A thick darkness that clear slowly ; anon one enters with a broom make ready the place .
Then begin the Sight .
Two men -- thou sayest ?
Ay , ay .
The Sun , leave the House of the Bull , enter that of the Twins .
Hence the two men of the prophecy .
Let u now consider .
Fetch me a twig , little one . '
He knit his brow , scratch , smooth out , and scratch again in the dust mysterious sign -- to the wonder of all save the lama , who , with fine instinct , forbore to interfere .
At the end of half an hour , he toss the twig from him with a grunt .
` Hm !
Thus say the star .
Within three day come the two men to make all thing ready .
After them follow the Bull ; but the sign over against him be the sign of War and arm men . '
` There be indeed a man of the Ludhiana Sikhs in the carriage from Lahore , ' say the cultivator 's wife hopefully .
` Tck !
Armed men -- many hundred .
What concern hast thou with war ? '
say the priest to Kim .
` Thine be a red and an angry sign of War to be loose very soon . '
` None -- none . '
say the lama earnestly .
` We seek only peace and our River . '
Kim smile , remember what he have overhear in the dressing-room .
Decidedly he be a favourite of the star .
The priest brush his foot over the rude horoscope .
` More than this I can not see .
In three day come the Bull to thee , boy . '
` And my River , my River , ' plead the lama . '
I have hop his Bull would lead u both to the River . '
` Alas , for that wondrous River , my brother , ' the priest replied .
` Such thing be not common . '
Next morning , though they be press to stay , the lama insist on departure .
They give Kim a large bundle of good food and nearly three anna in copper money for the need of the road , and with many blessing watch the two go southward in the dawn .
` Pity it be that these and such a these could not be free from -- ' ` Nay , then would only evil people be leave on the earth , and who would give u meat and shelter ? '
quoth Kim , step merrily under his burden .
` Yonder be a small stream .
Let u look , ' say the lama , and he lead from the white road across the field ; walk into a very hornet ' nest of pariah dog .
Chapter 3 Yea , voice of every Soul that clung To life that strive from rung to ring When Devadatta 's rule be young , The warm wind bring Kamakura .
Buddha at Kamakura .
Behind them an angry farmer brandish a bamboo pole .
He be a market-gardener , Arain by caste , grow vegetable and flower for Umballa city , and well Kim know the breed .
` Such an one , ' say the lama , disregard the dog , ` be impolite to stranger , intemperate of speech and uncharitable .
Be warn by his demeanour , my disciple . '
` Ho , shameless beggar ! '
shout the farmer .
` Begone !
Get hence ! '
` We go , ' the lama return , with quiet dignity .
` We go from these unblessed field . '
` Ah , ' say Kim , suck in his breath .
` If the next crop fail , thou canst only blame thine own tongue . '
The man shuffle uneasily in his slipper .
` The land be full of beggar , ' he begin , half apologetically .
` And by what sign didst thou know that we would beg from thee , O Mali ? '
say Kim tartly , use the name that a market-gardener least like .
` All we seek be to look at that river beyond the field there . '
` River , forsooth ! '
the man snort .
` What city do ye hail from not to know a canal-cut ?
It run as straight a an arrow , and I pay for the water a though it be melt silver .
There be a branch of a river beyond .
But if ye need water I can give that -- and milk . '
` Nay , we will go to the river , ' say the lama , stride out .
` Milk and a meal . '
the man stammer , a he look at the strange tall figure .
` I -- I would not draw evil upon myself -- or my crop .
But beggar be so many in these hard day . '
` Take notice . '
The lama turn to Kim .
` He be lead to speak harshly by the Red Mist of anger .
That clear from his eye , he become courteous and of an affable heart .
May his field be bless !
Beware not to judge men too hastily , O farmer . ' '
I have meet holy one who would have curse thee from hearthstone to byre , ' say Kim to the abashed man .
` Is he not wise and holy ?
I be his disciple . '
He cock his nose in the air loftily and step across the narrow field-borders with great dignity .
` There be no pride , ' say the lama , after a pause , ` there be no pride among such a follow the Middle Way . '
` But thou hast say he be low-caste and discourteous . '
` Low-caste I do not say , for how can that be which be not ?
Afterwards he amend his discourtesy , and I forget the offence .
Moreover , he be a we be , bound upon the Wheel of Things ; but he do not tread the way of deliverance . '
He halt at a little runlet among the field , and consider the hoof-pitted bank .
` Now , how wilt thou know thy River ? '
say Kim , squat in the shade of some tall sugar-cane .
` When I find it , an enlightenment will surely be give .
This , I feel , be not the place .
O little among the water , if only thou couldst tell me where run my River !
But be thou bless to make the field bear ! '
` Look !
Look ! '
Kim sprang to his side and drag him back .
A yellow-and-brown streak glide from the purple rustle stem to the bank , stretch it neck to the water , drank , and lay still -- a big cobra with fix , lidless eye . '
I have no stick -- I have no stick , ' say Kim . '
I will get me one and break his back . '
` Why ?
He be upon the Wheel a we be -- a life ascend or descend -- very far from deliverance .
Great evil must the soul have do that be cast into this shape . ' '
I hate all snake , ' say Kim .
No native training can quench the white man 's horror of the Serpent .
` Let him live out his life . '
The coiled thing hiss and half open it hood .
` May thy release come soon , brother ! '
the lama continue placidly .
` Hast thou knowledge , by chance , of my River ? '
` Never have I see such a man a thou art , ' Kim whisper , overwhelm .
` Do the very snakes understand thy talk ? '
` Who know ? '
He pass within a foot of the cobra 's poise head .
It flatten itself among the dusty coil .
` Come , thou ! '
he call over his shoulder .
` Not I , ' say Kim ' . '
I go round . '
` Come .
He do no hurt . '
Kim hesitate for a moment .
The lama back his order by some drone Chinese quotation which Kim take for a charm .
He obey and bound across the rivulet , and the snake , indeed , make no sign .
` Never have I see such a man . '
Kim wipe the sweat from his forehead .
` And now , whither go we ? '
` That be for thee to say .
I be old , and a stranger -- far from my own place .
But that the rail-carriage fill my head with noise of devil-drums I would go in it to Benares now ... Yet by so go we may miss the River .
Let u find another river . '
Where the hard-worked soil give three and even four crop a year through patch of sugar-cane , tobacco , long white radish , and nol-kol , all that day they stroll on , turn aside to every glimpse of water ; rouse village dog and sleep village at noonday ; the lama reply to the volleyed question with an unswerving simplicity .
They seek a River : a River of miraculous healing .
Had any one knowledge of such a stream ?
Sometimes men laugh , but more often hear the story out to the end and offer them a place in the shade , a drink of milk , and a meal .
The woman be always kind , and the little child a child be the world over , alternately shy and venturesome .
Evening find them at rest under the village tree of a mud-walled , mud-roofed hamlet , talk to the headman a the cattle come in from the grazing-grounds and the woman prepare the day 's last meal .
They have pass beyond the belt of market-gardens round hungry Umballa , and be among the mile-wide green of the staple crop .
He be a white-bearded and affable elder , use to entertain stranger .
He drag out a string bedstead for the lama , set warm cook food before him , prepare him a pipe , and , the evening ceremony be finish in the village temple , send for the village priest .
Kim tell the old child tale of the size and beauty of Lahore , of railway travel , and such-like city thing , while the men talk , slowly a their cattle chew the cud . '
I can not fathom it , ' say the headman at last to the priest .
` How readest thou this talk ? '
The lama , his tale tell , be silently tell his bead .
` He be a Seeker . '
the priest answer .
` The land be full of such .
Remember him who come only last , month -- the fakir with the tortoise ? '
` Ay , but that man have right and reason , for Krishna Himself appear in a vision promise him Paradise without the burning-pyre if he journey to Prayag .
This man seek no God who be within my knowledge . '
` Peace , he be old : he come from far off , and he be mad , ' the smooth-shaven priest reply .
` Hear me . '
He turn to the lama .
` Three kos -LSB- six mile -RSB- to the westward run the great road to Calcutta . '
` But I would go to Benares -- to Benares . '
` And to Benares also .
It cross all stream on this side of Hind .
Now my word to thee , Holy One , be rest here till tomorrow .
Then take the road ' -LRB- it be the Grand Trunk Road he mean -RRB- ` and test each stream that it overpasses ; for , a I understand , the virtue of thy River lie neither in one pool nor place , but throughout it length .
Then , if thy Gods will , be assure that thou wilt come upon thy freedom . '
` That be well say . '
The lama be much impress by the plan .
` We will begin tomorrow , and a blessing on thee for show old foot such a near road . '
A deep , sing-song Chinese half-chant close the sentence .
Even the priest be impressed , and the headman fear an evil spell : but none could look at the lama 's simple , eager face and doubt him long .
` Seest thou my chela ? '
he say , dive into his snuff-gourd with an important sniff .
It be his duty to repay courtesy with courtesy . '
I see -- and hear . '
The headman roll his eye where Kim be chat to a girl in blue a she lay crackle thorn on a fire .
` He also have a Search of his own .
No river , but a Bull .
Yea , a Red Bull on a green field will some day raise him to honour .
He be , I think , not altogether of this world .
He be send of a sudden to aid me in this search , and his name be Friend of all the World . '
The priest smile .
` Ho , there , Friend of all the World , ' he cry across the sharp-smelling smoke , ` what art thou ? '
` This Holy One 's disciple , ' say Kim .
` He say thou be a but -LSB- a spirit -RSB- . '
` Can buts eat ? '
say Kim , with a twinkle .
` For I be hungry . '
` It be no jest , ' cry the lama . '
A certain astrologer of that city whose name I have forget -- ' ` That be no more than the city of Umballa where we sleep last night , ' Kim whisper to the priest .
` Ay , Umballa be it ?
He cast a horoscope and declare that my chela should find his desire within two day .
But what say he of the meaning of the star , Friend of all the World ? '
Kim clear his throat and look around at the village greybeard .
` The meaning of my Star be War , ' he reply pompously .
Somebody laugh at the little tattered figure strut on the brickwork plinth under the great tree .
Where a native would have lie down , Kim 's white blood set him upon his foot .
` Ay , War , ' he answer .
` That be a sure prophecy , ' rumble a deep voice .
` For there be always war along the Border -- a I know . '
It be an old , withered man , who have serve the Government in the day of the Mutiny a a native officer in a newly raise cavalry regiment .
The Government have give him a good holding in the village , and though the demand of his son , now grey-bearded officer on their own account , have impoverish him , he be still a person of consequence .
English official -- Deputy Commissioners even -- turn aside from the main road to visit him , and on those occasion he dress himself in the uniform of ancient day , and stand up like a ramrod .
` But this shall be a great war -- a war of eight thousand . '
Kim 's voice shrill across the quick-gathering crowd , astonish himself .
` Redcoats or our own regiment ? '
the old man snap , a though he be ask an equal .
His tone make men respect Kim .
` Redcoats , ' say Kim at a venture .
` Redcoats and gun . '
` But -- but the astrologer say no word of this , ' cry the lama , snuff prodigiously in his excitement .
` But I know .
The word have come to me , who be this Holy One 's disciple .
There will rise a war -- a war of eight thousand redcoat .
From Pindi and Peshawur they will be draw .
This be sure . '
` The boy have hear bazar-talk , ' say the priest .
` But he be always by my side , ' say the lama .
` How should he know ?
I do not know . '
` He will make a clever juggler when the old man be dead , ' mutter the priest to the headman .
` What new trick be this ? ' '
A sign .
Give me a sign , ' thunder the old soldier suddenly .
` If there be war my son would have tell me . '
` When all be ready , thy son , doubt not , will be tell .
But it be a long road from thy son to the man in whose hand these thing lie . '
Kim warm to the game , for it remind him of experience in the letter-carrying line , when , for the sake of a few pice , he pretend to know more than he know .
But now he be play for large thing -- the sheer excitement and the sense of power .
He draw a new breath and go on .
` Old man , give me a sign .
Do underling order the going of eight thousand redcoat -- with gun ? '
` No . '
Still the old man answer a though Kim be an equal .
` Dost thou know who He be , then , that give the order ? ' '
I have see Him . '
` To know again ? ' '
I have know Him since he be a lieutenant in the topkhana -LRB- the Artillery -RRB- . ' '
A tall man .
A tall man with black hair , walk thus ? '
Kim take a few pace in a stiff , wooden style .
` Ay .
But that anyone may have see . '
The crowd be breathless -- still through all this talk .
` That be true , ' say Kim .
` But I will say more .
Look now .
First the great man walk thus .
Then He think thus . '
-LRB- Kim draw a forefinger over his forehead and downwards till it come to rest by the angle of the jaw . -RRB-
` Anon He twitch his finger thus .
Anon He thrust his hat under his left armpit . '
Kim illustrate the motion and stood like a stork .
The old man groan , inarticulate with amazement ; and the crowd shiver .
` So -- so -- so .
But what do He when He be about to give an order ? '
` He rub the skin at the back of his neck -- thus .
Then fall one finger on the table and He make a small sniffing noise through his nose .
Then He speak , say : `` Loose such and such a regiment .
Call out such gun . '' '
The old man rise stiffly and salute . '
`` For '' ' -- Kim translate into the vernacular the clinching sentence he have hear in the dressing-room at Umballa -- ' `` For , '' say He , `` we should have do this long ago .
It be not war -- it be a chastisement .
Snff ! '' '
` Enough .
I believe .
I have see Him thus in the smoke of battle .
Seen and heard .
It be He ! ' '
I saw no smoke ' -- Kim 's voice shift to the rapt sing-song of the wayside fortune-teller . '
I saw this in darkness .
First come a man to make thing clear .
Then come horseman .
Then come He stand in a ring of light .
The rest follow a I have say .
Old man , have I speak truth ? '
` It be He .
Past all doubt it be He . '
The crowd draw a long , quaver breath , star alternately at the old man , still at attention , and rag Kim against the purple twilight .
` Said I not -- say I not he be from the other world ? '
cry the lama proudly .
` He be the Friend of all the World .
He be the Friend of the Stars ! '
` At least it do not concern u , ' a man cry . '
O thou young soothsayer , if the gift abide with thee at all season , I have a red-spotted cow .
She may be sister to thy Bull for aught I know -- ' ` Or I care , ' say Kim .
` My Stars do not concern themselves with thy cattle . '
` Nay , but she be very sick , ' a woman struck in .
` My man be a buffalo , or he would have choose his word well .
Tell me if she recover ? '
Had Kim be at all an ordinary boy , he would have carry on the play ; but one do not know Lahore city , and least of all the fakir by the Taksali Gate , for thirteen year without also know human nature .
The priest look at him sideways , something bitterly -- a dry and blight smile .
` Is there no priest , then , in the village ?
I think I have see a great one even now , ' cry Kim .
` Ay -- but -- ' the woman begin .
` But thou and thy husband hop to get the cow cure for a handful of thanks . '
The shot tell : they be notoriously the closest-fisted couple in the village .
` It be not well to cheat the temple .
Give a young calf to thine own priest , and , unless thy Gods be angry past recall , she will give milk within a month . ' '
A master-beggar art thou , ' purr the priest approvingly .
` Not the cunning of forty year could have do well .
Surely thou hast make the old man rich ? ' '
A little flour , a little butter and a mouthful of cardamom , ' Kim retort , flush with the praise , but still cautious -- ` Does one grow rich on that ?
And , a thou canst see , he be mad .
But it serve me while I learn the road at least . '
He know what the fakir of the Taksali Gate be like when they talk among themselves , and copy the very inflection of their lewd disciple .
` Is his Search , then , truth or a cloak to other end ?
It may be treasure . '
` He be mad -- many time mad .
There be nothing else . '
Here the old soldier bobble up and ask if Kim would accept his hospitality for the night .
The priest recommend him to do so , but insist that the honour of entertain the lama belong to the temple -- at which the lama smile guilelessly .
Kim glance from one face to the other , and draw his own conclusion .
` Where be the money ? '
he whisper , beckon the old man off into the darkness .
` In my bosom .
Where else ? '
` Give it me .
Quietly and swiftly give it me . '
` But why ?
Here be no ticket to buy . '
` Am I thy chela , or be I not ?
Do I not safeguard thy old foot about the way ?
Give me the money and at dawn I will return it . '
He slip his hand above the lama 's girdle and bring away the purse .
` Be it so -- be it so . '
The old man nod his head .
` This be a great and terrible world .
I never know there be so many men alive in it . '
Next morning the priest be in a very bad temper , but the lama be quite happy ; and Kim have enjoy a most interesting evening with the old man , who bring out his cavalry sabre and , balance it on his dry knee , tell tale of the Mutiny and young captain thirty year in their graf , till Kim drop off to sleep .
` Certainly the air of this country be good , ' say the lama . '
I sleep lightly , a do all old men ; but last night I sleep unwaking till broad day .
Even now I be heavy . '
` Drink a draught of hot milk , ' say Kim , who have carry not a few such remedy to opium-smokers of his acquaintance .
` It be time to take the Road again . '
` The long Road that overpasses all the river of Hind , ' say the lama gaily .
` Let u go .
But how thinkest thou , chela , to recompense these people , and especially the priest , for their great kindness ?
Truly they be but parast , but in other life , maybe , they will receive enlightenment .
A rupee to the temple ?
The thing within be no more than stone and red paint , but the heart of man we must acknowledge when and where it be good . '
` Holy One , hast thou ever take the Road alone ? '
Kim look up sharply , like the Indian crow so busy about the field .
` Surely , child : from Kulu to Pathankot -- from Kulu , where my first chela die .
When men be kind to u we make offering , and all men be well-disposed throughout all the Hills . '
` It be otherwise in Hind , ' say Kim drily .
` Their Gods be many-armed and malignant .
Let them alone . ' '
I would set thee on thy road for a little , Friend of all the World , thou and thy yellow man . '
The old soldier amble up the village street , all shadowy in the dawn , on a punt , scissor-hocked pony .
` Last night break up the fountain of remembrance in my so-dried heart , and it be a a blessing to me .
Truly there be war abroad in the air .
I smell it .
See !
I have bring my sword . '
He sit long-legged on the little beast , with the big sword at his side -- hand drop on the pommel -- star fiercely over the flat land towards the North .
` Tell me again how He show in thy vision .
Come up and sit behind me .
The beast will carry two . ' '
I be this Holy One 's disciple , ' say Kim , a they clear the village-gate .
The villager seem almost sorry to be rid of them , but the priest 's farewell be cold and distant .
He have waste some opium on a man who carry no money .
` That be well speak .
I be not much use to holy men , but respect be always good .
There be no respect in these day -- not even when a Commissioner Sahib come to see me .
But why should one whose Star lead him to war follow a holy man ? '
` But he be a holy man , ' say Kim earnestly .
` In truth , and in talk and in act , holy .
He be not like the others .
I have never see such an one .
We be not fortune-tellers , or juggler , or beggar . '
` Thou art not .
That I can see .
But I do not know that other .
He march well , though . '
The first freshness of the day carry the lama forward with long , easy , camel-like stride .
He be deep in meditation , mechanically click his rosary .
They follow the rut and worn country road that wind across the flat between the great dark-green mango-groves , the line of the snowcapped Himalayas faint to the eastward .
All India be at work in the field , to the creaking of well-wheels , the shouting of plowman behind their cattle , and the clamour of the crow .
Even the pony felt the good influence and almost break into a trot a Kim lay a hand on the stirrup-leather .
` It repent me that I do not give a rupee to the shrine , ' say the lama on the last bead of his eighty-one .
The old soldier growl in his beard , so that the lama for the first time be aware of him .
` Seekest thou the River also ? '
say he , turn .
` The day be new , ' be the reply .
` What need of a river save to water at before sundown ?
I come to show thee a short lane to the Big Road . '
` That be a courtesy to be remember , O man of good will .
But why the sword ? '
The old soldier look as abash a a child interrupt in his game of make-believe .
` The sword , ' he say , fumble it .
` Oh , that be a fancy of mine an old man 's fancy .
Truly the police order be that no man must bear weapon throughout Hind , but ' -- he cheer up and slap the hilt -- ` all the constabeels hereabout know me . '
` It be not a good fancy , ' say the lama .
` What profit to kill men ? '
` Very little -- a I know ; but if evil men be not now and then slay it would not be a good world for weaponless dreamer .
I do not speak without knowledge who have see the land from Delhi south awash with blood . '
` What madness be that , then ? '
` The Gods , who send it for a plague , alone know .
A madness ate into all the Army , and they turn against their officer .
That be the first evil , but not past remedy if they have then hold their hand .
But they choose to kill the Sahibs ' wife and child .
Then come the Sahibs from over the sea and call them to most strict account . '
` Some such rumour , I believe , reach me once long ago .
They call it the Black Year , a I remember . '
` What manner of life hast thou lead , not to know The Year ?
A rumour indeed !
All earth know , and tremble ! '
` Our earth never shake but once -- upon the day that the Excellent One receive Enlightenment . '
` Umph !
I saw Delhi shake at least -- and Delhi be the navel of the world . '
` So they turn against woman and child ?
That be a bad deed , for which the punishment can not be avoid . '
` Many strove to do so , but with very small profit .
I be then in a regiment of cavalry .
It break .
Of six hundred and eighty sabre stand fast to their salt -- how many , think you ?
Three .
Of whom I be one . '
` The great merit . '
` Merit !
We do not consider it merit in those day .
My people , my friend , my brother fell from me .
They say : `` The time of the English be accomplish .
Let each strike out a little hold for himself . ''
But I have talk with the men of Sobraon , of Chilianwallah , of Moodkee and Ferozeshah .
I say : `` Abide a little and the wind turn .
There be no blessing in this work . ''
In those day I ride seventy mile with an English Memsahib and her babe on my saddle-bow .
-LRB- Wow !
That be a horse fit for a man ! -RRB-
I place them in safety , and back come I to my officer -- the one that be not kill of our five .
`` Give me work , '' say I , `` for I be an outcast among my own kind , and my cousin 's blood be wet on my sabre . ''
`` Be content , '' say he .
`` There be great work forward .
When this madness be over there be a recompense . '' '
` Ay , there be a recompense when the madness be over , surely ? '
the lama mutter half to himself .
` They do not hang medal in those day on all who by accident have hear a gun fire .
No !
In nineteen pitched battle be I ; in six-and-forty skirmish of horse ; and in small affair without number .
Nine wound I bear ; a medal and four clasp and the medal of an Order , for my captain , who be now general , remember me when the Kaisar-i-Hind have accomplish fifty year of her reign , and all the land rejoice .
They say : `` Give him the Order of Berittish India . ''
I carry it upon my neck now .
I have also my jaghir -LSB- hold -RSB- from the hand of the State -- a free gift to me and mine .
The men of the old day -- they be now Commissioners -- come rid to me through the crop -- high upon horse so that all the village see -- and we talk out the old skirmish , one dead man 's name lead to another . '
` And after ? '
say the lama .
` Oh , afterwards they go away , but not before my village have see . '
` And at the last what wilt thou do ? '
` At the last I shall die . '
` And after ? '
` Let the Gods order it .
I have never pester Them with prayer .
I do not think They will pester me .
Look you , I have notice in my long life that those who eternally break in upon Those Above with complaint and report and bellowing and weeping be presently send for in haste , a our Colonel use to send for slack-jawed down-country men who talk too much .
No , I have never weary the Gods .
They will remember this , and give me a quiet place where I can drive my lance in the shade , and wait to welcome my son : I have no less than three Rissaldar -- major all -- in the regiment . '
` And they likewise , bound upon the Wheel , go forth from life to life -- from despair to despair , ' say the lama below his breath , ` hot , uneasy , snatch . '
` Ay , ' the old soldier chuckle .
` Three Rissaldar -- major in three regiment .
Gamblers a little , but so be I .
They must be well mount ; and one can not take the horse a in the old day one take woman .
Well , well , my hold can pay for all .
How thinkest thou ?
It be a well-watered strip , but my men cheat me .
I do not know how to ask save at the lance 's point .
Ugh !
I grow angry and I curse them , and they feign penitence , but behind my back I know they call me a toothless old ape . '
` Hast thou never desire any other thing ? '
` Yes -- yes -- a thousand time !
A straight back and a close-clinging knee once more ; a quick wrist and a keen eye ; and the marrow that make a man .
Oh , the old day -- the good day of my strength ! '
` That strength be weakness . '
` It have turn so ; but fifty year since I could have prove it otherwise , ' the old soldier retort , drive his stirrup-edge into the pony 's lean flank .
` But I know a River of great healing . ' '
I have drink Gunga-water to the edge of dropsy .
All she give me be a flux , and no sort of strength . '
` It be not Gunga .
The River that I know wash from all taint of sin .
Ascending the far bank one be assure of Freedom .
I do not know thy life , but thy face be the face of the honourable and courteous .
Thou hast clung to thy Way , render fidelity when it be hard to give , in that Black Year of which I now remember other tale .
Enter now upon the Middle Way which be the path to Freedom .
Hear the Most Excellent Law , and do not follow dream . '
` Speak , then , old man , ' the soldier smile , half saluting .
` We be all babbler at our age . '
The lama squat under the shade of a mango , whose shadow play checkerwise over his face ; the soldier sat stiffly on the pony ; and Kim , make sure that there be no snake , lay down in the crotch of the twisted root .
There be a drowsy buzz of small life in hot sunshine , a cooing of dove , and a sleepy drone of well-wheels across the field .
Slowly and impressively the lama begin .
At the end of ten minute the old soldier slide from his pony , to hear well a he say , and sit with the rein round his wrist .
The lama 's voice falter , the period lengthen .
Kim be busy watch a grey squirrel .
When the little scolding bunch of fur , close press to the branch , disappear , preacher and audience be fast asleep , the old officer 's strong-cut head pillow on his arm , the lama 's thrown back against the tree-bole , where it show like yellow ivory .
A naked child toddle up , star , and , move by some quick impulse of reverence , make a solemn little obeisance before the lama -- only the child be so short and fat that it topple over sideways , and Kim laugh at the sprawling , chubby leg .
The child , scar and indignant , yelled aloud .
` Hai !
Hai ! '
say the soldier , leap to his foot .
` What be it ?
What order ?
... It be ... a child !
I dream it be an alarm .
Little one -- little one -- do not cry .
Have I sleep ?
That be discourteous indeed ! ' '
I fear !
I be afraid ! '
roar the child .
` What be it to fear ?
Two old men and a boy ?
How wilt thou ever make a soldier , Princeling ? '
The lama have wake too , but , take no direct notice of the child , click his rosary .
` What be that ? '
say the child , stop a yell midway . '
I have never see such thing .
Give them me . '
` Aha . '
say the lama , smile , and trail a loop of it on the grass : This be a handful of cardamom , This be a lump of ghi : This be millet and chilli and rice , A supper for thee and me !
The child shriek with joy , and snatch at the dark , glance bead .
` Oho ! '
say the old soldier .
` Whence hadst thou that song , despiser of this world ? ' '
I learn it in Pathankot -- sit on a doorstep , ' say the lama shyly .
` It be good to be kind to babes . '
` As I remember , before the sleep come on u , thou hadst tell me that marriage and bearing be darkeners of the true light , stumbling-blocks upon the Way .
Do child drop from Heaven in thy country ?
Is it the Way to sing them song ? '
` No man be all perfect , ' say the lama gravely , recoil the rosary .
` Run now to thy mother , little one . '
` Hear him ! '
say the soldier to Kim .
` He be ashamed for that he have make a child happy .
There be a very good householder lose in thee , my brother .
Hai , child ! '
He throw it a pice .
` Sweetmeats be always sweet . '
And a the little figure caper away into the sunshine : ` They grow up and become men .
Holy One , I grieve that I sleep in the midst of thy preaching .
Forgive me . '
` We be two old men , ' say the lama .
` The fault be mine .
I listen to thy talk of the world and it madness , and one fault lead to the next . '
` Hear him !
What harm do thy Gods suffer from play with a babe ?
And that song be very well sung .
Let u go on and I will sing thee the song of Nikal Seyn before Delhi -- the old song . '
And they fare out from the gloom of the mango tope , the old man 's high , shrill voice ring across the field , a wail by long-drawn wail he unfold the story of Nikal Seyn -LSB- Nicholson -RSB- -- the song that men sing in the Punjab to this day .
Kim be delight , and the lama listen with deep interest .
` Ahi !
Nikal Seyn be dead -- he die before Delhi !
Lances of the North , take vengeance for Nikal Seyn . '
He quaver it out to the end , mark the trill with the flat of his sword on the pony 's rump .
` And now we come to the Big Road , ' say he , after receive the compliment of Kim ; for the lama be markedly silent .
` It be long since I have ride this way , but thy boy 's talk stir me .
See , Holy One -- the Great Road which be the backbone of all Hind .
For the most part it be shade , a here , with four line of tree ; the middle road -- all hard -- take the quick traffic .
In the day before rail-carriages the Sahibs travel up and down here in hundred .
Now there be only country-carts and such like .
Left and right be the rougher road for the heavy cart -- grain and cotton and timber , fodder , lime and hide .
A man go in safety here for at every few kos be a police-station .
The police be thief and extortioner -LRB- I myself would patrol it with cavalry -- young recruit under a strong captain -RRB- , but at least they do not suffer any rival .
All caste and kind of men move here .
` Look !
Brahmins and chumars , banker and tinker , barber and bunnias , pilgrim and potter -- all the world go and come .
It be to me a a river from which I be withdraw like a log after a flood . '
And truly the Grand Trunk Road be a wonderful spectacle .
It run straight , bear without crowd India 's traffic for fifteen hundred mile -- such a river of life a nowhere else exists in the world .
They look at the green-arched , shade-flecked length of it , the white breadth speckle with slow-pacing folk ; and the two-roomed police-station opposite .
` Who bear arm against the law ? '
a constable call out laughingly , a he catch sight of the soldier 's sword .
` Are not the police enough to destroy evil-doers ? '
` It be because of the police I buy it , ' be the answer .
` Does all go well in Hind ? '
` Rissaldar Sahib , all go well . ' '
I be like an old tortoise , look you , who put his head out from the bank and draw it in again .
Ay , this be the Road of Hindustan .
All men come by this way ... ' ` Son of a swine , be the soft part of the road meant for thee to scratch thy back upon ?
Father of all the daughter of shame and husband of ten thousand virtueless one , thy mother be devote to a devil , be lead thereto by her mother .
Thy aunt have never have a nose for seven generation !
Thy sister -- What Owl 's folly tell thee to draw thy cart across the road ?
A broken wheel ?
Then take a broken head and put the two together at leisure ! '
The voice and a venomous whip-cracking come out of a pillar of dust fifty yard away , where a cart have break down .
A thin , high Kathiawar mare , with eye and nostril aflame , rocket out of the jam , snort and wince a her rider bent her across the road in chase of a shout man .
He be tall and grey-bearded , sit the almost mad beast a a piece of her , and scientifically lash his victim between plunge .
The old man 's face lit with pride .
` My child ! '
say he briefly , and strive to rein the pony 's neck to a fitting arch .
` Am I to be beat before the police ? '
cry the carter .
` Justice !
I will have Justice -- ' ` Am I to be block by a shouting ape who upset ten thousand sack under a young horse 's nose ?
That be the way to ruin a mare . '
` He speak truth .
He speak truth .
But she follow her man close , ' say the old man .
The carter run under the wheel of his cart and thence threaten all sort of vengeance .
` They be strong men , thy son , ' say the policeman serenely , pick his teeth .
The horseman deliver one last vicious cut with his whip and come on at a canter .
` My father ! '
He reign back ten yard and dismount .
The old man be off his pony in an instant , and they embrace a do father and son in the East .
Chapter 4 Good Luck , she be never a lady , But the cursed quean alive , Tricksy , wincing , and jady -- Kittle to lead or drive .
Greet her -- she 's hail a stranger !
Meet her -- she 's busk to leave !
Let her alone for a shrew to the bone And the hussy come pluck your sleeve !
Largesse !
Largesse , O Fortune !
Give or hold at your will .
If I 've no care for Fortune , Fortune must follow me still !
The Wishing-Caps .
Then , lower their voice , they speak together .
Kim come to rest under a tree , but the lama tug impatiently at his elbow .
` Let u go on .
The River be not here . '
` Hai mai !
Have we not walk enough for a little ?
Our River will not run away .
Patience , and he will give u a dole . '
` This . '
say the old soldier suddenly , ` be the Friend of the Stars .
He bring me the news yesterday .
Having see the very man Himself , in a vision , give order for the war . '
` Hm ! '
say his son , all deep in his broad chest .
` He come by a bazar-rumour and make profit of it . '
His father laugh .
` At least he do not ride to me beg for a new charger , and the Gods know how many rupee .
Are thy brother ' regiment also under order ? ' '
I do not know .
I take leave and come swiftly to thee in case -- ' ` In case they run before thee to beg .
O gambler and spendthrift all !
But thou hast never yet ride in a charge .
A good horse be need there , truly .
A good follower and a good pony also for the marching .
Let u see -- let u see . '
He thrum on the pommel .
` This be no place to cast account in , my father .
Let u go to thy house . '
` At least pay the boy , then : I have no pice with me , and he bring auspicious news .
Ho !
Friend of all the World , a war be toward a thou hast say . '
` Nay , a I know , the war , ' return Kim composedly .
` Eh ? '
say the lama , finger his bead , all eager for the road .
` My master do not trouble the Stars for hire .
We bring the news bear witness , we bring the news , and now we go . '
Kim half-crooked his hand at his side .
The son toss a silver coin through the sunlight , grumble something about beggar and juggler .
It be a four-anna piece , and would fee them well for day .
The lama , see the flash of the metal , drone a blessing .
` Go thy way , Friend of all the World , ' pip the old soldier , wheel his scrawny mount .
` For once in all my day I have meet a true prophet -- who be not in the Army . '
Father and son swung round together : the old man sit as erect a the younger .
A Punjabi constable in yellow linen trouser slouch across the road .
He have see the money pas .
` Halt ! '
he cry in impressive English .
` Know ye not that there be a takkus of two anna a head , which be four anna , on those who enter the Road from this side-road ?
It be the order of the Sirkar , and the money be spend for the planting of tree and the beautification of the way . '
` And the belly of the police , ' say Kim , slip out of arm 's reach .
` Consider for a while , man with a mud head .
Think you we come from the near pond like the frog , thy father-in-law ?
Hast thou ever hear the name of thy brother ? '
` And who be he ?
Leave the boy alone , ' cry a senior constable , immensely delighted , a he squat down to smoke his pipe in the veranda .
` He take a label from a bottle of belaitee-pani -LSB- soda-water -RSB- , and , affix it to a bridge , collect tax for a month from those who pass , say that it be the Sirkar 's order .
Then come an Englishman and break his head .
Ah , brother , I be a town-crow , not a village-crow ! '
The policeman draw back abash , and Kim hoot at him all down the road .
` Was there ever such a disciple a I ? '
he cry merrily to the lama .
` All earth would have pick thy bone within ten mile of Lahore city if I have not guard thee . ' '
I consider in my own mind whether thou art a spirit , sometimes , or sometimes an evil imp , ' say the lama , smile slowly . '
I be thy chela . '
Kim drop into step at his side -- that indescribable gait of the long-distance tramp all the world over .
` Now let u walk , ' mutter the lama , and to the click of his rosary they walk in silence mile upon mile .
The lama a usual , be deep in meditation , but Kim 's bright eye be open wide .
This broad , smile river of life , he consider , be a vast improvement on the cramped and crowd Lahore street .
There be new people and new sight at every stride -- cast he know and caste that be altogether out of his experience .
They meet a troop of long-haired , strong-scented Sansis with basket of lizard and other unclean food on their back , their lean dog sniff at their heel .
These people keep their own side of the road ' , move at a quick , furtive jog-trot , and all other caste give them ample room ; for the Sansi be deep pollution .
Behind them , walk wide and stiffly across the strong shadow , the memory of his leg-irons still on him , stride one newly release from the jail ; his full stomach and shiny skin to prove that the Government feed it prisoner well than most honest men could fee themselves .
Kim know that walk well , and make broad jest of it a they pass .
Then an Akali , a wild-eyed , wild-haired Sikh devotee in the blue-checked clothes of his faith , with polished-steel quoit glisten on the cone of his tall blue turban , stalk past , return from a visit to one of the independent Sikh States , where he have be sing the ancient glory of the Khalsa to College-trained princeling in top-boots and white-cord breech .
Kim be careful not to irritate that man ; for the Akali 's temper be short and his arm quick .
Here and there they meet or be overtake by the gaily dress crowd of whole village turn out to some local fair ; the woman , with their babe on their hip , walk behind the men , the old boy prance on stick of sugar-cane , drag rude brass model of locomotive such a they sell for a halfpenny , or flash the sun into the eye of their better from cheap toy mirror .
One could see at a glance what each have buy ; and if there be any doubt it need only to watch the wife compare , brown arm against brown arm , the newly purchase dull glass bracelet that come from the North-West .
These merry-makers step slowly , call one to the other and stop to haggle with sweetmeat-sellers , or to make a prayer before one of the wayside shrine -- sometimes Hindu , sometimes Mussalman -- which the low-caste of both creed share with beautiful impartiality .
A solid line of blue , rise and fall like the back of a caterpillar in haste , would swing up through the quivering dust and trot past to a chorus of quick cackling .
That be a gang of changars -- the woman who have take all the embankment of all the Northern railway under their charge -- a flat-footed , big-bosomed , strong-limbed , blue-petticoated clan of earth-carriers , hurry north on news of a job , and waste no time by the road .
They belong to the caste whose men do not count , and they walk with squared elbow , swing hip , and head on high , a suit woman who carry heavy weight .
A little later a marriage procession would strike into the Grand Trunk with music and shouting , and a smell of marigold and jasmine strong even than the reek of the dust .
One could see the bride 's litter , a blur of red and tinsel , stagger through the haze , while the bridegroom 's bewreathed pony turn aside to snatch a mouthful from a pass fodder-cart .
Then Kim would join the Kentish-fire of good wish and bad joke , wish the couple a hundred son and no daughter , a the saying be .
Still more interesting and more to be shout over it be when a stroll juggler with some half-trained monkey , or a panting , feeble bear , or a woman who tie goat ' horn to her foot , and with these dance on a slack-rope , set the horse to shy and the woman to shrill , long-drawn quaver of amazement .
The lama never raise his eye .
He do not note the money-lender on his goose-rumped pony , hasten along to collect the cruel interest ; or the long-shouting , deep-voiced little mob -- still in military formation -- of native soldier on leave , rejoice to be rid of their breech and puttee , and say the most outrageous thing to the most respectable woman in sight .
Even the seller of Ganges-water he do not see , and Kim expect that he would at least buy a bottle of that precious stuff .
He look steadily at the ground , and strode a steadily hour after hour , his soul busy elsewhere .
But Kim be in the seventh heaven of joy .
The Grand Trunk at this point be build on an embankment to guard against winter flood from the foothill , so that one walk , a it be , a little above the country , along a stately corridor , see all India spread out to left and right .
It be beautiful to behold the many-yoked grain and cotton wagon crawl over the country roads : one could hear their axle , complain a mile away , come nearer , till with shout and yell and bad word they climb up the steep incline and plunge on to the hard main road , carter revile carter .
It be equally beautiful to watch the people , little clump of red and blue and pink and white and saffron , turn aside to go to their own village , disperse and grow small by two and three across the level plain .
Kim felt these thing , though he could not give tongue to his feeling , and so content himself with buy peel sugar-cane and spit the pith generously about his path .
From time to time the lama take snuff , and at last Kim could endure the silence no longer .
` This be a good land -- the land of the South ! '
say he .
` The air be good ; the water be good .
Eh ? '
` And they be all bound upon the Wheel , ' say the lama .
` Bound from life after life .
To none of these have the Way be show . '
He shake himself back to this world .
` And now we have walk a weary way , ' say Kim .
` Surely we shall soon come to a parao -LSB- a resting-place -RSB- .
Shall we stay there ?
Look , the sun be slop . '
` Who will receive u this evening ? '
` That be all one .
This country be full of good folk .
Besides ' he sink his voice beneath a whisper -- ` we have money . '
The crowd thicken a they near the resting-place which mark the end of their day 's journey .
A line of stall sell very simple food and tobacco , a stack of firewood , a police-station , a well , a horse-trough , a few tree , and , under them , some trample ground dot with the black ash of old fire , be all that mark a parao on the Grand Trunk ; if you except the beggar and the crow -- both hungry .
By this time the sun be drive broad golden spoke through the low branch of the mango-trees ; the parakeet and dove be come home in their hundred ; the chattering , grey-backed Seven Sisters , talk over the day 's adventure , walk back and forth in two and threes almost under the foot of the traveller ; and shuffling and scufflings in the branch show that the bat be ready to go out on the night-picket .
Swiftly the light gather itself together , paint for an instant the face and the cartwheel and the bullock ' horn as red a blood .
Then the night fell , change the touch of the air , draw a low , even haze , like a gossamer veil of blue , across the face of the country , and bring out , keen and distinct , the smell of wood-smoke and cattle and the good scent of wheaten cake cook on ash .
The evening patrol hurry out of the police-station with important coughing and reiterated order ; and a live charcoal ball in the cup of a wayside carter 's hookah glow red while Kim 's eye mechanically watch the last flicker of the sun on the brass tweezer .
The life of the parao be very like that of the Kashmir Serai on a small scale .
Kim dive into the happy Asiatic disorder which , if you only allow time , will bring you everything that a simple man need .
His want be few , because , since the lama have no caste scruple , cook food from the near stall would serve ; but , for luxury 's sake , Kim buy a handful of dung-cakes to build a fire .
All about , come and go round the little flame , men cry for oil , or grain , or sweetmeat , or tobacco , jostle one another while they wait their turn at the well ; and under the men 's voice you hear from halt , shutter cart the high squeal and giggle of woman whose face should not be see in public .
Nowadays , well-educated native be of opinion that when their womenfolk travel -- and they visit a good deal -- it be well to take them quickly by rail in a properly screen compartment ; and that custom be spread .
But there be always those of the old rock who hold by the use of their forefather ; and , above all , there be always the old woman -- more conservative than the men -- who toward the end of their day go on a pilgrimage .
They , be wither and undesirable , do not , under certain circumstance , object to unveil .
After their long seclusion , during which they have always be in business touch with a thousand outside interest , they love the bustle and stir of the open road , the gathering at the shrine , and the infinite possibility of gossip with like-minded dowager .
Very often it suit a longsuffering family that a strong-tongued , iron-willed old lady should disport herself about India in this fashion ; for certainly pilgrimage be grateful to the Gods .
So all about India , in the most remote place , a in the most public , you find some knot of grizzled servitor in nominal charge of an old lady who be more or less curtained and hide away in a bullock-cart .
Such men be staid and discreet , and when a European or a high-caste native be near will net their charge with most elaborate precaution ; but in the ordinary haphazard chance of pilgrimage the precaution be not take .
The old lady be , after all , intensely human , and live to look upon life .
Kim mark down a gaily ornament ruth or family bullock-cart , with a broidered canopy of two dome , like a double-humped camel , which have just be draw into the par .
Eight men make it retinue , and two of the eight be arm with rusty sabre -- sure sign that they follow a person of distinction , for the common folk do not bear arm .
An increase cackle of complaint , order , and jest , and what to a European would have be bad language , come from behind the curtain .
Here be evidently a woman use to command .
Kim look over the retinue critically .
Half of them be thin-legged , grey-bearded Ooryas from down country .
The other half be duffle-clad , felt-hatted hillmen of the North ; and that mixture tell it own tale , even if he have not overheard the incessant sparring between the two division .
The old lady be go south on a visit -- probably to a rich relative , most probably to a son-in-law , who have send up an escort a a mark of respect .
The hillmen would be of her own people -- Kulu or Kangra folk .
It be quite clear that she be not take her daughter down to be wed , or the curtain would have be lace home and the guard would have allow no one near the car .
A merry and a high-spirited dame , think Kim , balance the dung-cake in one hand , the cook food in the other , and pilot the lama with a nudging shoulder .
Something might be make out of the meeting .
The lama would give him no help , but , a a conscientious chela , Kim be delight to beg for two .
He build his fire a close to the cart a he dare , wait for one of the escort to order him away .
The lama drop wearily to the ground , much a a heavy fruit-eating bat cowers , and return to his rosary .
` Stand farther off , beggar ! '
The order be shout in broken Hindustani by one of the hillmen .
` Huh !
It be only a pahari -LSB- a hillman -RSB- ' , say Kim over his shoulder .
` Since when have the hill-asses own all Hindustan ? '
The retort be a swift and brilliant sketch of Kim 's pedigree for three generation .
` Ah ! '
Kim 's voice be sweeter than ever , a he break the dung-cake into fit piece .
` In my country we call that the beginning of love-talk . '
A harsh , thin cackle behind the curtain put the hillman on his mettle for a second shot .
` Not so bad -- not so bad , ' say Kim with calm .
` But have a care , my brother , lest we -- we , I say -- be mind to give a curse or so in return .
And our curse have the knack of bite home . '
The Ooryas laugh ; the hillman spring forward threateningly .
The lama suddenly raise his head , bring his huge tam-o ' - shanter hat into the full light of Kim 's new-started fire .
` What be it ? '
say he .
The man halt a though struck to stone .
` I -- I -- be save from a great sin , ' he stammer .
` The foreigner have find him a priest at last , ' whisper one of the Ooryas .
` Hai !
Why be that beggar-brat not well beat ? '
the old woman cry .
The hillman draw back to the cart and whisper something to the curtain .
There be dead silence , then a muttering .
` This go well , ' think Kim , pretend neither to see nor hear .
` When -- when -- he have eat ' -- the hillman fawn on Kim -- ` it -- it be request that the Holy One will do the honour to talk to one who would speak to him . '
` After he have eat he will sleep , ' Kim return loftily .
He could not quite see what new turn the game have take , but stand resolute to profit by it .
` Now I will get him his food . '
The last sentence , speak loudly , end with a sigh a of faintness .
` I -- I myself and the others of my people will look to that -- if it be permit . '
` It be permit , ' say Kim , more loftily than ever .
` Holy One , these people will bring u food . '
` The land be good .
All the country of the South be good -- a great and a terrible world , ' mumble the lama drowsily .
` Let him sleep , ' say Kim , ` but look to it that we be well fed when he wake .
He be a very holy man . '
Again one of the Ooryas say something contemptuously .
` He be not a fakir .
He be not a down-country beggar , ' Kim go on severely , address the star .
` He be the most holy of holy men .
He be above all caste .
I be his chela . '
` Come here ! '
say the flat thin voice behind the curtain ; and Kim come , conscious that eye he could not see be star at him .
One skinny brown finger heavy with ring lay on the edge of the cart , and the talk go this way : ` Who be that one ? '
` An exceedingly holy one .
He come from far off .
He come from Tibet . '
` Where in Tibet ? '
` From behind the snow -- from a very far place .
He know the star ; he make horoscope ; he read nativity .
But he do not do this for money .
He do it for kindness and great charity .
I be his disciple .
I be call also the Friend of the Stars . '
` Thou art no hillman . '
` Ask him .
He will tell thee I be send to him from the Stars to show him an end to his pilgrimage . '
` Humph !
Consider , brat , that I be an old woman and not altogether a fool .
Lamas I know , and to these I give reverence , but thou art no more a lawful chela than this my finger be the pole of this wagon .
Thou art a casteless Hindu -- a bold and unblushing beggar , attach , belike , to the Holy One for the sake of gain . '
` Do we not all work for gain ? '
Kim change his tone promptly to match that altered voice . '
I have hear ' -- this be a bow drawn at a venture -- ' I have hear -- ' ` What hast thou heard ? '
she snap , rap with the finger .
` Nothing that I well remember , but some talk in the bazar , which be doubtless a lie , that even Rajahs -- small Hill Rajahs -- ' ` But none the less of good Rajput blood . '
` Assuredly of good blood .
That these even sell the more comely of their womenfolk for gain .
Down south they sell them -- to zemindars and such -- all of Oudh . '
If there be one thing in the world that the small Hill Rajahs deny it be just this charge ; but it happen to be one thing that the bazar believe , when they discuss the mysterious slave-traffics of India .
The old lady explain to Kim , in a tense , indignant whisper , precisely what manner and fashion of malignant liar he be .
Had Kim hint this when she be a girl , he would have be pommel to death that same evening by an elephant .
This be perfectly true .
` Ahai !
I be only a beggar 's brat , a the Eye of Beauty have say , ' he wail in extravagant terror .
` Eye of Beauty , forsooth !
Who be I that thou shouldst fling beggar-endearments at me ? '
And yet she laugh at the long-forgotten word .
` Forty year ago that might have be say , and not without truth .
Ay .
thirty year ago .
But it be the fault of this gad up and down Hind that a king 's widow must jostle all the scum of the land , and be make a mock by beggar . '
` Great Queen , ' say Kim promptly , for he hear her shaking with indignation , ' I be even what the Great Queen say I be ; but none the le be my master holy .
He have not yet hear the Great Queen 's order that -- ' ` Order ?
I order a Holy One -- a Teacher of the Law -- to come and speak to a woman ?
Never ! '
` Pity my stupidity .
I think it be give a an order -- ' ` It be not .
It be a petition .
Does this make all clear ? '
A silver coin click on the edge of the cart .
Kim take it and salaam profoundly .
The old lady recognize that , a the eye and the ear of the lama , he be to be propitiate . '
I be but the Holy One 's disciple .
When he have eat perhaps he will come . '
` Oh , villain and shameless rogue ! '
The jewelled forefinger shake itself at him reprovingly ; but he could hear the old lady 's chuckle .
` Nay , what be it ? '
he say , drop into his most caressing and confidential tone -- the one , he well know , that few could resist .
` Is -- be there any need of a son in thy family ?
Speak freely , for we priest -- ' That last be a direct plagiarism from a fakir by the Taksali Gate .
` We priest !
Thou art not yet old enough to -- ' She check the joke with another laugh .
` Believe me , now and again , we woman , O priest , think of other matter than son .
Moreover , my daughter have bear her man-child . '
` Two arrow in the quiver be good than one ; and three be good still . '
Kim quote the proverb with a meditative cough , look discreetly earthward .
` True -- oh , true .
But perhaps that will come .
Certainly those down-country Brahmins be utterly useless .
I send gift and monies and gift again to them , and they prophesy . '
` Ah , ' drawl Kim , with infinite contempt , ` they prophesy ! '
A professional could have do no good .
` And it be not till I remember my own Gods that my prayer be hear .
I choose an auspicious hour , and -- perhaps thy Holy One have hear of the Abbot of the Lung-Cho lamassery .
It be to him I put the matter , and behold in the due time all come about a I desire .
The Brahmin in the house of the father of my daughter 's son have since say that it be through his prayer -- which be a little error that I will explain to him when we reach our journey 's end .
And so afterwards I go to Buddh Gaya , to make shraddha for the father of my child . '
` Thither go we . '
` Doubly auspicious , ' chirrup the old lady . '
A second son at least ! ' '
O Friend of all the World ! '
The lama have wake , and , simply a a child bewilder in a strange bed , call for Kim . '
I come !
I come , Holy One ! '
He dash to the fire , where he find the lama already surround by dish of food , the hillmen visibly adore him and the Southerners look sourly .
` Go back !
Withdraw ! '
Kim cry .
` Do we eat publicly like dog ? '
They finish the meal in silence , each turn a little from the other , and Kim top it with a native-made cigarette .
` Have I not say an hundred time that the South be a good land ?
Here be a virtuous and high-born widow of a Hill Rajah on pilgrimage , she say , to Buddha Gay .
She it be sends u those dish ; and when thou art well rest she would speak to thee . '
` Is this also thy work ? '
The lama dip deep into his snuff-gourd .
` Who else watch over thee since our wonderful journey begin ? '
Kim 's eye dance in his head a he blow the rank smoke through his nostril and stretch him on the dusty ground .
` Have I fail to oversee thy comfort , Holy One ? ' '
A blessing on thee . '
The lama incline his solemn head . '
I have know many men in my so long life , and disciples not a few .
But to none among men , if so be thou art woman-born , have my heart go out a it have to thee -- thoughtful , wise , and courteous ; but something of a small imp . '
` And I have never see such a priest a thou . '
Kim consider the benevolent yellow face wrinkle by wrinkle .
` It be less than three day since we take the road together , and it be a though it be a hundred year . '
` Perhaps in a former life it be permit that I should have render thee some service .
Maybe ' -- he smile -- ' I free thee from a trap ; or , have catch thee on a hook in the day when I be not enlighten , cast thee back into the river . '
` Maybe , ' say Kim quietly .
He have hear this sort of speculation again and again , from the mouth of many whom the English would not consider imaginative .
` Now , a regard that woman in the bullock-cart .
I think she need a second son for her daughter . '
` That be no part of the Way , ' sigh the lama .
` But at least she be from the Hills .
Ah , the Hills , and the snow of the Hills ! '
He rise and stalk to the cart .
Kim would have give his ear to come too , but the lama do not invite him ; and the few word he catch be in an unknown tongue , for they speak some common speech of the mountain .
The woman seem to ask question which the lama turn over in his mind before answer .
Now and again he hear the singsong cadence of a Chinese quotation .
It be a strange picture that Kim watch between drooped eyelid .
The lama , very straight and erect , the deep fold of his yellow clothing slash with black in the light of the parao fire precisely a a knotted tree-trunk be slash with the shadow of the low sun , address a tinsel and lacquer ruth which burn like a many-coloured jewel in the same uncertain light .
The pattern on the gold-worked curtain run up and down , melt and reform a the fold shake and quiver to the night wind ; and when the talk grow more earnest the jewelled forefinger snap out little spark of light between the embroidery .
Behind the cart be a wall of uncertain darkness speckle with little flame and alive with half-caught form and face and shadow .
The voice of early evening have settle down to one soothe hum whose deep note be the steady chumping of the bullock above their chopped straw , and whose high be the tinkle of a Bengali dancing-girl 's sitar .
Most men have eat and pull deep at their gurgling , grunt hookah , which in full blast sound like bull-frogs .
At last the lama return .
A hillman walk behind him with a wadded cotton-quilt and spread it carefully by the fire .
` She deserve ten thousand grandchild , ' think Kim .
` None the less , but for me , those gift would not have come . ' '
A virtuous woman -- and a wise one . '
The lama slacken off , joint by joint , like a slow camel .
` The world be full of charity to those who follow the Way . '
He fling a fair half of the quilt over Kim .
` And what say she ? '
Kim roll up in his share of it .
` She ask me many question and propound many problem -- the most of which be idle tale which she have hear from devil-serving priest who pretend to follow the Way .
Some I answer , and some I say be foolish .
Many wear the Robe , but few keep the Way . '
` True .
That be true . '
Kim use the thoughtful , conciliatory tone of those who wish to draw confidence .
` But by her light she be most right-minded .
She desire greatly that we should go with her to Buddh Gaya ; her road be ours , a I understand , for many day ' journey to the southward . '
` And ? '
` Patience a little .
To this I say that my Search come before all thing .
She have hear many foolish legend , but this great truth of my River she have never hear .
Such be the priest of the low hill !
She know the Abbot of Lung-Cho , but she do not know of my River -- nor the tale of the Arrow . '
` And ? ' '
I speak therefore of the Search , and of the Way , and of matter that be profitable ; she desire only that I should accompany her and make prayer for a second son . '
` Aha !
`` We woman '' do not think of anything save child , ' say Kim sleepily .
` Now , since our road run together for a while , I do not see that we in any way depart from our Search if so be we accompany her -- at least as far a -- I have forget the name of the city . '
` Ohe ! '
say Kim , turn and speak in a sharp whisper to one of the Ooryas a few yard away .
` Where be your master 's house ? ' '
A little behind Saharunpore , among the fruit garden . '
He name the village .
` That be the place , ' say the lama .
` So far , at least , we can go with her . '
` Flies go to carrion , ' say the Oorya , in an abstracted voice .
` For the sick cow a crow ; for the sick man a Brahmin . '
Kim breathe the proverb impersonally to the shadow-tops of the tree overhead .
The Oorya grunt and hold his peace .
` So then we go with her , Holy One ? '
` Is there any reason against ?
I can still step aside and try all the river that the road overpasses .
She desire that I should come .
She very greatly desire it . '
Kim stifle a laugh in the quilt .
When once that imperious old lady have recover from her natural awe of a lama he think it probable that she would be worth listen to .
He be nearly asleep when the lama suddenly quote a proverb : ` The husband of the talkative have a great reward hereafter . '
Then Kim hear him snuff thrice , and doze off , still laugh .
The diamond-bright dawn wake men and crow and bullock together .
Kim sit up and yawn , shake himself , and thrill with delight .
This be see the world in real truth ; this be life a he would have it -- bustle and shout , the buckling of belt , and beating of bullock and creaking of wheel , light of fire and cooking of food , and new sight at every turn of the approve eye .
The morning mist sweep off in a whorl of silver , the parrot shoot away to some distant river in shriek green host : all the well-wheels within ear-shot go to work .
India be awake , and Kim be in the middle of it , more awake and more excited than anyone , chew on a twig that he would presently use a a toothbrush ; for he borrow right - and left-handedly from all the custom of the country he know and love .
There be no need to worry about food -- no need to spend a cowrie at the crowded stall .
He be the disciple of a holy man annex by a strong-willed old lady .
All thing would be prepare for them , and when they be respectfully invite so to do they would sit and eat .
For the rest -- Kim giggle here a he clean his teeth -- his hostess would rather heighten the enjoyment of the road .
He inspect her bullock critically , a they come up grunting and blow under the yoke .
If they go too fast -- it be not likely -- there would be a pleasant seat for himself along the pole ; the lama would sit beside the driver .
The escort , of course , would walk .
The old lady , equally of course , would talk a great deal , and by what he have hear that conversation would not lack salt .
She be already order , harangue , rebuke , and , it must be say , curse her servant for delay .
` Get her her pipe .
In the name of the Gods , get her her pipe and stop her ill-omened mouth , ' cry an Oorya , tie up his shapeless bundle of bedding .
` She and the parrot be alike .
They screech in the dawn . '
` The lead-bullocks !
Hai !
Look to the lead-bullocks ! '
They be back and wheel a a grain-cart 's axle catch them by the horn .
` Son of an owl , where dost thou go ? '
This to the grinning carter .
` Ai !
Yai !
Yai !
That within there be the Queen of Delhi go to pray for a son , ' the man call back over his high load .
` Room for the Queen of Delhi and her Prime Minister the grey monkey climb up his own sword ! '
Another cart load with bark for a down-country tannery follow close behind , and it driver add a few compliment a the ruth-bullocks back and back again .
From behind the shaking curtain come one volley of invective .
It do not last long , but in kind and quality , in blistering , bite appropriateness , it be beyond anything that even Kim have hear .
He could see the carter 's bare chest collapse with amazement , a the man salaam reverently to the voice , leap from the pole , and help the escort haul their volcano on to the main road .
Here the voice tell him truthfully what sort of wife he have wed , and what she be do in his absence .
` Oh , shabash ! '
murmur Kim , unable to contain himself , a the man slink away .
` Well do , indeed ?
It be a shame and a scandal that a poor woman may not go to make prayer to her Gods except she be jostle and insult by all the refuse of Hindustan -- that she must eat gali -LSB- abuse -RSB- a men eat ghi .
But I have yet a wag leave to my tongue -- a word or two well speak that serve the occasion .
And still be I without my tobacco !
Who be the one-eyed and luckless son of shame that have not yet prepared my pipe ? '
It be hastily thrust in by a hillman , and a trickle of thick smoke from each corner of the curtain show that peace be restore .
If Kim have walk proudly the day before , disciple of a holy man , today he pace with tenfold pride in the train of a semi-royal procession , with a recognize place under the patronage of an old lady of charm manner and infinite resource .
The escort , their head tie up native-fashion , fell in on either side the cart , shuffle enormous cloud of dust .
The lama and Kim walk a little to one side ; Kim chew his stick of sugarcane , and make way for no one under the status of a priest .
They could hear the old lady 's tongue clack as steadily a a rice-husker .
She bid the escort tell her what be go on on the road ; and so soon a they be clear of the parao she fling back the curtain and peer out , her veil a third across her face .
Her men do not eye her directly when she address them , and thus the propriety be more or less observe .
A dark , sallowish District Superintendent of Police , faultlessly uniformed , an Englishman , trot by on a tired horse , and , see from her retinue what manner of person she be , chaff her . '
O mother , ' he cry , ` do they do this in the zenanas ?
Suppose an Englishman come by and saw that thou hast no nose ? '
` What ? '
she shrill back .
` Thine own mother have no nose ?
Why say so , then , on the open road ? '
It be a fair counter .
The Englishman throw up his hand with the gesture of a man hit at sword-play .
She laugh and nod .
` Is this a face to tempt virtue aside ? '
She withdraw all her veil and star at him .
It be by no mean lovely , but a the man gather up his rein he call it a Moon of Paradise , a Disturber of Integrity , and a few other fantastic epithet which double her up with mirth .
` That be a nut-cut -LSB- rogue -RSB- , ' she say .
` All police-constables be nut-cuts ; but the police-wallahs be the bad .
Hai , my son , thou hast never learn all that since thou camest from Belait -LSB- Europe -RSB- .
Who suckle thee ? ' '
A pahareen -- a hillwoman of Dalhousie , my mother .
Keep thy beauty under a shade -- O Dispenser of Delights , ' and he be go .
` These be the sort ' -- she take a fine judicial tone , and stuff her mouth with pan -- ` These be the sort to oversee justice .
They know the land and the custom of the land .
The others , all new from Europe , suckle by white woman and learn our tongue from book , be bad than the pestilence .
They do harm to Kings . '
Then she tell a long , long tale to the world at large , of an ignorant young policeman who have disturb some small Hill Rajah , a ninth cousin of her own , in the matter of a trivial land-case , wind up with a quotation from a work by no mean devotional .
Then her mood change , and she bid one of the escort ask whether the lama would walk alongside and discuss matter of religion .
So Kim drop back into the dust and return to his sugar-cane .
For an hour or more the lama 's tam-o'shanter show like a moon through the haze ; and , from all he hear , Kim gather that the old woman wept .
One of the Ooryas half apologize for his rudeness overnight , say that he have never know his mistress of so bland a temper , and he ascribe it to the presence of the strange priest .
Personally , he believe in Brahmins , though , like all native , he be acutely aware of their cunning and their greed .
Still , when Brahmins but irritated with beg demand the mother of his master 's wife , and when she send them away so angry that they curse the whole retinue -LRB- which be the real reason of the second off-side bullock go lame , and of the pole break the night before -RRB- , he be prepare to accept any priest of any other denomination in or out of India .
To this Kim assent with wise nod , and bid the Oorya observe that the lama take no money , and that the cost of his and Kim 's food would be repay a hundred time in the good luck that would attend the caravan henceforward .
He also tell story of Lahore city , and sing a song or two which make the escort laugh .
As a town-mouse well acquaint with the late song by the most fashionable composer -- they be woman for the most part -- Kim have a distinct advantage over men from a little fruit-village behind Saharunpore , but he let that advantage be infer .
At noon they turn aside to eat , and the meal be good , plentiful , and well-served on plate of clean leaf , in decency , out of drift of the dust .
They give the scrap to certain beggar , that all requirement might be fulfil , and sit down to a long , luxurious smoke .
The old lady have retreat behind her curtain , but mixed most freely in the talk , her servant argue with and contradict her a servant do throughout the East .
She compare the cool and the pine of the Kangra and Kulu hill with the dust and the mango of the South ; she tell a tale of some old local Gods at the edge of her husband 's territory ; she roundly abuse the tobacco which she be then smoke , revile all Brahmins , and speculate without reserve on the come of many grandson .
Chapter 5 Here come I to my own again Fed , forgiven , and know again Claimed by bone of my bone again , And sib to flesh of my flesh !
The fatted calf be dress for me , But the husk have great zest for me ... I think my pig will be best for me , So I 'm off to the stye afresh .
The Prodigal Son .
Once more the lazy , string-tied , shuffle procession get under way , and she sleep till they reach the next halting-stage .
It be a very short march , and time lack an hour to sundown , so Kim cast about for mean of amusement .
` But why not sit and rest ? '
say one of the escort .
` Only the devil and the English walk to and fro without reason . '
` Never make friend with the Devil , a Monkey , or a Boy .
No man know what they will do next , ' say his fellow .
Kim turn a scornful back -- he do not want to hear the old story how the Devil play with the boy and repent of it and walk idly across country .
The lama strode after him .
All that day , whenever they pass a stream , he have turn aside to look at it , but in no case have he receive any warning that he have find his River .
Insensibly , too , the comfort of speaking to someone in a reasonable tongue , and of be properly consider and respect a her spiritual adviser by a well-born woman , have wean his thought a little from the Search .
And far , he be prepare to spend serene year in his quest ; have nothing of the white man 's impatience , but a great faith .
` Where goest thou ? '
he call after Kim .
` Nowhither -- it be a small march , and all this ' -- Kim wave his hand abroad -- ` be new to me . '
` She be beyond question a wise and a discerning woman .
But it be hard to meditate when -- ' ` All woman be thus . '
Kim speak a might have Solomon .
` Before the lamassery be a broad platform , ' the lama mutter , loop up the well-worn rosary , ` of stone .
On that I have leave the mark of my foot -- pace to and fro with these . '
He click the bead , and begin the ` Om mane pudme hum 's of his devotion ; grateful for the cool , the quiet , and the absence of dust .
One thing after another draw Kim 's idle eye across the plain .
There be no purpose in his wandering , except that the build of the hut near by seem new , and he wish to investigate .
They come out on a broad tract of grazing-ground , brown and purple in the afternoon light , with a heavy clump of mango in the centre .
It strike Kim a curious that no shrine stand in so eligible a spot : the boy be observe a any priest for these thing .
Far across the plain walk side by side four men , make small by the distance .
He look intently under his curved palm and catch the sheen of brass .
` Soldiers .
White soldier ! '
say he .
` Let u see . '
` It be always soldier when thou and I go out alone together .
But I have never see the white soldier . '
` They do no harm except when they be drunk .
Keep behind this tree . '
They step behind the thick trunk in the cool dark of the mango-tope .
Two little figure halt ; the other two come forward uncertainly .
They be the advance-party of a regiment on the march , send out , a usual , to mark the camp .
They bore five-foot stick with fluttering flag , and call to each other a they spread over the flat earth .
At last they enter the mango-grove , walk heavily .
` It 's here or hereabouts -- officer ' tent under the tree , I take it , an ' the rest of u can stay outside .
Have they mark out for the baggage-wagons behind ? '
They cry again to their comrade in the distance , and the rough answer come back faint and mellow .
` Shove the flag in here , then , ' say one .
` What do they prepare ? '
say the lama , wonderstruck .
` This be a great and terrible world .
What be the device on the flag ? '
A soldier thrust a stave within a few foot of them , grunt discontentedly , pull it up again , confer with his companion , who look up and down the shaded cave of greenery , and return it .
Kim star with all his eye , his breath come short and sharp between his teeth .
The soldier stamp off into the sunshine . '
O Holy One ! '
he gasp .
` My horoscope !
The drawing in the dust by the priest at Umballa !
Remember what he say .
First come two -- ferashes -- to make all thing ready -- in a dark place , a it be always at the beginning of a vision . '
` But this be not vision , ' say the lama .
` It be the world 's Illusion , and no more . '
` And after them come the Bull -- the Red Bull on the green field .
Look !
It be he ! '
He point to the flag that be snap snapping in the evening breeze not ten foot away .
It be no more than an ordinary camp marking-flag ; but the regiment , always punctilious in matter of millinery , have charge it with the regimental device , the Red Bull , which be the crest of the Mavericks -- the great Red Bull on a background of Irish green . '
I see , and now I remember . '
say the lama .
` Certainly it be thy Bull .
Certainly , also , the two men come to make all ready . '
` They be soldier -- white soldier .
What say the priest ?
`` The sign over against the Bull be the sign of War and arm men . ''
Holy One , this thing touch my Search . '
` True .
It be true . '
The lama star fixedly at the device that flame like a ruby in the dusk .
` The priest at Umballa say that thine be the sign of War . '
` What be to do now ? '
` Wait .
Let u wait . '
` Even now the darkness clear , ' say Kim .
It be only natural that the descend sun should at last strike through the tree-trunks , across the grove , fill it with mealy gold light for a few minute ; but to Kim it be the crown of the Umballa Brahmin 's prophecy .
` Hark ! '
say the lama .
` One beat a drum -- far off ! '
At first the sound , carry dilute through the still air , resemble the beating of an artery in the head .
Soon a sharpness be add .
` Ah !
The music , ' Kim explain .
He know the sound of a regimental band , but it amaze the lama .
At the far end of the plain a heavy , dusty column crawl in sight .
Then the wind bring the tune : We crave your condescension To tell you what we know Of march in the Mulligan Guards To Sligo Port below !
Here break in the shrill-tongued fife : We shoulder arm , We march -- we march away .
From Phoenix Park We march to Dublin Bay .
The drum and the fife , Oh , sweetly they do play , As we march -- march -- march -- with the Mulligan Guards !
It be the band of the Mavericks play the regiment to camp ; for the men be route-marching with their baggage .
The ripple column swung into the level -- cart behind it divide left and right , run about like an ant-hill , and ... ` But this be sorcery ! '
say the lama .
The plain dot itself with tent that seem to rise , all spread , from the cart .
Another rush of men invade the grove , pitch a huge tent in silence , run up yet eight or nine more by the side of it , unearthed cooking-pots , pan , and bundle , which be take possession of by a crowd of native servant ; and behold the mango-tope turn into an orderly town a they watch !
` Let u go , ' say the lama , sink back afraid , a the fire twinkle and white officer with jingling sword stalk into the Mess-tent .
` Stand back in the shadow .
No one can see beyond the light of a fire , ' say Kim , his eye still on the flag .
He have never before watch the routine of a seasoned regiment pitch camp in thirty minute .
` Look !
look !
look ! '
cluck the lama .
` Yonder come a priest . '
It be Bennett , the Church of England Chaplain of the regiment , limp in dusty black .
One of his flock have make some rude remark about the Chaplain 's mettle ; and to abash him Bennett have march step by step with the men that day .
The black dress , gold cross on the watch-chain , the hairless face , and the soft , black wideawake hat would have mark him a a holy man anywhere in all India .
He drop into a camp-chair by the door of the Mess-tent and slide off his boot .
Three or four officer gather round him , laugh and joke over his exploit .
` The talk of white men be wholly lack in dignity , ' say the lama , who judge only by tone .
` But I consider the countenance of that priest and I think he be learn .
Is it likely that he will understand our talk ?
I would talk to him of my Search . '
` Never speak to a white man till he be feed , ' say Kim , quote a well-known proverb .
` They will eat now , and -- and I do not think they be good to beg from .
Let u go back to the resting-place .
After we have eat we will come again .
It certainly be a Red Bull -- my Red Bull . '
They be both noticeably absent-minded when the old lady 's retinue set their meal before them ; so none break their reserve , for it be not lucky to annoy guest .
` Now , ' say Kim , pick his teeth , ` we will return to that place ; but thou , O Holy One , must wait a little way off , because thy foot be heavy than mine and I be anxious to see more of that Red Bull . '
` But how canst thou understand the talk ?
Walk slowly .
The road be dark , ' the lama reply uneasily .
Kim put the question aside . '
I mark a place near to the tree , ' say he , ` where thou canst sit till I call .
Nay , ' a the lama make some sort of protest , ` remember this be my Search -- the Search for my Red Bull .
The sign in the Stars be not for thee .
I know a little of the custom of white soldier , and I always desire to see some new thing . '
` What dost thou not know of this world ? '
The lama squat obediently in a little hollow of the ground not a hundred yard from the hump of the mango-trees dark against the star-powdered sky .
` Stay till I call . '
Kim flit into the dusk .
He know that in all probability there would be sentry round the camp , and smile to himself a he hear the thick boot of one .
A boy who can dodge over the roof of Lahore city on a moonlight night , use every little patch and corner of darkness to discomfit his pursuer , be not likely to be check by a line of well-trained soldier .
He pay them the compliment of crawl between a couple , and , run and halting , crouch and drop flat , work his way toward the light Mess-tent where , close press behind the mango-tree , he wait till some chance word should give him a returnable lead .
The one thing now in his mind be further information a to the Red Bull .
For aught he know , and Kim 's limitation be a curious and sudden a his expansion , the men , the nine hundred thorough devil of his father 's prophecy , might pray to the beast after dark , a Hindus pray to the Holy Cow .
That at least would be entirely right and logical , and the padre with the gold cross would be therefore the man to consult in the matter .
On the other hand , remember sober-faced padre whom he have avoid in Lahore city , the priest might be an inquisitive nuisance who would bid him learn .
But have it not be prove at Umballa that his sign in the high heaven portend War and arm men ?
Was he not the Friend of the Stars as well a of all the World , cram to the teeth with dreadful secret ?
Lastly -- and firstly a the undercurrent of all his quick thought -- this adventure , though he do not know the English word , be a stupendous lark -- a delightful continuation of his old flight across the housetop , as well a the fulfilment of sublime prophecy .
He lay belly-flat and wriggled towards the Mess-tent door , a hand on the amulet round his neck .
It be a he suspect .
The Sahibs pray to their God ; for in the centre of the Mess-table -- it sole ornament when they be on the line of march -- stand a golden bull fashion from old-time loot of the Summer Palace at Pekin -- a red-gold bull with lowered head , ramp upon a field of Irish green .
To him the Sahibs hold out their glass and cry aloud confusedly .
Now the Reverend Arthur Bennett always leave Mess after that toast , and be rather tire by his march his movement be more abrupt than usual .
Kim , with slightly raise head , be still star at his totem on the table , when the Chaplain step on his right shoulder-blade .
Kim flinch under the leather , and , roll sideways , bring down the Chaplain , who , ever a man of action , catch him by the throat and nearly choke the life out of him .
Kim then kick him desperately in the stomach .
Mr Bennett gasp and double up , but without relax his grip , roll over again , and silently haul Kim to his own tent .
The Mavericks be incurable practical joker ; and it occur to the Englishman that silence be best till he have make complete inquiry .
` Why , it 's a boy ! '
he say , a he draw his prize under the light of the tent-pole lantern , then shake him severely cry : ` What be you do ?
You 're a thief .
Choor ?
Mallum ? '
His Hindustani be very limited , and the ruffled and disgusted Kim intend to keep to the character lay down for him .
As he recover his breath he be invent a beautifully plausible tale of his relation to some scullion , and at the same time keep a keen eye on and a little under the Chaplain 's left arm-pit .
The chance come ; he duck for the doorway , but a long arm shot out and clutch at his neck , snap the amulet-string and closing on the amulet .
` Give it me .
O , give it me .
Is it lose ?
Give me the paper . '
The word be in English -- the tinny , saw-cut English of the native-bred , and the Chaplain jump . '
A scapular , ' say he , open his hand .
` No , some sort of heathen charm .
Why -- why , do you speak English ?
Little boy who steal be beat .
You know that ? ' '
I do not -- I do not steal . '
Kim dance in agony like a terrier at a lifted stick .
` Oh , give it me .
It be my charm .
Do not thieve it from me . '
The Chaplain take no heed , but , go to the tent door , call aloud .
A fattish , clean-shaven man appear . '
I want your advice , Father Victor , ' say Bennett . '
I find this boy in the dark outside the Mess-tent .
Ordinarily , I should have chastise him and let him go , because I believe him to be a thief .
But it seem he talk English , and he attach some sort of value to a charm round his neck .
I think perhaps you might help me . '
Between himself and the Roman Catholic Chaplain of the Irish contingent lay , a Bennett believe , an unbridgeable gulf , but it be noticeable that whenever the Church of England dealt with a human problem she be very likely to call in the Church of Rome .
Bennett 's official abhorrence of the Scarlet Woman and all her way be only equal by his private respect for Father Victor . '
A thief talk English , be it ?
Let 's look at his charm .
No , it 's not a scapular , Bennett . '
He hold out his hand .
` But have we any right to open it ?
A sound whipping -- ' ' I do not thieve , ' protest Kim .
` You have hit me kick all over my body .
Now give me my charm and I will go away . '
` Not quite so fast .
We 'll look first , ' say Father Victor , leisurely roll out poor Kimball O'Hara 's ` ne varietur ' parchment , his clearance-certificate , and Kim 's baptismal certificate .
On this last O'Hara -- with some confused idea that he be do wonder for his son -- have scrawl score of time : ` Look after the boy .
Please look after the boy ' -- sign his name and regimental number in full .
` Powers of Darkness below ! '
say Father Victor , pass all over to Mr Bennett .
` Do you know what these thing be ? '
` Yes . '
say Kim .
` They be mine , and I want to go away . ' '
I do not quite understand , ' say Mr Bennett .
` He probably bring them on purpose .
It may be a beg trick of some kind . ' '
I never saw a beggar less anxious to stay with his company , then .
There 's the making of a gay mystery here .
Ye believe in Providence , Bennett ? ' '
I hope so . '
` Well , I believe in miracle , so it come to the same thing .
Powers of Darkness !
Kimball O'Hara !
And his son !
But then he 's a native , and I saw Kimball marry myself to Annie Shott .
How long have you have these thing , boy ? '
` Ever since I be a little baby . '
Father Victor step forward quickly and open the front of Kim 's upper garment .
` You see , Bennett , he 's not very black .
What 's your name ? '
` Kim . '
` Or Kimball ? '
` Perhaps .
Will you let me go away ? '
` What else ? '
` They call me Kim Rishti ke .
That be Kim of the Rishti . '
` What be that -- `` Rishti '' ? '
` Eye-rishti -- that be the Regiment -- my father 's . '
` Irish -- oh , I see . '
` Yess .
That be how my father tell me .
My father , he have live . '
` Has live where ? '
` Has live .
Of course he be dead -- gone-out . '
` Oh !
That 's your abrupt way of put it , be it ? '
Bennett interrupt .
` It be possible I have do the boy an injustice .
He be certainly white , though evidently neglect .
I be sure I must have bruise him .
I do not think spirit -- ' ` Get him a glass of sherry , then , and let him squat on the cot .
Now , Kim , ' continue Father Victor , ` no one be go to hurt you .
Drink that down and tell u about yourself .
The truth , if you 've no objection . '
Kim cough a little a he put down the empty glass , and consider .
This seem a time for caution and fancy .
Small boy who prowl about camp be generally turn out after a whipping .
But he have receive no stripe ; the amulet be evidently work in his favour , and it look a though the Umballa horoscope and the few word that he could remember of his father 's maunderings fit in most miraculously .
Else why do the fat padre seem so impressed , and why the glass of hot yellow drink from the lean one ?
` My father , he be dead in Lahore city since I be very little .
The woman , she keep kabarri shop near where the hire-carriages be . '
Kim begin with a plunge , not quite sure how far the truth would serve him .
` Your mother ? '
` No ! '
-- with a gesture of disgust .
` She go out when I be bear .
My father , he get these paper from the Jadoo-Gher what do you call that ? '
-LRB- Bennett nod -RRB- ` because he be in good-standing .
What do you call that ? '
-LRB- again Bennett nod -RRB- .
` My father tell me that .
He say , too , and also the Brahmin who make the drawing in the dust at Umballa two day ago , he say , that I shall find a Red Bull on a green field and that the Bull shall help me . ' '
A phenomenal little liar , ' mutter Bennett .
` Powers of Darkness below , what a country ! '
murmur Father Victor .
` Go on , Kim . ' '
I do not thieve .
Besides , I be just now disciple of a very holy man .
He be sit outside .
We saw two men come with flag , make the place ready .
That be always so in a dream , or on account of a -- a -- prophecy .
So I know it be come true .
I saw the Red Bull on the green field , and my father he say : `` Nine hundred pukka devil and the Colonel riding on a horse will look after you when you find the Red Bull ! ''
I do not know what to do when I saw the Bull , but I go away and I come again when it be dark .
I want to see the Bull again , and I saw the Bull again with the -- the Sahibs praying to it .
I think the Bull shall help me .
The holy man say so too .
He be sit outside .
Will you hurt him , if I call him a shout now ?
He be very holy .
He can witness to all the thing I say , and he know I be not a thief . ' '
`` Sahibs pray to a bull ! ''
What in the world do you make of that ? '
say Bennett . ''
` Disciple of a holy man ! ''
Is the boy mad ? '
` It 's O'Hara 's boy , sure enough .
O'Hara 's boy league with all the Powers of Darkness .
It 's very much what his father would have do if he be drunk .
We 'd well invite the holy man .
He may know something . '
` He do not know anything , ' say Kim . '
I will show you him if you come .
He be my master .
Then afterwards we can go . '
` Powers of Darkness ! '
be all that Father Victor could say , a Bennett march off , with a firm hand on Kim 's shoulder .
They find the lama where he have drop .
` The Search be at an end for me , ' shout Kim in the vernacular . '
I have find the Bull , but God know what come next .
They will not hurt you .
Come to the fat priest 's tent with this thin man and see the end .
It be all new , and they can not talk Hindi .
They be only uncurried donkey . '
` Then it be not well to make a jest of their ignorance , ' the lama return . '
I be glad if thou art rejoice , chela . '
Dignified and unsuspicious , he stride into the little tent , salute the Churches a a Churchman , and sit down by the open charcoal brazier .
The yellow lining of the tent reflect in the lamplight make his face red-gold .
Bennett look at him with the triple-ringed uninterest of the creed that lump nine-tenths of the world under the title of ` heathen ' .
` And what be the end of the Search ?
What gift have the Red Bull bring ? '
The lama address himself to Kim .
` He say , `` What be you go to do ? '' '
Bennett be star uneasily at Father Victor , and Kim , for his own end , take upon himself the office of interpreter . '
I do not see what concern this fakir have with the boy , who be probably his dupe or his confederate , ' Bennett begin .
` We can not allow an English boy -- Assuming that he be the son of a Mason , the sooner he go to the Masonic Orphanage the good . '
` Ah !
That 's your opinion a Secretary to the Regimental Lodge , ' say Father Victor ; ` but we might as well tell the old man what we be go to do .
He do n't look like a villain . '
` My experience be that one can never fathom the Oriental mind .
Now , Kimball , I wish you to tell this man what I say word for word . '
Kim gather the import of the next few sentence and begin thus : ` Holy One , the thin fool who look like a camel say that I be the son of a Sahib . '
` But how ? '
` Oh , it be true .
I know it since my birth , but he could only find it out by rend the amulet from my neck and read all the paper .
He think that once a Sahib be always a Sahib , and between the two of them they purpose to keep me in this Regiment or to send me to a madrissah -LSB- a school -RSB- .
It have happen before .
I have always avoid it .
The fat fool be of one mind and the camel-like one of another .
But that be no odds .
I may spend one night here and perhaps the next .
It have happen before .
Then I will run away and return to thee . '
` But tell them that thou art my chela .
Tell them how thou didst come to me when I be faint and bewilder .
Tell them of our Search , and they will surely let thee go now . ' '
I have already tell them .
They laugh , and they talk of the police . '
` What be you say ? '
ask Mr Bennett .
` Oah .
He only say that if you do not let me go it will stop him in his business -- his ur-gent private af-fairs . '
This last be a reminiscence of some talk with a Eurasian clerk in the Canal Department , but it only draw a smile , which nettle him .
` And if you do know what his business be you would not be in such a beastly hurry to interfere . '
` What be it then ? '
say Father Victor , not without feel , a he watch the lama 's face .
` There be a River in this country which he wish to find so verree much .
It be put out by an Arrow which -- ' Kim tap his foot impatiently a he translate in his own mind from the vernacular to his clumsy English .
` Oah , it be make by our Lord God Buddha , you know , and if you wash there you be wash away from all your sin and make as white a cotton-wool . '
-LRB- Kim have hear mission-talk in his time . -RRB- '
I be his disciple , and we must find that River .
It be so verree valuable to u . '
` Say that again , ' say Bennett .
Kim obey , with amplification .
` But this be gross blasphemy ! '
cry the Church of England .
` Tck !
Tck ! '
say Father Victor sympathetically .
` I 'd give a good deal to be able to talk the vernacular .
A river that wash away sin !
And how long have you two be look for it ? '
` Oh , many day .
Now we wish to go away and look for it again .
It be not here , you see . ' '
I see , ' say Father Victor gravely .
` But he ca n't go on in that old man 's company .
It would be different , Kim , if you be not a soldier 's son .
Tell him that the Regiment will take care of you and make you a good a man a your -- a good a man a can be .
Tell him that if he believe in miracle he must believe that -- ' ` There be no need to play on his credulity , ' Bennett interrupt .
` I 'm do no such thing .
He must believe that the boy 's come here -- to his own Regiment -- in search of his Red Bull be in the nature of a miracle .
Consider the chance against it , Bennett .
This one boy in all India , and our Regiment of all others on the line o ' march for him to meet with !
It 's predestine on the face of it .
Yes , tell him it 's Kismet .
Kismet , mallum ?
-LSB- Do you understand ? -RSB- '
He turn towards the lama , to whom he might as well have talk of Mesopotamia .
` They say , ' -- the old man 's eye light at Kim 's speech ` they say that the meaning of my horoscope be now accomplish , and that be lead back -- though a thou knowest I go out of curiosity -- to these people and their Red Bull I must need go to a madrissah and be turn into a Sahib .
Now I make pretence of agreement , for at the bad it will be but a few meal eat away from thee .
Then I will slip away and follow down the road to Saharunpore .
Therefore , Holy One , keep with that Kulu woman -- on no account stray far from her cart till I come again .
Past question , my sign be of War and of arm men .
See how they have give me wine to drink and set me upon a bed of honour !
My father must have be some great person .
So if they raise me to honour among them , good .
If not , good again .
However it go , I will run back to thee when I be tire .
But stay with the Rajputni , or I shall miss thy foot ... Oah yes , ' say the boy , ' I have tell him everything you tell me to say . '
` And I can not see any need why he should wait , ' say Bennett , feel in his trouser-pocket .
` We can investigate the detail later -- and I will give him a ru -- ' ` Give him time .
Maybe he 's fond of the lad , ' say Father Victor , half arrest the clergyman 's motion .
The lama drag forth his rosary and pull his huge hat-brim over his eye .
` What can he want now ? '
` He say ' -- Kim put up one hand .
` He say : `` Be quiet . ''
He want to speak to me by himself .
You see , you do not know one little word of what he say , and I think if you talk he will perhaps give you very bad curse .
When he take those bead like that , you see , he always want to be quiet . '
The two Englishmen sit overwhelmed , but there be a look in Bennett 's eye that promise ill for Kim when he should be relax to the religious arm . '
A Sahib and the son of a Sahib -- ' The lama 's voice be harsh with pain .
` But no white man know the land and the custom of the land a thou knowest .
How come it this be true ? '
` What matter , Holy One ?
-- but remember it be only for a night or two .
Remember , I can change swiftly .
It will all be a it be when I first speak to thee under Zam-Zammah the great gun -- ' ` As a boy in the dress of white men -- when I first go to the Wonder House .
And a second time thou wast a Hindu .
What shall the third incarnation be ? '
He chuckle drearily .
` Ah , chela , thou have do a wrong to an old man because my heart go out to thee . '
` And mine to thee .
But how could I know that the Red Bull would bring me to this business ? '
The lama cover his face afresh , and nervously rattle the rosary .
Kim squat beside him and lay hold upon a fold of his clothing .
` Now it be understood that the boy be a Sahib ? '
he go on in a muffled tone .
` Such a Sahib a be he who keep the image in the Wonder House . '
The lama 's experience of white men be limit .
He seem to be repeat a lesson .
` So then it be not seemly that he should do other than a the Sahibs do .
He must go back to his own people . '
` For a day and a night and a day , ' Kim plead .
` No , ye do n't ! '
Father Victor saw Kim edge towards the door , and interpose a strong leg . '
I do not understand the custom of white men .
The Priest of the Images in the Wonder House in Lahore be more courteous than the thin one here .
This boy will be take from me .
They will make a Sahib of my disciple ?
Woe to me !
How shall I find my River ?
Have they no disciple ?
Ask . '
` He say he be very sorree that he can not find the River now any more .
He say , Why have you no disciple , and stop bother him ?
He want to be wash of his sin . '
Neither Bennett nor Father Victor find any answer ready .
Said Kim in English , distress for the lama 's agony : ' I think if you will let me go now we will walk away quietly and not steal .
We will look for that River like before I be catch .
I wish I do not come here to find the Red Bull and all that sort of thing .
I do not want it . '
` It 's the very best day 's work you ever do for yourself , young man , ' say Bennett .
` Good heaven , I do n't know how to console him , ' say Father Victor , watch the lama intently .
` He ca n't take the boy away with him , and yet he 's a good man -- I 'm sure he 's a good man .
Bennett , if you give him that rupee he 'll curse you root and branch ! '
They listen to each other 's breathing -- three -- five full minute .
Then the lama raise his head , and look forth across them into space and emptiness .
` And I be a Follower of the Way , ' he say bitterly .
` The sin be mine and the punishment be mine .
I make believe to myself for now I see it be but make-belief -- that thou wast send to me to aid in the Search .
So my heart go out to thee for thy charity and thy courtesy and the wisdom of thy little year .
But those who follow the Way must permit not the fire of any desire or attachment , for that be all Illusion .
As say ... ' He quote an old , old Chinese text , back it with another , and reinforce these with a third . '
I step aside from the Way , my chela .
It be no fault of thine .
I delight in the sight of life , the new people upon the road , and in thy joy at see these thing .
I be pleased with thee who should have consider my Search and my Search alone .
Now I be sorrowful because thou art take away and my River be far from me .
It be the Law which I have break ! '
` Powers of Darkness below ! '
say Father Victor , who , wise in the confessional , hear the pain in every sentence . '
I see now that the sign of the Red Bull be a sign for me as well a for thee .
All Desire be red -- and evil .
I will do penance and find my River alone . '
` At least go back to the Kulu woman , ' say Kim , ` otherwise thou wilt be lose upon the road .
She will fee thee till I run back to thee . '
The lama wave a hand to show that the matter be finally settle in his mind .
` Now , ' -- his tone alter a he turn to Kim , -- ` what will they do with thee ?
At least I may , acquire merit , wipe out past ill . '
` Make me a Sahib -- so they think .
The day after tomorrow I return .
Do not grieve . '
` Of what sort ?
Such an one a this or that man ? '
He point to Father Victor .
` Such an one a those I saw this evening , men wear sword and stamp heavily ? '
` Maybe . '
` That be not well .
These men follow desire and come to emptiness .
Thou must not be of their sort . '
` The Umballa priest say that my Star be War , ' Kim interject . '
I will ask these fool -- but there be truly no need .
I will run away this night , for all I want to see the new thing . '
Kim put two or three question in English to Father Victor , translate the reply to the lama .
Then : ` He say , `` You take him from me and you can not say what you will make him . ''
He say , `` Tell me before I go , for it be not a small thing to make a child . '' '
` You will be send to a school .
Later on , we shall see .
Kimball , I suppose you 'd like to be a soldier ? '
` Gorah-log -LSB- white-folk -RSB- .
No-ah !
No-ah ! '
Kim shake his head violently .
There be nothing in his composition to which drill and routine appeal . '
I will not be a soldier . '
` You will be what you 're tell to be , ' say Bennett ; ` and you should be grateful that we 're go to help you . '
Kim smile compassionately .
If these men lay under the delusion that he would do anything that he do not fancy , so much the good .
Another long silence follow .
Bennett fidget with impatience , and suggest call a sentry to evict the fakir .
` Do they give or sell learning among the Sahibs ?
Ask them , ' say the lama , and Kim interpret .
` They say that money be pay to the teacher -- but that money the Regiment will give ... What need ?
It be only for a night . '
` And -- the more money be pay the good learning be give ? '
The lama disregard Kim 's plan for an early flight .
` It be no wrong to pay for learning .
To help the ignorant to wisdom be always a merit . '
The rosary click furiously a an abacus .
Then he face his oppressor .
` Ask them for how much money do they give a wise and suitable teaching ?
And in what city be that teach give ? '
` Well , ' say Father Victor in English , when Kim have translate , ` that depend .
The Regiment would pay for you all the time you be at the Military Orphanage ; or you might go on the Punjab Masonic Orphanage 's list -LRB- not that he or you ` ud understand what that mean -RRB- ; but the best school a boy can get in India be , of course , at St Xavier 's in Partibus at Lucknow . '
This take some time to interpret , for Bennett wish to cut it short .
` He want to know how much ? '
say Kim placidly .
` Two or three hundred rupee a year . '
Father Victor be long past any sense of amazement .
Bennett , impatient , do not understand .
` He say : `` Write that name and the money upon a paper and give it him . ''
And he say you must write your name below , because he be go to write a letter in some day to you .
He say you be a good man .
He say the other man be a fool .
He be go away . '
The lama rise suddenly . '
I follow my Search , ' he cry , and be go .
` He 'll run slap into the sentry , ' cry Father Victor , jump up a the lama stalk out ; ` but I ca n't leave the boy . '
Kim make swift motion to follow , but check himself .
There be no sound of challenge outside .
The lama have disappear .
Kim settle himself composedly on the Chaplain 's cot .
At least the lama have promise that he would stay with the Raiput woman from Kulu , and the rest be of the small importance .
It please him that the two padre be so evidently excite .
They talk long in undertone , Father Victor urge some scheme on Mr Bennett , who seem incredulous .
All this be very new and fascinating , but Kim felt sleepy .
They call men into the tent -- one of them certainly be the Colonel , a his father have prophesy -- and they ask him an infinity of question , chiefly about the woman who look after him , all of which Kim answer truthfully .
They do not seem to think the woman a good guardian .
After all , this be the new of his experience .
Sooner or later , if he choose , he could escape into great , grey , formless India , beyond tent and padre and colonel .
Meantime , if the Sahibs be to be impressed , he would do his best to impress them .
He too be a white man .
After much talk that he could not comprehend , they hand him over to a sergeant , who have strict instruction not to let him escape .
The Regiment would go on to Umballa , and Kim would be send up , partly at the expense of the Lodge and in part by subscription , to a place call Sanawar .
` It 's miraculous past all whooping , Colonel , ' say Father Victor , when he have talk without a break for ten minute .
` His Buddhist friend have levant after take my name and address .
I ca n't quite make out whether he 'll pay for the boy 's education or whether he be prepare some sort of witchcraft on his own account . '
Then to Kim : ` You 'll live to be grateful to your friend the Red Bull yet .
We 'll make a man of you at Sanawar -- even at the price o ' make you a Protestant . '
` Certainly -- most certainly , ' say Bennett .
` But you will not go to Sanawar , ' say Kim .
` But we will go to Sanawar , little man .
That 's the order of the Commander-in-Chief , who 's a trifle more important than O'Hara 's son . '
` You will not go to Sanawar .
You will go to thee War . '
There be a shout of laughter from the full tent .
` When you know your own Regiment a trifle well you wo n't confuse the line of march with line of battle , Kim .
We hope to go to `` thee War '' sometime . '
` Oah , I know all thatt . '
Kim draw his bow again at a venture .
If they be not go to the war , at least they do not know what he know of the talk in the veranda at Umballa . '
I know you be not at thee war now ; but I tell you that as soon a you get to Umballa you will be send to the war -- the new war .
It be a war of eight thousand men , besides the gun . '
` That 's explicit .
D'you add prophecy to your other gift ?
Take him along , sergeant .
Take up a suit for him from the Drums , an ' take care he do n't slip through your finger .
Who say the age of miracle be go by ?
I think I 'll go to bed .
My poor mind 's weakening . '
At the far end of the camp , silent a a wild animal , an hour later sit Kim , newly wash all over , in a horrible stiff suit that rasp his arm and leg . '
A most amazin ' young bird , ' say the sergeant .
` He turn up in charge of a yellow-headed buck-Brahmin priest , with his father 's Lodge certificate round his neck , talkin ' God know what all of a red bull .
The buck-Brahmin evaporates without explanation , an ' the bhoy set cross-legged on the Chaplain 's bed prophesyin ' bloody war to the men at large .
Injia 's a wild land for a God-fearin ' man .
I 'll just tie his leg to the tent-pole in case he 'll go through the roof .
What do ye say about the war ? '
` Eight thousand men , besides gun , ' say Kim .
` Very soon you will see . '
` You 're a consolin ' little imp .
Lie down between the Drums an ' go to bye-bye .
Those two boy will watch your slumber . '
Chapter 6 Now I remember comrade -- Old playmates on new sea -- Whenas we trade orpiment Among the savage .
Ten thousand league to southward , And thirty year remove -- They know not noble Valdez , But me they know and love .
Song of Diego Valdez .
Very early in the morning the white tent come down and disappear a the Mavericks take a side-road to Umballa .
It do not skirt the resting-place , and Kim , trudge beside a baggage-cart under fire of comment from soldier ' wife , be not so confident a overnight .
He discover that he be closely watch -- Father Victor on the one side , and Mr Bennett on the other .
In the forenoon the column check .
A camel-orderly hand the Colonel a letter .
He read it , and speak to a Major .
Half a mile in the rear , Kim hear a hoarse and joyful clamour roll down on him through the thick dust .
Then someone beat him on the back , cry : ` Tell u how ye knew , ye little limb of Satan ?
Father dear , see if ye can make him tell . '
A pony range alongside , and he be haul on to the priest 's saddlebow .
` Now , my son , your prophecy of last night have come true .
Our order be to entrain at Umballa for the Front tomorrow . '
` What be thatt ? '
say Kim , for ` front ' and ` entrain ' be newish word to him .
` We be go to `` thee War , '' a you call it . '
` Of course you be go to thee War .
I say last night . '
` Ye do ; but , Powers o ' Darkness , how do ye know ? '
Kim 's eye sparkle .
He shut his lip , nod his head , and look unspeakable thing .
The Chaplain move on through the dust , and private , sergeant , and subaltern call one another 's attention to the boy .
The Colonel , at the head of the column , star at him curiously .
` It be probably some bazar rumour . '
he say ; ` but even then -- ' He refer to the paper in his hand .
` Hang it all , the thing be only decide within the last forty-eight hour . '
` Are there many more like you in India ? '
say Father Victor , ` or be you by way o ' be a lusus naturae ? '
` Now I have tell you , ' say the boy , ` will you let me go back to my old man ?
If he have not stay with that woman from Kulu , I be afraid he will die . '
` By what I saw of him he 's as well able to take care of himself a you .
No .
Ye 've bring u luck , an ' we 're goin ' to make a man of you .
I 'll take ye back to your baggage-cart and ye 'll come to me this evening . '
For the rest of the day Kim find himself an object of distinguished consideration among a few hundred white men .
The story of his appearance in camp , the discovery of his parentage , and his prophecy , have lose nothing in the telling .
A big , shapeless white woman on a pile of bed ask him mysteriously whether he think her husband would come back from the war .
Kim reflect gravely , and say that he would , and the woman give him food .
In many respect , this big procession that play music at interval -- this crowd that talk and laugh so easily -- resemble a festival in Lahore city .
So far , there be no sign of hard work , and he resolve to lend the spectacle his patronage .
At even there come out to meet them band of music , and play the Mavericks into camp near Umballa railway station .
That be an interesting night .
Men of other regiment come to visit the Mavericks .
The Mavericks go visit on their own account .
Their picket hurry forth to bring them back , meet picket of strange regiment on the same duty ; and , after a while , the bugle blow madly for more picket with officer to control the tumult .
The Mavericks have a reputation for liveliness to live up to .
But they fell in on the platform next morning in perfect shape and condition ; and Kim , leave behind with the sick , woman , and boy , find himself shout farewell excitedly a the train draw away .
Life a a Sahib be amuse so far ; but he touch it with a cautious hand .
Then they march him back in charge of a drummer-boy to empty , lime-washed barrack , whose floor be cover with rubbish and string and paper , and whose ceiling give back his lonely footfall .
Native-fashion , he curl himself up on a stripped cot and go to sleep .
An angry man stump down the veranda , wake him up , and say he be a schoolmaster .
This be enough for Kim , and he retire into his shell .
He could just puzzle out the various English Police notice in Lahore city , because they affect his comfort ; and among the many guest of the woman who look after him have be a queer German who paint scenery for the Parsee travel theatre .
He tell Kim that he have be ` on the barricade in ` Forty-eight , ' and therefore -- at least that be how it strike Kim -- he would teach the boy to write in return for food .
Kim have be kick as far a single letter , but do not think well of them . '
I do not know anything .
Go away ! '
say Kim , scent evil .
Hereupon the man catch him by the ear , drag him to a room in a far-off wing where a dozen drummer-boys be sit on form , and tell him to be still if he could do nothing else .
This he manage very successfully .
The man explain something or other with white line on a black board for at least half an hour , and Kim continue his interrupted nap .
He much disapprove of the present aspect of affair , for this be the very school and discipline he have spend two-thirds of his young life in avoid .
Suddenly a beautiful idea occur to him , and he wonder that he have not think of it before .
The man dismiss them , and first to spring through the veranda into the open sunshine be Kim . ''
Ere , you !
` Alt !
Stop ! '
say a high voice at his heel .
` I 've get to look after you .
My order be not to let you out of my sight .
Where be you goin ' ? '
It be the drummer-boy who have be hang round him all the forenoon -- a fat and freckle person of about fourteen , and Kim loathe him from the sol of his boot to his cap-ribbons .
` To the bazar -- to get sweet -- for you , ' say Kim , after think .
` Well , the bazar 's out o ' bound .
If we go there we 'll get a dressing-down .
You come back . '
` How near can we go ? '
Kim do not know what bound meant , but he wish to be polite -- for the present . ''
Ow near ?
` Ow far , you mean !
We can go as far a that tree down the road . '
` Then I will go there . '
` All right .
I ai n't goin ' .
It 's too ` ot .
I can watch you from ` ere .
It 's no good your runnin ' away .
If you do , they 'd spot you by your clothes .
That 's regimental stuff you 're wearin ' .
There ai n't a picket in Umballa would n't ` ead you back quick than you start out . '
This do not impress Kim as much a the knowledge that his raiment would tire him out if he try to run .
He slouch to the tree at the corner of a bare road lead towards the bazar , and eye the native passing .
Most of them be barrack-servants of the low caste .
Kim hail a sweeper , who promptly retort with a piece of unnecessary insolence , in the natural belief that the European boy could not follow it .
The low , quick answer undeceive him .
Kim put his fettered soul into it , thankful for the late chance to abuse somebody in the tongue he know best .
` And now , go to the near letter-writer in the bazar and tell him to come here .
I would write a letter . '
` But -- but what manner of white man 's son art thou to need a bazar letter-writer ?
Is there not a schoolmaster in the barrack ? '
` Ay ; and Hell be full of the same sort .
Do my order , you -- you Od !
Thy mother be marry under a basket !
Servant of Lal Beg ' -LRB- Kim know the God of the sweeper -RRB- , ` run on my business or we will talk again . '
The sweeper shuffle off in haste .
` There be a white boy by the barrack wait under a tree who be not a white boy , ' he stammer to the first bazar letter-writer he come across .
` He need thee . '
` Will he pay ? '
say the spruce scribe , gather up his desk and pen and sealing-wax all in order . '
I do not know .
He be not like other boy .
Go and see .
It be well worth . '
Kim dance with impatience when the slim young Kayeth hove in sight .
As soon a his voice could carry he curse him volubly .
` First I will take my pay , ' the letter-writer say .
` Bad word have make the price high .
But who art thou , dress in that fashion , to speak in this fashion ? '
` Aha !
That be in the letter which thou shalt write .
Never be such a tale .
But I be in no haste .
Another writer will serve me .
Umballa city be a full of them a be Lahore . '
` Four anna , ' say the writer , sit down and spread his cloth in the shade of a deserted barrack-wing .
Mechanically Kim squat beside him -- squat a only the native can -- in spite of the abominable clinging trouser .
The writer regard him sideways .
` That be the price to ask of Sahibs , ' say Kim .
` Now fix me a true one . '
` An anna and a half .
How do I know , have write the letter , that thou wilt not run away ? '
I must not go beyond this tree , and there be also the stamp to be consider . ' '
I get no commission on the price of the stamp .
Once more , what manner of white boy art thou ? '
` That shall be say in the letter , which be to Mahbub Ali , the horse-dealer in the Kashmir Serai , at Lahore .
He be my friend . '
` Wonder on wonder ! '
murmur the letter-writer , dip a reed in the inkstand .
` To be write in Hindi ? '
` Assuredly .
To Mahbub Ali then .
Begin !
I have come down with the old man as far a Umballa in the train .
At Umballa I carry the news of the bay mare 's pedigree . '
After what he have see in the garden , he be not go to write of white stallion .
` Slower a little .
What have a bay mare to do ... Is it Mahbub Ali , the great dealer ? '
` Who else ?
I have be in his service .
Take more ink .
Again .
As the order be , so I do it .
We then go on foot towards Benares , but on the third day we find a certain regiment .
Is that down ? '
` Ay , pulton , ' murmur the writer , all ear . '
I go into their camp and be catch , and by mean of the charm about my neck , which thou knowest , it be establish that I be the son of some man in the regiment : accord to the prophecy of the Red Bull , which thou knowest be common talk of our bazar . '
Kim wait for this shaft to sink into the letter-writer 's heart , clear his throat , and continue : ' A priest clothe me and give me a new name ... One priest , however , be a fool .
The clothes be very heavy , but I be a Sahib and my heart be heavy too .
They send me to a school and beat me .
I do not like the air and water here .
Come then and help me , Mahbub Ali , or send me some money , for I have not sufficient to pay the writer who write this . ' '
`` Who write this . ''
It be my own fault that I be trick .
Thou art as clever a Husain Bux that forge the Treasury stamp at Nucklao .
But what a tale !
What a tale !
Is it true by any chance ? '
` It do not profit to tell lie to Mahbub Ali .
It be well to help his friend by lend them a stamp .
When the money come I will repay . '
The writer grunt doubtfully , but take a stamp out of his desk , seal the letter , hand it over to Kim , and depart .
Mahbub Ali 's be a name of power in Umballa .
` That be the way to win a good account with the Gods , ' Kim shout after him .
` Pay me twice over when the money come , ' the man cry over his shoulder .
` What be you bukkin ' to that nigger about ? '
say the drummer-boy when Kim return to the veranda . '
I be watch-in ' you . ' '
I be only talkin ' to him . '
` You talk the same a a nigger , do n't you ? '
` No-ah !
No-ah !
I onlee speak a little .
What shall we do now ? '
` The bugle 'll go for dinner in arf a minute .
My Gawd !
I wish I 'd go up to the Front with the Regiment .
It 's awful doin ' nothin ' but school down ` ere .
Do n't you ` eat it ? '
` Oah yes ! '
I 'd run away if I know where to go to , but , a the men say , in this bloomin ' Injia you 're only a prisoner at large .
You ca n't desert without bein ' take back at once .
I 'm fair sick of it . '
` You have be in Be -- England ? '
` W ` y , I only come out last troopin ' season with my mother .
I should think I ` ave be in England .
What a ignorant little beggar you be !
You be bring up in the gutter , be n't you ? '
` Oah yes .
Tell me something about England .
My father he come from there . '
Though he would not say so , Kim of course disbelieve every word the drummer-boy spoke about the Liverpool suburb which be his England .
It pass the heavy time till dinner -- a most unappetizing meal serve to the boy and a few invalid in a corner of a barrack-room .
But that he have write to Mahbub Ali , Kim would have be almost depress .
The indifference of native crowd he be use to ; but this strong loneliness among white men prey on him .
He be grateful when , in the course of the afternoon , a big soldier take him over to Father Victor , who live in another wing across another dusty parade-ground .
The priest be read an English letter write in purple ink .
He look at Kim more curiously than ever .
` An ' how do you like it , my son , as far a you 've go ?
Not much , eh ?
It must be hard -- very hard on a wild animal .
Listen now .
I 've an amazin ' epistle from your friend . '
` Where be he ?
Is he well ?
Oah !
If he know to write me letter , it be all right . '
` You 're fond of him then ? '
` Of course I be fond of him .
He be fond of me . '
` It seem so by the look of this .
He ca n't write English , can he ? '
` Oah no .
Not that I know , but of course he find a letter-writer who can write English verree well , and so he write .
I do hope you understand . '
` That account for it .
D'you know anything about his money affair ? '
Kim 's face show that he do not .
` How can I tell ? '
` That 's what I 'm askin ' .
Now listen if you can make head or tail o ' this .
We 'll skip the first part ... It 's write from Jagadhir Road ... `` Sitting on wayside in grave meditation , trust to be favour with your Honour 's applause of present step , which recommend your Honour to execute for Almighty God 's sake .
Education be great bless if of best sort .
Otherwise no earthly use . ''
Faith , the old man 's hit the bull 's - eye that time !
`` If your Honour condescending give my boy best education Xavier '' -LRB- I suppose that 's St Xavier 's in Partibus -RRB- `` in term of our conversation date in your tent 15th instant '' -LRB- a business-like touch there ! -RRB-
`` then Almighty God bless your Honour 's succeedings to third an ' fourth generation and '' -- now listen !
-- `` confide in your Honour 's humble servant for adequate remuneration per hoondi per annum three hundred rupee a year to one expensive education St Xavier , Lucknow , and allow small time to forward same per hoondi sent to any part of India a your Honour shall address yourself .
This servant of your Honour have presently no place to lay crown of his head , but go to Benares by train on account of persecution of old woman talk so much and unanxious reside Saharunpore in any domestic capacity . ''
Now what in the world do that mean ? '
` She have ask him to be her puro -- her clergyman -- at Saharunpore , I think .
He would not do that on account of his River .
She do talk . '
` It 's clear to you , be it ?
It beat me altogether .
`` So go to Benares , where will find address and forward rupee for boy who be apple of eye , and for Almighty God 's sake execute this education , and your petitioner a in duty bound shall ever awfully pray .
Written by Sobrao Satai , Failed Entrance Allahabad University , for Venerable Teshoo Lama the priest of Such-zen look for a River , address care of Tirthankars ' Temple , Benares .
P. M. -- Please note boy be apple of eye , and rupees shall be send per hoondi three hundred per annum .
For God Almighty 's sake . ''
Now , be that ravin ' lunacy or a business proposition ?
I ask you , because I 'm fairly at my wit ' end . '
` He say he will give me three hundred rupee a year ?
So he will give me them . '
` Oh , that 's the way you look at it , be it ? '
` Of course .
If he say so ! '
The priest whistle ; then he address Kim a an equal . '
I do n't believe it ; but we 'll see .
You be goin ' off today to the Military Orphanage at Sanawar , where the Regiment would keep you till you be old enough to enlist .
Ye 'd be bring up to the Church of England .
Bennett arrange for that .
On the other hand , if ye go to St Xavier 's ye 'll get a good education an -- an can have the religion .
D 'ye see my dilemma ?
Kim saw nothing save a vision of the lama go south in a train with none to beg for him .
` Like most people , I 'm go to temporize .
If your friend send the money from Benares -- Powers of Darkness below , where 's a street-beggar to raise three hundred rupee ?
-- ye 'll go down to Lucknow and I 'll pay your fare , because I ca n't touch the subscription-money if I intend , a I do , to make ye a Catholic .
If he do n't , ye 'll go to the Military Orphanage at the Regiment 's expense .
I 'll allow him three day ' grace , though I do n't believe it at all .
Even then , if he fail in his payment later on ... but it 's beyond me .
We can only walk one step at a time in this world , praise God !
An ' they send Bennett to the Front an ' leave me behind .
Bennett ca n't expect everything . '
` Oah yes , ' say Kim vaguely .
The priest lean forward .
` I 'd give a month 's pay to find what 's goin ' on inside that little round head of yours . '
` There be nothing , ' say Kim , and scratch it .
He be wonder whether Mahbub Ali would send him as much a a whole rupee .
Then he could pay the letter-writer and write letter to the lama at Benares .
Perhaps Mahbub Ali would visit him next time he come south with horse .
Surely he must know that Kim 's delivery of the letter to the officer at Umballa have cause the great war which the men and boy have discuss so loudly over the barrack dinner-tables .
But if Mahbub Ali do not know this , it would be very unsafe to tell him so .
Mahbub Ali be hard upon boy who know , or think they know , too much .
` Well , till I get further news ' -- Father Victor 's voice interrupt the reverie .
` Ye can run along now and play with the other boy .
They 'll teach ye something -- but I do n't think ye 'll like it . '
The day drag to it weary end .
When he wish to sleep he be instruct how to fold up his clothes and set out his boot ; the other boy deride .
Bugles wake him in the dawn ; the schoolmaster catch him after breakfast , thrust a page of meaningless character under his nose , give them senseless name and whack him without reason .
Kim meditate poison him with opium borrow from a barrack-sweeper , but reflect that , a they all eat at one table in public -LRB- this be peculiarly revolt to Kim , who prefer to turn his back on the world at meal -RRB- , the stroke might be dangerous .
Then he attempt run off to the village where the priest have try to drug the lama -- the village where the old soldier live .
But far-seeing sentry at every exit head back the little scarlet figure .
Trousers and jacket cripple body and mind alike so he abandon the project and fell back , Oriental-fashion , on time and chance .
Three day of torment pass in the big , echo white room .
He walk out of afternoon under escort of the drummer-boy , and all he hear from his companion be the few useless word which seem to make two-thirds of the white man 's abuse .
Kim know and despise them all long ago .
The boy resent his silence and lack of interest by beat him , a be only natural .
He do not care for any of the bazar which be in bound .
He style all native ` nigger ' ; yet servant and sweeper call him abominable name to his face , and , mislead by their deferential attitude , he never understand .
This somewhat consoled Kim for the beating .
On the morning of the fourth day a judgement overtook that drummer .
They have go out together towards Umballa racecourse .
He return alone , weep , with news that young O'Hara , to whom he have be do nothing in particular , have hail a scarlet-bearded nigger on horseback ; that the nigger have then and there lay into him with a peculiarly adhesive quirt , pick up young O'Hara , and bear him off at full gallop .
These tidings come to Father Victor , and he draw down his long upper lip .
He be already sufficiently startle by a letter from the Temple of the Tirthankars at Benares , enclose a native banker 's note of hand for three hundred rupee , and an amazing prayer to ` Almighty God ' .
The lama would have be more annoyed than the priest have he know how the bazar letter-writer have translate his phrase ` to acquire merit . '
` Powers of Darkness below ! '
Father Victor fumble with the note .
` An ' now he 's off with another of his peep-o ' - day friend .
I do n't know whether it will be a great relief to me to get him back or to have him lose .
He 's beyond my comprehension .
How the Divil -- yes , he 's the man I mean -- can a street-beggar raise money to educate white boy ? '
Three mile off , on Umballa racecourse , Mahbub Ali , rein a grey Kabuli stallion with Kim in front of him , be say : ` But , Little Friend of all the World , there be my honour and reputation to be consider .
All the officer-Sahibs in all the regiment , and all Umballa , know Mahbub Ali .
Men saw me pick thee up and chastise that boy .
We be see now from far across this plain .
How can I take thee away , or account for thy disappear if I set thee down and let thee run off into the crop ?
They would put me in jail .
Be patient .
Once a Sahib , always a Sahib .
When thou art a man -- who know ?
-- thou wilt be grateful to Mahbub Ali . '
` Take me beyond their sentry where I can change this red .
Give me money and I will go to Benares and be with my lama again .
I do not want to be a Sahib , and remember I do deliver that message . '
The stallion bound wildly .
Mahbub Ali have incautiously drive home the sharp-edged stirrup .
-LRB- He be not the new sort of fluent horse-dealer who wear English boot and spur . -RRB-
Kim draw his own conclusion from that betrayal .
` That be a small matter .
It lay on the straight road to Benares .
I and the Sahib have by this time forget it .
I send so many letter and message to men who ask question about horse , I can not well remember one from the other .
Was it some matter of a bay mare that Peters Sahib wish the pedigree of ? '
Kim saw the trap at once .
If he have say ` bay mare ' Mahbub would have know by his very readiness to fall in with the amendment that the boy suspect something .
Kim reply therefore : ` Bay mare .
No .
I do not forget my message thus .
It be a white stallion . '
` Ay , so it be .
A white Arab stallion .
But thou didst write `` bay mare '' to me . '
` Who care to tell truth to a letter-writer ? '
Kim answer , feel Mahbub 's palm on his heart .
` Hi !
Mahbub , you old villain , pull up ! '
cry a voice , and an Englishman race alongside on a little polo-pony .
` I 've be chase you half over the country .
That Kabuli of yours can go .
For sale , I suppose ? ' '
I have some young stuff come on make by Heaven for the delicate and difficult polo-game .
He have no equal .
He -- ' ` Plays polo and wait at table .
Yes .
We know all that .
What the deuce have you get there ? '
` A. boy , ' say Mahbub gravely .
` He be be beat by another boy .
His father be once a white soldier in the big war .
The boy be a child in Lahore city .
He play with my horse when he be a babe .
Now I think they will make him a soldier .
He have be newly catch by his father 's Regiment that go up to the war last week .
But I do not think he want to be a soldier .
I take him for a ride .
Tell me where thy barrack be and I will set thee there . '
` Let me go .
I can find the barrack alone . '
` And if thou runnest away who will say it be not my fault ? '
` He 'll run back to his dinner .
Where have he to run to ? '
the Englishman ask .
` He be bear in the land .
He have friend .
He go where he choose .
He be a chabuk sawai -LSB- a sharp chap -RSB- .
It need only to change his clothing , and in a twinkling he would be a low-caste Hindu boy . '
` The deuce he would ! '
The Englishman look critically at the boy a Mahbub head towards the barrack .
Kim ground his teeth .
Mahbub be mock him , a faithless Afghans will ; for he go on : ` They will send him to a school and put heavy boot on his foot and swaddle him in these clothes .
Then he will forget all he know .
Now , which of the barrack be thine ? '
Kim point -- he could not speak -- to Father Victor 's wing , all star white near by .
` Perhaps he will make a good soldier , ' say Mahbub reflectively .
` He will make a good orderly at least .
I send him to deliver a message once from Lahore .
A message concern the pedigree of a white stallion . '
Here be deadly insult on deadly injury -- and the Sahib to whom he have so craftily give that war-waking letter hear it all .
Kim behold Mahbub Ali frying in flame for his treachery , but for himself he saw one long grey vista of barrack , school , and barrack again .
He gaze imploringly at the clear-cut face in which there be no glimmer of recognition ; but even at this extremity it never occur to him to throw himself on the white man 's mercy or to denounce the Afghan .
And Mahbub star deliberately at the Englishman , who star a deliberately at Kim , quiver and tongue-tied .
` My horse be well trained , ' say the dealer .
` Others would have kick , Sahib . '
` Ah , ' say the Englishman at last , rub his pony 's damp withers with his whip-butt .
` Who make the boy a soldier ? '
` He say the Regiment that find him , and especially the Padre-sahib of that regiment .
` There be the Padre ! '
Kim choke a bare-headed Father Victor sail down upon them from the veranda .
` Powers O ' Darkness below , O'Hara !
How many more mixed friend do you keep in Asia ? '
he cry , a Kim slide down and stand helplessly before him .
` Good morning , Padre , ' the Englishman say cheerily . '
I know you by reputation well enough .
Meant to have come over and call before this .
I 'm Creighton . '
` Of the Ethnological Survey ? '
say Father Victor .
The Englishman nod .
` Faith , I 'm glad to meet ye then ; an ' I owe you some thanks for bring back the boy . '
` No thanks to me , Padre .
Besides , the boy be n't go away .
You do n't know old Mahbub Ali . '
The horse-dealer sit impassive in the sunlight .
` You will when you have be in the station a month .
He sell u all our crock .
That boy be rather a curiosity .
Can you tell me anything about him ? '
` Can I tell you ? '
puffed Father Victor .
` You 'll be the one man that could help me in my quandary .
Tell you !
Powers o ' Darkness , I 'm burst to tell someone who know something o ' the native ! '
A groom come round the corner .
Colonel Creighton raise his voice , speak in Urdu .
` Very good , Mahbub Ali , but what be the use of tell me all those story about the pony ?
Not one pice more than three hundred and fifty rupee will I give . '
` The Sahib be a little hot and angry after rid , ' the horse-dealer return , with the leer of a privileged jester .
` Presently , he will see my horse 's point more clearly .
I will wait till he have finish his talk with the Padre .
I will wait under that tree . '
` Confound you ! '
The Colonel laugh .
` That come of look at one of Mahbub 's horse .
He 's a regular old leech , Padre .
Wait , then , if thou hast so much time to spare , Mahbub .
Now I 'm at your service , Padre .
Where be the boy ?
Oh , he 's go off to collogue with Mahbub .
Queer sort of boy .
Might I ask you to send my mare round under cover ? '
He drop into a chair which command a clear view of Kim and Mahbub Ali in conference beneath the tree .
The Padre go indoors for cheroot .
Creighton hear Kim say bitterly : ` Trust a Brahmin before a snake , and a snake before an harlot , and an harlot before a Pathan , Mahbub Ali . '
` That be all one . '
The great red beard wag solemnly .
` Children should not see a carpet on the loom till the pattern be make plain .
Believe me , Friend of all the World , I do thee great service .
They will not make a soldier of thee . '
` You crafty old sinner ! '
think Creighton .
` But you 're not far wrong .
That boy must n't be waste if he be a advertised . '
` Excuse me half a minute , ' cry the Padre from within , ` but I 'm gettin ' the document in the case . '
` If through me the favour of this bold and wise Colonel Sahib come to thee , and thou art raise to honour , what thank wilt thou give Mahbub Ali when thou art a man ? '
` Nay , nay !
I beg thee to let me take the Road again , where I should have be safe ; and thou hast sell me back to the English .
What will they give thee for blood-money ? ' '
A cheerful young demon ! '
The Colonel bit his cigar , and turn politely to Father Victor .
` What be the letter that the fat priest be wave before the Colonel ?
Stand behind the stallion a though look at my bridle ! '
say Mahbub Ali . '
A letter from my lama which he write from Jagadhir Road , say that he will pay three hundred rupee by the year for my schooling . '
` Oho !
Is old Red Hat of that sort ?
At which school ? '
` God know .
I think in Nucklao . '
` Yes .
There be a big school there for the son of Sahibs -- and half-Sahibs .
I have see it when I sell horse there .
So the lama also love the Friend of all the World ? '
` Ay ; and he do not tell lie , or return me to captivity . '
` Small wonder the Padre do not know how to unravel the thread .
How fast he talk to the Colonel Sahib ! '
Mahbub Ali chuckle .
` By Allah ! '
the keen eye sweep the veranda for an Instant -- ` thy lama have send what to me look like a note of hand .
I have have some few dealing in hoondis .
The Colonel Sahib be look at it . '
` What good be all this to me ? '
say Kim wearily .
` Thou wilt go away , and they will return me to those empty room where there be no good place to sleep and where the boy beat me . ' '
I do not think that .
Have patience , child .
All Pathans be not faithless -- except in horseflesh . '
Five -- ten -- fifteen minute pass , Father Victor talk energetically or ask question which the Colonel answer .
` Now I 've tell you everything that I know about the boy from beginnin to end ; and it 's a blessed relief to me .
Did ye ever hear the like ? '
` At any rate , the old man have send the money .
Gobind Sahai 's note of hand be good from here to China , ' say the Colonel .
` The more one know about native the less can one say what they will or wo n't do . '
` That 's consolin ' -- from the head of the Ethnological Survey .
It 's this mixture of Red Bulls and Rivers of Healing -LRB- poor heathen , God help him ! -RRB-
an ' note of hand and Masonic certificate .
Are you a Mason , by any chance ? '
` By Jove , I be , now I come to think of it .
That 's an additional reason , ' say the Colonel absently .
` I 'm glad ye see a reason in it .
But a I say , it 's the mixture o ' thing that 's beyond me .
An ' his prophesyin ' to our Colonel , sit on my bed with his little shimmy tear open show his white skin ; an ' the prophecy comin ' true !
They 'll cure all that nonsense at St Xavier 's , eh ? '
` Sprinkle him with holy water , ' the Colonel laugh .
` On my word , I fancy I ought to sometimes .
But I 'm hop he 'll be bring up a a good Catholic .
All that trouble me be what 'll happen if the old beggar-man -- ' ` Lama , lama , my dear sir ; and some of them be gentleman in their own country . '
` The lama , then , fail to pay next year .
He 's a fine business head to plan on the spur of the moment , but he 's bound to die some day .
An ' takin ' a heathen 's money to give a child a Christian education -- ' ` But he say explicitly what he want .
As soon a he know the boy be white he seem to have make his arrangement accordingly .
I 'd give a month 's pay to hear how he explain it all at the Tirthankars ' Temple at Benares .
Look here , Padre , I do n't pretend to know much about native , but if he say he 'll pay , he 'll pay -- dead or alive .
I mean , his heir will assume the debt .
My advice to you be , send the boy down to Lucknow .
If your Anglican Chaplain think you 've steal a march on him -- ' ` Bad luck to Bennett !
He be send to the Front instead o ' me .
Doughty certify me medically unfit .
I 'll excommunicate Doughty if he come back alive !
Surely Bennett ought to be content with -- ' ` Glory , leave you the religion .
Quite so !
As a matter of fact I do n't think Bennett will mind .
Put the blame on me .
I -- er -- strongly recommend send the boy to St Xavier 's .
He can go down on pas a a soldier 's orphan , so the railway fare will be save .
You can buy him an outfit from the Regimental subscription .
The Lodge will be save the expense of his education , and that will put the Lodge in a good temper .
It 's perfectly easy .
I 've get to go down to Lucknow next week .
I 'll look after the boy on the way -- give him in charge of my servant , and so on . '
` You 're a good man . '
` Not in the least .
Do n't make that mistake .
The lama have send u money for a definite end .
We ca n't very well return it .
We shall have to do a he say .
Well , that 's settle , be n't it ?
Shall we say that , Tuesday next , you 'll hand him over to me at the night train south ?
That 's only three day .
He ca n't do much harm in three day . '
` It 's a weight off my mind , but -- this thing here ? '
-- he wave the note of hand -- ' I do n't know Gobind Sahai : or his bank , which may be a hole in a wall . '
` You 've never be a subaltern in debt .
I 'll cash it if you like , and send you the voucher in proper order . '
` But with all your own work too !
It 's askin ' -- ' ` It 's not the least trouble indeed .
You see , a an ethnologist , the thing 's very interesting to me .
I 'd like to make a note of it for some Government work that I 'm do .
The transformation of a regimental badge like your Red Bull into a sort of fetish that the boy follow be very interesting . '
` But I ca n't thank you enough . '
` There 's one thing you can do .
All we Ethnological men be as jealous a jackdaw of one another 's discovery .
They 're of no interest to anyone but ourselves , of course , but you know what book-collectors be like .
Well , do n't say a word , directly or indirectly , about the Asiatic side of the boy 's character -- his adventure and his prophecy , and so on .
I 'll worm them out of the boy later on and -- you see ? ' '
I do .
Ye 'll make a wonderful account of it .
Never a word will I say to anyone till I see it in print . '
` Thank you .
That go straight to an ethnologist 's heart .
Well , I must be get back to my breakfast .
Good Heavens !
Old Mahbub here still ? '
He raise his voice , and the horse-dealer come out from under the shadow of the tree , ` Well , what be it ? '
` As regard that young horse , ' say Mahbub , ' I say that when a colt be bear to be a polo-pony , closely follow the ball without teach -- when such a colt know the game by divination -- then I say it be a great wrong to break that colt to a heavy cart , Sahib ! '
` So say I also , Mahbub .
The colt will be enter for polo only .
-LRB- These fellow think of nothing in the world but horse , Padre . -RRB-
I 'll see you tomorrow , Mahbub , if you 've anything likely for sale . '
The dealer salute , horseman-fashion , with a sweep of the off hand .
` Be patient a little , Friend of all the World , ' he whisper to the agonize Kim .
` Thy fortune be make .
In a little while thou go to Nucklao , and -- here be something to pay the letter-writer .
I shall see thee again , I think , many time , ' and he canter off down the road .
` Listen to me , ' say the Colonel from the veranda , speaking in the vernacular .
` In three day thou wilt go with me to Lucknow , see and hear new thing all the while .
Therefore sit still for three day and do not run away .
Thou wilt go to school at Lucknow . '
` Shall I meet my Holy One there ? '
Kim whimper .
` At least Lucknow be near to Benares than Umballa .
It may be thou wilt go under my protection .
Mahbub Ali know this , and he will be angry if thou returnest to the Road now .
Remember -- much have be tell me which I do not forget . ' '
I will wait , ' say Kim , ` but the boy will beat me . '
Then the bugle blow for dinner .
Chapter 7 Unto whose use the pregnant sun be poise With idiot moon and star retrace star ?
Creep thou betweene -- thy come 's all unnoised .
Heaven hath her high , a Earth her baser , war .
Heir to these tumult , this affright , that fraye -LRB- By Adam 's , father ' , own , sin bound alway -RRB- ; Peer up , draw out thy horoscope and say Which planet mend thy threadbare fate or mar ?
Sir John Christie .
In the afternoon the red-faced schoolmaster tell Kim that he have be ` strike off the strength ' , which convey no meaning to him till he be order to go away and play .
Then he run to the bazar , and find the young letter-writer to whom he owe a stamp .
` Now I pay , ' say Kim royally , ` and now I need another letter to be write . '
` Mahbub Ali be in Umballa , ' say the writer jauntily .
He be , by virtue of his office , a bureau of general misinformation .
` This be not to Mahbub , but to a priest .
Take thy pen and write quickly .
To Teshoo Lama , the Holy One from Bhotiyal seek for a River , who be now in the Temple of the Tirthankars at Benares .
Take more ink !
In three day I be to go down to Nucklao to the school at Nucklao .
The name of the school be Xavier .
I do not know where that school be , but it be at Nucklao . '
` But I know Nucklao , ' the writer interrupt . '
I know the school . '
` Tell him where it be , and I give half an anna . '
The reed pen scratch busily .
` He can not mistake . '
The man lift his head .
` Who watch u across the street ? '
Kim look up hurriedly and saw Colonel Creighton in tennis-flannels .
` Oh , that be some Sahib who know the fat priest in the barrack .
He be beckon me . '
` What dost thou ? '
say the Colonel , when Kim trot up .
` I -- I be not run away .
I send a letter to my Holy One at Benares . ' '
I have not think of that .
Hast thou say that I take thee to Lucknow ? '
` Nay , I have not .
Read the letter , if there be a doubt . '
` Then why hast thou leave out my name in write to that Holy One ? '
The Colonel smile a queer smile .
Kim take his courage in both hand .
` It be say once to me that it be inexpedient to write the name of stranger concern in any matter , because by the naming of name many good plan be bring to confusion . '
` Thou hast be well taught , ' the Colonel reply , and Kim flush . '
I have leave my cheroot-case in the Padre 's veranda .
Bring it to my house this even . '
` Where be the house ? '
say Kim .
His quick wit tell him that he be be test in some fashion or another , and he stand on guard .
` Ask anyone in the big bazar . '
The Colonel walk on .
` He have forget his cheroot-case , ' say Kim , return . '
I must bring it to him this evening .
That be all my letter except , thrice over , Come to me !
Come to me !
Come to me !
Now I will pay for a stamp and put it in the post .
He rise to go , and a an afterthought ask : ` Who be that angry-faced Sahib who lose the cheroot-case ? '
` Oh , he be only Creighton Sahib -- a very foolish Sahib , who be a Colonel Sahib without a regiment . '
` What be his business ? '
` God know .
He be always buy horse which he can not ride , and ask riddle about the work of God -- such a plant and stone and the custom of people .
The dealer call him the father of fool , because he be so easily cheat about a horse .
Mahbub Ali say he be mad than most other Sahibs . '
` Oh ! '
say Kim , and depart .
His training have give him some small knowledge of character , and he argue that fool be not give information which lead to call out eight thousand men besides gun .
The Commander-in-Chief of all India do not talk , a Kim have hear him talk , to fool .
Nor would Mahbub Ali 's tone have change , a it do every time he mention the Colonel 's name , if the Colonel have be a fool .
Consequently -- and this set Kim to skip -- there be a mystery somewhere , and Mahbub Ali probably spy for the Colonel much a Kim have spy for Mahbub .
And , like the horse-dealer , the Colonel evidently respect people who do not show themselves to be too clever .
He rejoice that he have not betray his knowledge of the Colonel 's house ; and when , on his return to barrack , he discover that no cheroot-case have be leave behind , he beam with delight .
Here be a man after his own heart -- a tortuous and indirect person play a hidden game .
Well , if he could be a fool , so could Kim .
He show nothing of his mind when Father Victor , for three long morning , discourse to him of an entirely new set of Gods and Godlings -- notably of a Goddess call Mary , who , he gather , be one with Bibi Miriam of Mahbub Ali 's theology .
He betray no emotion when , after the lecture , Father Victor drag him from shop to shop buy article of outfit , nor when envious drummer-boys kick him because he be go to a superior school do he complain , but await the play of circumstance with an interested soul .
Father Victor , good man , take him to the station , put him into an empty second-class next to Colonel Creighton 's first , and bid him farewell with genuine feeling .
` They 'll make a man o ' you , O'Hara , at St Xavier 's -- a white man , an ' , I hope , a good man .
They know all about your comin ' , an ' the Colonel will see that ye 're not lose or mislay anywhere on the road .
I 've give you a notion of religious matter , -- at least I hope so , -- and you 'll remember , when they ask you your religion , that you 're a Cath ` lic .
Better say Roman Cath ` lic , tho ' I 'm not fond of the word . '
Kim light a rank cigarette -- he have be careful to buy a stock in the bazar -- and lay down to think .
This solitary passage be very different from that joyful down-journey in the third-class with the lama .
` Sahibs get little pleasure of travel , ' he reflect .
` Hai mai !
I go from one place to another a it might be a kickball .
It be my Kismet .
No man can escape his Kismet .
But I be to pray to Bibi Miriam , and I be a Sahib . '
He look at his boot ruefully .
` No ; I be Kim .
This be the great world , and I be only Kim .
Who be Kim ? '
He consider his own identity , a thing he have never do before , till his head swam .
He be one insignificant person in all this roar whirl of India , go southward to he know not what fate .
Presently the Colonel send for him , and talk for a long time .
So far a Kim could gather , he be to be diligent and enter the Survey of India a a chain-man .
If he be very good , and pass the proper examination , he would be earn thirty rupee a month at seventeen year old , and Colonel Creighton would see that he find suitable employment .
Kim pretend at first to understand perhaps one word in three of this talk .
Then the Colonel , see his mistake , turn to fluent and picturesque Urdu and Kim be content .
No man could be a fool who know the language so intimately , who move so gently and silently , and whose eye be so different from the dull fat eye of other Sahibs .
` Yes , and thou must learn how to make picture of road and mountain and river , to carry these picture in thine eye till a suitable time come to set them upon paper .
Perhaps some day , when thou art a chain-man , I may say to thee when we be work together : `` Go across those hill and see what lie beyond . ''
Then one will say : `` There be bad people live in those hill who will slay the chain-man if he be see to look like a Sahib . ''
What then ? '
Kim thought .
Would it be safe to return the Colonel 's lead ? '
I would tell what that other man have say . '
` But if I answer : `` I will give thee a hundred rupee for knowledge of what be behind those hill -- for a picture of a river and a little news of what the people say in the village there '' ? '
` How can I tell ?
I be only a boy .
Wait till I be a man . '
Then , see the Colonel 's brow cloud , he go on : ` But I think I should in a few day earn the hundred rupee . '
` By what road ? '
Kim shake his head resolutely .
` If I say how I would earn them , another man might hear and forestall me .
It be not good to sell knowledge for nothing . '
` Tell now . '
The Colonel hold up a rupee .
Kim 's hand half reach towards it , and drop .
` Nay , Sahib ; nay .
I know the price that will be pay for the answer , but I do not know why the question be ask . '
` Take it for a gift , then , ' say Creighton , toss it over .
` There be a good spirit in thee .
Do not let it be blunt at St Xavier 's .
There be many boy there who despise the black men . '
` Their mother be bazar-women , ' say Kim .
He know well there be no hatred like that of the half-caste for his brother-in-law .
` True ; but thou art a Sahib and the son of a Sahib .
Therefore , do not at any time be lead to contemn the black men .
I have know boy newly enter into the service of the Government who feign not to understand the talk or the custom of black men .
Their pay be cut for ignorance .
There be no sin so great a ignorance .
Remember this . '
Several time in the course of the long twenty-four hour ' run south do the Colonel send for Kim , always develop this latter text .
` We be all on one lead-rope , then , ' say Kim at last , ` the Colonel , Mahbub Ali , and I -- when I become a chain-man .
He will use me a Mahbub Ali employ me , I think .
That be good , if it allow me to return to the Road again .
This clothing grow no easy by wear . '
When they come to the crowd Lucknow station there be no sign of the lama .
He swallow his disappointment , while the Colonel bundle him into a ticca-gharri with his neat belonging and despatch him alone to St Xavier 's . '
I do not say farewell , because we shall meet again , ' he cry .
` Again , and many time , if thou art one of good spirit .
But thou art not yet try . '
` Not when I bring thee ' -- Kim actually dare to use the turn of equal -- ' a white stallion 's pedigree that night ? '
` Much be gain by forget , little brother , ' say the Colonel , with a look that pierce through Kim 's shoulder-blades a he scuttle into the carriage .
It take him nearly five minute to recover .
Then he sniff the new air appreciatively . '
A rich city , ' he say .
` Richer than Lahore .
How good the bazar must be !
Coachman , drive me a little through the bazar here . '
` My order be to take thee to the school . '
The driver use the ` thou ' , which be rudeness when apply to a white man .
In the clearest and most fluent vernacular Kim point out his error , climb on to the box-seat , and , perfect understand establish , drive for a couple of hour up and down , estimate , compare , and enjoy .
There be no city -- except Bombay , the queen of all -- more beautiful in her garish style than Lucknow , whether you see her from the bridge over the river , or from the top of the Imambara look down on the gilt umbrella of the Chutter Munzil , and the tree in which the town be bed .
Kings have adorn her with fantastic building , endow her with charity , cram her with pensioner , and drench her with blood .
She be the centre of all idleness , intrigue , and luxury , and share with Delhi the claim to talk the only pure Urdu . '
A fair city -- a beautiful city . '
The driver , a a Lucknow man , be pleased with the compliment , and tell Kim many astound thing where an English guide would have talk of the Mutiny .
` Now we will go to the school , ' say Kim at last .
The great old school of St Xavier 's in Partibus , block on block of low white building , stand in vast ground over against the Gumti River , at some distance from the city .
` What like of folk be they within ? '
say Kim .
` Young Sahibs -- all devil .
But to speak truth , and I drive many of them to and fro from the railway station , I have never see one that have in him the making of a more perfect devil than thou -- this young Sahib whom I be now drive . '
Naturally , for he be never train to consider them in any way improper , Kim have pass the time of day with one or two frivolous lady at upper window in a certain street , and naturally , in the exchange of compliment , have acquit himself well .
He be about to acknowledge the driver 's last insolence , when his eye -- it be grow dusk -- catch a figure sit by one of the white plaster gate-pillars in the long sweep of wall .
` Stop ! '
he cry .
` Stay here .
I do not go to the school at once . '
` But what be to pay me for this come and re-coming ? '
say the driver petulantly .
` Is the boy mad ?
Last time it be a dancing-girl .
This time it be a priest . '
Kim be in the road headlong , pat the dusty foot beneath the dirty yellow robe . '
I have wait here a day and a half , ' the lama 's level voice begin .
` Nay , I have a disciple with me .
He that be my friend at the Temple of the Tirthankars give me a guide for this journey .
I come from Benares in the te-rain , when thy letter be give me .
Yes , I be well fed .
I need nothing . '
` But why didst thou not stay with the Kulu woman , O Holy One ?
In what way didst thou get to Benares ?
My heart have be heavy since we part . '
` The woman weary me by constant flux of talk and requiring charm for child .
I separate myself from that company , permit her to acquire merit by gift .
She be at least a woman of open hand , and I make a promise to return to her house if need arise .
Then , perceive myself alone in this great and terrible world , I bethink me of the te-rain to Benares , where I know one abode in the Tirthankars ' Temple who be a Seeker , even a I. ' ` Ah !
Thy River , ' say Kim . '
I have forget the River . '
` So soon , my chela ?
I have never forget it .
But when I have leave thee it seem well that I should go to the Temple and take counsel , for , look you , India be very large , and it may be that wise men before u , some two or three , have leave a record of the place of our River .
There be debate in the Temple of the Tirthankars on this matter ; some say one thing , and some another .
They be courteous folk . '
` So be it ; but what dost thou do now ? ' '
I acquire merit in that I help thee , my chela , to wisdom .
The priest of that body of men who serve the Red Bull write me that all should be a I desire for thee .
I send the money to suffice for one year , and then I come , a thou seest me , to watch for thee go up into the Gates of Learning .
A day and a half have I wait , not because I be lead by any affection towards thee -- that be no part of the Way -- but , a they say at the Tirthankars ' Temple , because , money have be pay for learning , it be right that I should oversee the end of the matter .
They resolve my doubt most clearly .
I have a fear that , perhaps , I come because I wish to see thee -- misguide by the Red Mist of affection .
It be not so ... Moreover , I be trouble by a dream . '
` But surely , Holy One , thou hast not forget the Road and all that befell on it .
Surely it be a little to see me that thou didst come ? '
` The horse be cold , and it be past their feeding-time , ' whine the driver .
` Go to Jehannum and abide there with thy reputationless aunt ! '
Kim snarl over his shoulder . '
I be all alone in this land ; I know not where I go nor what shall befall me .
My heart be in that letter I send thee .
Except for Mahbub Ali , and he be a Pathan , I have no friend save thee , Holy One .
Do not altogether go away . ' '
I have consider that also , ' the lama reply , in a shaking voice .
` It be manifest that from time to time I shall acquire merit if before that I have not find my River -- by assure myself that thy foot be set on wisdom .
What they will teach thee I do not know , but the priest write me that no son of a Sahib in all India will be good taught than thou .
So from time to time , therefore , I will come again .
Maybe thou wilt be such a Sahib a he who give me these spectacle ' -- the lama wipe them elaborately -- ` in the Wonder House at Lahore .
That be my hope , for he be a Fountain of Wisdom -- wise than many abbot ... Again , maybe thou wilt forget me and our meeting . '
` If I eat thy bread , ' cry Kim passionately , ` how shall I ever forget thee ? '
` No -- no . '
He put the boy aside . '
I must go back to Benares .
From time to time , now that I know the custom of letter-writers in this land , I will send thee a letter , and from time to time I will come and see thee . '
` But whither shall I send my letter ? '
wail Kim , clutch at the robe , all forgetful that he be a Sahib .
` To the Temple of the Tirthankars at Benares .
That be the place I have choose till I find my River .
Do not weep ; for , look you , all Desire be Illusion and a new binding upon the Wheel .
Go up to the Gates of Learning .
Let me see thee go ... Dost thou love me ?
Then go , or my heart crack ... I will come again .
Surely I will come again .
The lama watch the ticca-gharri rumble into the compound , and stride off , snuff between each long stride .
` The Gates of Learning ' shut with a clang .
The country bear and breed boy have his own manner and custom , which do not resemble those of any other land ; and his teacher approach him by road which an English master would not understand .
Therefore , you would scarcely be interested in Kim 's experience a a St Xavier 's boy among two or three hundred precocious youth , most of whom have never see the sea .
He suffer the usual penalty for break out of bound when there be cholera in the city .
This be before he have learn to write fair English , and so be oblige to find a bazar letter-writer .
He be , of course , indict for smoking and for the use of abuse more full-flavoured than even St Xavier 's have ever hear .
He learn to wash himself with the Levitical scrupulosity of the native-born , who in his heart consider the Englishman rather dirty .
He play the usual trick on the patient cooly pull the punkah in the sleeping-rooms where the boy thresh through the hot night tell tale till the dawn ; and quietly he measure himself against his self-reliant mate .
They be son of subordinate official in the Railway , Telegraph , and Canal Services ; of warrant-officers , sometimes retired and sometimes act a commanders-in-chief to a feudatory Rajah 's army ; of captain of the Indian Marine Government pensioner , planter , Presidency shopkeeper , and missionary .
A few be cadet of the old Eurasian house that have take strong root in Dhurrumtollah -- Pereiras , De Souzas , and D'Silvas .
Their parent could well have educate them in England , but they love the school that have serve their own youth , and generation follow sallow-hued generation at St Xavier 's .
Their home range from Howrah of the railway people to abandoned cantonment like Monghyr and Chunar ; lose tea-gardens Shillong-way ; village where their father be large landholder in Oudh or the Deccan ; Mission-stations a week from the near railway line ; seaports a thousand mile south , face the brazen Indian surf ; and cinchona-plantations south of all .
The mere story of their adventure , which to them be no adventure , on their road to and from school would have crisp a Western boy 's hair .
They be use to jog off alone through a hundred mile of jungle , where there be always the delightful chance of be delay by tiger ; but they would no more have bath in the English Channel in an English August than their brother across the world would have lie still while a leopard snuffed at their palanquin .
There be boy of fifteen who have spend a day and a half on an islet in the middle of a flooded river , take charge , a by right , of a camp of frantic pilgrim return from a shrine .
There be senior who have requisition a chance-met Rajah 's elephant , in the name of St Francis Xavier , when the Rains once blot out the cart-track that lead to their father 's estate , and have all but lose the huge beast in a quicksand .
There be a boy who , he say , and none doubt , have help his father to beat off with rifle from the veranda a rush of Akas in the day when those head-hunters be bold against lonely plantation .
And every tale be tell in the even , passionless voice of the native-born , mixed with quaint reflection , borrow unconsciously from native foster-mother , and turn of speech that show they have be that instant translate from the vernacular .
Kim watch , listen , and approve .
This be not insipid , single-word talk of drummer-boys .
It deal with a life he know and in part understood .
The atmosphere suit him , and he thrive by inch .
They give him a white drill suit a the weather warm , and he rejoice in the new-found bodily comfort a he rejoice to use his sharpened mind over the task they set him .
His quickness would have delight an English master ; but at St Xavier 's they know the first rush of mind develop by sun and surroundings , a they know the half-collapse that set in at twenty-two or twenty-three .
None the less he remember to hold himself lowly .
When tale be tell of hot night , Kim do not sweep the board with his reminiscence ; for St Xavier 's look down on boy who ` go native all-together . '
One must never forget that one be a Sahib , and that some day , when examination be pass , one will command native .
Kim make a note of this , for he begin to understand where examination lead .
Then come the holiday from August to October -- the long holiday impose by the heat and the Rains .
Kim be inform that he would go north to some station in the hill behind Umballa , where Father Victor would arrange for him . '
A barrack-school ? '
say Kim , who have ask many question and think more .
` Yes , I suppose so , ' say the master .
` It will not do you any harm to keep you out of mischief .
You can go up with young De Castro as far a Delhi . '
Kim consider it in every possible light .
He have be diligent , even a the Colonel advise .
A boy 's holiday be his own property -- of so much the talk of his companion have advise him , -- and a barrack-school would be torment after St Xavier 's .
Moreover -- this be magic worth anything else -- he could write .
In three month he have discover how men can speak to each other without a third party , at the cost of half an anna and a little knowledge .
No word have come from the lama , but there remain the Road .
Kim yearn for the caress of soft mud squish up between the toe , a his mouth water for mutton stew with butter and cabbage , for rice speckle with strong scent cardamom , for the saffron-tinted rice , garlic and onion , and the forbidden greasy sweetmeat of the bazar .
They would fee him raw beef on a platter at the barrack-school , and he must smoke by stealth .
But again , he be a Sahib and be at St Xavier 's , and that pig Mahbub Ali ... No , he would not test Mahbub 's hospitality -- and yet ... He think it out alone in the dormitory , and come to the conclusion he have be unjust to Mahbub .
The school be empty ; nearly all the master have go away ; Colonel Creighton 's railway pas lay in his hand , and Kim puff himself that he have not spend Colonel Creighton 's or Mahbub 's money in riotous living .
He be still lord of two rupee seven anna .
His new bullock-trunk , mark ` K. O ` H. ' , and bedding-roll lay in the empty sleeping-room .
` Sahibs be always tie to their baggage , ' say Kim , nod at them .
` You will stay here ' He go out into the warm rain , smile sinfully , and seek a certain house whose outside he have note down some time before ... ` Arre ' !
Dost thou know what manner of woman we be in this quarter ?
Oh , shame ! '
` Was I bear yesterday ? '
Kim squat native-fashion on the cushion of that upper room . '
A little dyestuff and three yard of cloth to help out a jest .
Is it much to ask ? '
` Who be she ?
Thou art full young , a Sahibs go , for this devilry . '
` Oh , she ?
She be the daughter of a certain schoolmaster of a regiment in the cantonment .
He have beat me twice because I go over their wall in these clothes .
Now I would go a a gardener 's boy .
Old men be very jealous . '
` That be true .
Hold thy face still while I dab on the juice . '
` Not too black , Naikan .
I would not appear to her a a hubshi -LRB- nigger -RRB- . '
` Oh , love make nought of these thing .
And how old be she ? '
` Twelve year , I think , ' say the shameless Kim .
` Spread it also on the breast .
It may be her father will tear my clothes off me , and if I be piebald -- ' he laugh .
The girl work busily , dab a twist of cloth into a little saucer of brown dye that hold long than any walnut-juice .
` Now send out and get me a cloth for the turban .
Woe be me , my head be all unshaved !
And he will surely knock off my turban . ' '
I be not a barber , but I will make shift .
Thou wast bear to be a breaker of heart !
All this disguise for one evening ?
Remember , the stuff do not wash away . '
She shake with laughter till her bracelet and anklet jingle .
` But who be to pay me for this ?
Huneefa herself could not have give thee well stuff . '
` Trust in the Gods , my sister , ' say Kim gravely , screw his face round a the stain dry .
` Besides , hast thou ever help to paint a Sahib thus before ? '
` Never indeed .
But a jest be not money . '
` It be worth much more . '
` Child , thou art beyond all dispute the most shameless son of Shaitan that I have ever know to take up a poor girl 's time with this play , and then to say : `` Is not the jest enough ? ''
Thou wilt go very far in this world . '
She give the dancing-girls ' salutation in mockery .
` All one .
Make haste and rough-cut my head . '
Kim shift from foot to foot , his eye ablaze with mirth a he think of the fat day before him .
He give the girl four anna , and run down the stair in the likeness of a low-caste Hindu boy -- perfect in every detail .
A cookshop be his next point of call , where he feast in extravagance and greasy luxury .
On Lucknow station platform he watch young De Castro , all cover with prickly-heat , get into a second-class compartment .
Kim patronize a third , and be the life and soul of it .
He explain to the company that he be assistant to a juggler who have leave him behind sick with fever , and that he would pick up his master at Umballa .
As the occupant of the carriage change , he vary this tale , or adorn it with all the shoot of a budding fancy , the more rampant for be hold off native speech so long .
In all India that night be no human be so joyful a Kim .
At Umballa he get out and head eastward , plash over the sodden field to the village where the old soldier live .
About this time Colonel Creighton at Simla be advise from Lucknow by wire that young O'Hara have disappear .
Mahbub Ali be in town selling horse , and to him the Colonel confide the affair one morning canter round Annandale racecourse .
` Oh , that be nothing , ' say the horse-dealer .
` Men be like horse .
At certain time they need salt , and if that salt be not in the manger they will lick it up from the earth .
He have go back to the Road again for a while .
The madrissak weary him .
I know it would .
Another time , I will take him upon the Road myself .
Do not be trouble , Creighton Sahib .
It be a though a polo-pony , break loose , run out to learn the game alone . '
` Then he be not dead , think you ? '
` Fever might kill him .
I do not fear for the boy otherwise .
A monkey do not fall among tree . '
Next morning , on the same course , Mahbub 's stallion range alongside the Colonel .
` It be a I have think , ' say the horse-dealer .
` He have come through Umballa at least , and there he have write a letter to me , have learn in the bazar that I be here . '
` Read , ' say the Colonel , with a sigh of relief .
It be absurd that a man of his position should take an interest in a little country-bred vagabond ; but the Colonel remember the conversation in the train , and often in the past few month have catch himself think of the queer , silent , self-possessed boy .
His evasion , of course , be the height of insolence , but it argue some resource and nerve .
Mahbub 's eye twinkle a he rein out into the centre of the cramped little plain , where none could come near unseen . '
`` The Friend of the Stars , who be the Friend of all the World -- '' ' ` What be this ? ' '
A name we give him in Lahore city .
`` The Friend of all the World take leave to go to his own place .
He will come back upon the appoint day .
Let the box and the bedding-roll be send for ; and if there have be a fault , let the Hand of Friendship turn aside the Whip of Calamity . ''
There be yet a little more , but -- ' ` No matter , read . ' '
`` Certain thing be not know to those who eat with fork .
It be well to eat with both hand for a while .
Speak soft word to those who do not understand this that the return may be propitious . ''
Now the manner in which that be cast be , of course , the work of the letter-writer , but see how wisely the boy have devise the matter of it so that no hint be give except to those who know ! '
` Is this the Hand of Friendship to avert the Whip of Calamity ? '
laugh the Colonel .
` See how wise be the boy .
He would go back to the Road again , a I say .
Not know yet thy trade -- ' ' I be not at all sure of that , ' the Colonel mutter .
` He turn to me to make a peace between you .
Is he not wise ?
He say he will return .
He be but perfect his knowledge .
Think , Sahib !
He have be three month at the school .
And he be not mouth to that bit .
For my part , I rejoice .
The pony learn the game . '
` Ay , but another time he must not go alone . '
` Why ?
He go alone before he come under the Colonel Sahib 's protection .
When he come to the Great Game he must go alone -- alone , and at peril of his head .
Then , if he spit , or sneeze , or sits down other than a the people do whom he watch , he may be slay .
Why hinder him now ?
Remember how the Persians say : The jackal that live in the wild of Mazanderan can only be catch by the hound of Mazanderan . '
` True .
It be true , Mahbub Ali .
And if he come to no harm , I do not desire anything well .
But it be great insolence on his part . '
` He do not tell me , even , whither he go , ' say Mahbub .
` He be no fool .
When his time be accomplish he will come to me .
It be time the healer of pearl take him in hand .
He ripen too quickly -- a Sahibs reckon . '
This prophecy be fulfil to the letter a month later .
Mahbub have go down to Umballa to bring up a fresh consignment of horse , and Kim meet him on the Kalka road at dusk rid alone , beg an alms of him , be swear at , and reply in English .
There be nobody within earshot to hear Mahbub 's gasp of amazement .
` Oho !
And where hast thou be ? '
` Up and down -- down and up . '
` Come under a tree , out of the wet , and tell . ' '
I stay for a while with an old man near Umballa ; anon with a household of my acquaintance in Umballa .
With one of these I go as far a Delhi to the southward .
That be a wondrous city .
Then I drive a bullock for a teli -LSB- an oilman -RSB- come north ; but I hear of a great feast forward in Patiala , and thither go I in the company of a firework-maker .
It be a great feast ' -LRB- Kim rub his stomach -RRB- . '
I saw Rajahs , and elephant with gold and silver trapping ; and they light all the firework at once , whereby eleven men be kill , my fire-work-maker among them , and I be blow across a tent but take no harm .
Then I come back to the rel with a Sikh horseman , to whom I be groom for my bread ; and so here . '
` Shabash ! '
say Mahbub Ali .
` But what do the Colonel Sahib say ?
I do not wish to be beat . '
` The Hand of Friendship have avert the Whip of Calamity ; but another time , when thou takest the Road it will be with me .
This be too early . '
` Late enough for me .
I have learn to read and to write English a little at the madrissah .
I shall soon be altogether a Sahib . '
` Hear him ! '
laugh Mahbub , look at the little drenched figure dance in the wet .
` Salaam -- Sahib , ' and he salute ironically .
` Well , art tire of the Road , or wilt thou come on to Umballa with me and work back with the horse ? ' '
I come with thee , Mahbub Ali . '
Chapter 8 Something I owe to the soil that grow -- More to the life that feed -- But most to Allah Who give me two Separate side to my head .
I would go without shirt or shoe , Friends , tobacco or bread Sooner than for an instant lose Either side of my head . '
The Two-Sided Man .
` Then in God 's name take blue for red , ' say Mahbub , allude to the Hindu colour of Kim 's disreputable turban .
Kim counter with the old proverb , ' I will change my faith and my bedding , but thou must pay for it . '
The dealer laugh till he nearly fell from his horse .
At a shop on the outskirt of the city the change be make , and Kim stand up , externally at least , a Mohammedan .
Mahbub hire a room over against the railway station , send for a cooked meal of the fine with the almond-curd sweet-meats -LSB- balushai we call it -RSB- and fine-chopped Lucknow tobacco .
` This be good than some other meat that I eat with the Sikh , ' say Kim , grin a he squat , ` and assuredly they give no such victual at my madrissah . ' '
I have a desire to hear of that same madrissah . '
Mahbub stuff himself with great bolus of spiced mutton fry in fat with cabbage and golden-brown onion .
` But tell me first , altogether and truthfully , the manner of thy escape .
For , O Friend of all the World , ' -- he loose his cracking belt -- ' I do not think it be often that a Sahib and the son of a Sahib run away from there . '
` How should they ?
They do not know the land .
It be nothing , ' say Kim , and begin his tale .
When he come to the disguisement and the interview with the girl in the bazar , Mahbub Ali 's gravity go from him .
He laugh aloud and beat his hand on his thigh .
` Shabash !
Shabash !
Oh , well do , little one !
What will the healer of turquoise say to this ?
Now , slowly , let u hear what befell afterwards -- step by step , omit nothing . '
Step by step then , Kim tell his adventure between cough a the full-flavoured tobacco catch his lung . '
I say , ' growl Mahbub Ali to himself , ' I say it be the pony break out to play polo .
The fruit be ripe already -- except that he must learn his distance and his pacing , and his rod and his compass .
Listen now .
I have turn aside the Colonel 's whip from thy skin , and that be no small service . '
` True . '
Kim pull serenely .
` That be true . '
` But it be not to be think that this run out and in be any way good . '
` It be my holiday , Hajji .
I be a slave for many week .
Why should I not run away when the school be shut ?
Look , too , how I , live upon my friend or work for my bread , a I do with the Sikh , have save the Colonel Sahib a great expense . '
Mahbub 's lip twitch under his well-pruned Mohammedan moustache .
` What be a few rupee ' -- the Pathan throw out his open hand carelessly -- ` to the Colonel Sahib ?
He spend them for a purpose , not in any way for love of thee . '
` That , ' say Kim slowly , ' I know a very long time ago . '
` Who tell ? '
` The Colonel Sahib himself .
Not in those many word , but plainly enough for one who be not altogether a mud-head .
Yea , he tell me in the te-rain when we go down to Lucknow . '
` Be it so .
Then I will tell thee more , Friend of all the World , though in the telling I lend thee my head . '
` It be forfeit to me , ' say Kim , with deep relish , ` in Umballa , when thou didst pick me up on the horse after the drummer-boy beat me . '
` Speak a little plainer .
All the world may tell lie save thou and I . For equally be thy life forfeit to me if I choose to raise my finger here . '
` And this be know to me also , ' say Kim , readjust the live charcoal-ball on the weed .
` It be a very sure tie between u .
Indeed , thy hold be sure even than mine ; for who would miss a boy beaten to death , or , it may be , throw into a well by the roadside ?
Most people here and in Simla and across the pass behind the Hills would , on the other hand , say : `` What have come to Mahbub Ali ? ''
if he be find dead among his horse .
Surely , too , the Colonel Sahib would make inquiry .
But again , ' -- Kim 's face pucker with cunning , -- ` he would not make overlong inquiry , l people should ask : `` What have this Colonel Sahib to do with that horse-dealer ? ''
But I -- if I live -- ' ` As thou wouldst surely die -- ' ` Maybe ; but I say , if I live , I , and I alone , would know that one have come by night , a a common thief perhaps , to Mahbub Ali 's bulkhead in the serai , and there have slain him , either before or after that thief have make a full search into his saddlebag and between the sol of his slipper .
Is that news to tell to the Colonel , or would he say to me -- -LRB- I have not forget when he send me back for a cigar-case that he have not leave behind him -RRB- -- `` What be Mahbub Ali to me ? ''
? '
Up go a gout of heavy smoke .
There be a long pause : then Mahbub Ali speak in admiration : ` And with these thing on thy mind , dost thou lie down and rise again among all the Sahibs ' little son at the madrissah and meekly take instruction from thy teacher ? '
` It be an order , ' say Kim blandly .
` Who be I to dispute an order ? ' '
A most finished Son of Eblis , ' say Mahbub Ali .
` But what be this tale of the thief and the search ? '
` That which I saw , ' say Kim , ` the night that my lama and I lay next thy place in the Kashmir Seral .
The door be leave unlocked , which I think be not thy custom , Mahbub .
He come in a one assure that thou wouldst not soon return .
My eye be against a knot-hole in the plank .
He search a it be for something -- not a rug , not stirrup , nor a bridle , nor brass pot -- something little and most carefully hid .
Else why do he prick with an iron between the sol of thy slipper ? '
` Ha ! '
Mahbub Ali smile gently .
` And see these thing , what tale didst thou fashion to thyself , Well of the Truth ? '
` None .
I put my hand upon my amulet , which lie always next to my skin , and , remember the pedigree of a white stallion that I have bite out of a piece of Mussalmani bread , I go away to Umballa perceive that a heavy trust be lay upon me .
At that hour , have I choose , thy head be forfeit .
It need only to say to that man , `` I have here a paper concern a horse which I can not read . ''
And then ? '
Kim peer at Mahbub under his eyebrow .
` Then thou wouldst have drunk water twice -- perhaps thrice , afterwards .
I do not think more than thrice , ' say Mahbub simply .
` It be true .
I think of that a little , but most I think that I love thee , Mahbub .
Therefore I go to Umballa , a thou knowest , but -LRB- and this thou dost not know -RRB- I lay hid in the garden-grass to see what Colonel Creighton Sahib might do upon read the white stallion 's pedigree . '
` And what do he ? '
for Kim have bite off the conversation .
` Dost thou give news for love , or dost thou sell it ? '
Kim ask . '
I sell and -- I buy . '
Mahbub take a four-anna piece out of his belt and hold it up .
` Eight ! '
say Kim , mechanically follow the huckster instinct of the East .
Mahbub laugh , and put away the coin .
` It be too easy to deal in that market , Friend of all the World .
Tell me for love .
Our life lie in each other 's hand . '
` Very good .
I saw the Jang-i-Lat Sahib -LSB- the Commander-in-Chief -RSB- come to a big dinner .
I saw him in Creighton Sahib 's office .
I saw the two read the white stallion 's pedigree .
I hear the very order give for the opening of a great war . '
` Hah ! '
Mahbub nod with deep eye afire .
` The game be well play .
That war be do now , and the evil , we hope , nip before the flower -- thanks to me -- and thee .
What didst thou later ? ' '
I make the news a it be a hook to catch me victual and honour among the villager in a village whose priest drug my lama .
But I bore away the old man 's purse , and the Brahmin find nothing .
So next morning he be angry .
Ho !
Ho !
And I also use the news when I fell into the hand of that white Regiment with their Bull ! '
` That be foolishness . '
Mahbub scowl .
` News be not mean to be throw about like dung-cakes , but use sparingly -- like bhang . '
` So I think now , and moreover , it do me no sort of good .
But that be very long ago , ' he make a to brush it all away with a thin brown hand -- ` and since then , and especially in the night under the punkah at the madrissah , I have think very greatly . '
` Is it permit to ask whither the Heaven-born 's thought might have lead ? '
say Mahbub , with an elaborate sarcasm , smooth his scarlet beard .
` It be permit , ' say Kim , and throw back the very tone .
` They say at Nucklao that no Sahib must tell a black man that he have make a fault . '
Mahbub 's hand shot into his bosom , for to call a Pathan a ` black man ' -LSB- kala admi -RSB- be a blood-insult .
Then he remember and laugh .
` Speak , Sahib .
Thy black man hear . '
` But , ' say Kim , ' I be not a Sahib , and I say I make a fault to curse thee , Mahbub Ali , on that day at Umballa when I think I be betray by a Pathan .
I be senseless ; for I be but newly catch , and I wish to kill that low-caste drummer-boy .
I say now , Hajji , that it be well do ; and I see my road all clear before me to a good service .
I will stay in the madrissah till I be ripe . '
` Well say .
Especially be distance and number and the manner of use compass to be learn in that game .
One wait in the Hills above to show thee . ' '
I will learn their teaching upon a condition -- that my time be give to me without question when the madrissah be shut .
Ask that for me of the Colonel . '
` But why not ask the Colonel in the Sahibs ' tongue ? '
` The Colonel be the servant of the Government .
He be send hither and yon at a word , and must consider his own advancement .
-LRB- See how much I have already learn at Nucklao ! -RRB-
Moreover , the Colonel I know since three month only .
I have know one Mahbub Ali for six year .
So !
To the madrissah I will go .
At the madrissah I will learn .
In the madrissah I will be a Sahib .
But when the madrissah be shut , then must I be free and go among my people .
Otherwise I die ! '
` And who be thy people , Friend of all the World ? '
` This great and beautiful land , ' say Kim , wave his paw round the little clay-walled room where the oil-lamp in it niche burn heavily through the tobacco-smoke .
` And , far , I would see my lama again .
And , far , I need money . '
` That be the need of everyone , ' say Mahbub ruefully . '
I will give thee eight anna , for much money be not pick out of horse ' hoof , and it must suffice for many day .
As to all the rest , I be well pleased , and no further talk be need .
Make haste to learn , and in three year , or it may be less , thou wilt be an aid -- even to me . '
` Have I be such a hindrance till now ? '
say Kim , with a boy 's giggle .
` Do not give answer , ' Mahbub grunt .
` Thou art my new horse-boy .
Go and bed among my men .
They be near the north end of the station , with the horse . '
` They will beat me to the south end of the station if I come without authority . '
Mahbub felt in his belt , wet his thumb on a cake of Chinese ink , and dab the impression on a piece of soft native paper .
From Balkh to Bombay men know that rough-ridged print with the old scar run diagonally across it .
` That be enough to show my headman .
I come in the morning . '
` By which road ? '
say Kim .
` By the road from the city .
There be but one , and then we return to Creighton Sahib .
I have save thee a beating . '
` Allah !
What be a beating when the very head be loose on the shoulder ? '
Kim slide out quietly into the night , walk half round the house , keep close to the wall , and head away from the station for a mile or so .
Then , fetch a wide compass , he work back at leisure , for he need time to invent a story if any of Mahbub 's retainer ask question .
They be camp on a piece of waste ground beside the railway , and , be native , have not , of course , unload the two truck in which Mahbub 's animal stand among a consignment of country-breds buy by the Bombay tram-company .
The headman , a broken-down , consumptive-looking Mohammedan , promptly challenge Kim , but be pacify at sight of Mahbub 's sign-manual .
` The Hajji have of his favour give me service , ' say Kim testily .
` If this be doubt , wait till he come in the morning .
Meantime , a place by the fire . '
Followed the usual aimless babble that every low-caste native must raise on every occasion .
It die down , and Kim lay out behind the little knot of Mahbub 's follower , almost under the wheel of a horse-truck , a borrow blanket for cover .
Now a bed among brickbat and ballast-refuse on a damp night , between overcrowd horse and unwashed Baltis , would not appeal to many white boy ; but Kim be utterly happy .
Change of scene , service , and surroundings be the breath of his little nostril , and thinking of the neat white cot of St Xavier 's all arow under the punkah give him joy as keen a the repetition of the multiplication-table in English . '
I be very old , ' he think sleepily .
` Every month I become a year more old .
I be very young , and a fool to boot , when I take Mahbub 's message to Umballa .
Even when I be with that white Regiment I be very young and small and have no wisdom .
But now I learn every day , and in three year the Colonel will take me out of the madrissah and let me go upon the Road with Mahbub hunt for horse ' pedigree , or maybe I shall go by myself ; or maybe I shall find the lama and go with him .
Yes ; that be best .
To walk again a a chela with my lama when he come back to Benares . '
The thought come more slowly and disconnectedly .
He be plunge into a beautiful dreamland when his ear catch a whisper , thin and sharp , above the monotonous babble round the fire .
It come from behind the iron-skinned horse-truck .
` He be not here , then ? '
` Where should he be but roystering in the city .
Who look for a rat in a frog-pond ?
Come away .
He be not our man . '
` He must not go back beyond the Passes a second time .
It be the order . '
` Hire some woman to drug him .
It be a few rupee only , and there be no evidence . '
` Except the woman .
It must be more certain ; and remember the price upon his head . '
` Ay , but the police have a long arm , and we be far from the Border .
If it be in Peshawur , now ! '
` Yes -- in Peshawur , ' the second voice sneer .
` Peshawur , full of his blood-kin -- full of bolt-hole and woman behind whose clothes he will hide .
Yes , Peshawur or Jehannum would suit u equally well . '
` Then what be the plan ? ' '
O fool , have I not tell it a hundred time ?
Wait till he come to lie down , and then one sure shot .
The truck be between u and pursuit .
We have but to run back over the line and go our way .
They will not see whence the shot come .
Wait here at least till the dawn .
What manner of fakir art thou , to shiver at a little watching ? '
` Oho ! '
think Kim , behind close-shut eye .
` Once again it be Mahbub .
Indeed a white stallion 's pedigree be not a good thing to peddle to Sahibs !
Or maybe Mahbub have be sell other news .
Now what be to do , Kim ?
I know not where Mahbub house , and if he come here before the dawn they will shoot him .
That would be no profit for thee , Kim .
And this be not a matter for the police .
That would be no profit for Mahbub ; and ' -- he giggle almost aloud -- ' I do not remember any lesson at Nucklao which will help me .
Allah !
Here be Kim and yonder be they .
First , then , Kim must wake and go away , so that they shall not suspect .
A bad dream wake a man -- thus -- ' He throw the blanket off his face , and raise himself suddenly with the terrible , bubbling , meaningless yell of the Asiatic rouse by nightmare .
` Urr-urr-urr-urr !
Ya-la-la-la-la !
Narain !
The churel !
The churel ! '
A churel be the peculiarly malignant ghost of a woman who have die in child-bed .
She haunt lonely road , her foot be turn backwards on the ankle , and she lead men to torment .
Louder rise Kim 's quaver howl , till at last he leap to his foot and stagger off sleepily , while the camp curse him for wake them .
Some twenty yard far up the line he lay down again , take care that the whisperer should hear his grunt and groan a he recomposed himself .
After a few minute he roll towards the road and steal away into the thick darkness .
He paddle along swiftly till he come to a culvert , and drop behind it , his chin on a level with the coping-stone .
Here he could command all the night-traffic , himself unseen .
Two or three cart pass , jingle out to the suburb ; a coughing policeman and a hurrying foot-passenger or two who sing to keep off evil spirit .
Then rap the shod foot of a horse .
` Ah !
This be more like Mahbub , ' think Kim , a the beast shy at the little head above the culvert .
` Ohe ' , Mahbub Ali , ' he whisper , ` have a care ! '
The horse be rein back almost on it haunch , and force towards the culvert .
` Never again , ' say Mahbub , ` will I take a shod horse for night-work .
They pick up all the bone and nail in the city . '
He stoop to lift it forefoot , and that bring his head within a foot of Kim 's .
` Down -- keep down , ' he mutter .
` The night be full of eye . '
` Two men wait thy come behind the horse-trucks .
They will shoot thee at thy lie down , because there be a price on thy head .
I hear , sleep near the horse . '
` Didst thou see them ?
... Hold still , Sire of Devils ! '
This furiously to the horse .
` No . '
` Was one dress belike a a fakir ? '
` One say to the other , `` What manner of fakir art thou , to shiver at a little watching ? '' '
` Good .
Go back to the camp and lie down .
I do not die tonight . '
Mahbub wheel his horse and vanish .
Kim tear back down the ditch till he reach a point opposite his second resting-place , slip across the road like a weasel , and re-coiled himself in the blanket .
` At least Mahbub know , ' he think contentedly .
` And certainly he speak a one expect it .
I do not think those two men will profit by tonight 's watch . '
An hour pass , and , with the best will in the world to keep awake all night , he sleep deeply .
Now and again a night train roar along the metal within twenty foot of him ; but he have all the Oriental 's indifference to mere noise , and it do not even weave a dream through his slumber .
Mahbub be anything but asleep .
It annoy him vehemently that people outside his tribe and unaffected by his casual amour should pursue him for the life .
His first and natural impulse be to cross the line lower down , work up again , and , catch his well-wisher from behind , summarily slay them .
Here , he reflect with sorrow , another branch of the Government , totally unconnected with Colonel Creighton , might demand explanation which would be hard to supply ; and he know that south of the Border a perfectly ridiculous fuss be make about a corpse or so .
He have not be trouble in this way since he send Kim to Umballa with the message , and hop that suspicion have be finally divert .
Then a most brilliant notion strike him .
` The English do eternally tell the truth , ' he say , ` therefore we of this country be eternally make foolish .
By Allah , I will tell the truth to an Englishman !
Of what use be the Government police if a poor Kabuli be rob of his horse in their very truck .
This be as bad a Peshawur !
I should lay a complaint at the station .
Better still , some young Sahib on the Railway !
They be zealous , and if they catch thief it be remember to their honour . '
He tie up his horse outside the station , and strode on to the platform .
` Hullo , Mahbub Ali ' say a young Assistant District Traffic Superintendent who be wait to go down the line -- a tall , tow-haired , horsey youth in dingy white linen .
` What be you do here ?
Selling weed -- eh ? '
` No ; I be not troubled for my horse .
I come to look for Lutuf Ullah .
I have a truck-load up the line .
Could anyone take them out without the Railway 's knowledge ? '
` Should n't think so , Mahbub .
You can claim against u if they do . ' '
I have see two men crouch under the wheel of one of the truck nearly all night .
Fakirs do not steal horse , so I give them no more thought .
I would find Lutuf Ullah , my partner . '
` The deuce you do ?
And you do n't bother your head about it ?
` Pon my word , it 's just almost as well that I meet you .
What be they like , eh ? '
` They be only fakir .
They will no more than take a little grain , perhaps , from one of the truck .
There be many up the line .
The State will never miss the dole .
I come here seek for my partner , Lutuf Ullah . '
` Never mind your partner .
Where be your horse-trucks ? ' '
A little to this side of the farthest place where they make lamp for the train . '
-- ` The signal-box !
Yes . '
` And upon the rail near to the road upon the right-hand side -- look up the line thus .
But a regard Lutuf Ullah -- a tall man with a broken nose , and a Persian greyhound Aie ! '
The boy have hurry off to wake up a young and enthusiastic policeman ; for , a he say , the Railway have suffer much from depredation in the goods-yard .
Mahbub Ali chuckle in his dyed beard .
` They will walk in their boot , make a noise , and then they will wonder why there be no fakir .
They be very clever boy -- Barton Sahib and Young Sahib . '
He wait idly for a few minute , expect to see them hurry up the line girt for action .
A light engine slide through the station , and he catch a glimpse of young Barton in the cab . '
I do that child an injustice .
He be not altogether a fool , ' say Mahbub Ali .
` To take a fire-carriage for a thief be a new game ! '
When Mahbub Ali come to his camp in the dawn , no one think it worth while to tell him any news of the night .
No one , at least , but one small horseboy , newly advance to the great man 's service , whom Mahbub call to his tiny tent to assist in some packing .
` It be all know to me , ' whisper Kim , bend above saddlebag .
` Two Sahibs come up on a te-train .
I be run to and fro in the dark on this side of the truck a the te-train move up and down slowly .
They fell upon two men sit under this truck -- Hajji , what shall I do with this lump of tobacco ?
Wrap it in paper and put it under the salt-bag ?
Yes -- and strike them down .
But one man strike at a Sahib with a fakir 's buck 's horn ' -LRB- Kim mean the conjoined black-buck horn , which be a fakir 's sole temporal weapon -RRB- -- ` the blood come .
So the other Sahib , first smite his own man senseless , smite the stabber with a short gun which have roll from the first man 's hand .
They all rag a though mad together . '
Mahbub smile with heavenly resignation .
` No !
That be not so much dewanee -LSB- madness , or a case for the civil court -- the word can be pun upon both way -RSB- a nizamut -LSB- a criminal case -RSB- .
A gun , sayest thou ?
Ten good year in jail . '
` Then they both lay still , but I think they be nearly dead when they be put on the te-train .
Their head move thus .
And there be much blood on the line .
Come and see ? ' '
I have see blood before .
Jail be the sure place -- and assuredly they will give false name , and assuredly no man will find them for a long time .
They be unfriends of mine .
Thy fate and mine seem on one string .
What a tale for the healer of pearl !
Now swiftly with the saddle-bags and the cooking-platter .
We will take out the horse and away to Simla . '
Swiftly -- a Orientals understand speed -- with long explanation , with abuse and windy talk , carelessly , amid a hundred check for little thing forget , the untidy camp break up and lead the half-dozen stiff and fretful horse along the Kalka road in the fresh of the rain-swept dawn .
Kim , regard a Mahbub Ali 's favourite by all who wish to stand well with the Pathan , be not call upon to work .
They stroll on by the easy of stage , halt every few hour at a wayside shelter .
Very many Sahibs travel along the Kalka road ; and , a Mahbub Ali say , every young Sahib must need esteem himself a judge of a horse , and , though he be over head in debt to the money-lender , must make a if to buy .
That be the reason that Sahib after Sahib , roll along in a stage-carriage , would stop and open talk .
Some would even descend from their vehicle and feel the horse ' leg ; ask inane question , or , through sheer ignorance of the vernacular , grossly insult the imperturbable trader .
` When first I deal with Sahibs , and that be when Colonel Soady Sahib be Governor of Fort Abazai and flood the Commissioner 's camping-ground for spite , ' Mahbub confide to Kim a the boy fill his pipe under a tree , ' I do not know how greatly they be fool , and this make me wroth .
As thus -- , ' and he tell Kim a tale of an expression , misuse in all innocence , that double Kim up with mirth .
` Now I see , however , ' -- he exhale smoke slowly -- ` that it be with them a with all men -- in certain matter they be wise , and in others most foolish .
Very foolish it be to use the wrong word to a stranger ; for though the heart may be clean of offence , how be the stranger to know that ?
He be more like to search truth with a dagger . '
` True .
True talk , ' say Kim solemnly .
` Fools speak of a cat when a woman be bring to bed , for instance .
I have hear them . '
` Therefore , in one situate a thou art , it particularly behove thee to remember this with both kind of face .
Among Sahibs , never forget thou art a Sahib ; among the folk of Hind , always remember thou art -- ' He pause , with a puzzle smile .
` What be I ?
Mussalman , Hindu , Jain , or Buddhist ?
That be a hard knot . '
` Thou art beyond question an unbeliever , and therefore thou wilt be damn .
So say my Law -- or I think it do .
But thou art also my Little Friend of all the World , and I love thee .
So say my heart .
This matter of creed be like horseflesh .
The wise man know horse be good -- that there be a profit to be make from all ; and for myself -- but that I be a good Sunni and hate the men of Tirah -- I could believe the same of all the Faiths .
Now manifestly a Kathiawar mare take from the sand of her birthplace and remove to the west of Bengal founder -- nor be even a Balkh stallion -LRB- and there be no good horse than those of Balkh , be they not so heavy in the shoulder -RRB- of any account in the great Northern desert beside the snow-camels I have see .
Therefore I say in my heart the Faiths be like the horse .
Each have merit in it own country . '
` But my lama say altogether a different thing . '
` Oh , he be an old dreamer of dream from Bhotiyal .
My heart be a little angry , Friend of all the World , that thou shouldst see such worth in a man so little known . '
` It be true , Hajji ; but that worth do I see , and to him my heart be draw . '
` And his to thine , I hear .
Hearts be like horse .
They come and they go against bit or spur .
Shout Gul Sher Khan yonder to drive in that bay stallion 's picket more firmly .
We do not want a horse-fight at every resting-stage , and the dun and the black will be lock in a little ... Now hear me .
Is it necessary to the comfort of thy heart to see that lama ? '
` It be one part of my bond , ' say Kim .
` If I do not see him , and if he be take from me , I will go out of that madrissah in Nucklao and , and -- once go , who be to find me again ? '
` It be true .
Never be colt hold on a light heel-rope than thou . '
Mahbub nod his head .
` Do not be afraid . '
Kim speak a though he could have vanish on the moment .
` My lama have say that he will come to see me at the madrissah -- ' ' A beggar and his bowl in the presence of those young Sa -- ' ` Not all ! '
Kim cut in with a snort .
` Their eye be blue and their nail be blacken with low-caste blood , many of them .
Sons of mehteranees -- brother-in-law to the bhungi -LSB- sweeper -RSB- . '
We need not follow the rest of the pedigree ; but Kim make his little point clearly and without heat , chew a piece of sugar-cane the while .
` Friend of all the World , ' say Mahbub , push over the pipe for the boy to clean , ' I have meet many men , woman , and boy , and not a few Sahibs .
I have never in all my day meet such an imp a thou art . '
` And why ?
When I always tell thee the truth . '
` Perhaps the very reason , for this be a world of danger to honest men . '
Mahbub Ali haul himself off the ground , girt in his belt , and go over to the horse .
` Or sell it ? '
There be that in the tone that make Mahbub halt and turn .
` What new devilry ? '
` Eight anna , and I will tell , ' say Kim , grinning .
` It touch thy peace . ' '
O Shaitan ! '
Mahbub give the money .
` Rememberest thou the little business of the thief in the dark , down yonder at Umballa ? '
` Seeing they seek my life , I have not altogether forget .
Why ? '
` Rememberest thou the Kashmir Serai ? ' '
I will twist thy ear in a moment -- Sahib . '
` No need -- Pathan .
Only , the second fakir , whom the Sahibs beat senseless , be the man who come to search thy bulkhead at Lahore .
I saw his face a they help him on the engine .
The very same man . '
` Why didst thou not tell before ? '
` Oh , he will go to jail , and be safe for some year .
There be no need to tell more than be necessary at any one time .
Besides , I do not then need money for sweetmeat . '
` Allah kerim ! '
say Mahbub Ah .
` Wilt thou some day sell my head for a few sweetmeat if the fit take thee ? '
Kim will remember till he die that long , lazy journey from Umballa , through Kalka and the Pinjore Gardens near by , up to Simla .
A sudden spate in the Gugger River sweep down one horse -LRB- the most valuable , be sure -RRB- , and nearly drown Kim among the dance boulder .
Farther up the road the horse be stampede by a Government elephant , and be in high condition of grass food , it cost a day and a half to get them together again .
Then they meet Sikandar Khan come down with a few unsaleable screw -- remnant of his string -- and Mahbub , who have more of horse-coping in his little fingernail than Sikandar Khan in all his tent , must need buy two of the bad , and that meant eight hour ' laborious diplomacy and untold tobacco .
But it be all pure delight -- the wandering road , climb , dip , and sweep about the grow spur ; the flush of the morning laid along the distant snow ; the branched cactus , tier upon tier on the stony hillside ; the voice of a thousand water-channels ; the chatter of the monkey ; the solemn deodar , climb one after another with down-drooped branch ; the vista of the Plains roll out far beneath them ; the incessant twanging of the tonga-horns and the wild rush of the led horse when a tonga swung round a curve ; the halt for prayer -LRB- Mahbub be very religious in dry-washings and bellowing when time do not press -RRB- ; the evening conference by the halting-places , when camel and bullock chew solemnly together and the stolid driver tell the news of the Road -- all these thing lift Kim 's heart to song within him .
` But , when the singing and dancing be do , ' say Mahbub Ali , ` come the Colonel Sahib 's , and that be not so sweet . ' '
A fair land -- a most beautiful land be this of Hind -- and the land of the Five Rivers be fair than all , ' Kim half chant .
` Into it I will go again if Mahbub Ali or the Colonel lift hand or foot against me .
Once go , who shall find me ?
Look , Hajji , be yonder the city of Simla ?
Allah , what a city ! '
` My father 's brother , and he be an old man when Mackerson Sahib 's well be new at Peshawur , could recall when there be but two house in it . '
He lead the horse below the main road into the low Simla bazar -- the crowded rabbit-warren that climb up from the valley to the Town Hall at an angle of forty-five .
A man who know his way there can defy all the police of India 's summer capital , so cunningly do veranda communicate with veranda , alley-way with alley-way , and bolt-hole with bolt-hole .
Here live those who minister to the want of the glad city -- jhampanis who pull the pretty lady ' ` rickshaw by night and gamble till the dawn ; grocer , oil-sellers , curio-vendors , firewood-dealers , priest , pickpocket , and native employee of the Government .
Here be discuss by courtesan the thing which be suppose to be profound secret of the India Council ; and here gather all the sub-sub-agents of half the Native States .
Here , too , Mahbub Ali rent a room , much more securely lock than his bulkhead at Lahore , in the house of a Mohammedan cattle-dealer .
It be a place of miracle , too , for there go in at twilight a Mohammedan horseboy , and there come out an hour later a Eurasian lad -- the Lucknow girl 's dye be of the best -- in badly-fitting shop-clothes . '
I have speak with Creighton Sahib , ' quoth Mahbub Ali , ` and a second time have the Hand of Friendship avert the Whip of Calamity .
He say that thou hast altogether waste sixty day upon the Road , and it be too late , therefore , to send thee to any Hill-school . ' '
I have say that my holiday be my own .
I do not go to school twice over .
That be one part of my bond . '
` The Colonel Sahib be not yet aware of that contract .
Thou art to lodge in Lurgan Sahib 's house till it be time to go again to Nucklao . ' '
I have sooner lodge with thee , Mahbub . '
` Thou dost not know the honour .
Lurgan Sahib himself ask for thee .
Thou wilt go up the hill and along the road atop , and there thou must forget for a while that thou hast ever see or speak to me , Mahbub Ali , who sell horse to Creighton Sahib , whom thou dost not know .
Remember this order . '
Kim nod .
` Good , ' say he , ` and who be Lurgan Sahib ?
Nay ' -- he catch Mahbub 's sword-keen glance -- ` indeed I have never hear his name .
Is he by chance -- he lower his voice -- ` one of u ? '
` What talk be this of u , Sahib ? '
Mahbub Ali return , in the tone he use towards Europeans . '
I be a Pathan ; thou art a Sahib and the son of a Sahib .
Lurgan Sahib have a shop among the European shop .
All Simla know it .
Ask there ... and , Friend of all the World , he be one to be obey to the last wink of his eyelash .
Men say he do magic , but that should not touch thee .
Go up the hill and ask .
Here begin the Great Game . '
Chapter 9 S ' doaks be son of Yelth the wise -- Chief of the Raven clan .
Itswoot the Bear have him in care To make him a medicine-man .
He be quick and quicker to learn -- Bold and bolder to dare : He dance the dread Kloo-Kwallie Dance To tickle Itswoot the Bear !
Oregon Legend Kim fling himself whole-heartedly upon the next turn of the wheel .
He would be a Sahib again for a while .
In that idea , so soon a he have reach the broad road under Simla Town Hall , he cast about for one to impress .
A Hindu child , some ten year old , squat under a lamp-post .
` Where be Mr Lurgan 's house ? '
demand Kim . '
I do not understand English , ' be the answer , and Kim shift his speech accordingly . '
I will show . '
Together they set off through the mysterious dusk , full of the noise of a city below the hillside , and the breath of a cool wind in deodar-crowned Jakko , shoulder the star .
The house-lights , scatter on every level , make , a it be , a double firmament .
Some be fix , others belong to the ` rickshaw of the careless , open-spoken English folk , go out to dinner .
` It be here , ' say Kim 's guide , and halt in a veranda flush with the main road .
No door stay them , but a curtain of beaded reed that split up the lamplight beyond .
` He be come , ' say the boy , in a voice little loud than a sigh , and vanish .
Kim felt sure that the boy have be post to guide him from the first , but , put a bold face on it , part the curtain .
A black-bearded man , with a green shade over his eye , sit at a table , and , one by one , with short , white hand , pick up globule of light from a tray before him , thread them on a glancing silken string , and hum to himself the while .
Kim be conscious that beyond the circle of light the room be full of thing that smelt like all the temple of all the East .
A whiff of musk , a puff of sandal-wood , and a breath of sickly jessamine-oil catch his opened nostril . '
I be here , ' say Kim at last , speak in the vernacular : the smell make him forget that he be to be a Sahib .
` Seventy-nine , eighty , eighty-one , ' the man count to himself , string pearl after pearl so quickly that Kim could scarcely follow his finger .
He slide off the green shade and look fixedly at Kim for a full half-minute .
The pupil of the eye dilate and close to pin-pricks , a if at will .
There be a fakir by the Taksali Gate who have just this gift and make money by it , especially when curse silly woman .
Kim star with interest .
His disreputable friend could further twitch his ear , almost like a goat , and Kim be disappoint that this new man could not imitate him .
` Do not be afraid , ' say Lurgan Sahib suddenly .
` Why should I fear ? '
` Thou wilt sleep here tonight , and stay with me till it be time to go again to Nucklao .
It be an order . '
` It be an order , ' Kim repeat .
` But where shall I sleep ? '
` Here , in this room . '
Lurgan Sahib wave his hand towards the darkness behind him .
` So be it , ' say Kim composedly .
` Now ? '
He nod and hold the lamp above his head .
As the light sweep them , there leap out from the wall a collection of Tibetan devil-dance mask , hang above the fiend-embroidered drapery of those ghastly function -- horn mask , scowl mask , and mask of idiotic terror .
In a corner , a Japanese warrior , mail and plume , menace him with a halberd , and a score of lance and khandas and kuttars give back the unsteady gleam .
But what interested Kim more than all these thing -- he have see devil-dance mask at the Lahore Museum -- be a glimpse of the soft-eyed Hindu child who have leave him in the doorway , sit cross-legged under the table of pearl with a little smile on his scarlet lip . '
I think that Lurgan Sahib wish to make me afraid .
And I be sure that that devil 's brat below the table wish to see me afraid .
` This place , ' he say aloud , ` be like a Wonder House .
Where be my bed ? '
Lurgan Sahib point to a native quilt in a corner by the loathsome mask , pick up the lamp , and leave the room black .
` Was that Lurgan Sahib ? '
Kim ask a he cuddle down .
No answer .
He could hear the Hindu boy breathing , however , and , guide by the sound , crawl across the floor , and cuff into the darkness , cry : ` Give answer , devil !
Is this the way to lie to a Sahib ? '
From the darkness he fancy he could hear the echo of a chuckle .
It could not be his soft-fleshed companion , because he be weep .
So Kim lift up his voice and call aloud : ` Lurgan Sahib !
O Lurgan Sahib !
Is it an order that thy servant do not speak to me ? '
` It be an order . '
The voice come from behind him and he start .
` Very good .
But remember , ' he mutter , a he resought the quilt , ' I will beat thee in the morning .
I do not love Hindus . '
That be no cheerful night ; the room be overfull of voice and music .
Kim be wake twice by someone call his name .
The second time he set out in search , and end by bruise his nose against a box that certainly speak with a human tongue , but in no sort of human accent .
It seem to end in a tin trumpet and to be join by wire to a small box on the floor -- so far , at least , a he could judge by touch .
And the voice , very hard and whirring , come out of the trumpet .
Kim rub his nose and grow furious , think , a usual , in Hindi .
` This with a beggar from the bazar might be good , but -- I be a Sahib and the son of a Sahib and , which be twice as much more beside , a student of Nucklao .
Yess ' -LRB- here he turn to English -RRB- , ' a boy of St Xavier 's .
Damn Mr Lurgan 's eye !
-- It be some sort of machinery like a sewing-machine .
Oh , it be a great cheek of him -- we be not frighten that way at Lucknow -- No ! '
Then in Hindi : ` But what do he gain ?
He be only a trader -- I be in his shop .
But Creighton Sahib be a Colonel -- and I think Creighton Sahib give order that it should be do .
How I will beat that Hindu in the morning !
What be this ? '
The trumpet-box be pour out a string of the most elaborate abuse that even Kim have ever hear , in a high uninterested voice , that for a moment lift the short hair of his neck .
When the vile thing draw breath , Kim be reassure by the soft , sewing-machine-like whirr .
` Chup !
-LSB- Be still -RSB- ' he cry , and again he hear a chuckle that decide him .
` Chup -- or I break your head . '
The box take no heed .
Kim wrench at the tin trumpet and something lift with a click .
He have evidently raise a lid .
If there be a devil inside , now be it time , for -- he sniff -- thus do the sewing-machines of the bazar smell .
He would clean that shaitan .
He slip off his jacket , and plunge it into the box 's mouth .
Something long and round bent under the pressure , there be a whirr and the voice stop -- a voice must if you ram a thrice-doubled coat on to the wax cylinder and into the work of an expensive phonograph .
Kim finish his slumber with a serene mind .
In the morning he be aware of Lurgan Sahib look down on him .
` Oah ! '
say Kim , firmly resolve to cling to his Sahib-dom .
` There be a box in the night that give me bad talk .
So I stop it .
Was it your box ? '
The man hold out his hand .
` Shake hand , O'Hara , ' he say .
` Yes , it be my box .
I keep such thing because my friend the Rajahs like them .
That one be break , but it be cheap at the price .
Yes , my friend , the Kings , be very fond of toy -- and so be I sometimes . '
Kim look him over out of the corner of his eye .
He be a Sahib in that he wear Sahib 's clothes ; the accent of his Urdu , the intonation of his English , show that he be anything but a Sahib .
He seem to understand what move in Kim 's mind ere the boy open his mouth , and he take no pain to explain himself a do Father Victor or the Lucknow master .
Sweetest of all -- he treat Kim a an equal on the Asiatic side . '
I be sorry you can not beat my boy this morning .
He say he will kill you with a knife or poison .
He be jealous , so I have put him in the corner and I shall not speak to him today .
He have just try to kill me .
You must help me with the breakfast .
He be almost too jealous to trust , just now . '
Now a genuine import Sahib from England would have make a great to-do over this tale .
Lurgan Sahib state it as simply a Mahbub Ali be use to record his little affair in the North .
The back veranda of the shop be build out over the sheer hillside , and they look down into their neighbour ' chimney-pots , a be the custom of Simla .
But even more than the purely Persian meal cook by Lurgan Sahib with his own hand , the shop fascinate Kim .
The Lahore Museum be large , but here be more wonder -- ghost-daggers and prayer-wheels from Tibet ; turquoise and raw amber necklace ; green jade bangle ; curiously pack incense-sticks in jar crust over with raw garnet ; the devil-masks of overnight and a wall full of peacock-blue drapery ; gilt figure of Buddha , and little portable lacquer altar ; Russian samovar with turquoise on the lid ; egg-shell china set in quaint octagonal cane box ; yellow ivory crucifix -- from Japan of all place in the world , so Lurgan Sahib say ; carpet in dusty bale , smell atrociously , push back behind torn and rotten screen of geometrical work ; Persian water-jugs for the hand after meal ; dull copper incense-burners neither Chinese nor Persian , with frieze of fantastic devil run round them ; tarnish silver belt that knot like raw hide ; hairpin of jade , ivory , and plasma ; arm of all sort and kind , and a thousand other oddment be case , or pile , or merely throw into the room , leave a clear space only round the rickety deal table , where Lurgan Sahib work .
` Those thing be nothing , ' say his host , follow Kim 's glance . '
I buy them because they be pretty , and sometimes I sell -- if I like the buyer 's look .
My work be on the table -- some of it . '
It blaze in the morning light -- all red and blue and green flash , pick out with the vicious blue-white spurt of a diamond here and there .
Kim open his eye .
` Oh , they be quite well , those stone .
It will not hurt them to take the sun .
Besides , they be cheap .
But with sick stone it be very different . '
He pile Kim 's plate anew .
` There be no one but me can doctor a sick pearl and re-blue turquoise .
I grant you opal -- any fool can cure an opal -- but for a sick pearl there be only me .
Suppose I be to die !
Then there would be no one ... Oh no !
You can not do anything with jewel .
It will be quite enough if you understand a little about the Turquoise -- some day . '
He move to the end of the veranda to refill the heavy , porous clay water-jug from the filter .
` Do you want drink ? '
Kim nod .
Lurgan Sahib , fifteen foot off , lay one hand on the jar .
Next instant , it stand at Kim 's elbow , full to within half an inch of the brim -- the white cloth only show , by a small wrinkle , where it have slide into place .
` Wah ! '
say Kim in most utter amazement .
` That be magic . '
Lurgan Sahib 's smile show that the compliment have go home .
` Throw it back . '
` It will break . ' '
I say , throw it back . '
Kim pitch it at random .
It fell short and crash into fifty piece , while the water drip through the rough veranda boarding . '
I say it would break . '
` All one .
Look at it .
Look at the large piece . '
That lay with a sparkle of water in it curve , a it be a star on the floor .
Kim look intently .
Lurgan Sahib lay one hand gently on the nape of his neck , stroke it twice or thrice , and whisper : ` Look !
It shall come to life again , piece by piece .
First the big piece shall join itself to two others on the right and the left -- on the right and the left .
Look ! '
To save his life , Kim could not have turn his head .
The light touch hold him a in a vice , and his blood tingle pleasantly through him .
There be one large piece of the jar where there have be three , and above them the shadowy outline of the entire vessel .
He could see the veranda through it , but it be thicken and darken with each beat of his pulse .
Yet the jar -- how slowly the thought come !
-- the jar have be smash before his eye .
Another wave of prickle fire race down his neck , a Lurgan Sahib move his hand .
` Look !
It be come into shape , ' say Lurgan Sahib .
So far Kim have be think in Hindi , but a tremor come on him , and with an effort like that of a swimmer before shark , who hurl himself half out of the water , his mind leap up from a darkness that be swallow it and take refuge in -- the multiplication-table in English !
` Look !
It be come into shape , ' whisper Lurgan Sahib .
The jar have be smash -- yes , smash -- not the native word , he would not think of that -- but smash -- into fifty piece , and twice three be six , and thrice three be nine , and four time three be twelve .
He cling desperately to the repetition .
The shadow-outline of the jar clear like a mist after rub eye .
There be the broken shard ; there be the spilt water dry in the sun , and through the crack of the veranda show , all ribbed , the white house-wall below -- and thrice twelve be thirty-six !
` Look !
Is it come into shape ? '
ask Lurgan Sahib .
` But it be smash -- smash , ' he gasp -- Lurgan Sahib have be mutter softly for the last half-minute .
Kim wrench his head aside .
` Look !
Dekho !
It be there a it be there . '
` It be there a it be there , ' say Lurgan , watch Kim closely while the boy rub his neck .
` But you be the first of many who have ever see it so . '
He wipe his broad forehead .
` Was that more magic ? '
Kim ask suspiciously .
The tingle have go from his vein ; he felt unusually wide awake .
` No , that be not magic .
It be only to see if there be -- a flaw in a jewel .
Sometimes very fine jewel will fly all to piece if a man hold them in his hand , and know the proper way .
That be why one must be careful before one set them .
Tell me , do you see the shape of the pot ? '
` For a little time .
It begin to grow like a flower from the ground . '
` And then what do you do ?
I mean , how do you think ? '
` Oah !
I know it be break , and so , I think , that be what I think -- and it be break . '
` Hm !
Has anyone ever do that same sort of magic to you before ? '
` If it be , ' say Kim ` do you think I should let it again ?
I should run away . '
` And now you be not afraid -- eh ? '
` Not now . '
Lurgan Sahib look at him more closely than ever . '
I shall ask Mahbub Ali -- not now , but some day later , ' he mutter . '
I be pleased with you -- yes ; and I be pleased with you -- no .
You be the first that ever save himself .
I wish I know what it be that ... But you be right .
You should not tell that -- not even to me . '
He turn into the dusky gloom of the shop , and sit down at the table , rub his hand softly .
A small , husky sob come from behind a pile of carpet .
It be the Hindu child obediently face towards the wall .
His thin shoulder work with grief .
` Ah !
He be jealous , so jealous .
I wonder if he will try to poison me again in my breakfast , and make me cook it twice .
` Kubbee -- kubbee nahin -LSB- Never -- never .
No ! -RSB- '
, come the broken answer .
` And whether he will kill this other boy ? '
` Kubbee -- kubbee nahin . '
` What do you think he will do ? '
He turn suddenly on Kim .
` Oah !
I do not know .
Let him go , perhaps .
Why do he want to poison you ? '
` Because he be so fond of me .
Suppose you be fond of someone , and you saw someone come , and the man you be fond of be more pleased with him than he be with you , what would you do ? '
Kim thought .
Lurgan repeat the sentence slowly in the vernacular . '
I should not poison that man , ' say Kim reflectively , ` but I should beat that boy -- if that boy be fond of my man .
But first , I would ask that boy if it be true . '
` Ah !
He think everyone must be fond of me . '
` Then I think he be a fool . '
` Hearest thou ? '
say Lurgan Sahib to the shake shoulder .
` The Sahib 's son think thou art a little fool .
Come out , and next time thy heart be trouble , do not try white arsenic quite so openly .
Surely the Devil Dasim be lord of our table-cloth that day !
It might have make me ill , child , and then a stranger would have guard the jewel .
Come ! '
The child , heavy-eyed with much weeping , creep out from behind the bale and flung himself passionately at Lurgan Sahib 's foot , with an extravagance of remorse that impress even Kim . '
I will look into the ink-pools -- I will faithfully guard the jewel !
Oh , my Father and my Mother , send him away ! '
He indicate Kim with a backward jerk of his bare heel .
` Not yet -- not yet .
In a little while he will go away again .
But now he be at school -- at a new madrissah -- and thou shalt be his teacher .
Play the Play of the Jewels against him .
I will keep tally . '
The child dry his tear at once , and dash to the back of the shop , whence he return with a copper tray .
` Give me ! '
he say to Lurgan Sahib .
` Let them come from thy hand , for he may say that I know them before . '
` Gently -- gently , ' the man reply , and from a drawer under the table deal a half-handful of clatter trifle into the tray .
` Now , ' say the child , wave an old newspaper .
` Look on them as long a thou wilt , stranger .
Count and , if need be , handle .
One look be enough for me . '
He turn his back proudly .
` But what be the game ? '
` When thou hast count and handle and art sure that thou canst remember them all , I cover them with this paper , and thou must tell over the tally to Lurgan Sahib .
I will write mine . '
` Oah ! '
The instinct of competition wake in his breast .
He bend over the tray .
There be but fifteen stone on it .
` That be easy , ' he say after a minute .
The child slip the paper over the winking jewel and scribble in a native account-book .
` There be under that paper five blue stone -- one big , one small , and three small , ' say Kim , all in haste .
` There be four green stone , and one with a hole in it ; there be one yellow stone that I can see through , and one like a pipe-stem .
There be two red stone , and -- and -- I make the count fifteen , but two I have forget .
No !
Give me time .
One be of ivory , little and brownish ; and -- and -- give me time ... ' ` One -- two ' -- Lurgan Sahib count him out up to ten .
Kim shake his head .
` Hear my count ! '
the child burst in , trill with laughter .
` First , be two flawed sapphire -- one of two ruttees and one of four a I should judge .
The four-ruttee sapphire be chip at the edge .
There be one Turkestan turquoise , plain with black vein , and there be two inscribed -- one with a Name of God in gilt , and the other be crack across , for it come out of an old ring , I can not read .
We have now all five blue stone .
Four flaw emerald there be , but one be drill in two place , and one be a little carven - ' ` Their weight ? '
say Lurgan Sahib impassively .
` Three -- five -- five -- and four ruttees a I judge it .
There be one piece of old greenish pipe amber , and a cut topaz from Europe .
There be one ruby of Burma , of two ruttees , without a flaw , and there be a balas-ruby , flaw , of two ruttees .
There be a carved ivory from China represent a rat suck an egg ; and there be last -- ah ha !
-- a ball of crystal as big a a bean set on a gold leaf . '
He clap his hand at the close .
` He be thy master , ' say Lurgan Sahib , smile .
` Huh !
He know the name of the stone , ' say Kim , flushing .
` Try again !
With common thing such a he and I both know . '
They heap the tray again with odds and end gather from the shop , and even the kitchen , and every time the child win , till Kim marvel .
` Bind my eye -- let me feel once with my finger , and even then I will leave thee opened-eyed behind , ' he challenge .
Kim stamp with vexation when the lad make his boast good .
` If it be men -- or horse , ' he say , ' I could do good .
This playing with tweezer and knife and scissors be too little . '
` Learn first -- teach later , ' say Lurgan Sahib .
` Is he thy master ? '
` Truly .
But how be it do ? '
` By do it many time over till it be do perfectly -- for it be worth do . '
The Hindu boy , in high feather , actually pat Kim on the back .
` Do not despair , ' he say . '
I myself will teach thee . '
` And I will see that thou art well taught , ' say Lurgan Sahib , still speak in the vernacular , ` for except my boy here -- it be foolish of him to buy so much white arsenic when , if he have ask , I could have give it -- except my boy here I have not in a long time meet with one good worth teaching .
And there be ten day more ere thou canst return to Lucknao where they teach nothing -- at the long price .
We shall , I think , be friend . '
They be a most mad ten day , but Kim enjoy himself too much to reflect on their craziness .
In the morning they play the Jewel Game -- sometimes with veritable stone , sometimes with pile of sword and dagger , sometimes with photo-graphs of native .
Through the afternoon he and the Hindu boy would mount guard in the shop , sit dumb behind a carpet-bale or a screen and watch Mr Lurgan 's many and very curious visitor .
There be small Rajahs , escort cough in the veranda , who come to buy curiosity -- such a phonograph and mechanical toy .
There be lady in search of necklace , and men , it seem to Kim -- but his mind may have be vitiate by early training -- in search of the lady ; native from independent and feudatory Courts whose ostensible business be the repair of broken necklace -- river of light pour out upon the table -- but whose true end seem to be to raise money for angry Maharanees or young Rajahs .
There be Babus to whom Lurgan Sahib talk with austerity and authority , but at the end of each interview he give them money in coin silver and currency note .
There be occasional gathering of long-coated theatrical native who discuss metaphysics in English and Bengali , to Mr Lurgan 's great edification .
He be always interested in religion .
At the end of the day , Kim and the Hindu boy -- whose name vary at Lurgan 's pleasure -- be expect to give a detailed account of all that they have see and hear -- their view of each man 's character , a show in his face , talk , and manner , and their notion of his real errand .
After dinner , Lurgan Sahib 's fancy turn more to what might be call dressing-up , in which game he take a most informing interest .
He could paint face to a marvel ; with a brush-dab here and a line there change them past recognition .
The shop be full of all manner of dress and turban , and Kim be apparelled variously a a young Mohammedan of good family , an oilman , and once -- which be a joyous evening -- a the son of an Oudh landholder in the full of full dress .
Lurgan Sahib have a hawk 's eye to detect the least flaw in the make-up ; and lie on a worn teak-wood couch , would explain by the half-hour together how such and such a caste talk , or walk , or cough , or spat , or sneeze , and , since ` hows ' matter little in this world , the ` why ' of everything .
The Hindu child play this game clumsily .
That little mind , keen a an icicle where tally of jewel be concern , could not temper itself to enter another 's soul ; but a demon in Kim wake up and sang with joy a he put on the changing dress , and change speech and gesture therewith .
Carried away by enthusiasm , he volunteer to show Lurgan Sahib one even how the disciple of a certain caste of fakir , old Lahore acquaintance , beg dole by the roadside ; and what sort of language he would use to an Englishman , to a Punjabi farmer go to a fair , and to a woman without a veil .
Lurgan Sahib laugh immensely , and beg Kim to stay a he be , immobile for half an hour -- cross-legged , ash-smeared , and wild-eyed , in the back room .
At the end of that time enter a hulking , obese Babu whose stock leg shook with fat , and Kim open on him with a shower of wayside chaff .
Lurgan Sahib -- this annoyed Kim -- watch the Babu and not the play . '
I think , ' say the Babu heavily , light a cigarette , ' I be of opeenion that it be most extraordinary and effeecient performance .
Except that you have tell me I should have opine that -- that -- that you be pull my leg .
How soon can he become approximately effeecient chain-man ?
Because then I shall indent for him . '
` That be what he must learn at Lucknow . '
` Then order him to be jolly-dam ' - quick .
Good-night , Lurgan . '
The Babu swing out with the gait of a bogged cow .
When they be tell over the day 's list of visitor , Lurgan Sahib ask Kim who he think the man might be .
` God know ! '
say Kim cheerily .
The tone might almost have deceive Mahbub Ali , but it fail entirely with the healer of sick pearl .
` That be true .
God , He know ; but I wish to know what you think . '
Kim glance sideways at his companion , whose eye have a way of compel truth .
` I -- I think he will want me when I come from the school , but ' -- confidentially , a Lurgan Sahib nod approval -- ' I do not understand how he can wear many dress and talk many tongue . '
` Thou wilt understand many thing later .
He be a writer of tale for a certain Colonel .
His honour be great only in Simla , and it be noticeable that he have no name , but only a number and a letter -- that be a custom among u . '
` And be there a price upon his head too -- a upon Mah -- all the others ? '
` Not yet ; but if a boy rise up who be now sit here and go -- look , the door be open !
-- as far a a certain house with a red-painted veranda , behind that which be the old theatre in the Lower Bazar , and whisper through the shutter : `` Hurree Chunder Mookerjee bore the bad news of last month '' , that boy might take away a belt full of rupee . '
` How many ? '
say Kim promptly .
` Five hundred -- a thousand -- as many a he might ask for . '
` Good .
And for how long might such a boy live after the news be tell ? '
He smile merrily at Lurgan 's Sahib 's very beard .
` Ah !
That be to be well think of .
Perhaps if he be very clever , he might live out the day -- but not the night .
By no mean the night . '
` Then what be the Babu 's pay if so much be put upon his head ? '
` Eighty -- perhaps a hundred -- perhaps a hundred and fifty rupee ; but the pay be the least part of the work .
From time to time , God cause men to be bear -- and thou art one of them -- who have a lust to go abroad at the risk of their life and discover news -- today it may be of far-off thing , tomorrow of some hidden mountain , and the next day of some near-by men who have do a foolishness against the State .
These soul be very few ; and of these few , not more than ten be of the best .
Among these ten I count the Babu , and that be curious .
How great , therefore , and desirable must be a business that brazen the heart of a Bengali ! '
` True .
But the day go slowly for me .
I be yet a boy , and it be only within two month I learn to write Angrezi .
Even now I can not read it well .
And there be yet year and year and long year before I can be even a chain-man . '
` Have patience , Friend of all the World ' -- Kim start at the title .
` Would I have a few of the year that so irk thee .
I have prove thee in several small way .
This will not be forget when I make my report to the Colonel Sahib . '
Then , change suddenly into English with a deep laugh : ` By Jove !
O'Hara , I think there be a great deal in you ; but you must not become proud and you must not talk .
You must go back to Lucknow and be a good little boy and mind your book , a the English say , and perhaps , next holiday if you care , you can come back to me ! '
Kim 's face fell .
` Oh , I mean if you like .
I know where you want to go . '
Four day later a seat be book for Kim and his small trunk at the rear of a Kalka tonga .
His companion be the whale-like Babu , who , with a fringed shawl wrap round his head , and his fat openwork-stockinged left leg tuck under him , shiver and grunt in the morning chill .
` How come it that this man be one of u ? '
think Kim consider the jelly back a they jolt down the road ; and the reflection throw him into most pleasant day-dreams .
Lurgan Sahib have give him five rupee -- a splendid sum -- as well a the assurance of his protection if he work .
Unlike Mahbub , Lurgan Sahib have speak most explicitly of the reward that would follow obedience , and Kim be content .
If only , like the Babu , he could enjoy the dignity of a letter and a number -- and a price upon his head !
Some day he would be all that and more .
Some day he might be almost as great a Mahbub Ali !
The housetop of his search should be half India ; he would follow Kings and Ministers , a in the old day he have follow vakils and lawyer ' tout across Lahore city for Mahbub Ali 's sake .
Meantime , there be the present , and not at all unpleasant , fact of St Xavier 's immediately before him .
There would be new boy to condescend to , and there would be tale of holiday adventure to hear .
Young Martin , son of the tea-planter at Manipur , have boast that he would go to war , with a rifle , against the head-hunters .
That might be , but it be certain young Martin have not be blow half across the forecourt of a Patiala palace by an explosion of firework ; nor have he ... Kim fell to tell himself the story of his own adventure through the last three month .
He could paralyse St Xavier 's -- even the big boy who shave -- with the recital , be that permit .
But it be , of course , out of the question .
There would be a price upon his head in good time , a Lurgan Sahib have assure him ; and if he talk foolishly now , not only would that price never be set , but Colonel Creighton would cast him off -- and he would be leave to the wrath of Lurgan Sahib and Mahbub Ali -- for the short space of life that would remain to him .
` So I should lose Delhi for the sake of a fish , ' be his proverbial philosophy .
It behove him to forget his holiday -LRB- there would always remain the fun of invent imaginary adventure -RRB- and , a Lurgan Sahib have say , to work .
Of all the boy hurry back to St Xavier 's , from Sukkur in the sand to Galle beneath the palm , none be so filled with virtue a Kimball O'Hara , jiggeting down to Umballa behind Hurree Chunder Mookerjee , whose name on the book of one section of the Ethnological Survey be R. 17 .
And if additional spur be need , the Babu supply it .
After a huge meal at Kalka , he speak uninterruptedly .
Was Kim go to school ?
Then he , an M A of Calcutta University , would explain the advantage of education .
There be mark to be gain by due attention to Latin and Wordsworth 's Excursion -LRB- all this be Greek to Kim -RRB- .
French , too be vital , and the best be to be pick up in Chandernagore a few mile from Calcutta .
Also a man might go far , a he himself have do , by strict attention to play call Lear and Julius Caesar , both much in demand by examiner .
Lear be not so full of historical allusion a Julius Caesar ; the book cost four anna , but could be buy second-hand in Bow Bazar for two .
Still more important than Wordsworth , or the eminent author , Burke and Hare , be the art and science of mensuration .
A boy who have pass his examination in these branch -- for which , by the way , there be no cram-books -- could , by merely march over a country with a compass and a level and a straight eye , carry away a picture of that country which might be sell for large sum in coined silver .
But a it be occasionally inexpedient to carry about measuring-chains a boy would do well to know the precise length of his own foot-pace , so that when he be deprive of what Hurree Chunder call adventitious aid ' he might still tread his distance .
To keep count of thousand of pace , Hurree Chunder 's experience have show him nothing more valuable than a rosary of eighty-one or a hundred and eight bead , for ` it be divisible and sub-divisible into many multiple and sub-multiples ' .
Through the volleying drift of English , Kim catch the general trend of the talk , and it interest him very much .
Here be a new craft that a man could tuck away in his head and by the look of the large wide world unfold itself before him , it seem that the more a man know the good for him .
Said the Babu when he have talk for an hour and a half ' I hope some day to enjoy your offeecial acquaintance .
Ad interim , if I may be pardon that expression , I shall give you this betel-box , which be highly valuable article and cost me two rupee only four year ago . '
It be a cheap , heart-shaped brass thing with three compartment for carry the eternal betel-nut , lime and pan-leaf ; but it be fill with little tabloid-bottles .
` That be reward of merit for your performance in character of that holy man .
You see , you be so young you think you will last for ever and not take care of your body .
It be great nuisance to go sick in the middle of business .
I be fond of drug myself , and they be handy to cure poor people too .
These be good Departmental drug -- quinine and so on .
I give it you for souvenir .
Now good-bye .
I have urgent private business here by the roadside . '
He slip out noiselessly a a cat , on the Umballa road , hail a passing cart and jingle away , while Kim , tongue-tied , twiddle the brass betel-box in his hand .
The record of a boy 's education interest few save his parent , and , a you know , Kim be an orphan .
It be write in the book of St Xavier 's in Partibus that a report of Kim 's progress be forward at the end of each term to Colonel Creighton and to Father Victor , from whose hand duly come the money for his schooling .
It be far record in the same book that he show a great aptitude for mathematical study as well a map-making , and carry away a prize -LRB- The Life of Lord Lawrence , tree-calf , two vols . , nine rupee , eight anna -RRB- for proficiency therein ; and the same term play in St Xavier 's eleven against the Alighur Mohammedan College , his age be fourteen year and ten month .
He be also re-vaccinated -LRB- from which we may assume that there have be another epidemic of smallpox at Lucknow -RRB- about the same time .
Pencil note on the edge of an old muster-roll record that he be punish several time for ` converse with improper person ' , and it seem that he be once sentence to heavy pain for ` absent himself for a day in the company of a street beggar ' .
That be when he get over the gate and plead with the lama through a whole day down the bank of the Gumti to accompany him on the Road next holiday -- for one month -- for a little week ; and the lama set his face a a flint against it , aver that the time have not yet come .
Kim 's business , say the old man a they eat cake together , be to get all the wisdom of the Sahibs and then he would see .
The Hand of Friendship must in some way have avert the Whip of Calamity , for six week later Kim seem to have pass an examination in elementary surveying ` with great credit ' , his age be fifteen year and eight month .
From this date the record be silent .
His name do not appear in the year 's batch of those who enter for the subordinate Survey of India , but against it stand the word ` remove on appointment . '
Several time in those three year , cast up at the Temple of the Tirthankars in Benares the lama , a little thinner and a shade yellower , if that be possible , but gentle and untainted a ever .
Sometimes it be from the South that he come -- from south of Tuticorin , whence the wonderful fire-boats go to Ceylon where be priest who know Pali ; sometimes it be from the wet green West and the thousand cotton-factory chimney that ring Bombay ; and once from the North , where he have double back eight hundred mile to talk for a day with the Keeper of the Images in the Wonder House .
He would stride to his cell in the cool , cut marble -- the priest of the Temple be good to the old man , -- wash off the dust of travel , make prayer , and depart for Lucknow , well accustomed now to the way of the rail , in a third-class carriage .
Returning , it be noticeable , a his friend the Seeker point out to the head-priest , that he cease for a while to mourn the loss of his River , or to draw wondrous picture of the Wheel of Life , but prefer to talk of the beauty and wisdom of a certain mysterious chela whom no man of the Temple have ever see .
Yes , he have follow the trace of the Blessed Feet throughout all India .
-LRB- The Curator have still in his possession a most marvellous account of his wandering and meditation . -RRB-
There remain nothing more in life but to find the River of the Arrow .
Yet it be show to him in dream that it be a matter not to be undertake with any hope of success unless that seeker have with him the one chela appoint to bring the event to a happy issue , and verse in great wisdom -- such wisdom a white-haired Keepers of Images posse .
For example -LRB- here come out the snuff-gourd , and the kindly Jain priest make haste to be silent -RRB- : ` Long and long ago , when Devadatta be King of Benares -- let all listen to the Tataka !
-- an elephant be capture for a time by the king 's hunter and ere he break free , beringed with a grievous legiron .
This he strive to remove with hate and frenzy in his heart , and hurry up and down the forest , beseech his brother-elephants to wrench it asunder .
One by one , with their strong trunk , they try and fail .
At the last they give it a their opinion that the ring be not to be break by any bestial power .
And in a thicket , new-born , wet with moisture of birth , lay a day-old calf of the herd whose mother have die .
The fettered elephant , forget his own agony , say : `` If I do not help this suckle it will perish under our foot . ''
So he stand above the young thing , make his legs buttress against the uneasily move herd ; and he beg milk of a virtuous cow , and the calf throve , and the ringed elephant be the calf 's guide and defence .
Now the day of an elephant -- let all listen to the Tataka !
-- be thirty-five year to his full strength , and through thirty-five Rains the ring elephant befriend the younger , and all the while the fetter ate into the flesh .
` Then one day the young elephant saw the half-buried iron , and turn to the elder say : `` What be this ? ''
`` It be even my sorrow , '' say he who have befriend him .
Then that other put out his trunk and in the twinkling of an eyelash abolish the ring , say : `` The appointed time have come . ''
So the virtuous elephant who have wait temperately and do kind act be relieve , at the appointed time , by the very calf whom he have turn aside to cherish -- let all listen to the Tataka !
for the Elephant be Ananda , and the Calf that break the ring be none other than The Lord Himself ... ' Then he would shake his head benignly , and over the ever-clicking rosary point out how free that elephant-calf be from the sin of pride .
He be as humble a a chela who , see his master sit in the dust outside the Gates of Learning , over-leapt the gate -LRB- though they be lock -RRB- and take his master to his heart in the presence of the proud-stomached city .
Rich would be the reward of such a master and such a chela when the time come for them to seek freedom together !
So do the lama speak , come and go across India as softly a a bat .
A sharp-tongued old woman in a house among the fruit-trees behind Saharunpore honour him a the woman honour the prophet , but his chamber be by no mean upon the wall .
In an apartment of the forecourt overlook by coo dove he would sit , while she lay aside her useless veil and chattered of spirit and fiend of Kulu , of grandchild unborn , and of the free-tongued brat who have talk to her in the resting-place .
Once , too , he stray alone from the Grand Trunk Road below Umballa to the very village whose priest have try to drug him ; but the kind Heaven that guard lama send him at twilight through the crop , absorb and unsuspicious , to the Rissaldar 's door .
Here be like to have be a grave misunderstanding , for the old soldier ask him why the Friend of the Stars have go that way only six day before .
` That may not be , ' say the lama .
` He have go back to his own people . '
` He sit in that corner tell a hundred merry tale five night ago , ' his host insist .
` True , he vanish somewhat suddenly in the dawn after foolish talk with my granddaughter .
He grow apace , but he be the same Friend of the Stars a brought me true word of the war .
Have ye part ? '
` Yes -- and no , ' the lama reply .
` We -- we have not altogether part , but the time be not ripe that we should take the Road together .
He acquire wisdom in another place .
We must wait . '
` All one -- but if it be not the boy how do he come to speak so continually of thee ? '
` And what say he ? '
ask the lama eagerly .
` Sweet word -- an hundred thousand -- that thou art his father and mother and such all .
Pity that he do not take the Qpeen 's service .
He be fearless . '
This news amaze the lama , who do not then know how religiously Kim keep to the contract make with Mahbub Ali , and perforce ratify by Colonel Creighton ... ` There be no hold the young pony from the game , ' say the horse-dealer when the Colonel point out that vagabond over India in holiday time be absurd .
` If permission be refuse to go and come a he choose , he will make light of the refusal .
Then who be to catch him ?
Colonel Sahib , only once in a thousand year be a horse bear so well fit for the game a this our colt .
And we need men . '
Chapter 10 Your tiercel 's too long at hack , Sire .
He 's no eyas But a passage-hawk that foot ere we catch him , Dangerously free o ' the air .
Faith !
be he mine -LRB- As mine 's the glove he bind to for his tirings -RRB- I 'd fly him with a make-hawk .
He 's in yarak Plumed to the very point -- so manned , so weather ... Give him the firmament God make him for , And what shall take the air of him ?
Gow 's Watch Lurgan Sahib do not use a direct speech , but his advice tally with Mahbub 's ; and the upshot be good for Kim .
He know well now than to leave Lucknow city in native garb , and if Mahbub be anywhere within reach of a letter , it be to Mahbub 's camp he head , and make his change under the Pathan 's wary eye .
Could the little Survey paint-box that he use for map-tinting in term-time have find a tongue to tell of holiday doings , he might have be expel .
Once Mahbub and he go together as far a the beautiful city of Bombay , with three truckloads of tram-horses , and Mahbub nearly melt when Kim propose a sail in a dhow across the Indian Ocean to buy Gulf Arabs , which , he understand from a hanger-on of the dealer Abdul Rahman , fetch good price than mere Kabulis .
He dip his hand into the dish with that great trader when Mahbub and a few co-religionists be invite to a big Haj dinner .
They come back by way of Karachi by sea , when Kim take his first experience of sea-sickness sit on the fore-hatch of a coasting-steamer , well persuade he have be poison .
The Babu 's famous drug-box prove useless , though Kim have restock it at Bombay .
Mahbub have business at Quetta , and there Kim , a Mahbub admit , earn his keep , and perhaps a little over , by spend four curious day a scullion in the house of a fat Commissariat sergeant , from whose office-box , in an auspicious moment , he remove a little vellum ledger which he copy out -- it seem to deal entirely with cattle and camel sale -- by moonlight , lie behind an outhouse , all through one hot night .
Then he return the ledger to it place , and , at Mahbub 's word , leave that service unpaid , rejoin him six mile down the road , the clean copy in his bosom .
` That soldier be a small fish , ' Mahbub Ali explain , ` but in time we shall catch the large one .
He only sell ox at two price -- one for himself and one for the Government -- which I do not think be a sin . '
` Why could not I take away the little book and be do with it ? '
` Then he would have be frighten , and he would have tell his master .
Then we should miss , perhaps , a great number of new rifle which seek their way up from Quetta to the North .
The Game be so large that one see but a little at a time . '
` Oho ! '
say Kim , and hold his tongue .
That be in the monsoon holiday , after he have take the prize for mathematics .
The Christmas holiday he spend -- deduct ten day for private amusement -- with Lurgan Sahib , where he sit for the most part in front of a roaring wood-fire -- Jakko road be four foot deep in snow that year -- and -- the small Hindu have go away to be marry -- help Lurgan to thread pearl .
He make Kim learn whole chapter of the Koran by heart , till he could deliver them with the very roll and cadence of a mullah .
Moreover , he tell Kim the name and property of many native drug , as well a the rune proper to recite when you administer them .
And in the evening he write charm on parchment -- elaborate pentagram crown with the name of devil -- Murra , and Awan the Companion of Kings -- all fantastically write in the corner .
More to the point , he advise Kim a to the care of his own body , the cure of fever-fits , and simple remedy of the Road .
A week before it be time to go down , Colonel Creighton Sahib -- this be unfair -- send Kim a write examination paper that concern itself solely with rod and chain and link and angle .
Next holiday he be out with Mahbub , and here , by the way , he nearly die of thirst , plod through the sand on a camel to the mysterious city of Bikanir , where the well be four hundred foot deep , and line throughout with camel-bone .
It be not an amuse trip from Kim 's point of view , because -- in defiance of the contract -- the Colonel order him to make a map of that wild , walled city ; and since Mohammedan horse-boys and pipe-tenders be not expect to drag Survey-chains round the capital of an independent Native State , Kim be force to pace all his distance by mean of a bead rosary .
He use the compass for bearing a occasion serve -- after dark chiefly , when the camel have be feed -- and by the help of his little Survey paint-box of six colour-cakes and three brush , he achieve something not remotely unlike the city of Jeysulmir .
Mahbub laugh a great deal , and advise him to make up a write report a well ; and in the back of the big account-book that lay under the flap of Mahbub 's pet saddle Kim fell to work .
.
` It must hold everything that thou hast see or touch or consider .
Write a though the Jung-i-Lat Sahib himself have come by stealth with a vast army outsetting to war . '
` How great an army ? '
` Oh , half a lakh of men . '
` Folly !
Remember how few and bad be the well in the sand .
Not a thousand thirsty men could come near by here . '
` Then write that down -- also all the old breach in the wall and whence the firewood be cut -- and what be the temper and disposition of the King .
I stay here till all my horse be sell .
I will hire a room by the gateway , and thou shalt be my accountant .
There be a good lock to the door . '
The report in it unmistakable St Xavier 's run script , and the brown , yellow , and lake-daubed map , be on hand a few year ago -LRB- a careless clerk file it with the rough note of E 's second Seistan survey -RRB- , but by now the pencil character must be almost illegible .
Kim translate it , sweat under the light of an oil-lamp , to Mahbub , the second day of their return-journey .
The Pathan rise and stoop over his dappled saddle-bags . '
I know it would be worthy a dress of honour , and so I make one ready , ' he say , smile .
` Were I Amir of Afghanistan -LRB- and some day we may see him -RRB- , I would fill thy mouth with gold . '
He lay the garment formally at Kim 's foot .
There be a gold-embroidered Peshawur turban-cap , rise to a cone , and a big turban-cloth end in a broad fringe of gold .
There be a Delhi embroider waistcoat to slip over a milky white shirt , fasten to the right , ample and flow ; green pyjama with twisted silk waist-string ; and that nothing might be lack , russia-leather slipper , smell divinely , with arrogantly curl tip .
` Upon a Wednesday , and in the morning , to put on new clothes be auspicious , ' say Mahbub solemnly .
` But we must not forget the wicked folk in the world .
So ! '
He cap all the splendour , that be take Kim 's delighted breath away , with a mother-of-pearl , nickel-plated , self-extracting .450 revolver . '
I have think of a small bore , but reflect that this take Government bullet .
A man can always come by those -- especially across the Border .
Stand up and let me look . '
He clap Kim on the shoulder .
` May you never be tire , Pathan !
Oh , the heart to be break !
Oh , the eye under the eyelash , look sideways ! '
Kim turn about , point his toe , stretch , and felt mechanically for the moustache that be just begin .
Then he stoop towards Mahbub 's foot to make proper acknowledgment with fluttering , quick-patting hand ; his heart too full for word .
Mahbub forestall and embrace him .
` My son , say he , ` what need of word between u ?
But be not the little gun a delight ?
All six cartridge come out at one twist .
It be bear in the bosom next the skin , which , a it be , keep it oil .
Never put it elsewhere , and please God , thou shalt some day kill a man with it . '
` Hai mai ! '
say Kim ruefully .
` If a Sahib kill a man he be hang in the jail . '
` True : but one pace beyond the Border , men be wiser .
Put it away ; but fill it first .
Of what use be a gun unfed ? '
` When I go back to the madrissah I must return it .
They do not allow little gun .
Thou wilt keep it for me ? '
` Son , I be weary of that madrissah , where they take the best year of a man to teach him what he can only learn upon the Road .
The folly of the Sahibs have neither top nor bottom .
No matter .
Maybe thy write report shall save thee further bondage ; and God He know we need men more and more in the Game . '
They march , jaw-bound against blow sand , across the salt desert to Jodhpur , where Mahbub and his handsome nephew Habib Ullah do much trading ; and then sorrowfully , in European clothes , which he be fast outgrowing , Kim go second-class to St Xavier 's .
Three week later , Colonel Creighton , price Tibetan ghost-daggers at Lurgan 's shop , face Mahbub Ali openly mutinous .
Lurgan Sahib operate a support in reserve .
` The pony be make -- finish -- mouthed and pace , Sahib !
From now on , day by day , he will lose his manner if he be keep at trick .
Drop the rein on his back and let go , ' say the horse-dealer .
` We need him . '
` But he be so young , Mahbub -- not more than sixteen -- be he ? '
` When I be fifteen , I have shoot my man and beget my man , Sahib . '
` You impenitent old heathen ! '
Creighton turn to Lurgan .
The black beard nod assent to the wisdom of the Afghan 's dyed scarlet . '
I should have use him long ago , ' say Lurgan .
` The younger the good .
That be why I always have my really valuable jewel watch by a child .
You send him to me to try .
I try him in every way : he be the only boy I could not make to see thing . '
` In the crystal -- in the ink-pool ? '
demand Mahbub .
` No .
Under my hand , a I tell you .
That have never happen before .
It mean that he be strong enough -- but you think it skittle , Colonel Creighton -- to make anyone do anything he want .
And that be three year ago .
I have teach him a good deal since , Colonel Creighton .
I think you waste him now . '
` Hmm !
Maybe you 're right .
But , a you know , there be no Survey work for him at present . '
` Let him out let him go , ' Mahbub interrupt .
` Who expect any colt to carry heavy weight at first ?
Let him run with the caravan -- like our white camel-colts -- for luck .
I would take him myself , but -- ' ` There be a little business where he would be most useful -- in the South , ' say Lurgan , with peculiar suavity , drop his heavy blue eyelid .
` E. 23 have that in hand , ' say Creighton quickly .
` He must not go down there .
Besides , he know no Turki . '
` Only tell him the shape and the smell of the letter we want and he will bring them back , ' Lurgan insist .
` No .
That be a man 's job , ' say Creighton .
It be a wry-necked matter of unauthorized and incendiary correspondence between a person who claim to be the ultimate authority in all matter of the Mohammedan religion throughout the world , and a young member of a royal house who have be bring to book for kidnap woman within British territory .
The Moslem Archbishop have be emphatic and over-arrogant ; the young prince be merely sulky at the curtailment of his privilege , but there be no need he should continue a correspondence which might some day compromise him .
One letter indeed have be procure , but the finder be later find dead by the roadside in the habit of an Arab trader , a E. 23 , take up the work , duly report .
These fact , and a few others not to be publish , make both Mahbub and Creighton shake their head .
` Let him go out with his Red Lama , ' say the horse-dealer with visible effort .
` He be fond of the old man .
He can learn his pace by the rosary at least . ' '
I have have some dealing with the old man -- by letter , ' say Colonel Creighton , smile to himself .
` Whither go he ? '
` Up and down the land , a he have these three year .
He seek a River of Healing .
God 's curse upon all -- ' Mahbub check himself .
` He bed down at the Temple of the Tirthankars or at Buddh Gaya when he be in from the Road .
Then he go to see the boy at the madrissah , a we know for the boy be punish for it twice or thrice .
He be quite mad , but a peaceful man .
I have meet him .
The Babu also have have dealing with him .
We have watch him for three year .
Red Lamas be not so common in Hind that one lose track . '
` Babus be very curious , ' say Lurgan meditatively .
` Do you know what Hurree Babu really want ?
He want to be make a member of the Royal Society by take ethnological note .
I tell you , I tell him about the lama everything which Mahbub and the boy have tell me .
Hurree Babu go down to Benares -- at his own expense , I think . ' '
I do n't , ' say Creighton briefly .
He have pay Hurree 's travelling expense , out of a most lively curiosity to learn what the lama might be .
` And he apply to the lama for information on lamaism , and devil-dances , and spell and charm , several time in these few year .
Holy Virgin !
I could have tell him all that yeears ago .
I think Hurree Babu be get too old for the Road .
He like good to collect manner and custom information .
Yes , he want to be an FRS .
` Hurree think well of the boy , do n't he ? '
` Oh , very indeed -- we have have some pleasant evening at my little place -- but I think it would be waste to throw him away with Hurree on the Ethnological side . '
` Not for a first experience .
How do that strike you , Mahbub ?
Let the boy run with the lama for six month .
After that we can see .
He will get experience . '
` He have it already , Sahib -- a a fish control the water he swim in .
But for every reason it will be well to loose him from the school . '
` Very good , then , ' say Creighton , half to himself .
` He can go with the lama , and if Hurree Babu care to keep an eye on them so much the good .
He wo n't lead the boy into any danger a Mahbub would .
Curious -- his wish to be an F R S. Very human , too .
He be best on the Ethnological side -- Hurree . '
No money and no preferment would have draw Creighton from his work on the Indian Survey , but deep in his heart also lay the ambition to write ' F R S ' after his name .
Honours of a sort he know could be obtain by ingenuity and the help of friend , but , to the best of his belief , nothing save work -- paper represent a life of it -- take a man into the Society which he have bombard for year with monograph on strange Asiatic cult and unknown custom .
Nine men out of ten would flee from a Royal Society soiree in extremity of boredom ; but Creighton be the tenth , and at time his soul yearn for the crowded room in easy London where silver-haired , bald-headed gentleman who know nothing of the Army move among spectroscopic experiment , the less plant of the frozen tundra , electric flight-measuring machine , and apparatus for slice into fractional millimetre the left eye of the female mosquito .
By all right and reason , it be the Royal Geographical that should have appeal to him , but men be as chancy a child in their choice of plaything .
So Creighton smile , and think the good of Hurree Babu , move by like desire .
He drop the ghost-dagger and look up at Mahbub .
` How soon can we get the colt from the stable ? '
say the horse-dealer , read his eye .
` Hmm !
If I withdraw him by order now -- what will he do , think you ?
I have never before assist at the teaching of such an one . '
` He will come to me , ' say Mahbub promptly .
` Lurgan Sahib and I will prepare him for the Road . '
` So be it , then .
For six month he shall run at his choice .
But who will be his sponsor ? '
Lurgan slightly incline his head .
` He will not tell anything , if that be what you be afraid of , Colonel Creighton . '
` It 's only a boy , after all . '
` Ye-es ; but first , he have nothing to tell ; and secondly , he know what would happen .
Also , he be very fond of Mahbub , and of me a little . '
` Will he draw pay ? '
demand the practical horse-dealer .
` Food and water allowance only .
Twenty rupees a month . '
One advantage of the Secret Service be that it have no worry audit .
That Service be ludicrously starve , of course , but the fund be administer by a few men who do not call for voucher or present itemized account .
Mahbub 's eye light with almost a Sikh 's love of money .
Even Lurgan 's impassive face change .
He consider the year to come when Kim would have be enter and make to the Great Game that never cease day and night , throughout India .
He foresee honour and credit in the mouth of a chosen few , come to him from his pupil .
Lurgan Sahib have make E. 23 what E. 23 be , out of a bewilder , impertinent , lie , little North-West Province man .
But the joy of these master be pale and smoky beside the joy of Kim when St Xavier 's Head call him aside , with word that Colonel Creighton have send for him . '
I understand , O'Hara , that he have find you a place a an assistant chain-man in the Canal Department : that come of take up mathematics .
It be great luck for you , for you be only sixteen ; but of course you understand that you do not become pukka -LSB- permanent -RSB- till you have pass the autumn examination .
So you must not think you be go out into the world to enjoy yourself , or that your fortune be make .
There be a great deal of hard work before you .
Only , if you succeed in become pukka , you can rise , you know , to four hundred and fifty a month . '
Whereat the Principal give him much good advice a to his conduct , and his manner , and his moral ; and others , his elder , who have not be waft into billet , talk a only Anglo-Indian lad can , of favouritism and corruption .
Indeed , young Cazalet , whose father be a pensioner at Chunar , hint very broadly that Colonel Creighton 's interest in Kim be directly paternal ; and Kim , instead of retaliate , do not even use language .
He be think of the immense fun to come , of Mahbub 's letter of the day before , all neatly write in English , make appointment for that afternoon in a house the very name of which would have crisp the Principal 's hair with horror ... Said Kim to Mahbub in Lucknow railway station that even , above the luggage-scales : ' I fear l at the last , the roof would fall upon me and cheat me .
It be indeed all finish , O my father ? '
Mahbub snap his finger to show the utterness of that end , and his eye blaze like red coal .
` Then where be the pistol that I may wear it ? '
` Softly !
A half-year , to run without heel-ropes .
I beg that much from Colonel Creighton Sahib .
At twenty rupee a month .
Old Red Hat know that thou art come . ' '
I will pay thee dustoorie -LSB- commission -RSB- on my pay for three month , ' say Kim gravely .
` Yea , two rupee a month .
But first we must get rid of these . '
He pluck his thin linen trouser and drag at his collar . '
I have bring with me all that I need on the Road .
My trunk have go up to Lurgan Sahib 's . '
` Who send his salaam to thee -- Sahib . '
` Lurgan Sahib be a very clever man .
But what dost thou do ? ' '
I go North again , upon the Great Game .
What else ?
Is thy mind still set on follow old Red Hat ? '
` Do not forget he make me that I be -- though he do not know it .
Year by year , he send the money that teach me . ' '
I would have do as much -- have it strike my thick head , ' Mahbub growl .
` Come away .
The lamp be light now , and none will mark thee in the bazar .
We go to Huneefa 's house . '
On the way thither , Mahbub give him much the same sort of advice a his mother give to Lemuel , and curiously enough , Mahbub be exact to point out how Huneefa and her like destroy king .
` And I remember , ' he quote maliciously , ` one who say , `` Trust a snake before an harlot , and an harlot before a Pathan , Mahbub Ali . ''
Now , except a to Pathans , of whom I be one , all that be true .
Most true be it in the Great Game , for it be by mean of woman that all plan come to ruin and we lie out in the dawning with our throat cut .
So it happen to such a one . '
He give the reddest particular .
` Then why -- ? '
Kim pause before a filthy staircase that climb to the warm darkness of an upper chamber , in the ward that be behind Azim Ullah 's tobacco-shop .
Those who know it call it The Birdcage -- it be so full of whispering and whistling and chirrupings .
The room , with it dirty cushion and half-smoked hookah , smelt abominably of stale tobacco .
In one corner lay a huge and shapeless woman clad in greenish gauze , and deck , brow , nose , ear , neck , wrist , arm , waist , and ankle with heavy native jewellery .
When she turn it be like the clashing of copper pot .
A lean cat in the balcony outside the window mew hungrily .
Kim check , bewilder , at the door-curtain .
` Is that the new stuff , Mahbub ? '
say Huneefa lazily , scarce trouble to remove the mouthpiece from her lip . '
O Buktanoos ! '
-- like most of her kind , she swore by the Djinns -- ' O Buktanoos !
He be very good to look upon . '
` That be part of the selling of the horse , ' Mahbub explain to Kim , who laugh . '
I have hear that talk since my Sixth Day , ' he reply , squat by the light .
` Whither do it lead ? '
` To protection .
Tonight we change thy colour .
This sleep under roof have blanch thee like an almond .
But Huneefa have the secret of a colour that catch .
No painting of a day or two .
Also , we fortify thee against the chance of the Road .
That be my gift to thee , my son .
Take out all metal on thee and lay them here .
Make ready , Huneefa . '
Kim drag forth his compass , Survey paint-box , and the new-filled medicine-box .
They have all accompany his travel , and boylike he value them immensely .
The woman rise slowly and move with her hand a little spread before her .
Then Kim saw that she be blind .
` No , no , ' she mutter , ` the Pathan speak truth -- my colour do not go in a week or a month , and those whom I protect be under strong guard . '
` When one be far off and alone , it would not be well to grow blotch and leprous of a sudden , ' say Mahbub .
` When thou wast with me I could oversee the matter .
Besides , a Pathan be a fair-skin .
Strip to the waist now and look how thou art whiten . '
Huneefa felt her way back from an inner room .
` It be no matter , she can not see . '
He take a pewter bowl from her ringed hand .
The dye-stuff show blue and gummy .
Kim experiment on the back of his wrist , with a dab of cotton-wool ; but Huneefa hear him .
` No , no , ' she cry , ` the thing be not do thus , but with the proper ceremony .
The colouring be the least part .
I give thee the full protection of the Road . '
` Tadoo ?
-LSB- magic -RSB- , ` say Kim , with a half start .
He do not like the white , sightless eye .
Mahbub 's hand on his neck bow him to the floor , nose within an inch of the board .
` Be still .
No harm come to thee , my son .
I be thy sacrifice ! '
He could not see what the woman be about , but hear the dish-clash of her jewellery for many minute .
A match lit up the darkness ; he catch the well-known purr and fizzle of grain of incense .
Then the room fill with smoke -- heavy aromatic , and stupefying .
Through grow drowse he hear the name of devil -- of Zulbazan , Son of Eblis , who live in bazar and paraos , make all the sudden lewd wickedness of wayside halt ; of Dulhan , invisible about mosque , the dweller among the slipper of the faithful , who hinder folk from their prayer ; and Musboot , Lord of lie and panic .
Huneefa , now whisper in his ear , now talk a from an immense distance , touch him with horrible soft finger , but Mahbub 's grip never shift from his neck till , relax with a sigh , the boy lose his sens .
` Allah !
How he fight !
We should never have do it but for the drug .
That be his white blood , I take it , ' say Mahbub testily .
` Go on with the dawut -LSB- invocation -RSB- .
Give him full Protection . ' '
O Hearer !
Thou that hearest with ear , be present .
Listen , O Hearer ! '
Huneefa moan , her dead eye turn to the west .
The dark room fill with moanings and snorting .
From the outer balcony , a ponderous figure raise a round bullet head and cough nervously .
` Do not interrupt this ventriloquial necromanciss , my friend , ' it say in English . '
I opine that it be very disturb to you , but no enlightened observer be jolly-well upset . ' '
... ... I will lay a plot for their ruin !
O Prophet , bear with the unbeliever .
Let them alone awhile ! '
Huneefa 's face , turn to the northward , work horribly , and it be a though voice from the ceiling answer her .
Hurree Babu return to his note-book , balance on the window-sill , but his hand shook .
Huneefa , in some sort of drugged ecstasy , wrench herself to and fro a she sit cross-legged by Kim 's still head , and call upon devil after devil , in the ancient order of the ritual , bind them to avoid the boy 's every action .
` With Him be the key of the Secret Things !
None knoweth them besides Himself He knoweth that which be in the dry land and in the sea ! '
Again break out the unearthly whistling response .
` I -- I apprehend it be not at all malignant in it operation ? '
say the Babu , watch the throat-muscles quiver and jerk a Huneefa speak with tongue .
` It -- it be not likely that she have kill the boy ?
If so , I decline to be witness at the trial ... What be the last hypothetical devil mention ? '
` Babuji , ' say Mahbub in the vernacular . '
I have no regard for the devil of Hind , but the Sons of Eblis be far otherwise , and whether they be jumalee -LSB- well-affected -RSB- or jullalee -LSB- terrible -RSB- they love not Kafirs . '
` Then you think I have well go ? '
say Hurree Babu , half rising .
` They be , of course , dematerialized phenomenon .
Spencer say . '
Huneefa 's crisis pass , a these thing must , in a paroxysm of howling , with a touch of froth at the lip .
She lay spent and motionless beside Kim , and the crazy voice cease .
` Wah !
That work be do .
May the boy be good for it ; and Huneefa be surely a mistress of dawut .
Help haul her aside , Babu .
Do not be afraid . '
` How be I to fear the absolutely non-existent ? '
say Hurree Babu , talk English to reassure himself .
It be an awful thing still to dread the magic that you contemptuously investigate -- to collect folk-lore for the Royal Society with a lively belief in all Powers of Darkness .
Mahbub chuckle .
He have be out with Hurree on the Road ere now .
` Let u finish the colouring , ' say he .
` The boy be well protect if -- if the Lords of the Air have ear to hear .
I be a Sufi -LSB- free-thinker -RSB- , but when one can get blind-sides of a woman , a stallion , or a devil , why go round to invite a kick ?
Set him upon the way , Babu , and see that old Red Hat do not lead him beyond our reach .
I must get back to my horse . '
` All raight , ' say Hurree Babu .
` He be at present curious spectacle . '
About third cockcrow , Kim wake after a sleep of thousand of year .
Huneefa , in her corner , snore heavily , but Mahbub be go . '
I hope you be not frighten , ' say an oily voice at his elbow . '
I superintend entire operation , which be most interesting from ethnological point of view .
It be high-class dawut . '
` Huh ! '
say Kim , recognize Hurree Babu , who smile ingratiatingly .
` And also I have honour to bring down from Lurgan your present costume .
I be not in the habit offeecially of carry such gaud to subordinate , but ' -- he giggle -- ` your case be note a exceptional on the book .
I hope Mr Lurgan will note my action . '
Kim yawn and stretch himself .
It be good to turn and twist within loose clothes once again .
` What be this ? '
He look curiously at the heavy duffle-stuff load with the scent of the far North .
` Oho !
That be inconspicuous dress of chela attach to service of lamaistic lama .
Complete in every particular , ' say Hurree Babu , roll into the balcony to clean his teeth at a goglet . '
I be of opeenion it be not your old gentleman 's precise releegion , but rather sub-variant of same .
I have contribute reject note To Whom It May Concern : Asiatic Quarterly Review on these subject .
Now it be curious that the old gentleman himself be totally devoid of releegiosity .
He be not a dam ' particular . '
` Do you know him ? '
Hurree Babu hold up his hand to show he be engage in the prescribed rite that accompany tooth-cleaning and such thing among decently breed Bengalis .
Then he recite in English an Arya-Somaj prayer of a theistical nature , and stuff his mouth with pan and betel .
` Oah yes .
I have meet him several time at Benares , and also at Buddh Gaya , to interrogate him on releegious point and devil-worship .
He be pure agnostic -- same a me . '
Huneefa stir in her sleep , and Hurree Babu jump nervously to the copper incense-burner , all black and discolour in morning-light , rub a finger in the accumulated lamp-black , and draw it diagonally across his face .
` Who have die in thy house ? '
ask Kim in the vernacular .
` None .
But she may have the Evil Eye -- that sorceress , ' the Babu reply .
` What dost thou do now , then ? ' '
I will set thee on thy way to Benares , if thou goest thither , and tell thee what must be know by Us . ' '
I go .
At what hour run the te-rain ? '
He rise to his foot , look round the desolate chamber and at the yellow-wax face of Huneefa a the low sun stole across the floor .
` Is there money to be pay that witch ? '
` No .
She have charm thee against all devil and all danger in the name of her devil .
It be Mahbub 's desire . '
In English : ` He be highly obsolete , I think , to indulge in such supersteetion .
Why , it be all ventriloquy .
Belly-speak -- eh ? '
Kim snap his finger mechanically to avert whatever evil -- Mahbub , he know , meditate none -- might have creep in through Huneefa 's ministration ; and Hurree giggle once more .
But a he cross the room he be careful not to step in Huneefa 's blotch , squat shadow on the board .
Witches -- when their time be on them -- can lay hold of the heel of a man 's soul if he do that .
` Now you must well listen , ' say the Babu when they be in the fresh air .
` Part of these ceremony which we witness they include supply of effeecient amulet to those of our Department .
If you feel in your neck you will find one small silver amulet , verree cheap .
That be ours .
Do you understand ? '
` Oah yes , hawa-dilli -LSB- a heart-lifter -RSB- , ' say Kim , feel at his neck .
` Huneefa she make them for two rupee twelve anna with -- oh , all sort of exorcism .
They be quite common , except they be partially black enamel , and there be a paper inside each one full of name of local saint and such thing .
Thatt be Huneefa 's look-out , you see ?
Huneefa make them onlee for u , but in case she do not , when we get them we put in , before issue , one small piece of turquoise .
Mr Lurgan he give them .
There be no other source of supply ; but it be me invent all this .
It be strictly unoffeecial of course , but convenient for subordinate .
Colonel Creighton he do not know .
He be European .
The turquoise be wrap in the paper ... Yes , that be road to railway station ... Now suppose you go with the lama , or with me , I hope , some day , or with Mahbub .
Suppose we get into a dam ' - tight place .
I be a fearful man -- most fearful -- but I tell you I have be in dam ' - tight place more than hair on my head .
You say : `` I be Son of the Charm . ''
Verree good . ' '
I do not understand quite .
We must not be hear talk English here . '
` That be all raight .
I be only Babu show off my English to you .
All we Babus talk English to show off ; ' say Hurree , fling his shoulder-cloth jauntily .
` As I be about to say , `` Son of the Charm '' mean that you may be member of the Sat Bhai -- the Seven Brothers , which be Hindi and Tantric .
It be popularly suppose to be extinct Society , but I have write note to show it be still extant .
You see , it be all my invention .
Verree good .
Sat Bhai have many member , and perhaps before they jolly-well-cut-your-throat they may give you just a chance of life .
That be useful , anyhow .
And moreover , these foolish native -- if they be not too excite -- they always stop to think before they kill a man who say he belong to any speecific organization .
You see ?
You say then when you be in tight place , `` I be Son of the Charm '' , and you get -- perhaps -- ah -- your second wind .
That be only in extreme instance , or to open negotiation with a stranger .
Can you quite see ?
Verree good .
But suppose now , I , or any one of the Department , come to you dress quite different .
You would not know me at all unless I choose , I bet you .
Some day I will prove it .
I come a Ladakhi trader -- oh , anything -- and I say to you : `` You want to buy precious stone ? ''
You say : `` Do I look like a man who buy precious stone ? ''
Then I say : `` Even verree poor man can buy a turquoise or tarkeean . '' '
` That be kichree -- vegetable curry , ' say Kim .
` Of course it be .
You say : `` Let me see the tarkeean . ''
Then I say : `` It be cook by a woman , and perhaps it be bad for your caste . ''
Then you say : `` There be no caste when men go to -- look for tarkeean . ''
You stop a little between those word , `` to -- look '' .
That be thee whole secret .
The little stop before the word . '
Kim repeat the test-sentence .
` That be all right .
Then I will show you my turquoise if there be time , and then you know who I be , and then we exchange view and document and those-all thing .
And so it be with any other man of u .
We talk sometimes about turquoise and sometimes about tarkeean , but always with that little stop in the word .
It be verree easy .
First , `` Son of the Charm '' , if you be in a tight place .
Perhaps that may help you -- perhaps not .
Then what I have tell you about the tarkeean , if you want to transact offeecial business with a strange man .
Of course , at present , you have no offeecial business .
You be -- ah ha !
-- supernumerary on probation .
Quite unique specimen .
If you be Asiatic of birth you might be employ right off ; but this half-year of leave be to make you de-Englishized , you see ?
The lama he expect you , because I have demi-offeecially inform him you have pass all your examination , and will soon obtain Government appointment .
Oh ho !
You be on acting-allowance , you see : so if you be call upon to help Sons of the Charm mind you jolly-well try .
Now I shall say good-bye , my dear fellow , and I hope you -- ah -- will come out top-side all raight . '
Hurree Babu step back a pace or two into the crowd at the entrance of Lucknow station and -- be go .
Kim draw a deep breath and hug himself all over .
The nickel-plated revolver he could feel in the bosom of his sad-coloured robe , the amulet be on his neck ; begging-gourd , rosary , and ghost-dagger -LRB- Mr Lurgan have forget nothing -RRB- be all to hand , with medicine , paint-box , and compass , and in a worn old purse-belt embroider with porcupine-quill pattern lay a month 's pay .
Kings could be no rich .
He buy sweetmeat in a leaf-cup from a Hindu trader , and eat them with glad rapture till a policeman order him off the step .
Chapter 11 Give the man who be not make To his trade Swords to fling and catch again , Coins to ring and snatch again , Men to harm and cure again , Snakes to charm and lure again -- He 'll be hurt by his own blade , By his serpent disobey , By his clumsiness bewray , ' By the people mock to scorn -- So 't be not with juggler born !
Pinch of dust or wither flower , Chance-flung fruit or borrow staff , Serve his need and shore his power , Bind the spell , or loose the laugh !
But a man who , etc . .
The Juggler 's Song , op . 15 Followed a sudden natural reaction .
` Now be I alone -- all alone , ' he think .
` In all India be no one so alone a I !
If I die today , who shall bring the news -- and to whom ?
If I live and God be good , there will be a price upon my head , for I be a Son of the Charm -- I , Kim . '
A very few white people , but many Asiatics , can throw themselves into a mazement a it be by repeat their own name over and over again to themselves , let the mind go free upon speculation a to what be call personal identity .
When one grow old , the power , usually , departs , but while it last it may descend upon a man at any moment .
` Who be Kim -- Kim -- Kim ? '
He squat in a corner of the clang waiting-room , rapt from all other thought ; hand fold in lap , and pupil contract to pin-points .
In a minute -- in another half-second -- he felt he would arrive at the solution of the tremendous puzzle ; but here , a always happen , his mind drop away from those height with a rush of a wounded bird , and pass his hand before his eye , he shake his head .
A long-haired Hindu bairagi -LSB- holy man -RSB- , who have just buy a ticket , halt before him at that moment and star intently . '
I also have lose it , ' he say sadly .
` It be one of the Gates to the Way , but for me it have be shut many year . '
` What be the talk ? '
say Kim , abash .
` Thou wast wonder there in thy spirit what manner of thing thy soul might be .
The seizure come of a sudden .
I know .
Who should know but I ?
Whither go thou ? '
` Toward Kashi -LSB- Benares -RSB- . '
` There be no Gods there .
I have prove them .
I go to Prayag -LSB- Allahabad -RSB- for the fifth time -- seek the Road to Enlightenment .
Of what faith art thou ? ' '
I too be a Seeker , ' say Kim , use one of the lama 's pet word .
` Though ' -- he forget his Northern dress for the moment -- ` though Allah alone knoweth what I seek . '
The old fellow slip the bairagi 's crutch under his armpit and sit down on a patch of ruddy leopard 's skin a Kim rise at the call for the Benares train .
` Go in hope , little brother , ' he say .
` It be a long road to the foot of the One ; but thither do we all travel . '
Kim do not feel so lonely after this , and ere he have sit out twenty mile in the crowded compartment , be cheer his neighbour with a string of most wonderful yarn about his own and his master 's magical gift .
Benares strike him a a peculiarly filthy city , though it be pleasant to find how his cloth be respect .
At least one-third of the population pray eternally to some group or other of the many million deity , and so revere every sort of holy man .
Kim be guide to the Temple of the Tirthankars , about a mile outside the city , near Sarnath , by a chance-met Punjabi farmer -- a Kamboh from Jullundur-way who have appeal in vain to every God of his homestead to cure his small son , and be try Benares a a last resort .
` Thou art from the North ? '
he ask , shoulder through the press of the narrow , stink street much like his own pet bull at home .
` Ay , I know the Punjab .
My mother be a pahareen , but my father come from Amritzar -- by Jandiala , ' say Kim , oil his ready tongue for the need of the Road .
` Jandiala -- Jullundur ?
Oho !
Then we be neighbour in some sort , a it be . '
He nod tenderly to the wail child in his arm .
` Whom dost thou serve ? ' '
A most holy man at the Temple of the Tirthankers . '
` They be all most holy and -- most greedy , ' say the Jat with bitterness . '
I have walk the pillar and tread the temple till my foot be flay , and the child be no whit good .
And the mother be sick too ... Hush , then , little one ... We change his name when the fever come .
We put him into girl 's clothes .
There be nothing we do not do , except -- I say to his mother when she bundle me off to Benares -- she should have come with me -- I say Sakhi Sarwar Sultan would serve u best .
We know His generosity , but these down-country Gods be stranger . '
The child turn on the cushion of the huge cord arm and look at Kim through heavy eyelid .
` And be it all worthless ? '
Kim ask , with easy interest .
` All worthless -- all worthless , ' say the child , lips crack with fever .
` The Gods have give him a good mind , at least ' say the father proudly .
` To think he should have listen so cleverly .
Yonder be thy Temple .
Now I be a poor man -- many priest have deal with me -- but my son be my son , and if a gift to thy master can cure him -- I be at my very wits ' end . '
Kim consider for a while , tingle with pride .
Three year ago he would have make prompt profit on the situation and go his way without a thought ; but now , the very respect the Jat pay him prove that he be a man .
Moreover , he have taste fever once or twice already , and know enough to recognize starvation when he saw it .
` Call him forth and I will give him a bond on my best yoke , so that the child be cure . '
Kim halt at the carved out door of the temple .
A white-clad Oswal banker from Ajmir , his sin of usury new wipe out , ask him what he do . '
I be chela to Teshoo Lama , an Holy One from Bhotiyal -- within there .
He bid me come .
I wait .
Tell him . '
` Do not forget the child , ' cry the importunate Jat over his shoulder , and then bellow in Punjabi ; ' O Holy One -- O disciple of the Holy One -- O Gods above all the Worlds -- behold affliction sit at the gate ! '
That cry be so common in Benares that the passer never turn their head .
The Oswal , at peace with mankind , carry the message into the darkness behind him , and the easy , uncounted Eastern minute slid by ; for the lama be asleep in his cell , and no priest would wake him .
When the click of his rosary again break the hush of the inner court where the calm image of the Arhats stand , a novice whisper , ` Thy chela be here , ' and the old man strode forth , forget the end of that prayer .
Hardly have the tall figure show in the doorway than the Jat run before him , and , lift up the child , cry : ` Look upon this , Holy One ; and if the Gods will , he live -- he live ! '
He fumble in his waist-belt and draw out a small silver coin .
` What be now ? '
The lama 's eye turn to Kim .
It be noticeable he speak far clear Urdu than long ago , under ZamZammah ; but father would allow no private talk .
` It be no more than a fever , ' say Kim .
` The child be not well fed . '
` He sicken at everything , and his mother be not here . '
` If it be permit , I may cure , Holy One . '
` What !
Have they make thee a healer ?
Wait here , ' say the lama , and he sit down by the Jat upon the low step of the temple , while Kim , look out of the corner of his eye , slowly open the little betel-box .
He have dream dream at school of return to the lama a a Sahib -- of chaff the old man before he reveal himself -- boy 's dream all .
There be more drama in this abstracted , brow-puckered search through the tabloid-bottles , with a pause here and there for thought and a muttered invocation between while .
Quinine he have in tablet , and dark brown meat-lozenges -- beef most probably , but that be not his business .
The little thing would not eat , but it suck at a lozenge greedily , and say it like the salt taste .
` Take then these six . '
Kim hand them to the man .
` Praise the Gods , and boil three in milk ; other three in water .
After he have drink the milk give him this ' -LRB- it be the half of a quinine pill -RRB- , ` and wrap him warm .
Give him the water of the other three , and the other half of this white pill when he wake .
Meantime , here be another brown medicine that he may suck at on the way home . '
` Gods , what wisdom ! '
say the Kamboh , snatch .
It be as much a Kim could remember of his own treatment in a bout of autumn malaria -- if you except the patter that he add to impress the lama .
` Now go !
Come again in the morning . '
` But the price -- the price , ' say the Jat , and throw back his sturdy shoulder .
` My son be my son .
Now that he will be whole again , how shall I go back to his mother and say I take help by the wayside and do not even give a bowl of curd in return ? '
` They be alike , these Jats , ' say Kim softly .
` The Jat stand on his dunghill and the King 's elephant go by .
`` O driver , '' say he , `` what will you sell those little donkey for ? '' '
The Jat burst into a roar of laughter , stifle with apology to the lama .
` It be the say of my own country the very talk of it .
So be we Jats all .
I will come tomorrow with the child ; and the blessing of the Gods of the Homesteads -- who be good little Gods -- be on you both ... Now , son , we grow strong again .
Do not spit it out , little Princeling !
King of my Heart , do not spit it out , and we shall be strong men , wrestler and club-wielders , by morning . '
He move away , croon and mumbling .
The lama turn to Kim , and all the love old soul of him look out through his narrow eye .
` To heal the sick be to acquire merit ; but first one get knowledge .
That be wisely do , O Friend of all the World . ' '
I be make wise by thee , Holy One , ' say Kim , forget the little play just end ; forget St Xavier 's ; forget his white blood ; forget even the Great Game a he stoop , Mohammedan-fashion , to touch his master 's foot in the dust of the Jain temple .
` My teaching I owe to thee .
I have eat thy bread three year .
My time be finish .
I be loose from the school .
I come to thee . '
` Herein be my reward .
Enter !
Enter !
And be all well ? '
They pass to the inner court , where the afternoon sun slop golden across .
` Stand that I may see .
So ! '
He peer critically .
` It be no longer a child , but a man , ripen in wisdom , walk a a physician .
I do well -- I do well when I give thee up to the arm men on that black night .
Dost thou remember our first day under Zam-Zammah ? '
` Ay , ' say Kim .
` Dost thou remember when I leap off the carriage the first day I go to -- ' ` The Gates of Learning ?
Truly .
And the day that we eat the cake together at the back of the river by Nucklao .
Aha !
Many time hast thou beg for me , but that day I beg for thee . '
` Good reason , ' quoth Kim . '
I be then a scholar in the Gates of Learning , and attire a a Sahib .
Do not forget , Holy One , ' he go on playfully . '
I be still a Sahib -- by thy favour . '
` True .
And a Sahib in most high esteem .
Come to my cell , chela . '
` How be that know to thee ? '
The lama smile .
` First by mean of letter from the kindly priest whom we meet in the camp of armed men ; but he be now go to his own country , and I send the money to his brother . '
Colonel Creighton , who have succeed to the trusteeship when Father Victor go to England with the Mavericks , be hardly the Chaplain 's brother .
` But I do not well understand Sahibs ' letter .
They must be interpret to me .
I choose a sure way .
Many time when I return from my Search to this Temple , which have always be a nest to me , there come one seek Enlightenment -- a man from Leh -- that have be , he say , a Hindu , but weary of all those Gods . '
The lama point to the Arhats . '
A fat man ? '
say Kim , a twinkle in his eye .
` Very fat ; but I perceive in a little his mind be wholly give up to useless thing -- such a devil and charm and the form and fashion of our tea-drinkings in the monastery , and by what road we initiate the novice .
A man abound in question ; but he be a friend of thine , chela .
He tell me that thou wast on the road to much honour a a scribe .
And I see thou art a physician . '
` Yes , that be I -- a scribe , when I be a Sahib , but it be set aside when I come a thy disciple .
I have accomplish the year appoint for a Sahib . '
` As it be a novice ? '
say the lama , nod his head .
` Art thou freed from the school ?
I would not have thee unripe . ' '
I be all free .
In due time I take service under the Government a a scribe -- ' ` Not a a warrior .
That be well . '
` But first I come to wander with thee .
Therefore I be here .
Who beg for thee , these day ? '
he go on quickly .
The ice be thin .
` Very often I beg myself ; but , a thou knowest , I be seldom here , except when I come to look again at my disciple .
From one end to another of Hind have I travel afoot and in the te-rain .
A great and a wonderful land !
But here , when I put in , be a though I be in my own Bhotiyal . '
He look round the little clean cell complacently .
A low cushion give him a seat , on which he have dispose himself in the cross-legged attitude of the Bodhisat emerge from meditation ; a black teak-wood table , not twenty inch high , set with copper tea-cups , be before him .
In one corner stand a tiny altar , also of heavily carve teak , bear a copper-gilt image of the seat Buddha and front by a lamp , an incense-holder , and a pair of copper flower-pots .
` The Keeper of the Images in the Wonder House acquire merit by give me these a year since , ' he say , follow Kim 's eye .
` When one be far from one 's own land such thing carry remembrance ; and we must reverence the Lord for that He show the Way .
See ! '
He point to a curiously-built mound of coloured rice crown with a fantastic metal ornament .
` When I be Abbot in my own place -- before I come to well knowledge I make that offer daily .
It be the Sacrifice of the Universe to the Lord .
Thus do we of Bhotiyal offer all the world daily to the Excellent Law .
And I do it even now , though I know that the Excellent One be beyond all pinchings and pattings . '
He snuff from his gourd .
` It be well do , Holy One , ' Kim murmur , sink at ease on the cushion , very happy and rather tire .
` And also , ' the old man chuckle , ' I write picture of the Wheel of Life .
Three day to a picture .
I be busy on it -- or it may be I shut my eye a little -- when they bring word of thee .
It be good to have thee here : I will show thee my art -- not for pride 's sake , but because thou must learn .
The Sahibs have not all this world 's wisdom . '
He draw from under the table a sheet of strangely scent yellow Chinese paper , the brush , and slab of Indian ink .
In clean , severe outline he have trace the Great Wheel with it six spoke , whose centre be the conjoined Hog , Snake , and Dove -LRB- Ignorance , Anger , and Lust -RRB- , and whose compartment be all the Heavens and Hells , and all the chance of human life .
Men say that the Bodhisat Himself first draw it with grain of rice upon dust , to teach His disciple the cause of thing .
Many age have crystallize it into a most wonderful convention crowd with hundred of little figure whose every line carry a meaning .
Few can translate the picture-parable ; there be not twenty in all the world who can draw it surely without a copy : of those who can both draw and expound be but three . '
I have a little learned to draw , ' say Kim .
` But this be a marvel beyond marvel . ' '
I have write it for many year , ' say the lama .
` Time be when I could write it all between one lamp-lighting and the next .
I will teach thee the art -- after due preparation ; and I will show thee the meaning of the Wheel . '
` We take the Road , then ? '
` The Road and our Search .
I be but wait for thee .
It be make plain to me in a hundred dream -- notably one that come upon the night of the day that the Gates of Learning first shut that without thee I should never find my River .
Again and again , a thou knowest , I put this from me , fear an illusion .
Therefore I would not take thee with me that day at Lucknow , when we eat the cake .
I would not take thee till the time be ripe and auspicious .
From the Hills to the Sea , from the Sea to the Hills have I go , but it be vain .
Then I remember the Tataka . '
He tell Kim the story of the elephant with the leg-iron , a he have tell it so often to the Jam priest .
` Further testimony be not need , ' he end serenely .
` Thou wast sent for an aid .
That aid remove , my Search come to naught .
Therefore we will go out again together , and our Search sure . '
` Whither go we ? '
` What matter , Friend of all the World ?
The Search , I say , be sure .
If need be , the River will break from the ground before u .
I acquire merit when I send thee to the Gates of Learning , and give thee the jewel that be Wisdom .
Thou didst return , I saw even now , a follower of Sakyamuni , the Physician , whose altar be many in Bhotiyal .
It be sufficient .
We be together , and all thing be a they be -- Friend of all the World -- Friend of the Stars -- my chela ! '
Then they talk of matter secular ; but it be noticeable that the lama never demand any detail of life at St Xavier 's , nor show the faint curiosity a to the manner and custom of Sahibs .
His mind move all in the past , and he revive every step of their wonderful first journey together , rub his hand and chuckling , till it please him to curl himself up into the sudden sleep of old age .
Kim watch the last dusty sunshine fade out of the court , and play with his ghost-dagger and rosary .
The clamour of Benares , old of all earth 's city awake before the Gods , day and night , beat round the wall a the sea 's roar round a breakwater .
Now and again , a Jain priest cross the court , with some small offering to the image , and sweep the path about him l by chance he should take the life of a living thing .
A lamp twinkle , and there follow the sound of a prayer .
Kim watch the star a they rise one after another in the still , sticky dark , till he fell asleep at the foot of the altar .
That night he dream in Hindustani , with never an English word ... ` Holy One , there be the child to whom we give the medicine , ' he say , about three o'clock in the morning , when the lama , also wake from dream , would have fare forth on pilgrimage .
` The Jat will be here at the light . ' '
I be well answer .
In my haste I would have do a wrong . '
He sit down on the cushion and return to his rosary .
` Surely old folk be a child , ' he say pathetically .
` They desire a matter -- behold , it must be do at once , or they fret and weep !
Many time when I be upon the Road I have be ready to stamp with my foot at the hindrance of an ox-cart in the way , or a mere cloud of dust .
It be not so when I be a man -- a long time ago .
None the less it be wrongful -- ' ` But thou art indeed old , Holy One . '
` The thing be do .
A Cause be put out into the world , and , old or young , sick or sound , know or unknowing , who can rein in the effect of that Cause ?
Does the Wheel hang still if a child spin it -- or a drunkard ?
Chela , this be a great and a terrible world . ' '
I think it good , ' Kim yawn .
` What be there to eat ?
I have not eat since yesterday even . ' '
I have forget thy need .
Yonder be good Bhotiyal tea and cold rice . '
` We can not walk far on such stuff . '
Kim felt all the European 's lust for flesh-meat , which be not accessible in a Jain temple .
Yet , instead of go out at once with the begging-bowl , he stay his stomach on slab of cold rice till the full dawn .
It bring the farmer , voluble , stutter with gratitude .
` In the night the fever break and the sweat come , ' he cry .
` Feel here -- his skin be fresh and new !
He esteem the salt lozenges , and take milk with greed . '
He draw the cloth from the child 's face , and it smile sleepily at Kim .
A little knot of Jain priest , silent but all-observant , gather by the temple door .
They know , and Kim know that they know , how the old lama have meet his disciple .
Being courteous folk , they have not obtrude themselves overnight by presence , word , or gesture .
Wherefore Kim repay them a the sun rise .
` Thank the Gods of the Jains , brother , ' he say , not know how those Gods be name .
` The fever be indeed break . '
` Look !
See ! '
The lama beam in the background upon his host of three year .
` Was there ever such a chela ?
He follow our Lord the Healer . '
Now the Jains officially recognize all the Gods of the Hindu creed , as well a the Lingam and the Snake .
They wear the Brahminical thread ; they adhere to every claim of Hindu caste-law .
But , because they know and love the lama , because he be an old man , because he seek the Way , because he be their guest , and because he collogue long of night with the head-priest -- a free-thinking a metaphysician a ever split one hair into seventy -- they murmur assent .
` Remember , ' -- Kim bent over the child -- .
` this trouble may come again . '
` Not if thou hast the proper spell , ' say the father .
` But in a little while we go away . '
` True , ' say the lama to all the Jains .
` We go now together upon the Search whereof I have often speak .
I wait till my chela be ripe .
Behold him !
We go North .
Never again shall I look upon this place of my rest , O people of good will . '
` But I be not a beggar . '
The cultivator rise to his foot , clutch the child .
` Be still .
Do not trouble the Holy One , ' a priest cry .
` Go , ' Kim whisper .
` Meet u again under the big railway bridge , and for the sake of all the Gods of our Punjab , bring food -- curry , pulse , cake fry in fat , and sweetmeat .
Specially sweetmeat .
Be swift ! '
The pallor of hunger suit Kim very well a he stand , tall and slim , in his sand-coloured , sweeping robe , one hand on his rosary and the other in the attitude of benediction , faithfully copy from the lama .
An English observer might have say that he look rather like the young saint of a stained-glass window , whereas he be but a grow lad faint with emptiness .
Long and formal be the farewell , thrice end and thrice renew .
The Seeker -- he who have invite the lama to that haven from far-away Tibet , a silver-faced , hairless ascetic -- take no part in it , but meditate , a always , alone among the image .
The others be very human ; press small comfort upon the old man -- a betel-box , a fine new iron pencase , a food-bag , and such-like -- warn him against the danger of the world without , and prophesy a happy end to the Search .
Meantime Kim , lonely than ever , squat on the step , and swore to himself in the language of St Xavier 's .
` But it be my own fault , ' he conclude .
` With Mahbub , I eat Mahbub 's bread , or Lurgan Sahib 's .
At St Xavier 's , three meal a day .
Here I must jolly-well look out for myself .
Besides , I be not in good training .
How I could eat a plate of beef now !
... Is it finish , Holy One ? '
The lama , both hand raise , intone a final blessing in ornate Chinese . '
I must lean on thy shoulder , ' say he , a the temple gate close .
` We grow stiff , I think . '
The weight of a six-foot man be not light to steady through mile of crowded street , and Kim , load down with bundle and package for the way , be glad to reach the shadow of the railway bridge .
` Here we eat , ' he say resolutely , a the Kamboh , blue-robed and smiling , heave in sight , a basket in one hand and the child in the other .
` Fall to , Holy Ones ! '
he cry from fifty yard .
-LRB- They be by the shoal under the first bridge-span , out of sight of hungry priest . -RRB-
` Rice and good curry , cake all warm and well scent with hing -LSB- asafoetida -RSB- , curd and sugar .
King of my field , ' -- this to the small son -- ` let u show these holy men that we Jats of Jullundur can pay a service ... I have hear the Jains would eat nothing that they have not cook , but truly ' -- he look away politely over the broad river -- ` where there be no eye there be no caste . '
` And we , ' say Kim , turn his back and heap a leafplatter for the lama , ` be beyond all caste . '
They gorge themselves on the good food in silence .
Nor till he have lick the last of the sticky sweetstuff from his little finger do Kim note that the Kamboh too be girt for travel .
` If our road lie together , ' he say roughly , ' I go with thee .
One do not often find a worker of miracle , and the child be still weak .
But I be not altogether a reed . '
He pick up his lathi -- a five-foot male-bamboo ring with band of polished iron -- and flourish it in the air .
` The Jats be call quarrel-some , but that be not true .
Except when we be cross , we be like our own buffalo . '
` So be it , ' say Kim . '
A good stick be a good reason . '
The lama gaze placidly up-stream , where in long , smudge perspective the ceaseless column of smoke go up from the burning-ghats by the river .
Now and again , despite all municipal regulation , the fragment of a half-burned body bob by on the full current .
` But for thee , ' say the Kamboh to Kim , draw the child into his hairy breast , ' I might today have go thither -- with this one .
The priest tell u that Benares be holy -- which none doubt -- and desirable to die in .
But I do not know their Gods , and they ask for money ; and when one have do one worship a shaved-head vow it be of none effect except one do another .
Wash here !
Wash there !
Pour , drink , lave , and scatter flower -- but always pay the priest .
No , the Punjab for me , and the soil of the Jullundur-doab for the best soil in it . ' '
I have say many time -- in the Temple , I think -- that if need be , the River will open at our foot .
We will therefore go North , ' say the lama , rise . '
I remember a pleasant place , set about with fruit-trees , where one can walk in meditation -- and the air be cool there .
It come from the Hills and the snow of the Hills . '
` What be the name ? '
say Kim .
` How should I know ?
Didst thou not -- no , that be after the Army rise out of the earth and take thee away .
I abide there in meditation in a room against the dovecot -- except when she talk eternally . '
` Oho !
the woman from Kulu .
That be by Saharunpore . '
Kim laugh .
` How do the spirit move thy master ?
Does he go afoot , for the sake of past sin ? '
the Jat demand cautiously .
` It be a far cry to Delhi . '
` No , ' say Kim . '
I will beg a tikkut for the te-rain . '
One do not own to the possession of money in India .
` Then , in the name of the Gods , let u take the fire-carriage .
My son be best in his mother 's arm .
The Government have bring on u many tax , but it give u one good thing -- the te-rain that join friend and unite the anxious .
A wonderful matter be the te-rain . '
They all pile into it a couple of hour later , and sleep through the heat of the day .
The Kamboh ply Kim with ten thousand question a to the lama 's walk and work in life , and receive some curious answer .
Kim be content to be where he be , to look out upon the flat North-Western landscape , and to talk to the change mob of fellow-passengers .
Even today , ticket and ticket-clipping be dark oppression to Indian rustic .
They do not understand why , when they have pay for a magic piece of paper , stranger should punch great piece out of the charm .
So , long and furious be the debate between traveller and Eurasian ticket-collectors .
Kim assist at two or three with grave advice , meant to darken counsel and to show off his wisdom before the lama and the admiring Kamboh .
But at Somna Road the Fates send him a matter to think upon .
There tumble into the compartment , a the train be move off , a mean , lean little person -- a Mahratta , so far a Kim could judge by the cock of the tight turban .
His face be cut , his muslin upper-garment be badly tear , and one leg be bandage .
He tell them that a country-cart have upset and nearly slay him : he be go to Delhi , where his son live .
Kim watch him closely .
If , a he assert , he have be roll over and over on the earth , there should have be sign of gravel-rash on the skin .
But all his injury seem clean cut , and a mere fall from a cart could not cast a man into such extremity of terror .
As , with shake finger , he knot up the torn cloth about his neck he lay bare an amulet of the kind call a keeper-up of the heart .
Now , amulet be common enough , but they be not generally string on square-plaited copper wire , and still few amulet bear black enamel on silver .
There be none except the Kamboh and the lama in the compartment , which , luckily , be of an old type with solid end .
Kim make a to scratch in his bosom , and thereby lift his own amulet .
The Mahratta 's face change altogether at the sight , and he dispose the amulet fairly on his breast .
` Yes , ' he go on to the Kamboh , ' I be in haste , and the cart , drive by a bastard , bind it wheel in a water-cut , and besides the harm do to me there be lose a full dish of tarkeean .
I be not a Son of the Charm -LSB- a lucky man -RSB- that day . '
` That be a great loss , ' say the Kamboh , withdraw interest .
His experience of Benares have make him suspicious .
` Who cook it ? '
say Kim . '
A woman . '
The Mahratta raise his eye .
` But all woman can cook tarkeean , ' say the Kamboh .
` It be a good curry , a I know . '
` Oh yes , it be a good curry , ' say the Mahratta .
` And cheap , ' say Kim .
` But what about caste ? '
` Oh , there be no caste where men go to -- look for tarkeean , ' the Mahratta reply , in the prescribed cadence .
` Of whose service art thou ? '
` Of the service of this Holy One . '
Kim point to the happy , drowsy lama , who wake with a jerk at the well-loved word .
` Ah , he be send from Heaven to aid me .
He be call the Friend of all the World .
He be also call the Friend of the Stars .
He walk a a physician -- his time be ripe .
Great be his wisdom . '
` And a Son of the Charm , ' say Kim under his breath , a the Kamboh make haste to prepare a pipe lest the Mahratta should beg .
` And who be that ? '
the Mahratta ask , glance sideways nervously .
` One whose child I -- we have cure , who lie under great debt to u .
Sit by the window , man from Jullundur .
Here be a sick one . '
` Humph !
I have no desire to mix with chance-met wastrel .
My ear be not long .
I be not a woman wish to overhear secret . '
The Jat slide himself heavily into a far corner .
` Art thou anything of a healer ?
I be ten league deep in calamity , ' cry the Mahratta , pick up the cue .
` This man be cut and bruise all over .
I go about to cure him , ' Kim retort .
` None interfere between thy babe and me . ' '
I be rebuke , ' say the Kamboh meekly . '
I be thy debtor for the life of my son .
Thou art a miracle-worker -- I know it . '
` Show me the cut . '
Kim bent over the Mahratta 's neck , his heart nearly choke him ; for this be the Great Game with a vengeance .
` Now , tell thy tale swiftly , brother , while I say a charm . ' '
I come from the South , where my work lay .
One of u they slew by the roadside .
Hast thou heard ? '
Kim shake his head .
He , of course , know nothing of E 's predecessor , slay down South in the habit of an Arab trader .
` Having find a certain letter which I be send to seek , I come away .
I escape from the city and run to Mhow .
So sure be I that none know , I do not change my face .
At Mhow a woman bring charge against me of theft of jewellery in that city which I have leave .
Then I saw the cry be out against me .
I run from Mhow by night , bribe the police , who have be bribe to hand me over without question to my enemy in the South .
Then I lay in old Chitor city a week , a penitent in a temple , but I could not get rid of the letter which be my charge .
I bury it under the Queen 's Stone , at Chitor , in the place know to u all . '
Kim do not know , but not for world would he have break the thread .
` At Chitor , look you , I be all in Kings ' country ; for Kotah to the east be beyond the Queen 's law , and east again lie Jaipur and Gwalior .
Neither love spy , and there be no justice .
I be hunt like a wet jackal ; but I break through at Bandakui , where I hear there be a charge against me of murder in the city I have leave -- of the murder of a boy .
They have both the corpse and the witness wait . '
` But can not the Government protect ? '
` We of the Game be beyond protection .
If we die , we die .
Our name be blot from the book .
That be all .
At Bandakui , where live one of Us , I think to slip the scent by change my face , and so make me a Mahratta .
Then I come to Agra , and would have turn back to Chitor to recover the letter .
So sure I be I have slip them .
Therefore I do not send a tar -LSB- telegram -RSB- to any one say where the letter lay .
I wish the credit of it all . '
Kim nod .
He understand that feel well .
` But at Agra , walk in the street , a man cry a debt against me , and approach with many witness , would hale me to the court then and there .
Oh , they be clever in the South !
He recognize me a his agent for cotton .
May he burn in Hell for it ! '
` And wast thou ? ' '
O fool !
I be the man they seek for the matter of the letter !
I run into the Fleshers ' Ward and come out by the House of the Jew , who fear a riot and push me forth .
I come afoot to Somna Road -- I have only money for my tikkut to Delhi -- and there , while I lay in a ditch with a fever , one sprang out of the bush and beat me and cut me and search me from head to foot .
Within earshot of the terain it be ! '
` Why do he not slay thee out of hand ? '
` They be not so foolish .
If I be take in Delhi at the instance of lawyer , upon a proven charge of murder , my body be hand over to the State that desire it .
I go back guard , and then -- I die slowly for an example to the rest of Us .
The South be not my country .
I run in circle -- like a goat with one eye .
I have not eat for two day .
I be mark ' -- he touch the filthy bandage on his leg -- ` so that they will know me at Delhi . '
` Thou art safe in the te-rain , at least . '
` Live a year at the Great Game and tell me that again !
The wire will be out against me at Delhi , describe every tear and rag upon me .
Twenty -- a hundred , if need be -- will have see me slay that boy .
And thou art useless ! '
Kim know enough of native method of attack not to doubt that the case would be deadly complete -- even to the corpse .
The Mahratta twitch his finger with pain from time to time .
The Kamboh in his corner glare sullenly ; the lama be busy over his bead ; and Kim , fumble doctor-fashion at the man 's neck , think out his plan between invocation .
` Hast thou a charm to change my shape ?
Else I be dead .
Five -- ten minute alone , if I have not be so pressed , and I might -- ' ` Is he cure yet , miracle-worker ? '
say the Kamboh jealously .
` Thou hast chant long enough . '
` Nay .
There be no cure for his hurt , a I see , except he sit for three day in the habit of a bairagi . '
This be a common penance , often impose on a fat trader by his spiritual teacher .
` One priest always go about to make another priest , ' be the retort .
Like most grossly superstitious folk , the Kamboh could not keep his tongue from deride his Church .
` Will thy son be a priest , then ?
It be time he take more of my quinine . '
` We Jats be all buffalo , ' say the Kamboh , soften anew .
Kim rub a finger-tip of bitterness on the child 's trusting little lip . '
I have ask for nothing , ' he say sternly to the father , ` except food .
Dost thou grudge me that ?
I go to heal another man .
Have I thy leave -- Prince ? '
Up flew the man 's huge paw in supplication .
` Nay -- nay .
Do not mock me thus . '
` It please me to cure this sick one .
Thou shalt acquire merit by aid .
What colour ash be there in thy pipe-bowl ?
White .
That be auspicious .
Was there raw turmeric among thy foodstuff ? '
` I -- I -- ' ` Open thy bundle ! '
It be the usual collection of small oddment : bit of cloth , quack medicine , cheap fairings , a clothful of atta -- greyish , rough-ground native flour -- twist of down-country tobacco , tawdry pipe-stems , and a packet of curry-stuff , all wrap in a quilt .
Kim turn it over with the air of a wise warlock , mutter a Mohammedan invocation .
` This be wisdom I learn from the Sahibs , ' he whisper to the lama ; and here , when one think of his training at Lurgan 's , he speak no more than the truth .
` There be a great evil in this man 's fortune , a show by the Stars , which -- which trouble him .
Shall I take it away ? '
` Friend of the Stars , thou hast do well in all thing .
Let it be at thy pleasure .
Is it another heal ? '
` Quick !
Be quick ! '
gasp the Mahratta .
` The train may stop . ' '
A healing against the shadow of death , ' say Kim , mix the Kamboh 's flour with the mingled charcoal and tobacco ash in the red-earth bowl of the pipe .
E , without a word , slip off his turban and shake down his long black hair .
` That be my food -- priest , ' the jat growl . '
A buffalo in the temple !
Hast thou dare to look even thus far ? '
say Kim . '
I must do mystery before fool ; but have a care for thine eye .
Is there a film before them already ?
I save the babe , and for return thou -- oh , shameless ! '
The man flinch at the direct gaze , for Kim be wholly in earnest .
` Shall I curse thee , or shall I -- ' He pick up the outer cloth of the bundle and throw it over the bow head .
` Dare so much a to think a wish to see , and -- and -- even I can not save thee .
Sit !
Be dumb ! ' '
I be blind -- dumb .
Forbear to curse !
Co -- come , child ; we will play a game of hiding .
Do not , for my sake , look from under the cloth . ' '
I see hope , ' say E23 .
` What be thy scheme ? '
` This come next , ' say Kim , pluck the thin body-shirt .
E23 hesitate , with all a North-West man 's dislike of bar his body .
` What be caste to a cut throat ? '
say Kim , rend it to the waist .
` We must make thee a yellow Saddhu all over .
Strip -- strip swiftly , and shake thy hair over thine eye while I scatter the ash .
Now , a caste-mark on thy forehead . '
He draw from his bosom the little Survey paint-box and a cake of crimson lake .
` Art thou only a beginner ? '
say E23 , labour literally for the dear life , a he slide out of his body-wrappings and stand clear in the loin-cloth while Kim splash in a noble caste-mark on the ash-smeared brow .
` But two day enter to the Game , brother , ' Kim reply .
` Smear more ash on the bosom . '
` Hast thou met -- a physician of sick pearl ? '
He switch out his long , tight-rolled turban-cloth and , with swift hand , roll it over and under about his loin into the intricate device of a Saddhu 's cincture .
` Hah !
Dost thou know his touch , then ?
He be my teacher for a while .
We must bar thy leg .
Ash cure wound .
Smear it again . ' '
I be his pride once , but thou art almost well .
The Gods be kind to u !
Give me that . '
It be a tin box of opium pill among the rubbish of the Jat 's bundle .
E23 gulp down a half handful .
` They be good against hunger , fear , and chill .
And they make the eye red too , ' he explain .
` Now I shall have heart to play the Game .
We lack only a Saddhu 's tongs .
What of the old clothes ? '
Kim roll them small , and stuff them into the slack fold of his tunic .
With a yellow-ochre paint cake he smear the leg and the breast , great streak against the background of flour , ash , and turmeric .
` The blood on them be enough to hang thee , brother . '
` Maybe ; but no need to throw them out of the window ... It be finish . '
His voice thrill with a boy 's pure delight in the Game .
` Turn and look , O Jat ! '
` The Gods protect u , ' say the hooded Kamboh , emerge like a buffalo from the reed .
` But -- whither go the Mahratta ?
What hast thou do ? '
Kim have be train by Lurgan Sahib ; E23 , by virtue of his business , be no bad actor .
In place of the tremulous , shrink trader there loll against the corner an all but naked , ash-smeared , ochre-barred , dusty-haired Saddhu , his swollen eye -- opium take quick effect on an empty stomach -- luminous with insolence and bestial lust , his leg cross under him , Kim 's brown rosary round his neck , and a scant yard of worn , flower chintz on his shoulder .
The child bury his face in his amazed father 's arm .
` Look up , Princeling !
We travel with warlock , but they will not hurt thee .
Oh , do not cry ... What be the sense of cure a child one day and kill him with fright the next ? '
` The child will be fortunate all his life .
He have see a great healing .
When I be a child I make clay men and horse . ' '
I have make them too .
Sir Banas , he come in the night and make them all alive at the back of our kitchen-midden , ' pip the child .
` And so thou art not frighten at anything .
Eh , Prince ? ' '
I be frighten because my father be frighten .
I felt his arm shake . '
` Oh , chicken-man ! '
say Kim , and even the abashed Jat laugh . '
I have do a healing on this poor trader .
He must forsake his gain and his account-books , and sit by the wayside three night to overcome the malignity of his enemy .
The Stars be against him . '
` The few money-lenders the good , say I ; but , Saddhu or no Saddhu , he should pay for my stuff on his shoulder . '
` So ?
But that be thy child on thy shoulder -- give over to the burning-ghat not two day ago .
There remain one thing more .
I do this charm in thy presence because need be great .
I change his shape and his soul .
None the less , if , by any chance , O man from Jullundur , thou rememberest what thou hast see , either among the elder sit under the village tree , or in thine own house , or in company of thy priest when he bless thy cattle , a murrain will come among the buffalo , and a fire in thy thatch , and rat in the corn-bins , and the curse of our Gods upon thy field that they may be barren before thy foot and after thy ploughshare . '
This be part of an old curse pick up from a fakir by the Taksali Gate in the day of Kim 's innocence .
It lose nothing by repetition .
` Cease , Holy One !
In mercy , cease ! '
cry the Jat .
` Do not curse the household .
I saw nothing !
I hear nothing !
I be thy cow ! '
and he make to grab at Kim 's bare foot beat rhythmically on the carriage floor .
` But since thou hast be permit to aid me in the matter of a pinch of flour and a little opium and such trifle a I have honour by use in my art , so will the Gods return a blessing , ' and he give it at length , to the man 's immense relief .
It be one that he have learn from Lurgan Sahib .
The lama star through his spectacle a he have not star at the business of disguisement .
` Friend of the Stars , ' he say at last , ` thou hast acquire great wisdom .
Beware that it do not give birth to pride .
No man have the Law before his eye speak hastily of any matter which he have see or encounter . '
` No -- no -- no , indeed , ' cry the farmer , fearful l the master should be mind to improve on the pupil .
E23 , with relaxed mouth , give himself up to the opium that be meat , tobacco , and medicine to the spent Asiatic .
So , in a silence of awe and great miscomprehension , they slide into Delhi about lamp-lighting time .
Chapter 12 Who hath desire the Sea -- the sight of salt-water unbounded ?
The heave and the halt and the hurl and the crash of the comber wind-hounded ?
The sleek-barrelled swell before storm -- grey , foamless , enormous , and grow ?
Stark calm on the lap of the Line -- or the crazy-eyed hurricane blowing ?
His Sea in no show the same -- his Sea and the same ` neath all showing -- His Sea that his be fulfils ?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise hill-men desire their Hills !
The Sea and the Hills . '
I have find my heart again , ' say E23 , under cover of the platform 's tumult .
` Hunger and fear make men daze , or I might have think of this escape before .
I be right .
They come to hunt for me .
Thou hast save my head . '
A group of yellow-trousered Punjab policeman , head by a hot and perspire young Englishman , part the crowd about the carriage .
Behind them , inconspicuous a a cat , amble a small fat person who look like a lawyer 's tout .
` See the young Sahib reading from a paper .
My description be in his hand , ' say E23 .
` Thev go carriage by carriage , like fisher-folk net a pool . '
When the procession reach their compartment , E23 be count his bead with a steady jerk of the wrist ; while Kim jeer at him for be so drug a to have lose the ring fire-tongs which be the Saddhu 's distinguish mark .
The lama , deep in meditation , star straight before him ; and the farmer , glance furtively , gather up his belonging .
` Nothing here but a parcel of holy-bolies , ' say the Englishman aloud , and pass on amid a ripple of uneasiness ; for native police mean extortion to the native all India over .
` The trouble now , ' whisper E23 , ` lie in send a wire a to the place where I hide that letter I be send to find .
I can not go to the tar-office in this guise . '
` Is it not enough I have save thy neck ? '
` Not if the work be leave unfinished .
Did never the healer of sick pearl tell thee so ?
Comes another Sahib !
Ah ! '
This be a tallish , sallowish District Superintendent of Police -- belt , helmet , polish spur and all -- strutting and twirl his dark moustache .
` What fool be these Police Sahibs ! '
say Kim genially .
E23 glance up under his eyelid .
` It be well say , ' he mutter in a changed voice . '
I go to drink water .
Keep my place . '
He blunder out almost into the Englishman 's arm , and be bad-worded in clumsy Urdu .
` Tum mut ?
You drink ?
You must n't bang about a though Delhi station belong to you , my friend . '
E23 , not move a muscle of his countenance , answer with a stream of the filthy abuse , at which Kim naturally rejoice .
It remind him of the drummer-boys and the barrack-sweepers at Umballa in the terrible time of his first schooling .
` My good fool , ' the Englishman drawl .
` Nickle-jao !
Go back to your carriage . '
Step by step , withdraw deferentially and drop his voice , the yellow Saddhu clomb back to the carriage , curse the D.S.P . to remotest posterity , by -- here Kim almost jump -- by the curse of the Queen 's Stone , by the write under the Queen 's Stone , and by an assortment of Gods with wholly , new name . '
I do n't know what you 're say , ' -- the Englishman flush angrily -- ` but it 's some piece of blasted impertinence .
Come out of that ! '
E23 , affect to misunderstand , gravely produce his ticket , which the Englishman wrench angrily from his hand .
` Oh , zoolum !
What oppression ! '
growl the Jat from his corner .
` All for the sake of a jest too . '
He have be grin at the freedom of the Saddhu 's tongue .
` Thy charm do not work well today , Holy One ! '
The Saddhu follow the policeman , fawn and supplicate .
The ruck of passenger , busy , with their baby and their bundle , have not notice the affair .
Kim slip out behind him ; for it flash through his head that he have hear this angry , stupid Sahib discourse loud personality to an old lady near Umballa three year ago .
` It be well ' , the Saddhu whisper , jam in the call , shout , bewildered press -- a Persian greyhound between his foot and a cageful of yell hawk under charge of a Rajput falconer in the small of his back .
` He have go now to send word of the letter which I hide .
They tell me he be in Peshawur .
I might have know that he be like the crocodile -- always at the other ford .
He have save me from present calamity , but I owe my life to thee . '
` Is he also one of Us ? '
Kim duck under a Mewar camel-driver 's greasy armpit and cannon off a covey of jabber Sikh matron .
` Not less than the great .
We be both fortunate !
I will make report to him of what thou hast do .
I be safe under his protection . '
He bore through the edge of the crowd besiege the carriage , and squat by the bench near the telegraph-office .
` Return , or they take thy place !
Have no fear for the work , brother -- or my life .
Thou hast give me breathing-space , and Strickland Sahib have pull me to land .
We may work together at the Game yet .
Farewell ! '
Kim hurry to his carriage : elate , bewilder , but a little nettled in that he have no key to the secret about him . '
I be only a beginner at the Game , that be sure .
I could not have leap into safety a do the Saddhu .
He know it be darkest under the lamp .
I could not have think to tell news under pretence of curse ... and how clever be the Sahib !
No matter , I save the life of one ... Where be the Kamboh go , Holy One ? '
he whisper , a he take his seat in the now crowded compartment . '
A fear grip him , ' the lama reply , with a touch of tender malice .
` He saw thee change the Mahratta to a Saddhu in the twinkling of an eye , a a protection against evil .
That shake him .
Then he saw the Saddhu fall sheer into the hand of the polis -- all the effect of thy art .
Then he gather up his son and flee ; for he say that thou didst change a quiet trader into an impudent bandier of word with the Sahibs , and he fear a like fate .
Where be the Saddhu ? '
` With the polis , ' say Kim ... ` Yet I save the Kamboh 's child . '
The lama snuff blandly .
` Ah , chela , see how thou art overtaken !
Thou didst cure the Kamboh 's child solely to acquire merit .
But thou didst put a spell on the Mahratta with prideful working -- I watch thee -- and with sidelong glance to bewilder an old old man and a foolish farmer : whence calamity and suspicion . '
Kim control himself with an effort beyond his year .
Not more than any other youngster do he like to eat dirt or to be misjudge , but he saw himself in a cleft stick .
The train roll out of Delhi into the night .
` It be true , ' he murmur .
` Where I have offend thee I have do wrong . '
` It be more , chela .
Thou hast loose an Act upon the world , and a a stone throw into a pool so spread the consequence thou canst not tell how far . '
This ignorance be well both for Kim 's vanity and for the lama 's peace of mind , when we think that there be then be hand in at Simla a code-wire report the arrival of E23 at Delhi , and , more important , the whereabouts of a letter he have be commission to -- abstract .
Incidentally , an over-zealous policeman have arrest , on charge of murder do in a far southern State , a horribly indignant Ajmir cotton-broker , who be explain himself to a Mr Strickland on Delhi platform , while E23 be paddle through byway into the locked heart of Delhi city .
In two hour several telegram have reach the angry minister of a southern State reporting that all trace of a somewhat bruised Mahratta have be lose ; and by the time the leisurely train halt at Saharunpore the last ripple of the stone Kim have help to heave be lap against the step of a mosque in far-away Roum -- where it disturb a pious man at prayer .
The lama make his in ample form near the dewy bougainvillea-trellis near the platform , cheer by the clear sunshine and the presence of his disciple .
` We will put these thing behind u , ' he say , indicate the brazen engine and the gleaming track .
` The jolting of the te-rain -- though a wonderful thing -- have turn my bone to water .
We will use clean air henceforward . '
` Let u go to the Kulu woman 's house ' say Kim , and step forth cheerily under the bundle .
Early morning Saharunpore-way be clean and well scent .
He think of the other morning at St Xavier 's , and it top his already thrice-heaped contentment .
` Where be this new haste bear from ?
Wise men do not run about like chicken in the sun .
We have come hundred upon hundred of kos already , and , till now , I have scarcely be alone with thee an instant .
How canst thou receive instruction all jostle of crowd ?
How can I , whelm by a flux of talk , meditate upon the Way ? '
` Her tongue grow no shorter with the year , then ? '
the disciple smile .
` Nor her desire for charm .
I remember once when I speak of the Wheel of Life ' -- the lama fumble in his bosom for his late copy -- ` she be only curious about the devil that besiege child .
She shall acquire merit by entertain u -- in a little while -- at an after-occasion -- softly , softly .
Now we will wander loose-foot , wait upon the Chain of Things .
The Search be sure . '
So they travel very easily across and among the broad bloomful fruit-gardens -- by way of Aminabad , Sahaigunge , Akrola of the Ford , and little Phulesa -- the line of the Siwaliks always to the north , and behind them again the snow .
After long , sweet sleep under the dry star come the lordly , leisurely passage through a waking village -- begging-bowl held forth in silence , but eye rove in defiance of the Law from sky 's edge to sky 's edge .
Then would Kim return soft-footed through the soft dust to his master under the shadow of a mango-tree or the thinner shade of a white Doon siris , to eat and drink at ease .
At mid-day , after talk and a little wayfaring , they sleep ; meet the world refresh when the air be cooler .
Night find them adventure into new territory -- some chosen village spy three hour before across the fat land , and much discuss upon the road .
There they tell their tale -- a new one each evening so far a Kim be concern -- and there be they make welcome , either by priest or headman , after the custom of the kindly East .
When the shadow shorten and the lama lean more heavily upon Kim , there be always the Wheel of Life to draw forth , to hold flat under wiped stone , and with a long straw to expound cycle by cycle .
Here sit the Gods on high -- and they be dream of dream .
Here be our Heaven and the world of the demi-Gods -- horseman fight among the hill .
Here be the agony do upon the beast , soul ascend or descend the ladder and therefore not to be interfere with .
Here be the Hells , hot and cold , and the abode of tormented ghost .
Let the chela study the trouble that come from over-eating -- bloated stomach and burning bowel .
Obediently , then , with bow head and brown finger alert to follow the pointer , do the chela study ; but when they come to the Human World , busy and profitless , that be just above the Hells , his mind be distract ; for by the roadside trundle the very Wheel itself , eat , drinking , trading , marry , and quarrel -- all warmly alive .
Often the lama make the living picture the matter of his text , bidding Kim -- too ready -- note how the flesh take a thousand shape , desirable or detestable a men reckon , but in truth of no account either way ; and how the stupid spirit , bond-slave to the Hog , the Dove , and the Serpent -- lust after betel-nut , a new yoke of ox , woman , or the favour of king -- be bind to follow the body through all the Heavens and all the Hells , and strictly round again .
Sometimes a woman or a poor man , watch the ritual -- it be nothing less -- when the great yellow chart be unfolded , would throw a few flower or a handful of cowry upon it edge .
It suffice these humble one that they have meet a Holy One who might be move to remember them in his prayer .
` Cure them if they be sick , ' say the lama , when Kim 's sporting instinct wake .
` Cure them if they have fever , but by no mean work charm .
Remember what befall the Mahratta . '
` Then all Doing be evil ? '
Kim reply , lie out under a big tree at the fork of the Doon road , watch the little ant run over his hand .
` To abstain from action be well -- except to acquire merit . '
` At the Gates of Learning we be teach that to abstain from action be unbefitting a Sahib .
And I be a Sahib . '
` Friend of all the World , ' -- the lama look directly at Kim -- ' I be an old man -- pleased with show a be child .
To those who follow the Way there be neither black nor white , Hind nor Bhotiyal .
We be all soul seek escape .
No matter what thy wisdom learn among Sahibs , when we come to my River thou wilt be free from all illusion -- at my side .
Hai !
My bone ache for that River , a they ache in the te-rain ; but my spirit sits above my bone , wait .
The Search be sure ! ' '
