Faith and Una cook the meal and wait on her .
The le say about the meal the good -- yet they be not much bad than Aunt Martha 's have be .
There be many woman in the village who would have be glad to come and help , but Aunt Martha refuse to let her plight be know .
`` You must worry on till I kin git around , '' she groan .
`` Thank goodness , John be n't here .
There 's a plenty o ' cold biled meat and bread and you kin try your hand at make porridge . ''
The girl have try their hand , but so far without much success .
The first day it have be too thin .
The next day so thick that you could cut it in slice .
And both day it have be burn .
`` I hate porridge , '' say Faith viciously .
`` When I have a house of my own I 'm NEVER go to have a single bit of porridge in it . ''
`` What 'll your child do then ? ''
ask Una .
`` Children have to have porridge or they wo n't grow .
Everybody say so . ''
`` They 'll have to get along without it or stay runt , '' retort Faith stubbornly .
`` Here , Una , you stir it while I set the table .
If I leave it for a minute the horrid stuff will burn .
It 's half past nine .
We 'll be late for Sunday School . ''
`` I have n't see anyone go past yet , '' say Una .
`` There wo n't likely be many out .
Just see how it 's pour .
And when there 's no preach the folk wo n't come from a distance to bring the child . ''
`` Go and call Carl , '' say Faith .
Carl , it appear , have a sore throat , induce by get wet in the Rainbow Valley marsh the previous evening while pursue dragon-flies .
He have come home with dripping stocking and boot and have sit out the evening in them .
He could not eat any breakfast and Faith make him go back to bed again .
She and Una leave the table a it be and go to Sunday School .
There be no one in the school room when they get there and no one come .
They wait until eleven and then go home .
`` There do n't seem to be anybody at the Methodist Sunday School either , '' say Una .
`` I 'm GLAD , '' say Faith .
`` I 'd hate to think the Methodists be good at go to Sunday School on rainy Sundays than the Presbyterians .
But there 's no preaching in their Church to-day , either , so likely their Sunday School be in the afternoon . ''
Una wash the dish , do them quite nicely , for so much have she learn from Mary Vance .
Faith sweep the floor after a fashion and peel the potato for dinner , cut her finger in the process .
`` I wish we have something for dinner besides ditto , '' sigh Una .
`` I 'm so tired of it .
The Blythe child do n't know what ditto be .
And we NEVER have any pudding .
Nan say Susan would faint if they have no pudding on Sundays .
Why be n't we like other people , Faith ? ''
`` I do n't want to be like other people , '' laugh Faith , tie up her bleeding finger .
`` I like be myself .
It 's more interesting .
Jessie Drew be as good a housekeeper a her mother , but would you want to be as stupid a she be ? ''
`` But our house be n't right .
Mary Vance say so .
She say people talk about it be so untidy . ''
Faith have an inspiration .
`` We 'll clean it all up , '' she cry .
`` We 'll go right to work to-morrow .
It 's a real good chance when Aunt Martha be lay up and ca n't interfere with u .
We 'll have it all lovely and clean when father come home , just like it be when Mary go away .
ANY ONE can sweep and dust and wash window .
People wo n't be able to talk about u any more .
Jem Blythe say it 's only old cat that talk , but their talk hurt just as much a anybody 's . ''
`` I hope it will be fine to-morrow , '' say Una , fire with enthusiasm .
`` Oh , Faith , it will be splendid to be all clean up and like other people . ''
`` I hope Aunt Martha 's misery will last over to-morrow , '' say Faith .
`` If it do n't we wo n't get a single thing do . ''
Faith 's amiable wish be fulfil .
The next day find Aunt Martha still unable to rise .
Carl , too , be still sick and easily prevail on to stay in bed .
Neither Faith nor Una have any idea how sick the boy really be ; a watchful mother would have have a doctor without delay ; but there be no mother , and poor little Carl , with his sore throat and ache head and crimson cheek , roll himself up in his twisted bedclothes and suffer alone , somewhat comfort by the companionship of a small green lizard in the pocket of his ragged nighty .
The world be full of summer sunshine after the rain .
It be a peerless day for house-cleaning and Faith and Una go gaily to work .
`` We 'll clean the dining-room and the parlour , '' say Faith .
`` It would n't do to meddle with the study , and it do n't matter much about the upstairs .
The first thing be to take everything out . ''
Accordingly , everything be take out .
The furniture be pile on the veranda and lawn and the Methodist graveyard fence be gaily drape with rug .
An orgy of sweep follow , with an attempt at dust on Una 's part , while Faith wash the window of the dining-room , break one pane and crack two in the process .
Una survey the streaked result dubiously .
`` They do n't look right , somehow , '' she say .
`` Mrs. Elliott 's and Susan 's window just shine and sparkle . ''
`` Never mind .
They let the sunshine through just as well , '' say Faith cheerfully .
`` They MUST be clean after all the soap and water I 've use , and that 's the main thing .
Now , it 's past eleven , so I 'll wipe up this mess on the floor and we 'll go outside .
You dust the furniture and I 'll shake the rug .
I 'm go to do it in the graveyard .
I do n't want to send dust fly all over the lawn .
Faith enjoy the rug shaking .
To stand on Hezekiah Pollock 's tombstone , flap and shake rug , be real fun .
To be sure , Elder Abraham Clow and his wife , drive past in their capacious double-seated buggy , seem to gaze at her in grim disapproval .
`` Is n't that a terrible sight ? ''
say Elder Abraham solemnly .
`` I would never have believe it if I have n't see it with my own eye , '' say Mrs. Elder Abraham , more solemnly still .
Faith wave a door mat cheerily at the Clow party .
It do not worry her that the elder and his wife do not return her greeting .
Everybody know that Elder Abraham have never be know to smile since he have be appoint Superintendent of the Sunday School fourteen year previously .
But it hurt her that Minnie and Adella Clow do not wave back .
Faith like Minnie and Adella .
Next to the Blythes , they be her best friend in school and she always help Adella with her sum .
This be gratitude for you .
Her friend cut her because she be shake rug in an old graveyard where , a Mary Vance say , not a living soul have be bury for year .
Faith flounce around to the veranda , where she find Una grieve in spirit because the Clow girl have not wave to her , either .
`` I suppose they 're mad over something , '' say Faith .
`` Perhaps they 're jealous because we play so much in Rainbow Valley with the Blythes .
Well , just wait till school open and Adella want me to show her how to do her sum !
We 'll get square then .
Come on , let 's put the thing back in .
I 'm tired to death and I do n't believe the room will look much good than before we start -- though I shake out peck of dust in the graveyard .
I HATE house-cleaning . ''
It be two o'clock before the tired girl finish the two room .
They get a dreary bite in the kitchen and intend to wash the dish at once .
But Faith happen to pick up a new story-book Di Blythe have lend her and be lose to the world until sunset .
Una take a cup of rank tea up to Carl but find him asleep ; so she curl herself up on Jerry 's bed and go to sleep too .
Meanwhile , a weird story fly through Glen St. Mary and folk ask each other seriously what be to be do with those manse youngster .
`` That be past laughing at , believe ME , '' say Miss Cornelia to her husband , with a heavy sigh .
`` I could n't believe it at first .
Miranda Drew bring the story home from the Methodist Sunday School this afternoon and I simply scoff at it .
But Mrs. Elder Abraham say she and the Elder saw it with their own eye . ''
`` Saw what ? ''
ask Marshall .
`` Faith and Una Meredith stay home from Sunday School this morning and CLEANED HOUSE , '' say Miss Cornelia , in accent of despair .
`` When Elder Abraham go home from the church -- he have stay behind to straighten out the library book -- he saw them shake rug in the Methodist graveyard .
I can never look a Methodist in the face again .
Just think what a scandal it will make ! ''
A scandal it assuredly do make , grow more scandalous a it spread , until the over-harbour people hear that the manse child have not only clean house and put out a wash on Sunday , but have wind up with an afternoon picnic in the graveyard while the Methodist Sunday School be go on .
The only household which remain in blissful ignorance of the terrible thing be the manse itself ; on what Faith and Una fondly believe to be Tuesday it rain again ; for the next three day it rain ; nobody come near the manse ; the manse folk go nowhere ; they might have wad through the misty Rainbow Valley up to Ingleside , but all the Blythe family , save Susan and the doctor , be away on a visit to Avonlea .
`` This be the last of our bread , '' say Faith , `` and the ditto be do .
If Aunt Martha do n't get good soon WHAT will we do ? ''
`` We can buy some bread in the village and there 's the codfish Mary dry , '' say Una .
`` But we do n't know how to cook it . ''
`` Oh , that 's easy , '' laugh Faith .
`` You just boil it . ''
Boil it they do ; but a it do not occur to them to soak it beforehand it be too salty to eat .
That night they be very hungry ; but by the following day their trouble be over .
Sunshine return to the world ; Carl be well and Aunt Martha 's misery leave her as suddenly a it have come ; the butcher call at the manse and chased famine away .
To crown all , the Blythes return home , and that even they and the manse child and Mary Vance keep sunset tryst once more in Rainbow Valley , where the daisy be float upon the grass like spirit of the dew and the bell on the Tree Lovers ring like fairy chime in the scented twilight .
CHAPTER XI .
A DREADFUL DISCOVERY `` Well , you kid have go and do it now , '' be Mary 's greeting , a she join them in the Valley .
Miss Cornelia be up at Ingleside , hold agonize conclave with Anne and Susan , and Mary hop that the session might be a long one , for it be all of two week since she have be allow to revel with her chum in the dear valley of rainbow .
`` Done what ? ''
demand everybody but Walter , who be day-dreaming a usual .
`` It 's you manse young one , I mean , '' say Mary .
`` It be just awful of you .
I would n't have do such a thing for the world , and I be n't bring up in a manse -- be n't bring up ANYWHERE -- just COME up . ''
`` What have WE do ? ''
ask Faith blankly .
`` Done !
You 'd BETTER ask !
The talk be something terrible .
I expect it 's ruin your father in this congregation .
He 'll never be able to live it down , poor man !
Everybody blame him for it , and that be n't fair .
But nothing IS fair in this world .
You ought to be ashamed of yourselves . ''
`` What HAVE we do ? ''
ask Una again , despairingly .
Faith say nothing , but her eye flash golden-brown scorn at Mary .
`` Oh , do n't pretend innocence , '' say Mary , witheringly .
`` Everybody know what you have do . '' ''
I do n't , '' interject Jem Blythe indignantly .
`` Do n't let me catch you make Una cry , Mary Vance .
What be you talk about ? ''
`` I s ` pose you do n't know , since you 're just back from up west , '' say Mary , somewhat subdue .
Jem could always manage her .
`` But everybody else know , you 'd better believe . ''
`` Knows what ? ''
`` That Faith and Una stay home from Sunday School last Sunday and CLEANED HOUSE . ''
`` We do n't , '' cry Faith and Una , in passionate denial .
Mary look haughtily at them .
`` I do n't suppose you 'd deny it , after the way you 've comb ME down for lying , '' she say .
`` What 's the good of say you do n't ?
Everybody know you DID .
Elder Clow and his wife saw you .
Some people say it will break up the church , but I do n't go that far .
You ARE nice one . ''
Nan Blythe stand up and put her arm around the daze Faith and Una .
`` They be nice enough to take you in and fee you and clothe you when you be starve in Mr. Taylor 's barn , Mary Vance , '' she say .
`` You be VERY grateful , I must say . ''
`` I AM grateful , '' retort Mary .
`` You 'd know it if you 'd hear me stand up for Mr. Meredith through thick and thin .
I 've blister my tongue talk for him this week .
I 've say again and again that he be n't to blame if his young one do clean house on Sunday .
He be away -- and they know well . ''
`` But we do n't , '' protest Una .
`` It be MONDAY we clean house .
Was n't it , Faith ? ''
`` Of course it be , '' say Faith , with flashing eye .
`` We go to Sunday School in spite of the rain -- and no one come -- not even Elder Abraham , for all his talk about fair-weather Christians . ''
`` It be Saturday it rain , '' say Mary .
`` Sunday be as fine a silk .
I be n't at Sunday School because I have toothache , but every one else be and they saw all your stuff out on the lawn .
And Elder Abraham and Mrs. Elder Abraham saw you shake rug in the graveyard . ''
Una sit down among the daisy and begin to cry .
`` Look here , '' say Jem resolutely , `` this thing must be clear up .
SOMEBODY have make a mistake .
Sunday WAS fine , Faith .
How could you have think Saturday be Sunday ? ''
`` Prayer-meeting be Thursday night , '' cry Faith , `` and Adam fly into the soup-pot on Friday when Aunt Martha 's cat chase him , and spoil our dinner ; and Saturday there be a snake in the cellar and Carl catch it with a forked stick and carry it out , and Sunday it rain .
So there ! ''
`` Prayer-meeting be Wednesday night , '' say Mary .
`` Elder Baxter be to lead and he could n't go Thursday night and it be change to Wednesday .
You be just a day out , Faith Meredith , and you DID work on Sunday . ''
Suddenly Faith burst into a peal of laughter .
`` I suppose we do .
What a joke ! ''
`` It be n't much of a joke for your father , '' say Mary sourly .
`` It 'll be all right when people find out it be just a mistake , '' say Faith carelessly .
`` We 'll explain . ''
`` You can explain till you 're black in the face , '' say Mary , `` but a lie like that 'll travel faster 'n further than you ever will .
I 'VE see more of the world than you and I know .
Besides , there be plenty of folk wo n't believe it be a mistake . ''
`` They will if I tell them , '' say Faith .
`` You ca n't tell everybody , '' say Mary .
`` No , I tell you you 've disgrace your father . ''
Una 's evening be spoil by this dire reflection , but Faith refuse to be make uncomfortable .
Besides , she have a plan that would put everything right .
So she put the past with it mistake behind her and give herself over to enjoyment of the present .
Jem go away to fish and Walter come out of his reverie and proceed to describe the wood of heaven .
Mary prick up her ear and listen respectfully .
Despite her awe of Walter she revel in his `` book talk . ''
It always give her a delightful sensation .
Walter have be read his Coleridge that day , and he picture a heaven where `` There be garden bright with sinuous rill Where blossom many an incense bearing tree , And there be forest ancient a the hill Enfolding sunny spot of greenery . ''
`` I do n't know there be any wood in heaven , '' say Mary , with a long breath .
`` I think it be all street -- and street -- AND street . ''
`` Of course there be wood , '' say Nan .
`` Mother ca n't live without tree and I ca n't , so what would be the use of go to heaven if there be n't any tree ? ''
`` There be city , too , '' say the young dreamer , `` splendid city -- colour just like the sunset , with sapphire tower and rainbow dome .
They be build of gold and diamond -- whole street of diamond , flash like the sun .
In the square there be crystal fountain kiss by the light , and everywhere the asphodel bloom -- the flower of heaven . ''
`` Fancy ! ''
say Mary .
`` I saw the main street in Charlottetown once and I think it be real grand , but I s ` pose it 's nothing to heaven .
Well , it all sound gorgeous the way you tell it , but wo n't it be kind of dull , too ? ''
`` Oh , I guess we can have some fun when the angel ' back be turn , '' say Faith comfortably .
`` Heaven be ALL fun , '' declare Di .
`` The Bible do n't say so , '' cry Mary , who have read so much of the Bible on Sunday afternoon under Miss Cornelia 's eye that she now consider herself quite an authority on it .
`` Mother say the Bible language be figurative , '' say Nan .
`` Does that mean that it be n't true ? ''
ask Mary hopefully .
`` No -- not exactly -- but I think it mean that heaven will be just like what you 'd like it to be . ''
`` I 'd like it to be just like Rainbow Valley , '' say Mary , `` with all you kid to gas and play with .
THAT 'S good enough for me .
Anyhow , we ca n't go to heaven till we 're dead and maybe not then , so what 's the use of worrying ?
Here 's Jem with a string of trout and it 's my turn to fry them . ''
`` We ought to know more about heaven than Walter do when we 're the minister 's family , '' say Una , a they walk home that night .
`` We KNOW just as much , but Walter can IMAGINE , '' say Faith .
`` Mrs. Elliott say he get it from his mother . ''
`` I do wish we have n't make that mistake about Sunday , '' sigh Una .
`` Do n't worry over that .
I 've think of a great plan to explain so that everybody will know , '' say Faith .
`` Just wait till to-morrow night . ''
CHAPTER XII .
AN EXPLANATION AND A DARE The Rev . Dr. Cooper preach in Glen St. Mary the next evening and the Presbyterian Church be crowd with people from near and far .
The Reverend Doctor be repute to be a very eloquent speaker ; and , bear in mind the old dictum that a minister should take his best clothes to the city and his best sermon to the country , he deliver a very scholarly and impressive discourse .
But when the folk go home that night it be not of Dr. Cooper 's sermon they talk .
They have completely forget all about it .
Dr. Cooper have conclude with a fervent appeal , have wipe the perspiration from his massive brow , have say `` Let u pray '' a he be famed for say it , and have duly pray .
There be a slight pause .
In Glen St. Mary church the old fashion of take the collection after the sermon instead of before still hold -- mainly because the Methodists have adopt the new fashion first , and Miss Cornelia and Elder Clow would not hear of follow where Methodists have lead .
Charles Baxter and Thomas Douglas , whose duty it be to pass the plate , be on the point of rise to their foot .
The organist have get out the music of her anthem and the choir have clear it throat .
Suddenly Faith Meredith rise in the manse pew , walk up to the pulpit platform , and face the amazed audience .
Miss Cornelia half rise in her seat and then sit down again .
Her pew be far back and it occur to her that whatever Faith meant to do or say would be half do or say before she could reach her .
There be no use make the exhibition bad than it have to be .
With an anguished glance at Mrs. Dr. Blythe , and another at Deacon Warren of the Methodist Church , Miss Cornelia resign herself to another scandal .
`` If the child be only dress decently itself , '' she groan in spirit .
Faith , have spill ink on her good dress , have serenely put on an old one of faded pink print .
A caticornered rent in the skirt have be darn with scarlet trace cotton and the hem have be let down , show a bright strip of unfaded pink around the skirt .
But Faith be not think of her clothes at all .
She be feel suddenly nervous .
What have seem easy in imagination be rather hard in reality .
Confronted by all those star question eye Faith 's courage almost fail her .
The light be so bright , the silence so awesome .
She think she could not speak after all .
But she MUST -- her father MUST be clear of suspicion .
Only -- the word would NOT come .
Una 's little pearl-pure face gleam up at her beseechingly from the manse pew .
The Blythe child be lose in amazement .
Back under the gallery Faith saw the sweet graciousness of Miss Rosemary West 's smile and the amusement of Miss Ellen 's .
But none of these help her .
It be Bertie Shakespeare Drew who save the situation .
Bertie Shakespeare sit in the front seat of the gallery and he make a derisive face at Faith .
Faith promptly make a dreadful one back at him , and , in her anger over be grimace at by Bertie Shakespeare , forget her stage fright .
She find her voice and speak out clearly and bravely .
`` I want to explain something , '' she say , `` and I want to do it now because everybody will hear it that hear the other .
People be say that Una and I stay home last Sunday and clean house instead of go to Sunday School .
Well , we do -- but we do n't mean to .
We get mixed up in the day of the week .
It be all Elder Baxter 's fault '' -- sensation in Baxter 's pew -- `` because he go and change the prayer-meeting to Wednesday night and then we think Thursday be Friday and so on till we think Saturday be Sunday .
Carl be lay up sick and so be Aunt Martha , so they could n't put u right .
We go to Sunday School in all that rain on Saturday and nobody come .
And then we think we 'd clean house on Monday and stop old cat from talk about how dirty the manse be '' -- general sensation all over the church -- `` and we do .
I shake the rug in the Methodist graveyard because it be such a convenient place and not because I mean to be disrespectful of the dead .
It be n't the dead folk who have make the fuss over this -- it 's the living folk .
And it be n't right for any of you to blame my father for this , because he be away and do n't know , and anyhow we think it be Monday .
He 's just the best father that ever live in the world and we love him with all our heart . ''
Faith 's bravado ebb out in a sob .
She run down the step and flash out of the side door of the church .
There the friendly starlit , summer night comfort her and the ache go out of her eye and throat .
She felt very happy .
The dreadful explanation be over and everybody knew now that her father be n't to blame and that she and Una be not so wicked a to have clean house knowingly on Sunday .
Inside the church people gaze blankly at each other , but Thomas Douglas rise and walk up the aisle with a set face .
HIS duty be clear ; the collection must be take if the sky fell .
Taken it be ; the choir sing the anthem , with a dismal conviction that it fell terribly flat , and Dr. Cooper give out the conclude hymn and pronounce the benediction with considerably less unction than usual .
The Reverend Doctor have a sense of humour and Faith 's performance tickle him .
Besides , John Meredith be well know in Presbyterian circle .
Mr. Meredith return home the next afternoon , but before his come Faith contrive to scandalize Glen St. Mary again .
In the reaction from Sunday even 's intensity and strain she be especially full of what Miss Cornelia would have call `` devilment '' on Monday .
This lead her to dare Walter Blythe to ride through Main Street on a pig , while she ride another one .
The pig in question be two tall , lank animal , suppose to belong to Bertie Shakespeare Drew 's father , which have be haunt the roadside by the manse for a couple of week .
Walter do not want to ride a pig through Glen St. Mary , but whatever Faith Meredith dare him to do must be do .
They tear down the hill and through the village , Faith bent double with laughter over her terrified courser , Walter crimson with shame .
They tear past the minister himself , just come home from the station ; he , be a little less dreamy and abstract than usual -- owe to have have a talk on the train with Miss Cornelia who always waken him up temporarily -- notice them , and think he really must speak to Faith about it and tell her that such conduct be not seemly .
But he have forget the trifle incident by the time he reach home .
They pass Mrs. Alec Davis , who shriek in horror , and they pass Miss Rosemary West who laugh and sigh .
Finally , just before the pig swoop into Bertie Shakespeare Drew 's back yard , never to emerge therefrom again , so great have be the shock to their nerve -- Faith and Walter jump off , a Dr. and Mrs. Blythe drove swiftly by .
`` So that be how you bring up your boy , '' say Gilbert with mock severity .
`` Perhaps I do spoil them a little , '' say Anne contritely , `` but , oh , Gilbert , when I think of my own childhood before I come to Green Gables I have n't the heart to be very strict .
How hungry for love and fun I be -- an unloved little drudge with never a chance to play !
They do have such good time with the manse child . ''
`` What about the poor pig ? ''
ask Gilbert .
Anne try to look sober and fail .
`` Do you really think it hurt them ? ''
she say .
`` I do n't think anything could hurt those animal .
They 've be the plague of the neighbourhood this summer and the Drews WO N'T shut them up .
But I 'll talk to Walter -- if I can keep from laugh when I do it . ''
Miss Cornelia come up to Ingleside that even to relieve her feeling over Sunday night .
To her surprise she find that Anne do not view Faith 's performance in quite the same light a she do .
`` I think there be something brave and pathetic in her get up there before that churchful of people , to confess , '' she say .
`` You could see she be frighten to death -- yet she be bind to clear her father .
I love her for it . ''
`` Oh , of course , the poor child meant well , '' sigh Miss Cornelia , `` but just the same it be a terrible thing to do , and be make more talk than the house-cleaning on Sunday .
THAT have begin to die away , and this have start it all up again .
Rosemary West be like you -- she say last night a she leave the church that it be a plucky thing for Faith to do , but it make her feel sorry for the child , too .
Miss Ellen think it all a good joke , and say she have n't have a much fun in church for year .
Of course THEY do n't care -- they be Episcopalians .
But we Presbyterians feel it .
And there be so many hotel people there that night and score of Methodists .
Mrs. Leander Crawford cry , she felt so bad .
And Mrs. Alec Davis say the little hussy ought to be spank . ''
`` Mrs. Leander Crawford be always cry in church , '' say Susan contemptuously .
`` She cry over every affect thing the minister say .
But you do not often see her name on a subscription list , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Tears come cheap .
She try to talk to me one day about Aunt Martha be such a dirty housekeeper ; and I want to say , ` Every one know that YOU have be see mix up cake in the kitchen wash-pan , Mrs. Leander Crawford ! '
But I do not say it , Mrs. Dr. dear , because I have too much respect for myself to condescend to argue with the like of her .
But I could tell bad thing than THAT of Mrs. Leander Crawford , if I be dispose to gossip .
And a for Mrs. Alec Davis , if she have say that to me , Mrs. Dr. dear , do you know what I would have say ?
I would have say , ' I have no doubt you would like to spank Faith , Mrs. Davis , but you will never have the chance to spank a minister 's daughter either in this world or in that which be to come . ' ''
`` If poor Faith have only be decently dress , '' lament Miss Cornelia again , `` it would n't have be quite that bad .
But that dress look dreadful , a she stand there upon the platform . ''
`` It be clean , though , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan .
`` They ARE clean child .
They may be very heedless and reckless , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I be not say they be not , but they NEVER forget to wash behind their ear . ''
`` The idea of Faith forget what day be Sunday , '' persist Miss Cornelia .
`` She will grow up just a careless and impractical a her father , believe ME .
I suppose Carl would have know well if he have n't be sick .
I do n't know what be wrong with him , but I think it very likely he have be eat those blueberry that grow in the graveyard .
No wonder they make him sick .
If I be a Methodist I 'd try to keep my graveyard clean up at least . ''
`` I be of the opinion that Carl only eat the sour that grow on the dyke , '' say Susan hopefully .
`` I do not think ANY minister 's son would eat blueberry that grow on the graf of dead people .
You know it would not be so bad , Mrs. Dr. dear , to eat thing that grow on the dyke . ''
`` The bad of last night 's performance be the face Faith make make at somebody in the congregation before she start in , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Elder Clow declare she make it at him .
And DID you hear that she be see rid on a pig to-day ? ''
`` I saw her .
Walter be with her .
I give him a little -- a VERY little -- scold about it .
He do not say much , but he give me the impression that it have be his idea and that Faith be not to blame . ''
`` I do not not believe THAT , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' cry Susan , up in arm .
`` That be just Walter 's way -- to take the blame on himself .
But you know as well a I do , Mrs. Dr. dear , that that bless child would never have think of rid on a pig , even if he do write poetry . ''
`` Oh , there 's no doubt the notion be hatch in Faith Meredith 's brain , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` And I do n't say that I 'm sorry that Amos Drew 's old pig do get their come-uppance for once .
But the minister 's daughter ! ''
`` AND the doctor 's son ! ''
say Anne , mimic Miss Cornelia 's tone .
Then she laugh .
`` Dear Miss Cornelia , they 're only little child .
And you KNOW they 've never yet do anything bad -- they 're just heedless and impulsive -- a I be myself once .
They 'll grow sedate and sober -- a I 've do . ''
Miss Cornelia laugh , too .
`` There be time , Anne dearie , when I know by your eye that YOUR soberness be put on like a garment and you 're really ache to do something wild and young again .
Well , I feel encourage .
Somehow , a talk with you always do have that effect on me .
Now , when I go to see Barbara Samson , it 's just the opposite .
She make me feel that everything 's wrong and always will be .
But of course live all your life with a man like Joe Samson would n't be exactly cheer . ''
`` It be a very strange thing to think that she marry Joe Samson after all her chance , '' remark Susan .
`` She be much seek after when she be a girl .
She use to boast to me that she have twenty-one beau and Mr. Pethick . ''
`` What be Mr. Pethick ? ''
`` Well , he be a sort of hanger-on , Mrs. Dr. dear , but you could not exactly call him a beau .
He do not really have any intention .
Twenty-one beau -- and me that never have one !
But Barbara go through the wood and pick up the crook stick after all .
And yet they say her husband can make good bake powder biscuit than she can , and she always get him to make them when company come to tea . ''
`` Which remind ME that I have company come to tea to-morrow and I must go home and set my bread , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Mary say she could set it and no doubt she could .
But while I live and move and have my be I set my own bread , believe me . ''
`` How be Mary get on ? ''
ask Anne .
`` I 've no fault to find with Mary , '' say Miss Cornelia rather gloomily .
`` She 's get some flesh on her bone and she 's clean and respectful -- though there 's more in her than I can fathom .
She 's a sly pus .
If you dig for a thousand year you could n't get to the bottom of that child 's mind , believe ME !
As for work , I never saw anything like her .
She EATS it up .
Mrs. Wiley may have be cruel to her , but folk need n't say she make Mary work .
Mary 's a born worker .
Sometimes I wonder which will wear out first -- her leg or her tongue .
I do n't have enough to do to keep me out of mischief these day .
I 'll be real glad when school open , for then I 'll have something to do again .
Mary do n't want to go to school , but I put my foot down and say that go she must .
I shall NOT have the Methodists say that I keep her out of school while I loll in idleness . ''
CHAPTER XIII .
THE HOUSE ON THE HILL There be a little unfailing spring , always icy cold and crystal pure , in a certain birch-screened hollow of Rainbow Valley in the low corner near the marsh .
Not a great many people knew of it existence .
The manse and Ingleside child know , of course , a they know everything else about the magic valley .
Occasionally they go there to get a drink , and it figure in many of their play a a fountain of old romance .
Anne knew of it and love it because it somehow remind her of the beloved Dryad 's Bubble at Green Gables .
Rosemary West knew of it ; it be her fountain of romance , too .
Eighteen year ago she have sit behind it one spring twilight and heard young Martin Crawford stammer out a confession of fervent , boyish love .
She have whisper her own secret in return , and they have kiss and promise by the wild wood spring .
They have never stand together by it again -- Martin have sail on his fatal voyage soon after ; but to Rosemary West it be always a sacred spot , hallow by that immortal hour of youth and love .
Whenever she pass near it she turn aside to hold a secret tryst with an old dream -- a dream from which the pain have long go , leave only it unforgettable sweetness .
The spring be a hidden thing .
You might have pass within ten foot of it and never have suspect it existence .
Two generation past a huge old pine have fall almost across it .
Nothing be leave of the tree but it crumble trunk out of which the fern grow thickly , make a green roof and a lacy screen for the water .
A maple-tree grow beside it with a curiously gnarl and twist trunk , creep along the ground for a little way before shoot up into the air , and so form a quaint seat ; and September have fling a scarf of pale smoke-blue aster around the hollow .
John Meredith , take the cross-lots road through Rainbow Valley on his way home from some pastoral visitation around the Harbour head one evening , turn aside to drink of the little spring .
Walter Blythe have show it to him one afternoon only a few day before , and they have have a long talk together on the maple seat .
John Meredith , under all his shyness and aloofness , have the heart of a boy .
He have be call Jack in his youth , though nobody in Glen St. Mary would ever have believe it .
Walter and he have take to each other and have talk unreservedly .
Mr. Meredith find his way into some seal and sacred chamber of the lad 's soul wherein not even Di have ever look .
They be to be chum from that friendly hour and Walter know that he would never be frighten of the minister again .
`` I never believe before that it be possible to get really acquaint with a minister , '' he tell his mother that night .
John Meredith drank from his slender white hand , whose grip of steel always surprised people who be unacquainted with it , and then sit down on the maple seat .
He be in no hurry to go home ; this be a beautiful spot and he be mentally weary after a round of rather uninspiring conversation with many good and stupid people .
The moon be rise .
Rainbow Valley be wind-haunted and star-sentinelled only where he be , but afar from the upper end come the gay note of child 's laughter and voice .
The ethereal beauty of the aster in the moonlight , the glimmer of the little spring , the soft croon of the brook , the waver grace of the bracken all weave a white magic round John Meredith .
He forget congregational worry and spiritual problem ; the year slip away from him ; he be a young divinity student again and the rose of June be bloom red and fragrant on the dark , queenly head of his Cecilia .
He sit there and dream like any boy .
And it be at this propitious moment that Rosemary West step aside from the by-path and stand beside him in that dangerous , spell-weaving place .
John Meredith stand up a she come in and saw her -- REALLY saw her -- for the first time .
He have meet her in his church once or twice and shake hand with her abstractedly a he do with anyone he happen to encounter on his way down the aisle .
He have never meet her elsewhere , for the Wests be Episcopalians , with church affinity in Lowbridge , and no occasion for call upon them have ever arise .
Before to-night , if anyone have ask John Meredith what Rosemary West look like he would not have have the slight notion .
But he be never to forget her , a she appear to him in the glamour of kind moonlight by the spring .
She be certainly not in the least like Cecilia , who have always be his ideal of womanly beauty .
Cecilia have be small and dark and vivacious -- Rosemary West be tall and fair and placid , yet John Meredith think he have never see so beautiful a woman .
She be bareheaded and her golden hair -- hair of a warm gold , `` molasses taffy '' colour a Di Blythe have say -- be pin in sleek , close coil over her head ; she have large , tranquil , blue eye that always seem full of friendliness , a high white forehead and a finely shaped face .
Rosemary West be always call a `` sweet woman . ''
She be so sweet that even her high-bred , stately air have never gain for her the reputation of be `` stuck-up , '' which it would inevitably have do in the case of anyone else in Glen St. Mary .
Life have teach her to be brave , to be patient , to love , to forgive .
She have watch the ship on which her lover go sail out of Four Winds Harbour into the sunset .
But , though she watch long , she have never see it come sail back .
That vigil have take girlhood from her eye , yet she keep her youth to a marvellous degree .
Perhaps this be because she always seem to preserve that attitude of delighted surprise towards life which most of u leave behind in childhood -- an attitude which not only make Rosemary herself seem young , but fling a pleasing illusion of youth over the consciousness of every one who talk to her .
John Meredith be startle by her loveliness and Rosemary be startle by his presence .
She have never think she would find anyone by that remote spring , least of all the recluse of Glen St. Mary manse .
She almost drop the heavy armful of book she be carry home from the Glen lending library , and then , to cover her confusion , she tell one of those small fib which even the best of woman do tell at time .
`` I -- I come for a drink , '' she say , stammer a little , in answer to Mr. Meredith 's grave `` good evening , Miss West . ''
She felt that she be an unpardonable goose and she long to shake herself .
But John Meredith be not a vain man and he know she would likely have be as much startle have she meet old Elder Clow in that unexpected fashion .
Her confusion put him at ease and he forget to be shy ; besides , even the shy of men can sometimes be quite audacious in moonlight .
`` Let me get you a cup , '' he say smiling .
There be a cup near by , if he have only know it , a crack , handleless blue cup secrete under the maple by the Rainbow Valley child ; but he do not know it , so he step out to one of the birch-trees and strip a bit of it white skin away .
Deftly he fashion this into a three-cornered cup , fill it from the spring , and hand it to Rosemary .
Rosemary take it and drink every drop to punish herself for her fib , for she be not in the least thirsty , and to drink a fairly large cupful of water when you be not thirsty be somewhat of an ordeal .
Yet the memory of that draught be to be very pleasant to Rosemary .
In after year it seem to her that there be something sacramental about it .
Perhaps this be because of what the minister do when she hand him back the cup .
He stoop again and fill it and drank of it himself .
It be only by accident that he put his lip just where Rosemary have put hers , and Rosemary know it .
Nevertheless , it have a curious significance for her .
They two have drunk of the same cup .
She remember idly that an old aunt of hers use to say that when two people do this their after-lives would be link in some fashion , whether for good or ill .
John Meredith hold the cup uncertainly .
He do not know what to do with it .
The logical thing would have be to toss it away , but somehow he be disincline to do this .
Rosemary hold out her hand for it .
`` Will you let me have it ? ''
she say .
`` You make it so knackily .
I never saw anyone make a birch cup so since my little brother use to make them long ago -- before he die . ''
`` I learn how to make them when I be a boy , camp out one summer .
An old hunter teach me , '' say Mr. Meredith .
`` Let me carry your book , Miss West . ''
Rosemary be startle into another fib and say oh , they be not heavy .
But the minister take them from her with quite a masterful air and they walk away together .
It be the first time Rosemary have stand by the valley spring without thinking of Martin Crawford .
The mystic tryst have be break .
The little by-path wound around the marsh and then strike up the long wooded hill on the top of which Rosemary live .
Beyond , through the tree , they could see the moonlight shining across the level summer field .
But the little path be shadowy and narrow .
Trees crowd over it , and tree be never quite as friendly to human being after nightfall a they be in daylight .
They wrap themselves away from u .
They whisper and plot furtively .
If they reach out a hand to u it have a hostile , tentative touch .
People walk amid tree after night always draw close together instinctively and involuntarily , make an alliance , physical and mental , against certain alien power around them .
Rosemary 's dress brush against John Meredith a they walk .
Not even an absent-minded minister , who be after all a young man still , though he firmly believe he have outlive romance , could be insensible to the charm of the night and the path and the companion .
It be never quite safe to think we have do with life .
When we imagine we have finish our story fate have a trick of turn the page and show u yet another chapter .
These two people each think their heart belong irrevocably to the past ; but they both find their walk up that hill very pleasant .
Rosemary think the Glen minister be by no mean a shy and tongue-tied a he have be represent .
He seem to find no difficulty in talk easily and freely .
Glen housewife would have be amaze have they hear him .
But then so many Glen housewife talk only gossip and the price of egg , and John Meredith be not interested in either .
He talk to Rosemary of book and music and wide-world doings and something of his own history , and find that she could understand and respond .
Rosemary , it appear , possess a book which Mr. Meredith have not read and wish to read .
She offer to lend it to him and when they reach the old homestead on the hill he go in to get it .
The house itself be an old-fashioned gray one , hung with vine , through which the light in the sitting-room wink in friendly fashion .
It look down the Glen , over the harbour , silver in the moonlight , to the sand-dunes and the moaning ocean .
They walk in through a garden that always seem to smell of rose , even when no rose be in bloom .
There be a sisterhood of lily at the gate and a ribbon of aster on either side of the broad walk , and a lacery of fir tree on the hill 's edge beyond the house .
`` You have the whole world at your doorstep here , '' say John Meredith , with a long breath .
`` What a view -- what an outlook !
At time I feel stifle down there in the Glen .
You can breathe up here . ''
`` It be calm to-night , '' say Rosemary laughing .
`` If there be a wind it would blow your breath away .
We get ` a ' the airts the wind can blow ' up here .
This place should be call Four Winds instead of the Harbour . ''
`` I like wind , '' he say .
`` A day when there be no wind seem to me DEAD .
A windy day wake me up . ''
He give a conscious laugh .
`` On a calm day I fall into day dream .
No doubt you know my reputation , Miss West .
If I cut you dead the next time we meet do n't put it down to bad manner .
Please understand that it be only abstraction and forgive me -- and speak to me . ''
They find Ellen West in the sitting room when they go in .
She lay her glass down on the book she have be read and look at them in amazement tincture with something else .
But she shake hand amiably with Mr. Meredith and he sit down and talk to her , while Rosemary hunt out his book .
Ellen West be ten year old than Rosemary , and so different from her that it be hard to believe they be sister .
She be dark and massive , with black hair , thick , black eyebrow and eye of the clear , slaty blue of the gulf water in a north wind .
She have a rather stern , forbidding look , but she be in reality very jolly , with a hearty , gurgle laugh and a deep , mellow , pleasant voice with a suggestion of masculinity about it .
She have once remark to Rosemary that she would really like to have a talk with that Presbyterian minister at the Glen , to see if he could find a word to say to a woman when he be corner .
She have her chance now and she tackle him on world politics .
Miss Ellen , who be a great reader , have be devour a book on the Kaiser of Germany , and she demand Mr. Meredith 's opinion of him .
`` A dangerous man , '' be his answer .
`` I believe you ! ''
Miss Ellen nod .
`` Mark my word , Mr. Meredith , that man be go to fight somebody yet .
He 's ACHING to .
He be go to set the world on fire . ''
`` If you mean that he will wantonly precipitate a great war I hardly think so , '' say Mr. Meredith .
`` The day have go by for that sort of thing . ''
`` Bless you , it have n't , '' rumble Ellen .
`` The day never go by for men and nation to make ass of themselves and take to the fist .
The millenniun be n't THAT near , Mr. Meredith , and YOU do n't think it be any more than I do .
As for this Kaiser , mark my word , he be go to make a heap of trouble '' -- and Miss Ellen prod her book emphatically with her long finger .
`` Yes , if he be n't nip in the bud he 's go to make trouble .
WE 'LL live to see it -- you and I will live to see it , Mr. Meredith .
And who be go to nip him ?
England should , but she wo n't .
WHO be go to nip him ?
Tell me that , Mr. Meredith . ''
Mr. Meredith could n't tell her , but they plunge into a discussion of German militarism that last long after Rosemary have find the book .
Rosemary say nothing , but sit in a little rocker behind Ellen and stroke an important black cat meditatively .
John Meredith hunt big game in Europe with Ellen , but he look oftener at Rosemary than at Ellen , and Ellen notice it .
After Rosemary have go to the door with him and come back Ellen rise and look at her accusingly .
`` Rosemary West , that man have a notion of court you . ''
Rosemary quiver .
Ellen 's speech be like a blow to her .
It rub all the bloom off the pleasant evening .
But she would not let Ellen see how it hurt her .
`` Nonsense , '' she say , and laugh , a little too carelessly .
`` You see a beau for me in every bush , Ellen .
Why he tell me all about his wife to-night -- how much she be to him -- how empty her death have leave the world . ''
`` Well , that may be HIS way of courting , '' retort Ellen .
`` Men have all kind of way , I understand .
But do n't forget your promise , Rosemary . ''
`` There be no need of my either forget or remember it , '' say Rosemary , a little wearily .
`` YOU forget that I 'm an old maid , Ellen .
It be only your sisterly delusion that I be still young and blooming and dangerous .
Mr. Meredith merely want to be a friend -- if he want that much itself .
He 'll forget u both long before he get back to the manse . ''
`` I 've no objection to your be friend with him , '' concede Ellen , `` but it mus n't go beyond friendship , remember .
I 'm always suspicious of widower .
They be not give to romantic idea about friendship .
They 're apt to mean business .
As for this Presbyterian man , what do they call him shy for ?
He 's not a bit shy , though he may be absent-minded -- so absent-minded that he forget to say goodnight to ME when you start to go to the door with him .
He 's get brain , too .
There 's so few men round here that can talk sense to a body .
I 've enjoy the evening .
I would n't mind see more of him .
But no philandering , Rosemary , mind you -- no philandering . ''
Rosemary be quite use to be warn by Ellen from philander if she so much a talked five minute to any marriageable man under eighty or over eighteen .
She have always laugh at the warning with unfeigned amusement .
This time it do not amuse her -- it irritate her a little .
Who want to philander ?
`` Do n't be such a goose , Ellen , '' she say with unaccustomed shortness a she take her lamp .
She go upstairs without say goodnight .
Ellen shake her head dubiously and look at the black cat .
`` What be she so cross about , St. George ? ''
she ask .
`` When you howl you 're hit , I 've always hear , George .
But she promise , Saint -- she promise , and we Wests always keep our word .
So it wo n't matter if he do want to philander , George .
She promise .
I wo n't worry . ''
Upstairs , in her room , Rosemary sit for a long while look out of the window across the moonlit garden to the distant , shin harbour .
She felt vaguely upset and unsettle .
She be suddenly tire of outworn dream .
And in the garden the petal of the last red rise be scatter by a sudden little wind .
Summer be over -- it be autumn .
CHAPTER XIV .
MRS. ALEC DAVIS MAKES A CALL John Meredith walk slowly home .
At first he think a little about Rosemary , but by the time he reach Rainbow Valley he have forget all about her and be meditate on a point regard German theology which Ellen have raise .
He pass through Rainbow Valley and know it not .
The charm of Rainbow Valley have no potency against German theology .
When he reach the manse he go to his study and take down a bulky volume in order to see which have be right , he or Ellen .
He remain immerse in it maze until dawn , strike a new trail of speculation and pursue it like a sleuth hound for the next week , utterly lose to the world , his parish and his family .
He read day and night ; he forget to go to his meal when Una be not there to drag him to them ; he never think about Rosemary or Ellen again .
Old Mrs. Marshall , over-harbour , be very ill and send for him , but the message lay unheeded on his desk and gather dust .
Mrs. Marshall recover but never forgive him .
A young couple come to the manse to be marry and Mr. Meredith , with unbrushed hair , in carpet slipper and fade dress gown , marry them .
To be sure , he begin by read the funeral service to them and get along as far a `` ash to ash and dust to dust '' before he vaguely suspect that something be wrong .
`` Dear me , '' he say absently , `` that be strange -- very strange . ''
The bride , who be very nervous , begin to cry .
The bridegroom , who be not in the least nervous , giggle .
`` Please , sir , I think you 're bury u instead of marry u , '' he say .
`` Excuse me , '' say Mr. Meredith , a it it do not matter much .
He turn up the marriage service and get through with it , but the bride never felt quite properly marry for the rest of her life .
He forget his prayer-meeting again -- but that do not matter , for it be a wet night and nobody come .
He might even have forget his Sunday service if it have not be for Mrs. Alec Davis .
Aunt Martha come in on Saturday afternoon and tell him that Mrs. Davis be in the parlour and want to see him .
Mr. Meredith sigh .
Mrs. Davis be the only woman in Glen St. Mary church whom he positively detest .
Unfortunately , she be also the rich , and his board of manager have warn Mr. Meredith against offend her .
Mr. Meredith seldom think of such a worldly matter a his stipend ; but the manager be more practical .
Also , they be astute .
Without mention money , they contrive to instil into Mr. Meredith 's mind a conviction that he should not offend Mrs. Davis .
Otherwise , he would likely have forget all about her as soon a Aunt Martha have go out .
As it be , he turn down his Ewald with a feeling of annoyance and go across the hall to the parlour .
Mrs. Davis be sit on the sofa , look about her with an air of scornful disapproval .
What a scandalous room !
There be no curtain on the window .
Mrs. Davis do not know that Faith and Una have take them down the day before to use a court train in one of their play and have forget to put them up again , but she could not have accuse those window more fiercely if she have know .
The blind be crack and tear .
The picture on the wall be crook ; the rug be awry ; the vas be full of faded flower ; the dust lay in heap -- literally in heap .
`` What be we come to ? ''
Mrs. Davis ask herself , and then prim up her unbeautiful mouth .
Jerry and Carl have be whoop and slide down the banister a she come through the hall .
They do not see her and continued whooping and sliding , and Mrs. Davis be convince they do it on purpose .
Faith 's pet rooster amble through the hall , stand in the parlour doorway and look at her .
Not like her look , he do not venture in .
Mrs. Davis give a scornful sniff .
A pretty manse , indeed , where rooster parade the hall and star people out of countenance .
`` Shoo , there , '' command Mrs. Davis , poke her flounced , changeable-silk parasol at him .
Adam shooed .
He be a wise rooster and Mrs. Davis have wring the neck of so many rooster with her own fair hand in the course of her fifty year that an air of the executioner seem to hang around her .
Adam scuttle through the hall a the minister come in .
Mr. Meredith still wear slipper and dress gown , and his dark hair still fell in uncared-for lock over his high brow .
But he look the gentleman he be ; and Mrs. Alec Davis , in her silk dress and beplumed bonnet , and kid glove and gold chain look the vulgar , coarse-souled woman she be .
Each felt the antagonisn of the other 's personality .
Mr. Meredith shrink , but Mrs. Davis gird up her loin for the fray .
She have come to the manse to propose a certain thing to the minister and she mean to lose no time in propose it .
She be go to do him a favour -- a great favour -- and the sooner he be make aware of it the good .
She have be think about it all summer and have come to a decision at last .
This be all that matter , Mrs. Davis think .
When she decide a thing it WAS decide .
Nobody else have any say in the matter .
That have always be her attitude .
When she have make her mind up to marry Alec Davis she have marry him and that be the end to it .
Alec have never know how it happen , but what odds ?
So in this case -- Mrs. Davis have arrange everything to her own satisfaction .
Now it only remain to inform Mr. Meredith .
`` Will you please shut that door ? ''
say Mrs. Davis , unprimming her mouth slightly to say it , but speak with asperity .
`` I have something important to say , and I ca n't say it with that racket in the hall . ''
Mr. Meredith shut the door meekly .
Then he sit down before Mrs. Davis .
He be not wholly aware of her yet .
His mind be still wrestle with Ewald 's argument .
Mrs. Davis sense this detachment and it annoy her .
`` I have come to tell you , Mr. Meredith , '' she say aggressively , `` that I have decide to adopt Una . ''
`` To -- adopt -- Una ! ''
Mr. Meredith gaze at her blankly , not understand in the least .
`` Yes .
I 've be think it over for some time .
I have often think of adopt a child , since my husband 's death .
But it seem so hard to get a suitable one .
It be very few child I would want to take into MY home .
I would n't think of take a home child -- some outcast of the slum in all probability .
And there be hardly ever any other child to be get .
One of the fisherman down at the harbour die last fall and leave six youngster .
They try to get me to take one , but I soon give them to understand that I have no idea of adopt trash like that .
Their grandfather steal a horse .
Besides , they be all boy and I want a girl -- a quiet , obedient girl that I could train up to be a lady .
Una will suit me exactly .
She would be a nice little thing if she be properly look after -- so different from Faith .
I would never dream of adopt Faith .
But I 'll take Una and I 'll give her a good home , and up-bringing , Mr. Meredith , and if she behave herself I 'll leave her all my money when I die .
Not one of my own relative shall have a cent of it in any case , I 'm determine on that .
It be the idea of aggravate them that set me to think of adopt a child as much a anything in the first place .
Una shall be well dress and educate and train , Mr. Meredith , and I shall give her music and painting lesson and treat her a if she be my own . ''
Mr. Meredith be wide enough awake by this time .
There be a faint flush in his pale cheek and a dangerous light in his fine dark eye .
Was this woman , whose vulgarity and consciousness of money ooze out of her at every pore , actually ask him to give her Una -- his dear little wistful Una with Cecilia 's own dark-blue eye -- the child whom the die mother have clasp to her heart after the other child have be lead weep from the room .
Cecilia have clung to her baby until the gate of death have shut between them .
She have look over the little dark head to her husband .
`` Take good care of her , John , '' she have entreat .
`` She be so small -- and sensitive .
The others can fight their way -- but the world will hurt HER .
Oh , John , I do n't know what you and she be go to do .
You both need me so much .
But keep her close to you -- keep her close to you . ''
These have be almost her last word except a few unforgettable one for him alone .
And it be this child whom Mrs. Davis have coolly announce her intention of take from him .
He sit up straight and look at Mrs. Davis .
In spite of the worn dress gown and the frayed slipper there be something about him that make Mrs. Davis feel a little of the old reverence for `` the cloth '' in which she have be bring up .
After all , there WAS a certain divinity hedge a minister , even a poor , unworldly , abstract one .
`` I thank you for your kind intention , Mrs. Davis , '' say Mr. Meredith with a gentle , final , quite awful courtesy , `` but I can not give you my child . ''
Mrs. Davis look blank .
She have never dream of his refusing .
`` Why , Mr. Meredith , '' she say in astonishment .
`` You must be cr -- you ca n't mean it .
You must think it over -- think of all the advantage I can give her . ''
`` There be no need to think it over , Mrs. Davis .
It be entirely out of the question .
All the worldly advantage it be in your power to bestow on her could not compensate for the loss of a father 's love and care .
I thank you again -- but it be not to be think of . ''
Disappointment anger Mrs. Davis beyond the power of old habit to control .
Her broad red face turn purple and her voice tremble .
`` I think you 'd be only too glad to let me have her , '' she sneer .
`` Why do you think that ? ''
ask Mr. Meredith quietly .
`` Because nobody ever suppose you care anything about any of your child , '' retort Mrs. Davis contemptuously .
`` You neglect them scandalously .
It be the talk of the place .
They be n't feed and dress properly , and they 're not train at all .
They have no more manner than a pack of wild Indians .
You never think of do your duty a a father .
You let a stray child come here among them for a fortnight and never take any notice of her -- a child that swear like a trooper I 'm told .
YOU would n't have care if they 'd catch small-pox from her .
And Faith make an exhibition of herself get up in preaching and make that speech !
And she rid a pig down the street -- under your very eyes I understand .
The way they act be past belief and you never lift a finger to stop them or try to teach them anything .
And now when I offer one of them a good home and good prospect you refuse it and insult me .
A pretty father you , to talk of loving and care for your child ! ''
`` That will do , woman ! ''
say Mr. Meredith .
He stand up and look at Mrs. Davis with eye that make her quail .
`` That will do , '' he repeat .
`` I desire to hear no more , Mrs. Davis .
You have say too much .
It may be that I have be remiss in some respect in my duty a a parent , but it be not for you to remind me of it in such term a you have use .
Let u say good afternoon . ''
Mrs. Davis do not say anything half so amiable a good afternoon , but she take her departure .
As she sweep past the minister a large , plump toad , which Carl have secrete under the lounge , hop out almost under her foot .
Mrs. Davis give a shriek and in try to avoid tread on the awful thing , lose her balance and her parasol .
She do not exactly fall , but she stagger and reel across the room in a very undignified fashion and bring up against the door with a thud that jar her from head to foot .
Mr. Meredith , who have not see the toad , wonder if she have be attack with some kind of apoplectic or paralytic seizure , and run in alarm to her assistance .
But Mrs. Davis , recover her foot , wave him back furiously .
`` Do n't you dare to touch me , '' she almost shout .
`` This be some more of your child 's doings , I suppose .
This be no fit place for a decent woman .
Give me my umbrella and let me go .
I 'll never darken the door of your manse or your church again . ''
Mr. Meredith pick up the gorgeous parasol meekly enough and give it to her .
Mrs. Davis seize it and march out .
Jerry and Carl have give up banister sliding and be sit on the edge of the veranda with Faith .
Unfortunately , all three be sing at the top of their healthy young voice `` There 'll be a hot time in the old town to-night . ''
Mrs. Davis believe the song be meant for her and her only .
She stop and shake her parasol at them .
`` Your father be a fool , '' she say , `` and you be three young varmint that ought to be whip within an inch of your life . ''
`` He be n't , '' cry Faith .
`` We 're not , '' cry the boy .
But Mrs. Davis be go .
`` Goodness , be n't she mad ! ''
say Jerry .
`` And what be a ` varmint ' anyhow ? ''
John Meredith pace up and down the parlour for a few minute ; then he go back to his study and sit down .
But he do not return to his German theology .
He be too grievously disturb for that .
Mrs. Davis have waken him up with a vengeance .
WAS he such a remiss , careless father a she have accuse him of be ?
HAD he so scandalously neglect the bodily and spiritual welfare of the four little motherless creature dependent on him ?
WERE his people talk of it as harshly a Mrs. Davis have declare ?
It must be so , since Mrs. Davis have come to ask for Una in the full and confident belief that he would hand the child over to her a unconcernedly and gladly a one might hand over a strayed , unwelcome kitten .
And , if so , what then ?
John Meredith groan and resume his pace up and down the dusty , disorder room .
What could he do ?
He love his child as deeply a any father could and he know , past the power of Mrs. Davis or any of her ilk , to disturb his conviction , that they love him devotedly .
But WAS he fit to have charge of them ?
He know -- none better -- his weakness and limitation .
What be need be a good woman 's presence and influence and common sense .
But how could that be arrange ?
Even be he able to get such a housekeeper it would cut Aunt Martha to the quick .
She believe she could still do all that be meet and necessary .
He could not so hurt and insult the poor old woman who have be so kind to him and his .
How devoted she have be to Cecilia !
And Cecilia have ask him to be very considerate of Aunt Martha .
To be sure , he suddenly remember that Aunt Martha have once hint that he ought to marry again .
He felt she would not resent a wife a she would a housekeeper .
But that be out of the question .
He do not wish to marry -- he do not and could not care for anyone .
Then what could he do ?
It suddenly occur to him that he would go over to Ingleside and talk over his difficulty with Mrs. Blythe .
Mrs. Blythe be one of the few woman he never felt shy or tongue-tied with .
She be always so sympathetic and refreshing .
It might be that she could suggest some solution of his problem .
And even if she could not Mr. Meredith felt that he need a little decent human companionship after his dose of Mrs. Davis -- something to take the taste of her out of his soul .
He dress hurriedly and eat his supper less abstractedly than usual .
It occur to him that it be a poor meal .
He look at his child ; they be rosy and healthy look enough -- except Una , and she have never be very strong even when her mother be alive .
They be all laughing and talk -- certainly they seem happy .
Carl be especially happy because he have two most beautiful spider crawl around his supper plate .
Their voice be pleasant , their manner do not seem bad , they be considerate of and gentle to one another .
Yet Mrs. Davis have say their behaviour be the talk of the congregation .
As Mr. Meredith go through his gate Dr. Blythe and Mrs. Blythe drive past on the road that lead to Lowbridge .
The minister 's face fell .
Mrs. Blythe be go away -- there be no use in go to Ingleside .
And he crave a little companionship more than ever .
As he gaze rather hopelessly over the landscape the sunset light struck on a window of the old West homestead on the hill .
It flare out rosily like a beacon of good hope .
He suddenly remember Rosemary and Ellen West .
He think that he would relish some of Ellen 's pungent conversation .
He think it would be pleasant to see Rosemary 's slow , sweet smile and calm , heavenly blue eye again .
What do that old poem of Sir Philip Sidney 's say ?
-- `` continual comfort in a face '' -- that just suit her .
And he need comfort .
Why not go and call ?
He remember that Ellen have ask him to drop in sometimes and there be Rosemary 's book to take back -- he ought to take it back before he forget .
He have an uneasy suspicion that there be a great many book in his library which he have borrow at sundry time and in diver place and have forget to take back .
It be surely his duty to guard against that in this case .
He go back into his study , get the book , and plunge downward into Rainbow Valley .
CHAPTER XV .
MORE GOSSIP On the evening after Mrs. Myra Murray of the over-harbour section have be bury Miss Cornelia and Mary Vance come up to Ingleside .
There be several thing concern which Miss Cornelia wish to unburden her soul .
The funeral have to be all talk over , of course .
Susan and Miss Cornelia thrash this out between them ; Anne take no part or delight in such goulish conversation .
She sit a little apart and watch the autumnal flame of dahlia in the garden , and the dreaming , glamorous harbour of the September sunset .
Mary Vance sit beside her , knit meekly .
Mary 's heart be down in the Rainbow Valley , whence come sweet , distance-softened sound of child 's laughter , but her finger be under Miss Cornelia 's eye .
She have to knit so many round of her stocking before she might go to the valley .
Mary knit and hold her tongue , but use her ear .
`` I never saw a nicer look corpse , '' say Miss Cornelia judicially .
`` Myra Murray be always a pretty woman -- she be a Corey from Lowbridge and the Coreys be note for their good look . ''
`` I say to the corpse a I pass it , ` poor woman .
I hope you be as happy a you look . ' ''
sigh Susan .
`` She have not change much .
That dress she wear be the black satin she get for her daughter 's wedding fourteen year ago .
Her Aunt tell her then to keep it for her funeral , but Myra laugh and say , ' I may wear it to my funeral , Aunty , but I will have a good time out of it first . '
And I may say she do .
Myra Murray be not a woman to attend her own funeral before she die .
Many a time afterwards when I saw her enjoy herself out in company I think to myself , ` You be a handsome woman , Myra Murray , and that dress become you , but it will likely be your shroud at last . '
And you see my word have come true , Mrs. Marshall Elliott . ''
Susan sigh again heavily .
She be enjoy herself hugely .
A funeral be really a delightful subject of conversation .
`` I always like to meet Myra , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` She be always so gay and cheerful -- she make you feel well just by her handshake .
Myra always make the best of thing . ''
`` That be true , '' assert Susan .
`` Her sister-in-law tell me that when the doctor tell her at last that he could do nothing for her and she would never rise from that bed again , Myra say quite cheerfully , ` Well , if that be so , I 'm thankful the preserving be all do , and I will not have to face the fall house-cleaning .
I always like house-cleaning in spring , ' she say , ` but I always hat it in the fall .
I will get clear of it this year , thank goodness . '
There be people who would call that levity , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , and I think her sister-in-law be a little ashamed of it .
She say perhaps her sickness have make Myra a little light-headed .
But I say , ` No , Mrs. Murray , do not worry over it .
It be just Myra 's way of look at the bright side . ' ''
`` Her sister Luella be just the opposite , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` There be no bright side for Luella -- there be just black and shade of gray .
For year she use always to be declare she be go to die in a week or so . '
I wo n't be here to burden you long , ' she would tell her family with a groan .
And if any of them venture to talk about their little future plan she 'd groan also and say , ` Ah , I wo n't be here then . '
When I go to see her I always agree with her and it make her so mad that she be always quite a lot well for several day afterwards .
She have good health now but no more cheerfulness .
Myra be so different .
She be always do or say something to make some one feel good .
Perhaps the men they marry have something to do with it .
Luella 's man be a Tartar , believe ME , while Jim Murray be decent , a men go .
He look heart-broken to-day .
It be n't often I feel sorry for a man at his wife 's funeral , but I do feel for Jim Murray . ''
`` No wonder he look sad .
He will not get a wife like Myra again in a hurry , '' say Susan .
`` Maybe he will not try , since his child be all grow up and Mirabel be able to keep house .
But there be no predict what a widower may or may not do and I , for one , will not try . ''
`` We 'll miss Myra terrible in church , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` She be such a worker .
Nothing ever stump HER .
If she could n't get over a difficulty she 'd get around it , and if she could n't get around it she 'd pretend it be n't there -- and generally it be n't .
` I 'll keep a stiff upper lip to my journey 's end , ' say she to me once .
Well , she have end her journey . ''
`` Do you think so ? ''
ask Anne suddenly , come back from dreamland .
`` I ca n't picture HER journey a be end .
Can YOU think of her sit down and fold her hand -- that eager , ask spirit of hers , with it fine adventurous outlook ?
No , I think in death she just open a gate and go through -- on -- on -- to new , shining adventure . ''
`` Maybe -- maybe , '' assent Miss Cornelia .
`` Do you know , Anne dearie , I never be much take with this everlasting rest doctrine myself -- though I hope it be n't heresy to say so .
I want to bustle round in heaven the same a here .
And I hope there 'll be a celestial substitute for pie and doughnut -- something that have to be MADE .
Of course , one do get awful tire at time -- and the old you be the tireder you get .
But the very tired could get rest in something short of eternity , you 'd think -- except , perhaps , a lazy man . ''
`` When I meet Myra Murray again , '' say Anne , `` I want to see her come towards me , brisk and laughing , just a she always do here . ''
`` Oh , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan , in a shocked tone , `` you surely do not think that Myra will be laugh in the world to come ? ''
`` Why not , Susan ?
Do you think we will be cry there ? ''
`` No , no , Mrs. Dr. dear , do not misunderstand me .
I do not think we shall be either cry or laugh . ''
`` What then ? ''
`` Well , '' say Susan , driven to it .
`` it be my opinion , Mrs. Dr. dear , that we shall just look solemn and holy . ''
`` And do you really think , Susan , '' say Anne , look solemn enough , `` that either Myra Murray or I could look solemn and holy all the time -- ALL the time , Susan ? ''
`` Well , '' admit Susan reluctantly , `` I might go so far a to say that you both would have to smile now and again , but I can never admit that there will be laugh in heaven .
The idea seem really irreverent , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` Well , to come back to earth , '' say Miss Cornelia , `` who can we get to take Myra 's class in Sunday School ?
Julia Clow have be teach it since Myra take ill , but she 's go to town for the winter and we 'll have to get somebody else . ''
`` I hear that Mrs. Laurie Jamieson want it , '' say Anne .
`` The Jamiesons have come to church very regularly since they move to the Glen from Lowbridge . ''
`` New broom ! ''
say Miss Cornelia dubiously .
`` Wait till they 've go regularly for a year . ''
`` You can not depend on Mrs. Jamieson a bit , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan solemnly .
`` She die once and when they be measure her for her coffin , after lay her out just beautiful , do she not go and come back to life !
Now , Mrs. Dr. dear , you know you CAN NOT depend on a woman like that . ''
`` She might turn Methodist at any moment , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` They tell me they go to the Methodist Church at Lowbridge quite as often a to the Presbyterian .
I have n't catch them at it here yet , but I would not approve of take Mrs. Jamieson into the Sunday School .
Yet we must not offend them .
We be lose too many people , by death or bad temper .
Mrs. Alec Davis have leave the church , no one know why .
She tell the manager that she would never pay another cent to Mr. Meredith 's salary .
Of course , most people say that the child offend her , but somehow I do n't think so .
I try to pump Faith , but all I could get out of her be that Mrs. Davis have come , seemingly in high good humour , to see her father , and have leave in an awful rage , call them all ` varmint ! ' ''
`` Varmints , indeed ! ''
say Susan furiously .
`` Does Mrs. Alec Davis forget that her uncle on her mother 's side be suspect of poison his wife ?
Not that it be ever prove , Mrs. Dr. dear , and it do not do to believe all you hear .
But if I have an uncle whose wife die without any satisfactory reason , I would not go about the country call innocent child varmint . ''
`` The point be , '' say Miss Cornelia , `` that Mrs. Davis pay a large subscription , and how it loss be go to be make up be a problem .
And if she turn the other Douglases against Mr. Meredith , a she will certainly try to do , he will just have to go . ''
`` I do not think Mrs. Alec Davis be very well like by the rest of the clan , '' say Susan .
`` It be not likely she will be able to influence them . ''
`` But those Douglases all hang together so .
If you touch one , you touch all .
We ca n't do without them , so much be certain .
They pay half the salary .
They be not mean , whatever else may be say of them .
Norman Douglas use to give a hundred a year long ago before he leave . ''
`` What do he leave for ? ''
ask Anne .
`` He declare a member of the session cheat him in a cow deal .
He have n't come to church for twenty year .
His wife use to come regular while she be alive , poor thing , but he never would let her pay anything , except one red cent every Sunday .
She felt dreadfully humiliate .
I do n't know that he be any too good a husband to her , though she be never hear to complain .
But she always have a cow look .
Norman Douglas do n't get the woman he want thirty year ago and the Douglases never like to put up with second best . ''
`` Who be the woman he do want . ''
`` Ellen West .
They be n't engage exactly , I believe , but they go about together for two year .
And then they just break off -- nobody ever know why .
Just some silly quarrel , I suppose .
And Norman go and marry Hester Reese before his temper have time to cool -- marry her just to spite Ellen , I have n't a doubt .
So like a man !
Hester be a nice little thing , but she never have much spirit and he break what little she have .
She be too meek for Norman .
He need a woman who could stand up to him .
Ellen would have keep him in fine order and he would have like her all the good for it .
He despise Hester , that be the truth , just because she always give in to him .
I use to hear him say many a time , long ago when he be a young fellow ` Give me a spunky woman -- spunk for me every time . '
And then he go and marry a girl who could n't say boo to a goose -- man-like .
That family of Reeses be just vegetable .
They go through the motion of living , but they do n't LIVE . ''
`` Russell Reese use his first wife 's wedding-ring to marry his second , '' say Susan reminiscently .
`` That be TOO economical in my opinion , Mrs. Dr. dear .
And his brother John have his own tombstone put up in the over-harbour graveyard , with everything on it but the date of death , and he go and look at it every Sunday .
Most folk would not consider that much fun , but it be plain he do .
People do have such different idea of enjoyment .
As for Norman Douglas , he be a perfect heathen .
When the last minister ask him why he never go to church he say `` Too many ugly woman there , parson -- too many ugly woman ! ''
I should like to go to such a man , Mrs. Dr. dear , and say to him solemnly , ` There be a hell ! ' ''
`` Oh , Norman do n't believe there be such a place , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` I hope he 'll find out his mistake when he come to die .
There , Mary , you 've knit your three inch and you can go and play with the child for half an hour . ''
Mary need no second bidding .
She fly to Rainbow Valley with a heart as light a her heel , and in the course of conversation tell Faith Meredith all about Mrs. Alec Davis .
`` And Mrs. Elliott say that she 'll turn all the Douglases against your father and then he 'll have to leave the Glen because his salary wo n't be pay , '' conclude Mary . ''
I do n't know what be to be do , honest to goodness .
If only old Norman Douglas would come back to church and pay , it would n't be so bad .
But he wo n't -- and the Douglases will leave -- and you all will have to go . ''
Faith carry a heavy heart to bed with her that night .
The thought of leave the Glen be unbearable .
Nowhere else in the world be there such chum a the Blythes .
Her little heart have be wring when they have leave Maywater -- she have shed many bitter tear when she part with Maywater chum and the old manse there where her mother have live and die .
She could not contemplate calmly the thought of such another and hard wrench .
She COULD N'T leave Glen St. Mary and dear Rainbow Valley and that delicious graveyard .
`` It 's awful to be minister 's family , '' groan Faith into her pillow .
`` Just as soon a you get fond of a place you be tear up by the root .
I 'll never , never , NEVER marry a minister , no matter how nice he be . ''
Faith sit up in bed and look out of the little vine-hung window .
The night be very still , the silence break only by Una 's soft breathing .
Faith felt terribly alone in the world .
She could see Glen St. Mary lie under the starry blue meadow of the autumn night .
Over the valley a light shone from the girl ' room at Ingleside , and another from Walter 's room .
Faith wonder if poor Walter have toothache again .
Then she sigh , with a little passing sigh of envy of Nan and Di .
They have a mother and a settled home -- THEY be not at the mercy of people who get angry without any reason and call you a varmint .
Away beyond the Glen , amid field that be very quiet with sleep , another light be burn .
Faith know it shone in the house where Norman Douglas live .
He be repute to sit up all hour of the night reading .
Mary have say if he could only be induce to return to the church all would be well .
And why not ?
Faith look at a big , low star hanging over the tall , point spruce at the gate of the Methodist Church and have an inspiration .
She know what ought to be do and she , Faith Meredith , would do it .
She would make everything right .
With a sigh of satisfaction , she turn from the lonely , dark world and cuddle down beside Una .
CHAPTER XVI .
TIT FOR TAT With Faith , to decide be to act .
She lose no time in carry out the idea .
As soon a she come home from school the next day she leave the manse and make her way down the Glen .
Walter Blythe join her a she pass the post office .
`` I 'm go to Mrs. Elliott 's on an errand for mother , '' he say .
`` Where be you go , Faith ? ''
`` I be go somewhere on church business , '' say Faith loftily .
She do not volunteer any further information and Walter felt rather snub .
They walk on in silence for a little while .
It be a warm , windy even with a sweet , resinous air .
Beyond the sand dune be gray sea , soft and beautiful .
The Glen brook bore down a freight of gold and crimson leaf , like fairy shallops .
In Mr. James Reese 's buckwheat stubble-land , with it beautiful tone of red and brown , a crow parliament be be hold , whereat solemn deliberation regard the welfare of crowland be in progress .
Faith cruelly break up the august assembly by climb up on the fence and hurl a broken rail at it .
Instantly the air be fill with flap black wing and indignant caw .
`` Why do you do that ? ''
say Walter reproachfully .
`` They be have such a good time . ''
`` Oh , I hate crow , '' say Faith airily .
`` The be so black and sly I feel sure they 're hypocrite .
They steal little bird ' egg out of their nest , you know .
I saw one do it on our lawn last spring .
Walter , what make you so pale to-day ?
Did you have the toothache again last night ? ''
Walter shiver .
`` Yes -- a rag one .
I could n't sleep a wink -- so I just pace up and down the floor and imagine I be an early Christian martyr be torture at the command of Nero .
That help ever so much for a while -- and then I get so bad I could n't imagine anything . ''
`` Did you cry ? ''
ask Faith anxiously .
`` No -- but I lay down on the floor and groan , '' admit Walter .
`` Then the girl come in and Nan put cayenne pepper in it -- and that make it bad -- Di make me hold a swallow of cold water in my mouth -- and I could n't stand it , so they call Susan .
Susan say it serve me right for sit up in the cold garret yesterday write poetry trash .
But she start up the kitchen fire and get me a hot-water bottle and it stop the toothache .
As soon a I felt well I tell Susan my poetry be n't trash and she be n't any judge .
And she say no , thank goodness she be not and she do not know anything about poetry except that it be mostly a lot of lie .
Now you know , Faith , that be n't so .
That be one reason why I like write poetry -- you can say so many thing in it that be true in poetry but would n't be true in prose .
I tell Susan so , but she say to stop my jawing and go to sleep before the water get cold , or she 'd leave me to see if rhyme would cure toothache , and she hop it would be a lesson to me . ''
`` Why do n't you go to the dentist at Lowbridge and get the tooth out ? ''
Walter shiver again .
`` They want me to -- but I ca n't .
It would hurt so . ''
`` Are you afraid of a little pain ? ''
ask Faith contemptuously .
Walter flush .
`` It would be a BIG pain .
I hate be hurt .
Father say he would n't insist on my go -- he 'd wait until I 'd make up my own mind to go . ''
`` It would n't hurt as long a the toothache , '' argue Faith , `` You 've have five spell of toothache .
If you 'd just go and have it out there 'd be no more bad night .
I have a tooth out once .
I yell for a moment , but it be all over then -- only the bleeding . ''
`` The bleeding be bad of all -- it 's so ugly , '' cry Walter .
`` It just make me sick when Jem cut his foot last summer .
Susan say I look more like faint than Jem do .
But I could n't hear to see Jem hurt , either .
Somebody be always get hurt , Faith -- and it 's awful .
I just ca n't BEAR to see thing hurt .
It make me just want to run -- and run -- and run -- till I ca n't hear or see them . ''
`` There 's no use make a fuss over anyone get hurt , '' say Faith , toss her curl .
`` Of course , if you 've hurt yourself very bad , you have to yell -- and blood IS messy -- and I do n't like see other people hurt , either .
But I do n't want to run -- I want to go to work and help them .
Your father HAS to hurt people lot of time to cure them .
What would they do if HE run away ? ''
`` I do n't say I WOULD run .
I say I WANTED to run .
That 's a different thing .
I want to help people , too .
But oh , I wish there be n't any ugly , dreadful thing in the world .
I wish everything be glad and beautiful . ''
`` Well , do n't let 's think of what be n't , '' say Faith .
`` After all , there 's lot of fun in be alive .
You would n't have toothache if you be dead , but still , would n't you lot rather be alive than dead ?
I would , a hundred time .
Oh , here 's Dan Reese .
He 's be down to the harbour for fish . ''
`` I hate Dan Reese , '' say Walter .
`` So do I . All u girl do .
I 'm just go to walk past and never take the least notice of him .
You watch me ! ''
Faith accordingly stalk past Dan with her chin out and an expression of scorn that bit into his soul .
He turn and shout after her .
`` Pig-girl !
Pig-girl ! !
Pig-girl ! ! ! ''
in a crescendo of insult .
Faith walk on , seemingly oblivious .
But her lip tremble slightly with a sense of outrage .
She know she be no match for Dan Reese when it come to an exchange of epithet .
She wish Jem Blythe have be with her instead of Walter .
If Dan Reese have dare to call her a pig-girl in Jem 's hearing , Jem would have wipe up the dust with him .
But it never occur to Faith to expect Walter to do it , or blame him for not do it .
Walter , she know , never fight other boy .
Neither do Charlie Clow of the north road .
The strange part be that , while she despise Charlie for a coward , it never occur to her to disdain Walter .
It be simply that he seem to her an inhabitant of a world of his own , where different tradition prevail .
Faith would as soon have expect a starry-eyed young angel to pummel dirty , freckle Dan Reese for her a Walter Blythe .
She would not have blame the angel and she do not blame Walter Blythe .
But she wish that sturdy Jem or Jerry have be there and Dan 's insult continue to rankle in her soul .
Walter be pale no longer .
He have flush crimson and his beautiful eye be cloud with shame and anger .
He know that he ought to have avenge Faith .
Jem would have sail right in and make Dan eat his word with bitter sauce .
Ritchie Warren would have overwhelm Dan with bad `` name '' than Dan have call Faith .
But Walter could not -- simply could not -- `` call name . ''
He know he would get the bad of it .
He could never conceive or utter the vulgar , ribald insult of which Dan Reese have unlimited command .
And a for the trial by fist , Walter could n't fight .
He hat the idea .
It be rough and painful -- and , bad of all , it be ugly .
He never could understand Jem 's exultation in an occasional conflict .
But he wish he COULD fight Dan Reese .
He be horribly ashamed because Faith Meredith have be insult in his presence and he have not try to punish her insulter .
He felt sure she must despise him .
She have not even speak to him since Dan have call her pig-girl .
He be glad when they come to the parting of the way .
Faith , too , be relieve , though for a different reason .
She want to be alone because she suddenly felt rather nervous about her errand .
Impulse have cool , especially since Dan have bruise her self-respect .
She must go through with it , but she no longer have enthusiasm to sustain her .
She be go to see Norman Douglas and ask him to come back to church , and she begin to be afraid of him .
What have seem so easy and simple up at the Glen seem very different down here .
She have hear a good deal about Norman Douglas , and she know that even the big boy in school be afraid of him .
Suppose he call her something nasty -- she have heard he be give to that .
Faith could not endure be call name -- they subdue her far more quickly than a physical blow .
But she would go on -- Faith Meredith always go on .
If she do not her father might have to leave the Glen .
At the end of the long lane Faith come to the house -- a big , old-fashioned one with a row of soldierly Lombardies march past it .
On the back veranda Norman Douglas himself be sit , read a newspaper .
His big dog be beside him .
Behind , in the kitchen , where his housekeeper , Mrs. Wilson , be get supper , there be a clatter of dish -- an angry clatter , for Norman Douglas have just have a quarrel with Mrs. Wilson , and both be in a very bad temper over it .
Consequently , when Faith step on the veranda and Norman Douglas lower his newspaper she find herself look into the choleric eye of an irritated man .
Norman Douglas be rather a fine-looking personage in his way .
He have a sweep of long red beard over his broad chest and a mane of red hair , ungrizzled by the year , on his massive head .
His high , white forehead be unwrinkled and his blue eye could flash still with all the fire of his tempestuous youth .
He could be very amiable when he like , and he could be very terrible .
Poor Faith , so anxiously bent on retrieve the situation in regard to the church , have catch him in one of his terrible mood .
He do not know who she be and he gaze at her with disfavour .
Norman Douglas like girl of spirit and flame and laughter .
At this moment Faith be very pale .
She be of the type to which colour mean everything .
Lacking her crimson cheek she seem meek and even insignificant .
She look apologetic and afraid , and the bully in Norman Douglas 's heart stir .
`` Who the dickens be you ?
And what do you want here ? ''
he demand in his great resounding voice , with a fierce scowl .
For once in her life Faith have nothing to say .
She have never suppose Norman Douglas be like THIS .
She be paralyze with terror of him .
He saw it and it make him bad .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
he boom .
`` You look a if you want to say something and be scar to say it .
What 's trouble you ?
Confound it , speak up , ca n't you ? ''
No .
Faith could not speak up .
No word would come .
But her lip begin to tremble .
`` For heaven 's sake , do n't cry , '' shout Norman .
`` I ca n't stand snivel .
If you 've anything to say , say it and have do .
Great Kitty , be the girl possess of a dumb spirit ?
Do n't look at me like that -- I 'm human -- I have n't get a tail !
Who be you -- who be you , I say ? ''
Norman 's voice could have be hear at the harbour .
Operations in the kitchen be suspend .
Mrs. Wilson be listen open-eared and eyed .
Norman put his huge brown hand on his knee and lean forward , star into Faith 's pallid , shrink face .
He seem to loom over her like some evil giant out of a fairy tale .
She felt a if he would eat her up next thing , body and bone .
`` I -- be -- Faith -- Meredith , '' she say , in little more than a whisper .
`` Meredith , hey ?
One of the parson 's youngster , hey ?
I 've hear of you -- I 've hear of you !
Riding on pig and break the Sabbath !
A nice lot !
What do you want here , hey ?
What do you want of the old pagan , hey ?
I do n't ask favour of parson -- and I do n't give any .
What do you want , I say ? ''
Faith wish herself a thousand mile away .
She stammer out her thought in it naked simplicity .
`` I come -- to ask you -- to go to church -- and pay -- to the salary . ''
Norman glare at her .
Then he burst forth again .
`` You impudent hussy -- you !
Who put you up to it , jade ?
Who put you up to it ? ''
`` Nobody , '' say poor Faith .
`` That 's a lie .
Do n't lie to me !
Who send you here ?
It be n't your father -- he have n't the smeddum of a flea -- but he would n't send you to do what he dass n't do himself .
I suppose it be some of them confound old maid at the Glen , be it -- be it , hey ? ''
`` No -- I -- I just come myself . ''
`` Do you take me for a fool ? ''
shout Norman .
`` No -- I think you be a gentleman , '' say Faith faintly , and certainly without any thought of be sarcastic .
Norman bounce up .
`` Mind your own business .
I do n't want to hear another word from you .
If you be n't such a kid I 'd teach you to interfere in what do n't concern you .
When I want parson or pill-dosers I 'll send for them .
Till I do I 'll have no truck with them .
Do you understand ?
Now , get out , cheese-face . ''
Faith get out .
She stumble blindly down the step , out of the yard gate and into the lane .
Half way up the lane her daze of fear pass away and a reaction of tingle anger possess her .
By the time she reach the end of the lane she be in such a furious temper a she have never experience before .
Norman Douglas ' insult burn in her soul , kindle a scorching flame .
Go home !
Not she !
She would go straight back and tell that old ogre just what she think of him -- she would show him -- oh , would n't she !
Cheese-face , indeed !
Unhesitatingly she turn and walk back .
The veranda be desert and the kitchen door shut .
Faith open the door without knocking , and go in .
Norman Douglas have just sit down at the supper table , but he still hold his newspaper .
Faith walk inflexibly across the room , catch the paper from his hand , flung it on the floor and stamp on it .
Then she face him , with her flashing eye and scarlet cheek .
She be such a handsome young fury that Norman Douglas hardly recognize her .
`` What 's bring you back ? ''
he growl , but more in bewilderment than rage .
Unquailingly she glare back into the angry eye against which so few people could hold their own .
`` I have come back to tell you exactly what I think of you , '' say Faith in clear , ring tone .
`` I be not afraid of you .
You be a rude , unjust , tyrannical , disagreeable old man .
Susan say you be sure to go to hell , and I be sorry for you , but I be not now .
Your wife never have a new hat for ten year -- no wonder she die .
I be go to make face at you whenever I see you after this .
Every time I be behind you you will know what be happen .
Father have a picture of the devil in a book in his study , and I mean to go home and write your name under it .
You be an old vampire and I hope you 'll have the Scotch fiddle ! ''
Faith do not know what a vampire meant any more than she know what the Scotch fiddle be .
She have hear Susan use the expression and gather from her tone that both be dire thing .
But Norman Douglas know what the latter meant at least .
He have listen in absolute silence to Faith 's tirade .
When she pause for breath , with a stamp of her foot , he suddenly burst into loud laughter .
With a mighty slap of hand on knee he exclaim , `` I vow you 've get spunk , after all -- I like spunk .
Come , sit down -- sit down ! ''
`` I will not . ''
Faith 's eye flash more passionately .
She think she be be make fun of -- treat contemptuously .
She would have enjoy another explosion of rage , but this cut deep .
`` I will not sit down in your house .
I be go home .
But I be glad I come back here and tell you exactly what my opinion of you be . ''
`` So be I -- so be I , '' chuckle Norman .
`` I like you -- you 're fine -- you 're great .
Such rose -- such vim !
Did I call her cheese-face ?
Why , she never smelt a cheese .
Sit down .
If you 'd look like that at the first , girl !
So you 'll write my name under the devil 's picture , will you ?
But he 's black , girl , he 's black -- and I 'm red .
It wo n't do -- it wo n't do !
And you hope I 'll have the Scotch fiddle , do you ?
Lord love you , girl , I have IT when I be a boy .
Do n't wish it on me again .
Sit down -- sit in .
We 'll tak ' a cup o ' kindness . ''
`` No , thank you , '' say Faith haughtily .
`` Oh , yes , you will .
Come , come now , I apologize , girl -- I apologize .
I make a fool of myself and I 'm sorry .
Man ca n't say fairer .
Forget and forgive .
Shake hand , girl -- shake hand .
She wo n't -- no , she wo n't !
But she must !
Look-a-here , girl , if you 'll shake hand and break bread with me I 'll pay what I use to to the salary and I 'll go to church the first Sunday in every month and I 'll make Kitty Alec hold her jaw .
I 'm the only one in the clan can do it .
Is it a bargain , girl ? ''
It seem a bargain .
Faith find herself shake hand with the ogre and then sit at his board .
Her temper be over -- Faith 's temper never last very long -- but it excitement still sparkle in her eye and crimson her cheek .
Norman Douglas look at her admiringly .
`` Go , get some of your best preserve , Wilson , '' he order , `` and stop sulking , woman , stop sulking .
What if we do have a quarrel , woman ?
A good squall clear the air and briskens thing up .
But no drizzling and fogging afterwards -- no drizzling and fogging , woman .
I ca n't stand that .
Temper in a woman but no tear for me .
Here , girl , be some mess up meat and potato for you .
Begin on that .
Wilson have some fancy name for it , but I call lit macanaccady .
Anything I ca n't analyze in the eating line I call macanaccady and anything wet that puzzle me I call shallamagouslem .
Wilson 's tea be shallamagouslem .
I swear she make it out of burdock .
Do n't take any of the ungodly black liquid -- here 's some milk for you .
What do you say your name be ? ''
`` Faith . ''
`` No name that -- no name that !
I ca n't stomach such a name .
Got any other ? ''
`` No , sir . ''
`` Do n't like the name , do n't like it .
There 's no smeddum to it .
Besides , it make me think of my Aunt Jinny .
She call her three girl Faith , Hope , and Charity .
Faith do n't believe in anything -- Hope be a born pessimist -- and Charity be a miser .
You ought to be call Red Rose -- you look like one when you 're mad .
I 'LL call you Red Rose .
And you 've rope me into promise to go to church ?
But only once a month , remember -- only once a month .
Come now , girl , will you let me off ?
I use to pay a hundred to the salary every year and go to church .
If I promise to pay two hundred a year will you let me off go to church ?
Come now ! ''
`` No , no , sir , '' say Faith , dimple roguishly .
`` I want you to go to church , too . ''
`` Well , a bargain be a bargain .
I reckon I can stand it twelve time a year .
What a sensation it 'll make the first Sunday I go !
And old Susan Baker say I 'm go to hell , hey ?
Do you believe I 'll go there -- come , now , do you ? ''
`` I hope not , sir , '' stammer Faith in some confusion .
`` WHY do you hope not ?
Come , now , WHY do you hope not ?
Give u a reason , girl -- give u a reason . ''
`` It -- it must be a very -- uncomfortable place , sir . ''
`` Uncomfortable ?
All depend on your taste in comfortable , girl .
I 'd soon get tire of angel .
Fancy old Susan in a halo , now ! ''
Faith do fancy it , and it tickle her so much that she have to laugh .
Norman eye her approvingly .
`` See the fun of it , hey ?
Oh , I like you -- you 're great .
About this church business , now -- can your father preach ? ''
`` He be a splendid preacher , '' say loyal Faith .
`` He be , hey ?
I 'll see -- I 'll watch out for flaw .
He 'd well be careful what he say before ME .
I 'll catch him -- I 'll trip him up -- I 'll keep tab on his argument .
I 'm bound to have some fun out of this church go business .
Does he ever preach hell ? ''
`` No -- o -- o -- I do n't think so . ''
`` Too bad .
I like sermon on that subject .
You tell him that if he want to keep me in good humour to preach a good rip-roaring sermon on hell once every six month -- and the more brimstone the good .
I like 'em smoking .
And think of all the pleasure he 'd give the old maid , too .
They 'd all keep look at old Norman Douglas and thinking , ` That 's for you , you old reprobate .
That 's what 's in store for YOU ! '
I 'll give an extra ten dollar every time you get your father to preach on hell .
Here 's Wilson and the jam .
Like that , hey ?
IT be n't macanaccady .
Taste ! ''
Faith obediently swallow the big spoonful Norman hold out to her .
Luckily it WAS good .
`` Best plum jam in the world , '' say Norman , fill a large saucer and plump it down before her .
`` Glad you like it .
I 'll give you a couple of jar to take home with you .
There 's nothing mean about me -- never be .
The devil ca n't catch me at THAT corner , anyhow .
It be n't my fault that Hester do n't have a new hat for ten year .
It be her own -- she pinch on hat to save money to give yellow fellow over in China .
I never give a cent to mission in my life -- never will .
Never you try to bamboozle me into that !
A hundred a year to the salary and church once a month -- but no spoil good heathen to make poor Christians !
Why , girl , they would n't be fit for heaven or hell -- clean spoil for either place -- clean spoil .
Hey , Wilson , have n't you get a smile on yet ?
Beats all how you woman can sulk !
I never sulk in my life -- it 's just one big flash and crash with me and then -- pouf -- the squall 's over and the sun be out and you could eat out of my hand . ''
Norman insist on drive Faith home after supper and he fill the buggy up with apple , cabbage , potato and pumpkin and jar of jam .
`` There 's a nice little tom-pussy out in the barn .
I 'll give you that too , if you 'd like it .
Say the word , '' he say .
`` No , thank you , '' say Faith decidedly .
`` I do n't like cat , and besides , I have a rooster . ''
`` Listen to her .
You ca n't cuddle a rooster a you can a kitten .
Who ever heard of pet a rooster ?
Better take little Tom .
I want to find a good home for him . ''
`` No .
Aunt Martha have a cat and he would kill a strange kitten . ''
Norman yield the point rather reluctantly .
He give Faith an exciting drive home , behind his wild two-year old , and when he have let her out at the kitchen door of the manse and dump his cargo on the back veranda he drive away shout , `` It 's only once a month -- only once a month , mind ! ''
Faith go up to bed , feel a little dizzy and breathless , a if she have just escape from the grasp of a genial whirlwind .
She be happy and thankful .
No fear now that they would have to leave the Glen and the graveyard and Rainbow Valley .
But she fell asleep trouble by a disagreeable subconsciousness that Dan Reese have call her pig-girl and that , have stumble on such a congenial epithet , he would continue to call her so whenever opportunity offer .
CHAPTER XVII .
A DOUBLE VICTORY Norman Douglas come to church the first Sunday in November and make all the sensation he desire .
Mr. Meredith shake hand with him absently on the church step and hop dreamily that Mrs. Douglas be well .
`` She be n't very well just before I bury her ten year ago , but I reckon she have good health now , '' boom Norman , to the horror and amusement of every one except Mr. Meredith , who be absorb in wonder if he have make the last head of his sermon as clear a he might have , and have n't the least idea what Norman have say to him or he to Norman .
Norman intercept Faith at the gate .
`` Kept my word , you see -- keep my word , Red Rose .
I 'm free now till the first Sunday in December .
Fine sermon , girl -- fine sermon .
Your father have more in his head than he carry on his face .
But he contradict himself once -- tell him he contradict himself .
And tell him I want that brimstone sermon in December .
Great way to wind up the old year -- with a taste of hell , you know .
And what 's the matter with a nice tasty discourse on heaven for New Year 's ?
Though it would n't be half a interesting a hell , girl -- not half .
Only I 'd like to know what your father think about heaven -- he CAN think -- rare thing in the world -- a person who can think .
But he DID contradict himself .
Ha , ha !
Here 's a question you might ask him sometime when he 's awake , girl .
` Can God make a stone so big He could n't lift it Himself ? '
Do n't forget now .
I want to hear his opinion on it .
I 've stump many a minister with that , girl . ''
Faith be glad to escape him and run home .
Dan Reese , stand among the crowd of boy at the gate , look at her and shape his mouth into `` pig-girl , '' but dare not utter it aloud just there .
Next day in school be a different matter .
At noon recess Faith encounter Dan in the little spruce plantation behind the school and Dan shout once more , `` Pig-girl !
Pig-girl !
ROOSTER-GIRL ! ''
Walter Blythe suddenly rise from a mossy cushion behind a little clump of fir where he have be read .
He be very pale , but his eye blaze .
`` You hold your tongue , Dan Reese ! ''
he say .
`` Oh , hello , Miss Walter , '' retort Dan , not at all abash .
He vault airily to the top of the rail fence and chant insultingly , `` Cowardy , cowardy-custard Stole a pot of mustard , Cowardy , cowardy-custard ! ''
`` You be a coincidence ! ''
say Walter scornfully , turn still whiter .
He have only a very hazy idea what a coincidence be , but Dan have none at all and think it must be something peculiarly opprobrious .
`` Yah !
Cowardy ! ''
he yell gain .
`` Your mother write lie -- lie -- lie !
And Faith Meredith be a pig-girl -- a -- pig-girl -- a pig-girl !
And she 's a rooster-girl -- a rooster-girl -- a rooster-girl !
Yah !
Cowardy -- cowardy -- cust -- '' Dan get no further .
Walter have hurl himself across the intervening space and knock Dan off the fence backward with one well-directed blow .
Dan 's sudden inglorious sprawl be greet with a burst of laughter and a clapping of hand from Faith .
Dan spring up , purple with rage , and begin to climb the fence .
But just then the school-bell rang and Dan know what happen to boy who be late during Mr . Hazard 's regime .
`` We 'll fight this out , '' he howl .
`` Cowardy ! ''
`` Any time you like , '' say Walter .
`` Oh , no , no , Walter , '' protest Faith .
`` Do n't fight him .
I do n't mind what he say -- I would n't condescend to mind the like of HIM . ''
`` He insult you and he insult my mother , '' say Walter , with the same deadly calm .
`` Tonight after school , Dan . ''
`` I 've get to go right home from school to pick tater after the harrow , dad say , '' answer Dan sulkily .
`` But to-morrow night 'll do . ''
`` All right -- here to-morrow night , '' agree Walter .
`` And I 'll smash your sissy-face for you , '' promise Dan .
Walter shudder -- not so much from fear of the threat a from repulsion over the ugliness and vulgarity of it .
But he hold his head high and march into school .
Faith follow in a conflict of emotion .
She hat to think of Walter fight that little sneak , but oh , he have be splendid !
And he be go to fight for HER -- Faith Meredith -- to punish her insulter !
Of course he would win -- such eye spell victory .
Faith 's confidence in her champion have dim a little by even , however .
Walter have seem so very quiet and dull the rest of the day in school .
`` If it be only Jem , '' she sigh to Una , a they sit on Hezekiah Pollock 's tombstone in the graveyard .
`` HE be such a fighter -- he could finish Dan off in no time .
But Walter do n't know much about fight . ''
`` I 'm so afraid he 'll be hurt , '' sigh Una , who hat fighting and could n't understand the subtle , secret exultation she divine in Faith .
`` He ought n't to be , '' say Faith uncomfortably .
`` He 's every bit as big a Dan . ''
`` But Dan 's so much old , '' say Una .
`` Why , he 's nearly a year older . ''
`` Dan have n't do much fight when you come to count up , '' say Faith .
`` I believe he 's really a coward .
He do n't think Walter would fight , or he would n't have call name before him .
Oh , if you could just have see Walter 's face when he look at him , Una !
It make me shiver -- with a nice shiver .
He look just like Sir Galahad in that poem father read u on Saturday . ''
`` I hate the thought of them fight and I wish it could be stop , '' say Una .
`` Oh , it 's get to go on now , '' cry Faith .
`` It 's a matter of honour .
Do n't you DARE tell anyone , Una .
If you do I 'll never tell you secret again ! ''
`` I wo n't tell , '' agree Una .
`` But I wo n't stay to-morrow to watch the fight .
I 'm come right home . ''
`` Oh , all right .
I have to be there -- it would be mean not to , when Walter be fight for me .
I 'm go to tie my colour on his arm -- that 's the thing to do when he 's my knight .
How lucky Mrs. Blythe give me that pretty blue hair-ribbon for my birthday !
I 've only wear it twice so it will be almost new .
But I wish I be sure Walter would win .
It will be so -- so HUMILIATING if he do n't . ''
Faith would have be yet more dubious if she could have see her champion just then .
Walter have go home from school with all his righteous anger at a low ebb and a very nasty feeling in it place .
He have to fight Dan Reese the next night -- and he do n't want to -- he hat the thought of it .
And he keep thinking of it all the time .
Not for a minute could he get away from the thought .
Would it hurt much ?
He be terribly afraid that it would hurt .
And would he be defeat and sham ?
He could not eat any supper worth speaking of .
Susan have make a big batch of his favourite monkey-faces , but he could choke only one down .
Jem eat four .
Walter wonder how he could .
How could ANYBODY eat ?
And how could they all talk gaily a they be do ?
There be mother , with her shin eye and pink cheek .
SHE do n't know her son have to fight next day .
Would she be so gay if she know , Walter wonder darkly .
Jem have take Susan 's picture with his new camera and the result be pass around the table and Susan be terribly indignant over it .
`` I be no beauty , Mrs. Dr. dear , and well I know it , and have always know it , '' she say in an aggrieved tone , `` but that I be as ugly a that picture make me out I will never , no , never believe . ''
Jem laugh over this and Anne laugh again with him .
Walter could n't endure it .
He get up and flee to his room .
`` That child have get something on his mind , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan .
`` He have et next to nothing .
Do you suppose he be plot another poem ? ''
Poor Walter be very far remove in spirit from the starry realm of poesy just then .
He prop his elbow on his open window-sill and lean his head drearily on his hand .
`` Come on down to the shore , Walter , '' cry Jem , bust in .
`` The boy be go to burn the sand-hill grass to-night .
Father say we can go .
Come on . ''
At any other time Walter would have be delight .
He glory in the burning of the sand-hill grass .
But now he flatly refuse to go , and no argument or entreaty could move him .
Disappointed Jem , who do not care for the long dark walk to Four Winds Point alone , retreat to his museum in the garret and bury himself in a book .
He soon forget his disappointment , revel with the hero of old romance , and pause occasionally to picture himself a famous general , lead his troop to victory on some great battlefield .
Walter sit at his window until bedtime .
Di crept in , hop to be tell what be wrong , but Walter could not talk of it , even to Di .
Talking of it seem to give it a reality from which he shrink .
It be torture enough to think of it .
The crisp , wither leaf rustle on the maple tree outside his window .
The glow of rise and flame have die out of the hollow , silvery sky , and the full moon be rise gloriously over Rainbow Valley .
Afar off , a ruddy woodfire be paint a page of glory on the horizon beyond the hill .
It be a sharp , clear evening when far-away sound be hear distinctly .
A fox be bark across the pond ; an engine be puff down at the Glen station ; a blue-jay be scream madly in the maple grove ; there be laughter over on the manse lawn .
How could people laugh ?
How could fox and blue-jays and engine behave a if nothing be go to happen on the morrow ?
`` Oh , I wish it be over , '' groan Walter .
He sleep very little that night and have hard work choke down his porridge in the morning .
Susan WAS rather lavish in her plateful .
Mr . Hazard find him an unsatisfactory pupil that day .
Faith Meredith 's wit seem to be wool-gathering , too .
Dan Reese keep draw surreptitious picture of girl , with pig or rooster head , on his slate and hold them up for all to see .
The news of the coming battle have leak out and most of the boy and many of the girl be in the spruce plantation when Dan and Walter seek it after school .
Una have go home , but Faith be there , have tie her blue ribbon around Walter 's arm .
Walter be thankful that neither Jem nor Di nor Nan be among the crowd of spectator .
Somehow they have not hear of what be in the wind and have go home , too .
Walter face Dan quite undauntedly now .
At the last moment all his fear have vanish , but he still felt disgust at the idea of fight .
Dan , it be note , be really pale under his freckle than Walter be .
One of the old boy give the word and Dan strike Walter in the face .
Walter reel a little .
The pain of the blow tingle through all his sensitive frame for a moment .
Then he felt pain no longer .
Something , such a he have never experience before , seem to roll over him like a flood .
His face flush crimson , his eye burn like flame .
The scholar of Glen St. Mary school have never dream that `` Miss Walter '' could look like that .
He hurl himself forward and close with Dan like a young wildcat .
There be no particular rule in the fight of the Glen school boy .
It be catch-as-catch can , and get your blow in anyhow .
Walter fought with a savage fury and a joy in the struggle against which Dan could not hold his ground .
It be all over very speedily .
Walter have no clear consciousness of what he be do until suddenly the red mist clear from his sight and he find himself kneel on the body of the prostrate Dan whose nose -- oh , horror !
-- be spout blood .
`` Have you have enough ? ''
demand Walter through his clenched teeth .
Dan sulkily admit that he have .
`` My mother do n't write lie ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Faith Meredith be n't a pig-girl ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Nor a rooster-girl ? ''
`` No . ''
`` And I 'm not a coward ? ''
`` No . ''
Walter have intend to ask , `` And you be a liar ? ''
but pity intervene and he do not humiliate Dan far .
Besides , that blood be so horrible .
`` You can go , then , '' he say contemptuously .
There be a loud clapping from the boy who be perch on the rail fence , but some of the girl be cry .
They be frighten .
They have see schoolboy fight before , but nothing like Walter a he have grapple with Dan .
There have be something terrify about him .
They think he would kill Dan .
Now that all be over they sob hysterically -- except Faith , who still stand tense and crimson cheeked .
Walter do not stay for any conqueror 's meed .
He spring over the fence and rush down the spruce hill to Rainbow Valley .
He felt none of the victor 's joy , but he felt a certain calm satisfaction in duty do and honour avenge -- mingle with a sickish qualm when he think of Dan 's gory nose .
It have be so ugly , and Walter hat ugliness .
Also , he begin to realize that he himself be somewhat sore and batter up .
His lip be cut and swell and one eye felt very strange .
In Rainbow Valley he encounter Mr. Meredith , who be come home from an afternoon call on the Miss Wests .
That reverend gentleman look gravely at him .
`` It seem to me that you have be fight , Walter ? ''
`` Yes , sir , '' say Walter , expect a scolding .
`` What be it about ? ''
`` Dan Reese say my mother write lie and that that Faith be a pig-girl , '' answer Walter bluntly .
`` Oh -- h !
Then you be certainly justify , Walter . ''
`` Do you think it 's right to fight , sir ? ''
ask Walter curiously .
`` Not always -- and not often -- but sometimes -- yes , sometimes , '' say John Meredith .
`` When womenkind be insult for instance -- a in your case .
My motto , Walter , be , do n't fight till you 're sure you ought to , and THEN put every ounce of you into it .
In spite of sundry discoloration I infer that you come off best . ''
`` Yes .
I make him take it all back . ''
`` Very good -- very good , indeed .
I do n't think you be such a fighter , Walter . ''
`` I never fight before -- and I do n't want to right up to the last -- and then , '' say Walter , determine to make a clean breast of it , `` I like it while I be at it . ''
The Rev . John 's eye twinkle .
`` You be -- a little frightened -- at first ? ''
`` I be a whole lot frighten , '' say honest Walter .
`` But I 'm not go to be frighten any more , sir .
Being frighten of thing be bad than the thing themselves .
I 'm go to ask father to take me over to Lowbridge to-morrow to get my tooth out . ''
`` Right again .
` Fear be more pain than be the pain it fear . '
Do you know who write that , Walter ?
It be Shakespeare .
Was there any feeling or emotion or experience of the human heart that that wonderful man do not know ?
When you go home tell your mother I be proud of you . ''
Walter do not tell her that , however ; but he tell her all the rest , and she sympathize with him and tell him she be glad he have stand up for her and Faith , and she anoint his sore spot and rub cologne on his ache head .
`` Are all mother as nice a you ? ''
ask Walter , hug her .
`` You 're WORTH stand up for . ''
Miss Cornelia and Susan be in the living room when Anne come downstairs , and listen to the story with much enjoyment .
Susan in particular be highly gratify .
`` I be real glad to hear he have have a good fight , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Perhaps it may knock that poetry nonsense out of him .
And I never , no , never could bear that little viper of a Dan Reese .
Will you not sit nearer to the fire , Mrs. Marshall Elliott ?
These November evening be very chilly . ''
`` Thank you , Susan , I 'm not cold .
I call at the manse before I come here and get quite warm -- though I have to go to the kitchen to do it , for there be no fire anywhere else .
The kitchen look a if it have be stir up with a stick , believe ME .
Mr. Meredith be n't home .
I could n't find out where he be , but I have an idea that he be up at the Wests ' .
Do you know , Anne dearie , they say he have be go there frequently all the fall and people be begin to think he be go to see Rosemary . ''
`` He would get a very charming wife if he marry Rosemary , '' say Anne , pile driftwood on the fire .
`` She be one of the most delightful girl I 've ever know -- truly one of the race of Joseph . ''
`` Ye -- s -- only she be an Episcopalian , '' say Miss Cornelia doubtfully .
`` Of course , that be good than if she be a Methodist -- but I do think Mr. Meredith could find a good enough wife in his own denomination .
However , very likely there be nothing in it .
It 's only a month ago that I say to him , ` You ought to marry again , Mr. Meredith . '
He look as shock a if I have suggest something improper .
` My wife be in her grave , Mrs. Elliott , ' he say , in that gentle , saintly way of his . '
I suppose so , ' I say , ` or I would n't be advise you to marry again . '
Then he look more shocked than ever .
So I doubt if there be much in this Rosemary story .
If a single minister call twice at a house where there be a single woman all the gossip have it he be court her . ''
`` It seem to me -- if I may presume to say so -- that Mr. Meredith be too shy to go court a second wife , '' say Susan solemnly .
`` He IS N'T shy , believe ME , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` Absent-minded , -- yes -- but shy , no .
And for all he be so abstracted and dreamy he have a very good opinion of himself , man-like , and when he be really awake he would n't think it much of a chore to ask any woman to have him .
No , the trouble be , he 's delude himself into believe that his heart be bury , while all the time it 's beat away inside of him just like anybody else 's .
He may have a notion of Rosemary West and he may not .
If he have , we must make the best of it .
She be a sweet girl and a fine housekeeper , and would make a good mother for those poor , neglected child .
And , '' conclude Miss Cornelia resignedly , `` my own grandmother be an Episcopalian . ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
MARY BRINGS EVIL TIDINGS Mary Vance , whom Mrs. Elliott have send up to the manse on an errand , come trip down Rainbow Valley on her way to Ingleside where she be to spend the afternoon with Nan and Di a a Saturday treat .
Nan and Di have be pick spruce gum with Faith and Una in the manse wood and the four of them be now sit on a fall pine by the brook , all , it must be admit , chew rather vigorously .
The Ingleside twin be not allow to chew spruce gum anywhere but in the seclusion of Rainbow Valley , but Faith and Una be unrestricted by such rule of etiquette and cheerfully chew it everywhere , at home and abroad , to the very proper horror of the Glen .
Faith have be chew it in church one day ; but Jerry have realize the enormity of THAT , and have give her such an older-brotherly scolding that she never do it again .
`` I be so hungry I just felt a if I have to chew something , '' she protest .
`` You know well enough what breakfast be like , Jerry Meredith .
I COULD N'T eat scorch porridge and my stomach just felt so queer and empty .
The gum help a lot -- and I do n't chew VERY hard .
I do n't make any noise and I never crack the gum once . ''
`` You must n't chew gum in church , anyhow , '' insist Jerry .
`` Do n't let me catch you at it again . ''
`` You chew yourself in prayer-meeting last week , '' cry Faith .
`` THAT 'S different , '' say Jerry loftily .
`` Prayer-meeting be n't on Sunday .
Besides , I sit away at the back in a dark seat and nobody saw me .
You be sit right up front where every one saw you .
And I take the gum out of my mouth for the last hymn and stick it on the back of the pew right up in front where every one saw you .
And I take the gum out of my mouth for the last hymn and stick it on the back of the pew in front of me .
Then I come away and forget it .
I go back to get it next morning , but it be go .
I suppose Rod Warren swipe it .
And it be a dandy chew . ''
Mary Vance walk down the Valley with her head hold high .
She have on a new blue velvet cap with a scarlet rosette in it , a coat of navy blue cloth and a little squirrel-fur muff .
She be very conscious of her new clothes and very well pleased with herself .
Her hair be elaborately crimped , her face be quite plump , her cheek rosy , her white eye shin .
She do not look much like the forlorn and rag waif the Merediths have find in the old Taylor barn .
Una try not to feel envious .
Here be Mary with a new velvet cap , but she and Faith have to wear their shabby old gray tam again this winter .
Nobody ever think of get them new one and they be afraid to ask their father for them for fear that he might be short of money and then he would feel badly .
Mary have tell them once that minister be always short of money , and find it `` awful hard '' to make ends meet .
Since then Faith and Una would have go in rag rather than ask their father for anything if they could help it .
They do not worry a great deal over their shabbiness ; but it be rather try to see Mary Vance come out in such style and put on such air about it , too .
The new squirrel muff be really the last straw .
Neither Faith nor Una have ever have a muff , count themselves lucky if they could compass mitten without hole in them .
Aunt Martha could not see to darn hole and though Una try to , she make sad cobbling .
Somehow , they could not make their greeting of Mary very cordial .
But Mary do not mind or notice that ; she be not overly sensitive .
She vault lightly to a seat on the pine tree , and lay the offend muff on a bough .
Una saw that it be line with shirred red satin and have red tassel .
She look down at her own rather purple , chap , little hand and wonder if she would ever , EVER be able to put them into a muff like that .
`` Give u a chew , '' say Mary companionably .
Nan , Di and Faith all produce an amber-hued knot or two from their pocket and pass them to Mary .
Una sit very still .
She have four lovely big knot in the pocket of her tight , thread-bare little jacket , but she be n't go to give one of them to Mary Vance -- not one Let Mary pick her own gum !
People with squirrel muff need n't expect to get everything in the world .
`` Great day , be n't it ? ''
say Mary , swing her leg , the good , perhaps , to display new boot with very smart cloth top .
Una tuck HER foot under her .
There be a hole in the toe of one of her boot and both lace be much knot .
But they be the best she have .
Oh , this Mary Vance !
Why have n't they leave her in the old barn ?
Una never felt badly because the Ingleside twin be good dress than she and Faith be .
THEY wear their pretty clothes with careless grace and never seem to think about them at all .
Somehow , they do not make other people feel shabby .
But when Mary Vance be dress up she seem fairly to exude clothes -- to walk in an atmosphere of clothes -- to make everybody else feel and think clothes .
Una , a she sit there in the honey-tinted sunshine of the gracious December afternoon , be acutely and miserably conscious of everything she have on -- the faded tam , which be yet her best , the skimpy jacket she have wear for three winter , the hole in her skirt and her boot , the shiver insufficiency of her poor little undergarment .
Of course , Mary be go out for a visit and she be not .
But even if she have be she have nothing well to put on and in this lay the sting .
`` Say , this be great gum .
Listen to me crack it .
There ai n't any gum spruce down at Four Winds , '' say Mary .
`` Sometimes I just hanker after a chew .
Mrs. Elliott wo n't let me chew gum if she see me .
She say it ai n't lady-like .
This lady-business puzzle me .
I ca n't get on to all it kink .
Say , Una , what 's the matter with you ?
Cat get your tongue ? ''
`` No , '' say Una , who could not drag her fascinated eye from that squirrel muff .
Mary lean past her , pick it up and thrust it into Una 's hand .
`` Stick your paw in that for a while , '' she order .
`` They look sorter pinch .
Ai n't that a dandy muff ?
Mrs. Elliott give it to me last week for a birthday present .
I 'm to get the collar at Christmas .
I hear her tell Mr. Elliott that . ''
`` Mrs. Elliott be very good to you , '' say Faith .
`` You bet she be .
And I 'M good to her , too , '' retort Mary .
`` I work like a nigger to make it easy for her and have everything just a she like it .
We be make for each other .
'T be n't every one could get along with her as well a I do .
She 's pizen neat , but so be I , and so we agree fine . ''
`` I tell you she would never whip you . ''
`` So you do .
She 's never try to lay a finger on me and I ai n't never tell a lie to her -- not one , true 's you live .
She comb me down with her tongue sometimes though , but that just slip off ME like water off a duck 's back .
Say , Una , why do n't you hang on to the muff ? ''
Una have put it back on the bough .
`` My hand be n't cold , thank you , '' she say stiffly .
`` Well , if you 're satisfied , I be .
Say , old Kitty Alec have come back to church as meek a Moses and nobody know why .
But everybody be say it be Faith bring Norman Douglas out .
His housekeeper say you go there and give him an awful tongue-lashing .
Did you ? ''
`` I go and ask him to come to church , '' say Faith uncomfortably .
`` Fancy your spunk ! ''
say Mary admiringly . ''
I would n't have dare do that and I 'm not so slow .
Mrs. Wilson say the two of you jaw something scandalous , but you come off best and then he just turn round and like to eat you up .
Say , be your father go to preach here to-morrow ? ''
`` No .
He 's go to exchange with Mr. Perry from Charlottetown .
Father go to town this morning and Mr. Perry be come out to-night . ''
`` I THOUGHT there be something in the wind , though old Martha would n't give me any satisfaction .
But I felt sure she would n't have be kill that rooster for nothing . ''
`` What rooster ?
What do you mean ? ''
cry Faith , turn pale . ''
I do n't know what rooster .
I do n't see it .
When she take the butter Mrs. Elliott send up she say she 'd be out to the barn kill a rooster for dinner tomorrow . ''
Faith spring down from the pine .
`` It 's Adam -- we have no other rooster -- she have kill Adam . ''
`` Now , do n't fly off the handle .
Martha say the butcher at the Glen have no meat this week and she have to have something and the hen be all laying and too poor . ''
`` If she have kill Adam -- '' Faith begin to run up the hill .
Mary shrug her shoulder .
`` She 'll go crazy now .
She be so fond of that Adam .
He ought to have be in the pot long ago -- he 'll be as tough a sole leather .
But I would n't like to be in Martha 's shoe .
Faith 's just white with rage ; Una , you 'd better go after her and try to peacify her . ''
Mary have go a few step with the Blythe girl when Una suddenly turn and run after her .
`` Here 's some gum for you , Mary , '' she say , with a little repentant catch in her voice , thrust all her four knot into Mary 's hand , `` and I 'm glad you have such a pretty muff . ''
`` Why , thanks , '' say Mary , rather take by surprise .
To the Blythe girl , after Una have go , she say , `` Ai n't she a queer little mite ?
But I 've always say she have a good heart . ''
CHAPTER XIX .
POOR ADAM !
When Una get home Faith be lie face downwards on her bed , utterly refuse to be comfort .
Aunt Martha have kill Adam .
He be repose on a platter in the pantry that very minute , truss and dress , encircle by his liver and heart and gizzard .
Aunt Martha heed Faith 's passion of grief and anger not a whit .
`` We have to have something for the strange minister 's dinner , '' she say .
`` You 're too big a girl to make such a fuss over an old rooster .
You know he 'd have to be kill sometime . ''
`` I 'll tell father when he come home what you 've do , '' sob Faith .
`` Do n't you go bother your poor father .
He have trouble enough .
And I 'M housekeeper here . ''
`` Adam be MINE -- Mrs. Johnson give him to me .
You have no business to touch him , '' storm Faith .
`` Do n't you get sassy now .
The rooster 's kill and there 's an end of it .
I ai n't go to set no strange minister down to a dinner of cold b ` iled mutton .
I be bring up to know good than that , if I have come down in the world . ''
Faith would not go down to supper that night and she would not go to church the next morning .
But at dinner time she go to the table , her eye swell with cry , her face sullen .
The Rev . James Perry be a sleek , rubicund man , with a bristle white moustache , bushy white eyebrow , and a shining bald head .
He be certainly not handsome and he be a very tiresome , pompous sort of person .
But if he have look like the Archangel Michael and talk with the tongue of men and angel Faith would still have utterly detest him .
He carve Adam up dexterously , show off his plump white hand and very handsome diamond ring .
Also , he make jovial remark all through the performance .
Jerry and Carl giggle , and even Una smile wanly , because she think politeness demand it .
But Faith only scowl darkly .
The Rev . James think her manner shockingly bad .
Once , when he be deliver himself of an unctuous remark to Jerry , Faith break in rudely with a flat contradiction .
The Rev . James draw his bushy eyebrows together at her .
`` Little girl should not interrupt , '' he say , `` and they should not contradict people who know far more than they do . ''
This put Faith in a bad temper than ever .
To be call `` little girl '' a if she be no big than chubby Rilla Blythe over at Ingleside !
It be insufferable .
And how that abominable Mr. Perry do eat !
He even pick poor Adam 's bone .
Neither Faith nor Una would touch a mouthful , and look upon the boy a little good than cannibal .
Faith felt that if that awful repast do not soon come to an end she would wind it up by throw something at Mr. Perry 's gleam head .
Fortunately , Mr. Perry find Aunt Martha 's leathery apple pie too much even for his power of mastication and the meal come to an end , after a long grace in which Mr. Perry offer up devout thanks for the food which a kind and beneficent Providence have provide for sustenance and temperate pleasure .
`` God have n't a single thing to do with provide Adam for you , '' mutter Faith rebelliously under her breath .
The boy gladly make their escape to outdoors , Una go to help Aunt Martha with the dish -- though that rather grumpy old dame never welcome her timid assistance -- and Faith betook herself to the study where a cheerful wood fire be burn in the grate .
She think she would thereby escape from the hated Mr. Perry , who have announce his intention of take a nap in his room during the afternoon .
But scarcely have Faith settle herself in a corner , with a book , when he walk in and , stand before the fire , proceed to survey the disorderly study with an air of disapproval .
`` You father 's book seem to be in somewhat deplorable confusion , my little girl , '' he say severely .
Faith darkled in her corner and say not a word .
She would NOT talk to this -- this creature .
`` You should try to put them in order , '' Mr. Perry go on , play with his handsome watch chain and smile patronizingly on Faith .
`` You be quite old enough to attend to such duty .
MY little daughter at home be only ten and she be already an excellent little housekeeper and the great help and comfort to her mother .
She be a very sweet child .
I wish you have the privilege of her acquaintance .
She could help you in many way .
Of course , you have not have the inestimable privilege of a good mother 's care and training .
A sad lack -- a very sad lack .
I have speak more than once to your father in this connection and point out his duty to him faithfully , but so far with no effect .
I trust he may awaken to a realization of his responsibility before it be too late .
In the meantime , it be your duty and privilege to endeavour to take your saint mother 's place .
You might exercise a great influence over your brother and your little sister -- you might be a true mother to them .
I fear that you do not think of these thing a you should .
My dear child , allow me to open your eye in regard to them . ''
Mr. Perry 's oily , complacent voice trickle on .
He be in his element .
Nothing suit him good than to lay down the law , patronize and exhort .
He have no idea of stopping , and he do not stop .
He stand before the fire , his foot plant firmly on the rug , and pour out a flood of pompous platitude .
Faith hear not a word .
She be really not listen to him at all .
But she be watch his long black coat-tails with impish delight grow in her brown eye .
Mr. Perry be stand VERY near the fire .
His coat-tails begin to scorch -- his coat-tails begin to smoke .
He still prosed on , wrap up in his own eloquence .
The coat-tails smoked worse .
A tiny spark fly up from the burn wood and alight in the middle of one .
It clung and caught and spread into a smouldering flame .
Faith could restrain herself no longer and break into a stifled giggle .
Mr. Perry stop short , anger over this impertinence .
Suddenly he become conscious that a reek of burn cloth fill the room .
He whirl round and saw nothing .
Then he clap his hand to his coat-tails and bring them around in front of him .
There be already quite a hole in one of them -- and this be his new suit .
Faith shook with helpless laughter over his pose and expression .
`` Did you see my coat-tails burn ? ''
he demand angrily .
`` Yes , sir , '' say Faith demurely .
`` Why do n't you tell me ? ''
he demand , glare at her .
`` You say it be n't good manner to interrupt , sir , '' say Faith , more demurely still .
`` If -- if I be your father , I would give you a spank that you would remember all your life , Miss , '' say a very angry reverend gentleman , a he stalk out of the study .
The coat of Mr. Meredith 's second best suit would not fit Mr. Perry , so he have to go to the evening service with his singed coat-tail .
But he do not walk up the aisle with his usual consciousness of the honour he be confer on the building .
He never would agree to an exchange of pulpit with Mr. Meredith again , and he be barely civil to the latter when they meet for a few minute at the station the next morning .
But Faith felt a certain gloomy satisfaction .
Adam be partially avenge .
CHAPTER XX .
FAITH MAKES A FRIEND Next day in school be a hard one for Faith .
Mary Vance have tell the tale of Adam , and all the scholar , except the Blythes , think it quite a joke .
The girl tell Faith , between giggle , that it be too bad , and the boys write sardonic note of condolence to her .
Poor Faith go home from school feel her very soul raw and smarting within her .
`` I 'm go over to Ingleside to have a talk with Mrs. Blythe , '' she sob .
`` SHE wo n't laugh at me , a everybody else do .
I 've just GOT to talk to somebody who understand how bad I feel . ''
She run down through Rainbow Valley .
Enchantment have be at work the night before .
A light snow have fall and the powdered fir be dream of a spring to come and a joy to be .
The long hill beyond be richly purple with leafless beech .
The rosy light of sunset lay over the world like a pink kiss .
Of all the airy , fairy place , full of weird , elfin grace , Rainbow Valley that winter evening be the most beautiful .
But all it dreamlike loveliness be lose on poor , sore-hearted little Faith .
By the brook she come suddenly upon Rosemary West , who be sit on the old pine tree .
She be on her way home from Ingleside , where she have be give the girl their music lesson .
She have be linger in Rainbow Valley quite a little time , look across it white beauty and roam some by-ways of dream .
Judging from the expression of her face , her thought be pleasant one .
Perhaps the faint , occasional tinkle from the bell on the Tree Lovers bring the little lurk smile to her lip .
Or perhaps it be occasion by the consciousness that John Meredith seldom fail to spend Monday evening in the gray house on the white wind-swept hill .
Into Rosemary 's dream burst Faith Meredith full of rebellious bitterness .
Faith stop abruptly when she saw Miss West .
She do not know her very well -- just well enough to speak to when they meet .
And she do not want to see any one just then -- except Mrs. Blythe .
She know her eye and nose be red and swollen and she hat to have a stranger know she have be cry .
`` Good evening , Miss West , '' she say uncomfortably .
`` What be the matter , Faith ? ''
ask Rosemary gently .
`` Nothing , '' say Faith rather shortly .
`` Oh ! ''
Rosemary smile .
`` You mean nothing that you can tell to outsider , do n't you ? ''
Faith look at Miss West with sudden interest .
Here be a person who understand thing .
And how pretty she be !
How golden her hair be under her plumy hat !
How pink her cheek be over her velvet coat !
How blue and companionable her eye be !
Faith felt that Miss West could be a lovely friend -- if only she be a friend instead of a stranger !
`` I -- I 'm go up to tell Mrs. Blythe , '' say Faith .
`` She always understand -- she never laugh at u .
I always talk thing over with her .
It help . ''
`` Dear girlie , I 'm sorry to have to tell you that Mrs. Blythe be n't home , '' say Miss West , sympathetically .
`` She go to Avonlea to-day and be n't come back till the last of the week . ''
Faith 's lip quiver .
`` Then I might as well go home again , '' she say miserably .
`` I suppose so -- unless you think you could bring yourself to talk it over with me instead , '' say Miss Rosemary gently .
`` It IS such a help to talk thing over .
I know .
I do n't suppose I can be as good at understand a Mrs. Blythe -- but I promise you that I wo n't laugh . ''
`` You would n't laugh outside , '' hesitate Faith .
`` But you might -- inside . ''
`` No , I would n't laugh inside , either .
Why should I ?
Something have hurt you -- it never amuse me to see anybody hurt , no matter what hurt them .
If you feel that you 'd like to tell me what have hurt you I 'll be glad to listen .
But if you think you 'd rather not -- that 's all right , too , dear . ''
Faith take another long , earnest look into Miss West 's eye .
They be very serious -- there be no laughter in them , not even far , far back .
With a little sigh she sit down on the old pine beside her new friend and tell her all about Adam and his cruel fate .
Rosemary do not laugh or feel like laugh .
She understand and sympathize -- really , she be almost as good a Mrs. Blythe -- yes , quite a good .
`` Mr. Perry be a minister , but he should have be a BUTCHER , '' say Faith bitterly .
`` He be so fond of carve thing up .
He ENJOYED cut poor Adam to piece .
He just slice into him a if he be any common rooster . ''
`` Between you and me , Faith , I do n't like Mr. Perry very well myself , '' say Rosemary , laugh a little -- but at Mr. Perry , not at Adam , a Faith clearly understood .
`` I never do like him .
I go to school with him -- he be a Glen boy , you know -- and he be a most detestable little prig even then .
Oh , how we girls use to hate hold his fat , clammy hand in the ring-around game .
But we must remember , dear , that he do n't know that Adam have be a pet of yours .
He think he WAS just a common rooster .
We must be just , even when we be terribly hurt . ''
`` I suppose so , '' admit Faith .
`` But why do everybody seem to think it funny that I should have love Adam so much , Miss West ?
If it have be a horrid old cat nobody would have think it queer .
When Lottie Warren 's kitten have it leg cut off by the binder everybody be sorry for her .
She cry two day in school and nobody laugh at her , not even Dan Reese .
And all her chum go to the kitten 's funeral and help her bury it -- only they could n't bury it poor little paw with it , because they could n't find them .
It be a horrid thing to have happen , of course , but I do n't think it be as dreadful a see your pet EATEN UP .
Yet everybody laugh at ME . ''
`` I think it be because the name ` rooster ' seem rather a funny one , '' say Rosemary gravely .
`` There IS something in it that be comical .
Now , ` chicken ' be different .
It do n't sound so funny to talk of love a chicken . ''
`` Adam be the dear little chicken , Miss West .
He be just a little golden ball .
He would run up to me and peck out of my hand .
And he be handsome when he grow up , too -- white a snow , with such a beautiful curve white tail , though Mary Vance say it be too short .
He know his name and always come when I call him -- he be a very intelligent rooster .
And Aunt Martha have no right to kill him .
He be mine .
It be n't fair , be it , Miss West ? ''
`` No , it be n't , '' say Rosemary decidedly .
`` Not a bit fair .
I remember I have a pet hen when I be a little girl .
She be such a pretty little thing -- all golden brown and speckly .
I love her as much a I ever love any pet .
She be never kill -- she die of old age .
Mother would n't have her kill because she be my pet . ''
`` If MY mother have be live she would n't have let Adam be kill , '' say Faith .
`` For that matter , father would n't have either , if he 'd be home and know of it .
I 'm SURE he would n't , Miss West . ''
`` I 'm sure , too , '' say Rosemary .
There be a little added flush on her face .
She look rather conscious but Faith notice nothing .
`` Was it VERY wicked of me not to tell Mr. Perry his coat-tails be scorch ? ''
she ask anxiously .
`` Oh , terribly wicked , '' answer Rosemary , with dance eye .
`` But I would have be just a naughty , Faith -- I would n't have tell him they be scorch -- and I do n't believe I would ever have be a bit sorry for my wickedness , either . ''
`` Una think I should have tell him because he be a minister . ''
`` Dearest , if a minister do n't behave a a gentleman we be not bind to respect his coat-tails .
I know I would just have love to see Jimmy Perry 's coat-tails burn up .
It must have be fun . ''
Both laugh ; but Faith end with a bitter little sigh .
`` Well , anyway , Adam be dead and I be NEVER go to love anything again . ''
`` Do n't say that , dear .
We miss so much out of life if we do n't love .
The more we love the rich life be -- even if it be only some little furry or feathery pet .
Would you like a canary , Faith -- a little golden bit of a canary ?
If you would I 'll give you one .
We have two up home . ''
`` Oh , I WOULD like that , '' cry Faith .
`` I love bird .
Only -- would Aunt Martha 's cat eat it ?
It 's so TRAGIC to have your pet eat .
I do n't think I could endure it a second time . ''
`` If you hang the cage far enough from the wall I do n't think the cat could harm it .
I 'll tell you just how to take care of it and I 'll bring it to Ingleside for you the next time I come down . ''
To herself , Rosemary be think , `` It will give every gossip in the Glen something to talk of , but I WILL not care .
I want to comfort this poor little heart . ''
Faith be comfort .
Sympathy and understand be very sweet .
She and Miss Rosemary sit on the old pine until the twilight crept softly down over the white valley and the evening star shone over the gray maple grove .
Faith tell Rosemary all her small history and hope , her like and dislike , the in and out of life at the manse , the ups and down of school society .
Finally they part firm friend .
Mr. Meredith be , a usual , lose in dream when supper begin that evening , but presently a name pierce his abstraction and bring him back to reality .
Faith be tell Una of her meeting with Rosemary .
`` She be just lovely , I think , '' say Faith .
`` Just as nice a Mrs. Blythe -- but different .
I felt a if I want to hug her .
She do hug ME -- such a nice , velvety hug .
And she call me ` dearest . '
It THRILLED me .
I could tell her ANYTHING . ''
`` So you like Miss West , Faith ? ''
Mr. Meredith ask , with a rather odd intonation .
`` I love her , '' cry Faith .
`` Ah ! ''
say Mr. Meredith .
`` Ah ! ''
CHAPTER XXI .
THE IMPOSSIBLE WORD John Meredith walk meditatively through the clear crispness of a winter night in Rainbow Valley .
The hill beyond glisten with the chill splendid lustre of moonlight on snow .
Every little fir tree in the long valley sing it own wild song to the harp of wind and frost .
His child and the Blythe lad and lass be coast down the eastern slope and whizzing over the glassy pond .
They be have a glorious time and their gay voice and gayer laughter echo up and down the valley , die away in elfin cadence among the tree .
On the right the light of Ingleside gleam through the maple grove with the genial lure and invitation which seem always to glow in the beacon of a home where we know there be love and good-cheer and a welcome for all kin , whether of flesh or spirit .
Mr. Meredith like very well on occasion to spend an evening argue with the doctor by the drift wood fire , where the famous china dog of Ingleside keep ceaseless watch and ward , a become deity of the hearth , but to-night he do not look that way .
Far on the western hill gleam a paler but more alluring star .
Mr. Meredith be on his way to see Rosemary West , and he mean to tell her something which have be slowly blossom in his heart since their first meeting and have spring into full flower on the evening when Faith have so warmly voice her admiration for Rosemary .
He have come to realize that he have learn to care for Rosemary .
Not a he have care for Cecilia , of course .
THAT be entirely different .
That love of romance and dream and glamour could never , he think , return .
But Rosemary be beautiful and sweet and dear -- very dear .
She be the best of companion .
He be happier in her company than he have ever expect to be again .
She would be an ideal mistress for his home , a good mother to his child .
During the year of his widowhood Mr. Meredith have receive innumerable hint from brother member of Presbytery and from many parishioner who could not be suspect of any ulterior motive , as well a from some who could , that he ought to marry again : But these hint never make any impression on him .
It be commonly think he be never aware of them .
But he be quite acutely aware of them .
And in his own occasional visitation of common sense he know that the common sensible thing for him to do be to marry .
But common sense be not the strong point of John Meredith , and to choose out , deliberately and cold-bloodedly , some `` suitable '' woman , a one might choose a housekeeper or a business partner , be something he be quite incapable of do .
How he hat that word `` suitable . ''
It remind him so strongly of James Perry .
`` A SUIT able woman of SUIT able age , '' that unctuous brother of the cloth have say , in his far from subtle hint .
For the moment John Meredith have have a perfectly unbelievable desire to rush madly away and propose marriage to the young , most unsuitable woman it be possible to discover .
Mrs. Marshall Elliott be his good friend and he like her .
But when she have bluntly tell him he should marry again he felt a if she have tear away the veil that hung before some sacred shrine of his innermost life , and he have be more or less afraid of her ever since .
He know there be woman in his congregation `` of suitable age '' who would marry him quite readily .
That fact have seep through all his abstraction very early in his ministry in Glen St. Mary .
They be good , substantial , uninteresting woman , one or two fairly comely , the others not exactly so and John Meredith would as soon have think of marry any one of them a of hang himself .
He have some ideal to which no seeming necessity could make him false .
He could ask no woman to fill Cecilia 's place in his home unless he could offer her at least some of the affection and homage he have give to his girlish bride .
And where , in his limited feminine acquaintance , be such a woman to be find ?
Rosemary West have come into his life on that autumn even bring with her an atmosphere in which his spirit recognize native air .
Across the gulf of strangerhood they clasp hand of friendship .
He know her better in that ten minute by the hidden spring than he know Emmeline Drew or Elizabeth Kirk or Amy Annetta Douglas in a year , or could know them , in a century .
He have flee to her for comfort when Mrs. Alec Davis have outrage his mind and soul and have find it .
Since then he have go often to the house on the hill , slip through the shadowy path of night in Rainbow Valley so astutely that Glen gossip could never be absolutely certain that he DID go to see Rosemary West .
Once or twice he have be catch in the West living room by other visitor ; that be all the Ladies ' Aid have to go by .
But when Elizabeth Kirk hear it she put away a secret hope she have allow herself to cherish , without a change of expression on her kind plain face , and Emmeline Drew resolve that the next time she saw a certain old bachelor of Lowbridge she would not snub him a she have do at a previous meeting .
Of course , if Rosemary West be out to catch the minister she would catch him ; she look young than she be and MEN think her pretty ; besides , the West girl have money !
`` It be to be hop that he wo n't be so absent-minded a to propose to Ellen by mistake , '' be the only malicious thing she allow herself to say to a sympathetic sister Drew .
Emmeline bore no further grudge towards Rosemary .
When all be say and do , an unencumbered bachelor be far good than a widower with four child .
It have be only the glamour of the manse that have temporarily blind Emmeline 's eye to the good part .
A sled with three shriek occupant speed past Mr. Meredith to the pond .
Faith 's long curl stream in the wind and her laughter rang above that of the others .
John Meredith look after them kindly and longingly .
He be glad that his child have such chum a the Blythes -- glad that they have so wise and gay and tender a friend a Mrs. Blythe .
But they need something more , and that something would be supply when he bring Rosemary West a a bride to the old manse .
There be in her a quality essentially maternal .
It be Saturday night and he do not often go call on Saturday night , which be suppose to be dedicate to a thoughtful revision of Sunday 's sermon .
But he have choose this night because he have learn that Ellen West be go to be away and Rosemary would be alone .
Often a he have spend pleasant evening in the house on the hill he have never , since that first meeting at the spring , see Rosemary alone .
Ellen have always be there .
He do not precisely object to Ellen be there .
He like Ellen West very much and they be the best of friend .
Ellen have an almost masculine understanding and a sense of humour which his own shy , hidden appreciation of fun find very agreeable .
He like her interest in politics and world event .
There be no man in the Glen , not even except Dr. Blythe , who have a good grasp of such thing .
`` I think it be just as well to be interested in thing as long a you live , '' she have say .
`` If you 're not , it do n't seem to me that there 's much difference between the quick and the dead . ''
He like her pleasant , deep , rumbly voice ; he like the hearty laugh with which she always end up some jolly and well-told story .
She never give him dig about his child a other Glen woman do ; she never bore him with local gossip ; she have no malice and no pettiness .
She be always splendidly sincere .
Mr. Meredith , who have pick up Miss Cornelia 's way of classify people , consider that Ellen belong to the race of Joseph .
Altogether , an admirable woman for a sister-in-law .
Nevertheless , a man do not want even the most admirable of woman around when he be propose to another woman .
And Ellen be always around .
She do not insist on talk to Mr. Meredith herself all the time .
She let Rosemary have a fair share of him .
Many evening , indeed , Ellen efface herself almost totally , sit back in the corner with St. George in her lap , and let Mr. Meredith and Rosemary talk and sing and read book together .
Sometimes they quite forget her presence .
But if their conversation or choice of duet ever betray the least tendency to what Ellen consider philandering , Ellen promptly nip that tendency in the bud and blot Rosemary out for the rest of the evening .
But not even the grim of amiable dragon can altogether prevent a certain subtle language of eye and smile and eloquent silence ; and so the minister 's courtship progress after a fashion .
But if it be ever to reach a climax that climax must come when Ellen be away .
And Ellen be so seldom away , especially in winter .
She find her own fireside the pleasant place in the world , she vow .
Gadding have no attraction for her .
She be fond of company but she want it at home .
Mr. Meredith have almost be drive to the conclusion that he must write to Rosemary what he want to say , when Ellen casually announce one evening that she be go to a silver wed next Saturday night .
She have be bridesmaid when the principal be marry .
Only old guest be invite , so Rosemary be not include .
Mr. Meredith prick up his ear a trifle and a gleam flash into his dreamy dark eye .
Both Ellen and Rosemary saw it ; and both Ellen and Rosemary felt , with a tingling shock , that Mr. Meredith would certainly come up the hill next Saturday night .
`` Might as well have it over with , St. George , '' Ellen sternly tell the black cat , after Mr. Meredith have go home and Rosemary have silently go upstairs .
`` He mean to ask her , St. George -- I 'm perfectly sure of that .
So he might as well have his chance to do it and find out he ca n't get her , George .
She 'd rather like to take him , Saint .
I know that -- but she promise , and she 's get to keep her promise .
I 'm rather sorry in some way , St. George .
I do n't know of a man I 'd sooner have for a brother-in-law if a brother-in-law be convenient .
I have n't a thing against him , Saint -- not a thing except that he wo n't see and ca n't be make to see that the Kaiser be a menace to the peace of Europe .
That 's HIS blind spot .
But he 's good company and I like him .
A woman can say anything she like to a man with a mouth like John Meredith 's and be sure of not be misunderstood .
Such a man be more precious than ruby , Saint -- and much rarer , George .
But he ca n't have Rosemary -- and I suppose when he find out he ca n't have her he 'll drop u both .
And we 'll miss him , Saint -- we 'll miss him something scandalous , George .
But she promise , and I 'll see that she keep her promise ! ''
Ellen 's face look almost ugly in it lowering resolution .
Upstairs Rosemary be cry into her pillow .
So Mr. Meredith find his lady alone and look very beautiful .
Rosemary have not make any special toilet for the occasion ; she want to , but she think it would be absurd to dress up for a man you mean to refuse .
So she wear her plain dark afternoon dress and look like a queen in it .
Her suppressed excitement colour her face to brilliancy , her great blue eye be pool of light less placid than usual .
She wish the interview be over .
She have look forward to it all day with dread .
She felt quite sure that John Meredith care a great deal for her after a fashion -- and she felt just a sure that he do not care for her a he have care for his first love .
She felt that her refusal would disappoint him considerably , but she do not think it would altogether overwhelm him .
Yet she hat to make it ; hat for his sake and -- Rosemary be quite honest with herself -- for her own .
She know she could have love John Meredith if -- if it have be permissible .
She know that life would be a blank thing if , reject a lover , he refuse long to be a friend .
She know that she could be very happy with him and that she could make him happy .
But between her and happiness stand the prison gate of the promise she have make to Ellen year ago .
Rosemary could not remember her father .
He have die when she be only three year old .
Ellen , who have be thirteen , remember him , but with no special tenderness .
He have be a stern , reserve man many year old than his fair , pretty wife .
Five year later their brother of twelve die also ; since his death the two girl have always live alone with their mother .
They have never mingle very freely in the social life of the Glen or Lowbridge , though where they go the wit and spirit of Ellen and the sweetness and beauty of Rosemary make them welcome guest .
Both have what be call `` a disappointment '' in their girlhood .
The sea have not give up Rosemary 's lover ; and Norman Douglas , then a handsome , red-haired young giant , note for wild driving and noisy though harmless escapade , have quarrel with Ellen and leave her in a fit of pique .
There be not lack candidate for both Martin 's and Norman 's place , but none seem to find favour in the eye of the West girl , who drift slowly out of youth and bellehood without any seeming regret .
They be devote to their mother , who be a chronic invalid .
The three have a little circle of home interest -- book and pet and flower -- which make them happy and content .
Mrs. West 's death , which occur on Rosemary 's twenty-fifth birthday , be a bitter grief to them .
At first they be intolerably lonely .
Ellen , especially , continue to grieve and brood , her long , moody musing break only by fit of stormy , passionate weeping .
The old Lowbridge doctor tell Rosemary that he fear permanent melancholy or bad .
Once , when Ellen have sit all day , refuse either to speak or eat , Rosemary have fling herself on her knee by her sister 's side .
`` Oh , Ellen , you have me yet , '' she say imploringly .
`` Am I nothing to you ?
We have always love each other so . ''
`` I wo n't have you always , '' Ellen have say , break her silence with harsh intensity .
`` You will marry and leave me .
I shall be leave all alone .
I can not bear the thought -- I CAN NOT .
I would rather die . ''
`` I will never marry , '' say Rosemary , `` never , Ellen . ''
Ellen bent forward and look searchingly into Rosemary 's eye .
`` Will you promise me that solemnly ? ''
she say .
`` Promise it on mother 's Bible . ''
Rosemary assent at once , quite willing to humour Ellen .
What do it matter ?
She know quite well she would never want to marry any one .
Her love have go down with Martin Crawford to the deep of the sea ; and without love she could not marry any one .
So she promise readily , though Ellen make rather a fearsome rite of it .
They clasp hand over the Bible , in their mother 's vacant room , and both vow to each other that they would never marry and would always live together .
Ellen 's condition improve from that hour .
She soon regain her normal cheery poise .
For ten year she and Rosemary live in the old house happily , undisturbed by any thought of marry or give in marriage .
Their promise sit very lightly on them .
Ellen never fail to remind her sister of it whenever any eligible male creature cross their path , but she have never be really alarm until John Meredith come home that night with Rosemary .
As for Rosemary , Ellen 's obsession regard that promise have always be a little matter of mirth to her -- until lately .
Now , it be a merciless fetter , self-imposed but never to be shake off .
Because of it to-night she must turn her face from happiness .
It be true that the shy , sweet , rosebud love she have give to her boy-lover she could never give to another .
But she know now that she could give to John Meredith a love rich and more womanly .
She know that he touch deep in her nature that Martin have never touch -- that have not , perhaps , be in the girl of seventeen to touch .
And she must send him away to-night -- send him back to his lonely hearth and his empty life and his heart-breaking problem , because she have promise Ellen , ten year before , on their mother 's Bible , that she would never marry .
John Meredith do not immediately grasp his opportunity .
On the contrary , he talk for two good hour on the least lover-like of subject .
He even try politics , though politics always bore Rosemary .
The later begin to think that she have be altogether mistake , and her fear and expectation suddenly seem to her grotesque .
She felt flat and foolish .
The glow go out of her face and the lustre out of her eye .
John Meredith have not the slight intention of ask her to marry him .
And then , quite suddenly , he rise , come across the room , and standing by her chair , he ask it .
The room have grow terribly still .
Even St. George cease to purr .
Rosemary hear her own heart beating and be sure John Meredith must hear it too .
Now be the time for her to say no , gently but firmly .
She have be ready for day with her stilted , regretful little formula .
And now the word of it have completely vanish from her mind .
She have to say no -- and she suddenly find she could not say it .
It be the impossible word .
She know now that it be not that she COULD have love John Meredith , but that she DID love him .
The thought of put him from her life be agony .
She must say SOMETHING ; she lift her bow golden head and ask him stammeringly to give her a few day for -- for consideration .
John Meredith be a little surprised .
He be not vainer than any man have a right to be , but he have expect that Rosemary West would say yes .
He have be tolerably sure she care for him .
Then why this doubt -- this hesitation ?
She be not a school girl to be uncertain a to her own mind .
He felt an ugly shock of disappointment and dismay .
But he assent to her request with his unfailing gentle courtesy and go away at once .
`` I will tell you in a few day , '' say Rosemary , with downcast eye and burn face .
When the door shut behind him she go back into the room and wring her hand .
CHAPTER XXII .
ST. GEORGE KNOWS ALL ABOUT IT At midnight Ellen West be walk home from the Pollock silver wedding .
She have stay a little while after the other guest have go , to help the gray-haired bride wash the dish .
The distance between the two house be not far and the road good , so that Ellen be enjoy the walk back home in the moonlight .
The evening have be a pleasant one .
Ellen , who have not be to a party for year , find it very pleasant .
All the guest have be member of her old set and there be no intrusive youth to spoil the flavour , for the only son of the bride and groom be far away at college and could not be present .
Norman Douglas have be there and they have meet socially for the first time in year , though she have see him once or twice in church that winter .
Not the least sentiment be awaken in Ellen 's heart by their meeting .
She be accustom to wonder , when she think about it at all , how she could ever have fancy him or felt so badly over his sudden marriage .
But she have rather like meeting him again .
She have forget how bracing and stimulate he could be .
No gathering be ever stagnant when Norman Douglas be present .
Everybody have be surprise when Norman come .
It be well know he never go anywhere .
The Pollocks have invite him because he have be one of the original guest , but they never think he would come .
He have take his second cousin , Amy Annetta Douglas , out to supper and seem rather attentive to her .
But Ellen sit across the table from him and have a spirit argument with him -- an argument during which all his shouting and banter could not fluster her and in which she come off best , floor Norman so composedly and so completely that he be silent for ten minute .
At the end of which time he have mutter in his ruddy beard -- `` spunky a ever -- spunky a ever '' -- and begin to hector Amy Annetta , who giggle foolishly over his sally where Ellen would have retort bitingly .
Ellen think these thing over a she walk home , taste them with reminiscent relish .
The moonlit air sparkle with frost .
The snow crisp under her foot .
Below her lay the Glen with the white harbour beyond .
There be a light in the manse study .
So John Meredith have go home .
Had he ask Rosemary to marry him ?
And after what fashion have she make her refusal know ?
Ellen felt that she would never know this , though she be quite curious .
She be sure Rosemary would never tell her anything about it and she would not dare to ask .
She must just be content with the fact of the refusal .
After all , that be the only thing that really matter .
`` I hope he 'll have sense enough to come back once in a while and be friendly , '' she say to herself .
She dislike so much to be alone that think aloud be one of her device for circumvent unwelcome solitude .
`` It 's awful never to have a man-body with some brain to talk to once in a while .
And like a not he 'll never come near the house again .
There 's Norman Douglas , too -- I like that man , and I 'd like to have a good rousing argument with him now and then .
But he 'd never dare come up for fear people would think he be court me again -- for fear I 'D think it , too , most likely -- though he 's more a stranger to me now than John Meredith .
It seem like a dream that we could ever have be beaus .
But there it be -- there 's only two men in the Glen I 'd ever want to talk to -- and what with gossip and this wretched love-making business it 's not likely I 'll ever see either of them again .
I could , '' say Ellen , address the unmoved star with a spiteful emphasis , `` I could have make a good world myself . ''
She pause at her gate with a sudden vague feeling of alarm .
There be still a light in the living-room and to and fro across the window-shades go the shadow of a woman walk restlessly up and down .
What be Rosemary do up at this hour of the night ?
And why be she stride about like a lunatic ?
Ellen go softly in .
As she open the hall door Rosemary come out of the room .
She be flush and breathless .
An atmosphere of stress and passion hung about her like a garment .
`` Why be n't you in bed , Rosemary ? ''
demand Ellen .
`` Come in here , '' say Rosemary intensely .
`` I want to tell you something . ''
Ellen composedly remove her wrap and overshoe , and follow her sister into the warm , fire-lighted room .
She stand with her hand on the table and wait .
She be look very handsome herself , in her own grim , black-browed style .
The new black velvet dress , with it train and V-neck , which she have make purposely for the party , become her stately , massive figure .
She wear coiled around her neck the rich heavy necklace of amber bead which be a family heirloom .
Her walk in the frosty air have sting her cheek into a glowing scarlet .
But her steel-blue eye be a icy and unyielding a the sky of the winter night .
She stand wait in a silence which Rosemary could break only by a convulsive effort .
`` Ellen , Mr. Meredith be here this evening . ''
`` Yes ? ''
`` And -- and -- he ask me to marry him . ''
`` So I expect .
Of course , you refuse him ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Rosemary . ''
Ellen clench her hand and take an involuntary step forward .
`` Do you mean to tell me that you accept him ? ''
`` No -- no . ''
Ellen recover her self-command .
`` What DID you do then ? ''
`` I -- I ask him to give me a few day to think it over . ''
`` I hardly see why that be necessary , '' say Ellen , coldly contemptuous , `` when there be only the one answer you can make him . ''
Rosemary hold out her hand beseechingly .
`` Ellen , '' she say desperately , `` I love John Meredith -- I want to be his wife .
Will you set me free from that promise ? ''
`` No , '' say Ellen , merciless , because she be sick from fear .
`` Ellen -- Ellen -- '' `` Listen , '' interrupt Ellen .
`` I do not ask you for that promise .
You offer it . ''
`` I know -- I know .
But I do not think then that I could ever care for anyone again . ''
`` You offer it , '' go on Ellen unmovably .
`` You promise it over our mother 's Bible .
It be more than a promise -- it be an oath .
Now you want to break it . ''
`` I only ask you to set me free from it , Ellen . ''
`` I will not do it .
A promise be a promise in my eye .
I will not do it .
Break your promise -- be forswear if you will -- but it shall not be with any assent of mine . ''
`` You be very hard on me , Ellen . ''
`` Hard on you !
And what of me ?
Have you ever give a thought to what my loneliness would be here if you leave me ?
I could not bear it -- I would go crazy .
I CAN NOT live alone .
Have n't I be a good sister to you ?
Have I ever oppose any wish of yours ?
Have n't I indulge you in everything ? ''
`` Yes -- yes . ''
`` Then why do you want to leave me for this man whom you have n't see a year ago ? ''
`` I love him , Ellen . ''
`` Love !
You talk like a school miss instead of a middle-aged woman .
He do n't love you .
He want a housekeeper and a governess .
You do n't love him .
You want to be ` Mrs. ' -- you be one of those weak-minded woman who think it 's a disgrace to be rank a an old maid .
That 's all there be to it . ''
Rosemary quiver .
Ellen could not , or would not , understand .
There be no use argue with her .
`` So you wo n't release me , Ellen ? ''
`` No , I wo n't .
And I wo n't talk of it again .
You promise and you 've get to keep your word .
That 's all .
Go to bed .
Look at the time !
You 're all romantic and work up .
To-morrow you 'll be more sensible .
At any rate , do n't let me hear any more of this nonsense .
Go . ''
Rosemary go without another word , pale and spiritless .
Ellen walk stormily about the room for a few minute , then pause before the chair where St. George have be calmly sleep through the whole evening .
A reluctant smile overspread her dark face .
There have be only one time in her life -- the time of her mother 's death -- when Ellen have not be able to temper tragedy with comedy .
Even in that long ago bitterness , when Norman Douglas have , after a fashion , jilt her , she have laugh at herself quite as often a she have cry .
`` I expect there 'll be some sulking , St. George .
Yes , Saint , I expect we be in for a few unpleasant foggy day .
Well , we 'll weather them through , George .
We 've deal with foolish child before , Saint .
Rosemary 'll sulk a while -- and then she 'll get over it -- and all will be a before , George .
She promise -- and she 's get to keep her promise .
And that 's the last word on the subject I 'll say to you or her or anyone , Saint . ''
But Ellen lay savagely awake till morning .
There be no sulking , however .
Rosemary be pale and quiet the next day , but beyond that Ellen could detect no difference in her .
Certainly , she seem to bear Ellen no grudge .
It be stormy , so no mention be make of go to church .
In the afternoon Rosemary shut herself in her room and write a note to John Meredith .
She could not trust herself to say `` no '' in person .
She felt quite sure that if he suspect she be say `` no '' reluctantly he would not take it for an answer , and she could not face plead or entreaty .
She must make him think she care nothing at all for him and she could do that only by letter .
She write him the stiff , cool little refusal imaginable .
It be barely courteous ; it certainly leave no loophole of hope for the bold lover -- and John Meredith be anything but that .
He shrink into himself , hurt and mortify , when he read Rosemary 's letter next day in his dusty study .
But under his mortification a dreadful realization presently make itself felt .
He have think he do not love Rosemary as deeply a he have love Cecilia .
Now , when he have lose her , he know that he do .
She be everything to him -- everything !
And he must put her out of his life completely .
Even friendship be impossible now .
Life stretch before him in intolerable dreariness .
He must go on -- there be his work -- his child -- but the heart have go out of him .
He sit alone all that even in his dark , cold , comfortless study with his head bow on his hand .
Up on the hill Rosemary have a headache and go early to bed , while Ellen remark to St. George , purr his disdain of foolish humankind , who do not know that a soft cushion be the only thing that really matter , `` What would woman do if headache have never be invent , St. George ?
But never mind , Saint .
We 'll just wink the other eye for a few week .
I admit I do n't feel comfortable myself , George .
I feel a if I have drown a kitten .
But she promise , Saint -- and she be the one to offer it , George .
Bismillah ! ''
CHAPTER XXIII .
THE GOOD-CONDUCT CLUB A light rain have be fall all day -- a little , delicate , beautiful spring rain , that somehow seem to hint and whisper of mayflower and waken violet .
The harbour and the gulf and the low-lying shore field have be dim with pearl-gray mist .
But now in the even the rain have cease and the mist have blow out to sea .
Clouds sprinkle the sky over the harbour like little fiery rose .
Beyond it the hill be dark against a spendthrift splendour of daffodil and crimson .
A great silvery even star be watch over the bar .
A brisk , dance , new-sprung wind be blow up from Rainbow Valley , resinous with the odour of fir and damp moss .
It croon in the old spruce around the graveyard and ruffle Faith 's splendid curl a she sit on Hezekiah Pollock 's tombstone with her arm round Mary Vance and Una .
Carl and Jerry be sit opposite them on another tombstone and all be rather full of mischief after be cooped up all day .
`` The air just SHINES to-night , do n't it ?
It 's be wash so clean , you see , '' say Faith happily .
Mary Vance eye her gloomily .
Knowing what she know , or fancy she know , Mary consider that Faith be far too light-hearted .
Mary have something on her mind to say and she mean to say it before she go home .
Mrs. Elliott have send her up to the manse with some new-laid egg , and have tell her not to stay long than half an hour .
The half hour be nearly up , so Mary uncurl her cramped leg from under her and say abruptly , `` Never mind about the air .
Just you listen to me .
You manse young one have just get to behave yourselves good than you 've be do this spring -- that 's all there be to it .
I just come up to-night a-purpose to tell you so .
The way people be talk about you be awful . ''
`` What have we be do now ? ''
cry Faith in amazement , pull her arm away from Mary .
Una 's lip tremble and her sensitive little soul shrank within her .
Mary be always so brutally frank .
Jerry begin to whistle out of bravado .
He mean to let Mary see he do n't care for HER tirade .
Their behaviour be no business of HERS anyway .
What right have SHE to lecture them on their conduct ?
`` Doing now !
You 're do ALL the time , '' retort Mary .
`` Just as soon a the talk about one of your dido fade away you do something else to start it up again .
It seem to me you have n't any idea of how manse child ought to behave ! ''
`` Maybe YOU can tell u , '' say Jerry , killingly sarcastic .
Sarcasm be quite thrown away on Mary . ''
I can tell you what will happen if you do n't learn to behave yourselves .
The session will ask your father to resign .
There now , Master Jerry-know-it-all .
Mrs. Alec Davis say so to Mrs. Elliott .
I hear her .
I always have my ear prick up when Mrs. Alec Davis come to tea .
She say you be all go from bad to worse and that though it be only what be to be expect when you have nobody to bring you up , still the congregation could n't be expect to put up with it much longer , and something would have to be do .
The Methodists just laugh and laugh at you , and that hurt the Presbyterian feeling .
SHE say you all need a good dose of birch tonic .
Lor ' , if that would make folk good I oughter be a young saint .
I 'm not tell you this because I want to hurt YOUR feeling .
I 'm sorry for you '' -- Mary be past mistress of the gentle art of condescension . ''
I understand that you have n't much chance , the way thing be .
But other people do n't make as much allowance a I do .
Miss Drew say Carl have a frog in his pocket in Sunday School last Sunday and it hop out while she be hear the lesson .
She say she 's go to give up the class .
Why do n't you keep your insecks home ? ''
`` I pop it right back in again , '' say Carl .
`` It do n't hurt anybody -- a poor little frog !
And I wish old Jane Drew WOULD give up our class .
I hate her .
Her own nephew have a dirty plug of tobacco in his pocket and offer u fellows a chew when Elder Clow be pray .
I guess that 's bad than a frog . ''
`` No , 'cause frog be more unexpected-like .
They make more of a sensation .
` Sides , he be n't catch at it .
And then that pray competition you have last week have make a fearful scandal .
Everybody be talk about it . ''
`` Why , the Blythes be in that as well a u , '' cry Faith , indignantly .
`` It be Nan Blythe who suggest it in the first place .
And Walter take the prize . ''
`` Well , you get the credit of it any way .
It would n't have be so bad if you have n't have it in the graveyard . ''
`` I should think a graveyard be a very good place to pray in , '' retort Jerry .
`` Deacon Hazard drive past when YOU be pray , '' say Mary , `` and he saw and hear you , with your hand fold over your stomach , and groaning after every sentence .
He think you be make fun of HIM . ''
`` So I be , '' declare unabashed Jerry .
`` Only I do n't know he be go by , of course .
That be just a mean accident .
I be n't pray in real earnest -- I know I have no chance of win the prize .
So I be just get what fun I could out of it .
Walter Blythe can pray bully .
Why , he can pray as well a dad . ''
`` Una be the only one of US who really like praying , '' say Faith pensively .
`` Well , if praying scandalizes people so much we must n't do it any more , '' sigh Una .
`` Shucks , you can pray all you want to , only not in the graveyard -- and do n't make a game of it .
That be what make it so bad -- that , and have a tea-party on the tombstone . ''
`` We have n't . ''
`` Well , a soap-bubble party then .
You have SOMETHING .
The over-harbour people swear you have a tea-party , but I 'm willing to take your word .
And you use this tombstone a a table . ''
`` Well , Martha would n't let u blow bubble in the house .
She be awful cross that day , '' explain Jerry .
`` And this old slab make such a jolly table . ''
`` Were n't they pretty ? ''
cry Faith , her eye sparkle over the remembrance .
`` They reflect the tree and the hill and the harbour like little fairy world , and when we shake them loose they float away down to Rainbow Valley . ''
`` All but one and it go over and bust up on the Methodist spire , '' say Carl .
`` I 'm glad we do it once , anyhow , before we find out it be wrong , '' say Faith .
`` It would n't have be wrong to blow them on the lawn , '' say Mary impatiently .
`` Seems like I ca n't knock any sense into your head .
You 've be tell often enough you should n't play in the graveyard .
The Methodists be sensitive about it . ''
`` We forget , '' say Faith dolefully .
`` And the lawn be so small -- and so caterpillary -- and so full of shrub and thing .
We ca n't be in Rainbow Valley all the time -- and where be we to go ? ''
`` It 's the thing you DO in the graveyard .
It would n't matter if you just sit here and talk quiet , same a we 're do now .
Well , I do n't know what be go to come of it all , but I DO know that Elder Warren be go to speak to your pa about it .
Deacon Hazard be his cousin . ''
`` I wish they would n't bother father about u , '' say Una .
`` Well , people think he ought to bother himself about you a little more .
I do n't -- I understand him .
He 's a child in some way himself -- that 's what he be , and need some one to look after him as bad a you do .
Well , perhaps he 'll have some one before long , if all tale be true . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
ask Faith .
`` Have n't you get any idea -- honest ? ''
demand Mary .
`` No , no .
What DO you mean ? ''
`` Well , you be a lot of innocent , upon my word .
Why , EVERYbody be talk of it .
Your pa go to see Rosemary West .
SHE be go to be your step-ma . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' cry Una , flush crimson .
`` Well , I dunno .
I just go by what folk say .
I do n't give it for a fact .
But it would be a good thing .
Rosemary West 'd make you toe the mark if she come here , I 'll bet a cent , for all she 's so sweet and smiley on the face of her .
They 're always that way till they 've catch them .
But you need some one to bring you up .
You 're disgrace your pa and I feel for him .
I 've always think an awful lot of your pa ever since that night he talk to me so nice .
I 've never say a single swear word since , or tell a lie .
And I 'd like to see him happy and comfortable , with his button on and his meal decent , and you young one lick into shape , and that old cat of a Martha put in HER proper place .
The way she look at the egg I bring her to-night . '
I hope they 're fresh , ' say she .
I just wish they WAS rotten .
But you just mind that she give you all one for breakfast , include your pa .
Make a fuss if she do n't .
That be what they be send up for -- but I do n't trust old Martha .
She 's quite capable of feed 'em to her cat . ''
Mary 's tongue be temporarily tire , a brief silence fell over the graveyard .
The manse child do not feel like talk .
They be digest the new and not altogether palatable idea Mary have suggest to them .
Jerry and Carl be somewhat startle .
But , after all , what do it matter ?
And it be n't likely there be a word of truth in it .
Faith , on the whole , be pleased .
Only Una be seriously upset .
She felt that she would like to get away and cry .
`` Will there be any star in my crown ? ''
sing the Methodist choir , begin to practise in the Methodist church . ''
I want just three , '' say Mary , whose theological knowledge have increase notably since her residence with Mrs. Elliott .
`` Just three -- set up on my head , like a corownet , a big one in the middle and a small one each side . ''
`` Are there different size in soul ? ''
ask Carl .
`` Of course .
Why , little baby must have small one than big men .
Well , it 's get dark and I must scoot home .
Mrs. Elliott do n't like me to be out after dark .
Laws , when I live with Mrs. Wiley the dark be just the same a the daylight to me .
I do n't mind it no more 'n a gray cat .
Them day seem a hundred year ago .
Now , you mind what I 've say and try to behave yourselves , for you pa 's sake .
I 'LL always back you up and defend you -- you can be dead sure of that .
Mrs. Elliott say she never saw the like of me for stick up for my friend .
I be real sassy to Mrs. Alec Davis about you and Mrs. Elliott comb me down for it afterwards .
The fair Cornelia have a tongue of her own and no mistake .
But she be pleased underneath for all , 'cause she hat old Kitty Alec and she 's real fond of you .
I can see through folk . ''
Mary sail off , excellently well pleased with herself , leave a rather depressed little group behind her .
`` Mary Vance always say something that make u feel bad when she come up , '' say Una resentfully .
`` I wish we 'd leave her to starve in the old barn , '' say Jerry vindictively .
`` Oh , that 's wicked , Jerry , '' rebuke Una .
`` May as well have the game a the name , '' retort unrepentant Jerry .
`` If people say we 're so bad let 's BE bad . ''
`` But not if it hurt father , '' plead Faith .
Jerry squirm uncomfortably .
He adore his father .
Through the unshaded study window they could see Mr. Meredith at his desk .
He do not seem to be either read or write .
His head be in his hand and there be something in his whole attitude that spoke of weariness and dejection .
The child suddenly felt it .
`` I dare say somebody 's be worry him about u to-day , '' say Faith .
`` I wish we COULD get along without make people talk .
Oh -- Jem Blythe !
How you scar me ! ''
Jem Blythe have slip into the graveyard and sit down beside the girl .
He have be prowl about Rainbow Valley and have succeed in find the first little star-white cluster of arbutus for his mother .
The manse child be rather silent after his come .
Jem be begin to grow away from them somewhat this spring .
He be study for the entrance examination of Queen 's Academy and stay after school with the old pupil for extra lesson .
Also , his evening be so full of work that he seldom join the others in Rainbow Valley now .
He seem to be drift away into grown-up land .
`` What be the matter with you all to-night ? ''
he ask .
`` There 's no fun in you . ''
`` Not much , '' agree Faith dolefully .
`` There would n't be much fun in you either if YOU know you be disgrace your father and make people talk about you . ''
`` Who 's be talk about you now ? ''
`` Everybody -- so Mary Vance say . ''
And Faith pour out her trouble to sympathetic Jem .
`` You see , '' she conclude dolefully , `` we 've nobody to bring u up .
And so we get into scrape and people think we 're bad . ''
`` Why do n't you bring yourselves up ? ''
suggest Jem .
`` I 'll tell you what to do .
Form a Good-Conduct Club and punish yourselves every time you do anything that 's not right . ''
`` That 's a good idea , '' say Faith , strike by it .
`` But , '' she add doubtfully , `` thing that do n't seem a bit of harm to US seem simply dreadful to other people .
How can we tell ?
We ca n't be bother father all the time -- and he have to be away a lot , anyhow . ''
`` You could mostly tell if you stop to think a thing over before do it and ask yourselves what the congregation would say about it , '' say Jem .
`` The trouble be you just rush into thing and do n't think them over at all .
Mother say you 're all too impulsive , just a she use to be .
The Good-Conduct Club would help you to think , if you be fair and honest about punish yourselves when you break the rule .
You 'd have to punish in some way that really HURT , or it would n't do any good . ''
`` Whip each other ? ''
`` Not exactly .
You 'd have to think up different way of punishment to suit the person .
You would n't punish each other -- you 'd punish YOURSELVES .
I read all about such a club in a story-book .
You try it and see how it work . ''
`` Let 's , '' say Faith ; and when Jem be go they agree they would .
`` If thing be n't right we 've just get to make them right , '' say Faith , resolutely .
`` We 've get to be fair and square , a Jem say , '' say Jerry .
`` This be a club to bring ourselves up , see there 's nobody else to do it .
There 's no use in have many rule .
Let 's just have one and any of u that break it have get to be punish hard . ''
`` But HOW . ''
`` We 'll think that up a we go along .
We 'll hold a session of the club here in the graveyard every night and talk over what we 've do through the day , and if we think we 've do anything that be n't right or that would disgrace dad the one that do it , or be responsible for it , must be punish .
That 's the rule .
We 'll all decide on the kind of punishment -- it must be make to fit the crime , a Mr. Flagg say .
And the one that 's , guilty will be bind to carry it out and no shirking .
There 's go to be fun in this , '' conclude Jerry , with a relish .
`` You suggest the soap-bubble party , '' say Faith .
`` But that be before we 'd form the club , '' say Jerry hastily .
`` Everything start from to-night . ''
`` But what if we ca n't agree on what 's right , or what the punishment ought to be ?
S'pose two of u think of one thing and two another .
There ought to be five in a club like this . ''
`` We can ask Jem Blythe to be umpire .
He be the square boy in Glen St. Mary .
But I guess we can settle our own affair mostly .
We want to keep this a much of a secret a we can .
Do n't breathe a word to Mary Vance .
She 'd want to join and do the bringing up . '' ''
I think , '' say Faith , `` that there 's no use in spoil every day by drag punishment in .
Let 's have a punishment day . ''
`` We 'd well choose Saturday because there be no school to interfere , '' suggest Una .
`` And spoil the one holiday in the week , '' cry Faith .
`` Not much !
No , let 's take Friday .
That 's fish day , anyhow , and we all hate fish .
We may as well have all the disagreeable thing in one day .
Then other day we can go ahead and have a good time . ''
`` Nonsense , '' say Jerry authoritatively .
`` Such a scheme would n't work at all .
We 'll just punish ourselves a we go along and keep a clear slate .
Now , we all understand , do n't we ?
This be a Good-Conduct Club , for the purpose of bring ourselves up .
We agree to punish ourselves for bad conduct , and always to stop before we do anything , no matter what , and ask ourselves if it be likely to hurt dad in any way , and any one who shirk be to be cast out of the club and never allow to play with the rest of u in Rainbow Valley again .
Jem Blythe to be umpire in case of dispute .
No more taking bug to Sunday School , Carl , and no more chewing gum in public , if you please , Miss Faith . ''
`` No more making fun of elder pray or go to the Methodist prayer meeting , '' retort Faith .
`` Why , it be n't any harm to go to the Methodist prayer meeting , '' protest Jerry in amazement .
`` Mrs. Elliott say it be , She say manse child have no business to go anywhere but to Presbyterian thing . ''
`` Darn it , I wo n't give up go to the Methodist prayer meeting , '' cry Jerry .
`` It 's ten time more fun than ours be . ''
`` You say a naughty word , '' cry Faith .
`` NOW , you 've get to punish yourself . ''
`` Not till it 's all down in black and white .
We 're only talk the club over .
It be n't really form until we 've write it out and sign it .
There 's get to be a constitution and by-laws .
And you KNOW there 's nothing wrong in go to a prayer meeting . ''
`` But it 's not only the wrong thing we 're to punish ourselves for , but anything that might hurt father . ''
`` It wo n't hurt anybody .
You know Mrs. Elliott be crack on the subject of Methodists .
Nobody else make any fuss about my go .
I always behave myself .
You ask Jem or Mrs. Blythe and see what they say .
I 'll abide by their opinion .
I 'm go for the paper now and I 'll bring out the lantern and we 'll all sign . ''
Fifteen minute later the document be solemnly sign on Hezekiah Pollock 's tombstone , on the centre of which stand the smoky manse lantern , while the child kneel around it .
Mrs. Elder Clow be go past at the moment and next day all the Glen heard that the manse child have be have another pray competition and have wound it up by chase each other all over the graf with a lantern .
This piece of embroidery be probably suggest by the fact that , after the signing and sealing be complete , Carl have take the lantern and have walk circumspectly to the little hollow to examine his ant-hill .
The others have go quietly into the manse and to bed .
`` Do you think it be true that father be go to marry Miss West ? ''
Una have tremulously ask of Faith , after their prayer have be say .
`` I do n't know , but I 'd like it , '' say Faith .
`` Oh , I would n't , '' say Una , chokingly .
`` She be nice the way she be .
But Mary Vance say it change people ALTOGETHER to be make stepmother .
They get horrid cross and mean and hateful then , and turn your father against you .
She say they 're sure to do that .
She never know it to fail in a single case . ''
`` I do n't believe Miss West would EVER try to do that , '' cry Faith .
`` Mary say ANYBODY would .
She know ALL about stepmother , Faith -- she say she 's see hundred of them -- and you 've never see one .
Oh , Mary have tell me blood-curdling thing about them .
She say she know of one who whip her husband 's little girl on their bare shoulder till they bleed , and then shut them up in a cold , dark coal cellar all night .
She say they 're ALL ache to do thing like that . ''
`` I do n't believe Miss West would .
You do n't know her as well a I do , Una .
Just think of that sweet little bird she send me .
I love it far more even than Adam . ''
`` It 's just be a stepmother change them .
Mary say they ca n't help it .
I would n't mind the whipping so much a have father hate u . ''
`` You know nothing could make father hate u .
Do n't be silly , Una .
I dare say there 's nothing to worry over .
Likely if we run our club right and bring ourselves up properly father wo n't think of marry any one .
And if he do , I KNOW Miss West will be lovely to u . ''
But Una have no such conviction and she cry herself to sleep .
CHAPTER XXIV .
A CHARITABLE IMPULSE For a fortnight thing run smoothly in the Good-Conduct Club .
It seem to work admirably .
Not once be Jem Blythe call in a umpire .
Not once do any of the manse child set the Glen gossip by the ear .
As for their minor peccadillo at home , they keep sharp tab on each other and gamely underwent their self-imposed punishment -- generally a voluntary absence from some gay Friday night frolic in Rainbow Valley , or a sojourn in bed on some spring evening when all young bone ache to be out and away .
Faith , for whisper in Sunday School , condemn herself to pass a whole day without speak a single word , unless it be absolutely necessary , and accomplish it .
It be rather unfortunate that Mr. Baker from over-harbour should have choose that even for call at the manse , and that Faith should have happen to go to the door .
Not one word do she reply to his genial greeting , but go silently away to call her father briefly .
Mr. Baker be slightly offend and tell his wife when he go home that that the big Meredith girl seem a very shy , sulky little thing , without manner enough to speak when she be speak to .
But nothing bad come of it , and generally their penance do no harm to themselves or anybody else .
All of them be begin to feel quite cocksure that after all , it be a very easy matter to bring yourself up .
`` I guess people will soon see that we can behave ourselves properly as well a anybody , '' say Faith jubilantly .
`` It be n't hard when we put our mind to it . ''
She and Una be sit on the Pollock tombstone .
It have be a cold , raw , wet day of spring storm and Rainbow Valley be out of the question for girl , though the manse and the Ingleside boy be down there fish .
The rain have hold up , but the east wind blow mercilessly in from the sea , cut to bone and marrow .
Spring be late in spite of it early promise , and there be even yet a hard drift of old snow and ice in the northern corner of the graveyard .
Lida Marsh , who have come up to bring the manse a mess of herring , slip in through the gate shivering .
She belong to the fishing village at the harbour mouth and her father have , for thirty year , make a practice of send a mess from his first spring catch to the manse .
He never darken a church door ; he be a hard drinker and a reckless man , but as long a he send those herring up to the manse every spring , a his father have do before him , he felt comfortably sure that his account with the Powers That Govern be square for the year .
He would not have expect a good mackerel catch if he have not so send the first fruit of the season .
Lida be a mite of ten and look young , because she be such a small , wizened little creature .
To-night , a she sidle boldly enough up to the manse girl , she look a if she have never be warm since she be bear .
Her face be purple and her pale-blue , bold little eye be red and watery .
She wear a tattered print dress and a ragged woollen comforter , tie across her thin shoulder and under her arm .
She have walk the three mile from the harbour mouth barefooted , over a road where there be still snow and slush and mud .
Her foot and leg be as purple a her face .
But Lida do not mind this much .
She be use to be cold , and she have be go barefooted for a month already , like all the other swarm young fry of the fishing village .
There be no self-pity in her heart a she sit down on the tombstone and grin cheerfully at Faith and Una .
Faith and Una grin cheerfully back .
They know Lida slightly , have meet her once or twice the precede summer when they have go down the harbour with the Blythes .
`` Hello ! ''
say Lida , `` ai n't this a fierce kind of a night ?
`` T'ain ' t fit for a dog to be out , be it ? ''
`` Then why be you out ? ''
ask Faith .
`` Pa make me bring you up some herring , '' return Lida .
She shiver , cough , and stick out her bare foot .
Lida be not think about herself or her foot , and be make no bid for sympathy .
She hold her foot out instinctively to keep them from the wet grass around the tombstone .
But Faith and Una be instantly swamp with a wave of pity for her .
She look so cold -- so miserable .
`` Oh , why be you barefooted on such a cold night ? ''
cry Faith .
`` Your foot must be almost frozen . ''
`` Pretty near , '' say Lida proudly .
`` I tell you it be fierce walk up that harbour road . ''
`` Why do n't you put on your shoe and stocking ? ''
ask Una .
`` Hai n't none to put on .
All I have be wear out by the time winter be over , '' say Lida indifferently .
For a moment Faith state in horror .
This be terrible .
Here be a little girl , almost a neighbour , half frozen because she have no shoe or stocking in this cruel spring weather .
Impulsive Faith thought of nothing but the dreadfulness of it .
In a moment she be pull off her own shoe and stocking .
`` Here , take these and put them right on , '' she say , force them into the hand of the astonished Lida .
`` Quick now .
You 'll catch your death of cold .
I 've get others .
Put them right on . ''
Lida , recover her wit , snatch at the offer gift , with a sparkle in her dull eye .
Sure she would put them on , and that mighty quick , before any one appear with authority to recall them .
In a minute she have pull the stocking over her scrawny little leg and slip Faith 's shoe over her thick little ankle .
`` I 'm oblige to you , '' she say , `` but wo n't your folk be cross ? ''
`` No -- and I do n't care if they be , '' say Faith .
`` Do you think I could see any one freezing to death without help them if I could ?
It would n't be right , especially when my father 's a minister . ''
`` Will you want them back ?
It 's awful cold down at the harbour mouth -- long after it 's warm up here , '' say Lida slyly .
`` No , you 're to keep them , of course .
That be what I mean when I give them .
I have another pair of shoe and plenty of stocking . ''
Lida have mean to stay awhile and talk to the girl about many thing .
But now she think she have well get away before somebody come and make her yield up her booty .
So she shuffle off through the bitter twilight , in the noiseless , shadowy way she have slip in .
As soon a she be out of sight of the manse she sit down , take off the shoe and stocking , and put them in her herring basket .
She have no intention of keep them on down that dirty harbour road .
They be to be keep good for gala occasion .
Not another little girl down at the harbour mouth have such fine black cashmere stocking and such smart , almost new shoe .
Lida be furnish forth for the summer .
She have no qualm in the matter .
In her eye the manse people be quite fabulously rich , and no doubt those girl have slathers of shoe and stocking .
Then Lida run down to the Glen village and play for an hour with the boy before Mr. Flagg 's store , splash about in a pool of slush with the mad of them , until Mrs. Elliott come along and bid her begone home .
`` I do n't think , Faith , that you should have do that , '' say Una , a little reproachfully , after Lida have go .
`` You 'll have to wear your good boot every day now and they 'll soon scuff out . ''
`` I do n't care , '' cry Faith , still in the fine glow of have do a kindness to a fellow creature .
`` It be n't fair that I should have two pair of shoe and poor little Lida Marsh not have any .
NOW we both have a pair .
You know perfectly well , Una , that father say in his sermon last Sunday that there be no real happiness in get or have -- only in give .
And it 's true .
I feel FAR happy now than I ever do in my whole life before .
Just think of Lida walk home this very minute with her poor little foot all nice and warm and comfy . ''
`` You know you have n't another pair of black cashmere stocking , '' say Una .
`` Your other pair be so full of hole that Aunt Martha say she could n't darn them any more and she cut the leg up for stove duster .
You 've nothing but those two pair of striped stocking you hate so . ''
All the glow and uplift go out of Faith .
Her gladness collapse like a pricked balloon .
She sit for a few dismal minute in silence , face the consequence of her rash act .
`` Oh , Una , I never think of that , '' she say dolefully .
`` I do n't stop to think at all . ''
The striped stocking be thick , heavy , coarse , ribbed stocking of blue and red which Aunt Martha have knit for Faith in the winter .
They be undoubtedly hideous .
Faith loathe them a she have never loathe anything before .
Wear them she certainly would not .
They be still unworn in her bureau drawer .
`` You 'll have to wear the striped stocking after this , '' say Una .
`` Just think how the boy in school will laugh at you .
You know how they laugh at Mamie Warren for her striped stocking and call her barber pole and yours be far bad . ''
`` I wo n't wear them , '' say Faith .
`` I 'll go barefooted first , cold a it be . ''
`` You ca n't go barefooted to church to-morrow .
Think what people would say . ''
`` Then I 'll stay home . ''
`` You ca n't .
You know very well Aunt Martha will make you go . ''
Faith do know this .
The one thing on which Aunt Martha trouble herself to insist be that they must all go to church , rain or shine .
How they be dress , or if they be dress at all , never concern her .
But go they must .
That be how Aunt Martha have be bring up seventy year ago , and that be how she mean to bring them up .
`` Have n't you get a pair you can lend me , Una ? ''
say poor Faith piteously .
Una shake her head .
`` No , you know I only have the one black pair .
And they 're so tight I can hardly get them on .
They would n't go on you .
Neither would my gray one .
Besides , the leg of THEM be all darned AND darn . ''
`` I wo n't wear those striped stocking , '' say Faith stubbornly .
`` The feel of them be even bad than the look .
They make me feel a if my leg be as big a barrel and they 're so SCRATCHY . ''
`` Well , I do n't know what you 're go to do . ''
`` If father be home I 'd go and ask him to get me a new pair before the store close .
But he wo n't be home till too late .
I 'll ask him Monday -- and I wo n't go to church tomorrow .
I 'll pretend I 'm sick and Aunt Martha 'll HAVE to let me stay home . ''
`` That would be act a lie , Faith , '' cry Una .
`` You CA N'T do that .
You know it would be dreadful .
What would father say if he know ?
Do n't you remember how he talk to u after mother die and tell u we must always be TRUE , no matter what else we fail in .
He say we must never tell or act a lie -- he say he 'd TRUST u not to .
You CA N'T do it , Faith .
Just wear the striped stocking .
It 'll only be for once .
Nobody will notice them in church .
It be n't like school .
And your new brown dress be so long they wo n't show much .
Was n't it lucky Aunt Martha make it big , so you 'd have room to grow in it , for all you hat it so when she finish it ? ''
`` I wo n't wear those stocking , '' repeat Faith .
She uncoil her bare , white leg from the tombstone and deliberately walk through the wet , cold grass to the bank of snow .
Setting her teeth , she step upon it and stand there .
`` What be you do ? ''
cry Una aghast .
`` You 'll catch your death of cold , Faith Meredith . ''
`` I 'm try to , '' answer Faith .
`` I hope I 'll catch a fearful cold and be AWFUL sick to-morrow .
Then I wo n't be act a lie .
I 'm go to stand here as long a I can bear it . ''
`` But , Faith , you might really die .
You might get pneumonia .
Please , Faith do n't .
Let 's go into the house and get SOMETHING for your foot .
Oh , here 's Jerry .
I 'm so thankful .
Jerry , MAKE Faith get off that snow .
Look at her foot . ''
`` Holy cat !
Faith , what ARE you do ? ''
demand Jerry .
`` Are you crazy ? ''
`` No .
Go away ! ''
snap Faith .
`` Then be you punish yourself for something ?
It be n't right , if you be .
You 'll be sick . ''
`` I want to be sick .
I 'm not punish myself .
Go away . ''
`` Where 's her shoe and stocking ? ''
ask Jerry of Una .
`` She give them to Lida Marsh . ''
`` Lida Marsh ?
What for ? ''
`` Because Lida have none -- and her foot be so cold .
And now she want to be sick so that she wo n't have to go to church to-morrow and wear her striped stocking .
But , Jerry , she may die . ''
`` Faith , '' say Jerry , `` get off that ice-bank or I 'll pull you off . ''
`` Pull away , '' dare Faith .
Jerry sprang at her and catch her arm .
He pull one way and Faith pull another .
Una run behind Faith and push .
Faith storm at Jerry to leave her alone .
Jerry storm back at her not to be a dizzy idiot ; and Una cry .
They make no end of noise and they be close to the road fence of the graveyard .
Henry Warren and his wife drove by and heard and saw them .
Very soon the Glen heard that the manse child have be have an awful fight in the graveyard and use most improper language .
Meanwhile , Faith have allow herself to be pull off the ice because her foot be ache so sharply that she be ready to get off any way .
They all go in amiably and go to bed .
Faith slept like a cherub and woke in the morning without a trace of a cold .
She felt that she could n't feign sickness and act a lie , after remember that long-ago talk with her father .
But she be still a fully determine a ever that she would not wear those abominable stocking to church .
CHAPTER XXV .
ANOTHER SCANDAL AND ANOTHER `` EXPLANATION '' Faith go early to Sunday School and be seat in the corner of her class pew before any one come .
Therefore , the dreadful truth do not burst upon any one until Faith leave the class pew near the door to walk up to the manse pew after Sunday School .
The church be already half fill and all who be sit near the aisle saw that the minister 's daughter have boot on but no stocking !
Faith 's new brown dress , which Aunt Martha have make from an ancient pattern , be absurdly long for her , but even so it do not meet her boot-tops .
Two good inch of bare white leg show plainly .
Faith and Carl sit alone in the manse pew .
Jerry have go into the gallery to sit with a chum and the Blythe girl have take Una with them .
The Meredith child be give to `` sit all over the church '' in this fashion and a great many people think it very improper .
The gallery especially , where irresponsible lad congregate and be know to whisper and suspect of chew tobacco during service , be no place , for a son of the manse .
But Jerry hat the manse pew at the very top of the church , under the eye of Elder Clow and his family .
He escape from it whenever he could .
Carl , absorb in watch a spider spin it web at the window , do not notice Faith 's leg .
She walk home with her father after church and he never notice them .
She get on the hat strip stocking before Jerry and Una arrive , so that for the time be none of the occupant of the manse know what she have do .
But nobody else in Glen St. Mary be ignorant of it .
The few who have not see soon heard .
Nothing else be talk of on the way home from church .
Mrs. Alec Davis say it be only what she expect , and the next thing you would see some of those young one come to church with no clothes on at all .
The president of the Ladies ' Aid decide that she would bring the matter up at the next Aid meeting , and suggest that they wait in a body on the minister and protest .
Miss Cornelia say that she , for her part , give up .
There be no use worrying over the manse fry any long .
Even Mrs. Dr. Blythe felt a little shocked , though she attribute the occurrence solely to Faith 's forgetfulness .
Susan could not immediately begin knit stocking for Faith because it be Sunday , but she have one set up before any one else be out of bed at Ingleside the next morning .
`` You need not tell me anything but that it be old Martha 's fault , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
she tell Anne .
`` I suppose that poor little child have no decent stocking to wear .
I suppose every stocking she have be in hole , a you know very well they generally be .
And I think , Mrs. Dr. dear , that the Ladies ' Aid would be good employ in knit some for them than in fight over the new carpet for the pulpit platform .
I be not a Ladies ' Aider , but I shall knit Faith two pair of stocking , out of this nice black yarn , as fast a my finger can move and that you may tie to .
Never shall I forget my sensation , Mrs. Dr. dear , when I saw a minister 's child walk up the aisle of our church with no stocking on .
I really do not know what way to look . ''
`` And the church be just full of Methodists yesterday , too , '' groan Miss Cornelia , who have come up to the Glen to do some shopping and run into Ingleside to talk the affair over .
`` I do n't know how it be , but just as sure a those manse child do something especially awful the church be sure to be crowd with Methodists .
I think Mrs. Deacon Hazard 's eye would drop out of her head .
When she come out of church she say , ` Well , that exhibition be no more than decent .
I do pity the Presbyterians . '
And we just have to TAKE it .
There be nothing one could say . ''
`` There be something I could have say , Mrs. Dr. dear , if I have hear her , '' say Susan grimly .
`` I would have say , for one thing , that in my opinion clean bare leg be quite as decent a hole .
And I would have say , for another , that the Presbyterians do not feel greatly in need of pity see that they have a minister who could PREACH and the Methodists have NOT .
I could have squelch Mrs. Deacon Hazard , Mrs. Dr dear , and that you may tie to . ''
`` I wish Mr. Meredith do n't preach quite so well and look after his family a little good , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` He could at least glance over his child before they go to church and see that they be quite properly clothe .
I 'm tired making excuse for him , believe ME . ''
Meanwhile , Faith 's soul be be harrow up in Rainbow Valley .
Mary Vance be there and , a usual , in a lecturing mood .
She give Faith to understand that she have disgrace herself and her father beyond redemption and that she , Mary Vance , be do with her .
`` Everybody '' be talk , and `` everybody '' say the same thing .
`` I simply feel that I ca n't associate with you any long , '' she conclude .
`` WE be go to associate with her then , '' cry Nan Blythe .
Nan secretly think Faith HAD do a awful thing , but she be n't go to let Mary Vance run matter in this high-handed fashion .
`` And if YOU be not you need n't come any more to Rainbow Valley , MISS Vance . ''
Nan and Di both put their arm around Faith and glare defiance at Mary .
The latter suddenly crumple up , sit down on a stump and begin to cry .
`` It ai n't that I do n't want to , '' she wail .
`` But if I keep in with Faith people 'll be say I put her up to do thing .
Some be say it now , true 's you live .
I ca n't afford to have such thing say of me , now that I 'm in a respectable place and try to be a lady .
And I never go bare-legged in church in my tough day .
I 'd never have think of do such a thing .
But that hateful old Kitty Alec say Faith have never be the same girl since that time I stay in the manse .
She say Cornelia Elliott will live to rue the day she take me in .
It hurt my feeling , I tell you .
But it 's Mr. Meredith I 'm really worry over . ''
`` I think you need n't worry about him , '' say Di scornfully .
`` It be n't likely necessary .
Now , Faith darling , stop cry and tell u why you do it . ''
Faith explain tearfully .
The Blythe girl sympathize with her , and even Mary Vance agree that it be a hard position to be in .
But Jerry , on whom the thing come like a thunderbolt , refuse to be placate .
So THIS be what some mysterious hint he have get in school that day mean !
He march Faith and Una home without ceremony , and the Good-Conduct Club hold an immediate session in the graveyard to sit in judgment on Faith 's case .
`` I do n't see that it be any harm , '' say Faith defiantly .
`` Not MUCH of my leg show .
It be n't WRONG and it do n't hurt anybody . ''
`` It will hurt Dad .
You KNOW it will .
You know people blame him whenever we do anything queer . ''
`` I do n't think of that , '' mutter Faith .
`` That 's just the trouble .
You do n't think and you SHOULD have think .
That 's what our Club be for -- to bring u up and MAKE u think .
We promise we 'd always stop and think before do thing .
You do n't and you 've get to be punish , Faith -- and real hard , too .
You 'll wear those striped stocking to school for a week for punishment . ''
`` Oh , Jerry , wo n't a day do -- two day ?
Not a whole week ! ''
`` Yes , a whole week , '' say inexorable Jerry .
`` It be fair -- ask Jem Blythe if it be n't . ''
Faith felt she would rather submit then ask Jem Blythe about such a matter .
She be begin to realize that her offence be a quite shameful one .
`` I 'll do it , then , '' she mutter , a little sulkily .
`` You 're get off easy , '' say , Jerry severely .
`` And no matter how we punish you it wo n't help father .
People will always think you just do it for mischief , and they 'll blame father for not stop it .
We can never explain it to everybody . ''
This aspect of the case weigh on Faith 's mind .
Her own condemnation she could bear , but it torture her that her father should be blame .
If people know the true fact of the case they would not blame him .
But how could she make them know to all the world ?
Getting up in church , a she have once do , and explain the matter be out of the question .
Faith have hear from Mary Vance how the congregation have look upon that performance and realize that she must not repeat it .
Faith worry over the problem for half a week .
Then she have an inspiration and promptly act upon it .
She spend that even in the garret , with a lamp and an exercise book , write busily , with flushed cheek and shin eye .
It be the very thing !
How clever she be to have think of it !
It would put everything right and explain everything and yet cause no scandal .
It be eleven o'clock when she have finish to her satisfaction and creep down to bed , dreadfully tire , but perfectly happy .
In a few day the little weekly publish in the Glen under the name of The Journal come out a usual , and the Glen have another sensation .
A letter sign `` Faith Meredith '' occupy a prominent place on the front page and run a follow : -- `` TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN : I want to explain to everybody how it be I come to go to church without stocking on , so that everybody will know that father be not to blame one bit for it , and the old gossip need not say he be , because it be not true .
I give my only pair of black stocking to Lida Marsh , because she have n't any and her poor little foot be awful cold and I be so sorry for her .
No child ought to have to go without shoe and stocking in a Christian community before the snow be all go , and I think the W. F. M. S. ought to have give her stocking .
Of course , I know they be send thing to the little heathen child , and that be all right and a kind thing to do .
But the little heathen child have lot more warm weather than we have , and I think the woman of our church ought to look after Lida and not leave it all to me .
When I give her my stocking I forget they be the only black pair I have without hole , but I be glad I do give them to her , because my conscience would have be uncomfortable if I have n't .
When she have go away , look so proud and happy , the poor little thing , I remember that all I have to wear be the horrid red and blue thing Aunt Martha knit last winter for me out of some yarn that Mrs. Joseph Burr of Upper Glen send u .
It be dreadfully coarse yarn and all knot , and I never saw any of Mrs. Burr 's own child wear thing make of such yarn .
But Mary Vance say Mrs. Burr give the minister stuff that she ca n't use or eat herself , and think it ought to go a part of the salary her husband sign to pay , but never do .
I just could n't bear to wear those hateful stocking .
They be so ugly and rough and felt so scratchy .
Everybody would have make fun of me .
I think at first I 'd pretend to be sick and not go to church next day , but I decide I could n't do that , because it would be act a lie , and father tell u after mother die that be something we must never , never do .
It be just as bad to act a lie a to tell one , though I know some people , right here in the Glen , who act them , and never seem to feel a bit bad about it .
I will not mention any name , but I know who they be and so do father .
Then I try my best to catch cold and really be sick by stand on the snowbank in the Methodist graveyard with my bare foot until Jerry pull me off .
But it do n't hurt me a bit and so I could n't get out of go to church .
So I just decide I would put my boot on and go that way .
I ca n't see why it be so wrong and I be so careful to wash my legs just as clean a my face , but , anyway , father be n't to blame for it .
He be in the study thinking of his sermon and other heavenly thing , and I keep out of his way before I go to Sunday School .
Father do not look at people 's leg in church , so of course he do not notice mine , but all the gossip do and talk about it , and that be why I be write this letter to the Journal to explain .
I suppose I do very wrong , since everybody say so , and I be sorry and I be wear those awful stocking to punish myself , although father buy me two nice new black pair as soon a Mr. Flagg 's store open on Monday morning .
But it be all my fault , and if people blame father for it after they read this they be not Christians and so I do not mind what they say .
There be another thing I want to explain about before I stop .
Mary Vance tell me that Mr. Evan Boyd be blame the Lew Baxters for steal potato out of his field last fall .
They do not touch his potato .
They be very poor , but they be honest .
It be u do it -- Jerry and Carl and I. Una be not with u at the time .
We never think it be steal .
We just want a few potato to cook over a fire in Rainbow Valley one evening to eat with our fry trout .
Mr. Boyd 's field be the near , just between the valley and the village , so we climb over his fence and pull up some stalk .
The potato be awful small , because Mr. Boyd do not put enough fertilizer on them and we have to pull up a lot of stalk before we get enough , and then they be not much big than marble .
Walter and Di Blythe help u eat them , but they do not come along until we have them cook and do not know where we get them , so they be not to blame at all , only u .
We do n't mean any harm , but if it be steal we be very sorry and we will pay Mr. Boyd for them if he will wait until we grow up .
We never have any money now because we be not big enough to earn any , and Aunt Martha say it take every cent of poor father 's salary , even when it be pay up regularly -- and it be n't often -- to run this house .
But Mr. Boyd must not blame the Lew Baxters any more , when they be quite innocent , and give them a bad name .
Yours respectfully , FAITH MEREDITH . ''
CHAPTER XXVI .
MISS CORNELIA GETS A NEW POINT OF VIEW `` Susan , after I 'm dead I 'm go to come back to earth every time when the daffodil blow in this garden , '' say Anne rapturously .
`` Nobody may see me , but I 'll be here .
If anybody be in the garden at the time -- I THINK I 'll come on an evening just like this , but it MIGHT be just at dawn -- a lovely , pale-pinky spring dawn -- they 'll just see the daffodil nod wildly a if an extra gust of wind have blow past them , but it will be I . ''
`` Indeed , Mrs. Dr. dear , you will not be think of flaunt worldly thing like daffies after you be dead , '' say Susan .
`` And I do NOT believe in ghost , see or unseen . ''
`` Oh , Susan , I shall not be a ghost !
That have such a horrible sound .
I shall just be ME .
And I shall run around in the twilight , whether it be morn or eve , and see all the spot I love .
Do you remember how badly I felt when I leave our little House of Dreams , Susan ?
I think I could never love Ingleside so well .
But I do .
I love every inch of the ground and every stick and stone on it . ''
`` I be rather fond of the place myself , '' say Susan , who would have die if she have be remove from it , `` but we must not set our affection too much on earthly thing , Mrs. Dr. dear .
There be such thing a fire and earthquake .
We should always be prepare .
The Tom MacAllisters over-harbour be burn out three night ago .
Some say Tom MacAllister set the house on fire himself to get the insurance .
That may or may not be .
But I advise the doctor to have our chimney see to at once .
An ounce of prevention be worth a pound of cure .
But I see Mrs. Marshall Elliott come in at the gate , look a if she have be send for and could n't go . ''
`` Anne dearie , have you see the Journal to-day ? ''
Miss Cornelia 's voice be tremble , partly from emotion , partly from the fact that she have hurry up from the store too fast and lose her breath .
Anne bent over the daffodil to hide a smile .
She and Gilbert have laugh heartily and heartlessly over the front page of the Journal that day , but she know that to dear Miss Cornelia it be almost a tragedy , and she must not wind her feeling by any display of levity .
`` Is n't it dreadful ?
What IS to be do ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia despairingly .
Miss Cornelia have vow that she be do with worrying over the prank of the manse child , but she go on worrying just the same .
Anne lead the way to the veranda , where Susan be knit , with Shirley and Rilla con their primer on either side .
Susan be already on her second pair of stocking for Faith .
Susan never worry over poor humanity .
She do what in her lay for it betterment and serenely leave the rest to the Higher Powers .
`` Cornelia Elliott think she be bear to run this world , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she have once say to Anne , `` and so she be always in a stew over something .
I have never think I be , and so I go calmly along .
Not but what it have sometimes occur to me that thing might be run a little good than they be .
But it be not for u poor worm to nourish such thought .
They only make u uncomfortable and do not get u anywhere . ''
`` I do n't see that anything can be do -- now -- '' say Anne , pull out a nice , cushiony chair for Miss Cornelia .
`` But how in the world do Mr. Vickers allow that letter to be print ?
Surely he should have know well . ''
`` Why , he 's away , Anne dearie -- he 's be away to New Brunswick for a week .
And that young scalawag of a Joe Vickers be edit the Journal in his absence .
Of course , Mr. Vickers would never have put it in , even if he be a Methodist , but Joe would just think it a good joke .
As you say , I do n't suppose there be anything to be do now , only live it down .
But if I ever get Joe Vickers corner somewhere I 'll give him a talk to he wo n't forget in a hurry .
I want Marshall to stop our subscription to the Journal instantly , but he only laugh and say that to-day 's issue be the only one that have have anything readable in it for a year .
Marshall never will take anything seriously -- just like a man .
Fortunately , Evan Boyd be like that , too .
He take it a a joke and be laugh all over the place about it .
And he 's another Methodist !
As for Mrs. Burr of Upper Glen , of course she will be furious and they will leave the church .
Not that it will be a great loss from any point of view .
The Methodists be quite welcome to THEM . ''
`` It serve Mrs. Burr right , '' say Susan , who have an old feud with the lady in question and have be hugely tickle over the reference to her in Faith 's letter .
`` She will find that she will not be able to cheat the Methodist parson out of HIS salary with bad yarn . ''
`` The bad of it be , there 's not much hope of thing get any good , '' say Miss Cornelia gloomily .
`` As long a Mr. Meredith be go to see Rosemary West I do hope the manse would soon have a proper mistress .
But that be all off .
I suppose she would n't have him on account of the child -- at least , everybody seem to think so . ''
`` I do not believe that he ever ask her , '' say Susan , who could not conceive of any one refuse a minister .
`` Well , nobody know anything about THAT .
But one thing be certain , he do n't go there any long .
And Rosemary do n't look well all the spring .
I hope her visit to Kingsport will do her good .
She 's be go for a month and will stay another month , I understand .
I ca n't remember when Rosemary be away from home before .
She and Ellen could never bear to be part .
But I understand Ellen insist on her go this time .
And meanwhile Ellen and Norman Douglas be warm up the old soup . ''
`` Is that really so ? ''
ask Anne , laugh .
`` I hear a rumour of it , but I hardly believe it . ''
`` Believe it !
You may believe it all right , Anne , dearie .
Nobody be in ignorance of it .
Norman Douglas never leave anybody in doubt a to his intention in regard to anything .
He always do his courting before the public .
He tell Marshall that he have n't think about Ellen for year , but the first time he go to church last fall he saw her and fell in love with her all over again .
He say he 'd clean forget how handsome she be .
He have n't see her for twenty year , if you can believe it .
Of course he never go to church , and Ellen never go anywhere else round here .
Oh , we all know what Norman mean , but what Ellen mean be a different matter .
I sha n't take it upon me to predict whether it will be a match or not . ''
`` He jilt her once -- but it seem that do not count with some people , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' Susan remark rather acidly .
`` He jilt her in a fit of temper and repent it all his life , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` That be different from a cold-blooded jilting .
For my part , I never detest Norman a some folk do .
He could never over-crow ME .
I DO wonder what start him come to church .
I have never be able to believe Mrs. Wilsons 's story that Faith Meredith go there and bully him into it .
I 've always intend to ask Faith herself , but I 've never happen to think of it just when I saw her .
What influence could SHE have over Norman Douglas ?
He be in the store when I leave , bellow with laughter over that scandalous letter .
You could have hear him at Four Winds Point .
` The great girl in the world , ' he be shout .
` She 's that full of spunk she 's burst with it .
And all the old granny want to tame her , darn them .
But they 'll never be able to do it -- never !
They might as well try to drown a fish .
Boyd , see that you put more fertilizer on your potato next year .
Ho , ho , ho ! '
And then he laugh till the roof shook . ''
`` Mr. Douglas pay well to the salary , at least , '' remark Susan .
`` Oh , Norman be n't mean in some way .
He 'd give a thousand without blink a lash , and roar like a Bull of Bashan if he have to pay five cent too much for anything .
Besides , he like Mr. Meredith 's sermon , and Norman Douglas be always willing to shell out if he get his brain tickle up .
There be no more Christianity about him than there be about a black , naked heathen in Africa and never will be .
But he 's clever and well read and he judge sermon a he would lecture .
Anyhow , it 's well he back up Mr. Meredith and the child a he do , for they 'll need friend more than ever after this .
I be tired of make excuse for them , believe ME . ''
`` Do you know , dear Miss Cornelia , '' say Anne seriously , `` I think we have all be make too many excuse .
It be very foolish and we ought to stop it .
I be go to tell you what I 'd LIKE to do .
I sha n't do it , of course '' -- Anne have note a glint of alarm in Susan 's eye -- `` it would be too unconventional , and we must be conventional or die , after we reach what be suppose to be a dignified age .
But I 'd LIKE to do it .
I 'd like to call a meeting of the Ladies Aid and W.M.S . and the Girls Sewing Society , and include in the audience all and any Methodists who have be criticize the Merediths -- although I do think if we Presbyterians stop criticize and excuse we would find that other denomination would trouble themselves very little about our manse folk .
I would say to them , ` Dear Christian friend ' -- with marked emphasis on ` Christian ' -- I have something to say to you and I want to say it good and hard , that you may take it home and repeat it to your family .
You Methodists need not pity u , and we Presbyterians need not pity ourselves .
We be not go to do it any more .
And we be go to say , boldly and truthfully , to all critic and sympathizer , ` We be PROUD of our minister and his family .
Mr. Meredith be the best preacher Glen St. Mary church ever have .
Moreover , he be a sincere , earnest teacher of truth and Christian charity .
He be a faithful friend , a judicious pastor in all essential , and a refine , scholarly , well-bred man .
His family be worthy of him .
Gerald Meredith be the clever pupil in the Glen school , and Mr . Hazard say that he be destine to a brilliant career .
He be a manly , honourable , truthful little fellow .
Faith Meredith be a beauty , and a inspiring and original a she be beautiful .
There be nothing commonplace about her .
All the other girl in the Glen put together have n't the vim , and wit , and joyousness and ` spunk ' she have .
She have not an enemy in the world .
Every one who know her love her .
Of how many , child or grown-ups , can that be say ?
Una Meredith be sweetness personify .
She will make a most lovable woman .
Carl Meredith , with his love for ant and frog and spider , will some day be a naturalist whom all Canada -- nay , all the world , will delight to honour .
Do you know of any other family in the Glen , or out of it , of whom all these thing can be say ?
Away with shamefaced excuse and apology .
We REJOICE in our minister and his splendid boy and girl ! ''
Anne stop , partly because she be out of breath after her vehement speech and partly because she could not trust herself to speak further in view of Miss Cornelia 's face .
That good lady be star helplessly at Anne , apparently engulf in billow of new idea .
But she come up with a gasp and strike out for shore gallantly .
`` Anne Blythe , I wish you WOULD call that meeting and say just that !
You 've make me ashamed of myself , for one , and far be it from me to refuse to admit it .
OF COURSE , that be how we should have talk -- especially to the Methodists .
And it 's every word of it true -- every word .
We 've just be shut our eye to the big worth-while thing and squint them on the little thing that do n't really matter a pin 's worth .
Oh , Anne dearie , I can see a thing when it 's hammer into my head .
No more apologizing for Cornelia Marshall !
I shall hold MY head up after this , believe ME -- though I MAY talk thing over with you a usual just to relieve my feeling if the Merediths do any more startling stunt .
Even that letter I felt so bad about -- why , it 's only a good joke after all , a Norman say .
Not many girl would have be cute enough to think of write it -- and all punctuate so nicely and not one word misspell .
Just let me hear any Methodist say one word about it -- though all the same I 'll never forgive Joe Vickers -- believe ME !
Where be the rest of your small fry to-night ? ''
`` Walter and the twin be in Rainbow Valley .
Jem be study in the garret . ''
`` They be all crazy about Rainbow Valley .
Mary Vance think it 's the only place in the world .
She 'd be off up here every evening if I 'd let her .
But I do n't encourage her in gadding .
Besides , I miss the creature when she be n't around , Anne dearie .
I never think I 'd get so fond of her .
Not but what I see her fault and try to correct them .
But she have never say one saucy word to me since she come to my house and she be a GREAT help -- for when all be say and do , Anne dearie , I be not so young a I once be , and there be no sense deny it .
I be fifty-nine my last birthday .
I do n't FEEL it , but there be no gainsay the Family Bible . ''
CHAPTER XXVII .
A SACRED CONCERT In spite of Miss Cornelia 's new point of view she could not help feel a little disturbed over the next performance of the manse child .
In public she carry off the situation splendidly , say to all the gossip the substance of what Anne have say in daffodil time , and say it so pointedly and forcibly that her hearer find themselves feel rather foolish and begin to think that , after all , they be make too much of a childish prank .
But in private Miss Cornelia allow herself the relief of bemoan it to Anne .
`` Anne dearie , they have a CONCERT IN THE GRAVEYARD last Thursday evening , while the Methodist prayer meeting be go on .
There they sit , on Hezekiah Pollock 's tombstone , and sang for a solid hour .
Of course , I understand it be mostly hymns they sing , and it would n't have be quite so bad if they 'd do nothing else .
But I 'm told they finish up with Polly Wolly Doodle at full length -- and that just when Deacon Baxter be pray . ''
`` I be there that night , '' say Susan , '' and , although I do not say anything about it to you , Mrs. Dr. dear , I could not help think that it be a great pity they pick that particular evening .
It be truly blood-curdling to hear them sit there in that abode of the dead , shout that frivolous song at the top of their lung . ''
`` I do n't know what YOU be do in a Methodist prayer meeting , '' say Miss Cornelia acidly .
`` I have never find that Methodism be catch , '' retort Susan stiffly .
`` And , a I be go to say when I be interrupt , badly a I felt , I do NOT give in to the Methodists .
When Mrs. Deacon Baxter say , a we come out , ` What a disgraceful exhibition ! '
I say , look her fairly in the eye , ` They be all beautiful singer , and none of YOUR choir , Mrs. Baxter , ever bother themselves come out to your prayer meeting , it seem .
Their voice appear to be in tune only on Sundays ! '
She be quite meek and I felt that I have snub her properly .
But I could have do it much more thoroughly , Mrs. Dr. dear , if only they have leave out Polly Wolly Doodle .
It be truly terrible to think of that be sung in a graveyard . ''
`` Some of those dead folk sing Polly Wolly Doodle when they be live , Susan .
Perhaps they like to hear it yet , '' suggest Gilbert .
Miss Cornelia look at him reproachfully and make up her mind that , on some future occasion , she would hint to Anne that the doctor should be admonish not to say such thing .
They might injure his practice .
People might get it into their head that he be n't orthodox .
To be sure , Marshall say even bad thing habitually , but then HE be not a public man .
`` I understand that their father be in his study all the time , with his window open , but never notice them at all .
Of course , he be lose in a book a usual .
But I speak to him about it yesterday , when he call . ''
`` How could you dare , Mrs. Marshall Elliott ? ''
ask Susan rebukingly .
`` Dare !
It 's time somebody dare something .
Why , they say he know nothing about that letter of Faith 's to the JOURNAL because nobody like to mention it to him .
He never look at a JOURNAL of course .
But I think he ought to know of this to prevent any such performance in future .
He say he would ` discuss it with them . '
But of course he 'd never think of it again after he get out of our gate .
That man have no sense of humour , Anne , believe ME .
He preach last Sunday on ` How to Bring up Children . '
A beautiful sermon it be , too -- and everybody in church thinking ` what a pity you ca n't practise what you preach . ' ''
Miss Cornelia do Mr. Meredith an injustice in thinking he would soon forget what she have tell him .
He go home much disturbed and when the child come from Rainbow Valley that night , at a much later hour than they should have be prowl in it , he call them into his study .
They go in , somewhat awe .
It be such an unusual thing for their father to do .
What could he be go to say to them ?
They rack their memory for any recent transgression of sufficient importance , but could not recall any .
Carl have spill a saucerful of jam on Mrs. Peter Flagg 's silk dress two evening before , when , at Aunt Martha 's invitation , she have stay to supper .
But Mr. Meredith have not notice it , and Mrs. Flagg , who be a kindly soul , have make no fuss .
Besides , Carl have be punish by have to wear Una 's dress all the rest of the evening .
Una suddenly think that perhaps her father meant to tell them that he be go to marry Miss West .
Her heart begin to beat violently and her leg tremble .
Then she saw that Mr. Meredith look very stern and sorrowful .
No , it could not be that .
`` Children , '' say Mr. Meredith , `` I have hear something that have pain me very much .
Is it true that you sit out in the graveyard all last Thursday evening and sang ribald song while a prayer meeting be be hold in the Methodist church ? ''
`` Great Caesar , Dad , we forget all about it be their prayer meeting night , '' exclaim Jerry in dismay .
`` Then it be true -- you do do this thing ? ''
`` Why , Dad , I do n't know what you mean by ribald song .
We sing hymn -- it be a sacred concert , you know .
What harm be that ?
I tell you we never think about it 's be Methodist prayer meeting night .
They use to have their meeting Tuesday night and since they 've change to Thursdays it 's hard to remember . ''
`` Did you sing nothing but hymn ? ''
`` Why , '' say Jerry , turn red , `` we DID sing Polly Wolly Doodle at the last .
Faith say , ` Let 's have something cheerful to wind up with . '
But we do n't mean any harm , Father -- truly we do n't . ''
`` The concert be my idea , Father , '' say Faith , afraid that Mr. Meredith might blame Jerry too much .
`` You know the Methodists themselves have a sacred concert in their church three Sunday night ago .
I think it would be good fun to get one up in imitation of it .
Only they have prayer at theirs , and we leave that part out , because we hear that people think it awful for u to pray in a graveyard .
YOU be sit in here all the time , '' she add , `` and never say a word to u . ''
`` I do not notice what you be do .
That be no excuse for me , of course .
I be more to blame than you -- I realize that .
But why do you sing that foolish song at the end ? ''
`` We do n't think , '' mutter Jerry , feel that it be a very lame excuse , see that he have lecture Faith so strongly in the Good-Conduct Club session for her lack of thought .
`` We 're sorry , Father -- truly , we be .
Pitch into u hard -- we deserve a regular comb down . ''
But Mr. Meredith do no comb down or pitch into .
He sit down and gather his small culprit close to him and talk a little to them , tenderly and wisely .
They be overcome with remorse and shame , and felt that they could never be so silly and thoughtless again .
`` We 've just get to punish ourselves good and hard for this , '' whisper Jerry a they creep upstairs .
`` We 'll have a session of the Club first thing tomorrow and decide how we 'll do it .
I never saw father so cut up .
But I wish to goodness the Methodists would stick to one night for their prayer meeting and not wander all over the week . ''
`` Anyhow , I 'm glad it be n't what I be afraid it be , '' murmur Una to herself .
Behind them , in the study , Mr. Meredith have sit down at his desk and bury his face in his arm .
`` God help me ! ''
he say .
`` I 'm a poor sort of father .
Oh , Rosemary !
If you have only care ! ''
CHAPTER XXVIII .
A FAST DAY The Good-Conduct Club have a special session the next morning before school .
After various suggestion , it be decide that a fast day would be an appropriate punishment .
`` We wo n't eat a single thing for a whole day , '' say Jerry .
`` I 'm kind of curious to see what fast be like , anyhow .
This will be a good chance to find out . ''
`` What day will we choose for it ? ''
ask Una , who think it would he quite an easy punishment and rather wonder that Jerry and Faith have not devise something harder .
`` Let 's pick Monday , '' say Faith .
`` We mostly have a pretty FILLING dinner on Sundays , and Mondays meal never amount to much anyhow . ''
`` But that 's just the point , '' exclaim Jerry .
`` We must n't take the easy day to fast , but the hard -- and that 's Sunday , because , a you say , we mostly have roast beef that day instead of cold ditto .
It would n't be much punishment to fast from ditto .
Let 's take next Sunday .
It will be a good day , for father be go to exchange for the morning service with the Upper Lowbridge minister .
Father will be away till evening .
If Aunt Martha wonder what 's get into u , we 'll tell her right up that we 're fast for the good of our soul , and it be in the Bible and she be not to interfere , and I guess she wo n't . ''
Aunt Martha do not .
She merely say in her fretful mumbling way , `` What foolishness be you young rip up to now ? ''
and think no more about it .
Mr. Meredith have go away early in the morning before any one be up .
He go without his breakfast , too , but that be , of course , of common occurrence .
Half of the time he forget it and there be no one to remind him of it .
Breakfast -- Aunt Martha 's breakfast -- be not a hard meal to miss .
Even the hungry `` young rip '' do not feel it any great deprivation to abstain from the `` lumpy porridge and blue milk '' which have arouse the scorn of Mary Vance .
But it be different at dinner time .
They be furiously hungry then , and the odor of roast beef which pervade the manse , and which be wholly delightful in spite of the fact that the roast beef be badly underdone , be almost more than they could stand .
In desperation they rush to the graveyard where they could n't smell it .
But Una could not keep her eye from the dining room window , through which the Upper Lowbridge minister could be see , placidly eat .
`` If I could only have just a weeny , teeny piece , '' she sigh .
`` Now , you stop that , '' command Jerry .
`` Of course it 's hard -- but that 's the punishment of it .
I could eat a graven image this very minute , but be I complain ?
Let 's think of something else .
We 've just get to rise above our stomach . ''
At supper time they do not feel the pang of hunger which they have suffer earlier in the day .
`` I suppose we 're get use to it , '' say Faith .
`` I feel an awfully queer all-gone sort of feeling , but I ca n't say I 'm hungry . ''
`` My head be funny , '' say Una .
`` It go round and round sometimes . ''
But she go gamely to church with the others .
If Mr. Meredith have not be so wholly wrap up in and carry away with his subject he might have notice the pale little face and hollow eye in the manse pew beneath .
But he notice nothing and his sermon be something long than usual .
Then , just before be give out the final hymn , Una Meredith tumble off the seat of the manse pew and lay in a dead faint on the floor .
Mrs. Elder Clow be the first to reach her .
She catch the thin little body from the arm of white-faced , terrified Faith and carry it into the vestry .
Mr. Meredith forget the hymn and everything else and rush madly after her .
The congregation dismiss itself a best it could .
`` Oh , Mrs. Clow , '' gasp Faith , `` be Una dead ?
Have we kill her ? ''
`` What be the matter with my child ? ''
demand the pale father .
`` She have just faint , I think , '' say Mrs. Clow .
`` Oh , here 's the doctor , thank goodness . ''
Gilbert do not find it a very easy thing to bring Una back to consciousness .
He work over her for a long time before her eye open .
Then he carry her over to the manse , follow by Faith , sob hysterically in her relief .
`` She be just hungry , you know -- she do n't eat a thing to-day -- none of u do -- we be all fasting . ''
`` Fasting ! ''
say Mr. Meredith , and `` Fasting ? ''
say the doctor .
`` Yes -- to punish ourselves for sing Polly Wolly in the graveyard , '' say Faith .
`` My child , I do n't want you to punish yourselves for that , '' say Mr. Meredith in distress .
`` I give you your little scolding -- and you be all penitent -- and I forgive you . ''
`` Yes , but we have to be punish , '' explain Faith .
`` It 's our rule -- in our Good-Conduct Club , you know -- if we do anything wrong , or anything that be likely to hurt father in the congregation , we HAVE to punish ourselves .
We be bring ourselves up , you know , because there be nobody to do it . ''
Mr. Meredith groan , but the doctor get up from Una 's side with an air of relief .
`` Then this child simply faint from lack of food and all she need be a good square meal , '' he say .
`` Mrs. Clow , will you be kind enough to see she get it ?
And I think from Faith 's story that they all would be the good for something to eat , or we shall have more faintings . ''
`` I suppose we should n't have make Una fast , '' say Faith remorsefully .
`` When I think of it , only Jerry and I should have be punish .
WE get up the concert and we be the old . ''
`` I sing Polly Wolly just the same a the rest of you , '' say Una 's weak little voice , `` so I have to be punish , too . ''
Mrs. Clow come with a glass of milk , Faith and Jerry and Carl sneak off to the pantry , and John Meredith go into his study , where he sit in the darkness for a long time , alone with his bitter thought .
So his child be bring themselves up because there be `` nobody to do it '' -- struggle along amid their little perplexity without a hand to guide or a voice to counsel .
Faith 's innocently uttered phrase rankle in her father 's mind like a barbed shaft .
There be `` nobody '' to look after them -- to comfort their little soul and care for their little body .
How frail Una have look , lie there on the vestry sofa in that long faint !
How thin be her tiny hand , how pallid her little face !
She look a if she might slip away from him in a breath -- sweet little Una , of whom Cecilia have beg him to take such special care .
Since his wife 's death he have not felt such an agony of dread a when he have hang over his little girl in her unconsciousness .
He must do something -- but what ?
Should he ask Elizabeth Kirk to marry him ?
She be a good woman -- she would be kind to his child .
He might bring himself to do it if it be not for his love for Rosemary West .
But until he have crush that out he could not seek another woman in marriage .
And he could not crush it out -- he have try and he could not .
Rosemary have be in church that evening , for the first time since her return from Kingsport .
He have catch a glimpse of her face in the back of the crowd church , just a he have finish his sermon .
His heart have give a fierce throb .
He sit while the choir sing the `` collection piece , '' with his bent head and tingling pulse .
He have not see her since the evening upon which he have ask her to marry him .
When he have rise to give out the hymn his hand be tremble and his pale face be flush .
Then Una 's fainting spell have banish everything from his mind for a time .
Now , in the darkness and solitude of the study it rush back .
Rosemary be the only woman in the world for him .
It be of no use for him to think of marry any other .
He could not commit such a sacrilege even for his child 's sake .
He must take up his burden alone -- he must try to be a good , a more watchful father -- he must tell his child not to be afraid to come to him with all their little problem .
Then he light his lamp and take up a bulky new book which be set the theological world by the ear .
He would read just one chapter to compose his mind .
Five minute later he be lose to the world and the trouble of the world .
CHAPTER XXIX .
A WEIRD TALE On an early June evening Rainbow Valley be an entirely delightful place and the child felt it to be so , a they sit in the open glade where the bell ring elfishly on the Tree Lovers , and the White Lady shake her green tress .
The wind be laugh and whistle about them like a leal , glad-hearted comrade .
The young fern be spicy in the hollow .
The wild cherry tree scatter over the valley , among the dark fir , be mistily white .
The robin be whistle over in the maple behind Ingleside .
Beyond , on the slope of the Glen , be blossom orchard , sweet and mystic and wonderful , veil in dusk .
It be spring , and young thing MUST be glad in spring .
Everybody be glad in Rainbow Valley that even -- until Mary Vance freeze their blood with the story of Henry Warren 's ghost .
Jem be not there .
Jem spend his evening now study for his entrance examination in the Ingleside garret .
Jerry be down near the pond , trouting .
Walter have be read Longfellow 's sea poems to the others and they be steep in the beauty and mystery of the ship .
Then they talk of what they would do when they be grow up -- where they would travel -- the far , fair shore they would see .
Nan and Di meant to go to Europe .
Walter long for the Nile moaning past it Egyptian sand , and a glimpse of the sphinx .
Faith opine rather dismally that she suppose she would have to be a missionary -- old Mrs. Taylor tell her she ought to be -- and then she would at least see India or China , those mysterious land of the Orient .
Carl 's heart be set on African jungle .
Una say nothing .
She think she would just like to stay at home .
It be pretty here than anywhere else .
It would be dreadful when they be all grow up and have to scatter over the world .
The very idea make Una feel lonesome and homesick .
But the others dream on delightedly until Mary Vance arrive and vanish poesy and dream at one fell swoop .
`` Laws , but I 'm out of puff , '' she exclaim .
`` I 've run down that hill like sixty .
I get an awful scare up there at the old Bailey place . ''
`` What frighten you ? ''
ask Di .
`` I dunno .
I be poke about under them lilacs in the old garden , try to see if there be any lilies-of-the-valley out yet .
It be dark a a pocket there -- and all at once I see something stir and rustle round at the other side of the garden , in those cherry bush .
It be WHITE .
I tell you I do n't stop for a second look .
I fly over the dyke quicker than quick .
I be sure it be Henry Warren 's ghost . ''
`` Who be Henry Warren ? ''
ask Di .
`` And why should he have a ghost ? ''
ask Nan .
`` Laws , do you never hear the story ?
And you bring up in the Glen .
Well , wait a minute till I get by breath all back and I 'll tell you . ''
Walter shiver delightsomely .
He love ghost story .
Their mystery , their dramatic climax , their eeriness give him a fearful , exquisite pleasure .
Longfellow instantly grow tame and commonplace .
He throw the book aside and stretch himself out , prop upon his elbow to listen whole-heartedly , fix his great luminous eye on Mary 's face .
Mary wish he would n't look at her so .
She felt she could make a good job of the ghost story if Walter be not look at her .
She could put on several frill and invent a few artistic detail to enhance the horror .
As it be , she have to stick to the bare truth -- or what have be tell her for the truth .
`` Well , '' she begin , `` you know old Tom Bailey and his wife use to live in that house up there thirty year ago .
He be an awful old rip , they say , and his wife be n't much good .
They 'd no child of their own , but a sister of old Tom 's died and leave a little boy -- this Henry Warren -- and they take him .
He be about twelve when he come to them , and kind of undersized and delicate .
They say Tom and his wife use him awful from the start -- whip him and starve him .
Folks say they want him to die so 's they could get the little bit of money his mother have leave for him .
Henry do n't die right off , but he begin have fit -- epileps , they call 'em -- and he grow up kind of simple , till he be about eighteen .
His uncle use to thrash him in that garden up there 'cause it be back of the house where no one could see him .
But folk could hear , and they say it be awful sometimes hear poor Henry plead with his uncle not to kill him .
But nobody dare interfere 'cause old Tom be such a reprobate he 'd have be sure to get square with 'em some way .
He burn the barn of a man at Harbour Head who offend him .
At last Henry die and his uncle and aunt give out he die in one of his fit and that be all anybody ever know , but everybody say Tom have just up and kill him for keep at last .
And it be n't long till it get around that Henry WALKED .
That old garden be HA'NTED .
He be heard there at night , moan and cry .
Old Tom and his wife get out -- go out West and never come back .
The place get such a bad name nobody 'd buy or rent it .
That 's why it 's all go to ruin .
That be thirty year ago , but Henry Warren 's ghost ha ` nt it yet . ''
`` Do you believe that ? ''
ask Nan scornfully . ''
I do n't . ''
`` Well , GOOD people have see him -- and hear him . ''
retort Mary .
`` They say he appear and grovels on the ground and hold you by the leg and gibber and moan like he do when he be alive .
I think of that as soon a I see that white thing in the bush and thought if it catch me like that and moan I 'd drop down dead on the spot .
So I cut and run .
It MIGHT N'T have be his ghost , but I be n't go to take any chance with a ha ` nt . ''
`` It be likely old Mrs. Stimson 's white calf , '' laugh Di .
`` It pasture in that garden -- I 've see it . ''
`` Maybe so .
But I 'M not go home through the Bailey garden any more .
Here 's Jerry with a big string of trout and it 's my turn to cook them .
Jem and Jerry both say I 'm the best cook in the Glen .
And Cornelia tell me I could bring up this batch of cooky .
I all but drop them when I saw Henry 's ghost . ''
Jerry hoot when he hear the ghost story -- which Mary repeat a she fry the fish , touch it up a trifle or so , since Walter have go to help Faith to set the table .
It make no impression on Jerry , but Faith and Una and Carl have be secretly much frighten , though they would never have give in to it .
It be all right as long a the others be with them in the valley : but when the feast be over and the shadow fell they quake with remembrance .
Jerry go up to Ingleside with the Blythes to see Jem about something , and Mary Vance go around that way home .
So Faith and Una and Carl have to go back to the manse alone .
They walk very close together and give the old Bailey garden a wide berth .
They do not believe that it be haunt , of course , but they would not go near it for all that .
CHAPTER XXX .
THE GHOST ON THE DYKE Somehow , Faith and Carl and Una could not shake off the hold which the story of Henry Warren 's ghost have take upon their imagination .
They have never believe in ghost .
Ghost tale they have hear a-plenty -- Mary Vance have tell some far more blood-curdling than this ; but those tale be all of place and people and spook far away and unknown .
After the first half-awful , half-pleasant thrill of awe and terror they think of them no more .
But this story come home to them .
The old Bailey garden be almost at their very door -- almost in their beloved Rainbow Valley .
They have pass and repassed it constantly ; they have hunt for flower in it ; they have make short cut through it when they wish to go straight from the village to the valley .
But never again !
After the night when Mary Vance tell them it gruesome tale they would not have go through or near it on pain of death .
Death !
What be death compare to the unearthly possibility of fall into the clutch of Henry Warren 's grovel ghost ?
One warm July even the three of them be sit under the Tree Lovers , feel a little lonely .
Nobody else have come near the valley that even .
Jem Blythe be away in Charlottetown , write on his entrance examination .
Jerry and Walter Blythe be off for a sail on the harbour with old Captain Crawford .
Nan and Di and Rilla and Shirley have go down the harbour road to visit Kenneth and Persis Ford , who have come with their parent for a fly visit to the little old House of Dreams .
Nan have ask Faith to go with them , but Faith have decline .
She would never have admit it , but she felt a little secret jealousy of Persis Ford , concern whose wonderful beauty and city glamour she have hear a great deal .
No , she be n't go to go down there and play second fiddle to anybody .
She and Una take their story book to Rainbow Valley and read , while Carl investigate bug along the bank of the brook , and all three be happy until they suddenly realize that it be twilight and that the old Bailey garden be uncomfortably near by .
Carl come and sit down close to the girl .
They all wish they have go home a little sooner , but nobody say anything .
Great , velvety , purple cloud heap up in the west and spread over the valley .
There be no wind and everything be suddenly , strangely , dreadfully still .
The marsh be full of thousand of fire-flies .
Surely some fairy parliament be be convene that night .
Altogether , Rainbow Valley be not a canny place just then .
Faith look fearfully up the valley to the old Bailey garden .
Then , if anybody 's blood ever do freeze , Faith Meredith 's certainly freeze at that moment .
The eye of Carl and Una follow her entranced gaze and chill begin gallopading up and down their spine also .
For there , under the big tamarack tree on the tumble-down , grass-grown dyke of the Bailey garden , be something white -- shapelessly white in the gathering gloom .
The three Merediths sit and gaze a if turn to stone .
`` It 's -- it 's the -- calf , '' whisper Una at last .
`` It 's -- too -- big -- for the calf , '' whisper Faith .
Her mouth and lip be so dry she could hardly articulate the word .
Suddenly Carl gasp , `` It 's come here . ''
The girl give one last agonized glance .
Yes , it be creep down over the dyke , a no calf ever do or could creep .
Reason flee before sudden , over-mastering panic .
For the moment every one of the trio be firmly convince that what they saw be Henry Warren 's ghost .
Carl sprang to his foot and bolt blindly .
With a simultaneous shriek the girl follow him .
Like mad creature they tear up the hill , across the road and into the manse .
They have leave Aunt Martha sew in the kitchen .
She be not there .
They rush to the study .
It be dark and tenantless .
As with one impulse , they swing around and make for Ingleside -- but not across Rainbow Valley .
Down the hill and through the Glen street they fly on the wing of their wild terror , Carl in the lead , Una bring up the rear .
Nobody try to stop them , though everybody who saw them wonder what fresh devilment those manse youngster be up to now .
But at the gate of Ingleside they run into Rosemary West , who have just be in for a moment to return some borrow book .
She saw their ghastly face and star eye .
She realize that their poor little soul be wring with some awful and real fear , whatever it cause .
She catch Carl with one arm and Faith with the other .
Una stumble against her and hold on desperately .
`` Children , dear , what have happen ? ''
she say .
`` What have frighten you ? ''
`` Henry Warren 's ghost , '' answer Carl , through his chattering teeth .
`` Henry -- Warren 's -- ghost ! ''
say amazed Rosemary , who have never hear the story .
`` Yes , '' sob Faith hysterically .
`` It 's there -- on the Bailey dyke -- we saw it -- and it start to -- chase u . ''
Rosemary herd the three distract creature to the Ingleside veranda .
Gilbert and Anne be both away , have also go to the House of Dreams , but Susan appear in the doorway , gaunt and practical and unghostlike .
`` What be all this rumpus about ? ''
she inquire .
Again the child gasp out their awful tale , while Rosemary hold them close to her and soothe them with wordless comfort .
`` Likely it be an owl , '' say Susan , unstirred .
An owl !
The Meredith child never have any opinion of Susan 's intelligence after that !
`` It be big than a million owl , '' say Carl , sob -- oh , how ashamed Carl be of that sob in after day -- `` and it -- it GROVELLED just a Mary say -- and it be crawl down over the dyke to get at u .
Do owl CRAWL ? ''
Rosemary look at Susan .
`` They must have see something to frighten them so , '' she say .
`` I will go and see , '' say Susan coolly .
`` Now , child , calm yourselves .
Whatever you have see , it be not a ghost .
As for poor Henry Warren , I feel sure he would be only too glad to rest quietly in his peaceful grave once he get there .
No fear of HIM venture back , and that you may tie to .
If you can make them see reason , Miss West , I will find out the truth of the matter . ''
Susan depart for Rainbow Valley , valiantly grasp a pitchfork which she find lean against the back fence where the doctor have be work in his little hay-field .
A pitchfork might not be of much use against `` ha ` nt , '' but it be a comfort sort of weapon .
There be nothing to be see in Rainbow Valley when Susan reach it .
No white visitant appear to be lurk in the shadowy , tangle old Bailey garden .
Susan march boldly through it and beyond it , and rap with her pitchfork on the door of the little cottage on the other side , where Mrs. Stimson live with her two daughter .
Back at Ingleside Rosemary have succeed in calm the child .
They still sob a little from shock , but they be begin to feel a lurking and salutary suspicion that they have make dreadful goose of themselves .
This suspicion become a certainty when Susan finally return .
`` I have find out what your ghost be , '' she say , with a grim smile , sit down on a rocker and fan herself .
`` Old Mrs. Stimson have have a pair of factory cotton sheet bleach in the Bailey garden for a week .
She spread them on the dyke under the tamarack tree because the grass be clean and short there .
This evening she go out to take them in .
She have her knitting in her hand so she hang the sheet over her shoulder by way of carry them .
And then she must have drop one of her needle and find it she could not and have not yet .
But she go down on her knee and creep about to hunt for it , and she be at that when she hear awful yell down in the valley and saw the three child tear up the hill past her .
She think they have be bite by something and it give her poor old heart such a turn that she could not move or speak , but just crouch there till they disappear .
Then she stagger back home and they have be apply stimulant to her ever since , and her heart be in a terrible condition and she say she will not get over this fright all summer . ''
The Merediths sit , crimson with a shame that even Rosemary 's understanding sympathy could not remove .
They sneak off home , meet Jerry at the manse gate and make remorseful confession .
A session of the Good-Conduct Club be arrange for next morning .
`` Was n't Miss West sweet to u to-night ? ''
whisper Faith in bed .
`` Yes , '' admit Una .
`` It be such a pity it change people so much to be make stepmother . ''
`` I do n't believe it do , '' say Faith loyally .
CHAPTER XXXI .
CARL DOES PENANCE `` I do n't see why we should be punish at all , '' say Faith , rather sulkily .
`` We do n't do anything wrong .
We could n't help be frighten .
And it wo n't do father any harm .
It be just an accident . ''
`` You be coward , '' say Jerry with judicial scorn , `` and you give way to your cowardice .
That be why you should be punish .
Everybody will laugh at you about this , and that be a disgrace to the family . ''
`` If you know how awful the whole thing be , '' say Faith with a shiver , `` you would think we have be punish enough already .
I would n't go through it again for anything in the whole world . ''
`` I believe you 'd have run yourself if you 'd be there , '' mutter Carl .
`` From an old woman in a cotton sheet , '' mock Jerry .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
`` It do n't look a bit like an old woman , '' cry Faith .
`` It be just a great , big , white thing crawl about in the grass just a Mary Vance say Henry Warren do .
It 's all very fine for you to laugh , Jerry Meredith , but you 'd have laugh on the other side of your mouth if you 'd be there .
And how be we to be punish ?
I do n't think it 's fair , but let 's know what we have to do , Judge Meredith ! ''
`` The way I look at it , '' say Jerry , frowning , `` be that Carl be the most to blame .
He bolt first , a I understand it .
Besides , he be a boy , so he should have stand his ground to protect you girl , whatever the danger be .
You know that , Carl , do n't you ? ''
`` I s ` pose so , '' growl Carl shamefacedly .
`` Very well .
This be to be your punishment .
To-night you 'll sit on Mr. Hezekiah Pollock 's tombstone in the graveyard alone , until twelve o'clock . ''
Carl give a little shudder .
The graveyard be not so very far from the old Bailey garden .
It would be a try ordeal , but Carl be anxious to wipe out his disgrace and prove that he be not a coward after all .
`` All right , '' he say sturdily .
`` But how 'll I know when it be twelve ? ''
`` The study window be open and you 'll hear the clock striking .
And mind you that you be not to budge out of that graveyard until the last stroke .
As for you girls , you 've get to go without jam at supper for a week . ''
Faith and Una look rather blank .
They be incline to think that even Carl 's comparatively short though sharp agony be lighter punishment than this long drawn-out ordeal .
A whole week of soggy bread without the save grace of jam !
But no shirking be permit in the club .
The girl accept their lot with such philosophy a they could summon up .
That night they all go to bed at nine , except Carl , who be already keep vigil on the tombstone .
Una slip in to bid him good night .
Her tender heart be wring with sympathy .
`` Oh , Carl , be you much scar ? ''
she whisper .
`` Not a bit , '' say Carl airily .
`` I wo n't sleep a wink till after twelve , '' say Una .
`` If you get lonesome just look up at our window and remember that I 'm inside , awake , and think about you .
That will be a little company , wo n't it ? ''
`` I 'll be all right .
Do n't you worry about me , '' say Carl .
But in spite of his dauntless word Carl be a pretty lonely boy when the light go out in the manse .
He have hop his father would be in the study a he so often be .
He would not feel alone then .
But that night Mr. Meredith have be summon to the fishing village at the harbour mouth to see a die man .
He would not likely be back until after midnight .
Carl must dree his weird alone .
A Glen man go past carry a lantern .
The mysterious shadow cause by the lantern-light go hurtle madly over the graveyard like a dance of demon or witch .
Then they pass and darkness fell again .
One by one the light in the Glen go out .
It be a very dark night , with a cloudy sky , and a raw east wind that be cold in spite of the calendar .
Far away on the horizon be the low dim lustre of the Charlottetown light .
The wind wail and sigh in the old fir-trees .
Mr. Alec Davis ' tall monument gleam whitely through the gloom .
The willow beside it toss long , writhe arm spectrally .
At time , the gyration of it bough make it seem a if the monument be move , too .
Carl curl himself up on the tombstone with his leg tuck under him .
It be n't precisely pleasant to hang them over the edge of the stone .
Just suppose -- just suppose -- bony hand should reach up out of Mr. Pollock 's grave under it and clutch him by the ankle .
That have be one of Mary Vance 's cheerful speculation one time when they have all be sit there .
It return to haunt Carl now .
He do n't believe those thing ; he do n't even really believe in Henry Warren 's ghost .
As for Mr. Pollock , he have be dead sixty year , so it be n't likely he care who sit on his tombstone now .
But there be something very strange and terrible in be awake when all the rest of the world be asleep .
You be alone then with nothing but your own feeble personality to pit against the mighty principality and power of darkness .
Carl be only ten and the dead be all around him -- and he wish , oh , he wish that the clock would strike twelve .
Would it NEVER strike twelve ?
Surely Aunt Martha must have forget to wind it .
And then it strike eleven -- only eleven !
He must stay yet another hour in that grim place .
If only there be a few friendly star to be see !
The darkness be so thick it seem to press against his face .
There be a sound a of stealthy pass footstep all over the graveyard .
Carl shiver , partly with prickle terror , partly with real cold .
Then it begin to rain -- a chill , penetrate drizzle .
Carl 's thin little cotton blouse and shirt be soon wet through .
He felt chill to the bone .
He forget mental terror in his physical discomfort .
But he must stay there till twelve -- he be punish himself and he be on his honour .
Nothing have be say about rain -- but it do not make any difference .
When the study clock finally strike twelve a drenched little figure crept stiffly down off Mr. Pollock 's tombstone , make it way into the manse and upstairs to bed .
Carl 's teeth be chatter .
He think he would never get warm again .
He be warm enough when morning come .
Jerry give one startled look at his crimson face and then rush to call his father .
Mr. Meredith come hurriedly , his own face ivory white from the pallor of his long night vigil by a death bed .
He have not get home until daylight .
He bend over his little lad anxiously .
`` Carl , be you sick ? ''
he say .
`` That -- tombstone -- over here , '' say Carl , `` it 's -- moving -- about -- it 's come -- at -- me -- keep it -- away -- please . ''
Mr. Meredith rush to the telephone .
In ten minute Dr. Blythe be at the manse .
Half an hour later a wire be send to town for a trained nurse , and all the Glen know that Carl Meredith be very ill with pneumonia and that Dr. Blythe have be see to shake his head .
Gilbert shake his head more than once in the fortnight that follow .
Carl develop double pneumonia .
There be one night when Mr. Meredith pace his study floor , and Faith and Una huddle in their bedroom and cry , and Jerry , wild with remorse , refuse to budge from the floor of the hall outside Carl 's door .
Dr. Blythe and the nurse never leave the bedside .
They fight death gallantly until the red dawn and they win the victory .
Carl rally and pass the crisis in safety .
The news be phone about the wait Glen and people find out how much they really love their minister and his child .
`` I have n't have one decent night 's sleep since I hear the child be sick , '' Miss Cornelia tell Anne , `` and Mary Vance have cry until those queer eye of hers look like burnt hole in a blanket .
Is it true that Carl get pneumonia from stray out in the graveyard that wet night for a dare ? ''
`` No .
He be stay there to punish himself for cowardice in that affair of the Warren ghost .
It seem they have a club for bring themselves up , and they punish themselves when they do wrong .
Jerry tell Mr. Meredith all about it . ''
`` The poor little soul , '' say Miss Cornelia .
Carl get well rapidly , for the congregation take enough nourishing thing to the manse to furnish forth a hospital .
Norman Douglas drive up every evening with a dozen fresh egg and a jar of Jersey cream .
Sometimes he stay an hour and bellow argument on predestination with Mr. Meredith in the study ; oftener he drive on up to the hill that overlook the Glen .
When Carl be able to go again to Rainbow Valley they have a special feast in his honour and the doctor come down and help them with the firework .
Mary Vance be there , too , but she do not tell any ghost story .
Miss Cornelia have give her a talk on that subject which Mary would not forget in a hurry .
CHAPTER XXXII .
TWO STUBBORN PEOPLE Rosemary West , on her way home from a music lesson at Ingleside , turn aside to the hidden spring in Rainbow Valley .
She have not be there all summer ; the beautiful little spot have no longer any allurement for her .
The spirit of her young lover never come to the tryst now ; and the memory connect with John Meredith be too painful and poignant .
But she have happen to glance backward up the valley and have see Norman Douglas vaulting as airily a a stripling over the old stone dyke of the Bailey garden and think he be on his way up the hill .
If he overtake her she would have to walk home with him and she be not go to do that .
So she slip at once behind the maple of the spring , hop he have not see her and would pass on .
But Norman have see her and , what be more , be in pursuit of her .
He have be want for some time to have talk with Rosemary , but she have always , so it seem , avoid him .
Rosemary have never , at any time , like Norman Douglas very well .
His bluster , his temper , his noisy hilarity , have always antagonize her .
Long ago she have often wonder how Ellen could possibly be attract to him .
Norman Douglas be perfectly aware of her dislike and he chuckle over it .
It never worry Norman if people do not like him .
It do not even make him dislike them in return , for he take it a a kind of extorted compliment .
He think Rosemary a fine girl , and he mean to be an excellent , generous brother-in-law to her .
But before he could be her brother-in-law he have to have a talk with her , so , have see her leave Ingleside a he stand in the doorway of a Glen store , he have straightway plunge into the valley to overtake her .
Rosemary be sit pensively on the maple seat where John Meredith have be sit on that even nearly a year ago .
The tiny spring shimmer and dimple under it fringe of fern .
Ruby-red gleam of sunset fell through the arching bough .
A tall clump of perfect aster grow at her side .
The little spot be a dreamy and witching and evasive a any retreat of fairy and dryad in ancient forest .
Into it Norman Douglas bounce , scatter and annihilate it charm in a moment .
His personality seem to swallow the place up .
There be simply nothing there but Norman Douglas , big , red-bearded , complacent .
`` Good evening , '' say Rosemary coldly , stand up . ''
` Evening , girl .
Sit down again -- sit down again .
I want to have a talk with you .
Bless the girl , what 's she look at me like that for ?
I do n't want to eat you -- I 've have my supper .
Sit down and be civil . ''
`` I can hear what you have to say quite as well here , '' say Rosemary .
`` So you can , girl , if you use your ear .
I only want you to be comfortable .
You look so durned uncomfortable , stand there .
Well , I 'LL sit anyway . ''
Norman accordingly sit down in the very place John Meredith have once sit .
The contrast be so ludicrous that Rosemary be afraid she would go off into a peal of hysterical laughter over it .
Norman cast his hat aside , place his huge , red hand on his knee , and look up at her with his eye a-twinkle .
`` Come , girl , do n't be so stiff , '' he say , ingratiatingly .
When he like he could be very ingratiating .
`` Let 's have a reasonable , sensible , friendly chat .
There 's something I want to ask you .
Ellen say she wo n't , so it 's up to me to do it . ''
Rosemary look down at the spring , which seem to have shrink to the size of a dewdrop .
Norman gaze at her in despair .
`` Durn it all , you might help a fellow out a bit , '' he burst forth .
`` What be it you want me to help you say ? ''
ask Rosemary scornfully .
`` You know as well a I do , girl .
Do n't be put on your tragedy air .
No wonder Ellen be scar to ask you .
Look here , girl , Ellen and I want to marry each other .
That 's plain English , be n't it ?
Got that ?
And Ellen say she ca n't unless you give her back some tom-fool promise she make .
Come now , will you do it ?
Will you do it ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Rosemary .
Norman bounce up and seize her reluctant hand .
`` Good !
I know you would -- I tell Ellen you would .
I know it would only take a minute .
Now , girl , you go home and tell Ellen , and we 'll have a wedding in a fortnight and you 'll come and live with u .
We sha n't leave you to roost on that hill-top like a lonely crow -- do n't you worry .
I know you hate me , but , Lord , it 'll be great fun living with some one that hat me .
Life 'll have some spice in it after this .
Ellen will roast me and you 'll freeze me .
I wo n't have a dull moment . ''
Rosemary do not condescend to tell him that nothing would ever induce her to live in his house .
She let him go stride back to the Glen , ooze delight and complacency , and she walk slowly up the hill home .
She have know this be come ever since she have return from Kingsport , and find Norman Douglas establish a a frequent evening caller .
His name be never mention between her and Ellen , but the very avoidance of it be significant .
It be not in Rosemary 's nature to feel bitter , or she would have felt very bitter .
She be coldly civil to Norman , and she make no difference in any way with Ellen .
But Ellen have not find much comfort in her second courtship .
She be in the garden , attend by St. George , when Rosemary come home .
The two sister meet in the dahlia walk .
St. George sit down on the gravel walk between them and fold his glossy black tail gracefully around his white paw , with all the indifference of a well-fed , well-bred , well-groomed cat .
`` Did you ever see such dahlia ? ''
demand Ellen proudly .
`` They be just the fine we 've ever have . ''
Rosemary have never care for dahlia .
Their presence in the garden be her concession to Ellen 's taste .
She notice one huge mottle one of crimson and yellow that lord it over all the others .
`` That dahlia , '' she say , point to it , `` be exactly like Norman Douglas .
It might easily be his twin brother . ''
Ellen 's dark-browed face flush .
She admire the dahlia in question , but she know Rosemary do not , and that no compliment be intend .
But she dare not resent Rosemary 's speech -- poor Ellen dare not resent anything just then .
And it be the first time Rosemary have ever mention Norman 's name to her .
She felt that this portend something .
`` I meet Norman Douglas in the valley , '' say Rosemary , look straight at her sister , `` and he tell me you and he want to be marry -- if I would give you permission . ''
`` Yes ?
What do you say ? ''
ask Ellen , try to speak naturally and off-handedly , and fail completely .
She could not meet Rosemary 's eye .
She look down at St. George 's sleek back and felt horribly afraid .
Rosemary have either say she would or she would n't .
If she would Ellen would feel so ashamed and remorseful that she would be a very uncomfortable bride-elect ; and if she would n't -- well , Ellen have once learn to live without Norman Douglas , but she have forget the lesson and felt that she could never learn it again .
`` I say that as far a I be concern you be at full liberty to marry each other as soon a you like , '' say Rosemary .
`` Thank you , '' say Ellen , still look at St. George .
Rosemary 's face soften .
`` I hope you 'll be happy , Ellen , '' she say gently .
`` Oh , Rosemary , '' Ellen look up in distress , `` I 'm so ashamed -- I do n't deserve it -- after all I say to you -- '' `` We wo n't speak about that , '' say Rosemary hurriedly and decidedly .
`` But -- but , '' persist Ellen , `` you be free now , too -- and it 's not too late -- John Meredith -- '' `` Ellen West ! ''
Rosemary have a little spark of temper under all her sweetness and it flash forth now in her blue eye .
`` Have you quite lose your sens in EVERY respect ?
Do you suppose for an instant that I be go to go to John Meredith and say meekly , ` Please , sir , I 've change my mind and please , sir , I hope you have n't change yours . '
Is that what you want me to do ? ''
`` No -- no -- but a little -- encouragement -- he would come back -- '' `` Never .
He despise me -- and rightly .
No more of this , Ellen .
I bear you no grudge -- marry whom you like .
But no meddling in my affair . ''
`` Then you must come and live with me , '' say Ellen .
`` I shall not leave you here alone . ''
`` Do you really think that I would go and live in Norman Douglas 's house ? ''
`` Why not ? ''
cry Ellen , half angrily , despite her humiliation .
Rosemary begin to laugh .
`` Ellen , I think you have a sense of humour .
Can you see me do it ? ''
`` I do n't see why you would n't .
His house be big enough -- you 'd have your share of it to yourself -- he would n't interfere . ''
`` Ellen , the thing be not to be think of .
Do n't bring this up again . ''
`` Then , '' say Ellen coldly , and determinedly , `` I shall not marry him .
I shall not leave you here alone .
That be all there be to be say about it . ''
`` Nonsense , Ellen . ''
`` It be not nonsense .
It be my firm decision .
It would be absurd for you to think of living here by yourself -- a mile from any other house .
If you wo n't come with me I 'll stay with you .
Now , we wo n't argue the matter , so do n't try '' `` I shall leave Norman to do the arguing , '' say Rosemary .
`` I 'LL deal with Norman .
I can manage HIM .
I would never have ask you to give me back my promise -- never -- but I have to tell Norman why I could n't marry him and he say HE would ask you .
I could n't prevent him .
You need not suppose you be the only person in the world who possess self-respect .
I never dream of marrying and leave you here alone .
And you 'll find I can be as determine a yourself . ''
Rosemary turn away and go into the house , with a shrug of her shoulder .
Ellen look down at St. George , who have never blink an eyelash or stir a whisker during the whole interview .
`` St. George , this world would be a dull place without the men , I 'll admit , but I 'm almost tempt to wish there be n't one of 'em in it .
Look at the trouble and bother they 've make right here , George -- tear our happy old life completely up by the root , Saint .
John Meredith begin it and Norman Douglas have finish it .
And now both of them have to go into limbo .
Norman be the only man I ever meet who agree with me that the Kaiser of Germany be the most dangerous creature alive on this earth -- and I ca n't marry this sensible person because my sister be stubborn and I 'm stubborner .
Mark my word , St. George , the minister would come back if she raise her little finger .
But she wo n't George -- she 'll never do it -- she wo n't even crook it -- and I do n't dare meddle , Saint .
I wo n't sulk , George ; Rosemary do n't sulk , so I 'm determined I wo n't either , Saint ; Norman will tear up the turf , but the long and short of it be , St. George , that all of u old fool must just stop thinking of marrying .
Well , well , ` despair be a free man , hope be a slave , ' Saint .
So now come into the house , George , and I 'll solace you with a saucerful of cream .
Then there will be one happy and contented creature on this hill at least . ''
CHAPTER XXXIII .
CARL IS -- NOT -- WHIPPED `` There be something I think I ought to tell you , '' say Mary Vance mysteriously .
She and Faith and Una be walk arm in arm through the village , have foregather at Mr. Flagg 's store .
Una and Faith exchange look which say , `` NOW something disagreeable be come . ''
When Mary Vance think she ought to tell them thing there be seldom much pleasure in the hearing .
They often wonder why they keep on like Mary Vance -- for like her they do , in spite of everything .
To be sure , she be generally a stimulating and agreeable companion .
If only she would not have those conviction that it be her duty to tell them thing !
`` Do you know that Rosemary West wo n't marry your pa because she think you be such a wild lot ?
She 's afraid she could n't bring you up right and so she turn him down . ''
Una 's heart thrill with secret exultation .
She be very glad to hear that Miss West would not marry her father .
But Faith be rather disappointed .
`` How do you know ? ''
she ask .
`` Oh , everybody 's say it .
I hear Mrs. Elliott talk it over with Mrs . Doctor .
They think I be too far away to hear , but I 've get ear like a cat 's .
Mrs. Elliott say she have n't a doubt that Rosemary be afraid to try stepmothering you because you 'd get such a reputation .
Your pa never go up the hill now .
Neither do Norman Douglas .
Folks say Ellen have jilt him just to get square with him for jilt her age ago .
But Norman be go about declare he 'll get her yet .
And I think you ought to know you 've spoil your pa 's match and I think it 's a pity , for he 's bound to marry somebody before long , and Rosemary West would have be the best wife I know of for him . ''
`` You tell me all stepmother be cruel and wicked , '' say Una .
`` Oh -- well , '' say Mary rather confusedly , `` they 're mostly awful cranky , I know .
But Rosemary West could n't be very mean to any one .
I tell you if your pa turn round and marries Emmeline Drew you 'll wish you 'd behave yourselves well and not frighten Rosemary out of it .
It 's awful that you 've get such a reputation that no decent woman 'll marry your pa on account of you .
Of course , I know that half the yarn that be tell about you ai n't true .
But give a dog a bad name .
Why , some folk be say that it be Jerry and Carl that throw the stone through Mrs. Stimson 's window the other night when it be really them two Boyd boy .
But I 'm afraid it be Carl that put the eel in old Mrs. Carr 's buggy , though I say at first I would n't believe it until I 'd well proof than old Kitty Alec 's word .
I tell Mrs. Elliott so right to her face . ''
`` What do Carl do ? ''
cry Faith .
`` Well , they say -- now , mind , I 'm only tell you what people say -- so there 's no use in your blame me for it -- that Carl and a lot of other boy be fish eel over the bridge one evening last week .
Mrs. Carr drive past in that old rattletrap buggy of hers with the open back .
And Carl he just up and throw a big eel into the back .
When poor old Mrs. Carr be drive up the hill by Ingleside that eel come squirm out between her foot .
She think it be a snake and she just give one awful screech and stand up and jump clean over the wheel .
The horse bolt , but it go home and no damage be do .
But Mrs. Carr jar her leg most terrible , and have have nervous spasm ever since whenever she think of the eel .
Say , it be a rotten trick to play on the poor old soul .
She 's a decent body , if she be as queer a Dick 's hat band . ''
Faith and Una look at each other again .
This be a matter for the Good-Conduct Club .
They would not talk it over with Mary .
`` There go your pa , '' say Mary a Mr. Meredith pass them , `` and never see u no more 'n if we be n't here .
Well , I 'm get so 's I do n't mind it .
But there be folk who do . ''
Mr. Meredith have not see them , but he be not walk along in his usual dreamy and abstracted fashion .
He stride up the hill in agitation and distress .
Mrs. Alec Davis have just tell him the story of Carl and the eel .
She have be very indignant about it .
Old Mrs. Carr be her third cousin .
Mr. Meredith be more than indignant .
He be hurt and shock .
He have not think Carl would do anything like this .
He be not incline to be hard on prank of heedlessness or forgetfulness , but THIS be different .
THIS have a nasty tang in it .
When he reach home he find Carl on the lawn , patiently study the habit and custom of a colony of wasp .
Calling him into the study Mr. Meredith confront him , with a sterner face than any of his child have ever see before , and ask him if the story be true .
`` Yes , '' say Carl , flushing , but meet his father 's eye bravely .
Mr. Meredith groan .
He have hop that there have be at least exaggeration .
`` Tell me the whole matter , '' he say .
`` The boy be fish for eel over the bridge , '' say Carl .
`` Link Drew have catch a whopper -- I mean an awful big one -- the big eel I ever saw .
He catch it right at the start and it have be lie in his basket a long time , still a still .
I think it be dead , honest I do .
Then old Mrs. Carr drive over the bridge and she call u all young varmint and tell u to go home .
And we have n't say a word to her , father , truly .
So when she drive back again , after go to the store , the boy dare me to put Link 's eel in her buggy .
I think it be so dead it could n't hurt her and I throw it in .
Then the eel come to life on the hill and we hear her scream and saw her jump out .
I be awful sorry .
That 's all , father . ''
It be not quite as bad a Mr. Meredith have fear , but it be quite bad enough .
`` I must punish you , Carl , '' he say sorrowfully .
`` Yes , I know , father . ''
`` I -- I must whip you . ''
Carl wince .
He have never be whip .
Then , see how badly his father felt , he say cheerfully , `` All right , father . ''
Mr. Meredith misunderstand his cheerfulness and think him insensible .
He tell Carl to come to the study after supper , and when the boy have go out he fling himself into his chair and groan again .
He dread the evening sevenfold more than Carl do .
The poor minister do not even know what he should whip his boy with .
What be use to whip boy ?
Rods ?
Canes ?
No , that would be too brutal .
A timber switch , then ?
And he , John Meredith , must hie him to the wood and cut one .
It be an abominable thought .
Then a picture present itself unbidden to his mind .
He saw Mrs. Carr 's wizened , nut-cracker little face at the appearance of that revive eel -- he saw her sail witch-like over the buggy wheel .
Before he could prevent himself the minister laugh .
Then he be angry with himself and angrier still with Carl .
He would get that switch at once -- and it must not be too limber , after all .
Carl be talk the matter over in the graveyard with Faith and Una , who have just come home .
They be horrify at the idea of his be whip -- and by father , who have never do such a thing !
But they agree soberly that it be just .
`` You know it be a dreadful thing to do , '' sigh Faith .
`` And you never own up in the club . ''
`` I forget , '' say Carl .
`` Besides , I do n't think any harm come of it .
I do n't know she jar her leg .
But I 'm to be whip and that will make thing square . ''
`` Will it hurt -- very much ? ''
say Una , slip her hand into Carl 's .
`` Oh , not so much , I guess , '' say Carl gamely .
`` Anyhow , I 'm not go to cry , no matter how much it hurt .
It would make father feel so bad , if I do .
He 's all cut up now .
I wish I could whip myself hard enough and save him do it . ''
After supper , at which Carl have eat little and Mr. Meredith nothing at all , both go silently into the study .
The switch lay on the table .
Mr. Meredith have have a bad time get a switch to suit him .
He cut one , then felt it be too slender .
Carl have do a really indefensible thing .
Then he cut another -- it be far too thick .
After all , Carl have think the eel be dead .
The third one suit him well ; but a he pick it up from the table it seem very thick and heavy -- more like a stick than a switch .
`` Hold out your hand , '' he say to Carl .
Carl throw back his head and hold out his hand unflinchingly .
But he be not very old and he could not quite keep a little fear out of his eye .
Mr. Meredith look down into those eye -- why , they be Cecilia 's eye -- her very eyes -- and in them be the selfsame expression he have once see in Cecilia 's eye when she have come to him to tell him something she have be a little afraid to tell him .
Here be her eye in Carl 's little , white face -- and six week ago he have think , through one endless , terrible night , that his little lad be die .
John Meredith throw down the switch .
`` Go , '' he say , `` I can not whip you . ''
Carl flee to the graveyard , feel that the look on his father 's face be bad than any whipping .
`` Is it over so soon ? ''
ask Faith .
She and Una have be hold hand and set teeth on the Pollock tombstone .
`` He -- he do n't whip me at all , '' say Carl with a sob , `` and -- I wish he have -- and he 's in there , feel just awful . ''
Una slip away .
Her heart yearn to comfort her father .
As noiselessly a a little gray mouse she open the study door and crept in .
The room be dark with twilight .
Her father be sit at his desk .
His back be towards her -- his head be in his hand .
He be talk to himself -- break , anguish word -- but Una heard -- heard and understood , with the sudden illumination that come to sensitive , unmothered child .
As silently a she have come in she slip out and close the door .
John Meredith go on talk out his pain in what he deem his undisturbed solitude .
CHAPTER XXXIV .
UNA VISITS THE HILL Una go upstairs .
Carl and Faith be already on their way through the early moonlight to Rainbow Valley , have hear therefrom the elfin lilt of Jerry 's jews-harp and have guess that the Blythes be there and fun afoot .
Una have no wish to go .
She seek her own room first where she sit down on her bed and have a little cry .
She do not want anybody to come in her dear mother 's place .
She do not want a stepmother who would hate her and make her father hate her .
But father be so desperately unhappy -- and if she could do any anything to make him happy she MUST do it .
There be only one thing she could do -- and she have know the moment she have leave the study that she must do it .
But it be a very hard thing to do .
After Una cry her heart out she wipe her eye and go to the spare room .
It be dark and rather musty , for the blind have not be draw up nor the window open for a long time .
Aunt Martha be no fresh-air fiend .
But a nobody ever think of shut a door in the manse this do not matter so much , save when some unfortunate minister come to stay all night and be compel to breathe the spare room atmosphere .
There be a closet in the spare room and far back in the closet a gray silk dress be hang .
Una go into the closet and shut the door , go down on her knee and press her face against the soft silken fold .
It have be her mother 's wedding-dress .
It be still full of a sweet , faint , haunt perfume , like linger love .
Una always felt very close to her mother there -- a if she be kneel at her foot with head in her lap .
She go there once in a long while when life be TOO hard .
`` Mother , '' she whisper to the gray silk gown , '' I will never forget you , mother , and I 'll ALWAYS love you best .
But I have to do it , mother , because father be so very unhappy .
I know you would n't want him to be unhappy .
And I will be very good to her , mother , and try to love her , even if she be like Mary Vance say stepmother always be . ''
Una carry some fine , spiritual strength away from her secret shrine .
She sleep peacefully that night with the tear stain still glisten on her sweet , serious , little face .
The next afternoon she put on her best dress and hat .
They be shabby enough .
Every other little girl in the Glen have new clothes that summer except Faith and Una .
Mary Vance have a lovely dress of white embroidered lawn , with scarlet silk sash and shoulder bow .
But to-day Una do not mind her shabbiness .
She only want to be very neat .
She wash her face carefully .
She brush her black hair until it be as smooth a satin .
She tie her shoelace carefully , have first sew up two run in her one pair of good stocking .
She would have like to black her shoe , but she could not find any blacking .
Finally , she slip away from the manse , down through Rainbow Valley , up through the whispering wood , and out to the road that run past the house on the hill .
It be quite a long walk and Una be tire and warm when she get there .
She saw Rosemary West sit under a tree in the garden and stole past the dahlia bed to her .
Rosemary have a book in her lap , but she be gaze afar across the harbour and her thought be sorrowful enough .
Life have not be pleasant lately in the house on the hill .
Ellen have not sulk -- Ellen have be a brick .
But thing can be felt that be never say and at time the silence between the two woman be intolerably eloquent .
All the many familiar thing that have once make life sweet have a flavour of bitterness now .
Norman Douglas make periodical irruption also , bully and coax Ellen by turn .
It would end , Rosemary believe , by his drag Ellen off with him some day , and Rosemary felt that she would be almost glad when it happen .
Existence would be horribly lonely then , but it would be no longer charge with dynamite .
She be rouse from her unpleasant reverie by a timid little touch on her shoulder .
Turning , she saw Una Meredith .
`` Why , Una , dear , do you walk up here in all this heat ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Una , `` I come to -- I come to -- '' But she find it very hard to say what she have come to do .
Her voice fail -- her eye fill with tear .
`` Why , Una , little girl , what be the trouble ?
Do n't be afraid to tell me . ''
Rosemary put her arm around the thin little form and draw the child close to her .
Her eye be very beautiful -- her touch so tender that Una find courage .
`` I come -- to ask you -- to marry father , '' she gasp .
Rosemary be silent for a moment from sheer dumbfounderment .
She star at Una blankly .
`` Oh , do n't be angry , please , dear Miss West , '' say Una , pleadingly .
`` You see , everybody be say that you would n't marry father because we be so bad .
He be VERY unhappy about it .
So I think I would come and tell you that we be never bad ON PURPOSE .
And if you will only marry father we will all try to be good and do just what you tell u .
I 'm SURE you wo n't have any trouble with u .
PLEASE , Miss West . ''
Rosemary have be think rapidly .
Gossiping surmise , she saw , have put this mistaken idea into Una 's mind .
She must be perfectly frank and sincere with the child .
`` Una , dear , '' she say softly .
`` It be n't because of you poor little soul that I can not be your father 's wife .
I never think of such a thing .
You be not bad -- I never suppose you be .
There -- there be another reason altogether , Una . ''
`` Do n't you like father ? ''
ask Una , lift reproachful eye .
`` Oh , Miss West , you do n't know how nice he be .
I 'm sure he 'd make you a GOOD husband . ''
Even in the midst of her perplexity and distress Rosemary could n't help a twisted , little smile .
`` Oh , do n't laugh , Miss West , '' Una cry passionately .
`` Father feel DREADFUL about it . ''
`` I think you 're mistake , dear , '' say Rosemary .
`` I 'm not .
I 'm SURE I 'm not .
Oh , Miss West , father be go to whip Carl yesterday -- Carl have be naughty -- and father could n't do it because you see he have no PRACTICE in whip .
So when Carl come out and tell u father felt so bad , I slip into the study to see if I could help him -- he LIKES me to comfort him , Miss West -- and he do n't hear me come in and I hear what he be say .
I 'll tell you , Miss West , if you 'll let me whisper it in your ear . ''
Una whisper earnestly .
Rosemary 's face turn crimson .
So John Meredith still care .
HE have n't change his mind .
And he must care intensely if he have say that -- care more than she have ever suppose he do .
She sit still for a moment , stroke Una 's hair .
Then she say , `` Will you take a little letter from me to your father , Una ? ''
`` Oh , be you go to marry him , Miss West ? ''
ask Una eagerly .
`` Perhaps -- if he really want me to , '' say Rosemary , blush again .
`` I 'm glad -- I 'm glad , '' say Una bravely .
Then she look up , with quiver lip .
`` Oh , Miss West , you wo n't turn father against u -- you wo n't make him hate u , will you ? ''
she say beseechingly .
Rosemary star again .
`` Una Meredith !
Do you think I would do such a thing ?
Whatever put such an idea into your head ? ''
`` Mary Vance say stepmother be all like that -- and that they all hat their stepchild and make their father hate them -- she say they just could n't help it -- just be stepmother make them like that '' -- `` You poor child !
And yet you come up here and ask me to marry your father because you want to make him happy ?
You 're a darling -- a heroine -- a Ellen would say , you 're a brick .
Now listen to me , very closely , dear .
Mary Vance be a silly little girl who do n't know very much and she be dreadfully mistake about some thing .
I would never dream of try to turn your father against you .
I would love you all dearly .
I do n't want to take your own mother 's place -- she must always have that in your heart .
But neither have I any intention of be a stepmother .
I want to be your friend and helper and CHUM .
Do n't you think that would be nice , Una -- if you and Faith and Carl and Jerry could just think of me a a good jolly chum -- a big older sister ? ''
`` Oh , it would be lovely , '' cry Una , with a transfigured face .
She fling her arm impulsively round Rosemary 's neck .
She be so happy that she felt a if she could fly on wing .
`` Do the others -- do Faith and the boy have the same idea you have about stepmother ? ''
`` No .
Faith never believe Mary Vance .
I be dreadfully foolish to believe her , either .
Faith love you already -- she have love you ever since poor Adam be eat .
And Jerry and Carl will think it be jolly .
Oh , Miss West , when you come to live with u , will you -- could you -- teach me to cook -- a little -- and sew -- and -- and -- and do thing ?
I do n't know anything .
I wo n't be much trouble -- I 'll try to learn fast . ''
`` Darling , I 'll teach you and help you all I can .
Now , you wo n't say a word to anybody about this , will you -- not even to Faith , until your father himself tell you you may ?
And you 'll stay and have tea with me ? ''
`` Oh , thank you -- but -- but -- I think I 'd rather go right back and take the letter to father , '' falter Una .
`` You see , he 'll be glad that much SOONER , Miss West . ''
`` I see , '' say Rosemary .
She go to the house , write a note and give it to Una .
When that small damsel have run off , a palpitate bundle of happiness , Rosemary go to Ellen , who be shell peas on the back porch .
`` Ellen , '' she say , `` Una Meredith have just be here to ask me to marry her father . ''
Ellen look up and read her sister 's face .
`` And you 're go to ? ''
she say .
`` It 's quite likely . ''
Ellen go on shell pea for a few minute .
Then she suddenly put her hand up to her own face .
There be tear in her black-browed eye .
`` I -- I hope we 'll all be happy , '' she say between a sob and a laugh .
Down at the manse Una Meredith , warm , rosy , triumphant , march boldly into her father 's study and lay a letter on the desk before him .
His pale face flush a he saw the clear , fine handwriting he know so well .
He open the letter .
It be very short -- but he shed twenty year a he read it .
Rosemary ask him if he could meet her that even at sunset by the spring in Rainbow Valley .
CHAPTER XXXV .
`` LET THE PIPER COME '' `` And so , '' say Miss Cornelia , `` the double wedding be to be sometime about the middle of this month . ''
There be a faint chill in the air of the early September evening , so Anne have light her ever ready fire of driftwood in the big living room , and she and Miss Cornelia bask in it fairy flicker .
`` It be so delightful -- especially in regard to Mr. Meredith and Rosemary , '' say Anne .
`` I 'm a happy in the thought of it , a I be when I be get marry myself .
I felt exactly like a bride again last evening when I be up on the hill see Rosemary 's trousseau . ''
`` They tell me her thing be fine enough for a princess , '' say Susan from a shadowy corner where she be cuddle her brown boy .
`` I have be invite up to see them also and I intend to go some evening .
I understand that Rosemary be to wear white silk and a veil , but Ellen be to be marry in navy blue .
I have no doubt , Mrs. Dr. dear , that that be very sensible of her , but for my own part I have always felt that if I be ever marry I would prefer the white and the veil , a be more bride-like . ''
A vision of Susan in `` white and a veil '' present itself before Anne 's inner vision and be almost too much for her .
`` As for Mr. Meredith , '' say Miss Cornelia , `` even his engagement have make a different man of him .
He be n't half so dreamy and absent-minded , believe me .
I be so relieved when I hear that he have decide to close the manse and let the child visit round while he be away on his honeymoon .
If he have leave them and old Aunt Martha there alone for a month I should have expect to wake every morning and see the place burn down . ''
`` Aunt Martha and Jerry be come here , '' say Anne .
`` Carl be go to Elder Clow 's .
I have n't hear where the girl be go . ''
`` Oh , I 'm go to take them , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Of course , I be glad to , but Mary would have give me no peace till I ask them any way .
The Ladies ' Aid be go to clean the manse from top to bottom before the bride and groom come back , and Norman Douglas have arrange to fill the cellar with vegetable .
Nobody ever saw or hear anything quite like Norman Douglas these day , believe ME .
He 's so tickled that he 's go to marry Ellen West after want her all his life .
If I be Ellen -- but then , I 'm not , and if she be satisfied I can very well be .
I hear her say year ago when she be a schoolgirl that she do n't want a tame puppy for a husband .
There 's nothing tame about Norman , believe ME . ''
The sun be set over Rainbow Valley .
The pond be wear a wonderful tissue of purple and gold and green and crimson .
A faint blue haze rest on the eastern hill , over which a great , pale , round moon be just float up like a silver bubble .
They be all there , squat in the little open glade -- Faith and Una , Jerry and Carl , Jem and Walter , Nan and Di , and Mary Vance .
They have be have a special celebration , for it would be Jem 's last evening in Rainbow Valley .
On the morrow he would leave for Charlottetown to attend Queen 's Academy .
Their charmed circle would be break ; and , in spite of the jollity of their little festival , there be a hint of sorrow in every gay young heart .
`` See -- there be a great golden palace over there in the sunset , '' say Walter , point .
`` Look at the shin tower -- and the crimson banner stream from them .
Perhaps a conqueror be rid home from battle -- and they be hang them out to do honour to him . ''
`` Oh , I wish we have the old day back again , '' exclaim Jem .
`` I 'd love to be a soldier -- a great , triumphant general .
I 'd give EVERYTHING to see a big battle . ''
Well , Jem be to be a soldier and see a great battle than have ever be fight in the world ; but that be a yet far in the future ; and the mother , whose first-born son he be , be wont to look on her boy and thank God that the `` brave day of old , '' which Jem long for , be go for ever , and that never would it be necessary for the son of Canada to ride forth to battle `` for the ash of their father and the temple of their god . ''
The shadow of the Great Conflict have not yet make felt any forerunner of it chill .
The lad who be to fight , and perhaps fall , on the field of France and Flanders , Gallipoli and Palestine , be still roguish schoolboy with a fair life in prospect before them : the girl whose heart be to be wring be yet fair little maidens a-star with hope and dream .
Slowly the banner of the sunset city give up their crimson and gold ; slowly the conqueror 's pageant fade out .
Twilight crept over the valley and the little group grow silent .
Walter have be read again that day in his beloved book of myth and he remember how he have once fancy the Pied Piper come down the valley on an evening just like this .
He begin to speak dreamily , partly because he want to thrill his companion a little , partly because something apart from him seem to be speak through his lip .
`` The Piper be come nearer , '' he say , `` he be near than he be that even I saw him before .
His long , shadowy cloak be blow around him .
He pip -- he pip -- and we must follow -- Jem and Carl and Jerry and I -- round and round the world .
Listen -- listen -- ca n't you hear his wild music ? ''
The girl shiver .
`` You know you 're only pretend , '' protest Mary Vance , `` and I wish you would n't .
You make it too real .
I hate that old Piper of yours . ''
But Jem spring up with a gay laugh .
He stand up on a little hillock , tall and splendid , with his open brow and his fearless eye .
There be thousand like him all over the land of the maple .
`` Let the Piper come and welcome , '' he cry , wave his hand .
`` I 'LL follow him gladly round and round the world . ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Rilla_of_Ingleside.txt.out
CHAPTER I GLEN `` NOTES '' AND OTHER MATTERS It be a warm , golden-cloudy , lovable afternoon .
In the big living-room at Ingleside Susan Baker sit down with a certain grim satisfaction hover about her like an aura ; it be four o'clock and Susan , who have be work incessantly since six that morning , felt that she have fairly earn an hour of repose and gossip .
Susan just then be perfectly happy ; everything have go almost uncannily well in the kitchen that day .
Dr. Jekyll have not be Mr. Hyde and so have not grate on her nerve ; from where she sit she could see the pride of her heart -- the bed of peony of her own planting and culture , bloom a no other peony plot in Glen St. Mary ever do or could bloom , with peony crimson , peony silvery pink , peonies white a drift of winter snow .
Susan have on a new black silk blouse , quite as elaborate a anything Mrs. Marshall Elliott ever wear , and a white starched apron , trim with complicate crocheted lace fully five inch wide , not to mention insertion to match .
Therefore Susan have all the comfortable consciousness of a well-dressed woman a she open her copy of the Daily Enterprise and prepare to read the Glen `` Notes '' which , a Miss Cornelia have just inform her , fill half a column of it and mention almost everybody at Ingleside .
There be a big , black headline on the front page of the Enterprise , state that some Archduke Ferdinand or other have be assassinate at a place bear the weird name of Sarajevo , but Susan tarry not over uninteresting , immaterial stuff like that ; she be in quest of something really vital .
Oh , here it be -- `` Jottings from Glen St. Mary . ''
Susan settle down keenly , read each one over aloud to extract all possible gratification from it .
Mrs. Blythe and her visitor , Miss Cornelia -- alias Mrs. Marshall Elliott -- be chat together near the open door that lead to the veranda , through which a cool , delicious breeze be blow , bring whiff of phantom perfume from the garden , and charm gay echo from the vine-hung corner where Rilla and Miss Oliver and Walter be laugh and talk .
Wherever Rilla Blythe be , there be laughter .
There be another occupant of the living-room , curl up on a couch , who must not be overlook , since he be a creature of marked individuality , and , moreover , have the distinction of be the only living thing whom Susan really hat .
All cat be mysterious but Dr. Jekyll-and-Mr .
Hyde -- `` Doc '' for short -- be trebly so .
He be a cat of double personality -- or else , a Susan vow , he be possess by the devil .
To begin with , there have be something uncanny about the very dawn of his existence .
Four year previously Rilla Blythe have have a treasured darling of a kitten , white a snow , with a saucy black tip to it tail , which she call Jack Frost .
Susan dislike Jack Frost , though she could not or would not give any valid reason therefor .
`` Take my word for it , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she be wont to say ominously , `` that cat will come to no good . ''
`` But why do you think so ? ''
Mrs. Blythe would ask .
`` I do not think -- I know , '' be all the answer Susan would vouchsafe .
With the rest of the Ingleside folk Jack Frost be a favourite ; he be so very clean and well groom , and never allow a spot or stain to be see on his beautiful white suit ; he have endear way of purring and snuggling ; he be scrupulously honest .
And then a domestic tragedy take place at Ingleside .
Jack Frost have kitten !
It would be vain to try to picture Susan 's triumph .
Had she not always insist that that cat would turn out to be a delusion and a snare ?
Now they could see for themselves !
Rilla keep one of the kitten , a very pretty one , with peculiarly sleek glossy fur of a dark yellow cross by orange stripe , and large , satiny , golden ear .
She call it Goldie and the name seem appropriate enough to the little frolicsome creature which , during it kittenhood , give no indication of the sinister nature it really possess .
Susan , of course , warn the family that no good could be expect from any offspring of that diabolical Jack Frost ; but Susan 's Cassandra-like croaking be unheeded .
The Blythes have be so accustomed to regard Jack Frost a a member of the male sex that they could not get out of the habit .
So they continually use the masculine pronoun , although the result be ludicrous .
Visitors use to be quite electrify when Rilla refer casually to `` Jack and his kitten , '' or tell Goldie sternly , `` Go to your mother and get him to wash your fur . ''
`` It be not decent , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' poor Susan would say bitterly .
She herself compromise by always refer to Jack a `` it '' or `` the white beast , '' and one heart at least do not ache when `` it '' be accidentally poison the following winter .
In a year 's time `` Goldie '' become so manifestly an inadequate name for the orange kitten that Walter , who be just then read Stevenson 's story , change it to Dr. Jekyll-and-Mr .
Hyde .
In his Dr. Jekyll mood the cat be a drowsy , affectionate , domestic , cushion-loving pus , who like petting and glory in be nurse and pat .
Especially do he love to lie on his back and have his sleek , cream-coloured throat stroke gently while he purr in somnolent satisfaction .
He be a notable purrer ; never have there be an Ingleside cat who purr so constantly and so ecstatically .
`` The only thing I envy a cat be it purr , '' remark Dr. Blythe once , listen to Doc 's resonant melody .
`` It be the most contented sound in the world . ''
Doc be very handsome ; his every movement be grace ; his pose magnificent .
When he fold his long , dusky-ringed tail about his foot and sit him down on the veranda to gaze steadily into space for long interval the Blythes felt that an Egyptian sphinx could not have make a more fitting Deity of the Portal .
When the Mr. Hyde mood come upon him -- which it invariably do before rain , or wind -- he be a wild thing with changed eye .
The transformation always come suddenly .
He would spring fiercely from a reverie with a savage snarl and bite at any restraining or caress hand .
His fur seem to grow darker and his eye gleam with a diabolical light .
There be really an unearthly beauty about him .
If the change happen in the twilight all the Ingleside folk felt a certain terror of him .
At such time he be a fearsome beast and only Rilla defend him , assert that he be `` such a nice prowly cat . ''
Certainly he prowl .
Dr. Jekyll love new milk ; Mr. Hyde would not touch milk and growl over his meat .
Dr. Jekyll come down the stair so silently that no one could hear him .
Mr. Hyde make his tread as heavy a a man 's .
Several evening , when Susan be alone in the house , he `` scar her stiff , '' a she declare , by do this .
He would sit in the middle of the kitchen floor , with his terrible eye fix unwinkingly upon hers for an hour at a time .
This play havoc with her nerve , but poor Susan really hold him in too much awe to try to drive him out .
Once she have dare to throw a stick at him and he have promptly make a savage leap towards her .
Susan rush out of door and never attempt to meddle with Mr. Hyde again -- though she visit his misdeed upon the innocent Dr. Jekyll , chase him ignominiously out of her domain whenever he dare to poke his nose in and deny him certain savoury tidbit for which he yearn . ''
` The many friend of Miss Faith Meredith , Gerald Meredith and James Blythe , ' '' read Susan , roll the name like sweet morsel under her tongue , '' ` be very much please to welcome them home a few week ago from Redmond College .
James Blythe , who be graduate in Arts in 1913 , have just complete his first year in medicine . ' ''
`` Faith Meredith have really get to be the most handsome creature I ever saw , '' comment Miss Cornelia above her filet crochet .
`` It 's amazing how those child come on after Rosemary West go to the manse .
People have almost forget what imp of mischief they be once .
Anne , dearie , will you ever forget the way they use to carry on ?
It 's really surprising how well Rosemary get on with them .
She 's more like a chum than a step-mother .
They all love her and Una adore her .
As for that little Bruce , Una just make a perfect slave of herself to him .
Of course , he be a darling .
But do you ever see any child look a much like an aunt a he look like his Aunt Ellen ?
He 's just a dark and just a emphatic .
I ca n't see a feature of Rosemary in him .
Norman Douglas always vow at the top of his voice that the stork meant Bruce for him and Ellen and take him to the manse by mistake . ''
`` Bruce adore Jem , '' say Mrs Blythe .
`` When he come over here he follow Jem about silently like a faithful little dog , look up at him from under his black brow .
He would do anything for Jem , I verily believe . ''
`` Are Jem and Faith go to make a match of it ? ''
Mrs. Blythe smile .
It be well know that Miss Cornelia , who have be such a virulent man-hater at one time , have actually take to match-making in her decline year .
`` They be only good friend yet , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Very good friend , believe me , '' say Miss Cornelia emphatically .
`` I hear all about the doings of the young fry . ''
`` I have no doubt that Mary Vance see that you do , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , '' say Susan significantly , `` but I think it be a shame to talk about child make match . ''
`` Children !
Jem be twenty-one and Faith be nineteen , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` You must not forget , Susan , that we old folk be not the only grown-up people in the world . ''
Outraged Susan , who detest any reference to her age -- not from vanity but from a haunt dread that people might come to think her too old to work -- return to her `` Notes . '' ''
` Carl Meredith and Shirley Blythe come home last Friday evening from Queen 's Academy .
We understand that Carl will be in charge of the school at Harbour Head next year and we be sure he will be a popular and successful teacher . ' ''
`` He will teach the child all there be to know about bug , anyhow , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` He be through with Queen 's now and Mr. Meredith and Rosemary want him to go right on to Redmond in the fall , but Carl have a very independent streak in him and mean to earn part of his own way through college .
He 'll be all the good for it . '' ''
` Walter Blythe , who have be teach for the past two year at Lowbridge , have resign , ' '' read Susan . ''
` He intend go to Redmond this fall . ' ''
`` Is Walter quite strong enough for Redmond yet ? ''
queried Miss Cornelia anxiously .
`` We hope that he will be by the fall , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` An idle summer in the open air and sunshine will do a great deal for him . ''
`` Typhoid be a hard thing to get over , '' say Miss Cornelia emphatically , `` especially when one have have such a close shave a Walter have .
I think he 'd do well to stay out of college another year .
But then he 's so ambitious .
Are Di and Nan go too ? ''
`` Yes .
They both want to teach another year but Gilbert think they have well go to Redmond this fall . ''
`` I 'm glad of that .
They 'll keep an eye on Walter and see that he do n't study too hard .
I suppose , '' continue Miss Cornelia , with a side glance at Susan , `` that after the snub I get a few minute ago it will not be safe for me to suggest that Jerry Meredith be make sheep 's eye at Nan . ''
Susan ignore this and Mrs. Blythe laugh again .
`` Dear Miss Cornelia , I have my hand full , have n't I ?
-- with all these boy and girl sweethearting around me ?
If I take it seriously it would quite crush me .
But I do n't -- it be too hard yet to realize that they 're grow up .
When I look at those two tall son of mine I wonder if they can possibly be the fat , sweet , dimpled baby I kiss and cuddle and sing to slumber the other day -- only the other day , Miss Cornelia .
Was n't Jem the dear baby in the old House of Dreams ?
and now he 's a B.A . and accuse of court . ''
`` We 're all grow old , '' sigh Miss Cornelia .
`` The only part of me that feel old , '' say Mrs. Blythe , `` be the ankle I break when Josie Pye dare me to walk the Barry ridge-pole in the Green Gables day .
I have an ache in it when the wind be east .
I wo n't admit that it be rheumatism , but it do ache .
As for the child , they and the Merediths be plan a gay summer before they have to go back to study in the fall .
They be such a fun-loving little crowd .
They keep this house in a perpetual whirl of merriment . ''
`` Is Rilla go to Queen 's when Shirley go back ? ''
`` It be n't decide yet .
I rather fancy not .
Her father think she be not quite strong enough -- she have rather outgrow her strength -- she 's really absurdly tall for a girl not yet fifteen .
I be not anxious to have her go -- why , it would be terrible not to have a single one of my baby home with me next winter .
Susan and I would fall to fight with each other to break the monotony . ''
Susan smile at this pleasantry .
The idea of her fighting with `` Mrs. Dr. dear ! ''
`` Does Rilla herself want to go ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia .
`` No .
The truth be , Rilla be the only one of my flock who be n't ambitious .
I really wish she have a little more ambition .
She have no serious ideal at all -- her sole aspiration seem to be to have a good time . ''
`` And why should she not have it , Mrs. Dr. dear ? ''
cry Susan , who could not bear to hear a single word against anyone of the Ingleside folk , even from one of themselves .
`` A young girl should have a good time , and that I will maintain .
There will be time enough for her to think of Latin and Greek . ''
`` I should like to see a little sense of responsibility in her , Susan .
And you know yourself that she be abominably vain . ''
`` She have something to be vain about , '' retort Susan .
`` She be the pretty girl in Glen St. Mary .
Do you think that all those over-harbour MacAllisters and Crawfords and Elliotts could scare up a skin like Rilla 's in four generation ?
They could not .
No , Mrs. Dr. dear , I know my place but I can not allow you to run down Rilla .
Listen to this , Mrs. Marshall Elliott . ''
Susan have find a chance to get square with Miss Cornelia for her dig at the child 's love affair .
She read the item with gusto . ''
` Miller Douglas have decide not to go West .
He say old P.E.I . be good enough for him and he will continue to farm for his aunt , Mrs. Alec Davis . ' ''
Susan look keenly at Miss Cornelia .
`` I have hear , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , that Miller be court Mary Vance . ''
This shot pierce Miss Cornelia 's armour .
Her sonsy face flush .
`` I wo n't have Miller Douglas hang round Mary , '' she say crisply .
`` He come of a low family .
His father be a sort of outcast from the Douglases -- they never really count him in -- and his mother be one of those terrible Dillons from the Harbour Head . ''
`` I think I have hear , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , that Mary Vance 's own parent be not what you could call aristocratic . ''
`` Mary Vance have have a good bringing up and she be a smart , clever , capable girl , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` She be not go to throw herself away on Miller Douglas , believe me !
She know my opinion on the matter and Mary have never disobey me yet . ''
`` Well , I do not think you need worry , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , for Mrs. Alec Davis be as much against it a you could be , and say no nephew of hers be ever go to marry a nameless nobody like Mary Vance . ''
Susan return to her mutton , feel that she have get the best of it in this passage of arm , and read another `` note . '' ''
` We be pleased to hear that Miss Oliver have be engage a teacher for another year .
Miss Oliver will spend her well-earned vacation at her home in Lowbridge . ' ''
`` I 'm so glad Gertrude be go to stay , '' say Mrs. Blythe .
`` We would miss her horribly .
And she have an excellent influence over Rilla who worship her .
They be chum , in spite of the difference in their age . ''
`` I think I hear she be go to be marry ? ''
`` I believe it be talk of but I understand it be postpone for a year . ''
`` Who be the young man ? ''
`` Robert Grant .
He be a young lawyer in Charlottetown .
I hope Gertrude will be happy .
She have have a sad life , with much bitterness in it , and she feel thing with a terrible keenness .
Her first youth be go and she be practically alone in the world .
This new love that have come into her life seem such a wonderful thing to her that I think she hardly dare believe in it permanence .
When her marriage have to be put off she be quite in despair -- though it certainly be n't Mr. Grant 's fault .
There be complication in the settlement of his father 's estate -- his father die last winter -- and he could not marry till the tangle be unravelled .
But I think Gertrude felt it be a bad omen and that her happiness would somehow elude her yet . ''
`` It do not do , Mrs. Dr. dear , to set your affection too much on a man , '' remark Susan solemnly .
`` Mr. Grant be quite as much in love with Gertrude a she be with him , Susan .
It be not he whom she distrust -- it be fate .
She have a little mystic streak in her -- I suppose some people would call her superstitious .
She have an odd belief in dream and we have not be able to laugh it out of her .
I must own , too , that some of her dream -- but there , it would not do to let Gilbert hear me hint such heresy .
What have you find of much interest , Susan ? ''
Susan have give an exclamation .
`` Listen to this , Mrs. Dr. dear .
` Mrs. Sophia Crawford have give up her house at Lowbridge and will make her home in future with her niece , Mrs. Albert Crawford . '
Why that be my own cousin Sophia , Mrs. Dr. dear .
We quarrel when we be child over who should get a Sunday-school card with the word ` God be Love , ' wreathe in rosebud , on it , and have never speak to each other since .
And now she be come to live right across the road from u . ''
`` You will have to make up the old quarrel , Susan .
It will never do to be at out with your neighbour . ''
`` Cousin Sophia begin the quarrel , so she can begin the make up also , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' say Susan loftily .
`` If she do I hope I be a good enough Christian to meet her half-way .
She be not a cheerful person and have be a wet blanket all her life .
The last time I saw her , her face have a thousand wrinkle -- maybe more , maybe less -- from worry and foreboding .
She howl dreadful at her first husband 's funeral but she marry again in less than a year .
The next note , I see , describe the special service in our church last Sunday night and say the decoration be very beautiful . ''
`` Speaking of that remind me that Mr. Pryor strongly disapprove of flower in church , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` I always say there would be trouble when that man move here from Lowbridge .
He should never have be put in a elder -- it be a mistake and we shall live to rue it , believe me !
I have hear that he have say that if the girl continue to ` mess up the pulpit with weed ' that he will not go to church . ''
`` The church get on very well before old Whiskers-on-the-moon come to the Glen and it be my opinion it will get on without him after he be go , '' say Susan .
`` Who in the world ever give him that ridiculous nickname ? ''
ask Mrs. Blythe .
`` Why , the Lowbridge boy have call him that ever since I can remember , Mrs. Dr. dear -- I suppose because his face be so round and red , with that fringe of sandy whisker about it .
It do not do for anyone to call him that in his hearing , though , and that you may tie to .
But bad than his whisker , Mrs. Dr. dear , he be a very unreasonable man and have a great many queer idea .
He be an elder now and they say he be very religious ; but I can well remember the time , Mrs. Dr. dear , twenty year ago , when he be catch pasture his cow in the Lowbridge graveyard .
Yes , indeed , I have not forget that , and I always think of it when he be pray in meeting .
Well , that be all the note and there be not much else in the paper of any importance .
I never take much interest in foreign part .
Who be this Archduke man who have be murder ? ''
`` What do it matter to u ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia , unaware of the hideous answer to her question which destiny be even then prepare .
`` Somebody be always murder or be murder in those Balkan States .
It 's their normal condition and I do n't really think that our paper ought to print such shocking thing .
The Enterprise be get far too sensational with it big headline .
Well , I must be get home .
No , Anne dearie , it 's no use ask me to stay to supper .
Marshall have get to think that if I 'm not home for a meal it 's not worth eat -- just like a man .
So off I go .
Merciful goodness , Anne dearie , what be the matter with that cat ?
Is he have a fit ? ''
-- this , a Doc suddenly bound to the rug at Miss Cornelia 's foot , lay back his ear , swore at her , and then disappear with one fierce leap through the window .
`` Oh , no .
He 's merely turn into Mr. Hyde -- which mean that we shall have rain or high wind before morning .
Doc be as good a a barometer . ''
`` Well , I be thankful he have go on the rampage outside this time and not into my kitchen , '' say Susan .
`` And I be go out to see about supper .
With such a crowd a we have at Ingleside now it behoove u to think about our meal betimes . ''
CHAPTER II DEW OF MORNING Outside , the Ingleside lawn be full of golden pool of sunshine and plot of allure shadow .
Rilla Blythe be swing in the hammock under the big Scotch pine , Gertrude Oliver sit at it root beside her , and Walter be stretch at full length on the grass , lose in a romance of chivalry wherein old hero and beauty of dead and go century live vividly again for him .
Rilla be the `` baby '' of the Blythe family and be in a chronic state of secret indignation because nobody believe she be grow up .
She be so nearly fifteen that she call herself that , and she be quite as tall a Di and Nan ; also , she be nearly as pretty a Susan believe her to be .
She have great , dreamy , hazel eye , a milky skin dapple with little golden freckle , and delicately arched eyebrow , give her a demure , question look which make people , especially lads in their teen , want to answer it .
Her hair be ripely , ruddily brown and a little dent in her upper lip look a if some good fairy have press it in with her finger at Rilla 's christening .
Rilla , whose best friend could not deny her share of vanity , think her face would do very well , but worry over her figure , and wish her mother could be prevail upon to let her wear longer dress .
She , who have be so plump and roly-poly in the old Rainbow Valley day , be incredibly slim now , in the arms-and-legs period .
Jem and Shirley harrow her soul by call her `` Spider . ''
Yet she somehow escape awkwardness .
There be something in her movement that make you think she never walk but always dance .
She have be much pet and be a wee bit spoiled , but still the general opinion be that Rilla Blythe be a very sweet girl , even if she be not so clever a Nan and Di .
Miss Oliver , who be go home that night for vacation , have board for a year at Ingleside .
The Blythes have take her to please Rilla who be fathoms deep in love with her teacher and be even willing to share her room , since no other be available .
Gertrude Oliver be twenty-eight and life have be a struggle for her .
She be a striking-looking girl , with rather sad , almond-shaped brown eye , a clever , rather mock mouth , and enormous mass of black hair twist about her head .
She be not pretty but there be a certain charm of interest and mystery in her face , and Rilla find her fascinating .
Even her occasional mood of gloom and cynicism have allurement for Rilla .
These mood come only when Miss Oliver be tire .
At all other time she be a stimulating companion , and the gay set at Ingleside never remember that she be so much old than themselves .
Walter and Rilla be her favourite and she be the confidante of the secret wish and aspiration of both .
She know that Rilla long to be `` out '' -- to go to party a Nan and Di do , and to have dainty evening dress and -- yes , there be no mince matter -- beau !
In the plural , at that !
As for Walter , Miss Oliver know that he have write a sequence of sonnet `` to Rosamond '' -- i.e . , Faith Meredith -- and that he aim at a Professorship of English literature in some big college .
She know his passionate love of beauty and his equally passionate hatred of ugliness ; she know his strength and his weakness .
Walter be , a ever , the handsomest of the Ingleside boy .
Miss Oliver find pleasure in look at him for his good look -- he be so exactly like what she would have like her own son to be .
Glossy black hair , brilliant dark grey eye , faultless feature .
And a poet to his fingertip !
That sonnet sequence be really a remarkable thing for a lad of twenty to write .
Miss Oliver be no partial critic and she know that Walter Blythe have a wonderful gift .
Rilla love Walter with all her heart .
He never tease her a Jem and Shirley do .
He never call her `` Spider . ''
His pet name for her be `` Rilla-my-Rilla '' -- a little pun on her real name , Marilla .
She have be name after Aunt Marilla of Green Gables , but Aunt Marilla have die before Rilla be old enough to know her very well , and Rilla detest the name a be horribly old-fashioned and prim .
Why could n't they have call her by her first name , Bertha , which be beautiful and dignify , instead of that silly `` Rilla '' ?
She do not mind Walter 's version , but nobody else be allow to call her that , except Miss Oliver now and then .
`` Rilla-my-Rilla '' in Walter 's musical voice sound very beautiful to her -- like the lilt and ripple of some silvery brook .
She would have die for Walter if it would have do him any good , so she tell Miss Oliver .
Rilla be a fond of italic a most girl of fifteen be -- and the bitter drop in her cup be her suspicion that he tell Di more of his secret than he tell her .
`` He think I 'm not grow up enough to understand , '' she have once lament rebelliously to Miss Oliver , `` but I be !
And I would never tell them to a single soul -- not even to you , Miss Oliver .
I tell you all my own -- I just could n't be happy if I have any secret from you , dear -- but I would never betray his .
I tell him everything -- I even show him my diary .
And it hurt me dreadfully when he do n't tell me thing .
He show me all his poem , though -- they be marvellous , Miss Oliver .
Oh , I just live in the hope that some day I shall be to Walter what Wordsworth 's sister Dorothy be to him .
Wordsworth never write anything like Walter 's poem -- nor Tennyson , either . ''
`` I would n't say just that .
Both of them write a great deal of trash , '' say Miss Oliver dryly .
Then , repent , a she saw a hurt look in Rilla 's eye , she add hastily , `` But I believe Walter will be a great poet , too -- some day -- and you will have more of his confidence a you grow old . ''
`` When Walter be in the hospital with typhoid last year I be almost crazy , '' sigh Rilla , a little importantly .
`` They never tell me how ill he really be until it be all over -- father would n't let them .
I 'm glad I do n't know -- I could n't have bear it .
I cry myself to sleep every night a it be .
But sometimes , '' conclude Rilla bitterly -- she like to speak bitterly now and then in imitation of Miss Oliver -- `` sometimes I think Walter care more for Dog Monday than he do for me . ''
Dog Monday be the Ingleside dog , so call because he have come into the family on a Monday when Walter have be read Robinson Crusoe .
He really belong to Jem but be much attach to Walter also .
He be lie beside Walter now with nose snuggle against his arm , thump his tail rapturously whenever Walter give him an absent pat .
Monday be not a collie or a setter or a hound or a Newfoundland .
He be just , a Jem say , `` plain dog '' -- very plain dog , uncharitable people add .
Certainly , Monday 's look be not his strong point .
Black spot be scatter at random over his yellow carcass , one of them , apparently , blot out an eye .
His ear be in tatter , for Monday be never successful in affair of honour .
But he possess one talisman .
He know that not all dog could be handsome or eloquent or victorious , but that every dog could love .
Inside his homely hide beat the most affectionate , loyal , faithful heart of any dog since dog be ; and something look out of his brown eye that be nearer akin to a soul than any theologian would allow .
Everybody at Ingleside be fond of him , even Susan , although his one unfortunate propensity of sneak into the spare room and go to sleep on the bed try her affection sorely .
On this particular afternoon Rilla have no quarrel on hand with existing condition .
`` Has n't June be a delightful month ? ''
she ask , look dreamily afar at the little quiet silvery cloud hang so peacefully over Rainbow Valley .
`` We 've have such lovely time -- and such lovely weather .
It have just be perfect every way . ''
`` I do n't half like that , '' say Miss Oliver , with a sigh .
`` It 's ominous -- somehow .
A perfect thing be a gift of the god -- a sort of compensation for what be come afterwards .
I 've see that so often that I do n't care to hear people say they 've have a perfect time .
June have be delightful , though . ''
`` Of course , it have n't be very exciting , '' say Rilla .
`` The only exciting thing that have happen in the Glen for a year be old Miss Mead fainting in Church .
Sometimes I wish something dramatic would happen once in a while . ''
`` Do n't wish it .
Dramatic thing always have a bitterness for some one .
What a nice summer all you gay creature will have !
And me mop at Lowbridge ! ''
`` You 'll be over often , wo n't you ?
I think there 's go to be lot of fun this summer , though I 'll just be on the fringe of thing a usual , I suppose .
Is n't it horrid when people think you 're a little girl when you 're not ? ''
`` There 's plenty of time for you to be grow up , Rilla .
Do n't wish your youth away .
It go too quickly .
You 'll begin to taste life soon enough . ''
`` Taste life !
I want to eat it , '' cry Rilla , laugh .
`` I want everything -- everything a girl can have .
I 'll be fifteen in another month , and then nobody can say I 'm a child any long .
I hear someone say once that the year from fifteen to nineteen be the best year in a girl 's life .
I 'm go to make them perfectly splendid -- just fill them with fun . ''
`` There 's no use think about what you 're go to do -- you be tolerably sure not to do it . ''
`` Oh , but you do get a lot of fun out of the thinking , '' cry Rilla .
`` You think of nothing but fun , you monkey , '' say Miss Oliver indulgently , reflect that Rilla 's chin be really the last word in chin .
`` Well , what else be fifteen for ?
But have you any notion of go to college this fall ? ''
`` No -- nor any other fall .
I do n't want to .
I never care for all those ology and isms Nan and Di be so crazy about .
And there 's five of u go to college already .
Surely that 's enough .
There 's bound to be one dunce in every family .
I 'm quite willing to be a dunce if I can be a pretty , popular , delightful one .
I ca n't be clever .
I have no talent at all , and you ca n't imagine how comfortable it be .
Nobody expect me to do anything so I 'm never pester to do it .
And I ca n't be a housewifely , cookly creature , either .
I hate sew and dusting , and when Susan could n't teach me to make biscuit nobody could .
Father say I toil not neither do I spin .
Therefore , I must be a lily of the field , '' conclude Rilla , with another laugh .
`` You be too young to give up your study altogether , Rilla . ''
`` Oh , mother will put me through a course of read next winter .
It will polish up her B.A . degree .
Luckily I like read .
Do n't look at me so sorrowfully and so disapprovingly , dear .
I ca n't be sober and serious -- everything look so rosy and rainbowy to me .
Next month I 'll be fifteen -- and next year sixteen -- and the year after that seventeen .
Could anything be more enchanting ? ''
`` Rap wood , '' say Gertrude Oliver , half laughingly , half seriously .
`` Rap wood , Rilla-my-Rilla . ''
CHAPTER III MOONLIT MIRTH Rilla , who still button up her eye when she go to sleep so that she always look a if she be laugh in her slumber , yawn , stretch , and smile at Gertrude Oliver .
The latter have come over from Lowbridge the previous evening and have be prevail upon to remain for the dance at the Four Winds lighthouse the next night .
`` The new day be knock at the window .
What will it bring u , I wonder . ''
Miss Oliver shiver a little .
She never greet the day with Rilla 's enthusiasm .
She have live long enough to know that a day may bring a terrible thing .
`` I think the nice thing about day be their unexpectedness , '' go on Rilla .
`` It 's jolly to wake up like this on a golden-fine morning and wonder what surprise packet the day will hand you .
I always day-dream for ten minute before I get up , imagine the heap of splendid thing that may happen before night . ''
`` I hope something very unexpected will happen today , '' say Gertrude .
`` I hope the mail will bring u news that war have be avert between Germany and France . ''
`` Oh -- yes , '' say Rilla vaguely .
`` It will be dreadful if it be n't , I suppose .
But it wo n't really matter much to u , will it ?
I think a war would e so exciting .
The Boer war be , they say , but I do n't remember anything about it , of course .
Miss Oliver , shall I wear my white dress tonight or my new green one ?
The green one be by far the prettier , of course , but I 'm almost afraid to wear it to a shore dance for fear something will happen to it .
And will you do my hair the new way ?
None of the other girl in the Glen wear it yet and it will make such a sensation . ''
`` How do you induce your mother to let you go to the dance ? ''
`` Oh , Walter coax her over .
He know I would be heart-broken if I do n't go .
It 's my first really-truly grown-up party , Miss Oliver , and I 've just lie awake at night for a week think it over .
When I saw the sun shin this morning I want to whoop for joy .
It would be simply terrible if it rain tonight .
I think I 'll wear the green dress and risk it .
I want to look my nice at my first party .
Besides , it 's an inch longer than my white one .
And I 'll wear my silver slipper too .
Mrs. Ford send them to me last Christmas and I 've never have a chance to wear them yet .
They 're the dear thing .
Oh , Miss Oliver , I do hope some of the boy will ask me to dance .
I shall die of mortification -- truly I will , if nobody do and I have to sit stick up against the wall all the evening .
Of course Carl and Jerry ca n't dance because they 're the minister 's son , or else I could depend on them to save me from utter disgrace . ''
`` You 'll have plenty of partner -- all the over-harbour boy be come -- there 'll be far more boy than girl . ''
`` I 'm glad I 'm not a minister 's daughter , '' laugh Rilla .
`` Poor Faith be so furious because she wo n't dare to dance tonight .
Una do n't care , of course .
She have never hanker after dance .
Somebody tell Faith there would be a taffy-pull in the kitchen for those who do n't dance and you should have see the face she make .
She and Jem will sit out on the rock most of the evening , I suppose .
Did you know that we be all to walk down as far a that little creek below the old House of Dreams and then sail to the lighthouse ?
Wo n't it just be absolutely divine ? ''
`` When I be fifteen I talk in italic and superlative too , '' say Miss Oliver sarcastically .
`` I think the party promise to be pleasant for young fry .
I expect to be bore .
None of those boy will bother dance with an old maid like me .
Jem and Walter will take me out once out of charity .
So you ca n't expect me to look forward to it with your touch young rapture . ''
`` Did n't you have a good time at your first party , though , Miss Oliver ? ''
`` No .
I have a hateful time .
I be shabby and homely and nobody ask me to dance except one boy , homely and shabby than myself .
He be so awkward I hat him -- and even he do n't ask me again .
I have no real girlhood , Rilla .
It 's a sad loss .
That 's why I want you to have a splendid , happy girlhood .
And I hope your first party will be one you 'll remember all your life with pleasure . ''
`` I dream last night I be at the dance and right in the middle of thing I discover I be dress in my kimono and bedroom shoe , '' sigh Rilla .
`` I wake up with a gasp of horror . ''
`` Speaking of dream -- I have an odd one , '' say Miss Oliver absently .
`` It be one of those vivid dream I sometimes have -- they be not the vague jumble of ordinary dream -- they be a clear cut and real a life . ''
`` What be your dream ? ''
`` I be stand on the veranda step , here at Ingleside , look down over the field of the Glen .
All at once , far in the distance , I saw a long , silvery , glisten wave breaking over them .
It come nearer and nearer -- just a succession of little white wave like those that break on the sandshore sometimes .
The Glen be be swallow up .
I think , ` Surely the wave will not come near Ingleside ' -- but they come nearer and nearer -- so rapidly -- before I could move or call they be break right at my foot -- and everything be go -- there be nothing but a waste of stormy water where the Glen have be .
I try to draw back -- and I saw that the edge of my dress be wet with blood -- and I wake -- shivering .
I do n't like the dream .
There be some sinister significance in it .
That kind of vivid dream always ` come true ' with me . ''
`` I hope it do n't mean there 's a storm come up from the east to spoil the party , '' murmur Rilla .
`` Incorrigible fifteen ! ''
say Miss Oliver dryly .
`` No , Rilla-my-Rilla , I do n't think there be any danger that it foretell anything so awful a that . ''
There have be an undercurrent of tension in the Ingleside existence for several day .
Only Rilla , absorb in her own budding life , be unaware of it .
Dr. Blythe have take to look grave and say little over the daily paper .
Jem and Walter be keenly interested in the news it bring .
Jem seek Walter out in excitement that even .
`` Oh , boy , Germany have declare war on France .
This mean that England will fight too , probably -- and if she do -- well , the Piper of your old fancy will have come at last . ''
`` It be n't a fancy , '' say Walter slowly .
`` It be a presentiment -- a vision -- Jem , I really saw him for a moment that even long ago .
Suppose England do fight ? ''
`` Why , we 'll all have to turn in and help her , '' cry Jem gaily .
`` We could n't let the ` old grey mother of the northern sea ' fight it out alone , could we ?
But you ca n't go -- the typhoid have do you out of that .
Sort of a shame , eh ? ''
Walter do not say whether it be a shame or not .
He look silently over the Glen to the dimple blue harbour beyond .
`` We 're the cub -- we 've get to pitch in tooth and claw if it come to a family row , '' Jem go on cheerfully , rumple up his red curl with a strong , lean , sensitive brown hand -- the hand of the born surgeon , his father often think .
`` What an adventure it would be !
But I suppose Grey or some of those wary old chap will patch matter up at the eleventh hour .
It 'll be a rotten shame if they leave France in the lurch , though .
If they do n't , we 'll see some fun .
Well , I suppose it 's time to get ready for the spree at the light . ''
Jem depart whistle `` Wi ' a hundred piper and a ' and a ' , '' and Walter stand for a long time where he be .
There be a little frown on his forehead .
This have all come up with the blackness and suddenness of a thundercloud .
A few day ago nobody have even think of such a thing .
It be absurd to think of it now .
Some way out would be find .
War be a hellish , horrible , hideous thing -- too horrible and hideous to happen in the twentieth century between civilize nation .
The mere thought of it be hideous , and make Walter unhappy in it threat to the beauty of life .
He would not think of it -- he would resolutely put it out of his mind .
How beautiful the old Glen be , in it August ripeness , with it chain of bowery old homestead , till meadow and quiet garden .
The western sky be like a great golden pearl .
Far down the harbour be frost with a dawn moonlight .
The air be full of exquisite sound -- sleepy robin whistle , wonderful , mournful , soft murmur of wind in the twilit tree , rustle of aspen poplar talk in silvery whisper and shake their dainty , heart-shaped leaf , lilt young laughter from the window of room where the girl be make ready for the dance .
The world be steep in madden loveliness of sound and colour .
He would think only of these thing and of the deep , subtle joy they give him .
`` Anyhow , no one will expect me to go , '' he think .
`` As Jem say , typhoid have see to that . ''
Rilla be lean out of her room window , dress for the dance .
A yellow pansy slip from her hair and fell out over the sill like a fall star of gold .
She catch at it vainly -- but there be enough left .
Miss Oliver have weave a little wreath of them for her pet 's hair .
`` It 's so beautifully calm -- be n't that splendid ?
We 'll have a perfect night .
Listen , Miss Oliver -- I can hear those old bell in Rainbow Valley quite clearly .
They 've be hang there for over ten year . ''
`` Their wind chime always make me think of the aerial , celestial music Adam and Eve heard in Milton 's Eden , '' respond Miss Oliver .
`` We use to have such fun in Rainbow Valley when we be child , '' say Rilla dreamily .
Nobody ever play in Rainbow Valley now .
It be very silent on summer evening .
Walter like to go there to read .
Jem and Faith trysted there considerably ; Jerry and Nan go there to pursue uninterruptedly the ceaseless wrangle and argument on profound subject that seem to be their preferred method of sweethearting .
And Rilla have a beloved little sylvan dell of her own there where she like to sit and dream .
`` I must run down to the kitchen before I go and show myself off to Susan .
She would never forgive me if I do n't . ''
Rilla whirl into the shadowy kitchen at Ingleside , where Susan be prosaically darn sock , and light it up with her beauty .
She wear her green dress with it little pink daisy garland , her silk stocking and silver slipper .
She have golden pansy in her hair and at her creamy throat .
She be so pretty and young and glow that even Cousin Sophia Crawford be compel to admire her -- and Cousin Sophia Crawford admire few transient earthly thing .
Cousin Sophia and Susan have make up , or ignore , their old feud since the former have come to live in the Glen , and Cousin Sophia often come across in the evening to make a neighbourly call .
Susan do not always welcome her rapturously for Cousin Sophia be not what could be call an exhilarating companion .
`` Some call be visit and some be visitation , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' Susan say once , and leave it to be infer that Cousin Sophia 's be the latter .
Cousin Sophia have a long , pale , wrinkled face , a long , thin nose , a long , thin mouth , and very long , thin , pale hand , generally fold resignedly on her black calico lap .
Everything about her seemed long and thin and pale .
She look mournfully upon Rilla Blythe and say sadly , `` Is your hair all your own ? ''
`` Of course it be , '' cry Rilla indignantly .
`` Ah , well ! ''
Cousin Sophia sigh .
`` It might be good for you if it be n't !
Such a lot of hair take from a person 's strength .
It 's a sign of consumption , I 've hear , but I hope it wo n't turn out like that in your case .
I s ` pose you 'll all be dance tonight -- even the minister 's boy most likely .
I s ` pose his girl wo n't go that far .
Ah , well , I never hold with dancing .
I know a girl once who drop dead while she be dance .
How any one could ever dance aga ' after a judgment like that I can not comprehend . ''
`` Did she ever dance again ? ''
ask Rilla pertly .
`` I tell you she drop dead .
Of course she never dance again , poor creature .
She be a Kirke from Lowbridge .
You ai n't a-going off like that with nothing on your bare neck , be you ? ''
`` It 's a hot evening , '' protest Rilla .
`` But I 'll put on a scarf when we go on the water . ''
`` I know of a boat load of young folk who go sail on that harbour forty year ago just such a night a this -- just exactly such a night a this , '' say Cousin Sophia lugubriously , `` and they be upset and drown -- every last one of them .
I hope nothing like that 'll happen to you tonight .
Do you ever try anything for the freckle ?
I use to find plantain juice real good . ''
`` You certainly should be a judge of freckle , Cousin Sophia , '' say Susan , rush to Rilla 's defence .
`` You be more speckled than any toad when you be a girl .
Rilla 's only come in summer but yours stay put , season in and season out ; and you have not a ground colour like hers behind them neither .
You look real nice , Rilla , and that way of fix your hair be become .
But you be not go to walk to the harbour in those slipper , be you ? ''
`` Oh , no .
We 'll all wear our old shoe to the harbour and carry our slipper .
Do you like my dress , Susan ? ''
`` It mind me of a dress I wear when I be a girl , '' sigh Cousin Sophia before Susan could reply .
`` It be green with pink posy on it , too , and it be flounce from the waist to the hem .
We do n't wear the skimpy thing girl wear nowadays .
Ah me , time have change and not for the good I 'm afraid .
I tear a big hole in it that night and someone spill a cup of tea all over it .
Ruined it completely .
But I hope nothing will happen to your dress .
It orter to be a bit longer I 'm think -- your leg be so terrible long and thin . ''
`` Mrs. Dr. Blythe do not approve of little girl dress like grown-up one , '' say Susan stiffly , intend merely a snub to Cousin Sophia .
But Rilla felt insult .
A little girl indeed !
She whisk out of the kitchen in high dudgeon .
Another time she would n't go down to show herself off to Susan -- Susan , who think nobody be grow up until she be sixty !
And that horrid Cousin Sophia with her dig about freckle and leg !
What business have an old -- an old beanpole like that to talk of anybody else be long and thin ?
Rilla felt all her pleasure in herself and her evening cloud and spoil .
The very teeth of her soul be set on edge and she could have sit down and cried .
But later on her spirit rise again when she find herself one of the gay crowd bound for the Four Winds light .
The Blythes leave Ingleside to the melancholy music of howl from Dog Monday , who be lock up in the barn l he make an uninvited guest at the light .
They pick up the Merediths in the village , and others join them a they walk down the old harbour road .
Mary Vance , resplendent in blue crepe , with lace overdress , come out of Miss Cornelia 's gate and attach herself to Rilla and Miss Oliver who be walk together and who do not welcome her over-warmly .
Rilla be not very fond of Mary Vance .
She have never forget the humiliate day when Mary have chase her through the village with a dried codfish .
Mary Vance , to tell the truth , be not exactly popular with any of her set .
Still , they enjoy her society -- she have such a biting tongue that it be stimulate .
`` Mary Vance be a habit of ours -- we ca n't do without her even when we be furious with her , '' Di Blythe have once say .
Most of the little crowd be pair off after a fashion .
Jem walk with Faith Meredith , of course , and Jerry Meredith with Nan Blythe .
Di and Walter be together , deep in confidential conversation which Rilla envy .
Carl Meredith be walk with Miranda Pryor , more to torment Joe Milgrave than for any other reason .
Joe be know to have a strong hankering for the say Miranda , which shyness prevent him from indulge on all occasion .
Joe might summon enough courage to amble up beside Miranda if the night be dark , but here , in this moonlit dusk , he simply could not do it .
So he trail along after the procession and think thing not lawful to be utter of Carl Meredith .
Miranda be the daughter of Whiskers-on-the-moon ; she do not share her father 's unpopularity but she be not much run after , be a pale , neutral little creature , somewhat addict to nervous giggling .
She have silvery blonde hair and her eye be big china blue orb that look a if she have be badly frighten when she be little and have never get over it .
She would much rather have walk with Joe than with Carl , with whom she do not feel in the least at home .
Yet it be something of an honour , too , to have a college boy beside her , and a son of the manse at that .
Shirley Blythe be with Una Meredith and both be rather silent because such be their nature .
Shirley be a lad of sixteen , sedate , sensible , thoughtful , full of a quiet humour .
He be Susan 's `` little brown boy '' yet , with his brown hair , brown eye , and clear brown skin .
He like to walk with Una Meredith because she never try to make him talk or badger him with chatter .
Una be a sweet and shy a she have be in the Rainbow Valley day , and her large , dark-blue eye be a dreamy and wistful .
She have a secret , carefully-hidden fancy for Walter Blythe that nobody but Rilla ever suspect .
Rilla sympathize with it and wish Walter would return it .
She like Una good than Faith , whose beauty and aplomb rather overshadow other girl -- and Rilla do not enjoy be overshadow .
But just now she be very happy .
It be so delightful to be trip with her friend down that dark , gleam road sprinkle with it little spruce and fir , whose balsam make all the air resinous around them .
Meadows of sunset afterlight be behind the westerning hill .
Before them be the shin harbour .
A bell be ring in the little church over-harbour and the linger dream-notes die around the dim , amethystine point .
The gulf beyond be still silvery blue in the afterlight .
Oh , it be all glorious -- the clear air with it salt tang , the balsam of the fir , the laughter of her friend .
Rilla love life -- it bloom and brilliance ; she love the ripple of music , the hum of merry conversation ; she want to walk on forever over this road of silver and shadow .
It be her first party and she be go to have a splendid time .
There be nothing in the world to worry about -- not even freckle and over-long leg -- nothing except one little haunt fear that nobody would ask her to dance .
It be beautiful and satisfy just to be alive -- to be fifteen -- to be pretty .
Rilla draw a long breath of rapture -- and catch it midway rather sharply .
Jem be tell some story to Faith -- something that have happen in the Balkan War .
`` The doctor lose both his leg -- they be smash to pulp -- and he be leave on the field to die .
And he crawl about from man to man , to all the wound men round him , as long a he could , and do everything possible to relieve their suffering -- never thinking of himself -- he be tie a bit of bandage round another man 's leg when he go under .
They find them there , the doctor 's dead hand still hold the bandage tight , the bleeding be stop and the other man 's life be save .
Some hero , be n't he , Faith ?
I tell you when I read that -- '' Jem and Faith move on out of hearing .
Gertrude Oliver suddenly shiver .
Rilla press her arm sympathetically .
`` Was n't it dreadful , Miss Oliver ?
I do n't know why Jem tell such gruesome thing at a time like this when we 're all out for fun . ''
`` Do you think it dreadful , Rilla ?
I think it wonderful -- beautiful .
Such a story make one ashamed of ever doubt human nature .
That man 's action be godlike .
And how humanity respond to the ideal of self-sacrifice .
As for my shiver , I do n't know what cause it .
The evening be certainly warm enough .
Perhaps someone be walk over the dark , starshiny spot that be to be my grave .
That be the explanation the old superstition would give .
Well , I wo n't think of that on this lovely night .
Do you know , Rilla , that when night-time come I 'm always glad I live in the country .
We know the real charm of night here a town dweller never do .
Every night be beautiful in the country -- even the stormy one .
I love a wild night storm on this old gulf shore .
As for a night like this , it be almost too beautiful -- it belong to youth and dreamland and I 'm half afraid of it . ''
`` I feel a if I be part of it , '' say Rilla .
`` Ah yes , you 're young enough not to be afraid of perfect thing .
Well , here we be at the House of Dreams .
It seem lonely this summer .
The Fords do n't come ? ''
`` Mr. and Mrs. Ford and Persis do n't .
Kenneth do -- but he stay with his mother 's people over-harbour .
We have n't see a great deal of him this summer .
He 's a little lame , so do n't go about very much . ''
`` Lame ?
What happen to him ? ''
`` He break his ankle in a football game last fall and be lay up most of the winter .
He have limp a little ever since but it be get well all the time and he expect it will be all right before long .
He have be up to Ingleside only twice . ''
`` Ethel Reese be simply crazy about him , '' say Mary Vance .
`` She have n't get the sense she be bear with where he be concern .
He walk home with her from the over-harbour church last prayer-meeting night and the air she have put on since would really make you weary of life .
As if a Toronto boy like Ken Ford would ever really think of a country girl like Ethel ! ''
Rilla flush .
It do not matter to her if Kenneth Ford walk home with Ethel Reese a dozen time -- it do not !
Nothing that he do matter to her .
He be age old than she be .
He chummed with Nan and Di and Faith , and look upon her , Rilla , a a child whom he never notice except to tease .
And she detest Ethel Reese and Ethel Reese hat her -- always have hat her since Walter have pummel Dan so notoriously in Rainbow Valley day ; but why need she be think beneath Kenneth Ford 's notice because she be a country girl , pray ?
As for Mary Vance , she be get to be an out-and-out gossip and thought of nothing but who walk home with people !
There be a little pier on the harbour shore below the House of Dreams , and two boat be moor there .
One boat be skipper by Jem Blythe , the other by Joe Milgrave , who know all about boat and be nothing loth to let Miranda Pryor see it .
They race down the harbour and Joe 's boat win .
More boat be come down from the Harbour Head and across the harbour from the western side .
Everywhere there be laughter .
The big white tower on Four Winds Point be overflow with light , while it revolve beacon flash overhead .
A family from Charlottetown , relatives of the light 's keeper , be summer at the light , and they be give the party to which all the young people of Four Winds and Glen St. Mary and over-harbour have be invite .
As Jem 's boat swung in below the lighthouse Rilla desperately snatch off her shoe and don her silver slipper behind Miss Oliver 's screening back .
A glance have tell her that the rock-cut step climb up to the light be line with boy , and light by Chinese lantern , and she be determine she would not walk up those step in the heavy shoe her mother have insist on her wearing for the road .
The slipper pinch abominably , but nobody would have suspect it a Rilla trip smilingly up the step , her soft dark eye glow and question , her colour deepen richly on her round , creamy cheek .
The very minute she reach the top of the step an over-harbour boy ask her to dance and the next moment they be in the pavilion that have be build seaward of the lighthouse for dance .
It be a delightful spot , roof over with fir-boughs and hung with lantern .
Beyond be the sea in a radiance that glow and shimmer , to the leave the moonlit crest and hollow of the sand-dunes , to the right the rocky shore with it inky shadow and it crystalline cove .
Rilla and her partner swung in among the dancer ; she draw a long breath of delight ; what witch music Ned Burr of the Upper Glen be coax from his fiddle -- it be really like the magical pipe of the old tale which compel all who hear them to dance .
How cool and fresh the gulf breeze blow ; how white and wonderful the moonlight be over everything !
This be life -- enchant life .
Rilla felt a if her foot and her soul both have wing .
CHAPTER IV THE PIPER PIPES Rilla 's first party be a triumph -- or so it seem at first .
She have so many partner that she have to split her dance .
Her silver slipper seem verily to dance of themselves and though they continue to pinch her toe and blister her heel that do not interfere with her enjoyment in the least .
Ethel Reese give her a bad ten minute by beckon her mysteriously out of the pavilion and whispering , with a Reese-like smirk , that her dress gap behind and that there be a stain on the flounce .
Rilla rush miserably to the room in the lighthouse which be fit up for a temporary lady ' dressing-room , and discover that the stain be merely a tiny grass smear and that the gap be equally tiny where a hook have pull loose .
Irene Howard fasten it up for her and give her some over-sweet , condescend compliment .
Rilla felt flatter by Irene 's condescension .
She be an Upper Glen girl of nineteen who seem to like the society of the young girl -- spiteful friend say because she could queen it over them without rivalry .
But Rilla think Irene quite wonderful and love her for her patronage .
Irene be pretty and stylish ; she sing divinely and spent every winter in Charlottetown take music lesson .
She have an aunt in Montreal who send her wonderful thing to wear ; she be report to have have a sad love affair -- nobody know just what , but it very mystery allure .
Rilla felt that Irene 's compliment crown her evening .
She run gaily back to the pavilion and linger for a moment in the glow of the lantern at the entrance look at the dancer .
A momentary break in the whirling throng give her a glimpse of Kenneth Ford stand at the other side .
Rilla 's heart skip a beat -- or , if that be a physiological impossibility , she think it do .
So he be here , after all .
She have conclude he be not come -- not that it matter in the least .
Would he see her ?
Would he take any notice of her ?
Of course , he would n't ask her to dance -- that could n't be hop for .
He think her just a mere child .
He have call her `` Spider '' not three week ago when he have be at Ingleside one evening .
She have cry about it upstairs afterwards and hat him .
But her heart skip a beat when she saw that he be edge his way round the side of the pavilion towards her .
Was he come to her -- be he ?
-- be he ?
-- yes , he be !
He be look for her -- he be here beside her -- he be gaze down at her with something in his dark grey eye that Rilla have never see in them .
Oh , it be almost too much to bear !
and everything be go on a before -- the dancer be spin round , the boy who could n't get partner be hang about the pavilion , canoodle couple be sit out on the rock -- nobody seem to realize what a stupendous thing have happen .
Kenneth be a tall lad , very good look , with a certain careless grace of bearing that somehow make all the other boy seem stiff and awkward by contrast .
He be report to be awesomely clever , with the glamour of a far-away city and a big university hang around him .
He have also the reputation of be a bit of a lady-killer .
But that probably accrue to him from his possession of a laughing , velvety voice which no girl could hear without a heartbeat , and a dangerous way of listen a if she be say something that he have long all his life to hear .
`` Is this Rilla-my-Rilla ? ''
he ask in a low tone .
`` Yeth , '' say Rilla , and immediately wish she could throw herself headlong down the lighthouse rock or otherwise vanish from a jeering world .
Rilla have lisp in early childhood ; but she have grow out of it .
Only on occasion of stress and strain do the tendency re-assert itself .
She have n't lisp for a year ; and now at this very moment , when she be so especially desirous of appear grow up and sophisticated , she must go and lisp like a baby !
It be too mortifying ; she felt a if tear be go to come into her eye ; the next minute she would be -- blubber -- yes , just blubbering -- she wish Kenneth would go away -- she wish he have never come .
The party be spoil .
Everything have turn to dust and ash .
And he have call her `` Rilla-my-Rilla '' -- not `` Spider '' or `` Kid '' or `` Puss , '' a he have be use to call her when he take any notice whatever of her .
