BLOCKHEAD-HANS Far away in the country lay an old manor-house where live an old squire who have two son .
They think themselves so clever , that if they have know only half of what they do know , it would have be quite enough .
They both want to marry the King 's daughter , for she have proclaim that she would have for her husband the man who know best how to choose his word .
Both prepare for the woo a whole week , which be the long time allow them ; but , after all , it be quite long enough , for they both have preparatory knowledge , and everyone know how useful that be .
One know the whole Latin dictionary and also three year ' issue of the daily paper of the town off by heart , so that he could repeat it all backwards or forward a you please .
The other have work at the law of corporation , and know by heart what every member of the corporation ought to know , so that he think he could quite well speak on State matter and give his opinion .
He understand , besides this , how to embroider brace with rose and other flower , and scroll , for he be very ready with his finger . '
I shall win the king 's daughter ! '
they both cry .
Their old father give each of them a fine horse ; the one who know the dictionary and the daily paper by heart have a black horse , while the other who be so clever at corporation law have a milk-white one .
Then they oil the corner of their mouth so that they might be able to speak more fluently .
All the servant stand in the courtyard and saw them mount their steed , and here by chance come the third brother ; for the squire have three son , but nobody count him with his brother , for he be not so learn a they be , and he be generally call ` Blockhead-Hans . '
` Oh , oh ! '
say Blockhead-Hans .
` Where be you off to ?
You be in your Sunday-best clothes ! '
` We be go to Court , to woo the Princess !
Do n't you know what be know throughout all the country side ? '
And they tell him all about it .
` Hurrah !
I 'll go to ! '
cried Blockhead-Hans ; and the brother laugh at him and ride off .
` Dear father ! '
cry Blockhead-Hans , ' I must have a horse too .
What a desire for marriage have seize me !
If she will have me , she WILL have me , and if she wo n't have me , I will have her . '
` Stop that nonsense ! '
say the old man . '
I will not give you a horse .
YOU ca n't speak ; YOU do n't know how to choose your word .
Your brother !
Ah !
they be very different lad ! '
` Well , ' say Blockhead-Hans , ` if I ca n't have a horse , I will take the goat which be mine ; he can carry me ! '
And he do so .
He sit astride on the goat , strike his heel into it side , and go rattle down the high-road like a hurricane .
` Hoppetty hop !
what a ride ! '
Here I come ! '
shout Blockhead-Hans , sing so that the echo be rouse far and near .
But his brother be rid slowly in front .
They be not speak , but they be think over all the good thing they be go to say , for everything have to be think out .
` Hullo ! '
bawl Blockhead-Hans , ` here I be !
Just look what I find on the road ! '
-- and he show them a dead crow which he have pick up .
` Blockhead ! '
say his brother , ` what be you go to do with it ? '
` With the crow ?
I shall give it to the Princess ! '
` Do so , certainly ! '
they say , laugh loudly and rid on .
` Slap !
bang !
here I be again !
Look what I have just find !
You do n't find such thing every day on the road ! '
And the brother turn round to see what in the world he could have find .
` Blockhead ! '
say they , ` that be an old wooden shoe without the top !
Are you go to send that , too , to the Princess ? '
` Of course I shall ! '
return Blockhead-Hans ; and the brother laugh and ride on a good way .
` Slap !
bang !
here I be ! '
cried Blockhead-Hans ; ` well and good -- it be really famous ! '
` What have you find now ? '
ask the brother .
` Oh , ' say Blockhead-Hans , ` it be really too good !
How please the Princess will be ! '
` Why ! '
say the brother , ` this be pure mud , straight from the ditch . '
` Of course it be ! '
say Blockhead-Hans , ` and it be the best kind !
Look how it run through one 's finger ! '
and , so say , he fill his pocket with the mud .
But the brother ride on so fast that dust and spark fly all around , and they reach the gate of the town a good hour before Blockhead-Hans .
Here come the suitor number accord to their arrival , and they be range in row , six in each row , and they be so tightly pack that they could not move their arm .
This be a very good thing , for otherwise they would have tear each other in piece , merely because the one be in front of the other .
All the country people be stand round the King 's throne , and be crowd together in thick mass almost out of the window to see the Princess receive the suitor ; and a each one come into the room all his fine phrase go out like a candle !
` It do n't matter ! '
say the Princess .
` Away !
out with him ! '
At last she come to the row in which the brother who know the dictionary by heart be , but he do not know it any longer ; he have quite forget it in the rank and file .
And the floor creak , and the ceiling be all make of glass mirror , so that he saw himself stand on his head , and by each window be stand three reporter and an editor ; and each of them be write down what be say , to publish it in the paper that come out and be sell at the street corner for a penny .
It be fearful , and they have make up the fire so hot that it be grill .
` It be hot in here , be n't it ! '
say the suitor .
` Of course it be !
My father be roast young chicken to-day ! '
say the Princess .
` Ahem ! '
There he stand like an idiot .
He be not prepared for such a speech ; he do not know what to say , although he want to say something witty .
` Ahem ! '
` It do n't matter ! '
say the Princess .
` Take him out ! '
and out he have to go .
Now the other brother enter .
` How hot it be ! '
he say .
` Of course !
We be roast young chicken to-day ! '
remark the Princess .
` How do you -- um ! '
he say , and the reporter write down .
` How do you -- um . '
` It do n't matter ! '
say the Princess .
` Take him out ! '
Now Blockhead-Hans come in ; he ride his goat right into the hall . '
I say !
How roast hot it be here ! '
say he .
` Of course !
I be roast young chicken to-day ! '
say the Princess .
` That 's good ! '
replied Blockhead-Hans ; ` then can I roast a crow with them ? '
` With the great of pleasure ! '
say the Princess ; ` but have you anything you can roast them in ?
for I have neither pot nor saucepan . '
` Oh , rather ! '
say Blockhead-Hans .
` Here be a cooking implement with tin ring , ' and he draw out the old wooden shoe , and lay the crow in it .
` That be quite a meal ! '
say the Princess ; ` but where shall we get the soup from ? '
` I 've get that in my pocket ! '
say Blockhead-Hans . '
I have so much that I can quite well throw some away ! '
and he pour some mud out of his pocket . '
I like you ! '
say the Princess .
` You can answer , and you can speak , and I will marry you ; but do you know that every word which we be say and have say have be take down and will be in the paper to-morrow ?
By each window do you see there be stand three reporter and an old editor , and this old editor be the bad , for he do n't understand anything ! '
but she only say this to tease Blockhead-Hans .
And the reporter giggle , and each drop a blot of ink on the floor .
` Ah !
be those the great people ? '
say Blockhead-Hans .
` Then I will give the editor the best ! '
So say , he turn his pocket inside out , and throw the mud right in his face .
` That be neatly do ! '
say the Princess . '
I could n't have do it ; but I will soon learn how to ! '
Blockhead-Hans become King , get a wife and a crown , and sit on the throne ; and this we have still damp from the newspaper of the editor and the reporter -- and they be not to be believe for a moment .
A STORY ABOUT A DARNING-NEEDLE There be once a Darning-needle who think herself so fine that she believe she be an embroidery-needle .
` Take great care to hold me tight ! '
say the Darning-needle to the Fingers who be hold her .
` Do n't let me fall !
If I once fall on the ground I shall never be find again , I be so fine ! '
` It be all right ! '
say the Fingers , seize her round the waist .
` Look , I be come with my train ! '
say the Darning-needle a she draw a long thread after her ; but there be no knot at the end of the thread .
The Fingers be use the needle on the cook 's shoe .
The upper leather be unstitched and have to be sew together .
` This be common work ! '
say the Darning-needle . '
I shall never get through it .
I be break !
I be break ! '
And in fact she do break .
` Did n't I tell you so ! '
say the Darning-needle . '
I be too fine ! '
` Now she be good for nothing ! '
say the Fingers ; but they have to hold her tight while the cook drop some sealing-wax on the needle and stick it in the front of her dress .
` Now I be a breast-pin ! '
say the Darning-needle . '
I always know I should be promote .
When one be something , one will become something ! '
And she laugh to herself ; you can never see when a Darning-needle be laugh .
Then she sit up as proudly a if she be in a State coach , and look all round her .
` May I be allow to ask if you be gold ? '
she say to her neighbour , the Pin .
` You have a very nice appearance , and a peculiar head ; but it be too small !
You must take pain to make it grow , for it be not everyone who have a head of sealing-wax . '
And so say the Darning-needle raise herself up so proudly that she fell out of the dress , right into the sink which the cook be rinse out .
` Now I be off on my travel ! '
say the Darning-needle . '
I do hope I sha 'n ' t get lose ! '
She do indeed get lose . '
I be too fine for this world ! '
say she a she lay in the gutter ; ` but I know who I be , and that be always a little satisfaction ! '
And the Darning-needle keep her proud bearing and do not lose her good-temper .
All kind of thing swam over her -- shaving , bit of straw , and scrap of old newspaper .
` Just look how they sail along ! '
say the Darning-needle .
` They do n't know what be underneath them !
Here I be stick fast !
There go a shave thinking of nothing in the world but of itself , a mere chip !
There go a straw -- well , how it do twist and twirl , to be sure !
Do n't think so much about yourself , or you will be knock against a stone .
There float a bit of newspaper .
What be write on it be long ago forget , and yet how proud it be !
I be sit patient and quiet .
I know who I be , and that be enough for me ! '
One day something thick lay near her which glitter so brightly that the Darning-needle think it must be a diamond .
But it be a bit of bottle-glass , and because it sparkle the Darning-needle spoke to it , and give herself out a a breast-pin .
` No doubt you be a diamond ? '
` Yes , something of that kind ! '
And each believe that the other be something very costly ; and they both say how very proud the world must be of them . '
I have come from a lady 's work-box , ' say Darning-needle , ` and this lady be a cook ; she have five finger on each hand ; anything so proud a these finger I have never see !
And yet they be only there to take me out of the work-box and to put me back again ! '
` Were they of noble birth , then ? '
ask the bit of bottle-glass .
` Of noble birth ! '
say the Darning-needle ; ` no indeed , but proud !
They be five brother , all call '' Fingers . ''
They hold themselves proudly one against the other , although they be of different size .
The outside one , the Thumb , be short and fat ; he be outside the rank , and have only one bend in his back , and could only make one bow ; but he say that if he be cut off from a man that he be no longer any use a a soldier .
Dip-into-everything , the second finger , dip into sweet thing as well a sour thing , point to the sun and the moon , and guide the pen when they write .
Longman , the third , look at the others over his shoulder .
Goldband , the fourth , have a gold sash round his waist ; and little Playman do nothing at all , and be the more proud .
There be too much ostentation , and so I come away . '
` And now we be sit and shin here ! '
say the bit of bottle-glass .
At that moment more water come into the gutter ; it stream over the edge and wash the bit of bottle-glass away .
` Ah !
now he have be promote ! '
say the Darning-needle . '
I remain here ; I be too fine .
But that be my pride , which be a sign of respectability ! '
And she sit there very proudly , think lofty thought . '
I really believe I must have be bear a sunbeam , I be so fine !
It seem to me a if the sunbeam be always look under the water for me .
Ah , I be so fine that my own mother can not find me !
If I have my old eye which break off , I believe I could weep ; but I ca n't -- it be not fine to weep ! '
One day two street-urchins be play and wad in the gutter , pick up old nail , penny , and such thing .
It be rather dirty work , but it be a great delight to them .
` Oh , oh ! '
cry out one , a he prick himself with the Darning-needle ; ` he be a fine fellow though ! ' '
I be not a fellow ; I be a young lady ! '
say the Darning-needle ; but no one heard .
The sealing-wax have go , and she have become quite black ; but black make one look very slim , and so she think she be even fine than before .
` Here come an egg-shell sailing along ! '
say the boy , and they stick the Darning-needle into the egg-shell .
` The wall white and I black -- what a pretty contrast it make ! '
say the Darning-needle .
` Now I can be see to advantage !
If only I be not sea-sick !
I should give myself up for lose ! '
But she be not sea-sick , and do not give herself up .
` It be a good thing to be steel against sea-sickness ; here one have indeed an advantage over man !
Now my qualm be over .
The finer one be the more one can beat . '
` Crack ! '
say the egg-shell a a wagon-wheel go over it .
` Oh !
how it press ! '
say the Darning-needle . '
I shall indeed be sea-sick now .
I be break ! '
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lewis_Carroll___Alice's_Adventures_in_Wonderland.txt.out
CHAPTER I . Down the Rabbit-Hole Alice be begin to get very tired of sit by her sister on the bank , and of have nothing to do : once or twice she have peep into the book her sister be read , but it have no picture or conversation in it , ` and what be the use of a book , ' thought Alice ` without picture or conversation ? '
So she be consider in her own mind -LRB- as well a she could , for the hot day make her feel very sleepy and stupid -RRB- , whether the pleasure of make a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of get up and pick the daisy , when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eye run close by her .
There be nothing so VERY remarkable in that ; nor do Alice think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself , ` Oh dear !
Oh dear !
I shall be late ! '
-LRB- when she think it over afterwards , it occur to her that she ought to have wonder at this , but at the time it all seem quite natural -RRB- ; but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET , and look at it , and then hurry on , Alice start to her foot , for it flash across her mind that she have never before see a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket , or a watch to take out of it , and burn with curiosity , she run across the field after it , and fortunately be just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge .
In another moment down go Alice after it , never once consider how in the world she be to get out again .
The rabbit-hole go straight on like a tunnel for some way , and then dip suddenly down , so suddenly that Alice have not a moment to think about stop herself before she find herself fall down a very deep well .
Either the well be very deep , or she fell very slowly , for she have plenty of time a she go down to look about her and to wonder what be go to happen next .
First , she try to look down and make out what she be come to , but it be too dark to see anything ; then she look at the side of the well , and notice that they be fill with cupboard and book-shelves ; here and there she saw map and picture hang upon peg .
She take down a jar from one of the shelf a she pass ; it be label ` ORANGE MARMALADE ' , but to her great disappointment it be empty : she do not like to drop the jar for fear of kill somebody , so manage to put it into one of the cupboard a she fell past it .
` Well ! '
think Alice to herself , ` after such a fall a this , I shall think nothing of tumble down stair !
How brave they 'll all think me at home !
Why , I would n't say anything about it , even if I fell off the top of the house ! '
-LRB- Which be very likely true . -RRB-
Down , down , down .
Would the fall NEVER come to an end ! '
I wonder how many mile I 've fall by this time ? '
she say aloud . '
I must be get somewhere near the centre of the earth .
Let me see : that would be four thousand mile down , I think -- ' -LRB- for , you see , Alice have learn several thing of this sort in her lesson in the schoolroom , and though this be not a VERY good opportunity for show off her knowledge , a there be no one to listen to her , still it be good practice to say it over -RRB- ' -- yes , that 's about the right distance -- but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I 've get to ? '
-LRB- Alice have no idea what Latitude be , or Longitude either , but think they be nice grand word to say . -RRB-
Presently she begin again . '
I wonder if I shall fall right THROUGH the earth !
How funny it 'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their head downward !
The Antipathies , I think -- ' -LRB- she be rather glad there WAS no one listening , this time , a it do n't sound at all the right word -RRB- ' -- but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country be , you know .
Please , Ma'am , be this New Zealand or Australia ? '
-LRB- and she try to curtsey a she speak -- fancy CURTSEYING a you 're fall through the air !
Do you think you could manage it ? -RRB-
` And what an ignorant little girl she 'll think me for ask !
No , it 'll never do to ask : perhaps I shall see it write up somewhere . '
Down , down , down .
There be nothing else to do , so Alice soon begin talk again .
` Dinah 'll miss me very much to-night , I should think ! '
-LRB- Dinah be the cat . -RRB- '
I hope they 'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time .
Dinah my dear !
I wish you be down here with me !
There be no mouse in the air , I 'm afraid , but you might catch a bat , and that 's very like a mouse , you know .
But do cat eat bat , I wonder ? '
And here Alice begin to get rather sleepy , and go on say to herself , in a dreamy sort of way , ` Do cat eat bat ?
Do cat eat bat ? '
and sometimes , ` Do bat eat cat ? '
for , you see , a she could n't answer either question , it do n't much matter which way she put it .
She felt that she be doze off , and have just begin to dream that she be walk hand in hand with Dinah , and say to her very earnestly , ` Now , Dinah , tell me the truth : do you ever eat a bat ? '
when suddenly , thump !
thump !
down she come upon a heap of stick and dry leaf , and the fall be over .
Alice be not a bit hurt , and she jump up on to her foot in a moment : she look up , but it be all dark overhead ; before her be another long passage , and the White Rabbit be still in sight , hurry down it .
There be not a moment to be lose : away go Alice like the wind , and be just in time to hear it say , a it turn a corner , ` Oh my ear and whisker , how late it 's get ! '
She be close behind it when she turn the corner , but the Rabbit be no long to be see : she find herself in a long , low hall , which be light up by a row of lamp hang from the roof .
There be door all round the hall , but they be all lock ; and when Alice have be all the way down one side and up the other , try every door , she walk sadly down the middle , wonder how she be ever to get out again .
Suddenly she come upon a little three-legged table , all make of solid glass ; there be nothing on it except a tiny golden key , and Alice 's first thought be that it might belong to one of the door of the hall ; but , ala !
either the lock be too large , or the key be too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
However , on the second time round , she come upon a low curtain she have not notice before , and behind it be a little door about fifteen inch high : she try the little golden key in the lock , and to her great delight it fit !
Alice open the door and find that it lead into a small passage , not much large than a rat-hole : she kneel down and look along the passage into the lovely garden you ever saw .
How she long to get out of that dark hall , and wander about among those bed of bright flower and those cool fountain , but she could not even get her head through the doorway ; ` and even if my head would go through , ' think poor Alice , ` it would be of very little use without my shoulder .
Oh , how I wish I could shut up like a telescope !
I think I could , if I only know how to begin . '
For , you see , so many out-of-the-way thing have happen lately , that Alice have begin to think that very few thing indeed be really impossible .
There seem to be no use in wait by the little door , so she go back to the table , half hop she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rule for shut people up like telescope : this time she find a little bottle on it , -LRB- ` which certainly be not here before , ' say Alice , -RRB- and round the neck of the bottle be a paper label , with the word ` DRINK ME ' beautifully print on it in large letter .
It be all very well to say ` Drink me , ' but the wise little Alice be not go to do THAT in a hurry .
` No , I 'll look first , ' she say , ` and see whether it 's mark `` poison '' or not ' ; for she have read several nice little history about child who have get burnt , and eat up by wild beast and other unpleasant thing , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rule their friend have teach them : such a , that a red-hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleed ; and she have never forget that , if you drink much from a bottle mark ` poison , ' it be almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
However , this bottle be NOT mark ` poison , ' so Alice venture to taste it , and find it very nice , -LRB- it have , in fact , a sort of mixed flavour of cherry-tart , custard , pine-apple , roast turkey , toffee , and hot butter toast , -RRB- she very soon finish it off .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` What a curious feeling ! '
say Alice ; ' I must be shut up like a telescope . '
And so it be indeed : she be now only ten inch high , and her face brighten up at the thought that she be now the right size for go through the little door into that lovely garden .
First , however , she wait for a few minute to see if she be go to shrink any further : she felt a little nervous about this ; ` for it might end , you know , ' say Alice to herself , ` in my go out altogether , like a candle .
I wonder what I should be like then ? '
And she try to fancy what the flame of a candle be like after the candle be blow out , for she could not remember ever have see such a thing .
After a while , find that nothing more happen , she decide on go into the garden at once ; but , ala for poor Alice !
when she get to the door , she find she have forget the little golden key , and when she go back to the table for it , she find she could not possibly reach it : she could see it quite plainly through the glass , and she try her best to climb up one of the leg of the table , but it be too slippery ; and when she have tire herself out with try , the poor little thing sit down and cry .
` Come , there 's no use in cry like that ! '
say Alice to herself , rather sharply ; ' I advise you to leave off this minute ! '
She generally give herself very good advice , -LRB- though she very seldom follow it -RRB- , and sometimes she scold herself so severely a to bring tear into her eye ; and once she remember try to box her own ear for have cheat herself in a game of croquet she be play against herself , for this curious child be very fond of pretend to be two people .
` But it 's no use now , ' think poor Alice , ` to pretend to be two people !
Why , there 's hardly enough of me leave to make ONE respectable person ! '
Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that be lie under the table : she open it , and find in it a very small cake , on which the word ` EAT ME ' be beautifully mark in currant .
` Well , I 'll eat it , ' say Alice , ` and if it make me grow large , I can reach the key ; and if it make me grow small , I can creep under the door ; so either way I 'll get into the garden , and I do n't care which happen ! '
She eat a little bit , and say anxiously to herself , ` Which way ?
Which way ? '
, hold her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it be grow , and she be quite surprised to find that she remain the same size : to be sure , this generally happen when one eats cake , but Alice have get so much into the way of expect nothing but out-of-the-way thing to happen , that it seem quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way .
So she set to work , and very soon finish off the cake .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * CHAPTER II .
The Pool of Tears ` Curiouser and curiouser ! '
cried Alice -LRB- she be so much surprise , that for the moment she quite forget how to speak good English -RRB- ; ` now I 'm open out like the large telescope that ever be !
Good-bye , foot ! '
-LRB- for when she look down at her foot , they seem to be almost out of sight , they be get so far off -RRB- .
` Oh , my poor little foot , I wonder who will put on your shoe and stocking for you now , dear ?
I 'm sure I sha n't be able !
I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you : you must manage the best way you can ; -- but I must be kind to them , ' thought Alice , ` or perhaps they wo n't walk the way I want to go !
Let me see : I 'll give them a new pair of boot every Christmas . '
And she go on planning to herself how she would manage it .
` They must go by the carrier , ' she think ; ` and how funny it 'll seem , send present to one 's own foot !
And how odd the direction will look !
ALICE 'S RIGHT FOOT , ESQ . .
HEARTHRUG , NEAR THE FENDER , -LRB- WITH ALICE 'S LOVE -RRB- .
Oh dear , what nonsense I 'm talk ! '
Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall : in fact she be now more than nine foot high , and she at once take up the little golden key and hurry off to the garden door .
Poor Alice !
It be as much a she could do , lie down on one side , to look through into the garden with one eye ; but to get through be more hopeless than ever : she sit down and begin to cry again .
` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , ' say Alice , ' a great girl like you , ' -LRB- she might well say this -RRB- , ` to go on cry in this way !
Stop this moment , I tell you ! '
But she go on all the same , shed gallon of tear , until there be a large pool all round her , about four inch deep and reach half down the hall .
After a time she hear a little pattering of foot in the distance , and she hastily dry her eye to see what be come .
It be the White Rabbit returning , splendidly dress , with a pair of white kid glove in one hand and a large fan in the other : he come trot along in a great hurry , mutter to himself a he come , ` Oh !
the Duchess , the Duchess !
Oh !
wo n't she be savage if I 've keep her wait ! '
Alice felt so desperate that she be ready to ask help of any one ; so , when the Rabbit come near her , she begin , in a low , timid voice , ` If you please , sir -- ' The Rabbit start violently , drop the white kid glove and the fan , and skurried away into the darkness as hard a he could go .
Alice take up the fan and glove , and , a the hall be very hot , she keep fan herself all the time she go on talk : ` Dear , dear !
How queer everything be to-day !
And yesterday thing go on just a usual .
I wonder if I 've be change in the night ?
Let me think : be I the same when I get up this morning ?
I almost think I can remember feel a little different .
But if I 'm not the same , the next question be , Who in the world be I ?
Ah , THAT 'S the great puzzle ! '
And she begin think over all the child she know that be of the same age a herself , to see if she could have be change for any of them .
` I 'm sure I 'm not Ada , ' she say , ` for her hair go in such long ringlet , and mine do n't go in ringlet at all ; and I 'm sure I ca n't be Mabel , for I know all sort of thing , and she , oh !
she know such a very little !
Besides , SHE 'S she , and I 'm I , and -- oh dear , how puzzle it all be !
I 'll try if I know all the thing I use to know .
Let me see : four time five be twelve , and four time six be thirteen , and four time seven be -- oh dear !
I shall never get to twenty at that rate !
However , the Multiplication Table do n't signify : let 's try Geography .
London be the capital of Paris , and Paris be the capital of Rome , and Rome -- no , THAT 'S all wrong , I 'm certain !
I must have be change for Mabel !
I 'll try and say `` How doth the little -- '' ' and she cross her hand on her lap a if she be say lesson , and begin to repeat it , but her voice sound hoarse and strange , and the word do not come the same a they use to do : -- ` How doth the little crocodile Improve his shin tail , And pour the water of the Nile On every golden scale !
` How cheerfully he seem to grin , How neatly spread his claw , And welcome little fish in With gently smile jaw ! '
` I 'm sure those be not the right word , ' say poor Alice , and her eye fill with tear again a she go on , ' I must be Mabel after all , and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house , and have next to no toy to play with , and oh !
ever so many lesson to learn !
No , I 've make up my mind about it ; if I 'm Mabel , I 'll stay down here !
It 'll be no use their put their head down and say `` Come up again , dear ! ''
I shall only look up and say `` Who be I then ?
Tell me that first , and then , if I like be that person , I 'll come up : if not , I 'll stay down here till I 'm somebody else '' -- but , oh dear ! '
cried Alice , with a sudden burst of tear , ' I do wish they WOULD put their head down !
I be so VERY tired of be all alone here ! '
As she say this she look down at her hand , and be surprise to see that she have put on one of the Rabbit 's little white kid glove while she be talk .
` How CAN I have do that ? '
she think . '
I must be grow small again . '
She get up and go to the table to measure herself by it , and find that , as nearly a she could guess , she be now about two foot high , and be go on shrink rapidly : she soon find out that the cause of this be the fan she be hold , and she drop it hastily , just in time to avoid shrink away altogether .
` That WAS a narrow escape ! '
say Alice , a good deal frighten at the sudden change , but very glad to find herself still in existence ; ` and now for the garden ! '
and she run with all speed back to the little door : but , ala !
the little door be shut again , and the little golden key be lie on the glass table a before , ` and thing be bad than ever , ' think the poor child , ` for I never be so small a this before , never !
And I declare it 's too bad , that it be ! '
As she say these word her foot slip , and in another moment , splash !
she be up to her chin in salt water .
Her first idea be that she have somehow fall into the sea , ` and in that case I can go back by railway , ' she say to herself .
-LRB- Alice have be to the seaside once in her life , and have come to the general conclusion , that wherever you go to on the English coast you find a number of bath machine in the sea , some child dig in the sand with wooden spade , then a row of lodge house , and behind them a railway station . -RRB-
However , she soon make out that she be in the pool of tear which she have wept when she be nine foot high . '
I wish I have n't cry so much ! '
say Alice , a she swim about , try to find her way out . '
I shall be punish for it now , I suppose , by be drown in my own tear !
That WILL be a queer thing , to be sure !
However , everything be queer to-day . '
Just then she hear something splash about in the pool a little way off , and she swim nearer to make out what it be : at first she think it must be a walrus or hippopotamus , but then she remember how small she be now , and she soon make out that it be only a mouse that have slip in like herself .
` Would it be of any use , now , ' thought Alice , ` to speak to this mouse ?
Everything be so out-of-the-way down here , that I should think very likely it can talk : at any rate , there 's no harm in try . '
So she begin : ' O Mouse , do you know the way out of this pool ?
I be very tired of swim about here , O Mouse ! '
-LRB- Alice think this must be the right way of speak to a mouse : she have never do such a thing before , but she remember have see in her brother 's Latin Grammar , ' A mouse -- of a mouse -- to a mouse -- a mouse -- O mouse ! ' -RRB-
The Mouse look at her rather inquisitively , and seem to her to wink with one of it little eye , but it say nothing .
` Perhaps it do n't understand English , ' thought Alice ; ' I daresay it 's a French mouse , come over with William the Conqueror . '
-LRB- For , with all her knowledge of history , Alice have no very clear notion how long ago anything have happen . -RRB-
So she begin again : ` Ou est ma chatte ? '
which be the first sentence in her French lesson-book .
The Mouse give a sudden leap out of the water , and seem to quiver all over with fright .
` Oh , I beg your pardon ! '
cried Alice hastily , afraid that she have hurt the poor animal 's feeling . '
I quite forget you do n't like cat . '
` Not like cat ! '
cry the Mouse , in a shrill , passionate voice .
` Would YOU like cat if you be me ? '
` Well , perhaps not , ' say Alice in a soothing tone : ` do n't be angry about it .
And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah : I think you 'd take a fancy to cat if you could only see her .
She be such a dear quiet thing , ' Alice go on , half to herself , a she swim lazily about in the pool , ` and she sit purr so nicely by the fire , lick her paw and wash her face -- and she be such a nice soft thing to nurse -- and she 's such a capital one for catch mouse -- oh , I beg your pardon ! '
cry Alice again , for this time the Mouse be bristle all over , and she felt certain it must be really offend .
` We wo n't talk about her any more if you 'd rather not . '
` We indeed ! '
cry the Mouse , who be tremble down to the end of his tail .
` As if I would talk on such a subject !
Our family always HATED cat : nasty , low , vulgar thing !
Do n't let me hear the name again ! ' '
I wo n't indeed ! '
say Alice , in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation .
` Are you -- be you fond -- of -- of dog ? '
The Mouse do not answer , so Alice go on eagerly : ` There be such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you !
A little bright-eyed terrier , you know , with oh , such long curly brown hair !
And it 'll fetch thing when you throw them , and it 'll sit up and beg for it dinner , and all sort of thing -- I ca n't remember half of them -- and it belong to a farmer , you know , and he say it 's so useful , it 's worth a hundred pound !
He say it kill all the rat and -- oh dear ! '
cried Alice in a sorrowful tone , ` I 'm afraid I 've offend it again ! '
For the Mouse be swim away from her as hard a it could go , and make quite a commotion in the pool a it go .
So she call softly after it , ` Mouse dear !
Do come back again , and we wo n't talk about cat or dog either , if you do n't like them ! '
When the Mouse heard this , it turn round and swam slowly back to her : it face be quite pale -LRB- with passion , Alice think -RRB- , and it say in a low trembling voice , ` Let u get to the shore , and then I 'll tell you my history , and you 'll understand why it be I hate cat and dog . '
It be high time to go , for the pool be get quite crowd with the bird and animal that have fall into it : there be a Duck and a Dodo , a Lory and an Eaglet , and several other curious creature .
Alice lead the way , and the whole party swam to the shore .
CHAPTER III .
A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale They be indeed a queer-looking party that assemble on the bank -- the bird with draggled feather , the animal with their fur cling close to them , and all drip wet , cross , and uncomfortable .
The first question of course be , how to get dry again : they have a consultation about this , and after a few minute it seem quite natural to Alice to find herself talk familiarly with them , a if she have know them all her life .
Indeed , she have quite a long argument with the Lory , who at last turned sulky , and would only say , ' I be old than you , and must know good ' ; and this Alice would not allow without know how old it be , and , a the Lory positively refuse to tell it age , there be no more to be say .
At last the Mouse , who seem to be a person of authority among them , call out , ` Sit down , all of you , and listen to me !
I 'LL soon make you dry enough ! '
They all sit down at once , in a large ring , with the Mouse in the middle .
Alice keep her eye anxiously fix on it , for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she do not get dry very soon .
` Ahem ! '
say the Mouse with an important air , ` be you all ready ?
This be the dry thing I know .
Silence all round , if you please !
`` William the Conqueror , whose cause be favour by the pope , be soon submit to by the English , who want leader , and have be of late much accustom to usurpation and conquest .
Edwin and Morcar , the earl of Mercia and Northumbria -- '' ' ` Ugh ! '
say the Lory , with a shiver . '
I beg your pardon ! '
say the Mouse , frowning , but very politely : ` Did you speak ? '
` Not I ! '
say the Lory hastily . '
I think you do , ' say the Mouse . '
-- I proceed .
`` Edwin and Morcar , the earl of Mercia and Northumbria , declare for him : and even Stigand , the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury , find it advisable -- '' ' ` Found WHAT ? '
say the Duck .
` Found IT , ' the Mouse reply rather crossly : ` of course you know what `` it '' mean . ' '
I know what `` it '' mean well enough , when I find a thing , ' say the Duck : ` it 's generally a frog or a worm .
The question be , what do the archbishop find ? '
The Mouse do not notice this question , but hurriedly go on , ' '' -- find it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown .
William 's conduct at first be moderate .
But the insolence of his Normans -- '' How be you get on now , my dear ? '
it continue , turn to Alice a it speak .
` As wet a ever , ' say Alice in a melancholy tone : ` it do n't seem to dry me at all . '
` In that case , ' say the Dodo solemnly , rise to it foot , ' I move that the meeting adjourn , for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedy -- ' ` Speak English ! '
say the Eaglet . '
I do n't know the meaning of half those long word , and , what 's more , I do n't believe you do either ! '
And the Eaglet bend down it head to hide a smile : some of the other bird titter audibly .
` What I be go to say , ' say the Dodo in an offended tone , ` be , that the best thing to get u dry would be a Caucus-race . '
` What IS a Caucus-race ? '
say Alice ; not that she want much to know , but the Dodo have pause a if it think that SOMEBODY ought to speak , and no one else seem inclined to say anything .
` Why , ' say the Dodo , ` the best way to explain it be to do it . '
-LRB- And , a you might like to try the thing yourself , some winter day , I will tell you how the Dodo manage it . -RRB-
First it mark out a race-course , in a sort of circle , -LRB- ` the exact shape do n't matter , ' it say , -RRB- and then all the party be place along the course , here and there .
There be no ` One , two , three , and away , ' but they begin run when they like , and leave off when they like , so that it be not easy to know when the race be over .
However , when they have be run half an hour or so , and be quite dry again , the Dodo suddenly call out ` The race be over ! '
and they all crowd round it , pant , and ask , ` But who have win ? '
This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought , and it sit for a long time with one finger press upon it forehead -LRB- the position in which you usually see Shakespeare , in the picture of him -RRB- , while the rest wait in silence .
At last the Dodo say , ` EVERYBODY have win , and all must have prize . '
` But who be to give the prize ? '
quite a chorus of voice ask .
` Why , SHE , of course , ' say the Dodo , point to Alice with one finger ; and the whole party at once crowd round her , call out in a confused way , ` Prizes !
Prizes ! '
Alice have no idea what to do , and in despair she put her hand in her pocket , and pull out a box of comfit , -LRB- luckily the salt water have not get into it -RRB- , and hand them round a prize .
There be exactly one a-piece all round .
` But she must have a prize herself , you know , ' say the Mouse .
` Of course , ' the Dodo reply very gravely .
` What else have you get in your pocket ? '
he go on , turn to Alice .
` Only a thimble , ' say Alice sadly .
` Hand it over here , ' say the Dodo .
Then they all crowd round her once more , while the Dodo solemnly present the thimble , say ` We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble ' ; and , when it have finish this short speech , they all cheer .
Alice think the whole thing very absurd , but they all look so grave that she do not dare to laugh ; and , a she could not think of anything to say , she simply bow , and take the thimble , look as solemn a she could .
The next thing be to eat the comfit : this cause some noise and confusion , a the large bird complain that they could not taste theirs , and the small one choke and have to be pat on the back .
However , it be over at last , and they sit down again in a ring , and beg the Mouse to tell them something more .
` You promise to tell me your history , you know , ' say Alice , ` and why it be you hate -- C and D , ' she add in a whisper , half afraid that it would be offend again .
` Mine be a long and a sad tale ! '
say the Mouse , turn to Alice , and sighing .
` It IS a long tail , certainly , ' say Alice , look down with wonder at the Mouse 's tail ; ` but why do you call it sad ? '
And she keep on puzzle about it while the Mouse be speak , so that her idea of the tale be something like this : -- ` Fury say to a mouse , That he meet in the house , `` Let u both go to law : I will prosecute YOU .
-- Come , I 'll take no denial ; We must have a trial : For really this morning I 've nothing to do . ''
Said the mouse to the cur , `` Such a trial , dear Sir , With no jury or judge , would be waste our breath . ''
`` I 'll be judge , I 'll be jury , '' Said cunning old Fury : `` I 'll try the whole cause , and condemn you to death . '' '
` You be not attend ! '
say the Mouse to Alice severely .
` What be you think of ? ' '
I beg your pardon , ' say Alice very humbly : ` you have get to the fifth bend , I think ? ' '
I have NOT ! '
cry the Mouse , sharply and very angrily . '
A knot ! '
say Alice , always ready to make herself useful , and look anxiously about her .
` Oh , do let me help to undo it ! ' '
I shall do nothing of the sort , ' say the Mouse , get up and walk away .
` You insult me by talk such nonsense ! ' '
I do n't mean it ! '
plead poor Alice .
` But you 're so easily offend , you know ! '
The Mouse only growl in reply .
` Please come back and finish your story ! '
Alice call after it ; and the others all join in chorus , ` Yes , please do ! '
but the Mouse only shake it head impatiently , and walk a little quicker .
` What a pity it would n't stay ! '
sigh the Lory , as soon a it be quite out of sight ; and an old Crab take the opportunity of say to her daughter ` Ah , my dear !
Let this be a lesson to you never to lose YOUR temper ! '
` Hold your tongue , Ma ! '
say the young Crab , a little snappishly .
` You 're enough to try the patience of an oyster ! ' '
I wish I have our Dinah here , I know I do ! '
say Alice aloud , address nobody in particular .
` She 'd soon fetch it back ! '
` And who be Dinah , if I might venture to ask the question ? '
say the Lory .
Alice reply eagerly , for she be always ready to talk about her pet : ` Dinah 's our cat .
And she 's such a capital one for catch mouse you ca n't think !
And oh , I wish you could see her after the bird !
Why , she 'll eat a little bird as soon a look at it ! '
This speech cause a remarkable sensation among the party .
Some of the bird hurry off at once : one old Magpie begin wrap itself up very carefully , remark , ' I really must be get home ; the night-air do n't suit my throat ! '
and a Canary call out in a trembling voice to it child , ` Come away , my dear !
It 's high time you be all in bed ! '
On various pretext they all move off , and Alice be soon left alone . '
I wish I have n't mention Dinah ! '
she say to herself in a melancholy tone .
` Nobody seem to like her , down here , and I 'm sure she 's the best cat in the world !
Oh , my dear Dinah !
I wonder if I shall ever see you any more ! '
And here poor Alice begin to cry again , for she felt very lonely and low-spirited .
In a little while , however , she again hear a little pattering of footstep in the distance , and she look up eagerly , half hop that the Mouse have change his mind , and be come back to finish his story .
CHAPTER IV .
The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill It be the White Rabbit , trot slowly back again , and look anxiously about a it go , a if it have lose something ; and she hear it mutter to itself ` The Duchess !
The Duchess !
Oh my dear paw !
Oh my fur and whisker !
She 'll get me execute , as sure a ferret be ferret !
Where CAN I have drop them , I wonder ? '
Alice guess in a moment that it be look for the fan and the pair of white kid glove , and she very good-naturedly begin hunt about for them , but they be nowhere to be see -- everything seem to have change since her swim in the pool , and the great hall , with the glass table and the little door , have vanish completely .
Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice , a she go hunt about , and call out to her in an angry tone , ` Why , Mary Ann , what ARE you do out here ?
Run home this moment , and fetch me a pair of glove and a fan !
Quick , now ! '
And Alice be so much frighten that she run off at once in the direction it point to , without try to explain the mistake it have make .
` He take me for his housemaid , ' she say to herself a she run .
` How surprise he 'll be when he find out who I be !
But I 'd better take him his fan and glove -- that be , if I can find them . '
As she say this , she come upon a neat little house , on the door of which be a bright brass plate with the name ` W. RABBIT ' engrave upon it .
She go in without knocking , and hurry upstairs , in great fear l she should meet the real Mary Ann , and be turn out of the house before she have find the fan and glove .
` How queer it seem , ' Alice say to herself , ` to be go message for a rabbit !
I suppose Dinah 'll be send me on message next ! '
And she begin fancy the sort of thing that would happen : ' `` Miss Alice !
Come here directly , and get ready for your walk ! ''
`` Coming in a minute , nurse !
But I 've get to see that the mouse do n't get out . ''
Only I do n't think , ' Alice go on , ` that they 'd let Dinah stop in the house if it begin order people about like that ! '
By this time she have find her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window , and on it -LRB- a she have hop -RRB- a fan and two or three pair of tiny white kid glove : she take up the fan and a pair of the glove , and be just go to leave the room , when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stand near the looking-glass .
There be no label this time with the word ` DRINK ME , ' but nevertheless she uncork it and put it to her lip . '
I know SOMETHING interesting be sure to happen , ' she say to herself , ` whenever I eat or drink anything ; so I 'll just see what this bottle do .
I do hope it 'll make me grow large again , for really I 'm quite tire of be such a tiny little thing ! '
It do so indeed , and much sooner than she have expect : before she have drink half the bottle , she find her head press against the ceiling , and have to stoop to save her neck from be break .
She hastily put down the bottle , say to herself ` That 's quite enough -- I hope I sha n't grow any more -- As it be , I ca n't get out at the door -- I do wish I have n't drunk quite so much ! '
Alas !
it be too late to wish that !
She go on growing , and grow , and very soon have to kneel down on the floor : in another minute there be not even room for this , and she try the effect of lie down with one elbow against the door , and the other arm curl round her head .
Still she go on growing , and , a a last resource , she put one arm out of the window , and one foot up the chimney , and say to herself ` Now I can do no more , whatever happen .
What WILL become of me ? '
Luckily for Alice , the little magic bottle have now have it full effect , and she grow no large : still it be very uncomfortable , and , a there seem to be no sort of chance of her ever get out of the room again , no wonder she felt unhappy .
` It be much pleasanter at home , ' think poor Alice , ` when one be n't always grow large and small , and be order about by mouse and rabbit .
I almost wish I have n't go down that rabbit-hole -- and yet -- and yet -- it 's rather curious , you know , this sort of life !
I do wonder what CAN have happen to me !
When I use to read fairy-tales , I fancy that kind of thing never happen , and now here I be in the middle of one !
There ought to be a book write about me , that there ought !
And when I grow up , I 'll write one -- but I 'm grown up now , ' she add in a sorrowful tone ; ` at least there 's no room to grow up any more HERE . '
` But then , ' thought Alice , ` shall I NEVER get any old than I be now ?
That 'll be a comfort , one way -- never to be an old woman -- but then -- always to have lesson to learn !
Oh , I should n't like THAT ! '
` Oh , you foolish Alice ! '
she answer herself .
` How can you learn lesson in here ?
Why , there 's hardly room for YOU , and no room at all for any lesson-books ! '
And so she go on , take first one side and then the other , and make quite a conversation of it altogether ; but after a few minute she hear a voice outside , and stop to listen .
` Mary Ann !
Mary Ann ! '
say the voice .
` Fetch me my glove this moment ! '
Then come a little pattering of foot on the stair .
Alice know it be the Rabbit come to look for her , and she tremble till she shake the house , quite forget that she be now about a thousand time as large a the Rabbit , and have no reason to be afraid of it .
Presently the Rabbit come up to the door , and try to open it ; but , a the door open inwards , and Alice 's elbow be press hard against it , that attempt prove a failure .
Alice hear it say to itself ` Then I 'll go round and get in at the window . '
` THAT you wo n't ' thought Alice , and , after wait till she fancy she hear the Rabbit just under the window , she suddenly spread out her hand , and make a snatch in the air .
She do not get hold of anything , but she hear a little shriek and a fall , and a crash of broken glass , from which she conclude that it be just possible it have fall into a cucumber-frame , or something of the sort .
Next come an angry voice -- the Rabbit 's -- ` Pat !
Pat !
Where be you ? '
And then a voice she have never hear before , ` Sure then I 'm here !
Digging for apple , yer honour ! '
` Digging for apple , indeed ! '
say the Rabbit angrily .
` Here !
Come and help me out of THIS ! '
-LRB- Sounds of more broken glass . -RRB-
` Now tell me , Pat , what 's that in the window ? '
` Sure , it 's an arm , yer honour ! '
-LRB- He pronounce it ` arrum . ' -RRB-
` An arm , you goose !
Who ever saw one that size ?
Why , it fill the whole window ! '
` Sure , it do , yer honour : but it 's an arm for all that . '
` Well , it 's get no business there , at any rate : go and take it away ! '
There be a long silence after this , and Alice could only hear whisper now and then ; such a , ` Sure , I do n't like it , yer honour , at all , at all ! '
` Do a I tell you , you coward ! '
and at last she spread out her hand again , and make another snatch in the air .
This time there be TWO little shriek , and more sound of broken glass .
` What a number of cucumber-frames there must be ! '
thought Alice . '
I wonder what they 'll do next !
As for pull me out of the window , I only wish they COULD !
I 'm sure I do n't want to stay in here any longer ! '
She wait for some time without hear anything more : at last come a rumbling of little cartwheel , and the sound of a good many voice all talk together : she make out the word : ` Where 's the other ladder ?
-- Why , I have n't to bring but one ; Bill 's get the other -- Bill !
fetch it here , lad !
-- Here , put 'em up at this corner -- No , tie 'em together first -- they do n't reach half high enough yet -- Oh !
they 'll do well enough ; do n't be particular -- Here , Bill !
catch hold of this rope -- Will the roof bear ?
-- Mind that loose slate -- Oh , it 's come down !
Heads below ! '
-LRB- a loud crash -RRB- -- ` Now , who do that ?
-- It be Bill , I fancy -- Who 's to go down the chimney ?
-- Nay , I sha n't !
YOU do it !
-- That I wo n't , then !
-- Bill 's to go down -- Here , Bill !
the master say you 're to go down the chimney ! '
` Oh !
So Bill 's get to come down the chimney , have he ? '
say Alice to herself .
` Shy , they seem to put everything upon Bill !
I would n't be in Bill 's place for a good deal : this fireplace be narrow , to be sure ; but I THINK I can kick a little ! '
She draw her foot a far down the chimney a she could , and wait till she hear a little animal -LRB- she could n't guess of what sort it be -RRB- scratching and scramble about in the chimney close above her : then , say to herself ` This be Bill , ' she give one sharp kick , and wait to see what would happen next .
The first thing she hear be a general chorus of ` There go Bill ! '
then the Rabbit 's voice along -- ` Catch him , you by the hedge ! '
then silence , and then another confusion of voice -- ` Hold up his head -- Brandy now -- Do n't choke him -- How be it , old fellow ?
What happen to you ?
Tell u all about it ! '
Last come a little feeble , squeaking voice , -LRB- ` That 's Bill , ' thought Alice , -RRB- ` Well , I hardly know -- No more , thank ye ; I 'm well now -- but I 'm a deal too fluster to tell you -- all I know be , something come at me like a Jack-in-the-box , and up I go like a sky-rocket ! '
` So you do , old fellow ! '
say the others .
` We must burn the house down ! '
say the Rabbit 's voice ; and Alice call out as loud a she could , ` If you do .
I 'll set Dinah at you ! '
There be a dead silence instantly , and Alice think to herself , ' I wonder what they WILL do next !
If they have any sense , they 'd take the roof off . '
After a minute or two , they begin move about again , and Alice hear the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to begin with . ' '
A barrowful of WHAT ? '
thought Alice ; but she have not long to doubt , for the next moment a shower of little pebble come rattle in at the window , and some of them hit her in the face .
` I 'll put a stop to this , ' she say to herself , and shout out , ` You 'd better not do that again ! '
which produce another dead silence .
Alice notice with some surprise that the pebble be all turn into little cake a they lay on the floor , and a bright idea come into her head .
` If I eat one of these cake , ' she think , ` it 's sure to make SOME change in my size ; and a it ca n't possibly make me large , it must make me small , I suppose . '
So she swallow one of the cake , and be delight to find that she begin shrink directly .
As soon a she be small enough to get through the door , she run out of the house , and find quite a crowd of little animal and bird wait outside .
The poor little Lizard , Bill , be in the middle , be hold up by two guinea-pigs , who be give it something out of a bottle .
They all make a rush at Alice the moment she appear ; but she run off as hard a she could , and soon find herself safe in a thick wood .
` The first thing I 've get to do , ' say Alice to herself , a she wander about in the wood , ` be to grow to my right size again ; and the second thing be to find my way into that lovely garden .
I think that will be the best plan . '
It sound an excellent plan , no doubt , and very neatly and simply arrange ; the only difficulty be , that she have not the small idea how to set about it ; and while she be peer about anxiously among the tree , a little sharp bark just over her head make her look up in a great hurry .
An enormous puppy be look down at her with large round eye , and feebly stretch out one paw , try to touch her .
` Poor little thing ! '
say Alice , in a coax tone , and she try hard to whistle to it ; but she be terribly frighten all the time at the thought that it might be hungry , in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing .
Hardly know what she do , she pick up a little bit of stick , and hold it out to the puppy ; whereupon the puppy jump into the air off all it foot at once , with a yelp of delight , and rush at the stick , and make believe to worry it ; then Alice dodge behind a great thistle , to keep herself from be run over ; and the moment she appear on the other side , the puppy make another rush at the stick , and tumble head over heel in it hurry to get hold of it ; then Alice , think it be very like have a game of play with a cart-horse , and expect every moment to be trample under it foot , run round the thistle again ; then the puppy begin a series of short charge at the stick , run a very little way forward each time and a long way back , and bark hoarsely all the while , till at last it sit down a good way off , pant , with it tongue hang out of it mouth , and it great eye half shut .
This seem to Alice a good opportunity for make her escape ; so she set off at once , and run till she be quite tired and out of breath , and till the puppy 's bark sound quite faint in the distance .
` And yet what a dear little puppy it be ! '
say Alice , a she lean against a buttercup to rest herself , and fan herself with one of the leaf : ' I should have like teach it trick very much , if -- if I 'd only be the right size to do it !
Oh dear !
I 'd nearly forget that I 've get to grow up again !
Let me see -- how IS it to be manage ?
I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other ; but the great question be , what ? '
The great question certainly be , what ?
Alice look all round her at the flower and the blade of grass , but she do not see anything that look like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstance .
There be a large mushroom grow near her , about the same height a herself ; and when she have look under it , and on both side of it , and behind it , it occur to her that she might as well look and see what be on the top of it .
She stretch herself up on tiptoe , and peep over the edge of the mushroom , and her eye immediately meet those of a large caterpillar , that be sit on the top with it arm fold , quietly smoke a long hookah , and take not the small notice of her or of anything else .
CHAPTER V. Advice from a Caterpillar The Caterpillar and Alice look at each other for some time in silence : at last the Caterpillar take the hookah out of it mouth , and address her in a languid , sleepy voice .
` Who be YOU ? '
say the Caterpillar .
This be not an encouraging opening for a conversation .
Alice reply , rather shyly , ` I -- I hardly know , sir , just at present -- at least I know who I WAS when I get up this morning , but I think I must have be change several time since then . '
` What do you mean by that ? '
say the Caterpillar sternly .
` Explain yourself ! ' '
I ca n't explain MYSELF , I 'm afraid , sir ' say Alice , ` because I 'm not myself , you see . ' '
I do n't see , ' say the Caterpillar .
` I 'm afraid I ca n't put it more clearly , ' Alice reply very politely , ` for I ca n't understand it myself to begin with ; and be so many different size in a day be very confusing . '
` It be n't , ' say the Caterpillar .
` Well , perhaps you have n't find it so yet , ' say Alice ; ` but when you have to turn into a chrysalis -- you will some day , you know -- and then after that into a butterfly , I should think you 'll feel it a little queer , wo n't you ? '
` Not a bit , ' say the Caterpillar .
` Well , perhaps your feeling may be different , ' say Alice ; ` all I know be , it would feel very queer to ME . '
` You ! '
say the Caterpillar contemptuously .
` Who be YOU ? '
Which bring them back again to the beginning of the conversation .
Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar 's make such VERY short remark , and she draw herself up and say , very gravely , ' I think , you ought to tell me who YOU be , first . '
` Why ? '
say the Caterpillar .
Here be another puzzling question ; and a Alice could not think of any good reason , and a the Caterpillar seem to be in a VERY unpleasant state of mind , she turn away .
` Come back ! '
the Caterpillar call after her .
` I 've something important to say ! '
This sound promising , certainly : Alice turn and come back again .
` Keep your temper , ' say the Caterpillar .
` Is that all ? '
say Alice , swallow down her anger as well a she could .
` No , ' say the Caterpillar .
Alice think she might as well wait , a she have nothing else to do , and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing .
For some minute it puff away without speaking , but at last it unfold it arm , take the hookah out of it mouth again , and say , ` So you think you 're change , do you ? '
` I 'm afraid I be , sir , ' say Alice ; ' I ca n't remember thing a I use -- and I do n't keep the same size for ten minute together ! '
` Ca n't remember WHAT thing ? '
say the Caterpillar .
` Well , I 've try to say `` HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE , '' but it all come different ! '
Alice reply in a very melancholy voice .
` Repeat , `` YOU ARE OLD , FATHER WILLIAM , '' ' say the Caterpillar .
Alice fold her hand , and begin : -- ` You be old , Father William , ' the young man say , ` And your hair have become very white ; And yet you incessantly stand on your head -- Do you think , at your age , it be right ? '
` In my youth , ' Father William reply to his son , ' I fear it might injure the brain ; But , now that I 'm perfectly sure I have none , Why , I do it again and again . '
` You be old , ' say the youth , ` a I mention before , And have grow most uncommonly fat ; Yet you turn a back-somersault in at the door -- Pray , what be the reason of that ? '
` In my youth , ' say the sage , a he shake his grey lock , ' I keep all my limb very supple By the use of this ointment -- one shill the box -- Allow me to sell you a couple ? '
` You be old , ' say the youth , ` and your jaw be too weak For anything tough than suet ; Yet you finish the goose , with the bone and the beak -- Pray how do you manage to do it ? '
` In my youth , ' say his father , ' I take to the law , And argue each case with my wife ; And the muscular strength , which it give to my jaw , Has last the rest of my life . '
` You be old , ' say the youth , ` one would hardly suppose That your eye be as steady a ever ; Yet you balance an eel on the end of your nose -- What make you so awfully clever ? ' '
I have answer three question , and that be enough , ' Said his father ; ` do n't give yourself airs !
Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff ?
Be off , or I 'll kick you down stairs ! '
` That be not say right , ' say the Caterpillar .
` Not QUITE right , I 'm afraid , ' say Alice , timidly ; ` some of the word have get alter . '
` It be wrong from begin to end , ' say the Caterpillar decidedly , and there be silence for some minute .
The Caterpillar be the first to speak .
` What size do you want to be ? '
it ask .
` Oh , I 'm not particular a to size , ' Alice hastily reply ; ` only one do n't like change so often , you know . ' '
I DO N'T know , ' say the Caterpillar .
Alice say nothing : she have never be so much contradict in her life before , and she felt that she be lose her temper .
` Are you content now ? '
say the Caterpillar .
` Well , I should like to be a LITTLE large , sir , if you would n't mind , ' say Alice : ` three inch be such a wretched height to be . '
` It be a very good height indeed ! '
say the Caterpillar angrily , rear itself upright a it speak -LRB- it be exactly three inch high -RRB- .
` But I 'm not use to it ! '
plead poor Alice in a piteous tone .
And she think of herself , ' I wish the creature would n't be so easily offended ! '
` You 'll get use to it in time , ' say the Caterpillar ; and it put the hookah into it mouth and begin smoke again .
This time Alice wait patiently until it choose to speak again .
In a minute or two the Caterpillar take the hookah out of it mouth and yawn once or twice , and shake itself .
Then it get down off the mushroom , and crawl away in the grass , merely remark a it go , ` One side will make you grow taller , and the other side will make you grow short . '
` One side of WHAT ?
The other side of WHAT ? '
think Alice to herself .
` Of the mushroom , ' say the Caterpillar , just a if she have ask it aloud ; and in another moment it be out of sight .
Alice remain look thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute , try to make out which be the two side of it ; and a it be perfectly round , she find this a very difficult question .
However , at last she stretch her arm round it as far a they would go , and break off a bit of the edge with each hand .
` And now which be which ? '
she say to herself , and nibble a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect : the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin : it have strike her foot !
She be a good deal frighten by this very sudden change , but she felt that there be no time to be lose , a she be shrink rapidly ; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit .
Her chin be press so closely against her foot , that there be hardly room to open her mouth ; but she do it at last , and manage to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit .
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ` Come , my head 's free at last ! '
say Alice in a tone of delight , which change into alarm in another moment , when she find that her shoulder be nowhere to be find : all she could see , when she look down , be an immense length of neck , which seem to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaf that lay far below her .
` What CAN all that green stuff be ? '
say Alice .
` And where HAVE my shoulder get to ?
And oh , my poor hand , how be it I ca n't see you ? '
She be move them about a she speak , but no result seem to follow , except a little shaking among the distant green leaf .
As there seem to be no chance of get her hand up to her head , she try to get her head down to them , and be delight to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction , like a serpent .
She have just succeed in curve it down into a graceful zigzag , and be go to dive in among the leaf , which she find to be nothing but the top of the tree under which she have be wander , when a sharp hiss make her draw back in a hurry : a large pigeon have fly into her face , and be beat her violently with it wing .
` Serpent ! '
scream the Pigeon .
` I 'm NOT a serpent ! '
say Alice indignantly .
` Let me alone ! '
` Serpent , I say again ! '
repeat the Pigeon , but in a more subdued tone , and add with a kind of sob , ` I 've try every way , and nothing seem to suit them ! ' '
I have n't the least idea what you 're talk about , ' say Alice .
` I 've try the root of tree , and I 've try bank , and I 've try hedge , ' the Pigeon go on , without attend to her ; ` but those serpent !
There 's no please them ! '
Alice be more and more puzzled , but she think there be no use in say anything more till the Pigeon have finish .
` As if it be n't trouble enough hatch the egg , ' say the Pigeon ; ` but I must be on the look-out for serpent night and day !
Why , I have n't have a wink of sleep these three week ! '
` I 'm very sorry you 've be annoy , ' say Alice , who be begin to see it meaning .
` And just a I 'd take the high tree in the wood , ' continue the Pigeon , raise it voice to a shriek , ` and just a I be think I should be free of them at last , they must need come wriggle down from the sky !
Ugh , Serpent ! '
` But I 'm NOT a serpent , I tell you ! '
say Alice .
` I 'm a -- I 'm a -- ' ` Well !
WHAT be you ? '
say the Pigeon . '
I can see you 're try to invent something ! '
` I -- I 'm a little girl , ' say Alice , rather doubtfully , a she remember the number of change she have go through that day . '
A likely story indeed ! '
say the Pigeon in a tone of the deep contempt .
` I 've see a good many little girl in my time , but never ONE with such a neck a that !
No , no !
You 're a serpent ; and there 's no use deny it .
I suppose you 'll be tell me next that you never taste an egg ! ' '
I HAVE taste egg , certainly , ' say Alice , who be a very truthful child ; ` but little girls eat egg quite as much a serpent do , you know . ' '
I do n't believe it , ' say the Pigeon ; ` but if they do , why then they 're a kind of serpent , that 's all I can say . '
This be such a new idea to Alice , that she be quite silent for a minute or two , which give the Pigeon the opportunity of add , ` You 're look for egg , I know THAT well enough ; and what do it matter to me whether you 're a little girl or a serpent ? '
` It matter a good deal to ME , ' say Alice hastily ; ` but I 'm not look for egg , a it happen ; and if I be , I should n't want YOURS : I do n't like them raw . '
` Well , be off , then ! '
say the Pigeon in a sulky tone , a it settle down again into it nest .
Alice crouch down among the tree as well a she could , for her neck keep get entangle among the branch , and every now and then she have to stop and untwist it .
After a while she remember that she still hold the piece of mushroom in her hand , and she set to work very carefully , nibble first at one and then at the other , and grow sometimes taller and sometimes short , until she have succeed in bring herself down to her usual height .
It be so long since she have be anything near the right size , that it felt quite strange at first ; but she get use to it in a few minute , and begin talk to herself , a usual .
` Come , there 's half my plan do now !
How puzzle all these change be !
I 'm never sure what I 'm go to be , from one minute to another !
However , I 've get back to my right size : the next thing be , to get into that beautiful garden -- how IS that to be do , I wonder ? '
As she say this , she come suddenly upon an open place , with a little house in it about four foot high .
` Whoever live there , ' thought Alice , ` it 'll never do to come upon them THIS size : why , I should frighten them out of their wit ! '
So she begin nibble at the righthand bit again , and do not venture to go near the house till she have bring herself down to nine inch high .
CHAPTER VI .
Pig and Pepper For a minute or two she stand look at the house , and wonder what to do next , when suddenly a footman in livery come run out of the wood -- -LRB- she consider him to be a footman because he be in livery : otherwise , judge by his face only , she would have call him a fish -RRB- -- and rap loudly at the door with his knuckle .
It be open by another footman in livery , with a round face , and large eye like a frog ; and both footman , Alice notice , have powder hair that curl all over their head .
She felt very curious to know what it be all about , and creep a little way out of the wood to listen .
The Fish-Footman begin by produce from under his arm a great letter , nearly as large a himself , and this he hand over to the other , say , in a solemn tone , ` For the Duchess .
An invitation from the Queen to play croquet . '
The Frog-Footman repeat , in the same solemn tone , only change the order of the word a little , ` From the Queen .
An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet . '
Then they both bow low , and their curl get entangled together .
Alice laugh so much at this , that she have to run back into the wood for fear of their hearing her ; and when she next peep out the Fish-Footman be go , and the other be sit on the ground near the door , star stupidly up into the sky .
Alice go timidly up to the door , and knock .
` There 's no sort of use in knocking , ' say the Footman , ` and that for two reason .
First , because I 'm on the same side of the door a you be ; secondly , because they 're make such a noise inside , no one could possibly hear you . '
And certainly there be a most extraordinary noise go on within -- a constant howling and sneezing , and every now and then a great crash , a if a dish or kettle have be break to piece .
` Please , then , ' say Alice , ` how be I to get in ? '
` There might be some sense in your knocking , ' the Footman go on without attend to her , ` if we have the door between u .
For instance , if you be INSIDE , you might knock , and I could let you out , you know . '
He be look up into the sky all the time he be speak , and this Alice think decidedly uncivil .
` But perhaps he ca n't help it , ' she say to herself ; ` his eye be so VERY nearly at the top of his head .
But at any rate he might answer question .
-- How be I to get in ? '
she repeat , aloud . '
I shall sit here , ' the Footman remark , 'till tomorrow -- ' At this moment the door of the house open , and a large plate come skim out , straight at the Footman 's head : it just graze his nose , and break to piece against one of the tree behind him . '
-- or next day , maybe , ' the Footman continue in the same tone , exactly a if nothing have happen .
` How be I to get in ? '
ask Alice again , in a louder tone .
` ARE you to get in at all ? '
say the Footman .
` That 's the first question , you know . '
It be , no doubt : only Alice do not like to be tell so .
` It 's really dreadful , ' she mutter to herself , ` the way all the creature argue .
It 's enough to drive one crazy ! '
The Footman seem to think this a good opportunity for repeat his remark , with variation . '
I shall sit here , ' he say , ` on and off , for day and day . '
` But what be I to do ? '
say Alice .
` Anything you like , ' say the Footman , and begin whistle .
` Oh , there 's no use in talk to him , ' say Alice desperately : ` he 's perfectly idiotic ! '
And she open the door and go in .
The door lead right into a large kitchen , which be full of smoke from one end to the other : the Duchess be sit on a three-legged stool in the middle , nurse a baby ; the cook be lean over the fire , stir a large cauldron which seem to be full of soup .
` There 's certainly too much pepper in that soup ! '
Alice say to herself , as well a she could for sneeze .
There be certainly too much of it in the air .
Even the Duchess sneeze occasionally ; and a for the baby , it be sneeze and howl alternately without a moment 's pause .
The only thing in the kitchen that do not sneeze , be the cook , and a large cat which be sit on the hearth and grin from ear to ear .
` Please would you tell me , ' say Alice , a little timidly , for she be not quite sure whether it be good manner for her to speak first , ` why your cat grin like that ? '
` It 's a Cheshire cat , ' say the Duchess , ` and that 's why .
Pig ! '
She say the last word with such sudden violence that Alice quite jump ; but she saw in another moment that it be address to the baby , and not to her , so she take courage , and go on again : -- ' I do n't know that Cheshire cat always grin ; in fact , I do n't know that cat COULD grin . '
` They all can , ' say the Duchess ; ` and most of 'em do . ' '
I do n't know of any that do , ' Alice say very politely , feel quite please to have get into a conversation .
` You do n't know much , ' say the Duchess ; ` and that 's a fact . '
Alice do not at all like the tone of this remark , and think it would be as well to introduce some other subject of conversation .
While she be try to fix on one , the cook take the cauldron of soup off the fire , and at once set to work throw everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby -- the fire-irons come first ; then follow a shower of saucepan , plate , and dish .
The Duchess take no notice of them even when they hit her ; and the baby be howl so much already , that it be quite impossible to say whether the blow hurt it or not .
` Oh , PLEASE mind what you 're do ! '
cried Alice , jump up and down in an agony of terror .
` Oh , there go his PRECIOUS nose ' ; a an unusually large saucepan fly close by it , and very nearly carry it off .
` If everybody mind their own business , ' the Duchess say in a hoarse growl , ` the world would go round a deal faster than it do . '
` Which would NOT be an advantage , ' say Alice , who felt very glad to get an opportunity of show off a little of her knowledge .
` Just think of what work it would make with the day and night !
You see the earth take twenty-four hour to turn round on it axis -- ' ` Talking of ax , ' say the Duchess , ` chop off her head ! '
Alice glance rather anxiously at the cook , to see if she mean to take the hint ; but the cook be busily stir the soup , and seem not to be listening , so she go on again : ` Twenty-four hour , I THINK ; or be it twelve ?
I -- ' ` Oh , do n't bother ME , ' say the Duchess ; ' I never could abide figure ! '
And with that she begin nurse her child again , sing a sort of lullaby to it a she do so , and give it a violent shake at the end of every line : ` Speak roughly to your little boy , And beat him when he sneeze : He only do it to annoy , Because he know it tease . '
CHORUS .
-LRB- In which the cook and the baby join -RRB- : -- ` Wow !
wow !
wow ! '
While the Duchess sing the second verse of the song , she keep toss the baby violently up and down , and the poor little thing howl so , that Alice could hardly hear the word : -- ' I speak severely to my boy , I beat him when he sneeze ; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he please ! '
CHORUS .
` Wow !
wow !
wow ! '
` Here !
you may nurse it a bit , if you like ! '
the Duchess say to Alice , fling the baby at her a she speak . '
I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen , ' and she hurry out of the room .
The cook throw a frying-pan after her a she go out , but it just miss her .
Alice catch the baby with some difficulty , a it be a queer-shaped little creature , and hold out it arm and leg in all direction , ` just like a star-fish , ' thought Alice .
The poor little thing be snort like a steam-engine when she catch it , and keep double itself up and straighten itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it be as much a she could do to hold it .
As soon a she have make out the proper way of nurse it , -LRB- which be to twist it up into a sort of knot , and then keep tight hold of it right ear and left foot , so a to prevent it undo itself , -RRB- she carry it out into the open air .
` IF I do n't take this child away with me , ' thought Alice , ` they 're sure to kill it in a day or two : would n't it be murder to leave it behind ? '
She say the last word out loud , and the little thing grunt in reply -LRB- it have leave off sneeze by this time -RRB- .
` Do n't grunt , ' say Alice ; ` that 's not at all a proper way of express yourself . '
The baby grunt again , and Alice look very anxiously into it face to see what be the matter with it .
There could be no doubt that it have a VERY turn-up nose , much more like a snout than a real nose ; also it eye be get extremely small for a baby : altogether Alice do not like the look of the thing at all .
` But perhaps it be only sob , ' she think , and look into it eye again , to see if there be any tear .
No , there be no tear .
` If you 're go to turn into a pig , my dear , ' say Alice , seriously , ` I 'll have nothing more to do with you .
Mind now ! '
The poor little thing sob again -LRB- or grunt , it be impossible to say which -RRB- , and they go on for some while in silence .
Alice be just begin to think to herself , ` Now , what be I to do with this creature when I get it home ? '
when it grunt again , so violently , that she look down into it face in some alarm .
This time there could be NO mistake about it : it be neither more nor less than a pig , and she felt that it would be quite absurd for her to carry it far .
So she set the little creature down , and felt quite relieve to see it trot away quietly into the wood .
` If it have grow up , ' she say to herself , ` it would have make a dreadfully ugly child : but it make rather a handsome pig , I think . '
And she begin think over other child she know , who might do very well a pig , and be just say to herself , ` if one only know the right way to change them -- ' when she be a little startle by see the Cheshire Cat sit on a bough of a tree a few yard off .
The Cat only grin when it saw Alice .
It look good-natured , she think : still it have VERY long claw and a great many teeth , so she felt that it ought to be treat with respect .
` Cheshire Puss , ' she begin , rather timidly , a she do not at all know whether it would like the name : however , it only grin a little wider .
` Come , it 's please so far , ' thought Alice , and she go on .
` Would you tell me , please , which way I ought to go from here ? '
` That depend a good deal on where you want to get to , ' say the Cat . '
I do n't much care where -- ' say Alice .
` Then it do n't matter which way you go , ' say the Cat . '
-- so long a I get SOMEWHERE , ' Alice add a an explanation .
` Oh , you 're sure to do that , ' say the Cat , ` if you only walk long enough . '
Alice felt that this could not be deny , so she try another question .
` What sort of people live about here ? '
` In THAT direction , ' the Cat say , wave it right paw round , ` live a Hatter : and in THAT direction , ' wave the other paw , ` live a March Hare .
Visit either you like : they 're both mad . '
` But I do n't want to go among mad people , ' Alice remark .
` Oh , you ca n't help that , ' say the Cat : ` we 're all mad here .
I 'm mad .
You 're mad . '
` How do you know I 'm mad ? '
say Alice .
` You must be , ' say the Cat , ` or you would n't have come here . '
Alice do n't think that prove it at all ; however , she go on ` And how do you know that you 're mad ? '
` To begin with , ' say the Cat , ' a dog 's not mad .
You grant that ? ' '
I suppose so , ' say Alice .
` Well , then , ' the Cat go on , ` you see , a dog growl when it 's angry , and wag it tail when it 's pleased .
Now I growl when I 'm pleased , and wag my tail when I 'm angry .
Therefore I 'm mad . ' '
I call it purr , not growl , ' say Alice .
` Call it what you like , ' say the Cat .
` Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day ? ' '
I should like it very much , ' say Alice , ` but I have n't be invite yet . '
` You 'll see me there , ' say the Cat , and vanish .
Alice be not much surprise at this , she be get so use to queer thing happen .
While she be look at the place where it have be , it suddenly appear again .
` By-the-bye , what become of the baby ? '
say the Cat .
` I 'd nearly forget to ask . '
` It turn into a pig , ' Alice quietly say , just a if it have come back in a natural way . '
I think it would , ' say the Cat , and vanish again .
Alice wait a little , half expect to see it again , but it do not appear , and after a minute or two she walk on in the direction in which the March Hare be say to live .
` I 've see hatter before , ' she say to herself ; ` the March Hare will be much the most interesting , and perhaps a this be May it wo n't be rave mad -- at least not so mad a it be in March . '
As she say this , she look up , and there be the Cat again , sit on a branch of a tree .
` Did you say pig , or fig ? '
say the Cat . '
I say pig , ' replied Alice ; ` and I wish you would n't keep appear and vanish so suddenly : you make one quite giddy . '
` All right , ' say the Cat ; and this time it vanish quite slowly , begin with the end of the tail , and end with the grin , which remain some time after the rest of it have go .
` Well !
I 've often see a cat without a grin , ' thought Alice ; ` but a grin without a cat !
It 's the most curious thing I ever saw in my life ! '
She have not go much far before she come in sight of the house of the March Hare : she think it must be the right house , because the chimney be shape like ear and the roof be thatch with fur .
It be so large a house , that she do not like to go nearer till she have nibble some more of the lefthand bit of mushroom , and raise herself to about two foot high : even then she walk up towards it rather timidly , say to herself ` Suppose it should be rave mad after all !
I almost wish I 'd go to see the Hatter instead ! '
CHAPTER VII .
A Mad Tea-Party There be a table set out under a tree in front of the house , and the March Hare and the Hatter be have tea at it : a Dormouse be sit between them , fast asleep , and the other two be use it a a cushion , rest their elbow on it , and talk over it head .
` Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse , ' thought Alice ; ` only , a it 's asleep , I suppose it do n't mind . '
The table be a large one , but the three be all crowd together at one corner of it : ` No room !
No room ! '
they cry out when they saw Alice come .
` There 's PLENTY of room ! '
say Alice indignantly , and she sit down in a large arm-chair at one end of the table .
` Have some wine , ' the March Hare say in an encouraging tone .
Alice look all round the table , but there be nothing on it but tea . '
I do n't see any wine , ' she remark .
` There be n't any , ' say the March Hare .
` Then it be n't very civil of you to offer it , ' say Alice angrily .
` It be n't very civil of you to sit down without be invite , ' say the March Hare . '
I do n't know it be YOUR table , ' say Alice ; ` it 's lay for a great many more than three . '
` Your hair want cut , ' say the Hatter .
He have be look at Alice for some time with great curiosity , and this be his first speech .
` You should learn not to make personal remark , ' Alice say with some severity ; ` it 's very rude . '
The Hatter open his eye very wide on hear this ; but all he SAID be , ` Why be a raven like a writing-desk ? '
` Come , we shall have some fun now ! '
thought Alice .
` I 'm glad they 've begin ask riddle .
-- I believe I can guess that , ' she add aloud .
` Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it ? '
say the March Hare .
` Exactly so , ' say Alice .
` Then you should say what you mean , ' the March Hare go on . '
I do , ' Alice hastily reply ; ` at least -- at least I mean what I say -- that 's the same thing , you know . '
` Not the same thing a bit ! '
say the Hatter .
` You might just as well say that `` I see what I eat '' be the same thing a `` I eat what I see '' ! '
` You might just as well say , ' add the March Hare , ` that `` I like what I get '' be the same thing a `` I get what I like '' ! '
` You might just as well say , ' add the Dormouse , who seem to be talk in his sleep , ` that `` I breathe when I sleep '' be the same thing a `` I sleep when I breathe '' ! '
` It IS the same thing with you , ' say the Hatter , and here the conversation drop , and the party sit silent for a minute , while Alice think over all she could remember about raven and writing-desks , which be n't much .
The Hatter be the first to break the silence .
` What day of the month be it ? '
he say , turn to Alice : he have take his watch out of his pocket , and be look at it uneasily , shake it every now and then , and hold it to his ear .
Alice consider a little , and then say ` The fourth . '
` Two day wrong ! '
sigh the Hatter . '
I tell you butter would n't suit the work ! '
he add look angrily at the March Hare .
` It be the BEST butter , ' the March Hare meekly reply .
` Yes , but some crumb must have get in as well , ' the Hatter grumble : ` you should n't have put it in with the bread-knife . '
The March Hare take the watch and look at it gloomily : then he dip it into his cup of tea , and look at it again : but he could think of nothing better to say than his first remark , ` It be the BEST butter , you know . '
Alice have be look over his shoulder with some curiosity .
` What a funny watch ! '
she remark .
` It tell the day of the month , and do n't tell what o'clock it be ! '
` Why should it ? '
mutter the Hatter .
` Does YOUR watch tell you what year it be ? '
` Of course not , ' Alice reply very readily : ` but that 's because it stay the same year for such a long time together . '
` Which be just the case with MINE , ' say the Hatter .
Alice felt dreadfully puzzle .
The Hatter 's remark seem to have no sort of meaning in it , and yet it be certainly English . '
I do n't quite understand you , ' she say , as politely a she could .
` The Dormouse be asleep again , ' say the Hatter , and he pour a little hot tea upon it nose .
The Dormouse shake it head impatiently , and say , without open it eye , ` Of course , of course ; just what I be go to remark myself . '
` Have you guess the riddle yet ? '
the Hatter say , turn to Alice again .
` No , I give it up , ' Alice reply : ` what 's the answer ? ' '
I have n't the slight idea , ' say the Hatter .
` Nor I , ' say the March Hare .
Alice sigh wearily . '
I think you might do something well with the time , ' she say , ` than waste it in ask riddle that have no answer . '
` If you know Time as well a I do , ' say the Hatter , ` you would n't talk about waste IT .
It 's HIM . ' '
I do n't know what you mean , ' say Alice .
` Of course you do n't ! '
the Hatter say , toss his head contemptuously . '
I dare say you never even speak to Time ! '
` Perhaps not , ' Alice cautiously reply : ` but I know I have to beat time when I learn music . '
` Ah !
that account for it , ' say the Hatter .
` He wo n't stand beating .
Now , if you only keep on good term with him , he 'd do almost anything you like with the clock .
For instance , suppose it be nine o'clock in the morning , just time to begin lesson : you 'd only have to whisper a hint to Time , and round go the clock in a twinkling !
Half-past one , time for dinner ! '
-LRB- ' I only wish it be , ' the March Hare say to itself in a whisper . -RRB-
` That would be grand , certainly , ' say Alice thoughtfully : ` but then -- I should n't be hungry for it , you know . '
` Not at first , perhaps , ' say the Hatter : ` but you could keep it to half-past one as long a you like . '
` Is that the way YOU manage ? '
Alice ask .
The Hatter shake his head mournfully .
` Not I ! '
he reply .
` We quarrel last March -- just before HE go mad , you know -- ' -LRB- point with his tea spoon at the March Hare , -RRB- ' -- it be at the great concert give by the Queen of Hearts , and I have to sing `` Twinkle , twinkle , little bat !
How I wonder what you 're at ! ''
You know the song , perhaps ? '
` I 've hear something like it , ' say Alice .
` It go on , you know , ' the Hatter continue , ` in this way : -- `` Up above the world you fly , Like a tea-tray in the sky .
Twinkle , twinkle -- '' ' Here the Dormouse shake itself , and begin sing in it sleep ` Twinkle , twinkle , twinkle , twinkle -- ' and go on so long that they have to pinch it to make it stop .
` Well , I 'd hardly finish the first verse , ' say the Hatter , ` when the Queen jump up and bawl out , `` He 's murder the time !
Off with his head ! '' '
` How dreadfully savage ! '
exclaim Alice .
` And ever since that , ' the Hatter go on in a mournful tone , ` he wo n't do a thing I ask !
It 's always six o'clock now . '
A bright idea come into Alice 's head .
` Is that the reason so many tea-things be put out here ? '
she ask .
` Yes , that 's it , ' say the Hatter with a sigh : ` it 's always tea-time , and we 've no time to wash the thing between while . '
` Then you keep move round , I suppose ? '
say Alice .
` Exactly so , ' say the Hatter : ` a the thing get use up . '
` But what happen when you come to the beginning again ? '
Alice venture to ask .
` Suppose we change the subject , ' the March Hare interrupt , yawn .
` I 'm get tire of this .
I vote the young lady tell u a story . '
` I 'm afraid I do n't know one , ' say Alice , rather alarm at the proposal .
` Then the Dormouse shall ! '
they both cry .
` Wake up , Dormouse ! '
And they pinch it on both side at once .
The Dormouse slowly open his eye . '
I be n't asleep , ' he say in a hoarse , feeble voice : ' I hear every word you fellows be say . '
` Tell u a story ! '
say the March Hare .
` Yes , please do ! '
pleaded Alice .
` And be quick about it , ' add the Hatter , ` or you 'll be asleep again before it 's do . '
` Once upon a time there be three little sister , ' the Dormouse begin in a great hurry ; ` and their name be Elsie , Lacie , and Tillie ; and they live at the bottom of a well -- ' ` What do they live on ? '
say Alice , who always take a great interest in question of eating and drinking .
` They live on treacle , ' say the Dormouse , after think a minute or two .
` They could n't have do that , you know , ' Alice gently remark ; ` they 'd have be ill . '
` So they be , ' say the Dormouse ; ` VERY ill . '
Alice try to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary way of living would be like , but it puzzle her too much , so she go on : ` But why do they live at the bottom of a well ? '
` Take some more tea , ' the March Hare say to Alice , very earnestly .
` I 've have nothing yet , ' Alice reply in an offended tone , ` so I ca n't take more . '
` You mean you ca n't take LESS , ' say the Hatter : ` it 's very easy to take MORE than nothing . '
` Nobody ask YOUR opinion , ' say Alice .
` Who 's make personal remark now ? '
the Hatter ask triumphantly .
Alice do not quite know what to say to this : so she help herself to some tea and bread-and-butter , and then turn to the Dormouse , and repeat her question .
` Why do they live at the bottom of a well ? '
The Dormouse again take a minute or two to think about it , and then say , ` It be a treacle-well . '
` There 's no such thing ! '
Alice be begin very angrily , but the Hatter and the March Hare go ` Sh !
sh ! '
and the Dormouse sulkily remark , ` If you ca n't be civil , you 'd better finish the story for yourself . '
` No , please go on ! '
Alice say very humbly ; ' I wo n't interrupt again .
I dare say there may be ONE . '
` One , indeed ! '
say the Dormouse indignantly .
However , he consent to go on .
` And so these three little sister -- they be learn to draw , you know -- ' ` What do they draw ? '
say Alice , quite forget her promise .
` Treacle , ' say the Dormouse , without consider at all this time . '
I want a clean cup , ' interrupt the Hatter : ` let 's all move one place on . '
He move on a he speak , and the Dormouse follow him : the March Hare move into the Dormouse 's place , and Alice rather unwillingly take the place of the March Hare .
The Hatter be the only one who get any advantage from the change : and Alice be a good deal bad off than before , a the March Hare have just upset the milk-jug into his plate .
Alice do not wish to offend the Dormouse again , so she begin very cautiously : ` But I do n't understand .
Where do they draw the treacle from ? '
` You can draw water out of a water-well , ' say the Hatter ; ` so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well -- eh , stupid ? '
` But they be IN the well , ' Alice say to the Dormouse , not choose to notice this last remark .
` Of course they be ' , say the Dormouse ; ' -- well in . '
This answer so confused poor Alice , that she let the Dormouse go on for some time without interrupt it .
` They be learn to draw , ' the Dormouse go on , yawn and rub it eye , for it be get very sleepy ; ` and they draw all manner of thing -- everything that begin with an M -- ' ` Why with an M ? '
say Alice .
` Why not ? '
say the March Hare .
Alice be silent .
The Dormouse have close it eye by this time , and be go off into a doze ; but , on be pinch by the Hatter , it wake up again with a little shriek , and go on : ' -- that begin with an M , such a mouse-traps , and the moon , and memory , and muchness -- you know you say thing be `` much of a muchness '' -- do you ever see such a thing a a drawing of a muchness ? '
` Really , now you ask me , ' say Alice , very much confuse , ' I do n't think -- ' ` Then you should n't talk , ' say the Hatter .
This piece of rudeness be more than Alice could bear : she get up in great disgust , and walk off ; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly , and neither of the others take the least notice of her go , though she look back once or twice , half hop that they would call after her : the last time she saw them , they be try to put the Dormouse into the teapot .
` At any rate I 'll never go THERE again ! '
say Alice a she pick her way through the wood .
` It 's the stupid tea-party I ever be at in all my life ! '
Just a she say this , she notice that one of the tree have a door lead right into it .
` That 's very curious ! '
she think .
` But everything 's curious today .
I think I may as well go in at once . '
And in she go .
Once more she find herself in the long hall , and close to the little glass table .
` Now , I 'll manage well this time , ' she say to herself , and begin by take the little golden key , and unlock the door that lead into the garden .
Then she go to work nibble at the mushroom -LRB- she have keep a piece of it in her pocket -RRB- till she be about a foot high : then she walk down the little passage : and THEN -- she find herself at last in the beautiful garden , among the bright flower-beds and the cool fountain .
CHAPTER VIII .
The Queen 's Croquet-Ground A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden : the rose grow on it be white , but there be three gardener at it , busily paint them red .
Alice think this a very curious thing , and she go nearer to watch them , and just a she come up to them she hear one of them say , ` Look out now , Five !
Do n't go splash paint over me like that ! ' '
I could n't help it , ' say Five , in a sulky tone ; ` Seven jogged my elbow . '
On which Seven look up and say , ` That 's right , Five !
Always lay the blame on others ! '
` YOU 'D good not talk ! '
say Five . '
I hear the Queen say only yesterday you deserve to be behead ! '
` What for ? '
say the one who have speak first .
` That 's none of YOUR business , Two ! '
say Seven .
` Yes , it IS his business ! '
say Five , ` and I 'll tell him -- it be for bring the cook tulip-roots instead of onion . '
Seven fling down his brush , and have just begin ` Well , of all the unjust thing -- ' when his eye chance to fall upon Alice , a she stand watch them , and he check himself suddenly : the others look round also , and all of them bow low .
` Would you tell me , ' say Alice , a little timidly , ` why you be paint those rose ? '
Five and Seven say nothing , but look at Two .
Two begin in a low voice , ` Why the fact be , you see , Miss , this here ought to have be a RED rose-tree , and we put a white one in by mistake ; and if the Queen be to find it out , we should all have our head cut off , you know .
So you see , Miss , we 're do our best , afore she come , to -- ' At this moment Five , who have be anxiously look across the garden , call out ` The Queen !
The Queen ! '
and the three gardener instantly throw themselves flat upon their face .
There be a sound of many footstep , and Alice look round , eager to see the Queen .
First come ten soldier carry club ; these be all shape like the three gardener , oblong and flat , with their hand and foot at the corner : next the ten courtier ; these be ornament all over with diamond , and walk two and two , a the soldier do .
After these come the royal child ; there be ten of them , and the little dear come jump merrily along hand in hand , in couple : they be all ornament with heart .
Next come the guest , mostly Kings and Queens , and among them Alice recognise the White Rabbit : it be talk in a hurried nervous manner , smile at everything that be say , and go by without notice her .
Then follow the Knave of Hearts , carry the King 's crown on a crimson velvet cushion ; and , last of all this grand procession , come THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS .
Alice be rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on her face like the three gardener , but she could not remember ever have hear of such a rule at procession ; ` and besides , what would be the use of a procession , ' think she , ` if people have all to lie down upon their face , so that they could n't see it ? '
So she stand still where she be , and wait .
When the procession come opposite to Alice , they all stop and look at her , and the Queen say severely ` Who be this ? '
She say it to the Knave of Hearts , who only bow and smile in reply .
` Idiot ! '
say the Queen , toss her head impatiently ; and , turn to Alice , she go on , ` What 's your name , child ? '
` My name be Alice , so please your Majesty , ' say Alice very politely ; but she add , to herself , ` Why , they 're only a pack of card , after all .
I need n't be afraid of them ! '
` And who be THESE ? '
say the Queen , point to the three gardener who be lie round the rosetree ; for , you see , a they be lie on their face , and the pattern on their back be the same a the rest of the pack , she could not tell whether they be gardener , or soldier , or courtier , or three of her own child .
` How should I know ? '
say Alice , surprise at her own courage .
` It 's no business of MINE . '
The Queen turn crimson with fury , and , after glare at her for a moment like a wild beast , scream ` Off with her head !
Off -- ' ` Nonsense ! '
say Alice , very loudly and decidedly , and the Queen be silent .
The King lay his hand upon her arm , and timidly say ` Consider , my dear : she be only a child ! '
The Queen turn angrily away from him , and say to the Knave ` Turn them over ! '
The Knave do so , very carefully , with one foot .
` Get up ! '
say the Queen , in a shrill , loud voice , and the three gardener instantly jump up , and begin bow to the King , the Queen , the royal child , and everybody else .
` Leave off that ! '
scream the Queen .
` You make me giddy . '
And then , turn to the rose-tree , she go on , ` What HAVE you be do here ? '
` May it please your Majesty , ' say Two , in a very humble tone , go down on one knee a he speak , ` we be try -- ' ' I see ! '
say the Queen , who have meanwhile be examine the rose .
` Off with their head ! '
and the procession move on , three of the soldier remain behind to execute the unfortunate gardener , who run to Alice for protection .
` You sha n't be behead ! '
say Alice , and she put them into a large flower-pot that stand near .
The three soldier wander about for a minute or two , look for them , and then quietly march off after the others .
` Are their head off ? '
shout the Queen .
` Their head be go , if it please your Majesty ! '
the soldier shout in reply .
` That 's right ! '
shout the Queen .
` Can you play croquet ? '
The soldier be silent , and look at Alice , a the question be evidently mean for her .
` Yes ! '
shout Alice .
` Come on , then ! '
roar the Queen , and Alice join the procession , wonder very much what would happen next .
` It 's -- it 's a very fine day ! '
say a timid voice at her side .
She be walk by the White Rabbit , who be peep anxiously into her face .
` Very , ' say Alice : ' -- where 's the Duchess ? '
` Hush !
Hush ! '
say the Rabbit in a low , hurry tone .
He look anxiously over his shoulder a he speak , and then raise himself upon tiptoe , put his mouth close to her ear , and whisper ` She 's under sentence of execution . '
` What for ? '
say Alice .
` Did you say `` What a pity ! ''
? '
the Rabbit ask .
` No , I do n't , ' say Alice : ' I do n't think it 's at all a pity .
I say `` What for ? '' '
` She box the Queen 's ear -- ' the Rabbit begin .
Alice give a little scream of laughter .
` Oh , hush ! '
the Rabbit whisper in a frightened tone .
` The Queen will hear you !
You see , she come rather late , and the Queen say -- ' ` Get to your place ! '
shout the Queen in a voice of thunder , and people begin run about in all direction , tumble up against each other ; however , they get settle down in a minute or two , and the game begin .
Alice think she have never see such a curious croquet-ground in her life ; it be all ridge and furrow ; the ball be live hedgehog , the mallet live flamingo , and the soldier have to double themselves up and to stand on their hand and foot , to make the arch .
The chief difficulty Alice find at first be in manage her flamingo : she succeed in get it body tuck away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with it leg hang down , but generally , just a she have get it neck nicely straighten out , and be go to give the hedgehog a blow with it head , it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help burst out laugh : and when she have get it head down , and be go to begin again , it be very provoke to find that the hedgehog have unroll itself , and be in the act of crawl away : besides all this , there be generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she want to send the hedgehog to , and , a the doubled-up soldier be always get up and walk off to other part of the ground , Alice soon come to the conclusion that it be a very difficult game indeed .
The player all play at once without wait for turn , quarrel all the while , and fight for the hedgehog ; and in a very short time the Queen be in a furious passion , and go stamp about , and shout ` Off with his head ! '
or ` Off with her head ! '
about once in a minute .
Alice begin to feel very uneasy : to be sure , she have not a yet have any dispute with the Queen , but she know that it might happen any minute , ` and then , ' think she , ` what would become of me ?
They 're dreadfully fond of behead people here ; the great wonder be , that there 's any one leave alive ! '
She be look about for some way of escape , and wonder whether she could get away without be see , when she notice a curious appearance in the air : it puzzle her very much at first , but , after watch it a minute or two , she make it out to be a grin , and she say to herself ` It 's the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to . '
` How be you get on ? '
say the Cat , as soon a there be mouth enough for it to speak with .
Alice wait till the eye appear , and then nod .
` It 's no use speak to it , ' she think , 'till it ear have come , or at least one of them . '
In another minute the whole head appear , and then Alice put down her flamingo , and begin an account of the game , feel very glad she have someone to listen to her .
The Cat seem to think that there be enough of it now in sight , and no more of it appear . '
I do n't think they play at all fairly , ' Alice begin , in rather a complain tone , ` and they all quarrel so dreadfully one ca n't hear oneself speak -- and they do n't seem to have any rule in particular ; at least , if there be , nobody attends to them -- and you 've no idea how confusing it be all the thing be alive ; for instance , there 's the arch I 've get to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground -- and I should have croquet the Queen 's hedgehog just now , only it run away when it saw mine come ! '
` How do you like the Queen ? '
say the Cat in a low voice .
` Not at all , ' say Alice : ` she 's so extremely -- ' Just then she notice that the Queen be close behind her , listen : so she go on , ' -- likely to win , that it 's hardly worth while finish the game . '
The Queen smile and pass on .
` Who ARE you talk to ? '
say the King , go up to Alice , and look at the Cat 's head with great curiosity .
` It 's a friend of mine -- a Cheshire Cat , ' say Alice : ` allow me to introduce it . ' '
I do n't like the look of it at all , ' say the King : ` however , it may kiss my hand if it like . '
` I 'd rather not , ' the Cat remark .
` Do n't be impertinent , ' say the King , ` and do n't look at me like that ! '
He get behind Alice a he speak . '
A cat may look at a king , ' say Alice .
` I 've read that in some book , but I do n't remember where . '
` Well , it must be remove , ' say the King very decidedly , and he call the Queen , who be pass at the moment , ` My dear !
I wish you would have this cat remove ! '
The Queen have only one way of settle all difficulty , great or small .
` Off with his head ! '
she say , without even look round .
` I 'll fetch the executioner myself , ' say the King eagerly , and he hurry off .
Alice think she might as well go back , and see how the game be go on , a she hear the Queen 's voice in the distance , scream with passion .
She have already hear her sentence three of the player to be execute for have miss their turn , and she do not like the look of thing at all , a the game be in such confusion that she never know whether it be her turn or not .
So she go in search of her hedgehog .
The hedgehog be engage in a fight with another hedgehog , which seem to Alice an excellent opportunity for croquet one of them with the other : the only difficulty be , that her flamingo be go across to the other side of the garden , where Alice could see it try in a helpless sort of way to fly up into a tree .
By the time she have catch the flamingo and bring it back , the fight be over , and both the hedgehog be out of sight : ` but it do n't matter much , ' thought Alice , ` a all the arch be go from this side of the ground . '
So she tuck it away under her arm , that it might not escape again , and go back for a little more conversation with her friend .
When she get back to the Cheshire Cat , she be surprise to find quite a large crowd collect round it : there be a dispute go on between the executioner , the King , and the Queen , who be all talk at once , while all the rest be quite silent , and look very uncomfortable .
The moment Alice appear , she be appeal to by all three to settle the question , and they repeat their argument to her , though , a they all speak at once , she find it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they say .
The executioner 's argument be , that you could n't cut off a head unless there be a body to cut it off from : that he have never have to do such a thing before , and he be n't go to begin at HIS time of life .
The King 's argument be , that anything that have a head could be behead , and that you be n't to talk nonsense .
The Queen 's argument be , that if something be n't do about it in less than no time she 'd have everybody execute , all round .
-LRB- It be this last remark that have make the whole party look so grave and anxious . -RRB-
Alice could think of nothing else to say but ` It belong to the Duchess : you 'd better ask HER about it . '
` She 's in prison , ' the Queen say to the executioner : ` fetch her here . '
And the executioner go off like an arrow .
The Cat 's head begin fade away the moment he be go , and , by the time he have come back with the Duchess , it have entirely disappear ; so the King and the executioner run wildly up and down look for it , while the rest of the party go back to the game .
CHAPTER IX .
The Mock Turtle 's Story ` You ca n't think how glad I be to see you again , you dear old thing ! '
say the Duchess , a she tuck her arm affectionately into Alice 's , and they walk off together .
Alice be very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper , and think to herself that perhaps it be only the pepper that have make her so savage when they meet in the kitchen .
` When I 'M a Duchess , ' she say to herself , -LRB- not in a very hopeful tone though -RRB- , ' I wo n't have any pepper in my kitchen AT ALL .
Soup do very well without -- Maybe it 's always pepper that make people hot-tempered , ' she go on , very much please at have find out a new kind of rule , ` and vinegar that make them sour -- and camomile that make them bitter -- and -- and barley-sugar and such thing that make child sweet-tempered .
I only wish people know that : then they would n't be so stingy about it , you know -- ' She have quite forget the Duchess by this time , and be a little startled when she hear her voice close to her ear .
` You 're think about something , my dear , and that make you forget to talk .
I ca n't tell you just now what the moral of that be , but I shall remember it in a bit . '
` Perhaps it have n't one , ' Alice venture to remark .
` Tut , tut , child ! '
say the Duchess .
` Everything 's get a moral , if only you can find it . '
And she squeeze herself up closer to Alice 's side a she speak .
Alice do not much like keep so close to her : first , because the Duchess be VERY ugly ; and secondly , because she be exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice 's shoulder , and it be an uncomfortably sharp chin .
However , she do not like to be rude , so she bore it as well a she could .
` The game 's go on rather good now , ' she say , by way of keep up the conversation a little . ''
Tis so , ' say the Duchess : ` and the moral of that be -- `` Oh , 't be love , 't be love , that make the world go round ! '' '
` Somebody say , ' Alice whisper , ` that it 's do by everybody mind their own business ! '
` Ah , well !
It mean much the same thing , ' say the Duchess , dig her sharp little chin into Alice 's shoulder a she add , ` and the moral of THAT be -- `` Take care of the sense , and the sound will take care of themselves . '' '
` How fond she be of find moral in thing ! '
Alice think to herself . '
I dare say you 're wonder why I do n't put my arm round your waist , ' the Duchess say after a pause : ` the reason be , that I 'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo .
Shall I try the experiment ? '
` HE might bite , ' Alice cautiously reply , not feel at all anxious to have the experiment try .
` Very true , ' say the Duchess : ` flamingo and mustard both bite .
And the moral of that be -- `` Birds of a feather flock together . '' '
` Only mustard be n't a bird , ' Alice remark .
` Right , a usual , ' say the Duchess : ` what a clear way you have of put thing ! '
` It 's a mineral , I THINK , ' say Alice .
` Of course it be , ' say the Duchess , who seem ready to agree to everything that Alice say ; ` there 's a large mustard-mine near here .
And the moral of that be -- `` The more there be of mine , the less there be of yours . '' '
` Oh , I know ! '
exclaimed Alice , who have not attend to this last remark , ` it 's a vegetable .
It do n't look like one , but it be . ' '
I quite agree with you , ' say the Duchess ; ` and the moral of that be -- `` Be what you would seem to be '' -- or if you 'd like it put more simply -- `` Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you be or might have be be not otherwise than what you have be would have appear to them to be otherwise . '' ' '
I think I should understand that good , ' Alice say very politely , ` if I have it write down : but I ca n't quite follow it a you say it . '
` That 's nothing to what I could say if I choose , ' the Duchess reply , in a pleased tone .
` Pray do n't trouble yourself to say it any long than that , ' say Alice .
` Oh , do n't talk about trouble ! '
say the Duchess . '
I make you a present of everything I 've say a yet . ' '
A cheap sort of present ! '
thought Alice .
` I 'm glad they do n't give birthday present like that ! '
But she do not venture to say it out loud .
` Thinking again ? '
the Duchess ask , with another dig of her sharp little chin .
` I 've a right to think , ' say Alice sharply , for she be begin to feel a little worried .
` Just about as much right , ' say the Duchess , ` a pig have to fly ; and the m -- ' But here , to Alice 's great surprise , the Duchess 's voice die away , even in the middle of her favourite word ` moral , ' and the arm that be link into hers begin to tremble .
Alice look up , and there stand the Queen in front of them , with her arm fold , frown like a thunderstorm . '
A fine day , your Majesty ! '
the Duchess begin in a low , weak voice .
` Now , I give you fair warn , ' shout the Queen , stamp on the ground a she speak ; ` either you or your head must be off , and that in about half no time !
Take your choice ! '
The Duchess take her choice , and be go in a moment .
` Let 's go on with the game , ' the Queen say to Alice ; and Alice be too much frighten to say a word , but slowly follow her back to the croquet-ground .
The other guest have take advantage of the Queen 's absence , and be rest in the shade : however , the moment they saw her , they hurry back to the game , the Queen merely remark that a moment 's delay would cost them their life .
All the time they be play the Queen never leave off quarrel with the other player , and shout ` Off with his head ! '
or ` Off with her head ! '
Those whom she sentence be take into custody by the soldier , who of course have to leave off be arch to do this , so that by the end of half an hour or so there be no arch leave , and all the player , except the King , the Queen , and Alice , be in custody and under sentence of execution .
Then the Queen leave off , quite out of breath , and say to Alice , ` Have you see the Mock Turtle yet ? '
` No , ' say Alice . '
I do n't even know what a Mock Turtle be . '
` It 's the thing Mock Turtle Soup be make from , ' say the Queen . '
I never saw one , or heard of one , ' say Alice .
` Come on , then , ' say the Queen , ` and he shall tell you his history , ' As they walk off together , Alice hear the King say in a low voice , to the company generally , ` You be all pardon . '
` Come , THAT 'S a good thing ! '
she say to herself , for she have felt quite unhappy at the number of execution the Queen have order .
They very soon come upon a Gryphon , lie fast asleep in the sun .
-LRB- IF you do n't know what a Gryphon be , look at the picture . -RRB-
` Up , lazy thing ! '
say the Queen , ` and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle , and to hear his history .
I must go back and see after some execution I have order ' ; and she walk off , leave Alice alone with the Gryphon .
Alice do not quite like the look of the creature , but on the whole she think it would be quite a safe to stay with it a to go after that savage Queen : so she wait .
The Gryphon sit up and rub it eye : then it watch the Queen till she be out of sight : then it chuckle .
` What fun ! '
say the Gryphon , half to itself , half to Alice .
` What IS the fun ? '
say Alice .
` Why , SHE , ' say the Gryphon .
` It 's all her fancy , that : they never execute nobody , you know .
Come on ! '
` Everybody say `` come on ! ''
here , ' thought Alice , a she go slowly after it : ' I never be so ordered about in all my life , never ! '
They have not go far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the distance , sit sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock , and , a they come nearer , Alice could hear him sigh a if his heart would break .
She pity him deeply .
` What be his sorrow ? '
she ask the Gryphon , and the Gryphon answer , very nearly in the same word a before , ` It 's all his fancy , that : he have n't get no sorrow , you know .
Come on ! '
So they go up to the Mock Turtle , who look at them with large eye full of tear , but say nothing .
` This here young lady , ' say the Gryphon , ` she want for to know your history , she do . '
` I 'll tell it her , ' say the Mock Turtle in a deep , hollow tone : ` sit down , both of you , and do n't speak a word till I 've finish . '
So they sit down , and nobody speak for some minute .
Alice think to herself , ' I do n't see how he can EVEN finish , if he do n't begin . '
But she wait patiently .
` Once , ' say the Mock Turtle at last , with a deep sigh , ' I be a real Turtle . '
These word be follow by a very long silence , break only by an occasional exclamation of ` Hjckrrh ! '
from the Gryphon , and the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle .
Alice be very nearly get up and say , ` Thank you , sir , for your interesting story , ' but she could not help think there MUST be more to come , so she sit still and say nothing .
` When we be little , ' the Mock Turtle go on at last , more calmly , though still sob a little now and then , ` we go to school in the sea .
The master be an old Turtle -- we use to call him Tortoise -- ' ` Why do you call him Tortoise , if he be n't one ? '
Alice ask .
` We call him Tortoise because he teach u , ' say the Mock Turtle angrily : ` really you be very dull ! '
` You ought to be ashamed of yourself for ask such a simple question , ' add the Gryphon ; and then they both sit silent and look at poor Alice , who felt ready to sink into the earth .
At last the Gryphon say to the Mock Turtle , ` Drive on , old fellow !
Do n't be all day about it ! '
and he go on in these word : ` Yes , we go to school in the sea , though you may n't believe it -- ' ' I never say I do n't ! '
interrupted Alice .
` You do , ' say the Mock Turtle .
` Hold your tongue ! '
add the Gryphon , before Alice could speak again .
The Mock Turtle go on .
` We have the best of education -- in fact , we go to school every day -- ' ` I 'VE be to a day-school , too , ' say Alice ; ` you need n't be so proud a all that . '
` With extra ? '
ask the Mock Turtle a little anxiously .
` Yes , ' say Alice , ` we learn French and music . '
` And wash ? '
say the Mock Turtle .
` Certainly not ! '
say Alice indignantly .
` Ah !
then yours be n't a really good school , ' say the Mock Turtle in a tone of great relief .
` Now at OURS they have at the end of the bill , `` French , music , AND WASHING -- extra . '' '
` You could n't have want it much , ' say Alice ; ` living at the bottom of the sea . ' '
I could n't afford to learn it . '
say the Mock Turtle with a sigh . '
I only take the regular course . '
` What be that ? '
inquired Alice .
` Reeling and Writhing , of course , to begin with , ' the Mock Turtle reply ; ` and then the different branch of Arithmetic -- Ambition , Distraction , Uglification , and Derision . ' '
I never heard of `` Uglification , '' ' Alice venture to say .
` What be it ? '
The Gryphon lift up both it paw in surprise .
` What !
Never heard of uglify ! '
it exclaim .
` You know what to beautify be , I suppose ? '
` Yes , ' say Alice doubtfully : ` it mean -- to -- make -- anything -- prettier . '
` Well , then , ' the Gryphon go on , ` if you do n't know what to uglify be , you ARE a simpleton . '
Alice do not feel encourage to ask any more question about it , so she turn to the Mock Turtle , and say ` What else have you to learn ? '
` Well , there be Mystery , ' the Mock Turtle reply , count off the subject on his flapper , ' -- Mystery , ancient and modern , with Seaography : then Drawling -- the Drawling-master be an old conger-eel , that use to come once a week : HE teach u Drawling , Stretching , and Fainting in Coils . '
` What be THAT like ? '
say Alice .
` Well , I ca n't show it you myself , ' the Mock Turtle say : ` I 'm too stiff .
And the Gryphon never learn it . '
` Had n't time , ' say the Gryphon : ' I go to the Classics master , though .
He be an old crab , HE be . ' '
I never go to him , ' the Mock Turtle say with a sigh : ` he teach Laughing and Grief , they use to say . '
` So he do , so he do , ' say the Gryphon , sigh in his turn ; and both creature hide their face in their paw .
` And how many hour a day do you do lesson ? '
say Alice , in a hurry to change the subject .
` Ten hour the first day , ' say the Mock Turtle : ` nine the next , and so on . '
` What a curious plan ! '
exclaim Alice .
` That 's the reason they 're call lesson , ' the Gryphon remark : ` because they lessen from day to day . '
This be quite a new idea to Alice , and she think it over a little before she make her next remark .
` Then the eleventh day must have be a holiday ? '
` Of course it be , ' say the Mock Turtle .
` And how do you manage on the twelfth ? '
Alice go on eagerly .
` That 's enough about lesson , ' the Gryphon interrupt in a very decided tone : ` tell her something about the game now . '
CHAPTER X .
The Lobster Quadrille The Mock Turtle sigh deeply , and draw the back of one flapper across his eye .
He look at Alice , and try to speak , but for a minute or two sob choke his voice .
` Same a if he have a bone in his throat , ' say the Gryphon : and it set to work shake him and punch him in the back .
At last the Mock Turtle recover his voice , and , with tear run down his cheek , he go on again : -- ` You may not have live much under the sea -- ' -LRB- ' I have n't , ' say Alice -RRB- -- ` and perhaps you be never even introduce to a lobster -- ' -LRB- Alice begin to say ' I once taste -- ' but check herself hastily , and say ` No , never ' -RRB- ' -- so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille be ! '
` No , indeed , ' say Alice .
` What sort of a dance be it ? '
` Why , ' say the Gryphon , ` you first form into a line along the sea-shore -- ' ` Two line ! '
cry the Mock Turtle .
` Seals , turtle , salmon , and so on ; then , when you 've clear all the jelly-fish out of the way -- ' ` THAT generally take some time , ' interrupt the Gryphon . '
-- you advance twice -- ' ` Each with a lobster a a partner ! '
cry the Gryphon .
` Of course , ' the Mock Turtle say : ` advance twice , set to partner -- ' ' -- change lobster , and retire in same order , ' continue the Gryphon .
` Then , you know , ' the Mock Turtle go on , ` you throw the -- ' ` The lobster ! '
shout the Gryphon , with a bound into the air . '
-- a far out to sea a you can -- ' ` Swim after them ! '
scream the Gryphon .
` Turn a somersault in the sea ! '
cry the Mock Turtle , caper wildly about .
` Change lobster again ! '
yell the Gryphon at the top of it voice .
` Back to land again , and that 's all the first figure , ' say the Mock Turtle , suddenly drop his voice ; and the two creature , who have be jump about like mad thing all this time , sit down again very sadly and quietly , and look at Alice .
` It must be a very pretty dance , ' say Alice timidly .
` Would you like to see a little of it ? '
say the Mock Turtle .
` Very much indeed , ' say Alice .
` Come , let 's try the first figure ! '
say the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon .
` We can do without lobster , you know .
Which shall sing ? '
` Oh , YOU sing , ' say the Gryphon .
` I 've forget the word . '
So they begin solemnly dance round and round Alice , every now and then tread on her toe when they pass too close , and wave their forepaw to mark the time , while the Mock Turtle sing this , very slowly and sadly : -- ' `` Will you walk a little faster ? ''
say a whiting to a snail .
`` There 's a porpoise close behind u , and he 's tread on my tail .
See how eagerly the lobster and the turtle all advance !
They be wait on the shingle -- will you come and join the dance ?
Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , will you join the dance ?
Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , wo n't you join the dance ?
`` You can really have no notion how delightful it will be When they take u up and throw u , with the lobster , out to sea ! ''
But the snail reply `` Too far , too far ! ''
and give a look askance -- Said he thank the whiting kindly , but he would not join the dance .
Would not , could not , would not , could not , would not join the dance .
Would not , could not , would not , could not , could not join the dance . '
`` What matter it how far we go ? ''
his scaly friend reply .
`` There be another shore , you know , upon the other side .
The further off from England the nearer be to France -- Then turn not pale , beloved snail , but come and join the dance .
Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , will you join the dance ?
Will you , wo n't you , will you , wo n't you , wo n't you join the dance ? '' '
` Thank you , it 's a very interesting dance to watch , ' say Alice , feel very glad that it be over at last : ` and I do so like that curious song about the whiting ! '
` Oh , a to the whiting , ' say the Mock Turtle , ` they -- you 've see them , of course ? '
` Yes , ' say Alice , ` I 've often see them at dinn -- ' she check herself hastily . '
I do n't know where Dinn may be , ' say the Mock Turtle , ` but if you 've see them so often , of course you know what they 're like . ' '
I believe so , ' Alice reply thoughtfully .
` They have their tail in their mouth -- and they 're all over crumb . '
` You 're wrong about the crumb , ' say the Mock Turtle : ` crumb would all wash off in the sea .
But they HAVE their tail in their mouth ; and the reason be -- ' here the Mock Turtle yawn and shut his eye .
-- ` Tell her about the reason and all that , ' he say to the Gryphon .
` The reason be , ' say the Gryphon , ` that they WOULD go with the lobster to the dance .
So they get throw out to sea .
So they have to fall a long way .
So they get their tail fast in their mouth .
So they could n't get them out again .
That 's all . '
` Thank you , ' say Alice , ` it 's very interesting .
I never know so much about a whiting before . ' '
I can tell you more than that , if you like , ' say the Gryphon .
` Do you know why it 's call a whiting ? ' '
I never think about it , ' say Alice .
` Why ? '
` IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES . '
the Gryphon reply very solemnly .
Alice be thoroughly puzzle .
` Does the boot and shoe ! '
she repeat in a wonder tone .
` Why , what be YOUR shoe do with ? '
say the Gryphon . '
I mean , what make them so shiny ? '
Alice look down at them , and consider a little before she give her answer .
` They 're do with blacking , I believe . '
` Boots and shoe under the sea , ' the Gryphon go on in a deep voice , ` be do with a whiting .
Now you know . '
` And what be they make of ? '
Alice ask in a tone of great curiosity .
` Soles and eel , of course , ' the Gryphon reply rather impatiently : ` any shrimp could have tell you that . '
` If I 'd be the whiting , ' say Alice , whose thought be still run on the song , ` I 'd have say to the porpoise , `` Keep back , please : we do n't want YOU with u ! '' '
` They be oblige to have him with them , ' the Mock Turtle say : ` no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise . '
` Would n't it really ? '
say Alice in a tone of great surprise .
` Of course not , ' say the Mock Turtle : ` why , if a fish come to ME , and tell me he be go a journey , I should say `` With what porpoise ? '' '
` Do n't you mean `` purpose '' ? '
say Alice . '
I mean what I say , ' the Mock Turtle reply in an offended tone .
And the Gryphon add ` Come , let 's hear some of YOUR adventure . ' '
I could tell you my adventure -- begin from this morning , ' say Alice a little timidly : ` but it 's no use go back to yesterday , because I be a different person then . '
` Explain all that , ' say the Mock Turtle .
` No , no !
The adventure first , ' say the Gryphon in an impatient tone : ` explanation take such a dreadful time . '
So Alice begin tell them her adventure from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit .
She be a little nervous about it just at first , the two creature get so close to her , one on each side , and open their eye and mouth so VERY wide , but she gain courage a she go on .
Her listener be perfectly quiet till she get to the part about her repeating ` YOU ARE OLD , FATHER WILLIAM , ' to the Caterpillar , and the word all come different , and then the Mock Turtle draw a long breath , and say ` That 's very curious . '
` It 's all about as curious a it can be , ' say the Gryphon .
` It all come different ! '
the Mock Turtle repeat thoughtfully . '
I should like to hear her try and repeat something now .
Tell her to begin . '
He look at the Gryphon a if he think it have some kind of authority over Alice .
` Stand up and repeat '' 'T IS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD , '' ' say the Gryphon .
` How the creature order one about , and make one repeat lesson ! '
thought Alice ; ' I might as well be at school at once . '
However , she get up , and begin to repeat it , but her head be so full of the Lobster Quadrille , that she hardly know what she be say , and the word come very queer indeed : -- '' Tis the voice of the Lobster ; I hear him declare , `` You have bake me too brown , I must sugar my hair . ''
As a duck with it eyelid , so he with his nose Trims his belt and his button , and turn out his toe . '
-LSB- later edition continue a follow When the sand be all dry , he be gay a a lark , And will talk in contemptuous tone of the Shark , But , when the tide rise and shark be around , His voice have a timid and tremulous sound . -RSB-
` That 's different from what I use to say when I be a child , ' say the Gryphon .
` Well , I never hear it before , ' say the Mock Turtle ; ` but it sound uncommon nonsense . '
Alice say nothing ; she have sit down with her face in her hand , wonder if anything would EVER happen in a natural way again . '
I should like to have it explain , ' say the Mock Turtle .
` She ca n't explain it , ' say the Gryphon hastily .
` Go on with the next verse . '
` But about his toe ? '
the Mock Turtle persist .
` How COULD he turn them out with his nose , you know ? '
` It 's the first position in dance . '
Alice say ; but be dreadfully puzzle by the whole thing , and long to change the subject .
` Go on with the next verse , ' the Gryphon repeat impatiently : ` it begin `` I pass by his garden . '' '
Alice do not dare to disobey , though she felt sure it would all come wrong , and she go on in a trembling voice : -- ' I pass by his garden , and mark , with one eye , How the Owl and the Panther be share a pie -- ' -LSB- later edition continue a follow The Panther take pie-crust , and gravy , and meat , While the Owl have the dish a it share of the treat .
When the pie be all finish , the Owl , a a boon , Was kindly permit to pocket the spoon : While the Panther receive knife and fork with a growl , And conclude the banquet -- -RSB- ` What IS the use of repeat all that stuff , ' the Mock Turtle interrupt , ` if you do n't explain it a you go on ?
It 's by far the most confusing thing I ever hear ! '
` Yes , I think you 'd better leave off , ' say the Gryphon : and Alice be only too glad to do so .
` Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille ? '
the Gryphon go on .
` Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song ? '
` Oh , a song , please , if the Mock Turtle would be so kind , ' Alice reply , so eagerly that the Gryphon say , in a rather offended tone , ` Hm !
No accounting for taste !
Sing her `` Turtle Soup , '' will you , old fellow ? '
The Mock Turtle sigh deeply , and begin , in a voice sometimes choke with sob , to sing this : -- ` Beautiful Soup , so rich and green , Waiting in a hot tureen !
Who for such dainty would not stoop ?
Soup of the evening , beautiful Soup !
Soup of the evening , beautiful Soup !
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beautiful Soup !
` Beautiful Soup !
Who care for fish , Game , or any other dish ?
Who would not give all else for two Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup ?
Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup ?
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Beau -- ootiful Soo -- oop !
Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beauti -- FUL SOUP ! '
` Chorus again ! '
cry the Gryphon , and the Mock Turtle have just begin to repeat it , when a cry of ` The trial 's beginning ! '
be hear in the distance .
` Come on ! '
cry the Gryphon , and , take Alice by the hand , it hurry off , without wait for the end of the song .
` What trial be it ? '
Alice pant a she run ; but the Gryphon only answer ` Come on ! '
and run the faster , while more and more faintly come , carry on the breeze that follow them , the melancholy word : -- ` Soo -- oop of the e -- e -- evening , Beautiful , beautiful Soup ! '
CHAPTER XI .
Who Stole the Tarts ?
The King and Queen of Hearts be seat on their throne when they arrive , with a great crowd assemble about them -- all sort of little bird and beast , as well a the whole pack of card : the Knave be stand before them , in chain , with a soldier on each side to guard him ; and near the King be the White Rabbit , with a trumpet in one hand , and a scroll of parchment in the other .
In the very middle of the court be a table , with a large dish of tart upon it : they look so good , that it make Alice quite hungry to look at them -- ' I wish they 'd get the trial do , ' she think , ` and hand round the refreshment ! '
But there seem to be no chance of this , so she begin look at everything about her , to pass away the time .
Alice have never be in a court of justice before , but she have read about them in book , and she be quite pleased to find that she know the name of nearly everything there .
` That 's the judge , ' she say to herself , ` because of his great wig . '
The judge , by the way , be the King ; and a he wear his crown over the wig , -LRB- look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he do it , -RRB- he do not look at all comfortable , and it be certainly not become .
` And that 's the jury-box , ' thought Alice , ` and those twelve creature , ' -LRB- she be oblige to say ` creature , ' you see , because some of them be animal , and some be bird , -RRB- ' I suppose they be the juror . '
She say this last word two or three time over to herself , be rather proud of it : for she think , and rightly too , that very few little girl of her age know the meaning of it at all .
However , ` jury-men ' would have do just as well .
The twelve juror be all write very busily on slate .
` What be they do ? '
Alice whisper to the Gryphon .
` They ca n't have anything to put down yet , before the trial 's begin . '
` They 're put down their name , ' the Gryphon whisper in reply , ` for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial . '
` Stupid thing ! '
Alice begin in a loud , indignant voice , but she stop hastily , for the White Rabbit cry out , ` Silence in the court ! '
and the King put on his spectacle and look anxiously round , to make out who be talk .
Alice could see , as well a if she be look over their shoulder , that all the juror be write down ` stupid thing ! '
on their slate , and she could even make out that one of them do n't know how to spell ` stupid , ' and that he have to ask his neighbour to tell him . '
A nice muddle their slate 'll be in before the trial 's over ! '
thought Alice .
One of the juror have a pencil that squeak .
This of course , Alice could not stand , and she go round the court and get behind him , and very soon find an opportunity of take it away .
She do it so quickly that the poor little juror -LRB- it be Bill , the Lizard -RRB- could not make out at all what have become of it ; so , after hunt all about for it , he be oblige to write with one finger for the rest of the day ; and this be of very little use , a it leave no mark on the slate .
` Herald , read the accusation ! '
say the King .
On this the White Rabbit blow three blast on the trumpet , and then unroll the parchment scroll , and read a follow : -- ` The Queen of Hearts , she make some tart , All on a summer day : The Knave of Hearts , he steal those tart , And take them quite away ! '
` Consider your verdict , ' the King say to the jury .
` Not yet , not yet ! '
the Rabbit hastily interrupt .
` There 's a great deal to come before that ! '
` Call the first witness , ' say the King ; and the White Rabbit blow three blast on the trumpet , and call out , ` First witness ! '
The first witness be the Hatter .
He come in with a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other . '
I beg pardon , your Majesty , ' he begin , ` for bring these in : but I have n't quite finish my tea when I be send for . '
` You ought to have finish , ' say the King .
` When do you begin ? '
The Hatter look at the March Hare , who have follow him into the court , arm-in-arm with the Dormouse .
` Fourteenth of March , I think it be , ' he say .
` Fifteenth , ' say the March Hare .
` Sixteenth , ' add the Dormouse .
` Write that down , ' the King say to the jury , and the jury eagerly write down all three date on their slate , and then add them up , and reduce the answer to shilling and penny .
` Take off your hat , ' the King say to the Hatter .
` It be n't mine , ' say the Hatter .
` Stolen ! '
the King exclaim , turn to the jury , who instantly make a memorandum of the fact . '
I keep them to sell , ' the Hatter add a an explanation ; ` I 've none of my own .
I 'm a hatter . '
Here the Queen put on her spectacle , and begin star at the Hatter , who turn pale and fidget .
` Give your evidence , ' say the King ; ` and do n't be nervous , or I 'll have you execute on the spot . '
This do not seem to encourage the witness at all : he keep shift from one foot to the other , look uneasily at the Queen , and in his confusion he bite a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter .
Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation , which puzzle her a good deal until she make out what it be : she be begin to grow large again , and she think at first she would get up and leave the court ; but on second thought she decide to remain where she be as long a there be room for her . '
I wish you would n't squeeze so . '
say the Dormouse , who be sit next to her . '
I can hardly breathe . ' '
I ca n't help it , ' say Alice very meekly : ` I 'm grow . '
` You 've no right to grow here , ' say the Dormouse .
` Do n't talk nonsense , ' say Alice more boldly : ` you know you 're grow too . '
` Yes , but I grow at a reasonable pace , ' say the Dormouse : ` not in that ridiculous fashion . '
And he get up very sulkily and cross over to the other side of the court .
All this time the Queen have never leave off star at the Hatter , and , just a the Dormouse cross the court , she say to one of the officer of the court , ` Bring me the list of the singer in the last concert ! '
on which the wretched Hatter tremble so , that he shake both his shoe off .
` Give your evidence , ' the King repeat angrily , ` or I 'll have you execute , whether you 're nervous or not . '
` I 'm a poor man , your Majesty , ' the Hatter begin , in a trembling voice , ' -- and I have n't begin my tea -- not above a week or so -- and what with the bread-and-butter get so thin -- and the twinkling of the tea -- ' ` The twinkling of the what ? '
say the King .
` It begin with the tea , ' the Hatter reply .
` Of course twinkle begin with a T ! '
say the King sharply .
` Do you take me for a dunce ?
Go on ! '
` I 'm a poor man , ' the Hatter go on , ` and most thing twinkle after that -- only the March Hare say -- ' ' I do n't ! '
the March Hare interrupt in a great hurry .
` You do ! '
say the Hatter . '
I deny it ! '
say the March Hare .
` He deny it , ' say the King : ` leave out that part . '
` Well , at any rate , the Dormouse say -- ' the Hatter go on , look anxiously round to see if he would deny it too : but the Dormouse deny nothing , be fast asleep .
` After that , ' continue the Hatter , ' I cut some more bread-and-butter -- ' ` But what do the Dormouse say ? '
one of the jury ask .
` That I ca n't remember , ' say the Hatter .
` You MUST remember , ' remark the King , ` or I 'll have you execute . '
The miserable Hatter drop his teacup and bread-and-butter , and go down on one knee .
` I 'm a poor man , your Majesty , ' he begin .
` You 're a very poor speaker , ' say the King .
Here one of the guinea-pigs cheer , and be immediately suppress by the officer of the court .
-LRB- As that be rather a hard word , I will just explain to you how it be do .
They have a large canvas bag , which tie up at the mouth with string : into this they slip the guinea-pig , head first , and then sit upon it . -RRB-
` I 'm glad I 've see that do , ' thought Alice .
` I 've so often read in the newspaper , at the end of trial , `` There be some attempt at applause , which be immediately suppress by the officer of the court , '' and I never understand what it mean till now . '
` If that 's all you know about it , you may stand down , ' continue the King . '
I ca n't go no low , ' say the Hatter : ` I 'm on the floor , a it be . '
` Then you may SIT down , ' the King reply .
Here the other guinea-pig cheer , and be suppress .
` Come , that finish the guinea-pigs ! '
thought Alice .
` Now we shall get on good . '
` I 'd rather finish my tea , ' say the Hatter , with an anxious look at the Queen , who be read the list of singer .
` You may go , ' say the King , and the Hatter hurriedly leave the court , without even wait to put his shoe on . '
-- and just take his head off outside , ' the Queen add to one of the officer : but the Hatter be out of sight before the officer could get to the door .
` Call the next witness ! '
say the King .
The next witness be the Duchess 's cook .
She carry the pepper-box in her hand , and Alice guess who it be , even before she get into the court , by the way the people near the door begin sneeze all at once .
` Give your evidence , ' say the King .
` Sha n't , ' say the cook .
The King look anxiously at the White Rabbit , who say in a low voice , ` Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness . '
` Well , if I must , I must , ' the King say , with a melancholy air , and , after fold his arm and frown at the cook till his eye be nearly out of sight , he say in a deep voice , ` What be tart make of ? '
` Pepper , mostly , ' say the cook .
` Treacle , ' say a sleepy voice behind her .
` Collar that Dormouse , ' the Queen shriek out .
` Behead that Dormouse !
Turn that Dormouse out of court !
Suppress him !
Pinch him !
Off with his whisker ! '
For some minute the whole court be in confusion , get the Dormouse turn out , and , by the time they have settle down again , the cook have disappear .
` Never mind ! '
say the King , with an air of great relief .
` Call the next witness . '
And he add in an undertone to the Queen , ` Really , my dear , YOU must cross-examine the next witness .
It quite make my forehead ache ! '
Alice watch the White Rabbit a he fumble over the list , feel very curious to see what the next witness would be like , ' -- for they have n't get much evidence YET , ' she say to herself .
Imagine her surprise , when the White Rabbit read out , at the top of his shrill little voice , the name ` Alice ! '
CHAPTER XII .
Alice 's Evidence ` Here ! '
cried Alice , quite forget in the flurry of the moment how large she have grow in the last few minute , and she jump up in such a hurry that she tip over the jury-box with the edge of her skirt , upset all the juryman on to the head of the crowd below , and there they lay sprawl about , remind her very much of a globe of goldfish she have accidentally upset the week before .
` Oh , I BEG your pardon ! '
she exclaim in a tone of great dismay , and begin pick them up again as quickly a she could , for the accident of the goldfish kept run in her head , and she have a vague sort of idea that they must be collect at once and put back into the jury-box , or they would die .
` The trial can not proceed , ' say the King in a very grave voice , ` until all the juryman be back in their proper place -- ALL , ' he repeat with great emphasis , look hard at Alice a he say do .
Alice look at the jury-box , and saw that , in her haste , she have put the Lizard in head downwards , and the poor little thing be wave it tail about in a melancholy way , be quite unable to move .
She soon get it out again , and put it right ; ` not that it signify much , ' she say to herself ; ' I should think it would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up a the other . '
As soon a the jury have a little recovered from the shock of be upset , and their slate and pencil have be find and hand back to them , they set to work very diligently to write out a history of the accident , all except the Lizard , who seem too much overcome to do anything but sit with it mouth open , gaze up into the roof of the court .
` What do you know about this business ? '
the King say to Alice .
` Nothing , ' say Alice .
` Nothing WHATEVER ? '
persist the King .
` Nothing whatever , ' say Alice .
` That 's very important , ' the King say , turn to the jury .
They be just begin to write this down on their slate , when the White Rabbit interrupt : ` UNimportant , your Majesty mean , of course , ' he say in a very respectful tone , but frown and make face at him a he speak .
` UNimportant , of course , I mean , ' the King hastily say , and go on to himself in an undertone , ` important -- unimportant -- unimportant -- important -- ' a if he be try which word sound best .
Some of the jury write it down ` important , ' and some ` unimportant . '
Alice could see this , a she be near enough to look over their slate ; ` but it do n't matter a bit , ' she think to herself .
At this moment the King , who have be for some time busily write in his note-book , cackle out ` Silence ! '
and read out from his book , ` Rule Forty-two .
ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT . '
Everybody look at Alice .
` I 'M not a mile high , ' say Alice .
` You be , ' say the King .
` Nearly two mile high , ' add the Queen .
` Well , I sha n't go , at any rate , ' say Alice : ` besides , that 's not a regular rule : you invent it just now . '
` It 's the old rule in the book , ' say the King .
` Then it ought to be Number One , ' say Alice .
The King turn pale , and shut his note-book hastily .
` Consider your verdict , ' he say to the jury , in a low , trembling voice .
` There 's more evidence to come yet , please your Majesty , ' say the White Rabbit , jump up in a great hurry ; ` this paper have just be pick up . '
` What 's in it ? '
say the Queen . '
I have n't open it yet , ' say the White Rabbit , ` but it seem to be a letter , write by the prisoner to -- to somebody . '
` It must have be that , ' say the King , ` unless it be write to nobody , which be n't usual , you know . '
` Who be it direct to ? '
say one of the juryman .
` It be n't direct at all , ' say the White Rabbit ; ` in fact , there 's nothing write on the OUTSIDE . '
He unfold the paper a he speak , and add ` It be n't a letter , after all : it 's a set of verse . '
` Are they in the prisoner 's handwriting ? '
ask another of the juryman .
` No , they 're not , ' say the White Rabbit , ` and that 's the queer thing about it . '
-LRB- The jury all look puzzle . -RRB-
` He must have imitate somebody else 's hand , ' say the King .
-LRB- The jury all brighten up again . -RRB-
` Please your Majesty , ' say the Knave , ' I do n't write it , and they ca n't prove I do : there 's no name sign at the end . '
` If you do n't sign it , ' say the King , ` that only make the matter worse .
You MUST have mean some mischief , or else you 'd have sign your name like an honest man . '
There be a general clapping of hand at this : it be the first really clever thing the King have say that day .
` That PROVES his guilt , ' say the Queen .
` It prove nothing of the sort ! '
say Alice .
` Why , you do n't even know what they 're about ! '
` Read them , ' say the King .
The White Rabbit put on his spectacle .
` Where shall I begin , please your Majesty ? '
he ask .
` Begin at the beginning , ' the King say gravely , ` and go on till you come to the end : then stop . '
These be the verse the White Rabbit read : -- ` They tell me you have be to her , And mention me to him : She give me a good character , But say I could not swim .
He send them word I have not go -LRB- We know it to be true -RRB- : If she should push the matter on , What would become of you ?
I give her one , they give him two , You give u three or more ; They all return from him to you , Though they be mine before .
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trust to you to set them free , Exactly a we be .
My notion be that you have be -LRB- Before she have this fit -RRB- An obstacle that come between Him , and ourselves , and it .
Do n't let him know she like them best , For this must ever be A secret , keep from all the rest , Between yourself and me . '
` That 's the most important piece of evidence we 've hear yet , ' say the King , rub his hand ; ` so now let the jury -- ' ` If any one of them can explain it , ' say Alice , -LRB- she have grow so large in the last few minute that she be n't a bit afraid of interrupt him , -RRB- ` I 'll give him sixpence .
I do n't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it . '
The jury all write down on their slate , ` SHE do n't believe there 's an atom of meaning in it , ' but none of them attempt to explain the paper .
` If there 's no meaning in it , ' say the King , ` that save a world of trouble , you know , a we need n't try to find any .
And yet I do n't know , ' he go on , spread out the verse on his knee , and look at them with one eye ; ' I seem to see some meaning in them , after all . ''
-- SAID I COULD NOT SWIM -- '' you ca n't swim , can you ? '
he add , turn to the Knave .
The Knave shake his head sadly .
` Do I look like it ? '
he say .
-LRB- Which he certainly do NOT , be make entirely of cardboard . -RRB-
` All right , so far , ' say the King , and he go on muttering over the verse to himself : ' `` WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE -- '' that 's the jury , of course -- `` I GAVE HER ONE , THEY GAVE HIM TWO -- '' why , that must be what he do with the tart , you know -- ' ` But , it go on `` THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU , '' ' say Alice .
` Why , there they be ! '
say the King triumphantly , point to the tart on the table .
` Nothing can be clear than THAT .
Then again -- `` BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT -- '' you never have fit , my dear , I think ? '
he say to the Queen .
` Never ! '
say the Queen furiously , throw an inkstand at the Lizard a she speak .
-LRB- The unfortunate little Bill have leave off write on his slate with one finger , a he find it make no mark ; but he now hastily begin again , use the ink , that be trickle down his face , as long a it last . -RRB-
` Then the word do n't FIT you , ' say the King , look round the court with a smile .
There be a dead silence .
` It 's a pun ! '
the King add in an offended tone , and everybody laugh , ` Let the jury consider their verdict , ' the King say , for about the twentieth time that day .
` No , no ! '
say the Queen .
` Sentence first -- verdict afterwards . '
` Stuff and nonsense ! '
say Alice loudly .
` The idea of have the sentence first ! '
` Hold your tongue ! '
say the Queen , turn purple . '
I wo n't ! '
say Alice .
` Off with her head ! '
the Queen shout at the top of her voice .
Nobody move .
` Who care for you ? '
say Alice , -LRB- she have grow to her full size by this time . -RRB-
` You 're nothing but a pack of card ! '
At this the whole pack rise up into the air , and come fly down upon her : she give a little scream , half of fright and half of anger , and try to beat them off , and find herself lie on the bank , with her head in the lap of her sister , who be gently brush away some dead leaf that have flutter down from the tree upon her face .
` Wake up , Alice dear ! '
say her sister ; ` Why , what a long sleep you 've have ! '
` Oh , I 've have such a curious dream ! '
say Alice , and she tell her sister , as well a she could remember them , all these strange Adventures of hers that you have just be read about ; and when she have finish , her sister kiss her , and say , ` It WAS a curious dream , dear , certainly : but now run in to your tea ; it 's get late . '
So Alice get up and run off , think while she run , a well she might , what a wonderful dream it have be .
But her sister sit still just a she leave her , lean her head on her hand , watch the setting sun , and thinking of little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures , till she too begin dream after a fashion , and this be her dream : -- First , she dream of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hand be clasp upon her knee , and the bright eager eye be look up into hers -- she could hear the very tone of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eye -- and still a she listen , or seem to listen , the whole place around her become alive with the strange creature of her little sister 's dream .
The long grass rustle at her foot a the White Rabbit hurry by -- the frightened Mouse splash his way through the neighbouring pool -- she could hear the rattle of the teacup a the March Hare and his friend share their never-ending meal , and the shrill voice of the Queen order off her unfortunate guest to execution -- once more the pig-baby be sneeze on the Duchess 's knee , while plate and dish crash around it -- once more the shriek of the Gryphon , the squeaking of the Lizard 's slate-pencil , and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs , fill the air , mix up with the distant sob of the miserable Mock Turtle .
So she sit on , with closed eye , and half believe herself in Wonderland , though she know she have but to open them again , and all would change to dull reality -- the grass would be only rustle in the wind , and the pool ripple to the waving of the reed -- the rattling teacup would change to tinkle sheep-bells , and the Queen 's shrill cry to the voice of the shepherd boy -- and the sneeze of the baby , the shriek of the Gryphon , and all the other queer noise , would change -LRB- she know -RRB- to the confused clamour of the busy farm-yard -- while the lowing of the cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle 's heavy sob .
Lastly , she picture to herself how this same little sister of hers would , in the after-time , be herself a grown woman ; and how she would keep , through all her riper year , the simple and love heart of her childhood : and how she would gather about her other little child , and make THEIR eye bright and eager with many a strange tale , perhaps even with the dream of Wonderland of long ago : and how she would feel with all their simple sorrow , and find a pleasure in all their simple joy , remember her own child-life , and the happy summer day .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories , _1902_to_1903.txt.out
A Patent Medicine Testimonial `` You might as well try to move the rock of Gibraltar a attempt to change Uncle Abimelech 's mind when it be once make up , '' say Murray gloomily .
Murray be like dear old Dad ; he get discourage rather easily .
Now , I 'm not like that ; I 'm more like Mother 's folk .
As Uncle Abimelech have never fail to tell me when I have annoy him , I 'm `` all Foster . ''
Uncle Abimelech do n't like the Fosters .
But I 'm glad I take after them .
If I have fold my hand and sit down meekly when Uncle Abimelech make know his good will and pleasure regard Murray and me after Father 's death , Murray would never have get to college -- nor I either , for that matter .
Only I would n't have mind that very much .
I just want to go to college because Murray do .
I could n't be separate from him .
We be twin and have always be together .
As for Uncle Abimelech 's mind , I know that he never have be know to change it .
But , a he himself be fond of say , there have to be a first time for everything , and I have determine that this be to be the first time for him .
I have n't any idea how I be go to bring it about ; but it just have to be do , and I 'm not `` all Foster '' for nothing .
I know I would have to depend on my own thinker .
Murray be clever at book and dissect dead thing , but he could n't help me out in this , even if he have n't settle beforehand that there be no use in oppose Uncle Abimelech .
`` I 'm go up to the garret to think this out , Murray , '' I say solemnly .
`` Do n't let anybody disturb me , and if Uncle Abimelech come over do n't tell him where I be .
If I do n't come down in time to get tea , get it yourself .
I shall not leave the garret until I have think of some way to change Uncle Abimelech 's mind . ''
`` Then you 'll be a prisoner there for the term of your natural life , dear si , '' say Murray sceptically .
`` You 're a clever girl , Prue -- and you 've get enough decision for two -- but you 'll never get the good of Uncle Abimelech . ''
`` We 'll see , '' I say resolutely , and up to the garret I go .
I shut the door and bolt it good and fast to make sure .
Then I pile some old cushion in the window seat -- for one might as well be comfortable when one be think a not -- and go over the whole ground from the beginning .
Outside the wind be thrash the broad , leafy top of the maple whose tallest twig reach to the funny grey eaves of our old house .
One roly-poly little sparrow blow or fly to the sill and sit there for a minute , look at me with know eye .
Down below I could see Murray in a corner of the yard , potter over a sick duck .
He have set it broken leg and be nurse it back to health .
Anyone except Uncle Abimelech could see that Murray be simply bear to be a doctor and that it be fly in the face of Providence to think of make him anything else .
From the garret window I could see all over the farm , for the house be on the hill end of it .
I could see all the dear old field and the spring meadow and the beech wood in the southwest corner .
And beyond the orchard be the two grey barn and down below at the right-hand corner be the garden with all my sweet pea flutter over the fence and trellis like a horde of butterfly .
It be a dear old place and both Murray and I love every stick and stone on it , but there be no reason why we should go on living there when Murray do n't like farm .
And it be n't our own , anyhow .
It all belong to Uncle Abimelech .
Father and Murray and I have always live here together .
Father 's health break down during his college course .
That be one reason why Uncle Abimelech be set against Murray go to college , although Murray be a chubby and sturdy a fellow a you could wish to see .
Anybody with Foster in him would be that .
To go back to Father .
The doctor tell him that his only chance of recover his strength be an open-air life , so Father rent one of Uncle Abimelech 's farm and there he live for the rest of his day .
He do not get strong again until it be too late for college , and he be a square peg in a round hole all his life , a he use to tell u .
Mother die before we could remember , so Murray and Dad and I be everything to each other .
We be very happy too , although we be boss by Uncle Abimelech more or less .
But he mean it well and Father do n't mind .
Then Father die -- oh , that be a dreadful time !
I hurry over it in my thinking-out .
Of course when Murray and I come to look our position squarely in the face we find that we be dependent on Uncle Abimelech for everything , even the roof over our head .
We be literally as poor a church mouse and even poor , for at least they get churches rent-free .
Murray 's heart be set on go to college and study medicine .
He ask Uncle Abimelech to lend him enough money to get a start with and then he could work his own way along and pay back the loan in due time .
Uncle Abimelech be rich , and Murray and I be his near relative .
But he simply would n't listen to Murray 's plan .
`` I put my foot firmly down on such nonsense , '' he say .
`` And you know that when I put my foot down something squash . ''
It be not that Uncle Abimelech be miserly or that he grudge u assistance .
Not at all .
He be ready to deal generously by u , but it must be in his own way .
His way be this .
Murray and I be to stay on the farm , and when Murray be twenty-one Uncle Abimelech say he would deed the farm to him -- make him a present of it out and out .
`` It 's a good farm , Murray , '' he say .
`` Your father never make more than a bare live out of it because he be n't strong enough to work it properly -- that 's what he get out of a college course , by the way .
But you be strong enough and ambitious enough to do well . ''
But Murray could n't be a farmer , that be all there be to it .
I tell Uncle Abimelech so , firmly , and I talk to him for day about it , but Uncle Abimelech never waver .
He sit and listen to me with a quizzical smile on that handsome , clean-shaven , ruddy old face of his , with it cut-granite feature .
And in the end he say , `` You ought to be the one to go to college if either of you do , Prue .
You would make a capital lawyer , if I believe in the high education of woman , but I do n't .
Murray can take or leave the farm a he choose .
If he prefer the latter alternative , well and good .
But he get no help from me .
You 're a foolish little girl , Prue , to back him up in this nonsense of his . ''
It make me angry to be call a little girl when I put up my hair a year ago , and Uncle Abimelech know it .
I give up argue with him .
I know it be no use anyway .
I think it all over in the garret .
But no way out of the dilemma could I see .
I have eat up all the apple I have bring with me and I felt flabby and disconsolate .
The sight of Uncle Abimelech stalk up the lane , a erect and lordly a usual , serve to deepen my gloom .
I pick up the paper my apple have be wrap in and look it over gloomily .
Then I saw something , and Uncle Abimelech be deliver into my hand .
The whole plan of campaign unroll itself before me , and I fairly laugh in glee , look out of the garret window right down on the little bald spot on the top of Uncle Abimelech 's head , a he stand lay down the law to Murray about something .
When Uncle Abimelech have go I go down to Murray .
`` Buddy , '' I say , `` I 've think of a plan .
I 'm not go to tell you what it be , but you be to consent to it without know .
I think it will quench Uncle Abimelech , but you must have perfect confidence in me .
You must back me up no matter what I do and let me have my own way in it all . ''
`` All right , si , '' say Murray .
`` That be n't solemn enough , '' I protest .
`` I 'm serious .
Promise solemnly . ''
`` I promise solemnly , ` cross my heart , ' '' say Murray , look like an owl .
`` Very well .
Remember that your role be to lie low and say nothing , like Brer Rabbit .
Alloway 's Anodyne Liniment be pretty good stuff , be n't it , Murray ?
It cure your sprain after you have try everything else , do n't it ? ''
`` Yes .
But I do n't see the connection . ''
`` It be n't necessary that you should .
Well , what with your sprain and my rheumatic I think I can manage it . ''
`` Look here , Prue .
Are you sure that long brood over our trouble up in the garret have n't turn your brain ? ''
`` My brain be all right .
Now leave me , minion .
There be that which I would do . ''
Murray grin and go .
I write a letter , take it down to the office , and mail it .
For a week there be nothing more to do .
There be just one trait of Uncle Abimelech 's disposition more marked than his fondness for have his own way and that one thing be family pride .
The Melvilles be a very old family .
The name date back to the Norman conquest when a certain Roger de Melville , who be an ancestor of ours , go over to England with William the Conqueror .
I do n't think the Melvilles ever do anything worth record in history since .
To be sure , a far back a we can trace , none of them have ever do anything bad either .
They have be honest , respectable folk and I think that be something worth be proud of .
But Uncle Abimelech pin his family pride to Roger de Melville .
He have the Melville coat of arm and our family tree , make out by an eminent genealogist , frame and hang up in his library , and he would not have do anything that would not have chime in with that coat of arm and a conquering ancestor for the world .
At the end of a week I get an answer to my letter .
It be what I want .
I write again and send a parcel .
In three week ' time the storm burst .
One day I saw Uncle Abimelech stride up the lane .
He have a big newspaper clutch in his hand .
I turn to Murray , who be pore over a book of anatomy in the corner .
`` Murray , Uncle Abimelech be come .
There be go to be a battle royal between u .
Allow me to remind you of your promise . ''
`` To lie low and say nothing ?
That 's the cue , be n't it , si ? ''
`` Unless Uncle Abimelech appeal to you .
In that case you be to back me up . ''
Then Uncle Abimelech stalk in .
He be purple with rage .
Old Roger de Melville himself never could have look fiercer .
I do feel a quake or two , but I face Uncle Abimelech undauntedly .
No use in have your name on the roll of Battle Abbey if you ca n't stand your ground .
`` Prudence , what do this mean ? ''
thundered Uncle Abimelech , a he fling the newspaper down on the table .
Murray get up and peer over .
Then he whistle .
He start to say something but remember just in time and stop .
But he do give me a black look .
Murray have a sneaking pride of name too , although he wo n't own up to it and laugh at Uncle Abimelech .
I look at the paper and begin to laugh .
We do look so funny , Murray and I , in that advertisement .
It take up the whole page .
At the top be our photo , half life-size , and underneath our name and address print out in full .
Below be the letter I have write to the Alloway Anodyne Liniment folk .
It be a florid testimonial to the virtue of their liniment .
I say that it have cure Murray 's sprain after all other remedy have fail and that , when I have be leave a partial wreck from a very bad attack of rheumatic fever , the only thing that restore my joint and muscle to work order be Alloway 's Anodyne Liniment , and so on .
It be all true enough , although I dare say old Aunt Sarah-from-the-Hollow 's rubbing have as much to do with the cure a the liniment .
But that be neither here nor there .
`` What do this mean , Prudence ? ''
say Uncle Abimelech again .
He be quiver with wrath , but I be as cool a a cucumber , and Murray stand like a graven image .
`` Why , that , Uncle Abimelech , '' I say calmly , `` well , it just mean one of my way of make money .
That liniment company pay for those testimonial and photo , you know .
They give me fifty dollar for the privilege of publish them .
Fifty dollar will pay for book and tuition for Murray and me at Kentville Academy next winter , and Mrs. Tredgold be kind enough to say she will board me for what help I can give her around the house , and wait for Murray 's until he can earn it by teach . ''
I rattle all this off glibly before Uncle Abimelech could get in a word .
`` It 's disgraceful ! ''
he storm .
`` Disgraceful !
Think of Sir Roger de Melville -- and a patent medicine advertisement !
Murray Melville , what be you about , sir , to let your sister disgrace herself and her family name by such an outrageous transaction ? ''
I quake a bit .
If Murray should fail me !
But Murray be true-blue .
`` I give Prue a free hand , sir .
It 's an honest business transaction enough -- and the family name alone wo n't send u to college , you know , sir . ''
Uncle Abimelech glare at u .
`` This must be put an end to , '' he say .
`` This advertisement must not appear again .
I wo n't have it ! ''
`` But I 've sign a contract that it be to run for six month , '' I say sturdily .
`` And I 've others in view .
You remember the Herb Cure you recommend one spring and that it do me so much good !
I 'm negotiate with the maker of that and -- '' `` The girl 's mad ! ''
say Uncle Abimelech .
`` Stark , star mad ! ''
`` Oh , no , I 'm not , Uncle Abimelech .
I 'm merely a pretty good businesswoman .
You wo n't help Murray to go to college , so I must .
This be the only way I have , and I 'm go to see it through . ''
After Uncle Abimelech have go , still in a towering rage , Murray remonstrate .
But I remind him of his promise and he have to succumb .
Next day Uncle Abimelech return -- a subdued and chastened Uncle Abimelech .
`` See here , Prue , '' he say sternly .
`` This thing must be stop .
I say it must .
I be not go to have the name of Melville drag all over the country in a patent medicine advertisement .
You 've play your game and win it -- take what comfort you can out of the confession : If you will agree to cancel this notorious contract of yours I 'll settle it with the company -- and I 'll put Murray through college -- and you too if you want to go !
Something will have to be do with you , that 's certain .
Is this satisfactory ? ''
`` Perfectly , '' I say promptly .
`` If you will add thereto your promise that you will forget and forgive , Uncle Abimelech .
There be to be no hard feeling . ''
Uncle Abimelech shrug his shoulder .
`` In for a penny , in for a pound , '' he say .
`` Very well , Prue .
We wipe off all score and begin afresh .
But there must be no more such doings .
You 've work your little scheme through -- trust a Foster for that !
But in future you 've get to remember that in law you 're a Melville whatever you be in fact . ''
I nod dutifully .
`` I 'll remember , Uncle Abimelech , '' I promise .
After everything have be arrange and Uncle Abimelech have go I look at Murray .
`` Well ? ''
I say .
Murray twinkle .
`` You 've accomplish the impossible , si .
But , a Uncle Abimelech intimate -- do n't you try it again . ''
A Sandshore Wooing Fir Cottage , Plover Sands .
July Sixth .
We arrive here late last night , and all day Aunt Martha have keep her room to rest .
So I have to keep mine also , although I felt as fresh a a morning lark , and just in the mood for enjoyment .
My name be Marguerite Forrester -- an absurdly long name for so small a girl .
Aunt Martha always call me Marguer_ite , with an accent of strong disapproval .
She do not like my name , but she give me the full benefit of it .
Connie Shelmardine use to call me Rita .
Connie be my roommate last year at the Seminary .
We correspond occasionally , but Aunt Martha frown on it .
I have always live with Aunt Martha -- my parent die when I be a baby .
Aunt Martha say I be to be her heiress if I please her -- which mean -- but , oh , you do not know what `` please '' Aunt Martha mean .
Aunt be a determined and inveterate man-hater .
She have no particular love for woman , indeed , and trust nobody but Mrs. Saxby , her maid .
I rather like Mrs. Saxby .
She be not quite so far go in petrifaction a Aunt , although she get a little stonier every year .
I expect the process will soon begin on me , but it have n't yet .
My flesh and blood be still unreasonably warm and pulsing and rebellious .
Aunt Martha would be in danger of take a fit if she ever saw me talk to a man .
She watch me jealously , firmly determine to guard me from any possible attack of a roaring and raven lion in the disguise of nineteenth-century masculine attire .
So I have to walk demurely and assume a virtue , if I have it not , while I pine after the untested flesh-pots of Egypt in secret .
We have come down to spend a few week at Fir Cottage .
Our good landlady be a capacious , kindly-souled creature , and I think she have rather a liking for me .
I have be chatter to her all day , for there be time when I absolutely must talk to someone or go mad .
July Tenth .
This sort of life be decidedly dull .
The program of every day be the same .
I go to the sandshore with Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby in the morning , read to Aunt in the afternoon , and mope around by my disconsolate self in the evening .
Mrs. Blake have lend me , for shore use , a very fine spyglass which she own .
She say her `` man '' bring it home from `` furrin ' part '' before he die .
While Aunt and Mrs. Saxby meander up and down the shore , leave me free to a certain extent , I amuse myself by examine distant sea and coast through it , thus get a few peep into a forbidden world .
We see few people , although there be a large summer hotel about a mile up the beach .
Our shore haunt do not seem to be popular with it guest .
They prefer the rock .
This suit Aunt Martha admirably .
I may also add that it do n't suit her niece -- but that be a matter of small importance .
The first morning I notice a white object on the rock , about half a mile away , and turn my glass on it .
There -- apparently within a stone 's throw of me -- be a young man .
He be lounge on a rock , look dreamily out to sea .
There be something about his face that remind me of someone I know , but I can not remember whom .
Every morning he have reappear on the same spot .
He seem to be a solitary individual , give to prowl by himself .
I wonder what Aunt would say if she know what I be so earnestly watch through my glass at time .
July Eleventh .
I shall have to cease look at the Unknown , I be afraid .
This morning I turn my glass , a usual , on his pet haunt .
I nearly fell over in my astonishment , for he be also look through a spyglass straight at me , too , it seem .
How foolish I felt !
And yet my curiosity be so strong that a few minute afterward I peep back again , just to see what he be do .
Then he coolly lay down his glass , rise , lift his cap and bow politely to me -- or , at least , in my direction .
I drop my glass and smile in a mixture of dismay and amusement .
Then I remember that he be probably watch me again , and might imagine my smile be mean for him .
I banish it immediately , shut my glass up and do not touch it again .
Soon after we come home .
July Twelfth .
Something have happen at last .
Today I go to the shore a usual , fully resolve not even to glance in the forbidden direction .
But in the end I have to take a peep , and saw him on the rock with his glass level at me .
When he saw that I be look he lay down the glass , hold up his hand , and begin to spell out something in the deaf-mute alphabet .
Now , I know that same alphabet .
Connie teach it to me last year , so that we might hold communication across the schoolroom .
I give one frantic glance at Aunt Martha 's rigid back , and then watch him while he deftly spell : `` I be Francis Shelmardine .
Are you not Miss Forrester , my sister 's friend ? ''
Francis Shelmardine !
Now I know whom he resemble .
And have I not hear endless dissertation from Connie on this wonderful brother of hers , Francis the clever , the handsome , the charming , until he have become the only hero of dream I have ever have ?
It be too wonderful .
I could only stare dazedly back through my glass .
`` May we know each other ? ''
he go on .
`` May I come over and introduce myself ?
Right hand , yes ; leave , no . ''
I gasp !
Suppose he be to come ?
What would happen ?
I wave my left hand sorrowfully .
He look quite crestfallen and disappoint a he spell out : `` Why not ?
Would your friend disapprove ? ''
I signal : `` Yes . ''
`` Are you displease at my boldness ? ''
be his next question .
Where have all Aunt Martha 's precept fly to then ?
I blush to record that I lift my left hand shyly and have just time to catch his pleased expression when Aunt Martha come up and say it be time to go home .
So I pick myself meekly up , shake the sand from my dress , and follow my good aunt dutifully home .
July Thirteenth .
When we go to the shore this morning I have to wait in spasm of remorse and anxiety until Aunt get tire of reading and set off along the shore with Mrs. Saxby .
Then I reach for my glass .
Mr. Shelmardine and I have quite a conversation .
Under the circumstance there could be no useless circumlocution in our exchange of idea .
It be religiously `` boil down , '' and run something like this : `` You be not displease with me ? ''
`` No -- but I should be . ''
`` Why ? ''
`` It be wrong to deceive Aunt . ''
`` I be quite respectable . ''
`` That be not the question . ''
`` Can not her prejudice be overcome ? ''
`` Absolutely no . ''
`` Mrs. Allardyce , who be stay at the hotel , know her well .
Shall I bring her over to vouch for my character ? ''
`` It would not do a bit of good . ''
`` Then it be hopeless . ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Would you object to know me on your own account ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Do you ever come to the shore alone ? ''
`` No .
Aunt would not permit me . ''
`` Must she know ? ''
`` Yes .
I would not come without her permission . ''
`` You will not refuse to chat with me thus now and then ? ''
`` I do n't know .
Perhaps not . ''
I have to go home then .
As we go Mrs. Saxby compliment me on my good colour .
Aunt Martha look her disapproval .
If I be really ill Aunt would spend her last cent in my behalf , but she would be just as well pleased to see me properly pale and subdue at all time , and not look a if I be too well content in this vale of tear .
July Seventeenth .
I have `` talk '' a good deal with Mr. Shelmardine these past four day .
He be to be at the beach for some week longer .
This morning he signal across from the rock : `` I mean to see you at last .
Tomorrow I will walk over and pas you . ''
`` You must not .
Aunt will suspect . ''
`` No danger .
Do n't be alarm .
I will do nothing rash . ''
I suppose he will .
He seem to be very determined .
Of course , I can not prevent him from promenade on our beach all day if he choose .
But then if he do , Aunt would speedily leave him in sole possession of it .
I wonder what I have well wear tomorrow .
July Nineteenth .
Yesterday morning Aunt Martha be serene and unsuspicious .
It be dreadful of me to be deceive her and I do feel guilty .
I sit down on the sand and pretend to read the `` Memoirs of a Missionary '' -- Aunt like cheerful book like that -- in an agony of anticipation .
Presently Aunt say , majestically : `` Marguer_ite , there be a man come this way .
We will move far down . ''
And we move .
Poor Aunt !
Mr. Shelmardine come bravely on .
I felt my heart beating to my very finger tip .
He halt by the fragment of an old stranded boat .
Aunt have turn her back on him .
I venture on a look .
He lift his hat with a twinkle in his eye .
Just then Aunt say , icily : `` We will go home , Marguer_ite .
That creature evidently intend to persist in his intrusion . ''
Home we come accordingly .
This morning he signal across : `` Letter from Connie .
Message for you .
I mean to deliver it personally .
Do you ever go to church ? ''
Now , I do go regularly to church at home .
But Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby be both such rigid church people that they would not darken the door of the Methodist church at Plover Sands for any consideration .
Needless to say , I be not allow to go either .
But it be impossible to make this long explanation , so I merely reply : `` Not here . ''
`` Will you not go tomorrow morning ? ''
`` Aunt will not let me . ''
`` Coax her . ''
`` Coaxing never have any effect on her . ''
`` Would she relent if Mrs. Allardyce be to call for you ? ''
Now , I have be cautiously sound Aunt about Mrs. Allardyce , and I have discover that she disapprove of her .
So I say : `` It would be useless .
I will ask Aunt if I may go , but I feel almost sure that she will not consent . ''
This evening , when Aunt be in an unusually genial mood , I pluck up heart of grace and ask her .
`` Marguer_ite , '' she say impressively , `` you know that I do not attend church here . ''
`` But , Aunt , '' I persist , quakingly , `` could n't I go alone ?
It be not very far -- and I will be very careful . ''
Aunt merely give me a look that say about forty distinct and separate thing , and I be turn away in despair when Mrs. Saxby -- bless her heart -- say : `` I really think it would be no harm to let the child go . ''
As Aunt attach great importance to Mrs. Saxby 's opinion , she look at me relentingly and say : `` Well , I will think it over and let you know in the morning , Marguer_ite . ''
Now , everything depends on the sort of humour Aunt be in in the morning .
July Twentieth .
This morning be perfect , and after breakfast Aunt say , condescendingly : `` I think you may attend church if you wish , Marguer_ite .
Remember that I expect you to conduct yourself with become prudence and modesty . ''
I fly upstairs and pull my pretty dress out of my trunk .
It be a delicate , shimmer grey stuff with pearly tint about it .
Every time I get anything new , Aunt Martha and I have a battle royal over it .
I verily believe that Aunt would like me to dress in the fashion in vogue in her youth .
There be always a certain flavour of old-fashionedness about my gown and hat .
Connie use to say that it be delicious and give me a piquant uniqueness -- a certain unlikeness to other people that possess a positive charm .
That be only Connie 's view of it , however .
But I have have my own way about this dress and it be really very become .
I wear a little silvery-grey chip hat , trim with pale pink flower , and I pin at my belt the sweet cluster of old-fashioned blush rosebud from the garden .
Then I borrow a hymn book from Mrs. Blake and run down to undergo Aunt Martha 's scrutiny .
`` Dear me , child , '' she say discontentedly , `` you have get yourself up very frivolously , it seem to me . ''
`` Why , Aunty , '' I protest , `` I 'm all in grey -- every bit . ''
Aunt Martha sniffed .
You do n't know how much Aunt can express in a sniff .
But I trip to church like a bird .
The first person I saw there be Mr. Shelmardine .
He be sit right across from me and a smile glimmer in his eye .
I do not look at him again .
Through the service I be subdue enough to have satisfy even Aunt Martha .
When church come out , he wait for me at the entrance to his pew .
I pretend not to see him until he say `` Good morning , '' in a voice vibrate and deep , which sound a though it might become infinitely tender if it owner chose .
When we go down the step he take my hymnal , and we walk up the long , bowery country road .
`` Thank you so much for come today , '' he say -- a if I go to oblige him .
`` I have a hard time to get Aunt Martha 's consent , '' I declare frankly .
`` I would n't have succeed if Mrs. Saxby have n't take my part . ''
`` Heaven bless Mrs. Saxby , '' he remark fervently .
`` But be there any known way of overcome your aunt 's scruple ?
If so , I be ready to risk it . ''
`` There be none .
Aunt Martha be very good and kind to me , but she will never stop try to bring me up .
The process will be go on when I be fifty .
And she hat men !
I do n't know what she would do if she saw me now . ''
Mr. Shelmardine frown and switch the unoffending daisy viciously with his cane .
`` Then there be no hope of my see you openly and above-board ? ''
`` Not at present , '' I say faintly .
After a brief silence we begin to talk of other thing .
He tell me how he happen to see me first .
`` I be curious to know who the people be who be always in the same place at the same time , so one day I take my telescope .
I could see you plainly .
You be read and have your hat off .
When I go back to the hotel I ask Mrs. Allardyce if she know who the boarder at Fir Cottage be and she tell me .
I have hear Connie speak of you , and I determine to make your acquaintance . ''
When we reach the lane I hold out my hand for the hymnal .
`` You must n't come any far , Mr. Shelmardine , '' I say hurriedly .
`` Aunt -- Aunt might see you . ''
He take my hand and hold it , look at me seriously .
`` Suppose I be to walk up to the cottage tomorrow and ask for you ? ''
I gasp .
He look so capable of do anything he take it into his head to do .
`` Oh , you would n't , '' I say piteously .
`` Aunt Martha would -- you be not in earnest . ''
`` I suppose not , '' he say regretfully .
`` Of course I would not do anything that would cause you unpleasantness .
But this must not -- shall not be our last meeting . ''
`` Aunt will not let me come to church again , '' I say .
`` Does she ever take a nap in the afternoon ? ''
he query .
I wriggle my parasol about in the dust uneasily .
`` Sometimes . ''
`` I shall be at the old boat tomorrow afternoon at two-thirty , '' he say .
I pull my hand away .
`` I could n't -- you know I could n't , '' I cry -- and then I blush to my ear .
`` Are you sure you could n't ? ''
bend a little nearer .
`` Quite sure , '' I murmur .
He surrender my hymnal at last .
`` Will you give me a rise ? ''
I unpin the whole cluster and hand it to him .
He lift it until it touch his lip .
As for me , I scuttle up the lane in the most undignified fashion .
At the turn I look back .
He be still stand there with his hat off .
July Twenty-fourth .
On Monday afternoon I slip away to the shore while Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby be take their regular nap and I be suppose to be read sermon in my room .
Mr. Shelmardine be lean against the old boat , but he come swiftly across the sand to meet me .
`` This be very kind of you , '' he say .
`` I ought not to have come , '' I say repentantly .
`` But it be so lonely there -- and one ca n't be interested in sermon and memoir all the time . ''
Mr. Shelmardine laugh .
`` Mr. and Mrs. Allardyce be on the other side of the boat .
Will you come and meet them ? ''
How nice of him to bring them !
I know I should like Mrs. Allardyce , just because Aunt Martha do n't .
We have a delightful stroll .
I never think of the time until Mr. Shelmardine say it be four o'clock .
`` Oh , be it so late a that ? ''
I cry .
`` I must go at once . ''
`` I 'm sorry we have keep you so long , '' remark Mr. Shelmardine in a tone of concern .
`` If she should be awake , what will the consequence be ? ''
`` Too terrible to think of , '' I answer seriously .
`` I 'm sorry , Mr. Shelmardine , but you must n't come any further . '' ''
We will be here tomorrow afternoon , '' he say .
`` Mr. Shelmardine ! ''
I protest .
`` I wish you would n't put such idea into my head .
They wo n't come out -- no , not if I read a whole volume of sermon right through . ''
We look at each other for a second .
Then he begin to smile , and we both go off into a peal of laughter .
`` At least let me know if Miss Fiske rampage , '' he call after me a I flee .
But Aunt Martha be not awake -- and I have be to the shore three afternoon since then .
I be there today , and I 'm go tomorrow for a boat sail with Mr. Shelmardine and the Allardyces .
But I be afraid the former will do something rash soon .
This afternoon he say : `` I do n't think I can stand this much longer . ''
`` Stand what ? ''
I ask .
`` You know very well , '' he answer recklessly .
`` Meeting you in this clandestine manner , and thereby cause that poor little conscience of yours such misery .
If your aunt be not so -- unreasonable , I should never have stoop to it . ''
`` It be all my fault , '' I say contritely .
`` Well , I hardly mean that , '' he say grimly .
`` But have n't I good go frankly to your aunt and lay the whole case before her ? ''
`` You would never see me again if you do that , '' I say hastily -- and then wish I have n't .
`` That be the bad threat you could make , '' he say .
July Twenty-fifth .
It be all over , and I be the most miserable girl in the world .
Of course this mean that Aunt Martha have discover everything and the deserved punishment of my sin have overtake me .
I slip away again this afternoon and go for that boat sail .
We have a lovely time but be rather late get in , and I hurry home with many misgiving .
Aunt Martha meet me at the door .
My dress be draggle , my hat have slip back , and the kink and curl of my obstreperous hair be something awful .
I know I look very disreputable and also , no doubt , very guilty and conscience-stricken .
Aunt give me an unutterable look and then follow me up to my room in grim silence .
`` Marguer_ite , what do this mean ? ''
I have lot of fault , but untruthfulness be n't one of them .
I confess everything -- at least , almost everything .
I do n't tell about the telescope and deaf-mute alphabet , and Aunt be too horror-stricken to think of ask how I first make Mr. Shelmardine 's acquaintance .
She listen in stony silence .
I have expect a terrible scolding , but I suppose my crime simply seem to her too enormous for word .
When I have sob out my last word she rise , sweep me one glance of wither contempt , and leave the room .
Presently Mrs. Saxby come up , look concern .
`` My dear child , what have you be do ?
Your aunt say that we be to go home on the afternoon train tomorrow .
She be terribly upset . ''
I just curl up on the bed and cry , while Mrs. Saxby pack my trunk .
I will have no chance to explain matter to Mr. Shelmardine .
And I will never see him again , for Aunt be quite capable of whisk me off to Africa .
He will just think me a feather-brained flirt .
Oh , I be so unhappy !
July Twenty-sixth .
I be the happy girl in the world !
That be quite a different strain from yesterday .
We leave Fir Cottage in an hour , but that do n't matter now .
I do not sleep a wink last night and crawl miserably down to breakfast .
Aunt take not the slight notice of me , but to my surprise she tell Mrs. Saxby that she intend take a farewell walk to the shore .
I know I would be take , too , to be keep out of mischief , and my heart give a great bound of hope .
Perhaps I would have a chance to send word to Francis , since Aunt do not know of the part my spyglass have play in my bad behaviour .
I meekly follow my grim guardian to the shore and sit dejectedly on my rug while they pace the sand .
Francis be on the rock .
As soon a Aunt Martha and Mrs. Saxby be at a safe distance , I begin my message : `` All discover .
Aunt be very angry .
We go home today . ''
Then I snatch my glass .
His face express the dire consternation and dismay .
He signal : `` I must see you before you go . ''
`` Impossible .
Aunt will never forgive me .
Good-bye . ''
I saw a look of desperate determination cross his face .
If forty Aunt Marthas have swoop down upon me , I could not have tear my eye from that glass .
`` I love you .
You know it .
Do you care for me ?
I must have my answer now . ''
What a situation !
No time or chance for any maidenly hesitation or soften aureole of word .
Aunt and Mrs. Saxby have almost reach the point where they invariably turn .
I have barely time to spell out a plain , blunt `` yes '' and read his answer .
`` I shall go home at once , get Mother and Connie , follow you , and demand possession of my property .
I shall win the day .
Have no fear .
Till then , good-bye , my darling . ''
`` Marguerite , '' say Mrs. Saxby at my elbow , `` it be time to go . ''
I get up obediently .
Aunt Martha be a grim and uncompromising a ever , and Mrs. Saxby look like a chief mourner , but do you suppose I care ?
I drop behind them just once before we leave the shore .
I know he be watch me and I wave my hand .
I suppose I be really engage to Francis Shelmardine .
But be there ever such a funny wooing ?
And what will Aunt Martha say ?
After Many Days The square , bare front room of the Baxter Station Hotel -- so call because there be no other house in the place to dispute the title -- be fill with men .
Some of them be put up at the hotel while they work at the new branch line , and some of them have drop in to exchange news and banter while wait for the mail train .
Gabe Foley , the proprietor , be play at checker with one of the railroad men , but be not too deeply absorb in the game to take in all that be say around him .
The air be dim with tobacco smoke , and the brilliant , scarlet geranium which Mrs. Foley keep in the bay window look oddly out of place .
Gabe know all those present except one man -- a stranger who have land at Baxter Station from the afternoon freight .
Foley 's hotel do not boast of a register , and the stranger do not volunteer any information regard his name or business .
He have put in the afternoon and early evening stroll about the village and talk to the men on the branch line .
Now he have come in and ensconce himself in the corner behind the stove , where he preserve a complete silence .
He have a rather rough face and be flashily dress .
Altogether , Gabe hardly like his look , put as long a a man pay his bill and do not stir up a row Gabe Foley do not interfere with him .
Three or four farmer from `` out Greenvale way '' be draw up by the stove , discuss the cheese factory sale and various Greenvale happening .
The stranger appear to be listen to them intently , although he take no part in their conversation .
Presently he bring his tilted chair down with a sharp thud .
Gabe Foley have pause in his manipulation of a king to hurl a question at the Greenvale men .
`` Is it true that old man Strong be to be turn out next week ? ''
`` True enough , '' answer William Jeffers .
`` Joe Moore be go to foreclose .
Stephen Strong have get three year behind with the interest and Moore be out of patience .
It seem hard on old Stephen , but Moore ai n't the man to hesitate for that .
He 'll have his own out of it . ''
`` What will the Strongs do ? ''
ask Gabe .
`` That 's the question everyone in Greenvale be ask .
Lizzie Strong have always be a delicate little girl , but maybe she 'll manage to scare up a living .
Old Stephen be to be the most pitied .
I do n't see anything for him but the poorhouse . ''
`` How do Stephen Strong come to get into such a tight place ? ''
the stranger ask suddenly .
`` When I be in these part a good many year ago he be consider a well-to-do man . ''
`` Well , so he be , '' reply William Jeffers .
`` But he begin to get in debt when his wife take sick .
He spend no end of money on doctor and medicine for her .
And then he seem to have a streak of bad luck besides -- crop fail and cow die and all that sort of thing .
He 's be go behind ever since .
He kind of lose heart when his wife die .
And now Moore be go to foreclose .
It 's my opinion poor old Stephen wo n't live any time if he 's turn out of his home . ''
`` Do you know what the mortgage come to ? ''
`` Near three thousand , count overdue interest . ''
`` Well , I 'm sorry for old Stephen , '' say Gabe , return to his game .
`` If anybody deserve a peaceful old age he do .
He 's help more people than you could count , and he be the best Christian in Greenvale , or out of it . ''
`` He be too good , '' say a Greenvale man crustily .
`` He just let himself be impose upon all his life .
There 's dozen of people owe him and he 's never ask for a cent from them .
And he 's always have some shiftless critter or other hang round and devour his substance . ''
`` D 'ye mind that Ben Butler who use to be in Greenvale twenty year ago ? ''
ask a third man .
`` If ever there be an imp of Satan 't be him -- old Ezra Butler 's son from the valley .
Old Stephen keep him for three or four year and be as good to him a if he 'd be his own son . ''
`` Most people out our way do mind Ben Butler , '' return William Jeffers grimly , `` even if he ai n't be hear tell of for twenty year .
He be n't the kind you could forget in a hurry .
Where 'd he go ?
Out to the Kootenay , be n't it ? ''
`` Somewhere there .
He be a reg ` lar young villain -- up to every kind of mischief .
Old Stephen catch him steal his oat one time and ` stead of give him a taste of jail for it , a he ought to have do , he just take him right into his family and keep him there for three year .
I use to tell him he 'd be sorry for it , but he always persist that Ben be n't bad at heart and would come out all right some day .
No matter what the young varmint do old Stephen would make excuse for him -- ` his ma be dead , ' or he ` have n't have no bringing-up . '
I be thankful when he do finally clear out without do some penitentiary work . ''
`` If poor old Stephen have n't be so open-handed to every unfortunate critter he come across , '' say Gabe , `` he 'd have have more for himself today . ''
The whistle of the mail train cut short the discussion of Stephen Strong 's case .
In a minute the room be vacant , except for the stranger .
When leave to himself he also rise and walk out .
Turning away from the station , he strike briskly into the Greenvale road .
About three mile from the station he halt before a house build close to the road .
It be old-fashioned , but large and comfortable-looking , with big barn in the rear and an orchard on the leave slope .
The house itself be in the shadow of the fir , but the yard lay out in the moonlight and the strange visitor do not elect to cross it .
Instead , he turn aside into the shadow of the tree around the garden and , lean against the old rail fence , give himself up to contemplation of some kind .
There be a light in the kitchen .
The window-blind be not down and he have a fairly good view of the room .
The only visible occupant be a grey-haired old man sit by the table , read from a large open volume before him .
The stranger whistle softly .
`` That 's old Stephen -- read the Bible same a ever , by all that 's holy !
He have n't change much except that he 's get mighty grey .
He must be close on to seventy .
It 's a shame to turn an old man like him out of house and home .
But Joe Moore always be a genuine skinflint . ''
He draw himself softly up and sit on the fence .
He saw old Stephen Strong close his book , place his spectacle on it , and kneel down by his chair .
The old man remain on his knee for some time and then , take up his candle , leave the kitchen .
The man on the fence still sit there .
Truth to tell , he be chuckle to himself a he recall all the mischief he have do in the old day -- the doubtful joke , trick , and escapades he have go through with .
He could not help remember at the same time how patient old Stephen Strong have always be with him .
He recall the time he have be catch steal the oat .
How frightened and sullen he have be !
And how gently the old man have talk to him and point out the sin of which he have be guilty !
He have never steal again , but in other respect he have not mend his way much .
Behind old Stephen 's back he laugh at him and his `` preaching . ''
But Stephen Strong have never lose faith in him .
He have always assert mildly that `` Ben would come out all right by and by . ''
Ben Butler remember this too , a he sit on the fence .
He have `` always like old Stephen , '' he tell himself .
He be sorry he have fall on such evil time .
`` Preaching and praying do n't seem to have bring him out clear after all , '' he say with a chuckle that quickly die away .
Somehow , even in his bad day , Ben Butler have never felt easy when he mock old Stephen .
`` Three thousand dollar !
I could do it but I reckon I 'd be a blamed fool .
I ai n't a-going to do it .
Three thousand ai n't pick up every day , even in the Kootenay -- ` specially by chap like me . ''
He pat his pocket knowingly .
Fifteen year previously he have go to the Kootenay district with vision of make a fortune that be quickly dispel by reality .
He have squander his wage as soon a pay , and it be only of late year that he have `` pull up a bit , '' a he express it , and save his three thousand dollar .
He have bring the money home with him , have some vague notion of buy a farm and `` settle down to do the respectable . ''
But he have already give up the idea .
This country be too blamed quiet for him , he say .
He would go back to the Kootenay , and he know what he would do with his money .
Jake Perkins and Wade Brown , two `` pal '' of his , be run a flourishing grocery and saloon combine .
They would be glad of another partner with some cash .
It would suit him to a T. `` I 'll clear out tomorrow , '' he muse a he walk back .
`` As long a I stay here old Stephen will haunt me , sure a fate .
Wonder what he be pray for tonight .
He always use to say the Lord would provide , but He do n't appear to have do it .
Well , I ai n't His deputy . ''
The next afternoon Ben Butler go over to Greenvale and call at Stephen Strong 's .
He find only the old man at home .
Old Stephen do not recognize him at first , but make him heartily welcome when he do .
`` Ben , I do declare !
Ben Butler !
How be you ?
How be you ?
Sit down , Ben -- here , take this chair .
Where on earth do you come from ? ''
`` Baxter just now -- Kootenay on the large scale , '' answer Ben .
`` Thought I 'd come over and see you again .
Did n't expect you 'd remember me at all . ''
`` Remember you !
Why , of course I do .
I have n't ever forget you , Ben .
Many 's the time I 've wonder where you be and how you be get on .
And you tell me you 've be in the Kootenay !
Well , well , you have see a good bit more of the world than I ever have .
You 've change a lot , Ben .
You ai n't a boy no longer .
D 'ye mind all the prank you use to play ? ''
Ben laugh sheepishly .
`` I reckon I do .
But it ai n't myself I come here to talk about -- not much to say if I do .
It 's just be up and down with me .
How be you yourself , sir ?
They be tell me over at Baxter that you be kind of in trouble . ''
The old man 's face cloud over ; all the sparkle go out of his kind blue eye .
`` Yes , Ben , yes , '' he say , with a heavy sigh .
`` I 've kind of go downhill , that 's a fact .
The old farm have to go , Ben -- I 'm sorry for that -- I 'd have like to have end my day here , but it 's not to be .
I do n't want to complain .
The Lord do all thing well .
I have n't a doubt but that it all fit into His wise purpose -- not a doubt , Ben , although it may be kind of hard to see it . ''
Ben be always skittish of `` pious talk . ''
He veer around adroitly .
`` I dunno a the Lord have have much to do with this , sir .
Seems to me a if 't be the other one a be run it , with Joe Moore for deputy .
The main thing , a I look at it , be to get a cinch on him .
How much do the mortgage amount to , sir ? ''
`` About three thousand dollar , interest and all . ''
Old Stephen 's voice tremble .
The future look very dark to him in his old age .
Ben put his hand inside his coat and bring out a brand-new , plump pocketbook .
He open it , lay it on his knee , and count out a number of crisp note .
`` Here , sir , '' he say , push them along the table .
`` I reckon that 'll keep you out of Joe Moore 's clutch .
There 's three thousand there if I ai n't make a mistake .
That 'll set you clear , wo n't it ? ''
`` Ben ! ''
Old Stephen 's voice tremble with amazement .
`` Ben , I ca n't take it .
It would n't be fair -- or right .
I could never pay you back . ''
Ben slip the rubber band around his wallet and replace it airily .
`` I do n't want it pay back , sir .
It 's a little gift , so to speak , just to let you know I ai n't ungrateful for all you do for me .
If it have n't be for you I might have be in the penitentiary by now .
As for the money , it may seem a pile to you , but we do n't think anything more of a thousand or so in the Kootenay than you Greenvale folk do of a fiver -- not a bit more .
We do thing on a big scale out there . ''
`` But , Ben , be you sure you can afford it -- that you wo n't miss it ? ''
`` Pop sure .
Do n't you worry , I 'm all right . ''
`` Bless you -- bless you ! ''
The tear be run down old Stephen 's face a he gather up the money with a shaking hand .
`` I always know you would do well , Ben -- always say it .
I know you 'd a good heart .
I just ca n't realize this yet -- it seem too good to be true .
The old place save -- I can die in peace .
Of course , I 'll pay you back some of it anyhow if I 'm spar a while longer .
Bless you , Ben . ''
Ben would not stay long after that .
He say he have to leave on the 4:30 train .
He be relieve when he get away from the old man 's thanks and question .
Ben do not find it easy to answer some of the latter .
When he be out of sight of the house he sit on a fence and count up his remain fund .
`` Just enough to take me back to the Kootenay -- and then begin over again , I s ` pose .
But 't be worth the money to see the old fellow 's face .
He 'd thank the Lord and me , he say .
How Jake and Wade 'd roar to hear them two name in partnership !
But I 'm go to pull up a bit after this , see if I do n't , just to justify the old man 's faith in me .
` Twould be too bad to disappoint him if he 's believe for so long that I be go to turn out all right yet . ''
When the 4:30 train go out Ben Butler stand on the rear platform .
Gabe Foley watch him abstractedly a he recede .
`` Blamed if I know who that fellow be , '' he remark to a crony .
`` He never tell his name , but seem to me I 've see him before .
He have a kind of hang-dog look , I think .
But he pay up square and it be none of my business . ''
An Unconventional Confidence The Girl in Black-and-Yellow ran frantically down the grey road under the pine .
There be nobody to see her , but she would have run if all Halifax have be look on .
For have she not on the lovely new hat -- a `` creation '' in yellow chiffon with big black chou -- and a dress to match ?
And be there not a shower come straight from the hill across the harbour ?
Down at the end of the long resinous avenue the Girl saw the shore road , with the pavilion shut out the view of the harbour 's mouth .
Below the pavilion , clean-shaven George 's Island guard the town like a sturdy bulldog , and beyond it be the wooded hill , already lose in a mist of rain .
`` Oh , I shall be too late , '' moan the Girl .
But she hold her hat steady with one hand and ran on .
If she could only reach the pavilion in time !
It be a neck-and-neck race between the rain and the Girl , but the Girl win .
Just a she fly out upon the shore road , a tall Young Man come pelt down the latter , and they both dash up the step of the pavilion together a the rain swoop down upon them and blot George 's Island and the smoky town and the purple bank of the Eastern Passage from view .
The pavilion be small at the best of time , and just now the rain be beat into it on two side , leave only one dry corner .
Into this the Girl move .
She be flush and triumphant .
The Young Man think that in all his life he have never see anyone so pretty .
`` I 'm so glad I do n't get my hat wet , '' say the Girl breathlessly , a she straighten it with a careful hand and wonder if she look very blown and blowsy .
`` It would have be a pity , '' admit the Young Man .
`` It be a very pretty hat . ''
`` Pretty ! ''
The Girl look the scorn her voice express .
`` Anyone can have a pretty hat .
Our cook have one .
This be a creation . ''
`` Of course , '' say the Young Man humbly .
`` I ought to have know .
But I be very stupid . ''
`` Well , I suppose a mere man could n't be expect to understand exactly , '' say the Girl graciously .
She smile at him in a friendly fashion , and he smile back .
The Girl think that she have never see such lovely brown eye before .
He could not be a Haligonian .
She be sure she know all the nice young men with brown eye in Halifax .
`` Please sit down , '' she say plaintively .
`` I 'm tired . ''
The Young Man smile again at the idea of his sit down because the Girl be tire .
But he sit down , and so do she , on the only dry seat to be find .
`` Goodness know how long this rain will last , '' say the Girl , make herself comfortable and picturesque , `` but I shall stay here until it clear up , if it rain for a week .
I will not have my hat spoil .
I suppose I should n't have put it on .
Beatrix say it be go to rain .
Beatrix be such a horribly good prophet .
I detest people who be good prophet , do n't you ? ''
`` I think that they be responsible for all the evil that they predict , '' say the Young Man solemnly .
`` That be just what I tell Beatrix .
And I be determine to put on this hat and come out to the park today .
I simply have to be alone , and I know I 'd be alone out here .
Everybody else would be at the football game .
By the way , why be n't you there ? ''
`` I be n't even aware that there be a football game on hand , '' say the Young Man , a if he know he ought to be ashamed of his ignorance , and be .
`` Dear me , '' say the Girl pityingly .
`` Where can you have be not to have heard of it ?
It 's between the Dalhousie team and the Wanderers .
Almost everybody here be on the Wanderers ' side , because they be Haligonians , but I be not .
I like the college boys best .
Beatrix say that it be just because of my innate contrariness .
Last year I simply scream myself hoarse with enthusiasm .
The Dalhousie team win the trophy . ''
`` If you be so interested in the game , it be a wonder you do n't go to see it yourself , '' say the Young Man boldly .
`` Well , I just could n't , '' say the Girl with a sigh .
`` If anybody have ever tell me that there would be a football game in Halifax , and that I would elect to prowl about by myself in the park instead of go to it , I 'd have laugh them to scorn .
Even Beatrix would never have dare to prophesy that .
But you see it have happen .
I be too crumple up in my mind to care about football today .
I have to come here and have it out with myself .
That be why I put on my hat .
I think , perhaps , I might get through with my mental gymnastics in time to go to the game afterwards .
But I do n't .
It be just maddening , too .
I get this hat and dress on purpose to wear to it .
They 're black and yellow , you see -- the Dalhousie colour .
It be my own idea .
I be sure it would make a sensation .
But I could n't go to the game and take any interest in it , feel a I do , could I , now ? ''
The Young Man say , of course , she could n't .
It be utterly out of the question .
The Girl smile .
Without a smile , she be charm .
With a smile , she be adorable .
`` I like to have my opinion bolster up .
Do you know , I want to tell you something ?
May I ? ''
`` You may .
I 'll never tell anyone as long a I live , '' say the Young Man solemnly .
`` I do n't know you and you do n't know me .
That be why I want to tell you about it .
I must tell somebody , and if I tell anybody I know , they 'd tell it all over Halifax .
It be dreadful to be talk to you like this .
Beatrix would have three fit , one after the other , if she saw me .
But Beatrix be a slave to conventionality .
I glory in discard it at time .
You do n't mind , do you ? ''
`` Not at all , '' say the Young Man sincerely .
The Girl sigh .
`` I have reach that point where I must have a confidant , or go crazy .
Once I could tell thing to Beatrix .
That be before she get engage .
Now she tell everything to him .
There be no earthly way of prevent her .
I 've try them all .
So , nowadays , when I get into trouble , I tell it out loud to myself in the glass .
It 's a relief , you know .
But that be no good now .
I want to tell it to somebody who can say thing back .
Will you promise to say thing back ? ''
The Young Man assure her that he would when the proper time come .
`` Very well .
But please do n't look at me while I 'm tell you .
I 'll be sure to blush in place .
When Beatrix want to be particularly aggravate she say I have lose the art of blushing .
But that be only her way of put it , you know .
Sometimes I blush dreadfully . ''
The Young Man drag his eye from the face under the black-and-yellow hat , and fasten them on a crooked pine tree that hang out over the bank .
`` Well , '' begin the Girl , `` the root of the whole trouble be simply this .
There be a young man in England .
I always think of him a the Creature .
He be the son of a man who be Father 's especial crony in boyhood , before Father emigrate to Canada .
Worse than that , he come of a family which have contract a vile habit of marry into our family .
It have come down through the age so long that it have become chronic .
Father leave most of his musty tradition in England , but he bring this pet one with him .
He and this friend agree that the latter 's son should marry one of Father 's daughter .
It ought to have be Beatrix -- she be the old .
But Beatrix have a pug nose .
So Father settle on me .
From my early recollection I have be give to understand that just as soon a I grow up there would be a ready-made husband import from England for me .
I be doom to it from my cradle .
Now , '' say the Girl , with a tragic gesture , `` I ask you , could anything be more hopelessly , appallingly stupid and devoid of romance than that ? ''
The Young Man shake his head , but do not look at her .
`` It 's pretty bad , '' he admit .
`` You see , '' say the Girl pathetically , `` the shadow of it have be over my whole life .
Of course , when I be a very little girl I do n't mind it so much .
It be such a long way off and lot of thing might happen .
The Creature might run away with some other girl -- or I might have the smallpox -- or Beatrix 's nose might be straight when she grow up .
And if Beatrix 's nose be straight she 'd be a great deal pretty than I be .
But nothing do happen -- and her nose be puggier than ever .
Then when I grow up thing be horrid .
I never could have a single little bit of fun .
And Beatrix have such a good time !
She have score of lover in spite of her nose .
To be sure , she 's engage now -- and he 's a horrid , faddy little creature .
But he be her own choice .
She be n't tell that there be a man in England whom she must marry by and by , when he get sufficiently reconcile to the idea to come and ask her .
Oh , it make me furious ! ''
`` Is -- be there -- anyone else ? ''
ask the Young Man hesitatingly .
`` Oh , dear , no .
How could there be ?
Why , you know , I could n't have the tiny flirtation with another man when I be as good a engage to the Creature .
That be one of my grievance .
Just think how much fun I 've miss !
I use to rage to Beatrix about it , but she would tell me that I ought to be thankful to have the chance of make such a good match -- the Creature be rich , you know , and clever .
As if I care how clever or rich he be !
Beatrix make me so cross that I give up say anything and sulk by myself .
So they think I 'm quite reconcile to it , but I 'm not . ''
`` He might be very nice after all , '' suggest the Young Man . ''
Nice !
That be n't the point .
Oh , do n't you see ?
But no , you 're a man -- you ca n't understand .
You must just take my word for it .
The whole thing make me furious .
But I have n't tell you the bad .
The Creature be on his way out to Canada now .
He may arrive here at any minute .
And they be all so aggravatingly delight over it . ''
`` What do you suppose he feel like ? ''
ask the Young Man reflectively .
`` Well , '' say the Girl frankly , `` I 've be too much take up with my own feeling to worry about his .
But I daresay they be pretty much like mine .
He must loathe and detest the very thought of me . ''
`` Oh , I do n't think he do , '' say the Young Man gravely .
`` Do n't you ?
Well , what do you suppose he do think of it all ?
You ought to understand the man 's part of it good than I can . ''
`` There 's as much difference in men a in woman , '' say the Young Man in an impersonal tone .
`` I may be right or wrong , you see , but I imagine he would feel something like this : From boyhood he have understand that away out in Canada there be a little girl grow up who be some day to be his wife .
She become his boyish ideal of all that be good and true .
He picture her a beautiful and winsome and sweet .
She be his heart 's lady , and the thought of her abides with him a a safeguard and an inspiration .
For her sake he resolve to make the most of himself , and live a clean , loyal life .
When she come to him she must find his heart fit to receive her .
There be never a time in all his life when the dream of her do not gleam before him a of a star to which he may aspire with all reverence and love . ''
The Young Man stop abruptly , and look at the Girl .
She bend forward with shin eye , and touch his hand .
`` You be splendid , '' she say softly .
`` If he think so -- but no -- I be sure he do n't .
He 's just come out here like a martyr go to the stake .
He know he will be expect to propose to me when he get here .
And he know that I know it too .
And he know and I know that I will be expect to say my very pretty ` yes . ' ''
`` But be you go to say it ? ''
ask the Young Man anxiously .
The Girl lean forward .
`` No .
That be my secret .
I be go to say a most emphatic ` no . ' ''
`` But wo n't your family make an awful row ? ''
`` Of course .
But I rather enjoy a row now and then .
It stir up one 's grey matter so nicely .
I come out here this afternoon and think the whole affair over from begin to end .
And I have determine to say ` no . ' ''
`` Oh , I would n't make it so irreconcilable a that , '' say the Young Man lightly .
`` I 'd leave a loophole of escape .
You see , if you be to like him a little good than you expect , it would be awkward to have commit yourself by a rash vow to say ` no , ' would n't it ? ''
`` I suppose it would , '' say the Girl thoughtfully , `` but then , you know , I wo n't change my mind . ''
`` It 's just as well to be on the safe side , '' say the Young Man .
The Girl get up .
The rain be over and the sun be come out through the mist .
`` Perhaps you be right , '' she say .
`` So I 'll just resolve that I will say ` no ' if I do n't want to say ` yes . '
That really amount to the same thing , you know .
Thank you so much for let me tell you all about it .
It must have bore you terribly , but it have do me so much good .
I feel quite calm and rational now , and can go home and behave myself .
Goodbye . ''
`` Goodbye , '' say the Young Man gravely .
He stand on the pavilion and watch the Girl out of sight beyond the pine .
When the Girl get home she be tell that the Dalhousie team have win the game , eight to four .
The Girl drag her hat off and wave it joyously .
`` What a shame I be n't there !
They 'd have go mad over my dress . ''
But the next item of information crush her .
The Creature have arrive .
He have call that afternoon , and be come to dinner that night .
`` How fortunate , '' say the Girl , a she go to her room , `` that I relieve my mind to that Young Man out in the park today .
If I have come back with all that pent-up feeling seething within me and hear this news right on top of it all , I might have fly into a thousand piece .
What lovely brown eye he have !
I do dote on brown eye .
The Creature will be sure to have fishy blue one . ''
* * * * * When the Girl go down to meet the Creature she find herself confront by the Young Man .
For the first , last , and only time in her life , the Girl have not a word to say .
But her family think her confusion very natural and pretty .
They really have not expect her to behave so well .
As for the Young Man , his manner be flawless .
Toward the end of the dinner , when the Girl be begin to recover herself , he turn to her .
`` You know I promise never to tell , '' he say .
`` Be sure you do n't , then , '' say the Girl meekly .
`` But be n't you glad you leave the loophole ? ''
he persist .
The Girl smile down into her lap .
`` Perhaps , '' she say .
Aunt Cyrilla 's Christmas Basket When Lucy Rose meet Aunt Cyrilla come downstairs , somewhat flushed and breathless from her ascent to the garret , with a big , flat-covered basket hanging over her plump arm , she give a little sigh of despair .
Lucy Rose have do her brave best for some year -- in fact , ever since she have put up her hair and lengthen her skirt -- to break Aunt Cyrilla of the habit of carry that basket with her every time she go to Pembroke ; but Aunt Cyrilla still insist on take it , and only laugh at what she call Lucy Rose 's `` finicky notion . ''
Lucy Rose have a horrible , haunt idea that it be extremely provincial for her aunt always to take the big basket , pack full of country good thing , whenever she go to visit Edward and Geraldine .
Geraldine be so stylish , and might think it queer ; and then Aunt Cyrilla always would carry it on her arm and give cooky and apple and molasses taffy out of it to every child she encounter and , just as often a not , to older folk too .
Lucy Rose , when she go to town with Aunt Cyrilla , felt chagrin over this -- all of which go to prove that Lucy be a yet very young and have a great deal to learn in this world .
That troublesome worry over what Geraldine would think nerve her to make a protest in this instance .
`` Now , Aunt C'rilla , '' she plead , `` you 're surely not go to take that funny old basket to Pembroke this time -- Christmas Day and all . '' ''
` Deed and ` deed I be , '' return Aunt Cyrilla briskly , a she put it on the table and proceed to dust it out .
`` I never go to see Edward and Geraldine since they be marry that I do n't take a basket of good thing along with me for them , and I 'm not go to stop now .
As for it 's be Christmas , all the more reason .
Edward be always real glad to get some of the old farmhouse goody .
He say they beat city cook all hollow , and so they do . ''
`` But it 's so countrified , '' moan Lucy Rose .
`` Well , I be countrified , '' say Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and so be you .
And what 's more , I do n't see that it 's anything to be ashamed of .
You 've get some real silly pride about you , Lucy Rose .
You 'll grow out of it in time , but just now it be give you a lot of trouble . ''
`` The basket be a lot of trouble , '' say Lucy Rose crossly .
`` You 're always mislay it or afraid you will .
And it do look so funny to be walk through the street with that big , bulgy basket hang on your arm . ''
`` I 'm not a mite worry about it look , '' return Aunt Cyrilla calmly .
`` As for it be a trouble , why , maybe it be , but I have that , and other people have the pleasure of it .
Edward and Geraldine do n't need it -- I know that -- but there may be those that will .
And if it hurt your feeling to walk ` longside of a countrified old lady with a countrified basket , why , you can just fall behind , a it be . ''
Aunt Cyrilla nod and smile good-humouredly , and Lucy Rose , though she privately hold to her own opinion , have to smile too .
`` Now , let me see , '' say Aunt Cyrilla reflectively , tap the snowy kitchen table with the point of her plump , dimple forefinger , `` what shall I take ?
That big fruit cake for one thing -- Edward do like my fruit cake ; and that cold boil tongue for another .
Those three mince pie too , they 'd spoil before we get back or your uncle 'd make himself sick eat them -- mince pie be his beset sin .
And that little stone bottle full of cream -- Geraldine may carry any amount of style , but I 've yet to see her look down on real good country cream , Lucy Rose ; and another bottle of my raspberry vinegar .
That plate of jelly cooky and doughnut will please the child and fill up the chink , and you can bring me that box of ice-cream candy out of the pantry , and that bag of striped candy stick your uncle bring home from the corner last night .
And apple , of course -- three or four dozen of those good eater -- and a little pot of my greengage preserve -- Edward 'll like that .
And some sandwich and pound cake for a snack for ourselves .
Now , I guess that will do for eatable .
The present for the child can go in on top .
There 's a doll for Daisy and the little boat your uncle make for Ray and a tatted lace handkerchief apiece for the twin , and the crochet hood for the baby .
Now , be that all ? ''
`` There 's a cold roast chicken in the pantry , '' say Lucy Rose wickedly , `` and the pig Uncle Leo kill be hang up in the porch .
Could n't you put them in too ? ''
Aunt Cyrilla smile broadly .
`` Well , I guess we 'll leave the pig alone ; but since you have remind me of it , the chicken may as well go in .
I can make room . ''
Lucy Rose , in spite of her prejudice , help with the packing and , not have be train under Aunt Cyrilla 's eye for nothing , do it very well too , with much clever economy of space .
But when Aunt Cyrilla have put in a a finishing touch a big bouquet of pink and white everlasting , and tie the bulging cover down with a firm hand , Lucy Rose stand over the basket and whisper vindictively : `` Some day I 'm go to burn this basket -- when I get courage enough .
Then there 'll be an end of lug it everywhere we go like a -- like an old market-woman . ''
Uncle Leopold come in just then , shake his head dubiously .
He be not go to spend Christmas with Edward and Geraldine , and perhaps the prospect of have to cook and eat his Christmas dinner all alone make him pessimistic .
`` I mistrust you folk wo n't get to Pembroke tomorrow , '' he say sagely .
`` It 's go to storm . ''
Aunt Cyrilla do not worry over this .
She believe matter of this kind be fore-ordained , and she sleep calmly .
But Lucy Rose get up three time in the night to see if it be storm , and when she do sleep have horrible nightmare of struggle through blinding snowstorm drag Aunt Cyrilla 's Christmas basket along with her .
It be not snow in the early morning , and Uncle Leopold drive Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose and the basket to the station , four mile off .
When they reach there the air be thick with fly flake .
The stationmaster sell them their ticket with a grim face .
`` If there 's any more snow come , the train might as well keep Christmas too , '' he say .
`` There 's be so much snow already that traffic be block half the time , and now there ai n't no place to shovel the snow off onto . ''
Aunt Cyrilla say that if the train be to get to Pembroke in time for Christmas , it would get there ; and she open her basket and give the stationmaster and three small boys an apple apiece .
`` That 's the beginning , '' groan Lucy Rose to herself .
When their train come along Aunt Cyrilla establish herself in one seat and her basket in another , and look beamingly around her at her fellow traveller .
These be few in number -- a delicate little woman at the end of the car , with a baby and four other child , a young girl across the aisle with a pale , pretty face , a sunburn lad three seat ahead in a khaki uniform , a very handsome , impose old lady in a sealskin coat ahead of him , and a thin young man with spectacle opposite .
`` A minister , '' reflect Aunt Cyrilla , begin to classify , `` who take good care of other folk ' soul than of his own body ; and that woman in the sealskin be discontent and cross at something -- get up too early to catch the train , maybe ; and that young chap must be one of the boy not long out of the hospital .
That woman 's child look a if they have n't enjoy a square meal since they be bear ; and if that girl across from me have a mother , I 'd like to know what the woman mean , let her daughter go from home in this weather in clothes like that . ''
Lucy Rose merely wonder uncomfortably what the others think of Aunt Cyrilla 's basket .
They expect to reach Pembroke that night , but a the day wear on the storm grow bad .
Twice the train have to stop while the train hand dig it out .
The third time it could not go on .
It be dusk when the conductor come through the train , reply brusquely to the question of the anxious passenger .
`` A nice lookout for Christmas -- no , impossible to go on or back -- track block for mile -- what 's that , madam ?
-- no , no station near -- wood for mile .
We 're here for the night .
These storm of late have play the mischief with everything . ''
`` Oh , dear , '' groan Lucy Rose .
Aunt Cyrilla look at her basket complacently .
`` At any rate , we wo n't starve , '' she say .
The pale , pretty girl seem indifferent .
The sealskin lady look cross than ever .
The khaki boy say , `` Just my luck , '' and two of the child begin to cry .
Aunt Cyrilla take some apple and strip candy stick from her basket and carry them to them .
She lift the old into her ample lap and soon have them all around her , laugh and content .
The rest of the traveller straggle over to the corner and drift into conversation .
The khaki boy say it be hard line not to get home for Christmas , after all .
`` I be invalid from South Africa three month ago , and I 've be in the hospital at Netley ever since .
Reached Halifax three day ago and telegraph the old folk I 'd eat my Christmas dinner with them , and to have an extra-big turkey because I do n't have any last year .
They 'll be badly disappointed . ''
He look disappointed too .
One khaki sleeve hung empty by his side .
Aunt Cyrilla pass him an apple .
`` We be all go down to Grandpa 's for Christmas , '' say the little mother 's old boy dolefully .
`` We 've never be there before , and it 's just too bad . ''
He look a if he want to cry but think good of it and bite off a mouthful of candy .
`` Will there be any Santa Claus on the train ? ''
demand his small sister tearfully .
`` Jack say there wo n't . ''
`` I guess he 'll find you out , '' say Aunt Cyrilla reassuringly .
The pale , pretty girl come up and take the baby from the tired mother .
`` What a dear little fellow , '' she say softly .
`` Are you go home for Christmas too ? ''
ask Aunt Cyrilla .
The girl shake her head .
`` I have n't any home .
I 'm just a shop girl out of work at present , and I 'm go to Pembroke to look for some . ''
Aunt Cyrilla go to her basket and take out her box of cream candy .
`` I guess we might as well enjoy ourselves .
Let 's eat it all up and have a good time .
Maybe we 'll get down to Pembroke in the morning . ''
The little group grow cheerful a they nibble , and even the pale girl brighten up .
The little mother tell Aunt Cyrilla her story aside .
She have be long estrange from her family , who have disapprove of her marriage .
Her husband have die the previous summer , leave her in poor circumstance .
`` Father write to me last week and ask me to let bygone be bygone and come home for Christmas .
I be so glad .
And the child 's heart be set on it .
It seem too bad that we be not to get there .
I have to be back at work the morning after Christmas . ''
The khaki boy come up again and share the candy .
He tell amuse story of campaigning in South Africa .
The minister come too , and listen , and even the sealskin lady turn her head over her shoulder .
By and by the child fell asleep , one on Aunt Cyrilla 's lap and one on Lucy Rose 's , and two on the seat .
Aunt Cyrilla and the pale girl help the mother make up bed for them .
The minister give his overcoat and the sealskin lady come forward with a shawl .
`` This will do for the baby , '' she say .
`` We must get up some Santa Claus for these youngster , '' say the khaki boy .
`` Let 's hang their stocking on the wall and fill 'em up as best we can .
I 've nothing about me but some hard cash and a jack-knife .
I 'll give each of 'em a quarter and the boy can have the knife . ''
`` I 've nothing but money either , '' say the sealskin lady regretfully .
Aunt Cyrilla glance at the little mother .
She have fall asleep with her head against the seat-back .
`` I 've get a basket over there , '' say Aunt Cyrilla firmly , `` and I 've some present in it that I be take to my nephew 's child .
I 'm go to give 'em to these .
As for the money , I think the mother be the one for it to go to .
She 's be tell me her story , and a pitiful one it be .
Let 's make up a little purse among u for a Christmas present . ''
The idea meet with favour .
The khaki boy pass his cap and everybody contribute .
The sealskin lady put in a crumpled note .
When Aunt Cyrilla straighten it out she saw that it be for twenty dollar .
Meanwhile , Lucy Rose have bring the basket .
She smile at Aunt Cyrilla a she lug it down the aisle and Aunt Cyrilla smile back .
Lucy Rose have never touch that basket of her own accord before .
Ray 's boat go to Jacky , and Daisy 's doll to his old sister , the twin ' lace handkerchief to the two small girl and the hood to the baby .
Then the stocking be fill up with doughnut and jelly cooky and the money be put in an envelope and pin to the little mother 's jacket .
`` That baby be such a dear little fellow , '' say the sealskin lady gently .
`` He look something like my little son .
He die eighteen Christmases ago . ''
Aunt Cyrilla put her hand over the lady 's kid glove .
`` So do mine , '' she say .
Then the two woman smile tenderly at each other .
Afterwards they rest from their labour and all have what Aunt Cyrilla call a `` snack '' of sandwich and pound cake .
The khaki boy say he have n't taste anything half so good since he leave home .
`` They do n't give u pound cake in South Africa , '' he say .
When morning come the storm be still rag .
The child waken and go wild with delight over their stocking .
The little mother find her envelope and try to utter thanks and break down ; and nobody know what to say or do , when the conductor fortunately come in and make a diversion by tell them they might as well resign themselves to spend Christmas on the train .
`` This be serious , '' say the khaki boy , `` when you consider that we 've no provision .
Do n't mind for myself , use to half ration or no ration at all .
But these kiddy will have tremendous appetite . ''
Then Aunt Cyrilla rise to the occasion .
`` I 've get some emergency ration here , '' she announce .
`` There 's plenty for all and we 'll have our Christmas dinner , although a cold one .
Breakfast first thing .
There 's a sandwich apiece leave and we must fill up on what be leave of the cooky and doughnut and save the rest for a real good spread at dinner time .
The only thing be , I have n't any bread . ''
`` I 've a box of soda cracker , '' say the little mother eagerly .
Nobody in that car will ever forget that Christmas .
To begin with , after breakfast they have a concert .
The khaki boy give two recitation , sing three song , and give a whistling solo .
Lucy Rose give three recitation and the minister a comic reading .
The pale shop girl sing two song .
It be agree that the khaki boy 's whistle solo be the best number , and Aunt Cyrilla give him the bouquet of everlasting a a reward of merit .
Then the conductor come in with the cheerful news that the storm be almost over and he think the track would be clear in a few hour .
`` If we can get to the next station we 'll be all right , '' he say .
`` The branch join the main line there and the track will be clear . ''
At noon they have dinner .
The train hand be invite in to share it .
The minister carve the chicken with the brakeman 's jack-knife and the khaki boy cut up the tongue and the mince pie , while the sealskin lady mix the raspberry vinegar with it due proportion of water .
Bits of paper serve a plate .
The train furnish a couple of glass , a tin pint cup be discover and give to the child , Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose and the sealskin lady drank , turn about , from the latter 's graduated medicine glass , the shop girl and the little mother share one of the empty bottle , and the khaki boy , the minister , and the train men drink out of the other bottle .
Everybody declare they have never enjoy a meal more in their life .
Certainly it be a merry one , and Aunt Cyrilla 's cooking be never more appreciated ; indeed , the bone of the chicken and the pot of preserve be all that be leave .
They could not eat the preserve because they have no spoon , so Aunt Cyrilla give them to the little mother .
When all be over , a hearty vote of thanks be pass to Aunt Cyrilla and her basket .
The sealskin lady want to know how she make her pound cake , and the khaki boy ask for her receipt for jelly cooky .
And when two hour later the conductor come in and say the snowplough have get along and they 'd soon be start , they all wonder if it could really be less than twenty-four hour since they meet .
`` I feel a if I 'd be campaign with you all my life , '' say the khaki boy .
At the next station they all part .
The little mother and the child have to take the next train back home .
The minister stay there , and the khaki boy and the sealskin lady change train .
The sealskin lady shook Aunt Cyrilla 's hand .
She no longer look discontent or cross .
`` This have be the pleasant Christmas I have ever spend , '' she say heartily .
`` I shall never forget that wonderful basket of yours .
The little shop girl be go home with me .
I 've promise her a place in my husband 's store . ''
When Aunt Cyrilla and Lucy Rose reach Pembroke there be nobody to meet them because everyone have give up expect them .
It be not far from the station to Edward 's house and Aunt Cyrilla elect to walk .
`` I 'll carry the basket , '' say Lucy Rose .
Aunt Cyrilla relinquish it with a smile .
Lucy Rose smile too .
`` It 's a blessed old basket , '' say the latter , `` and I love it .
Please forget all the silly thing I ever say about it , Aunt C'rilla . ''
Davenport 's Story It be a rainy afternoon , and we have be pass the time by tell ghost story .
That be a very good sort of thing for a rainy afternoon , and it be a much good time than after night .
If you tell ghost story after dark they be apt to make you nervous , whether you own up to it or not , and you sneak home and dodge upstairs in mortal terror , and undress with your back to the wall , so that you ca n't fancy there be anything behind you .
We have each tell a story , and have have the usual assortment of mysterious noise and death warning and sheeted spectre and so on , down through the whole catalogue of horror -- enough to satisfy any reasonable ghost-taster .
But Jack , a usual , be dissatisfy .
He say our story be all second-hand stuff .
There be n't a man in the crowd who have ever see or hear a ghost ; all our so-called authentic story have be tell u by person who have the story from other person who saw the ghost .
`` One do n't get any information from that , '' say Jack .
`` I never expect to get so far along a to see a real ghost myself , but I would like to see and talk to one who have . ''
Some person appear to have the knack of get their wish grant .
Jack be one of that ilk .
Just a he make the remark , Davenport saunter in and , find out what be go on , volunteer to tell a ghost story himself -- something that have happen to his grandmother , or maybe it be his great-aunt ; I forget which .
It be a very good ghost story a ghost story go , and Davenport tell it well .
Even Jack admit that , but he say : `` It 's only second-hand too .
Did you ever have a ghostly experience yourself , old man ? ''
Davenport put his finger tip critically together .
`` Would you believe me if I say I have ? ''
he ask .
`` No , '' say Jack unblushingly .
`` Then there would be no use in my say it . ''
`` But you do n't mean that you ever really have , of course ? ''
`` I do n't know .
Something queer happen once .
I 've never be able to explain it -- from a practical point of view , that be .
Want to hear about it ? ''
Of course we do .
This be excite .
Nobody would ever have suspect Davenport of see ghost .
`` It 's conventional enough , '' he begin .
`` Ghosts do n't seem to have much originality .
But it 's firsthand , Jack , if that 's what you want .
I do n't suppose any of you have ever hear me speak of my brother , Charles .
He be my senior by two year , and be a quiet , reserve sort of fellow -- not at all demonstrative , but with very strong and deep affection .
`` When he leave college he become engage to Dorothy Chester .
She be very beautiful , and my brother idolize her .
She die a short time before the date set for their marriage , and Charles never recover from the blow .
`` I marry Dorothy 's sister , Virginia .
Virginia do not in the least resemble her sister , but our eldest daughter be strikingly like her dead aunt .
We call her Dorothy , and Charles be devote to her .
Dolly , a we call her , be always ` Uncle Charley 's girl . '
`` When Dolly be twelve year old Charles go to New Orleans on business , and while there take yellow fever and die .
He be bury there , and Dolly half break her childish heart over his death .
`` One day , five year later , when Dolly be seventeen , I be write letter in my library .
That very morning my wife and Dolly have go to New York en route for Europe .
Dolly be go to school in Paris for a year .
Business prevent my accompany them even as far a New York , but Gilbert Chester , my wife 's brother , be go with them .
They be to sail on the Aragon the next morning .
`` I have write steadily for about an hour .
At last , grow tired , I throw down my pen and , lean back in my chair , be on the point of light a cigar when an unaccountable impulse make me turn round .
I drop my cigar and sprang to my foot in amazement .
There be only one door in the room and I have all along be face it .
I could have swear nobody have enter , yet there , stand between me and the bookcase , be a man -- and that man be my brother Charles !
`` There be no mistake him ; I saw him as plainly a I see you .
He be a tall , rather stout man , with curly hair and a fair , close-clipped beard .
He wear the same light-grey suit which he have wear when bid u good-bye on the morning of his departure for New Orleans .
He have no hat on , but wear spectacle , and be stand in his old favourite attitude , with his hand behind him .
`` I want you to understand that at this precise moment , although I be surprise beyond measure , I be not in the least frightened , because I do not for a moment suppose that what I saw be -- well , a ghost or apparition of any sort .
The thought that flash across my bewildered brain be simply that there have be some absurd mistake somewhere , and that my brother have never die at all , but be here , alive and well .
I take a hasty step towards him . ''
` Good heaven , old fellow ! '
I exclaim .
` Where on earth have you come from ?
Why , we all think you be dead ! '
`` I be quite close to him when I stop abruptly .
Somehow I could n't move another step .
He make no motion , but his eye look straight into mine . ''
` Do not let Dolly sail on the Aragon tomorrow , ' he say in slow , clear tone that I hear distinctly .
`` And then he be go -- yes , Jack , I know it be a very conventional way of end up a ghost story , | but I have to tell you just what occur , or at least what I think occurred .
One moment he be there and the next moment he be n't .
He do not pass me or go out of the door .
`` For a few moment I felt daze .
I be wide awake and in my right and proper sens so far a I could judge , and yet the whole thing seem incredible .
Scared ?
No , I be n't conscious of be scar .
I be simply bewilder .
`` In my mental confusion one thought stand out sharply -- Dolly be in danger of some kind , and if the warning be really from a supernatural source , it must not be disregard .
I rush to the station and , have first wire to my wife not to sail on the Aragon , I find that I could connect with the five-fifteen train for New York .
I take it with the comfortable consciousness that my friend would certainly think I have go out of my mind .
`` I arrive in New York at eight o'clock the next morning and at once drive to the hotel where my wife , daughter and brother-in-law be stay .
I find them greatly mystify by my telegram .
I suppose my explanation be a very lame one .
I know I felt decidedly like a fool .
Gilbert laugh at me and say I have dream the whole thing .
Virginia be perplex , but Dolly accept the warning unhesitatingly . ''
` Of course it be Uncle Charley , ' she say confidently .
` We will not sail on the Aragon now . '
`` Gilbert have to give in to this decision with a very bad grace , and the Aragon sail that day minus three of her intended passenger .
`` Well , you 've all heard of the historic collision between the Aragon and the Astarte in a fog , and the fearful loss of life it involve .
Gilbert do n't laugh when the news come , I assure you .
Virginia and Dolly sail a month later on the Marseilles , and reach the other side in safety .
That 's all the story , boys -- the only experience of the kind I ever have , '' conclude Davenport .
We have many question to ask and several theory to advance .
Jack say Davenport have dream it and that the collision of the Aragon and the Astarte be simply a striking coincidence .
But Davenport merely smile at all our suggestion and , a it clear up just about three , we tell no more ghost story .
Emily 's Husband Emily Fair get out of Hiram Jameson 's waggon at the gate .
She take her satchel and parasol and , in her clear , musical tone , thank him for bring her home .
Emily have a very distinctive voice .
It be very sweet always and very cold generally ; sometimes it soften to tenderness with those she love , but in it there be always an undertone of inflexibility and reserve .
Nobody have ever hear Emily Fair 's voice tremble .
`` You be more than welcome , Mrs. Fair , '' say Hiram Jameson , with a glance of bold admiration .
Emily meet it with an unflinching indifference .
She dislike Hiram Jameson .
She have be furious under all her external composure because he have be at the station when she leave the train .
Jameson perceive her scorn , but choose to disregard it .
`` Proud a Lucifer , '' he think a he drive away .
`` Well , she 's none the bad of that .
I do n't like your weak woman -- they 're always sly .
If Stephen Fair do n't get good she 'll be free and then -- '' He do not round out the thought , but he gloat over the memory of Emily , stand by the gate in the harsh , crude light of the autumn sunset , with her tawny , brown hair curl about her pale , oval face and the scornful glint in her large , dark-grey eye .
Emily stand at the gate for some time after Jameson 's waggon have disappear .
When the brief burst of sunset splendour have fade out she turn and go into the garden where late aster and chrysanthemum still bloom .
She gather some of the more perfect one here and there .
She love flower , but to-night the aster seem to hurt her , for she presently drop those she have gather and deliberately set her foot on them .
A sudden gust of wind come over the brown , sodden field and the ragged maple around the garden writhe and wail .
The air be raw and chill .
The rain that have threaten all day be very near .
Emily shiver and go into the house .
Amelia Phillips be bend over the fire .
She come forward and take Emily 's parcel and wrap with a certain gentleness that sit oddly on her grim personality .
`` Are you tire ?
I 'm glad you 're back .
Did you walk from the station ? ''
`` No .
Hiram Jameson be there and offer to drive me home .
I 'd rather have walk .
It 's go to be a storm , I think .
Where be John ? ''
`` He go to the village after supper , '' answer Amelia , light a lamp .
`` We need some thing from the store . ''
The light flare up a she speak and bring out her strong , almost harsh feature and deep-set black eye .
Amelia Phillips look like an overdone sketch in charcoal .
`` Has anything happen in Woodford while I 've be away ? ''
ask Emily indifferently .
Plainly she do not expect an affirmative answer .
Woodford life be not eventful .
Amelia glance at her sharply .
So she have not hear !
Amelia have expect that Hiram Jameson would have tell her .
She wish that he have , for she never felt sure of Emily .
The old sister know that beneath that surface reserve be a passionate nature , brook no restraint when once it overleap the bound of her Puritan self-control .
Amelia Phillips , with all her naturally keen insight and her acquired knowledge of Emily 's character , have never be able to fathom the latter 's attitude of mind towards her husband .
From the time that Emily have come back to her girlhood 's home , five year before , Stephen Fair 's name have never cross her lip .
`` I suppose you have n't hear that Stephen be very ill , '' say Amelia slowly .
Not a feature of Emily 's face change .
Only in her voice when she speak be a curious jarring , a if a false note have be strike in a silver melody .
`` What be the matter with him ? ''
`` Typhoid , '' answer Amelia briefly .
She felt relieve that Emily have take it so calmly .
Amelia hat Stephen Fair with all the intensity of her nature because she believe that he have treat Emily ill , but she have always be distrustful that Emily in her heart of heart love her husband still .
That , in Amelia Phillips ' opinion , would have betray a weakness not to be tolerate .
Emily look at the lamp unwinkingly .
`` That wick need trimming , '' she say .
Then , with a sudden recurrence of the untuneful note : `` Is he dangerously ill ? ''
`` We have n't hear for three day .
The doctor be not anxious about him Monday , though they say it be a pretty severe case . ''
A faint , wraith-like change of expression drift over Emily 's beautiful face and be go in a moment .
What be it -- relief ?
Regret ?
It would have be impossible to say .
When she next speak her vibrant voice be a perfectly melodious a usual .
`` I think I will go to bed , Amelia .
John will not be back until late I suppose , and I be very tired .
There come the rain .
I suppose it will spoil all the flower .
They will be beat to piece . ''
In the dark hall Emily pause for a moment and open the front door to be cut in the face with a whip-like dash of rain .
She peer out into the thickly gathering gloom .
Beyond , in the garden , she saw the aster toss about , phantom-like .
The wind around the many-cornered old farmhouse be full of wail and sob .
The clock in the sitting-room struck eight .
Emily shiver and shut the door .
She remember that she have be marry at eight o'clock that very morning seven year ago .
She think she could see herself come down the stair in her white dress with her bouquet of aster .
For a moment she be glad that those mock flower in the garden would be all beat to death before morning by the lash of wind and rain .
Then she recover her mental poise and put the hateful memory away from her a she go steadily up the narrow stair and along the hall with it curious slant a the house have settle , to her own room under the north-western eaves .
When she have put out her light and go to bed she find that she could not sleep .
She pretend to believe that it be the noise of the storm that keep her awake .
Not even to herself would Emily confess that she be wait and listen nervously for John 's return home .
That would have be to admit a weakness , and Emily Fair , like Amelia , despise weakness .
Every few minute a gust of wind smite the house , with a roar a of a wild beast , and bombard Emily 's window with a volley of rattle drop .
In the silence that come between the gust she hear the soft , steady pouring of the rain on the garden path below , mingle with a faint murmur that come up from the creek beyond the barn where the pine bough be thrash in the storm .
Emily suddenly think of a weird story she have once read year before and long forgotten -- a story of a soul that go out in a night of storm and blackness and lose it way between earth and heaven .
She shudder and draw the counterpane over her face .
`` Of all thing I hate a fall storm most , '' she mutter .
`` It frighten me . ''
Somewhat to her surprise -- for even her thought be generally well under the control of her unbending will -- she could not help thinking of Stephen -- thinking of him not tenderly or remorsefully , but impersonally , a of a man who count for nothing in her life .
It be so strange to think of Stephen be ill .
She have never know him to have a day 's sickness in his life before .
She look back over her life much a if she be glance with a chill interest at a series of picture which in no way concern her .
Scene after scene , face after face , flash out on the background of the darkness .
Emily 's mother have die at her birth , but Amelia Phillips , twenty year old than the baby sister , have fill the vacant place so well and with such intuitive tenderness that Emily have never be conscious of miss a mother .
John Phillips , too , the grave , silent , elder brother , love and pet the child .
Woodford people be fond of say that John and Amelia spoil Emily shamefully .
Emily Phillips have never be like the other Woodford girl and have no friend of her own age among them .
Her uncommon beauty win her many lover , but she have never care for any of them until Stephen Fair , fifteen year her senior , have come a-wooing to the old , gray , willow-girdled Phillips homestead .
Amelia and John Phillips never like him .
There be an ancient feud between the family that have die out among the young generation , but be still potent with the old .
From the first Emily have love Stephen .
Indeed , deep down in her strange , wayward heart , she have care for him long before the memorable day when he have first look at her with see eye and realize that the quiet , unthought-of child who have be grow up at the old Phillips place have blossom out into a woman of strange , seraph-like beauty and deep grey eye whose expression be nevermore to go out of Stephen Fair 's remembrance from then till the day of his death .
John and Amelia Phillips put their own unjustifiable dislike of Stephen aside when they find that Emily 's heart be set on him .
The two be marry after a brief courtship and Emily go out from her girlhood 's home to the Fair homestead , two mile away .
Stephen 's mother live with them .
Janet Fair have never like Emily .
She have not be willing for Stephen to marry her .
But , apart from this , the woman have a natural , ineradicable love of make mischief and take a keen pleasure in it .
She love her son and she have love her husband , but nevertheless , when Thomas Fair have be alive she have foment continual strife and discontent between him and Stephen .
Now it become her pleasure to make what trouble she could between Stephen and his wife .
She have the advantage of Emily in that she be always sweet-spoken and , on the surface , sweet-tempered .
Emily , hurt and gall in a score of petty way , so subtle that they be beyond a man 's courser comprehension , astonish her husband by her fierce outburst of anger that seem to him for the most part without reason or excuse .
He try his best to preserve the peace between his wife and mother ; and when he fail , not understand all that Emily really endure at the elder woman 's merciless hand , he grow to think her capricious and easily irritate -- a spoiled child whose whim must not be take too seriously .
To a certain extent he be right .
Emily have be spoil .
The unbroken indulgence which her brother and sister have always accord her have fit her but poorly to cope with the trial of her new life .
True , Mrs. Fair be an unpleasant woman to live with , but if Emily have choose to be more patient under petty insult , and less resentful of her husband 's well-meant though clumsy effort for harmony , the old woman could have effect real little mischief .
But this Emily refuse to be , and the breach between husband and wife widen insidiously .
The final rupture come two year after their marriage .
Emily , in rebellious anger , tell her husband that she would no longer live in the same house with his mother .
`` You must choose between u , '' she say , her splendid voice vibrate with all the unleashed emotion of her be , yet with no faltering in it .
`` If she stay I go . ''
Stephen Fair , harass and bewilder , be angry with the relentless anger of a patient man rouse at last .
`` Go , then , '' he say sternly , `` I 'll never turn my mother from my door for any woman 's whim . ''
The stormy red go out of Emily 's face , leave it like a marble wash .
`` You mean that ! ''
she say calmly .
`` Think well .
If I go I 'll never return . ''
`` I do mean it , '' say Stephen .
`` Leave my house if you will -- if you hold your marriage vow so lightly .
When your sens return you be welcome to come back to me .
I will never ask you to . ''
Without another word Emily turn away .
That night she go back to John and Amelia .
They , on their part , welcome her back gladly , believe her to be a wronged and ill-used woman .
They hat Stephen Fair with a new and personal rancour .
The one thing they could hardly have forgive Emily would have be the fact of her relenting towards him .
But she do not relent .
In her soul she know that , with all her just grievance , she have be in the wrong , and for that she could not forgive him !
Two year after she have leave Stephen Mrs. Fair die , and his widowed sister-in-law go to keep house for him .
If he think of Emily he make no sign .
Stephen Fair never break a word once pass .
Since their separation no greeting or look have ever pass between husband and wife .
When they meet , a they occasionally do , neither impassive face change .
Emily Fair have bury her love deeply .
In her pride and anger she would not let herself remember even where she have dug it grave .
And now Stephen be ill .
The strange woman felt a certain pride in her own inflexibility because the fact do not affect her .
She tell herself that she could not have felt more unconcerned have he be the mere stranger .
Nevertheless she wait and watch for John Phillips ' homecoming .
At ten o'clock she hear his voice in the kitchen .
She lean out of the bed and pull open her door .
She hear voice below , but could not distinguish the word , so she rise and go noiselessly out into the hall , kneel down by the stair railing and listen .
The door of the kitchen be open below her and a narrow shaft of light struck on her white , intent face .
She look like a woman wait for the decree of doom .
At first John and Amelia talk of trivial matter .
Then the latter say abruptly : `` Did you hear how Stephen Fair be ? ''
`` He 's die , '' be the brief response .
Emily hear Amelia 's startled exclamation .
She grip the square rail with her hand until the sharp edge dinted deep into her finger .
John 's voice come up to her again , harsh and expressionless : `` He take a bad turn the day before yesterday and have be get worse ever since .
The doctor do n't expect him to live till morning . ''
Amelia begin to talk rapidly in low tone .
Emily hear nothing far .
She get up and go blindly back into her room with such agony tearing at her heartstrings that she dully wonder why she could not shriek aloud .
Stephen -- her husband -- die !
In the burn anguish of that moment her own soul be a an open book before her .
The love she have bury rise from the deep of her be in an awful , accuse resurrection .
Out of her stupor and pain a purpose form itself clearly .
She must go to Stephen -- she must beg and win his forgiveness before it be too late .
She dare not go down to John and ask him to take her to her husband .
He might refuse .
The Phillipses have be know to do even hard thing than that .
At the best there would be a storm of protest and objection on her brother 's and sister 's part , and Emily felt that she could not encounter that in her present mood .
It would drive her mad .
She light a lamp and dress herself noiselessly , but with feverish haste .
Then she listen .
The house be very still .
Amelia and John have go to bed .
She wrap herself in a heavy woollen shawl hang in the hall and crept downstairs .
With numbed finger she fumble at the key of the hall door , turn it and slip out into the night .
The storm seem to reach out and clutch her and swallow her up .
She go through the garden , where the flower already be crush to earth ; she cross the long field beyond , where the rain cut her face like a whip and the wind almost twist her in it grasp like a broken reed .
Somehow or other , more by blind instinct than anything else , she find the path that lead through common and wood and waste valley to her lose home .
In after year that frenzied walk through the storm and blackness seem a an unbroken nightmare to Emily Fair 's recollection .
Often she fell .
Once a she do so a jagged , dead limb of fir strike her forehead and cut in it a gash that mark her for life .
As she struggle to her foot and find her way again the blood trickle down over her face .
`` Oh God , do n't let him die before I get to him -- do n't -- do n't -- do n't ! ''
she pray desperately with more of defiance than entreaty in her voice .
Then , realize this , she cry out in horror .
Surely some fearsome punishment would come upon her for her wickedness -- she would find her husband lie dead .
When Emily open the kitchen door of the Fair homestead Almira Sentner cry out in her alarm , who or what be this creature with the white face and wild eye , with her torn and drip garment and dishevel , wind-writhen hair and the big drop of blood slowly trickle from her brow ?
The next moment she recognize Emily and her face harden .
This woman , Stephen 's sister-in-law , have always hat Emily Fair .
`` What do you want here ? ''
she say harshly .
`` Where be my husband ? ''
ask Emily .
`` You ca n't see him , '' say Mrs. Sentner defiantly .
`` The doctor wo n't allow anyone in the room but those he 's use to .
Strangers excite him . ''
The insolence and cruelty of her speech fell on unheeding ear .
Emily , understand only that her husband yet live , turn to the hall door .
`` Stand back ! ''
she say in a voice that be little more than a thrilling whisper , but which yet have in it something that cow Almira Sentner 's malice .
Sullenly she stand aside and Emily go unhindered up the stair to the room where the sick man lay .
The two doctor in attendance be there , together with the trained nurse from the city .
Emily push them aside and fell on her knee by the bed .
One of the doctor make a hasty motion a if to draw her back , but the other check him .
`` It do n't matter now , '' he say significantly .
Stephen Fair turn his languid , unshorn head on the pillow .
His dull , fevered eye meet Emily 's .
He have not recognize anyone all day , but he know his wife .
`` Emily ! ''
he whisper .
Emily draw his head close to her face and kiss his lip passionately .
`` Stephen , I 've come back to you .
Forgive me -- forgive me -- say that you forgive me . ''
`` It 's all right , my girl , '' he say feebly .
She bury her face in the pillow beside his with a sob .
In the wan , grey light of the autumn dawn the old doctor come to the bedside and lift Emily to her foot .
She have not stir the whole night .
Now she raise her white face with dumb pleading in her eye .
The doctor glance at the sleep form on the bed .
`` Your husband will live , Mrs. Fair , '' he say gently .
`` I think your come save him .
His joy turn the ebb tide in favour of life . ''
`` Thank God ! ''
say Emily .
And for the first time in her life her beautiful voice tremble .
Min The morning sun hung , a red , lustreless ball , in the dull grey sky .
A light snow have fall in the night and the landscape , cross by spider-like trail of fence , be a white and lifeless a if wrap in a shroud .
A young man be drive down the road to Rykman 's Corner ; the youthful face visible above the greatcoat be thoughtful and refine , the eye deep blue and peculiarly beautiful , the mouth firm yet sensitive .
It be not a handsome face , but there be a strangely subtle charm about it .
The chill breathlessness of the air seem prophetic of more snow .
The Reverend Allan Telford look across the bare waste and cold white hill and shiver , a if the icy lifelessness about him be slowly and relentlessly creep into his own heart and life .
He felt utterly discourage .
In his soul he be ask bitterly what good have come of all his prayerful labour among the people of this pinch , narrow world , a rugged and unbeautiful in form and life a the barren hill that shut them in .
He have be two year among them and he count it two year of failure .
He have be too outspoken for them ; they resent sullenly his direct and incisive tirade against their pet sin .
They view his small innovation on their traditional way of worship with disfavour and distrust and shut him out of their life with an ever-increasing coldness .
He have mean well and work hard and he felt his failure keenly .
His thought revert to a letter receive the precede day from a former classmate , state that the pastorate of a certain desirable town church have become vacant and hint that a call be to be moderate for him unless he signify his unwillingness to accept .
Two year before , Allan Telford , fresh from college and full of vigorous enthusiasm and high idea , would have say : `` No , that be not for me .
My work must lie among the poor and lowly of earth a do my Master 's .
Shall I shrink from it because , to worldly eye , the way look dreary and uninviting ? ''
Now , look back on his two year ' ministry , he say wearily : `` I can remain here no longer .
If I do , I fear I shall sink down into something almost as pitiful a one of these canting , gossip people myself .
I can do them no good -- they do not like or trust me .
I will accept this call and go back to my own world . ''
Perhaps the keynote of his failure be sound in his last word , `` my own world . ''
He have never felt , or try to feel , that this narrow sphere be his own world .
It be some low level to which he have come with good tidings and honest intention but , unconsciously , he have hold himself above it , and his people felt and resent this .
They express it by say he be `` stuck-up . ''
Rykman 's Corner come into view a he drive over the brow of a long hill .
He hat the place , know it well for what it be -- a festering hotbed of gossip and malice , the habitat of all the slanderous rumour and innuendo that permeate the social tissue of the community .
The new scandal , the worst-flavoured joke , the late detail of the most recent quarrel , be always to be have at Rykman 's store .
As the minister drive down the hill , a man come out of a small house at the foot and wait on the road .
Had it be possible Telford would have pretend not to see him , but it be not possible , for Isaac Galletly mean to be see and hail the minister cheerfully .
`` Good mornin ' , Mr. Telford .
Ye wo n't mind give me a lift down to the Corner , I dessay ? ''
Telford check his horse reluctantly and Galletly crawl into the cutter .
He be that most despicable of created being , a male gossip , and he spend most of his time travel from house to house in the village , smoke his pipe in neighbourly kitchen and fan into an active blaze all the smoulder feud of the place .
He have be nickname `` The Morning Chronicle '' by a sarcastic schoolteacher who have sojourn a winter at the Corner .
The name be an apt one and clung .
Telford have hear it .
I suppose he be start out on his round now , he think .
Galletly plunge undauntedly into the conversational gap .
`` Quite a fall of snow last night .
Reckon we 'll have more ` fore long .
That be a grand sermon ye give u last Sunday , Mr. Telford .
Reckon it go home to some folk , judgin ' from all I 've hear .
It be need and that 's a fact .
` Live peaceably with all men ' -- that 's what I lay out to do .
There ai n't a house in the district but what I can drop into and welcome .
` Tai n't everybody in Rykman 's Corner can say the same . ''
Galletly squint out of the corner of his eye to see if the minister would open on the trail of this hint .
Telford 's passive face be discourage but Galletly be not to be baffle .
`` I s ` pose ye have n't hear about the row down at Palmers ' last night ? ''
`` No . ''
The monosyllable be curt .
Telford be vainly seek to nip Galletly 's gossip in the bud .
The name of Palmer convey no especial meaning to his ear .
He know where the Palmer homestead be , and that the plaintive-faced , fair-haired woman , whose name be Mrs. Fuller and who come to church occasionally , live there .
His knowledge go no further .
He have call three time and find nobody at home -- at least , to all appearance .
Now he be fat to have the whole budget of some vulgar quarrel force on him by Galletly .
`` No ?
Everyone 's talkin ' of it .
The long and short of it be that Min Palmer have have a regular up-and-down row with Rose Fuller and turn her and her little gal out of door .
I believe the two woman have an awful time .
Min 's a Tartar when her temper 's up -- and that 's pretty often .
Nobody know how Rose manage to put up with her so long .
But she have have to go at last .
Goodness know what the poor critter 'll do .
She have n't a cent nor a relation -- she be just an orphan girl that Palmer bring up .
She be at Rawlingses now .
Maybe when Min cool off , she 'll let her go back but it 's doubtful .
Min hat her like p ` isen . ''
To Telford this be all very unintelligible .
But he understand that Mrs. Fuller be in trouble of some kind and that it be his duty to help her if possible , although he have an odd and unaccountable aversion to the woman , for which he have often reproach himself .
`` Who be this woman you call Min Palmer ? ''
he say coldly .
`` What be the family circumstance ?
I ought to know , perhaps , if I be to be of any service -- but I have no wish to hear idle gossip . ''
His conclude sentence be quite unheeded by Galletly .
`` Min Palmer 's the bad woman in Rykman 's Corner -- or out of it .
She always be an odd one .
I mind her when she be a girl -- a saucy , black-eyed baggage she be !
Handsome , some folk call her .
I never c 'd see it .
Her people be a queer crowd and Min be never brung up right -- jest let run wild all her life .
Well , Rod Palmer take to dancin ' attendance on her .
Rod be a worthless scamp .
Old Palmer be well off and Rod be his only child , but this Rose live there and keep house for them after Mis ' Palmer die .
She be a quiet , well-behaved little creetur .
Folks say the old man want Rod to marry her -- dunno if 't be so or not .
In the end , howsomever , he have to marry Min .
Her brother get after him with a horse-whip , ye understand .
Old Palmer be furious but he have to give in and Rod bring her home .
She be a bit sober down by her trouble and live quiet and sullen-like at first .
Her and Rod fought like cat and dog .
Rose marry Osh Fuller , a worthless , drunken fellow .
He die in a year or so and leave Rose and her baby without a roof over their head .
Then old Palmer go and bring her home .
He set great store by Rose and he c ` d n't bear Min .
Min have to be civil to Rose as long a old Palmer live .
Fin ` lly Rod up and die and 't be n't long before his father go too .
Then the queer part come in .
Everyone expect that he 'd purvide well for Rose and Min 'd come in second best .
But no will be to be find .
I do n't say but what it be all right , mind you .
I may have my own secret opinion , of course .
Old Palmer have a regular mania , a ye might say , for makin ' will .
He 'd have a lawyer out from town every year and have a new will make and the old one burnt .
Lawyer Bell be there and make one ` bout eight month ` fore he die .
It be s ` pose he 'd destroy it and then die ` fore he 'd time to make another .
He go off awful sudden .
Anyway , everything go to Min 's child -- to Min a ye might say .
She 's be boss .
Rose still stay on there and Min let her , which be more than folk expect of her .
But she 's turn her out at last .
Min 's in one of her tantrum now and ` tai n't safe to cross her path . ''
`` What be Mrs. Fuller to do ? ''
ask Telford anxiously .
`` That 's the question .
She 's sickly -- ca n't work much -- and then she have her leetle gal .
Min be always jealous of that child .
It 's a real purty , smart leetle creetur and old Palmer make a lot of it .
Min 's own be an awful-looking thing -- a cripple from the time 't be bear .
There 's no doubt 't be a jedgement on her .
As for Rose , no doubt the god of the widow and fatherless will purvide for her . ''
In spite of his disgust , Telford could not repress a smile at the tone , half-whine , half-snuffle , with which Galletly end up .
`` I think I have well call and see this Mrs. Palmer , '' he say slowly . ''
` Twould be no airthly use , Mr. Telford .
Min 'd slam the door in your face if she do nothing worse .
She hat minister and everything that 's good .
She have n't darken a church door for year .
She never have any religious tendency to begin with , and when there be such a scandal about her , old Mr. Dinwoodie , our pastor then -- a godly man , Mr. Telford -- he do n't hold no truck with evildoer -- he go right to her to reprove and rebuke her for her sin .
Min , she fly at him .
She vow then she 'd never go to church again , and she never have .
People hereabouts have talk to her and try to do her good , but it ai n't no use .
Why , I 've hear that woman say there be no God .
It 's a fact , Mr. Telford -- I have .
Some of our minister have try to visit her .
They do n't try it more than once .
The last one -- he be about your heft -- he get a scare , I tell you .
Min just catch him by the shoulder and shake him like a rat !
Did n't see it myself but Mrs. Rawlings do .
Ye ought to hear her describin ' of it . ''
Galletly chuckle over the recollection , his wicked little eye glisten with delight .
Telford be thankful when they reach the store .
He felt that he could not endure this man 's society any long .
Nevertheless , he felt strangely interested .
This Min Palmer must at least be different from the rest of the Cornerites , if only in the great force of her wickedness .
He almost felt a if her sin on the grand scale be less blameworthy than the petty vice of her censorious neighbour .
Galletly eagerly join the group of lounger on the dirty wet platform , and Telford pass into the store .
A couple of slatternly woman be talk to Mrs. Rykman about `` the Palmer row . ''
Telford make his small purchase hastily .
As he turn from the counter , he come face to face with a woman who have pause in the doorway to survey the scene with an air of sullen scorn .
By some subtle intuition Telford know that this be Min Palmer .
The young man 's first feeling be one of admiration for the woman before him , who , in spite of her grotesque attire and defiant , unwomanly air , be strikingly beautiful .
She be tall , and not even the man 's rag overcoat which she wear could conceal the grace of her figure .
Her abundant black hair be twist into a sag knot at her neck , and from beneath the old fur cap look out a pair of large and brilliant black eye , heavily lash , and full of a smouldering fire .
Her skin be tan and coarsen , but the warm crimson blood glow in her cheek with a dusky richness , and her face be a perfect oval , with feature chisel in almost classic regularity of outline .
Telford have a curious experience at that moment .
He seem to see , look out from behind this external mask of degraded beauty , the semblance of what this woman might have be under more favouring circumstance of birth and environment , wherein her rich , passionate nature , potent for either good or evil , might have be train and sway aright until it have develop grandly out into the glorious womanhood the Creator must have plan for her .
He know , a if by revelation , that this woman have nothing in common with the narrow , self-righteous soul of Rykman 's Corner .
Warped and pervert though her nature might be , she be yet far noble than those who sit in judgement upon her .
Min make some scanty purchase and leave the store quickly , brush unheedingly past the minister a she do so .
He saw her step on a rough wood-sleigh and drive down the river road .
The platform lounger have be silent during her call , but now the talk bubble forth anew .
Telford be sick at heart a he drive swiftly away .
He felt for Min Palmer a pity he could not understand or analyze .
The attempt to measure the gulf between what she be and what she might have be hurt him like the stab of a knife .
He make several call at various house along the river during the forenoon .
After dinner he suddenly turn his horse towards the Palmer place .
Isaac Galletly , comfortably curl up in a neighbour 's chimney corner , saw him drive past .
`` Ef the minister ai n't goin ' to Palmers ' after all ! ''
he chuckle .
`` He 's a set one when he do take a notion .
Well , I warn him what to expect .
If Min claw his eye out , he 'll only have himself to blame . ''
Telford be not without his own misgiving a he drive into the Palmer yard .
He tie his horse to the fence and look doubtfully about him .
Untrodden snowdrift be heap about the front door , so he turn towards the kitchen and walk slowly past the bare lilac tree along the fence .
There be no sign of life about the place .
It be begin to snow again , softly and thickly , and the hill and river be hide behind a misty white veil .
He lift his hand to knock , but before he could do so , the door be fling open and Min herself confront him on the threshold .
She do not now have on the man 's overcoat which she have wear at the store , and her neat , close-fitting home-spun dress reveal to perfection the full , magnificent curve of her figure .
Her splendid hair be braid about her head in a glossy coronet , and her dark eye be ablaze with ill-suppressed anger .
Again Telford be overcome by a sense of her wonderful loveliness .
Not all the year of bondage to ill-temper and misguide will have be able to blot out the beauty of that proud , dark face .
She lift one large but shapely brown hand and point to the gate .
`` Go ! ''
she say threateningly .
`` Mrs. Palmer , '' begin Telford , but she silence him with an imperious gesture .
`` I do n't want any of your kind here .
I hate all you minister .
Did you come here to lecture me ?
I suppose some of the Corner saint set you on me .
You 'll never cross my threshold . ''
Telford return her defiant gaze unflinchingly .
His dark-blue eye , magnetic in their power and sweetness , look gravely , questioningly , into Min 's stormy orb .
Slowly the fire and anger fade out of her face and her head droop .
`` I ai n't fit for you to talk to anyway , '' she say with a sort of sullen humility .
`` Maybe you mean well but you ca n't do me any good .
I 'm past that now .
The Corner saint say I 'm possessed of the devil .
Perhaps I be -- if there be one . ''
`` I do mean well , '' say Telford slowly .
`` I do not come here to reprove you .
I come to help you if I could -- if you need help , Mrs. Palmer -- '' `` Do n't call me that , '' she interrupt passionately .
She fling out her hand a if push some loathly , invisible thing from her .
`` I hate the name -- a I hat all who ever bore it .
I never have anything but wrong and dog-usage from them all .
Call me Min -- that 's the only name that belong to me now .
Go -- why do n't you go ?
Do n't stand there look at me like that .
I 'm not go to change my mind .
I do n't want any praying and whine round me .
I 've be well sicken of that .
Go ! ''
Telford throw back his head and look once more into her eye .
A long look pass between them .
Then he silently lift his cap and , with no word of farewell , he turn and go down to the gate .
A bitter sense of defeat and disappointment fill his heart a he drive away .
Min stand in the doorway and watch the sleigh out of sight down the river road .
Then she give a long , shiver sigh that be almost a moan .
`` If I have meet that man long ago , '' she say slowly , a if grope vaguely in some hitherto unsounded depth of consciousness , `` I would never have become what I be .
I felt that a I look at him -- it all come over me with an awful sickening feeling -- just a if we be stand alone somewhere out of the world where there be no need of word to say thing .
He do n't despise me -- he would n't sneer at me , bad a I be , like those creature up there .
He could have help me if we have meet in time , but it 's too late now . ''
She lock her hand over her eye and groan , sway her body to and fro a one in mortal agony .
Presently she look out again with hard , dry eye .
`` What a fool I be ! ''
she say bitterly .
`` How the Corner saint would stare if they saw me !
I suppose some of them do -- '' with a glance at the window of a neighbouring house .
`` Yes , there 's Mrs. Rawlings star out and Rose peeking over her shoulder . ''
Her face harden .
The old sway of evil passion reassert itself .
`` She shall never come back here -- never .
Oh , she be a sweet-spoken cat of a thing -- but she have claw .
I 've be blame for all the trouble .
But if ever I have a chance , I 'd tell that minister how she use to twit and taunt me in that sugary way of hers -- how she scheme and plot against me as long a she could .
More fool I to care what he think either !
I wish I be dead .
If 't be n't for the child , I 'd go and drown myself at that black spring-hole down there -- I 'd be well out of the way . ''
* * * * * It be a dull grey afternoon a week afterwards when Allan Telford again walk up the river road to the Palmer place .
The wind be bitter and he walk with bent head to avoid it fury .
His face be pale and worn and he look year old .
He pause at the rough gate and lean over it while he scan the house and it surroundings eagerly .
As he look , the kitchen door open and Min , clad in the old overcoat , come out and walk swiftly across the yard .
Telford 's eye follow her with pitiful absorption .
He saw her lead a horse from the stable and harness it into a wood-sleigh load with bag of grain .
Once she pause to fling her arm about the animal 's neck , lay her face against it with a caress motion .
The pale minister groan aloud .
He long to snatch her forever from that hard , unwomanly toil and fold her safely away from jeer and scorn in the shelter of his love .
He know it be madness -- he have tell himself so every hour in which Min 's dark , rebellious face have haunt him -- yet none the le be he under it control .
Min lead the horse across the yard and leave it stand before the kitchen door ; she have not see the bowed figure at the gate .
When she reappear , he saw her dark eye and the rose-red lustre of her face gleam out from under the old crimson shawl wrap about her head .
As she catch the horse by the bridle , the kitchen door swing heavily to with a sharp , sudden bang .
The horse , a great , powerful , nervous brute , start wildly and then rear in terror .
The ice underfoot be glib and treacherous .
Min lose her foothold and fell directly under the horse 's hoof a they come heavily down .
The animal , freed from her detain hand , sprang forward , drag the laden sleigh over the prostrate woman .
It have all pass in a moment .
The moveless figure lay where it have fall , one outstretched hand still grasp the whip .
Telford sprang over the gate and rush up the slope like a madman .
He fling himself on his knee beside her .
`` Min !
Min ! ''
he call wildly .
There be no answer .
He lift her in his arm and stagger into the house with his burden , his heart still with a horrible fear a he lay her gently down on the old lounge in one corner of the kitchen .
The room be a large one and everything be neat and clean .
The fire burn brightly , and a few green plant be in blossom by the south window .
Beside them sit a child of about seven year who turn a startled face at Telford 's reckless entrance .
The boy have Min 's dark eye and perfectly chisel feature , refine by suffer into cameo-like delicacy , and the silken hair fell in soft , waving mass about the spiritual little face .
By his side nestle a tiny dog , with satin ear and paw fringe a with ravelled silk .
Telford pay heed to nothing , not even the frightened child .
He be a one distraught .
`` Min , '' he wail again , strive tremblingly to feel her pulse while cold drop come out on his forehead .
Min 's face be as pallid a marble , save for one heavy bruise across the cheek and a cruel cut at the edge of the dark hair , from which the blood trickle down on the pillow .
She open her eye wonderingly at his call , look up with a daze , appeal expression of pain and dread .
A low moan break from her white lip .
Telford sprang to his foot in a tumult of quiver joy .
`` Min , dear , '' he say gently , `` you have be hurt -- not seriously , I hope .
I must leave you for a minute while I run for help -- I will not be long . ''
`` Come back , '' say Min in a low but distinct tone .
He pause impatiently .
`` It be of no use to get help , '' Min go on calmly .
`` I 'm die -- I know it .
Oh , my God ! ''
She press her hand to her side and writhe .
Telford turn desperately to the door .
Min raise her arm .
`` Come here , '' she say resolutely .
He obey mutely .
She look up at him with bright , unquailing eye .
`` Do n't you go one step -- do n't leave me here to die alone .
I 'm past help -- and I 've something to say to you .
I must say it and I have n't much time . ''
Telford hardly heed her in his misery .
`` Min , let me go for help -- let me do something , '' he implore .
`` You must not die -- you must not ! ''
Min have fall back , gasping , on the blood-stained pillow .
He kneel beside her and put his arm about the poor , crush body .
`` I must hurry , '' she say faintly .
`` I ca n't die with it on my mind .
Rose -- it 's all hers -- all .
There be a will -- he make it -- old Gra n'ther Palmer .
He always hat me .
I find it before he die -- and read it .
He leave everything to her -- not a cent to me nor his son 's child -- we be to starve -- beg .
I be like a madwoman .
When he die -- I hide the will .
I mean -- to burn it -- but I never could .
It 's torture me -- night and day -- I 've have no peace .
You 'll find it in a box -- in my room .
Tell her -- tell Rose -- how wicked I 've be .
And my boy -- what will become of him ?
Rose hat him -- she 'll turn him out -- or ill-treat him -- '' Telford lift his white , drawn face .
`` I will take your child , Min .
He shall be to me a my own son . ''
An expression of unspeakable relief come into the die woman 's face .
`` It be good -- of you .
I can die -- in peace -- now .
I 'm glad to die -- to get clear of it all .
I 'm tired -- of living so .
Perhaps -- I 'll have a chance -- somewhere else .
I 've never -- have any -- here . ''
The dark eye droop -- close .
Telford moan shudderingly .
Once again Min open her eye and look straight into his .
`` If I have meet you -- long ago -- you would have -- love me -- and I would have be -- a good woman .
It be well for u -- for you -- that I be -- dying .
Your path will be clear -- you will be good and successful -- but you will always -- remember me . ''
Telford bent and press his lip to Min 's pain-blanched mouth .
`` Do you think -- we will -- ever meet again ? ''
she say faintly .
`` Out there -- it 's so dark -- God can never -- forgive me -- I 've be so -- wicked . ''
`` Min , the all-loving Father be more merciful than man .
He will forgive you , if you ask Him , and you will wait for me till I come .
I will stay here and do my duty -- I will try hard -- '' His voice break .
Min 's great black eye beam out on him with passionate tenderness .
The strong , deep , erring nature yield at last .
An exceed bitter cry rise to her lip .
`` Oh , God -- forgive me -- forgive me ! ''
And with the cry , the soul of poor suffering , sin , sinned-against Min Palmer flee -- who shall say whither ?
Who shall say that her remorseful cry be not hear , even at that late hour , by a Judge more merciful than her fellow creature ?
Telford still kneel on the bare floor , hold in his arm the dead form of the woman he love -- his , all his , in death , a she could never have be in life .
Death have bridge the gulf between them .
The room be very silent .
To Min 's face have return something of it girlhood 's innocence .
The hard , unlovely line be all smooth out .
The little cripple crept timidly up to Telford , with the silky head of the dog press against his cheek .
Telford gather the distorted little body to his side and look earnestly into the small face -- Min 's face , purify and spiritualize .
He would have it near him always .
He bent and reverently kiss the cold face , the closed eyelid and the blood-stained brow of the dead woman .
Then he stand up .
`` Come with me , dear , '' he say gently to the child .
* * * * * The day after the funeral , Allan Telford sit in the study of his little manse among the encircle wintry hill .
Close to the window sit Min 's child , his small , beautiful face press against the pane , and the bright-eyed dog beside him .
Telford be write in his journal .
`` I shall stay here -- close to her grave .
I shall see it every time I look from my study window -- every time I stand in my pulpit -- every time I go in and out among my people .
I begin to see wherein I have fail .
I shall begin again patiently and humbly .
I write today to decline the C -- church call .
My heart and my work be here . ''
He close the book and bow his head on it .
Outside the snow fell softly ; he know that it be wrap that new-made grave on the cold , fir-sentinelled hillside with a stainless shroud of infinite purity and peace .
Miss Cordelia 's Accommodation `` Poor little creature ! ''
say Miss Cordelia compassionately .
She mean the factory child .
In her car ride from the school where she teach to the bridge that span the river between Pottstown , the sooty little manufacturing village on one side , and Point Pleasant , which be merely a hamlet , on the other , she have see dozen of them , play and quarrel on the street or peer wistfully out of dingy tenement window .
`` Tomorrow be Saturday , '' she reflect , `` and they 've no good place to play in than the back street and yard .
It 's a shame .
There 's work for our philanthropist here , but they do n't seem to see it .
Well , I 'm so sorry for them it hurt me to look at them , but I ca n't do anything . ''
Miss Cordelia sigh and then brighten up , because she realize that she be turn her back upon Pottstown for two blissful day and go to Point Pleasant , which have just one straggling , elm-shaded street hedge on old-fashioned garden and cosy little house and trail off into the real country in a half-hour 's walk .
Miss Cordelia live alone in a tiny house at Point Pleasant .
It be so tiny that you would have wonder how anyone could live in it .
`` But it 's plenty big for a little old maid like me , '' Miss Cordelia would have tell you .
`` And it 's my own -- I 'm queen there .
There 's solid comfort in have one spot for your own self .
To be sure , if I have le land and more house it would be good . ''
Miss Cordelia always laugh here .
It be one of her joke .
There be a four-acre field behind the house .
Both have be leave to her by an uncle .
The field be of no use to Miss Cordelia ; she do n't keep a cow and she have n't time to make a garden .
But she like her field ; when people ask her why she do n't sell it she say : `` I 'm fond of it .
I like to walk around in it when the grass grow long .
And it may come in handy some time .
Mother used to say if you keep anything seven year it would come to use .
I 've have my field a good bit longer than that , but maybe the time will come yet .
Meanwhile I rejoice in the fact that I be a landed proprietor to the extent of four acre . ''
Miss Cordelia have think of convert her field into a playground for the factory child and ask detachment of them over on Saturday afternoon .
But she know that her Point Pleasant neighbour would object to this , so that project be drop .
When Miss Cordelia push open her little gate , hung crookedly in a very compact and prim spruce hedge , she stop in amazement and say , `` Well , for pity 's sake ! ''
Cynthia Ann Flemming , who live on the other side of the spruce hedge , now come hurry over .
`` Good evening , Cordelia .
I have a letter that be leave with me for you . ''
`` But -- that -- horse , '' say Miss Cordelia , with a long breath between every word .
`` Where do he come from ?
Tied at my front door -- and he 's eaten the top off every one of my geranium !
Where 's his owner or rider or something ? ''
The horse in question be a mild-eyed , rather good-looking quadruped , tie by a halter to the elm at Miss Cordelia 's door and contentedly munch a mouthful of geranium stalk .
Cynthia Ann come through the hedge with the letter .
`` Maybe this will explain , '' she say .
`` Same boy bring it a bring the horse -- a little freckly chap mostly all grin and shirtsleeve .
Said he be tell to take the letter and horse to Miss Cordelia Herry , Elm Street , Point Pleasant , and he could n't wait .
So he tie the creature in there and leave the letter with me .
He come half an hour ago .
Well , he have play havoc with your geranium and no mistake . ''
Miss Cordelia open and read her letter .
When she finish it she look at the curious Cynthia Ann solemnly .
`` Well , if that be n't John Drew all over !
I suspect he be at the bottom of it as soon a I lay my eye on that animal .
John Drew be a cousin of mine .
He 's be live out at Poplar Valley and he write me that he have go out west , and want me to take ` old Nap . '
I suppose that be the horse .
He say that Nap be get old and not much use for work and he could n't bear the thought of shoot him or sell him to someone who might ill-treat him , so he want me to take him and be kind to him for old time ' sake .
John and I be just like brother and sister when we be child .
If this be n't like him nothing ever be .
He be always do odd thing and think they be all right .
And now he 's off west and here be the horse .
If it be a cat or a dog -- but a horse ! ''
`` Your four-acre field will come in handy now , '' say Cynthia Ann jestingly .
`` So it will . ''
Miss Cordelia speak absently .
`` The very thing !
Yes , I 'll put him in there . ''
`` But you do n't really mean that you 're go to keep the horse , be you ? ''
protest Cynthia Ann .
`` Why , he be no good to you -- and think of the expense of feed him ! ''
`` I 'll keep him for a while , '' say Miss Cordelia briskly .
`` As you say , there be the four-acre field .
It will keep him in eat for a while .
I always know that field have a mission .
Poor John Drew !
I 'd like to oblige him for old time ' sake , a he say , although this be as crazy a anything he ever do .
But I have a plan .
Meanwhile , I ca n't fee Nap on geranium . ''
Miss Cordelia always adapt herself quickly and calmly to new circumstance .
`` It be never any use to get in a stew about thing , '' she be wont to say .
So now she untie Nap gingerly , with many rueful glance at her geranium , and lead him away to the field behind the house , where she tie him safely to a post with such an abundance of knot that there be small fear of his get away .
When the mystify Cynthia Ann have return home Miss Cordelia set about get her tea and thinking over the plan that have come to her concern her white elephant .
`` I can keep him for the summer , '' she say .
`` I 'll have to dispose of him in the fall for I 've no place to keep him in , and anyway I could n't afford to fee him .
I 'll see if I can borrow Mr. Griggs 's express wagon for Saturday afternoon , and if I can those poor factory child in my grade shall have a weekly treat or my name be not Cordelia Herry .
I 'm not so sure but that John Drew have do a good thing after all .
Poor John !
He always do take thing so for grant . ''
* * * * * All the point pleasant people soon know about Miss Cordelia 's questionable windfall , and she be overwhelm with advice and suggestion .
She listen to all tranquilly and then placidly follow her own way .
Mr. Griggs be very oblige in regard to his old express wagon , and the next Saturday Point Pleasant be treat to a mild sensation -- nothing less than Miss Cordelia rattle through the village , enthrone on the high seat of Mr. Griggs 's yellow express wagon , draw by old Nap who , after a week of browse idleness in the four-acre field , be quite frisky and go at a decided amble down Elm Street and across the bridge .
The long wagon have be fill up with board seat , and when Miss Cordelia come back over the bridge the board be crowd with factory child -- pale-faced little creature whose eye be aglow with pleasure at this unexpected outing .
Miss Cordelia drive straight out to the big pine-clad hill of Deepdale , six mile from Pottstown .
Then she tie Nap in a convenient lane and turn the child loose to revel in the wood and field .
How they do enjoy themselves !
And how Miss Cordelia enjoy see them enjoy themselves !
When dinner time come she gather them all around her and go to the wagon .
In it she have a basket of bread and butter .
`` I ca n't afford anything more , '' she tell Cynthia Ann , `` but they must have something to stay their little stomach .
And I can get some water at a farmhouse . ''
Miss Cordelia have have her eye on a certain farmhouse all the morning .
She do not know anything about the people who live there , but she like the look of the place .
It be a big , white , green-shuttered house , throne in wide-spreading orchard , with a green sweep of velvety lawn in front .
To this Miss Cordelia take her way , surround by her small passenger , and they all troop into the great farmhouse yard just a a big man step out of a nearby barn .
As he approach , Miss Cordelia think she have never see anybody so much like an incarnate smile before .
Smiles of all kind seem literally to riot over his ruddy face and in and out of his eye and around the corner of his mouth .
`` Well , well , well ! ''
he say , when he come near enough to be hear .
`` Is this a runaway school , ma'am ? ''
`` I 'm the runaway schoolma'am , '' respond Miss Cordelia with a twinkle .
`` And these be a lot of factory child I 've bring out for a Saturday treat .
I think I might get some water from your well , and maybe you will lend u a tin dipper or two ? ''
`` Water ?
Tut , tut ! ''
say the big man , with three distinct smile on his face .
`` Milk 's the thing , ma'am -- milk .
I 'll tell my housekeeper to bring some out .
And all of you come over to the lawn and make yourselves at home .
Bless you , ma'am , I 'm fond of child .
My name be Smiles , ma'am -- Abraham Smiles . ''
`` It suit you , '' say Miss Cordelia emphatically , before she think , and then blush rosy-red over her bluntness .
Mr . Smiles laugh .
`` Yes , I guess I always have an everlasting grin on .
Had to live up to my name , you see , in spite of my naturally cantankerous disposition ; But come this way , ma'am , I can see the hunger stick out of those youngster ' eye .
We 'll have a sort of impromptu picnic here and now , I 'll tell my housekeeper to send out some jam too . ''
While the child devour their lunch Miss Cordelia find herself tell Mr . Smiles all about old Nap and her little project .
`` I 'm go to bring out a load every fine Saturday all summer , '' she say .
`` It 's all I can do .
They enjoy it so , the little creature .
It 's terrible to think how cramped their life be .
They just exist in soot .
Some of them here never saw green field before today . ''
Mr . Smiles listen and beam and twinkle until Miss Cordelia felt almost as dazzle a if she be look at the sun .
`` Look here , ma'am , I like this plan of yours and I want to have a hand in help it along .
Bring your load of child out here every Saturday , right here to Beechwood Farm , and turn them loose in my beech wood and upland pasture .
I 'll put up some swing for them and have some game , and I 'll provide the refreshment also .
Trouble , ma'am ?
No , trouble and I ai n't on speaking term .
It 'll be a pleasure , ma'am .
I 'm fond of child even if I be a grumpy cross-grained old bachelor .
If you can give up your own holiday to give them a good time , surely I can do something too . ''
When Miss Cordelia and her brood of tired , happy little lad and lass amble back to town in the golden dusk she felt that the expedition have be an emphatic success .
Even old Nap seem to jog along eye-deep in satisfaction .
Probably he be ruminate on the glorious afternoon he have spend in Mr . Smiles 's clover pasture .
Every fine Saturday that summer Miss Cordelia take some of the factory child to the country .
The Point Pleasant people nickname her equipage `` Miss Cordelia 's accommodation , '' and it become a mild stand joke .
As for Mr . Smiles , he prove a valuable assistant .
Like Miss Cordelia , he give his Saturdays over to the child , and high weekly revel be hold at Beechwood Farm .
But when the big bronze and golden leaf begin to fall in the beech wood , Miss Cordelia sorrowfully realize that the summer be over and that the weekly outing which she have enjoy as much a the child must soon be discontinue .
`` I feel so sorry , '' she tell Mr . Smiles , `` but it ca n't be help .
It will soon be too cold for our jaunt and of course I ca n't keep Nap through the winter .
I hate to part with him , I 've grow so fond of him , but I must . ''
She look regretfully at Nap , who be nibble Mr . Smiles 's clover aftermath .
He be sleek and glossy .
It have be the golden summer of Nap 's life .
Mr . Smiles cough in an embarrassed fashion .
Miss Cordelia look at him and be amaze to see that not a smile be on or about his face .
He look absurdly serious .
`` I want to buy Nap , '' he say in a sepulchral tone , `` but that be not the only thing I want .
I want you too , ma'am .
I 'm tired of be a cross old bachelor .
I think I 'd like to be a cross old husband , for a change .
Do you think you could put up with me in that capacity , Miss Cordelia , my dear ? ''
Miss Cordelia give a half gasp and then she have to laugh .
`` Oh , Mr . Smiles , I 'll agree to anything if you 'll only smile again .
It seem unnatural to see you look so solemn . ''
The smile at once break loose and revel over her wooer 's face .
`` Then you will come ? ''
he say eagerly .
Half an hour later they have their plan make .
At New Year 's Miss Cordelia be to leave her school and sooty Pottstown and come to be mistress of Beechwood Farm .
`` And look here , '' say Mr . Smiles .
`` Every fine Saturday you shall have a big , roomy sleigh and Nap , and drive into town for some child and bring them out here for their weekly treat a usual .
The house be large enough to hold them , goodness know , and if it be n't there be the barn for the overflow .
This be go to be our particular pet charity all our life , ma'am -- I mean Cordelia , my dear . ''
`` Blessings on old Nap , '' say Miss Cordelia with a happy light in her eye .
`` He shall live in clover for the rest of his day , '' add Mr . Smiles smilingly .
Ned 's Stroke of Business `` Jump in , Ned ; I can give you a lift if you 're go my way . ''
Mr. Rogers rein up his prance grey horse , and Ned Allen sprang lightly into the comfortable cutter .
The next minute they be fly down the long , glisten road , rosy-white in the sunset splendour .
The first snow of the season have come , and the sleighing be , a Ned say , `` dandy . ''
`` Going over to Windsor , I suppose , '' say Mr. Rogers , with a glance at the skate that be hang over Ned 's shoulder .
`` Yes , sir ; all the Carleton boy be go over tonight .
The moon be out , and the ice be good .
We have to go in a body , or the Windsor fellow wo n't leave u alone .
There 's safety in number . ''
`` Pretty hard line when boy have to go six mile for a skate , '' comment Mr. Rogers .
`` Well , it 's that or nothing , '' laugh Ned .
`` There be n't a saucerful of ice any nearer , except that small pond in Old Dutcher 's field , behind his barn .
And you know Old Dutcher wo n't allow a boy to set foot there .
He say they would knock down his fence climb over them , and like a not set fire to his barn . ''
`` Old Dutcher be always a crank , '' say Mr. Rogers , `` and doubtless will be to the end .
By the way , I hear a rumour to the effect that you be soon go to take a course at the business college in Trenton .
I hope it 's true . ''
Ned 's frank face cloud over .
`` I 'm afraid not , sir .
The truth be , I guess Mother ca n't afford it .
Of course , Aunt Ella have very kindly offer to board me free for the term , but fee , book , and so on would require at least fifty dollar .
I do n't expect to go . ''
`` That 's a pity .
Ca n't you earn the necessary money yourself ? ''
Ned shake his head .
`` Not much chance for that in Carleton , Mr. Rogers .
I 've cudgel my brain for the past month try to think of some way , but in vain .
Well , here be the crossroad , so I must get off .
Thank you for the drive , sir . ''
`` Keep on thinking , Ned , '' advise Mr. Rogers , a the lad jump out .
`` Perhaps you 'll hit on some plan yet to earn that money , and if you do -- well , it will prove that you have good stuff in you . ''
`` I think it would , '' laugh Ned to himself , a he trudge away .
`` A quiet little farming village in winter be n't exactly a promising field for financial operation . ''
At Winterby Corners Ned find a crowd of boy wait for him , and soon pair off with his chum , Jim Slocum .
Jim , a usual , be grumble because they have to go all the way to Windsor to skate .
`` Like a not we 'll get into a free fight with the Windsorites when we get there , and be chivy off the ice , '' he complain .
The rivalry which exist between the Carleton and the Windsor boy be bitter and of long standing .
`` We ought to be able to hold our own tonight , '' say Ned .
`` There 'll be thirty of u there . ''
`` If we could only get Old Dutcher to let u skate on his pond ! ''
say Jim .
`` It would n't hurt his old pond !
And the ice be always splendid on it .
I 'd give a lot if we could only go there . ''
Ned be silent .
A sudden idea have come to him .
He wonder if it be feasible .
`` Anyhow , I 'll try it , '' he say to himself .
`` I 'll interview Old Dutcher tomorrow . ''
The skating that night be not particularly successful .
The small pond at Windsor be crowd , the Windsor boy be out in force and , although no positive disturbance arise , they contrive to make matter unpleasant for the Carletonites , who tramp moodily homeward in no very good humour , most of them declare that , skate or no skating , they would not go to Windsor again .
The next day Ned Allen go down to see Mr. Dutcher , or Old Dutcher , a he be universally call in Carleton .
Ned do not exactly look forward to the interview with pleasure .
Old Dutcher be a crank -- there be no get around that fact .
He have `` good day '' occasionally when , for him , he be fairly affable , but they be few and far between , and Ned have no reason to hope that this would be one .
Old Dutcher be unmarried , and his widowed sister keep house for him .
This poor lady have a decidedly lonely life of it , for Old Dutcher studiously discourage visitor .
His passion for solitude be surpass only by his eagerness to make and save money .
Although he be well-to-do , he would wrangle over a cent , and be the terror of all who have ever have dealing with him .
Fortunately for Ned and his project , this do turn out to be one of Old Dutcher 's good day .
He have just conclude an advantageous bargain with a Windsor cattle-dealer , and hence he receive Ned with what , for Old Dutcher , might be call absolute cordiality .
Besides , although Old Dutcher dislike all boy on principle , he dislike Ned less than the rest because the boy have always treat him respectfully and have never play any trick on him on Hallowe'en or April Fool 's Day .
`` I 've come down to see you on a little matter of business , Mr. Dutcher , '' say Ned , boldly and promptly .
It never do to beat about the bush with Old Dutcher ; you have to come straight to the point .
`` I want to know if you will rent your pond behind the barn to me for a skating-rink . ''
Old Dutcher 's aspect be certainly not encourage .
`` No , I wo n't .
You ought to know that .
I never allow anyone to skate there .
I ai n't go to have a parcel of whooping , yell youngster tear over my fence , disturb my sleep at night , and like a not set fire to my barn .
No , sir !
I ai n't go to rent that pond for no skating-rink . ''
Ned smother a smile .
`` Just wait a moment , Mr. Dutcher , '' he say respectfully .
`` I want you to hear my proposition before you refuse definitely .
First , I 'll give you ten dollar for the rent of the pond ; then I 'll see that there will be no run over your field and climb your fence , no lighting of fire or match about it , and no ` whooping and yell ' at night .
My rink will be open only from two to six in the afternoon and from seven to ten in the evening .
During that time I shall always be at the pond to keep everything in order .
The skater will come and go by the lane lead from the barn to the road .
I think that if you agree to my proposition , Mr. Dutcher , you will not regret it . ''
`` What 's to prevent my run such a rink myself ? ''
ask Old Dutcher gruffly .
`` It would n't pay you , Mr. Dutcher , '' answer Ned promptly .
`` The Carleton boy would n't patronize a rink run by you . ''
Old Dutcher 's eye twinkle .
It do not displease him to know that the Carleton boy hat him .
In fact , it seem a if he rather like it .
`` Besides , '' go on Ned , `` you could n't afford the time .
You could n't be on the pond for eight hour a day and until ten o'clock at night .
I can , a I 've nothing else to do just now .
If I have , I would n't have to be try to make money by a skating-rink . ''
Old Dutcher scowl .
Ten dollar be ten dollar and , a Ned have say , he know very well that he could not run a rink by himself .
`` Well , '' he say , half reluctantly , `` I suppose I 'll let you go ahead .
Only remember I 'll hold you responsible if anything happen . ''
Ned go home in high spirit .
By the next day he have placard out in conspicuous place -- on the schoolhouse , at the forge , at Mr. Rogers 's store , and at Winterby Corners -- announce that he have rent Mr. Dutcher 's pond for a skating-rink , and that ticket for the same at twenty-five cent a week for each skater could be have upon application to him .
Ned be not long left in doubt a to the success of his enterprise .
It be popular from the start .
There be about fifty boy in Carleton and Winterby , and they all patronize the rink freely .
At first Ned have some trouble with two or three rowdy , who try to evade his rule .
He be back up , however , by Old Dutcher 's reputation and by the public opinion of the other boy , as well a by his own undoubted muscle , and soon have everything go smoothly .
The rink flourish amain , and everybody , even Old Dutcher , be highly pleased .
At the end of the season Ned pay Old Dutcher his ten dollar , and have plenty leave to pay for book and tuition at the business college in Trenton .
On the eve of his departure Mr. Rogers , who have keep a keen eye on Ned 's enterprise , again pick him up on the road .
`` So you find a way after all , Ned , '' he say genially .
`` I have an idea you would .
My bookkeeper will be leave me about the time you will be through at the college .
I will be want in his place a young man with a good nose for business , and I rather think that you will be that young man .
What do you say ? ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' stammer Ned , scarcely believe his ear .
A position in Mr. Rogers 's store mean good salary and promotion .
He have never dare to hope for such good fortune .
`` If you -- think I can give satisfaction -- '' `` You manipulate Old Dutcher , and you 've earn enough in a very slow-going place to put you through your business-college term , so I be sure you be the man I 'm look for .
I believe in help those who have ` gumption ' enough to help themselves , so we 'll call it a bargain , Ned . ''
Our Runaway Kite Of course there be nobody for u to play with on the Big Half Moon , but then , a Claude say , you ca n't have everything .
We just have to make the most of each other , and we do .
The Big Half Moon be mile from anywhere , except the Little Half Moon .
But nobody live there , so that do n't count .
We live on the Big Half Moon .
`` We '' be Father and Claude and I and Aunt Esther and Mimi and Dick .
It use to be only Father and Claude and I .
It be all on account of the kite that there be more of u .
This be what I want to tell you about .
Father be the keeper of the Big Half Moon lighthouse .
He have always be the keeper ever since I can remember , although that be n't very long .
I be only eleven year old .
Claude be twelve .
In winter , when the harbour be freeze over , there be n't any need of a light on the Big Half Moon , and we all move over to the mainland , and Claude and Mimi and Dick and I go to school .
But as soon a spring come , back we sail to our own dear island , so glad that we do n't know what to do with ourselves .
The funny part use to be that people always pity u when the time come for u to return .
They say we must be so lonesome over there , with no other child near u , and not even a woman to look after u .
Why , Claude and I be never lonesome .
There be always so much to do , and Claude be splendid at make believe .
He make the very best pirate chief I ever saw .
Dick be pretty good , but he can never roar out his order in the bloodcurdling tone that Claude can .
Of course Claude and I would have like to have someone to play with u , because it be hard to run pirate cave and thing like that with only two .
But we use to quarrel a good deal with the mainland child in winter , so perhaps it be just as well that there be none of them on the Big Half Moon .
Claude and I never quarrel .
We use to argue sometimes and get excite , but that be as far a it ever go .
When I saw Claude get too excite I give in to him .
He be a boy , you know , and they have to be humour ; they be not like girl .
As for have a woman to look after u , I think that just too silly , and so do Claude .
What do we need with a woman when we have Father ?
He could cook all we want to eat and make molasses taffy that be just like a dream .
He keep our clothes all mend , and everything about the lighthouse be neat a wax .
Of course I help him lot .
I like potter round .
He use to hear our lesson and tell u splendid story and saw that we always say our prayer .
Claude and I would n't have do anything to make him feel bad for the world .
Father be just lovely .
To be sure , he do n't seem to have any relation except u .
This use to puzzle Claude and me .
Everybody on the mainland have relation ; why have n't we ?
Was it because we live on an island ?
We think it would be so jolly to have an uncle and aunt and some cousin .
Once we ask Father about it , but he look so sorrowful all of a sudden that we wish we have n't .
He say it be all his fault .
I do n't see how that could be , but I never say anything more about it to Father .
Still , I do wish we have some relation .
It be always lovely out here on the Big Half Moon in summer .
When it be fine the harbour be blue and calm , with little wind and ripple purr over it , and the mainland shore look like long blue land where fairy dwell .
Away out over the bar , where the big ship go , it be always hazy and pearl-tinted , like the inside of the mussel shell .
Claude say he be go to sail out there when he grow up .
I would like to too , but Claude say I ca n't because I 'm a girl .
It be dreadfully inconvenient to be a girl at time .
When it storm it be grand to see the great wave come crash up against the Big Half Moon a if they mean to swallow it right down .
You ca n't see the Little Half Moon at all then ; it be hide by the mist and spume .
We have our pirate cave away up among the rock , where we keep an old pistol with the lock broken , a rusty cutlas , a pair of knee boot , and Claude 's jute beard and wig .
Down on the shore , around one of the horn of the Half Moon , be the Mermaid 's Pool , where we sail our toy boat and watch for sea kelpy .
We never saw any .
Dick say there be no such thing a a kelpy .
But then Dick have no imagination .
It be no argument against a thing that you 've never see it .
I have never see the pyramid , either , but I know that there be pyramid .
Every summer we have some hobby .
The last summer before Dick and Mimi come we be crazy about kite .
A winter boy on the mainland show Claude how to make them , and when we go back to the Big Half Moon we make kite galore .
Even pirating be n't such good fun .
Claude would go around to the other side of the Big Half Moon and we would play shipwrecked mariner signal to each other with kite .
Oh , it be very exciting .
We have one kite that be a dandy .
It be as big a we could make it and cover with lovely red paper ; we have paste gold tinsel star all over it and write our name out in full on it -- Claude Martin Leete and Philippa Brewster Leete , Big Half Moon Lighthouse .
That kite have the most magnificent tail , too .
It use to scare the gull nearly to death when we send up our kite .
They do n't know what to make of them .
And the Big Half Moon be such a place for gull -- there be hundred of them here .
One day there be a grand wind for kite-flying , and Claude and I be have a splendid time .
We use our small kite for signalling , and when we get tire of that Claude send me to the house for the big one .
I 'm sure I do n't know how it happen , but when I be come back over the rock I trip and fell , and my elbow go clear through that lovely kite .
You would never have believe that one small elbow could make such a big hole .
Claude say it be just like a girl to fall and stick her elbow through a kite , but I do n't see why it should be any more like a girl than a boy .
Do you ?
We have to hurry to fix the kite if we want to send it up before the wind fell , so we rush into the lighthouse to get some paper .
We know there be no more red paper , and the look of the kite be spoil , anyhow , so we just take the first thing that come handy -- an old letter that be lie on the bookcase in the sitting-room .
I suppose we should n't have take it , although , a matter turn out , it be the best thing we could have do ; but Father be away to the mainland to buy thing , and we never think it could make any difference about an old yellow letter .
It be one Father have take from a drawer in the bookcase which he have clean out the night before .
We patch the kite up with the letter , a sheet on each side , and dry it by the fire .
Then we start out , and up go the kite like a bird .
The wind be glorious , and it soar and strain like something alive .
All at once -- snap !
And there be Claude , stand with a bit of cord in his hand , look as foolish a a flatfish , and our kite sailing along at a fearful rate of speed over to the mainland .
I might have say to Claude , So like a boy !
but I do n't .
Instead , I sympathize with him , and point out that it really do n't matter because I have spoil it by jab my elbow through it .
By this time the kite be out of sight , and we never expect to see or hear of it again .
* * * * * A month later a letter come to the Big Half Moon for Father .
Jake Wiggins bring it over in his sloop .
Father go off by himself to read it , and such a queer-looking face a he have when he come back !
His eye look a if he have be cry , but that could n't be , I suppose , because Claude say men never cry .
Anyhow , his face be all glad and soft and smiley .
`` Do you two young pirate and freebooter want to know what have become of your kite ? ''
he say .
Then he sit down beside u on the rock at the Mermaid 's Pool and tell u the whole story , and read his letter to u .
It be the most amazing thing .
It seem Father have have relation after all -- a brother and a sister in particular .
But when he be a young man he quarrel with his brother , who do n't treat him very well -- but he 's be dead for year , so I wo n't say a word against him -- and have go away from home .
He never go back , and he never even let them know he be live .
Father say that this be very wrong of him , and I suppose it be , since he say so ; but I do n't see how Father could do anything wrong .
Anyway , he have a sister Esther whom he love very much ; but he felt bitter against her too , because he think she take his brother 's part too much .
So , though a letter of hers , ask him to go back , do reach him , he never answer it , and he never hear anything more .
Years afterward he felt sorry and go back , but his brother be dead and his sister have go away , and he could n't find out a single thing about her .
So much for that ; and now about the kite .
The letter Father have just receive be from his sister , our Aunt Esther and the mother of Dick and Mimi .
She be live at a place hundred of mile inland .
Her husband be dead and , a we find out later , although she do not say a word about it in the letter , she be very poor .
One day when Dick and Mimi be out in the wood look for botany specimen they saw something funny in the top of a tree .
Dick climb up and get it .
It be a big red kite with a patch on each side and name write on it .
They carry it home to their mother .
Dick have since tell u that she turn as pale a the dead when she saw our name on it .
You see , Philippa be her mother 's name and Claude be her father 's .
And when she read the letter that be paste over the hole in the kite she know who we must be , for it be the very letter she have write to her brother so long ago .
So she sit right down and write again , and this be the letter Jake Wiggins bring to the Big Half Moon .
It be a beautiful letter .
I love Aunt Esther before I ever saw her , just from that letter .
Next day Father get Jake to take his place for a few day , and he leave Claude and me over on the mainland while he go to see Aunt Esther .
When he come back he bring Aunt Esther and Dick and Mimi with him , and they have be here ever since .
You do n't know how splendid it be !
Aunt Esther be such a dear , and Dick and Mimi be too jolly for word .
They love the Big Half Moon as well a Claude and I do , and Dick make a perfectly elegant shipwreck mariner .
But the best of it all be that we have relation now !
The Bride Roses Miss Corona awake that June morning with a sigh , the cause of which she be at first too sleepy to understand .
Then it all come over her with a little sickening rush ; she have fall asleep with tear-wet lash the night before on account of it .
This be Juliet Gordon 's wedding day , and she , Miss Corona , could not go to the wedding and be not even invite , all because of the Quarrel , a generation old , and so chronic and bitter and terrible that it always present itself to Miss Corona 's mental vision a spell with a capital .
Well might Miss Corona hate it .
It have shut her up into a lonely life for long year .
Juliet Gordon and Juliet 's father , Meredith Gordon , be the only relation Miss Corona have in the world , and the old family feud divide them by a gulf which now seem impassable .
Miss Corona turn over on her pillow , lift one corner of the white window-blind and peep out .
Below her a river of early sunshine be flow through the garden , and the far-away slope be translucent green in their splendour of young day , with gauzy , uncertain mist linger , spiritlike , in their intervales .
A bird , his sleek plumage iridescent in the sunlight , be perch on the big chestnut bough that run squarely across the window , sing a if his heart would burst with melody and the joy of his tiny life .
No bride could have wish anything fairer for her day of day , and Miss Corona drop back on her pillow with another gentle sigh .
`` I 'm so glad that the dear child have a fine day to be marry , '' she say .
Juliet Gordon be always `` dear child '' to Miss Corona , although the two have never speak to each other in their life .
Miss Corona be a brisk and early riser a a rule , with a genuine horror of lazy people who lay late abed or take over-long to get their eye well open , but this morning she make no hurry about rising , even though scurry footstep , bang door , and over-loud tinkling of dish in the room below betoken that Charlotta be already up and about .
And Charlotta , a poor Miss Corona know only too well , be fatally sure to do something unfortunate if she be not under some careful , oversee eye .
To be sure , Charlotta 's intention be always good .
But Miss Corona be not think about Charlotta this morning , and she felt so strong a distaste for her lonely , purposeless life that she be in no haste to go forth to meet another day of it .
Miss Corona felt just the least little bit tired of living , although she fear it be very wicked of her to feel so .
She lay there listlessly for half an hour longer , look through a mist of tear at the portrait of her stern old father hanging on the wall at the foot of the bed , and think over the Quarrel .
It have happen thirty year ago , when Miss Corona have be a girl of twenty , live alone with her father at the old Gordon homestead on the hill , with the big black spruce grove behind it on the north and far-reaching slope of green field before it on the south .
Down in the little northern valley below the spruce grove live her uncle , Alexis Gordon .
His son , Meredith , have seem to Corona a her own brother .
The mother of both be dead ; neither have any other brother or sister .
The two child have grow up together , playmate and devoted friend .
There have never be any sentiment or lovemaking between them to mar a perfect comradeship .
They be only the best of friend , whatever plan the father might have cherish for the union of their estate and child , put the property consideration first , a the Gordons be always prone to do .
But , if Roderick and Alexis Gordon have any such plan , all go by the board when they quarrel .
Corona shiver yet over the bitterness of that time .
The Gordons never do anything half-heartedly .
The strife between the two brother be determine and irreconcilable .
Corona 's father forbid her to speak to her uncle and cousin or to hold any communication with them .
Corona wept and obey him .
She have always obey her father ; it have never enter into her mind to do anything else .
Meredith have resent her attitude hotly , and from that day they have never speak or meet , while the year come and go , each make a little wider and more hopeless the gulf of coldness and anger and distrust .
Ten year later Roderick Gordon die , and in five month Alexis Gordon follow him to the grave .
The two brother who have hat each other so unyieldingly in life slept very peaceably side by side in the old Gordon plot of the country graveyard , but their rancour still serve to embitter the life of their descendant .
Corona , with a half-guilty sense of disloyalty to her father , hop that she and Meredith might now be friend again .
He be marry , and have one little daughter .
In her new and intolerable loneliness Corona 's heart yearn after her own people .
But she be too timid to make any advance , and Meredith never make any .
Corona believe that he hat her , and let slip her last fluttering hope that the old breach would ever be heal .
`` Oh , dear !
oh , dear ! ''
she sob softly into her pillow .
It seem a terrible thing to her that one of her race and kin be to be marry and she could not be present at the ceremony , she who have never see a Gordon bride .
When Miss Corona go downstairs at last , she find Charlotta sob in the kitchen porch .
The small handmaiden be double up on the floor , with her face muffle in her gingham apron and her long braid of red hair hang with limp straightness down her back .
When Charlotta be in good spirit , they always hang perkily over each shoulder , tie up with enormous bow of sky-blue ribbon .
`` What have you do this time ? ''
ask Miss Corona , without the slight intention of be humorous or sarcastic .
`` I 've -- I 've bruk your green and yaller bowl , '' sniff Charlotta .
`` Did n't mean to , Miss C'rona .
It jest slip out so fashion ` fore I c 'd grab holt on it .
And it 's bruk into forty millyun piece .
Ai n't I the onluckiest girl ? ''
`` You certainly be , '' sigh Miss Corona .
At any other time she would have be fill with dismay over the untoward fate of her green and yellow bowl , which have belong to her great-grandmother and have stand on the hall table to hold flower as long a she could remember .
But just now her heart be so sore over the Quarrel that there be no room for other regret .
`` Well , well , cry wo n't mend it .
I suppose it be a judgment on me for stay abed so late .
Go and sweep up the piece , and do try and be a little more careful , Charlotte . ''
`` Yes 'm , '' say Charlotta meekly .
She dare not resent be call Charlotte just then .
`` And I 'll tell you what I 'll do , ma'am , to make up , I 'll go and weed the garden .
Yes 'm , I 'll do it beautiful . ''
`` And pull up more flower than weed , '' Miss Corona reflect mournfully .
But it do not matter ; nothing matter .
She saw Charlotta sally forth into the garden with a determined , do-or-die expression surmount her freckle , without feel interest enough to go and make sure that she do not root out all the late aster in her tardy and wilfully postpone warfare on weed .
This mood last until the afternoon .
Then Miss Corona , whose heart and thought be still down in the festive house in the valley , rouse herself enough to go out and see what Charlotta be do .
After find out , she wander idly about the rambling , old-fashioned place , which be full of nook and surprise .
At every turn you might stumble on some clump or tangle of sweetness , shower elusive fragrance on the air , that you would never have suspect .
Nothing in the garden be plant quite where it should be , yet withal it be the most delightful spot imaginable .
Miss Corona push her way into the cherry-tree copse , and follow a tiny , overgrown path to a sunshiny corner beyond .
She have not be there since last summer ; the little path be get almost impassable .
When she emerge from the cherry tree , somewhat rumple and pull about in hair and attire , but attend , a if by a benediction , by the aromatic breath of the mint she have tread on , she give a little cry and stand quite still , gaze at the rosebush that grow in the corner .
It be so large and woody that it seem more like a tree than a bush , and it be snow over with a splendour of large , pure white rose .
`` Dear life , '' whisper Miss Corona tremulously , a she tiptoe towards it .
`` The bride rose have bloom again !
How very strange !
Why , there have not be a rise on that tree for twenty year . ''
The rosebush have be plant there by Corona 's great-grandmother , the lady of the green and yellow bowl .
It be a new variety , bring out from Scotland by Mary Gordon , and it bore large white rose which three generation of Gordon bride have wear on their wedding day .
It have come to be a family tradition among the Gordons that no luck would attend the bride who do not carry a white rise from Mary Gordon 's rose-tree .
Long year ago the tree have give up blooming , nor could all the pruning and care give it coax a single blossom from it .
Miss Corona , tincture with the superstition apt to wait on a lonely womanhood , believe in her heart that the rosebush have a secret sympathy with the fortune of the Gordon woman .
She , the last of them on the old homestead , would never need the bride roses .
Wherefore , then , should the old tree bloom ?
And now , after all these year , it have fling all it long-hoarded sweetness into blossom again .
Miss Corona thrill at the thought .
The rosebush have bloom again for a Gordon bride , but Miss Corona be sure there be another meaning in it too ; she believe it foretokened some change in her own life , some rejuvenescence of love and beauty like to that of the ancient rose-tree .
She bend over it foam of loveliness almost reverently .
`` They have bloom for Juliet 's wedding , '' she murmur .
`` A Gordon bride must wear the bride roses , indeed she must .
And this -- why , it be almost a miracle . ''
She run , light-footedly a a girl , to the house for scissors and a basket .
She would send Juliet Gordon the bride roses .
Her cheek be pink from excitement a she snip them off .
How lovely they be !
How very large and fragrant !
It be a if all the grace and perfume and beauty and glory of those twenty lose summer be find here at once in them .
When Miss Corona have them ready , she go to the door and call , `` Charlotte !
Charlotte ! ''
Now Charlotta , have atone to her conscience for the destruction of the green and yellow bowl by faithfully weed the garden , a task which she hat above all else , be sing a hymn among the sweet pea , and her red braid be over her shoulder .
This ought to have warn Miss Corona , but Miss Corona be think of other thing , and keep on call patiently , while Charlotta weed away for dear life , and seem smitten with treble deafness .
After a time Miss Corona remember and sigh .
She do hate to call the child that foolish name with it foreign sound .
Just a if plain `` Charlotte '' be not good enough for her , and much more suitable to `` Smith '' too !
Ordinarily Miss Corona would not have give in .
But the case be urgent ; she could not stand upon her dignity just now .
`` Charlotta ! ''
she call entreatingly .
Instantly Charlotta fly to the garden gate and race up to the door .
`` Yes 'm , '' she say meekly .
`` You want me , Miss C'rona ? ''
`` Take this box down to Miss Juliet Gordon , and ask that it be give to her at once , '' say Miss Corona , `` Do n't loiter , Charlotta .
Do n't stop to pick gum in the grove , or eat sour in the dike , or poke stick through the bridge , or -- '' But Charlotta have go .
* * * * * Down in the valley , the other Gordon house be in a hum of excitement .
Upstairs Juliet have go to her invalid mother 's room to show herself in her wedding dress to the pale little lady lie on the sofa .
She be a tall , stately young girl with the dark grey Gordon eye and the pure creaminess of colouring , flawless a a lily petal .
Her face be a very sweet one , and the simple white dress she wear become her dainty , flowerlike beauty a nothing elaborate could have do .
`` I 'm not go to put on my veil until the last moment , '' she say laughingly .
`` I would feel married right away if I do .
And oh , Mother dear , be n't it too bad ?
My rose have n't come .
Father be back from the station , and they be not there .
I be so disappointed .
Romney order pure white rose because I say a Gordon bride must carry nothing else .
Come in '' -- a a knock sound at the door .
Laura Burton , Juliet 's cousin and bridesmaid , enter with a box .
`` Juliet dear , the funny little red-headed girl with the most enormous freckle have just bring this for you .
I have n't an idea where she come from ; she look like a messenger from pixy-land . ''
Juliet open the box and give a cry .
`` Oh , Mother , look -- look !
What perfect roses !
Who could have send them ?
Oh , here 's a note from -- from -- why , Mother , it 's from Cousin Corona . ''
`` My dear child , '' run the letter in Miss Corona 's fine , old-fashioned script .
`` I be send you the Gordon bride rose .
The rose-tree have bloom for the first time in twenty year , my dear , and it must surely be in honour of your wedding day .
I hope you will wear them for , although I have never know you , I love you very much .
I be once a dear friend of your father 's .
Tell him to let you wear the rose I send for old time ' sake .
I wish you every happiness , my dear .
`` Your affectionate cousin , `` Corona Gordon . ''
`` Oh , how sweet and lovely of her ! ''
say Juliet gently , a she lay the letter down .
`` And to think she be not even invite !
I want to send her an invitation , but Father say it would be well not to -- she be so hard and bitter against u that she would probably regard it a an insult . ''
`` He must have be mistake about her attitude , '' say Mrs. Gordon .
`` It certainly be a great pity she be not invite , but it be too late now .
An invitation send two hour before the ceremony would be an insult indeed . ''
`` Not if the bride herself take it ! ''
exclaim Juliet impulsively .
`` I 'll go myself to Cousin Corona , and ask her to come to my wedding . ''
`` Go yourself !
Child , you ca n't do such a thing !
In that dress ... '' `` Go I must , Momsie .
Why , it 's only a three minute ' walk .
I 'll go up the hill by the old field-path , and no one will see me .
Oh , do n't say a word -- there , I 'm go ! ''
`` That child ! ''
sigh the mother protestingly , a she hear Juliet 's fly foot on the stair .
`` What a thing for a bride to do ! ''
Juliet , with her white silken skirt catch up above grass and dust , run light-footedly through the green lowland field and up the hill , tread for the first time the faint old field-path between the two home , so long disused that it be now barely visible in it fringing grass and star-dust of buttercup .
Where it run into the spruce grove be a tiny gate which Miss Corona have always keep in good repair , albeit it be never use .
Juliet push up the rusty hasp and run through .
Miss Corona be sit alone in her shadowy parlour , hang over a few of the bride roses with fall tear , when something tall and beautiful and white , come in like a blessing and knelt by her chair .
`` Cousin Corona , '' say a somewhat breathless bride , `` I have come to thank you for your rose and ask you to forgive u all for the old quarrel . ''
`` Dear child , '' say Miss Corona out of her amazement , `` there be nothing to forgive .
I 've love you all and long for you .
Dear child , you have bring me great happiness . ''
`` And you must come to my wedding , '' cry Juliet .
`` Oh , you must -- or I shall think you have not really forgiven u .
You would never refuse the request of a bride , Cousin Corona .
We be queen on our wedding day , you know . ''
`` Oh , it 's not that , dear child -- but I 'm not dress -- I -- '' `` I 'll help you dress .
And I wo n't go back without you .
The guest and the minister must wait if necessary -- yes , even Romney must wait .
Oh , I want you to meet Romney .
Come , dear . ''
And Miss Corona go .
Charlotta and the bride get her into her grey silk and do her hair , and in a very short time she and Juliet be hurry down the old field-path .
In the hollow Meredith Gordon meet them .
`` Cousin Meredith , '' say Miss Corona tremulously .
`` Dear Corona . ''
He take both her hand in his , and kiss her heartily .
`` Forgive me for misunderstand you so long .
I think you hat u all . ''
Turning to Juliet , he say with a fatherly smile , `` What a terrible girl it be for have it own way !
Who ever heard of a Gordon bride do such an unconventional thing ?
There , scamper off to the house before your guest come .
Laura have make your rose up into what she call ' a dream of a bouquet , ' I 'll take Cousin Corona up more leisurely . ''
`` Oh , I know that something beautiful be go to happen when the old rose-tree bloom , '' murmur Miss Corona happily .
The Josephs ' Christmas The month before Christmas be always the most exciting and mysterious time in the Joseph household .
Such scheming and planning , such put of curly head together in corner , such counting of small hoard , such hiding and smuggling of thing out of sight , a go on among the little Josephs !
There be a good many of them , and very few of the penny ; hence the reason for so much contriving and consulting .
From fourteen-year-old Mollie down to four-year-old Lennie there be eight small Josephs in all in the little log house on the prairie ; so that when each little Joseph want to give a Christmas box to each of the other little Josephs , and something to Father and Mother Joseph besides , it be no wonder that they have to cudgel their small brain for way and mean thereof .
Father and Mother be always discreetly blind and silent through December .
No question be ask no matter what queer thing be do .
Many secret trip to the little store at the railway station two mile away be ignore , and no little Joseph be call to account because he or she look terribly guilty when somebody suddenly come into the room .
The air be simply charge with secret .
Sister Mollie be the grand repository of these ; all the little Josephs come to her for advice and assistance .
It be Mollie who for trouble small brother and sister do such sum in division a this : How can I get a ten-cent present for Emmy and a fifteen-cent one for Jimmy out of eighteen cent ?
Or , how can seven stick of candy be divide among eight people so that each shall have one ?
It be Mollie who advise regard the purchase of ribbon and crepe paper .
It be Mollie who put the finishing touch to most of the little gift .
In short , all through December Mollie be weigh down under an avalanche of responsibility .
It speak volume for her sagacity and skill that she never get thing mix up or make any such terrible mistake a let one little Joseph find out what another be go to give him .
`` Dead '' secrecy be the keystone of all plan and confidence .
During this particular December the planning and contriving have be more difficult and the result less satisfactory than usual .
The Josephs be poor at any time , but this winter they be poor than ever .
The crop have fail in the summer , and a a consequence the family be , a Jimmy say , `` on short common . ''
But they make the brave best of their small resource , and on Christmas Eve every little Joseph go to bed with a clear conscience , for be there not on the corner table in the kitchen a small mountain of tiny -- sometimes very tiny -- gift label with the name of recipient and giver , and worth their weight in gold if love and good wish count for anything ?
It be begin to snow when the small small Josephs go to bed , and when the big small Josephs climb the stair it be snow thickly .
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph sit before the fire and listen to the wind howl about the house .
`` I 'm glad I 'm not drive over the prairie tonight , '' say Mr. Joseph .
`` It 's quite a storm .
I hope it will be fine tomorrow , for the child 's sake .
They 've set their heart on have a sleigh ride , and it will be too bad if they ca n't have it when it 's about all the Christmas they 'll have this year .
Mary , this be the first Christmas since we come west that we could n't afford some little extra for them , even if 't be only a box of nut and candy . ''
Mrs. Joseph sigh over Jimmy 's worn jacket which she be mend .
Then she smile .
`` Never mind , John .
Things will be good next Christmas , we 'll hope .
The child will not mind , bless their heart .
Look at all the little knick-knacks they 've make for each other .
Last week when I be over at Taunton , Mr. Fisher have his store all gayified up , ' a Jim say , with Christmas present .
I do feel that I 'd ask nothing good than to go in and buy all the lovely thing I want , just for once , and give them to the child tomorrow morning .
They 've never have anything really nice for Christmas .
But there !
We 've all get each other and good health and spirit , and a Christmas would n't be much without those if we have all the present in the world . ''
Mr. Joseph nod .
`` That 's so .
I do n't want to grumble ; but I tell you I do want to get Maggie a ` real live doll , ' a she call it .
She never have have anything but homemade doll , and that small heart of hers be set on a real one .
There be one at Fisher 's store today -- a big beauty with real hair , and eye that open and shut .
Just fancy Maggie 's face if she saw such a Christmas box a that tomorrow morning . ''
`` Do n't let 's fancy it , '' laugh Mrs. Joseph , `` it be only aggravate .
Talking of candy reminds me that I make a big plateful of taffy for the child today .
It 's all the ` Christmassy ' I could give them .
I 'll get it out and put it on the table along with the child 's present .
That ca n't be someone at the door ! ''
`` It be , though , '' say Mr. Joseph a he stride to the door and flung it open .
Two snowed-up figure be stand on the porch .
As they step in , the Josephs recognize one of them a Mr. Ralston , a wealthy merchant in a small town fifteen mile away .
`` Late hour for caller , be n't it ? ''
say Mr. Ralston .
`` The fact be , our horse have about give out , and the storm be so bad that we ca n't proceed .
This be my wife , and we be on our way to spend Christmas with my brother 's family at Lindsay .
Can you take u in for the night , Mr. Joseph ? ''
`` Certainly , and welcome ! ''
exclaim Mr. Joseph heartily , `` if you do n't mind a shakedown by the kitchen fire for the night .
My , Mrs. Ralston , '' a his wife help her off with her thing , `` but you be snow up !
I 'll see to put your horse away , Mr. Ralston .
This way , if you please . ''
When the two men come stamp into the house again Mrs. Ralston and Mrs. Joseph be sit at the fire , the former with a steam hot cup of tea in her hand .
Mr. Ralston put the big basket he be carry down on a bench in the corner .
`` Thought I 'd well bring our Christmas flummery in , '' he say .
`` You see , Mrs. Joseph , my brother have a big family , so we be take them a lot of Santa Claus stuff .
Mrs. Ralston pack this basket , and goodness know what she put in it , but she half clean out my store .
The eye of the Lindsay youngster will dance tomorrow -- that be , if we ever get there . ''
Mrs. Joseph give a little sigh in spite of herself , and look wistfully at the heap of gift on the corner table .
How meagre and small they do look , to be sure , beside that bulgy basket with it cover suggestively tie down .
Mrs. Ralston look too .
`` Santa Claus seem to have visit you already , '' she say with a smile .
The Josephs laugh .
`` Our Santa Claus be somewhat out of pocket this year , '' say Mr. Joseph frankly .
`` Those be the little thing the small folk here have make for each other .
They 've be a month at it , and I 'm always kind of relieve when Christmas be over and there be no more mysterious doings .
We 're in such cramped quarter here that you ca n't move without step on somebody 's secret . ''
A shakedown be spread in the kitchen for the unexpected guest , and presently the Ralstons find themselves alone .
Mrs. Ralston go over to the Christmas table and look at the little gifts half tenderly and half pityingly .
`` They 're not much like the content of our basket , be they ? ''
she say , a she touch the calendar Jimmie have make for Mollie out of cardboard and autumn leaf and grass .
`` Just what I be think , '' return her husband , `` and I be think of something else , too .
I 've a notion that I 'd like to see some of the thing in our basket right here on this table . ''
`` I 'd like to see them all , '' say Mrs. Ralston promptly .
`` Let 's just leave them here , Edward .
Roger 's family will have plenty of present without them , and for that matter we can send them ours when we go back home . ''
`` Just a you say , '' agree Mr. Ralston .
`` I like the idea of give the small folk of this household a rouse good Christmas for once .
They 're poor I know , and I dare say pretty well pinch this year like most of the farmer hereabout after the crop failure . ''
Mrs. Ralston untie the cover of the big basket .
Then the two of them , move as stealthily a if engage in a burglary , transfer the content to the table .
Mr. Ralston get out a small pencil and a note book , and by dint of compare the name attach to the gift on the table they manage to divide theirs up pretty evenly among the little Josephs .
When all be do Mrs. Ralston say , `` Now , I 'm go to spread that tablecloth carelessly over the table .
We will be go before daylight , probably , and in the hurry of get off I hope that Mr. and Mrs. Joseph will not notice the difference till we 're go . ''
It fell out a Mrs. Ralston have plan .
The dawn break fine and clear over a vast white world .
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph be early astir ; breakfast for the storm-stayed traveller be cook and eat by lamplight ; then the horse and sleigh be bring to the door and Mr. Ralston carry out his empty basket .
`` I expect the trail will be heavy , '' he say , `` but I guess we 'd get to Lindsay in time for dinner , anyway .
Much oblige for your kindness , Mr. Joseph .
When you and Mrs. Joseph come to town we shall hope to have a chance to return it .
Good-bye and a merry Christmas to you all . ''
When Mrs. Joseph go back to the kitchen her eye fell on the heaped-up table in the corner .
`` Why-y ! ''
she say , and snatch off the cover .
One look she give , and then this funny little mother begin to cry ; but they be happy tear .
Mr. Joseph come too , and look and whistle .
There really seem to be everything on that table that the heart of child could desire -- three pair of skate , a fur cap and collar , a dainty workbasket , half a dozen gleam new book , a writing desk , a roll of stuff that look like a new dress , a pair of fur-topped kid gloves just Mollie 's size , and a china cup and saucer .
All these be to be see at the first glance ; and in one corner of the table be a big box fill with candy and nut and raisin , and in the other a doll with curl golden hair and brown eye , dress in `` real '' clothes and with all her wardrobe in a trunk beside her .
Pinned to her dress be a leaf from Mr. Ralston 's notebook with Maggie 's name write on it .
`` Well , this be Christmas with a vengeance , '' say Mr. Joseph .
`` The child will go wild with delight , '' say his wife happily .
They pretty nearly do when they all come scramble down the stair a little later .
Such a Christmas have never be know in the Joseph household before .
Maggie clasp her doll with shin eye , Mollie look at the workbasket that her housewifely little heart have always long for , studious Jimmy beam over the book , and Ted and Hal whoop with delight over the skate .
And a for the big box of good thing , why , everybody appreciate that .
That Christmas be one to date from in that family .
I 'm glad to be able to say , too , that even in the heyday of their delight and surprise over their wonderful present , the little Josephs do not forget to appreciate the gift they have prepare for each other .
Mollie think her calendar just too pretty for anything , and Jimmy be sure the new red mitten which Maggie have knit for him with her own chubby wee finger , be the very nice , gay mittens a boy have ever wear .
Mrs. Joseph 's taffy be eaten too .
Not a scrap of it be leave .
As Ted say loyally , `` It be just as good a the candy in the box and have more ` chew ' to it besides . ''
The Magical Bond of the Sea A late September wind from the northwest be sweep over the water of Racicot Harbour .
It blow in , strong with the tang of the salt sea , past the grim lighthouse rock on the one hand and the sandbar on the other , up the long , narrow funnel of darkly blue water , until it whistle among the mast of the boat at anchor and among the stovepipe chimney of the fishing village .
It be a wind that sang and pip and keen of many thing -- but what it sing to each listener be only what be in that listener 's heart .
And Nora Shelley , stand at the door of her father 's bleached cottage on the grey sand , hear a new strain in it .
The wind have sing often to her of the outer world she long for , but there have never be the note of fulfilment in it before .
There 's a new life beyond , Nora , whistle the wind .
A good life -- and it 's yours for the taking .
You have but to put out your hand and all you 've wish for will be in your grasp .
Nora lean out from the door to meet the wind .
She love that northwest gale ; it be a staunch old friend of hers .
Very slim and straight be Nora , with a skin as white a the foam flake crisp over the sand , and eye of the tremulous , haunt blue that deepen on the water after a fair sunset .
But her hair be as black a midnight , and her lip blossom out with a ripe redness against the uncoloured purity of her face .
She be far and away the most beautiful of the harbour girl , but hardly the most popular .
Men and woman alike think her proud .
Even her friend felt themselves call upon to make excuse for her unlikeness to themselves .
Nora have dose the door behind her to shut in the voice .
She want to be alone with the wind while she make her decision .
Before her the sandy shingle , make firm by a straggling growth of some pale sea-ivy , slop down to the sapphire cup of the harbour .
Around her be the small , uncouth house of the village -- no small or more uncouth than the one which be her home -- with child play noisily on the path between them .
The mackerel boat curtsy and nod outside ; beyond them the sharp tip of Sandy Point be curdle white with seagull .
Down at the curve of the cove a group of men be laugh and talk loudly in front of French Joe 's fish-house .
This be the life that she have always know .
Across the harbour , on a fir-fringed headland , stand Dalveigh .
John Cameron , childless millionaire , have build a summer cottage on that point two year ago , and give it the name of the old ancestral estate in Scotland .
To the Racicot fishing folk the house and ground be a a dream of enchantment make real .
Few of them have ever see anything like it .
Nora Shelley know Dalveigh well .
She have be the Camerons ' guest many time that summer , find in the luxury and beauty of their surroundings something that enter with a strange aptness into her own nature .
It be a if it be hers by right of fitness .
And this be the life that might be hers , do she so choose .
In reality , her choice be already make , and she know it .
But it please her to pretend for a little time that it be not , and to dally tenderly with-the old love and emotion that tug at her heart and clamour to be remember .
Within , in the low-ceilinged living room , with it worn , uneven floor and it blackened wall hang with fish net and oilskin , four people be sit .
John Cameron and his wife be give the seat of honour in the middle of the room .
Mrs. Cameron be a handsome , well-dressed woman , with an expression that be discontent and , at time , petulant .
Yet her face have a good deal of plain common sense in it , and not even the most critical of the Racicot folk could say that she `` put on air . ''
Her husband be a small , white-haired man , with a fresh , young-looking face .
He be popular in Racicot , for he mingle freely with the sailor and fisherman .
Moreover , Dalveigh be an excellent market for fresh mackerel .
Nathan Shelley , in his favourite corner behind the stove , sit lurch forward with his hand on his knee .
He have lay aside his pipe out of deference to Mrs. Cameron , and it be hard for him to think without it .
He wish his wife would go to work ; it seem uncanny to see her idle .
She have sit idle only once that he remember -- the day they have bring Ned Shelley in , dank and dripping , after the August storm ten year before .
Mrs. Shelley sat by the crooked , small-paned window and look out down the harbour .
The coat she have be patch for her husband when the Camerons come still lay in her lap , and she have fold her hand upon it .
She be a big woman , slow of speech and manner , with a placid , handsome face -- a face that have not visibly stir even when she have hear the Camerons ' proposition .
They want Nora -- these rich people who have so much in life want the blossom of girlhood that have never bloom for them .
John Cameron plead his cause well .
`` We will look on her a our own , '' he say at last .
`` We have grow to love her this summer .
She be beautiful and clever -- she have a right to more than Racicot can give her .
You have other child -- we be childless .
And we do not take her from you utterly .
You will see her every summer when we come to Dalveigh . ''
`` It wo n't be the same thing quite , '' say Nathan Shelley drily .
`` She 'll belong to your life then -- not ours .
And no matter how many young one folk have , they do n't want to lose none of 'em .
But I dunno a we ought to let our feeling stand in Nora 's light .
She 's clever , and she 's be hanker for more 'n we can ever give her .
I be the same way once .
Lord , how I rag at Racicot !
I break away finally -- go to a city and get work .
But it be n't no use .
I 'd leave it too long .
The sea have get into my blood .
I toughed it out for two year , and then I have to come back .
I do n't want to , mark you , but I have to come .
Been here ever since .
But maybe ` twill be different with the girl .
She 's young than I be ; if the hankering for the sea and the life of the shore have n't get into her too deep , maybe she 'll be able to cut loose for good .
But you do n't know how the sea call to one of it own . ''
Cameron smile .
He think that this dry old salt be a bit of a poet in his own way .
Very likely Nora get her ability and originality from him .
There do not seem to be a great deal in the phlegmatic , good-looking mother .
`` What say , wife ? ''
ask Shelley at last .
His wife have say in her slow way , `` Leave it to Nora , '' and to Nora it be leave .
When she come in at last , her face stung to radiant beauty by the northwest wind , she find it hard to tell them after all .
She look at her mother appealingly .
`` Is it go or stay , girl , '' demand her father brusquely .
`` I think I 'll go , '' say Nora slowly .
Then , catch sight of her mother 's face , she run to her and fling her arm about her .
`` But I 'll never forget you , Mother , '' she cry .
`` I 'll love you always -- you and Father . ''
Her mother loosen the clinging arm and push her gently towards the Camerons .
`` Go to them , '' she say calmly .
`` You belong to them now . ''
The news spread quickly over Racicot .
Before night everyone on the harbour shore know that the Camerons be go to adopt Nora Shelley and take her away with them .
There be much surprise and more envy .
The shore woman toss their head .
`` Reckon Nora be in great feather , '' they say .
`` She always do think herself good than anyone else .
Nate Shelley and his wife spoil her ridiculous .
Wonder what Rob Fletcher think of it ? ''
Nora ask her brother to tell the news to Rob Fletcher himself , but Merran Andrews be before him .
She be at Rob before he have fairly land , when the fishing boat come in at sunset .
`` Have you hear the news , Rob ?
Nora 's go away to be a fine lady .
The Camerons have be daft about her all summer , and now they be go to adopt her . ''
Merran want Rob herself .
He be a big , handsome fellow , and well-off -- the pick of the harbour men in every way .
He have slight her for Nora , and it please her to stab him now , though she mean to be nice to him later on .
He turn white under his tan , but he do not choose to make a book of his heart for Merran 's bold black eye to read .
`` It 's a great thing for her , '' he answer calmly .
`` She be mean for good thing than can be find at Racicot . ''
`` She be always too good for common folk , if that be what you mean , '' say Merran spitefully .
Nora and Rob do not meet until the next evening , when she row herself home from Dalveigh .
He be at the shore to tie up her boat and help her out .
They walk up the sand together in the heart of the autumn sunset , with the northwest wind whistle in their ear and the great star of the lighthouse gleam wanly out against the golden sky .
Nora felt uncomfortable , and resent it .
Rob Fletcher be nothing to her ; he never have be anything but the good friend to whom she tell her strange thought and longing .
Why should her heart ache over him ?
She wish he would talk , but he stride along in silence , with his fine head droop a little .
`` I suppose you have hear that I be go away , Rob ? ''
she say at last .
He nod .
`` Yes , I 've hear it from a hundred mouth , more or less , '' he answer , not look at her .
`` It 's a splendid thing for me , be n't it ? ''
dare Nora .
`` Well , I do n't know , '' he say slowly .
`` Looking at it from the outside , it seem so .
But from the inside it may n't look the same .
Do you think you 'll be able to cut twenty year of a life out of your heart without any pain ? ''
`` Oh , I 'll be homesick , if that be what you mean , '' say Nora petulantly .
`` Of course I 'll be that at first .
I expect it -- but people get over that .
And it be not a if I be go away for good .
I 'll be back next summer -- every summer . ''
`` It 'll be different , '' say Rob stubbornly , think a old Nathan Shelley have think .
`` You 'll be a fine lady -- oh , all the good for that perhaps -- but you 'll not be the same .
No , no , the new life will change you ; not all at once , maybe , but in the end .
You 'll be one of them , not one of u .
But will you be happy ?
That 's the question I 'm ask . ''
In anyone else Nora would have resent this .
But she never felt angry with Rob .
`` I think I shall be , '' she say thoughtfully .
`` And , anyway , I must go .
It do n't seem a if I could help myself if I want to .
Something -- out beyond there -- be call me , always have be call me ever since I be a tiny girl and find out there be a big world far away from Racicot .
And it always seem to me that I would find a way to it some day .
That be why I keep go to school long after the other girl stop .
Mother think I 'd better stop home ; she say too much book learn would make me discontented and too different from the people I have to live along .
But Father let me go ; he understand ; he say I be like him when he be young .
I learn everything and read everything I could .
It seem to me a if I have be walk along a narrow pathway all my life .
And now it seem a if a gate be open before me and I can pass through into a wider world .
It be n't the luxury and the pleasure or the fine house and dress that tempt me , though the people here think so -- even Mother think so .
But it be not .
It 's just that something seem to be in my grasp that I 've always long for , and I must go -- Rob , I must go . ''
`` Yes , if you feel like that you must go , '' he answer , look down at her troubled face gently .
`` And it 's best for you to go , Nora .
I believe that , and I 'm not so selfish a not to be able to hope that you 'll find all you long for .
But it will change you all the more if it be so .
Nora !
Nora !
Whatever be I go to do without you ! ''
The sudden passion burst out in his tone frighten her .
`` Do n't , Rob , do n't !
And you wo n't miss me long .
There 's many another . ''
`` No , there be n't .
Do n't fling me that dry bone of comfort .
There 's no other , and never have be any other -- none but you , Nora , and well you know it . ''
`` I 'm sorry , '' she say faintly .
`` You need n't be , '' say Rob grimly .
`` After all , I 'd rather love you than not , hurt a it will .
I never have much hope of get you to listen to me , so there 's no great disappointment there .
You 're too good for me -- I 've always know that .
A girl that be fit to mate with the Camerons be far above Rob Fletcher , fisherman . ''
`` I never have such a thought , '' protest Nora .
`` I know it , '' he say , case himself up in his quietness again .
`` But it 's so -- and now I 've get to lose you .
But there 'll never be any other for me , Nora . ''
He leave her at her father 's door .
She watch his stalwart figure out of sight around the point , and rag to find tear in her eye and a bitter yearning in her heart .
For a moment she repent -- she would stay -- she could not go .
Then over the harbour flash out the light of Dalveigh .
The life behind them glitter , allure , beckon .
Nay , she must go on -- she have make her choice .
There be no turn back now .
* * * * * Nora Shelley go away with the Camerons , and Dalveigh be desert .
Winter come down on Racicot Harbour , and the colony of fisher folk at it head give themselves over to the idleness of the season -- a time for lounge and gossipping and long hour of lazy contentment smoking in the neighbour ' chimney corner , when tale be tell of the sea and the fishing .
The Harbour lay itself out to be sociable in winter .
There be no time for that in summer .
People have to work eighteen hour out of the twenty-four then .
In the winter there be spare time to laugh and quarrel , woo and wed and -- be a man so minded -- dream , a do Rob Fletcher in his loneliness .
In a Racicot winter much be make of small thing .
The arrival of Nora Shelley 's weekly letter to her father and mother be an event in the village .
The post-mistress in the Cove store spread the news that it have come , and that night the Shelley kitchen would be crowd .
Isobel Shelley , Nora 's young sister , read the letter aloud by virtue of have go to school long enough to be able to pronounce the word and tell where the place name be situate .
The Camerons have spend the autumn in New York and have then go south for the winter .
Nora write freely of her new life .
In the beginning she admit great homesickness , but after the first few letter she make no further mention of that .
She write little of herself , but she describe fully the place she have visit , the people she have meet , the wonderful thing she have see .
She send affectionate message to all her old friend and ask after all her old interest .
But the letter come to be more and more like those of a stranger and one apart from the Racicot life , and the father and mother felt it .
`` She 's change , '' mutter old Nathan .
`` It have to be so -- it 's well for her that it be so -- but it hurt .
She ai n't ours any more .
We 've lose the girl , wife , lose her forever . ''
Rob Fletcher always come and listen to the letter in silence while the others buzz and comment .
Rob , so the Harbour folk say , be much change .
He have grow unsociable and preferred to stay home and read book rather than go a-visiting a do others .
The Harbour folk shake their head over this .
There be something wrong with a man who read book when there be a plenty of other amusement .
Jacob Radnor have read book all one winter and have drown himself in the spring -- jump overboard from his dory at the herring net .
And that be what come of book , mark you .
The Camerons come later to Dalveigh the next summer , on account of John Cameron 's health , which be not good .
It be the first of August before a host of servant come to put Dalveigh in habitable order , and a week later the family come .
They bring a houseful of guest with them .
At sunset on the day of her arrival Nora Shelley look out cross the harbour to the fishing village .
She be tire after her journey , and she have not mean to go over until the morning , but now she know she must go at once .
Her mother be over there ; the old life call to her ; the northwest wind sweep up the channel and whistle alluringly to her at the window of her luxurious room .
It bring to her the tang of the salt waste and fill her heart with a great , bitter-sweet yearning .
She be more beautiful than ever .
In the year that have pass she have blossom out to a gracious fulfilment of womanhood .
Even the Camerons have wonder at her swift adaptation to her new surroundings .
She seem to have put Racicot behind her a one put by an old garment .
In everything she have hold her own royally .
Her adopted parent be proud of her beauty and her nameless , untamed charm .
They have lavish every indulgence upon her .
In those few short month she have live more keenly and fully than in all her life before .
The Nora Shelley who go away be not , so it would seem , the Nora Shelley who come back .
But when she look from her window to the wave and saw the star of the lighthouse and the blaze of the sunset in the window of the fishing-houses and hear the summons of the wind , something break loose in her soul and overwhelm her , like a wave of the sea .
She must go at once -- at once -- at once .
Not a moment could she wait .
She be dress for dinner , but with tingle finger she throw off her costly gown and put on her dark travel suit again .
She leave her hair a it be and knot a crimson scarf about her head .
She would slip away quietly to the boathouse , get Davy to launch the little sailboat for her -- and then for a fleet skim over the harbour before that glorious wind !
She hop not to be see , but Mrs. Cameron meet her in the hall .
`` Nora ! ''
she say in astonishment .
`` Oh , I must go , Aunty !
I must go ! ''
the girl cry feverishly .
She be afraid Mrs. Cameron would try to prevent her go , and all at once she know that she could not bear that .
`` Must go ?
Where ?
Dinner be almost ready , and -- '' `` Oh , I do n't want any dinner .
I 'm go home -- I will sail over . ''
`` My dear child , do n't be foolish .
It 's too late to go over the harbour tonight .
They wo n't be expect you .
Wait until the morning . ''
`` No -- oh , you do n't understand .
I must go -- I must !
My mother be over there . ''
Something in the girl 's last sentence or the tone in which it be uttered bring a look of pain to Mrs. Cameron 's face .
But she make no further attempt to dissuade her .
`` Well , if you must .
But you can not go alone -- no , Nora , I can not allow it .
The wind be too high and it be too late for you to go over by yourself .
Clark Bryant will take you . ''
Nora would have protest but she know it would be in vain .
She submit somewhat sullenly and walk down to the shore in silence .
Clark Bryant strode beside her , humour her mood .
He be a tall , stout man , with an ugly , clever , sarcastic face .
He be as clever a he look , and be one of the young millionaire whom John Cameron draw around him in the development of his huge financial scheme .
Bryant be in love with Nora .
This be why the Camerons have ask him to join their August house party at Dalveigh , and why he have accept .
It have occur to Nora that this be the case , but a yet she have never trouble to think the situation over seriously .
She like Clark Bryant well enough , but just at the moment he be in the way .
She do not want to take him over to Racicot -- just why she could not have explain .
There be in her no snobbish shame of her humble home .
But he do not belong there ; he be an alien , and she wish to go back to it for the first time alone .
At the boathouse Davy launch the small sailboat and Nora take the tiller .
She know every inch of the harbour .
As the sail fill before the wind and the boat sprang across the upcurling wave , her brief sullenness fell away from her .
She no longer resent Clark Bryant 's presence -- she forget it .
He be no more to her than the mast by which he stand .
The spell of the sea and the wind surge into her heart and fill it with wild happiness and measureless content .
Over yonder , where the light gleam on the darken shore under the high-sprung arch of pale golden sky , be home .
How the wind whistle to welcome her back !
The lash of it against her face -- the flick of salt spray on her lip -- the swing of the boat a it cut through the racing crest -- how glorious it all be !
Clark Bryant watch her , understand all at once that he be nothing to her , that he have no part or lot in her heart .
He be a one forgotten and leave behind .
And how lovely , how desirable she be !
He have never see her look so beautiful .
The shawl have slip down to her shoulder and her head rise out of it like some magnificent flower out of a crimson calyx .
The mass of her black hair lift from her face in the rush of the wind and sway back again like rich shadow .
Her lip be stung scarlet with the sea 's sharp caress , and her eye , large and splendid , look past him unseeing to the harbour light of Racicot .
When they swing in by the wharf Nora sprang from the boat before Bryant have time to moor it .
Pausing for an instant , she call down to him , carelessly , `` Do n't wait for me .
I shall not go back tonight . ''
Then she catch her shawl around her head and almost run up the wharf and along the shore .
No one be abroad , for it be supper hour in Racicot .
In the Shelley kitchen the family be gather around the table , when the door be fling open and Nora stand on the threshold .
For a moment they gaze at her as at an apparition .
They have not know the precise day of her coming and be not aware of the Camerons ' arrival at Dalveigh .
`` It 's the girl herself .
It 's Nora , '' say old Nathan , rise from his bench .
`` Mother ! ''
cry Nora .
She run across the room and bury her face in her mother 's breast , sob .
When the news spread , the Racicot people crowd in to see Nora until the house be full .
They spend a noisy , merry , whole-hearted evening of the old sort .
The men smoke and most of the woman knit while they talk .
They be pleased to find that Nora do not put on any air .
Old Jonas Myers bluntly tell her that he do n't see a her year among rich folk have do her much good , after all .
`` You 're just the same a when you go away , '' he say .
`` They have n't make a fine lady of you .
Folks here think you 'd be something wonderful . ''
Nora laugh .
She be glad that they do not find her changed .
Old Nathan chuckle in his dry way .
There be a difference in the girl , and he saw it , though the neighbour do not , but it be not the difference he have fear .
His daughter be not utterly take from him yet .
Nora sat by her mother and be happy .
But a the evening wear away she grow very quiet , and watch the door with something piteous in her eye .
Old Nathan notice it and think she be tire .
He give the curious neighbour a good-natured hint , and they presently withdraw .
When they have all go Nora go out to the door alone .
The wind have die down and the shore , gemmed with it twinkle light , be very still , for it be too late an hour for Racicot folk to be abroad in the mackerel season .
The moon be rise and the harbour be a tossing expanse of silver wave .
The mellow light fell on a tall figure lurk at the angle of the road that lead past the Shelley cottage .
Nora saw and recognize it .
She fly down the sandy slope with outstretched hand .
`` Rob -- Rob ! ''
`` Nora ! ''
he say huskily , hold out his hand .
But she fling herself on his breast and clung to him , half laughing , half cry .
`` Oh , Rob !
I 've be look for you all the evening .
Every time there be a step I say to myself , ` That be Rob , now . '
And when the door open to let in another , my heart die within me .
I dare not even ask after you for fear of what they might tell me .
Why do n't you come ? ''
`` I do n't know that I 'd be welcome , '' he whisper , hold her closer to him .
`` I 've be hang about think to get a glimpse of you unbeknown .
I think maybe you would n't want to see me tonight . ''
`` Not want to see you !
Oh , Rob , this evening at Dalveigh , when I look across to Racicot , it be you I think of before all -- even before Mother . ''
She draw back and look at him with her soul in her eye .
`` What a splendid fellow you be -- how handsome you be , Rob ! ''
she cry .
All the reserve of womanhood fell away from her in the inrush of emotion .
For the moment she be a child again , tell out her thought with all a child 's frankness .
`` I 've be in a dream this past year -- a lovely dream -- a fair dream , but only a dream , after all .
And now I 've waken .
And you be part of the wakening -- the best part !
Oh , to think I never know before ! ''
`` Knew what , my girl ? ''
He have her close against his heart now ; the breath of her lip mingle with his , but he would not kiss her yet .
`` That I love you , '' she whisper back .
`` Oh , Rob , you be all the world to me .
I belong to you and the sea .
But I never know it until I cross the harbour tonight .
Then I know -- it come to me all at once , like a flood of understanding .
I know I could never go away again -- that I must stay here forever where I could hear that call of wind and wave .
The new life be good -- good -- but it could not go deep enough .
And when you do not come I know what be in my heart for you as well . ''
* * * * * That night Nora lay beside her sister in the tiny room that look out on the harbour .
The young girl sleep soundly , but Nora keep awake to listen to the laughter of the wind outside , and con over what she and Rob have say to each other .
There be no blot on her happiness save a sorry wonder what the Camerons would say when they know .
`` They will think me ungrateful and fickle , '' she sigh .
`` They do n't know that I ca n't help it even if I would .
They will never understand . ''
Nor do they .
When Nora tell them that she be go back to Racicot , they laugh at her kindly at first , treat it a the passing whim of a homesick girl .
Later , when they come to understand that she mean it , they be grieve and angry .
There be scene of plead and tear and reproach .
Nora cry bitterly in Mrs. Cameron 's arm , but stand rock-firm .
She could never go back to them -- never .
They appeal to Nathan Shelley finally , but he refuse to say anything .
`` It ca n't be alter , '' he tell them .
`` The sea have call her and she 'll listen to naught else .
I 'm sorry enough for the girl 's own sake .
It would have be good for her if she could have cut loose from it all and live your life , I dare say .
But you 've make a fair trial and it 's of no use .
I know what 's in her heart -- it be in mine once -- and I 'll say no word of rebuke to her .
She 's free to go or stay a she choose -- just as free a she be last year . ''
Mrs. Cameron make one more appeal to Nora .
She tell the girl bitterly that she be ungrateful .
`` I 'm not that , '' say Nora with quiver lip .
`` I love you , and I 'm grateful to you .
But your life be n't for me , after all .
I think it be -- I long so for it .
And I love it , too -- I love it yet .
But there 's something stronger in me that hold me here . ''
`` I do n't think you realize what you be do , Nora .
You have be a little homesick and you be glad to be back .
But after we have go and you must settle into the old Racicot life again , you will not be content .
You will find that your life with u will have unfit you for this .
There will be no real place for you here -- nothing for you to do .
You will be a a stranger here . ''
`` Oh , no .
I be go to marry Rob Fletcher , '' say Nora proudly .
`` Marry Rob Fletcher !
And you might have marry Clark Bryant , Nora ! ''
Nora shake her head .
`` That could never have be .
I think it might once -- but I know well now .
You see , I love Rob . ''
There do not seem to be anything more to say after that .
Mrs. Cameron do not try to say anything .
She go away in sorrow .
Nora cry bitterly after she have go .
But there be no tear in her eye that night when she walk on the shore with Rob Fletcher .
The wind whistle around them , and the star come out in the great ebony dome of the sky over the harbour .
Laughter and song of the fishing folk be behind them , and the deep , solemn call of the sea before .
Over the harbour gleam the score of light at Dalveigh .
Rob look from them to Nora .
`` Do you think you 'll ever regret yon life , my girl ? ''
`` Never , Rob .
It seem to me now like a beautiful garment put on for a holiday and worn easily and pleasantly for a time .
But I 've put it off now , and put on workaday clothes again .
It be only a week since I leave Dalveigh , but it seem long ago .
Listen to the wind , Rob !
It be sing of the good day to be for you and me . ''
He bend over and kiss her .
`` My own dear lass ! ''
he say softly .
The Martyrdom of Estella Estella be wait under the poplar at the gate for Spencer Morgan .
She be engage to him , and he always come to see her on Saturday and Wednesday evening .
It be after sunset , and the air be mellow and warm-hued .
The willow tree along the walk and the tall birch in the background stand out darkly distinct against the lemon-tinted sky .
The breath of mint float out from the garden , and the dew be fall heavily .
Estella lean against the gate , listen for the sound of wheel and dreamily watch the light shin out from the window of Vivienne LeMar 's room .
The blind be up and she could see Miss LeMar write at her table .
Her profile be clear and distinct against the lamplight .
Estella reflect without the least envy that Miss LeMar be very beautiful .
She have never see anyone who be really beautiful before -- beautiful with the loveliness of the heroine in the novel she sometimes read or the picture she have see .
Estella Bowes be not pretty .
She be a nice-looking girl , with clear eye , rosy cheek , and a pervade air of the content and happiness her life have always know .
She be an orphan and live with her uncle and aunt .
In the summer they sometimes take a boarder for a month or two , and this summer Miss LeMar have come .
She have be with them about a week .
She be an actress from the city and have around her all the glamour of a strange , unknown life .
Nothing be know about her .
The Boweses like her well enough a a boarder .
Estella admire and hold her in awe .
She wonder what Spencer would think of this beautiful woman .
He have not yet see her .
It be quite dark when he come .
Estella open the gate for him , but he get out of his buggy and walk up the lane beside her with his arm about her .
Miss LeMar 's light have remove to the parlour where she be sing , accompany herself on the cottage organ .
Estella felt annoy .
The parlour be consider her private domain on Wednesday and Saturday night , but Miss LeMar do not know that .
`` Who be sing ? ''
ask Spencer .
`` What a voice she have ! ''
`` That 's our new boarder , Miss LeMar , '' answer Estella .
`` She 's an actress and sings and do everything .
She be awfully pretty , Spencer . ''
`` Yes ? ''
say the young man indifferently .
He be not in the least interested in the Boweses ' new boarder .
Indeed , he consider her advent a nuisance .
He press Estella closer to him , and when they reach the garden gate he kiss her .
Estella always remember that moment afterwards .
She be so supremely happy .
Spencer go off to put up his horse , and Estella wait for him on the porch step , wonder if any other girl in the world could be quite so happy a she be , or love anyone as much a she love Spencer .
She do not see how it could be possible , because there be only one Spencer .
When Spencer come back she take him into the parlour , half shyly , half proudly .
He be a handsome fellow , with a magnificent physique .
Miss LeMar stop sing and turn around on the organ stool a they enter .
The little room be flood with a mellow light from the pink-globed lamp on the table , and in the soft , shadowy radiance she be as beautiful a a dream .
She wear a dress of crepe , cut low in the neck .
Estella have never see anyone dress so before .
To her it seem immodest .
She introduce Spencer .
He bow awkwardly and sit stiffly down by the window with his eye rivet on Miss LeMar 's face .
Estella , catch a glimpse of herself in the old-fashioned mirror above the mantel , suddenly felt a cold chill of dissatisfaction .
Her figure have never seem to her so stout and stiff , her brown hair so dull and prim , her complexion so muddy , her feature so commonplace .
She wish Miss LeMar would go out of the room .
Vivienne LeMar watch the two face before her ; a hard gleam , half mockery , half malice , flash into her eye and a smile crept about her lip .
She look straight in Spencer Morgan 's honest blue eye and read there the young man 's dazzled admiration .
There be contempt in the look she turn on Estella .
`` You be sing when we come in , '' say Spencer .
