Jo tell her adventure , and by the time she have finish they be at home .
With many thanks , they say good night and crept in , hop to disturb no one , but the instant their door creak , two little nightcap bob up , and two sleepy but eager voice cry out ... `` Tell about the party !
Tell about the party ! ''
With what Meg call ' a great want of manner ' Jo have save some bonbon for the little girl , and they soon subside , after hear the most thrilling event of the evening .
`` I declare , it really seem like be a fine young lady , to come home from the party in a carriage and sit in my dress gown with a maid to wait on me , '' say Meg , a Jo bind up her foot with arnica and brush her hair .
`` I do n't believe fine young lady enjoy themselves a bit more than we do , in spite of our burned hair , old gown , one glove apiece and tight slipper that sprain our ankle when we be silly enough to wear them . ''
And I think Jo be quite right .
CHAPTER FOUR BURDENS `` Oh , dear , how hard it do seem to take up our pack and go on , '' sigh Meg the morning after the party , for now the holiday be over , the week of merrymaking do not fit her for go on easily with the task she never like .
`` I wish it be Christmas or New Year 's all the time .
Would n't it be fun ? ''
answer Jo , yawn dismally .
`` We should n't enjoy ourselves half so much a we do now .
But it do seem so nice to have little supper and bouquet , and go to party , and drive home , and read and rest , and not work .
It 's like other people , you know , and I always envy girl who do such thing , I 'm so fond of luxury , '' say Meg , try to decide which of two shabby gown be the least shabby .
`` Well , we ca n't have it , so do n't let u grumble but shoulder our bundle and trudge along as cheerfully a Marmee do .
I 'm sure Aunt March be a regular Old Man of the Sea to me , but I suppose when I 've learn to carry her without complain , she will tumble off , or get so light that I sha n't mind her . ''
This idea tickle Jo 's fancy and put her in good spirit , but Meg do n't brighten , for her burden , consist of four spoiled child , seem heavy than ever .
She have not heart enough even to make herself pretty a usual by put on a blue neck ribbon and dress her hair in the most become way .
`` Where 's the use of look nice , when no one see me but those cross midget , and no one care whether I 'm pretty or not ? ''
she mutter , shut her drawer with a jerk .
`` I shall have to toil and moil all my day , with only little bit of fun now and then , and get old and ugly and sour , because I 'm poor and ca n't enjoy my life a other girl do .
It 's a shame ! ''
So Meg go down , wear an injured look , and be n't at all agreeable at breakfast time .
Everyone seem rather out of sort and incline to croak .
Beth have a headache and lay on the sofa , try to comfort herself with the cat and three kitten .
Amy be fret because her lesson be not learn , and she could n't find her rubber .
Jo would whistle and make a great racket get ready .
Mrs. March be very busy try to finish a letter , which must go at once , and Hannah have the grump , for be up late do n't suit her .
`` There never be such a cross family ! ''
cry Jo , lose her temper when she have upset an inkstand , break both boot lacing , and sit down upon her hat .
`` You 're the cross person in it ! ''
return Amy , wash out the sum that be all wrong with the tear that have fall on her slate .
`` Beth , if you do n't keep these horrid cat down cellar I 'll have them drown , '' exclaim Meg angrily a she try to get rid of the kitten which have scramble up her back and stuck like a burr just out of reach .
Jo laugh , Meg scold , Beth implore , and Amy wail because she could n't remember how much nine time twelve be .
`` Girls , girl , do be quiet one minute !
I must get this off by the early mail , and you drive me distracted with your worry , '' cry Mrs. March , cross out the third spoiled sentence in her letter .
There be a momentary lull , break by Hannah , who stalk in , lay two hot turnover on the table , and stalk out again .
These turnover be an institution , and the girl call them ` muff ' , for they have no others and find the hot pie very comfort to their hand on cold morning .
Hannah never forget to make them , no matter how busy or grumpy she might be , for the walk be long and bleak .
The poor thing get no other lunch and be seldom home before two .
`` Cuddle your cat and get over your headache , Bethy .
Goodbye , Marmee .
We be a set of rascal this morning , but we 'll come home regular angel .
Now then , Meg ! ''
And Jo tramp away , feel that the pilgrim be not set out a they ought to do .
They always look back before turn the corner , for their mother be always at the window to nod and smile , and wave her hand to them .
Somehow it seem a if they could n't have get through the day without that , for whatever their mood might be , the last glimpse of that motherly face be sure to affect them like sunshine .
`` If Marmee shake her fist instead of kiss her hand to u , it would serve u right , for more ungrateful wretch than we be be never see , '' cry Jo , take a remorseful satisfaction in the snowy walk and bitter wind .
`` Do n't use such dreadful expression , '' reply Meg from the depth of the veil in which she have shroud herself like a nun sick of the world .
`` I like good strong word that mean something , '' reply Jo , catch her hat a it take a leap off her head preparatory to fly away altogether .
`` Call yourself any name you like , but I be neither a rascal nor a wretch and I do n't choose to be call so . ''
`` You 're a blighted be , and decidedly cross today because you ca n't sit in the lap of luxury all the time .
Poor dear , just wait till I make my fortune , and you shall revel in carriage and ice cream and high-heeled slipper , and posy , and red-headed boy to dance with . ''
`` How ridiculous you be , Jo ! ''
But Meg laugh at the nonsense and felt well in spite of herself .
`` Lucky for you I be , for if I put on crushed air and try to be dismal , a you do , we should be in a nice state .
Thank goodness , I can always find something funny to keep me up .
Do n't croak any more , but come home jolly , there 's a dear . ''
Jo give her sister an encouraging pat on the shoulder a they part for the day , each go a different way , each hug her little warm turnover , and each try to be cheerful in spite of wintry weather , hard work , and the unsatisfied desire of pleasure-loving youth .
When Mr. March lose his property in try to help an unfortunate friend , the two old girl beg to be allow to do something toward their own support , at least .
Believing that they could not begin too early to cultivate energy , industry , and independence , their parent consent , and both fell to work with the hearty good will which in spite of all obstacle be sure to succeed at last .
Margaret find a place a nursery governess and felt rich with her small salary .
As she say , she be ` fond of luxury ' , and her chief trouble be poverty .
She find it hard to bear than the others because she could remember a time when home be beautiful , life full of ease and pleasure , and want of any kind unknown .
She try not to be envious or discontent , but it be very natural that the young girl should long for pretty thing , gay friend , accomplishment , and a happy life .
At the Kings ' she daily saw all she want , for the child 's old sister be just out , and Meg catch frequent glimpse of dainty ball dress and bouquet , heard lively gossip about theater , concert , sleigh party , and merrymaking of all kind , and saw money lavish on trifle which would have be so precious to her .
Poor Meg seldom complain , but a sense of injustice make her feel bitter toward everyone sometimes , for she have not yet learn to know how rich she be in the blessing which alone can make life happy .
Jo happen to suit Aunt March , who be lame and need an active person to wait upon her .
The childless old lady have offer to adopt one of the girl when the trouble come , and be much offend because her offer be decline .
Other friend tell the Marches that they have lose all chance of be remember in the rich old lady 's will , but the unworldly Marches only say ... `` We ca n't give up our girl for a dozen fortune .
Rich or poor , we will keep together and be happy in one another . ''
The old lady would n't speak to them for a time , but happen to meet Jo at a friend 's , something in her comical face and blunt manner strike the old lady 's fancy , and she propose to take her for a companion .
This do not suit Jo at all , but she accept the place since nothing well appear and , to every one 's surprise , get on remarkably well with her irascible relative .
There be an occasional tempest , and once Jo march home , declare she could n't bear it longer , but Aunt March always clear up quickly , and send for her to come back again with such urgency that she could not refuse , for in her heart she rather like the peppery old lady .
I suspect that the real attraction be a large library of fine book , which be leave to dust and spider since Uncle March die .
Jo remember the kind old gentleman , who use to let her build railroad and bridge with his big dictionary , tell her story about queer picture in his Latin book , and buy her card of gingerbread whenever he meet her in the street .
The dim , dusty room , with the bust star down from the tall bookcase , the cozy chair , the globe , and best of all , the wilderness of book in which she could wander where she like , make the library a region of bliss to her .
The moment Aunt March take her nap , or be busy with company , Jo hurry to this quiet place , and curl herself up in the easy chair , devour poetry , romance , history , travel , and picture like a regular bookworm .
But , like all happiness , it do not last long , for as sure a she have just reach the heart of the story , the sweet verse of a song , or the most perilous adventure of her traveler , a shrill voice call , `` Josy-phine !
Josy-phine ! ''
and she have to leave her paradise to wind yarn , wash the poodle , or read Belsham 's Essays by the hour together .
Jo 's ambition be to do something very splendid .
What it be , she have no idea as yet , but leave it for time to tell her , and meanwhile , find her great affliction in the fact that she could n't read , run , and ride as much a she like .
A quick temper , sharp tongue , and restless spirit be always get her into scrape , and her life be a series of ups and down , which be both comic and pathetic .
But the training she receive at Aunt March 's be just what she need , and the thought that she be do something to support herself make her happy in spite of the perpetual `` Josy-phine ! ''
Beth be too bashful to go to school .
It have be try , but she suffer so much that it be give up , and she do her lesson at home with her father .
Even when he go away , and her mother be call to devote her skill and energy to Soldiers ' Aid Societies , Beth go faithfully on by herself and do the best she could .
She be a housewifely little creature , and help Hannah keep home neat and comfortable for the worker , never think of any reward but to be love .
Long , quiet day she spend , not lonely nor idle , for her little world be people with imaginary friend , and she be by nature a busy bee .
There be six doll to be take up and dress every morning , for Beth be a child still and love her pet as well a ever .
Not one whole or handsome one among them , all be outcast till Beth take them in , for when her sister outgrew these idol , they pass to her because Amy would have nothing old or ugly .
Beth cherish them all the more tenderly for that very reason , and set up a hospital for infirm doll .
No pin be ever stick into their cotton vitals , no harsh word or blow be ever give them , no neglect ever sadden the heart of the most repulsive , but all be feed and clothe , nursed and caress with an affection which never fail .
One forlorn fragment of dollanity have belong to Jo and , have lead a tempestuous life , be leave a wreck in the rag bag , from which dreary poorhouse it be rescue by Beth and take to her refuge .
Having no top to it head , she tie on a neat little cap , and a both arm and leg be go , she hide these deficiency by fold it in a blanket and devote her best bed to this chronic invalid .
If anyone have know the care lavish on that dolly , I think it would have touch their heart , even while they laugh .
She bring it bits of bouquet , she read to it , take it out to breathe fresh air , hide under her coat , she sing it lullabies and never go to bed without kiss it dirty face and whisper tenderly , `` I hope you 'll have a good night , my poor dear . ''
Beth have her trouble as well a the others , and not be an angel but a very human little girl , she often ` weep a little weep ' a Jo say , because she could n't take music lesson and have a fine piano .
She love music so dearly , try so hard to learn , and practice away so patiently at the jingle old instrument , that it do seem a if someone -LRB- not to hint Aunt March -RRB- ought to help her .
Nobody do , however , and nobody saw Beth wipe the tear off the yellow key , that would n't keep in tune , when she be all alone .
She sing like a little lark about her work , never be too tired for Marmee and the girl , and day after day say hopefully to herself , `` I know I 'll get my music some time , if I 'm good . ''
There be many Beths in the world , shy and quiet , sit in corner till need , and live for others so cheerfully that no one see the sacrifice till the little cricket on the hearth stop chirp , and the sweet , sunshiny presence vanishes , leave silence and shadow behind .
If anybody have ask Amy what the great trial of her life be , she would have answer at once , `` My nose . ''
When she be a baby , Jo have accidently drop her into the coal hod , and Amy insist that the fall have ruin her nose forever .
It be not big nor red , like poor ` Petrea 's ' , it be only rather flat , and all the pinching in the world could not give it an aristocratic point .
No one mind it but herself , and it be do it best to grow , but Amy felt deeply the want of a Grecian nose , and draw whole sheet of handsome one to console herself .
`` Little Raphael , '' a her sister call her , have a decided talent for draw , and be never so happy a when copy flower , design fairy , or illustrate story with queer specimen of art .
Her teacher complain that instead of do her sum she cover her slate with animal , the blank page of her atlas be use to copy map on , and caricature of the most ludicrous description come flutter out of all her book at unlucky moment .
She get through her lesson as well a she could , and manage to escape reprimand by be a model of deportment .
She be a great favorite with her mate , be good-tempered and possess the happy art of please without effort .
Her little airs and grace be much admire , so be her accomplishment , for besides her drawing , she could play twelve tune , crochet , and read French without mispronounce more than two-thirds of the word .
She have a plaintive way of say , `` When Papa be rich we do so-and-so , '' which be very touching , and her long word be consider ` perfectly elegant ' by the girl .
Amy be in a fair way to be spoil , for everyone pet her , and her small vanity and selfishness be grow nicely .
One thing , however , rather quench the vanity .
She have to wear her cousin 's clothes .
Now Florence 's mama have n't a particle of taste , and Amy suffer deeply at have to wear a red instead of a blue bonnet , unbecoming gown , and fussy apron that do not fit .
Everything be good , well make , and little worn , but Amy 's artistic eye be much afflict , especially this winter , when her school dress be a dull purple with yellow dot and no trimming .
`` My only comfort , '' she say to Meg , with tear in her eye , `` be that Mother do n't take tuck in my dress whenever I 'm naughty , a Maria Parks 's mother do .
My dear , it 's really dreadful , for sometimes she be so bad her frock be up to her knee , and she ca n't come to school .
When I think of this deggerredation , I feel that I can bear even my flat nose and purple gown with yellow sky-rockets on it . ''
Meg be Amy 's confidant and monitor , and by some strange attraction of opposite Jo be gentle Beth 's .
To Jo alone do the shy child tell her thought , and over her big harum-scarum sister Beth unconsciously exercise more influence than anyone in the family .
The two old girl be a great deal to one another , but each take one of the young sister into her keep and watch over her in her own way , ` play mother ' they call it , and put their sister in the place of discarded doll with the maternal instinct of little woman .
`` Has anybody get anything to tell ?
It 's be such a dismal day I 'm really die for some amusement , '' say Meg , a they sit sew together that evening .
`` I have a queer time with Aunt today , and , a I get the best of it , I 'll tell you about it , '' begin Jo , who dearly love to tell story .
`` I be read that everlasting Belsham , and drone away a I always do , for Aunt soon drop off , and then I take out some nice book , and read like fury till she wake up .
I actually make myself sleepy , and before she begin to nod , I give such a gape that she ask me what I mean by open my mouth wide enough to take the whole book in at once . ''
`` I wish I could , and be do with it , '' say I , try not to be saucy .
`` Then she give me a long lecture on my sin , and tell me to sit and think them over while she just ` lose ' herself for a moment .
She never find herself very soon , so the minute her cap begin to bob like a top-heavy dahlia , I whip the Vicar of Wakefield out of my pocket , and read away , with one eye on him and one on Aunt .
I 'd just get to where they all tumble into the water when I forget and laugh out loud .
Aunt wake up and , be more good-natured after her nap , tell me to read a bit and show what frivolous work I prefer to the worthy and instructive Belsham .
I do my very best , and she like it , though she only say ... '' ' I do n't understand what it 's all about .
Go back and begin it , child . ' ''
`` Back I go , and make the Primroses as interesting a ever I could .
Once I be wicked enough to stop in a thrilling place , and say meekly , ` I 'm afraid it tire you , ma'am .
Sha n't I stop now ? ' ''
`` She catch up her knitting , which have drop out of her hand , give me a sharp look through her spec , and say , in her short way , ` Finish the chapter , and do n't be impertinent , miss ' . ''
`` Did she own she like it ? ''
ask Meg .
`` Oh , bless you , no !
But she let old Belsham rest , and when I run back after my glove this afternoon , there she be , so hard at the Vicar that she do n't hear me laugh a I dance a jig in the hall because of the good time come .
What a pleasant life she might have if only she choose !
I do n't envy her much , in spite of her money , for after all rich people have about as many worry a poor one , I think , '' add Jo .
`` That remind me , '' say Meg , `` that I 've get something to tell .
It be n't funny , like Jo 's story , but I think about it a good deal a I come home .
At the Kings ' today I find everybody in a flurry , and one of the child say that her old brother have do something dreadful , and Papa have send him away .
I hear Mrs. King cry and Mr. King talk very loud , and Grace and Ellen turn away their face when they pass me , so I should n't see how red and swell their eye be .
I do n't ask any question , of course , but I felt so sorry for them and be rather glad I have n't any wild brother to do wicked thing and disgrace the family . ''
`` I think be disgrace in school be a great deal try_inger than anything bad boy can do , '' say Amy , shake her head , a if her experience of life have be a deep one .
`` Susie Perkins come to school today with a lovely red carnelian ring .
I want it dreadfully , and wish I be her with all my might .
Well , she draw a picture of Mr. Davis , with a monstrous nose and a hump , and the word , ` Young lady , my eye be upon you ! '
come out of his mouth in a balloon thing .
We be laugh over it when all of a sudden his eye be on u , and he order Susie to bring up her slate .
She be parry_lized with fright , but she go , and oh , what do you think he do ?
He take her by the ear -- the ear !
Just fancy how horrid !
-- and lead her to the recitation platform , and make her stand there half an hour , hold the slate so everyone could see . ''
`` Did n't the girl laugh at the picture ? ''
ask Jo , who relish the scrape .
`` Laugh ?
Not one !
They sit still a mouse , and Susie cry quart , I know she do .
I do n't envy her then , for I felt that million of carnelian ring would n't have make me happy after that .
I never , never should have get over such a agonizing mortification . ''
And Amy go on with her work , in the proud consciousness of virtue and the successful utterance of two long word in a breath .
`` I saw something I like this morning , and I mean to tell it at dinner , but I forget , '' say Beth , put Jo 's topsy-turvy basket in order a she talk .
`` When I go to get some oyster for Hannah , Mr. Laurence be in the fish shop , but he do n't see me , for I keep behind the fish barrel , and he be busy with Mr. Cutter the fish-man .
A poor woman come in with a pail and a mop , and ask Mr. Cutter if he would let her do some scrubbing for a bit of fish , because she have n't any dinner for her child , and have be disappoint of a day 's work .
Mr. Cutter be in a hurry and say ` No ' , rather crossly , so she be go away , look hungry and sorry , when Mr. Laurence hook up a big fish with the crooked end of his cane and hold it out to her .
She be so glad and surprised she take it right into her arm , and thank him over and over .
He tell her to ` go along and cook it ' , and she hurry off , so happy !
Was n't it good of him ?
Oh , she do look so funny , hug the big , slippery fish , and hop Mr. Laurence 's bed in heaven would be ` aisy ' . ''
When they have laugh at Beth 's story , they ask their mother for one , and after a moment think , she say soberly , `` As I sit cut out blue flannel jacket today at the room , I felt very anxious about Father , and think how lonely and helpless we should be , if anything happen to him .
It be not a wise thing to do , but I keep on worry till an old man come in with an order for some clothes .
He sit down near me , and I begin to talk to him , for he look poor and tired and anxious . ''
` Have you son in the army ? '
I ask , for the note he bring be not to me . ''
`` Yes , ma'am .
I have four , but two be kill , one be a prisoner , and I 'm go to the other , who be very sick in a Washington hospital . '
he answer quietly . '' ''
` You have do a great deal for your country , sir , ' I say , feel respect now , instead of pity . '' ''
` Not a mite more than I ought , ma'am .
I 'd go myself , if I be any use .
As I ai n't , I give my boy , and give 'em free . ' ''
`` He speak so cheerfully , look so sincere , and seem so glad to give his all , that I be ashamed of myself .
I 'd give one man and think it too much , while he give four without grudge them .
I have all my girl to comfort me at home , and his last son be wait , mile away , to say good-by to him , perhaps !
I felt so rich , so happy thinking of my blessing , that I make him a nice bundle , give him some money , and thank him heartily for the lesson he have teach me . ''
`` Tell another story , Mother , one with a moral to it , like this .
I like to think about them afterward , if they be real and not too preachy , '' say Jo , after a minute 's silence .
Mrs. March smile and begin at once , for she have tell story to this little audience for many year , and know how to please them .
`` Once upon a time , there be four girl , who have enough to eat and drink and wear , a good many comfort and pleasure , kind friend and parent who love them dearly , and yet they be not content . ''
-LRB- Here the listener steal sly look at one another , and begin to sew diligently . -RRB-
`` These girl be anxious to be good and make many excellent resolution , but they do not keep them very well , and be constantly say , ` If only we have this , ' or ` If we could only do that , ' quite forget how much they already have , and how many thing they actually could do .
So they ask an old woman what spell they could use to make them happy , and she say , ` When you feel discontented , think over your blessing , and be grateful . ' ''
-LRB- Here Jo look up quickly , a if about to speak , but change her mind , see that the story be not do yet . -RRB-
`` Being sensible girl , they decide to try her advice , and soon be surprised to see how well off they be .
One discover that money could n't keep shame and sorrow out of rich people 's house , another that , though she be poor , she be a great deal happier , with her youth , health , and good spirit , than a certain fretful , feeble old lady who could n't enjoy her comfort , a third that , disagreeable a it be to help get dinner , it be hard still to go beg for it and the fourth , that even carnelian ring be not so valuable a good behavior .
So they agree to stop complaining , to enjoy the blessing already possess , and try to deserve them , l they should be take away entirely , instead of increase , and I believe they be never disappoint or sorry that they take the old woman 's advice . ''
`` Now , Marmee , that be very cunning of you to turn our own story against u , and give u a sermon instead of a romance ! ''
cry Meg .
`` I like that kind of sermon .
It 's the sort Father use to tell u , '' say Beth thoughtfully , put the needle straight on Jo 's cushion .
`` I do n't complain near as much a the others do , and I shall be more careful than ever now , for I 've have warn from Susie 's downfall , '' say Amy morally .
`` We need that lesson , and we wo n't forget it .
If we do so , you just say to u , a old Chloe do in Uncle Tom , ` Tink ob yer marcies , chillen ! '
` Tink ob yer marcies ! ' ''
added Jo , who could not , for the life of her , help get a morsel of fun out of the little sermon , though she take it to heart as much a any of them .
CHAPTER FIVE BEING NEIGHBORLY `` What in the world be you go to do now , Jo ? ''
ask Meg one snowy afternoon , a her sister come tramp through the hall , in rubber boot , old sack , and hood , with a broom in one hand and a shovel in the other .
`` Going out for exercise , '' answer Jo with a mischievous twinkle in her eye .
`` I should think two long walk this morning would have be enough !
It 's cold and dull out , and I advise you to stay warm and dry by the fire , a I do , '' say Meg with a shiver .
`` Never take advice !
Ca n't keep still all day , and not be a pussycat , I do n't like to doze by the fire .
I like adventure , and I 'm go to find some . ''
Meg go back to toast her foot and read Ivanhoe , and Jo begin to dig path with great energy .
The snow be light , and with her broom she soon sweep a path all round the garden , for Beth to walk in when the sun come out and the invalid doll need air .
Now , the garden separate the Marches ' house from that of Mr. Laurence .
Both stand in a suburb of the city , which be still country-like , with grove and lawn , large garden , and quiet street .
A low hedge part the two estate .
On one side be an old , brown house , look rather bare and shabby , robbed of the vine that in summer cover it wall and the flower , which then surround it .
On the other side be a stately stone mansion , plainly betoken every sort of comfort and luxury , from the big coach house and well-kept ground to the conservatory and the glimpse of lovely thing one caught between the rich curtain .
Yet it seem a lonely , lifeless sort of house , for no child frolic on the lawn , no motherly face ever smile at the window , and few people go in and out , except the old gentleman and his grandson .
To Jo 's lively fancy , this fine house seem a kind of enchanted palace , full of splendor and delight which no one enjoyed .
She have long want to behold these hidden glory , and to know the Laurence boy , who look a if he would like to be know , if he only know how to begin .
Since the party , she have be more eager than ever , and have plan many way of make friend with him , but he have not be see lately , and Jo begin to think he have go away , when she one day spy a brown face at an upper window , look wistfully down into their garden , where Beth and Amy be snow-balling one another .
`` That boy be suffer for society and fun , '' she say to herself .
`` His grandpa do not know what 's good for him , and keep him shut up all alone .
He need a party of jolly boy to play with , or somebody young and lively .
I 've a great mind to go over and tell the old gentleman so ! ''
The idea amuse Jo , who like to do dare thing and be always scandalize Meg by her queer performance .
The plan of ` go over ' be not forget .
And when the snowy afternoon come , Jo resolve to try what could be do .
She saw Mr. Lawrence drive off , and then sallied out to dig her way down to the hedge , where she pause and take a survey .
All quiet , curtain down at the low window , servant out of sight , and nothing human visible but a curly black head lean on a thin hand at the upper window .
`` There he be , '' think Jo , `` Poor boy !
All alone and sick this dismal day .
It 's a shame !
I 'll toss up a snowball and make him look out , and then say a kind word to him . ''
Up go a handful of soft snow , and the head turn at once , show a face which lose it listless look in a minute , a the big eye brighten and the mouth begin to smile .
Jo nod and laugh , and flourish her broom a she call out ... `` How do you do ?
Are you sick ? ''
Laurie open the window , and croak out as hoarsely a a raven ... `` Better , thank you .
I 've have a bad cold , and be shut up a week . ''
`` I 'm sorry .
What do you amuse yourself with ? ''
`` Nothing .
It 's dull a tomb up here . ''
`` Do n't you read ? ''
`` Not much .
They wo n't let me . ''
`` Ca n't somebody read to you ? ''
`` Grandpa do sometimes , but my book do n't interest him , and I hate to ask Brooke all the time . ''
`` Have someone come and see you then . ''
`` There be n't anyone I 'd like to see .
Boys make such a row , and my head be weak . ''
`` Is n't there some nice girl who 'd read and amuse you ?
Girls be quiet and like to play nurse . ''
`` Do n't know any . ''
`` You know u , '' begin Jo , then laugh and stop .
`` So I do !
Will you come , please ? ''
cry Laurie .
`` I 'm not quiet and nice , but I 'll come , if Mother will let me .
I 'll go ask her .
Shut the window , like a good boy , and wait till I come . ''
With that , Jo shoulder her broom and march into the house , wonder what they would all say to her .
Laurie be in a flutter of excitement at the idea of have company , and fly about to get ready , for a Mrs. March say , he be ' a little gentleman ' , and do honor to the come guest by brush his curly pate , put on a fresh color , and try to tidy up the room , which in spite of half a dozen servant , be anything but neat .
Presently there come a loud ring , than a decided voice , ask for ` Mr. Laurie ' , and a surprised-looking servant come run up to announce a young lady .
`` All right , show her up , it 's Miss Jo , '' say Laurie , go to the door of his little parlor to meet Jo , who appear , look rosy and quite at her ease , with a covered dish in one hand and Beth 's three kitten in the other .
`` Here I be , bag and baggage , '' she say briskly .
`` Mother send her love , and be glad if I could do anything for you .
Meg want me to bring some of her blanc mange , she make it very nicely , and Beth think her cat would be comfort .
I know you 'd laugh at them , but I could n't refuse , she be so anxious to do something . ''
It so happen that Beth 's funny loan be just the thing , for in laughing over the kit , Laurie forget his bashfulness , and grow sociable at once .
`` That look too pretty to eat , '' he say , smile with pleasure , a Jo uncover the dish , and show the blanc mange , surround by a garland of green leaf , and the scarlet flower of Amy 's pet geranium .
`` It be n't anything , only they all felt kindly and want to show it .
Tell the girl to put it away for your tea .
It 's so simple you can eat it , and be soft , it will slip down without hurt your sore throat .
What a cozy room this be ! ''
`` It might be if it be kept nice , but the maid be lazy , and I do n't know how to make them mind .
It worry me though . ''
`` I 'll right it up in two minute , for it only need to have the hearth brush , so -- and the thing make straight on the mantelpiece , so -- and the book put here , and the bottle there , and your sofa turn from the light , and the pillow plump up a bit .
Now then , you 're fix . ''
And so he be , for , a she laugh and talk , Jo have whisk thing into place and give quite a different air to the room .
Laurie watch her in respectful silence , and when she beckon him to his sofa , he sit down with a sigh of satisfaction , say gratefully ... `` How kind you be !
Yes , that 's what it want .
Now please take the big chair and let me do something to amuse my company . ''
`` No , I come to amuse you .
Shall I read aloud ? ''
and Jo look affectionately toward some invite book near by .
`` Thank you !
I 've read all those , and if you do n't mind , I 'd rather talk , '' answer Laurie .
`` Not a bit .
I 'll talk all day if you 'll only set me go .
Beth say I never know when to stop . ''
`` Is Beth the rosy one , who stay at home good deal and sometimes go out with a little basket ? ''
ask Laurie with interest .
`` Yes , that 's Beth .
She 's my girl , and a regular good one she be , too . ''
`` The pretty one be Meg , and the curly-haired one be Amy , I believe ? ''
`` How do you find that out ? ''
Laurie color up , but answer frankly , `` Why , you see I often hear you call to one another , and when I 'm alone up here , I ca n't help look over at your house , you always seem to be have such good time .
I beg your pardon for be so rude , but sometimes you forget to put down the curtain at the window where the flower be .
And when the lamp be light , it 's like look at a picture to see the fire , and you all around the table with your mother .
Her face be right opposite , and it look so sweet behind the flower , I ca n't help watch it .
I have n't get any mother , you know . ''
And Laurie poke the fire to hide a little twitching of the lip that he could not control .
The solitary , hungry look in his eye go straight to Jo 's warm heart .
She have be so simply taught that there be no nonsense in her head , and at fifteen she be a innocent and frank a any child .
Laurie be sick and lonely , and feel how rich she be in home and happiness , she gladly try to share it with him .
Her face be very friendly and her sharp voice unusually gentle a she say ... `` We 'll never draw that curtain any more , and I give you leave to look as much a you like .
I just wish , though , instead of peep , you 'd come over and see u .
Mother be so splendid , she 'd do you heap of good , and Beth would sing to you if I beg her to , and Amy would dance .
Meg and I would make you laugh over our funny stage property , and we 'd have jolly time .
Would n't your grandpa let you ? ''
`` I think he would , if your mother ask him .
He 's very kind , though he do not look so , and he let me do what I like , pretty much , only he 's afraid I might be a bother to stranger , '' begin Laurie , brighten more and more .
`` We be not stranger , we be neighbor , and you need n't think you 'd be a bother .
We want to know you , and I 've be try to do it this ever so long .
We have n't be here a great while , you know , but we have get acquaint with all our neighbor but you . ''
`` You see , Grandpa live among his book , and do n't mind much what happen outside .
Mr. Brooke , my tutor , do n't stay here , you know , and I have no one to go about with me , so I just stop at home and get on a I can . ''
`` That 's bad .
You ought to make an effort and go visit everywhere you be ask , then you 'll have plenty of friend , and pleasant place to go to .
Never mind be bashful .
It wo n't last long if you keep go . ''
Laurie turn red again , but be n't offend at be accuse of bashfulness , for there be so much good will in Jo it be impossible not to take her blunt speech as kindly a they be mean .
`` Do you like your school ? ''
ask the boy , change the subject , after a little pause , during which he star at the fire and Jo look about her , well pleased .
`` Do n't go to school , I 'm a businessman -- girl , I mean .
I go to wait on my great-aunt , and a dear , cross old soul she be , too , '' answer Jo .
Laurie open his mouth to ask another question , but remember just in time that it be n't manner to make too many inquiry into people 's affair , he shut it again , and look uncomfortable .
Jo like his good breeding , and do n't mind have a laugh at Aunt March , so she give him a lively description of the fidgety old lady , her fat poodle , the parrot that talk Spanish , and the library where she revel .
Laurie enjoy that immensely , and when she tell about the prim old gentleman who come once to woo Aunt March , and in the middle of a fine speech , how Poll have tweak his wig off to his great dismay , the boy lay back and laugh till the tear run down his cheek , and a maid pop her head in to see what be the matter .
`` Oh !
That do me no end of good .
Tell on , please , '' he say , take his face out of the sofa cushion , red and shin with merriment .
Much elate with her success , Jo do ` tell on ' , all about their play and plan , their hope and fear for Father , and the most interesting event of the little world in which the sister live .
Then they get to talk about book , and to Jo 's delight , she find that Laurie love them as well a she do , and have read even more than herself .
`` If you like them so much , come down and see ours .
Grandfather be out , so you need n't be afraid , '' say Laurie , get up .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything , '' return Jo , with a toss of the head .
`` I do n't believe you be ! ''
exclaim the boy , look at her with much admiration , though he privately think she would have good reason to be a trifle afraid of the old gentleman , if she meet him in some of his mood .
The atmosphere of the whole house be summerlike , Laurie lead the way from room to room , let Jo stop to examine whatever strike her fancy .
And so , at last they come to the library , where she clap her hand and prance , a she always do when especially delight .
It be line with book , and there be picture and statue , and distract little cabinet full of coin and curiosity , and Sleepy Hollow chair , and queer table , and bronze , and best of all , a great open fireplace with quaint tile all round it .
`` What richness ! ''
sigh Jo , sink into the depth of a velour chair and gaze about her with an air of intense satisfaction .
`` Theodore Laurence , you ought to be the happy boy in the world , '' she add impressively .
`` A fellow ca n't live on book , '' say Laurie , shake his head a he perch on a table opposite .
Before he could more , a bell rang , and Jo fly up , exclaim with alarm , `` Mercy me !
It 's your grandpa ! ''
`` Well , what if it be ?
You be not afraid of anything , you know , '' return the boy , look wicked .
`` I think I be a little bit afraid of him , but I do n't know why I should be .
Marmee say I might come , and I do n't think you 're any the bad for it , '' say Jo , compose herself , though she keep her eye on the door .
`` I 'm a great deal well for it , and ever so much oblige .
I 'm only afraid you be very tired of talk to me .
It be so pleasant , I could n't bear to stop , '' say Laurie gratefully .
`` The doctor to see you , sir , '' and the maid beckon a she speak .
`` Would you mind if I leave you for a minute ?
I suppose I must see him , '' say Laurie .
`` Do n't mind me .
I 'm happy a a cricket here , '' answer Jo .
Laurie go away , and his guest amuse herself in her own way .
She be stand before a fine portrait of the old gentleman when the door open again , and without turn , she say decidedly , `` I 'm sure now that I should n't be afraid of him , for he 's get kind eye , though his mouth be grim , and he look a if he have a tremendous will of his own .
He be n't as handsome a my grandfather , but I like him . ''
`` Thank you , ma'am , '' say a gruff voice behind her , and there , to her great dismay , stand old Mr. Laurence .
Poor Jo blush till she could n't blush any redder , and her heart begin to beat uncomfortably fast a she think what she have say .
For a minute a wild desire to run away possessed her , but that be cowardly , and the girl would laugh at her , so she resolve to stay and get out of the scrape a she could .
A second look show her that the living eye , under the bushy eyebrow , be kind even than the painted one , and there be a sly twinkle in them , which lessen her fear a good deal .
The gruff voice be gruffer than ever , a the old gentleman say abruptly , after the dreadful pause , `` So you 're not afraid of me , hey ? ''
`` Not much , sir . ''
`` And you do n't think me as handsome a your grandfather ? ''
`` Not quite , sir . ''
`` And I 've get a tremendous will , have I ? ''
`` I only say I think so . ''
`` But you like me in spite of it ? ''
`` Yes , I do , sir . ''
That answer please the old gentleman .
He give a short laugh , shake hand with her , and , put his finger under her chin , turn up her face , examine it gravely , and let it go , say with a nod , `` You 've get your grandfather 's spirit , if you have n't his face .
He be a fine man , my dear , but what be well , he be a brave and an honest one , and I be proud to be his friend . ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' And Jo be quite comfortable after that , for it suit her exactly .
`` What have you be do to this boy of mine , hey ? ''
be the next question , sharply put .
`` Only try to be neighborly , sir . ''
And Jo tell how her visit come about .
`` You think he need cheer up a bit , do you ? ''
`` Yes , sir , he seem a little lonely , and young folk would do him good perhaps .
We be only girl , but we should be glad to help if we could , for we do n't forget the splendid Christmas present you send u , '' say Jo eagerly .
`` Tut , tut , tut !
That be the boy 's affair .
How be the poor woman ? ''
`` Doing nicely , sir . ''
And off go Jo , talk very fast , a she tell all about the Hummels , in whom her mother have interested rich friend than they be .
`` Just her father 's way of do good .
I shall come and see your mother some fine day .
Tell her so .
There 's the tea bell , we have it early on the boy 's account .
Come down and go on be neighborly . ''
`` If you 'd like to have me , sir . ''
`` Should n't ask you , if I do n't . ''
And Mr. Laurence offer her his arm with old-fashioned courtesy .
`` What would Meg say to this ? ''
think Jo , a she be march away , while her eye dance with fun a she imagine herself tell the story at home .
`` Hey !
Why , what the dickens have come to the fellow ? ''
say the old gentleman , a Laurie come run downstairs and bring up with a start of surprise at the astound sight of Jo arm in arm with his redoubtable grandfather .
`` I do n't know you 'd come , sir , '' he begin , a Jo give him a triumphant little glance .
`` That 's evident , by the way you racket downstairs .
Come to your tea , sir , and behave like a gentleman . ''
And have pull the boy 's hair by way of a caress , Mr. Laurence walk on , while Laurie go through a series of comic evolution behind their back , which nearly produce an explosion of laughter from Jo .
The old gentleman do not say much a he drink his four cup of tea , but he watch the young people , who soon chat away like old friend , and the change in his grandson do not escape him .
There be color , light , and life in the boy 's face now , vivacity in his manner , and genuine merriment in his laugh .
`` She 's right , the lad be lonely .
I 'll see what these little girl can do for him , '' think Mr. Laurence , a he look and listen .
He like Jo , for her odd , blunt way suit him , and she seem to understand the boy almost as well a if she have be one herself .
If the Laurences have be what Jo call ` prim and poky ' , she would not have get on at all , for such people always make her shy and awkward .
But find them free and easy , she be so herself , and make a good impression .
When they rise she propose to go , but Laurie say he have something more to show her , and take her away to the conservatory , which have be light for her benefit .
It seem quite fairylike to Jo , a she go up and down the walk , enjoy the blooming wall on either side , the soft light , the damp sweet air , and the wonderful vine and tree that hung about her , while her new friend cut the fine flower till his hand be full .
Then he tie them up , say , with the happy look Jo like to see , `` Please give these to your mother , and tell her I like the medicine she send me very much . ''
They find Mr. Laurence stand before the fire in the great drawing room , but Jo 's attention be entirely absorb by a grand piano , which stand open .
`` Do you play ? ''
she ask , turn to Laurie with a respectful expression .
`` Sometimes , '' he answer modestly .
`` Please do now .
I want to hear it , so I can tell Beth . ''
`` Wo n't you first ? ''
`` Do n't know how .
Too stupid to learn , but I love music dearly . ''
So Laurie play and Jo listen , with her nose luxuriously bury in heliotrope and tea rose .
Her respect and regard for the ` Laurence ' boy increase very much , for he play remarkably well and do n't put on any air .
She wish Beth could hear him , but she do not say so , only praise him till he be quite abash , and his grandfather come to his rescue .
`` That will do , that will do , young lady .
Too many sugarplum be not good for him .
His music be n't bad , but I hope he will do as well in more important thing .
Going ?
well , I 'm much oblige to you , and I hope you 'll come again .
My respect to your mother .
Good night , Doctor Jo . ''
He shake hand kindly , but look a if something do not please him .
When they get into the hall , Jo ask Laurie if she have say something amiss .
He shake his head .
`` No , it be me .
He do n't like to hear me play . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` I 'll tell you some day .
John be go home with you , a I ca n't . ''
`` No need of that .
I be not a young lady , and it 's only a step .
Take care of yourself , wo n't you ? ''
`` Yes , but you will come again , I hope ? ''
`` If you promise to come and see u after you be well . ''
`` I will . ''
`` Good night , Laurie ! ''
`` Good night , Jo , good night ! ''
When all the afternoon 's adventure have be tell , the family felt inclined to go visit in a body , for each found something very attractive in the big house on the other side of the hedge .
Mrs. March want to talk of her father with the old man who have not forget him , Meg long to walk in the conservatory , Beth sigh for the grand piano , and Amy be eager to see the fine picture and statue .
`` Mother , why do n't Mr. Laurence like to have Laurie play ? ''
ask Jo , who be of an inquiring disposition .
`` I be not sure , but I think it be because his son , Laurie 's father , marry an Italian lady , a musician , which displease the old man , who be very proud .
The lady be good and lovely and accomplished , but he do not like her , and never saw his son after he marry .
They both die when Laurie be a little child , and then his grandfather take him home .
I fancy the boy , who be bear in Italy , be not very strong , and the old man be afraid of lose him , which make him so careful .
Laurie come naturally by his love of music , for he be like his mother , and I dare say his grandfather fear that he may want to be a musician .
At any rate , his skill remind him of the woman he do not like , and so he ` glowered ' a Jo say . ''
`` Dear me , how romantic ! ''
exclaim Meg .
`` How silly ! ''
say Jo .
`` Let him be a musician if he want to , and not plague his life out send him to college , when he hat to go . ''
`` That 's why he have such handsome black eye and pretty manner , I suppose .
Italians be always nice , '' say Meg , who be a little sentimental .
`` What do you know about his eye and his manner ?
You never speak to him , hardly , '' cry Jo , who be not sentimental .
`` I saw him at the party , and what you tell show that he know how to behave .
That be a nice little speech about the medicine Mother send him . ''
`` He mean the blanc mange , I suppose . ''
`` How stupid you be , child !
He meant you , of course . ''
`` Did he ? ''
And Jo open her eye a if it have never occur to her before .
`` I never saw such a girl !
You do n't know a compliment when you get it , '' say Meg , with the air of a young lady who know all about the matter .
`` I think they be great nonsense , and I 'll thank you not to be silly and spoil my fun .
Laurie 's a nice boy and I like him , and I wo n't have any sentimental stuff about compliment and such rubbish .
We 'll all be good to him because he have n't get any mother , and he may come over and see u , may n't he , Marmee ? ''
`` Yes , Jo , your little friend be very welcome , and I hope Meg will remember that child should be child as long a they can . ''
`` I do n't call myself a child , and I 'm not in my teen yet , '' observe Amy .
`` What do you say , Beth ? ''
`` I be think about our ' Pilgrim 's Progress ' , '' answer Beth , who have not hear a word .
`` How we get out of the Slough and through the Wicket Gate by resolve to be good , and up the steep hill by try , and that maybe the house over there , full of splendid thing , be go to be our Palace Beautiful . ''
`` We have get to get by the lion first , '' say Jo , a if she rather like the prospect .
CHAPTER SIX BETH FINDS THE PALACE BEAUTIFUL The big house do prove a Palace Beautiful , though it take some time for all to get in , and Beth find it very hard to pass the lion .
Old Mr. Laurence be the big one , but after he have call , say something funny or kind to each one of the girl , and talk over old time with their mother , nobody felt much afraid of him , except timid Beth .
The other lion be the fact that they be poor and Laurie rich , for this make them shy of accept favor which they could not return .
But , after a while , they find that he consider them the benefactor , and could not do enough to show how grateful he be for Mrs. March 's motherly welcome , their cheerful society , and the comfort he take in that humble home of theirs .
So they soon forget their pride and interchanged kindness without stop to think which be the great .
All sort of pleasant thing happen about that time , for the new friendship flourish like grass in spring .
Every one like Laurie , and he privately inform his tutor that `` the Marches be regularly splendid girl . ''
With the delightful enthusiasm of youth , they take the solitary boy into their midst and make much of him , and he find something very charm in the innocent companionship of these simple-hearted girl .
Never have know mother or sister , he be quick to feel the influence they bring about him , and their busy , lively way make him ashamed of the indolent life he lead .
He be tire of book , and find people so interesting now that Mr. Brooke be oblige to make very unsatisfactory report , for Laurie be always play truant and run over to the Marches ' .
`` Never mind , let him take a holiday , and make it up afterward , '' say the old gentleman .
`` The good lady next door say he be study too hard and need young society , amusement , and exercise .
I suspect she be right , and that I 've be coddle the fellow a if I 'd be his grandmother .
Let him do what he like , as long a he be happy .
He ca n't get into mischief in that little nunnery over there , and Mrs. March be do more for him than we can . ''
What good time they have , to be sure .
Such play and tableau , such sleigh ride and skate frolic , such pleasant evening in the old parlor , and now and then such gay little party at the great house .
Meg could walk in the conservatory whenever she like and revel in bouquet , Jo browse over the new library voraciously , and convulse the old gentleman with her criticism , Amy copy picture and enjoy beauty to her heart 's content , and Laurie play ` lord of the manor ' in the most delightful style .
But Beth , though yearn for the grand piano , could not pluck up courage to go to the ` Mansion of Bliss ' , a Meg call it .
She go once with Jo , but the old gentleman , not be aware of her infirmity , star at her so hard from under his heavy eyebrow , and say `` Hey ! ''
so loud , that he frighten her so much her ` foot chatter on the floor ' , she never tell her mother , and she run away , declare she would never go there any more , not even for the dear piano .
No persuasion or enticement could overcome her fear , till , the fact come to Mr. Laurence 's ear in some mysterious way , he set about mend matter .
During one of the brief call he make , he artfully lead the conversation to music , and talk away about great singer whom he have see , fine organ he have hear , and tell such charming anecdote that Beth find it impossible to stay in her distant corner , but creep nearer and nearer , a if fascinate .
At the back of his chair she stop and stand listening , with her great eye wide open and her cheek red with excitement of this unusual performance .
Taking no more notice of her than if she have be a fly , Mr. Laurence talk on about Laurie 's lesson and teacher .
And presently , a if the idea have just occur to him , he say to Mrs. March ... `` The boy neglect his music now , and I 'm glad of it , for he be get too fond of it .
But the piano suffers for want of use .
Would n't some of your girl like to run over , and practice on it now and then , just to keep it in tune , you know , ma'am ? ''
Beth take a step forward , and press her hand tightly together to keep from clap them , for this be an irresistible temptation , and the thought of practice on that splendid instrument quite take her breath away .
Before Mrs. March could reply , Mr. Laurence go on with an odd little nod and smile ... `` They need n't see or speak to anyone , but run in at any time .
For I 'm shut up in my study at the other end of the house , Laurie be out a great deal , and the servant be never near the drawing room after nine o'clock . ''
Here he rise , a if go , and Beth make up her mind to speak , for that last arrangement leave nothing to be desire .
`` Please , tell the young ladies what I say , and if they do n't care to come , why , never mind . ''
Here a little hand slip into his , and Beth look up at him with a face full of gratitude , a she say , in her earnest yet timid way ... `` Oh sir , they do care , very very much ! ''
`` Are you the musical girl ? ''
he ask , without any startle `` Hey ! ''
a he look down at her very kindly .
`` I 'm Beth .
I love it dearly , and I 'll come , if you be quite sure nobody will hear me , and be disturb , '' she add , fear to be rude , and tremble at her own boldness a she speak .
`` Not a soul , my dear .
The house be empty half the day , so come and drum away as much a you like , and I shall be oblige to you . ''
`` How kind you be , sir ! ''
Beth blush like a rise under the friendly look he wear , but she be not frighten now , and give the hand a grateful squeeze because she have no word to thank him for the precious gift he have give her .
The old gentleman softly stroke the hair off her forehead , and , stoop down , he kiss her , say , in a tone few people ever hear ... `` I have a little girl once , with eye like these .
God bless you , my dear !
Good day , madam . ''
And away he go , in a great hurry .
Beth have a rapture with her mother , and then rush up to impart the glorious news to her family of invalid , a the girl be not home .
How blithely she sing that evening , and how they all laugh at her because she wake Amy in the night by play the piano on her face in her sleep .
Next day , have see both the old and young gentleman out of the house , Beth , after two or three retreat , fairly get in at the side door , and make her way as noiselessly a any mouse to the drawing room where her idol stood .
Quite by accident , of course , some pretty , easy music lay on the piano , and with tremble finger and frequent stop to listen and look about , Beth at last touch the great instrument , and straightway forget her fear , herself , and everything else but the unspeakable delight which the music give her , for it be like the voice of a beloved friend .
She stay till Hannah come to take her home to dinner , but she have no appetite , and could only sit and smile upon everyone in a general state of beatitude .
After that , the little brown hood slip through the hedge nearly every day , and the great drawing room be haunt by a tuneful spirit that come and go unseen .
She never know that Mr. Laurence open his study door to hear the old-fashioned air he like .
She never saw Laurie mount guard in the hall to warn the servant away .
She never suspect that the exercise book and new song which she find in the rack be put there for her especial benefit , and when he talk to her about music at home , she only think how kind he be to tell thing that help her so much .
So she enjoy herself heartily , and find , what be n't always the case , that her granted wish be all she have hop .
Perhaps it be because she be so grateful for this blessing that a great be give her .
At any rate she deserve both .
`` Mother , I 'm go to work Mr. Laurence a pair of slipper .
He be so kind to me , I must thank him , and I do n't know any other way .
Can I do it ? ''
ask Beth , a few week after that eventful call of his .
`` Yes , dear .
It will please him very much , and be a nice way of thank him .
The girl will help you about them , and I will pay for the make up , '' reply Mrs. March , who take peculiar pleasure in grant Beth 's request because she so seldom ask anything for herself .
After many serious discussion with Meg and Jo , the pattern be choose , the material buy , and the slipper begin .
A cluster of grave yet cheerful pansy on a deep purple ground be pronounce very appropriate and pretty , and Beth work away early and late , with occasional lift over hard part .
She be a nimble little needlewoman , and they be finish before anyone get tire of them .
Then she write a short , simple note , and with Laurie 's help , get them smuggle onto the study table one morning before the old gentleman be up .
When this excitement be over , Beth wait to see what would happen .
All day pass and a part of the next before any acknowledgement arrive , and she be begin to fear she have offend her crochety friend .
On the afternoon of the second day , she go out to do an errand , and give poor Joanna , the invalid doll , her daily exercise .
As she come up the street , on her return , she saw three , yes , four head pop in and out of the parlor windows , and the moment they saw her , several hand be wave , and several joyful voice scream ... `` Here 's a letter from the old gentleman !
Come quick , and read it ! ''
`` Oh , Beth , he 's sent you ... '' begin Amy , gesticulate with unseemly energy , but she get no further , for Jo quench her by slam down the window .
Beth hurry on in a flutter of suspense .
At the door her sister seize and bore her to the parlor in a triumphal procession , all pointing and all say at once , `` Look there !
Look there ! ''
Beth do look , and turn pale with delight and surprise , for there stand a little cabinet piano , with a letter lie on the glossy lid , direct like a sign board to `` Miss Elizabeth March . ''
`` For me ? ''
gasp Beth , hold onto Jo and feeling a if she should tumble down , it be such an overwhelming thing altogether .
`` Yes , all for you , my precious !
Is n't it splendid of him ?
Do n't you think he 's the dear old man in the world ?
Here 's the key in the letter .
We do n't open it , but we be die to know what he say , '' cry Jo , hug her sister and offer the note .
`` You read it !
I ca n't , I feel so queer !
Oh , it be too lovely ! ''
and Beth hide her face in Jo 's apron , quite upset by her present .
Jo open the paper and begin to laugh , for the first word she saw be ... `` Miss March : `` Dear Madam -- '' `` How nice it sound !
I wish someone would write to me so ! ''
say Amy , who think the old-fashioned address very elegant . '' '
I have have many pair of slipper in my life , but I never have any that suit me so well a yours , ' '' continue Jo . ''
` Heart 's - ease be my favorite flower , and these will always remind me of the gentle giver .
I like to pay my debt , so I know you will allow ` the old gentleman ' to send you something which once belong to the little grand daughter he lose .
With hearty thanks and best wish , I remain '' ` Your grateful friend and humble servant , ` JAMES LAURENCE ' . ''
`` There , Beth , that 's an honor to be proud of , I 'm sure !
Laurie tell me how fond Mr. Laurence use to be of the child who die , and how he keep all her little thing carefully .
Just think , he 's give you her piano .
That come of have big blue eye and love music , '' say Jo , try to soothe Beth , who tremble and look more excited than she have ever be before .
`` See the cunning bracket to hold candle , and the nice green silk , pucker up , with a gold rise in the middle , and the pretty rack and stool , all complete , '' add Meg , open the instrument and display it beauty . ''
` Your humble servant , James Laurence ' .
Only think of his write that to you .
I 'll tell the girl .
They 'll think it 's splendid , '' say Amy , much impress by the note .
`` Try it , honey .
Let 's hear the sound of the baby pianny , '' say Hannah , who always take a share in the family joy and sorrow .
So Beth try it , and everyone pronounce it the most remarkable piano ever heard .
It have evidently be newly tune and put in apple-pie order , but , perfect a it be , I think the real charm lay in the happiest of all happy face which lean over it , a Beth lovingly touch the beautiful black and white key and press the bright pedal .
`` You 'll have to go and thank him , '' say Jo , by way of a joke , for the idea of the child 's really go never enter her head .
`` Yes , I mean to .
I guess I 'll go now , before I get frightened think about it . ''
And , to the utter amazement of the assembled family , Beth walk deliberately down the garden , through the hedge , and in at the Laurences ' door .
`` Well , I wish I may die if it ai n't the queer thing I ever see !
The pianny have turn her head !
She 'd never have go in her right mind , '' cry Hannah , star after her , while the girl be render quite speechless by the miracle .
They would have be still more amazed if they have see what Beth do afterward .
If you will believe me , she go and knock at the study door before she give herself time to think , and when a gruff voice call out , `` come in ! ''
she do go in , right up to Mr. Laurence , who look quite take aback , and hold out her hand , say , with only a small quaver in her voice , `` I come to thank you , sir , for ... '' But she do n't finish , for he look so friendly that she forget her speech and , only remember that he have lose the little girl he love , she put both arm round his neck and kiss him .
If the roof of the house have suddenly fly off , the old gentleman would n't have be more astonished .
But he like it .
Oh , dear , yes , he like it amazingly !
And be so touched and pleased by that confide little kiss that all his crustiness vanish , and he just set her on his knee , and lay his wrinkled cheek against her rosy one , feel a if he have get his own little granddaughter back again .
Beth cease to fear him from that moment , and sit there talk to him as cozily a if she have know him all her life , for love cast out fear , and gratitude can conquer pride .
When she go home , he walk with her to her own gate , shake hand cordially , and touch his hat a he march back again , look very stately and erect , like a handsome , soldierly old gentleman , a he be .
When the girl saw that performance , Jo begin to dance a jig , by way of express her satisfaction , Amy nearly fell out of the window in her surprise , and Meg exclaim , with up-lifted hand , `` Well , I do believe the world be come to an end . ''
CHAPTER SEVEN AMY 'S VALLEY OF HUMILIATION `` That boy be a perfect cyclops , be n't he ? ''
say Amy one day , a Laurie clatter by on horseback , with a flourish of his whip a he pass .
`` How dare you say so , when he 's get both his eye ?
And very handsome one they be , too , '' cry Jo , who resent any slighting remark about her friend .
`` I do n't say anything about his eye , and I do n't see why you need fire up when I admire his riding . ''
`` Oh , my goodness !
That little goose mean a centaur , and she call him a Cyclops , '' exclaim Jo , with a burst of laughter .
`` You need n't be so rude , it 's only a ` lapse of lingy ' , a Mr. Davis say , '' retort Amy , finish Jo with her Latin .
`` I just wish I have a little of the money Laurie spend on that horse , '' she add , a if to herself , yet hop her sister would hear .
`` Why ? ''
ask Meg kindly , for Jo have go off in another laugh at Amy 's second blunder .
`` I need it so much .
I 'm dreadfully in debt , and it wo n't be my turn to have the rag money for a month . ''
`` In debt , Amy ?
What do you mean ? ''
And Meg look sober .
`` Why , I owe at least a dozen pickle lime , and I ca n't pay them , you know , till I have money , for Marmee forbid my have anything charge at the shop . ''
`` Tell me all about it .
Are lime the fashion now ?
It use to be prick bit of rubber to make ball . ''
And Meg try to keep her countenance , Amy look so grave and important .
`` Why , you see , the girl be always buy them , and unless you want to be think mean , you must do it too .
It 's nothing but limes now , for everyone be suck them in their desk in schooltime , and trade them off for pencil , bead ring , paper doll , or something else , at recess .
If one girl like another , she give her a lime .
If she 's mad with her , she eat one before her face , and do n't offer even a suck .
They treat by turn , and I 've have ever so many but have n't return them , and I ought for they be debt of honor , you know . ''
`` How much will pay them off and restore your credit ? ''
ask Meg , take out her purse .
`` A quarter would more than do it , and leave a few cent over for a treat for you .
Do n't you like lime ? ''
`` Not much .
You may have my share .
Here 's the money .
Make it last as long a you can , for it be n't very plenty , you know . ''
`` Oh , thank you !
It must be so nice to have pocket money !
I 'll have a grand feast , for I have n't taste a lime this week .
I felt delicate about take any , a I could n't return them , and I 'm actually suffer for one . ''
Next day Amy be rather late at school , but could not resist the temptation of display , with pardonable pride , a moist brown-paper parcel , before she consign it to the inmost recess of her desk .
During the next few minute the rumor that Amy March have get twenty-four delicious lime -LRB- she eat one on the way -RRB- and be go to treat circulate through her ` set ' , and the attention of her friend become quite overwhelming .
Katy Brown invite her to her next party on the spot .
Mary Kinglsey insist on lending her her watch till recess , and Jenny Snow , a satirical young lady , who have basely twit Amy upon her limeless state , promptly bury the hatchet and offer to furnish answer to certain appalling sum .
But Amy have not forget Miss Snow 's cut remark about ` some person whose nose be not too flat to smell other people 's lime , and stuck-up people who be not too proud to ask for them ' , and she instantly crush ` that Snow girl 's ' hope by the withering telegram , `` You need n't be so polite all of a sudden , for you wo n't get any . ''
A distinguish personage happen to visit the school that morning , and Amy 's beautifully draw map receive praise , which honor to her foe rankle in the soul of Miss Snow , and cause Miss March to assume the air of a studious young peacock .
But , ala , ala !
Pride go before a fall , and the revengeful Snow turn the table with disastrous success .
No sooner have the guest pay the usual stale compliment and bow himself out , than Jenny , under pretense of ask an important question , inform Mr. Davis , the teacher , that Amy March have pickle lime in her desk .
Now Mr. Davis have declare limes a contraband article , and solemnly vow to publicly ferrule the first person who be find break the law .
This much-enduring man have succeed in banish chew gum after a long and stormy war , have make a bonfire of the confiscated novel and newspaper , have suppress a private post office , have forbidden distortion of the face , nicknames , and caricature , and do all that one man could do to keep half a hundred rebellious girl in order .
Boys be try enough to human patience , goodness know , but girl be infinitely more so , especially to nervous gentleman with tyrannical temper and no more talent for teach than Dr. Blimber .
Mr. Davis know any quantity of Greek , Latin , algebra , and ology of all sort so he be call a fine teacher , and manner , moral , feeling , and example be not consider of any particular importance .
It be a most unfortunate moment for denounce Amy , and Jenny know it .
Mr. Davis have evidently take his coffee too strong that morning , there be an east wind , which always affect his neuralgia , and his pupil have not do him the credit which he felt he deserve .
Therefore , to use the expressive , if not elegant , language of a schoolgirl , `` He be as nervous a a witch and as cross a a bear '' .
The word ` lime ' be like fire to powder , his yellow face flush , and he rap on his desk with an energy which make Jenny skip to her seat with unusual rapidity .
`` Young lady , attention , if you please ! ''
At the stern order the buzz cease , and fifty pair of blue , black , gray , and brown eye be obediently fix upon his awful countenance .
`` Miss March , come to the desk . ''
Amy rise to comply with outward composure , but a secret fear oppress her , for the lime weigh upon her conscience .
`` Bring with you the lime you have in your desk , '' be the unexpected command which arrest her before she get out of her seat .
`` Do n't take all . ''
whisper her neighbor , a young lady of great presence of mind .
Amy hastily shake out half a dozen and lay the rest down before Mr. Davis , feel that any man possess a human heart would relent when that delicious perfume meet his nose .
Unfortunately , Mr. Davis particularly detest the odor of the fashionable pickle , and disgust add to his wrath .
`` Is that all ? ''
`` Not quite , '' stammer Amy .
`` Bring the rest immediately . ''
With a despair glance at her set , she obey .
`` You be sure there be no more ? ''
`` I never lie , sir . ''
`` So I see .
Now take these disgust thing two by two , and throw them out of the window . ''
There be a simultaneous sigh , which create quite a little gust , a the last hope flee , and the treat be ravish from their longing lip .
Scarlet with shame and anger , Amy go to and fro six dreadful time , and a each doomed couple , look oh , so plump and juicy , fell from her reluctant hand , a shout from the street complete the anguish of the girl , for it tell them that their feast be be exult over by the little Irish child , who be their sworn foe .
This -- this be too much .
All flash indignant or appeal glance at the inexorable Davis , and one passionate lime lover burst into tear .
As Amy return from her last trip , Mr. Davis give a portentous `` Hem ! ''
and say , in his most impressive manner ... `` Young lady , you remember what I say to you a week ago .
I be sorry this have happen , but I never allow my rule to be infringe , and I never break my word .
Miss March , hold out your hand . ''
Amy start , and put both hand behind her , turn on him an imploring look which plead for her good than the word she could not utter .
She be rather a favorite with ` old Davis ' , a , of course , he be call , and it 's my private belief that he would have break his word if the indignation of one irrepressible young lady have not find vent in a hiss .
That hiss , faint a it be , irritate the irascible gentleman , and seal the culprit 's fate .
`` Your hand , Miss March ! ''
be the only answer her mute appeal receive , and too proud to cry or beseech , Amy set her teeth , throw back her head defiantly , and bore without flinch several tingle blow on her little palm .
They be neither many nor heavy , but that make no difference to her .
For the first time in her life she have be strike , and the disgrace , in her eye , be as deep a if he have knock her down .
`` You will now stand on the platform till recess , '' say Mr. Davis , resolve to do the thing thoroughly , since he have begin .
That be dreadful .
It would have be bad enough to go to her seat , and see the pity face of her friend , or the satisfied one of her few enemy , but to face the whole school , with that shame fresh upon her , seem impossible , and for a second she felt a if she could only drop down where she stand , and break her heart with cry .
A bitter sense of wrong and the thought of Jenny Snow help her to bear it , and , take the ignominious place , she fix her eye on the stove funnel above what now seem a sea of face , and stand there , so motionless and white that the girl find it hard to study with that pathetic figure before them .
During the fifteen minute that follow , the proud and sensitive little girl suffer a shame and pain which she never forget .
To others it might seem a ludicrous or trivial affair , but to her it be a hard experience , for during the twelve year of her life she have be govern by love alone , and a blow of that sort have never touch her before .
The smart of her hand and the ache of her heart be forget in the sting of the thought , `` I shall have to tell at home , and they will be so disappointed in me ! ''
The fifteen minute seem an hour , but they come to an end at last , and the word ` Recess ! '
have never seem so welcome to her before .
`` You can go , Miss March , '' say Mr. Davis , look , a he felt , uncomfortable .
He do not soon forget the reproachful glance Amy give him , a she go , without a word to anyone , straight into the anteroom , snatch her thing , and leave the place `` forever , '' a she passionately declare to herself .
She be in a sad state when she get home , and when the old girl arrive , some time later , an indignation meeting be hold at once .
Mrs. March do not say much but look disturbed , and comfort her afflicted little daughter in her tender manner .
Meg bath the insulted hand with glycerine and tear , Beth felt that even her beloved kitten would fail a a balm for grief like this , Jo wrathfully propose that Mr. Davis be arrest without delay , and Hannah shake her fist at the ` villain ' and pound potato for dinner a if she have him under her pestle .
No notice be take of Amy 's flight , except by her mate , but the sharp-eyed demoiselle discover that Mr. Davis be quite benignant in the afternoon , also unusually nervous .
Just before school close , Jo appear , wear a grim expression a she stalk up to the desk , and deliver a letter from her mother , then collect Amy 's property , and depart , carefully scrap the mud from her boot on the door mat , a if she shake the dust of the place off her foot .
`` Yes , you can have a vacation from school , but I want you to study a little every day with Beth , '' say Mrs. March that even .
`` I do n't approve of corporal punishment , especially for girl .
I dislike Mr. Davis 's manner of teaching and do n't think the girl you associate with be do you any good , so I shall ask your father 's advice before I send you anywhere else . ''
`` That 's good !
I wish all the girl would leave , and spoil his old school .
It 's perfectly madden to think of those lovely lime , '' sigh Amy , with the air of a martyr .
`` I be not sorry you lose them , for you break the rule , and deserve some punishment for disobedience , '' be the severe reply , which rather disappoint the young lady , who expect nothing but sympathy .
`` Do you mean you be glad I be disgrace before the whole school ? ''
cry Amy .
`` I should not have choose that way of mend a fault , '' reply her mother , `` but I 'm not sure that it wo n't do you more good than a bolder method .
You be get to be rather conceited , my dear , and it be quite time you set about correct it .
You have a good many little gift and virtue , but there be no need of parade them , for conceit spoil the fine genius .
There be not much danger that real talent or goodness will be overlook long , even if it be , the consciousness of possessing and use it well should satisfy one , and the great charm of all power be modesty . ''
`` So it be ! ''
cry Laurie , who be play chess in a corner with Jo .
`` I know a girl once , who have a really remarkable talent for music , and she do n't know it , never guess what sweet little thing she compose when she be alone , and would n't have believe it if anyone have tell her . ''
`` I wish I 'd know that nice girl .
Maybe she would have help me , I 'm so stupid , '' say Beth , who stand beside him , listen eagerly .
`` You do know her , and she help you good than anyone else could , '' answer Laurie , look at her with such mischievous meaning in his merry black eye that Beth suddenly turn very red , and hide her face in the sofa cushion , quite overcome by such an unexpected discovery .
Jo let Laurie win the game to pay for that praise of her Beth , who could not be prevail upon to play for them after her compliment .
So Laurie do his best , and sing delightfully , be in a particularly lively humor , for to the Marches he seldom show the moody side of his character .
When he be go , Amy , who have be pensive all evening , say suddenly , a if busy over some new idea , `` Is Laurie an accomplished boy ? ''
`` Yes , he have have an excellent education , and have much talent .
He will make a fine man , if not spoil by pet , '' reply her mother .
`` And he be n't conceited , be he ? ''
ask Amy .
`` Not in the least .
That be why he be so charming and we all like him so much . ''
`` I see .
It 's nice to have accomplishment and be elegant , but not to show off or get perk up , '' say Amy thoughtfully .
`` These thing be always see and felt in a person 's manner and conversation , if modestly use , but it be not necessary to display them , '' say Mrs. March .
`` Any more than it 's proper to wear all your bonnet and gown and ribbon at once , that folk may know you 've get them , '' add Jo , and the lecture end in a laugh .
CHAPTER EIGHT JO MEETS APOLLYON `` Girls , where be you go ? ''
ask Amy , come into their room one Saturday afternoon , and find them get ready to go out with an air of secrecy which excite her curiosity .
`` Never mind .
Little girl should n't ask question , '' return Jo sharply .
Now if there be anything mortify to our feeling when we be young , it be to be tell that , and to be bid to `` run away , dear '' be still more try to u .
Amy bridle up at this insult , and determine to find out the secret , if she tease for an hour .
Turning to Meg , who never refuse her anything very long , she say coaxingly , `` Do tell me !
I should think you might let me go , too , for Beth be fuss over her piano , and I have n't get anything to do , and be so lonely . ''
`` I ca n't , dear , because you be n't invite , '' begin Meg , but Jo break in impatiently , `` Now , Meg , be quiet or you will spoil it all .
You ca n't go , Amy , so do n't be a baby and whine about it . ''
`` You be go somewhere with Laurie , I know you be .
You be whisper and laugh together on the sofa last night , and you stop when I come in .
Are n't you go with him ? ''
`` Yes , we be .
Now do be still , and stop bothering . ''
Amy hold her tongue , but use her eye , and saw Meg slip a fan into her pocket .
`` I know !
I know !
You 're go to the theater to see the Seven Castles !
'' she cry , add resolutely , `` and I shall go , for Mother say I might see it , and I 've get my rag money , and it be mean not to tell me in time . ''
`` Just listen to me a minute , and be a good child , '' say Meg soothingly .
`` Mother do n't wish you to go this week , because your eye be not well enough yet to bear the light of this fairy piece .
Next week you can go with Beth and Hannah , and have a nice time . ''
`` I do n't like that half as well a go with you and Laurie .
Please let me .
I 've be sick with this cold so long , and shut up , I 'm die for some fun .
Do , Meg !
I 'll be ever so good , '' plead Amy , look as pathetic a she could .
`` Suppose we take her .
I do n't believe Mother would mind , if we bundle her up well , '' begin Meg .
`` If she go I sha n't , and if I do n't , Laurie wo n't like it , and it will be very rude , after he invite only u , to go and drag in Amy .
I should think she 'd hate to poke herself where she be n't want , '' say Jo crossly , for she dislike the trouble of oversee a fidgety child when she want to enjoy herself .
Her tone and manner angered Amy , who begin to put her boot on , say , in her most aggravating way , `` I shall go .
Meg say I may , and if I pay for myself , Laurie have n't anything to do with it . ''
`` You ca n't sit with u , for our seat be reserve , and you must n't sit alone , so Laurie will give you his place , and that will spoil our pleasure .
Or he 'll get another seat for you , and that be n't proper when you be n't ask .
You sha n't stir a step , so you may just stay where you be , '' scold Jo , crosser than ever , have just prick her finger in her hurry .
Sitting on the floor with one boot on , Amy begin to cry and Meg to reason with her , when Laurie call from below , and the two girl hurry down , leave their sister wailing .
For now and then she forget her grown-up way and act like a spoiled child .
Just a the party be set out , Amy call over the banister in a threaten tone , `` You 'll be sorry for this , Jo March , see if you ai n't . ''
`` Fiddlesticks ! ''
return Jo , slam the door .
They have a charming time , for The Seven Castles Of The Diamond Lake be a brilliant and wonderful a heart could wish .
But in spite of the comical red imp , sparkle elf , and the gorgeous prince and princess , Jo 's pleasure have a drop of bitterness in it .
The fairy queen 's yellow curl remind her of Amy , and between the act she amuse herself with wonder what her sister would do to make her ` sorry for it ' .
She and Amy have have many lively skirmish in the course of their life , for both have quick temper and be apt to be violent when fairly rouse .
Amy tease Jo , and Jo irritate Amy , and semioccasional explosion occur , of which both be much ashamed afterward .
Although the old , Jo have the least self-control , and have hard time try to curb the fiery spirit which be continually get her into trouble .
Her anger never last long , and have humbly confess her fault , she sincerely repent and try to do good .
Her sister use to say that they rather like to get Jo into a fury because she be such an angel afterward .
Poor Jo try desperately to be good , but her bosom enemy be always ready to flame up and defeat her , and it take year of patient effort to subdue it .
When they get home , they find Amy reading in the parlor .
She assume an injured air a they come in , never lift her eye from her book , or ask a single question .
Perhaps curiosity might have conquer resentment , if Beth have not be there to inquire and receive a glowing description of the play .
On go up to put away her best hat , Jo 's first look be toward the bureau , for in their last quarrel Amy have soothe her feeling by turn Jo 's top drawer upside down on the floor .
Everything be in it place , however , and after a hasty glance into her various closet , bag , and box , Jo decide that Amy have forgive and forget her wrong .
There Jo be mistake , for next day she make a discovery which produce a tempest .
Meg , Beth , and Amy be sit together , late in the afternoon , when Jo burst into the room , look excited and demand breathlessly , `` Has anyone take my book ? ''
Meg and Beth say , `` No . ''
at once , and look surprised .
Amy poke the fire and say nothing .
Jo saw her color rise and be down upon her in a minute .
`` Amy , you 've get it ! ''
`` No , I have n't . ''
`` You know where it be , then ! ''
`` No , I do n't . ''
`` That 's a fib ! ''
cry Jo , take her by the shoulder , and look fierce enough to frighten a much braver child than Amy .
`` It be n't .
I have n't get it , do n't know where it be now , and do n't care . ''
`` You know something about it , and you 'd better tell at once , or I 'll make you . ''
And Jo give her a slight shake .
`` Scold as much a you like , you 'll never see your silly old book again , '' cry Amy , get excite in her turn .
`` Why not ? ''
`` I burn it up . ''
`` What !
My little book I be so fond of , and work over , and meant to finish before Father get home ?
Have you really burn it ? ''
say Jo , turn very pale , while her eye kindle and her hand clutch Amy nervously .
`` Yes , I do !
I tell you I 'd make you pay for be so cross yesterday , and I have , so ... '' Amy get no farther , for Jo 's hot temper master her , and she shake Amy till her teeth chatter in her head , cry in a passion of grief and anger ... `` You wicked , wicked girl !
I never can write it again , and I 'll never forgive you as long a I live . ''
Meg fly to rescue Amy , and Beth to pacify Jo , but Jo be quite beside herself , and with a part box on her sister 's ear , she rush out of the room up to the old sofa in the garret , and finish her fight alone .
The storm clear up below , for Mrs. March come home , and , have hear the story , soon bring Amy to a sense of the wrong she have do her sister .
Jo 's book be the pride of her heart , and be regard by her family a a literary sprout of great promise .
It be only half a dozen little fairy tale , but Jo have work over them patiently , put her whole heart into her work , hop to make something good enough to print .
She have just copy them with great care , and have destroy the old manuscript , so that Amy 's bonfire have consume the love work of several year .
It seem a small loss to others , but to Jo it be a dreadful calamity , and she felt that it never could be make up to her .
Beth mourn a for a departed kitten , and Meg refuse to defend her pet .
Mrs. March look grave and grieve , and Amy felt that no one would love her till she have ask pardon for the act which she now regret more than any of them .
When the tea bell rang , Jo appear , look so grim and unapproachable that it take all Amy 's courage to say meekly ... `` Please forgive me , Jo .
I 'm very , very sorry . ''
`` I never shall forgive you , '' be Jo 's stern answer , and from that moment she ignore Amy entirely .
No one spoke of the great trouble , not even Mrs. March , for all have learn by experience that when Jo be in that mood word be waste , and the wise course be to wait till some little accident , or her own generous nature , soften Jo 's resentment and heal the breach .
It be not a happy evening , for though they sew a usual , while their mother read aloud from Bremer , Scott , or Edgeworth , something be want , and the sweet home peace be disturb .
They felt this most when singing time come , for Beth could only play , Jo stand dumb a a stone , and Amy break down , so Meg and Mother sing alone .
But in spite of their effort to be as cheery a lark , the flutelike voice do not seem to chord as well a usual , and all felt out of tune .
As Jo receive her good-night kiss , Mrs. March whisper gently , `` My dear , do n't let the sun go down upon your anger .
Forgive each other , help each other , and begin again tomorrow . ''
Jo want to lay her head down on that motherly bosom , and cry her grief and anger all away , but tear be an unmanly weakness , and she felt so deeply injured that she really could n't quite forgive yet .
So she wink hard , shake her head , and say gruffly because Amy be listen , `` It be an abominable thing , and she do n't deserve to be forgive . ''
With that she march off to bed , and there be no merry or confidential gossip that night .
Amy be much offend that her overture of peace have be repulse , and begin to wish she have not humble herself , to feel more injured than ever , and to plume herself on her superior virtue in a way which be particularly exasperate .
Jo still look like a thunder cloud , and nothing go well all day .
It be bitter cold in the morning , she drop her precious turnover in the gutter , Aunt March have an attack of the fidget , Meg be sensitive , Beth would look grieved and wistful when she get home , and Amy keep make remark about people who be always talk about be good and yet would n't even try when other people set them a virtuous example .
`` Everybody be so hateful , I 'll ask Laurie to go skating .
He be always kind and jolly , and will put me to right , I know , '' say Jo to herself , and off she go .
Amy hear the clash of skate , and look out with an impatient exclamation .
`` There !
She promise I should go next time , for this be the last ice we shall have .
But it 's no use to ask such a crosspatch to take me . ''
`` Do n't say that .
You be very naughty , and it be hard to forgive the loss of her precious little book , but I think she might do it now , and I guess she will , if you try her at the right minute , '' say Meg .
`` Go after them .
Do n't say anything till Jo have get good-natured with Laurie , than take a quiet minute and just kiss her , or do some kind thing , and I 'm sure she 'll be friend again with all her heart . ''
`` I 'll try , '' say Amy , for the advice suit her , and after a flurry to get ready , she run after the friend , who be just disappear over the hill .
It be not far to the river , but both be ready before Amy reach them .
Jo saw her coming , and turn her back .
Laurie do not see , for he be carefully skate along the shore , sound the ice , for a warm spell have precede the cold snap .
`` I 'll go on to the first bend , and see if it 's all right before we begin to race , '' Amy hear him say , a he shoot away , look like a young Russian in his fur-trimmed coat and cap .
Jo hear Amy panting after her run , stamp her foot and blow on her finger a she try to put her skate on , but Jo never turn and go slowly zigzag down the river , take a bitter , unhappy sort of satisfaction in her sister 's trouble .
She have cherish her anger till it grow strong and take possession of her , a evil thought and feeling always do unless cast out at once .
As Laurie turn the bend , he shout back ... `` Keep near the shore .
It be n't safe in the middle . ''
Jo heard , but Amy be struggle to her foot and do not catch a word .
Jo glance over her shoulder , and the little demon she be harbor say in her ear ... `` No matter whether she hear or not , let her take care of herself . ''
Laurie have vanish round the bend , Jo be just at the turn , and Amy , far behind , strike out toward the smoother ice in the middle of the river .
For a minute Jo stand still with a strange feeling in her heart , then she resolve to go on , but something hold and turn her round , just in time to see Amy throw up her hand and go down , with a sudden crash of rotten ice , the splash of water , and a cry that make Jo 's heart stand still with fear .
She try to call Laurie , but her voice be go .
She try to rush forward , but her foot seem to have no strength in them , and for a second , she could only stand motionless , star with a terror-stricken face at the little blue hood above the black water .
Something rush swiftly by her , and Laurie 's voice cry out ... `` Bring a rail .
Quick , quick ! ''
How she do it , she never know , but for the next few minute she work a if possess , blindly obey Laurie , who be quite self-possessed , and lie flat , hold Amy up by his arm and hockey stick till Jo drag a rail from the fence , and together they get the child out , more frightened than hurt .
`` Now then , we must walk her home a fast a we can .
Pile our thing on her , while I get off these confound skate , '' cry Laurie , wrap his coat round Amy , and tug away at the strap which never seem so intricate before .
Shivering , drip , and cry , they get Amy home , and after an exciting time of it , she fell asleep , roll in blanket before a hot fire .
During the bustle Jo have scarcely speak but fly about , look pale and wild , with her thing half off , her dress torn , and her hand cut and bruise by ice and rail and refractory buckle .
When Amy be comfortably asleep , the house quiet , and Mrs. March sit by the bed , she call Jo to her and begin to bind up the hurt hand .
`` Are you sure she be safe ? ''
whisper Jo , look remorsefully at the golden head , which might have be sweep away from her sight forever under the treacherous ice .
`` Quite safe , dear .
She be not hurt , and wo n't even take cold , I think , you be so sensible in cover and get her home quickly , '' reply her mother cheerfully .
`` Laurie do it all .
I only let her go .
Mother , if she should die , it would be my fault . ''
And Jo drop down beside the bed in a passion of penitent tear , tell all that have happen , bitterly condemn her hardness of heart , and sob out her gratitude for be spar the heavy punishment which might have come upon her .
`` It 's my dreadful temper !
I try to cure it , I think I have , and then it break out bad than ever .
Oh , Mother , what shall I do ?
What shall I do ? ''
cry poor Jo , in despair .
`` Watch and pray , dear , never get tired of try , and never think it be impossible to conquer your fault , '' say Mrs. March , draw the blowzy head to her shoulder and kiss the wet cheek so tenderly that Jo cry even hard .
`` You do n't know , you ca n't guess how bad it be !
It seem a if I could do anything when I 'm in a passion .
I get so savage , I could hurt anyone and enjoy it .
I 'm afraid I shall do something dreadful some day , and spoil my life , and make everybody hate me .
Oh , Mother , help me , do help me ! ''
`` I will , my child , I will .
Do n't cry so bitterly , but remember this day , and resolve with all your soul that you will never know another like it .
Jo , dear , we all have our temptation , some far great than yours , and it often take u all our life to conquer them .
You think your temper be the bad in the world , but mine use to be just like it . ''
`` Yours , Mother ?
Why , you be never angry ! ''
And for the moment Jo forget remorse in surprise .
`` I 've be try to cure it for forty year , and have only succeed in control it .
I be angry nearly every day of my life , Jo , but I have learn not to show it , and I still hope to learn not to feel it , though it may take me another forty year to do so . ''
The patience and the humility of the face she love so well be a good lesson to Jo than the wise lecture , the sharp reproof .
She felt comfort at once by the sympathy and confidence give her .
The knowledge that her mother have a fault like hers , and try to mend it , make her own easier to bear and strengthen her resolution to cure it , though forty year seem rather a long time to watch and pray to a girl of fifteen .
`` Mother , be you angry when you fold your lip tight together and go out of the room sometimes , when Aunt March scold or people worry you ? ''
ask Jo , feel nearer and dearer to her mother than ever before .
`` Yes , I 've learn to check the hasty word that rise to my lip , and when I feel that they mean to break out against my will , I just go away for a minute , and give myself a little shake for be so weak and wicked , '' answer Mrs. March with a sigh and a smile , a she smooth and fasten up Jo 's disheveled hair .
`` How do you learn to keep still ?
That be what trouble me , for the sharp word fly out before I know what I 'm about , and the more I say the bad I get , till it 's a pleasure to hurt people 's feeling and say dreadful thing .
Tell me how you do it , Marmee dear . ''
`` My good mother use to help me ... '' `` As you do u ... '' interrupt Jo , with a grateful kiss .
`` But I lose her when I be a little old than you be , and for year have to struggle on alone , for I be too proud to confess my weakness to anyone else .
I have a hard time , Jo , and shed a good many bitter tear over my failure , for in spite of my effort I never seem to get on .
Then your father come , and I be so happy that I find it easy to be good .
But by-and-by , when I have four little daughter round me and we be poor , then the old trouble begin again , for I be not patient by nature , and it try me very much to see my child want anything . ''
`` Poor Mother !
What help you then ? ''
`` Your father , Jo .
He never lose patience , never doubt or complains , but always hope , and work and wait so cheerfully that one be ashamed to do otherwise before him .
He help and comfort me , and show me that I must try to practice all the virtue I would have my little girls posse , for I be their example .
It be easy to try for your sake than for my own .
A startle or surprised look from one of you when I speak sharply rebuke me more than any word could have do , and the love , respect , and confidence of my child be the sweet reward I could receive for my effort to be the woman I would have them copy . ''
`` Oh , Mother , if I 'm ever half as good a you , I shall be satisfy , '' cry Jo , much touch .
`` I hope you will be a great deal well , dear , but you must keep watch over your ` bosom enemy ' , a father call it , or it may sadden , if not spoil your life .
You have have a warning .
Remember it , and try with heart and soul to master this quick temper , before it bring you great sorrow and regret than you have know today . ''
`` I will try , Mother , I truly will .
But you must help me , remind me , and keep me from fly out .
I use to see Father sometimes put his finger on his lip , and look at you with a very kind but sober face , and you always fold your lip tight and go away .
Was he remind you then ? ''
ask Jo softly .
`` Yes .
I ask him to help me so , and he never forget it , but save me from many a sharp word by that little gesture and kind look . ''
Jo saw that her mother 's eye fill and her lip tremble a she speak , and fear that she have say too much , she whisper anxiously , `` Was it wrong to watch you and to speak of it ?
I do n't mean to be rude , but it 's so comfortable to say all I think to you , and feel so safe and happy here . ''
`` My Jo , you may say anything to your mother , for it be my great happiness and pride to feel that my girl confide in me and know how much I love them . ''
`` I think I 'd grieve you . ''
`` No , dear , but speaking of Father remind me how much I miss him , how much I owe him , and how faithfully I should watch and work to keep his little daughter safe and good for him . ''
`` Yet you tell him to go , Mother , and do n't cry when he go , and never complain now , or seem a if you need any help , '' say Jo , wonder .
`` I give my best to the country I love , and keep my tear till he be go .
Why should I complain , when we both have merely do our duty and will surely be the happy for it in the end ?
If I do n't seem to need help , it be because I have a good friend , even than Father , to comfort and sustain me .
My child , the trouble and temptation of your life be begin and may be many , but you can overcome and outlive them all if you learn to feel the strength and tenderness of your Heavenly Father a you do that of your earthly one .
The more you love and trust Him , the nearer you will feel to Him , and the less you will depend on human power and wisdom .
His love and care never tire or change , can never be take from you , but may become the source of lifelong peace , happiness , and strength .
Believe this heartily , and go to God with all your little care , and hope , and sin , and sorrow , a freely and confidingly a you come to your mother . ''
Jo 's only answer be to hold her mother close , and in the silence which follow the sincere prayer she have ever pray leave her heart without word .
For in that sad yet happy hour , she have learn not only the bitterness of remorse and despair , but the sweetness of self-denial and self-control , and lead by her mother 's hand , she have draw nearer to the Friend who always welcome every child with a love strong than that of any father , tender than that of any mother .
Amy stir and sigh in her sleep , and a if eager to begin at once to mend her fault , Jo look up with an expression on her face which it have never wear before .
`` I let the sun go down on my anger .
I would n't forgive her , and today , if it have n't be for Laurie , it might have be too late !
How could I be so wicked ? ''
say Jo , half aloud , a she lean over her sister softly stroke the wet hair scatter on the pillow .
As if she hear , Amy open her eye , and hold out her arm , with a smile that go straight to Jo 's heart .
Neither say a word , but they hug one another close , in spite of the blanket , and everything be forgive and forget in one hearty kiss .
CHAPTER NINE MEG GOES TO VANITY FAIR `` I do think it be the most fortunate thing in the world that those child should have the measles just now , '' say Meg , one April day , a she stand pack the ` go abroady ' trunk in her room , surround by her sister .
`` And so nice of Annie Moffat not to forget her promise .
A whole fortnight of fun will be regularly splendid , '' reply Jo , look like a windmill a she fold skirt with her long arm .
`` And such lovely weather , I 'm so glad of that , '' add Beth , tidily sort neck and hair ribbon in her best box , lent for the great occasion .
`` I wish I be go to have a fine time and wear all these nice thing , '' say Amy with her mouth full of pin , a she artistically replenish her sister 's cushion .
`` I wish you be all go , but a you ca n't , I shall keep my adventure to tell you when I come back .
I 'm sure it 's the least I can do when you have be so kind , lend me thing and help me get ready , '' say Meg , glance round the room at the very simple outfit , which seem nearly perfect in their eye .
`` What do Mother give you out of the treasure box ? ''
ask Amy , who have not be present at the opening of a certain cedar chest in which Mrs. March keep a few relic of past splendor , a gift for her girl when the proper time come .
`` A pair of silk stocking , that pretty carve fan , and a lovely blue sash .
I want the violet silk , but there be n't time to make it over , so I must be content with my old tarlaton . ''
`` It will look nice over my new muslin skirt , and the sash will set it off beautifully .
I wish I have n't smash my coral bracelet , for you might have have it , '' say Jo , who love to give and lend , but whose possession be usually too dilapidate to be of much use .
`` There be a lovely old-fashioned pearl set in the treasure chest , but Mother say real flower be the pretty ornament for a young girl , and Laurie promise to send me all I want , '' reply Meg .
`` Now , let me see , there 's my new gray walking suit , just curl up the feather in my hat , Beth , then my poplin for Sunday and the small party , it look heavy for spring , do n't it ?
The violet silk would be so nice .
Oh , dear ! ''
`` Never mind , you 've get the tarlaton for the big party , and you always look like an angel in white , '' say Amy , brood over the little store of finery in which her soul delight .
`` It be n't low-necked , and it do n't sweep enough , but it will have to do .
My blue housedress look so well , turn and freshly trim , that I feel a if I 'd get a new one .
My silk sacque be n't a bit the fashion , and my bonnet do n't look like Sallie 's .
I do n't like to say anything , but I be sadly disappointed in my umbrella .
I tell Mother black with a white handle , but she forget and buy a green one with a yellowish handle .
It 's strong and neat , so I ought not to complain , but I know I shall feel ashamed of it beside Annie 's silk one with a gold top , '' sigh Meg , survey the little umbrella with great disfavor .
`` Change it , '' advise Jo .
`` I wo n't be so silly , or hurt Marmee 's feeling , when she take so much pain to get my thing .
It 's a nonsensical notion of mine , and I 'm not go to give up to it .
My silk stocking and two pair of new glove be my comfort .
You be a dear to lend me yours , Jo .
I feel so rich and sort of elegant , with two new pair , and the old one clean up for common . ''
And Meg take a refreshing peep at her glove box .
`` Annie Moffat have blue and pink bow on her nightcap .
Would you put some on mine ? ''
she ask , a Beth bring up a pile of snowy muslin , fresh from Hannah 's hand .
`` No , I would n't , for the smart cap wo n't match the plain gown without any trim on them .
Poor folk should n't rig , '' say Jo decidedly .
`` I wonder if I shall ever be happy enough to have real lace on my clothes and bow on my cap ? ''
say Meg impatiently .
`` You say the other day that you 'd be perfectly happy if you could only go to Annie Moffat 's , '' observe Beth in her quiet way .
`` So I do !
Well , I be happy , and I wo n't fret , but it do seem a if the more one get the more one want , do n't it ?
There now , the tray be ready , and everything in but my ball dress , which I shall leave for Mother to pack , '' say Meg , cheer up , a she glance from the half-filled trunk to the many time press and mend white tarlaton , which she call her ` ball dress ' with an important air .
The next day be fine , and Meg depart in style for a fortnight of novelty and pleasure .
Mrs. March have consent to the visit rather reluctantly , fear that Margaret would come back more discontented than she go .
But she beg so hard , and Sallie have promise to take good care of her , and a little pleasure seem so delightful after a winter of irksome work that the mother yield , and the daughter go to take her first taste of fashionable life .
The Moffats be very fashionable , and simple Meg be rather daunt , at first , by the splendor of the house and the elegance of it occupant .
But they be kindly people , in spite of the frivolous life they lead , and soon put their guest at her ease .
Perhaps Meg felt , without understand why , that they be not particularly cultivate or intelligent people , and that all their gilding could not quite conceal the ordinary material of which they be make .
It certainly be agreeable to fare sumptuously , drive in a fine carriage , wear her best frock every day , and do nothing but enjoy herself .
It suit her exactly , and soon she begin to imitate the manner and conversation of those about her , to put on little air and grace , use French phrase , crimp her hair , take in her dress , and talk about the fashion as well a she could .
The more she saw of Annie Moffat 's pretty thing , the more she envy her and sigh to be rich .
Home now look bare and dismal a she think of it , work grow hard than ever , and she felt that she be a very destitute and much-injured girl , in spite of the new glove and silk stocking .
She have not much time for repine , however , for the three young girl be busily employ in ` have a good time ' .
They shop , walk , rode , and call all day , go to theater and opera or frolic at home in the evening , for Annie have many friend and know how to entertain them .
Her old sister be very fine young lady , and one be engage , which be extremely interesting and romantic , Meg think .
Mr. Moffat be a fat , jolly old gentleman , who know her father , and Mrs. Moffat , a fat , jolly old lady , who take as great a fancy to Meg a her daughter have do .
Everyone pet her , and ` Daisey ' , a they call her , be in a fair way to have her head turn .
When the evening for the small party come , she find that the poplin would n't do at all , for the other girl be put on thin dress and make themselves very fine indeed .
So out come the tarlatan , look old , limp , and shabby than ever beside Sallie 's crisp new one .
Meg saw the girl glance at it and then at one another , and her cheek begin to burn , for with all her gentleness she be very proud .
No one say a word about it , but Sallie offer to dress her hair , and Annie to tie her sash , and Belle , the engaged sister , praise her white arm .
But in their kindness Meg saw only pity for her poverty , and her heart felt very heavy a she stand by herself , while the others laugh , chatter , and fly about like gauzy butterfly .
The hard , bitter feeling be get pretty bad , when the maid brought in a box of flower .
Before she could speak , Annie have the cover off , and all be exclaim at the lovely rose , heath , and fern within .
`` It 's for Belle , of course , George always send her some , but these be altogether ravish , '' cry Annie , with a great sniff .
`` They be for Miss March , the man say .
And here 's a note , '' put in the maid , hold it to Meg .
`` What fun !
Who be they from ?
Did n't know you have a lover , '' cry the girl , flutter about Meg in a high state of curiosity and surprise .
`` The note be from Mother , and the flower from Laurie , '' say Meg simply , yet much gratify that he have not forget her .
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
say Annie with a funny look , a Meg slip the note into her pocket a a sort of talisman against envy , vanity , and false pride , for the few loving word have do her good , and the flower cheer her up by their beauty .
Feeling almost happy again , she lay by a few fern and rose for herself , and quickly make up the rest in dainty bouquet for the breast , hair , or skirt of her friend , offer them so prettily that Clara , the elder sister , tell her she be ` the sweet little thing she ever saw ' , and they look quite charm with her small attention .
Somehow the kind act finish her despondency , and when all the rest go to show themselves to Mrs. Moffat , she saw a happy , bright-eyed face in the mirror , a she lay her fern against her ripple hair and fasten the rose in the dress that do n't strike her a so very shabby now .
She enjoy herself very much that even , for she dance to her heart 's content .
Everyone be very kind , and she have three compliment .
Annie make her sing , and some one say she have a remarkably fine voice .
Major Lincoln ask who ` the fresh little girl with the beautiful eye ' be , and Mr. Moffat insist on dance with her because she ` do n't dawdle , but have some spring in her ' , a he gracefully express it .
So altogether she have a very nice time , till she overheard a bit of conversation , which disturb her extremely .
She be sit just inside the conservatory , wait for her partner to bring her an ice , when she hear a voice ask on the other side of the flowery wall ... `` How old be he ? ''
`` Sixteen or seventeen , I should say , '' reply another voice .
`` It would be a grand thing for one of those girl , would n't it ?
Sallie say they be very intimate now , and the old man quite dot on them . ''
`` Mrs. M. have make her plan , I dare say , and will play her card well , early a it be .
The girl evidently do n't think of it yet , '' say Mrs. Moffat .
`` She tell that fib about her momma , a if she do know , and color up when the flower come quite prettily .
Poor thing !
She 'd be so nice if she be only get up in style .
Do you think she 'd be offend if we offer to lend her a dress for Thursday ? ''
ask another voice .
`` She 's proud , but I do n't believe she 'd mind , for that dowdy tarlaton be all she have get .
She may tear it tonight , and that will be a good excuse for offer a decent one . ''
Here Meg 's partner appear , to find her look much flush and rather agitate .
She be proud , and her pride be useful just then , for it help her hide her mortification , anger , and disgust at what she have just hear .
For , innocent and unsuspicious a she be , she could not help understand the gossip of her friend .
She try to forget it , but could not , and keep repeat to herself , `` Mrs. M. have make her plan , '' `` that fib about her mamma , '' and `` dowdy tarlaton , '' till she be ready to cry and rush home to tell her trouble and ask for advice .
As that be impossible , she do her best to seem gay , and be rather excite , she succeed so well that no one dream what an effort she be make .
She be very glad when it be all over and she be quiet in her bed , where she could think and wonder and fume till her head ache and her hot cheek be cool by a few natural tear .
Those foolish , yet well meant word , have open a new world to Meg , and much disturb the peace of the old one in which till now she have live as happily a a child .
Her innocent friendship with Laurie be spoil by the silly speech she have overheard .
Her faith in her mother be a little shake by the worldly plan attributed to her by Mrs. Moffat , who judge others by herself , and the sensible resolution to be content with the simple wardrobe which suit a poor man 's daughter be weaken by the unnecessary pity of girl who think a shabby dress one of the great calamity under heaven .
Poor Meg have a restless night , and get up heavy-eyed , unhappy , half resentful toward her friend , and half ashamed of herself for not speak out frankly and set everything right .
Everybody dawdle that morning , and it be noon before the girl find energy enough even to take up their worsted work .
Something in the manner of her friend struck Meg at once .
They treat her with more respect , she think , take quite a tender interest in what she say , and look at her with eye that plainly betray curiosity .
All this surprised and flatter her , though she do not understand it till Miss Belle look up from her writing , and say , with a sentimental air ... `` Daisy , dear , I 've send an invitation to your friend , Mr. Laurence , for Thursday .
We should like to know him , and it 's only a proper compliment to you . ''
Meg color , but a mischievous fancy to tease the girl make her reply demurely , `` You be very kind , but I 'm afraid he wo n't come . ''
`` Why not , Cherie ? ''
ask Miss Belle .
`` He 's too old . ''
`` My child , what do you mean ?
What be his age , I beg to know ! ''
cry Miss Clara .
`` Nearly seventy , I believe , '' answer Meg , count stitch to hide the merriment in her eye .
`` You sly creature !
Of course we mean the young man , '' exclaim Miss Belle , laugh .
`` There be n't any , Laurie be only a little boy . ''
And Meg laugh also at the queer look which the sister exchange a she thus describe her suppose lover .
`` About your age , '' Nan say .
`` Nearer my sister Jo 's ; I be seventeen in August , '' return Meg , toss her head .
`` It 's very nice of him to send you flower , be n't it ? ''
say Annie , look wise about nothing .
`` Yes , he often do , to all of u , for their house be full , and we be so fond of them .
My mother and old Mr. Laurence be friend , you know , so it be quite natural that we child should play together , '' and Meg hop they would say no more .
`` It 's evident Daisy be n't out yet , '' say Miss Clara to Belle with a nod .
`` Quite a pastoral state of innocence all round , '' return Miss Belle with a shrug .
`` I 'm go out to get some little matter for my girl .
Can I do anything for you , young lady ? ''
ask Mrs. Moffat , lumber in like an elephant in silk and lace .
`` No , thank you , ma'am , '' reply Sallie .
`` I 've get my new pink silk for Thursday and do n't want a thing . ''
`` Nor I. .
. ''
begin Meg , but stop because it occur to her that she do want several thing and could not have them .
`` What shall you wear ? ''
ask Sallie .
`` My old white one again , if I can mend it fit to be see , it get sadly tear last night , '' say Meg , try to speak quite easily , but feel very uncomfortable .
`` Why do n't you send home for another ? ''
say Sallie , who be not an observe young lady .
`` I have n't get any other . ''
It cost Meg an effort to say that , but Sallie do not see it and exclaim in amiable surprise , `` Only that ?
How funny ... '' She do not finish her speech , for Belle shake her head at her and broke in , say kindly ... `` Not at all .
Where be the use of have a lot of dress when she be n't out yet ?
There 's no need of send home , Daisy , even if you have a dozen , for I 've get a sweet blue silk lay away , which I 've outgrow , and you shall wear it to please me , wo n't you , dear ? ''
`` You be very kind , but I do n't mind my old dress if you do n't , it do well enough for a little girl like me , '' say Meg .
`` Now do let me please myself by dress you up in style .
I admire to do it , and you 'd be a regular little beauty with a touch here and there .
I sha n't let anyone see you till you be do , and then we 'll burst upon them like Cinderella and her godmother go to the ball , '' say Belle in her persuasive tone .
Meg could n't refuse the offer so kindly make , for a desire to see if she would be ' a little beauty ' after touch up cause her to accept and forget all her former uncomfortable feeling toward the Moffats .
On the Thursday evening , Belle shut herself up with her maid , and between them they turn Meg into a fine lady .
They crimp and curl her hair , they polish her neck and arm with some fragrant powder , touch her lip with coralline salve to make them redder , and Hortense would have add ' a soupcon of rouge ' , if Meg have not rebel .
They lace her into a sky-blue dress , which be so tight she could hardly breathe and so low in the neck that modest Meg blush at herself in the mirror .
A set of silver filagree be add , bracelet , necklace , brooch , and even earring , for Hortense tie them on with a bit of pink silk which do not show .
A cluster of tea-rose bud at the bosom , and a ruche , reconcile Meg to the display of her pretty , white shoulder , and a pair of high-heeled silk boot satisfy the last wish of her heart .
A lace handkerchief , a plumy fan , and a bouquet in a shoulder holder finish her off , and Miss Belle survey her with the satisfaction of a little girl with a newly dress doll .
`` Mademoiselle be charmante , tres jolie , be she not ? ''
cry Hortense , clasp her hand in an affected rapture .
`` Come and show yourself , '' say Miss Belle , lead the way to the room where the others be wait .
As Meg go rustle after , with her long skirt trailing , her earring tinkling , her curl waving , and her heart beating , she felt a if her fun have really begin at last , for the mirror have plainly tell her that she be ' a little beauty ' .
Her friend repeat the pleasing phrase enthusiastically , and for several minute she stand , like a jackdaw in the fable , enjoy her borrow plume , while the rest chatter like a party of magpie .
`` While I dress , do you drill her , Nan , in the management of her skirt and those French heel , or she will trip herself up .
Take your silver butterfly , and catch up that long curl on the left side of her head , Clara , and do n't any of you disturb the charming work of my hand , '' say Belle , a she hurry away , look well pleased with her success .
`` You do n't look a bit like yourself , but you be very nice .
I 'm nowhere beside you , for Belle have heap of taste , and you 're quite French , I assure you .
Let your flower hang , do n't be so careful of them , and be sure you do n't trip , '' return Sallie , try not to care that Meg be pretty than herself .
Keeping that warn carefully in mind , Margaret get safely down stair and sail into the drawing room where the Moffats and a few early guest be assemble .
She very soon discover that there be a charm about fine clothes which attract a certain class of people and secure their respect .
Several young lady , who have take no notice of her before , be very affectionate all of a sudden .
Several young gentleman , who have only star at her at the other party , now not only stared , but ask to be introduce , and say all manner of foolish but agreeable thing to her , and several old lady , who sit on the sofa , and criticize the rest of the party , inquire who she be with an air of interest .
She hear Mrs. Moffat reply to one of them ... `` Daisy March -- father a colonel in the army -- one of our first family , but revers of fortune , you know ; intimate friend of the Laurences ; sweet creature , I assure you ; my Ned be quite wild about her . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
say the old lady , put up her glass for another observation of Meg , who try to look a if she have not hear and be rather shock at Mrs. Moffat 's fib .
The ` queer feeling ' do not pass away , but she imagine herself act the new part of fine lady and so get on pretty well , though the tight dress give her a side-ache , the train keep get under her foot , and she be in constant fear l her earring should fly off and get lose or break .
She be flirt her fan and laughing at the feeble joke of a young gentleman who try to be witty , when she suddenly stop laugh and look confuse , for just opposite , she saw Laurie .
He be star at her with undisguised surprise , and disapproval also , she think , for though he bow and smile , yet something in his honest eye make her blush and wish she have her old dress on .
To complete her confusion , she saw Belle nudge Annie , and both glance from her to Laurie , who , she be happy to see , look unusually boyish and shy .
`` Silly creature , to put such thought into my head .
I wo n't care for it , or let it change me a bit , '' think Meg , and rustle across the room to shake hand with her friend .
`` I 'm glad you come , I be afraid you would n't . ''
she say , with her most grown-up air .
`` Jo want me to come , and tell her how you look , so I do , '' answer Laurie , without turn his eye upon her , though he half smile at her maternal tone .
`` What shall you tell her ? ''
ask Meg , full of curiosity to know his opinion of her , yet feel ill at ease with him for the first time .
`` I shall say I do n't know you , for you look so grown-up and unlike yourself , I 'm quite afraid of you , '' he say , fumble at his glove button .
`` How absurd of you !
The girl dress me up for fun , and I rather like it .
Would n't Jo stare if she saw me ? ''
say Meg , bent on make him say whether he think her improve or not .
`` Yes , I think she would , '' return Laurie gravely .
`` Do n't you like me so ? ''
ask Meg .
`` No , I do n't , '' be the blunt reply .
`` Why not ? ''
in an anxious tone .
He glance at her frizzled head , bare shoulder , and fantastically trim dress with an expression that abash her more than his answer , which have not a particle of his usual politeness in it .
`` I do n't like fuss and feather . ''
That be altogether too much from a lad young than herself , and Meg walk away , say petulantly , `` You be the rude boy I ever saw . ''
Feeling very much ruffle , she go and stand at a quiet window to cool her cheek , for the tight dress give her an uncomfortably brilliant color .
As she stand there , Major Lincoln pass by , and a minute after she hear him say to his mother ... `` They be make a fool of that little girl .
I want you to see her , but they have spoil her entirely .
She 's nothing but a doll tonight . ''
`` Oh , dear ! ''
sigh Meg .
`` I wish I 'd be sensible and worn my own thing , then I should not have disgust other people , or felt so uncomfortable and ashamed of myself . ''
She lean her forehead on the cool pane , and stand half hide by the curtain , never mind that her favorite waltz have begin , till some one touch her , and turning , she saw Laurie , look penitent , a he say , with his very best bow and his hand out ... `` Please forgive my rudeness , and come and dance with me . ''
`` I 'm afraid it will be too disagreeable to you , '' say Meg , try to look offended and fail entirely .
`` Not a bit of it , I 'm die to do it .
Come , I 'll be good .
I do n't like your gown , but I do think you be just splendid . ''
And he wave his hand , a if word fail to express his admiration .
Meg smile and relent , and whisper a they stand wait to catch the time , `` Take care my skirt do n't trip you up .
It 's the plague of my life and I be a goose to wear it . ''
`` Pin it round your neck , and then it will be useful , '' say Laurie , look down at the little blue boot , which he evidently approve of .
Away they go fleetly and gracefully , for have practice at home , they be well match , and the blithe young couple be a pleasant sight to see , a they twirl merrily round and round , feel more friendly than ever after their small tiff .
`` Laurie , I want you to do me a favor , will you ? ''
say Meg , a he stand fan her when her breath give out , which it do very soon though she would not own why .
`` Wo n't I ! ''
say Laurie , with alacrity .
`` Please do n't tell them at home about my dress tonight .
They wo n't understand the joke , and it will worry Mother . ''
`` Then why do you do it ? ''
say Laurie 's eye , so plainly that Meg hastily add ... `` I shall tell them myself all about it , and ` fes ' to Mother how silly I 've be .
But I 'd rather do it myself .
So you 'll not tell , will you ? ''
`` I give you my word I wo n't , only what shall I say when they ask me ? ''
`` Just say I look pretty well and be have a good time . ''
`` I 'll say the first with all my heart , but how about the other ?
You do n't look a if you be have a good time .
Are you ? ''
And Laurie look at her with an expression which make her answer in a whisper ... `` No , not just now .
Do n't think I 'm horrid .
I only want a little fun , but this sort do n't pay , I find , and I 'm get tire of it . ''
`` Here come Ned Moffat .
What do he want ? ''
say Laurie , knit his black brow a if he do not regard his young host in the light of a pleasant addition to the party .
`` He put his name down for three dance , and I suppose he 's come for them .
What a bore ! ''
say Meg , assume a languid air which amuse Laurie immensely .
He do not speak to her again till suppertime , when he saw her drink champagne with Ned and his friend Fisher , who be behave ` like a pair of fool ' , a Laurie say to himself , for he felt a brotherly sort of right to watch over the Marches and fight their battle whenever a defender be need .
`` You 'll have a splitting headache tomorrow , if you drink much of that .
I would n't , Meg , your mother do n't like it , you know , '' he whisper , lean over her chair , a Ned turn to refill her glass and Fisher stoop to pick up her fan .
`` I 'm not Meg tonight , I 'm ' a doll ' who do all sort of crazy thing .
Tomorrow I shall put away my ` fuss and feather ' and be desperately good again , '' she answer with an affected little laugh .
`` Wish tomorrow be here , then , '' mutter Laurie , walk off , ill-pleased at the change he saw in her .
Meg dance and flirt , chatter and giggle , a the other girl do .
After supper she undertake the German , and blunder through it , nearly upset her partner with her long skirt , and romp in a way that scandalize Laurie , who look on and meditate a lecture .
But he get no chance to deliver it , for Meg keep away from him till he come to say good night .
`` Remember ! ''
she say , try to smile , for the splitting headache have already begin .
`` Silence a la mort , '' reply Laurie , with a melodramatic flourish , a he go away .
This little bit of byplay excite Annie 's curiosity , but Meg be too tired for gossip and go to bed , feeling a if she have be to a masquerade and have n't enjoy herself as much a she expect .
She be sick all the next day , and on Saturday go home , quite use up with her fortnight 's fun and feeling that she have ` sat in the lap of luxury ' long enough .
`` It do seem pleasant to be quiet , and not have company manner on all the time .
Home be a nice place , though it be n't splendid , '' say Meg , look about her with a restful expression , a she sit with her mother and Jo on the Sunday evening .
`` I 'm glad to hear you say so , dear , for I be afraid home would seem dull and poor to you after your fine quarter , '' reply her mother , who have give her many anxious look that day .
For motherly eye be quick to see any change in child 's face .
Meg have tell her adventure gayly and say over and over what a charming time she have have , but something still seem to weigh upon her spirit , and when the young girl be go to bed , she sit thoughtfully star at the fire , say little and look worried .
As the clock strike nine and Jo propose bed , Meg suddenly leave her chair and , take Beth 's stool , lean her elbow on her mother 's knee , say bravely ... `` Marmee , I want to ` fess ' . ''
`` I think so .
What be it , dear ? ''
`` Shall I go away ? ''
ask Jo discreetly .
`` Of course not .
Do n't I always tell you everything ?
I be ashamed to speak of it before the young child , but I want you to know all the dreadful thing I do at the Moffats ' . ''
`` We be prepared , '' say Mrs. March , smile but look a little anxious .
`` I tell you they dress me up , but I do n't tell you that they powder and squeeze and frizzle , and make me look like a fashion-plate .
Laurie think I be n't proper .
I know he do , though he do n't say so , and one man call me ' a doll ' .
I know it be silly , but they flatter me and say I be a beauty , and quantity of nonsense , so I let them make a fool of me . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
ask Jo , a Mrs. March look silently at the downcast face of her pretty daughter , and could not find it in her heart to blame her little folly .
`` No , I drink champagne and romp and try to flirt , and be altogether abominable , '' say Meg self-reproachfully .
`` There be something more , I think . ''
And Mrs. March smooth the soft cheek , which suddenly grow rosy a Meg answer slowly ... `` Yes .
It 's very silly , but I want to tell it , because I hate to have people say and think such thing about u and Laurie . ''
Then she tell the various bit of gossip she have hear at the Moffats ' , and a she speak , Jo saw her mother fold her lip tightly , a if ill please that such idea should be put into Meg 's innocent mind .
`` Well , if that be n't the great rubbish I ever hear , '' cry Jo indignantly .
`` Why do n't you pop out and tell them so on the spot ? ''
`` I could n't , it be so embarrass for me .
I could n't help hearing at first , and then I be so angry and ashamed , I do n't remember that I ought to go away . ''
`` Just wait till I see Annie Moffat , and I 'll show you how to settle such ridiculous stuff .
The idea of have ` plan ' and be kind to Laurie because he 's rich and may marry u by-and-by !
Wo n't he shout when I tell him what those silly thing say about u poor child ? ''
And Jo laugh , a if on second thought the thing strike her a a good joke .
`` If you tell Laurie , I 'll never forgive you !
She must n't , must she , Mother ? ''
say Meg , look distress .
`` No , never repeat that foolish gossip , and forget it as soon a you can , '' say Mrs. March gravely .
`` I be very unwise to let you go among people of whom I know so little , kind , I dare say , but worldly , ill-bred , and full of these vulgar idea about young people .
I be more sorry than I can express for the mischief this visit may have do you , Meg . ''
`` Do n't be sorry , I wo n't let it hurt me .
I 'll forget all the bad and remember only the good , for I do enjoy a great deal , and thank you very much for let me go .
I 'll not be sentimental or dissatisfied , Mother .
I know I 'm a silly little girl , and I 'll stay with you till I 'm fit to take care of myself .
But it be nice to be praise and admire , and I ca n't help say I like it , '' say Meg , look half ashamed of the confession .
`` That be perfectly natural , and quite harmless , if the liking do not become a passion and lead one to do foolish or unmaidenly thing .
Learn to know and value the praise which be worth have , and to excite the admiration of excellent people by be modest as well a pretty , Meg . ''
Margaret sit think a moment , while Jo stand with her hand behind her , look both interested and a little perplexed , for it be a new thing to see Meg blush and talk about admiration , lover , and thing of that sort .
And Jo felt a if during that fortnight her sister have grow up amazingly , and be drift away from her into a world where she could not follow .
`` Mother , do you have ` plan ' , a Mrs. Moffat say ? ''
ask Meg bashfully .
`` Yes , my dear , I have a great many , all mother do , but mine differ somewhat from Mrs. Moffat 's , I suspect .
I will tell you some of them , for the time have come when a word may set this romantic little head and heart of yours right , on a very serious subject .
You be young , Meg , but not too young to understand me , and mother ' lip be the fit to speak of such thing to girl like you .
Jo , your turn will come in time , perhaps , so listen to my ` plan ' and help me carry them out , if they be good . ''
Jo go and sit on one arm of the chair , look a if she think they be about to join in some very solemn affair .
Holding a hand of each , and watch the two young face wistfully , Mrs. March say , in her serious yet cheery way ... `` I want my daughter to be beautiful , accomplish , and good .
To be admire , love , and respect .
To have a happy youth , to be well and wisely marry , and to lead useful , pleasant life , with as little care and sorrow to try them a God see fit to send .
To be love and choose by a good man be the best and sweet thing which can happen to a woman , and I sincerely hope my girl may know this beautiful experience .
It be natural to think of it , Meg , right to hope and wait for it , and wise to prepare for it , so that when the happy time come , you may feel ready for the duty and worthy of the joy .
My dear girl , I be ambitious for you , but not to have you make a dash in the world , marry rich men merely because they be rich , or have splendid house , which be not home because love be want .
Money be a needful and precious thing , and when well use , a noble thing , but I never want you to think it be the first or only prize to strive for .
I 'd rather see you poor men 's wife , if you be happy , beloved , content , than queen on throne , without self-respect and peace . ''
`` Poor girl do n't stand any chance , Belle say , unless they put themselves forward , '' sigh Meg .
`` Then we 'll be old maid , '' say Jo stoutly .
`` Right , Jo .
Better be happy old maid than unhappy wife , or unmaidenly girl , run about to find husband , '' say Mrs. March decidedly .
`` Do n't be trouble , Meg , poverty seldom daunt a sincere lover .
Some of the best and most honored woman I know be poor girl , but so love-worthy that they be not allow to be old maid .
Leave these thing to time .
Make this home happy , so that you may be fit for home of your own , if they be offer you , and content here if they be not .
One thing remember , my girl .
Mother be always ready to be your confidant , Father to be your friend , and both of u hope and trust that our daughter , whether married or single , will be the pride and comfort of our life . ''
`` We will , Marmee , we will ! ''
cry both , with all their heart , a she bid them good night .
CHAPTER TEN THE P.C . AND P.O . .
As spring come on , a new set of amusement become the fashion , and the lengthening day give long afternoon for work and play of all sort .
The garden have to be put in order , and each sister have a quarter of the little plot to do what she like with .
Hannah use to say , `` I 'd know which each of them gardings belong to , ef I see 'em in Chiny , '' and so she might , for the girl ' taste differ as much a their character .
Meg 's have rose and heliotrope , myrtle , and a little orange tree in it .
Jo 's bed be never alike two season , for she be always try experiment .
This year it be to be a plantation of sun flower , the seed of which cheerful land aspire plant be to fee Aunt Cockle-top and her family of chick .
Beth have old-fashioned fragrant flower in her garden , sweet pea and mignonette , larkspur , pink , pansy , and southernwood , with chickweed for the bird and catnip for the pussy .
Amy have a bower in hers , rather small and earwiggy , but very pretty to look at , with honeysuckle and morning-glories hang their color horn and bell in graceful wreath all over it , tall white lily , delicate fern , and a many brilliant , picturesque plant a would consent to blossom there .
Gardening , walk , row on the river , and flower hunt employ the fine day , and for rainy one , they have house diversion , some old , some new , all more or less original .
One of these be the ` P.C. ' , for a secret society be the fashion , it be think proper to have one , and a all of the girl admire Dickens , they call themselves the Pickwick Club .
With a few interruption , they have keep this up for a year , and meet every Saturday evening in the big garret , on which occasion the ceremony be a follow : Three chair be arrange in a row before a table on which be a lamp , also four white badge , with a big ` P.C. ' in different color on each , and the weekly newspaper call , The Pickwick Portfolio , to which all contribute something , while Jo , who revel in pen and ink , be the editor .
At seven o'clock , the four member ascend to the clubroom , tie their badge round their head , and take their seat with great solemnity .
Meg , a the eldest , be Samuel Pickwick , Jo , be of a literary turn , Augustus Snodgrass , Beth , because she be round and rosy , Tracy Tupman , and Amy , who be always try to do what she could n't , be Nathaniel Winkle .
Pickwick , the president , read the paper , which be fill with original tale , poetry , local news , funny advertisement , and hint , in which they good-naturedly remind each other of their fault and short coming .
On one occasion , Mr. Pickwick put on a pair of spectacle without any glass , rap upon the table , hem , and have star hard at Mr. Snodgrass , who be tilt back in his chair , till he arrange himself properly , begin to read : _________________________________________________ `` THE PICKWICK PORTFOLIO '' MAY 20 , 18 -- POET 'S CORNER ANNIVERSARY ODE Again we meet to celebrate With badge and solemn rite , Our fifty-second anniversary , In Pickwick Hall , tonight .
We all be here in perfect health , None go from our small band : Again we see each well-known face , And press each friendly hand .
Our Pickwick , always at his post , With reverence we greet , As , spectacle on nose , he read Our well-filled weekly sheet .
Although he suffer from a cold , We joy to hear him speak , For word of wisdom from him fall , In spite of croak or squeak .
Old six-foot Snodgrass loom on high , With elephantine grace , And beam upon the company , With brown and jovial face .
Poetic fire light up his eye , He struggle ` gainst his lot .
Behold ambition on his brow , And on his nose , a blot .
Next our peaceful Tupman come , So rosy , plump , and sweet , Who choke with laughter at the pun , And tumble off his seat .
Prim little Winkle too be here , With every hair in place , A model of propriety , Though he hat to wash his face .
The year be go , we still unite To joke and laugh and read , And tread the path of literature That doth to glory lead .
Long may our paper prosper well , Our club unbroken be , And come year their blessing pour On the useful , gay ` P. C. ' .
A. SNODGRASS ________ THE MASKED MARRIAGE -LRB- A Tale Of Venice -RRB- Gondola after gondola sweep up to the marble step , and leave it lovely load to swell the brilliant throng that fill the stately hall of Count Adelon .
Knights and lady , elf and page , monk and flower girl , all mingle gaily in the dance .
Sweet voice and rich melody fill the air , and so with mirth and music the masquerade go on .
`` Has your Highness see the Lady Viola tonight ? ''
ask a gallant troubadour of the fairy queen who float down the hall upon his arm .
`` Yes , be she not lovely , though so sad !
Her dress be well choose , too , for in a week she wed Count Antonio , whom she passionately hat . ''
`` By my faith , I envy him .
Yonder he come , array like a bridegroom , except the black mask .
When that be off we shall see how he regard the fair maid whose heart he can not win , though her stern father bestow her hand , '' return the troubadour .
`` Tis whisper that she love the young English artist who haunt her step , and be spurn by the old Count , '' say the lady , a they join the dance .
The revel be at it height when a priest appear , and withdraw the young pair to an alcove , hung with purple velvet , he motion them to kneel .
Instant silence fell on the gay throng , and not a sound , but the dash of fountain or the rustle of orange grove sleep in the moonlight , break the hush , a Count de Adelon speak thus : `` My lord and lady , pardon the ruse by which I have gather you here to witness the marriage of my daughter .
Father , we wait your service . ''
All eye turn toward the bridal party , and a murmur of amazement go through the throng , for neither bride nor groom remove their mask .
Curiosity and wonder possess all heart , but respect restrain all tongue till the holy rite be over .
Then the eager spectator gather round the count , demand an explanation .
`` Gladly would I give it if I could , but I only know that it be the whim of my timid Viola , and I yield to it .
Now , my child , let the play end .
Unmask and receive my blessing . ''
But neither bent the knee , for the young bridegroom reply in a tone that startle all listener a the mask fell , disclose the noble face of Ferdinand Devereux , the artist lover , and lean on the breast where now flash the star of an English earl be the lovely Viola , radiant with joy and beauty .
`` My lord , you scornfully bid me claim your daughter when I could boast as high a name and vast a fortune a the Count Antonio .
I can do more , for even your ambitious soul can not refuse the Earl of Devereux and De Vere , when he give his ancient name and boundless wealth in return for the beloved hand of this fair lady , now my wife . ''
The count stand like one change to stone , and turn to the bewilder crowd , Ferdinand add , with a gay smile of triumph , `` To you , my gallant friend , I can only wish that your wooing may prosper a mine have do , and that you may all win a fair a bride a I have by this masked marriage . ''
S. PICKWICK Why be the P. C. like the Tower of Babel ?
It be full of unruly member .
_________ THE HISTORY OF A SQUASH Once upon a time a farmer plant a little seed in his garden , and after a while it sprout and become a vine and bore many squash .
One day in October , when they be ripe , he pick one and take it to market .
A gorcerman buy and put it in his shop .
That same morning , a little girl in a brown hat and blue dress , with a round face and snub nose , go and buy it for her mother .
She lug it home , cut it up , and boil it in the big pot , mash some of it with salt and butter , for dinner .
And to the rest she add a pint of milk , two egg , four spoon of sugar , nutmeg , and some cracker , put it in a deep dish , and bake it till it be brown and nice , and next day it be eat by a family name March .
T. TUPMAN _________ Mr. Pickwick , Sir : -- I address you upon the subject of sin the sinner I mean be a man name Winkle who make trouble in his club by laugh and sometimes wo n't write his piece in this fine paper I hope you will pardon his badness and let him send a French fable because he ca n't write out of his head a he have so many lesson to do and no brain in future I will try to take time by the fetlock and prepare some work which will be all commy la fo that mean all right I be in haste a it be nearly school time .
Yours respectably , N. WINKLE -LSB- The above be a manly and handsome acknowledgment of past misdemeanor .
If our young friend study punctuation , it would be well . -RSB-
_________ A SAD ACCIDENT On Friday last , we be startle by a violent shock in our basement , follow by cry of distress .
On rush in a body to the cellar , we discover our beloved President prostrate upon the floor , have trip and fall while get wood for domestic purpose .
A perfect scene of ruin meet our eye , for in his fall Mr. Pickwick have plunge his head and shoulder into a tub of water , upset a keg of soft soap upon his manly form , and tear his garment badly .
On be remove from this perilous situation , it be discover that he have suffer no injury but several bruise , and we be happy to add , be now do well .
ED .
_________ THE PUBLIC BEREAVEMENT It be our painful duty to record the sudden and mysterious disappearance of our cherished friend , Mrs. Snowball Pat Paw .
This lovely and beloved cat be the pet of a large circle of warm and admiring friend ; for her beauty attract all eye , her grace and virtue endear her to all heart , and her loss be deeply felt by the whole community .
When last see , she be sit at the gate , watch the butcher 's cart , and it be fear that some villain , tempt by her charm , basely steal her .
Weeks have pass , but no trace of her have be discover , and we relinquish all hope , tie a black ribbon to her basket , set aside her dish , and weep for her a one lost to u forever .
_________ A sympathizing friend send the following gem : A LAMENT -LRB- FOR S. B. PAT PAW -RRB- We mourn the loss of our little pet , And sigh o'er her hapless fate , For never more by the fire she 'll sit , Nor play by the old green gate .
The little grave where her infant sleep Is ` neath the chestnut tree .
But o'er her grave we may not weep , We know not where it may be .
Her empty bed , her idle ball , Will never see her more ; No gentle tap , no love purr Is hear at the parlor door .
Another cat come after her mouse , A cat with a dirty face , But she do not hunt a our darling do , Nor play with her airy grace .
Her stealthy paw tread the very hall Where Snowball use to play , But she only spit at the dog our pet So gallantly drive away .
She be useful and mild , and do her best , But she be not fair to see , And we can not give her your place dear , Nor worship her a we worship thee .
A.S. _________ ADVERTISEMENTS MISS ORANTHY BLUGGAGE , the accomplished strong-minded lecturer , will deliver her famous lecture on `` WOMAN AND HER POSITION '' at Pickwick Hall , next Saturday Evening , after the usual performance .
A WEEKLY MEETING will be hold at Kitchen Place , to teach young lady how to cook .
Hannah Brown will preside , and all be invite to attend .
The DUSTPAN SOCIETY will meet on Wednesday next , and parade in the upper story of the Club House .
All member to appear in uniform and shoulder their broom at nine precisely .
Mrs. BETH BOUNCER will open her new assortment of Doll 's Millinery next week .
The late Paris fashion have arrive , and order be respectfully solicit .
A NEW PLAY will appear at the Barnville Theatre , in the course of a few week , which will surpass anything ever see on the American stage .
`` The Greek Slave , or Constantine the Avenger , '' be the name of this thrill drama ! ! !
HINTS If S.P . do n't use so much soap on his hand , he would n't always be late at breakfast .
A.S. be request not to whistle in the street .
T.T . please do n't forget Amy 's napkin .
N.W . must not fret because his dress have not nine tuck .
WEEKLY REPORT Meg -- Good .
Jo -- Bad .
Beth -- Very Good .
Amy -- Middling .
_________________________________________________ As the President finish read the paper -LRB- which I beg leave to assure my reader be a bona fide copy of one write by bona fide girl once upon a time -RRB- , a round of applause follow , and then Mr. Snodgrass rise to make a proposition .
`` Mr. President and gentleman , '' he begin , assume a parliamentary attitude and tone , `` I wish to propose the admission of a new member -- one who highly deserve the honor , would be deeply grateful for it , and would add immensely to the spirit of the club , the literary value of the paper , and be no end jolly and nice .
I propose Mr. Theodore Laurence a an honorary member of the P. C. Come now , do have him . ''
Jo 's sudden change of tone make the girl laugh , but all look rather anxious , and no one say a word a Snodgrass take his seat .
`` We 'll put it to a vote , '' say the President .
`` All in favor of this motion please to manifest it by say , ` Aye ' . ''
A loud response from Snodgrass , follow , to everybody 's surprise , by a timid one from Beth .
`` Contrary-minded say , ` No ' . ''
Meg and Amy be contrary-minded , and Mr. Winkle rise to say with great elegance , `` We do n't wish any boy , they only joke and bounce about .
This be a lady ' club , and we wish to be private and proper . ''
`` I 'm afraid he 'll laugh at our paper , and make fun of u afterward , '' observe Pickwick , pull the little curl on her forehead , a she always do when doubtful .
Up rise Snodgrass , very much in earnest .
`` Sir , I give you my word a a gentleman , Laurie wo n't do anything of the sort .
He like to write , and he 'll give a tone to our contribution and keep u from be sentimental , do n't you see ?
We can do so little for him , and he do so much for u , I think the least we can do be to offer him a place here , and make him welcome if he come . ''
This artful allusion to benefit confer bring Tupman to his foot , look a if he have quite make up his mind .
`` Yes ; we ought to do it , even if we be afraid .
I say he may come , and his grandpa , too , if he like . ''
This spirit burst from Beth electrify the club , and Jo leave her seat to shake hand approvingly .
`` Now then , vote again .
Everybody remember it 's our Laurie , and say , ` Aye ! ' ''
cried Snodgrass excitedly .
`` Aye !
Aye !
Aye ! ''
reply three voice at once .
`` Good !
Bless you !
Now , a there 's nothing like ` take time by the fetlock ' , a Winkle characteristically observe , allow me to present the new member . ''
And , to the dismay of the rest of the club , Jo throw open the door of the closet , and display Laurie sit on a rag bag , flush and twinkle with suppressed laughter .
`` You rogue !
You traitor !
Jo , how could you ? ''
cry the three girl , a Snodgrass lead her friend triumphantly forth , and produce both a chair and a badge , instal him in a jiffy .
`` The coolness of you two rascal be amazing , '' begin Mr. Pickwick , try to get up an awful frown and only succeed in produce an amiable smile .
But the new member be equal to the occasion , and rise , with a grateful salutation to the Chair , say in the most engaging manner , `` Mr. President and lady -- I beg pardon , gentleman -- allow me to introduce myself a Sam Weller , the very humble servant of the club . ''
`` Good !
Good ! ''
cry Jo , pound with the handle of the old warming pan on which she lean .
`` My faithful friend and noble patron , '' continue Laurie with a wave of the hand , `` who have so flatteringly present me , be not to be blame for the base stratagem of tonight .
I plan it , and she only give in after lot of tease . ''
`` Come now , do n't lay it all on yourself .
You know I propose the cupboard , '' break in Snodgrass , who be enjoy the joke amazingly .
`` Never mind what she say .
I 'm the wretch that do it , sir , '' say the new member , with a Welleresque nod to Mr. Pickwick .
`` But on my honor , I never will do so again , and henceforth devote myself to the interest of this immortal club . ''
`` Hear !
Hear ! ''
cry Jo , clash the lid of the warm pan like a cymbal .
`` Go on , go on ! ''
add Winkle and Tupman , while the President bow benignly .
`` I merely wish to say , that a a slight token of my gratitude for the honor do me , and a a mean of promote friendly relation between adjoin nation , I have set up a post office in the hedge in the low corner of the garden , a fine , spacious building with padlock on the door and every convenience for the mail , also the female , if I may be allow the expression .
It 's the old martin house , but I 've stop up the door and make the roof open , so it will hold all sort of thing , and save our valuable time .
Letters , manuscript , book , and bundle can be pass in there , and a each nation have a key , it will be uncommonly nice , I fancy .
Allow me to present the club key , and with many thanks for your favor , take my seat . ''
Great applause a Mr. Weller deposit a little key on the table and subside , the warm pan clash and wave wildly , and it be some time before order could be restore .
A long discussion follow , and everyone come out surprising , for everyone do her best .
So it be an unusually lively meeting , and do not adjourn till a late hour , when it break up with three shrill cheer for the new member .
No one ever regret the admittance of Sam Weller , for a more devoted , well-behaved , and jovial member no club could have .
He certainly do add ` spirit ' to the meeting , and ' a tone ' to the paper , for his oration convulse his hearer and his contribution be excellent , be patriotic , classical , comical , or dramatic , but never sentimental .
Jo regard them a worthy of Bacon , Milton , or Shakespeare , and remodel her own work with good effect , she think .
The P. O. be a capital little institution , and flourish wonderfully , for nearly as many queer thing pass through it a through the real post office .
Tragedies and cravat , poetry and pickle , garden seed and long letter , music and gingerbread , rubber , invitation , scolding , and puppy .
The old gentleman like the fun , and amuse himself by send odd bundle , mysterious message , and funny telegram , and his gardener , who be smite with Hannah 's charm , actually send a love letter to Jo 's care .
How they laugh when the secret come out , never dream how many love letter that little post office would hold in the year to come .
CHAPTER ELEVEN EXPERIMENTS `` The first of June !
The Kings be off to the seashore tomorrow , and I 'm free .
Three month ' vacation -- how I shall enjoy it ! ''
exclaim Meg , come home one warm day to find Jo laid upon the sofa in an unusual state of exhaustion , while Beth take off her dusty boot , and Amy make lemonade for the refreshment of the whole party .
`` Aunt March go today , for which , oh , be joyful ! ''
say Jo .
`` I be mortally afraid she 'd ask me to go with her .
If she have , I should have felt a if I ought to do it , but Plumfield be about as gay a a churchyard , you know , and I 'd rather be excuse .
We have a flurry get the old lady off , and I have a fright every time she speak to me , for I be in such a hurry to be through that I be uncommonly helpful and sweet , and fear she 'd find it impossible to part from me .
I quake till she be fairly in the carriage , and have a final fright , for a it drive of , she pop out her head , say , ` Josyphine , wo n't you -- ? '
I do n't hear any more , for I basely turn and flee .
I do actually run , and whisk round the corner where I felt safe . ''
`` Poor old Jo !
She come in look a if bear be after her , '' say Beth , a she cuddle her sister 's foot with a motherly air .
`` Aunt March be a regular samphire , be she not ? ''
observe Amy , taste her mixture critically .
`` She mean vampire , not seaweed , but it do n't matter .
It 's too warm to be particular about one 's part of speech , '' murmur Jo .
`` What shall you do all your vacation ? ''
ask Amy , change the subject with tact .
`` I shall lie abed late , and do nothing , '' reply Meg , from the depth of the rock chair .
`` I 've be rout up early all winter and have to spend my day work for other people , so now I 'm go to rest and revel to my heart 's content . ''
`` No , '' say Jo , `` that dozy way would n't suit me .
I 've lay in a heap of book , and I 'm go to improve my shining hour read on my perch in the old apple tree , when I 'm not have l -- '' `` Do n't say ` larks ! ' ''
implored Amy , a a return snub for the ` samphire ' correction .
`` I 'll say ` nightingale ' then , with Laurie .
That 's proper and appropriate , since he 's a warbler . ''
`` Do n't let u do any lesson , Beth , for a while , but play all the time and rest , a the girl mean to , '' propose Amy .
`` Well , I will , if Mother do n't mind .
I want to learn some new song , and my child need fit up for the summer .
They be dreadfully out of order and really suffer for clothes . ''
`` May we , Mother ? ''
ask Meg , turn to Mrs. March , who sit sew in what they call ` Marmee 's corner ' .
`` You may try your experiment for a week and see how you like it .
I think by Saturday night you will find that all play and no work be as bad a all work and no play . ''
`` Oh , dear , no !
It will be delicious , I 'm sure , '' say Meg complacently .
`` I now propose a toast , a my ` friend and pardner , Sairy Gamp ' , say .
Fun forever , and no grubbing ! ''
cry Jo , rise , glass in hand , a the lemonade go round .
They all drink it merrily , and begin the experiment by lounge for the rest of the day .
Next morning , Meg do not appear till ten o'clock .
Her solitary breakfast do not taste good , and the room seem lonely and untidy , for Jo have not fill the vas , Beth have not dust , and Amy 's book lay scatter about .
Nothing be neat and pleasant but ` Marmee 's corner ' , which look a usual .
And there Meg sit , to ` rest and read ' , which mean to yawn and imagine what pretty summer dress she would get with her salary .
Jo spend the morning on the river with Laurie and the afternoon reading and cry over The Wide , Wide World , up in the apple tree .
Beth begin by rummage everything out of the big closet where her family reside , but get tire before half do , she leave her establishment topsy-turvy and go to her music , rejoice that she have no dish to wash .
Amy arrange her bower , put on her best white frock , smooth her curl , and sit down to draw under the honeysuckle , hop someone would see and inquire who the young artist be .
As no one appear but an inquisitive daddy-longlegs , who examine her work with interest , she go to walk , get catch in a shower , and come home dripping .
At teatime they compare note , and all agree that it have be a delightful , though unusually long day .
Meg , who go shopping in the afternoon and get a ` sweet blue muslin ' , have discover , after she have cut the breadth off , that it would n't wash , which mishap make her slightly cross .
Jo have burn the skin off her nose boating , and get a rag headache by read too long .
Beth be worry by the confusion of her closet and the difficulty of learn three or four song at once , and Amy deeply regret the damage do her frock , for Katy Brown 's party be to be the next day and now like Flora McFlimsey , she have ` nothing to wear ' .
But these be mere trifle , and they assure their mother that the experiment be work finely .
She smile , say nothing , and with Hannah 's help do their neglected work , keep home pleasant and the domestic machinery run smoothly .
It be astonish what a peculiar and uncomfortable state of thing be produce by the ` resting and revel ' process .
The day keep get long and longer , the weather be unusually variable and so be temper ; an unsettled feeling possess everyone , and Satan find plenty of mischief for the idle hand to do .
As the height of luxury , Meg put out some of her sewing , and then find time hang so heavily , that she fell to snip and spoil her clothes in her attempt to furbish them up a la Moffat .
Jo read till her eye give out and she be sick of book , get so fidgety that even good-natured Laurie have a quarrel with her , and so reduce in spirit that she desperately wish she have go with Aunt March .
Beth get on pretty well , for she be constantly forget that it be to be all play and no work , and fell back into her old way now and then .
But something in the air affect her , and more than once her tranquility be much disturb , so much so that on one occasion she actually shake poor dear Joanna and tell her she be ' a fright ' .
Amy fare bad of all , for her resource be small , and when her sister leave her to amuse herself , she soon find that accomplished and important little self a great burden .
She do n't like doll , fairy tale be childish , and one could n't draw all the time .
Tea party do n't amount to much , neither do picnic , unless very well conduct .
`` If one could have a fine house , full of nice girl , or go traveling , the summer would be delightful , but to stay at home with three selfish sister and a grown-up boy be enough to try the patience of a Boaz , '' complain Miss Malaprop , after several day devote to pleasure , fretting , and ennui .
No one would own that they be tire of the experiment , but by Friday night each acknowledge to herself that she be glad the week be nearly do .
Hoping to impress the lesson more deeply , Mrs. March , who have a good deal of humor , resolve to finish off the trial in an appropriate manner , so she give Hannah a holiday and let the girl enjoy the full effect of the play system .
When they get up on Saturday morning , there be no fire in the kitchen , no breakfast in the dining room , and no mother anywhere to be see .
`` Mercy on u !
What have happen ? ''
cry Jo , star about her in dismay .
Meg run upstairs and soon come back again , look relieve but rather bewilder , and a little ashamed .
`` Mother be n't sick , only very tired , and she say she be go to stay quietly in her room all day and let u do the best we can .
It 's a very queer thing for her to do , she do n't act a bit like herself .
But she say it have be a hard week for her , so we must n't grumble but take care of ourselves . ''
`` That 's easy enough , and I like the idea , I 'm ache for something to do , that be , some new amusement , you know , '' add Jo quickly .
In fact it be an immense relief to them all to have a little work , and they take hold with a will , but soon realize the truth of Hannah 's saying , `` Housekeeping ai n't no joke . ''
There be plenty of food in the larder , and while Beth and Amy set the table , Meg and Jo get breakfast , wonder a they do why servant ever talk about hard work .
`` I shall take some up to Mother , though she say we be not to think of her , for she 'd take care of herself , '' say Meg , who preside and felt quite matronly behind the teapot .
So a tray be fit out before anyone begin , and take up with the cook 's compliment .
The boiled tea be very bitter , the omelet scorch , and the biscuit speckle with saleratus , but Mrs. March receive her repast with thanks and laugh heartily over it after Jo be go .
`` Poor little soul , they will have a hard time , I 'm afraid , but they wo n't suffer , and it will do them good , '' she say , produce the more palatable viand with which she have provide herself , and dispose of the bad breakfast , so that their feeling might not be hurt , a motherly little deception for which they be grateful .
Many be the complaint below , and great the chagrin of the head cook at her failure .
`` Never mind , I 'll get the dinner and be servant , you be mistress , keep your hand nice , see company , and give order , '' say Jo , who know still less than Meg about culinary affair .
This obliging offer be gladly accept , and Margaret retire to the parlor , which she hastily put in order by whisk the litter under the sofa and shut the blind to save the trouble of dusting .
Jo , with perfect faith in her own power and a friendly desire to make up the quarrel , immediately put a note in the office , invite Laurie to dinner .
`` You 'd better see what you have get before you think of have company , '' say Meg , when inform of the hospitable but rash act .
`` Oh , there 's corn beef and plenty of potato , and I shall get some asparagus and a lobster , ` for a relish ' , a Hannah say .
We 'll have lettuce and make a salad .
I do n't know how , but the book tell .
I 'll have blanc mange and strawberry for dessert , and coffee too , if you want to be elegant . ''
`` Do n't try too many mess , Jo , for you ca n't make anything but gingerbread and molasses candy fit to eat .
I wash my hand of the dinner party , and since you have ask Laurie on your own responsibility , you may just take care of him . ''
`` I do n't want you to do anything but be civil to him and help to the pudding .
You 'll give me your advice if I get in a muddle , wo n't you ? ''
ask Jo , rather hurt .
`` Yes , but I do n't know much , except about bread and a few trifle .
You have good ask Mother 's leave before you order anything , '' return Meg prudently .
`` Of course I shall .
I 'm not a fool . ''
And Jo go off in a huff at the doubt express of her power .
`` Get what you like , and do n't disturb me .
I 'm go out to dinner and ca n't worry about thing at home , '' say Mrs. March , when Jo speak to her .
`` I never enjoy housekeeping , and I 'm go to take a vacation today , and read , write , go visiting , and amuse myself . ''
The unusual spectacle of her busy mother rock comfortably and read early in the morning make Jo feel a if some unnatural phenomenon have occur , for an eclipse , an earthquake , or a volcanic eruption would hardly have seem stranger .
`` Everything be out of sort , somehow , '' she say to herself , go downstairs .
`` There 's Beth cry , that 's a sure sign that something be wrong in this family .
If Amy be bother , I 'll shake her . ''
Feeling very much out of sort herself , Jo hurry into the parlor to find Beth sob over Pip , the canary , who lay dead in the cage with his little claws pathetically extend , a if implore the food for want of which he have die .
`` It 's all my fault , I forget him , there be n't a seed or a drop left .
Oh , Pip !
Oh , Pip !
How could I be so cruel to you ? ''
cry Beth , take the poor thing in her hand and try to restore him .
Jo peep into his half-open eye , felt his little heart , and find him stiff and cold , shake her head , and offer her domino box for a coffin .
`` Put him in the oven , and maybe he will get warm and revive , '' say Amy hopefully .
`` He 's be starve , and he sha n't be bake now he 's dead .
I 'll make him a shroud , and he shall be bury in the garden , and I 'll never have another bird , never , my Pip !
for I be too bad to own one , '' murmur Beth , sit on the floor with her pet fold in her hand .
`` The funeral shall be this afternoon , and we will all go .
Now , do n't cry , Bethy .
It 's a pity , but nothing go right this week , and Pip have have the bad of the experiment .
Make the shroud , and lay him in my box , and after the dinner party , we 'll have a nice little funeral , '' say Jo , begin to feel a if she have undertake a good deal .
Leaving the others to console Beth , she depart to the kitchen , which be in a most discouraging state of confusion .
Putting on a big apron , she fell to work and get the dish pile up ready for wash , when she discover that the fire be out .
`` Here 's a sweet prospect ! ''
mutter Jo , slam the stove door open , and poke vigorously among the cinder .
Having rekindle the fire , she think she would go to market while the water heat .
The walk revive her spirit , and flatter herself that she have make good bargain , she trudge home again , after buy a very young lobster , some very old asparagus , and two box of acid strawberry .
By the time she get clear up , the dinner arrive and the stove be red-hot .
Hannah have leave a pan of bread to rise , Meg have work it up early , set it on the hearth for a second rising , and forget it .
Meg be entertain Sallie Gardiner in the parlor , when the door fly open and a floury , crocky , flush , and disheveled figure appear , demand tartly ... `` I say , be n't bread ` riz ' enough when it run over the pan ? ''
Sallie begin to laugh , but Meg nod and lift her eyebrow as high a they would go , which cause the apparition to vanish and put the sour bread into the oven without further delay .
Mrs. March go out , after peep here and there to see how matter go , also say a word of comfort to Beth , who sit make a winding sheet , while the dear depart lay in state in the domino box .
A straLanguage can not describe nge sense of helplessness fell upon the girl a the gray bonnet vanish round the corner , and despair seize them when a few minute later Miss Crocker appear , and say she 'd come to dinner .
Now this lady be a thin , yellow spinster , with a sharp nose and inquisitive eye , who saw everything and gossip about all she saw .
They dislike her , but have be teach to be kind to her , simply because she be old and poor and have few friend .
So Meg give her the easy chair and try to entertain her , while she ask question , criticize everything , and tell story of the people whom she know .
Language can not describe the anxiety , experience , and exertion which Jo underwent that morning , and the dinner she serve up become a stand joke .
Fearing to ask any more advice , she do her best alone , and discover that something more than energy and good will be necessary to make a cook .
She boil the asparagus for an hour and be grieve to find the head cook off and the stalk hard than ever .
The bread burn black ; for the salad dress so aggravate her that she could not make it fit to eat .
The lobster be a scarlet mystery to her , but she hammer and poke till it be unshelled and it meager proportion conceal in a grove of lettuce leaf .
The potato have to be hurry , not to keep the asparagus waiting , and be not do at the last .
The blanc mange be lumpy , and the strawberry not as ripe a they look , have be skilfully ` deaconed ' .
`` Well , they can eat beef and bread and butter , if they be hungry , only it 's mortify to have to spend your whole morning for nothing , '' think Jo , a she ring the bell half an hour later than usual , and stand , hot , tired , and dispirit , survey the feast spread before Laurie , accustom to all sort of elegance , and Miss Crocker , whose tattle tongue would report them far and wide .
Poor Jo would gladly have go under the table , a one thing after another be taste and leave , while Amy giggle , Meg look distressed , Miss Crocker purse her lip , and Laurie talk and laugh with all his might to give a cheerful tone to the festive scene .
Jo 's one strong point be the fruit , for she have sugar it well , and have a pitcher of rich cream to eat with it .
Her hot cheek cool a trifle , and she draw a long breath a the pretty glass plate go round , and everyone look graciously at the little rosy island float in a sea of cream .
Miss Crocker taste first , make a wry face , and drink some water hastily .
Jo , who refuse , think there might not be enough , for they dwindle sadly after the picking over , glance at Laurie , but he be eat away manfully , though there be a slight pucker about his mouth and he keep his eye fix on his plate .
Amy , who be fond of delicate fare , take a heaping spoonful , choke , hide her face in her napkin , and leave the table precipitately .
`` Oh , what be it ? ''
exclaim Jo , tremble .
`` Salt instead of sugar , and the cream be sour , '' reply Meg with a tragic gesture .
Jo utter a groan and fell back in her chair , remember that she have give a last hasty powdering to the berry out of one of the two box on the kitchen table , and have neglect to put the milk in the refrigerator .
She turn scarlet and be on the verge of cry , when she meet Laurie 's eye , which would look merry in spite of his heroic effort .
The comical side of the affair suddenly strike her , and she laugh till the tear run down her cheek .
So do everyone else , even ` Croaker ' a the girl call the old lady , and the unfortunate dinner end gaily , with bread and butter , olive and fun .
`` I have n't strength of mind enough to clear up now , so we will sober ourselves with a funeral , '' say Jo , a they rise , and Miss Crocker make ready to go , be eager to tell the new story at another friend 's dinner table .
They do sober themselves for Beth 's sake .
Laurie dig a grave under the fern in the grove , little Pip be lay in , with many tear by his tender-hearted mistress , and cover with moss , while a wreath of violet and chickweed be hang on the stone which bore his epitaph , compose by Jo while she struggle with the dinner .
Here lie Pip March , Who die the 7th of June ; Loved and lament sore , And not forget soon .
At the conclusion of the ceremony , Beth retire to her room , overcome with emotion and lobster , but there be no place of repose , for the bed be not make , and she find her grief much assuage by beat up the pillow and put thing in order .
Meg help Jo clear away the remains of the feast , which take half the afternoon and leave them so tire that they agree to be content with tea and toast for supper .
Laurie take Amy to drive , which be a deed of charity , for the sour cream seem to have have a bad effect upon her temper .
Mrs. March come home to find the three old girl hard at work in the middle of the afternoon , and a glance at the closet give her an idea of the success of one part of the experiment .
Before the housewife could rest , several people call , and there be a scramble to get ready to see them .
Then tea must be get , errands do , and one or two necessary bit of sew neglect until the last minute .
As twilight fell , dewy and still , one by one they gather on the porch where the June rose be bud beautifully , and each groan or sigh a she sit down , a if tire or trouble .
`` What a dreadful day this have be ! ''
begin Jo , usually the first to speak .
`` It have seem short than usual , but so uncomfortable , '' say Meg .
`` Not a bit like home , '' add Amy .
`` It ca n't seem so without Marmee and little Pip , '' sigh Beth , glance with full eye at the empty cage above her head .
`` Here 's Mother , dear , and you shall have another bird tomorrow , if you want it . ''
As she speak , Mrs. March come and take her place among them , look a if her holiday have not be much pleasant than theirs .
`` Are you satisfied with your experiment , girl , or do you want another week of it ? ''
she ask , a Beth nestle up to her and the rest turn toward her with brighten face , a flower turn toward the sun .
`` I do n't ! ''
cry Jo decidedly .
`` Nor I , '' echo the others .
`` You think then , that it be well to have a few duty and live a little for others , do you ? ''
`` Lounging and larking do n't pay , '' observe Jo , shake her head .
`` I 'm tired of it and mean to go to work at something right off . ''
`` Suppose you learn plain cooking .
That 's a useful accomplishment , which no woman should be without , '' say Mrs. March , laugh inaudibly at the recollection of Jo 's dinner party , for she have meet Miss Crocker and hear her account of it .
`` Mother , do you go away and let everything be , just to see how we 'd get on ? ''
cry Meg , who have have suspicion all day .
`` Yes , I want you to see how the comfort of all depends on each do her share faithfully .
While Hannah and I do your work , you get on pretty well , though I do n't think you be very happy or amiable .
So I think , a a little lesson , I would show you what happen when everyone think only of herself .
Do n't you feel that it be pleasanter to help one another , to have daily duty which make leisure sweet when it come , and to bear and forbear , that home may be comfortable and lovely to u all ? ''
`` We do , Mother , we do ! ''
cry the girl .
`` Then let me advise you to take up your little burden again , for though they seem heavy sometimes , they be good for u , and lighten a we learn to carry them .
Work be wholesome , and there be plenty for everyone .
It keep u from ennui and mischief , be good for health and spirit , and give u a sense of power and independence good than money or fashion . ''
`` We 'll work like bee , and love it too , see if we do n't , '' say Jo .
`` I 'll learn plain cooking for my holiday task , and the next dinner party I have shall be a success . ''
`` I 'll make the set of shirt for father , instead of let you do it , Marmee .
I can and I will , though I 'm not fond of sewing .
That will be good than fussing over my own thing , which be plenty nice enough a they be . ''
say Meg .
`` I 'll do my lesson every day , and not spend so much time with my music and doll .
I be a stupid thing , and ought to be study , not play , '' be Beth 's resolution , while Amy follow their example by heroically declare , `` I shall learn to make buttonhole , and attend to my part of speech . ''
`` Very good !
Then I be quite satisfied with the experiment , and fancy that we shall not have to repeat it , only do n't go to the other extreme and delve like slave .
Have regular hour for work and play , make each day both useful and pleasant , and prove that you understand the worth of time by employ it well .
Then youth will be delightful , old age will bring few regret , and life become a beautiful success , in spite of poverty . ''
`` We 'll remember , Mother ! ''
and they do .
CHAPTER TWELVE CAMP LAURENCE Beth be postmistress , for , be most at home , she could attend to it regularly , and dearly like the daily task of unlock the little door and distribute the mail .
One July day she come in with her hand full , and go about the house leave letter and parcel like the penny post .
`` Here 's your posy , Mother !
Laurie never forget that , '' she say , put the fresh nosegay in the vase that stand in ` Marmee 's corner ' , and be keep supply by the affectionate boy .
`` Miss Meg March , one letter and a glove , '' continue Beth , deliver the article to her sister , who sit near her mother , stitch wristband .
`` Why , I leave a pair over there , and here be only one , '' say Meg , look at the gray cotton glove .
`` Did n't you drop the other in the garden ? ''
`` No , I 'm sure I do n't , for there be only one in the office . ''
`` I hate to have odd glove !
Never mind , the other may be find .
My letter be only a translation of the German song I want .
I think Mr. Brooke do it , for this be n't Laurie 's writing . ''
Mrs. March glance at Meg , who be look very pretty in her gingham morning gown , with the little curls blow about her forehead , and very womanly , a she sit sew at her little worktable , full of tidy white roll , so unconscious of the thought in her mother 's mind a she sew and sing , while her finger fly and her thought be busy with girlish fancy a innocent and fresh a the pansy in her belt , that Mrs. March smile and be satisfy .
`` Two letter for Doctor Jo , a book , and a funny old hat , which cover the whole post office and stuck outside , '' say Beth , laugh a she go into the study where Jo sit write .
`` What a sly fellow Laurie be !
I say I wish big hat be the fashion , because I burn my face every hot day .
He say , ` Why mind the fashion ?
Wear a big hat , and be comfortable ! '
I say I would if I have one , and he have send me this , to try me .
I 'll wear it for fun , and show him I do n't care for the fashion . ''
And hang the antique broad-brim on a bust of Plato , Jo read her letter .
One from her mother make her cheek glow and her eye fill , for it say to her ... My Dear : I write a little word to tell you with how much satisfaction I watch your effort to control your temper .
You say nothing about your trial , failure , or success , and think , perhaps , that no one see them but the Friend whose help you daily ask , if I may trust the well-worn cover of your guidebook .
I , too , have see them all , and heartily believe in the sincerity of your resolution , since it begin to bear fruit .
Go on , dear , patiently and bravely , and always believe that no one sympathize more tenderly with you than your loving ... Mother `` That do me good !
That 's worth million of money and peck of praise .
Oh , Marmee , I do try !
I will keep on try , and not get tire , since I have you to help me . ''
Laying her head on her arm , Jo wet her little romance with a few happy tear , for she have think that no one saw and appreciate her effort to be good , and this assurance be doubly precious , doubly encouraging , because unexpected and from the person whose commendation she most value .
Feeling strong than ever to meet and subdue her Apollyon , she pin the note inside her frock , a a shield and a reminder , l she be take unaware , and proceed to open her other letter , quite ready for either good or bad news .
In a big , dash hand , Laurie write ... Dear Jo , What ho !
Some English girl and boy be come to see me tomorrow and I want to have a jolly time .
If it 's fine , I 'm go to pitch my tent in Longmeadow , and row up the whole crew to lunch and croquet -- have a fire , make mess , gypsy fashion , and all sort of lark .
They be nice people , and like such thing .
Brooke will go to keep u boys steady , and Kate Vaughn will play propriety for the girl .
I want you all to come , ca n't let Beth off at any price , and nobody shall worry her .
Do n't bother about ration , I 'll see to that and everything else , only do come , there 's a good fellow !
In a tearing hurry , Yours ever , Laurie .
`` Here 's richness ! ''
cry Jo , fly in to tell the news to Meg .
`` Of course we can go , Mother ?
It will be such a help to Laurie , for I can row , and Meg see to the lunch , and the child be useful in some way . ''
`` I hope the Vaughns be not fine grown-up people .
Do you know anything about them , Jo ? ''
ask Meg .
`` Only that there be four of them .
Kate be old than you , Fred and Frank -LRB- twin -RRB- about my age , and a little girl -LRB- Grace -RRB- , who be nine or ten .
Laurie know them abroad , and like the boy .
I fancy , from the way he prim up his mouth in speaking of her , that he do n't admire Kate much . ''
`` I 'm so glad my French print be clean , it 's just the thing and so become ! ''
observe Meg complacently .
`` Have you anything decent , Jo ? ''
`` Scarlet and gray boating suit , good enough for me .
I shall row and tramp about , so I do n't want any starch to think of .
You 'll come , Betty ? ''
`` If you wo n't let any boys talk to me . ''
`` Not a boy ! ''
`` I like to please Laurie , and I 'm not afraid of Mr. Brooke , he be so kind .
But I do n't want to play , or sing , or say anything .
I 'll work hard and not trouble anyone , and you 'll take care of me , Jo , so I 'll go . ''
`` That 's my good girl .
You do try to fight off your shyness , and I love you for it .
Fighting fault be n't easy , a I know , and a cheery word kind of give a lift .
Thank you , Mother , '' And Jo give the thin cheek a grateful kiss , more precious to Mrs. March than if it have give back the rosy roundness of her youth .
`` I have a box of chocolate drop , and the picture I want to copy , '' say Amy , show her mail .
`` And I get a note from Mr. Laurence , ask me to come over and play to him tonight , before the lamp be light , and I shall go , '' add Beth , whose friendship with the old gentleman prosper finely .
`` Now let 's fly round , and do double duty today , so that we can play tomorrow with free mind , '' say Jo , prepare to replace her pen with a broom .
When the sun peep into the girl ' room early next morning to promise them a fine day , he saw a comical sight .
Each have make such preparation for the fete a seemed necessary and proper .
Meg have an extra row of little curlpapers across her forehead , Jo have copiously anoint her afflicted face with cold cream , Beth have take Joanna to bed with her to atone for the approach separation , and Amy have cap the climax by put a clothespin on her nose to uplift the offending feature .
It be one of the kind artists use to hold the paper on their drawing board , therefore quite appropriate and effective for the purpose it be now be put .
This funny spectacle appear to amuse the sun , for he burst out with such radiance that Jo wake up and rouse her sister by a hearty laugh at Amy 's ornament .
Sunshine and laughter be good omen for a pleasure party , and soon a lively bustle begin in both house .
Beth , who be ready first , keep report what go on next door , and enliven her sister ' toilet by frequent telegram from the window .
`` There go the man with the tent !
I see Mrs. Barker do up the lunch in a hamper and a great basket .
Now Mr. Laurence be look up at the sky and the weathercock .
I wish he would go too .
There 's Laurie , look like a sailor , nice boy !
Oh , mercy me !
Here 's a carriage full of people , a tall lady , a little girl , and two dreadful boy .
One be lame , poor thing , he 's get a crutch .
Laurie do n't tell u that .
Be quick , girl !
It 's get late .
Why , there be Ned Moffat , I do declare .
Meg , be n't that the man who bow to you one day when we be shop ? ''
`` So it be .
How queer that he should come .
I think he be at the mountain .
There be Sallie .
I 'm glad she get back in time .
Am I all right , Jo ? ''
cry Meg in a flutter .
`` A regular daisy .
Hold up your dress and put your hat on straight , it look sentimental tip that way and will fly off at the first puff .
Now then , come on ! ''
`` Oh , Jo , you be not go to wear that awful hat ?
It 's too absurd !
You shall not make a guy of yourself , '' remonstrate Meg , a Jo tie down with a red ribbon the broad-brimmed , old-fashioned leghorn Laurie have send for a joke .
`` I just will , though , for it 's capital , so shady , light , and big .
It will make fun , and I do n't mind be a guy if I 'm comfortable . ''
With that Jo march straight away and the rest follow , a bright little band of sister , all look their best in summer suit , with happy face under the jaunty hatbrims .
Laurie run to meet and present them to his friend in the most cordial manner .
The lawn be the reception room , and for several minute a lively scene be enact there .
Meg be grateful to see that Miss Kate , though twenty , be dress with a simplicity which American girl would do well to imitate , and who be much flatter by Mr. Ned 's assurance that he come especially to see her .
Jo understand why Laurie ` prim up his mouth ' when speaking of Kate , for that young lady have a standoff-don ` t-touch-me air , which contrast strongly with the free and easy demeanor of the other girl .
Beth take an observation of the new boy and decide that the lame one be not ` dreadful ' , but gentle and feeble , and she would be kind to him on that account .
Amy find Grace a well-mannered , merry , little person , and after star dumbly at one another for a few minute , they suddenly become very good friend .
Tents , lunch , and croquet utensil have be send on beforehand , the party be soon embark , and the two boat push off together , leave Mr. Laurence wave his hat on the shore .
Laurie and Jo row one boat , Mr. Brooke and Ned the other , while Fred Vaughn , the riotous twin , do his best to upset both by paddle about in a wherry like a disturbed water bug .
Jo 's funny hat deserve a vote of thanks , for it be of general utility .
It break the ice in the beginning by produce a laugh , it create quite a refreshing breeze , flap to and fro a she row , and would make an excellent umbrella for the whole party , if a shower come up , she say .
Miss Kate decide that she be ` odd ' , but rather clever , and smile upon her from afar .
Meg , in the other boat , be delightfully situate , face to face with the rower , who both admire the prospect and feather their oar with uncommon ` skill and dexterity ' .
Mr. Brooke be a grave , silent young man , with handsome brown eye and a pleasant voice .
Meg like his quiet manner and consider him a walk encyclopedia of useful knowledge .
He never talk to her much , but he look at her a good deal , and she felt sure that he do not regard her with aversion .
Ned , be in college , of course put on all the air which freshmen think it their bounden duty to assume .
He be not very wise , but very good-natured , and altogether an excellent person to carry on a picnic .
Sallie Gardiner be absorb in keep her white pique dress clean and chatter with the ubiquitous Fred , who keep Beth in constant terror by his prank .
It be not far to Longmeadow , but the tent be pitch and the wicket down by the time they arrive .
A pleasant green field , with three wide-spreading oak in the middle and a smooth strip of turf for croquet .
`` Welcome to Camp Laurence ! ''
say the young host , a they land with exclamation of delight .
`` Brooke be commander in chief , I be commissary general , the other fellow be staff officer , and you , lady , be company .
The tent be for your especial benefit and that oak be your drawing room , this be the messroom and the third be the camp kitchen .
Now , let 's have a game before it get hot , and then we 'll see about dinner . ''
Frank , Beth , Amy , and Grace sit down to watch the game play by the other eight .
Mr. Brooke choose Meg , Kate , and Fred .
Laurie take Sallie , Jo , and Ned .
The English play well , but the Americans play good , and contest every inch of the ground as strongly a if the spirit of '76 inspire them .
Jo and Fred have several skirmish and once narrowly escaped high word .
Jo be through the last wicket and have miss the stroke , which failure ruffle her a good deal .
Fred be close behind her and his turn come before hers .
He give a stroke , his ball hit the wicket , and stop an inch on the wrong side .
No one be very near , and run up to examine , he give it a sly nudge with his toe , which put it just an inch on the right side .
`` I 'm through !
Now , Miss Jo , I 'll settle you , and get in first , '' cry the young gentleman , swing his mallet for another blow .
`` You push it .
I saw you .
It 's my turn now , '' say Jo sharply .
`` Upon my word , I do n't move it .
It roll a bit , perhaps , but that be allow .
So , stand off please , and let me have a go at the stake . ''
`` We do n't cheat in America , but you can , if you choose , '' say Jo angrily .
`` Yankees be a deal the most tricky , everybody know .
There you go ! ''
return Fred , croquet her ball far away .
Jo open her lip to say something rude , but check herself in time , color up to her forehead and stand a minute , hammer down a wicket with all her might , while Fred hit the stake and declare himself out with much exultation .
She go off to get her ball , and be a long time find it among the bush , but she come back , look cool and quiet , and wait her turn patiently .
It take several stroke to regain the place she have lose , and when she get there , the other side have nearly win , for Kate 's ball be the last but one and lay near the stake .
`` By George , it 's all up with u !
Goodbye , Kate .
Miss Jo owes me one , so you be finish , '' cry Fred excitedly , a they all draw near to see the finish .
`` Yankees have a trick of be generous to their enemy , '' say Jo , with a look that make the lad redden , `` especially when they beat them , '' she add , a , leave Kate 's ball untouched , she win the game by a clever stroke .
Laurie throw up his hat , then remember that it would n't do to exult over the defeat of his guest , and stop in the middle of the cheer to whisper to his friend , `` Good for you , Jo !
He do cheat , I saw him .
We ca n't tell him so , but he wo n't do it again , take my word for it . ''
Meg draw her aside , under pretense of pin up a loose braid , and say approvingly , `` It be dreadfully provoking , but you keep your temper , and I 'm so glad , Jo . ''
`` Do n't praise me , Meg , for I could box his ear this minute .
I should certainly have boil over if I have n't stay among the nettle till I get my rage under control enough to hold my tongue .
It 's simmer now , so I hope he 'll keep out of my way , '' return Jo , bite her lip a she glower at Fred from under her big hat .
`` Time for lunch , '' say Mr. Brooke , look at his watch .
`` Commissary general , will you make the fire and get water , while Miss March , Miss Sallie , and I spread the table ?
Who can make good coffee ? ''
`` Jo can , '' say Meg , glad to recommend her sister .
So Jo , feel that her late lesson in cookery be to do her honor , go to preside over the coffeepot , while the child collect dry stick , and the boy make a fire and get water from a spring near by .
Miss Kate sketch and Frank talk to Beth , who be make little mat of braided rush to serve a plate .
The commander in chief and his aide soon spread the tablecloth with an invite array of eatable and drinkable , prettily decorate with green leaf .
Jo announce that the coffee be ready , and everyone settle themselves to a hearty meal , for youth be seldom dyspeptic , and exercise develop wholesome appetite .
A very merry lunch it be , for everything seem fresh and funny , and frequent peal of laughter startle a venerable horse who feed near by .
There be a pleasing inequality in the table , which produce many mishap to cup and plate , acorn drop in the milk , little black ant partook of the refreshment without be invite , and fuzzy caterpillar swing down from the tree to see what be go on .
Three white-headed child peep over the fence , and an objectionable dog bark at them from the other side of the river with all his might and main .
`` There 's salt here , '' say Laurie , a he hand Jo a saucer of berry .
`` Thank you , I prefer spider , '' she reply , fish up two unwary little one who have go to a creamy death .
`` How dare you remind me of that horrid dinner party , when yours be so nice in every way ? ''
added Jo , a they both laugh and eat out of one plate , the china have run short .
`` I have an uncommonly good time that day , and have n't get over it yet .
This be no credit to me , you know , I do n't do anything .
It 's you and Meg and Brooke who make it all go , and I 'm no end oblige to you .
What shall we do when we ca n't eat anymore ? ''
ask Laurie , feel that his trump card have be play when lunch be over .
`` Have game till it 's cooler .
I bring Authors , and I dare say Miss Kate know something new and nice .
Go and ask her .
She 's company , and you ought to stay with her more . ''
`` Are n't you company too ?
I think she 'd suit Brooke , but he keep talk to Meg , and Kate just star at them through that ridiculous glass of hers .
I 'm go , so you need n't try to preach propriety , for you ca n't do it , Jo . ''
Miss Kate do know several new game , and a the girl would not , and the boy could not , eat any more , they all adjourn to the draw room to play Rig-marole .
`` One person begin a story , any nonsense you like , and tell as long a he please , only take care to stop short at some exciting point , when the next take it up and do the same .
It 's very funny when well do , and make a perfect jumble of tragical comical stuff to laugh over .
Please start it , Mr. Brooke , '' say Kate , with a commanding air , which surprise Meg , who treat the tutor with as much respect a any other gentleman .
Lying on the grass at the foot of the two young lady , Mr. Brooke obediently begin the story , with the handsome brown eye steadily fix upon the sunshiny river .
`` Once on a time , a knight go out into the world to seek his fortune , for he have nothing but his sword and his shield .
He travel a long while , nearly eight-and-twenty year , and have a hard time of it , till he come to the palace of a good old king , who have offer a reward to anyone who could tame and train a fine but unbroken colt , of which he be very fond .
The knight agree to try , and get on slowly but surely , for the colt be a gallant fellow , and soon learn to love his new master , though he be freakish and wild .
Every day , when he give his lesson to this pet of the king 's , the knight ride him through the city , and a he ride , he look everywhere for a certain beautiful face , which he have see many time in his dream , but never find .
One day , a he go prance down a quiet street , he saw at the window of a ruinous castle the lovely face .
He be delight , inquire who live in this old castle , and be tell that several captive princess be keep there by a spell , and spin all day to lay up money to buy their liberty .
The knight wish intensely that he could free them , but he be poor and could only go by each day , watch for the sweet face and longing to see it out in the sunshine .
At last he resolve to get into the castle and ask how he could help them .
He go and knock .
The great door fly open , and he behold ... '' `` A ravishingly lovely lady , who exclaim , with a cry of rapture , ` At last !
At last ! ' ''
continued Kate , who have read French novel , and admire the style . ''
'T be she ! '
cry Count Gustave , and fell at her foot in an ecstasy of joy .
` Oh , rise ! '
she say , extend a hand of marble fairness .
` Never !
Till you tell me how I may rescue you , ' swear the knight , still kneel .
` Alas , my cruel fate condemns me to remain here till my tyrant be destroy . '
` Where be the villain ? '
` In the mauve salon .
Go , brave heart , and save me from despair . ' '
I obey , and return victorious or dead ! '
With these thrill word he rush away , and fling open the door of the mauve salon , be about to enter , when he receive ... '' `` A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon , which an old fellow in a black gown fire at him , '' say Ned .
`` Instantly , Sir What 's - his-name recover himself , pitch the tyrant out of the window , and turn to join the lady , victorious , but with a bump on his brow , find the door lock , tear up the curtain , make a rope ladder , get halfway down when the ladder break , and he go headfirst into the moat , sixty foot below .
Could swim like a duck , paddle round the castle till he come to a little door guard by two stout fellow , knock their head together till they crack like a couple of nut , then , by a trifle exertion of his prodigious strength , he smash in the door , go up a pair of stone step cover with dust a foot thick , toad as big a your fist , and spider that would frighten you into hysteric , Miss March .
At the top of these step he come plump upon a sight that take his breath away and chill his blood ... '' `` A tall figure , all in white with a veil over it face and a lamp in it wasted hand , '' go on Meg .
`` It beckon , glide noiselessly before him down a corridor a dark and cold a any tomb .
Shadowy effigy in armor stand on either side , a dead silence reign , the lamp burn blue , and the ghostly figure ever and anon turn it face toward him , show the glitter of awful eye through it white veil .
They reach a curtained door , behind which sound lovely music .
He spring forward to enter , but the specter pluck him back , and wave threateningly before him a. .
. ''
`` Snuffbox , '' say Jo , in a sepulchral tone , which convulse the audience . ''
` Thankee , ' say the knight politely , a he take a pinch and sneeze seven time so violently that his head fell off .
` Ha !
Ha ! '
laugh the ghost , and have peep through the keyhole at the princess spin away for dear life , the evil spirit pick up her victim and put him in a large tin box , where there be eleven other knight pack together without their head , like sardine , who all rise and begin to ... '' `` Dance a hornpipe , '' cut in Fred , a Jo pause for breath , `` and , a they dance , the rubbishy old castle turn to a man-of-war in full sail .
` Up with the jib , reef the top ' l halliard , helm hard alee , and man the gun ! '
roar the captain , a a Portuguese pirate hove in sight , with a flag black a ink fly from her foremast .
` Go in and win , my hearties ! '
say the captain , and a tremendous fight begin .
Of course the British beat -- they always do . ''
`` No , they do n't ! ''
cry Jo , aside .
`` Having take the pirate captain prisoner , sail slap over the schooner , whose deck be pile high with dead and whose lee scupper run blood , for the order have be ` Cutlasses , and die hard ! '
` Bosun 's mate , take a bight of the flying-jib sheet , and start this villain if he do n't confess his sin double quick , ' say the British captain .
The Portuguese hold his tongue like a brick , and walk the plank , while the jolly tar cheer like mad .
But the sly dog dive , come up under the man-of-war , scuttle her , and down she go , with all sail set , ` To the bottom of the sea , sea , sea ' where ... '' `` Oh , gracious !
What shall I say ? ''
cry Sallie , a Fred end his rigmarole , in which he have jumble together pell-mell nautical phrase and facts out of one of his favorite book .
`` Well , they go to the bottom , and a nice mermaid welcome them , but be much grieve on find the box of headless knight , and kindly pickle them in brine , hop to discover the mystery about them , for be a woman , she be curious .
By-and-by a diver come down , and the mermaid say , ` I 'll give you a box of pearl if you can take it up , ' for she want to restore the poor thing to life , and could n't raise the heavy load herself .
So the diver hoist it up , and be much disappoint on open it to find no pearl .
He leave it in a great lonely field , where it be find by a. .
. ''
`` Little goose girl , who keep a hundred fat goose in the field , '' say Amy , when Sallie 's invention give out .
`` The little girl be sorry for them , and ask an old woman what she should do to help them .
` Your goose will tell you , they know everything . '
say the old woman .
So she ask what she should use for new head , since the old one be lose , and all the goose open their hundred mouth and scream ... '' '' ` Cabbages ! ' ''
continued Laurie promptly . ''
` Just the thing , ' say the girl , and run to get twelve fine one from her garden .
She put them on , the knight revive at once , thank her , and go on their way rejoicing , never know the difference , for there be so many other head like them in the world that no one think anything of it .
The knight in whom I 'm interested go back to find the pretty face , and learn that the princess have spin themselves free and all go and marry , but one .
He be in a great state of mind at that , and mount the colt , who stand by him through thick and thin , rush to the castle to see which be leave .
Peeping over the hedge , he saw the queen of his affection pick flower in her garden .
` Will you give me a rise ? '
say he .
` You must come and get it .
I ca n't come to you , it be n't proper , ' say she , as sweet a honey .
He try to climb over the hedge , but it seem to grow high and high .
Then he try to push through , but it grow thicker and thicker , and he be in despair .
So he patiently break twig after twig till he have make a little hole through which he peep , say imploringly , ` Let me in !
Let me in ! '
But the pretty princess do not seem to understand , for she pick her roses quietly , and leave him to fight his way in .
Whether he do or not , Frank will tell you . ''
`` I ca n't .
I 'm not play , I never do , '' say Frank , dismay at the sentimental predicament out of which he be to rescue the absurd couple .
Beth have disappear behind Jo , and Grace be asleep .
`` So the poor knight be to be leave stick in the hedge , be he ? ''
ask Mr. Brooke , still watch the river , and play with the wild rise in his buttonhole .
`` I guess the princess give him a posy , and open the gate after a while , '' say Laurie , smile to himself , a he throw acorn at his tutor .
`` What a piece of nonsense we have make !
With practice we might do something quite clever .
Do you know Truth ? ''
`` I hope so , '' say Meg soberly .
`` The game , I mean ? ''
`` What be it ? ''
say Fred .
`` Why , you pile up your hand , choose a number , and draw out in turn , and the person who draw at the number have to answer truly any question put by the rest .
It 's great fun . ''
`` Let 's try it , '' say Jo , who like new experiment .
Miss Kate and Mr. Brooke , Meg , and Ned decline , but Fred , Sallie , Jo , and Laurie pile and draw , and the lot fell to Laurie .
`` Who be your hero ? ''
ask Jo .
`` Grandfather and Napoleon . ''
`` Which lady here do you think prettiest ? ''
say Sallie .
`` Margaret . ''
`` Which do you like best ? ''
from Fred .
`` Jo , of course . ''
`` What silly question you ask ! ''
And Jo give a disdainful shrug a the rest laugh at Laurie 's matter-of-fact tone .
`` Try again .
Truth be n't a bad game , '' say Fred .
`` It 's a very good one for you , '' retort Jo in a low voice .
Her turn come next .
`` What be your great fault ? ''
ask Fred , by way of test in her the virtue he lack himself .
`` A quick temper . ''
`` What do you most wish for ? ''
say Laurie .
`` A pair of boot lacing , '' return Jo , guess and defeat his purpose .
`` Not a true answer .
You must say what you really do want most . ''
`` Genius .
Do n't you wish you could give it to me , Laurie ? ''
And she slyly smile in his disappointed face .
`` What virtues do you most admire in a man ? ''
ask Sallie .
`` Courage and honesty . ''
`` Now my turn , '' say Fred , a his hand come last .
`` Let 's give it to him , '' whisper Laurie to Jo , who nod and ask at once ... `` Did n't you cheat at croquet ? ''
`` Well , yes , a little bit . ''
`` Good !
Did n't you take your story out of The Sea Lion ?
'' say Laurie .
`` Rather . ''
`` Do n't you think the English nation perfect in every respect ? ''
ask Sallie .
`` I should be ashamed of myself if I do n't . ''
`` He 's a true John Bull .
Now , Miss Sallie , you shall have a chance without wait to draw .
I 'll harrrow up your feeling first by ask if you do n't think you be something of a flirt , '' say Laurie , a Jo nod to Fred a a sign that peace be declare .
`` You impertinent boy !
Of course I 'm not , '' exclaim Sallie , with an air that prove the contrary .
`` What do you hate most ? ''
ask Fred .
`` Spiders and rice pudding . ''
`` What do you like best ? ''
ask Jo .
`` Dancing and French glove . ''
`` Well , I think Truth be a very silly play .
Let 's have a sensible game of Authors to refresh our mind , '' propose Jo .
Ned , Frank , and the little girl join in this , and while it go on , the three elder sit apart , talk .
Miss Kate take out her sketch again , and Margaret watch her , while Mr. Brooke lay on the grass with a book , which he do not read .
`` How beautifully you do it !
I wish I could draw , '' say Meg , with mingle admiration and regret in her voice .
`` Why do n't you learn ?
I should think you have taste and talent for it , '' reply Miss Kate graciously .
`` I have n't time . ''
`` Your mamma prefers other accomplishment , I fancy .
So do mine , but I prove to her that I have talent by take a few lesson privately , and then she be quite willing I should go on .
Ca n't you do the same with your governess ? ''
`` I have none . ''
`` I forget young lady in America go to school more than with u .
Very fine school they be , too , Papa say .
You go to a private one , I suppose ? ''
`` I do n't go at all .
I be a governess myself . ''
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
say Miss Kate , but she might as well have say , `` Dear me , how dreadful ! ''
for her tone imply it , and something in her face make Meg color , and wish she have not be so frank .
Mr. Brooke look up and say quickly , `` Young lady in America love independence as much a their ancestor do , and be admire and respect for support themselves . ''
`` Oh , yes , of course it 's very nice and proper in them to do so .
We have many most respectable and worthy young woman who do the same and be employ by the nobility , because , be the daughter of gentleman , they be both well breed and accomplish , you know , '' say Miss Kate in a patronize tone that hurt Meg 's pride , and make her work seem not only more distasteful , but degrade .
`` Did the German song suit , Miss March ? ''
inquired Mr. Brooke , break an awkward pause .
`` Oh , yes !
It be very sweet , and I 'm much oblige to whoever translate it for me . ''
And Meg 's downcast face brighten a she speak .
`` Do n't you read German ? ''
ask Miss Kate with a look of surprise .
`` Not very well .
My father , who teach me , be away , and I do n't get on very fast alone , for I 've no one to correct my pronunciation . ''
`` Try a little now .
Here be Schiller 's Mary Stuart and a tutor who love to teach . ''
And Mr. Brooke lay his book on her lap with an invite smile .
`` It 's so hard I 'm afraid to try , '' say Meg , grateful , but bashful in the presence of the accomplished young lady beside her .
`` I 'll read a bit to encourage you . ''
And Miss Kate read one of the most beautiful passage in a perfectly correct but perfectly expressionless manner .
Mr. Brooke make no comment a she return the book to Meg , who say innocently , `` I think it be poetry . ''
`` Some of it be .
Try this passage . ''
There be a queer smile about Mr. Brooke 's mouth a he open at poor Mary 's lament .
Meg obediently follow the long grass-blade which her new tutor use to point with , read slowly and timidly , unconsciously make poetry of the hard word by the soft intonation of her musical voice .
Down the page go the green guide , and presently , forget her listener in the beauty of the sad scene , Meg read a if alone , give a little touch of tragedy to the word of the unhappy queen .
If she have see the brown eye then , she would have stop short , but she never look up , and the lesson be not spoil for her .
`` Very well indeed ! ''
say Mr. Brooke , a she pause , quite ignore her many mistake , and look a if he do indeed love to teach .
Miss Kate put up her glass , and , have take a survey of the little tableau before her , shut her sketch book , say with condescension , `` You 've a nice accent and in time will be a clever reader .
I advise you to learn , for German be a valuable accomplishment to teacher .
I must look after Grace , she be romp . ''
And Miss Kate stroll away , add to herself with a shrug , `` I do n't come to chaperone a governess , though she be young and pretty .
What odd people these Yankees be .
I 'm afraid Laurie will be quite spoil among them . ''
`` I forget that English people rather turn up their nose at governess and do n't treat them a we do , '' say Meg , look after the retreating figure with an annoyed expression .
`` Tutors also have rather a hard time of it there , a I know to my sorrow .
There 's no place like America for u worker , Miss Margaret . ''
And Mr. Brooke look so contented and cheerful that Meg be ashamed to lament her hard lot .
`` I 'm glad I live in it then .
I do n't like my work , but I get a good deal of satisfaction out of it after all , so I wo n't complain .
I only wish I like teach a you do . ''
`` I think you would if you have Laurie for a pupil .
I shall be very sorry to lose him next year , '' say Mr. Brooke , busily punch hole in the turf .
`` Going to college , I suppose ? ''
Meg 's lip ask the question , but her eye add , `` And what becomes of you ? ''
`` Yes , it 's high time he go , for he be ready , and as soon a he be off , I shall turn soldier .
I be need . ''
`` I be glad of that ! ''
exclaim Meg .
`` I should think every young man would want to go , though it be hard for the mother and sister who stay at home , '' she add sorrowfully .
`` I have neither , and very few friend to care whether I live or die , '' say Mr. Brooke rather bitterly a he absently put the dead rise in the hole he have make and cover it up , like a little grave .
`` Laurie and his grandfather would care a great deal , and we should all be very sorry to have any harm happen to you , '' say Meg heartily .
`` Thank you , that sound pleasant , '' begin Mr. Brooke , look cheerful again , but before he could finish his speech , Ned , mount on the old horse , come lumber up to display his equestrian skill before the young lady , and there be no more quiet that day .
`` Do n't you love to ride ? ''
ask Grace of Amy , a they stand rest after a race round the field with the others , lead by Ned .
`` I dote upon it .
My sister , Meg , use to ride when Papa be rich , but we do n't keep any horse now , except Ellen Tree , '' add Amy , laugh .
`` Tell me about Ellen Tree .
Is it a donkey ? ''
ask Grace curiously .
`` Why , you see , Jo be crazy about horse and so be I , but we 've only get an old sidesaddle and no horse .
Out in our garden be an apple tree that have a nice low branch , so Jo put the saddle on it , fix some rein on the part that turn up , and we bounce away on Ellen Tree whenever we like . ''
`` How funny ! ''
laughed Grace .
`` I have a pony at home , and ride nearly every day in the park with Fred and Kate .
It 's very nice , for my friend go too , and the Row be full of lady and gentleman . ''
`` Dear , how charming !
I hope I shall go abroad some day , but I 'd rather go to Rome than the Row , '' say Amy , who have not the remote idea what the Row be and would n't have ask for the world .
Frank , sit just behind the little girl , hear what they be say , and push his crutch away from him with an impatient gesture a he watch the active lad go through all sort of comical gymnastics .
Beth , who be collect the scattered Author card , look up and say , in her shy yet friendly way , `` I 'm afraid you be tire .
Can I do anything for you ? ''
`` Talk to me , please .
It 's dull , sit by myself , '' answer Frank , who have evidently be use to be make much of at home .
If he ask her to deliver a Latin oration , it would not have seem a more impossible task to bashful Beth , but there be no place to run to , no Jo to hide behind now , and the poor boy look so wistfully at her that she bravely resolve to try .
`` What do you like to talk about ? ''
she ask , fumble over the card and drop half a she try to tie them up .
`` Well , I like to hear about cricket and boating and hunting , '' say Frank , who have not yet learn to suit his amusement to his strength .
My heart !
What shall I do ?
I do n't know anything about them , think Beth , and forget the boy 's misfortune in her flurry , she say , hop to make him talk , `` I never saw any hunting , but I suppose you know all about it . ''
`` I do once , but I can never hunt again , for I get hurt leap a confounded five-barred gate , so there be no more horse and hound for me , '' say Frank with a sigh that make Beth hate herself for her innocent blunder .
`` Your deer be much pretty than our ugly buffalo , '' she say , turn to the prairie for help and feeling glad that she have read one of the boy ' book in which Jo delight .
Buffaloes prove soothing and satisfactory , and in her eagerness to amuse another , Beth forget herself , and be quite unconscious of her sister ' surprise and delight at the unusual spectacle of Beth talk away to one of the dreadful boy , against whom she have beg protection .
`` Bless her heart !
She pity him , so she be good to him , '' say Jo , beam at her from the croquet ground .
`` I always say she be a little saint , '' add Meg , a if there could be no further doubt of it .
`` I have n't hear Frank laugh so much for ever so long , '' say Grace to Amy , a they sit discuss doll and make tea set out of the acorn cup .
`` My sister Beth be a very fastidious girl , when she like to be , '' say Amy , well please at Beth 's success .
She mean ` facinating ' , but a Grace do n't know the exact meaning of either word , fastidious sound well and make a good impression .
An impromptu circus , fox and geese , and an amicable game of croquet finish the afternoon .
At sunset the tent be strike , hamper pack , wicket pull up , boat load , and the whole party float down the river , sing at the top of their voice .
Ned , get sentimental , warble a serenade with the pensive refrain ... Alone , alone , ah !
Woe , alone , and at the line ... We each be young , we each have a heart , Oh , why should we stand thus coldly apart ?
he look at Meg with such a lackadiasical expression that she laugh outright and spoil his song .
`` How can you be so cruel to me ? ''
he whisper , under cover of a lively chorus .
`` You 've keep close to that starched-up Englishwoman all day , and now you snub me . ''
`` I do n't mean to , but you look so funny I really could n't help it , '' reply Meg , pass over the first part of his reproach , for it be quite true that she have shun him , remember the Moffat party and the talk after it .
Ned be offend and turn to Sallie for consolation , say to her rather pettishly , `` There be n't a bit of flirt in that girl , be there ? ''
`` Not a particle , but she 's a dear , '' return Sallie , defend her friend even while confess her shortcoming .
`` She 's not a stricken deer anyway , '' say Ned , try to be witty , and succeed as well a very young gentleman usually do .
On the lawn where it have gather , the little party separate with cordial good night and good-bye , for the Vaughns be go to Canada .
As the four sister go home through the garden , Miss Kate look after them , say , without the patronize tone in her voice , `` In spite of their demonstrative manner , American girl be very nice when one know them . ''
`` I quite agree with you , '' say Mr. Brooke .
CHAPTER THIRTEEN CASTLES IN THE AIR Laurie lay luxuriously swing to and fro in his hammock one warm September afternoon , wonder what his neighbor be about , but too lazy to go and find out .
He be in one of his mood , for the day have be both unprofitable and unsatisfactory , and he be wish he could live it over again .
The hot weather make him indolent , and he have shirk his study , try Mr. Brooke 's patience to the utmost , displease his grandfather by practice half the afternoon , frighten the maidservant half out of their wit by mischievously hint that one of his dog be go mad , and , after high word with the stableman about some fancied neglect of his horse , he have fling himself into his hammock to fume over the stupidity of the world in general , till the peace of the lovely day quiet him in spite of himself .
Staring up into the green gloom of the horse-chestnut tree above him , he dream dream of all sort , and be just imagine himself toss on the ocean in a voyage round the world , when the sound of voice bring him ashore in a flash .
Peeping through the mesh of the hammock , he saw the Marches come out , a if bound on some expedition .
`` What in the world be those girl about now ? ''
think Laurie , open his sleepy eye to take a good look , for there be something rather peculiar in the appearance of his neighbor .
Each wear a large , flap hat , a brown linen pouch slung over one shoulder , and carry a long staff .
Meg have a cushion , Jo a book , Beth a basket , and Amy a portfolio .
All walk quietly through the garden , out at the little back gate , and begin to climb the hill that lay between the house and river .
`` Well , that 's cool , '' say Laurie to himself , `` to have a picnic and never ask me !
They ca n't be go in the boat , for they have n't get the key .
Perhaps they forget it .
I 'll take it to them , and see what 's go on . ''
Though possess of half a dozen hat , it take him some time to find one , then there be a hunt for the key , which be at last discover in his pocket , so that the girl be quite out of sight when he leap the fence and ran after them .
Taking the short way to the boathouse , he wait for them to appear , but no one come , and he go up the hill to take an observation .
A grove of pine cover one part of it , and from the heart of this green spot come a clearer sound than the soft sigh of the pine or the drowsy chirp of the cricket .
`` Here 's a landscape ! ''
think Laurie , peep through the bush , and look wide-awake and good-natured already .
It be a rather pretty little picture , for the sister sit together in the shady nook , with sun and shadow flickering over them , the aromatic wind lift their hair and cool their hot cheek , and all the little wood people go on with their affair a if these be no stranger but old friend .
Meg sit upon her cushion , sew daintily with her white hand , and look a fresh and sweet a a rise in her pink dress among the green .
Beth be sort the cone that lay thick under the hemlock near by , for she make pretty thing with them .
Amy be sketch a group of fern , and Jo be knit a she read aloud .
A shadow pass over the boy 's face a he watch them , feel that he ought to go away because uninvited ; yet linger because home seem very lonely and this quiet party in the wood most attractive to his restless spirit .
He stand so still that a squirrel , busy with it harvesting , run down a pine close beside him , saw him suddenly and skip back , scold so shrilly that Beth look up , espy the wistful face behind the birch , and beckon with a reassure smile .
`` May I come in , please ?
Or shall I be a bother ? ''
he ask , advance slowly .
Meg lift her eyebrow , but Jo scowl at her defiantly and say at once , `` Of course you may .
We should have ask you before , only we think you would n't care for such a girl 's game a this . ''
`` I always like your game , but if Meg do n't want me , I 'll go away . ''
`` I 've no objection , if you do something .
It 's against the rule to be idle here , '' reply Meg gravely but graciously .
`` Much oblige .
I 'll do anything if you 'll let me stop a bit , for it 's as dull a the Desert of Sahara down there .
Shall I sew , read , cone , draw , or do all at once ?
Bring on your bear .
I 'm ready . ''
And Laurie sit down with a submissive expression delightful to behold .
`` Finish this story while I set my heel , '' say Jo , hand him the book .
`` Yes 'm . ''
be the meek answer , a he begin , do his best to prove his gratitude for the favor of admission into the ` Busy Bee Society ' .
The story be not a long one , and when it be finish , he venture to ask a few question a a reward of merit .
`` Please , ma'am , could I inquire if this highly instructive and charming institution be a new one ? ''
`` Would you tell him ? ''
ask Meg of her sister .
`` He 'll laugh , '' say Amy warningly .
`` Who care ? ''
say Jo .
`` I guess he 'll like it , '' add Beth .
`` Of course I shall !
I give you my word I wo n't laugh .
Tell away , Jo , and do n't be afraid . ''
`` The idea of be afraid of you !
Well , you see we use to play Pilgrim 's Progress , and we have be go on with it in earnest , all winter and summer . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' say Laurie , nod wisely .
`` Who tell you ? ''
demand Jo .
`` Spirits . ''
`` No , I do .
I want to amuse him one night when you be all away , and he be rather dismal .
He do like it , so do n't scold , Jo , '' say Beth meekly .
`` You ca n't keep a secret .
Never mind , it save trouble now . ''
`` Go on , please , '' say Laurie , a Jo become absorbed in her work , look a trifle displease .
`` Oh , do n't she tell you about this new plan of ours ?
Well , we have try not to waste our holiday , but each have have a task and work at it with a will .
The vacation be nearly over , the stint be all do , and we be ever so glad that we do n't dawdle . ''
`` Yes , I should think so , '' and Laurie think regretfully of his own idle day .
`` Mother like to have u out-of-doors as much a possible , so we bring our work here and have nice time .
For the fun of it we bring our thing in these bag , wear the old hat , use pole to climb the hill , and play pilgrim , a we use to do year ago .
We call this hill the Delectable Mountain , for we can look far away and see the country where we hope to live some time . ''
Jo point , and Laurie sit up to examine , for through an opening in the wood one could look cross the wide , blue river , the meadow on the other side , far over the outskirt of the great city , to the green hill that rise to meet the sky .
The sun be low , and the heaven glow with the splendor of an autumn sunset .
Gold and purple cloud lay on the hilltop , and rise high into the ruddy light be silvery white peak that shine like the airy spire of some Celestial City .
`` How beautiful that be ! ''
say Laurie softly , for he be quick to see and feel beauty of any kind .
`` It 's often so , and we like to watch it , for it be never the same , but always splendid , '' reply Amy , wish she could paint it .
`` Jo talk about the country where we hope to live sometime -- the real country , she mean , with pig and chicken and haymaking .
It would be nice , but I wish the beautiful country up there be real , and we could ever go to it , '' say Beth musingly .
`` There be a lovely country even than that , where we shall go , by-and-by , when we be good enough , '' answer Meg with her sweet voice .
`` It seem so long to wait , so hard to do .
I want to fly away at once , a those swallow fly , and go in at that splendid gate . ''
`` You 'll get there , Beth , sooner or later , no fear of that , '' say Jo .
`` I 'm the one that will have to fight and work , and climb and wait , and maybe never get in after all . ''
`` You 'll have me for company , if that 's any comfort .
I shall have to do a deal of travel before I come in sight of your Celestial City .
If I arrive late , you 'll say a good word for me , wo n't you , Beth ? ''
Something in the boy 's face trouble his little friend , but she say cheerfully , with her quiet eye on the change cloud , `` If people really want to go , and really try all their life , I think they will get in , for I do n't believe there be any lock on that door or any guard at the gate .
I always imagine it be a it be in the picture , where the shin one stretch out their hand to welcome poor Christian a he come up from the river . ''
`` Would n't it be fun if all the castle in the air which we make could come true , and we could live in them ? ''
say Jo , after a little pause .
`` I 've make such quantity it would be hard to choose which I 'd have , '' say Laurie , lie flat and throw cone at the squirrel who have betray him .
`` You 'd have to take your favorite one .
What be it ? ''
ask Meg .
`` If I tell mine , will you tell yours ? ''
`` Yes , if the girl will too . ''
`` We will .
Now , Laurie . ''
`` After I 'd see as much of the world a I want to , I 'd like to settle in Germany and have just as much music a I choose .
I 'm to be a famous musician myself , and all creation be to rush to hear me .
And I 'm never to be bother about money or business , but just enjoy myself and live for what I like .
That 's my favorite castle .
What 's yours , Meg ? ''
Margaret seem to find it a little hard to tell hers , and wave a brake before her face , a if to disperse imaginary gnat , while she say slowly , `` I should like a lovely house , full of all sort of luxurious thing -- nice food , pretty clothes , handsome furniture , pleasant people , and heap of money .
I be to be mistress of it , and manage it a I like , with plenty of servant , so I never need work a bit .
How I should enjoy it !
For I would n't be idle , but do good , and make everyone love me dearly . ''
`` Would n't you have a master for your castle in the air ? ''
ask Laurie slyly .
`` I say ` pleasant people ' , you know , '' and Meg carefully tie up her shoe a she speak , so that no one saw her face .
`` Why do n't you say you 'd have a splendid , wise , good husband and some angelic little child ?
You know your castle would n't be perfect without , '' say blunt Jo , who have no tender fancy yet , and rather scorn romance , except in book .
`` You 'd have nothing but horse , inkstand , and novel in yours , '' answer Meg petulantly .
`` Would n't I though ?
I 'd have a stable full of Arabian steed , room pile high with book , and I 'd write out of a magic inkstand , so that my work should be as famous a Laurie 's music .
I want to do something splendid before I go into my castle , something heroic or wonderful that wo n't be forget after I 'm dead .
I do n't know what , but I 'm on the watch for it , and mean to astonish you all some day .
I think I shall write book , and get rich and famous , that would suit me , so that be my favorite dream . ''
`` Mine be to stay at home safe with Father and Mother , and help take care of the family , '' say Beth contentedly .
`` Do n't you wish for anything else ? ''
ask Laurie .
`` Since I have my little piano , I be perfectly satisfy .
I only wish we may all keep well and be together , nothing else . ''
`` I have ever so many wish , but the pet one be to be an artist , and go to Rome , and do fine picture , and be the best artist in the whole world , '' be Amy 's modest desire .
`` We 're an ambitious set , be n't we ?
Every one of u , but Beth , want to be rich and famous , and gorgeous in every respect .
I do wonder if any of u will ever get our wish , '' say Laurie , chew grass like a meditative calf .
`` I 've get the key to my castle in the air , but whether I can unlock the door remain to be see , '' observe Jo mysteriously .
`` I 've get the key to mine , but I 'm not allow to try it .
Hang college ! ''
mutter Laurie with an impatient sigh .
`` Here 's mine ! ''
and Amy wave her pencil .
`` I have n't get any , '' say Meg forlornly .
`` Yes , you have , '' say Laurie at once .
`` Where ? ''
`` In your face . ''
`` Nonsense , that 's of no use . ''
`` Wait and see if it do n't bring you something worth have , '' reply the boy , laugh at the thought of a charming little secret which he fancy he know .
Meg color behind the brake , but ask no question and look across the river with the same expectant expression which Mr. Brooke have wear when he tell the story of the knight .
`` If we be all alive ten year hence , let 's meet , and see how many of u have get our wish , or how much nearer we be then than now , '' say Jo , always ready with a plan .
`` Bless me !
How old I shall be , twenty-seven ! ''
exclaim Meg , who felt grow up already , have just reach seventeen .
`` You and I will be twenty-six , Teddy , Beth twenty-four , and Amy twenty-two .
What a venerable party ! ''
say Jo .
`` I hope I shall have do something to be proud of by that time , but I 'm such a lazy dog , I 'm afraid I shall dawdle , Jo . ''
`` You need a motive , Mother say , and when you get it , she be sure you 'll work splendidly . ''
`` Is she ?
By Jupiter , I will , if I only get the chance ! ''
cry Laurie , sit up with sudden energy .
`` I ought to be satisfy to please Grandfather , and I do try , but it 's work against the grain , you see , and come hard .
He want me to be an India merchant , a he be , and I 'd rather be shoot .
I hate tea and silk and spice , and every sort of rubbish his old ship bring , and I do n't care how soon they go to the bottom when I own them .
Going to college ought to satisfy him , for if I give him four year he ought to let me off from the business .
But he 's set , and I 've get to do just a he do , unless I break away and please myself , a my father do .
If there be anyone leave to stay with the old gentleman , I 'd do it tomorrow . ''
Laurie speak excitedly , and look ready to carry his threat into execution on the slight provocation , for he be grow up very fast and , in spite of his indolent way , have a young man 's hatred of subjection , a young man 's restless longing to try the world for himself .
`` I advise you to sail away in one of your ship , and never come home again till you have try your own way , '' say Jo , whose imagination be fire by the thought of such a daring exploit , and whose sympathy be excite by what she call ` Teddy 's Wrongs ' .
`` That 's not right , Jo .
You must n't talk in that way , and Laurie must n't take your bad advice .
You should do just what your grandfather wish , my dear boy , '' say Meg in her most maternal tone .
`` Do your best at college , and when he see that you try to please him , I 'm sure he wo n't be hard on you or unjust to you .
As you say , there be no one else to stay with and love him , and you 'd never forgive yourself if you leave him without his permission .
Do n't be dismal or fret , but do your duty and you 'll get your reward , a good Mr. Brooke have , by be respect and love . ''
`` What do you know about him ? ''
ask Laurie , grateful for the good advice , but object to the lecture , and glad to turn the conversation from himself after his unusual outbreak .
`` Only what your grandpa tell u about him , how he take good care of his own mother till she die , and would n't go abroad as tutor to some nice person because he would n't leave her .
And how he provide now for an old woman who nurse his mother , and never tell anyone , but be just as generous and patient and good a he can be . ''
`` So he be , dear old fellow ! ''
say Laurie heartily , a Meg pause , look flush and earnest with her story .
`` It 's like Grandpa to find out all about him without let him know , and to tell all his goodness to others , so that they might like him .
Brooke could n't understand why your mother be so kind to him , ask him over with me and treat him in her beautiful friendly way .
He think she be just perfect , and talk about it for day and day , and go on about you all in flame style .
If ever I do get my wish , you see what I 'll do for Brooke . ''
`` Begin to do something now by not plague his life out , '' say Meg sharply .
`` How do you know I do , Miss ? ''
`` I can always tell by his face when he go away .
If you have be good , he look satisfied and walks briskly .
If you have plague him , he 's sober and walk slowly , a if he want to go back and do his work well . ''
`` Well , I like that ?
So you keep an account of my good and bad mark in Brooke 's face , do you ?
I see him bow and smile a he pass your window , but I do n't know you 'd get up a telegraph . ''
`` We have n't .
Do n't be angry , and oh , do n't tell him I say anything !
It be only to show that I care how you get on , and what be say here be say in confidence , you know , '' cry Meg , much alarm at the thought of what might follow from her careless speech .
`` I do n't tell tale , '' reply Laurie , with his ` high and mighty ' air , a Jo call a certain expression which he occasionally wear .
`` Only if Brooke be go to be a thermometer , I must mind and have fair weather for him to report . ''
`` Please do n't be offend .
I do n't mean to preach or tell tale or be silly .
I only think Jo be encourage you in a feeling which you 'd be sorry for by-and-by .
You be so kind to u , we feel a if you be our brother and say just what we think .
Forgive me , I mean it kindly . ''
And Meg offer her hand with a gesture both affectionate and timid .
Ashamed of his momentary pique , Laurie squeeze the kind little hand , and say frankly , `` I 'm the one to be forgive .
I 'm cross and have be out of sort all day .
I like to have you tell me my fault and be sisterly , so do n't mind if I be grumpy sometimes .
I thank you all the same . ''
Bent on show that he be not offend , he make himself as agreeable a possible , wound cotton for Meg , recite poetry to please Jo , shake down cone for Beth , and help Amy with her fern , prove himself a fit person to belong to the ` Busy Bee Society ' .
In the midst of an animated discussion on the domestic habit of turtle -LRB- one of those amiable creature have stroll up from the river -RRB- , the faint sound of a bell warn them that Hannah have put the tea ` to draw ' , and they would just have time to get home to supper .
`` May I come again ? ''
ask Laurie .
`` Yes , if you be good , and love your book , a the boy in the primer be tell to do , '' say Meg , smile .
`` I 'll try . ''
`` Then you may come , and I 'll teach you to knit a the Scotchmen do .
There 's a demand for sock just now , '' add Jo , wave hers like a big blue worst banner a they part at the gate .
That night , when Beth play to Mr. Laurence in the twilight , Laurie , stand in the shadow of the curtain , listen to the little David , whose simple music always quiet his moody spirit , and watch the old man , who sit with his gray head on his hand , think tender thought of the dead child he have love so much .
Remembering the conversation of the afternoon , the boy say to himself , with the resolve to make the sacrifice cheerfully , `` I 'll let my castle go , and stay with the dear old gentleman while he need me , for I be all he have . ''
CHAPTER FOURTEEN SECRETS Jo be very busy in the garret , for the October day begin to grow chilly , and the afternoon be short .
For two or three hour the sun lay warmly in the high window , show Jo seat on the old sofa , write busily , with her paper spread out upon a trunk before her , while Scrabble , the pet rat , promenade the beam overhead , accompany by his old son , a fine young fellow , who be evidently very proud of his whisker .
Quite absorb in her work , Jo scribble away till the last page be fill , when she sign her name with a flourish and throw down her pen , exclaim ... `` There , I 've do my best !
If this wo n't suit I shall have to wait till I can do good . ''
Lying back on the sofa , she read the manuscript carefully through , make dash here and there , and put in many exclamation point , which look like little balloon .
Then she tie it up with a smart red ribbon , and sit a minute look at it with a sober , wistful expression , which plainly show how earnest her work have be .
Jo 's desk up here be an old tin kitchen which hung against the wall .
In it she keep her paper , and a few book , safely shut away from Scrabble , who , be likewise of a literary turn , be fond of make a circulate library of such book a be leave in his way by eat the leaf .
From this tin receptacle Jo produce another manuscript , and put both in her pocket , creep quietly downstairs , leave her friend to nibble on her pen and taste her ink .
She put on her hat and jacket as noiselessly a possible , and go to the back entry window , get out upon the roof of a low porch , swung herself down to the grassy bank , and take a roundabout way to the road .
Once there , she compose herself , hail a passing omnibus , and roll away to town , look very merry and mysterious .
If anyone have be watch her , he would have think her movement decidedly peculiar , for on alighting , she go off at a great pace till she reach a certain number in a certain busy street .
Having find the place with some difficulty , she go into the doorway , look up the dirty stair , and after stand stock still a minute , suddenly dive into the street and walk away as rapidly a she come .
This maneuver she repeat several time , to the great amusement of a black-eyed young gentleman lounge in the window of a building opposite .
On return for the third time , Jo give herself a shake , pull her hat over her eye , and walk up the stair , look a if she be go to have all her teeth out .
There be a dentist 's sign , among others , which adorn the entrance , and after star a moment at the pair of artificial jaw which slowly open and shut to draw attention to a fine set of teeth , the young gentleman put on his coat , take his hat , and go down to post himself in the opposite doorway , say with a smile and a shiver , `` It 's like her to come alone , but if she have a bad time she 'll need someone to help her home . ''
In ten minute Jo come run downstairs with a very red face and the general appearance of a person who have just pass through a try ordeal of some sort .
When she saw the young gentleman she look anything but pleased , and pass him with a nod .
But he follow , ask with an air of sympathy , `` Did you have a bad time ? ''
`` Not very . ''
`` You get through quickly . ''
`` Yes , thank goodness ! ''
`` Why do you go alone ? ''
`` Did n't want anyone to know . ''
`` You 're the odd fellow I ever saw .
How many do you have out ? ''
Jo look at her friend a if she do not understand him , then begin to laugh a if mightily amuse at something .
`` There be two which I want to have come out , but I must wait a week . ''
`` What be you laugh at ?
You be up to some mischief , Jo , '' say Laurie , look mystify .
`` So be you .
What be you do , sir , up in that billiard saloon ? ''
`` Begging your pardon , ma'am , it be n't a billiard saloon , but a gymnasium , and I be take a lesson in fence . ''
`` I 'm glad of that . ''
`` Why ? ''
`` You can teach me , and then when we play Hamlet , you can be Laertes , and we 'll make a fine thing of the fencing scene . ''
Laurie burst out with a hearty boy 's laugh , which make several passers-by smile in spite of themselves .
`` I 'll teach you whether we play Hamlet or not .
It 's grand fun and will straighten you up capitally .
But I do n't believe that be your only reason for say ` I 'm glad ' in that decide way , be it now ? ''
`` No , I be glad that you be not in the saloon , because I hope you never go to such place .
Do you ? ''
`` Not often . ''
`` I wish you would n't . ''
`` It 's no harm , Jo .
I have billiards at home , but it 's no fun unless you have good player , so , a I 'm fond of it , I come sometimes and have a game with Ned Moffat or some of the other fellow . ''
`` Oh , dear , I 'm so sorry , for you 'll get to like it good and good , and will waste time and money , and grow like those dreadful boy .
I do hope you 'd stay respectable and be a satisfaction to your friend , '' say Jo , shake her head .
`` Ca n't a fellow take a little innocent amusement now and then without lose his respectability ? ''
ask Laurie , look nettle .
`` That depend upon how and where he take it .
I do n't like Ned and his set , and wish you 'd keep out of it .
Mother wo n't let u have him at our house , though he want to come .
And if you grow like him she wo n't be willing to have u frolic together a we do now . ''
`` Wo n't she ? ''
ask Laurie anxiously .
`` No , she ca n't bear fashionable young men , and she 'd shut u all up in bandbox rather than have u associate with them . ''
`` Well , she need n't get out her bandbox yet .
I 'm not a fashionable party and do n't mean to be , but I do like harmless lark now and then , do n't you ? ''
`` Yes , nobody mind them , so lark away , but do n't get wild , will you ?
Or there will be an end of all our good time . ''
`` I 'll be a double distilled saint . ''
`` I ca n't bear saint .
Just be a simple , honest , respectable boy , and we 'll never desert you .
I do n't know what I should do if you act like Mr. King 's son .
He have plenty of money , but do n't know how to spend it , and get tipsy and gamble , and run away , and forge his father 's name , I believe , and be altogether horrid . ''
`` You think I 'm likely to do the same ?
Much oblige . ''
`` No , I do n't -- oh , dear , no !
-- but I hear people talk about money be such a temptation , and I sometimes wish you be poor .
I should n't worry then . ''
`` Do you worry about me , Jo ? ''
`` A little , when you look moody and discontented , a you sometimes do , for you 've get such a strong will , if you once get start wrong , I 'm afraid it would be hard to stop you . ''
Laurie walk in silence a few minute , and Jo watch him , wish she have hold her tongue , for his eye look angry , though his lip smile a if at her warning .
`` Are you go to deliver lecture all the way home ? ''
he ask presently .
`` Of course not .
Why ? ''
`` Because if you be , I 'll take a bus .
If you 're not , I 'd like to walk with you and tell you something very interesting . ''
`` I wo n't preach any more , and I 'd like to hear the news immensely . ''
`` Very well , then , come on .
It 's a secret , and if I tell you , you must tell me yours . ''
`` I have n't get any , '' begin Jo , but stop suddenly , remember that she have .
`` You know you have -- you ca n't hide anything , so up and ` fes , or I wo n't tell , '' cry Laurie .
`` Is your secret a nice one ? ''
`` Oh , be n't it !
All about people you know , and such fun !
You ought to hear it , and I 've be ache to tell it this long time .
Come , you begin . ''
`` You 'll not say anything about it at home , will you ? ''
`` Not a word . ''
`` And you wo n't tease me in private ? ''
`` I never tease . ''
`` Yes , you do .
You get everything you want out of people .
I do n't know how you do it , but you be a born wheedler . ''
`` Thank you .
Fire away . ''
`` Well , I 've leave two story with a newspaperman , and he 's to give his answer next week , '' whisper Jo , in her confidant 's ear .
`` Hurrah for Miss March , the celebrated American authoress ! ''
cry Laurie , throw up his hat and catch it again , to the great delight of two duck , four cat , five hen , and half a dozen Irish child , for they be out of the city now .
`` Hush !
It wo n't come to anything , I dare say , but I could n't rest till I have try , and I say nothing about it because I do n't want anyone else to be disappoint . ''
`` It wo n't fail .
Why , Jo , your story be work of Shakespeare compare to half the rubbish that be publish every day .
Wo n't it be fun to see them in print , and sha n't we feel proud of our authoress ? ''
Jo 's eye sparkle , for it be always pleasant to be believe in , and a friend 's praise be always sweet than a dozen newspaper puff .
`` Where 's your secret ?
Play fair , Teddy , or I 'll never believe you again , '' she say , try to extinguish the brilliant hop that blaze up at a word of encouragement .
`` I may get into a scrape for tell , but I do n't promise not to , so I will , for I never feel easy in my mind till I 've tell you any plummy bit of news I get .
I know where Meg 's glove be . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
say Jo , look disappointed , a Laurie nod and twinkle with a face full of mysterious intelligence .
`` It 's quite enough for the present , a you 'll agree when I tell you where it be . ''
`` Tell , then . ''
Laurie bent , and whisper three word in Jo 's ear , which produce a comical change .
She stand and star at him for a minute , look both surprised and displeased , then walk on , say sharply , `` How do you know ? ''
`` Saw it . ''
`` Where ? ''
`` Pocket . ''
`` All this time ? ''
`` Yes , be n't that romantic ? ''
`` No , it 's horrid . ''
`` Do n't you like it ? ''
`` Of course I do n't .
It 's ridiculous , it wo n't be allow .
My patience !
What would Meg say ? ''
`` You be not to tell anyone .
Mind that . ''
`` I do n't promise . ''
`` That be understood , and I trust you . ''
`` Well , I wo n't for the present , anyway , but I 'm disgusted , and wish you have n't tell me . ''
`` I think you 'd be please . ''
`` At the idea of anybody come to take Meg away ?
No , thank you . ''
`` You 'll feel well about it when somebody come to take you away . ''
`` I 'd like to see anyone try it , '' cry Jo fiercely .
`` So should I ! ''
and Laurie chuckle at the idea .
`` I do n't think secret agree with me , I feel rumple up in my mind since you tell me that , '' say Jo rather ungratefully .
`` Race down this hill with me , and you 'll be all right , '' suggest Laurie .
No one be in sight , the smooth road slop invitingly before her , and find the temptation irresistible , Jo dart away , soon leave hat and comb behind her and scatter hairpin a she run .
Laurie reach the goal first and be quite satisfied with the success of his treatment , for his Atlanta come pant up with fly hair , bright eye , ruddy cheek , and no sign of dissatisfaction in her face .
`` I wish I be a horse , then I could run for mile in this splendid air , and not lose my breath .
It be capital , but see what a guy it 's make me .
Go , pick up my thing , like a cherub , a you be , '' say Jo , drop down under a maple tree , which be carpet the bank with crimson leaf .
Laurie leisurely depart to recover the lost property , and Jo bundle up her braid , hop no one would pass by till she be tidy again .
But someone do pas , and who should it be but Meg , look particularly ladylike in her state and festival suit , for she have be make call .
`` What in the world be you do here ? ''
she ask , regard her disheveled sister with well-bred surprise .
`` Getting leaf , '' meekly answer Jo , sort the rosy handful she have just sweep up .
`` And hairpin , '' add Laurie , throw half a dozen into Jo 's lap .
`` They grow on this road , Meg , so do comb and brown straw hat . ''
`` You have be run , Jo .
How could you ?
When will you stop such romp way ? ''
say Meg reprovingly , a she settle her cuff and smooth her hair , with which the wind have take liberty .
`` Never till I 'm stiff and old and have to use a crutch .
Do n't try to make me grow up before my time , Meg .
It 's hard enough to have you change all of a sudden .
Let me be a little girl as long a I can . ''
As she speak , Jo bent over the leaf to hide the trembling of her lip , for lately she have felt that Margaret be fast get to be a woman , and Laurie 's secret make her dread the separation which must surely come some time and now seem very near .
He saw the trouble in her face and draw Meg 's attention from it by ask quickly , `` Where have you be call , all so fine ? ''
`` At the Gardiners ' , and Sallie have be tell me all about Belle Moffat 's wedding .
It be very splendid , and they have go to spend the winter in Paris .
Just think how delightful that must be ! ''
`` Do you envy her , Meg ? ''
say Laurie .
`` I 'm afraid I do . ''
`` I 'm glad of it ! ''
mutter Jo , tie on her hat with a jerk .
`` Why ? ''
ask Meg , look surprise .
`` Because if you care much about rich , you will never go and marry a poor man , '' say Jo , frown at Laurie , who be mutely warn her to mind what she say .
`` I shall never ' go and marry ' anyone , '' observe Meg , walk on with great dignity while the others follow , laugh , whisper , skip stone , and ` behaving like child ' , a Meg say to herself , though she might have be tempt to join them if she have not have her best dress on .
For a week or two , Jo behave so queerly that her sister be quite bewilder .
She rush to the door when the postman rang , be rude to Mr. Brooke whenever they meet , would sit look at Meg with a woe-begone face , occasionally jump up to shake and then kiss her in a very mysterious manner .
Laurie and she be always make sign to one another , and talk about ` Spread Eagles ' till the girl declare they have both lose their wit .
On the second Saturday after Jo get out of the window , Meg , a she sit sew at her window , be scandalize by the sight of Laurie chase Jo all over the garden and finally capture her in Amy 's bower .
What go on there , Meg could not see , but shriek of laughter be hear , follow by the murmur of voice and a great flapping of newspaper .
`` What shall we do with that girl ?
She never will behave like a young lady , '' sigh Meg , a she watch the race with a disapprove face .
`` I hope she wo n't .
She be so funny and dear a she be , '' say Beth , who have never betray that she be a little hurt at Jo 's have secret with anyone but her .
`` It 's very try , but we never can make her commy la fo , '' add Amy , who sit make some new frill for herself , with her curl tie up in a very become way , two agreeable thing that make her feel unusually elegant and ladylike .
In a few minute Jo bounce in , lay herself on the sofa , and affect to read .
`` Have you anything interest there ? ''
ask Meg , with condescension .
`` Nothing but a story , wo n't amount to much , I guess , '' return Jo , carefully keep the name of the paper out of sight .
`` You 'd better read it aloud .
That will amuse u and keep you out of mischief , '' say Amy in her most grown-up tone .
`` What 's the name ? ''
ask Beth , wonder why Jo keep her face behind the sheet .
`` The Rival Painters . ''
`` That sound well .
Read it , '' say Meg .
With a loud `` Hem ! ''
and a long breath , Jo begin to read very fast .
The girl listen with interest , for the tale be romantic , and somewhat pathetic , a most of the character die in the end .
`` I like that about the splendid picture , '' be Amy 's approve remark , a Jo pause .
`` I prefer the lovering part .
Viola and Angelo be two of our favorite name , be n't that queer ? ''
say Meg , wipe her eye , for the lovering part be tragical .
`` Who write it ? ''
ask Beth , who have catch a glimpse of Jo 's face .
The reader suddenly sit up , cast away the paper , display a flushed countenance , and with a funny mixture of solemnity and excitement reply in a loud voice , `` Your sister . ''
`` You ? ''
cry Meg , drop her work .
`` It 's very good , '' say Amy critically .
`` I know it !
I know it !
Oh , my Jo , I be so proud ! ''
and Beth run to hug her sister and exult over this splendid success .
Dear me , how delighted they all be , to be sure !
How Meg would n't believe it till she saw the word .
`` Miss Josephine March , '' actually print in the paper .
How graciously Amy criticize the artistic part of the story , and offer hint for a sequel , which unfortunately could n't be carry out , a the hero and heroine be dead .
How Beth get excite , and skip and sing with joy .
How Hannah come in to exclaim , `` Sakes alive , well I never ! ''
in great astonishment at ` that Jo 's doin 's ' .
How proud Mrs. March be when she know it .
How Jo laugh , with tear in her eye , a she declare she might as well be a peacock and do with it , and how the ` Spread Eagle ' might be say to flap his wing triumphantly over the House of March , a the paper pass from hand to hand .
`` Tell u about it . ''
`` When do it come ? ''
`` How much do you get for it ? ''
`` What will Father say ? ''
`` Wo n't Laurie laugh ? ''
cry the family , all in one breath a they cluster about Jo , for these foolish , affectionate people make a jubilee of every little household joy .
`` Stop jabbering , girl , and I 'll tell you everything , '' say Jo , wonder if Miss Burney felt any grander over her Evelina than she do over her ` Rival Painters ' .
Having tell how she dispose of her tale , Jo add , `` And when I go to get my answer , the man say he like them both , but do n't pay beginner , only let them print in his paper , and notice the story .
It be good practice , he say , and when the beginner improve , anyone would pay .
So I let him have the two story , and today this be send to me , and Laurie catch me with it and insist on see it , so I let him .
And he say it be good , and I shall write more , and he 's go to get the next paid for , and I be so happy , for in time I may be able to support myself and help the girl . ''
Jo 's breath give out here , and wrap her head in the paper , she bedew her little story with a few natural tear , for to be independent and earn the praise of those she love be the dear wish of her heart , and this seem to be the first step toward that happy end .
CHAPTER FIFTEEN A TELEGRAM `` November be the most disagreeable month in the whole year , '' say Margaret , stand at the window one dull afternoon , look out at the frostbitten garden .
`` That 's the reason I be bear in it , '' observe Jo pensively , quite unconscious of the blot on her nose .
`` If something very pleasant should happen now , we should think it a delightful month , '' say Beth , who take a hopeful view of everything , even November .
`` I dare say , but nothing pleasant ever do happen in this family , '' say Meg , who be out of sort .
`` We go grub along day after day , without a bit of change , and very little fun .
We might as well be in a treadmill . ''
`` My patience , how blue we be ! ''
cry Jo .
`` I do n't much wonder , poor dear , for you see other girl have splendid time , while you grind , grind , year in and year out .
Oh , do n't I wish I could manage thing for you a I do for my heroine !
You 're pretty enough and good enough already , so I 'd have some rich relation leave you a fortune unexpectedly .
Then you 'd dash out a an heiress , scorn everyone who have slight you , go abroad , and come home my Lady Something in a blaze of splendor and elegance . ''
`` People do n't have fortune leave them in that style nowadays , men have to work and woman marry for money .
It 's a dreadfully unjust world , '' say Meg bitterly .
`` Jo and I be go to make fortune for you all .
Just wait ten year , and see if we do n't , '' say Amy , who sit in a corner make mud pie , a Hannah call her little clay model of bird , fruit , and face .
`` Ca n't wait , and I 'm afraid I have n't much faith in ink and dirt , though I 'm grateful for your good intention . ''
Meg sigh , and turn to the frostbitten garden again .
Jo groan and lean both elbow on the table in a despondent attitude , but Amy spat away energetically , and Beth , who sit at the other window , say , smile , `` Two pleasant thing be go to happen right away .
Marmee be come down the street , and Laurie be tramp through the garden a if he have something nice to tell . ''
In they both come , Mrs. March with her usual question , `` Any letter from Father , girl ? ''
and Laurie to say in his persuasive way , `` Wo n't some of you come for a drive ?
I 've be work away at mathematics till my head be in a muddle , and I 'm go to freshen my wit by a brisk turn .
It 's a dull day , but the air be n't bad , and I 'm go to take Brooke home , so it will be gay inside , if it be n't out .
Come , Jo , you and Beth will go , wo n't you ? ''
`` Of course we will . ''
`` Much oblige , but I 'm busy . ''
And Meg whisk out her workbasket , for she have agree with her mother that it be best , for her at least , not to drive too often with the young gentleman .
`` We three will be ready in a minute , '' cry Amy , run away to wash her hand .
`` Can I do anything for you , Madam Mother ? ''
ask Laurie , lean over Mrs. March 's chair with the affectionate look and tone he always give her .
`` No , thank you , except call at the office , if you 'll be so kind , dear .
It 's our day for a letter , and the postman have n't be .
Father be as regular a the sun , but there 's some delay on the way , perhaps . ''
A sharp ring interrupt her , and a minute after Hannah come in with a letter .
`` It 's one of them horrid telegraph thing , mum , '' she say , handle it a if she be afraid it would explode and do some damage .
At the word ` telegraph ' , Mrs. March snatch it , read the two line it contain , and drop back into her chair as white a if the little paper have send a bullet to her heart .
Laurie dash downstairs for water , while Meg and Hannah support her , and Jo read aloud , in a frightened voice ... Mrs. March : Your husband be very ill .
Come at once .
S. HALE Blank Hospital , Washington .
How still the room be a they listen breathlessly , how strangely the day darken outside , and how suddenly the whole world seem to change , a the girl gather about their mother , feeling a if all the happiness and support of their life be about to be take from them .
Mrs. March be herself again directly , read the message over , and stretch out her arm to her daughter , say , in a tone they never forget , `` I shall go at once , but it may be too late .
Oh , child , child , help me to bear it ! ''
For several minute there be nothing but the sound of sob in the room , mingle with broken word of comfort , tender assurance of help , and hopeful whisper that die away in tear .
Poor Hannah be the first to recover , and with unconscious wisdom she set all the rest a good example , for with her , work be panacea for most affliction .
`` The Lord keep the dear man !
I wo n't waste no time a-cryin ' , but git your thing ready right away , mum , '' she say heartily , a she wipe her face on her apron , give her mistress a warm shake of the hand with her own hard one , and go away to work like three woman in one .
`` She 's right , there 's no time for tear now .
Be calm , girl , and let me think . ''
They try to be calm , poor thing , a their mother sit up , look pale but steady , and put away her grief to think and plan for them .
`` Where 's Laurie ? ''
she ask presently , when she have collect her thought and decide on the first duty to be do .
`` Here , ma'am .
Oh , let me do something ! ''
cry the boy , hurry from the next room whither he have withdraw , feel that their first sorrow be too sacred for even his friendly eye to see .
`` Send a telegram say I will come at once .
The next train go early in the morning .
I 'll take that . ''
`` What else ?
The horse be ready .
I can go anywhere , do anything , '' he say , look ready to fly to the end of the earth .
`` Leave a note at Aunt March 's .
Jo , give me that pen and paper . ''
Tearing off the blank side of one of her newly copy page , Jo draw the table before her mother , well know that money for the long , sad journey must be borrow , and feeling a if she could do anything to add a little to the sum for her father .
`` Now go , dear , but do n't kill yourself drive at a desperate pace .
There be no need of that . ''
Mrs. March 's warning be evidently throw away , for five minute later Laurie tore by the window on his own fleet horse , rid a if for his life .
`` Jo , run to the room , and tell Mrs. King that I ca n't come .
On the way get these thing .
I 'll put them down , they 'll be need and I must go prepared for nursing .
Hospital store be not always good .
Beth , go and ask Mr. Laurence for a couple of bottle of old wine .
I 'm not too proud to beg for Father .
He shall have the best of everything .
Amy , tell Hannah to get down the black trunk , and Meg , come and help me find my thing , for I 'm half bewilder . ''
Writing , thinking , and direct all at once might well bewilder the poor lady , and Meg beg her to sit quietly in her room for a little while , and let them work .
Everyone scatter like leaf before a gust of wind , and the quiet , happy household be break up as suddenly a if the paper have be an evil spell .
Mr. Laurence come hurry back with Beth , bring every comfort the kind old gentleman could think of for the invalid , and friendly promise of protection for the girl during the mother 's absence , which comfort her very much .
There be nothing he do n't offer , from his own dress gown to himself a escort .
But the last be impossible .
Mrs. March would not hear of the old gentleman 's undertake the long journey , yet an expression of relief be visible when he speak of it , for anxiety ill fit one for travel .
He saw the look , knit his heavy eyebrow , rub his hand , and march abruptly away , say he 'd be back directly .
No one have time to think of him again till , a Meg run through the entry , with a pair of rubber in one hand and a cup of tea in the other , she come suddenly upon Mr. Brooke .
`` I 'm very sorry to hear of this , Miss March , '' he say , in the kind , quiet tone which sound very pleasantly to her perturbed spirit .
`` I come to offer myself a escort to your mother .
Mr. Laurence have commission for me in Washington , and it will give me real satisfaction to be of service to her there . ''
Down drop the rubber , and the tea be very near follow , a Meg put out her hand , with a face so full of gratitude that Mr. Brooke would have felt repay for a much great sacrifice than the trifle one of time and comfort which he be about to take .
`` How kind you all be !
Mother will accept , I 'm sure , and it will be such a relief to know that she have someone to take care of her .
Thank you very , very much ! ''
Meg speak earnestly , and forget herself entirely till something in the brown eye look down at her make her remember the cooling tea , and lead the way into the parlor , say she would call her mother .
Everything be arrange by the time Laurie return with a note from Aunt March , enclose the desire sum , and a few line repeat what she have often say before , that she have always tell them it be absurd for March to go into the army , always predict that no good would come of it , and she hop they would take her advice the next time .
Mrs. March put the note in the fire , the money in her purse , and go on with her preparation , with her lip fold tightly in a way which Jo would have understood if she have be there .
The short afternoon wear away .
All other errand be do , and Meg and her mother busy at some necessary needlework , while Beth and Amy get tea , and Hannah finish her ironing with what she call a ` slap and a bang ' , but still Jo do not come .
They begin to get anxious , and Laurie go off to find her , for no one know what freak Jo might take into her head .
He miss her , however , and she come walk in with a very queer expression of countenance , for there be a mixture of fun and fear , satisfaction and regret in it , which puzzle the family as much a do the roll of bill she lay before her mother , say with a little choke in her voice , `` That 's my contribution toward make Father comfortable and bring him home ! ''
`` My dear , where do you get it ?
Twenty-five dollar !
Jo , I hope you have n't do anything rash ? ''
`` No , it 's mine honestly .
I do n't beg , borrow , or steal it .
I earn it , and I do n't think you 'll blame me , for I only sell what be my own . ''
As she speak , Jo take off her bonnet , and a general outcry arose , for all her abundant hair be cut short .
`` Your hair !
Your beautiful hair ! ''
`` Oh , Jo , how could you ?
Your one beauty . ''
`` My dear girl , there be no need of this . ''
`` She do n't look like my Jo any more , but I love her dearly for it ! ''
As everyone exclaim , and Beth hug the cropped head tenderly , Jo assume an indifferent air , which do not deceive anyone a particle , and say , rumple up the brown bush and try to look a if she like it , `` It do n't affect the fate of the nation , so do n't wail , Beth .
It will be good for my vanity , I be get too proud of my wig .
It will do my brain good to have that mop take off .
My head feel deliciously light and cool , and the barber say I could soon have a curly crop , which will be boyish , become , and easy to keep in order .
I 'm satisfied , so please take the money and let 's have supper . ''
`` Tell me all about it , Jo .
I be not quite satisfied , but I ca n't blame you , for I know how willingly you sacrifice your vanity , a you call it , to your love .
But , my dear , it be not necessary , and I 'm afraid you will regret it one of these day , '' say Mrs. March .
`` No , I wo n't ! ''
return Jo stoutly , feel much relieve that her prank be not entirely condemn .
`` What make you do it ? ''
ask Amy , who would as soon have think of cut off her head a her pretty hair .
`` Well , I be wild to do something for Father , '' reply Jo , a they gather about the table , for healthy young people can eat even in the midst of trouble .
`` I hate to borrow as much a Mother do , and I know Aunt March would croak , she always do , if you ask for a ninepence .
Meg give all her quarterly salary toward the rent , and I only get some clothes with mine , so I felt wicked , and be bind to have some money , if I sell the nose off my face to get it . ''
`` You need n't feel wicked , my child !
You have no winter thing and get the simple with your own hard earnings , '' say Mrs. March with a look that warm Jo 's heart .
`` I have n't the least idea of sell my hair at first , but a I go along I keep think what I could do , and feeling a if I 'd like to dive into some of the rich store and help myself .
In a barber 's window I saw tail of hair with the price mark , and one black tail , not so thick a mine , be forty dollar .
It come to me all of a sudden that I have one thing to make money out of , and without stop to think , I walk in , ask if they buy hair , and what they would give for mine . ''
`` I do n't see how you dare to do it , '' say Beth in a tone of awe .
`` Oh , he be a little man who look a if he merely live to oil his hair .
He rather star at first , a if he be n't use to have girl bounce into his shop and ask him to buy their hair .
He say he do n't care about mine , it be n't the fashionable color , and he never pay much for it in the first place .
The work put into it make it dear , and so on .
It be get late , and I be afraid if it be n't do right away that I should n't have it do at all , and you know when I start to do a thing , I hate to give it up .
So I beg him to take it , and tell him why I be in such a hurry .
It be silly , I dare say , but it change his mind , for I get rather excite , and tell the story in my topsy-turvy way , and his wife heard , and say so kindly , ` Take it , Thomas , and oblige the young lady .
I 'd do as much for our Jimmy any day if I have a spire of hair worth sell . ''
`` Who be Jimmy ? ''
ask Amy , who like to have thing explain a they go along .
`` Her son , she say , who be in the army .
How friendly such thing make stranger feel , do n't they ?
She talk away all the time the man clip , and divert my mind nicely . ''
`` Did n't you feel dreadfully when the first cut come ? ''
ask Meg , with a shiver .
`` I take a last look at my hair while the man get his thing , and that be the end of it .
I never snivel over trifle like that .
I will confess , though , I felt queer when I saw the dear old hair lay out on the table , and felt only the short rough end of my head .
It almost seem a if I 'd an arm or leg off .
The woman saw me look at it , and pick out a long lock for me to keep .
I 'll give it to you , Marmee , just to remember past glory by , for a crop be so comfortable I do n't think I shall ever have a mane again . ''
Mrs. March fold the wavy chestnut lock , and lay it away with a short gray one in her desk .
She only say , `` Thank you , deary , '' but something in her face make the girl change the subject , and talk as cheerfully a they could about Mr. Brooke 's kindness , the prospect of a fine day tomorrow , and the happy time they would have when Father come home to be nurse .
No one want to go to bed when at ten o'clock Mrs. March put by the last finished job , and say , `` Come girl . ''
Beth go to the piano and play the father 's favorite hymn .
All begin bravely , but break down one by one till Beth be leave alone , sing with all her heart , for to her music be always a sweet consoler .
`` Go to bed and do n't talk , for we must be up early and shall need all the sleep we can get .
Good night , my darling , '' say Mrs. March , a the hymn end , for no one care to try another .
They kiss her quietly , and go to bed as silently a if the dear invalid lay in the next room .
Beth and Amy soon fell asleep in spite of the great trouble , but Meg lay awake , think the most serious thought she have ever know in her short life .
Jo lay motionless , and her sister fancy that she be asleep , till a stifled sob make her exclaim , a she touch a wet cheek ... `` Jo , dear , what be it ?
Are you cry about father ? ''
`` No , not now . ''
`` What then ? ''
`` My ... My hair ! ''
burst out poor Jo , try vainly to smother her emotion in the pillow .
It do not seem at all comical to Meg , who kiss and caress the afflicted heroine in the tender manner .
`` I 'm not sorry , '' protest Jo , with a choke .
`` I 'd do it again tomorrow , if I could .
It 's only the vain part of me that go and cry in this silly way .
Do n't tell anyone , it 's all over now .
I think you be asleep , so I just make a little private moan for my one beauty .
How come you to be awake ? ''
`` I ca n't sleep , I 'm so anxious , '' say Meg .
`` Think about something pleasant , and you 'll soon drop off . ''
`` I try it , but felt wide awake than ever . ''
`` What do you think of ? ''
`` Handsome face -- eye particularly , '' answer Meg , smile to herself in the dark .
`` What color do you like best ? ''
`` Brown , that be , sometimes .
Blue be lovely . ''
Jo laugh , and Meg sharply order her not to talk , then amiably promise to make her hair curl , and fell asleep to dream of living in her castle in the air .
The clock be strike midnight and the room be very still a a figure glide quietly from bed to bed , smooth a coverlet here , settle a pillow there , and pause to look long and tenderly at each unconscious face , to kiss each with lip that mutely bless , and to pray the fervent prayer which only mother utter .
As she lift the curtain to look out into the dreary night , the moon break suddenly from behind the cloud and shone upon her like a bright , benignant face , which seem to whisper in the silence , `` Be comfort , dear soul !
There be always light behind the cloud . ''
CHAPTER SIXTEEN LETTERS In the cold gray dawn the sister light their lamp and read their chapter with an earnestness never felt before .
For now the shadow of a real trouble have come , the little book be full of help and comfort , and a they dress , they agree to say goodbye cheerfully and hopefully , and send their mother on her anxious journey unsaddened by tear or complaint from them .
Everything seem very strange when they go down , so dim and still outside , so full of light and bustle within .
Breakfast at that early hour seem odd , and even Hannah 's familiar face look unnatural a she fly about her kitchen with her nightcap on .
The big trunk stand ready in the hall , Mother 's cloak and bonnet lay on the sofa , and Mother herself sit try to eat , but look so pale and worn with sleeplessness and anxiety that the girl find it very hard to keep their resolution .
Meg 's eye keep fill in spite of herself , Jo be oblige to hide her face in the kitchen roller more than once , and the little girl wear a grave , troubled expression , a if sorrow be a new experience to them .
Nobody talk much , but a the time draw very near and they sit wait for the carriage , Mrs. March say to the girl , who be all busy about her , one fold her shawl , another smooth out the string of her bonnet , a third put on her overshoe , and a fourth fasten up her travelling bag ... `` Children , I leave you to Hannah 's care and Mr. Laurence 's protection .
Hannah be faithfulness itself , and our good neighbor will guard you a if you be his own .
I have no fear for you , yet I be anxious that you should take this trouble rightly .
Do n't grieve and fret when I be go , or think that you can be idle and comfort yourselves by be idle and try to forget .
Go on with your work as usual , for work be a blessed solace .
Hope and keep busy , and whatever happens , remember that you never can be fatherless . ''
`` Yes , Mother . ''
`` Meg , dear , be prudent , watch over your sister , consult Hannah , and in any perplexity , go to Mr. Laurence .
Be patient , Jo , do n't get despondent or do rash thing , write to me often , and be my brave girl , ready to help and cheer all .
Beth , comfort yourself with your music , and be faithful to the little home duty , and you , Amy , help all you can , be obedient , and keep happy safe at home . ''
`` We will , Mother !
We will ! ''
The rattle of an approaching carriage make them all start and listen .
That be the hard minute , but the girl stand it well .
No one cry , no one run away or utter a lamentation , though their heart be very heavy a they send love message to Father , remember , a they speak that it might be too late to deliver them .
They kiss their mother quietly , clung about her tenderly , and try to wave their hand cheerfully when she drive away .
Laurie and his grandfather come over to see her off , and Mr. Brooke look so strong and sensible and kind that the girl christen him ` Mr. Greatheart ' on the spot .
`` Good-by , my darling !
God bless and keep u all ! ''
whispered Mrs. March , a she kiss one dear little face after the other , and hurry into the carriage .
As she roll away , the sun come out , and look back , she saw it shin on the group at the gate like a good omen .
They saw it also , and smile and wave their hand , and the last thing she behold a she turn the corner be the four bright face , and behind them like a bodyguard , old Mr. Laurence , faithful Hannah , and devote Laurie .
`` How kind everyone be to u ! ''
she say , turn to find fresh proof of it in the respectful sympathy of the young man 's face .
`` I do n't see how they can help it , '' return Mr. Brooke , laugh so infectiously that Mrs. March could not help smile .
And so the journey begin with the good omen of sunshine , smile , and cheerful word .
`` I feel a if there have be an earthquake , '' say Jo , a their neighbor go home to breakfast , leave them to rest and refresh themselves .
`` It seem a if half the house be go , '' add Meg forlornly .
Beth open her lip to say something , but could only point to the pile of nicely mend hose which lay on Mother 's table , show that even in her last hurried moment she have think and work for them .
It be a little thing , but it go straight to their heart , and in spite of their brave resolution , they all break down and cry bitterly .
Hannah wisely allow them to relieve their feeling , and when the shower show sign of clear up , she come to the rescue , arm with a coffeepot .
`` Now , my dear young lady , remember what your ma say , and do n't fret .
Come and have a cup of coffee all round , and then let 's fall to work and be a credit to the family . ''
Coffee be a treat , and Hannah show great tact in make it that morning .
No one could resist her persuasive nod , or the fragrant invitation issue from the nose of the coffee pot .
They draw up to the table , exchange their handkerchief for napkin , and in ten minute be all right again . ''
` Hope and keep busy ' , that 's the motto for u , so let 's see who will remember it best .
I shall go to Aunt March , a usual .
Oh , wo n't she lecture though ! ''
say Jo , a she sip with return spirit .
`` I shall go to my Kings , though I 'd much rather stay at home and attend to thing here , '' say Meg , wish she have n't make her eye so red .
`` No need of that .
Beth and I can keep house perfectly well , '' put in Amy , with an important air .
`` Hannah will tell u what to do , and we 'll have everything nice when you come home , '' add Beth , get out her mop and dish tub without delay .
`` I think anxiety be very interesting , '' observe Amy , eat sugar pensively .
The girl could n't help laughing , and felt well for it , though Meg shake her head at the young lady who could find consolation in a sugar bowl .
The sight of the turnover make Jo sober again ; and when the two go out to their daily task , they look sorrowfully back at the window where they be accustom to see their mother 's face .
It be go , but Beth have remember the little household ceremony , and there she be , nod away at them like a rosyfaced mandarin .
`` That 's so like my Beth ! ''
say Jo , wave her hat , with a grateful face .
`` Goodbye , Meggy , I hope the Kings wo n't strain today .
Do n't fret about Father , dear , '' she add , a they part .
`` And I hope Aunt March wo n't croak .
Your hair be become , and it look very boyish and nice , '' return Meg , try not to smile at the curly head , which look comically small on her tall sister 's shoulder .
`` That 's my only comfort . ''
And , touch her hat a la Laurie , away go Jo , feel like a shorn sheep on a wintry day .
News from their father comfort the girl very much , for though dangerously ill , the presence of the best and tender of nurse have already do him good .
Mr. Brooke send a bulletin every day , and a the head of the family , Meg insist on read the dispatch , which grow more cheerful a the week pass .
At first , everyone be eager to write , and plump envelope be carefully poke into the letter box by one or other of the sister , who felt rather important with their Washington correspondence .
As one of these packet contain characteristic note from the party , we will rob an imaginary mail , and read them .
My dear Mother : It be impossible to tell you how happy your last letter make u , for the news be so good we could n't help laugh and cry over it .
How very kind Mr. Brooke be , and how fortunate that Mr. Laurence 's business detain him near you so long , since he be so useful to you and Father .
The girl be all as good a gold .
Jo help me with the sewing , and insists on do all sort of hard job .
I should be afraid she might overdo , if I do n't know her ` moral fit ' would n't last long .
Beth be a regular about her task a a clock , and never forget what you tell her .
She grieve about Father , and look sober except when she be at her little piano .
Amy mind me nicely , and I take great care of her .
She do her own hair , and I be teach her to make buttonhole and mend her stocking .
She try very hard , and I know you will be pleased with her improvement when you come .
Mr. Laurence watch over u like a motherly old hen , a Jo say , and Laurie be very kind and neighborly .
He and Jo keep u merry , for we get pretty blue sometimes , and feel like orphan , with you so far away .
Hannah be a perfect saint .
She do not scold at all , and always call me Miss Margaret , which be quite proper , you know , and treat me with respect .
We be all well and busy , but we long , day and night , to have you back .
Give my dear love to Father , and believe me , ever your own ... MEG This note , prettily write on scented paper , be a great contrast to the next , which be scribble on a big sheet of thin foreign paper , ornament with blot and all manner of flourish and curly-tailed letter .
My precious Marmee : Three cheer for dear Father !
Brooke be a trump to telegraph right off , and let u know the minute he be well .
I rush up garret when the letter come , and try to thank god for be so good to u , but I could only cry , and say , `` I 'm glad !
I 'm glad ! ''
Did n't that do as well a a regular prayer ?
For I felt a great many in my heart .
We have such funny time , and now I can enjoy them , for everyone be so desperately good , it 's like living in a nest of turtledove .
You 'd laugh to see Meg head the table and try to be motherish .
She get pretty every day , and I 'm in love with her sometimes .
The child be regular archangel , and I -- well , I 'm Jo , and never shall be anything else .
Oh , I must tell you that I come near have a quarrel with Laurie .
I free my mind about a silly little thing , and he be offend .
I be right , but do n't speak a I ought , and he march home , say he would n't come again till I beg pardon .
I declare I would n't and get mad .
It last all day .
I felt bad and want you very much .
Laurie and I be both so proud , it 's hard to beg pardon .
But I think he 'd come to it , for I be in the right .
He do n't come , and just at night I remember what you say when Amy fell into the river .
I read my little book , felt well , resolve not to let the sun set on my anger , and run over to tell Laurie I be sorry .
I meet him at the gate , come for the same thing .
We both laugh , beg each other 's pardon , and felt all good and comfortable again .
I make a ` pome ' yesterday , when I be help Hannah wash , and a Father like my silly little thing , I put it in to amuse him .
Give him my loving hug that ever be , and kiss yourself a dozen time for your ... TOPSY-TURVY JO A SONG FROM THE SUDS Queen of my tub , I merrily sing , While the white foam rise high , And sturdily wash and rinse and wring , And fasten the clothes to dry .
Then out in the free fresh air they swing , Under the sunny sky .
I wish we could wash from our heart and souls The stain of the week away , And let water and air by their magic make Ourselves as pure a they .
Then on the earth there would be indeed , A glorious wash day !
Along the path of a useful life , Will heart 's - ease ever bloom .
The busy mind have no time to think Of sorrow or care or gloom .
And anxious thought may be sweep away , As we bravely wield a broom .
I be glad a task to me be give , To labor at day by day , For it bring me health and strength and hope , And I cheerfully learn to say , `` Head , you may think , Heart , you may feel , But , Hand , you shall work alway ! ''
Dear Mother , There be only room for me to send my love , and some pressed pansy from the root I have be keep safe in the house for Father to see .
I read every morning , try to be good all day , and sing myself to sleep with Father 's tune .
I ca n't sing ` LAND OF THE LEAL ' now , it make me cry .
Everyone be very kind , and we be as happy a we can be without you .
Amy want the rest of the page , so I must stop .
I do n't forget to cover the holder , and I wind the clock and air the room every day .
Kiss dear Father on the cheek he call mine .
Oh , do come soon to your love ... LITTLE BETH Ma Chere Mamma , We be all well I do my lesson always and never corroberate the girl -- Meg say I mean contradick so I put in both word and you can take the properest .
Meg be a great comfort to me and let me have jelly every night at tea it so good for me Jo say because it keep me sweet temper .
Laurie be not as respeckful a he ought to be now I be almost in my teen , he call me Chick and hurt my feeling by talk French to me very fast when I say Merci or Bon jour a Hattie King do .
The sleeve of my blue dress be all wear out , and Meg put in new one , but the full front come wrong and they be more blue than the dress .
I felt bad but do not fret I bear my trouble well but I do wish Hannah would put more starch in my apron and have buckwheats every day .
Ca n't she ?
Did n't I make that interrigation point nice ?
Meg say my punchtuation and spelling be disgraceful and I be mortyfied but dear me I have so many thing to do , I ca n't stop .
Adieu , I send heap of love to Papa .
Your affectionate daughter ... AMY CURTIS MARCH Dear Mis March , I jes drop a line to say we git on fust rate .
The girl be clever and fly round right smart .
Miss Meg be go to make a proper good housekeeper .
She hes the liking for it , and gits the hang of thing surprisin quick .
Jo doos beat all for goin ahead , but she do n't stop to cal ` k ` late fust , and you never know where she 's like to bring up .
She do out a tub of clothes on Monday , but she starch 'em afore they be wrench , and blue a pink calico dress till I think I should a die a laughin .
Beth be the best of little creeters , and a sight of help to me , bein so forehanded and dependable .
She try to learn everything , and really go to market beyond her year , likewise keep account , with my help , quite wonderful .
We have get on very economical so fur .
I do n't let the girl hev coffee only once a week , accordin to your wish , and keep em on plain wholesome vittles .
Amy do well without frettin , wearin her best clothes and eatin sweet stuff .
Mr. Laurie be a full of dido a usual , and turn the house upside down frequent , but he hearten the girl , so I let em hev full swing .
The old gentleman send heap of thing , and be rather wearin , but mean wal , and it aint my place to say nothin .
My bread be riz , so no more at this time .
I send my duty to Mr. March , and hope he 's see the last of his Pewmonia .
Yours respectful , Hannah Mullet Head Nurse of Ward No . 2 , All serene on the Rappahannock , troop in fine condition , commisary department well conduct , the Home Guard under Colonel Teddy always on duty , Commander in Chief General Laurence review the army daily , Quartermaster Mullet keep order in camp , and Major Lion do picket duty at night .
A salute of twenty-four gun be fire on receipt of good news from Washington , and a dress parade take place at headquarters .
Commander in chief sends best wish , in which he be heartily join by ... COLONEL TEDDY Dear Madam : The little girl be all well .
Beth and my boy report daily .
Hannah be a model servant , and guard pretty Meg like a dragon .
Glad the fine weather hold .
Pray make Brooke useful , and draw on me for fund if expense exceed your estimate .
Do n't let your husband want anything .
Thank God he be mend .
Your sincere friend and servant , JAMES LAURENCE CHAPTER SEVENTEEN LITTLE FAITHFUL For a week the amount of virtue in the old house would have supply the neighborhood .
It be really amazing , for everyone seem in a heavenly frame of mind , and self-denial be all the fashion .
Relieved of their first anxiety about their father , the girl insensibly relax their praiseworthy effort a little , and begin to fall back into old way .
They do not forget their motto , but hop and keep busy seem to grow easy , and after such tremendous exertion , they felt that Endeavor deserve a holiday , and give it a good many .
Jo catch a bad cold through neglect to cover the shorn head enough , and be order to stay at home till she be well , for Aunt March do n't like to hear people read with cold in their head .
Jo like this , and after an energetic rummage from garret to cellar , subside on the sofa to nurse her cold with arsenicum and book .
Amy find that housework and art do not go well together , and return to her mud pie .
Meg go daily to her pupil , and sew , or think she do , at home , but much time be spend in write long letter to her mother , or read the Washington dispatch over and over .
Beth keep on , with only slight relapse into idleness or grieving .
All the little duty be faithfully do each day , and many of her sister ' also , for they be forgetful , and the house seem like a clock whose pendulum be go a-visiting .
When her heart get heavy with longing for Mother or fear for Father , she go away into a certain closet , hide her face in the fold of a dear old gown , and make her little moan and pray her little prayer quietly by herself .
Nobody know what cheer her up after a sober fit , but everyone felt how sweet and helpful Beth be , and fell into a way of go to her for comfort or advice in their small affair .
All be unconscious that this experience be a test of character , and when the first excitement be over , felt that they have do well and deserve praise .
So they do , but their mistake be in cease to do well , and they learn this lesson through much anxiety and regret .
`` Meg , I wish you 'd go and see the Hummels .
You know Mother tell u not to forget them . ''
say Beth , ten day after Mrs. March 's departure .
`` I 'm too tired to go this afternoon , '' reply Meg , rock comfortably a she sew .
`` Ca n't you , Jo ? ''
ask Beth .
`` Too stormy for me with my cold . ''
`` I think it be almost well . ''
`` It 's well enough for me to go out with Laurie , but not well enough to go to the Hummels ' , '' say Jo , laughing , but look a little ashamed of her inconsistency .
`` Why do n't you go yourself ? ''
ask Meg .
`` I have be every day , but the baby be sick , and I do n't know what to do for it .
Mrs. Hummel go away to work , and Lottchen take care of it .
But it get sick and sicker , and I think you or Hannah ought to go . ''
Beth speak earnestly , and Meg promise she would go tomorrow .
`` Ask Hannah for some nice little mess , and take it round , Beth , the air will do you good , '' say Jo , add apologetically , `` I 'd go but I want to finish my writing . ''
`` My head ache and I 'm tired , so I think maybe some of you would go , '' say Beth .
`` Amy will be in presently , and she will run down for u , '' suggest Meg .
So Beth lay down on the sofa , the others return to their work , and the Hummels be forget .
An hour pass .
Amy do not come , Meg go to her room to try on a new dress , Jo be absorb in her story , and Hannah be sound asleep before the kitchen fire , when Beth quietly put on her hood , fill her basket with odds and end for the poor child , and go out into the chilly air with a heavy head and a grieved look in her patient eye .
It be late when she come back , and no one saw her creep upstairs and shut herself into her mother 's room .
Half an hour after , Jo go to ` Mother 's closet ' for something , and there find little Beth sit on the medicine chest , look very grave , with red eye and a camphor bottle in her hand .
`` Christopher Columbus !
What 's the matter ? ''
cry Jo , a Beth put out her hand a if to warn her off , and ask quickly ... `` You 've have the scarlet fever , have n't you ? ''
`` Years ago , when Meg do .
Why ? ''
`` Then I 'll tell you .
Oh , Jo , the baby 's dead ! ''
`` What baby ? ''
`` Mrs. Hummel 's .
It die in my lap before she get home , '' cry Beth with a sob .
`` My poor dear , how dreadful for you !
I ought to have go , '' say Jo , take her sister in her arm a she sit down in her mother 's big chair , with a remorseful face .
`` It be n't dreadful , Jo , only so sad !
I saw in a minute it be sicker , but Lottchen say her mother have go for a doctor , so I take Baby and let Lotty rest .
It seem asleep , but all of a sudden if give a little cry and tremble , and then lay very still .
I try to warm it foot , and Lotty give it some milk , but it do n't stir , and I know it be dead . ''
`` Do n't cry , dear !
What do you do ? ''
`` I just sit and hold it softly till Mrs. Hummel come with the doctor .
He say it be dead , and look at Heinrich and Minna , who have sore throat .
` Scarlet fever , ma'am .
Ought to have call me before , ' he say crossly .
Mrs. Hummel tell him she be poor , and have try to cure baby herself , but now it be too late , and she could only ask him to help the others and trust to charity for his pay .
He smile then , and be kinder , but it be very sad , and I cry with them till he turn round all of a sudden , and tell me to go home and take belladonna right away , or I 'd have the fever . ''
`` No , you wo n't ! ''
cry Jo , hug her close , with a frightened look .
`` Oh , Beth , if you should be sick I never could forgive myself !
What shall we do ? ''
`` Do n't be frighten , I guess I sha n't have it badly .
I look in Mother 's book , and saw that it begin with headache , sore throat , and queer feeling like mine , so I do take some belladonna , and I feel well , '' say Beth , lay her cold hand on her hot forehead and try to look well .
`` If Mother be only at home ! ''
exclaim Jo , seize the book , and feel that Washington be an immense way off .
She read a page , look at Beth , felt her head , peep into her throat , and then say gravely , `` You 've be over the baby every day for more than a week , and among the others who be go to have it , so I 'm afraid you be go to have it , Beth .
I 'll call Hannah , she know all about sickness . ''
`` Do n't let Amy come .
She never have it , and I should hate to give it to her .
Ca n't you and Meg have it over again ? ''
ask Beth , anxiously .
`` I guess not .
Do n't care if I do .
Serve me right , selfish pig , to let you go , and stay write rubbish myself ! ''
mutter Jo , a she go to consult Hannah .
The good soul be wide awake in a minute , and take the lead at once , assure that there be no need to worry ; every one have scarlet fever , and if rightly treat , nobody die , all of which Jo believe , and felt much relieve a they go up to call Meg .
`` Now I 'll tell you what we 'll do , '' say Hannah , when she have examine and question Beth , `` we will have Dr. Bangs , just to take a look at you , dear , and see that we start right .
Then we 'll send Amy off to Aunt March 's for a spell , to keep her out of harm 's way , and one of you girls can stay at home and amuse Beth for a day or two . ''
`` I shall stay , of course , I 'm old , '' begin Meg , look anxious and self-reproachful .
`` I shall , because it 's my fault she be sick .
I tell Mother I 'd do the errand , and I have n't , '' say Jo decidedly .
`` Which will you have , Beth ?
There ai n't no need of but one , '' aid Hannah .
`` Jo , please . ''
And Beth lean her head against her sister with a contented look , which effectually settle that point .
`` I 'll go and tell Amy , '' say Meg , feel a little hurt , yet rather relieve on the whole , for she do not like nursing , and Jo do .
Amy rebel outright , and passionately declare that she have rather have the fever than go to Aunt March .
Meg reason , plead , and command , all in vain .
Amy protest that she would not go , and Meg leave her in despair to ask Hannah what should be do .
Before she come back , Laurie walk into the parlor to find Amy sobbing , with her head in the sofa cushion .
She tell her story , expect to be console , but Laurie only put his hand in his pocket and walk about the room , whistle softly , a he knit his brow in deep thought .
Presently he sit down beside her , and say , in his most wheedlesome tone , `` Now be a sensible little woman , and do a they say .
No , do n't cry , but hear what a jolly plan I 've get .
You go to Aunt March 's , and I 'll come and take you out every day , drive or walking , and we 'll have capital time .
Wo n't that be good than mop here ? ''
`` I do n't wish to be send off a if I be in the way , '' begin Amy , in an injured voice .
`` Bless your heart , child , it 's to keep you well .
You do n't want to be sick , do you ? ''
`` No , I 'm sure I do n't , but I dare say I shall be , for I 've be with Beth all the time . ''
`` That 's the very reason you ought to go away at once , so that you may escape it .
Change of air and care will keep you well , I dare say , or if it do not entirely , you will have the fever more lightly .
I advise you to be off as soon a you can , for scarlet fever be no joke , miss . ''
`` But it 's dull at Aunt March 's , and she be so cross , '' say Amy , look rather frighten .
`` It wo n't be dull with me pop in every day to tell you how Beth be , and take you out gallivant .
The old lady like me , and I 'll be as sweet a possible to her , so she wo n't peck at u , whatever we do . ''
`` Will you take me out in the trotting wagon with Puck ? ''
`` On my honor a a gentleman . ''
`` And come every single day ? ''
`` See if I do n't ! ''
`` And bring me back the minute Beth be well ? ''
`` The identical minute . ''
`` And go to the theater , truly ? ''
`` A dozen theater , if we may . ''
`` Well -- I guess I will , '' say Amy slowly .
`` Good girl !
Call Meg , and tell her you 'll give in , '' say Laurie , with an approve pat , which annoy Amy more than the ` give in ' .
Meg and Jo come run down to behold the miracle which have be work , and Amy , feel very precious and self-sacrificing , promise to go , if the doctor say Beth be go to be ill .
`` How be the little dear ? ''
ask Laurie , for Beth be his especial pet , and he felt more anxious about her than he like to show .
`` She be lie down on Mother 's bed , and feel well .
The baby 's death trouble her , but I dare say she have only get cold .
Hannah say she think so , but she look worried , and that make me fidgety , '' answer Meg .
`` What a try world it be ! ''
say Jo , rumple up her hair in a fretful way .
`` No sooner do we get out of one trouble than down come another .
There do n't seem to be anything to hold on to when Mother 's go , so I 'm all at sea . ''
`` Well , do n't make a porcupine of yourself , it be n't become .
Settle your wig , Jo , and tell me if I shall telegraph to your mother , or do anything ? ''
ask Laurie , who never have be reconcile to the loss of his friend 's one beauty .
`` That be what trouble me , '' say Meg .
`` I think we ought to tell her if Beth be really ill , but Hannah say we must n't , for Mother ca n't leave Father , and it will only make them anxious .
Beth wo n't be sick long , and Hannah know just what to do , and Mother say we be to mind her , so I suppose we must , but it do n't seem quite right to me . ''
`` Hum , well , I ca n't say .
Suppose you ask Grandfather after the doctor have be . ''
`` We will .
Jo , go and get Dr. Bangs at once , '' command Meg .
`` We ca n't decide anything till he have be . ''
`` Stay where you be , Jo .
I 'm errand boy to this establishment , '' say Laurie , take up his cap .
`` I 'm afraid you be busy , '' begin Meg .
`` No , I 've do my lesson for the day . ''
`` Do you study in vacation time ? ''
ask Jo .
`` I follow the good example my neighbor set me , '' be Laurie 's answer , a he swing himself out of the room .
`` I have great hope for my boy , '' observe Jo , watch him fly over the fence with an approve smile .
`` He do very well , for a boy , '' be Meg 's somewhat ungracious answer , for the subject do not interest her .
Dr. Bangs come , say Beth have symptom of the fever , but he think she would have it lightly , though he look sober over the Hummel story .
Amy be order off at once , and provide with something to ward off danger , she depart in great state , with Jo and Laurie a escort .
Aunt March receive them with her usual hospitality .
`` What do you want now ? ''
she ask , look sharply over her spectacle , while the parrot , sit on the back of her chair , call out ... `` Go away .
No boy allow here . ''
Laurie retire to the window , and Jo tell her story .
`` No more than I expect , if you be allow to go poke about among poor folk .
Amy can stay and make herself useful if she be n't sick , which I 've no doubt she will be , look like it now .
Do n't cry , child , it worry me to hear people sniff . ''
Amy be on the point of cry , but Laurie slyly pull the parrot 's tail , which cause Polly to utter an astonished croak and call out , `` Bless my boot ! ''
in such a funny way , that she laugh instead .
`` What do you hear from your mother ? ''
ask the old lady gruffly .
`` Father be much well , '' reply Jo , try to keep sober .
`` Oh , be he ?
Well , that wo n't last long , I fancy .
March never have any stamen , '' be the cheerful reply .
`` Ha , ha !
Never say die , take a pinch of snuff , goodbye , goodbye ! ''
squall Polly , dance on her perch , and claw at the old lady 's cap a Laurie tweak him in the rear .
`` Hold your tongue , you disrespectful old bird !
And , Jo , you 'd better go at once .
It be n't proper to be gad about so late with a rattlepated boy like ... '' `` Hold your tongue , you disrespectful old bird ! ''
cry Polly , tumble off the chair with a bounce , and run to peck the ` rattlepated ' boy , who be shake with laughter at the last speech .
`` I do n't think I can bear it , but I 'll try , '' think Amy , a she be leave alone with Aunt March .
`` Get along , you fright ! ''
scream Polly , and at that rude speech Amy could not restrain a sniff .
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN DARK DAYS Beth do have the fever , and be much sick than anyone but Hannah and the doctor suspect .
The girl know nothing about illness , and Mr. Laurence be not allow to see her , so Hannah have everything her own way , and busy Dr. Bangs do his best , but leave a good deal to the excellent nurse .
Meg stay at home , lest she should infect the Kings , and keep house , feel very anxious and a little guilty when she write letter in which no mention be make of Beth 's illness .
She could not think it right to deceive her mother , but she have be bid to mind Hannah , and Hannah would n't hear of ` Mrs. March bein ' tell , and worry just for sech a trifle . '
Jo devote herself to Beth day and night , not a hard task , for Beth be very patient , and bore her pain uncomplainingly as long a she could control herself .
But there come a time when during the fever fit she begin to talk in a hoarse , broken voice , to play on the coverlet a if on her beloved little piano , and try to sing with a throat so swollen that there be no music leave , a time when she do not know the familiar face around her , but address them by wrong name , and call imploringly for her mother .
Then Jo grow frighten , Meg beg to be allow to write the truth , and even Hannah say she ` would think of it , though there be no danger yet ' .
A letter from Washington add to their trouble , for Mr. March have have a relapse , and could not think of coming home for a long while .
How dark the day seem now , how sad and lonely the house , and how heavy be the heart of the sister a they work and wait , while the shadow of death hover over the once happy home .
Then it be that Margaret , sit alone with tear drop often on her work , felt how rich she have be in thing more precious than any luxury money could buy -- in love , protection , peace , and health , the real blessing of life .
Then it be that Jo , live in the darkened room , with that suffer little sister always before her eye and that pathetic voice sound in her ear , learn to see the beauty and the sweetness of Beth 's nature , to feel how deep and tender a place she fill in all heart , and to acknowledge the worth of Beth 's unselfish ambition to live for others , and make home happy by that exercise of those simple virtue which all may possess , and which all should love and value more than talent , wealth , or beauty .
And Amy , in her exile , long eagerly to be at home , that she might work for Beth , feel now that no service would be hard or irksome , and remember , with regretful grief , how many neglected task those willing hand have do for her .
Laurie haunt the house like a restless ghost , and Mr. Laurence lock the grand piano , because he could not bear to be remind of the young neighbor who use to make the twilight pleasant for him .
Everyone miss Beth .
The milkman , baker , grocer , and butcher inquire how she do , poor Mrs. Hummel come to beg pardon for her thoughtlessness and to get a shroud for Minna , the neighbor send all sort of comfort and good wish , and even those who know her best be surprise to find how many friend shy little Beth have make .
Meanwhile she lay on her bed with old Joanna at her side , for even in her wandering she do not forget her forlorn protege .
She long for her cat , but would not have them bring , l they should get sick , and in her quiet hour she be full of anxiety about Jo .
She send love message to Amy , bid them tell her mother that she would write soon , and often beg for pencil and paper to try to say a word , that Father might not think she have neglect him .
But soon even these interval of consciousness end , and she lay hour after hour , toss to and fro , with incoherent word on her lip , or sink into a heavy sleep which bring her no refreshment .
Dr. Bangs come twice a day , Hannah sit up at night , Meg keep a telegram in her desk all ready to send off at any minute , and Jo never stir from Beth 's side .
The first of December be a wintry day indeed to them , for a bitter wind blew , snow fell fast , and the year seem get ready for it death .
When Dr. Bangs come that morning , he look long at Beth , hold the hot hand in both his own for a minute , and lay it gently down , say , in a low voice to Hannah , `` If Mrs. March can leave her husband she 'd well be send for . ''
Hannah nod without speaking , for her lip twitch nervously , Meg drop down into a chair a the strength seem to go out of her limb at the sound of those word , and Jo , stand with a pale face for a minute , run to the parlor , snatch up the telegram , and throw on her thing , rush out into the storm .
She be soon back , and while noiselessly take off her cloak , Laurie come in with a letter , say that Mr. March be mend again .
Jo read it thankfully , but the heavy weight do not seem lift off her heart , and her face be so full of misery that Laurie ask quickly , `` What be it ?
Is Beth bad ? ''
`` I 've send for Mother , '' say Jo , tug at her rubber boot with a tragic expression .
`` Good for you , Jo !
Did you do it on your own responsibility ? ''
ask Laurie , a he seat her in the hall chair and take off the rebellious boot , see how her hand shook .
`` No .
The doctor tell u to . ''
`` Oh , Jo , it 's not so bad a that ? ''
cry Laurie , with a startled face .
`` Yes , it be .
She do n't know u , she do n't even talk about the flock of green dove , a she call the vine leave on the wall .
She do n't look like my Beth , and there 's nobody to help u bear it .
Mother and father both go , and God seem so far away I ca n't find Him . ''
As the tear stream fast down poor Jo 's cheek , she stretch out her hand in a helpless sort of way , a if groping in the dark , and Laurie take it in his , whisper as well a he could with a lump in his throat , `` I 'm here .
Hold on to me , Jo , dear ! ''
She could not speak , but she do ` hold on ' , and the warm grasp of the friendly human hand comfort her sore heart , and seem to lead her nearer to the Divine arm which alone could uphold her in her trouble .
Laurie long to say something tender and comfortable , but no fitting word come to him , so he stand silent , gently stroke her bent head a her mother use to do .
It be the best thing he could have do , far more soothing than the most eloquent word , for Jo felt the unspoken sympathy , and in the silence learn the sweet solace which affection administers to sorrow .
Soon she dry the tear which have relieve her , and look up with a grateful face .
`` Thank you , Teddy , I 'm well now .
I do n't feel so forlorn , and will try to bear it if it come . ''
`` Keep hoping for the best , that will help you , Jo .
Soon your mother will be here , and then everything will be all right . ''
`` I 'm so glad Father be well .
Now she wo n't feel so bad about leave him .
Oh , me !
It do seem a if all the trouble come in a heap , and I get the heavy part on my shoulder , '' sigh Jo , spread her wet handkerchief over her knee to dry .
`` Does n't Meg pull fair ? ''
ask Laurie , look indignant .
`` Oh , yes , she try to , but she ca n't love Bethy a I do , and she wo n't miss her a I shall .
Beth be my conscience , and I ca n't give her up .
I ca n't !
I ca n't ! ''
Down go Jo 's face into the wet handkerchief , and she cry despairingly , for she have keep up bravely till now and never shed a tear .
Laurie draw his hand across his eye , but could not speak till he have subdue the choky feeling in his throat and steady his lip .
It might be unmanly , but he could n't help it , and I be glad of it .
Presently , a Jo 's sob quiet , he say hopefully , `` I do n't think she will die .
She 's so good , and we all love her so much , I do n't believe God will take her away yet . ''
`` The good and dear people always do die , '' groan Jo , but she stop cry , for her friend 's word cheer her up in spite of her own doubt and fear .
`` Poor girl , you 're wear out .
It be n't like you to be forlorn .
Stop a bit .
I 'll hearten you up in a jiffy . ''
Laurie go off two stair at a time , and Jo lay her wearied head down on Beth 's little brown hood , which no one have think of move from the table where she leave it .
It must have possess some magic , for the submissive spirit of it gentle owner seem to enter into Jo , and when Laurie come run down with a glass of wine , she take it with a smile , and say bravely , `` I drink -- Health to my Beth !
You be a good doctor , Teddy , and such a comfortable friend .
How can I ever pay you ? ''
she add , a the wine refresh her body , a the kind word have do her troubled mind .
`` I 'll send my bill , by-and-by , and tonight I 'll give you something that will warm the cockle of your heart well than quart of wine , '' say Laurie , beam at her with a face of suppressed satisfaction at something .
`` What be it ? ''
cry Jo , forget her woe for a minute in her wonder .
`` I telegraph to your mother yesterday , and Brooke answer she 'd come at once , and she 'll be here tonight , and everything will be all right .
Are n't you glad I do it ? ''
Laurie speak very fast , and turn red and excite all in a minute , for he have keep his plot a secret , for fear of disappoint the girl or harm Beth .
Jo grow quite white , fly out of her chair , and the moment he stop speak she electrify him by throw her arm round his neck , and cry out , with a joyful cry , `` Oh , Laurie !
Oh , Mother !
I be so glad ! ''
She do not weep again , but laugh hysterically , and tremble and clung to her friend a if she be a little bewilder by the sudden news .
Laurie , though decidedly amaze , behave with great presence of mind .
He pat her back soothingly , and find that she be recover , follow it up by a bashful kiss or two , which bring Jo round at once .
Holding on to the banister , she put him gently away , say breathlessly , `` Oh , do n't !
I do n't mean to , it be dreadful of me , but you be such a dear to go and do it in spite of Hannah that I could n't help fly at you .
Tell me all about it , and do n't give me wine again , it make me act so . ''
`` I do n't mind , '' laugh Laurie , a he settle his tie .
`` Why , you see I get fidgety , and so do Grandpa .
We think Hannah be overdo the authority business , and your mother ought to know .
She 'd never forgive u if Beth ... Well , if anything happen , you know .
So I get grandpa to say it be high time we do something , and off I pelt to the office yesterday , for the doctor look sober , and Hannah most take my head off when I propose a telegram .
I never can bear to be ` lord over ' , so that settle my mind , and I do it .
Your mother will come , I know , and the late train be in at two A.M . I shall go for her , and you 've only get to bottle up your rapture , and keep Beth quiet till that bless lady get here . ''
`` Laurie , you 're an angel !
How shall I ever thank you ? ''
`` Fly at me again .
I rather like it , '' say Laurie , look mischievous , a thing he have not do for a fortnight .
`` No , thank you .
I 'll do it by proxy , when your grandpa come .
Do n't tease , but go home and rest , for you 'll be up half the night .
Bless you , Teddy , bless you ! ''
Jo have back into a corner , and a she finish her speech , she vanish precipitately into the kitchen , where she sit down upon a dresser and tell the assembled cat that she be `` happy , oh , so happy ! ''
while Laurie depart , feel that he have make a rather neat thing of it .
`` That 's the interfering chap I ever see , but I forgive him and do hope Mrs. March be come right away , '' say Hannah , with an air of relief , when Jo tell the good news .
Meg have a quiet rapture , and then brood over the letter , while Jo set the sickroom in order , and Hannah `` knock up a couple of pie in case of company unexpected '' .
A breath of fresh air seem to blow through the house , and something good than sunshine brighten the quiet room .
Everything appear to feel the hopeful change .
Beth 's bird begin to chirp again , and a half-blown rise be discover on Amy 's bush in the window .
The fire seem to burn with unusual cheeriness , and every time the girl meet , their pale face break into smile a they hug one another , whisper encouragingly , `` Mother 's come , dear !
Mother 's come ! ''
Every one rejoice but Beth .
She lay in that heavy stupor , alike unconscious of hope and joy , doubt and danger .
It be a piteous sight , the once rosy face so changed and vacant , the once busy hand so weak and waste , the once smiling lip quite dumb , and the once pretty , well-kept hair scatter rough and tangle on the pillow .
All day she lay so , only rouse now and then to mutter , `` Water ! ''
with lip so parch they could hardly shape the word .
All day Jo and Meg hover over her , watch , wait , hop , and trust in God and Mother , and all day the snow fell , the bitter wind rag , and the hour drag slowly by .
But night come at last , and every time the clock strike , the sister , still sit on either side of the bed , look at each other with brighten eye , for each hour bring help nearer .
The doctor have be in to say that some change , for good or bad , would probably take place about midnight , at which time he would return .
Hannah , quite wear out , lay down on the sofa at the bed 's foot and fell fast asleep , Mr. Laurence march to and fro in the parlor , feel that he would rather face a rebel battery than Mrs. March 's countenance a she enter .
Laurie lay on the rug , pretend to rest , but star into the fire with the thoughtful look which make his black eye beautifully soft and clear .
The girl never forget that night , for no sleep come to them a they keep their watch , with that dreadful sense of powerlessness which come to u in hour like those .
`` If God spar Beth , I never will complain again , '' whisper Meg earnestly .
`` If god spare Beth , I 'll try to love and serve Him all my life , '' answer Jo , with equal fervor .
`` I wish I have no heart , it ache so , '' sigh Meg , after a pause .
`` If life be often as hard a this , I do n't see how we ever shall get through it , '' add her sister despondently .
Here the clock strike twelve , and both forget themselves in watch Beth , for they fancy a change pass over her wan face .
The house be still a death , and nothing but the wailing of the wind break the deep hush .
Weary Hannah slept on , and no one but the sister saw the pale shadow which seem to fall upon the little bed .
An hour go by , and nothing happen except Laurie 's quiet departure for the station .
Another hour , still no one come , and anxious fear of delay in the storm , or accident by the way , or , bad of all , a great grief at Washington , haunt the girl .
It be past two , when Jo , who stand at the window think how dreary the world look in it winding sheet of snow , hear a movement by the bed , and turn quickly , saw Meg kneel before their mother 's easy chair with her face hidden .
A dreadful fear pass coldly over Jo , a she think , `` Beth be dead , and Meg be afraid to tell me . ''
She be back at her post in an instant , and to her excited eye a great change seem to have take place .
The fever flush and the look of pain be go , and the beloved little face look so pale and peaceful in it utter repose that Jo felt no desire to weep or to lament .
Leaning low over this dearest of her sister , she kiss the damp forehead with her heart on her lip , and softly whisper , `` Good-by , my Beth .
Good-by ! ''
As if awake by the stir , Hannah start out of her sleep , hurry to the bed , look at Beth , felt her hand , listen at her lip , and then , throw her apron over her head , sit down to rock to and fro , exclaim , under her breath , `` The fever 's turn , she 's sleepin ' nat ` ral , her skin 's damp , and she breathe easy .
Praise be give !
Oh , my goodness me ! ''
Before the girl could believe the happy truth , the doctor come to confirm it .
He be a homely man , but they think his face quite heavenly when he smile and say , with a fatherly look at them , `` Yes , my dear , I think the little girl will pull through this time .
Keep the house quiet , let her sleep , and when she wake , give her ... '' What they be to give , neither heard , for both crept into the dark hall , and , sit on the stair , hold each other close , rejoice with heart too full for word .
When they go back to be kiss and cuddle by faithful Hannah , they find Beth lie , a she use to do , with her cheek pillowed on her hand , the dreadful pallor go , and breathe quietly , a if just fall asleep .
`` If Mother would only come now ! ''
say Jo , a the winter night begin to wane .
`` See , '' say Meg , come up with a white , half-opened rise , `` I think this would hardly be ready to lay in Beth 's hand tomorrow if she -- go away from u .
But it have blossom in the night , and now I mean to put it in my vase here , so that when the darling wake , the first thing she see will be the little rise , and Mother 's face . ''
Never have the sun risen so beautifully , and never have the world seem so lovely a it do to the heavy eye of Meg and Jo , a they look out in the early morning , when their long , sad vigil be do .
`` It look like a fairy world , '' say Meg , smile to herself , a she stand behind the curtain , watch the dazzling sight .
`` Hark ! ''
cry Jo , start to her foot .
Yes , there be a sound of bell at the door below , a cry from Hannah , and then Laurie 's voice say in a joyful whisper , `` Girls , she 's come !
She 's come ! ''
CHAPTER NINETEEN AMY 'S WILL While these thing be happen at home , Amy be have hard time at Aunt March 's .
She felt her exile deeply , and for the first time in her life , realize how much she be beloved and pet at home .
Aunt March never pet any one ; she do not approve of it , but she mean to be kind , for the well-behaved little girl please her very much , and Aunt March have a soft place in her old heart for her nephew 's child , though she do n't think it proper to confess it .
She really do her best to make Amy happy , but , dear me , what mistake she make .
Some old people keep young at heart in spite of wrinkle and gray hair , can sympathize with child 's little care and joy , make them feel at home , and can hide wise lesson under pleasant play , give and receive friendship in the sweet way .
But Aunt March have not this gift , and she worry Amy very much with her rule and order , her prim way , and long , prosy talk .
Finding the child more docile and amiable than her sister , the old lady felt it her duty to try and counteract , as far a possible , the bad effect of home freedom and indulgence .
So she take Amy by the hand , and teach her a she herself have be teach sixty year ago , a process which carry dismay to Amy 's soul , and make her feel like a fly in the web of a very strict spider .
She have to wash the cup every morning , and polish up the old-fashioned spoon , the fat silver teapot , and the glass till they shine .
Then she must dust the room , and what a try job that be .
Not a speck escape Aunt March 's eye , and all the furniture have claw leg and much carving , which be never dust to suit .
Then Polly have to be feed , the lap dog comb , and a dozen trip upstairs and down to get thing or deliver order , for the old lady be very lame and seldom leave her big chair .
After these tiresome labor , she must do her lesson , which be a daily trial of every virtue she possess .
Then she be allow one hour for exercise or play , and do n't she enjoy it ?
Laurie come every day , and wheedle Aunt March till Amy be allow to go out with him , when they walk and rode and have capital time .
After dinner , she have to read aloud , and sit still while the old lady slept , which she usually do for an hour , a she drop off over the first page .
Then patchwork or towel appear , and Amy sew with outward meekness and inward rebellion till dusk , when she be allow to amuse herself a she like till teatime .
The evening be the bad of all , for Aunt March fell to tell long story about her youth , which be so unutterably dull that Amy be always ready to go to bed , intend to cry over her hard fate , but usually go to sleep before she have squeeze out more than a tear or two .
If it have not be for Laurie , and old Esther , the maid , she felt that she never could have get through that dreadful time .
The parrot alone be enough to drive her distracted , for he soon felt that she do not admire him , and revenge himself by be as mischievous a possible .
He pull her hair whenever she come near him , upset his bread and milk to plague her when she have newly clean his cage , make Mop bark by peck at him while Madam doze , call her name before company , and behave in all respect like an reprehensible old bird .
Then she could not endure the dog , a fat , cross beast who snarl and yelp at her when she make his toilet , and who lay on his back with all his leg in the air and a most idiotic expression of countenance when he want something to eat , which be about a dozen time a day .
The cook be bad-tempered , the old coachman be deaf , and Esther the only one who ever take any notice of the young lady .
Esther be a Frenchwoman , who have live with ` Madame ' , a she call her mistress , for many year , and who rather tyrannize over the old lady , who could not get along without her .
Her real name be Estelle , but Aunt March order her to change it , and she obey , on condition that she be never ask to change her religion .
She take a fancy to Mademoiselle , and amuse her very much with odd story of her life in France , when Amy sit with her while she get up Madame 's lace .
She also allow her to roam about the great house , and examine the curious and pretty thing store away in the big wardrobe and the ancient chest , for Aunt March hoard like a magpie .
Amy 's chief delight be an Indian cabinet , full of queer drawer , little pigeonhole , and secret place , in which be keep all sort of ornament , some precious , some merely curious , all more or less antique .
To examine and arrange these thing give Amy great satisfaction , especially the jewel case , in which on velvet cushion repose the ornament which have adorn a belle forty year ago .
There be the garnet set which Aunt March wear when she come out , the pearl her father give her on her wed day , her lover 's diamond , the jet mourn ring and pin , the queer locket , with portrait of dead friend and weep willow make of hair inside , the baby bracelets her one little daughter have wear , Uncle March 's big watch , with the red seal so many childish hand have play with , and in a box all by itself lay Aunt March 's wedding ring , too small now for her fat finger , but put carefully away like the most precious jewel of them all .
`` Which would Mademoiselle choose if she have her will ? ''
ask Esther , who always sit near to watch over and lock up the valuable .
`` I like the diamond best , but there be no necklace among them , and I 'm fond of necklace , they be so become .
I should choose this if I might , '' reply Amy , look with great admiration at a string of gold and ebony bead from which hang a heavy cross of the same .
`` I , too , covet that , but not a a necklace .
Ah , no !
To me it be a rosary , and a such I should use it like a good catholic , '' say Esther , eye the handsome thing wistfully .
`` Is it meant to use a you use the string of good-smelling wooden bead hang over your glass ? ''
ask Amy .
`` Truly , yes , to pray with .
It would be please to the saint if one use so fine a rosary a this , instead of wear it a a vain bijou . ''
`` You seem to take a great deal of comfort in your prayer , Esther , and always come down look quiet and satisfied .
I wish I could . ''
`` If Mademoiselle be a Catholic , she would find true comfort , but a that be not to be , it would be well if you go apart each day to meditate and pray , a do the good mistress whom I serve before Madame .
She have a little chapel , and in it find solacement for much trouble . ''
`` Would it be right for me to do so too ? ''
ask Amy , who in her loneliness felt the need of help of some sort , and find that she be apt to forget her little book , now that Beth be not there to remind her of it .
`` It would be excellent and charming , and I shall gladly arrange the little dressing room for you if you like it .
Say nothing to Madame , but when she sleep go you and sit alone a while to think good thought , and pray the dear God preserve your sister . ''
Esther be truly pious , and quite sincere in her advice , for she have an affectionate heart , and felt much for the sister in their anxiety .
Amy like the idea , and give her leave to arrange the light closet next her room , hop it would do her good .
`` I wish I know where all these pretty thing would go when Aunt March die , '' she say , a she slowly replace the shin rosary and shut the jewel case one by one .
`` To you and your sister .
I know it , Madame confide in me .
I witness her will , and it be to be so , '' whisper Esther smiling .
`` How nice !
But I wish she 'd let u have them now .
Procrastination be not agreeable , '' observe Amy , take a last look at the diamond .
`` It be too soon yet for the young lady to wear these thing .
The first one who be affiance will have the pearl , Madame have say it , and I have a fancy that the little turquoise ring will be give to you when you go , for Madame approve your good behavior and charm manner . ''
`` Do you think so ?
Oh , I 'll be a lamb , if I can only have that lovely ring !
It 's ever so much pretty than Kitty Bryant 's .
I do like Aunt March after all . ''
And Amy try on the blue ring with a delighted face and a firm resolve to earn it .
From that day she be a model of obedience , and the old lady complacently admire the success of her training .
Esther fit up the closet with a little table , place a footstool before it , and over it a picture take from one of the shut-up room .
She think it be of no great value , but , be appropriate , she borrow it , well know that Madame would never know it , nor care if she do .
It be , however , a very valuable copy of one of the famous picture of the world , and Amy 's beauty-loving eye be never tire of look up at the sweet face of the Divine Mother , while her tender thought of her own be busy at her heart .
On the table she lay her little testament and hymnbook , keep a vase always full of the best flower Laurie bring her , and come every day to ` sit alone ' think good thought , and pray the dear God to preserve her sister .
Esther have give her a rosary of black bead with a silver cross , but Amy hang it up and do not use it , feel doubtful a to it fitness for Protestant prayer .
The little girl be very sincere in all this , for be leave alone outside the safe home nest , she felt the need of some kind hand to hold by so sorely that she instinctively turn to the strong and tender Friend , whose fatherly love most closely surround His little child .
She miss her mother 's help to understand and rule herself , but have be teach where to look , she do her best to find the way and walk in it confidingly .
But , Amy be a young pilgrim , and just now her burden seem very heavy .
She try to forget herself , to keep cheerful , and be satisfy with do right , though no one saw or praise her for it .
In her first effort at be very , very good , she decide to make her will , a Aunt March have do , so that if she do fall ill and die , her possession might be justly and generously divide .
It cost her a pang even to think of give up the little treasure which in her eye be as precious a the old lady 's jewel .
During one of her play hour she write out the important document as well a she could , with some help from Esther a to certain legal term , and when the good-natured Frenchwoman have sign her name , Amy felt relieve and lay it by to show Laurie , whom she want a a second witness .
As it be a rainy day , she go upstairs to amuse herself in one of the large chamber , and take Polly with her for company .
In this room there be a wardrobe full of old-fashioned costume with which Esther allow her to play , and it be her favorite amusement to array herself in the faded brocade , and parade up and down before the long mirror , make stately curtsy , and sweep her train about with a rustle which delight her ear .
So busy be she on this day that she do not hear Laurie 's ring nor see his face peeping in at her a she gravely promenade to and fro , flirt her fan and toss her head , on which she wear a great pink turban , contrast oddly with her blue brocade dress and yellow quilt petticoat .
She be oblige to walk carefully , for she have on high-heeled shoe , and , a Laurie tell Jo afterward , it be a comical sight to see her mince along in her gay suit , with Polly sidle and bridle just behind her , imitate her as well a he could , and occasionally stop to laugh or exclaim , `` Ai n't we fine ?
Get along , you fright !
Hold your tongue !
Kiss me , dear !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
Having with difficulty restrain an explosion of merriment , lest it should offend her majesty , Laurie tap and be graciously receive .
`` Sit down and rest while I put these thing away , then I want to consult you about a very serious matter , '' say Amy , when she have show her splendor and drive Polly into a corner .
`` That bird be the trial of my life , '' she continue , remove the pink mountain from her head , while Laurie seat himself astride a chair .
`` Yesterday , when Aunt be asleep and I be try to be as still a a mouse , Polly begin to squall and flap about in his cage , so I go to let him out , and find a big spider there .
I poke it out , and it run under the bookcase .
Polly march straight after it , stoop down and peep under the bookcase , say , in his funny way , with a cock of his eye , ` Come out and take a walk , my dear . '
I could n't help laughing , which make Poll swear , and Aunt wake up and scold u both . ''
`` Did the spider accept the old fellow 's invitation ? ''
ask Laurie , yawning .
`` Yes , out it come , and away run Polly , frighten to death , and scramble up on Aunt 's chair , call out , ` Catch her !
Catch her !
Catch her ! '
a I chase the spider . ''
`` That 's a lie !
Oh , lor ! ''
cry the parrot , peck at Laurie 's toe .
`` I 'd wring your neck if you be mine , you old torment , '' cry Laurie , shake his fist at the bird , who put his head on one side and gravely croak , `` Allyluyer !
bless your button , dear ! ''
`` Now I 'm ready , '' say Amy , shut the wardrobe and take a piece of paper out of her pocket .
`` I want you to read that , please , and tell me if it be legal and right .
I felt I ought to do it , for life be uncertain and I do n't want any ill feeling over my tomb . ''
Laurie bite his lip , and turn a little from the pensive speaker , read the following document , with praiseworthy gravity , consider the spelling : MY LAST WILL AND TESTIMENT I , Amy Curtis March , be in my sane mind , go give and bequeethe all my earthly property -- viz .
to wit : -- namely To my father , my best picture , sketch , map , and work of art , include frame .
Also my $ 100 , to do what he like with .
To my mother , all my clothes , except the blue apron with pocket -- also my likeness , and my medal , with much love .
To my dear sister Margaret , I give my turkquoise ring -LRB- if I get it -RRB- , also my green box with the dove on it , also my piece of real lace for her neck , and my sketch of her a a memorial of her ` little girl ' .
To Jo I leave my breastpin , the one mend with seal wax , also my bronze inkstand -- she lose the cover -- and my most precious plaster rabbit , because I be sorry I burn up her story .
To Beth -LRB- if she live after me -RRB- I give my doll and the little bureau , my fan , my linen collar and my new slipper if she can wear them be thin when she get well .
And I herewith also leave her my regret that I ever make fun of old Joanna .
To my friend and neighbor Theodore Laurence I bequeethe my paper mashay portfolio , my clay model of a horse though he do say it have n't any neck .
Also in return for his great kindness in the hour of affliction any one of my artistic work he like , Noter Dame be the best .
To our venerable benefactor Mr. Laurence I leave my purple box with a look glass in the cover which will be nice for his pen and remind him of the departed girl who thank him for his favor to her family , especially Beth .
I wish my favorite playmate Kitty Bryant to have the blue silk apron and my gold-bead ring with a kiss .
To Hannah I give the bandbox she want and all the patchwork I leave hop she ` will remember me , when it you see ' .
And now have dispose of my most valuable property I hope all will be satisfy and not blame the dead .
I forgive everyone , and trust we may all meet when the trump shall sound .
Amen .
To this will and testiment I set my hand and seal on this 20th day of Nov. .
Anni Domino 1861 .
Amy Curtis March Witnesses : Estelle Valnor , Theodore Laurence .
The last name be write in pencil , and Amy explain that he be to rewrite it in ink and seal it up for her properly .
`` What put it into your head ?
Did anyone tell you about Beth 's give away her thing ? ''
ask Laurie soberly , a Amy lay a bit of red tape , with seal wax , a taper , and a standish before him .
She explain and then ask anxiously , `` What about Beth ? ''
`` I 'm sorry I speak , but a I do , I 'll tell you .
She felt so ill one day that she tell Jo she want to give her piano to Meg , her cat to you , and the poor old doll to Jo , who would love it for her sake .
She be sorry she have so little to give , and leave lock of hair to the rest of u , and her best love to Grandpa .
She never think of a will . ''
Laurie be sign and seal a he speak , and do not look up till a great tear drop on the paper .
Amy 's face be full of trouble , but she only say , `` Do n't people put sort of postscript to their will , sometimes ? ''
`` Yes , ` codicil ' , they call them . ''
`` Put one in mine then , that I wish all my curl cut off , and give round to my friend .
I forget it , but I want it do though it will spoil my look . ''
Laurie add it , smile at Amy 's last and great sacrifice .
Then he amuse her for an hour , and be much interested in all her trial .
But when he come to go , Amy hold him back to whisper with tremble lip , `` Is there really any danger about Beth ? ''
`` I 'm afraid there be , but we must hope for the best , so do n't cry , dear . ''
And Laurie put his arm about her with a brotherly gesture which be very comfort .
When he have go , she go to her little chapel , and sit in the twilight , pray for Beth , with stream tear and an aching heart , feel that a million turquoise ring would not console her for the loss of her gentle little sister .
CHAPTER TWENTY CONFIDENTIAL I do n't think I have any word in which to tell the meeting of the mother and daughter .
Such hour be beautiful to live , but very hard to describe , so I will leave it to the imagination of my reader , merely say that the house be full of genuine happiness , and that Meg 's tender hope be realize , for when Beth wake from that long , heal sleep , the first object on which her eye fell be the little rise and Mother 's face .
Too weak to wonder at anything , she only smile and nestle close in the loving arm about her , feel that the hungry longing be satisfy at last .
Then she sleep again , and the girl wait upon their mother , for she would not unclasp the thin hand which clung to hers even in sleep .
Hannah have ` dish up ' an astonishing breakfast for the traveler , find it impossible to vent her excitement in any other way , and Meg and Jo feed their mother like dutiful young stork , while they listen to her whispered account of Father 's state , Mr. Brooke 's promise to stay and nurse him , the delay which the storm occasion on the homeward journey , and the unspeakable comfort Laurie 's hopeful face have give her when she arrive , wear out with fatigue , anxiety , and cold .
What a strange yet pleasant day that be .
So brilliant and gay without , for all the world seem abroad to welcome the first snow .
So quiet and reposeful within , for everyone slept , spend with watching , and a Sabbath stillness reign through the house , while nod Hannah mount guard at the door .
With a blissful sense of burden lift off , Meg and Jo close their weary eye , and lay at rest , like storm-beaten boat safe at anchor in a quiet harbor .
Mrs. March would not leave Beth 's side , but rest in the big chair , wake often to look at , touch , and brood over her child , like a miser over some recovered treasure .
Laurie meanwhile post off to comfort Amy , and tell his story so well that Aunt March actually ` sniffed ' herself , and never once say `` I tell you so '' .
Amy come out so strong on this occasion that I think the good thought in the little chapel really begin to bear fruit .
She dry her tear quickly , restrain her impatience to see her mother , and never even think of the turquoise ring , when the old lady heartily agree in Laurie 's opinion , that she behave ` like a capital little woman ' .
Even Polly seem impressed , for he call her a good girl , bless her button , and beg her to `` come and take a walk , dear '' , in his most affable tone .
She would very gladly have go out to enjoy the bright wintry weather , but discover that Laurie be drop with sleep in spite of manful effort to conceal the fact , she persuade him to rest on the sofa , while she write a note to her mother .
She be a long time about it , and when she return , he be stretch out with both arm under his head , sound asleep , while Aunt March have pull down the curtain and sit do nothing in an unusual fit of benignity .
After a while , they begin to think he be not go to wake up till night , and I 'm not sure that he would , have he not be effectually rouse by Amy 's cry of joy at sight of her mother .
There probably be a good many happy little girl in and about the city that day , but it be my private opinion that Amy be the happy of all , when she sit in her mother 's lap and tell her trial , receive consolation and compensation in the shape of approve smile and fond caress .
They be alone together in the chapel , to which her mother do not object when it purpose be explain to her .
`` On the contrary , I like it very much , dear , '' look from the dusty rosary to the well-worn little book , and the lovely picture with it garland of evergreen .
`` It be an excellent plan to have some place where we can go to be quiet , when thing vex or grieve u .
There be a good many hard time in this life of ours , but we can always bear them if we ask help in the right way .
I think my little girl be learn this . ''
`` Yes , Mother , and when I go home I mean to have a corner in the big closet to put my book and the copy of that picture which I 've try to make .
The woman 's face be not good , it 's too beautiful for me to draw , but the baby be do well , and I love it very much .
I like to think He be a little child once , for then I do n't seem so far away , and that help me . ''
As Amy point to the smile Christ child on his Mother 's knee , Mrs. March saw something on the lifted hand that make her smile .
She say nothing , but Amy understand the look , and after a minute 's pause , she add gravely , `` I want to speak to you about this , but I forget it .
Aunt give me the ring today .
She call me to her and kiss me , and put it on my finger , and say I be a credit to her , and she 'd like to keep me always .
She give that funny guard to keep the turquoise on , a it 's too big .
I 'd like to wear them Mother , can I ? ''
`` They be very pretty , but I think you 're rather too young for such ornament , Amy , '' say Mrs. March , look at the plump little hand , with the band of sky-blue stone on the forefinger , and the quaint guard form of two tiny golden hand clasp together .
`` I 'll try not to be vain , '' say Amy .
`` I do n't think I like it only because it 's so pretty , but I want to wear it a the girl in the story wear her bracelet , to remind me of something . ''
`` Do you mean Aunt March ? ''
ask her mother , laugh .
`` No , to remind me not to be selfish . ''
Amy look so earnest and sincere about it that her mother stop laugh , and listen respectfully to the little plan .
`` I 've think a great deal lately about my ` bundle of naughties ' , and be selfish be the large one in it , so I 'm go to try hard to cure it , if I can .
Beth be n't selfish , and that 's the reason everyone love her and feel so bad at the thought of lose her .
People would n't feel so bad about me if I be sick , and I do n't deserve to have them , but I 'd like to be love and miss by a great many friend , so I 'm go to try and be like Beth all I can .
I 'm apt to forget my resolution , but if I have something always about me to remind me , I guess I should do good .
May we try this way ? ''
`` Yes , but I have more faith in the corner of the big closet .
Wear your ring , dear , and do your best .
I think you will prosper , for the sincere wish to be good be half the battle .
Now I must go back to Beth .
Keep up your heart , little daughter , and we will soon have you home again . ''
That even while Meg be write to her father to report the traveler 's safe arrival , Jo slip upstairs into Beth 's room , and find her mother in her usual place , stand a minute twist her finger in her hair , with a worried gesture and an undecided look .
`` What be it , deary ? ''
ask Mrs. March , hold out her hand , with a face which invite confidence .
`` I want to tell you something , Mother . ''
`` About Meg ? ''
`` How quickly you guess !
Yes , it 's about her , and though it 's a little thing , it fidget me . ''
`` Beth be asleep .
Speak low , and tell me all about it .
That Moffat have n't be here , I hope ? ''
ask Mrs. March rather sharply .
`` No .
I should have shut the door in his face if he have , '' say Jo , settle herself on the floor at her mother 's foot .
`` Last summer Meg leave a pair of glove over at the Laurences ' and only one be return .
We forget about it , till Teddy tell me that Mr. Brooke own that he like Meg but do n't dare say so , she be so young and he so poor .
Now , be n't it a dreadful state of thing ? ''
`` Do you think Meg care for him ? ''
ask Mrs. March , with an anxious look .
`` Mercy me !
I do n't know anything about love and such nonsense ! ''
cry Jo , with a funny mixture of interest and contempt .
`` In novel , the girl show it by start and blushing , faint away , grow thin , and act like fool .
Now Meg do not do anything of the sort .
She eat and drink and sleep like a sensible creature , she look straight in my face when I talk about that man , and only blush a little bit when Teddy joke about lover .
I forbid him to do it , but he do n't mind me a he ought . ''
`` Then you fancy that Meg be not interested in John ? ''
`` Who ? ''
cry Jo , star .
`` Mr. Brooke .
I call him ` John ' now .
We fell into the way of do so at the hospital , and he like it . ''
`` Oh , dear !
I know you 'll take his part .
He 's be good to Father , and you wo n't send him away , but let Meg marry him , if she want to .
Mean thing !
To go pet Papa and help you , just to wheedle you into like him . ''
And Jo pull her hair again with a wrathful tweak .
`` My dear , do n't get angry about it , and I will tell you how it happen .
John go with me at Mr. Laurence 's request , and be so devote to poor Father that we could n't help get fond of him .
He be perfectly open and honorable about Meg , for he tell u he love her , but would earn a comfortable home before he ask her to marry him .
He only want our leave to love her and work for her , and the right to make her love him if he could .
He be a truly excellent young man , and we could not refuse to listen to him , but I will not consent to Meg 's engage herself so young . ''
`` Of course not .
It would be idiotic !
I know there be mischief brewing .
I felt it , and now it 's bad than I imagine .
I just wish I could marry Meg myself , and keep her safe in the family . ''
This odd arrangement make Mrs. March smile , but she say gravely , `` Jo , I confide in you and do n't wish you to say anything to Meg yet .
When John come back , and I see them together , I can judge good of her feeling toward him . ''
`` She 'll see those handsome eye that she talk about , and then it will be all up with her .
She 's get such a soft heart , it will melt like butter in the sun if anyone look sentimentlly at her .
She read the short report he send more than she do your letter , and pinch me when I speak of it , and like brown eye , and do n't think John an ugly name , and she 'll go and fall in love , and there 's an end of peace and fun , and cozy time together .
I see it all !
They 'll go lovering around the house , and we shall have to dodge .
Meg will be absorb and no good to me any more .
Brooke will scratch up a fortune somehow , carry her off , and make a hole in the family , and I shall break my heart , and everything will be abominably uncomfortable .
Oh , dear me !
Why be n't we all boy , then there would n't be any bother . ''
Jo lean her chin on her knee in a disconsolate attitude and shake her fist at the reprehensible John .
Mrs. March sigh , and Jo look up with an air of relief .
`` You do n't like it , Mother ?
I 'm glad of it .
Let 's send him about his business , and not tell Meg a word of it , but all be happy together a we always have be . ''
`` I do wrong to sigh , Jo .
It be natural and right you should all go to home of your own in time , but I do want to keep my girl as long a I can , and I be sorry that this happen so soon , for Meg be only seventeen and it will be some year before John can make a home for her .
Your father and I have agree that she shall not bind herself in any way , nor be marry , before twenty .
If she and John love one another , they can wait , and test the love by do so .
She be conscientious , and I have no fear of her treat him unkindly .
My pretty , tender hearted girl !
I hope thing will go happily with her . ''
`` Had n't you rather have her marry a rich man ? ''
ask Jo , a her mother 's voice falter a little over the last word .
`` Money be a good and useful thing , Jo , and I hope my girl will never feel the need of it too bitterly , nor be tempt by too much .
I should like to know that John be firmly establish in some good business , which give him an income large enough to keep free from debt and make Meg comfortable .
I 'm not ambitious for a splendid fortune , a fashionable position , or a great name for my girl .
If rank and money come with love and virtue , also , I should accept them gratefully , and enjoy your good fortune , but I know , by experience , how much genuine happiness can be have in a plain little house , where the daily bread be earn , and some privation give sweetness to the few pleasure .
I be content to see Meg begin humbly , for if I be not mistake , she will be rich in the possession of a good man 's heart , and that be good than a fortune . ''
`` I understand , Mother , and quite agree , but I 'm disappointed about Meg , for I 'd plan to have her marry Teddy by-and-by and sit in the lap of luxury all her day .
Would n't it be nice ? ''
ask Jo , look up with a brighter face .
`` He be young than she , you know , '' begin Mrs. March , but Jo break in ... `` Only a little , he 's old for his age , and tall , and can be quite grown-up in his manner if he like .
Then he 's rich and generous and good , and love u all , and I say it 's a pity my plan be spoil . ''
`` I 'm afraid Laurie be hardly grown-up enough for Meg , and altogether too much of a weathercock just now for anyone to depend on .
Do n't make plan , Jo , but let time and their own heart mate your friend .
We ca n't meddle safely in such matter , and have good not get ` romantic rubbish ' a you call it , into our head , lest it spoil our friendship . ''
`` Well , I wo n't , but I hate to see thing go all crisscross and get snarl up , when a pull here and a snip there would straighten it out .
I wish wear flatiron on our head would keep u from grow up .
But bud will be rose , and kitten cat , more 's the pity ! ''
`` What 's that about flatiron and cat ? ''
ask Meg , a she creep into the room with the finished letter in her hand .
`` Only one of my stupid speech .
I 'm go to bed .
Come , Peggy , '' say Jo , unfold herself like an animated puzzle .
`` Quite right , and beautifully write .
Please add that I send my love to John , '' say Mrs. March , a she glance over the letter and give it back .
`` Do you call him ` John ' ? ''
ask Meg , smile , with her innocent eye look down into her mother 's .
`` Yes , he have be like a son to u , and we be very fond of him , '' reply Mrs. March , return the look with a keen one .
`` I 'm glad of that , he be so lonely .
Good night , Mother , dear .
It be so inexpressibly comfortable to have you here , '' be Meg 's answer .
The kiss her mother give her be a very tender one , and a she go away , Mrs. March say , with a mixture of satisfaction and regret , `` She do not love John yet , but will soon learn to . ''
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE LAURIE MAKES MISCHIEF , AND JO MAKES PEACE Jo 's face be a study next day , for the secret rather weighed upon her , and she find it hard not to look mysterious and important .
Meg observe it , but do not trouble herself to make inquiry , for she have learn that the best way to manage Jo be by the law of contrary , so she felt sure of be tell everything if she do not ask .
She be rather surprised , therefore , when the silence remain unbroken , and Jo assume a patronize air , which decidedly aggravate Meg , who in turn assume an air of dignified reserve and devote herself to her mother .
This leave Jo to her own device , for Mrs. March have take her place a nurse , and bid her rest , exercise , and amuse herself after her long confinement .
Amy be go , Laurie be her only refuge , and much a she enjoy his society , she rather dread him just then , for he be an incorrigible tease , and she fear he would coax the secret from her .
She be quite right , for the mischief-loving lad no sooner suspect a mystery than he set himself to find it out , and lead Jo a try life of it .
He wheedle , bribe , ridicule , threaten , and scold ; affect indifference , that he might surprise the truth from her ; declare he know , then that he do n't care ; and at last , by dint of perseverance , he satisfy himself that it concern Meg and Mr. Brooke .
Feeling indignant that he be not take into his tutor 's confidence , he set his wit to work to devise some proper retaliation for the slight .
Meg meanwhile have apparently forget the matter and be absorb in preparation for her father 's return , but all of a sudden a change seem to come over her , and , for a day or two , she be quite unlike herself .
She start when spoken to , blush when look at , be very quiet , and sit over her sew , with a timid , troubled look on her face .
To her mother 's inquiry she answer that she be quite well , and Jo 's she silence by beg to be let alone .
`` She feel it in the air -- love , I mean -- and she 's go very fast .
She 's get most of the symptom -- be twittery and cross , do n't eat , lie awake , and mope in corner .
I catch her sing that song he give her , and once she say ` John ' , a you do , and then turn as red a a poppy .
Whatever shall we do ? ''
say Jo , look ready for any measure , however violent .
`` Nothing but wait .
Let her alone , be kind and patient , and Father 's come will settle everything , '' reply her mother .
`` Here 's a note to you , Meg , all seal up .
How odd !
Teddy never seal mine , '' say Jo next day , a she distribute the content of the little post office .
Mrs. March and Jo be deep in their own affair , when a sound from Meg make them look up to see her star at her note with a frightened face .
`` My child , what be it ? ''
cry her mother , run to her , while Jo try to take the paper which have do the mischief .
`` It 's all a mistake , he do n't send it .
Oh , Jo , how could you do it ? ''
and Meg hide her face in her hand , cry a if her heart be quite break .
`` Me !
I 've do nothing !
What 's she talk about ? ''
cry Jo , bewilder .
Meg 's mild eye kindle with anger a she pull a crumpled note from her pocket and throw it at Jo , say reproachfully , `` You write it , and that bad boy help you .
How could you be so rude , so mean , and cruel to u both ? ''
Jo hardly hear her , for she and her mother be read the note , which be write in a peculiar hand .
`` My Dearest Margaret , `` I can no longer restrain my passion , and must know my fate before I return .
I dare not tell your parent yet , but I think they would consent if they know that we adore one another .
Mr. Laurence will help me to some good place , and then , my sweet girl , you will make me happy .
I implore you to say nothing to your family yet , but to send one word of hope through Laurie to , `` Your devoted John . ''
`` Oh , the little villain !
That 's the way he mean to pay me for keep my word to Mother .
I 'll give him a hearty scolding and bring him over to beg pardon , '' cry Jo , burn to execute immediate justice .
But her mother hold her back , say , with a look she seldom wore ... `` Stop , Jo , you must clear yourself first .
You have play so many prank that I be afraid you have have a hand in this . ''
`` On my word , Mother , I have n't !
I never saw that note before , and do n't know anything about it , as true a I live ! ''
say Jo , so earnestly that they believe her .
`` If I have take part in it I 'd have do it good than this , and have write a sensible note .
I should think you 'd have know Mr. Brooke would n't write such stuff a that , '' she add , scornfully toss down the paper .
`` It 's like his writing , '' falter Meg , compare it with the note in her hand .
`` Oh , Meg , you do n't answer it ? ''
cried Mrs. March quickly .
`` Yes , I do ! ''
and Meg hide her face again , overcome with shame .
`` Here 's a scrape !
Do let me bring that wicked boy over to explain and be lecture .
I ca n't rest till I get hold of him . ''
And Jo make for the door again .
`` Hush !
Let me handle this , for it be bad than I think .
Margaret , tell me the whole story , '' command Mrs. March , sit down by Meg , yet keep hold of Jo , l she should fly off .
`` I receive the first letter from Laurie , who do n't look a if he know anything about it , '' begin Meg , without look up .
`` I be worry at first and meant to tell you , then I remember how you like Mr. Brooke , so I think you would n't mind if I keep my little secret for a few day .
I 'm so silly that I like to think no one knew , and while I be decide what to say , I felt like the girl in book , who have such thing to do .
Forgive me , Mother , I 'm pay for my silliness now .
I never can look him in the face again . ''
`` What do you say to him ? ''
ask Mrs. March .
`` I only say I be too young to do anything about it yet , that I do n't wish to have secret from you , and he must speak to father .
I be very grateful for his kindness , and would be his friend , but nothing more , for a long while . ''
Mrs. March smile , a if well pleased , and Jo clap her hand , exclaim , with a laugh , `` You be almost equal to Caroline Percy , who be a pattern of prudence !
Tell on , Meg .
What do he say to that ? ''
`` He write in a different way entirely , tell me that he never send any love letter at all , and be very sorry that my roguish sister , Jo , should take liberty with our name .
It 's very kind and respectful , but think how dreadful for me ! ''
Meg lean against her mother , look the image of despair , and Jo tramp about the room , call Laurie name .
All of a sudden she stop , catch up the two note , and after look at them closely , say decidedly , `` I do n't believe Brooke ever saw either of these letter .
Teddy write both , and keep yours to crow over me with because I would n't tell him my secret . ''
`` Do n't have any secret , Jo .
Tell it to Mother and keep out of trouble , a I should have do , '' say Meg warningly .
`` Bless you , child !
Mother tell me . ''
`` That will do , Jo .
I 'll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie .
I shall sift the matter to the bottom , and put a stop to such prank at once . ''
Away ran Jo , and Mrs. March gently tell Meg Mr. Brooke 's real feeling .
`` Now , dear , what be your own ?
Do you love him enough to wait till he can make a home for you , or will you keep yourself quite free for the present ? ''
`` I 've be so scared and worried , I do n't want to have anything to do with lover for a long while , perhaps never , '' answer Meg petulantly .
`` If John do n't know anything about this nonsense , do n't tell him , and make Jo and Laurie hold their tongue .
I wo n't be deceive and plague and make a fool of .
It 's a shame ! ''
Seeing Meg 's usually gentle temper be rouse and her pride hurt by this mischievous joke , Mrs. March soothe her by promise of entire silence and great discretion for the future .
The instant Laurie 's step be hear in the hall , Meg flee into the study , and Mrs. March receive the culprit alone .
Jo have not tell him why he be want , fear he would n't come , but he know the minute he saw Mrs. March 's face , and stand twirl his hat with a guilty air which convict him at once .
Jo be dismiss , but choose to march up and down the hall like a sentinel , have some fear that the prisoner might bolt .
The sound of voice in the parlor rise and fell for half an hour , but what happen during that interview the girl never know .
When they be call in , Laurie be stand by their mother with such a penitent face that Jo forgive him on the spot , but do not think it wise to betray the fact .
Meg receive his humble apology , and be much comfort by the assurance that Brooke know nothing of the joke .
`` I 'll never tell him to my die day , wild horse sha n't drag it out of me , so you 'll forgive me , Meg , and I 'll do anything to show how out-and-out sorry I be , '' he add , look very much ashamed of himself .
`` I 'll try , but it be a very ungentlemanly thing to do , I do n't think you could be so sly and malicious , Laurie , '' reply Meg , try to hide her maidenly confusion under a gravely reproachful air .
`` It be altogether abominable , and I do n't deserve to be speak to for a month , but you will , though , wo n't you ? ''
And Laurie fold his hand together with such and imploring gesture , a he speak in his irresistibly persuasive tone , that it be impossible to frown upon him in spite of his scandalous behavior .
Meg pardon him , and Mrs. March 's grave face relaxed , in spite of her effort to keep sober , when she hear him declare that he would atone for his sin by all sort of penance , and abase himself like a worm before the injured damsel .
Jo stand aloof , meanwhile , try to harden her heart against him , and succeed only in prim up her face into an expression of entire disapprobation .
Laurie look at her once or twice , but a she show no sign of relent , he felt injured , and turn his back on her till the others be do with him , when he make her a low bow and walk off without a word .
As soon a he have go , she wish she have be more forgiving , and when Meg and her mother go upstairs , she felt lonely and long for Teddy .
After resist for some time , she yield to the impulse , and arm with a book to return , go over to the big house .
`` Is Mr. Laurence in ? ''
ask Jo , of a housemaid , who be come downstairs .
`` Yes , Miss , but I do n't believe he 's seeable just yet . ''
`` Why not ?
Is he ill ? ''
`` La , no Miss , but he 's have a scene with Mr. Laurie , who be in one of his tantrum about something , which vex the old gentleman , so I durs n't go nigh him . ''
`` Where be Laurie ? ''
`` Shut up in his room , and he wo n't answer , though I 've be a-tapping .
I do n't know what 's to become of the dinner , for it 's ready , and there 's no one to eat it . ''
`` I 'll go and see what the matter be .
I 'm not afraid of either of them . ''
Up go Jo , and knock smartly on the door of Laurie 's little study .
`` Stop that , or I 'll open the door and make you ! ''
call out the young gentleman in a threaten tone .
Jo immediately knock again .
The door fly open , and in she bounce before Laurie could recover from his surprise .
Seeing that he really be out of temper , Jo , who know how to manage him , assume a contrite expression , and go artistically down upon her knee , say meekly , `` Please forgive me for be so cross .
I come to make it up , and ca n't go away till I have . ''
`` It 's all right .
Get up , and do n't be a goose , Jo , '' be the cavalier reply to her petition .
`` Thank you , I will .
Could I ask what 's the matter ?
You do n't look exactly easy in your mind . ''
`` I 've be shake , and I wo n't bear it ! ''
growl Laurie indignantly .
`` Who do it ? ''
demand Jo .
`` Grandfather .
If it have be anyone else I 'd have ... '' And the injured youth finish his sentence by an energetic gesture of the right arm .
`` That 's nothing .
I often shake you , and you do n't mind , '' say Jo soothingly .
`` Pooh !
You 're a girl , and it 's fun , but I 'll allow no man to shake me ! ''
`` I do n't think anyone would care to try it , if you look as much like a thundercloud a you do now .
Why be you treat so ? ''
`` Just because I would n't say what your mother want me for .
I 'd promise not to tell , and of course I be n't go to break my word . ''
`` Could n't you satisfy your grandpa in any other way ? ''
`` No , he would have the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth .
I 'd have tell my part of the scrape , if I could without bring Meg in .
As I could n't , I hold my tongue , and bore the scolding till the old gentleman collar me .
Then I bolt , for fear I should forget myself . ''
`` It be n't nice , but he 's sorry , I know , so go down and make up .
I 'll help you . ''
`` Hanged if I do !
I 'm not go to be lecture and pummel by everyone , just for a bit of a frolic .
I be sorry about Meg , and beg pardon like a man , but I wo n't do it again , when I be n't in the wrong . ''
`` He do n't know that . ''
`` He ought to trust me , and not act a if I be a baby .
It 's no use , Jo , he 's get to learn that I 'm able to take care of myself , and do n't need anyone 's apron string to hold on by . ''
`` What pepper pot you be ! ''
sigh Jo .
`` How do you mean to settle this affair ? ''
`` Well , he ought to beg pardon , and believe me when I say I ca n't tell him what the fuss 's about . ''
`` Bless you !
He wo n't do that . ''
`` I wo n't go down till he do . ''
`` Now , Teddy , be sensible .
Let it pass , and I 'll explain what I can .
You ca n't stay here , so what 's the use of be melodramatic ? ''
`` I do n't intend to stay here long , anyway .
I 'll slip off and take a journey somewhere , and when Grandpa miss me he 'll come round fast enough . ''
`` I dare say , but you ought not to go and worry him . ''
`` Do n't preach .
I 'll go to Washington and see Brooke .
It 's gay there , and I 'll enjoy myself after the trouble . ''
`` What fun you 'd have !
I wish I could run off too , '' say Jo , forget her part of mentor in lively vision of martial life at the capital .
`` Come on , then !
Why not ?
You go and surprise your father , and I 'll stir up old Brooke .
It would be a glorious joke .
Let 's do it , Jo .
We 'll leave a letter say we be all right , and trot off at once .
I 've get money enough .
It will do you good , and no harm , a you go to your father . ''
For a moment Jo look a if she would agree , for wild a the plan be , it just suit her .
She be tire of care and confinement , long for change , and thought of her father blend temptingly with the novel charm of camp and hospital , liberty and fun .
Her eye kindle a they turn wistfully toward the window , but they fell on the old house opposite , and she shake her head with sorrowful decision .
`` If I be a boy , we 'd run away together , and have a capital time , but a I 'm a miserable girl , I must be proper and stop at home .
Do n't tempt me , Teddy , it 's a crazy plan . ''
`` That 's the fun of it , '' begin Laurie , who have get a willful fit on him and be possess to break out of bound in some way .
`` Hold your tongue ! ''
cry Jo , cover her ear . ''
` Prunes and prism ' be my doom , and I may as well make up my mind to it .
I come here to moralize , not to hear thing that make me skip to think of . ''
`` I know Meg would wet-blanket such a proposal , but I think you have more spirit , '' begin Laurie insinuatingly .
`` Bad boy , be quiet !
Sit down and think of your own sin , do n't go make me add to mine .
If I get your grandpa to apologize for the shaking , will you give up run away ? ''
ask Jo seriously .
`` Yes , but you wo n't do it , '' answer Laurie , who wish to make up , but felt that his outraged dignity must be appease first .
`` If I can manage the young one , I can the old one , '' mutter Jo , a she walk away , leave Laurie bent over a railroad map with his head prop up on both hand .
`` Come in ! ''
and Mr. Laurence 's gruff voice sound gruffer than ever , a Jo tap at his door .
`` It 's only me , Sir , come to return a book , '' she say blandly , a she enter .
`` Want any more ? ''
ask the old gentleman , look grim and vexed , but try not to show it .
`` Yes , please .
I like old Sam so well , I think I 'll try the second volume , '' return Jo , hop to propitiate him by accept a second dose of Boswell 's Johnson , a he have recommend that lively work .
The shaggy eyebrows unbent a little a he roll the step toward the shelf where the Johnsonian literature be place .
Jo skip up , and sit on the top step , affect to be search for her book , but be really wonder how best to introduce the dangerous object of her visit .
Mr. Laurence seem to suspect that something be brew in her mind , for after take several brisk turn about the room , he face round on her , speak so abruptly that Rasselas tumble face downward on the floor .
`` What have that boy be about ?
Do n't try to shield him .
I know he have be in mischief by the way he act when he come home .
I ca n't get a word from him , and when I threaten to shake the truth out of him he bolt upstairs and lock himself into his room . ''
`` He do wrong , but we forgive him , and all promise not to say a word to anyone , '' begin Jo reluctantly .
`` That wo n't do .
He shall not shelter himself behind a promise from you softhearted girl .
If he 's do anything amiss , he shall confess , beg pardon , and be punish .
Out with it , Jo .
I wo n't be keep in the dark . ''
Mr. Laurence look so alarming and speak so sharply that Jo would have gladly run away , if she could , but she be perch aloft on the step , and he stand at the foot , a lion in the path , so she have to stay and brave it out .
`` Indeed , Sir , I can not tell .
Mother forbid it .
Laurie have confess , ask pardon , and be punish quite enough .
We do n't keep silence to shield him , but someone else , and it will make more trouble if you interfere .
Please do n't .
It be partly my fault , but it 's all right now .
So let 's forget it , and talk about the Rambler or something pleasant . ''
`` Hang the Rambler !
Come down and give me your word that this harum-scarum boy of mine have n't do anything ungrateful or impertinent .
If he have , after all your kindness to him , I 'll thrash him with my own hand . ''
The threat sound awful , but do not alarm Jo , for she know the irascible old gentleman would never lift a finger against his grandson , whatever he might say to the contrary .
She obediently descend , and make a light of the prank a she could without betray Meg or forget the truth .
`` Hum ... ha ... well , if the boy hold his tongue because he promise , and not from obstinacy , I 'll forgive him .
He 's a stubborn fellow and hard to manage , '' say Mr. Laurence , rub up his hair till it look a if he have be out in a gale , and smooth the frown from his brow with an air of relief .
`` So be I , but a kind word will govern me when all the king 's horse and all the king 's men could n't , '' say Jo , try to say a kind word for her friend , who seem to get out of one scrape only to fall into another .
`` You think I 'm not kind to him , hey ? ''
be the sharp answer .
`` Oh , dear no , Sir .
You be rather too kind sometimes , and then just a trifle hasty when he try your patience .
Do n't you think you be ? ''
Jo be determine to have it out now , and try to look quite placid , though she quake a little after her bold speech .
To her great relief and surprise , the old gentleman only throw his spectacle onto the table with a rattle and exclaim frankly , `` You 're right , girl , I be !
I love the boy , but he try my patience past bearing , and I know how it will end , if we go on so . ''
`` I 'll tell you , he 'll run away . ''
Jo be sorry for that speech the minute it be make .
She mean to warn him that Laurie would not bear much restraint , and hop he would be more forebearing with the lad .
Mr. Laurence 's ruddy face change suddenly , and he sit down , with a troubled glance at the picture of a handsome man , which hang over his table .
It be Laurie 's father , who have run away in his youth , and marry against the imperious old man 's will .
Jo fancy he remember and regret the past , and she wish she have hold her tongue .
`` He wo n't do it unless he be very much worry , and only threaten it sometimes , when he get tire of study .
I often think I should like to , especially since my hair be cut , so if you ever miss u , you may advertise for two boy and look among the ship bound for India . ''
She laugh a she speak , and Mr. Laurence look relieve , evidently take the whole a a joke .
`` You hussy , how dare you talk in that way ?
Where 's your respect for me , and your proper bring up ?
Bless the boy and girl !
What torment they be , yet we ca n't do without them , '' he say , pinch her cheek good-humoredly .
`` Go and bring that boy down to his dinner , tell him it 's all right , and advise him not to put on tragedy air with his grandfather .
I wo n't bear it . ''
`` He wo n't come , Sir .
He feel badly because you do n't believe him when he say he could n't tell .
I think the shake hurt his feeling very much . ''
Jo try to look pathetic but must have fail , for Mr. Laurence begin to laugh , and she know the day be win .
`` I 'm sorry for that , and ought to thank him for not shake me , I suppose .
What the dickens do the fellow expect ? ''
and the old gentleman look a trifle ashamed of his own testiness .
`` If I be you , I 'd write him an apology , Sir .
He say he wo n't come down till he have one , and talk about Washington , and go on in an absurd way .
A formal apology will make him see how foolish he be , and bring him down quite amiable .
Try it .
He like fun , and this way be good than talk .
I 'll carry it up , and teach him his duty . ''
Mr. Laurence give her a sharp look , and put on his spectacle , say slowly , `` You 're a sly pus , but I do n't mind be manage by you and Beth .
Here , give me a bit of paper , and let u have do with this nonsense . ''
The note be write in the term which one gentleman would use to another after offer some deep insult .
Jo drop a kiss on the top of Mr. Laurence 's bald head , and run up to slip the apology under Laurie 's door , advise him through the keyhole to be submissive , decorous , and a few other agreeable impossibility .
Finding the door lock again , she leave the note to do it work , and be go quietly away , when the young gentleman slide down the banister , and wait for her at the bottom , say , with his most virtuous expression of countenance , `` What a good fellow you be , Jo !
Did you get blow up ? ''
he add , laugh .
`` No , he be pretty mild , on the whole . ''
`` Ah !
I get it all round .
Even you cast me off over there , and I felt just ready to go to the deuce , '' he begin apologetically .
`` Do n't talk that way , turn over a new leaf and begin again , Teddy , my son . ''
`` I keep turn over new leaf , and spoil them , a I use to spoil my copybook , and I make so many beginning there never will be an end , '' he say dolefully .
`` Go and eat your dinner , you 'll feel well after it .
Men always croak when they be hungry , '' and Jo whisk out at the front door after that .
`` That 's a ` label ' on my ` sect ' , '' answer Laurie , quote Amy , a he go to partake of humble pie dutifully with his grandfather , who be quite saintly in temper and overwhelmingly respectful in manner all the rest of the day .
Everyone think the matter end and the little cloud blow over , but the mischief be do , for though others forget it , Meg remember .
She never allude to a certain person , but she think of him a good deal , dream dream more than ever , and once Jo , rummage her sister 's desk for stamp , find a bit of paper scribble over with the word , ` Mrs. John Brooke ' , whereat she groan tragically and cast it into the fire , feel that Laurie 's prank have hasten the evil day for her .
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO PLEASANT MEADOWS Like sunshine after a storm be the peaceful week which follow .
The invalid improve rapidly , and Mr. March begin to talk of return early in the new year .
Beth be soon able to lie on the study sofa all day , amuse herself with the well-beloved cat at first , and in time with doll 's sewing , which have fall sadly behind-hand .
Her once active limb be so stiff and feeble that Jo take her for a daily air about the house in her strong arm .
Meg cheerfully blacken and burn her white hand cook delicate mess for ` the dear ' , while Amy , a loyal slave of the ring , celebrate her return by give away a many of her treasure a she could prevail on her sister to accept .
As Christmas approach , the usual mystery begin to haunt the house , and Jo frequently convulse the family by propose utterly impossible or magnificently absurd ceremony , in honor of this unusually merry Christmas .
Laurie be equally impracticable , and would have have bonfire , skyrocket , and triumphal arch , if he have have his own way .
After many skirmish and snubbings , the ambitious pair be consider effectually quench and go about with forlorn face , which be rather belie by explosion of laughter when the two get together .
Several day of unusually mild weather fitly usher in a splendid Christmas Day .
Hannah ` felt in her bone ' that it be go to be an unusually fine day , and she prove herself a true prophetess , for everybody and everything seem bound to produce a grand success .
To begin with , Mr. March write that he should soon be with them , then Beth felt uncommonly well that morning , and , be dress in her mother 's gift , a soft crimson merino wrapper , be bear in high triumph to the window to behold the offering of Jo and Laurie .
The Unquenchables have do their best to be worthy of the name , for like elf they have work by night and conjure up a comical surprise .
Out in the garden stand a stately snow maiden , crown with holly , bear a basket of fruit and flower in one hand , a great roll of music in the other , a perfect rainbow of an Afghan round her chilly shoulder , and a Christmas carol issue from her lip on a pink paper streamer .
THE JUNGFRAU TO BETH God bless you , dear Queen Bess !
May nothing you dismay , But health and peace and happiness Be yours , this Christmas day .
Here 's fruit to fee our busy bee , And flower for her nose .
Here 's music for her pianee , An afghan for her toe , A portrait of Joanna , see , By Raphael No . 2 , Who labour with great industry To make it fair and true .
Accept a ribbon red , I beg , For Madam Purrer 's tail , And ice cream make by lovely Peg , A Mont Blanc in a pail .
Their dear love my maker lay Within my breast of snow .
Accept it , and the Alpine maid , From Laurie and from Jo .
How Beth laugh when she saw it , how Laurie run up and down to bring in the gift , and what ridiculous speech Jo make a she present them .
`` I 'm so full of happiness , that if Father be only here , I could n't hold one drop more , '' say Beth , quite sigh with contentment a Jo carry her off to the study to rest after the excitement , and to refresh herself with some of the delicious grapes the ` Jungfrau ' have send her .
`` So be I , '' add Jo , slap the pocket wherein repose the long-desired Undine and Sintram .
`` I 'm sure I be , '' echo Amy , pore over the engraved copy of the Madonna and Child , which her mother have give her in a pretty frame .
`` Of course I be ! ''
cry Meg , smooth the silvery fold of her first silk dress , for Mr. Laurence have insist on give it .
`` How can I be otherwise ? ''
say Mrs. March gratefully , a her eye go from her husband 's letter to Beth 's smile face , and her hand carressed the brooch make of gray and golden , chestnut and dark brown hair , which the girl have just fasten on her breast .
Now and then , in this workaday world , thing do happen in the delightful storybook fashion , and what a comfort it be .
Half an hour after everyone have say they be so happy they could only hold one drop more , the drop come .
Laurie open the parlor door and pop his head in very quietly .
He might just as well have turn a somersault and utter an Indian war whoop , for his face be so full of suppressed excitement and his voice so treacherously joyful that everyone jump up , though he only say , in a queer , breathless voice , `` Here 's another Christmas present for the March family . ''
Before the word be well out of his mouth , he be whisk away somehow , and in his place appear a tall man , muffle up to the eye , lean on the arm of another tall man , who try to say something and could n't .
Of course there be a general stampede , and for several minute everybody seem to lose their wit , for the strange thing be do , and no one say a word .
Mr. March become invisible in the embrace of four pair of love arm .
Jo disgrace herself by nearly faint away , and have to be doctor by Laurie in the china closet .
Mr. Brooke kiss Meg entirely by mistake , a he somewhat incoherently explain .
And Amy , the dignified , tumble over a stool , and never stop to get up , hug and cry over her father 's boot in the most touching manner .
Mrs. March be the first to recover herself , and hold up her hand with a warning , `` Hush !
Remember Beth . ''
But it be too late .
The study door fly open , the little red wrapper appear on the threshold , joy put strength into the feeble limb , and Beth run straight into her father 's arm .
Never mind what happen just after that , for the full heart overflow , wash away the bitterness of the past and leave only the sweetness of the present .
It be not at all romantic , but a hearty laugh set everybody straight again , for Hannah be discover behind the door , sob over the fat turkey , which she have forget to put down when she rush up from the kitchen .
As the laugh subside , Mrs. March begin to thank Mr. Brooke for his faithful care of her husband , at which Mr. Brooke suddenly remember that Mr. March need rest , and seize Laurie , he precipitately retire .
Then the two invalid be order to repose , which they do , by both sit in one big chair and talk hard .
Mr. March tell how he have long to surprise them , and how , when the fine weather come , he have be allow by his doctor to take advantage of it , how devoted Brooke have be , and how he be altogether a most estimable and upright young man .
Why Mr. March pause a minute just there , and after a glance at Meg , who be violently poke the fire , look at his wife with an inquire lift of the eyebrow , I leave you to imagine .
Also why Mrs. March gently nod her head and ask , rather abruptly , if he would n't like to have something to eat .
Jo saw and understand the look , and she stalk grimly away to get wine and beef tea , mutter to herself a she slam the door , `` I hate estimable young men with brown eye ! ''
There never be such a Christmas dinner a they have that day .
The fat turkey be a sight to behold , when Hannah send him up , stuffed , brown , and decorate .
So be the plum pudding , which melt in one 's mouth , likewise the jelly , in which Amy revel like a fly in a honeypot .
Everything turn out well , which be a mercy , Hannah say , `` For my mind be that flustered , Mum , that it 's a merrycle I do n't roast the pudding , and stuff the turkey with raisin , let alone bilin ' of it in a cloth . ''
Mr. Laurence and his grandson din with them , also Mr. Brooke , at whom Jo glower darkly , to Laurie 's infinite amusement .
Two easy chair stand side by side at the head of the table , in which sit Beth and her father , feast modestly on chicken and a little fruit .
They drink health , tell story , sang song , ` reminisce ' , a the old folk say , and have a thoroughly good time .
A sleigh ride have be plan , but the girl would not leave their father , so the guest depart early , and a twilight gather , the happy family sit together round the fire .
`` Just a year ago we be groan over the dismal Christmas we expect to have .
Do you remember ? ''
ask Jo , break a short pause which have follow a long conversation about many thing .
`` Rather a pleasant year on the whole ! ''
say Meg , smile at the fire , and congratulate herself on have treat Mr. Brooke with dignity .
`` I think it 's be a pretty hard one , '' observe Amy , watch the light shine on her ring with thoughtful eye .
`` I 'm glad it 's over , because we 've get you back , '' whisper Beth , who sit on her father 's knee .
`` Rather a rough road for you to travel , my little pilgrim , especially the latter part of it .
But you have get on bravely , and I think the burden be in a fair way to tumble off very soon , '' say Mr. March , look with fatherly satisfaction at the four young face gather round him .
`` How do you know ?
Did Mother tell you ? ''
ask Jo .
`` Not much .
Straws show which way the wind blow , and I 've make several discovery today . ''
`` Oh , tell u what they be ! ''
cry Meg , who sit beside him .
`` Here be one . ''
And take up the hand which lay on the arm of his chair , he point to the roughen forefinger , a burn on the back , and two or three little hard spot on the palm .
`` I remember a time when this hand be white and smooth , and your first care be to keep it so .
It be very pretty then , but to me it be much pretty now , for in this seeming blemish I read a little history .
A burnt offering have be make to vanity , this harden palm have earn something well than blister , and I 'm sure the sew do by these pricked finger will last a long time , so much good will go into the stitch .
Meg , my dear , I value the womanly skill which keep home happy more than white hand or fashionable accomplishment .
I 'm proud to shake this good , industrious little hand , and hope I shall not soon be ask to give it away . ''
If Meg have want a reward for hour of patient labor , she receive it in the hearty pressure of her father 's hand and the approving smile he give her .
`` What about Jo ?
Please say something nice , for she have try so hard and be so very , very good to me , '' say Beth in her father 's ear .
He laugh and look across at the tall girl who sit opposite , with an unusually mild expression in her face .
`` In spite of the curly crop , I do n't see the ` son Jo ' whom I leave a year ago , '' say Mr. March .
`` I see a young lady who pin her collar straight , lace her boot neatly , and neither whistle , talk slang , nor lie on the rug a she use to do .
Her face be rather thin and pale just now , with watching and anxiety , but I like to look at it , for it have grow gentler , and her voice be low .
She do n't bounce , but move quietly , and take care of a certain little person in a motherly way which delight me .
I rather miss my wild girl , but if I get a strong , helpful , tenderhearted woman in her place , I shall feel quite satisfied .
I do n't know whether the shearing sober our black sheep , but I do know that in all Washington I could n't find anything beautiful enough to be buy with the five-and-twenty dollar my good girl send me . ''
Jo 's keen eye be rather dim for a minute , and her thin face grow rosy in the firelight a she receive her father 's praise , feel that she do deserve a portion of it .
`` Now , Beth , '' say Amy , long for her turn , but ready to wait .
`` There 's so little of her , I 'm afraid to say much , for fear she will slip away altogether , though she be not so shy a she use to be , '' begin their father cheerfully .
But recollect how nearly he have lose her , he hold her close , say tenderly , with her cheek against his own , `` I 've get you safe , my Beth , and I 'll keep you so , please God . ''
After a minute 's silence , he look down at Amy , who sit on the cricket at his foot , and say , with a caress of the shin hair ... `` I observe that Amy take drumstick at dinner , run errand for her mother all the afternoon , give Meg her place tonight , and have wait on every one with patience and good humor .
I also observe that she do not fret much nor look in the glass , and have not even mention a very pretty ring which she wear , so I conclude that she have learn to think of other people more and of herself less , and have decide to try and mold her character as carefully a she mold her little clay figure .
I be glad of this , for though I should be very proud of a graceful statue make by her , I shall be infinitely prouder of a lovable daughter with a talent for make life beautiful to herself and others . ''
`` What be you think of , Beth ? ''
ask Jo , when Amy have thank her father and tell about her ring .
`` I read in Pilgrim 's Progress today how , after many trouble , Christian and Hopeful come to a pleasant green meadow where lily bloom all year round , and there they rest happily , a we do now , before they go on to their journey 's end , '' answer Beth , add , a she slip out of her father 's arm and go to the instrument , `` It 's singing time now , and I want to be in my old place .
I 'll try to sing the song of the shepherd boy which the Pilgrims heard .
I make the music for Father , because he like the verse . ''
So , sit at the dear little piano , Beth softly touch the key , and in the sweet voice they have never think to hear again , sang to her own accompaniment the quaint hymn , which be a singularly fitting song for her .
He that be down need fear no fall , He that be low no pride .
He that be humble ever shall Have God to be his guide .
I be content with what I have , Little be it , or much .
And , Lord !
Contentment still I crave , Because Thou savest such .
Fulness to them a burden be , That go on pilgrimage .
Here little , and hereafter bliss , Is best from age to age !
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE AUNT MARCH SETTLES THE QUESTION Like bee swarm after their queen , mother and daughter hover about Mr. March the next day , neglect everything to look at , wait upon , and listen to the new invalid , who be in a fair way to be kill by kindness .
As he sit prop up in a big chair by Beth 's sofa , with the other three close by , and Hannah popping in her head now and then ` to peek at the dear man ' , nothing seem need to complete their happiness .
But something be need , and the elder one felt it , though none confess the fact .
Mr. and Mrs. March look at one another with an anxious expression , a their eye follow Meg .
Jo have sudden fit of sobriety , and be see to shake her fist at Mr. Brooke 's umbrella , which have be leave in the hall .
Meg be absent-minded , shy , and silent , start when the bell rang , and color when John 's name be mention .
Amy say , `` Everyone seem wait for something , and could n't settle down , which be queer , since Father be safe at home , '' and Beth innocently wonder why their neighbor do n't run over as usual .
Laurie go by in the afternoon , and see Meg at the window , seem suddenly possess with a melodramatic fit , for he fell down on one knee in the snow , beat his breast , tear his hair , and clasp his hand imploringly , a if beg some boon .
And when Meg tell him to behave himself and go away , he wring imaginary tear out of his handkerchief , and stagger round the corner a if in utter despair .
`` What do the goose mean ? ''
say Meg , laugh and try to look unconscious .
`` He 's show you how your John will go on by-and-by .
Touching , be n't it ? ''
answer Jo scornfully .
`` Do n't say my John , it be n't proper or true , '' but Meg 's voice linger over the word a if they sound pleasant to her .
`` Please do n't plague me , Jo , I 've tell you I do n't care much about him , and there be n't to be anything say , but we be all to be friendly , and go on a before . ''
`` We ca n't , for something have be say , and Laurie 's mischief have spoil you for me .
I see it , and so do Mother .
You be not like your old self a bit , and seem ever so far away from me .
I do n't mean to plague you and will bear it like a man , but I do wish it be all settle .
I hate to wait , so if you mean ever to do it , make haste and have it over quickly , '' say Jo pettishly .
`` I ca n't say anything till he speak , and he wo n't , because Father say I be too young , '' begin Meg , bend over her work with a queer little smile , which suggest that she do not quite agree with her father on that point .
`` If he do speak , you would n't know what to say , but would cry or blush , or let him have his own way , instead of give a good , decide no . ''
`` I 'm not so silly and weak a you think .
I know just what I should say , for I 've plan it all , so I need n't be take unawares .
There 's no know what may happen , and I wish to be prepare . ''
Jo could n't help smile at the important air which Meg have unconsciously assume and which be as become a the pretty color varying in her cheek .
`` Would you mind tell me what you 'd say ? ''
ask Jo more respectfully .
`` Not at all .
You be sixteen now , quite old enough to be my confident , and my experience will be useful to you by-and-by , perhaps , in your own affair of this sort . ''
`` Do n't mean to have any .
It 's fun to watch other people philander , but I should feel like a fool do it myself , '' say Jo , look alarm at the thought .
`` I think not , if you like anyone very much , and he like you . ''
Meg speak a if to herself , and glance out at the lane where she have often see lover walk together in the summer twilight .
`` I think you be go to tell your speech to that man , '' say Jo , rudely shorten her sister 's little reverie .
`` Oh , I should merely say , quite calmly and decidedly , ` Thank you , Mr. Brooke , you be very kind , but I agree with Father that I be too young to enter into any engagement at present , so please say no more , but let u be friend a we be . ' ''
`` Hum , that 's stiff and cool enough !
I do n't believe you 'll ever say it , and I know he wo n't be satisfy if you do .
If he go on like the rejected lover in book , you 'll give in , rather than hurt his feeling . ''
`` No , I wo n't .
I shall tell him I 've make up my mind , and shall walk out of the room with dignity . ''
Meg rise a she speak , and be just go to rehearse the dignified exit , when a step in the hall make her fly into her seat and begin to sew as fast a if her life depend on finish that particular seam in a give time .
Jo smother a laugh at the sudden change , and when someone give a modest tap , open the door with a grim aspect which be anything but hospitable .
`` Good afternoon .
I come to get my umbrella , that be , to see how your father find himself today , '' say Mr. Brooke , get a trifle confuse a his eye go from one telltale face to the other .
`` It 's very well , he 's in the rack .
I 'll get him , and tell it you be here . ''
And have jumble her father and the umbrella well together in her reply , Jo slip out of the room to give Meg a chance to make her speech and air her dignity .
But the instant she vanish , Meg begin to sidle toward the door , murmur ... `` Mother will like to see you .
Pray sit down , I 'll call her . ''
`` Do n't go .
Are you afraid of me , Margaret ? ''
and Mr. Brooke look so hurt that Meg think she must have do something very rude .
She blush up to the little curl on her forehead , for he have never call her Margaret before , and she be surprise to find how natural and sweet it seem to hear him say it .
Anxious to appear friendly and at her ease , she put out her hand with a confiding gesture , and say gratefully ... `` How can I be afraid when you have be so kind to Father ?
I only wish I could thank you for it . ''
`` Shall I tell you how ? ''
ask Mr. Brooke , hold the small hand fast in both his own , and look down at Meg with so much love in the brown eye that her heart begin to flutter , and she both long to run away and to stop and listen .
`` Oh no , please do n't , I 'd rather not , '' she say , try to withdraw her hand , and look frighten in spite of her denial .
`` I wo n't trouble you .
I only want to know if you care for me a little , Meg .
I love you so much , dear , '' add Mr. Brooke tenderly .
This be the moment for the calm , proper speech , but Meg do n't make it .
She forget every word of it , hang her head , and answer , `` I do n't know , '' so softly that John have to stoop down to catch the foolish little reply .
He seem to think it be worth the trouble , for he smile to himself a if quite satisfied , press the plump hand gratefully , and say in his most persuasive tone , `` Will you try and find out ?
I want to know so much , for I ca n't go to work with any heart until I learn whether I be to have my reward in the end or not . ''
`` I 'm too young , '' falter Meg , wonder why she be so fluttered , yet rather enjoy it .
`` I 'll wait , and in the meantime , you could be learn to like me .
Would it be a very hard lesson , dear ? ''
`` Not if I choose to learn it , but ... '' `` Please choose to learn , Meg .
I love to teach , and this be easy than German , '' break in John , get possession of the other hand , so that she have no way of hide her face a he bend to look into it .
His tone be properly beseeching , but steal a shy look at him , Meg saw that his eye be merry as well a tender , and that he wear the satisfied smile of one who have no doubt of his success .
This nettle her .
Annie Moffat 's foolish lesson in coquetry come into her mind , and the love of power , which sleep in the bosom of the best of little woman , wake up all of a sudden and take possession of her .
She felt excited and strange , and not know what else to do , follow a capricious impulse , and , withdraw her hand , say petulantly , `` I do n't choose .
Please go away and let me be ! ''
Poor Mr. Brooke look a if his lovely castle in the air be tumble about his ear , for he have never see Meg in such a mood before , and it rather bewilder him .
`` Do you really mean that ? ''
he ask anxiously , follow her a she walk away .
`` Yes , I do .
I do n't want to be worry about such thing .
Father say I need n't , it 's too soon and I 'd rather not . ''
`` May n't I hope you 'll change your mind by-and-by ?
I 'll wait and say nothing till you have have more time .
Do n't play with me , Meg .
I do n't think that of you . ''
`` Do n't think of me at all .
I 'd rather you would n't , '' say Meg , take a naughty satisfaction in try her lover 's patience and her own power .
He be grave and pale now , and look decidedly more like the novel hero whom she admire , but he neither slap his forehead nor tramp about the room a they do .
He just stand look at her so wistfully , so tenderly , that she find her heart relent in spite of herself .
What would have happen next I can not say , if Aunt March have not come hobbling in at this interesting minute .
The old lady could n't resist her longing to see her nephew , for she have meet Laurie a she take her airing , and hearing of Mr. March 's arrival , drive straight out to see him .
The family be all busy in the back part of the house , and she have make her way quietly in , hop to surprise them .
She do surprise two of them so much that Meg start a if she have see a ghost , and Mr. Brooke vanish into the study .
`` Bless me , what 's all this ? ''
cry the old lady with a rap of her cane a she glance from the pale young gentleman to the scarlet young lady .
`` It 's Father 's friend .
I 'm so surprised to see you ! ''
stammer Meg , feeling that she be in for a lecture now .
`` That 's evident , '' return Aunt March , sit down .
`` But what be Father 's friend say to make you look like a peony ?
There 's mischief go on , and I insist upon know what it be , '' with another rap .
`` We be only talk .
Mr. Brooke come for his umbrella , '' begin Meg , wish that Mr. Brooke and the umbrella be safely out of the house .
`` Brooke ?
That boy 's tutor ?
Ah !
I understand now .
I know all about it .
Jo blunder into a wrong message in one of your Father 's letter , and I make her tell me .
You have n't go and accept him , child ? ''
cried Aunt March , look scandalize .
`` Hush !
He 'll hear .
Sha n't I call Mother ? ''
say Meg , much troubled .
`` Not yet .
I 've something to say to you , and I must free my mind at once .
Tell me , do you mean to marry this Cook ?
If you do , not one penny of my money ever go to you .
Remember that , and be a sensible girl , '' say the old lady impressively .
Now Aunt March possess in perfection the art of rouse the spirit of opposition in the gentle people , and enjoy do it .
The best of u have a spice of perversity in u , especially when we be young and in love .
If Aunt March have beg Meg to accept John Brooke , she would probably have declare she could n't think of it , but a she be preemptorily order not to like him , she immediately make up her mind that she would .
Inclination as well a perversity make the decision easy , and be already much excite , Meg oppose the old lady with unusual spirit .
`` I shall marry whom I please , Aunt March , and you can leave your money to anyone you like , '' she say , nod her head with a resolute air .
`` Highty-tighty !
Is that the way you take my advice , Miss ?
You 'll be sorry for it by-and-by , when you 've try love in a cottage and find it a failure . ''
`` It ca n't be a bad one than some people find in big house , '' retort Meg .
Aunt March put on her glass and take a look at the girl , for she do not know her in this new mood .
Meg hardly know herself , she felt so brave and independent , so glad to defend John and assert her right to love him , if she like .
Aunt March saw that she have begin wrong , and after a little pause , make a fresh start , say as mildly a she could , `` Now , Meg , my dear , be reasonable and take my advice .
I mean it kindly , and do n't want you to spoil your whole life by make a mistake at the beginning .
You ought to marry well and help your family .
It 's your duty to make a rich match and it ought to be impress upon you . ''
`` Father and Mother do n't think so .
They like John though he be poor . ''
`` Your parent , my dear , have no more worldly wisdom than a pair of baby . ''
`` I 'm glad of it , '' cry Meg stoutly .
Aunt March take no notice , but go on with her lecture .
`` This Rook be poor and have n't get any rich relation , have he ? ''
`` No , but he have many warm friend . ''
`` You ca n't live on friend , try it and see how cool they 'll grow .
He have n't any business , have he ? ''
`` Not yet .
Mr. Laurence be go to help him . ''
`` That wo n't last long .
James Laurence be a crotchety old fellow and not to be depend on .
So you intend to marry a man without money , position , or business , and go on work hard than you do now , when you might be comfortable all your day by mind me and do good ?
I think you have more sense , Meg . ''
`` I could n't do good if I wait half my life !
John be good and wise , he 's get heap of talent , he 's willing to work and sure to get on , he 's so energetic and brave .
Everyone like and respect him , and I 'm proud to think he care for me , though I 'm so poor and young and silly , '' say Meg , look pretty than ever in her earnestness .
`` He know you have get rich relation , child .
That 's the secret of his liking , I suspect . ''
`` Aunt March , how dare you say such a thing ?
John be above such meanness , and I wo n't listen to you a minute if you talk so , '' cry Meg indignantly , forget everything but the injustice of the old lady 's suspicion .
`` My John would n't marry for money , any more than I would .
We be willing to work and we mean to wait .
I 'm not afraid of be poor , for I 've be happy so far , and I know I shall be with him because he love me , and I. .
. ''
Meg stop there , remember all of a sudden that she have n't make up her mind , that she have tell ` her John ' to go away , and that he might be overhear her inconsistent remark .
Aunt March be very angry , for she have set her heart on have her pretty niece make a fine match , and something in the girl 's happy young face make the lonely old woman feel both sad and sour .
`` Well , I wash my hand of the whole affair !
You be a willful child , and you 've lose more than you know by this piece of folly .
No , I wo n't stop .
I 'm disappointed in you , and have n't spirit to see your father now .
Do n't expect anything from me when you be marry .
Your Mr. Brooke 's friend must take care of you .
I 'm do with you forever . ''
And slam the door in Meg 's face , Aunt March drive off in high dudgeon .
She seem to take all the girl 's courage with her , for when left alone , Meg stand for a moment , undecided whether to laugh or cry .
Before she could make up her mind , she be take possession of by Mr. Brooke , who say all in one breath , `` I could n't help hearing , Meg .
Thank you for defend me , and Aunt March for prove that you do care for me a little bit . ''
`` I do n't know how much till she abuse you , '' begin Meg .
`` And I need n't go away , but may stay and be happy , may I , dear ? ''
Here be another fine chance to make the crushing speech and the stately exit , but Meg never think of do either , and disgrace herself forever in Jo 's eye by meekly whispering , `` Yes , John , '' and hide her face on Mr. Brooke 's waistcoat .
Fifteen minute after Aunt March 's departure , Jo come softly downstairs , pause an instant at the parlor door , and hear no sound within , nod and smile with a satisfied expression , say to herself , `` She have see him away a we plan , and that affair be settle .
I 'll go and hear the fun , and have a good laugh over it . ''
But poor Jo never get her laugh , for she be transfix upon the threshold by a spectacle which hold her there , star with her mouth nearly a wide open a her eye .
Going in to exult over a fall enemy and to praise a strong-minded sister for the banishment of an objectionable lover , it certainly be a shock to behold the aforesaid enemy serenely sit on the sofa , with the strongminded sister enthrone upon his knee and wear an expression of the most abject submission .
Jo give a sort of gasp , a if a cold shower bath have suddenly fall upon her , for such an unexpected turning of the table actually take her breath away .
At the odd sound the lover turn and saw her .
Meg jump up , look both proud and shy , but ` that man ' , a Jo call him , actually laugh and say coolly , a he kiss the astonished newcomer , `` Sister Jo , congratulate u ! ''
That be add insult to injury , it be altogether too much , and make some wild demonstration with her hand , Jo vanish without a word .
Rushing upstairs , she startle the invalid by exclaim tragically a she burst into the room , `` Oh , do somebody go down quick !
John Brooke be act dreadfully , and Meg like it ! ''
Mr. and Mrs. March leave the room with speed , and cast herself upon the bed , Jo cry and scold tempestuously a she tell the awful news to Beth and Amy .
The little girl , however , consider it a most agreeable and interesting event , and Jo get little comfort from them , so she go up to her refuge in the garret , and confide her trouble to the rat .
Nobody ever know what go on in the parlor that afternoon , but a great deal of talk be do , and quiet Mr. Brooke astonish his friend by the eloquence and spirit with which he plead his suit , tell his plan , and persuade them to arrange everything just a he want it .
The tea bell rang before he have finish describe the paradise which he mean to earn for Meg , and he proudly take her in to supper , both look so happy that Jo have n't the heart to be jealous or dismal .
Amy be very much impress by John 's devotion and Meg 's dignity , Beth beam at them from a distance , while Mr. and Mrs. March survey the young couple with such tender satisfaction that it be perfectly evident Aunt March be right in call them a ` unworldly a a pair of baby ' .
No one ate much , but everyone look very happy , and the old room seem to brighten up amazingly when the first romance of the family begin there .
`` You ca n't say nothing pleasant ever happen now , can you , Meg ? ''
say Amy , try to decide how she would group the lover in a sketch she be plan to make .
`` No , I 'm sure I ca n't .
How much have happen since I say that !
It seem a year ago , '' answer Meg , who be in a blissful dream lift far above such common thing a bread and butter .
`` The joy come close upon the sorrow this time , and I rather think the change have begin , '' say Mrs. March .
`` In most family there come , now and then , a year full of event .
This have be such a one , but it end well , after all . ''
`` Hope the next will end good , '' mutter Jo , who find it very hard to see Meg absorb in a stranger before her face , for Jo love a few person very dearly and dread to have their affection lose or lessen in any way .
`` I hope the third year from this will end good .
I mean it shall , if I live to work out my plan , '' say Mr. Brooke , smile at Meg , a if everything have become possible to him now .
`` Does n't it seem very long to wait ? ''
ask Amy , who be in a hurry for the wedding .
`` I 've get so much to learn before I shall be ready , it seem a short time to me , '' answer Meg , with a sweet gravity in her face never see there before .
`` You have only to wait , I be to do the work , '' say John begin his labor by pick up Meg 's napkin , with an expression which cause Jo to shake her head , and then say to herself with an air of relief a the front door bang , `` Here come Laurie .
Now we shall have some sensible conversation . ''
But Jo be mistake , for Laurie come prance in , overflow with good spirit , bear a great bridal-looking bouquet for ` Mrs. John Brooke ' , and evidently labor under the delusion that the whole affair have be bring about by his excellent management .
`` I know Brooke would have it all his own way , he always do , for when he make up his mind to accomplish anything , it 's do though the sky fall , '' say Laurie , when he have present his offering and his congratulation .
`` Much oblige for that recommendation .
I take it a a good omen for the future and invite you to my wedding on the spot , '' answer Mr. Brooke , who felt at peace with all mankind , even his mischievous pupil .
`` I 'll come if I 'm at the end of the earth , for the sight of Jo 's face alone on that occasion would be worth a long journey .
You do n't look festive , ma'am , what 's the matter ? ''
ask Laurie , follow her into a corner of the parlor , whither all have adjourn to greet Mr. Laurence .
`` I do n't approve of the match , but I 've make up my mind to bear it , and shall not say a word against it , '' say Jo solemnly .
`` You ca n't know how hard it be for me to give up Meg , '' she continue with a little quiver in her voice .
`` You do n't give her up .
You only go half , '' say Laurie consolingly .
`` It can never be the same again .
I 've lose my dear friend , '' sigh Jo .
`` You 've get me , anyhow .
I 'm not good for much , I know , but I 'll stand by you , Jo , all the day of my life .
Upon my word I will ! ''
and Laurie mean what he say .
`` I know you will , and I 'm ever so much oblige .
You be always a great comfort to me , Teddy , '' return Jo , gratefully shake hand .
`` Well , now , do n't be dismal , there 's a good fellow .
It 's all right you see .
Meg be happy , Brooke will fly round and get settle immediately , Grandpa will attend to him , and it will be very jolly to see Meg in her own little house .
We 'll have capital time after she be go , for I shall be through college before long , and then we 'll go abroad on some nice trip or other .
Would n't that console you ? ''
`` I rather think it would , but there 's no know what may happen in three year , '' say Jo thoughtfully .
`` That 's true .
Do n't you wish you could take a look forward and see where we shall all be then ?
I do , '' return Laurie .
`` I think not , for I might see something sad , and everyone look so happy now , I do n't believe they could be much improve . ''
And Jo 's eye go slowly round the room , brighten a they look , for the prospect be a pleasant one .
Father and Mother sit together , quietly relive the first chapter of the romance which for them begin some twenty year ago .
Amy be draw the lover , who sit apart in a beautiful world of their own , the light of which touch their face with a grace the little artist could not copy .
Beth lay on her sofa , talk cheerily with her old friend , who hold her little hand a if he felt that it possess the power to lead him along the peaceful way she walk .
Jo lounge in her favorite low seat , with the grave quiet look which best become her , and Laurie , lean on the back of her chair , his chin on a level with her curly head , smile with his friendly aspect , and nod at her in the long glass which reflect them both .
So the curtain fall upon Meg , Jo , Beth , and Amy .
Whether it ever rise again , depend upon the reception give the first act of the domestic drama call Little Women .
LITTLE WOMEN PART 2 In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg 's wedding ... CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR GOSSIP In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg 's wedding with free mind , it will be well to begin with a little gossip about the Marches .
And here let me premise that if any of the elder think there be too much ` lovering ' in the story , a I fear they may -LRB- I 'm not afraid the young folk will make that objection -RRB- , I can only say with Mrs. March , `` What can you expect when I have four gay girl in the house , and a dashing young neighbor over the way ? ''
The three year that have pass have bring but few change to the quiet family .
The war be over , and Mr. March safely at home , busy with his book and the small parish which find in him a minister by nature a by grace , a quiet , studious man , rich in the wisdom that be good than learning , the charity which call all mankind ` brother ' , the piety that blossom into character , make it august and lovely .
These attribute , in spite of poverty and the strict integrity which shut him out from the more worldly success , attract to him many admirable person , as naturally a sweet herb draw bee , and a naturally he give them the honey into which fifty year of hard experience have distil no bitter drop .
Earnest young men find the gray-headed scholar a young at heart a they ; thoughtful or troubled woman instinctively bring their doubt to him , sure of find the gentle sympathy , the wise counsel .
Sinners tell their sin to the pure-hearted old man and be both rebuke and save .
Gifted men find a companion in him .
Ambitious men catch glimpse of nobler ambition than their own , and even worldling confess that his belief be beautiful and true , although ` they would n't pay ' .
To outsiders the five energetic woman seem to rule the house , and so they do in many thing , but the quiet scholar , sit among his book , be still the head of the family , the household conscience , anchor , and comforter , for to him the busy , anxious woman always turn in troublous time , find him , in the true sense of those sacred word , husband and father .
The girl give their heart into their mother 's keep , their soul into their father 's , and to both parent , who live and labor so faithfully for them , they give a love that grow with their growth and bind them tenderly together by the sweet tie which bless life and outlive death .
Mrs. March be a brisk and cheery , though rather grayer , than when we saw her last , and just now so absorb in Meg 's affair that the hospital and home still full of wounded ` boy ' and soldier ' widow , decidedly miss the motherly missionary 's visit .
John Brooke do his duty manfully for a year , get wound , be send home , and not allow to return .
He receive no star or bar , but he deserve them , for he cheerfully risk all he have , and life and love be very precious when both be in full bloom .
Perfectly resign to his discharge , he devote himself to get well , prepare for business , and earn a home for Meg .
With the good sense and sturdy independence that characterize him , he refuse Mr. Laurence 's more generous offer , and accept the place of bookkeeper , feel well satisfy to begin with an honestly earn salary than by run any risk with borrow money .
Meg have spend the time in work as well a wait , grow womanly in character , wise in housewifely art , and pretty than ever , for love be a great beautifier .
She have her girlish ambition and hope , and felt some disappointment at the humble way in which the new life must begin .
Ned Moffat have just marry Sallie Gardiner , and Meg could n't help contrast their fine house and carriage , many gift , and splendid outfit with her own , and secretly wish she could have the same .
But somehow envy and discontent soon vanish when she think of all the patient love and labor John have put into the little home await her , and when they sit together in the twilight , talk over their small plan , the future always grow so beautiful and bright that she forget Sallie 's splendor and felt herself the rich , happy girl in Christendom .
Jo never go back to Aunt March , for the old lady take such a fancy to Amy that she bribe her with the offer of draw lesson from one of the best teacher go , and for the sake of this advantage , Amy would have serve a far hard mistress .
So she give her morning to duty , her afternoon to pleasure , and prosper finely .
Jo meantime devote herself to literature and Beth , who remain delicate long after the fever be a thing of the past .
Not an invalid exactly , but never again the rosy , healthy creature she have be , yet always hopeful , happy , and serene , and busy with the quiet duty she love , everyone 's friend , and an angel in the house , long before those who love her most have learn to know it .
As long a The Spread Eagle pay her a dollar a column for her ` rubbish ' , a she call it , Jo felt herself a woman of mean , and spin her little romance diligently .
But great plan ferment in her busy brain and ambitious mind , and the old tin kitchen in the garret hold a slowly increase pile of blotted manuscript , which be one day to place the name of March upon the roll of fame .
Laurie , have dutifully go to college to please his grandfather , be now get through it in the easy possible manner to please himself .
A universal favorite , thanks to money , manner , much talent , and the kind heart that ever get it owner into scrape by try to get other people out of them , he stand in great danger of be spoil , and probably would have be , like many another promising boy , if he have not possess a talisman against evil in the memory of the kind old man who be bind up in his success , the motherly friend who watch over him a if he be her son , and last , but not least by any mean , the knowledge that four innocent girl love , admire , and believe in him with all their heart .
Being only ' a glorious human boy ' , of course he frolic and flirt , grow dandify , aquatic , sentimental , or gymnastic , a college fashion ordain , haze and be haze , talk slang , and more than once come perilously near suspension and expulsion .
But as high spirit and the love of fun be the cause of these prank , he always manage to save himself by frank confession , honorable atonement , or the irresistible power of persuasion which he possess in perfection .
In fact , he rather pride himself on his narrow escape , and like to thrill the girl with graphic account of his triumph over wrathful tutor , dignify professor , and vanquished enemy .
The ` men of my class ' , be hero in the eye of the girl , who never weary of the exploit of ` our fellow ' , and be frequently allow to bask in the smile of these great creature , when Laurie bring them home with him .
Amy especially enjoy this high honor , and become quite a belle among them , for her ladyship early felt and learn to use the gift of fascination with which she be endow .
Meg be too much absorbed in her private and particular John to care for any other lord of creation , and Beth too shy to do more than peep at them and wonder how Amy dare to order them about so , but Jo felt quite in her own element , and find it very difficult to refrain from imitate the gentlemanly attitude , phrase , and feat , which seem more natural to her than the decorum prescribe for young lady .
They all like Jo immensely , but never fell in love with her , though very few escape without pay the tribute of a sentimental sigh or two at Amy 's shrine .
And speaking of sentiment brings u very naturally to the ` Dovecote ' .
That be the name of the little brown house Mr. Brooke have prepare for Meg 's first home .
Laurie have christen it , say it be highly appropriate to the gentle lover who ` go on together like a pair of turtledove , with first a bill and then a coo ' .
It be a tiny house , with a little garden behind and a lawn about as big a a pocket handkerchief in the front .
Here Meg meant to have a fountain , shrubbery , and a profusion of lovely flower , though just at present the fountain be represent by a weather-beaten urn , very like a dilapidated slopbowl , the shrubbery consist of several young larch , undecided whether to live or die , and the profusion of flower be merely hint by regiment of stick to show where seed be plant .
But inside , it be altogether charm , and the happy bride saw no fault from garret to cellar .
To be sure , the hall be so narrow it be fortunate that they have no piano , for one never could have be get in whole , the dining room be so small that six people be a tight fit , and the kitchen stair seem build for the express purpose of precipitate both servant and china pell-mell into the coalbin .
But once get use to these slight blemish and nothing could be more complete , for good sense and good taste have preside over the furnishing , and the result be highly satisfactory .
There be no marble-topped table , long mirror , or lace curtain in the little parlor , but simple furniture , plenty of book , a fine picture or two , a stand of flower in the bay window , and , scatter all about , the pretty gift which come from friendly hand and be the fairer for the loving message they bring .
I do n't think the Parian Psyche Laurie give lose any of it beauty because John put up the bracket it stand upon , that any upholsterer could have drape the plain muslin curtain more gracefully than Amy 's artistic hand , or that any store-room be ever well provide with good wish , merry word , and happy hope than that in which Jo and her mother put away Meg 's few box , barrel , and bundle , and I be morally certain that the spandy new kitchen never could have look so cozy and neat if Hannah have not arrange every pot and pan a dozen time over , and lay the fire all ready for light the minute ` Mis .
Brooke come home ' .
I also doubt if any young matron ever begin life with so rich a supply of duster , holder , and piece bag , for Beth make enough to last till the silver wedding come round , and invent three different kind of dishcloth for the express service of the bridal china .
People who hire all these thing do for them never know what they lose , for the homely task get beautify if loving hand do them , and Meg find so many proof of this that everything in her small nest , from the kitchen roller to the silver vase on her parlor table , be eloquent of home love and tender forethought .
What happy time they have plan together , what solemn shop excursion , what funny mistake they make , and what shout of laughter arose over Laurie 's ridiculous bargain .
In his love of joke , this young gentleman , though nearly through college , be a much of a boy a ever .
His last whim have be to bring with him on his weekly visit some new , useful , and ingenious article for the young housekeeper .
Now a bag of remarkable clothespin , next , a wonderful nutmeg grater which fell to piece at the first trial , a knife cleaner that spoil all the knife , or a sweeper that pick the nap neatly off the carpet and leave the dirt , labor-saving soap that take the skin off one 's hand , infallible cement which stick firmly to nothing but the finger of the delude buyer , and every kind of tinware , from a toy saving bank for odd penny , to a wonderful boiler which would wash article in it own steam with every prospect of explode in the process .
In vain Meg beg him to stop .
John laugh at him , and Jo call him ` Mr. Toodles ' .
He be possess with a mania for patronize Yankee ingenuity , and see his friend fitly furnish forth .
So each week behold some fresh absurdity .
Everything be do at last , even to Amy 's arrange different color soap to match the different colored room , and Beth 's set the table for the first meal .
`` Are you satisfy ?
Does it seem like home , and do you feel a if you should be happy here ? ''
ask Mrs. March , a she and her daughter go through the new kingdom arm in arm , for just then they seem to cling together more tenderly than ever .
`` Yes , Mother , perfectly satisfy , thanks to you all , and so happy that I ca n't talk about it , '' with a look that be far good than word .
`` If she only have a servant or two it would be all right , '' say Amy , come out of the parlor , where she have be try to decide whether the bronze Mercury look best on the whatnot or the mantlepiece .
`` Mother and I have talk that over , and I have make up my mind to try her way first .
There will be so little to do that with Lotty to run my errand and help me here and there , I shall only have enough work to keep me from get lazy or homesick , '' answer Meg tranquilly .
`` Sallie Moffat have four , '' begin Amy .
`` If Meg have four , the house would n't hold them , and master and missis would have to camp in the garden , '' break in Jo , who , envelop in a big blue pinafore , be give the last polish to the door handle .
`` Sallie be n't a poor man 's wife , and many maid be in keep with her fine establishment .
Meg and John begin humbly , but I have a feeling that there will be quite as much happiness in the little house a in the big one .
It 's a great mistake for young girl like Meg to leave themselves nothing to do but dress , give order , and gossip .
When I be first married , I use to long for my new clothes to wear out or get torn , so that I might have the pleasure of mend them , for I get heartily sick of do fancywork and tend my pocket handkerchief . ''
`` Why do n't you go into the kitchen and make mess , a Sallie say she do to amuse herself , though they never turn out well and the servant laugh at her , '' say Meg .
`` I do after a while , not to ` mess ' but to learn of Hannah how thing should be do , that my servant need not laugh at me .
It be play then , but there come a time when I be truly grateful that I not only possess the will but the power to cook wholesome food for my little girl , and help myself when I could no longer afford to hire help .
You begin at the other end , Meg , dear , but the lesson you learn now will be of use to you by-and-by when John be a rich man , for the mistress of a house , however splendid , should know how work ought to be do , if she wish to be well and honestly serve . ''
`` Yes , Mother , I 'm sure of that , '' say Meg , listen respectfully to the little lecture , for the best of woman will hold forth upon the all absorb subject of house keep .
`` Do you know I like this room most of all in my baby house , '' add Meg , a minute after , a they go upstairs and she look into her well-stored linen closet .
Beth be there , lay the snowy pile smoothly on the shelf and exult over the goodly array .
All three laugh a Meg speak , for that linen closet be a joke .
You see , have say that if Meg marry ` that Brooke ' she should n't have a cent of her money , Aunt March be rather in a quandary when time have appease her wrath and make her repent her vow .
She never break her word , and be much exercise in her mind how to get round it , and at last devise a plan whereby she could satisfy herself .
Mrs. Carrol , Florence 's mamma , be order to buy , have make , and mark a generous supply of house and table linen , and send it a her present , all of which be faithfully do , but the secret leak out , and be greatly enjoy by the family , for Aunt March try to look utterly unconscious , and insist that she could give nothing but the old-fashioned pearl long promise to the first bride .
`` That 's a housewifely taste which I be glad to see .
I have a young friend who set up housekeep with six sheet , but she have finger bowl for company and that satisfy her , '' say Mrs. March , pat the damask tablecloth , with a truly feminine appreciation of their fineness .
`` I have n't a single finger bowl , but this be a setout that will last me all my day , Hannah say . ''
And Meg look quite content , a well she might .
A tall , broad-shouldered young fellow , with a cropped head , a felt basin of a hat , and a flyaway coat , come tramp down the road at a great pace , walk over the low fence without stop to open the gate , straight up to Mrs. March , with both hand out and a hearty ... `` Here I be , Mother !
Yes , it 's all right . ''
The last word be in answer to the look the elder lady give him , a kindly question look which the handsome eye meet so frankly that the little ceremony close , a usual , with a motherly kiss .
`` For Mrs. John Brooke , with the maker 's congratulation and compliment .
Bless you , Beth !
What a refreshing spectacle you be , Jo .
Amy , you be get altogether too handsome for a single lady . ''
As Laurie speak , he deliver a brown paper parcel to Meg , pull Beth 's hair ribbon , star at Jo 's big pinafore , and fell into an attitude of mock rapture before Amy , then shake hand all round , and everyone begin to talk .
`` Where be John ? ''
ask Meg anxiously .
`` Stopped to get the license for tomorrow , ma'am . ''
`` Which side win the last match , Teddy ? ''
inquired Jo , who persist in feel an interest in manly sport despite her nineteen year .
`` Ours , of course .
Wish you 'd be there to see . ''
`` How be the lovely Miss Randal ? ''
ask Amy with a significant smile .
`` More cruel than ever .
Do n't you see how I 'm pin away ? ''
and Laurie give his broad chest a sounding slap and heave a melodramatic sigh .
`` What 's the last joke ?
Undo the bundle and see , Meg , '' say Beth , eye the knobby parcel with curiosity .
`` It 's a useful thing to have in the house in case of fire or thief , '' observe Laurie , a a watchman 's rattle appear , amid the laughter of the girl .
`` Any time when John be away and you get frighten , Mrs. Meg , just swing that out of the front window , and it will rouse the neighborhood in a jiffy .
Nice thing , be n't it ? ''
and Laurie give them a sample of it power that make them cover up their ear .
`` There 's gratitude for you !
And speaking of gratitude reminds me to mention that you may thank Hannah for save your wed cake from destruction .
I saw it go into your house a I come by , and if she have n't defend it manfully I 'd have have a pick at it , for it look like a remarkably plummy one . ''
`` I wonder if you will ever grow up , Laurie , '' say Meg in a matronly tone .
`` I 'm do my best , ma'am , but ca n't get much high , I 'm afraid , a six foot be about all men can do in these degenerate day , '' respond the young gentleman , whose head be about level with the little chandelier .
`` I suppose it would be profanation to eat anything in this spick-and-span bower , so a I 'm tremendously hungry , I propose an adjournment , '' he add presently .
`` Mother and I be go to wait for John .
There be some last thing to settle , '' say Meg , bustle away .
`` Beth and I be go over to Kitty Bryant 's to get more flower for tomorrow , '' add Amy , tie a picturesque hat over her picturesque curl , and enjoy the effect as much a anybody .
`` Come , Jo , do n't desert a fellow .
I 'm in such a state of exhaustion I ca n't get home without help .
Do n't take off your apron , whatever you do , it 's peculiarly become , '' say Laurie , a Jo bestow his especial aversion in her capacious pocket and offer her arm to support his feeble step .
`` Now , Teddy , I want to talk seriously to you about tomorrow , '' begin Jo , a they stroll away together .
`` You must promise to behave well , and not cut up any prank , and spoil our plan . ''
`` Not a prank . ''
`` And do n't say funny thing when we ought to be sober . ''
`` I never do .
You be the one for that . ''
`` And I implore you not to look at me during the ceremony .
I shall certainly laugh if you do . ''
`` You wo n't see me , you 'll be cry so hard that the thick fog round you will obscure the prospect . ''
`` I never cry unless for some great affliction . ''
`` Such a fellow go to college , hey ? ''
cut in Laurie , with suggestive laugh .
`` Do n't be a peacock .
I only moan a trifle to keep the girl company . ''
`` Exactly .
I say , Jo , how be Grandpa this week ?
Pretty amiable ? ''
`` Very .
Why , have you get into a scrape and want to know how he 'll take it ? ''
ask Jo rather sharply .
`` Now , Jo , do you think I 'd look your mother in the face and say ` All right ' , if it be n't ? ''
and Laurie stop short , with an injured air .
`` No , I do n't . ''
`` Then do n't go and be suspicious .
I only want some money , '' say Laurie , walk on again , appease by her hearty tone .
`` You spend a great deal , Teddy . ''
`` Bless you , I do n't spend it , it spend itself somehow , and be go before I know it . ''
`` You be so generous and kind-hearted that you let people borrow , and ca n't say ` No ' to anyone .
We hear about Henshaw and all you do for him .
If you always spend money in that way , no one would blame you , '' say Jo warmly .
`` Oh , he make a mountain out of a molehill .
You would n't have me let that fine fellow work himself to death just for want of a little help , when he be worth a dozen of u lazy chap , would you ? ''
`` Of course not , but I do n't see the use of your have seventeen waistcoat , endless necktie , and a new hat every time you come home .
I think you 'd get over the dandy period , but every now and then it break out in a new spot .
Just now it 's the fashion to be hideous , to make your head look like a scrubbing brush , wear a strait jacket , orange glove , and clump square-toed boot .
If it be cheap ugliness , I 'd say nothing , but it cost as much a the other , and I do n't get any satisfaction out of it . ''
Laurie throw back his head , and laugh so heartily at this attack , that the felt hat fell off , and Jo walk on it , which insult only afford him an opportunity for expatiate on the advantage of a rough-and-ready costume , a he fold up the maltreat hat , and stuff it into his pocket .
`` Do n't lecture any more , there 's a good soul !
I have enough all through the week , and like to enjoy myself when I come home .
I 'll get myself up regardless of expense tomorrow and be a satisfaction to my friend . ''
`` I 'll leave you in peace if you 'll only let your hair grow .
I 'm not aristocratic , but I do object to be see with a person who look like a young prize fighter , '' observe Jo severely .
`` This unassuming style promotes study , that 's why we adopt it , '' return Laurie , who certainly could not be accuse of vanity , have voluntarily sacrifice a handsome curly crop to the demand for quarter-inch-long stubble .
`` By the way , Jo , I think that little Parker be really get desperate about Amy .
He talk of her constantly , write poetry , and moon about in a most suspicious manner .
He 'd better nip his little passion in the bud , have n't he ? ''
added Laurie , in a confidential , elder brotherly tone , after a minute 's silence .
`` Of course he have .
We do n't want any more marrying in this family for year to come .
Mercy on u , what be the child thinking of ? ''
and Jo look a much scandalize a if Amy and little Parker be not yet in their teen .
`` It 's a fast age , and I do n't know what we be come to , ma'am .
You be a mere infant , but you 'll go next , Jo , and we 'll be leave lamenting , '' say Laurie , shake his head over the degeneracy of the time .
`` Do n't be alarm .
I 'm not one of the agreeable sort .
Nobody will want me , and it 's a mercy , for there should always be one old maid in a family . ''
`` You wo n't give anyone a chance , '' say Laurie , with a sidelong glance and a little more color than before in his sunburned face .
`` You wo n't show the soft side of your character , and if a fellow get a peep at it by accident and ca n't help show that he like it , you treat him a Mrs. Gummidge do her sweetheart , throw cold water over him , and get so thorny no one dare touch or look at you . ''
`` I do n't like that sort of thing .
I 'm too busy to be worry with nonsense , and I think it 's dreadful to break up family so .
Now do n't say any more about it .
Meg 's wedding have turn all our head , and we talk of nothing but lover and such absurdity .
I do n't wish to get cross , so let 's change the subject ; '' and Jo look quite ready to fling cold water on the slight provocation .
Whatever his feeling might have be , Laurie find a vent for them in a long low whistle and the fearful prediction a they part at the gate , `` Mark my word , Jo , you 'll go next . ''
CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE THE FIRST WEDDING The June roses over the porch be awake bright and early on that morning , rejoice with all their heart in the cloudless sunshine , like friendly little neighbor , a they be .
Quite flush with excitement be their ruddy face , a they swing in the wind , whisper to one another what they have see , for some peep in at the dining room windows where the feast be spread , some climb up to nod and smile at the sister a they dress the bride , others wave a welcome to those who come and go on various errand in garden , porch , and hall , and all , from the rosy full-blown flower to the pale baby bud , offer their tribute of beauty and fragrance to the gentle mistress who have love and tend them so long .
Meg look very like a rise herself , for all that be best and sweet in heart and soul seem to bloom into her face that day , make it fair and tender , with a charm more beautiful than beauty .
Neither silk , lace , nor orange flower would she have .
`` I do n't want a fashionable wedding , but only those about me whom I love , and to them I wish to look and be my familiar self . ''
So she make her wed gown herself , sew into it the tender hope and innocent romance of a girlish heart .
Her sister braid up her pretty hair , and the only ornament she wore be the lily of the valley , which ` her John ' liked best of all the flower that grow .
`` You do look just like our own dear Meg , only so very sweet and lovely that I should hug you if it would n't crumple your dress , '' cry Amy , survey her with delight when all be do .
`` Then I be satisfied .
But please hug and kiss me , everyone , and do n't mind my dress .
I want a great many crumples of this sort put into it today , '' and Meg open her arm to her sister , who cling about her with April face for a minute , feel that the new love have not change the old .
`` Now I 'm go to tie John 's cravat for him , and then to stay a few minute with Father quietly in the study , '' and Meg run down to perform these little ceremony , and then to follow her mother wherever she go , conscious that in spite of the smile on the motherly face , there be a secret sorrow hid in the motherly heart at the flight of the first bird from the nest .
As the young girl stand together , give the last touch to their simple toilet , it may be a good time to tell of a few change which three year have work in their appearance , for all be look their best just now .
Jo 's angle be much soften , she have learn to carry herself with ease , if not grace .
The curly crop have lengthen into a thick coil , more become to the small head atop of the tall figure .
There be a fresh color in her brown cheek , a soft shine in her eye , and only gentle word fall from her sharp tongue today .
Beth have grow slender , pale , and more quiet than ever .
The beautiful , kind eye be large , and in them lie an expression that sadden one , although it be not sad itself .
It be the shadow of pain which touch the young face with such pathetic patience , but Beth seldom complains and always speak hopefully of ` be well soon ' .
Amy be with truth consider ` the flower of the family ' , for at sixteen she have the air and bearing of a full-grown woman , not beautiful , but possess of that indescribable charm call grace .
One saw it in the line of her figure , the make and motion of her hand , the flow of her dress , the droop of her hair , unconscious yet harmonious , and as attractive to many a beauty itself .
Amy 's nose still afflict her , for it never would grow Grecian , so do her mouth , be too wide , and have a decided chin .
These offend feature give character to her whole face , but she never could see it , and console herself with her wonderfully fair complexion , keen blue eye , and curl more golden and abundant than ever .
All three wear suit of thin silver gray -LRB- their best gown for the summer -RRB- , with blush rose in hair and bosom , and all three look just what they be , fresh-faced , happy-hearted girl , pause a moment in their busy life to read with wistful eye the sweet chapter in the romance of womanhood .
There be to be no ceremonious performance , everything be to be a natural and homelike a possible , so when Aunt March arrive , she be scandalize to see the bride come run to welcome and lead her in , to find the bridegroom fasten up a garland that have fall down , and to catch a glimpse of the paternal minister march upstairs with a grave countenance and a wine bottle under each arm .
`` Upon my word , here 's a state of thing ! ''
cry the old lady , take the seat of honor prepare for her , and settle the fold of her lavender moire with a great rustle .
`` You ought n't to be see till the last minute , child . ''
`` I 'm not a show , Aunty , and no one be come to stare at me , to criticize my dress , or count the cost of my luncheon .
I 'm too happy to care what anyone say or think , and I 'm go to have my little wedding just a I like it .
John , dear , here 's your hammer . ''
And away go Meg to help ` that man ' in his highly improper employment .
Mr. Brooke do n't even say , `` Thank you , '' but a he stoop for the unromantic tool , he kiss his little bride behind the fold door , with a look that make Aunt March whisk out her pocket handkerchief with a sudden dew in her sharp old eye .
A crash , a cry , and a laugh from Laurie , accompany by the indecorous exclamation , `` Jupiter Ammon !
Jo 's upset the cake again ! ''
cause a momentary flurry , which be hardly over when a flock of cousin arrive , and ` the party come in ' , a Beth use to say when a child .
`` Do n't let that young giant come near me , he worry me bad than mosquito , '' whisper the old lady to Amy , a the room fill and Laurie 's black head tower above the rest .
`` He have promise to be very good today , and he can be perfectly elegant if he like , '' return Amy , and glide away to warn Hercules to beware of the dragon , which warn cause him to haunt the old lady with a devotion that nearly distract her .
There be no bridal procession , but a sudden silence fell upon the room a Mr. March and the young couple take their place under the green arch .
Mother and sister gather close , a if loath to give Meg up .
The fatherly voice break more than once , which only seem to make the service more beautiful and solemn .
The bridegroom 's hand tremble visibly , and no one hear his reply .
But Meg look straight up in her husband 's eye , and say , `` I will ! ''
with such tender trust in her own face and voice that her mother 's heart rejoice and Aunt March sniff audibly .
Jo do not cry , though she be very near it once , and be only save from a demonstration by the consciousness that Laurie be star fixedly at her , with a comical mixture of merriment and emotion in his wicked black eye .
Beth keep her face hidden on her mother 's shoulder , but Amy stand like a graceful statue , with a most become ray of sunshine touch her white forehead and the flower in her hair .
It be n't at all the thing , I 'm afraid , but the minute she be fairly marry , Meg cry , `` The first kiss for Marmee ! ''
and turn , give it with her heart on her lip .
During the next fifteen minute she look more like a rise than ever , for everyone avail themselves of their privilege to the full extent , from Mr. Laurence to old Hannah , who , adorn with a headdress fearfully and wonderfully make , fell upon her in the hall , cry with a sob and a chuckle , `` Bless you , deary , a hundred time !
The cake ai n't hurt a mite , and everything look lovely . ''
Everybody clear up after that , and say something brilliant , or try to , which do just as well , for laughter be ready when heart be light .
There be no display of gift , for they be already in the little house , nor be there an elaborate breakfast , but a plentiful lunch of cake and fruit , dress with flower .
Mr. Laurence and Aunt March shrug and smile at one another when water , lemonade , and coffee be find to be to only sort of nectar which the three Hebes carry round .
No one say anything , till Laurie , who insist on serve the bride , appear before her , with a loaded salver in his hand and a puzzled expression on his face .
`` Has Jo smash all the bottle by accident ? ''
he whisper , `` or be I merely labor under a delusion that I saw some lie about loose this morning ? ''
`` No , your grandfather kindly offer u his best , and Aunt March actually send some , but Father put away a little for Beth , and dispatch the rest to the Soldier 's Home .
You know he think that wine should be use only in illness , and Mother say that neither she nor her daughter will ever offer it to any young man under her roof . ''
Meg speak seriously and expect to see Laurie frown or laugh , but he do neither , for after a quick look at her , he say , in his impetuous way , `` I like that !
For I 've see enough harm do to wish other woman would think a you do . ''
`` You be not make wise by experience , I hope ? ''
and there be an anxious accent in Meg 's voice .
`` No .
I give you my word for it .
Do n't think too well of me , either , this be not one of my temptation .
Being bring up where wine be as common a water and almost a harmless , I do n't care for it , but when a pretty girl offer it , one do n't like to refuse , you see . ''
`` But you will , for the sake of others , if not for your own .
Come , Laurie , promise , and give me one more reason to call this the happy day of my life . ''
A demand so sudden and so serious make the young man hesitate a moment , for ridicule be often hard to bear than self-denial .
Meg know that if he give the promise he would keep it at all cost , and feel her power , use it a a woman may for her friend 's good .
She do not speak , but she look up at him with a face make very eloquent by happiness , and a smile which say , `` No one can refuse me anything today . ''
Laurie certainly could not , and with an answer smile , he give her his hand , say heartily , `` I promise , Mrs. Brooke ! ''
`` I thank you , very , very much . ''
`` And I drink ` long life to your resolution ' , Teddy , '' cry Jo , baptize him with a splash of lemonade , a she wave her glass and beam approvingly upon him .
So the toast be drunk , the pledge make and loyally keep in spite of many temptation , for with instinctive wisdom , the girl seize a happy moment to do their friend a service , for which he thank them all his life .
After lunch , people stroll about , by two and three , through the house and garden , enjoy the sunshine without and within .
Meg and John happen to be stand together in the middle of the grass plot , when Laurie be seize with an inspiration which put the finishing touch to this unfashionable wedding .
`` All the married people take hand and dance round the new-made husband and wife , a the Germans do , while we bachelor and spinster prance in couple outside ! ''
cry Laurie , promenade down the path with Amy , with such infectious spirit and skill that everyone else follow their example without a murmur .
Mr. and Mrs. March , Aunt and Uncle Carrol begin it , others rapidly join in , even Sallie Moffat , after a moment 's hesitation , throw her train over her arm and whisk Ned into the ring .
But the crown joke be Mr. Laurence and Aunt March , for when the stately old gentleman chasseed solemnly up to the old lady , she just tuck her cane under her arm , and hop briskly away to join hand with the rest and dance about the bridal pair , while the young folk pervade the garden like butterfly on a midsummer day .
Want of breath bring the impromptu ball to a close , and then people begin to go .
`` I wish you well , my dear , I heartily wish you well , but I think you 'll be sorry for it , '' say Aunt March to Meg , add to the bridegroom , a he lead her to the carriage , `` You 've get a treasure , young man , see that you deserve it . ''
`` That be the pretty wedding I 've be to for an age , Ned , and I do n't see why , for there be n't a bit of style about it , '' observe Mrs. Moffat to her husband , a they drive away .
`` Laurie , my lad , if you ever want to indulge in this sort of thing , get one of those little girl to help you , and I shall be perfectly satisfy , '' say Mr. Laurence , settle himself in his easy chair to rest after the excitement of the morning .
`` I 'll do my best to gratify you , Sir , '' be Laurie 's unusually dutiful reply , a he carefully unpin the posy Jo have put in his buttonhole .
The little house be not far away , and the only bridal journey Meg have be the quiet walk with John from the old home to the new .
When she come down , look like a pretty Quakeress in her dove-colored suit and straw bonnet tie with white , they all gather about her to say ` good-by ' , as tenderly a if she have be go to make the grand tour .
`` Do n't feel that I be separate from you , Marmee dear , or that I love you any the less for love John so much , '' she say , cling to her mother , with full eye for a moment .
`` I shall come every day , Father , and expect to keep my old place in all your heart , though I be marry .
Beth be go to be with me a great deal , and the other girl will drop in now and then to laugh at my housekeeping struggle .
Thank you all for my happy wedding day .
Good-by , good-by ! ''
They stand watch her , with face full of love and hope and tender pride a she walk away , lean on her husband 's arm , with her hand full of flower and the June sunshine brighten her happy face -- and so Meg 's married life begin .
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX ARTISTIC ATTEMPTS It take people a long time to learn the difference between talent and genius , especially ambitious young men and woman .
Amy be learn this distinction through much tribulation , for mistake enthusiasm for inspiration , she attempt every branch of art with youthful audacity .
For a long time there be a lull in the ` mud-pie ' business , and she devote herself to the fine pen-and-ink drawing , in which she show such taste and skill that her graceful handiwork prove both pleasant and profitable .
But over-strained eye cause pen and ink to be lay aside for a bold attempt at poker-sketching .
While this attack last , the family live in constant fear of a conflagration , for the odor of burn wood pervade the house at all hour , smoke issue from attic and shed with alarm frequency , red-hot poker lay about promiscuously , and Hannah never go to bed without a pail of water and the dinner bell at her door in case of fire .
Raphael 's face be find boldly execute on the underside of the mould board , and Bacchus on the head of a beer barrel .
A chanting cherub adorn the cover of the sugar bucket , and attempt to portray Romeo and Juliet supply kindle for some time .
From fire to oil be a natural transition for burned finger , and Amy fell to paint with undiminished ardor .
An artist friend fit her out with his castoff palette , brush , and color , and she daub away , produce pastoral and marine view such a be never see on land or sea .
Her monstrosity in the way of cattle would have take prize at an agricultural fair , and the perilous pitching of her vessel would have produce seasickness in the most nautical observer , if the utter disregard to all know rule of shipbuilding and rigging have not convulse him with laughter at the first glance .
Swarthy boy and dark-eyed Madonnas , star at you from one corner of the studio , suggest Murillo ; oily brown shadow of face with a lurid streak in the wrong place , meant Rembrandt ; buxom lady and dropiscal infant , Rubens ; and Turner appear in tempest of blue thunder , orange lightning , brown rain , and purple cloud , with a tomato-colored splash in the middle , which might be the sun or a bouy , a sailor 's shirt or a king 's robe , a the spectator please .
Charcoal portrait come next , and the entire family hung in a row , look a wild and crocky a if just evoke from a coalbin .
Softened into crayon sketch , they do good , for the likeness be good , and Amy 's hair , Jo 's nose , Meg 's mouth , and Laurie 's eye be pronounced ` wonderfully fine ' .
A return to clay and plaster follow , and ghostly cast of her acquaintance haunt corner of the house , or tumble off closet shelf onto people 's head .
Children be entice in a model , till their incoherent account of her mysterious doings cause Miss Amy to be regard in the light of a young ogress .
Her effort in this line , however , be bring to an abrupt close by an untoward accident , which quench her ardor .
Other model fail her for a time , she undertake to cast her own pretty foot , and the family be one day alarm by an unearthly bumping and screaming and run to the rescue , find the young enthusiast hop wildly about the shed with her foot hold fast in a pan full of plaster , which have harden with unexpected rapidity .
With much difficulty and some danger she be dig out , for Jo be so overcome with laughter while she excavate that her knife go too far , cut the poor foot , and leave a lasting memorial of one artistic attempt , at least .
After this Amy subside , till a mania for sketch from nature set her to haunt river , field , and wood , for picturesque study , and sigh for ruin to copy .
She catch endless cold sit on damp grass to book ' a delicious bit ' , compose of a stone , a stump , one mushroom , and a broken mullein stalk , or ' a heavenly mass of cloud ' , that look like a choice display of featherbed when do .
She sacrifice her complexion float on the river in the midsummer sun to study light and shade , and get a wrinkle over her nose try after ` point of sight ' , or whatever the squint-and-string performance be call .
If ` genius be eternal patience ' , a Michelangelo affirms , Amy have some claim to the divine attribute , for she persevere in spite of all obstacle , failure , and discouragement , firmly believe that in time she should do something worthy to be call ` high art ' .
She be learn , do , and enjoy other thing , meanwhile , for she have resolve to be an attractive and accomplished woman , even if she never become a great artist .
Here she succeed well , for she be one of those happily create being who please without effort , make friend everywhere , and take life so gracefully and easily that less fortunate soul be tempt to believe that such be bear under a lucky star .
Everybody like her , for among her good gift be tact .
She have an instinctive sense of what be please and proper , always say the right thing to the right person , do just what suit the time and place , and be so self-possessed that her sister use to say , `` If Amy go to court without any rehearsal beforehand , she 'd know exactly what to do . ''
One of her weakness be a desire to move in ` our best society ' , without be quite sure what the best really be .
Money , position , fashionable accomplishment , and elegant manner be most desirable thing in her eye , and she like to associate with those who possess them , often mistake the false for the true , and admire what be not admirable .
Never forget that by birth she be a gentlewoman , she cultivate her aristocratic taste and feeling , so that when the opportunity come she might be ready to take the place from which poverty now exclude her .
`` My lady , '' a her friend call her , sincerely desire to be a genuine lady , and be so at heart , but have yet to learn that money can not buy refinement of nature , that rank do not always confer nobility , and that true breeding make itself felt in spite of external drawback .
`` I want to ask a favor of you , Mamma , '' Amy say , come in with an important air one day .
`` Well , little girl , what be it ? ''
reply her mother , in whose eye the stately young lady still remain ` the baby ' .
`` Our draw class break up next week , and before the girl separate for the summer , I want to ask them out here for a day .
They be wild to see the river , sketch the broken bridge , and copy some of the thing they admire in my book .
They have be very kind to me in many way , and I be grateful , for they be all rich and I know I be poor , yet they never make any difference . ''
`` Why should they ? ''
and Mrs. March put the question with what the girl call her ` Maria Theresa air ' .
`` You know as well a I that it do make a difference with nearly everyone , so do n't ruffle up like a dear , motherly hen , when your chicken get peck by smarter bird .
The ugly duckling turn out a swan , you know . ''
and Amy smile without bitterness , for she possess a happy temper and hopeful spirit .
Mrs. March laugh , and smooth down her maternal pride a she ask , `` Well , my swan , what be your plan ? ''
`` I should like to ask the girl out to lunch next week , to take them for a drive to the place they want to see , a row on the river , perhaps , and make a little artistic fete for them . ''
`` That look feasible .
What do you want for lunch ?
Cake , sandwich , fruit , and coffee will be all that be necessary , I suppose ? ''
`` Oh , dear , no !
We must have cold tongue and chicken , French chocolate and ice cream , besides .
The girl be use to such thing , and I want my lunch to be proper and elegant , though I do work for my living . ''
`` How many young lady be there ? ''
ask her mother , begin to look sober .
`` Twelve or fourteen in the class , but I dare say they wo n't all come . ''
`` Bless me , child , you will have to charter an omnibus to carry them about . ''
`` Why , Mother , how can you think of such a thing ?
Not more than six or eight will probably come , so I shall hire a beach wagon and borrow Mr. Laurence 's cherry-bounce . ''
-LRB- Hannah 's pronunciation of char-a-banc . -RRB-
`` All of this will be expensive , Amy . ''
`` Not very .
I 've calculate the cost , and I 'll pay for it myself . ''
`` Do n't you think , dear , that a these girl be use to such thing , and the best we can do will be nothing new , that some simpler plan would be pleasant to them , a a change if nothing more , and much good for u than buy or borrow what we do n't need , and attempt a style not in keep with our circumstance ? ''
`` If I ca n't have it a I like , I do n't care to have it at all .
I know that I can carry it out perfectly well , if you and the girl will help a little , and I do n't see why I ca n't if I 'm willing to pay for it , '' say Amy , with the decision which opposition be apt to change into obstinacy .
Mrs. March know that experience be an excellent teacher , and when it be possible she leave her child to learn alone the lesson which she would gladly have make easy , if they have not object to take advice as much a they do salt and senna .
`` Very well , Amy , if your heart be set upon it , and you see your way through without too great an outlay of money , time , and temper , I 'll say no more .
Talk it over with the girl , and whichever way you decide , I 'll do my best to help you . ''
`` Thanks , Mother , you be always so kind . ''
and away go Amy to lay her plan before her sister .
Meg agree at once , and promise her aid , gladly offer anything she possess , from her little house itself to her very best saltspoons .
But Jo frown upon the whole project and would have nothing to do with it at first .
`` Why in the world should you spend your money , worry your family , and turn the house upside down for a parcel of girl who do n't care a sixpence for you ?
I think you have too much pride and sense to truckle to any mortal woman just because she wear French boot and ride in a coupe , '' say Jo , who , be call from the tragic climax of her novel , be not in the best mood for social enterprise .
`` I do n't truckle , and I hate be patronize as much a you do ! ''
return Amy indignantly , for the two still jangle when such question arise .
`` The girl do care for me , and I for them , and there 's a great deal of kindness and sense and talent among them , in spite of what you call fashionable nonsense .
You do n't care to make people like you , to go into good society , and cultivate your manner and taste .
I do , and I mean to make the most of every chance that come .
You can go through the world with your elbow out and your nose in the air , and call it independence , if you like .
That 's not my way . ''
When Amy have whet her tongue and free her mind she usually get the best of it , for she seldom fail to have common sense on her side , while Jo carry her love of liberty and hate of conventionality to such an unlimited extent that she naturally find herself worst in an argument .
Amy 's definition of Jo 's idea of independence be such a good hit that both burst out laughing , and the discussion take a more amiable turn .
Much against her will , Jo at length consent to sacrifice a day to Mrs. Grundy , and help her sister through what she regard a ' a nonsensical business ' .
The invitation be send , nearly all accept , and the follow Monday be set apart for the grand event .
Hannah be out of humor because her week 's work be derange , and prophesy that `` ef the washin ' and ironin ' war n't do reg ` lar , nothin ' would go well anywheres '' .
This hitch in the mainspring of the domestic machinery have a bad effect upon the whole concern , but Amy 's motto be ` Nil desperandum ' , and have make up her mind what to do , she proceed to do it in spite of all obstacle .
To begin with , Hannah 's cooking do n't turn out well .
The chicken be tough , the tongue too salty , and the chocolate would n't froth properly .
Then the cake and ice cost more than Amy expect , so do the wagon , and various other expense , which seem trifle at the outset , count up rather alarmingly afterward .
Beth get a cold and take to her bed .
Meg have an unusual number of caller to keep her at home , and Jo be in such a divided state of mind that her breakage , accident , and mistake be uncommonly numerous , serious , and try .
If it be not fair on Monday , the young lady be to come on Tuesday , an arrangement which aggravate Jo and Hannah to the last degree .
On Monday morning the weather be in that undecided state which be more exasperate than a steady pour .
It drizzle a little , shine a little , blow a little , and do n't make up it mind till it be too late for anyone else to make up theirs .
Amy be up at dawn , hustle people out of their bed and through their breakfast , that the house might be get in order .
The parlor strike her a look uncommonly shabby , but without stop to sigh for what she have not , she skillfully make the best of what she have , arrange chair over the worn place in the carpet , cover stain on the wall with homemade statuary , which give an artistic air to the room , a do the lovely vas of flower Jo scatter about .
The lunch look charming , and a she survey it , she sincerely hop it would taste well , and that the borrow glass , china , and silver would get safely home again .
The carriage be promise , Meg and Mother be all ready to do the honor , Beth be able to help Hannah behind the scene , Jo have engage to be a lively and amiable a an absent mind , and ache head , and a very decided disapproval of everybody and everything would allow , and a she wearily dress , Amy cheer herself with anticipation of the happy moment when , lunch safely over , she should drive away with her friend for an afternoon of artistic delight , for the ` cherry bounce ' and the broken bridge be her strong point .
Then come the hour of suspense , during which she vibrate from parlor to porch , while public opinion vary like the weathercock .
A smart shower at eleven have evidently quench the enthusiasm of the young lady who be to arrive at twelve , for nobody come , and at two the exhaust family sit down in a blaze of sunshine to consume the perishable portion of the feast , that nothing might be lose .
`` No doubt about the weather today , they will certainly come , so we must fly round and be ready for them , '' say Amy , a the sun wake her next morning .
She speak briskly , but in her secret soul she wish she have say nothing about Tuesday , for her interest like her cake be get a little stale .
`` I ca n't get any lobster , so you will have to do without salad today , '' say Mr. March , come in half an hour later , with an expression of placid despair .
`` Use the chicken then , the toughness wo n't matter in a salad , '' advise his wife .
`` Hannah leave it on the kitchen table a minute , and the kitten get at it .
I 'm very sorry , Amy , '' add Beth , who be still a patroness of cat .
`` Then I must have a lobster , for tongue alone wo n't do , '' say Amy decidedly .
`` Shall I rush into town and demand one ? ''
ask Jo , with the magnanimity of a martyr .
`` You 'd come bring it home under your arm without any paper , just to try me .
I 'll go myself , '' answer Amy , whose temper be begin to fail .
Shrouded in a thick veil and arm with a genteel travel basket , she depart , feel that a cool drive would soothe her ruffled spirit and fit her for the labor of the day .
After some delay , the object of her desire be procure , likewise a bottle of dress to prevent further loss of time at home , and off she drive again , well pleased with her own forethought .
As the omnibus contain only one other passenger , a sleepy old lady , Amy pocket her veil and beguile the tedium of the way by try to find out where all her money have go to .
So busy be she with her card full of refractory figure that she do not observe a newcomer , who enter without stop the vehicle , till a masculine voice say , `` Good morning , Miss March , '' and , look up , she behold one of Laurie 's most elegant college friend .
Fervently hop that he would get out before she do , Amy utterly ignore the basket at her foot , and congratulate herself that she have on her new travel dress , return the young man 's greeting with her usual suavity and spirit .
They get on excellently , for Amy 's chief care be soon set at rest by learn that the gentleman would leave first , and she be chat away in a peculiarly lofty strain , when the old lady get out .
In stumble to the door , she upset the basket , and -- oh horror !
-- the lobster , in all it vulgar size and brilliancy , be reveal to the highborn eye of a Tudor !
`` By Jove , she 's forgotten her dinner ! ''
cry the unconscious youth , poke the scarlet monster into it place with his cane , and prepare to hand out the basket after the old lady .
`` Please do n't -- it 's -- it 's mine , '' murmur Amy , with a face nearly as red a her fish .
`` Oh , really , I beg pardon .
It 's an uncommonly fine one , be n't it ? ''
say Tudor , with great presence of mind , and an air of sober interest that do credit to his breeding .
Amy recover herself in a breath , set her basket boldly on the seat , and say , laugh , `` Do n't you wish you be to have some of the salad he 's go to make , and to see the charm young lady who be to eat it ? ''
Now that be tact , for two of the ruling foible of the masculine mind be touch .
The lobster be instantly surround by a halo of please reminiscence , and curiosity about ` the charming young lady ' divert his mind from the comical mishap .
`` I suppose he 'll laugh and joke over it with Laurie , but I sha n't see them , that 's a comfort , '' think Amy , a Tudor bow and depart .
She do not mention this meeting at home -LRB- though she discover that , thanks to the upset , her new dress be much damage by the rivulet of dress that meander down the skirt -RRB- , but go through with the preparation which now seem more irksome than before , and at twelve o'clock all be ready again .
Feeling that the neighbor be interested in her movement , she wish to efface the memory of yesterday 's failure by a grand success today , so she order the ` cherry bounce ' , and drive away in state to meet and escort her guest to the banquet .
`` There 's the rumble , they 're come !
I 'll go onto the porch and meet them .
It look hospitable , and I want the poor child to have a good time after all her trouble , '' say Mrs. March , suit the action to the word .
But after one glance , she retire , with an indescribable expression , for look quite lose in the big carriage , sit Amy and one young lady .
`` Run , Beth , and help Hannah clear half the thing off the table .
It will be too absurd to put a luncheon for twelve before a single girl , '' cry Jo , hurry away to the low region , too excited to stop even for a laugh .
In come Amy , quite calm and delightfully cordial to the one guest who have keep her promise .
The rest of the family , be of a dramatic turn , play their part equally well , and Miss Eliott find them a most hilarious set , for it be impossible to control entirely the merriment which possess them .
The remodeled lunch be gaily partake of , the studio and garden visit , and art discuss with enthusiasm , Amy order a buggy -LRB- ala for the elegant cherry-bounce -RRB- , and drive her friend quietly about the neighborhood till sunset , when ` the party go out ' .
As she come walk in , look very tired but as compose a ever , she observe that every vestige of the unfortunate fete have disappear , except a suspicious pucker about the corner of Jo 's mouth .
`` You 've have a loverly afternoon for your drive , dear , '' say her mother , as respectfully a if the whole twelve have come .
`` Miss Eliott be a very sweet girl , and seem to enjoy herself , I think , '' observe Beth , with unusual warmth .
`` Could you spare me some of your cake ?
I really need some , I have so much company , and I ca n't make such delicious stuff a yours , '' ask Meg soberly .
`` Take it all .
I 'm the only one here who like sweet thing , and it will mold before I can dispose of it , '' answer Amy , think with a sigh of the generous store she have lay in for such an end a this .
`` It 's a pity Laurie be n't here to help u , '' begin Jo , a they sit down to ice cream and salad for the second time in two day .
A warn look from her mother check any further remark , and the whole family ate in heroic silence , till Mr. March mildly observe , `` salad be one of the favorite dish of the ancient , and Evelyn ... '' Here a general explosion of laughter cut short the ` history of salad ' , to the great surprise of the learned gentleman .
`` Bundle everything into a basket and send it to the Hummels .
Germans like mess .
I 'm sick of the sight of this , and there 's no reason you should all die of a surfeit because I 've be a fool , '' cry Amy , wipe her eye .
`` I think I should have die when I saw you two girl rattle about in the what-you-call-it , like two little kernel in a very big nutshell , and Mother wait in state to receive the throng , '' sigh Jo , quite spent with laughter .
`` I 'm very sorry you be disappoint , dear , but we all do our best to satisfy you , '' say Mrs. March , in a tone full of motherly regret .
`` I be satisfied .
I 've do what I undertake , and it 's not my fault that it fail .
I comfort myself with that , '' say Amy with a little quiver in her voice .
`` I thank you all very much for help me , and I 'll thank you still more if you wo n't allude to it for a month , at least . ''
No one do for several month , but the word ` fete ' always produce a general smile , and Laurie 's birthday gift to Amy be a tiny coral lobster in the shape of a charm for her watch guard .
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN LITERARY LESSONS Fortune suddenly smile upon Jo , and drop a good luck penny in her path .
Not a golden penny , exactly , but I doubt if half a million would have give more real happiness then do the little sum that come to her in this wise .
Every few week she would shut herself up in her room , put on her scribble suit , and ` fall into a vortex ' , a she express it , write away at her novel with all her heart and soul , for till that be finish she could find no peace .
Her ` scribble suit ' consist of a black woolen pinafore on which she could wipe her pen at will , and a cap of the same material , adorn with a cheerful red bow , into which she bundle her hair when the deck be clear for action .
This cap be a beacon to the inquire eye of her family , who during these period keep their distance , merely pop in their head semi-occasionally to ask , with interest , `` Does genius burn , Jo ? ''
They do not always venture even to ask this question , but take an observation of the cap , and judge accordingly .
If this expressive article of dress be draw low upon the forehead , it be a sign that hard work be go on , in excite moment it be push rakishly askew , and when despair seize the author it be pluck wholly off , and cast upon the floor .
At such time the intruder silently withdraw , and not until the red bow be see gaily erect upon the gifted brow , do anyone dare address Jo .
She do not think herself a genius by any mean , but when the writing fit come on , she give herself up to it with entire abandon , and lead a blissful life , unconscious of want , care , or bad weather , while she sit safe and happy in an imaginary world , full of friend almost a real and dear to her a any in the flesh .
Sleep forsook her eye , meal stand untasted , day and night be all too short to enjoy the happiness which bless her only at such time , and make these hour worth living , even if they bore no other fruit .
The devine afflatus usually last a week or two , and then she emerge from her ` vortex ' , hungry , sleepy , cross , or despondent .
She be just recover from one of these attack when she be prevail upon to escort Miss Crocker to a lecture , and in return for her virtue be reward with a new idea .
It be a People 's Course , the lecture on the Pyramids , and Jo rather wonder at the choice of such a subject for such an audience , but take it for grant that some great social evil would be remedied or some great want supply by unfold the glory of the Pharaohs to an audience whose thought be busy with the price of coal and flour , and whose life be spend in try to solve hard riddle than that of the Sphinx .
They be early , and while Miss Crocker set the heel of her stocking , Jo amuse herself by examine the face of the people who occupy the seat with them .
On her leave be two matron , with massive forehead and bonnet to match , discuss Women 's Rights and make tatting .
Beyond sit a pair of humble lover , artlessly hold each other by the hand , a somber spinster eat peppermint out of a paper bag , and an old gentleman take his preparatory nap behind a yellow bandanna .
On her right , her only neighbor be a studious look lad absorb in a newspaper .
It be a pictorial sheet , and Jo examine the work of art near her , idly wonder what fortuitous concatenation of circumstance need the melodramatic illustration of an Indian in full war costume , tumble over a precipice with a wolf at his throat , while two infuriated young gentleman , with unnaturally small foot and big eye , be stab each other close by , and a disheveled female be fly away in the background with her mouth wide open .
Pausing to turn a page , the lad saw her look and , with boyish good nature offer half his paper , say bluntly , `` want to read it ?
That 's a first-rate story . ''
Jo accept it with a smile , for she have never outgrow her liking for lad , and soon find herself involve in the usual labyrinth of love , mystery , and murder , for the story belong to that class of light literature in which the passion have a holiday , and when the author 's invention fail , a grand catastrophe clear the stage of one half the dramatis persona , leave the other half to exult over their downfall .
`` Prime , be n't it ? ''
ask the boy , a her eye go down the last paragraph of her portion .
`` I think you and I could do as well a that if we try , '' return Jo , amuse at his admiration of the trash .
`` I should think I be a pretty lucky chap if I could .
She make a good living out of such story , they say . ''
and he point to the name of Mrs. S.L.A.N.G . Northbury , under the title of the tale .
`` Do you know her ? ''
ask Jo , with sudden interest .
`` No , but I read all her piece , and I know a fellow who work in the office where this paper be print . ''
`` Do you say she make a good living out of story like this ? ''
and Jo look more respectfully at the agitated group and thickly sprinkle exclamation point that adorn the page .
`` Guess she do !
She know just what folk like , and get pay well for write it . ''
Here the lecture begin , but Jo hear very little of it , for while Professor Sands be prosing away about Belzoni , Cheops , scarabei , and hieroglyphic , she be covertly take down the address of the paper , and boldly resolve to try for the hundred-dollar prize offer in it column for a sensational story .
By the time the lecture end and the audience awoke , she have build up a splendid fortune for herself -LRB- not the first found on paper -RRB- , and be already deep in the concoction of her story , be unable to decide whether the duel should come before the elopement or after the murder .
She say nothing of her plan at home , but fell to work next day , much to the disquiet of her mother , who always look a little anxious when ` genius take to burn ' .
Jo have never try this style before , content herself with very mild romance for The Spread Eagle .
Her experience and miscellaneous reading be of service now , for they give her some idea of dramatic effect , and supply plot , language , and costume .
Her story be a full of desperation and despair a her limited acquaintance with those uncomfortable emotion enable her to make it , and have locate it in Lisbon , she wind up with an earthquake , a a striking and appropriate denouement .
The manuscript be privately dispatch , accompany by a note , modestly say that if the tale do n't get the prize , which the writer hardly dare expect , she would be very glad to receive any sum it might be consider worth .
Six week be a long time to wait , and a still long time for a girl to keep a secret , but Jo do both , and be just begin to give up all hope of ever see her manuscript again , when a letter arrive which almost take her breath away , for on open it , a check for a hundred dollar fell into her lap .
For a minute she star at it a if it have be a snake , then she read her letter and begin to cry .
If the amiable gentleman who write that kindly note could have know what intense happiness he be give a fellow creature , I think he would devote his leisure hour , if he have any , to that amusement , for Jo value the letter more than the money , because it be encourage , and after year of effort it be so pleasant to find that she have learn to do something , though it be only to write a sensation story .
A prouder young woman be seldom see than she , when , have compose herself , she electrify the family by appear before them with the letter in one hand , the check in the other , announce that she have win the prize .
Of course there be a great jubilee , and when the story come everyone read and praise it , though after her father have tell her that the language be good , the romance fresh and hearty , and the tragedy quite thrilling , he shake his head , and say in his unworldly way ... `` You can do good than this , Jo .
Aim at the high , and never mind the money . ''
`` I think the money be the best part of it .
What will you do with such a fortune ? ''
ask Amy , regard the magic slip of paper with a reverential eye .
`` Send Beth and Mother to the seaside for a month or two , '' answer Jo promptly .
To the seaside they go , after much discussion , and though Beth do n't come home a plump and rosy a could be desire , she be much good , while Mrs. March declare she felt ten year younger .
So Jo be satisfy with the investment of her prize money , and fell to work with a cheery spirit , bent on earn more of those delightful check .
She do earn several that year , and begin to feel herself a power in the house , for by the magic of a pen , her ` rubbish ' turn into comfort for them all .
The Duke 's Daughter pay the butcher 's bill , A Phantom Hand put down a new carpet , and the Curse of the Coventrys prove the blessing of the Marches in the way of grocery and gown .
Wealth be certainly a most desirable thing , but poverty have it sunny side , and one of the sweet us of adversity be the genuine satisfaction which come from hearty work of head or hand , and to the inspiration of necessity , we owe half the wise , beautiful , and useful blessing of the world .
Jo enjoy a taste of this satisfaction , and cease to envy rich girl , take great comfort in the knowledge that she could supply her own want , and need ask no one for a penny .
Little notice be take of her story , but they find a market , and encourage by this fact , she resolve to make a bold stroke for fame and fortune .
Having copy her novel for the fourth time , read it to all her confidential friend , and submit it with fear and trembling to three publisher , she at last disposed of it , on condition that she would cut it down one third , and omit all the part which she particularly admire .
`` Now I must either bundle it back in to my tin kitchen to mold , pay for print it myself , or chop it up to suit purchaser and get what I can for it .
Fame be a very good thing to have in the house , but cash be more convenient , so I wish to take the sense of the meeting on this important subject , '' say Jo , call a family council .
`` Do n't spoil your book , my girl , for there be more in it than you know , and the idea be well work out .
Let it wait and ripen , '' be her father 's advice , and he practice what he preach , have wait patiently thirty year for fruit of his own to ripen , and be in no haste to gather it even now when it be sweet and mellow .
`` It seem to me that Jo will profit more by take the trial than by wait , '' say Mrs. March .
`` Criticism be the best test of such work , for it will show her both unsuspected merit and fault , and help her to do good next time .
We be too partial , but the praise and blame of outsider will prove useful , even if she get but little money . ''
`` Yes , '' say Jo , knit her brow , `` that 's just it .
I 've be fuss over the thing so long , I really do n't know whether it 's good , bad , or indifferent .
It will be a great help to have cool , impartial person take a look at it , and tell me what they think of it . ''
`` I would n't leave a word out of it .
You 'll spoil it if you do , for the interest of the story be more in the mind than in the action of the people , and it will be all a muddle if you do n't explain a you go on , '' say Meg , who firmly believe that this book be the most remarkable novel ever write .
`` But Mr. Allen say , ` Leave out the explanation , make it brief and dramatic , and let the character tell the story ' , '' interrupt Jo , turn to the publisher 's note .
`` Do a he tell you .
He know what will sell , and we do n't .
Make a good , popular book , and get as much money a you can .
By-and-by , when you 've get a name , you can afford to digress , and have philosophical and metaphysical people in your novel , '' say Amy , who take a strictly practical view of the subject .
`` Well , '' say Jo , laughing , `` if my people be ` philosophical and metaphysical ' , it be n't my fault , for I know nothing about such thing , except what I hear father say , sometimes .
If I 've get some of his wise idea jumble up with my romance , so much the good for me .
Now , Beth , what do you say ? ''
`` I should so like to see it printed soon , '' be all Beth say , and smile in say it .
But there be an unconscious emphasis on the last word , and a wistful look in the eye that never lose their childlike candor , which chill Jo 's heart for a minute with a forboding fear , and decide her to make her little venture ` soon ' .
So , with Spartan firmness , the young authoress lay her first-born on her table , and chop it up as ruthlessly a any ogre .
In the hope of please everyone , she take everyone 's advice , and like the old man and his donkey in the fable suit nobody .
Her father like the metaphysical streak which have unconsciously get into it , so that be allow to remain though she have her doubt about it .
Her mother think that there be a trifle too much description .
Out , therefore it come , and with it many necessary link in the story .
Meg admire the tragedy , so Jo pile up the agony to suit her , while Amy object to the fun , and , with the best intention in life , Jo quench the spritly scene which relieve the somber character of the story .
Then , to complicate the ruin , she cut it down one third , and confidingly send the poor little romance , like a picked robin , out into the big , busy world to try it fate .
Well , it be print , and she get three hundred dollar for it , likewise plenty of praise and blame , both so much great than she expect that she be throw into a state of bewilderment from which it take her some time to recover .
`` You say , Mother , that criticism would help me .
But how can it , when it 's so contradictory that I do n't know whether I 've write a promising book or break all the ten commandment ? ''
cry poor Jo , turn over a heap of notice , the perusal of which fill her with pride and joy one minute , wrath and dismay the next .
`` This man say , ` An exquisite book , full of truth , beauty , and earnestness . '
` All be sweet , pure , and healthy . ' ''
continue the perplexed authoress .
`` The next , ` The theory of the book be bad , full of morbid fancy , spiritualistic idea , and unnatural character . '
Now , a I have no theory of any kind , do n't believe in Spiritualism , and copy my character from life , I do n't see how this critic can be right .
Another say , ` It 's one of the best American novel which have appear for year . '
-LRB- I know good than that -RRB- , and the next assert that ` Though it be original , and write with great force and feeling , it be a dangerous book . '
'T be n't !
Some make fun of it , some overpraise , and nearly all insist that I have a deep theory to expound , when I only write it for the pleasure and the money .
I wish I 'd print the whole or not at all , for I do hate to be so misjudged . ''
Her family and friend administer comfort and commendation liberally .
Yet it be a hard time for sensitive , high-spirited Jo , who mean so well and have apparently do so ill .
But it do her good , for those whose opinion have real value give her the criticism which be an author 's best education , and when the first soreness be over , she could laugh at her poor little book , yet believe in it still , and feel herself the wiser and strong for the buffeting she have receive .
`` Not be a genius , like Keats , it wo n't kill me , '' she say stoutly , `` and I 've get the joke on my side , after all , for the part that be take straight out of real life be denounce a impossible and absurd , and the scene that I make up out of my own silly head be pronounce ` charmingly natural , tender , and true ' .
So I 'll comfort myself with that , and when I 'm ready , I 'll up again and take another . ''
CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT DOMESTIC EXPERIENCES Like most other young matron , Meg begin her married life with the determination to be a model housekeeper .
John should find home a paradise , he should always see a smile face , should fare sumptuously every day , and never know the loss of a button .
She bring so much love , energy , and cheerfulness to the work that she could not but succeed , in spite of some obstacle .
Her paradise be not a tranquil one , for the little woman fuss , be over-anxious to please , and bustle about like a true Martha , cumber with many care .
She be too tired , sometimes , even to smile , John grow dyspeptic after a course of dainty dish and ungratefully demand plain fare .
As for button , she soon learn to wonder where they go , to shake her head over the carelessness of men , and to threaten to make him sew them on himself , and see if his work would stand impatient and clumsy finger any good than hers .
They be very happy , even after they discover that they could n't live on love alone .
John do not find Meg 's beauty diminish , though she beam at him from behind the familiar coffee pot .
Nor do Meg miss any of the romance from the daily parting , when her husband follow up his kiss with the tender inquiry , `` Shall I send some veal or mutton for dinner , darling ? ''
The little house cease to be a glorified bower , but it become a home , and the young couple soon felt that it be a change for the good .
At first they play keep-house , and frolic over it like child .
Then John take steadily to business , feel the care of the head of a family upon his shoulder , and Meg laid by her cambric wrapper , put on a big apron , and fell to work , a before say , with more energy than discretion .
While the cooking mania last she go through Mrs. Cornelius 's Receipt Book a if it be a mathematical exercise , work out the problem with patience and care .
Sometimes her family be invite in to help eat up a too bounteous feast of success , or Lotty would be privately dispatch with a batch of failure , which be to be conceal from all eye in the convenient stomach of the little Hummels .
An evening with John over the account book usually produce a temporary lull in the culinary enthusiasm , and a frugal fit would ensue , during which the poor man be put through a course of bread pudding , hash , and warmed-over coffee , which try his soul , although he bore it with praiseworthy fortitude .
Before the golden mean be find , however , Meg add to her domestic possession what young couple seldom get on long without , a family jar .
Fired a with housewifely wish to see her storeroom stock with homemade preserve , she undertake to put up her own currant jelly .
John be request to order home a dozen or so of little pot and an extra quantity of sugar , for their own currant be ripe and be to be attend to at once .
As John firmly believe that ` my wife ' be equal to anything , and take a natural pride in her skill , he resolve that she should be gratify , and their only crop of fruit lay by in a most pleasing form for winter use .
Home come four dozen delightful little pot , half a barrel of sugar , and a small boy to pick the currant for her .
With her pretty hair tuck into a little cap , arm bar to the elbow , and a checked apron which have a coquettish look in spite of the bib , the young housewife fell to work , feel no doubt about her success , for have n't she see Hannah do it hundreds of time ?
The array of pot rather amaze her at first , but John be so fond of jelly , and the nice little jar would look so well on the top shelf , that Meg resolve to fill them all , and spend a long day picking , boiling , straining , and fuss over her jelly .
She do her best , she ask advice of Mrs. Cornelius , she rack her brain to remember what Hannah do that she leave undone , she reboiled , resugared , and restrain , but that dreadful stuff would n't ` jell ' .
She long to run home , bib and all , and ask Mother to lend her a hand , but John and she have agree that they would never annoy anyone with their private worry , experiment , or quarrel .
They have laugh over that last word a if the idea it suggest be a most preposterous one , but they have hold to their resolve , and whenever they could get on without help they do so , and no one interfere , for Mrs. March have advise the plan .
So Meg wrestle alone with the refractory sweetmeats all that hot summer day , and at five o'clock sit down in her topsy-turvey kitchen , wring her bedaub hand , lift up her voice and wept .
Now , in the first flush of the new life , she have often say , `` My husband shall always feel free to bring a friend home whenever he like .
I shall always be prepare .
There shall be no flurry , no scolding , no discomfort , but a neat house , a cheerful wife , and a good dinner .
John , dear , never stop to ask my leave , invite whom you please , and be sure of a welcome from me . ''
How charming that be , to be sure !
John quite glow with pride to hear her say it , and felt what a blessed thing it be to have a superior wife .
But , although they have have company from time to time , it never happen to be unexpected , and Meg have never have an opportunity to distinguish herself till now .
It always happen so in this vale of tear , there be an inevitability about such thing which we can only wonder at , deplore , and bear a we best can .
If John have not forget all about the jelly , it really would have be unpardonable in him to choose that day , of all the day in the year , to bring a friend home to dinner unexpectedly .
Congratulating himself that a handsome repast have be order that morning , feel sure that it would be ready to the minute , and indulge in pleasant anticipation of the charm effect it would produce , when his pretty wife come run out to meet him , he escort his friend to his mansion , with the irrepressible satisfaction of a young host and husband .
It be a world of disappointment , a John discover when he reach the Dovecote .
The front door usually stand hospitably open .
Now it be not only shut , but lock , and yesterday 's mud still adorn the step .
The parlor window be close and curtain , no picture of the pretty wife sew on the piazza , in white , with a distract little bow in her hair , or a bright-eyed hostess , smile a shy welcome a she greet her guest .
Nothing of the sort , for not a soul appear but a sanginary-looking boy asleep under the current bush .
`` I 'm afraid something have happen .
Step into the garden , Scott , while I look up Mrs. Brooke , '' say John , alarm at the silence and solitude .
Round the house he hurry , lead by a pungent smell of burn sugar , and Mr. Scott stroll after him , with a queer look on his face .
He pause discreetly at a distance when Brooke disappear , but he could both see and hear , and be a bachelor , enjoy the prospect mightily .
In the kitchen reign confusion and despair .
One edition of jelly be trickle from pot to pot , another lay upon the floor , and a third be burn gaily on the stove .
Lotty , with Teutonic phlegm , be calmly eat bread and currant wine , for the jelly be still in a hopelessly liquid state , while Mrs. Brooke , with her apron over her head , sit sob dismally .
`` My dear girl , what be the matter ? ''
cry John , rush in , with awful vision of scalded hand , sudden news of affliction , and secret consternation at the thought of the guest in the garden .
`` Oh , John , I be so tired and hot and cross and worry !
I 've be at it till I 'm all wear out .
Do come and help me or I shall die ! ''
and the exhausted housewife cast herself upon his breast , give him a sweet welcome in every sense of the word , for her pinafore have be baptize at the same time a the floor .
`` What worry you dear ?
Has anything dreadful happen ? ''
ask the anxious John , tenderly kiss the crown of the little cap , which be all askew .
`` Yes , '' sob Meg despairingly .
`` Tell me quick , then .
Do n't cry .
I can bear anything good than that .
Out with it , love . ''
`` The ... The jelly wo n't jell and I do n't know what to do ! ''
John Brooke laugh then a he never dare to laugh afterward , and the derisive Scott smile involuntarily a he hear the hearty peal , which put the finishing stroke to poor Meg 's woe .
`` Is that all ?
Fling it out of the window , and do n't bother any more about it .
I 'll buy you quarts if you want it , but for heaven 's sake do n't have hysteric , for I 've bring Jack Scott home to dinner , and ... '' John get no further , for Meg cast him off , and clasp her hand with a tragic gesture a she fell into a chair , exclaim in a tone of mingled indignation , reproach , and dismay ... `` A man to dinner , and everything in a mess !
John Brooke , how could you do such a thing ? ''
`` Hush , he 's in the garden !
I forget the confound jelly , but it ca n't be help now , '' say John , survey the prospect with an anxious eye .
`` You ought to have send word , or tell me this morning , and you ought to have remember how busy I be , '' continue Meg petulantly , for even turtledove will peck when ruffle .
`` I do n't know it this morning , and there be no time to send word , for I meet him on the way out .
I never think of ask leave , when you have always tell me to do a I like .
I never try it before , and hang me if I ever do again ! ''
add John , with an aggrieved air .
`` I should hope not !
Take him away at once .
I ca n't see him , and there be n't any dinner . ''
`` Well , I like that !
Where 's the beef and vegetable I send home , and the pudding you promise ? ''
cry John , rush to the larder .
`` I have n't time to cook anything .
I mean to dine at Mother 's .
I 'm sorry , but I be so busy , '' and Meg 's tear begin again .
John be a mild man , but he be human , and after a long day 's work to come home tire , hungry , and hopeful , to find a chaotic house , an empty table , and a cross wife be not exactly conducive to repose of mind or manner .
He restrain himself however , and the little squall would have blow over , but for one unlucky word .
`` It 's a scrape , I acknowledge , but if you will lend a hand , we 'll pull through and have a good time yet .
Do n't cry , dear , but just exert yourself a bit , and fix u up something to eat .
We 're both as hungry a hunter , so we sha n't mind what it be .
Give u the cold meat , and bread and cheese .
We wo n't ask for jelly . ''
He mean it to be a good-natured joke , but that one word seal his fate .
Meg think it be too cruel to hint about her sad failure , and the last atom of patience vanish a he speak .
`` You must get yourself out of the scrape a you can .
I 'm too use up to ` exert ' myself for anyone .
It 's like a man to propose a bone and vulgar bread and cheese for company .
I wo n't have anything of the sort in my house .
Take that Scott up to Mother 's , and tell him I 'm away , sick , dead , anything .
I wo n't see him , and you two can laugh at me and my jelly as much a you like .
You wo n't have anything else here . ''
and have deliver her defiance all on one breath , Meg cast away her pinafore and precipitately leave the field to bemoan herself in her own room .
What those two creature do in her absence , she never know , but Mr. Scott be not take ` up to Mother 's ' , and when Meg descend , after they have stroll away together , she find trace of a promiscuous lunch which fill her with horror .
Lotty report that they have eat `` a much , and greatly laugh , and the master bid her throw away all the sweet stuff , and hide the pot . ''
Meg long to go and tell Mother , but a sense of shame at her own short-comings , of loyalty to John , `` who might be cruel , but nobody should know it , '' restrain her , and after a summary cleaning up , she dress herself prettily , and sit down to wait for John to come and be forgive .
Unfortunately , John do n't come , not see the matter in that light .
He have carry it off a a good joke with Scott , excuse his little wife as well a he could , and play the host so hospitably that his friend enjoy the impromptu dinner , and promise to come again , but John be angry , though he do not show it , he felt that Meg have desert him in his hour of need .
`` It be n't fair to tell a man to bring folk home any time , with perfect freedom , and when he take you at your word , to flame up and blame him , and leave him in the lurch , to be laugh at or pity .
No , by George , it be n't !
And Meg must know it . ''
He have fume inwardly during the feast , but when the flurry be over and he stroll home after see Scott off , a milder mood come over him .
`` Poor little thing !
It be hard upon her when she try so heartily to please me .
She be wrong , of course , but then she be young .
I must be patient and teach her . ''
He hop she have not go home -- he hat gossip and interference .
For a minute he be ruffle again at the mere thought of it , and then the fear that Meg would cry herself sick soften his heart , and send him on at a quicker pace , resolve to be calm and kind , but firm , quite firm , and show her where she have fail in her duty to her spouse .
Meg likewise resolve to be ` calm and kind , but firm ' , and show him his duty .
She long to run to meet him , and beg pardon , and be kiss and comfort , a she be sure of be , but , of course , she do nothing of the sort , and when she saw John come , begin to hum quite naturally , a she rock and sew , like a lady of leisure in her best parlor .
John be a little disappointed not to find a tender Niobe , but feel that his dignity demand the first apology , he make none , only come leisurely in and lay himself upon the sofa with the singularly relevant remark , `` We be go to have a new moon , my dear . ''
`` I 've no objection , '' be Meg 's equally soothing remark .
A few other topic of general interest be introduce by Mr. Brooke and wet-blanketed by Mrs. Brooke , and conversation languish .
John go to one window , unfold his paper , and wrap himself in it , figuratively speak .
Meg go to the other window , and sew a if new rosette for slipper be among the necessary of life .
Neither spoke .
Both look quite ` calm and firm ' , and both felt desperately uncomfortable .
`` Oh , dear , '' think Meg , `` married life be very try , and do need infinite patience as well a love , a Mother say . ''
The word ` Mother ' suggest other maternal counsel give long ago , and receive with unbelieving protest .
`` John be a good man , but he have his fault , and you must learn to see and bear with them , remember your own .
He be very decided , but never will be obstinate , if you reason kindly , not oppose impatiently .
He be very accurate , and particular about the truth -- a good trait , though you call him ` fussy ' .
Never deceive him by look or word , Meg , and he will give you the confidence you deserve , the support you need .
He have a temper , not like ours -- one flash and then all over -- but the white , still anger that be seldom stir , but once kindle be hard to quench .
Be careful , be very careful , not to wake his anger against yourself , for peace and happiness depend on keep his respect .
Watch yourself , be the first to ask pardon if you both err , and guard against the little pique , misunderstanding , and hasty word that often pave the way for bitter sorrow and regret . ''
These word come back to Meg , a she sit sew in the sunset , especially the last .
This be the first serious disagreement , her own hasty speech sound both silly and unkind , a she recall them , her own anger look childish now , and thought of poor John come home to such a scene quite melt her heart .
She glance at him with tear in her eye , but he do not see them .
She put down her work and get up , thinking , `` I will be the first to say , ` Forgive me ' '' , but he do not seem to hear her .
She go very slowly across the room , for pride be hard to swallow , and stand by him , but he do not turn his head .
For a minute she felt a if she really could n't do it , then come the thought , `` This be the beginning .
I 'll do my part , and have nothing to reproach myself with , '' and stoop down , she softly kiss her husband on the forehead .
Of course that settle it .
The penitent kiss be good than a world of word , and John have her on his knee in a minute , say tenderly ... `` It be too bad to laugh at the poor little jelly pot .
Forgive me , dear .
I never will again ! ''
But he do , oh bless you , yes , hundred of time , and so do Meg , both declare that it be the sweet jelly they ever make , for family peace be preserve in that little family jar .
After this , Meg have Mr. Scott to dinner by special invitation , and serve him up a pleasant feast without a cooked wife for the first course , on which occasion she be so gay and gracious , and make everything go off so charmingly , that Mr. Scott tell John he be a lucky fellow , and shake his head over the hardship of bachelorhood all the way home .
In the autumn , new trial and experience come to Meg .
Sallie Moffat renew her friendship , be always run out for a dish of gossip at the little house , or invite ` that poor dear ' to come in and spend the day at the big house .
It be pleasant , for in dull weather Meg often felt lonely .
All be busy at home , John absent till night , and nothing to do but sew , or read , or potter about .
So it naturally fell out that Meg get into the way of gad and gossip with her friend .
Seeing Sallie 's pretty thing make her long for such , and pity herself because she have not get them .
Sallie be very kind , and often offer her the coveted trifle , but Meg decline them , know that John would n't like it , and then this foolish little woman go and do what John dislike even bad .
She know her husband 's income , and she love to feel that he trust her , not only with his happiness , but what some men seem to value more -- his money .
She know where it be , be free to take what she like , and all he ask be that she should keep account of every penny , pay bill once a month , and remember that she be a poor man 's wife .
Till now she have do well , be prudent and exact , keep her little account book neatly , and show them to him monthly without fear .
But that autumn the serpent get into Meg 's paradise , and tempt her like many a modern Eve , not with apple , but with dress .
Meg do n't like to be pity and make to feel poor .
It irritate her , but she be ashamed to confess it , and now and then she try to console herself by buy something pretty , so that Sallie need n't think she have to economize .
She always felt wicked after it , for the pretty thing be seldom necessary , but then they cost so little , it be n't worth worry about , so the trifle increase unconsciously , and in the shopping excursion she be no long a passive looker-on .
But the trifle cost more than one would imagine , and when she cast up her account at the end of the month the sum total rather scar her .
John be busy that month and leave the bill to her , the next month he be absent , but the third he have a grand quarterly settle up , and Meg never forget it .
A few day before she have do a dreadful thing , and it weigh upon her conscience .
Sallie have be buy silk , and Meg long for a new one , just a handsome light one for party , her black silk be so common , and thin thing for even wear be only proper for girl .
Aunt March usually give the sister a present of twenty-five dollar apiece at New Year 's .
That be only a month to wait , and here be a lovely violet silk go at a bargain , and she have the money , if she only dare to take it .
John always say what be his be hers , but would he think it right to spend not only the prospective five-and-twenty , but another five-and-twenty out of the household fund ?
That be the question .
Sallie have urge her to do it , have offer to lend the money , and with the best intention in life have tempt Meg beyond her strength .
In an evil moment the shopman hold up the lovely , shimmer fold , and say , `` A bargain , I assure , you , ma'am . ''
She answer , `` I 'll take it , '' and it be cut off and pay for , and Sallie have exult , and she have laugh a if it be a thing of no consequence , and driven away , feel a if she have steal something , and the police be after her .
When she get home , she try to assuage the pang of remorse by spread forth the lovely silk , but it look less silvery now , do n't become her , after all , and the word ` fifty dollar ' seem stamped like a pattern down each breadth .
She put it away , but it haunt her , not delightfully a a new dress should , but dreadfully like the ghost of a folly that be not easily lay .
When John get out his book that night , Meg 's heart sank , and for the first time in her married life , she be afraid of her husband .
The kind , brown eye look a if they could be stern , and though he be unusually merry , she fancy he have find her out , but do n't mean to let her know it .
The house bill be all pay , the book all in order .
John have praise her , and be undo the old pocketbook which they call the ` bank ' , when Meg , know that it be quite empty , stop his hand , say nervously ... `` You have n't see my private expense book yet . ''
John never ask to see it , but she always insist on his do so , and use to enjoy his masculine amazement at the queer thing woman want , and make him guess what piping be , demand fiercely the meaning of a hug-me-tight , or wonder how a little thing compose of three rosebud , a bit of velvet , and a pair of string , could possibly be a bonnet , and cost six dollar .
That night he look a if he would like the fun of quiz her figure and pretend to be horrify at her extravagance , a he often do , be particularly proud of his prudent wife .
The little book be bring slowly out and lay down before him .
Meg get behind his chair under pretense of smooth the wrinkle out of his tired forehead , and stand there , she say , with her panic increase with every word ... `` John , dear , I 'm ashamed to show you my book , for I 've really be dreadfully extravagant lately .
I go about so much I must have thing , you know , and Sallie advise my get it , so I do , and my New Year 's money will partly pay for it , but I be sorry after I have do it , for I know you 'd think it wrong in me . ''
John laugh , and draw her round beside him , say goodhumoredly , `` Do n't go and hide .
I wo n't beat you if you have get a pair of kill boot .
I 'm rather proud of my wife 's foot , and do n't mind if she do pay eight or nine dollar for her boot , if they be good one . ''
That have be one of her last ` trifle ' , and John 's eye have fall on it a he speak .
`` Oh , what will he say when he come to that awful fifty dollar ! ''
think Meg , with a shiver .
`` It 's bad than boot , it 's a silk dress , '' she say , with the calmness of desperation , for she want the bad over .
`` Well , dear , what be the ` dem 'd total ' , a Mr. Mantalini say ? ''
That do n't sound like John , and she know he be look up at her with the straightforward look that she have always be ready to meet and answer with one a frank till now .
She turn the page and her head at the same time , point to the sum which would have be bad enough without the fifty , but which be appal to her with that add .
For a minute the room be very still , then John say slowly -- but she could feel it cost him an effort to express no displeasure -- ... `` Well , I do n't know that fifty be much for a dress , with all the furbelow and notion you have to have to finish it off these day . ''
`` It be n't make or trim , '' sigh Meg , faintly , for a sudden recollection of the cost still to be incur quite overwhelmed her .
`` Twenty-five yard of silk seem a good deal to cover one small woman , but I 've no doubt my wife will look as fine a Ned Moffat 's when she get it on , '' say John dryly .
`` I know you be angry , John , but I ca n't help it .
I do n't mean to waste your money , and I do n't think those little thing would count up so .
I ca n't resist them when I see Sallie buying all she want , and pity me because I do n't .
I try to be content , but it be hard , and I 'm tired of be poor . ''
The last word be speak so low she think he do not hear them , but he do , and they wound him deeply , for he have deny himself many pleasure for Meg 's sake .
She could have bite her tongue out the minute she have say it , for John push the book away and get up , say with a little quiver in his voice , `` I be afraid of this .
I do my best , Meg . ''
If he have scold her , or even shake her , it would not have break her heart like those few word .
She run to him and hold him close , cry , with repentant tear , `` Oh , John , my dear , kind , hard-working boy .
I do n't mean it !
It be so wicked , so untrue and ungrateful , how could I say it !
Oh , how could I say it ! ''
He be very kind , forgive her readily , and do not utter one reproach , but Meg know that she have do and say a thing which would not be forget soon , although he might never allude to it again .
She have promise to love him for good or bad , and then she , his wife , have reproach him with his poverty , after spend his earnings recklessly .
It be dreadful , and the bad of it be John go on so quietly afterward , just a if nothing have happen , except that he stay in town later , and work at night when she have go to cry herself to sleep .
A week of remorse nearly make Meg sick , and the discovery that John have countermand the order for his new greatcoat reduce her to a state of despair which be pathetic to behold .
He have simply say , in answer to her surprised inquiry a to the change , `` I ca n't afford it , my dear . ''
Meg say no more , but a few minute after he find her in the hall with her face bury in the old greatcoat , cry a if her heart would break .
They have a long talk that night , and Meg learn to love her husband better for his poverty , because it seem to have make a man of him , give him the strength and courage to fight his own way , and teach him a tender patience with which to bear and comfort the natural longing and failure of those he love .
Next day she put her pride in her pocket , go to Sallie , tell the truth , and ask her to buy the silk a a favor .
The good-natured Mrs. Moffat willingly do so , and have the delicacy not to make her a present of it immediately afterward .
Then Meg order home the greatcoat , and when John arrive , she put it on , and ask him how he like her new silk gown .
One can imagine what answer he make , how he receive his present , and what a blissful state of thing ensue .
John come home early , Meg gad no more , and that greatcoat be put on in the morning by a very happy husband , and take off at night by a most devoted little wife .
So the year roll round , and at midsummer there come to Meg a new experience , the deepest and tenderest of a woman 's life .
Laurie come sneak into the kitchen of the Dovecote one Saturday , with an excited face , and be receive with the clash of cymbal , for Hannah clap her hand with a saucepan in one and the cover in the other .
`` How 's the little mamma ?
Where be everybody ?
Why do n't you tell me before I come home ? ''
begin Laurie in a loud whisper .
`` Happy a a queen , the dear !
Every soul of 'em be upstairs a worshipin ' .
We do n't want no hurrycanes round .
Now you go into the parlor , and I 'll send 'em down to you , '' with which somewhat involve reply Hannah vanish , chuckle ecstatically .
Presently Jo appear , proudly bear a flannel bundle lay forth upon a large pillow .
Jo 's face be very sober , but her eye twinkle , and there be an odd sound in her voice of repressed emotion of some sort .
`` Shut your eye and hold out your arm , '' she say invitingly .
Laurie back precipitately into a corner , and put his hand behind him with an imploring gesture .
`` No , thank you .
I 'd rather not .
I shall drop it or smash it , as sure a fate . ''
`` Then you sha n't see your nevvy , '' say Jo decidedly , turn a if to go .
`` I will , I will !
Only you must be responsible for damage . ''
and obey order , Laurie heroically shut his eye while something be put into his arm .
A peal of laughter from Jo , Amy , Mrs. March , Hannah , and John cause him to open them the next minute , to find himself invest with two baby instead of one .
No wonder they laugh , for the expression of his face be droll enough to convulse a Quaker , a he stand and star wildly from the unconscious innocent to the hilarious spectator with such dismay that Jo sit down on the floor and scream .
