Over in a little path in the meadow grass be walk old Mr. Meadow Mouse .
He be stroll along a if there be nothing in the world to fear .
Way back behind him in the same little path , walk very fast but very quietly , be big Mr. Bob Cat .
His eye be yellow , and a hungry look be in them .
He do n't see Mr. Meadow Mouse , but he would in a few minute .
Mr. Chipmunk saw that he would , and that there be no place for Mr. Meadow Mouse to hide . ''
` Humph !
I never meddle in other people 's affair , and this be none of my business , ' say little Mr. Chipmunk .
`` But old Mr. Meadow Mouse be a friend .
He think a great deal of Mr. Meadow Mouse , do little Mr. Chipmunk .
He could n't bear to think of what would happen to Mr. Meadow Mouse if big Mr. Bob Cat should catch him .
Then , almost without realize what he be do , little Mr. Chipmunk begin to shout at big Mr. Bob Cat and to call him names .
Of course big Mr. Bob Cat look up right away and saw little Mr. Chipmunk sit on the old stump .
His eye grow yellow and yellow , he draw his lip back from his long , sharp teeth in a very angry way , and his little bob tail twitch and twitch .
Then , with great leap , he come straight for the old stump on which little Mr. Chipmunk be sit .
`` Little Mr. Chipmunk do n't wait for him to get there .
Oh , my , no !
He take one good look at those fierce , hungry , yellow eye and long , cruel teeth , and then he whisk into a hole in the old stump .
You see , there be n't time to go anywhere else .
Big Mr. Bob Cat find the hole in the stump right away .
He snarl when he saw it .
You see it be too small , very much too small , for him to get into himself .
But he could get one hand and arm in , and he do , feel all around inside for little Mr. Chipmunk .
Little Mr. Chipmunk be frighten almost to death .
Yes , Sir , he be frighten almost to death .
He make himself just as flat a he could on the bottom of the hollow and hold his breath . ''
` You 'd better come out of there , Mr. Chipmunk , or I 'll pull you out ! '
snarl Mr. Bob Cat .
`` Little Mr. Chipmunk just snuggle down flatter than ever and do n't say a word .
Mr. Bob Cat felt round and round inside the hollow stump and rake his long claw on the side until little Mr. Chipmunk 's hair fairly stand up .
Yes , Sir , it stand right up on end , he be so scared .
When it do that , it tickle the claw of Mr. Bob Cat .
Mr. Bob Cat grin .
It be an ugly grin to see .
Then he reach in a little farther and make a grab for little Mr. Chipmunk .
His wide-spread , sharp claw catch in little Mr. Chipmunk 's coat near the neck and tore little strip the whole length of it .
`` Of course little Mr. Chipmunk squeal with pain , for those claws hurt dreadfully , but he be glad that his coat tore .
If it have n't , Mr. Bob Cat would surely have pull him out .
After a long time , Mr. Bob Cat give up and go off , growl and snarl .
When he think it be safe , little Mr. Chipmunk crawl out of the old stump and hurry home .
He ache and smart terribly , and his little plain brown coat be tear in long strip . ''
` This be what I get for meddling in the affair of other folk ! '
say little Mr. Chipmunk bitterly .
` If I 'd just mind my own business , it would n't have happen . '
`` Just then he happen to look over to the house of Mr. Meadow Mouse .
There be Mr. Meadow Mouse play with his child .
He do n't know a thing about what his neighbor , little Mr. Chipmunk , have do for him , for you remember he have n't see Mr. Bob Cat at all .
Little Mr. Chipmunk grin as well a he could for the pain . ''
` I 'm glad I do it , ' he mutter .
` Yes , Sir , I 'm glad I do it , and I 'm glad that Neighbor Meadow Mouse do n't know about it .
I 'm glad that nobody know about it . '
A kindly deed 's most kindly do In secret wrought , and see of none .
And so I 'm glad that no one know . '
`` Now just imagine how surprised little Mr. Chipmunk be , when in the fall it come time to put on a new coat , to have Old Mother Nature hand him out a beautiful strip coat instead of the little plain brown coat he have expect .
Old Mother Nature 's eye twinkle a she say : '' ` There 's a stripe for every tear make in your old coat by the claw of Mr. Bob Cat the day you save Mr. Meadow Mouse .
They be honor stripe , and hereafter you and your child and your child 's child shall always wear stripe . '
`` And that be how it happen that Striped Chipmunk come by his striped coat , and why he be so proud of it , and take such good care of it , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
II WHY PETER RABBIT CAN NOT FOLD HIS HANDS Happy Jack Squirrel sit with his hand fold across his white waistcoat .
He be very fond of sit with his hand fold that way .
A little way from him sit Peter Rabbit .
Peter be sit up very straight , but his hand drop right down in front .
Happy Jack notice it .
`` Why do n't you fold your hand the way I do , Peter Rabbit ? ''
shout Happy Jack .
`` I -- I -- do n't want to , '' stammer Peter .
`` You mean you ca n't ! ''
jeer Happy Jack .
Peter pretend not to hear , and a few minute later he hop away towards the dear Old Briar-patch , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
Happy Jack watch him go , and there be a puzzled look in Happy Jack 's eye .
`` I really believe he ca n't fold his hand , '' say Happy Jack to himself , but speak aloud .
`` He ca n't , and none of his family can , '' say a gruff voice .
Happy Jack turn to find Old Mr. Toad sit in the Lone Little Path .
`` Why not ? ''
ask Happy Jack .
`` Ask Grandfather Frog ; he know , '' reply Old Mr. Toad , and start on about his business .
And this be how it happen that Grandfather Frog tell this story to the little meadow and forest people gather around him on the bank of the Smiling Pool .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` Old Mr. Rabbit , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Peter Rabbit , be always get into trouble .
Yes , Sir , old Mr. Rabbit be always get into trouble .
Seemed like he would n't be happy if he could n't get into trouble .
It be all because he be so dreadfully curious about other people 's business , just a Peter Rabbit be now .
It seem that he be just bear to be curious and so , of course , to get into trouble .
`` One day word come to the Green Forest and to the Green Meadows that Old Mother Nature be come to see how all the little meadow and forest people be get along , to settle all the little trouble and fuss between them , and to find out who be and who be not obey the order she have give them when she have visit them last .
My , my , my , such a hurrying and scurrying and worrying a there be !
You see , everybody want to look his best when Old Mother Nature arrive , Yes , Sir , everybody want to look his best .
`` There be the great changing of clothes you ever do see .
Old King Bear put on his black coat .
Mr. Coon and Mr. Mink and Mr . Otter sit up half the night brush their suit and make them look a fine and handsome a they could .
Even Old Mr. Toad put on a new suit under his old one , and plan to pull the old one off and throw it away as soon a Old Mother Nature should arrive .
Then everybody begin to fix up their home and make them a neat and nice a they know how -- everybody but Mr. Rabbit .
`` Now Mr. Rabbit be lazy .
He do n't like to work any more than Peter Rabbit do now .
No , Sir , old Mr. Rabbit be afraid of work .
The very sight of work scar old Mr. Rabbit .
You see , he be so busy mind other people 's business that he do n't have time to attend to his own .
So his brown and gray coat always be rumple and tumble and dirty .
His house be a tumble-down affair in which no one but Mr. Rabbit would ever have think of living , and his garden -- oh , dear me , such a garden you never do see !
It be all weed and bramble .
They fill up the yard , and old Mr. Rabbit actually could n't have get into his own house if he have n't cut a path through the bramble .
`` Now when old Mr. Rabbit hear that Old Mother Nature be come , his heart sink way , way down , for he know just how angry she would be when she saw his house , his garden and his shabby suit . ''
` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
What shall I do ? '
wail Mr. Rabbit , wring his hand . ''
` Get busy and clean up , ' advise Mr. Woodchuck , hurry about his own work .
`` Now Mr. Woodchuck be a worker and very , very neat .
He mean to have his home look just as fine a he could make it .
He bring up some clean yellow sand from deep down in the ground and sprinkle it smoothly over his doorstep . ''
` I 'll help you , if I get through my own work in time , ' shout Mr. Woodchuck over his shoulder .
`` That give Mr. Rabbit an idea .
He would ask all his neighbor to help him , and perhaps then he could get his house and garden in order by the time Old Mother Nature arrive .
So Mr. Rabbit call on Mr . Skunk and Mr. Coon and Mr. Mink and Mr. Squirrel and Mr. Chipmunk , and all the rest of his neighbor , tell them of his trouble and ask them to help .
Now , in spite of the trouble Mr. Rabbit be forever make for other people by his dreadful curiosity and meddling with other people 's affair , all his neighbor have a warm place in their heart for Mr. Rabbit , and they all promise that they would help him as soon a they have their own work finish .
`` Instead of hurry home and get to work himself , Mr. Rabbit stop a while after each call and sat with his arm fold , watch the one he be call on work .
Mr. Rabbit be very fond of sit with folded arm .
It be very comfortable .
But this be no time to be do it , and Mr . Skunk tell him so . ''
` If you want the rest of u to help you , you 'd better get thing start yourself , ' say old Mr . Skunk , carefully comb out his big , plumy tail . ''
` That 's right , Mr . Skunk !
That 's right ! '
say Mr. Rabbit , start along briskly , just a if he be go to hurry right home and begin work that very instant .
`` But half an hour later , when Mr . Skunk happen to pass the home of Mr. Chipmunk , there sit Mr. Rabbit with his arm fold , watch Mr. Chipmunk hurry about a only Mr. Chipmunk can .
`` Finally Mr. Rabbit have make the round of all his friend and neighbor , and he once more reach his tumble-down house .
` Oh , dear , ' sigh Mr. Rabbit , a he look at the tangle of bramble which almost hide the little old house , ' I never , never can clear away all this !
It will be a lot easy to work when all my friend be here to help , ' So he sigh once more and fold his arm , instead of begin work a he should have do .
And then , because the sun be bright and warm , and he be very , very comfortable , old Mr. Rabbit begin to nod , and presently he be fast asleep .
`` Now Old Mother Nature like to take people by surprise , and it happen that she choose this very day to make her promised visit .
She be greatly pleased with all she saw a she go along , until she come to the home of Mr. Rabbit . ''
` Mercy me ! '
exclaim Old Mother Nature , throw up her hand a she saw the tumble-down house almost hide by the bramble and weed .
` Can it be possible that any one really live here ? '
Then , peer through the tangle of bramble , she spy old Mr. Rabbit sit on his broken-down doorstep with his arm fold and fast asleep .
`` At first she be very indignant , oh , very indignant , indeed !
She decide that Mr. Rabbit should be punish very severely .
But a she watch him sit there , dream in the warm sunshine , her anger begin to melt away .
The fact be , Old Mother Nature be like all the rest of Mr. Rabbit 's neighbor -- she just could n't help love happy-go-lucky Mr. Rabbit in spite of all his fault .
With a long stick she reach in and tickle the end of his nose .
`` Mr. Rabbit sneeze , and this make him wake up .
He yawn and blink , and then his eye suddenly fly wide open with fright .
He have discover Old Mother Nature frown at him .
She point a long forefinger at him and say : ` In every single bless day There 's time for work and time for play .
Who fold his arm with work undone Doth cheat himself and spoil his fun . ' ''
` Hereafter , Mr. Rabbit , you and your child and your child 's child will never again be able to sit with folded arm until you or they have learn to work . '
`` And that be why Peter Rabbit can not fold his arm and still live in a tumble-down house among the bramble , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
III WHY UNC ' BILLY POSSUM PLAYS DEAD One thing puzzle Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk a great deal after they have come to know Unc ' Billy Possum and his funny way .
They have talk it over and wonder and wonder about it , and try to understand it , and even have ask Unc ' Billy about it .
Unc ' Billy have just grin and say that they would have to ask his mammy .
Of course they could n't do that , and Unc ' Billy know they could n't , for Unc ' Billy 's mammy have die long before he even think of come up from Ol ' Virginny to the Green Forest and the Green Meadows where they live .
He say it just to tease them , and when he say it , he chuckle until they chuckle too , just a if it really be the best kind of a joke .
Now you know it always be the thing that you try and try to find out and ca n't find out that you most want to find out .
It be just so with Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk .
The more they talk about it , the more they want to know .
Why be it that Unc ' Billy Possum play dead instead of try to run away when he be surprise by his enemy ?
They always try to run away .
So do everybody else of their acquaintance except Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` There must be a reason '' say Peter gravely , a he pull thoughtfully at one of his long ear .
`` Of course there be a reason , '' assert Johnny Chuck , chew the end of a blade of grass .
`` There 's a reason for everything , '' add Striped Chipmunk , comb out the hair of his funny little tail .
`` Then of course Grandfather Frog know it , '' say Peter .
`` Of course !
Why do n't we think of him before ? ''
exclaim the others .
`` I 'll beat you to the Smiling Pool ! ''
shout Peter .
Of course he do , for his leg be long and make for run , but Striped Chipmunk be not far behind .
Johnny Chuck take his time , for he know that he could not keep up with the others .
Besides he be so fat that to run make him puff and blow .
Grandfather Frog sit just as usual on his big green lily-pad , and he grin when he saw who his visitor be , for he guess right away what they have come for .
`` Chug-a-rum !
What be it you want to know now ? ''
he demand , before Peter could fairly get his breath .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , we want to know why it be that Unc ' Billy Possum play dead , '' reply Peter as politely a he know how .
Grandfather Frog chuckle .
`` Just to fool people , stupid ! ''
say he .
`` Of course we know that , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , `` but what we want to know be how he ever find out that he could fool people that way , and how he know that he will fool them . ''
`` I suspect that his mammy teach him , '' say Grandfather Frog , with another chuckle way down deep in his throat .
`` But who teach his mammy ? ''
persist Striped Chipmunk .
Grandfather Frog snap at a foolish green fly , and when it be safely tuck away inside his white and yellow waistcoat , he turn once more to his three little visitor , and there be a twinkle in his big , goggly eye .
`` I see , '' say he , `` that you will have a story , and I suppose that the sooner I tell it to you , the sooner you will leave me in peace .
Unc ' Billy Possum 's grandfather a thousand time remove be -- '' `` Was this way back in the day when the world be young ? ''
interrupt Peter .
Grandfather Frog scowl at Peter .
`` If I have any more interruption , there will be no story to-day '' say he severely .
Peter look ashamed and promise that he would hold his tongue right between his teeth until Grandfather Frog be through .
Grandfather Frog clear his throat and begin again .
`` Unc ' Billy Possum 's grandfather a thousand time remove be very much a Unc ' Billy be now , only he be a little more spry and know good than to stuff himself so full that he could n't run .
He be always very sly , and he play a great many trick on his neighbor , and sometimes he get them into trouble .
But when he do , he always manage to keep out of their way until they have forget all about their anger .
`` One morning the very imp of mischief seem to get into old Mr. Possum 's head .
Yes , Sir , it certainly do seem that way .
And when you see Mischief trot along the Lone Little Path , if you look sharp enough , you 'll see Trouble follow at his heel like a shadow .
I never know it to fail .
It 's just as sure a a stomach-ache be to follow overeating . ''
Just here Grandfather Frog pause and look very hard at Peter Rabbit .
But Peter pretend not to notice , and after slowly wink one of his big , goggly eye at Johnny Chuck , Grandfather Frog continue : `` Anyway , a I say before , the imp of mischief seem to be in old Mr. Possum 's head that morning , for he begin to play trick on his neighbor as soon a they be out of bed .
He hide Old King Bear 's breakfast , while the latter have his head turn , and then pretend that he have just come along .
He be very polite and offer to help Old King Bear hunt for his lose breakfast .
Then , whenever Old King Bear come near the place where it be hide , old Mr. Possum would hide it somewhere else .
Old King Bear be hungry , and he work himself up into a terrible rage , for he be in a hurry for his breakfast .
Old Mr. Possum be very sympathetic and seem to be do his very best to find the lost meal .
At last Old King Bear turn his head suddenly and catch sight of old Mr. Possum hide that breakfast in a new place .
My , my , but his temper do boil over !
It certainly do .
And if he could have lay hand on old Mr. Possum that minute , it surely would have be the end of him .
`` But old Mr. Possum be mighty spry , and he go off through the Green Forest laugh fit to kill himself .
Pretty soon he meet Mr. Panther .
He be very polite to Mr. Panther .
He tell him that he have just come from a call on Old King Bear , and hint that Old King Bear be then enjoy a feast and that there might be enough for Mr. Panther , if he hurry up there at once .
`` Now , Mr. Panther be hungry , for he have find nothing for his breakfast that morning .
So he thank old Mr. Possum and hurry away to find Old King Bear and share in the good thing old Mr. Possum have tell about .
`` Old Mr. Possum himself hurry on , chuckle a he think of the way Mr. Panther be likely to be receive , with Old King Bear in such a temper .
Pretty soon along come Mr. Lynx .
Old Mr. Possum tell him the same story he have tell Mr. Panther , and Mr. Lynx go bound off in a terrible hurry , for fear that he would not be in time to share in that good breakfast .
It be such a good joke that old Mr. Possum try it on Mr. Wolf and Mr. Fisher and Mr. Fox .
In fact , he hunt up every one he could think of and send them to call on Old King Bear , and without really tell them so , he make each one think that he would get a share in that breakfast . ''
`` Now , there be n't any more breakfast than Old King Bear want himself , and by the time Mr. Panther arrive , there be n't so much a a crumb left .
Then , one after another , the others come drop in , each lick his chop , and all very polite to Old King Bear .
At first he do n't know what to make of it , but pretty soon Mr. Fox delicately hint that they have come in response to the invitation send by Mr. Possum , and that a they be all very hungry , they would like to know when the feast would be ready .
Right away Old King Bear know that old Mr. Possum have be up to some of his trick , and he tell his visitor that they be the victim of a practical joke .
-LSB- Illustration : `` As they be all very hungry , they would like to know when the feast would be ready . '' -RSB-
`` My , my , my , how angry everybody grow !
With Old King Bear at their head , they start out to hunt for old Mr. Possum .
When he saw them come , he realize that what he have think be a joke have become no longer a laughing matter for him .
He be too frighten to run , so he scramble up a tree .
He quite forget that Mr. Panther and Mr. Lynx could climb just as fast a he .
Up the tree after him they scramble , and he creep a far out a he could get on one of the branch .
Mr. Panther do n't dare go out there , so he just shake the branch .
He shake and shook and shook and shook , and the first thing old Mr. Possum know , he be fly through the air down to where the others be all ready to pounce on him .
`` Old Mr. Possum be frighten almost to death .
He shut his eye , and then he land with a thump that knock all the wind from his body .
When he get his breath again , he still keep his eye close , for he could n't bear the thought of look at the cruel teeth and claw of Old King Bear and the others .
Presently , while he be wonder why they do n't jump on him and tear him to piece , Old King Bear speak : '' ' I guess Mr. Possum wo n't play any more joke , Mr. Panther , ' say he .
` You just knock the life out of him when you shake him off that branch . '
`` Mr. Panther come over and sniff at Mr. Possum and turn him over with one paw .
All the time Mr. Possum lay just a if he be dead , because he be too frighten to move . '
I do n't mean to kill him , ' say Mr. Panther .
` We certainly will miss him .
What will we do with him ? ' ''
` Leave him here a a warning to others , ' growl Old King Bear .
`` Each in turn come up and sniffed of Mr. Possum , and then they all go about their business .
He wait long enough to make sure that they be out of sight , and then take the short way home .
When he get there and think it all over , he think that the best joke of all be the way he have make everybody think that he be dead .
And then a bright idea strike him : he would try the same trick whenever he be catch .
So the next time he get in trouble , instead of run away , he try play dead .
It be such a success that he teach his child how to do it , and they teach their child , and so on down to Unc ' Billy , whom you know .
Unc ' Billy say it be a lot easy than run away , and safer , too .
Besides , it be always such a joke .
Now , do n't bother me any more , for I want to take a nap , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk , and start off to hunt up Unc ' Billy Possum .
IV WHY REDDY FOX WEARS RED Peter Rabbit sit in the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch making face and laugh at Reddy Fox .
Of course that be n't a nice thing to do , not a bit nice .
But Peter have just have a narrow escape , a very narrow escape , for Reddy Fox have spring out from behind a bush a Peter come down the Lone Little Path , and have so nearly caught Peter that he have actually pull some fur out of Peter 's coat .
Now Peter be safe in the dear Old Briar-patch .
He be a little out of breath , because he have have to use his long leg as fast a he know how , but he be safe .
You see , Reddy Fox would n't run the risk of tear his handsome red coat on the bramble .
Besides , they scratch terribly .
`` Never mind , Peter Rabbit , I 'll get you yet ! ''
snarl Reddy , a he give up and start back for the Green Forest .
`` Reddy Fox be very sly !
Reddy Fox be very spry !
But sly and spry , 't be vain to try To be a sly and spry a I. '' When Peter Rabbit shout this , Reddy look back and show all his teeth , but Peter only laugh , and Reddy trot on .
Peter watch him out of sight .
`` My !
I wish I have such a handsome coat , '' he say , with a long sigh , for you know Peter 's coat be very plain , very plain , indeed .
`` You would n't , if you have to wear it for the same reason that Reddy Fox have to wear his .
A good heart and honest way be good than fine clothes , Peter Rabbit . ''
Peter look up .
There be saucy , pert , little Jenny Wren fuss around in one of the old bramble bush .
`` Hello , Jenny ! ''
say Peter .
`` Why do Reddy wear a red coat ? ''
`` Do you mean to say that you do n't know ? ''
Jenny Wren look very hard at Peter with her sharp eye .
`` I think everybody know that !
You certainly be slow , Peter Rabbit .
I have n't time to tell you about it now .
Go ask Grandfather Frog ; he know all about it . ''
Jenny Wren bustle off before Peter could find his tongue .
Now , you all know how full of curiosity Peter Rabbit be .
Jenny Wren 's busy tongue have set that curiosity fairly boil over .
He just could n't sit still for wonder and wonder why Reddy Fox wear a red coat .
He have never think anything about it before , but now he could n't get it out of his head .
He just have to know .
So , make sure that Reddy Fox have disappear in the Green Forest , Peter start for the Smiling Pool , lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a he could go .
There he find Grandfather Frog set on his big green lily-pad , just a usual .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , why do Reddy Fox wear a red coat ? ''
pant Peter , quite out of breath .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
grunt Grandfather Frog crossly .
`` Do n't you know that it be very impolite to disturb people when they be have a nap ? ''
`` I -- I 'm very sorry .
Indeed I be , Grandfather Frog , '' say Peter very humbly .
`` Will you tell me if I come again some time when you be not so sleepy ? ''
Now , like everybody else , Grandfather Frog be rather fond of Peter Rabbit , and now Peter look so truly sorry , and at the same time there be such a look of disappointment in Peter 's eye , that Grandfather Frog forget all about his crossness .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he .
`` You and your question be a nuisance , Peter Rabbit , and I may as well get rid of you now a to have you keep come down here and pester me to death .
Besides , any one who have to keep such a sharp watch for Reddy Fox a you do ought to know why he wear a red coat .
If you 'll promise to sit perfectly still and ask no foolish question , I 'll tell you the story . ''
Of course Peter promise , and settle himself comfortably to listen .
And this be the story that Grandfather Frog tell : `` A long time ago , when the world be young , old Mr. Fox , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Reddy Fox , be one of the smart of all the forest and meadow people , just a Reddy be now .
He be so smart that he know enough not to appear smart , and the fact be his neighbor think him rather dull .
He wear just a common , everyday suit of dull brown , like most of the others , and there be n't anything about him to attract attention .
He be always very polite , very polite indeed , to every one .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Fox be very polite .
He always seem to be mind his own business , and he never go around ask foolish question or poke his nose into other people 's affair . ''
Grandfather Frog stop a minute and look very hard at Peter after he say this , and Peter look uncomfortable .
`` Now , although Mr. Fox do n't appear to take any interest in other people 's affair and never ask question , he have two of the sharp ear among all the little meadow and forest people , and while he be go about seem to be just mind his own business , he be listen and listen to all that be say .
Everything he hear he remember , so that it be n't long before he know more about what be go on than all his neighbor together .
But he keep his mouth tight close , do Mr. Fox , and be very humble and polite to everybody .
Every night he come home early and go to bed by sundown , and everybody say what good habit Mr. Fox have .
`` But when everybody else be asleep , Mr. Fox use to steal out and be go half the night .
Yes , Sir , sometimes he 'd be go until almost morning .
But he always take care to get home before any of his neighbor be awake , and then he 'd wait until everybody be up before he show himself .
When he come out and start to hunt for his breakfast , some one be sure to tell him of mischief do during the darkness of the night .
Sometimes it be a storehouse break into , and the best thing take .
Sometimes it be of terrible fright that some of the little people have receive by be waken in the night and see a fierce face with long , sharp teeth grinning at them .
Sometimes it be of bad thing that be tell in whisper .
Mr. Fox use to listen a if very much shock , and say that something ought to be do about it , and wonder who it could be who would do such dreadful thing .
`` By and by thing get so bad that they reach the ear of Old Mother Nature , and she come to find out what it all meant .
Now , the very night before she arrive , Mrs. Quack , who live on the river bank , have a terrible fright .
Somebody spring upon her a she be sleep , and in the struggle she lose all her tail feather .
She hurry to tell Old Mother Nature all about it , and big tear roll down her cheek a she tell how she have lose all her beautiful tail feather .
Mother Nature call all the people of the forest and the meadow together .
She make them all pas before her , and she look sharply at each one a they go by .
Mr. Fox look meeker than ever , and he be very humble and polite .
`` Now when Mr. Fox have pay his respect and turn his back , Old Mother Nature saw something red on the tail of his coat .
It be nothing but a little smear of red clay , but that be enough for Old Mother Nature .
You see , she know that Mrs. Quack 's home be right at the foot of a red claybank .
She do n't say a word until everybody have pay their respect and pass before her .
Then she tell them how grieved she be to hear of all the trouble there have be , but that she could n't watch over each one all the time ; they must learn to watch out for themselves .
`` And so that you may know who to watch out for , from now on never trust the one who wear a bright red coat , '' conclude Old Mother Nature .
`` All of a sudden Mr. Fox become aware that everybody be look at him , and in every face be hate .
He glance at his coat .
It be bright red !
Then Mr. Fox know that he have be find out , and he sneak away with his tail between his leg .
The first chance he get , he go to Old Mother Nature and beg her to give him back his old coat .
She promise that she would when his heart change , and he change his way .
But his heart never do change , and his child and his child 's child be just like him .
They have always be the smart and the sliest and the most feared and dislike of all the little people on the meadow or in the forest .
And now you know why Reddy Fox wear a red coat , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit draw a long breath .
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
say he .
`` I -- I think hereafter I 'll be quite content with my own suit , even if it be n't handsome .
Jenny Wren be right .
A good heart and honest way be good than fine clothes . ''
V WHY JIMMY SKUNK NEVER HURRIES The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind have just be release from the big bag in which she carry them every night to their home behind the Purple Hills and every morning bring them back to the Green Meadows to romp and play all day .
They romp and race and dance away , some one way , some another , to see whom they could find to play with .
Presently some of them spy Jimmy Skunk slowly amble down the Crooked Little Path , stop every few step to pull over a loose stone or stick .
They know what he be do that for .
They know that he be look for fat beetle for his breakfast .
They dance over to him and form a ring around him while they sing : `` Who be it never , never hurry ?
Who be it never , never worry ?
Who be it do just what he please , Just like u Merry Little Breezes ?
Jimmy Skunk !
Jimmy Skunk ! ''
Now not so far away but that he could hear them very plainly sat Peter Rabbit , just finish his breakfast in a sweet-clover patch .
He sit up very straight , so a to hear well .
Of course some of the Merry Little Breezes saw him right away .
They leave Jimmy to come over and dance in a circle around Peter , for Peter be a great favorite with them .
And a they dance they sing : `` Who be it hop and skip and jump ?
Who be it sometimes loudly thump ?
Who be it dearly love to play , But when there 's danger run away ?
Peter Rabbit !
Peter Rabbit ! ''
Peter grin good-naturedly .
He be quite use to be laugh at for always run away , and he do n't mind it in the least .
`` When danger 's near , who run away will live to run another day , '' retort Peter promptly .
Then he begin the mad kind of a frolic with the Merry Little Breezes until they and he be quite tire out and ready for a good rest .
`` I wish , '' say Peter , a he stretch himself out in the middle of the patch of sweet clover , `` that you would tell me why it be that Jimmy Skunk never hurry . ''
`` And we wish that you would tell u the same thing , '' cry one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` But I ca n't , '' protest Peter .
`` Everybody else seem to hurry , at time anyway , but Jimmy never do .
He say it be a waste of energy , whatever that mean . ''
`` I tell you what -- let 's go over to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog about it now .
He 'll be sure to know , '' speak up one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` All right , '' reply Peter , hop to his foot .
`` But you 'll have to ask him .
I 've ask him for so many story that I do n't dare ask for another right away , for fear that he will say that I be a nuisance . ''
So it be agree that the Merry Little Breezes should ask Grandfather Frog why it be that Jimmy Skunk never hurry , and that Peter should keep out of sight until Grandfather Frog have begin the story , for they be sure that there would be a story .
Away they all hurry to the Smiling Pool .
The Merry Little Breezes race so hard that they be quite out of breath when they burst through the bulrush and surround Grandfather Frog , a he sit on his big green lily-pad .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , why be it that Jimmy Skunk never hurry ? ''
they pant .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog in his deepest , gruff voice .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Probably because he have learn well . ''
`` Oh ! ''
say one of the Merry Little Breezes , in a rather faint , disappointed sort of voice .
Just then he spy a fat , foolish , green fly and blow it right over to Grandfather Frog , who snap it up in a flash .
Right away all the Merry Little Breezes begin to hunt for foolish green fly and blow them over to Grandfather Frog , until he do n't have room for another one inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
Indeed the leg of the last one he try to swallow stick out of one corner of his big mouth .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , try very hard to get those leg out of sight .
`` Chug-a-rum !
I always like to do something for those who do something for me , and I suppose now that I ought to tell you why it be that Jimmy Skunk never hurry .
I would , if Peter Rabbit be here .
If I tell you the story , Peter will be sure to hear of it , and then he will give me no peace until I tell it to him , and I do n't like to tell story twice . ''
`` But he be here ! ''
cried one of the Little Breezes .
`` He 's right over behind that little clump of tall grass . ''
`` Humph !
I think he be n't very far away , '' grunt Grandfather Frog , with a twinkle in his great , goggly eye .
Peter creep out of his hiding-place , look rather shamefaced and very foolish .
Then the Merry Little Breezes settle themselves on the lily-pads in a big circle around Grandfather Frog , and Peter sit down as close to the edge of the bank of the Smiling Pool a he dare to get .
After what seem to them a very long time , Grandfather Frog swallow the leg of the last foolish green fly , open his big mouth , and begin : `` Of course you all know that long , long ago , when the world be young , thing be very different from what they be now , very different indeed .
The great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Jimmy Skunk be slim and trim than Jimmy be .
He be more like his cousin , Mr. Weasel and Mr. Mink .
He be just a quick move a they be .
Yes , Sir , Mr . Skunk be very lively on his foot .
He have to be to keep out of the way of his big neighbor , for in those day he do n't have any mean of protect himself , a Jimmy have now .
He be dress all in black .
You know it be n't until Old Mother Nature find out that he be take advantage of that black suit to get into mischief on dark night that she give him white stripe , so that the darker the night , the harder it would be for him to keep from be see .
`` Now Mr . Skunk be very smart and shrewd , oh , very !
When the hard time come , which make so many change in the life of the people who live in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , Mr . Skunk be very quick to see that unless he could think of some way to protect himself , it be only a matter of time when he would furnish a dinner for one of his fierce big neighbor , and of course Mr . Skunk have no desire to do that .
It be then that he ask Old Mother Nature to give him a bag of perfume so strong that it would make everybody ill but himself .
Mother Nature think it all over , and then she do , but she make him promise that he would never use it unless he be in great danger .
`` Mr . Skunk have to try his new defence only once or twice before his enemy take the great care to let him alone .
He find that he no longer have to run for a safe hiding-place when he meet Mr. Wolf or Mr. Lynx or Mr. Panther .
They just snarl at him and pass without offer to touch him .
So Mr . Skunk grow very independent and go where he please when he please .
And , because he no longer have to run from his enemy , he get out of the habit of run .
Then he make a discovery .
He watch those of his neighbor who be forever hurry about look for food , hurrying because all the time there be great fear upon them that an enemy might be near , hurry because each be fearful that his neighbor would get more than he .
It be n't long before Mr . Skunk saw that in their hurry they overlook a great deal .
In fact , by just follow after them slowly , he find all he want to eat .
`` So Mr . Skunk begin to grow fat .
His neighbor , who be have hard work to make a living , grow envious , and say unkind thing about him , and hint that he must be steal , or he never could have so much to eat .
But Mr . Skunk do n't mind .
He go right on about his business .
He never worry , because , you know , he fear nobody .
And he never hurry , because he find that it pay best to go slowly .
In that way he never miss any of the good thing that his hurrying , worry neighbor do .
So he grow fatter and fatter , while others grow thinner .
After a while he almost forget how to run .
Being fat and never hurrying or worry make him good-natured .
He keep right on mind his own affair and never meddling in the affair of others , so that by and by his neighbor begin to respect him .
`` Of course he teach his child to do a he do , and they teach their child .
And so , ever since that long-ago day , when the world be young , that little bag of perfume have be hand down in the Skunk family , and none of them have ever be afraid .
Now you know why Jimmy Skunk , whom you all know , be so independent and never hurry . ''
`` Thank you !
Thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes .
`` When you want some more foolish green fly , just let u know , and we 'll get them for you . ''
`` Chug-a-rum !
What be you look so wistful for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
demand Grandfather Frog .
`` I -- I be just wish that I have a -- '' begin Peter .
Then suddenly he make a face .
`` No , I do n't either ! ''
he declare .
`` I guess I 'd well be get home to the dear Old Briar-patch now .
Mrs. Peter probably think something have happen to me . ''
And away he go , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
VI WHY SAMMY JAY HAS A FINE COAT Sammy Jay have a very fine coat , a very beautiful coat .
Everybody know that .
In fact , Sammy 's coat have long be the envy of a great many of his neighbor in the Green Forest .
Some of them , you know , have very modest coat .
They be not beautiful at all .
And yet the owner of some of these plain coat be among the most honest and hard-working of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .
They find it hard , very hard indeed , to understand why such a scamp and mischiefmaker a Sammy Jay should be give such a wonderful blue coat with white trimming .
Peter Rabbit often have think about it .
He have a number of feathered friend whom he like ever so much good than he do Sammy Jay .
In fact , he and Sammy be forever fall out , because Sammy delight to tease Peter .
He sometimes make up for it by warn Peter when Granny or Reddy Fox happen to be about , and Peter be honest enough to recognize this and put it to Sammy 's credit .
But in spite of this , it never seem to him quite right that Sammy Jay should be so handsomely dress .
`` Of course , '' say Peter to Grandfather Frog , `` Old Mother Nature know a great deal more than I do -- '' `` Really !
You do n't mean to say so !
Chug-a-rum !
You do n't mean to say so , Peter ! ''
interrupt Grandfather Frog , pretend to be very much surprise at what Peter say .
-LSB- Illustration : `` You do n't mean to say so , Peter , '' interrupt Grandfather Frog . -RSB-
Peter grin and wrinkle his nose at Grandfather Frog .
`` Yes , '' say he , `` Old Mother Nature know a great deal more than I do , but it seem to me a if she have make a mistake in give Sammy Jay such a handsome coat .
There must be a reason , I suppose , but for the life of me I can not understand it .
I should think that she would give such a thief a Sammy Jay the very homely suit she could find .
You may depend I would , if I be in her place . ''
Grandfather Frog chuckle until he shake all over .
`` It 's lucky for some of u that you be not in her place ! ''
say he .
`` Chug-a-rum !
It certainly be lucky ! ''
`` If I be , I would give you a handsome coat , too , Grandfather Frog , '' reply Peter .
Grandfather Frog suddenly swell out with indignation .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum !
What 's the matter with the coat I have get , Peter Rabbit ?
Tell me that !
Who 's get a handsomer one ? ''
Grandfather Frog glare with his great , goggly eye at Peter .
`` I do n't mean to say that you have n't get a handsome coat .
Your coat be handsome , very handsome indeed , Grandfather Frog , '' Peter hasten to say .
`` I always do like green .
I just love it !
And I should think you would be ever so proud of your white and yellow waistcoat .
I would if it be mine .
What I mean to say be , that if I be in Old Mother Nature 's place , I would give some plain folk handsome suit .
Certainly , I would n't give such a rascal a Sammy Jay one of the handsome coat in all the Green Forest .
Knowing Sammy as well a I do , it be hard work to believe that he come by it honestly . ''
Grandfather Frog chuckle way down deep in his throat .
`` Sammy come by it honestly enough , Peter .
Yes , Sir , he come by it honestly enough , because it be hand down to him by his father , who get it from his father , who get it from his father , and so on , way back to the day when the world be young , but -- '' Grandfather Frog pause , and that dreamy , far-away look which Peter have see so often come into his great , goggly eye .
`` But what , Grandfather Frog ? ''
ask Peter eagerly , when he could keep still no longer .
Grandfather Frog settle himself comfortably on his big green lily-pad and look very hard at Peter .
`` I 'm go to tell you a story , Peter Rabbit , '' say he , `` so that never again will you be lead to doubt that Old Mother Nature know exactly what she be about .
In the first place , Sammy Jay be not wholly to blame for all his bad habit .
Some of them be hand down to him with his fine coat , just the same a your troublesome curiosity be hand down to you with the white patch on the seat of your trouser . ''
Peter nod .
He have felt a great many time that he just could n't help this habit of poke that wobbly little nose of his in where it have no business to be , any more than he could change that funny little bunch of white cotton , which he call a tail , for a really , truly tail .
`` Of course , you have hear all about what a very fine gentleman Sammy Jay 's great-great-ever-so-great grandfather be think to be until it be discover that he be all the time steal from his neighbor and put the blame on others , and how Old Mother Nature punish him by take away the beautiful voice of which he be so proud , and give him instead the harsh voice which Sammy have now , and make him tell just what he be by scream ` thief , thief , thief ! '
every time he open his mouth to speak .
`` At first Old Mother Nature have intend to take away the fine coat of which Mr. Jay be so proud , but when he discover that he have lose his fine voice , he be so ashamed that he hurry away to hide himself from the eye of his neighbor , so that Old Mother Nature do n't have time to change his coat just then .
` I 'll wait a bit , ' say she to herself , ` and see how he behave .
Perhaps he be truly sorry for what he have do , and I will not have to punish him more . '
`` But if Mr. Jay be truly sorry , he give no sign of it .
You see , he have cheat his neighbor , and have steal from them for so long , that he find this the easy way to get a living .
His bad habit have become fix , a bad habit have a way of do .
Besides , right down in his heart , he be n't sorry for what he have do , only angry at have be find out .
Now that he have be find out , of course every one be on the watch for him , and it be n't so easy to steal a it have be before .
So now , instead of go about openly , with his head hold high , he grow very crafty , and sneak quietly about through the Green Forest , try to keep out of sight , that he might the easy steal from his neighbor and make trouble for them .
`` When Old Mother Nature saw this , she change her mind about take away his handsome suit .
` If I do that , ' think she , ` it will make it all the easy for him to keep out of sight , and all the harder for his neighbor to know when he be about . '
`` So instead of give him the plain , homely suit that she have think of give him , she make his coat of blue brighter than before and trim it with the white of white trimming , so that Mr. Jay have one of the very handsome coat in all the Green Forest .
At first he be very proud of it , but it be n't long before he find that it be very hard work to keep out of sight when he want to .
That bright blue coat be forever give him away when he be out on mischief .
Everybody be all the time on the watch for it , and so where in the past Mr. Jay have be able , without any trouble , to steal all he want to eat , now he sometimes actually have to work for his food , and get it honestly or else go hungry .
`` You would suppose that he would have mend him way , would n't you ? ''
Peter nod .
`` But he do n't .
He grow more sly and crafty than ever .
But in spite of this , he do n't begin to make a much trouble a before .
He could n't , you know , because of his bright coat .
When Old Mother Nature find that Mr. Jay have pass along his bad habit to his child , she pass along his handsome blue coat , too , and so it have be from that long-ago day right down to this .
Sammy Jay 's fine coat be n't a reward for goodness , a be Winsome Bluebird 's , but be to help the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows to protect themselves , and keep track of Sammy when he be sneak and snoop around look for mischief .
Now what do you think , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter scratch one long ear and then the other long ear thoughtfully , and he look a wee bit ashamed a he reply : `` I guess Old Mother Nature make no mistake and always know just what she be do . ''
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog in his deep voice .
`` You may be sure she do .
And another thing , Peter Rabbit : Never judge any one by his clothes .
It be a great mistake , a very great mistake .
Plain clothes sometimes cover the kind heart , and fine clothes often be a warning to beware of mischief . ''
`` I -- I do n't know but you be right , '' admit Peter .
`` I know I be , '' say Grandfather Frog .
VII WHY JERRY MUSKRAT BUILDS HIS HOUSE IN THE WATER Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck have go down to the Smiling Pool for a call on their old friend , Jerry Muskrat .
But Jerry be nowhere to be see .
They wait and wait , but no Jerry Muskrat .
`` Probably he be take a nap in that big house of his , '' say Johnny Chuck , `` and if he be we 'll have to sit here until he wake up , or else go back home and visit him some other time . ''
`` That 's so , '' reply Peter .
`` I do n't see what he have his house in the water for , anyway .
If he have build it on land , like sensible people , we might be able to waken him .
Funny place to build a house , be n't it ? ''
Johnny Chuck scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` It do seem a funny place , '' he admit .
`` It certainly do seem a funny place .
But then , Jerry Muskrat be a funny fellow .
You know how much of the time he stay in the water .
That seem funny to me .
I suppose there be a reason for it , and probably there be a reason for build his house where it be .
I 've find that there be a reason for most thing .
Probably Jerry 's great-great-grandfather build his house that way , and so Jerry do the same thing . ''
Peter Rabbit suddenly brighten up .
`` I do believe you be right , Johnny Chuck , and if you be , there must be a story about it , and if there be a story , Grandfather Frog will be sure to know it .
There he be , over on his big green lily-pad , and he look a if he might be feel very good-natured this morning .
Let 's go ask him why Jerry Muskrat build his house in the water . ''
Grandfather Frog saw them come , and he guess right away that they be come for a story .
He grin to himself and pretend to go to sleep .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' say Johnny Chuck .
Grandfather Frog do n't answer .
Johnny try again , and still no reply .
`` He 's asleep , '' say Johnny , look dreadfully disappoint , `` and I guess we 'd well not disturb him , for he might wake up cross , and of course we would n't get a story if he do . ''
Peter look at Grandfather Frog sharply .
He be n't so sure that that be a real nap .
It seem to him that there be just the least little hint of a smile in the corner of Grandfather Frog 's big mouth .
`` You sit here a minute , '' he whisper in Johnny Chuck 's ear .
So Johnny Chuck sit down where he be , which be right where Grandfather Frog could see him by lift one eyelid just the teeny bit , and Peter hop along the bank until he be right behind Grandfather Frog .
Now just at that place on the bank be grow a toadstool .
Peter look over at Johnny Chuck and wink .
Then he turn around , and with one of his long hind-feet , he kick the toadstool with all his might .
Now toadstools , a you all know , be not very well fasten at the root , and this one be no different from the rest .
When Peter kick it it fly out into the air and land with a great splash in the Smiling Pool , close beside the big green lily-pad on which Grandfather Frog be sit .
Of course he do n't see it come , and of course it give him a great start .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaim Grandfather Frog and dive head first into the water .
A minute later Peter 's sharp eye saw him peep out from under a lily-pad to see what have frighten him so .
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
shout Peter , dance about on the bank .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Grandfather Frog , afraid of a toadstool !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
At first Grandfather Frog be angry , very angry indeed .
But he be too old and too wise to lose his temper for long over a joke , especially when he have be fairly catch try to play a joke himself .
So presently he climb back on to his big green lily-pad , blink his great , goggly eye and look just a wee bit foolish .
`` Chug-a-rum !
I might have know that that be some of your work , Peter Rabbit , '' say he , `` but I think it surely be a stone throw by Farmer Brown 's boy .
What do you mean by frighten an old fellow like me this way ? ''
`` Just try to get even with you for try to fool u into think that you be asleep when you be wide awake , '' reply Peter .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , do tell u why it be that Jerry Muskrat build his house in the water .
Please do ! ''
`` I have a mind not to , just to get even with you , '' say Grandfather Frog , settle himself comfortably , `` but I believe I will , to show you that there be some folk who can take a joke without lose their temper . ''
`` Goody ! ''
cry Peter and Johnny Chuck together , sit down side by side on the very edge of the bank .
Grandfather Frog fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat and half close his eye , a if look way , way back into the past .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he begin .
`` A long , long time ago , when the world be young , there be very little dry land , and most of the animal live in the water .
Yes , Sir , most of the animal live in the water , a sensible animal do to-day . ''
Peter nudge Johnny Chuck .
`` He mean himself and his family , '' he whisper with a chuckle .
`` After a time , '' continue Grandfather Frog , `` there begin to be more land and still more .
Then some of the animal begin to spend most of their time on the land .
As there get to be more and more land , more and more of the animal leave the water , until finally most of them be spend nearly all of the time on land .
Now Old Mother Nature have be keep a sharp watch , a she always do , and when she find that they be foolish enough to like the land best , she do all that she could to make thing comfortable for them .
She teach them how to run and jump and climb and dig , accord to which thing they like best to do , so that it be n't very long before a lot of them forget that they ever have live in the water , and they begin to look down on those who still live in the water , and to put on air and hold their head very high .
`` Now , of course , Old Mother Nature do n't like this , and to punish them she say that they should no longer be able to live in the water , even if they want to .
At first they only laugh , but after a while they find that quite often there be time when it would be very nice to be at home in the water a they once have be .
But it be of no use .
Some could swim as long a they could keep their head above water , but as soon a they put their head under water they be likely to drown .
You know that be the way with you to-day , Peter Rabbit . ''
Peter nod .
He know that he could swim if he have to , but only for a very little way , and he hat the thought of it .
`` Now there be a few animal , of whom old Mr. Muskrat , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Jerry Muskrat , be one , who learn to walk and run on dry land , but who still love the water , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
`` One day Old Mother Nature find Mr. Muskrat sit on a rock , look very mournful . ''
` What 's the matter , Mr. Muskrat ? '
she ask .
`` Mr. Muskrat look very much ashamed a he finally own up that he be envious of his cousin and some of the other animal , because they have such fine house on the land . ''
` Then why do n't you build you a fine house on the land ? '
ask Old Mother Nature .
`` Mr. Muskrat hesitate .
` I -- I -- love the water too well to want to stay on land all the time , ' say he , ` and -- and -- well , I be put in the water in the first place , and I ought to be content with what I have get and make the best of it . '
`` Old Mother Nature be so pleased with Mr. Muskrat 's reply that right away she make up her mind that he should have a finer house than any of the others , so she take him over to a quiet little pool , where the water be not too deep and she show him how to build a wonderful house of mud and rush and twig , with a nice warm bedroom line with grass above the water , and an entrance down under the water , so that no one except those who still live most of the time in the water could possibly get into it .
None of his friend on land have such a big , fine house , and Mr. Muskrat be very proud of it .
But with all his pride he never forget that it be a reward for try to be content with his surroundings and make the best of them .
`` So from that day to this , the Muskrats have build their house in the water , and have be among the most industrious , content , and happy of all the animal .
And that be why Jerry Muskrat have build that fine house in the Smiling Pool and have so few enemy , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit draw a long breath , which be almost a sigh .
`` I almost wish my grandfather a thousand time remove have be content to stay in the water , too , '' he say .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
retort Grandfather Frog .
`` If he have , you would n't have the dear Old Briar-patch .
Be content with what you 've get , '' `` I think I will , '' say Peter .
VIII WHY OLD MAN COYOTE HAS MANY VOICES Of course Old Man Coyote have only one voice , but that one be such a wonderful voice that he can make it sound like a great many voice , all yelping and howling and shouting and laughing at the same time .
So those who hear him always say that he have many voice , and that certainly be the way it seem .
The first time Peter Rabbit hear Old Man Coyote , he be sure , absolutely sure , that there be a whole crowd of stranger on the Green Meadows , and you may be sure that he keep very close to his dear Old Briar-patch .
If you have be there and try to tell Peter that all that noise be make by just one voice , he would n't have believe you .
No , Sir , he would n't have believe you .
And you could n't have blame him .
It be the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind who first tell Peter who the stranger be and warn him to watch out , because Old Man Coyote be just a fond of Rabbit a Granny or Reddy Fox , and be even more crafty and sly than they .
Peter thank the Merry Little Breezes for the warning , and then he ask them how many of his family Old Man Coyote have bring with him .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes tell Peter that Old Man Coyote be all alone , and they become very indignant when Peter laugh at them .
He just could n't help it .
`` Why , '' say he , `` every night I hear a whole crowd yelping and howl together . ''
`` But you do n't ! ''
insist the Merry Little Breezes .
`` It be Old Man Coyote alone who make all that noise . ''
`` Do n't you suppose I know what I hear ? ''
demand Peter .
`` No ! ''
retort the Merry Little Breezes .
`` You may have big ear and be able to hear a great deal , sometimes a great deal more than you have any business to hear , but you be old enough by this time to have learn that you can not believe all you hear . ''
And with that the Merry Little Breezes indignantly race away to spread the news all over the Green Meadows .
Now Peter be quite a indignant because they think he could n't or should n't believe his own ear , a they be because he would n't believe what they tell him , and all the rest of that day he could n't put the matter out of his mind .
He be still think of it a the Black Shadows come creep down from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows .
Suddenly Peter saw a dark form skulking among the Black Shadows .
At first he think it be Reddy Fox , only somehow it look big .
Peter , safe in the dear Old Briar-patch , watch .
Presently the dark form come out from among the Black Shadows where Peter could see it clearly , sit down , point a sharp nose up at the first twinkling little star , open a big mouth , and out of it pour such a yelping and howling a make Peter shiver with fright .
And now Peter have to believe his eye rather than his ear .
His ear tell him that there be many voice , but his eye tell him that all that dreadful sound be come out of one mouth .
It be hard , very hard , to believe , but it be so .
`` The Merry Little Breezes be right , '' mutter Peter to himself , a Old Man Coyote trot away in the direction of the Green Forest , and he felt a wee bit ashamed to think that he have refuse to believe them .
After that , Peter could think of nothing but Old Man Coyote 's wonderful voice that sound like many voice , and at the very first opportunity he hurry over to the Smiling Pool to ask Grandfather Frog what it mean .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` It mean simply that Old Man Coyote come of a very smart family , and that he know how to make the most of the gift of Old Mother Nature to his grandfather a thousand time remove . ''
This sound so much like a story that Peter straightway tease Grandfather Frog to tell him all about it .
At last , to get rid of him and enjoy a little quiet and peace , Grandfather Frog do so .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he begin , a he always do .
`` The great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Old Man Coyote , who live long , long ago when the world be young , be very much a Old Man Coyote be to-day .
He be just a smart and just a clever .
Indeed , he be smart enough and clever enough not to let his neighbor know that he be smart and clever at all .
Those be very peaceful time at first , and everybody be on the best of term with everybody else , a you know .
There be plenty to eat without the trouble to steal , and everybody be honest simply because it be easy to be honest than it be to be dishonest .
So Old King Bear rule in the Green Forest , and everybody be happy and content .
`` But there come a time when food be scarce , and it be no long easy to get plenty to eat .
It be then that the strong begin to steal from the weaker , and by and by even to prey upon those small than themselves .
The time grow hard and hard , and because hunger be a hard and cruel master , it make the large and strong people hard and cruel , too .
Some of them it make very sly and cunning , like old Mr. Fox .
Mr. Coyote be another whom it make sly and cunning .
He be smart in the first place , even smarter than Mr. Fox , and he very early make up his mind that if he would live , it must be by his wit , for he be n't big enough or strong enough to fight with his neighbor such a his big cousin , Mr . Timber Wolf , or Mr. Lynx , or Mr. Panther or Old King Bear , who be king no longer .
And yet he like the same thing to eat .
`` So he use to study and plan how he could outwit them without danger to himself . '
A whole skin be good than a full stomach , but both a whole skin and a full stomach be good still , ' say he to himself ; a he think and scheme .
For a while he be content to catch what he could without danger to himself , and to eat what his big and strong neighbor leave when they happen to get more than they want for themselves .
Little by little he get the habit of slyly follow them when they be hunt , always keep out of sight .
In this way , he manage to get many meal of scrap .
But these scrap never wholly satisfy him , and his mouth use to water a he watch the others feast on the very best when they have have a successful hunt .
He know it would n't be of the least use to go out and boldly ask for some , for in those hard time everybody be very , very selfish .
`` The time grow hard and hard , until it seem a if Old Mother Nature have wholly forget her little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Mr. Coyote still manage to pick up a living , but he be hungry most of the time , and the le he have to put in his stomach , the sharp his wit grow .
At last one day , a he steal soft-footed through the Green Forest , he discover Mr. Lynx have a great feast .
To keep still and watch him be almost more than Mr. Coyote could stand , for he be so hungry that it seem a if the side of his stomach almost meet , it be so empty . ''
` If I could make myself into three , we could take that dinner away from Mr. Lynx ! ''
thought he , and right on top of that thought come a great idea .
Why not make Mr. Lynx think he have a lot of friend with him ?
It would do no harm to try .
So Mr. Coyote put his nose up in the air and howl .
Mr. Lynx look up and grin .
He have no fear of Mr. Coyote .
Then Mr. Coyote hurry around to the other side of Mr. Lynx , all the time keep out of sight , and howl again , and this time he try to make his voice sound different .
Mr. Lynx stop eat and look up a little surprised . '
I wonder if Mr. Coyote have get a brother with him , ' think he .
A minute later Mr. Coyote howl again from the place where he have howl in the first place .
` He certainly have , ' think Mr. Lynx , ` but I 'm a match for two of them , ' and once more he go on eating .
`` Then Mr. Coyote begin to run in a circle around Mr. Lynx , always keep out of sight in the thick brush , and every few step he yelp or howl , and each yelp or howl he try to make sound different .
Now Mr. Coyote could run very fast , and he run now as hard a ever he could in a big circle , yelp and howl and make his voice sound as different a possible each time .
Mr. Lynx grow anxious and lose his appetite .
` Mr. Coyote must have a whole crowd of brother , ' think he . '
I guess this be no place for me ! '
With that he start to sneak away .
`` Mr. Coyote follow him , still try to make his voice sound like the voice of many .
Mr. Lynx give a hurried look over his shoulder and begin to run .
Mr. Coyote keep after him , yelp and howl , until he be sure that Mr. Lynx be so frightened that he would n't dare come back .
Then Mr. Coyote return to the dinner Mr. Lynx have leave , and ate and ate until he could n't hold another mouthful .
His throat be very raw and sore because he have strain it try to make his voice change so often , but he do n't mind this , because , you know , it felt so good to have all he could eat at one time once more .
`` Now it just happen that Old Mother Nature have come along just in time to see and hear Mr. Coyote , and it tickle her so to think that Mr. Coyote have be so smart that what do you think she do ?
Why , while he sleep that night , she heal his sore throat , and she give him a new voice ; and this voice be very wonderful , for it sound for all the world like many voice , all yelping and howling at the same time .
After that , all Mr. Coyote have to do when he want to frighten some one big and strong than himself be to open his mouth and send forth his new voice , which sound like many voice .
`` So he have plenty to eat from that time on .
And all his child and his child 's child have that same wonderful voice , just a Old Man Coyote have now .
Chug-a-rum !
Now scamper home , Peter Rabbit , and see that you do n't let Old Man Coyote 's sharp wit get you into trouble . ''
`` Thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cry Peter and scamper as fast a he could go for the dear , safe Old Briar-patch .
IX WHY MINER THE MOLE LIVES UNDER GROUND Striped Chipmunk sit star at a little ridge where the grass be raise up .
He have often see little ridge like that without think much about them .
He know that they be make by Miner the Mole .
He have know that ever since he be big enough to begin to ask question .
But now a he look at this one , it suddenly strike him that he have not see Miner the Mole more than once or twice in all his life .
`` What a queer way of living ! ''
thought Striped Chipmunk .
`` It 's all very well to have a snug house under the ground , where one can sleep the long cold winter away and be perfectly safe , but what any one want to live under the ground all the time for , in the beautiful springtime and summertime and autumntime , I ca n't understand .
Just think of all that Miner miss -- the sunshine , the flower , the song of the bird , and the Merry Little Breezes to play with !
I wonder -- '' `` What do you wonder ? ''
The voice be so close to Striped Chipmunk that it make him jump .
He whirl about .
There be Johnny Chuck , who have tiptoe up as softly a he know how , to give Striped Chipmunk a scare .
Johnny grin .
`` What do you wonder ? ''
he repeat .
Striped Chipmunk make a face at Johnny .
`` I wonder something that I bet you do n't know , '' he reply .
`` That 's easy , '' reply Johnny .
`` There be more thing I do n't know than I do know , but I 'm always ready to learn .
What be it this time ? ''
`` Why do Miner the Mole live under ground all the time ? ''
Striped Chipmunk point to the ridge make by Miner .
Johnny Chuck scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` I do n't know , '' he confess finally .
`` I never think of it before .
Of course there must be a reason .
He never come out to play with the rest of u -- just spend all his time by himself down in the dark , dig and digging .
I wonder -- '' `` Well , what do you wonder ? ''
`` The same thing you wonder , '' laugh Johnny Chuck .
`` If you have n't get anything else to do , let 's go down to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog ; he 'll be sure to know . ''
Striped Chipmunk have n't anything else to do , so off they start .
On the way they meet Jimmy Skunk and Danny Meadow Mouse .
Neither of them know why Miner the Mole live under ground , and because they have n't anything well to do , they also start for the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog be sit on his big green lily-pad in the warm sunshine , and for once he do n't have to be tease for a story .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he in his deep voice .
`` It 's very strange to me how little some folk know about their near neighbor . ''
He look up and wink at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun .
Striped Chipmunk , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , and Danny Meadow Mouse look a though they felt very foolish , a indeed they do .
You see , all their life Miner the Mole have be one of their near neighbor , and yet they do n't know the first thing about him .
`` It happen a long time ago , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
`` When the world be young ? ''
interrupt Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Of course , '' reply Grandfather Frog , pretend to be very much put out at such a foolish question .
Danny hang his head and resolve that he would bite his tongue before he ask another question .
`` In those day Miner 's great-great-grandfather a thousand time remove do n't live under ground , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
`` Nobody do .
He be n't so very different from a lot of other animal .
Food be plenty , and everybody be on the best of term with everybody else .
Mr. Mole live just a the rest do .
He go and come a he please , and enjoy the sunshine and take part in all the good time of his neighbor .
Everybody like him , and whenever he make a call , he be sure of a welcome .
But one thing Mr. Mole never do ; he never meddle in other people 's affair .
No , Sir , Mr. Mole never poke his nose in where he have no business .
`` For a long time everything go smoothly with all the people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
Then come hard time .
They grow hard and hard .
Food be scarce and keep grow more scarce .
Everybody be hungry , and you know how it be with hungry people -- they grow ugly and quarrelsome .
Matters grow bad and bad , and then it be that fear be bear .
The big people , like Old King Bear and Mr. Wolf and Mr. Panther and Mr. Lynx , begin to look with hungry eye on the little people , and the little people begin to grow afraid and hide from the big people , and all the time they be continually quarrel among themselves and steal from each other to get enough to eat .
`` Now , a I say before , Mr. Mole never have meddle with other people 's business , and he do n't now .
He go off by himself to think thing over .
` It be n't safe to run around any more , ' say he . '
I meet Mr. Wolf this morning , and he look at me with such a hungry look in his eye that it give me the cold shiver .
I believe he would have eat me , if I have n't crawl into an old hollow stump .
Now I ca n't run fast , because my leg be too short .
I ca n't climb tree like Mr. Squirrel , and I ca n't swim like Mr. Muskrat .
The only thing I can do be to dig . '
`` You see , Mr. Mole always have be very fond of digging , and he have do so much of it that his front leg and claw have grow very stout . ''
` Now if I dig a hole and keep out of sight , I wo n't have to worry about Mr. Wolf or anybody else , ' continue Mr. Mole to himself .
So he go to work at once and dig a hole on the Green Meadows , and , because he want to be comfortable , he make a big hole .
When it be finish , he be tire , so he curl up at the bottom for a nap .
He be awaken by hear voice outside .
He know those voice right away .
They be the voice of Mr. Fox and Mr. Badger . ''
` These be terrible time , ' say Mr. Fox .
` I 'm so hungry that I 'm waste away to a shadow .
I wonder who have dug this hole . ' ''
` Mr. Mole , ' reply Mr. Badger . '
I saw him at work here this morning .
Have you notice how very plump he look ? ' ''
` Yes , ' reply Mr. Fox .
` He make my mouth water the very last time I saw him .
Seems to me I can smell him now .
If he have make this hole just a little bit big I would go down and pull him out , but I be too tired to do any digging now . ' '' '
I tell you what , ' reply Mr. Badger .
` We 'll hunt together a little long , and then if we ca n't find anything to eat , we 'll come back , and I 'll help you dig , I hate to hurt Mr. Mole , because he always mind his own business , but these be hard time , and each one must look out for himself . '
`` With that they go away , leave Mr. Mole shake with fright at the bottom of his hole .
` It 's of no use , ' think Mr. Mole .
` If I go outside , they will soon find me , and if I stay here , they will dig me out .
Oh , dear , oh , dear !
What ever can I do ? '
`` He lay there feel very helpless and miserable , when all of a sudden a thought come to him .
If he have make his hole small , just big enough for him to crawl into , Mr. Badger and Mr. Fox would have have to do a great deal of dig to make it big enough for either of them to get in !
He would make a little tunnel off one side and hide in that .
So he go to work and make a little tunnel off one side just big enough for him to squeeze into .
He work very hard and very fast , and by the time Mr. Badger and Mr. Fox return , Mr. Mole be at the end of a long tunnel , so far from the hole he have first dug that he know it would take them a long time to dig him out , even if they notice his tunnel .
`` But they do n't .
They dig down to the bottom of his hole and then , because they do n't find him there , they straightway fell to quarrel , each blame the other for suggest such a lot of hard work for nothing .
Finally they go away , still call each other name , and from that day to this , Foxes and Badgers have never be friend .
`` Mr. Mole be very thankful for his narrow escape , and it set him to think .
If he have a lot of these underground tunnel , no one would be able to catch him .
It be a splendid idea !
He go to work on it at once .
And then he make a discovery -- such a splendid discovery !
There be plenty of food to eat right down under ground -- worm and grub -- all he need .
After that , Mr. Mole spend all his time in his tunnel and seldom put his nose outside .
He be safe , and he be comfortable , and he could always find something to eat by dig for it .
`` Little by little his old neighbor forget all about him .
Because he have little use for them , his eye grow small and small , and when he do come up into the light , they hurt him so that he be glad to go back into the dark again .
He be perfectly happy and satisfied there , and what be there in life well than to be happy and satisfy ? ''
`` Nothing , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , at whom Grandfather Frog happen to be look when he ask the question .
`` Right ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog .
`` And now you know why Miner the Mole live under ground -- because he be perfectly happy and satisfied there . ''
Just then up come Peter Rabbit , all out of breath .
`` Has Grandfather Frog be tell a story ? ''
he pant .
`` Yes , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , wink at Grandfather Frog , `` and now we be go back home perfectly happy and satisfied . ''
And to this day Peter Rabbit wonder what the story be that he miss .
X WHY MR. SNAKE CAN NOT WINK Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck be play tag on the Green Meadows .
Of course Peter can run so much fast than Johnny Chuck that he would never have be `` it '' if he have try his best to keep out of the way .
But he do n't .
No , Sir , Peter Rabbit do n't do anything of the kind .
He pretend that one of his long hind-legs be lame so that he have to run on three leg , while Johnny Chuck could use all four .
It be great fun .
They race and dodge and twisted and turn .
Sometimes Peter be so excited that he would forget and use all four leg .
Then Johnny Chuck would shout `` No fair ! ''
Peter would say that he do n't mean to , and to make up for it would be `` it '' and try to catch Johnny .
Now it happen that curl up on a little grassy tussock , take an early morning sun-bath , lay little Mr. Greensnake .
Of course Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck be not afraid of him .
If it have be Mr. Rattlesnake or Mr. Gophersnake , it would have be different .
But from little Mr. Greensnake there be nothing to fear , and sometimes , just for fun , Peter would jump right over him .
When he do that , Peter always wink good-naturedly .
But Mr. Greensnake never wink back .
Instead he would raise his head , run his tongue out at Peter , and hiss in what he try to make a very fierce and angry manner .
Then Peter would laugh and wink at him again .
But never once do Mr. Greensnake wink back .
-LSB- Illustration : He would make no reply , save to run out his tongue at them . -RSB-
Peter be think of this a he and Johnny Chuck stretch out in a sunny spot to get their breath and rest .
He have never think of it before , but now that he have notice it , he could n't remember that he ever have see little Mr. Greensnake wink , nor any of Mr. Greensnake 's relative .
He mention the matter to Johnny Chuck .
`` That 's so , '' reply Johnny thoughtfully .
`` I never have see any of them wink , either .
Do you suppose they can wink ? ''
`` Let 's go ask Mr. Greensnake , '' say Peter .
Up they hop and race over to the grassy tussock where Mr. Greensnake lay , but to all their question he would make no reply save to run out his tongue at them .
Finally they give up ask him .
`` I tell you what , let 's go over to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog .
He 'll be sure to know , and perhaps , if he be feel good , he 'll tell u a story , '' say Peter .
So off they scamper to the Smiling Pool .
There they find Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad just a usual , and Peter knew by the look in his great , goggly eye that Grandfather Frog have a good breakfast of foolish green fly tuck away inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
His eye twinkle a Peter and Johnny very politely wish him good morning .
`` Good morning , '' say he gruffly .
But Peter have see that twinkle in his eye and know that Grandfather Frog be feel good-natured in spite of his gruff greeting .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , why do n't Mr. Greensnake wink at u when we wink at him ? ''
he ask .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Because he ca n't , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Ca n't ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck together .
`` That 's what I say -- ca n't , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` And no more can Mr. Blacksnake , or Mr. Rattlesnake , or Mr. Gophersnake , or any other member of the Snake family . ''
`` Why not ? ''
cry Peter and Johnny , all in the same breath .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat , `` if you will sit still until I finish , I 'll tell you ; but if you move or ask any foolish question , I 'll stop right where I be , and you 'll never hear the end of the story , for no one else know it . ''
Of course Peter and Johnny promise to sit perfectly still and not say a word .
After they have make themselves comfortable , Grandfather Frog clear his throat a if to begin , but for a long time he do n't say a word .
Once Peter open his mouth to ask why , but remember in time and close it again without make a sound .
At last Grandfather Frog clear his throat once more , and with a far-away look in his great , goggly eye begin : `` Once upon a time , long , long ago , when the world be young , live old Mr. Snake , the grandfather a thousand time remove of little Mr. Greensnake and all the other Snakes whom you know .
Of course he be n't old then .
He be young and spry and smart , be Mr. Snake .
Now there be such a thing a be too smart .
That be the trouble with Mr. Snake .
Yes , Sir , that be the trouble with Mr. Snake .
He be so smart that he soon find out that he be the smart of all the meadow and forest people , and that be a bad thing .
It certainly be a very bad thing . ''
Grandfather Frog shake his head gravely .
`` You see , '' he continue , `` as soon a he find that out , he begin to take advantage of his neighbor and cheat them , but he would do it so smoothly that they never once suspect that they be be cheat .
Mr. Snake would go about all day cheat everybody he meet .
At night he would go home and chuckle over his smartness .
It be n't long before he begin to look down on his neighbor for be so honest that they do n't suspect other people of be dishonest , and for be so easily cheat .
`` Now one bad habit almost always lead to another .
From cheat , Mr. Snake just naturally slip to steal .
Yes , Sir , he become a thief .
Of course that make trouble right away , but still no one suspect Mr. Snake .
He be always very polite to every one and always offer to do favor for his neighbor .
In fact , Mr. Snake be very well like and much respect .
When any one have be rob , he be always the first to offer sympathy and join in the hunt for the thief .
He be so spry and slim , and could slip through the tall grass so fast , that he could go almost where he please without be see , and this make him very bold .
If he do happen to be find near the scene of trouble , he always have a story ready to account for his presence , and it sound so true , and he tell it in such an honest manner , that no one thought of doubt it .
`` So Mr. Snake find that lie help him to cheat and steal , and all the time he keep think how smart he be .
But even Mr. Snake have a little bit of conscience , and once in a while it would trouble him .
So what do you think he do ?
Why , cheating have become such a habit with him that he actually try to cheat himself -- to cheat his conscience !
When he be tell a lie , he would wink one eye .
` That , ' say he to himself , ` mean that it be n't true , and if these folk be not smart enough to see me wink and know what it mean , it be their own fault if they believe what I be tell them . '
But always he take care to wink the eye that be turn away from the one he be talk to .
`` Dear me , dear me , such terrible time a there be on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest !
They grow bad and bad , and when at last Old Mother Nature come to see how all the little people be get along , she hear so many complaint that she hardly know where to begin to straighten matter out .
She have all the little people come before her in turn and tell their trouble .
When it come Mr. Snake 's turn , he have no complaint to make .
He seem to be the only one who have no trouble .
She ask him a great many question , and for each one he have a ready reply .
Of course a great many of these reply be lie , and every time he tell one of these , he wink without know it .
You see , it have become a habit .
`` Now , with all his smartness , Mr. Snake have forget one thing , one very important thing .
It be this : You ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it be of no use to try .
He have n't be talk three minute before she know who be at the bottom of all the trouble .
She let him finish , then call all the others about her and tell them who have make all the trouble .
Mr. Snake be very bold .
He hold his head very high in the air and pretend not to care .
When Old Mother Nature turn her head , he even run out his tongue at her , just a all the Snake family do at you and me to-day .
When she have finish tell them how cheating and stealing and lying be n't smart at all , but very , very dreadful , she turn to Mr. Snake and say : '' ` From this time on , no one will believe anything you say , and you shall have no friend .
You will never wink again , for you and your child and your child 's child forever will have no eyelid , that all the world may know that those who make a wrong use of the thing give them shall have them take away . '
`` And now you know why little Mr. Greensnake can not wink at you ; he have n't any eyelid to wink with '' finish Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit draw a long breath .
`` Thank you , oh , thank you ever so much , Grandfather Frog , '' he say .
`` Will you tell u next time why Bobby Coon wear ring on his tail ? ''
`` Perhaps , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
XI WHY BOBBY COON HAS RINGS ON HIS TAIL Peter Rabbit would give Grandfather Frog no peace .
Every day Peter visit the Smiling Pool to tease Grandfather Frog for a story -- for one particular story .
He want to know why it be that Bobby Coon wear ring on his tail .
You see , Peter have admire Bobby Coon 's tail for a long time .
Peter have such a funny little tail himself , just a little white bunch of cotton , that such a handsome tail a Bobby Coon 's sometimes stir just a wee bit of envy in Peter 's heart .
But it be n't envy so much a curiosity that prompt Peter to tease for that story .
Bobby Coon 's tail be very handsome , you know .
It have beautiful ring of black and gray , and Peter do n't know of any other tail at all like it .
Somehow , he felt right down deep in his heart that there must be a reason for those ring , just a there be a reason for his own long ear and long leg .
The more he think about it , the more he felt that he simply must know , and the only way he could find out be from Grandfather Frog , who be very old and very wise .
So he tease and he tease until finally Grandfather Frog promise him that on the next afternoon he would tell Peter why Bobby Coon have ring on his tail .
Peter hurry away to tell all the little meadow and forest people , and the next afternoon they be all on hand on the bank of the Smiling Pool to hear the story about Bobby Coon 's tail .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
begin Grandfather Frog , smooth down his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Some folk seem to think that what they do do n't matter to anybody but themselves .
That be the way with old Mr. Rabbit , who live a long time ago when the world be young .
He think he could make all the trouble he please by his dreadful curiosity , and if he be find out , no one would suffer but himself .
But it be n't so .
Here be Peter Rabbit , his grandchild a thousand time remove , with long leg and long ear , and the bad habit of curiosity , all because old Mr. Rabbit have a bad habit and do n't try to overcome it .
`` It be the same way with old Mr. Coon .
He be dishonest and steal from Old King Bear .
Old Mother Nature punish him by put mustard in his food , and Mr. Coon think he be so smart that he could get ahead of Old Mother Nature by wash all his food before he eat it .
Old Mother Nature do n't say anything , but watch him and smile to herself .
You see , she know that Mr. Coon be begin a good habit , a very good habit indeed -- the habit of neatness .
So , though she know perfectly well that he be do it just to get ahead of her , she be glad , for she be fond of Mr. Coon in spite of the bad way he have grow into , and she know that good habit be like bad habit -- once start they grow and grow , and be very likely to lead to more good habit .
`` It be so with Mr. Coon .
He find that his food taste good for be so clean , and he grow very fussy about what he eat .
No matter where he find it or how tempting it look , he would n't eat it until he have carry it to the near water and wash it .
He still remember the mustard and try to fool himself into think that he be simply spit Old Mother Nature , but right down in his heart he know that even if he should be tell that never again would there be mustard in his food , he would wash it just the same .
`` One day , a he sit beside the Laughing Brook eat his supper , he notice that while his food have be wash clean , his hand be dirty .
They spoil his supper .
Yes , Sir , they spoil his supper . ''
` What good do it do to wash my food , if I eat it out of dirty hand ? '
say Mr. Coon to himself , and he hurry to a quiet little pool to give them a good scrubbing .
Then he wash his face and brush his coat .
` Now I feel well , and I know my supper will taste well , ' say he .
`` From that time he begin to be particular , very particular , about keep himself clean , until finally there be no one on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest quite so neat a Mr. Coon .
`` Now at this time Mr. Coon have a very plain tail .
It be all of one color , a grayish white , not at all pretty .
Mr. Coon use to think a great deal about that tail and wish and wish that it be handsome .
Sometimes he use to envy Mr. Fox his beautiful red tail with it black and white tip .
One day , a he sit on an old log with his chin in his hand , think about his tail , who should come along but Old Mother Nature . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Coon , ' say she in her pleasant voice .
`` Mr. Coon get up and make a very low bow .
` Good morning , Mother Nature , ' he reply in his politest manner , which be very polite indeed . ''
` What be you think about so hard ? '
ask Old Mother Nature .
`` Mr. Coon look a little bit ashamed .
Then he sigh . '
I be wish that my tail be handsome , ' say he .
` But it be a very good tail a it be , ' he add hastily .
`` Old Mother Nature 's eye twinkle .
She sit down beside Mr. Coon and ask him all about his affair , just a if she do n't know all about them already .
She tell him how pleased she be to find him so neat and clean , and Mr. Coon just tingle all over with pleasure .
At last she get up to go , and her eye twinkle more than ever , a she say : '' ` By the way , Mr. Coon , I be so pleased with your neatness that I be leave you a reward .
I hope you will like it . '
`` Mr. Coon do n't see any reward , but he thank her just the same , and Old Mother Nature go on her way .
Mr. Coon watch her out of sight .
Then he sit down on the old log again and scratch his head thoughtfully a he look this way and that . '' '
I wonder what she mean by reward .
I do n't see any anywhere , ' he say to himself .
`` By and by he just happen to glance at his tail .
` Oh ! '
cried Mr. Coon , and then for a long time he could n't say another word , but just look and look with shin eye and such a queer feeling of happiness in his heart .
You see , Old Mother Nature have leave a beautiful , broad , black ring around his tail .
Mr. Coon could n't do anything the rest of that day but look at and admire that ring , until his neck ache from twist it around so long .
`` After that he be neater than ever , you may be sure , and the next time Old Mother Nature come around , she leave another handsome black ring on his tail , because he have n't grow careless , but have keep up his good habit .
`` Now about this time , hard time come to all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
Every one begin to grumble .
Mr. Bear grumble .
Mr. Fox grumble .
Mr. Rabbit grumble .
Mr. Jay grumble .
Mr. Squirrel grumble .
Even Mr. Chuck grumble .
And one and all they begin to blame Old Mother Nature .
Then they begin to quarrel among themselves and to steal from each other .
Some even leave their home and go out into the Great World to try to find a good place to live , only to find that the Great World be a hard place to live in than the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
`` But Mr. Coon do n't grumble , and he do n't go away .
No , Sir , Mr. Coon just stick to his home and do the best he could to find enough to eat .
He keep himself as neat a ever and be always cheerful .
Whenever he meet one of his grumbling neighbor , he would say : '' ` Better time come !
Better time come !
Old Mother Nature be do the best she can .
Better time come ! '
`` The others would laugh at him for his faith in Old Mother Nature , and say ugly thing about her , and urge Mr. Coon to go with them out into the Great World .
But he keep right on mind his own business and keep neat and cheerful , until at last Old Mother Nature , all worried and troubled , come to see what she could do to straighten matter out .
It do n't take her long to find out how all the little meadow and forest people , except Mr. Coon , have grumble and be discontent and say ugly thing about her , for you ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
Some she punish one way , and some she punish another way , for of course she have n't be to blame for the hard time , but have be work night and day to put an end to them .
`` Mr. Coon be the last to be call before her , and instead of be frown and cross , a she have be to the others , she be all smile .
She say a lot of nice thing to him , and when at last she send him away , what do you think she have give him ? ''
`` More ring , '' cry Peter Rabbit .
`` Yes , '' reply Grandfather Frog , `` Mr. Coon 's tail be ring way to the tip .
There be one for cheerfulness , and one for faith , and one for persistence in make the best of a bad matter and stay at home .
And ever since that long-ago day when the world be young , the Coons have be very proud of their beautiful tail and have keep up the good habit of old Mr. Coon .
Now you know , Peter Rabbit , why Bobby Coon wear ring on his tail , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
Peter give a long sigh .
`` I think it 's perfectly beautiful , '' he say .
`` I wish I have ring on my tail . ''
And then he wonder why everybody laugh .
XII WHY THERE IS A BLACK HEAD IN THE BUZZARD FAMILY Ol ' Mistah Buzzard have just tell the story of why he have a bald head and be proud of it .
You know he have n't a feather on it , and it be very , very red .
It be a very interesting story , and it have be listen to with the close attention by a lot of the little meadow and forest people .
Unc ' Billy Possum , who be Ol ' Mistah Buzzard 's particular friend , both have come from `` way down souf , '' happen along just in time to hear the end of it .
`` May Ah ask yo ' a question , Brer Buzzard ? ''
say he .
`` Cert ` nly , Brer Possum .
Cert ` nly , '' reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Is Buzzard really your fam ` ly name ? ''
ask Unc ' Billy .
`` No , Brer Possum , it be n't , '' reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Everybody look surprised .
You see , no one ever have hear him call anything but Buzzard .
But no one say anything , and after a minute or two Ol ' Mistah Buzzard explain .
`` Mah fam ` ly name be Vulture , '' say he .
`` Yes , Sah , mah fam ` ly name be Vulture , but we-uns do be call Buzzards so long , that Ah don ' know a Ah would know Ah be be speak to , if Ah be call Mistah Vulture . ''
`` An ' do Ah understand that all of your fam ` ly have red haids ? ''
inquired Unc ' Billy .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard look down at Unc ' Billy , and he saw a twinkle in Unc ' Billy 's shrewd little eye .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard grin .
`` Ah know jes ' what yo ' do get in your mind , Brer Possum , '' say he .
`` It 's that trifle , no ` count cousin of mine .
He 's a Buzzard , or a Vulture , if yo ' like that good , jes ' like Ah be , but he belong to another branch of the fam ` ly .
He have a bald haid , jes ' like Ah have , but his haid be black instead of red .
That 's because his grandpap be trifle an ' po ' trash , jes ' like he be . ''
Peter Rabbit prick up his ear .
This sound like another story .
He be curious about that black-headed cousin of Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , very curious indeed .
He wonder if Ol ' Mistah Buzzard would have to be tease for a story , like Grandfather Frog .
Anyway , he would find out .
There would be no harm in try .
`` If you please , how do your cousin happen to have a black head ? ''
ask Peter as politely a he know how .
`` Because his grandpap ask too many question , '' reply Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , slyly wink at the others .
Everybody laugh , for everybody know that no one ask more question than Peter Rabbit .
Peter laugh with the rest , although he look a wee bit foolish .
But he do n't mean to give up just because he be laugh at .
Oh , my , no !
`` Please , Mr. Buzzard , please tell u the story , '' he beg .
Now Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be naturally good-natured and accommodating , and when Peter beg so hard , he just could n't find it in his heart to refuse .
Besides , he rather enjoy tell story .
So he shake his feather out , half spread his wing to let the air blow under them , look down at all the little meadow and forest people gather about the foot of the tall , dead tree where he delight to roost , grin at them in the funny way , and then begin this story : `` Way back in the day when Grandpap Buzzard have his lil fall out with ol ' King Eagle and do fly so high he sco ` tch the feather offen his haid , he have a cousin , do Grandpap Buzzard , and this cousin be jes ' naturally lazy and no ` count .
Like most no ` count people , he use to make a regular nuisance of hisself , poke his nose into ev ` ybody 's business and never ` tend to his own .
Was n't anything go on that this trifle member of the Buzzard fam ` ly do n't find out about and meddle in .
He could ask mo ' question than Peter Rabbit can , an ' anybody that can do that have get to ask a lot . ''
Everybody look at Peter and laugh .
Peter make a funny face and laugh too .
`` Seemed like he jes ' go ` round from mo ` ning to night ask question , '' continue Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , `` Got so that eve ` ybody dread to see that no ` count Buzzard coming , because he bind to pester with question about thing what do n't concern him no way .
`` Now yo ' know that way down in Ol ' Virginny where Ah do come from , mah fam ` ly do get the habit of sit on the top of chimney in the wintertime to warm their toe . ''
`` Why , I think it be warm down south ! ''
interrupt Peter Rabbit .
`` So it be , Brer Rabbit !
So it be ! ''
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard hasten to say .
`` But yo ' see , ol ' Jack Frost try to come down there sometimes , an ' he cool the air off a right smart lot before he turn tail an ' run back where he belong .
So we-uns sit on the chimney-tops whenever ol ' Jack Frost get to stray down where he have no business .
Yo ' see , if we-uns keep our toe warm , we-uns be warm all over .
`` One day this no ` count , trifle cousin of Grandpap Buzzard get cold in his foot .
He look ` round right smart fo ' a chimney fo ' to warm his toe , an ' pretty soon he see one where he never be before .
It be on a lil ol ' house , a lil ol ' tumble-down house .
Mistah Buzzard fly right over an ' sit on that chimney-top fo ' to warm his toe .
Of course he right smart curious about that lil ol ' tumble-down house and who live there .
He hear somebody inside talk to theirself , but he ca n't hear what they say , jes ' a mumbling sound that come up the chimney to him .
`` He listen an ' listen .
Then he shift ` round to the other side of the chimney an ' listen .
No matter where he sit , he ca n't hear what be say down inside that lil ol ' tumble-down house .
Then what do yo ' think Mistah Buzzard do ?
Why , he jes ' stretch his fool haid a far down that chimney a he can an ' listen an ' listen .
Yes , Sah , that be jes ' what that no ` count Buzzard do .
But all he hear be jes ' a mumbling and a mumbling , an ' that make him more curious than ever .
It seem to him that he must go clean outen his haid ` le he hear what go on down inside that lil ol ' house .
`` Now when he stretch his haid an ' neck down the chimney that way , he get 'em all black with soot .
But he do n't mind that .
No , Sah , he don ' mind that a bit .
Fact be , he don ' notice it .
He so curious he don ' notice anything , an ' pretty soon he plumb fo ` get where he be an ' that he be listen where he have no business .
He plumb fo ` get all about this , an ' he holler down that chimney .
Yes , Sah , he holler right down that chimney ! ''
` Will yo ' - alls please speak a lil louder , ' he holler down the chimney , jes ' like that .
`` Now the lil ol ' woman what live by herself in that lil ol ' tumble-down house have n't see that no ` count Buzzard light on the chimney fo ' to warm his toe , an ' when she hear that voice come right outen the fireplace , she be some flustrated and scar , be that lil ol ' woman .
Yes , Sah , she sho ` ly be plumb scared .
She so scar she tip over a whole kettleful of soup right in the fire .
Of course that make a terrible mess an ' a powerful lot of smoke an ' hot ash fly up the chimney .
They like to choke that no ` count Buzzard to death .
They burn the feather offen his haid an ' neck , an ' the soot make him black , all but his foot an ' laigs an ' the inside of his wing , which he keep close .
`` Mistah Buzzard he give a mighty squawk an ' fly away .
When he get home , he try an ' try to brush that soot off , but it do get into the skin an ' it stay there .
An ' from that day his haid an ' neck stay black , an ' he never speak lessen he speak to , an ' then he only grunt .
His chillen jes ' like him , an ' his chillen 's chillen the same way .
An ' that be the reason that mah cousin who live down souf do have a black haid , '' conclude Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
A little sigh of satisfaction go around the circle of listener .
As usual , Peter Rabbit be the first to speak .
`` That be a splendid story , Mr. Buzzard , '' say he , `` and I 'm ever and ever so much oblige to you .
It be just as good a one of Grandfather Frog 's . ''
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard grin and slowly wink one eye at Unc ' Billy Possum a he reply : `` Thank yo ' , Brer Rabbit .
That 's quite the nice thing yo ' could say . ''
`` But it 's true ! ''
shout all together , and then everybody give three cheer for Ol ' Mistah Buzzard before start off to attend to their own private affair .
XIII WHY BUSTER BEAR APPEARS TO HAVE NO TAIL Peter Rabbit have something new to bother his bump of curiosity .
And it do bother it a lot .
He have just see Buster Bear for the first time , and what do you think have impress him most ?
Well , it be n't Buster 's great size , or wonderful strength , or big claw , or deep , grumbly-rumbly voice .
No , Sir , it be n't one of these .
It be the fact that Buster Bear seem to have no tail !
Peter could n't get over that .
He almost pity Buster Bear .
You see , Peter have a great admiration for fine tail .
He have always be rather ashamed of the funny little one he have himself .
Still , it be a real tail , and he have often comfort himself with that thought .
So the first thing Peter do when he saw Buster Bear be to look to see what kind of a tail he have .
Just imagine how surprised he be when he could n't make sure that Buster have any tail at all .
There be something that might , just might , be mean for a tail , and Peter be n't even sure of that .
If it be , it be so ridiculously small that Peter felt that he have no reason to be ashamed of his own tail .
He be still think about this when he start for home .
Half way there , he pause , saw that the way to the Smiling Pool be clear , and suddenly make up his mind to ask Grandfather Frog about Buster Bear 's tail .
Off he start , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' he pant , as soon a he reach the edge of the Smiling Pool , `` have Buster Bear get a tail ? ''
Grandfather Frog regard Peter in silence for a minute or two .
Then very slowly he ask : `` What be your eye for , Peter Rabbit ?
Could n't you see whether or not he have a tail ? ''
`` No , Grandfather Frog .
I really could n't tell whether he have a tail or not , '' reply Peter quite truthfully .
`` At first I think he have n't , and then I think he might have .
If he have , it do n't seem to me that it be enough to call a really truly tail . ''
`` Well , it be a really truly tail , even if you do n't think so , '' retort Grandfather Frog , `` and he have it for a reminder . ''
`` A reminder ! ''
exclaim Peter , look very much puzzle .
`` A reminder of what ? ''
Grandfather Frog clear his throat two or three time .
`` Sit down , Peter , and learn a lesson from the tale of the tail of Old King Bear , '' say he very seriously .
`` You remember that once upon a time , long ago , when the world be young , Old King Bear rule in the Green Forest , and everybody bring tribute to him . ''
Peter nod and Grandfather Frog go on .
`` Now Old King Bear be the great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Buster Bear , and he look very much a Buster do , except that he do n't have any tail at all , not the least sign of a tail .
At first , before he be make king of the Green Forest , he do n't mind this at all .
In fact , he be rather pleased that he do n't have a tail .
You see , he could n't think of any earthly use he would have for a tail , and so he be glad that he have n't get one to bother with .
`` This be just Old Mother Nature 's view of the matter .
She have do her very best to give everybody everything that they really need , and not to give them thing which they do n't need .
She could n't see that Mr. Bear have the least need of a tail , and so she have n't give him one .
Mr. Bear be perfectly happy without one , and be so busy get enough to eat that he do n't have time for silly thought or vain wish .
`` Then he be make king over all the people of the Green Forest , and his word be law .
It be a very great honor , and for a while he felt it so and do his best to rule wisely .
He go about just a before , hunt for his living , and have no more time than before for foolish thought or vain wish .
But after a little , the little people over whom he rule begin to bring him tribute , so that he no longer have to hunt for enough to eat .
Indeed , he have so much brought to him , that he could n't begin to eat all of it , and he grow very dainty and fussy about what he do eat .
Having nothing to do but eat and sleep , he grow very fat and lazy , a be the case with most people who have nothing to do .
He grow so fat that when he walk , he puff and wheeze .
He grow so lazy that he want to be wait on all the time .
`` It happen about this time that he overhear Mr. Fox talk to Mr. Wolf when they both think him asleep . '
A pretty kind of a king , he be ! '
sneer Mr. Fox .
` The idea of a king without a tail ! ' ''
` That 's so , ' assent Mr. Wolf .
` Why , even that little upstart , Mr. Rabbit , have get a make-believe tail . ' ''
Grandfather Frog 's eye twinkle a he say this , and Peter look very much embarrass .
But he do n't say anything , so Grandfather Frog go on .
`` Old King Bear pretend to wake up just then , and right away Mr. Fox and Mr. Wolf be a polite and smile a you please and begin to flatter him .
They tell him how proud they be of their king , and how handsome he be , and a lot of other nice thing , all of which he have hear often before and have believe .
He pretend to believe them now , but after they be through pay their respect and have go away , he keep turn over and over in his mind what he have overhear them say when they think he be asleep .
`` After that he could n't think of anything but the fact that he have n't any tail .
He take particular notice of all who come to pay him tribute , and he saw that every one of them have a tail .
Some have long tail ; some have short tail ; some have handsome tail and some have homely tails ; but everybody have a tail of some kind .
The more he try not to think of these tail , the more he do think of them .
The more he think of them , the more discontented he grow because he have none .
He do n't stop to think that probably all of them have use for their tail .
No , Sir , he do n't think of that .
Everybody else have a tail , and he have n't .
He felt that it be a disgrace that he , the king , should have no tail .
He brood over it so much that he lose his appetite and grow cross and peevish .
`` Then along come Old Mother Nature to see how thing be go in the Green Forest .
Of course she saw right away that something be wrong with Old King Bear .
When she ask him what the matter be , he be ashamed to tell her at first .
But after a little he tell her that he want a tail ; that he could never again be happy unless he have a tail .
She tell him that he have n't the least use in the world for a tail , and that he would n't be any happy if he have one .
Nothing that she could say make any difference -- he want a tail .
Finally she give him one .
`` For a few day Old King Bear be perfectly happy .
He spend all his spare time admire his new tail .
He call the attention of all his subject to it , and they all tell him that it be a very wonderful tail and be very become to him .
But it be n't long before he find that his new tail be very much in the way .
It bother him when he walk .
It be in the way when he sit down .
It be a nuisance when he climb a tree .
He do n't have a single use for it , and yet he have to carry it with him wherever he go .
Worse still , he overheard little Mr. Squirrel and Mr. Possum make fun of it .
And then he discover that the very one who admire his tail so to his face be laugh at him and poke fun at him behind his back .
`` And then Old King Bear wish that he have n't a tail more than ever he wish that he do have a tail .
Again he lose his appetite and grow cross and peevish , so that no one dare come near him .
So matter go from bad to worse , until once more Old Mother Nature visit the Green Forest to see how thing be .
Very humbly Old King Bear go down on his knee and beg her to take away his tail .
At first Old Mother Nature refuse , but he beg so hard and promise so faithfully never again to be discontent , that finally she relent and take away his tail , all but just a wee little bit .
That she leave a a reminder lest he should forget the lesson he have learn and should again grow envious .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Then Old King Bear wish that he have n't a tail . '' -RSB-
`` And every bear since that long-ago day have carry about with him a reminder -- you can hardly call it a real tail -- of the silly , foolish discontent of Old King Bear , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit scratch one long ear thoughtfully a he reply : `` Thank you , Grandfather Frog .
I think that hereafter I will be quite content with what I 've get and never want thing it be not meant that I should have . ''
XIV WHY FLITTER THE BAT FLIES AT NIGHT -LSB- Illustration : `` It must be fine to fly , '' think Peter .
`` I wish I could fly . '' -RSB-
Flitter the Bat make Peter Rabbit 's head dizzy .
Peter could n't help watch him .
He just have to .
It seem so wonderful that Flitter could really fly , that whenever he saw him , Peter have to stop and watch .
And then , a he saw Flitter twist and turn , fly high , fly low , and go round and round , Peter 's head would begin to swim and grow dizzy , and he wonder and wonder how it be that Flitter himself do n't grow dizzy .
`` It must be fine to fly , '' think Peter .
`` I wish I could fly .
If I could , I would n't spend all my time fly around the way Flitter do .
I 'd go on long journey and see the Great World .
I 'd fly way , way up in the blue , blue sky , the way Ol ' Mistah Buzzard do , where I could look down and see all that be go on in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows .
And I 'd fly in the daytime , because there be more go on then .
I wonder , now , why it be that Flitter never come out until after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills .
I never see him in the daytime , and I do n't even know where he keep himself .
I never think of it before , but I wonder why it be that he fly only at night .
I believe I 'll ask Grandfather Frog the very next time I see him . ''
Now you know that once Peter Rabbit 's curiosity be arouse , it just have to be satisfy .
No sooner do he begin to wonder about Flitter the Bat than he could think of nothing else .
So he watch until the way be clear , and then he start for the Smiling Pool as fast a he could go , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
He hop he would find Grandfather Frog sit as usual on his big green lily-pad , and that he would be good-natured .
If he be n't feel good-natured , it would be of no use to ask him for a story .
When Peter reach the Smiling Pool he be disappoint , terribly disappointed .
The big green lily-pad be there , but there be no one sit on it .
Somehow the Smiling Pool do n't seem quite like itself without Grandfather Frog sit there watch for foolish green fly .
Peter 's face show just how disappointed he felt .
He be just go to turn away when a great , deep voice say : `` Chug-a-rum !
Where be your manner , Peter Rabbit , that you forget to speak to your elder ? ''
Peter star eagerly into the Smiling Pool , and presently he saw two great , goggly eye and the top of a green head , way out almost in the middle of the Smiling Pool .
It be Grandfather Frog himself , have his morning swim .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , I do n't see you at all ! ''
cry Peter , `` If I have , of course I would have speak .
The fact be , I -- I -- '' `` You want a story , '' finish Grandfather Frog for him .
`` You ca n't fool me , Peter Rabbit .
You come over here just to ask me for a story .
I know you , Peter !
I know you !
Well , what be it this time ? ''
`` If you please , '' reply Peter politely and happily , for he saw that Grandfather Frog be feel good-natured , `` why be it that Flitter the Bat fly only at night ? ''
Grandfather Frog climb out on his big green lily-pad and make himself comfortable .
Peter sit still and try not to show how impatient he felt .
Grandfather Frog take his time .
It tickle him to see how hard impatient Peter be try to be patient , and his big , goggly eye twinkle .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he at last , with a suddenness that make Peter jump .
`` That 's very good , Peter , very good indeed !
Now I 'll tell you the story . ''
Of course he mean that Peter 's effort to keep still be very good , but Peter do n't know this , and he could n't imagine what Grandfather Frog meant .
However , what he care most about be the story , so he settle himself to listen , his long ear stand straight up , and his eye stretch wide open a he watch Grandfather Frog .
The latter clear his throat two or three time , each time a if he intend to begin right then .
It be one of Grandfather Frog 's little joke .
He do it just to tease Peter .
At last he really do begin , and the very first thing he do be to ask Peter a question .
`` What be the reason that you stay in the dear Old Briar-patch when Reddy Fox be around ? ''
`` So that he wo n't catch me , of course , '' reply Peter .
`` Very good , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` Now , why do you go over to the sweet-clover patch every day ? ''
`` Why , because there be plenty to eat there , '' reply Peter , look very , very much puzzle .
`` Well , now you 've answer your own question , '' grunt Grandfather Frog .
`` Flitter fly at night because he be safe then , and because he can find plenty to eat . ''
`` Oh , '' say Peter , and his voice sound dreadfully disappointed .
He have find out what he have want to know , but he have n't have a story .
He fidget about and look very hard at Grandfather Frog , but the latter seem to think that he have tell Peter what he want to know , and that be all there be to it .
Finally Peter sigh , and it be such a heavy sigh !
Then very slowly he turn his back on the Smiling Pool and start to hop away .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog in his deepest , story-telling voice .
`` A long time ago when the world be young , the great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Flitter the Bat first learn to fly . ''
`` I know ! ''
cry Peter eagerly .
`` You tell me about that , and it be a splendid story . ''
`` But when he learn to fly , he find that Old Mother Nature never give all her blessing to any single one of her little people , '' continue Grandfather Frog , without pay the least attention to Peter 's interruption .
`` Old Mr . Bat have wing ; something no other animal have , but he find that he could no longer run and jump .
He could just flop about on the ground , and be almost helpless .
Of course that mean that he could very easily be catch , and so the ground be no long a safe place for him .
But he soon find that he be not safe in the air in daytime .
Old Mr. Hawk could fly even faster than he , and Mr. Hawk be always watch for him .
At first , Mr . Bat do n't know what to do .
He do n't like to go to Old Mother Nature and complain that his new wing be not all that he have think they would be .
That would look a if he be ungrateful for her kindness in give him the wing . ''
` I 've get to think of some way out of my trouble myself , ' think old Mr . Bat .
` When I 'm sure that I ca n't , it will be time enough to go to Old Mother Nature . '
`` Now of course it be very hard to think when you be twist and dodge and turn in the air . ''
`` Of course ! ''
say Peter Rabbit , just a if he know all about it .
`` So Mr . Bat go look for a place where he could be quiet all by himself and think without danger of be gobble up for some one 's dinner , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
`` He fly and he fly and have almost give up hope of find any such place when he saw a cave .
It look very black inside , but it be big enough for Mr . Bat to fly into , and in he go .
He know that Mr. Hawk would never come in there , and when he find a little shelf up near the roof , he know that he be safe from any four-footed enemy who might follow him there .
It be just the place to rest and think .
So he rest , and while he rest , he think and think .
`` By and by he notice that it be grow dark outside .
` My goodness !
If I be go to get anything to eat to-day , I shall have to hurry , ' think he .
When he get outside , he find that Mr. Sun have go to bed .
So have all the bird , except Mr. Owl and Mr. Nighthawk .
Now Mr. Nighthawk do n't belong to the Hawk family at all , so there be nothing to fear from him .
Then Mr . Bat have a very pleasant surprise .
He find the air full of insect , ever so many more than in the daytime .
By be very smart and quick he catch a few before it be too dark for him to see .
They do n't fill his stomach , but they keep him from starve .
As he fly back to the cave , a great idea come to him , the idea for which he have be think so hard .
He would sleep day in the cave , where he be perfectly safe , and come out to hunt bug and insect just as soon a Mr. Hawk have go to bed !
Then he would be safe and would not have to complain to Old Mother Nature .
`` At first old Mr . Bat , who be n't old then , you know , have hard work to catch enough insect before it grow too dark , but he find that every night he could see a little long and a little good than the night before , until by and by he could see as well in the dusk a he use to see in the daytime .
Then he realize that Old Mother Nature have once more be very good to him , and that she have help him just a she always help those who help themselves .
She have give him night-seeing eye , and he no more have to go hungry .
`` Mr . Bat be very grateful , and from that day to this , Bats have be content to live in cave and fly in the evening .
You ask Flitter if it be n't so . ''
Peter grin .
`` He never stay in one place long enough for me to ask him anything , '' say he .
`` I 'm ever so much oblige for the story , Grandfather Frog .
It pay to make the best of what we have , do n't it ? ''
`` It certainly do .
Chug-a-rum !
It certainly do ! ''
reply Grandfather Frog .
XV WHY SPOTTY THE TURTLE CARRIES HIS HOUSE WITH HIM Spotty the Turtle sit on an old log on the bank of the Smiling Pool , take a sun-bath .
He have sit that way for the long time without once move .
Peter Rabbit have see him when he go by on his way to the Laughing Brook and the Green Forest to look for some one to pass the time of day with .
Spotty be still there when Peter return a long time after , and he do n't look a if he have move .
A sudden thought strike Peter .
He could n't remember that he ever have see Spotty 's house .
He have see the house of most of his other friend , but think as hard a ever he could , he do n't remember have see Spotty 's .
`` Hi , Spotty ! ''
he shout .
`` Where do you live ? ''
Spotty slowly turn his head and look up at Peter .
There be a twinkle in his eye , though Peter do n't see it .
`` Right here in the Smiling Pool .
Where else should I live ? ''
he reply .
`` I mean , where be your house ? ''
return Peter .
`` Of course I know you live in the Smiling Pool , but where be your house ?
Is it in the bank or down under water ? ''
`` It be just wherever I happen to be .
Just now it be right here , '' say Spotty .
`` I always take it with me wherever I go ; I find it much the handy way . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Hi , Spotty ! ''
he shout .
`` Where do you live ? '' -RSB-
With that Spotty disappear .
That be to say , his head and leg and tail disappear .
Peter star very hard .
Then he begin to laugh , for it come to him that what Spotty have say be true .
His house be with him , and now he have simply retire inside .
He do n't need any other house than just that hard , spot shell , inside of which he be now so cosily tuck away .
`` That 's a great idea !
Ho , ho , ho !
That 's a great idea ! ''
shout Peter .
`` Of course it be , '' reply Spotty , put nothing but his head out , `` You will always find me at home whenever you call , Peter , and that be more than you can say of most other people . ''
All the way to his own home in the dear Old Briar-patch , Peter think about Spotty and how queer it be that he should carry his house around with him .
`` I wonder how it happen that he do it , '' think he .
`` No wonder he be so slow .
Of course , it be very handy to have his house always with him .
As he say , he be always at home .
Still , when he be in a hurry to get away from an enemy , it must be very awkward to have to carry his house on his back .
I -- I -- why , how stupid of me !
He do n't have to run away at all !
All he have get to do be to go inside his house and stay there until the danger be past !
I never think of that before .
Why , that be the handy thing I ever heard of . ''
Now Peter know that there must be a good story about Spotty and his house , and you know Peter dearly love a good story .
So at the very first opportunity the next day , he hurry over to the Smiling Pool to ask Grandfather Frog about it .
As usual , Grandfather Frog be sit on his big green lily-pad .
No sooner do Peter pop his head above the edge of the bank of the Smiling Pool than Grandfather Frog exclaim : `` Chug-a-rum !
You 've keep me wait a long time , Peter Rabbit .
I do n't like to be keep wait .
If you want to know about Spotty the Turtle , why do n't you come early ? ''
All the time there be a twinkle in the big , goggly eye of Grandfather Frog .
Peter be so surprised that he could n't find his tongue .
He have n't say a word to any one about Spotty , so how could Grandfather Frog know what he have come for ?
For a long time he have have a great deal of respect for Grandfather Frog , who , a you know , be very old and very wise , but now Peter felt almost afraid of him .
You see , it seem to Peter a if Grandfather Frog have read his very thought .
`` I -- I do n't know you be wait .
Truly I do n't , '' stammer Peter .
`` If I have , I would have be here long ago .
If you please , how do you know that I be come and what I be come for ? ''
`` Never mind how I know .
I know a great deal that I do n't tell , which be more than some folk can say , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
Peter wonder if he mean him , for you know Peter be a great gossip .
But he do n't say anything , because he do n't know just what to say , and in a minute Grandfather Frog begin the story Peter so much want .
`` Of course you know , without me tell you , that there be a reason for Spotty 's carry his house around with him , because there be a reason for everything in this world .
And of course you know that that reason be because of something that happen a long time ago , way back in the day when the world be young .
Almost everything to-day be the result of thing that happen in those long-ago day .
The great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Spotty the Turtle live then , and unlike Spotty , whom you know , he have no house .
He be very quiet and bashful , be Mr . Turtle , and he never meddle with any one 's business , because he believe that the best way of keep out of trouble be to attend strictly to his own affair .
`` He be a good deal like Spotty , just a fond of the water and just a slow moving , but he do n't have the house which Spotty have now .
If he have have , he would have be save a great deal of trouble and worry .
For a long time everybody live at peace with everybody else .
Then come the try time , of which you already know , when those who live on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest have the very hard kind of work to find enough to eat , and be hungry most of the time .
Now Mr . Turtle , live in the Smiling Pool , have plenty to eat .
He have nothing to worry about on that score .
Everybody who live in the Smiling Pool know that it be the best place in the world , anyway . ''
Grandfather Frog wink at Jerry Muskrat , who be listen , and Jerry nod his head .
`` But presently Mr . Turtle discover that the big people be eat the little people whenever they could catch them , and that he be n't safe a minute when on shore , and not always safe in the water , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
`` He have two or three very narrow escape , and these set him to think .
He be too slow and awkward to run or to fight .
The only thing he could do be to keep out of sight as much a possible .
So he learn to swim with only his head out of water , and sometimes with only the end of his nose out of water .
When he go on land , he would cover himself with mud , and then when he hear anybody come , he would lie perfectly still , with his leg and his tail and his head drawn in just as close a possible , so that he look for all the world like just a little lump of brown earth .
`` One day he have crawl under a piece of bark to rest and at the same time keep out of sight of any who might happen along .
When he get ready to go on his way , he find that the piece of bark have catch on his back , and that he be carry it with him .
At first he be annoy and start to shake it off .
Before he succeed , he hear someone come , so he promptly draw in his head and leg and tail .
It be Mr. Fisher , and he be very hungry and fierce .
He look at the piece of bark under which Mr . Turtle be hide , but all he saw be the bark , because , you know , Mr . Turtle have draw himself wholly under . '' '
I believe , ' say Mr. Fisher , talk out loud to himself , ` that I 'll have a look around the Smiling Pool and see if I can catch that slow-moving Turtle who live there .
I believe he 'll make me a good dinner . '
`` Of course Mr . Turtle hear just what he say , and he bless the piece of bark which have hide him from Mr. Fisher 's sight .
For a long time he lay very still .
When he do go on , he take the great care not to shake off that piece of bark , for he do n't know but that any minute he might want to hide under it again .
At last he reach the Smiling Pool and slip into the water , leave the piece of bark on the bank .
Thereafter , when he want to go on land , he would first make sure that no one be watch .
Then he would crawl under the piece of bark and get it on his back .
Wherever he go he carry the piece of bark so a to have it handy to hide under .
`` Now all this time Old Mother Nature have be watch Mr . Turtle , and it please her to see that he be smart enough to think of such a clever way of fool his enemy .
So she begin to study how she could help Mr . Turtle .
One day she come up behind him just a he sit down to rest .
The piece of bark be uncomfortable and scratch his back , ' I wish , ' say he , talk to himself , for he do n't know that any one else be near , ' I wish that I have a house of my own that I could carry on my back all the time and be perfectly safe when I be inside of it . ' ''
` You shall have , ' say Old Mother Nature , and reach out , she touch his back and turn the skin into hard shell .
Then she touch the skin of his stomach and turn that into hard shell .
` Now draw in your head and your leg and your tail , ' say she .
`` Mr . Turtle do a he be tell to do , and there he be in the very best and safe kind of a house , perfectly hide from all his enemy ! ''
` Oh , Mother Nature , how can I ever thank you ? '
he cry . ''
` By do a you always have do , attend wholly to your own affair , ' reply Old Mother Nature .
`` So ever since that long-ago day when the world be young , all Turtles have carry their house with them and never have meddle in thing that do n't concern them , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' exclaim Peter , draw a long breath .
`` That be a perfectly splendid thing for Old Mother Nature to do . ''
Then he start for his own home in the dear Old Briar-patch , and all the way there he wonder and wonder how Grandfather Frog know that he want that story , and to this day he have n't find out .
You see , he do n't notice that Grandfather Frog be listen when he ask Spotty about his house .
Of course , Grandfather Frog know Peter and his curiosity so well that he have guess right away that Peter would come to him for the story , just a Peter do .
XVI WHY PADDY THE BEAVER HAS A BROAD TAIL Usually the thing that interest u most be something that we have n't get ourselves .
It be that way with Peter Rabbit .
Peter be not naturally envious .
Oh , my , no !
Peter be pretty well satisfied with what he have , which be quite a it should be .
There be only one thing with which Peter be really dissatisfied , and it be only once in a while , when he have n't much of anything else to think about , that he be dissatisfy with this .
Can you guess what it be ?
Well , it be his tail .
Yes , Sir , that be the one thing that ever really trouble Peter .
You see , Peter 's tail be , nothing but a funny little bunch of cotton , which do n't look like a tail at all .
The only time he ever see it be when he be back to the Smiling Pool and look over his shoulder at his reflection in the water , and then , of course , he really do n't see his tail itself .
So sometimes when Peter see the fine tail of his neighbor , a little bit of envy creep into his heart for just a little while .
Why , even little Danny Meadow Mouse have a real tail , short a it be .
And a for Happy Jack Squirrel and Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk , everybody know what beautiful tail they have .
Once Peter think about it so much that Grandfather Frog notice how sober he be and ask Peter what the trouble be .
When Peter tell him that it seem to him that Old Mother Nature have not be fair in give him such a foolish little tail when she have give others such beautiful one , Grandfather Frog just open his big mouth and laugh until he have to hold his side .
`` Why , Peter , '' say he , `` you look so sober , that I think you really have something to worry about .
What would you do with a big tail , if you have one ?
It would always be in your way .
Just think how many time Reddy Fox or old Granny Fox have almost catch you .
They certainly would have before this , if you have have a long tail stick out behind for them to get hold of .
I have a long tail when I be young , and I be mighty glad to get rid of it . ''
After he hear that , Peter felt well .
But he do n't lose interest in tail , and he spend a great deal of time in wonder why some of his neighbor have big , bushy tail and some have long , slim tail and why he himself have almost no tail at all .
So when Paddy the Beaver come to live in the Green Forest , and make a pond there by build a wonderful dam across the Laughing Brook , the first thing Peter look to see be what kind of a tail Paddy have , and the first time he get a good look at it , his eye pop almost out of his head .
He just star and star .
He hardly notice the wonderful dam or the equally wonderful canal which Paddy have make .
All he could think of be that great , broad , flat , thick tail , which be so unlike any tail he have ever see or hear of .
The very next morning he hurry over to the Smiling Pool to tell Grandfather Frog about it .
Grandfather Frog 's big , goggly eye twinkle .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he .
`` Paddy the Beaver have one of the most useful tail I know of .
Would you like to know how he come by such a queer tail ? ''
-LSB- Illustration : The first thing Peter look to see be what kind of a tail Paddy have . -RSB-
`` Oh , if you please !
If you please , Grandfather Frog !
I do n't suppose there be such a queer tail in all the world , and I do n't see what possible use it can be .
Do tell me about it ! ''
cry Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum !
If you have use your eye when you visit Paddy , you might have guess for yourself how he come by it , '' reply Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Some people never do learn to use their eye . ''
Peter look a bit sheepish , but he say nothing and wait patiently .
Presently Grandfather Frog clear his throat two or three time and begin to talk .
`` Once upon a time , long , long ago , when the world be young -- '' `` It seem to me that everything wonderful happen long ago when the world be young , '' interrupt Peter .
Grandfather Frog look at Peter severely , and Peter hasten to beg his pardon .
After a long time Grandfather Frog begin again .
`` Once on a time , long , long ago , live Mr. Beaver , the great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Paddy up there in the Green Forest .
Old Mr. Beaver be one of the hard working of all of Old Mother Nature 's big family and one of the smart , just a Paddy be to-day .
He always seem happy when he be busy , and because he like to be happy all the time , he try to keep busy all the time .
`` He be very thrifty , be Mr. Beaver ; not at all like some people I know .
He believe in prepare to-day for what might happen to-morrow , and so when he have all the food he need for the present , he store away food for the time when it might not be so easy to get .
And he believe in help himself , do Mr. Beaver , and not in leave everything to Old Mother Nature , a do most of his neighbor .
That be how he first come to think of make a dam and a pond .
Like his small cousin , Mr. Muskrat , he be very fond of the water , and felt most at home and safe there .
But he find that sometimes the food which he like best , which be the bark of certain kind of tree , grow some distance from the water , and it be the hard kind of hard work to roll and drag the log down to the water , where he could eat the bark from them in safety .
`` He think about this a great deal , but instead of go to Old Mother Nature and complaining , a most of his neighbor would have do in his place , he study and study to find some way to make the work easier .
One day he notice that a lot of stick have catch in the stream where he make his home , and that because the water could not work it way between them as fast a where nothing hinder it , it make a little pool just above the stick .
That make him think hard than ever .
He bring some of the log and stick from which he have gnaw the bark and fasten them with the others , and right away the pool grow big .
The more stick he add , the big the pool grow .
Mr. Beaver have discover what a dam be for and how to build it . ''
` Why , ' think he , ` if I make a pond at the place near to my food tree , I can carry the water to the tree instead of the tree to the water ; and that will be easier and ever so much safer a well . '
`` So Mr. Beaver build a dam at just the right place , while all the other little people laugh at him and make fun of him for work so hard .
Just a he have think it would do , the dam make a pond , and the pond grow big and big , until it reach the very place where his food tree grow .
Mr. Beaver build him a big , comfortable house out in the pond , and then he go to work as hard a ever he could to cut down tree and then cut them up into the right sized piece to store away in his big food pile for the winter .
`` Now cut down tree be hard work .
Yes , Siree , cut down tree be the hard kind of hard work .
Mr. Beaver have to sit up on his hind leg to do it , and his leg grow very , very tired .
In those day he have a tail very much like the tail of Jerry Muskrat .
It be very useful when he be swim , but it be of no use at all at any other time .
Sometimes he try to brace himself with it -- when he be sit up to cut tree , and find it of no help .
But he do n't complain ; he just keep right on work , and only stop to rest when his leg ache so that he have to .
`` He be work just as usual one day when Old Mother Nature come along to see how he be get on .
She saw the new dam and the new pond , and she ask Mr. Beaver who have make them .
He tell her that he have and explain why .
Old Mother Nature be greatly pleased , but she do n't say so .
She just pass the time of day with him and then sit down to watch him cut a tree .
She saw him try to brace himself with his useless tail , and she saw him stop to rest his tired leg . ''
` That look to me like pretty hard work , ' say Old Mother Nature . ''
` So it be , ' reply Mr. Beaver , stretch first one leg and then another .
` But thing worth have be worth work for , ' and with that he begin cut again . ''
` You ought to have something to sit on , ' say Old Mother Nature , her eye twinkle .
`` Mr. Beaver grin .
` It would be very nice , ' he confess , ` but I never waste time wish for thing I have n't get and ca n't get , ' and go right on cut .
`` The next morning when he awake , he have the great surprise of his life .
He have a new tail !
It be broad and thick and flat .
It be n't like any tail he have ever see or hear of .
At first he do n't know how to manage it , but when he try to swim , he find that it be even good than his old tail for swimming .
He hurry over to begin his day 's work , and there he make another discovery ; his new tail be just the most splendid brace !
It be almost like a stool to sit on , and he could work all day long without tire his leg .
Then be Mr. Beaver very happy , and to show how happy he be , he work hard than ever .
Later , he find that his new tail be just what he need to pat down the mud with which he cover the roof of his house . ''
` Why , ' he cry , ' I believe it be the most useful tail in all the world ! '
`` And then he wish with all his might that Old Mother Nature would return so that he might thank her for it .
And that , '' conclude Grandfather Frog , `` be how Mr. Beaver come by his broad tail .
You see , Old Mother Nature always help those who help themselves .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind's_Animal_Friends.txt.out
I THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES SAVE THE GREEN MEADOWS Old Mother West Wind 's family be very big , very big indeed .
There be dozen and dozen of Merry Little Breezes , all child of Old Mother West Wind .
Every morning she come down from the Purple Hills and tumble them out of a great bag on to the Green Meadows .
Every night she gather them into the great bag and , put it over her shoulder , take them to their home behind the Purple Hills .
One morning , just a usual , Old Mother West Wind turn the Merry Little Breezes out to play on the Green Meadows .
Then she hurry away to fill the sail of the ship and blow them across the great ocean .
The Merry Little Breezes hop and skip over the Green Meadows look for some one to play with .
It be then that one of them discover something -- something very dreadful .
It be a fire !
Yes , Sir , it be a fire in the meadow grass !
Some one have drop a lighted match , and now little red flame be run through the grass in all direction .
The Merry Little Breeze hasten to tell all the other Little Breezes and all rush over as fast a they could to see for themselves .
They saw how the little red flame be turn to smoke and ash everything they touch , and how black and ugly , with nothing alive there , become that part of the Green Meadows where the little flame run .
It be dreadful !
Then one of them notice that the little red flame be run in the direction of Johnny Chuck 's new house .
Would the little red flame burn up Johnny Chuck , a they burn up the grass and the flower ?
`` Hi ! ''
cry the Merry Little Breeze , `` We must warn Johnny Chuck and all the other little meadow people ! ''
So he catch up a capful of smoke and race off as fast a he could go to Johnny Chuck 's house .
Then each of the Merry Little Breezes catch up a capful of smoke and start to warn one of the little meadow people or forest folk .
So pretty soon jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , look down from the blue sky , saw Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Peter Rabbit , Striped Chipmunk , Danny Meadow Mouse , Reddy Fox , Bobby Coon , Happy Jack Squirrel , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Jumper the Hare and old Mr. Toad all hurry as fast a they could to the Smiling Pool where live Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Spotty the Turtle and Grandfather Frog .
There they would be quite safe from the little red flame .
`` Oh , '' gasp Johnny Chuck , puff very hard , for you know he be round and fat and roly-poly and it be hard work for him to run , `` what will become of my nice new house and what will there be leave to eat ? ''
The Merry Little Breeze who have bring him the warning in a capful of smoke think for a minute .
Then he call all the other Little Breezes to him .
`` We must get Farmer Brown 's help or we will have no beautiful Green Meadows to play on , '' say the Merry Little Breeze .
So together they rush back to where the little red flame have grow into great , angry , red flame that be lick up everything in their way .
The Merry Little Breezes gather a great cloud of smoke and , lift all together , they carry it over and drop it in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Then one of them blow a little of the smoke in at an open window , near which Farmer Brown be eat breakfast .
Farmer Brown cough and strangle and sprang from his chair .
`` Phew ! ''
cry Farmer Brown , `` I smell smoke !
There must be a fire on the meadow . ''
Then he shout for his boy and for his hired man and the three , with shovel in their hand , start for the Green Meadows to try to put the fire out .
The Merry Little Breezes sigh with relief and follow to the fire .
But when they saw how fierce and angry the red flame have become they know that Farmer Brown and his boy and his hired man would not be able to put the fire out .
Choking with smoke , they hurry over to tell the dreadful news to the little meadow people and forest folk gather at the Smiling Pool .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Why do n't you help put the fire out ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
`` We warn Farmer Brown and his boy and his hired man ; what more can we do ? ''
ask one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Go find and drive up a rain cloud , '' reply Grandfather Frog .
`` Splendid ! ''
cry all the little meadow people and forest folk .
`` Hurry !
hurry !
Oh , do hurry ! ''
So the Merry Little Breezes scatter in all direction to hunt for a rain cloud .
`` It be a good thing that Old Mother West Wind have such a big family , '' say Grandfather Frog , `` for one of them be sure to find a wandering rain cloud somewhere . ''
Then all the little meadow people and forest folk sit down around the Smiling Pool to wait .
They watch the smoke roll up until it hide the face of jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
Their heart almost stand still with fear a they saw the fierce , angry , red flame leap into the air and climb tall tree on the edge of the Green Forest .
Splash !
Something strike in the Smiling Pool right beside Grandfather Frog 's big , green , lily-pad .
Spat !
Something hit Johnny Chuck right on the end of his funny little , black nose .
They be drop of water .
`` Hurrah ! ''
cry Johnny Chuck , whirl about .
Sure enough , they be drop of water -- rain drop .
And there , come just as fast a the Merry Little Breezes could push it , and they be push very hard , very hard indeed , be a great , black , rain cloud , spill down rain a it come .
When it be just over the fire , the great , black , rain cloud split wide open , and the water pour down so that the fierce , angry , red flame be drown in a few minute .
`` Phew ! ''
say Farmer Brown , mop his face with his handkerchief , `` that be warm work !
That shower come up just in time and it be lucky it do . ''
But you know and I know and all the little meadow people and forest folk know that it be n't luck at all , but the quick work and hard work of Old Mother West Wind 's big family of Merry Little Breezes , which save the Green Meadows .
And this , too , be one reason why Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Bobby Coon and all the other little meadow and forest people love the Merry Little Breezes who play every day on the Green Meadows .
II THE STRANGER IN THE GREEN FOREST Old Mother West Wind , hurry down from the Purple Hills with her Merry Little Breezes , discover the newcomer in the Green Forest on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes saw him , too , and as soon a Old Mother West Wind have turn them loose on the Green Meadows they start out to spread the news .
As they hurry along the Crooked Little Path up the hill , they meet Reddy Fox .
`` Oh , Reddy Fox , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , so excited that all talk together , `` there 's a stranger in the Green Forest ! ''
Reddy Fox sit down and grin at the Merry Little Breezes .
The grin of Reddy Fox be not pleasant .
It irritate and exasperate .
It make the Merry Little Breezes feel very uncomfortable .
`` You do n't say so , '' drawl Reddy Fox .
`` Do you mean to say that you 've just discover him ?
Why , your news be so old that it be stale ; it be no news at all .
I think you have something really new to tell me . ''
The Merry Little Breezes be disappoint .
Their face fell .
They have think it would be such fun to carry the news through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows , and now the very first one they meet know all about it .
`` Who be he , Reddy Fox ? ''
ask one of the Merry Little Breezes .
Reddy Fox pretend not to hear .
`` I must be go , '' say he , rise and stretch .
`` I have an engagement with Billy Mink down at the Smiling Pool . ''
Reddy Fox start down the Crooked Little Path while the Merry Little Breezes hurry up the Crooked Little Path to tell the news to Jimmy Skunk , who be look for beetle for his breakfast .
Now Reddy Fox have not tell the truth .
He have know nothing whatever of the stranger in the Green Forest .
In fact he have be as surprised a the Merry Little Breezes could have wish , but he would not show it .
And he have tell another untruth , for he have no intention of go down to the Smiling Pool .
No , indeed !
He just wait until the Merry Little Breezes be out of sight , then he slip into the Green Forest to look for the stranger see by the Merry Little Breezes .
Now Reddy Fox do nothing openly .
Instead of walk through the Green Forest like a gentleman , he sneak along under the bush and crept from tree to tree , all the time look for the stranger of whom the Merry Little Breezes have tell him .
All around through the Green Forest sneak Reddy Fox , but nothing of the stranger could he see .
It do n't occur to him to look anywhere but on the ground .
`` I do n't believe there be a stranger here , '' say Reddy to himself .
Just then he notice some scrap of bark around the foot of a tall maple .
Looking up to see where it come from he saw -- what do you think ?
Why , the stranger who have come to the Green Forest .
Reddy Fox dodge back out of sight , for he want to find out all he could about the stranger before the stranger saw him .
Reddy sit down behind a big stump and rub his eye .
He could hardly believe what he saw .
There at the top of the tall maple , strip the branch of their bark and eat it , be the stranger , sure enough .
He be big , much big than Reddy .
Could he be a relative of Happy Jack Squirrel ?
He do n't look a bit , not the least little bit like Happy Jack .
And he move slowly , very slowly , indeed , while Happy Jack and his cousin move quickly .
Reddy decide that the stranger could not be relate to Happy Jack .
The long Reddy look the more he be puzzle .
Also , Reddy begin to feel just a little bit jealous .
You see all the little meadow people and forest folk be afraid of Reddy Fox , but this stranger be so big that Reddy begin to feel something very like fear in his own heart .
The Merry Little Breezes have tell the news to Jimmy Skunk and then hurry over the Green Meadows telling every one they meet of the stranger in the Green Forest -- Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , Happy Jack Squirrel , Danny Meadow Mouse , Striped Chipmunk , old Mr. Toad , Grandfather Frog , Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , and each as soon a he hear the news start for the Green Forest to welcome the newcomer .
Even Grandfather Frog leave his beloved big , green lily-pad and start for the Green Forest .
So it be that when finally the stranger decide that he have eat enough bark for his breakfast , and climb slowly down the tall maple , he find all the little meadow people and forest folk sit in a big circle wait for him .
The stranger be anything but handsome , but his size fill them with respect .
The nearer he get to the ground the big he look .
Down he come , and Reddy Fox , note how slow and clumsy in his movement be the stranger , decide that there be nothing to fear .
If the stranger be slow and clumsy in the tree , he be clumsy still on the ground .
His eye be small and dull .
His coat be rough , long and almost black .
His leg be short and stout .
His tail be rather short and broad .
Altogether he be anything but handsome .
But when the little meadow people and forest folk saw his huge front teeth they regard him with great respect than ever , all but Reddy Fox .
Reddy strut out in front of him .
`` Who be you ? ''
he demand .
-LSB- Illustration : Reddy strut out in front of him .
`` Who be you ? ''
he demand . -RSB-
The stranger pay no attention to Reddy Fox .
`` What business have you in our Green Forest ? ''
demand Reddy , show all his teeth .
The stranger just grunt and appear not to see Reddy Fox .
Reddy swell himself out until every hair stand on end and he look twice as big a he really be .
He strut back and forth in front of the stranger .
`` Do n't you know that I 'm afraid of nothing and nobody ? ''
snarl Reddy Fox .
The stranger refuse to give him so much a a glance .
He just grunt and keep right on about his business .
All the little meadow people and forest folk begin to giggle and then to laugh .
Reddy know that they be laugh at him and he grow very angry , for no one like to be laugh at , least of all Reddy Fox .
`` You 're a pig ! ''
taunt Reddy .
`` You 're afraid to fight .
I bet you 're afraid of Danny Meadow Mouse ! ''
Still the stranger just grunt and pay no further attention to Reddy Fox .
Now , with all his boast Reddy Fox have keep at a safe distance from the stranger .
Happy Jack Squirrel have notice this .
`` If you 're so brave , why do n't you drive him out , Reddy Fox ? ''
ask Happy Jack , skip behind a tree .
`` You do n't dare to ! ''
Reddy turn and glare at Happy Jack .
`` I 'm not afraid ! ''
he shout .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything nor anybody ! ''
But though he speak so bravely it be notice that he go no nearer the stranger .
Now it happen that that morning Bowser the Hound take it into his head to take a walk in the Green Forest .
Blacky the Crow , sit on the tip-top of a big pine , be the first to see him come .
From pure love of mischief Blacky wait until Bowser be close to the circle around the stranger .
Then he give the alarm .
`` Here 's Bowser the Hound !
Run ! ''
scream Blacky the Crow .
Then he laugh so that he have to hold his side to see the fright down below .
Reddy Fox forget that he be afraid of nothing and nobody .
He be the first one out of sight , run so fast that his foot seem hardly to touch the ground .
Peter Rabbit turn a back somersault and suddenly remember that he have important business down on the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck dodge into a convenient hole .
Billy Mink run into a hollow tree .
Striped Chipmunk hid in an old stump .
Happy Jack Squirrel climb the near tree .
In a twinkle the stranger be alone , face Bowser the Hound .
Bowser stop and look at the stranger in sheer surprise .
Then the hair on the back of his neck stand on end and he growl a deep , ugly growl .
Still the stranger do not run .
Bowser do n't know just what to make of it .
Never before have he have such an experience .
Could it be that the stranger be not afraid of him ?
Bowser walk around the stranger , growl fiercely .
As he walk the stranger turn , so a always to face him .
It be perplex and very provoking .
It really seem a if the stranger have no fear of him .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
cry Bowser the Hound in his deepest voice , and sprang at the stranger .
Then something happen , so surprising that Blacky the Crow lose his balance on the top of the pine where he be watch .
The instant that Bowser sprang , the stranger roll himself into a tight round ball and out of the long hair of his coat sprang hundred of sharp little yellowish white barbed spear .
The stranger look for all the world like a huge black and yellow chestnut burr .
Bowser the Hound be as surprised a Blacky the Crow .
He stop short and his eye look a if they would pop out of his head .
He look so puzzled and so funny that Happy Jack Squirrel laugh aloud .
The stranger do not move .
Bowser back away and begin to circle around again , sniff and snuff .
Once in a while he bark .
Still the stranger do not move .
For all the sign of life he make he might in truth have be a giant chestnut burr .
Bowser sit down and look at him .
Then he walk around to the other side and sit down .
`` What a queer thing , '' think Bowser .
`` What a very queer thing . ''
Bowser take a step nearer .
Then he take another step .
Nothing happen .
Finally Bowser reach out , and with his nose gingerly touch the prickly ball .
Slap !
The stranger 's tail have strike Bowser full in the face .
Bowser yell with pain and roll over and over on the ground .
Sticking in his tender lip be a dozen sharp little spear , and claw and rub at them a he would , Bowser could not get them out .
Every time he touch them he yelp with pain .
Finally he give it up and start for home with his tail between his leg like a whipped puppy , and with every step he yelp .
When he have disappear and his yelp have die away in the distance , the stranger unroll , the sharp little spear disappear in the long hair of his coat and , just a if nothing at all have happen , the stranger walk slowly over to a tall maple and begin to climb it .
And this be how Prickly Porky the Porcupine come to the Green Forest , and win the respect and admiration of all the little meadow people and forest folk , include Reddy Fox .
Since that day no one have try to meddle with Prickly Porky or his business .
III HOW PRICKLY PORKY GOT HIS QUILLS The newcomer in the Green Forest be a source of great interest to the Merry Little Breezes .
Ever since they have see him turn himself into a huge prickly ball , like a giant chestnut burr , and with a slap of his tail send Bowser the Hound yelping home with his lip stick full of little barbed spear , they have visit the Green Forest every day to watch Prickly Porky .
He be not very social .
Indeed , he be not social at all , but attend strictly to his own business , which consist chiefly of strip bark from the tree and eat it .
Never have the Merry Little Breezes see such an appetite !
Already that part of the Green Forest where he have choose to live have many bare stark tree , kill that Prickly Porky the Porcupine might live .
You see a tree can not live without bark , and Prickly Porky have strip them clean to fill his stomach .
But if Prickly Porky be not social he be not unfriendly .
He seem to enjoy have the Merry Little Breezes about , and do not in the least mind have them rumple up the long hair of his coat to feel the sharp little barbed spear underneath .
Some of these be so loose that they drop out .
Peter Rabbit 's curiosity lead him to examine some of these among bit of bark at the foot of a tree .
Peter wish that he have leave them alone .
One of the sharp little barb pierce his tender skin and Peter could not get it out .
He have to ask Johnny Chuck to do it for him , and it have hurt dreadfully .
After that the little meadow people and forest folk hold Prickly Porky in great respect than ever and leave him severely alone , which be just what he seem to want .
One morning the Merry Little Breezes fail to find Prickly Porky in the Green Forest .
Could he have leave as mysteriously a he have come ?
They hurry down to the Smiling Pool to tell Grandfather Frog .
Bursting through the bulrush on the edge of the Smiling Pool , they nearly upset Jerry Muskrat , who be sit on an old log intently watch something out in the middle of the Smiling Pool .
It be Prickly Porky .
Some of the sharp little barbed spear be stand on end ; altogether he be the queer sight the Smiling Pool have see for a long time .
He be swim easily and you may be sure no one try to bother him .
Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink sit on the Big Rock and for once they have forget to play trick .
When Prickly Porky head towards the Big Rock , Little Joe Otter suddenly remember that he have business down the Laughing Brook , and Billy Mink recall that Mother Mink have forbid him to play at the Smiling Pool .
Prickly Porky have the Smiling Pool quite to himself .
When he have swim to his heart 's content he climb out , shake himself and slowly amble up the Lone Little Path to the Green Forest .
The Merry Little Breezes watch him out of sight .
Then they dance over to the big green lily-pad on which sit Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes be great favorite with Grandfather Frog .
As usual they bring him some foolish green fly .
Grandfather Frog 's eye twinkle a he snap up the last foolish green fly .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , `` and now I suppose you want a story . ''
And he fold his hand across his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` If you please ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breezes .
`` If you please , do tell u how it be that Prickly Porky have spear on his back ! ''
Grandfather settle himself comfortably .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say he .
`` Once upon a time when the world be young , Mr. Porcupine , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Prickly Porky , whom you all know , live in the Green Forest where old King Bear rule .
Mr. Porcupine be a slow clumsy fellow , just a his grandson a thousand time remove be to-day .
He be so slow moving , and when he try to hurry tumble over himself so much , that he have hard work to get enough to eat .
Always some one reach the berry patch before he do .
The beetle and the bug be so spry that seldom could he catch them .
Hunger be in his stomach , and little else most of the time .
Mr. Porcupine grow thin and thinner and still more thin .
His long , shaggy coat look twice too big for him .
Because he be so hungry he could sleep little , and night as well a day he roam the forest , think of nothing but his empty stomach , and look for something to put in it .
So he learn to see by night as well a by day .
`` One day he could not find a single berry and not a beetle or a bug could he catch .
He be so hungry that he sit down with his back against a big black birch , and clasp both hand over his lean stomach , he weep .
There Sister South Wind find him , and her heart be move to pity , for she know that his wit be as slow a his body .
Softly she steal up behind him . ''
` Try the bark of the black birch ; it 's sweet and good , ' whisper Sister South Wind .
Then she hurry on her way .
`` Mr. Porcupine still sit with his hand clasp over his lean stomach , for it take a long time for his slow wit to understand what Sister South Wind meant .
` Bark , bark , try bark , ' say Mr. Porcupine over and over to himself .
He roll his dull little eye up at the big black birch . '
I believe I will try it , ' say Mr. Porcupine at last .
`` Slowly he turn and begin to gnaw the bark of the big black birch .
It be tough , but it taste good .
Clumsily he begin to climb , tear off a mouthful of bark here and there a he climb .
The high he get the tenderer and sweeter the bark become .
Finally he reach the top of the tree , and there on the small branch the bark be so tender and so sweet that he eat and eat and eat until for the first time in many day Mr. Porcupine have a full stomach .
That night he curl up in a hollow log and sleep all the night through , dreaming of great forest of black birch and all he want to eat .
`` The next day he hunt for and find another black birch , and climb to the top , he eat and eat until his stomach be full .
From that time on Mr. Porcupine cease to hunt for berry or beetle or bug .
He grow stout and stouter .
He fill his shaggy coat until it be so tight it threaten to burst .
`` Now while Mr. Porcupine be so thin and lean he have no enemy , but when he grow stout and then fat , Mr. Panther and Mr. Fisher and Mr. Bobcat and even old King Bear begin to cast longing eye upon him , for time be hard and they be hungry .
Mr. Porcupine begin to grow afraid .
By night he hide in hollow tree and by day he go abroad to eat only when he be sure that no one big than himself be about .
And because he no longer dare to move about a before , he no longer depend upon the black birch alone , but learn to eat and to like all kind of bark .
`` One day he have make his breakfast on the bark of a honey-locust .
When he come down the tree he bring with him a strip of bark , and attach to it be some of the long thorn with which the honey-locust seek to protect itself .
When he reach the ground whom should he find wait for him but Mr. Panther .
Mr. Panther be very lean and very hungry , for hunt have be poor and the time be hard . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Porcupine , ' say Mr. Panther , with a wicked grin .
` How fat you be ! ' ''
` Good morning , Mr. Panther , ' say Mr. Porcupine politely , but his long hair stand on end with fright , a he look into Mr. Panther 's cruel yellow eye . '' '
I say , how fat you be , ' say Mr. Panther , lick his chop and show all his long teeth .
` What do you find to eat these hard time ? ' ''
` Bark , Mr. Panther , just bark , ' say Mr. Porcupine , while his teeth chatter with fear .
` It really be very nice and sweet .
Wo n't you try a piece , Mr. Panther ? '
Mr. Porcupine hold out the strip of locust bark which he have bring down the tree for his lunch .
`` Now Mr. Panther have never try bark , but he think to himself that if it make Mr. Porcupine so fat it must be good .
He would try the piece of bark first and eat Mr. Porcupine afterward .
So he reach out and snap up the strip of bark .
`` Now the locust thorn be long and they be sharp .
They pierce Mr. Panther 's tender lip and his tongue .
They stick in the roof of his mouth .
Mr. Panther spat and yell with pain and rage and claw frantically at his mouth .
He roll over and over try to get rid of the thorn .
Mr. Porcupine do n't stay to watch him .
For once in his life he hurry .
By the time Mr. Panther be rid of the last thorn , Mr. Porcupine be nowhere to be see .
He be safely hidden inside a hollow log .
`` Mr. Porcupine do n't sleep that night .
He just lay and think and think and think .
The next morning , very early , before any one else be astir , he start out to call on old Mother Nature . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Porcupine , what bring you out so early ? '
ask old Mother Nature .
`` Mr. Porcupine bow very low .
` If you please , Mother Nature , I want you to help me , ' say he .
`` Then he tell her all about his meeting with Mr. Panther and how helpless he be when he meet his enemy , and he beg her to give him stout claw and a big mouth full of long teeth that he might protect himself .
`` Old Mother Nature think a few minute .
` Mr. Porcupine , ' say she , ` you have always mind your own business .
You do not know how to fight .
If I should give you a big mouth full of long teeth you would not know how to use them .
You move too slowly .
Instead , I will give you a thousand little spur .
They shall be hide in the long hair of your coat and only when you be in danger shall you use them .
Go back to the Green Forest , and the next time you meet Mr. Panther or Mr. Fisher or Mr. Bobcat or old King Bear roll yourself into a ball and the thousand little spear will protect you .
Now go ! '
`` Mr. Porcupine thank old Mother Nature and start back for the Green Forest .
Once he stop to smooth down his long , rough coat .
Sure enough , there , under the long hair , he felt a thousand little spear .
He go along happily until suddenly he meet Mr. Panther .
Yes , Sir , he meet Mr. Panther .
`` Mr. Panther be feel very ugly , for his mouth be sore .
He grin wickedly when he saw Mr. Porcupine and step right out in front of him , all the time lick his lip .
Mr. Porcupine tremble all over , but he remember what old Mother Nature have tell him .
In a flash he have roll up into a tight ball .
Sure enough , the thousand little spear spring out of his long coat , and he look like a huge chestnut burr .
`` Mr. Panther be so surprised he do n't know just what to do .
He reach out a paw and touch Mr. Porcupine .
Mr. Porcupine be nervous .
He switch his tail around and it strike Mr. Panther 's paw .
Mr. Panther yell , for there be spear on Mr. Porcupine 's tail and they be bad than the locust thorn .
He back away hurriedly and limp off up the Lone Little Path , growl horribly .
Mr. Porcupine wait until Mr. Panther be out of sight , then he unroll , and slowly and happily he walk back to his home in the Green Forest .
`` And since that long-ago day when the world be young , the Porcupines have fear nothing and have attend strictly to their own business .
And that be how they happen to have a thousand little barbed spear , which be call quill , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes draw a long breath .
`` Thank you , Grandfather Frog , thank you ever so much ! ''
they cry all together .
`` We be go back now to tell Prickly Porky that we know all about his little spear and how he happen to have them . ''
But first they blow a dozen fat , foolish , green fly over to Grandfather Frog .
IV PETER RABBIT 'S EGG ROLLING It be spring .
Drummer the Woodpecker be beat the long roll on the hollow limb of the old hickory , that all the world might know .
Old Mother West Wind , hurry down from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows , stop long enough to kiss the smile little bluets that crowd along the Lone Little Path .
All up and down the Laughing Brook be shy violet turn joyful face up to jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
Johnny Chuck be sit on his doorstep , stretch one short leg and then another , to get the kink out , after his long , long winter sleep .
Very beautiful , very beautiful indeed , be the Green Meadows , and very happy be all the little meadow people -- all but Peter Rabbit , who sit at the top of the Crooked Little Path that wind down the hill .
No , Sir , Peter Rabbit , happy-go-lucky Peter , who usually carry the light heart on the Green Meadows , be not happy .
Indeed , he be very unhappy .
As he sit there at the top of the Crooked Little Path and look down on the Green Meadows , he saw nothing beautiful at all because , why , because his big soft eye be full of tear .
Splash !
A big tear fell at his foot in the Crooked Little Path .
Splash !
That be another tear .
Splash !
splash !
`` My gracious !
My gracious !
What be the matter , Peter Rabbit ? ''
ask a gruff voice close to one of Peter 's long ear .
Peter jump .
Then he wink the tear back and look around .
There sit old Mr. Toad .
He look very solemn , very solemn indeed .
He be wear a shabby old suit , the very one he have sleep in all winter .
Peter forget his trouble long enough to wonder if old Mr. Toad would swallow his old clothes when he get a new suit .
`` What 's the matter , Peter Rabbit , what 's the matter ? ''
repeat old Mr. Toad .
Peter look a little foolish .
He hesitate , cough , look this way and look that way , hitch his trouser up , and then , why then he find his tongue and tell old Mr. Toad all his trouble .
`` You see , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` it 's almost Easter and I have n't find a single egg . ''
`` An egg ! ''
exclaim old Mr. Toad .
`` Bless my star !
What do you want of an egg , Peter Rabbit ?
You do n't eat egg . ''
`` I do n't want just one egg , oh , no , no indeed !
I want a lot of egg , '' say Peter .
`` You see , Mr. Toad , I be go to have an Easter egg rolling , and here it be almost Easter and not an egg to be find ! ''
Peter 's eye fill with tear again .
Old Mr. Toad roll one eye up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and wink .
`` Have you see Mrs. Grouse and Mrs. Pheasant ? ''
ask old Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` and they wo n't have any egg until after Easter . ''
`` Have you be to see Mrs. Quack ? ''
ask old Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` and she say she ca n't spare a single one . ''
Old Mr. Toad look very thoughtful .
He scratch the tip of his nose with his left hind foot .
Then he wink once more at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
`` Have you be to see Jimmy Skunk ? ''
he inquire .
Peter Rabbit 's big eye open very wide .
`` Jimmy Skunk ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Jimmy Skunk !
What do Jimmy Skunk have to do with egg ? ''
Old Mr. Toad chuckle deep down in his throat .
He chuckle and chuckle until he shake all over .
`` Jimmy Skunk know more about eggs than all the other little meadow people put together , '' say old Mr. Toad .
`` You take my advice , Peter Rabbit , and ask Jimmy Skunk to help you get the egg for your Easter egg roll . ''
Then old Mr. Toad pick up his cane and start down the Crooked Little Path to the Green Meadows .
There he find the Merry Little Breezes steal kiss from the bashful little wind flower .
Old Mr. Toad puff out his throat and pretend that he disapprove , disapprove very much indeed , but at the same time he roll one eye up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and wink .
`` Have n't you anything good to do than make bashful little flower hang their head ? ''
ask old Mr. Toad gruffly .
The Merry Little Breezes stop their dancing and gather about old Mr. Toad .
`` What 's the matter with you this morning , Mr. Toad ? ''
ask one of them .
`` Do you want u to go find a breakfast for you ? ''
`` No , '' reply old Mr. Toad sourly .
`` I be quite able to get breakfast for myself .
But Peter Rabbit be up on the hill cry because he can not find any egg . ''
`` Crying because he can not find any egg !
Now what do Peter Rabbit want of egg ? ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes all together .
`` Supposing you go ask him , '' reply old Mr. Toad tartly , once more pick up his cane and start for the Smiling Pool to call on his cousin , Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes star after him for a few minute , then they start in a mad race up the Crooked Little Path to find Peter Rabbit .
He be n't at the top of the Crooked Little Path .
They look everywhere , but not so much a the tip of one of his long ear could they see .
Finally they meet him just come away from Jimmy Skunk 's house .
Peter be hop , skip , jump up in the air and kick his long heel a only Peter can .
There be no trace of tear in his big , soft eye .
Plainly Peter Rabbit be in good spirit , in the very best of spirit .
When he saw the Merry Little Breezes he jump twice as high a he have jump before , then sit up very straight .
`` Hello ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello yourself , '' reply the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Tell u what under the sun you want of egg , Peter Rabbit , and we 'll try to find some for you . ''
Peter 's eye sparkle .
`` I 'm go to have an Easter egg rolling , '' say he , `` but you need n't look for any egg , for I be go to have all I want ; Jimmy Skunk have promise to get them for me . ''
`` What be an Easter egg roll ? ''
ask the Merry Little Breezes .
Peter look very mysterious .
`` Wait and see , '' he reply .
Then a sudden thought pop into his head .
`` Will you do something for me ? ''
he ask .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes be delight to do anything they could for Peter Rabbit , and tell him so .
So in a few minute Peter have them scatter in every direction with invitation to all the little people of the Green Meadows and all the little folk of the Green Forest to attend his egg roll on Easter morning .
Very , very early on Easter morning Old Mother West Wind hurry down from the Purple Hills and sweep all the rain cloud out of the sky .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climb up in the sky , smile his broad .
All the little song bird sing their sweetest , and some who really can not sing at all try to just because they be so happy .
Across the beautiful Green Meadows come all the little meadow people and forest folk to the smooth , grassy bank where the big hickory grows .
Peter Rabbit be there wait for them .
He have brush his clothes until you would hardly have know him .
He felt very much excite and very important and very , very happy , for this be to be the very first egg roll the Green Meadows have ever know , and it be all his very own .
Hidden behind the old hickory , tuck under piece of bark , scatter among the bluets and wind flower be big egg , little eggs and middle-sized egg , for Jimmy Skunk have be true to his promise .
Where they come from Jimmy would n't tell .
Perhaps if old Gray Goose and Mrs. Quack could have be there , they would have understand why it take so long to fill their nest .
Perhaps if Farmer Brown 's boy have happen along , he would have guess why he have to hunt so long in the barn and under the henhouse to get enough egg for breakfast .
But Jimmy Skunk hold his tongue and just smile to see how happy Peter Rabbit be .
First come Peter 's cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Then up from the Smiling Pool come Jerry Muskrat , Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle .
Johnny Chuck , Danny Meadow Mouse , and old Mr. Toad come together .
Of course Reddy Fox be on hand promptly .
Striped Chipmunk come dance out from the home no one have be able to find .
Out from the Green Forest trot Bobby Coon , Happy Jack Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
Behind them shuffle Prickly Porky .
Last of all come Jimmy Skunk , who never hurry , and Jimmy wear his very best suit of black and white .
Up in the old hickory sit Blacky the Crow , Sammy Jay and Drummer the Woodpecker , to watch the fun .
When all have arrive , Peter Rabbit start them to hunt for the egg .
Everybody get in the way of everybody else .
Even old Mr. Toad catch the excitement and hop this way and hop that way hunt for egg .
Danny Meadow Mouse find a goose egg big than himself and have to get help to bring it in .
Bobby Coon stub his toe and fell down with an egg under each arm .
Such a look sight a he be !
He have to go down to the Smiling Pool to wash .
By and by , when all the egg have be find , Peter Rabbit send a big goose egg roll down the grassy bank and then race after it to bring it back and roll it down again .
In a few minute the green grassy bank be cover with egg -- big egg , little egg , all kind of egg .
Some be nearly round and roll swiftly to the bottom .
Some be sharp point at one end and roll crookedly and sometimes turned end over end .
A big egg knock Johnny Chuck 's leg from under him and , because Johnny Chuck be round and roly-poly , he just roll over and over after the egg clear to the bottom of the green grassy bank .
And it be such fun that he scramble up and do it all over again .
Then Bobby Coon try it .
Pretty soon every one be try it , even Reddy Fox , who seldom forgets his dignity .
For once Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay almost wish that they have n't get wing , so that they might join in the fun .
But the great fun of all be when Prickly Porky decide that he , too , would join in the rolling .
He tuck his head down in his vest and make himself into a perfectly round ball .
Now when he do this , all his hidden spear stand out straight , until he look like a great , giant , chestnut burr , and every one hurry to get out of his way .
Over and over , fast and faster , he roll down the green , grassy bank until he land -- where do you think ?
Why right in the midst of a lot of egg that have be leave when the other little people have scamper out of his way .
Now , have his head tuck into his vest , Prickly Porky could n't see where he be go , so when he reach the bottom and hop to his foot he do n't know what to make of the shout that go up from all the little meadow people .
So foolish Prickly Porky lose his temper because he be be laugh at , and start off up the Lone Little Path to his home in the Green Forest .
And what do you think ?
Why , stick fast in a row on the spear on his back , Prickly Porky carry off six of Peter Rabbit 's Easter egg , and do n't know it .
V HOW JOHNNY CHUCK RAN AWAY Johnny Chuck stand on the doorstep of his house and watch old Mrs. Chuck start down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows towards Farmer Brown 's garden .
She have her market basket on her arm , and Johnny know that when she return it would be full of the thing he like best .
But not even the thought of these could chase away the frown that darken Johnny Chuck 's face .
He have never be to Farmer Brown 's garden and he have beg very hard to go that morning with old Mrs. Chuck .
But she have say `` No .
It be n't safe for such a little chap a you . ''
And when Mrs. Chuck say `` No , '' Johnny know that she mean it , and that it be of no use at all to beg .
So he stand with his hand in his pocket and scowl and scowl a he think of old Mrs. Chuck 's very last word : `` Now , Johnny , do n't you dare put a foot outside of the yard until I get back . ''
Pretty soon along come Peter Rabbit .
Peter be try to jump over his own shadow .
When he saw Johnny Chuck he stop abruptly .
Then he look up at the blue sky and wink at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
`` Looks mighty showery ` round here , '' he remark to no one in particular .
Johnny Chuck smile in spite of himself .
Then he tell Peter Rabbit how he have get to stay at home and mind the house and could n't put his foot outside the yard .
Now Peter have n't have the best bring up in the world , for his mother have such a big family that she be kept busy just get them something to eat .
So Peter have be allow to bring himself up and do just about a he please .
`` How long will your mother be go ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Most all the morning , '' say Johnny Chuck mournfully .
Peter hop a couple of step nearer .
`` Say , Johnny , '' he whisper , `` how be she go to know whether you stay in the yard all the time or not , so long a you be here when she get home ?
I know where there 's the dandy sweet-clover patch .
We can go over there and back easy before old Mrs. Chuck get home , and she wo n't know anything about it .
Come on ! ''
Johnny Chuck 's mouth water at the thought of the sweet-clover , but still he hesitate , for Johnny Chuck have be teach to mind . ''
` Fraid cat !
` Fraid cat !
Tied to your mother 's apron string ! ''
jeered Peter Rabbit .
`` I ai n't either ! ''
cry Johnny Chuck .
And then , just to prove it , he thrust his hand into his pocket and swagger out into the Lone Little Path .
`` Where 's your old clover patch ? ''
ask he .
`` I 'll show you , '' say Peter Rabbit , and off he start , lipperty-lipperty-lip , so fast that Johnny Chuck lose his breath try to make his short leg keep up .
And all the time Johnny 's conscience be prick him .
Peter Rabbit leave the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows for some secret little path of his own .
His long leg take him over the ground very fast .
Johnny Chuck , run behind him , grow tired and hot , for Johnny 's leg be short and he be fat and roly-poly .
At time all he could see be the white patch on the seat of Peter Rabbit 's pant .
He begin to wish that he have mind old Mrs. Chuck and stay at home .
It be too late to go back now , for he do n't know the way .
`` Wait up , Peter Rabbit ! ''
he call .
Peter Rabbit just flirt his tail and run faster .
`` Please , please wait for me , Peter Rabbit , '' pant Johnny Chuck , and begin to cry .
Yes , Sir , he begin to cry .
You see he be so hot and tired , and then he be so afraid that he would lose sight of Peter Rabbit .
If he do he would surely be lose , and then what should he do ?
The very thought make him run just a little faster .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Please , please wait for me , Peter Rabbit , '' pant Johnny Chuck . -RSB-
Now Peter Rabbit be really one of the best-hearted little fellow in the world , just happy-go-lucky and careless .
So when finally he look back and saw Johnny Chuck way , way behind , with the tear run down his cheek , and how hot and tire he look , Peter sit down and wait .
Pretty soon Johnny Chuck come up , puff and blowing , and throw himself flat on the ground .
`` Please , Peter Rabbit , be it very much farther to the sweet-clover patch ? ''
he pant , wipe his eye with the back of his hand .
`` No , '' reply Peter Rabbit , `` just a little way more .
We 'll rest here a few minute and then I wo n't run so fast . ''
So Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck lay down in the grass to rest while Johnny Chuck recover his breath .
Every minute or two Peter would sit up very straight , prick up his long ear and look this way and look that way a if he expect to see something unusual .
It make Johnny Chuck nervous .
`` What do you keep do that for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
he ask .
`` Oh , nothin ' , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
But he keep right on do it just the same .
Then suddenly , after one of these look abroad , he crouch down very flat and whisper in Johnny Chuck 's ear in great excitement .
`` Old Whitetail be down here and he 's head this way .
We 'd well be move , '' he say .
Johnny Chuck felt a chill of fear .
`` Who be Old Whitetail ? ''
he ask , a he prepare to follow Peter Rabbit .
`` Do n't you know ? ''
ask Peter in surprise .
`` Say , you be green !
Why , he 's Mr. Marsh Hawk , and if he once get the chance he 'll gobble you up , skin , bone and all .
There 's an old stone wall just a little way from here , and the sooner we get there the good ! ''
Peter Rabbit lead the way , and if he have run fast before it be nothing to the way he run now .
A great fear make Johnny Chuck forget that he be tire , and he run a he have never run before in all his short life .
Just a he dive head-first into a hole between two big stone , a shadow swept over the grass and something sharp tore a gap in the seat of his pant and make him squeal with fright and pain .
But he wriggle in beside Peter Rabbit and be safe , while Mr. Marsh Hawk fly off with a scream of rage and disappointment .
Johnny Chuck have never be so frighten in all his short life .
He make himself as small a possible and crept as far a he could underneath a friendly stone in the old wall .
His pant be torn and his leg smart dreadfully where one of Mr. Marsh Hawk 's cruel , sharp claw have scratch him .
How he do wish that he have mind old Mrs. Chuck and stay in his own yard , a she have tell him to .
Peter Rabbit look at the tear in Johnny Chuck 's pant .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Peter Rabbit , `` do n't mind a little thing like that . ''
`` But I 'm afraid to go home with my pant tear , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` Do n't go home , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
`` I do n't unless I feel like it .
You stay away a long time and then your mother will be so glad to see you that she wo n't ever think of the pant . ''
Johnny Chuck look doubtful , but before he could say anything Peter Rabbit stick his head out to see if the way be clear .
It be , and Peter 's long leg follow his head .
`` Come on , Johnny Chuck , '' he shout .
`` I 'm go over to the sweet-clover patch . ''
But Johnny Chuck be afraid .
He be almost sure that Old Whitetail be wait just outside to gobble him up .
It be a long time before he would put so much a the tip of his wee black nose out .
But without Peter Rabbit it grow lonesome and lonesomer in under the old stone wall .
Besides , he be afraid that he would lose Peter Rabbit , and then he would be lose indeed , for he do n't know the way home .
Finally Johnny Chuck venture to peep out .
There be jolly , round , red Mr. Sun smile down just a if he be use to see little runaway chuck every day .
Johnny look and look for Peter Rabbit , but it be a long time before he saw him , and when he do all he saw be Peter Rabbit 's funny long ear above the top of the wave grass , for Peter Rabbit be hide in the sweet-clover patch , eat away for dear life .
It be only a little distance , but Johnny Chuck have have such a fright that he try three time before he grow brave enough to scurry through the tall grass and join Peter Rabbit .
My , how good that sweet-clover do taste !
Johnny Chuck forget all about Old Whitetail .
He forget all about his torn pant .
He forget that he have run away and do n't know the way home .
He just eat and eat and eat until his stomach be so full he could n't stuff another piece of sweet-clover into it .
Suddenly Peter Rabbit grab him by a sleeve and pull him down flat .
`` Sh-h-h , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` do n't move . ''
Johnny Chuck 's heart almost stop beating .
What new danger could there be now ?
In a minute he hear a queer noise .
Peeping between the stem of sweet-clover he saw -- what do you think ?
Why , old Mrs. Chuck cut sweet-clover to put in the basket of vegetable she be take home from Farmer Brown 's garden .
Johnny Chuck give a great sigh of relief , but he keep very still for he do not want her to find him there after she have tell him not to put foot outside his own dooryard .
`` You wait here , '' whisper Peter Rabbit , and creep off through the clover .
Pretty soon Johnny Chuck saw Peter Rabbit steal up behind old Mrs. Chuck and pull four big lettuce leave out of her basket .
VI PETER RABBIT 'S RUN FOR LIFE `` I wish I have n't run away , '' say Johnny Chuck dolefully , a he and Peter Rabbit peep out from the sweet-clover patch and watch old Mrs. Chuck start for home with her market basket on her arm .
`` You ought to think yourself lucky that your mother do n't find you here in the sweet-clover patch .
If it have n't be for me she would have , '' say Peter Rabbit .
Johnny Chuck 's face grow long and longer .
His pant be tear , his leg be stiff and sore where old Mr. Marsh Hawk have scratch him that morning , but bad still his conscience prick him .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck 's conscience be prick him hard , very hard indeed , because he have run away from home with Peter Rabbit after old Mrs. Chuck have tell him not to leave the yard while she be away .
Now he do n't know the way home .
`` Peter Rabbit , I want to go home , '' say Johnny Chuck suddenly .
`` Is n't there a short cut so that I can get home before my mother do ? ''
`` No , there be n't , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` And if there be what good would it do you ?
Old Mrs. Chuck would see that tear in your pant and then you 'd catch it ! ''
`` I do n't care .
Please wo n't you show me the way home , Peter Rabbit ? ''
beg Johnny Chuck .
Peter Rabbit yawn lazily a he reply : `` What 's the use of go now ?
You 'll catch it anyway , so you might as well stay and have all fun you can .
Say , I know a dandy old house up on the hill .
Jimmy Skunk use to live there , but no one live in it now .
Let 's go up and see it .
It 's a dandy place . ''
Now right down in his heart Johnny Chuck know that he ought to go home , but he could n't go unless Peter Rabbit would show him the way , and then he do want to see that old house .
Perhaps Peter Rabbit be right -LRB- in his heart he know that he be n't -RRB- and he have well have all the fun he could .
So Johnny Chuck follow Peter Rabbit up the hill to the old house of Jimmy Skunk .
Cobwebs cover the doorway .
Johnny Chuck be go to brush them away , but Peter Rabbit stop him .
`` Let 's see if there be n't a back door , '' say he .
`` Then we can use that , and if Bowser the Hound or Farmer Brown 's boy come along and find this door they 'll think no one ever live here any more and you 'll be safe than if you be right in your own home . ''
So they hunt and hunt , and by and by Johnny Chuck find the back door way off at one side and cunningly hide under a tangle of grass .
Inside be a long dark hall and at the end of that a nice big room .
It be very dirty , and Johnny Chuck , who be very neat , at once begin to clean house and soon have it spick and span .
Suddenly they hear a voice outside the front door .
`` Does n't look a if anybody live here , but seem a if I smell young rabbit and -- yes , I 'm sure I smell young chuck , too .
Guess I 'll have a look inside . ''
`` It 's old Granny Fox , '' whisper Peter Rabbit , tremble with fright .
Then Peter Rabbit do a very brave thing .
He remember that Johnny Chuck could not run very fast and that if it have n't be for him , Johnny Chuck would be safe at home .
`` You stay right here , '' whisper Peter Rabbit .
Then he slip out the back door .
Half-way down the hill he stop and shout : `` Old Granny Fox Is slow than an ox ! ''
Then he start for the old brier patch a fast a his long leg could take him , and after him run Granny Fox .
Peter Rabbit be run for his life .
There be no doubt about it .
Right behind him , grind her long white teeth , her eye snap , run old Granny Fox .
Peter Rabbit do not like to think what would happen to him if she should catch him .
Peter Rabbit be use to run for his life .
He have to do it at least once every day .
But usually he be near a safe hiding place and he rather enjoy the excitement .
This time , however , the only place of safety he could think of be the friendly old brier patch , and that be a long way off .
Back at the old house on the hill , where Granny Fox have discover Peter Rabbit , be little Johnny Chuck , tremble with fright .
He creep to the back door of the old house to watch .
He saw Granny Fox get nearer and nearer to Peter Rabbit .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
She 'll catch Peter Rabbit !
She 'll catch Peter Rabbit ! ''
wail Johnny Chuck , wring his hand in despair .
It certainly look a if Granny Fox would .
She be right at Peter Rabbit 's heel .
Poor , happy-go-lucky , little Peter Rabbit !
Two more jump and Granny Fox would have him !
Johnny Chuck shut his eye tight , for he do n't want to see .
But Peter Rabbit have no intention of be catch so easily .
While he have seem to be run his very hard , really he be not .
And all the time he be watch Granny Fox , for Peter Rabbit 's big eye be so placed that he can see behind him without turn his head .
So he know when Granny Fox be near enough to catch him in one more jump .
Then Peter Rabbit dodge .
Yes , Sir , Peter Rabbit dodge like a flash , and away he go in another direction lipperty-lipperty-lip , a fast a he could go .
Old Granny Fox have be so sure that in another minute she would have tender young rabbit for her dinner that she have begin to smile and her mouth actually water .
She do not see where she be go .
All she saw be the white patch on the seat of Peter Rabbit 's trouser bob up and down right in front of her nose .
When Peter Rabbit dodge , something surprising happen .
Johnny Chuck , who have open his eye to see if all be over , jump up and shout for joy , and do a funny little dance in the doorway of the old house on the hill .
Peter have dodge right in front of a wire fence , a fence with ugly , sharp barb , and right smack into it run Granny Fox !
It scratch her face and tear her bright red cloak .
It throw her back flat on the ground , with all the wind knock out of her body .
When finally she have get her breath and scramble to her foot , Peter Rabbit be almost over to the friendly old brier patch .
He stop and sit up very straight .
Then he put his hand on his hip and shout : `` Run , Granny , run !
Here come a man who 's get a gun ! ''
Granny Fox start nervously and look this way and look that way .
There be no one in sight .
Then she shake a fist at Peter Rabbit and start to limp off home .
Johnny Chuck give a great sigh of relief .
`` My , '' say he , `` I wish I be as smart a Peter Rabbit ! ''
`` You will be if you live long enough , '' say a voice right behind him .
It be old Mr. Toad .
Mr. Toad and Johnny Chuck sit in the doorway of the old house on the hill and watch old Granny Fox limp off home .
`` I wonder what it would seem like not to be afraid of anything in the whole world , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` People who mind their own business and do n't get into mischief do n't need to be afraid of anything , '' say Mr. Toad .
Johnny Chuck remember how safe he have always felt at home with old Mrs. Chuck and how many time and how badly he have be frighten since he run away that morning .
`` I guess perhaps you be right , Mr. Toad , '' say Johnny Chuck doubtfully .
`` Of course I 'm right , '' reply Mr. Toad .
`` Of course I 'm right .
Look at me ; I attend strictly to my own affair and no one ever bother me . ''
`` That 's because you be so homely that no one want you for a dinner when he can find anything else , '' say Peter Rabbit , who have come up from the friendly old brier patch .
`` Better be homely than to need eye in the back of my head to keep my skin whole , '' retort Mr. Toad .
`` Now I do n't know what it be to be afraid . ''
`` Not of old Granny Fox ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` No , '' say Mr. Toad .
`` Nor Bowser the Hound ? ''
`` No , '' say Mr. Toad .
`` He 's a friend of mine . ''
Then Mr. Toad swell himself up very big .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything under the sun , '' boast Mr. Toad .
Peter Rabbit look at Johnny Chuck and slowly wink one eye .
`` I guess I 'll go up the hill and have a look around , '' say Peter Rabbit , hitch up his trouser .
So Peter Rabbit go off up the hill , while Mr. Toad smooth down his dingy white waistcoat and tell Johnny Chuck what a foolish thing fear be .
By and by there be a queer rustling in the grass back of them .
Mr. Toad hop around awkwardly .
`` What be that ? ''
he whisper .
`` Just the wind in the grass , I guess , '' say Johnny Chuck .
For a while all be still and Mr. Toad settle himself comfortably and begin to talk once more .
`` No , Sir , '' say Mr. Toad , `` I 'm not afraid of anything . ''
Just then there be another rustle in the grass , a little near than before .
Mr. Toad certainly be nervous .
He stretch up on the tip of his toe and look in the direction of the sound .
Then Mr. Toad turn pale .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Toad actually turn pale !
His big , bulge eye look a if they would pop out of his head .
`` I -- I must be go , '' say Mr. Toad hastily .
`` I quite forget an important engagement down on the Green Meadows .
If Mr. Blacksnake should happen to call , do n't mention that you have see me , will you , Johnny Chuck ? ''
Johnny Chuck look over in the grass .
Something long and slim and black be wriggle through it .
When he turn about again , Mr. Toad be half-way down the hill , go with such big hop that three time he fell flat on his face , and when he pick himself up he do n't even stop to brush off his clothes .
`` I wonder what it seem like not to be afraid of anything in the world ? ''
say a voice right behind Johnny Chuck .
There stand Peter Rabbit laugh so that he have to hold his side , and in one hand be the end of an old leather strap which he have fool Mr. Toad into thinking be Mr. Blacksnake .
VII A JOKER FOOLED Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck sit in the doorway of Jimmy Skunk 's deserted old house on the hill and look down across the Green Meadows .
Every few minute Peter Rabbit would chuckle a he think of how he have fool Mr. Toad into think that an old leather strap be Mr. Blacksnake .
`` Is Mr. Blacksnake so very dangerous ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck , who have see very little of the world .
`` Not for you or me , '' reply Peter Rabbit , `` because we 've grow too big for him to swallow .
But he would like nothing good than to catch Mr. Toad for his dinner .
But if you ever meet Mr. Blacksnake , be polite to him .
He be very quick temper , be Mr. Blacksnake , but if you do n't bother him he 'll not bother you .
My goodness , I wonder what 's go on down there in the alder ! ''
Johnny Chuck look over to the alder thicket .
He saw Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow and Mrs. Redwing sit in the alder .
They be call back and forth , apparently very much excite .
Peter Rabbit look this way and that way to see if the coast be clear .
`` Come on , Johnny Chuck , let 's go down and see what the trouble be , '' say he , for you know Peter Rabbit have a great deal of curiosity .
So down to the alder thicket skip Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck as fast a they could go .
Half-way there they be join by Danny Meadow Mouse , for he too have hear the fuss and want to know what it all meant .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit of Sammy Jay , but Sammy be too excited to answer and simply point down into the middle of the alder thicket .
So the three of them , one behind the other , very softly creep in among the alder .
A great commotion be go on among the dead leaf .
Danny Meadow Mouse give one look , then he turn as pale a do Mr. Toad when Peter Rabbit fool him with the old leather strap .
`` This be no place for me ! ''
exclaim Danny Meadow Mouse , and start for home as fast a he could run .
Partly under an old log lay Mr. Blacksnake .
There seem to be something the matter with him .
He look sick , and thresh and struggle till he make the leaf fly .
Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Mrs. Redwing call all sort of insulting thing to him , but he pay no attention to them .
Once Mrs. Redwing dart down and peck him sharply .
But Mr. Blacksnake seem quite helpless .
`` What 's the matter with him ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck in a whisper .
`` Nothing .
Wait and you 'll see .
Sammy Jay and Mrs. Redwing well watch out or they 'll be sorry , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
Just then Mr. Blacksnake wedge his head in under the old log and begin to push and wriggle hard than ever .
Then Johnny Chuck gasp .
Mr. Blacksnake be crawl out of his clothes !
Yes , Sir , his old suit be come off wrong side out , just like a glove , and underneath he wear a splendid new suit of shiny black !
`` It 's time for u to be move , '' whisper Peter Rabbit .
`` After Mr. Blacksnake have change his clothes he be pretty short temper .
Just hear him hiss at Mrs. Redwing and Sammy Jay ! ''
They tiptoe out of the alder thicket and start back for the old house on the hill .
Peter Rabbit suddenly giggle out loud .
`` To-morrow , '' say Peter Rabbit `` we 'll come back and get Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit and have some fun with Danny Meadow Mouse . ''
The next morning Danny Meadow Mouse sit on his doorstep nodding .
He be dream that his tail be long like the tail of all his cousin .
One of Old Mother West Wind 's Merry Little Breezes steal up and whisper in his ear .
Danny Meadow Mouse be awake , wide awake in an instant .
`` So Peter Rabbit be go to play a joke on me and scare me into fit ! ''
say Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Yes , '' say the Merry Little Breeze , `` for I overhear him tell Johnny Chuck all about it . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse begin to laugh softly to himself .
`` Will you do something for me ? ''
he ask the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Sure , '' reply the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Then go find Cresty the Fly-catcher and tell him that I want to see him , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse .
The Merry Little Breeze hurry away , and pretty soon back he come with Cresty the Fly-catcher .
Now all this time Peter Rabbit have be very busy plan his joke on Danny Meadow Mouse .
He and Johnny Chuck have go down to the alder thicket , where they have see Mr. Blacksnake change his clothes , and they have find his old suit just a he have leave it .
`` We 'll take this up and stretch it out behind a big tussock of grass near the home of Danny Meadow Mouse , '' chuckle Peter Rabbit .
`` Then I 'll invite Danny Meadow Mouse to take a walk , and when we come by the tussock of grass he will think he see Mr. Blacksnake himself all ready to swallow him .
Then we 'll see some fun . ''
So they carry Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit of clothes and hid it behind the big tussock of grass , and arrange it to look as much like Mr. Blacksnake a they could .
Then Johnny Chuck go back to the old house on the hill to watch the fun , while Peter Rabbit go to call on Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Good morning , Peter Rabbit , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse politely .
`` Good morning , Danny Meadow Mouse , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
`` Do n't you want to take a walk with me this fine morning ? ''
`` I 'll be delight to go , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse , reach for his hat .
So they start out to walk and presently they come to the big tussock of grass .
Peter Rabbit stop .
`` Excuse me , while I tie up my shoe .
You go ahead and I 'll join you in a minute , '' say Peter Rabbit .
So Danny Meadow Mouse go ahead .
As soon a his back be turn Peter Rabbit clap both hand over his mouth to keep from laugh , for you see he expect to see Danny Meadow Mouse come fly back in great fright the minute he turn the big tussock and saw Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit .
Peter Rabbit wait and wait , but no Danny Meadow Mouse .
What do it mean ?
Peter stop laugh and peep around the big tussock .
There sat Danny Meadow Mouse with both hand clap over his mouth , and laugh till the tear roll down his cheek , and Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit be nowhere to be see .
`` He laugh best who laugh last , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse to himself , late that afternoon , a he sit on his doorstep and chuckle softly .
When he have first hear from a Merry Little Breeze that Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck be plan to play a joke on him and scare him into fit with a suit of Mr. Blacksnake 's old clothes , he have try very hard to think of some way to turn the joke on the joker .
Then he have remember Cresty the Fly-catcher and have send for him .
Now Cresty the Fly-catcher be a handsome fellow .
In fact he be quite the gentleman , and do not look at all like one who would be at all interested in any one 's old clothes .
But he be .
He be never satisfy until he have line the hollow in the old apple-tree , which be his home , with the old clothes of Mr. Snake .
So when Danny Meadow Mouse send for him and whisper in his ear Cresty the Fly-catcher smile broadly and wink knowingly .
`` I certainly will be there , Danny Meadow Mouse , I certainly will be there , '' say he .
And he be there .
He have hide in a tree close by the big tussock of grass , behind which Peter Rabbit have plan to place Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit so a to scare Danny Meadow Mouse .
His eye have sparkle when he saw what a fine big suit it be .
`` My , but this will save me a lot of trouble , '' say he to himself .
`` It 's the fine old suit I 've ever see . ''
The minute Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck have turn their back down drop Cresty the Fly-catcher , pick up Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit , and take it with him , once more hid in the tree .
Presently back come Peter Rabbit with Danny Meadow Mouse .
You know what have happen then .
Cresty the Fly-catcher have nearly drop his prize , it tickle him so to see Peter Rabbit on one side of the big tussock laugh fit to kill himself at the scare he think Danny Meadow Mouse would get when he first saw Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit , and on the other side of the big tussock Danny Meadow Mouse laugh fit to kill himself over the surprise Peter Rabbit would get when he find that Mr. Blacksnake 's old clothes have disappear .
Pretty soon Peter Rabbit have stop laugh and peep around the big tussock .
There sat Danny Meadow Mouse laugh fit to kill himself , but not a trace of the old suit which be to have give him such a scare .
Peter could n't believe his own eye , for he have leave it there not three minute before .
Of course it would n't do to say anything about it , so he have hurry around the big tussock a if he be merely try to catch up .
`` What be you laugh at , Danny Meadow Mouse ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` I be think what a joke it would be if we could only find an old suit of Mr. Blacksnake 's and fool old Mr. Toad into think that it be Mr. Blacksnake himself , '' reply Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` What be you look for , Peter Rabbit ?
Have you lose something ? ''
`` No , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I think I hear footstep , and I be look to see if it could be Reddy Fox creep through the grass . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse have stop laugh .
`` Excuse me , Peter Rabbit , '' say he hurriedly , `` I 've just remember an important engagement . ''
And off he start for home as fast a he could go .
And to this day Peter Rabbit do n't know what become of Mr. Blacksnake 's old clothes .
VIII THE FUSS IN THE BIG PINE Peter Rabbit hop down the Crooked Little Path to the Lone Little Path and down the Lone Little Path to the home of Johnny Chuck .
Johnny Chuck sit on his doorstep dreaming .
They be very pleasant dream , very pleasant dream indeed .
They be such pleasant dream that for once Johnny Chuck forget to put his funny little ear on guard .
So Johnny Chuck sit on his doorstep dreaming and heard nothing .
Lipperty-lipperty-lip down the Lone Little Path come Peter Rabbit .
He saw Johnny Chuck and he stop long enough to pluck a long stem of grass .
Then very , very softly he steal up behind Johnny Chuck .
Reaching out with the long stem of grass , he tickle one of Johnny Chuck 's ear .
Johnny Chuck slap at his ear with a little black hand , for he think a fly be bother him , just a Peter Rabbit mean that he should .
Peter tickle the other ear .
Johnny Chuck shake his head and slap at this with the other little black hand .
Peter almost giggle .
He sit still a few minute , then tickle Johnny Chuck again .
Johnny slap three or four time at the imaginary fly .
This time Peter clap both hand over his mouth to keep from laugh .
Once more he tickle Johnny Chuck .
This time Johnny jump clear off his doorstep .
Peter laugh before he could clap his hand over his mouth .
Of course Johnny Chuck hear him and whirl about .
When he saw Peter Rabbit and the long stem of grass he laugh , too .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
You fool me that time .
Where 'd you come from ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` Down the Lone Little Path from the Crooked Little Path and down the Crooked Little Path from the top of the Hill , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
Then they sit down side by side on Johnny Chuck 's doorstep to watch Reddy Fox hunt for his dinner on the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon they hear Blacky the Crow caw very loudly .
They could see him on the tip-top of a big pine in the Green Forest on the edge of the Green Meadows .
`` Caw , caw , caw , '' shout Blacky the Crow , at the top of his lung .
In a few minute they saw all of Blacky 's aunt and uncle and cousin fly over to join Blacky at the big pine in the midst of the Green Forest .
Soon there be a big crowd of crow around the big pine , all talk at once .
Such a racket !
Such a dreadful racket !
Every few minute one of them would fly into the big pine and yell at the top of his lung .
Then all would caw together .
Another would fly into the big pine and they would do it all over again .
Peter Rabbit begin to get interested , for you know Peter have a very great deal of curiosity .
`` Now I wonder what Blacky the Crow and his aunt and his uncle and his cousin be make such a fuss about , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know , '' reply Johnny Chuck .
`` They seem to be have a good time , anyway .
My gracious , how noisy they be ! ''
Just then along come Sammy Jay , who be , a you know , first cousin to Blacky the Crow .
He be come from the direction of the big pine .
`` Sammy !
Oh , Sammy Jay !
What be all that fuss about over in the big pine ? ''
shout Peter Rabbit .
Sammy Jay stop and carefully brush his handsome blue coat , for Sammy Jay be something of a dandy .
He appear not to have hear Peter Rabbit .
`` Sammy Jay , be you deaf ? ''
inquired Peter Rabbit .
Now of course Sammy Jay have see Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck all the time , but he look up a if very much surprise to find them there .
`` Oh , hello , Peter Rabbit ! ''
say Sammy Jay .
`` Did you speak to me ? ''
`` No , oh , no , '' reply Peter Rabbit in disgust .
`` I be talk to myself , just think out loud .
I be wonder how many nut a Jay could steal if he have the chance . ''
Johnny Chuck chuckle and Sammy Jay look foolish .
He could n't find a word to say , for he know that all the little meadow people know how he once be catch steal Happy Jack 's store of nut .
`` I ask what all that fuss over in the big pine be about , '' continue Peter Rabbit .
`` Oh , '' say Sammy Jay , `` my cousin , Blacky the Crow , find Hooty the Owl asleep over there , and now he and his aunt and his uncle and his cousin be have no end of fun with him .
You know Hooty the Owl can not see in the daytime very well , and they can do almost anything to him that they want to .
It 's great sport . ''
`` I do n't see any sport in make other people uncomfortable , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` Nor I , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'd be ashamed to own a cousin like Blacky the Crow .
I like people who mind their own affair and leave other people alone . ''
Sammy Jay run out his tongue at Peter Rabbit .
`` You be a nice one to talk about mind other folk 's affair ! ''
jeered Sammy Jay .
`` Peter Rabbit 's ear be long ; I wonder why !
I wonder why !
Because to hear what others say He 's bound to try !
he 's bound to try . ''
It be Peter Rabbit 's turn to look discomfit .
`` Anyway , I do n't try to bully and torment others and I do n't steal , '' he retort .
`` Sammy Jay 's a handsome chap And wear a coat of blue .
I wonder if it 's really his Or if he steal that , too . ''
Just then Johnny Chuck 's sharp eye catch sight of something steal along the edge of the Green Meadows toward the Green Forest and the big pine .
`` There 's Farmer Brown 's boy with a gun , '' cry Johnny Chuck .
`` There 's go to be trouble at the big pine if Blacky the Crow do n't watch out .
That 's what come of be so noisy . ''
Peter Rabbit and Sammy Jay stop quarrel to look .
Sure enough , there be Farmer Brown 's boy with his gun .
He have hear Blacky the Crow and his aunt and his uncle and his cousin and he have hurry to get his gun , hop to take them by surprise .
But Blacky the Crow have sharp eye , too .
Indeed , there be none sharper .
Then , too , he be a mischief-maker .
Mischief-makers be always on the watch l they get catch in their mischief .
So Blacky the Crow , sit on the tip-top of the big pine , keep one eye out for trouble while he enjoy the tormenting of Hooty the Owl by his aunt and his uncle and his cousin .
He have see Farmer Brown 's boy even before Johnny Chuck have .
But he could n't bear to spoil the fun of torment Hooty the Owl , so he wait just as long a he dare .
Then he give the signal .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky at the top of his lung .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
reply all his aunt and uncle and cousin , rise into the air in a black cloud .
Then , with Blacky in the lead , they fly over on to the Green Meadows , laugh and talk noisily a they go .
Farmer Brown 's boy do not try to follow them , for he know that it be of not the least bit of use .
But he be curious to learn what the crow have be make such a fuss about , so he keep on towards the big pine .
Johnny Chuck watch him go .
Suddenly he remember Hooty the Owl , and that Hooty can not see well in the daytime .
Very likely Hooty would think that the crow have become tired of torment him and have go off of their own accord .
Farmer Brown 's boy would find him there and then -- Johnny Chuck shudder a he think of what might happen to Hooty the Owl .
`` Run , Peter Rabbit , run as fast a you can down on the Green Meadows where the Merry Little Breezes be at play and send one of them to tell Hooty the Owl that Farmer Brown 's boy be come with a gun to the big pine !
Hurry , Peter , hurry ! ''
cry Johnny Chuck .
Peter do not need to be tell twice .
He saw the danger of Hooty the Owl , and he start down the Lone Little Path on to the Green Meadows so fast that in a few minute all Johnny Chuck and Sammy Jay could see of him be a little spot of white , which be the patch on the seat of Peter 's pant , bob through the grass on the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck would have go himself , but he be round and fat and roly-poly and can not run fast , while Peter Rabbit 's leg be long and meant for run .
In a few minute Johnny Chuck saw one of the Merry Little Breezes start for the big pine a fast a he could go .
Johnny give a great sigh of relief .
Farmer Brown 's boy keep on to the big pine .
When he get there he find no one there , for Hooty the Owl have heed the warning of the Merry Little Breeze and have fly into the deep , dark part of the Green Forest , where not even the sharp eye of Blacky the Crow be likely to find him .
And back on his doorstep Johnny Chuck chuckle to himself , for he be happy , be Johnny Chuck , happy because he possess the best thing in the world , which be contentment .
And this be all I be go to tell you about the fuss in the big pine .
IX JOHNNY CHUCK FINDS A USE FOR HIS BACK DOOR Johnny Chuck sit in his doorway look over the Green Meadows .
He felt very fine .
He have have a good breakfast in the sweet-clover patch .
He have have a good nap on his own doorstep .
By and by he saw the Merry Little Breezes of old Mother West Wind hurry in his direction .
They seem in a very great hurry .
They do n't stop to kiss the buttercup or tease the daisy .
Johnny prick up his small ear and watch them hurry up the hill .
`` Good morning , Johnny Chuck , '' pant the first Merry Little Breeze to reach him , `` have you hear the news ? ''
`` What news ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` The news about old Mother Chuck , '' reply the Merry Little Breezes .
Johnny shake his head .
`` No , '' say he .
`` What be it ? ''
The Merry Little Breezes grow very , very sober .
`` It be bad news , '' they reply .
`` What be it ?
Tell me quick ! ''
beg Johnny .
Just then Reddy Fox come hop and skip down the Lone Little Path .
`` Hi , Johnny Chuck , have you hear the news ? ''
`` No , '' say Johnny Chuck , `` do tell me quick ! ''
Reddy Fox grin maliciously , for Reddy like to torment others .
`` It 's about old Mrs. Chuck , '' say Reddy .
`` I know that already , '' reply Johnny , `` but , please , what be it ? ''
`` Farmer Brown 's boy have catch old Mrs. Chuck , and now I would n't wonder but what he will come up here and catch you , '' reply Reddy , turn a somersault .
Johnny Chuck grow pale .
He have not see Mother Chuck to speak to since he run away from home .
Now he be glad that he have run away , and yet sorry , oh , so sorry that anything have happen to Mrs. Chuck .
Two big tear come into his eye and run down his funny little black nose .
The Merry Little Breezes saw this , and one of them hurry over and whisper in Johnny Chuck 's ear .
`` Do n't cry , Johnny Chuck , '' whisper the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Old Mother Chuck get away , and Farmer Brown 's boy be still wonder how she do it . ''
Johnny 's heart give a great throb of relief .
`` I do n't believe that Farmer Brown 's boy will catch me , '' say Johnny Chuck , `` for my house have two back door . ''
Johnny Chuck awake very early the next morning .
He stretch and yawn and then just lay quietly enjoy himself for a few minute .
His bedchamber , way down underground , be snug and warm and very , very comfortable .
By and by , Johnny Chuck hear a noise up by his front door .
`` I wonder what be go on out there , '' say Johnny Chuck to himself , and jump up , he tiptoe softly up the long hall until he have almost reach his doorway .
Then he hear a voice which he have hear before , and it make little shiver run all over him .
It be the voice of Granny Fox .
`` So this be where that fat little Chuck have make his home , '' say Granny Fox .
`` Yes , '' reply another voice , `` this be where Johnny Chuck live , for I saw him here yesterday . ''
Johnny prick up his ear , for that be the voice of Reddy Fox .
`` Do you think he be in here now ? ''
inquired Granny Fox .
`` I be sure of it , '' reply Reddy , `` for I have be watch ever since jolly , round , red Mr. Sun throw his nightcap off this morning , and Johnny Chuck have not put his nose out yet . ''
`` Good , '' say Granny Fox , `` I think fat Chuck will taste good for breakfast . ''
Johnny felt the cold shiver run over him again a he hear Granny Fox and Reddy Fox smack their lip .
Then Granny Fox speak again : `` You lie down behind that bunch of grass over there , Reddy , and I will lie down behind the old apple-tree .
When he come out , you just jump into his doorway and I will catch him before he can say Jack Robinson . ''
Johnny wait and listen and listen , but all be as still a still could be .
Then Johnny Chuck tiptoe back along the hall to his bedroom and sit down to think .
He felt sure that Granny Fox and Reddy be wait for him , just a he have hear them plan .
`` However be I go to know when they leave ? ''
say Johnny Chuck to himself .
Then he remember the back door which he have take such care to make , and which Peter Rabbit have laugh at him for take the trouble to make .
He have hide one so cunningly in the long grass and have so carefully remove all sand from around it that he felt quite sure that no one have find it .
Very softly Johnny Chuck creep along the back passageway .
Very , very cautiously he stick his little black nose out the doorway and sniffed .
Yes , he could smell fox , but he know that they be not at his back door .
Little by little he creep out until he could peep through the grass .
There lay Reddy Fox behind a big clump of grass , his eye fix on Johnny Chuck 's front door , and there behind the apple-tree lay Granny Fox take her ease , but all ready to jump when Reddy should give the word .
Johnny Chuck almost giggle out loud a he saw how eagerly Reddy Fox be watch for him .
Then Johnny Chuck have an idea that make him giggle harder .
His black eye snap and he chuckle to himself .
Pretty soon along come Bumble the Bee , look for honey .
He come bustle and hum through the tall grass and settle on a dandelion right on the doorstep of Johnny Chuck 's back door .
`` Good morning , '' grumble Bumble the Bee .
Johnny put a hand on his lip and beckon Bumble to come inside .
Now Bumble the Bee be a gruff and rough fellow , but he be a good fellow , too , when you know him .
Johnny Chuck have many time tell him of place where the flower grow thick and sweet , so when Johnny beckon to him , Bumble come at once .
`` Will you do something for me , Bumble ? ''
whisper Johnny Chuck .
`` Of course , I will , '' reply Bumble , in his gruff voice .
`` What be it ? ''
Then Johnny Chuck tell Bumble the Bee how Granny and Reddy Fox be wait for him to come out for his breakfast and how they have plan to gobble him up for their own breakfast .
Bumble the Bee grow very indignant .
`` What do you want me to do , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he ask .
`` If I can help you , just tell me how . ''
Johnny whisper something to Bumble the Bee , and Bumble laugh right out loud .
Then he buzz up out of the doorway , and Johnny creep up to watch .
Straight over to where Reddy Fox be squat behind the clump of grass fly Bumble the Bee , so swiftly that Johnny could hardly see him .
Suddenly Reddy give a yelp and sprang into the air .
Johnny Chuck clap both hand over his mouth to keep from laugh out loud , for you see Bumble the Bee have stick his sharp little lance into one of the ear of Reddy Fox .
Granny Fox look up and scowl .
`` Keep still , '' she whisper .
Just then Reddy yelp loud than before , for Bumble have sting him in the other ear .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
snap Granny Fox .
`` I do n't know , '' cry Reddy Fox , hang on to both ear .
`` You be -- '' begin Granny Fox , but Johnny Chuck never know what she be go to say Reddy Fox be , for you see just then Bumble the Bee thrust his sharp little lance into one of her ear , and before she could turn around he have do the same thing to the other ear .
Granny Fox do n't wait for any more .
She start off as fast a she could go , with Reddy Fox after her , and every few step they rub their ear and shake their head a if they think they could shake out the pain .
X BILLY MINK GOES DINNERLESS Down the Laughing Brook come Billy Mink .
He be feel very good that morning , be Billy Mink , please with the world in general and with himself in particular .
When he reach the Smiling Pool he swim out to the Big Rock .
Little Joe Otter be already there , and not far away , lazily float , with his head and back out of water , be Jerry Muskrat .
`` Hello , Billy Mink , '' cry Little Joe Otter .
`` Hello yourself , '' reply Billy Mink , with a grin .
`` Where be you go ? ''
ask Little Joe Otter .
`` Nowhere in particular , '' reply Billy Mink .
`` Let 's go fish down to the Big River , '' say Little Joe Otter .
`` Let 's ! ''
cry Billy , dive from the high point on the Big Rock .
So off they start across the Green Meadows towards the Big River .
Half way there they meet Reddy Fox .
`` Hello , Reddy !
Come on with u to the Big River , fishing , '' call Billy Mink .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Come on with u to the Big River , fishing , '' call Billy Mink . -RSB-
Now Reddy Fox be no fisherman , though he like fish to eat well enough .
He remember the last time he go fish and how Billy Mink have laugh at him when he fell into the Smiling Pool .
He be just about to say `` no '' when he change his mind .
`` All right , I 'll go , '' say Reddy Fox .
So the three of them race merrily across the Green Meadows until they come to the Big River .
Now Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter be famous fisherman and can swim even faster than the fish themselves .
But Reddy Fox be a poor swimmer and must depend upon his wit .
When they reach the bank of the Big River they very carefully crawl down to a sandy beach .
There , just a little way out from shore , a school of little striped perch be at play .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter prepare to dive in and each grab a fish , but Reddy Fox know that he could not swim well enough for that .
`` Wait a minute , '' whisper Reddy .
`` Billy Mink , you go up the river a little way and swim out beyond where the fish be at play .
Little Joe Otter , you go down the river a little way and swim out to join Billy Mink .
Then both together rush in as fast a you can swim .
The fish will be so frightened they will rush in where the water be shallow .
Of course you will each catch one , anyway , and perhaps I may be so lucky a to catch one in the shallow water . ''
Billy Mink and little Joe Otter agree , and do just a Reddy Fox have tell them to .
When they be between the play fish and deep water they start in with a rush .
The little striped perch be young and foolish .
When they saw Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter they rush madly away from them without look to see where they be go to .
As Reddy Fox have foresee would be the case , a lot of them become strand where the water be too shallow for swimming , and there they jump and flap helplessly .
Reddy be wait for them and in a twinkle his little black paw have scoop half a dozen fish high and dry on the beach .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter be too busy watch the fish to see what Reddy be do .
He have catch six fish and these he hide under a log .
When Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter swam ashore , Reddy be the picture of disappointment , for he have nothing to show , while the others each have a plump little fish .
`` Never mind , '' say Little Joe Otter , `` I 'll give you the next one I catch . ''
But Billy Mink jeer at Reddy Fox .
`` Pooh !
you 're no fisherman , Reddy Fox !
If I could n't catch fish when they be chase right into my hand I 'd never go fishing . ''
Reddy Fox pretend to be indignant .
`` I tell you what , Billy Mink , '' say he , `` if I do n't catch more fish than you do to-day I 'll bring you the plump chicken in Farmer Brown 's dooryard , but if I do catch more fish than you do you will give me the big one you catch .
Do you agree ? ''
Now Billy Mink be very fond of plump chicken and here be a chance to get one without danger of meet Bowser the Hound , who guard Farmer Brown 's chicken .
So Billy Mink agree to give Reddy Fox the big fish he catch that day if Reddy could show more fish than he could at the end of the day .
All the time he chuckle to himself , for you know Billy Mink be a famous fisherman , and he know that Reddy Fox be a poor swimmer and do not like the water .
By and by they come to another sandy beach like the first one .
They could see another school of foolish young fish at play .
As before , Reddy Fox remain on shore while the others swim out and drive the fish in .
As before Reddy catch half a dozen , while Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter each catch one this time .
Reddy hid five and then pretend to be so tickle over catch one , the small of the lot , that Billy Mink do n't once suspect a trick .
Two or three time more Reddy Fox repeat this .
Then he discover a big pickerel sun himself beside an old log float in deep water .
Reddy could n't catch Mr. Pickerel , for the water be deep .
What should he do ?
Reddy sit down to think .
Finally he think of a plan .
Very cautiously he back away so a not to scare the big fish .
Then he call Billy Mink .
When Billy saw the big pickerel , his mouth water , too , and his little black eye sparkle .
Very quietly Billy slip into the water back of the old log .
There be not so much a a ripple to warn the big pickerel .
Drawing a long breath , Billy dive under the log , and come up under the big pickerel , seize it by the middle .
There be a tremendous thrashing and splashing , and then Billy Mink swim ashore and proudly lay the big fish on the bank .
`` Do n't you wish it be yours ? ''
ask Billy Mink .
`` It ought to be mine , for I saw it first , '' say Reddy Fox .
`` But you do n't catch it and I do , '' retort Billy Mink .
`` I 'm go to have it for my dinner .
My , but I do like fat pickerel ! ''
Billy smack his lip .
Reddy Fox say nothing , but try his best to look disappointed and deject .
All the time he be chuckle inwardly .
For the rest of the day the fishing be poor .
Just a Old Mother West Wind start for the Green Meadows to take her child , the Merry Little Breezes , to their home behind the Purple Hills , the three little fisherman start to count up their catch .
Then Reddy bring out all the fish that he have hide .
When they saw the pile of fish Reddy Fox have , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter be so surprised that their eye pop out and their jaw drop .
Very foolish they look , very foolish indeed , for Reddy have four time as many a either of them .
Reddy walk over to the big pickerel and pick it up , carry it over to his pile .
`` What be you do with my fish ? ''
shout Billy Mink angrily .
`` It be n't yours , it 's mine ! ''
retort Reddy Fox .
Billy Mink fairly dance up and down he be so angry .
`` It 's not yours ! ''
he shriek .
`` It 's mine , for I catch it ! ''
`` And you agree that your big fish should be mine if I catch more fish than you do .
I 've catch four time a many , so the pickerel be mine , '' retort Reddy , wink at Little Joe Otter .
Then Billy Mink do a very foolish thing ; he lose his temper completely .
He call Reddy Fox bad name .
But he do not dare try to take the big pickerel away from Reddy , for Reddy be much big than he .
Finally he work himself into such a rage that he run off home leave his pile of fish behind .
Reddy Fox and Little Joe Otter take care not to touch Billy Mink 's fish , but Reddy divide his big pile with Little Joe Otter .
Then they , too , start for home , Reddy carry the big pickerel .
Late that night , when he have recover his temper , Billy Mink begin to grow hungry .
The more he think of his fish the hungrier he grow .
Finally he could stand it no longer and start for the Big River to see what have become of his fish .
He reach the strip of beach where he have so foolishly leave them just in time to see the last striped perch disappear down the long throat of Mr. Night Heron .
And this be how it happen that Billy Mink go dinnerless to bed .
But he have learn three thing , have Billy , and he never forget them -- that wit be often good than skill ; that it be not only mean but be very foolish to sneer at another ; and that to lose one 's temper be the most foolish thing in the world .
XI GRANDFATHER FROG 'S JOURNEY Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool and -- Grandfather Frog be asleep !
There be no doubt about it , Grandfather Frog be really and truly asleep .
His hand be fold across his white and yellow waistcoat and his eye be close .
Three time the Merry Little Breezes blow a foolish green fly right past his nose ; -- Grandfather Frog do n't so much a blink .
Presently Billy Mink discover that Grandfather Frog be asleep .
Billy 's little black eye twinkle with mischief a he hurry over to the slippery slide in search of Little Joe Otter .
Then the two scamp hunt up Jerry Muskrat .
They find him very busy store away a supply of food in his new house .
At first Jerry refuse to listen to what they have to say , but the more they talk the more Jerry become interested .
`` We wo n't hurt Grandfather Frog , not the least little bit , '' protest Billy Mink .
`` It will be just the best joke and the great fun ever , and no harm do . ''
The more Jerry think over Billy Mink 's plan , the funny the joke seem .
Finally Jerry agree to join Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
Then the three put their head together and with a lot of giggle and chuckle they plan their joke on Grandfather Frog .
Now Jerry Muskrat can stay a very long time under water , and his teeth be long and sharp in order to cut the root on which he depend for much of his food .
So Jerry swim out to the big green lily-pad on which sit Grandfather Frog fast asleep .
Diving way to the bottom of the Smiling Pool , Jerry cut off the stem of the big green lily-pad close to it root way down in the mud .
While Jerry be at work do this , Billy Mink send the Merry Little Breezes hurry over the Green Meadows to call all the little meadow people to the Smiling Pool .
Then , when Jerry Muskrat come up for a breath of air , Billy Mink dive down and , get hold of the end of the lily-pad stem , he begin to swim , tow the big green lily-pad after him very slowly and gently so a not to waken Grandfather Frog .
When Billy have to come up for air , Little Joe Otter take his place .
Then Jerry Muskrat take his turn .
Across the Smiling Pool , past the Big Rock , they tow the big green lily-pad , while Grandfather Frog sleep peacefully , his hand fold over his white and yellow waistcoat .
Past the bulrush and Jerry Muskrat 's new house , past Little Joe Otter 's slippery slide sail Grandfather Frog , and still he sleep and dream of the day when the world be young .
Out of the Smiling Pool and into the Laughing Brook , where the brown water flow smoothly , the three little swimmer tow the big green lily-pad .
It float along of itself now , and all they have to do be to steer it clear of rock and old log .
Once it almost get away from them , on the edge of a tiny waterfall , but all three pull together tow it out of danger .
At last , in a dear little pool with a mossy green bank , they anchor the big green lily-pad .
Then Billy Mink hurry back to the Smiling Pool to tell the little meadow people where to find Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe Otter climb out on the mossy green bank and Jerry Muskrat join him there to rest and dry off .
One by one the little meadow people come hurry up .
Reddy Fox be the first .
Then come Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk .
Of course Peter Rabbit be on hand .
You can always count Peter in , when there be anything go on among the little meadow people .
Danny Meadow Mouse and Happy Jack Squirrel arrive quite out of breath .
Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow be not far behind .
Last of all come Jimmy Skunk , who never hurry .
Each in turn peep over the edge of the mossy green bank to see Grandfather Frog still sleep peacefully on his big green lily-pad in the dear little pool .
Then all hid where they could see him when he awake , but where he could not see them .
Presently Billy Mink reach out with a long straw and tickle Grandfather Frog on the end of his nose .
Grandfather Frog open his eye and yawn sleepily .
Right over his head he saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun smile down on him just a he last saw him before fall asleep .
He yawn again and then look to see if Billy Mink be sit on the Big Rock .
Where be the Big Rock ?
Grandfather Frog sit up very suddenly and rub his eye .
There be n't any Big Rock !
Grandfather Frog pinch himself to make sure that he be awake .
Then he rub his eye again and look down at the big green lily-pad .
Yes , that be his , the very same lily-pad on which he sit every day .
Grandfather Frog be more perplexed than ever .
Slowly he look around .
Where be the slippery slide and Jerry Muskrat 's new house ?
Where be the bulrush and where -- where be the Smiling Pool ?
Grandfather Frog 's jaw drop a he look about him .
His own big green lily-pad be the only lily-pad in sight .
Had the world turn topsy-turvy while he sleep ?
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` This be very strange , very strange , indeed ! ''
Then he turn around three time and pinch himself again .
`` Very strange , very strange , indeed , '' mutter Grandfather Frog over and over again .
He scratch his head first with one hand and then with the other , and the more he scratch the stranger it all seem .
Just then he hear a giggle up on the mossy green bank .
Grandfather Frog whirl around .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Billy Mink , come out from behind that tall grass and tell me where I be and what this mean !
I might have know that you be at the bottom of it . ''
Then out jump all the little meadow people and the Merry Little Breezes to shout and laugh and dance and roll over and over on the mossy green bank .
Grandfather Frog look at one and then at another and gradually he begin to smile .
Pretty soon he be laugh as hard a any of them , a Billy Mink tell how they have tow him down to the dear little pool .
`` And now , Grandfather Frog , we 'll take you home again , '' conclude Billy Mink .
So , a before , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat take turn tow the big green lily-pad , while in the middle of it sit Grandfather Frog , catch foolish green fly which the Merry Little Breezes blow over to him .
Reddy Fox , Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , Danny Meadow Mouse , Striped Chipmunk , Happy Jack Squirrel and Jimmy Skunk race and caper along the bank and shout encouragement to the three little swimmer , while over-head flew Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow .
And , never once lose his balance , Grandfather Frog sit on the big green lily-pad , enjoy his strange ride and smack his lip over the foolish green fly .
And so they come once more to the Smiling Pool , past the slippery slide , past the bulrush and Jerry Muskrat 's new house and the Big Rock , until Grandfather Frog and his queer craft be once more anchored safe and sound in the old familiar place .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog .
`` I think I 'd like to go again . ''
XII WHY BLACKY THE CROW WEARS MOURNING Grandfather Frog sit on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog felt very good that morning , very good indeed , because -- why , because his white and yellow waistcoat be full of foolish green fly .
It be doubtful , very , very doubtful if Grandfather Frog could have swallow another foolish green fly to save his life .
So he sit with his hand fold across his white and yellow waistcoat , and into his eye , his great goggly eye , there creep a far , far , far away look .
Grandfather Frog be dream of the day when the world be young and the frog rule the world .
Pretty soon the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind come over to the Smiling Pool to rock Mrs. Redwing 's baby to sleep in their cradle in the bulrush .
But when they saw Grandfather Frog they forget all about Mrs. Redwing and her baby .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog ! ''
they shout .
Grandfather Frog awake from his dream with a funny little jump .
`` Goodness , how you startle me ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , smooth down his white and yellow waistcoat .
The Merry Little Breezes giggle .
`` We do n't mean to , truly we do n't , '' say the merry one of all .
`` We just want to know how you do this fine morning , and -- and -- '' `` Chug-a-rum , '' say Grandfather Frog , `` you want me to tell you a story . ''
The Merry Little Breezes giggle again .
`` How do you ever guess it ? ''
they cry .
`` It must be because you be so very , very wise .
Will you tell u a story , Grandfather Frog ?
Will you please ? ''
Grandfather Frog look up and wink one big , goggly eye at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who be smile down from the blue sky .
Then he sit still so long that the Merry Little Breezes begin to fear that Grandfather Frog be out of sort and that there would be no story that morning .
They fidget about among the bulrush and dance back and forth across the lily-pads .
They have even begin to think again of Mrs. Redwing 's baby .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog suddenly .
`` What shall I tell you about ? ''
Just then a black shadow sweep across the Smiling Pool .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky the Crow noisily , a he fly over toward Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
`` Tell u why Blacky the Crow always wear a coat of black , a if he be in mourning , '' shout the Merry Little Breezes .
Grandfather Frog watch Blacky disappear behind the Lone Pine .
Then , when the Merry Little Breezes have settle down , each in the golden heart of a white water-lily , he begin : `` Once upon a time , when the world be young , old Mr. Crow , the grandfather a thousand time remove of Blacky , whom you all know , live in the Green Forest on the edge of the Green Meadows , just a Blacky do now , and with him live his brother and sister , his uncle and aunt , his cousin and all his poor relation .
`` Now Mr. Crow be very smart .
Indeed , he be the smart of all the bird .
There be n't anything that old Mr. Crow could n't do or do n't know .
At least he think there be n't .
All the little meadow people and forest folk begin to think so , too , and one after another they get in the habit of come to him for advice , until pretty soon they be bring all their affair to Mr. Crow for settlement .
`` Now for a while Mr. Crow show great wisdom , and this so pleased Old Mother Nature that she give him a suit of pure , dazzle white , so that all see him might look up to him a a shin example of wisdom and virtue .
Of course all his brother and sister , his uncle and aunt , his cousin and all his poor relation at once put on white , that all might know that they be of Mr. Crow 's family .
And of course every one show them the great attention out of respect to old Mr. Crow , so that presently they begin to hold their head very high and to think that because they be relate to old Mr. Crow they be a little good than any of the other little meadow people and forest folk .
When they meet old Mr. Rabbit they would pretend not to see him , because he wear a white patch on the seat of his trouser .
When old Mr. Woodchuck say ` good morning , ' they would pretend not to hear , for you know Mr. Woodchuck wear a suit of dingy yellow and live in a hole in the ground .
Old Mr. Toad be ugly to look upon .
Besides , he work for his living in a garden .
So when they happen to meet him on the road they always turn their back .
`` For a long time old Mr. Crow himself continue to be a very fine gentleman and to hold the respect of all his neighbor .
He be polite to every one , and to all who come to him he freely give of his advice as wisely a he know how .
Of course it be n't long before he know all about his neighbor and their private affair .
Now it be n't safe to know too much about your neighbor and what they be do .
It be dangerous knowledge , very dangerous knowledge indeed , '' say Grandfather Frog solemnly .
`` To be sure it would have be safe enough , '' he continue , `` if Mr. Crow have keep it to himself .
But after a while Mr. Crow become vain .
Yes , Sir , that be just what happen to old Mr. Crow -- he become vain .
He like to feel that all the little meadow people and forest folk look up to him with respect , and whenever he saw one of them come he would brush his white coat , swell himself up and look very important .
After a while he begin to brag among his relative of how much he know about his neighbor .
Of course they be very much interested , very much interested indeed , and this flatter Mr. Crow so that almost before he know it he be tell some of the private affair which have be bring to him for his advice .
Oh , dear me , Mr. Crow begin to gossip .
`` Now , gossip be one of the bad habit in all the world , one of the very bad .
No good ever come of it .
It just make trouble , trouble , trouble .
It be so now .
Mr. Crow 's relative repeat the story that they hear .
But they take great care that no one should know where they come from .
My , my , my , how trouble do spread on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest !
No one suspect old Mr. Crow , so he be more in demand than ever to straighten matter out .
His neighbor come to him so much that they begin to be ashamed to ask his advice for nothing , so they bring him present so that no more need Mr. Crow hunt for thing to eat .
Instead , he live on the fat of the land without work , and grow fat and lazy .
`` As I have tell you , Mr. Crow be smart .
Yes , indeed , he certainly be smart .
It do not take him long to see that the more trouble there be among his neighbor the more they would need his advice , and the more they need his advice the more present he would receive .
He grow very crafty .
He would tell tale just to make trouble , and sometimes , when he saw a chance , he would give advice that he know would make more trouble .
The fact be , old Mr. Crow become a mischief-maker , the very bad kind of a mischief-maker .
And all the time he appear to be the fine gentleman that he use to be .
He wear his fine white coat as proudly a ever .
`` Matters grow bad and bad .
Never have there be so much trouble on the Green Meadows or so many quarrel in the Green Forest .
Old Mr. Mink never meet old Mr . Otter without pick a fight .
Old Mrs . Skunk would n't speak to old Mrs. Coon .
Old Mr. Chipmunk turn his back on his cousin , old Mr. Red Squirrel , whenever their path cross .
Even my grandfather a thousand time remove , old Mr. Frog , refuse to see his near relative , old Mr. Toad .
And all the time old Mr. Crow wear his beautiful suit of white and grow rich and fat , chuckle to himself over his ill-gotten wealth .
`` Then one day come Old Mother Nature to visit the Green Meadows .
It do n't take her long to find that something be wrong , very wrong indeed .
Old Mr. Crow and all his relative hasten to pay their respect and to tell her how much they appreciate their beautiful white suit .
Old Mr. Crow make a full report of all the trouble that have be bring to him , but he take great care not to let her know that he have have any part in make trouble .
He look very innocent , oh , very , very innocent , but not once do he look her straight in the face .
`` Now the eye of Old Mother Nature be wonderfully sharp and they seem to bore right through old Mr. Crow .
You ca n't fool Old Mother Nature .
No , Sir , you ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
She listen to all that Mr. Crow have to say .
Then she send Mr. North Wind to blow his great trumpet and call together all the little people of the Green Meadows and all the little folk of the Green Forest .
`` When they have all come together she tell them all that have happen .
She tell just how Mr. Crow have start the story in order to make trouble so that they would seek his advice and bring him present to pay for it .
When the neighbor of old Mr. Crow hear this they be very angry , and they demand of Old Mother Nature that Mr. Crow be punish . ''
` Look ! '
say Old Mother Nature , point at old Mr. Crow .
` He have be punish already . '
`` Every one turn to look at Mr. Crow .
At first they hardly know him .
Instead of his suit of spotless white his clothes be black , as black a the black night .
So be the clothes of his uncle and aunt , his brother and sister , his cousin and all his poor relation .
`` And ever since that long-ago day , when the world be young , the Crows have be mischief-maker and have wear black , that all who look may know that they bring nothing but trouble , '' conclude Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you !
Thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' shout the Merry Little Breezes , jump up to go rock the Redwing baby .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky the Crow , fly over their head with a mouthful of corn he have steal from Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
XIII STRIPED CHIPMUNK FOOLS PETER RABBIT Peter Rabbit sit at the top of the Crooked Little Path where it start down the hill .
He be sit there when jolly , round , red Mr. Sun throw his nightcap off and begin his daily climb up into the blue , blue sky .
He saw Old Mother West Wind hurry down from the Purple Hills and turn her Merry Little Breezes out to play on the Green Meadows .
Peter yawn .
The fact be , Peter have be out nearly all night , and now he do n't know just what to do with himself .
Presently he saw Striped Chipmunk whisk up on top of an old log .
As usual the pocket in Striped Chipmunk 's cheek be stuff so full that his head look to be twice as big a it really be , and as usual he seem to be very busy , very busy indeed .
He stop just long enough to wink one of his saucy black eye and shout : `` Good morning , Peter Rabbit ! ''
Then he disappear as suddenly a he have come .
A few minute later he be back on the old log , but this time his cheek be empty .
`` Fine day , Peter Rabbit , '' say Striped Chipmunk , and whisk out of sight .
Peter Rabbit yawn again .
Then he close his eye for just a minute .
When he open them there be Striped Chipmunk on the old log just a before , and the pocket in both cheek be so full that it seem a if they would burst .
`` Nice morning to work , Peter Rabbit , '' say Striped Chipmunk , in spite of his full cheek .
Then he be go .
Once more Peter Rabbit close his eye , but hardly be they shut when Striped Chipmunk shout : `` Oh , you Peter Rabbit , be out all night ? ''
Peter snap his eye open just in time to see the funny little tail of Striped Chipmunk vanish over the side of the old log .
Peter scratch one of his long ear and yawn again , for Peter be grow more and more sleepy .
It be a long yawn , but Peter cut it off right in the middle , for there be Striped Chipmunk back on the old log , and both pocket in his cheek be stuff full .
Now Peter Rabbit be as curious a he be lazy , and you know he be very , very lazy .
The fact be , Peter Rabbit 's curiosity be his great fault , and it get him into a great deal of trouble .
It be because of this and the bad , bad habit of meddle in the affair of other people into which it have lead him that Peter Rabbit have such long ear .
For a while Peter watch busy Striped Chipmunk .
Then he begin to wonder what Striped Chipmunk could be do .
The more he wonder the more he felt that he really must know .
The next time Striped Chipmunk appear on the old log , Peter shout to him .
`` Hi , Striped Chipmunk , what be you so busy about ?
Why do n't you play a little ? ''
Striped Chipmunk stop a minute .
`` I 'm build a new house , '' say he .
`` Where ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` That 's telling , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , and whisk out of sight .
Now Peter Rabbit know where Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Happy Jack Squirrel and Johnny Chuck and Danny Meadow Mouse live .
He know all the little paths lead to their home .
But he do not know where Striped Chipmunk live .
He never have know .
He think of this a he watch Striped Chipmunk hurry back and forth .
The more he think of it the more curious he grow .
He really must know .
Pretty soon along come Jimmy Skunk , look for some beetle .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Do you know where Striped Chipmunk live ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` No , I do n't know where Striped Chipmunk live , and I do n't care ; it 's none of my business , '' reply Jimmy Skunk .
`` Have you see any beetle this morning ? ''
Peter Rabbit have n't see any beetle , so Jimmy Skunk go on down the Crooked Little Path , still look for his breakfast .
By and by along come Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , yourself ! ''
say Johnny Chuck .
`` Do you know where Striped Chipmunk live ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` No , I do n't , for it 's none of my business , '' say Johnny Chuck , and start on down the Crooked Little Path to the Green Meadows .
Then along come Bobby Coon .
`` Hello , Bobby Coon ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello ! ''
replied Bobby Coon shortly , for he too have be out all night and be very sleepy .
`` Do you know where Striped Chipmunk live ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` Do n't know and do n't want to ; it 's none of my business , '' say Bobby Coon even more shortly than before , and start on for his hollow chestnut tree to sleep the long , bright day away .
Peter Rabbit could stand it no longer .
Curiosity have drive away all desire to sleep .
He simply have to know where Striped Chipmunk live .
`` I 'll just follow Striped Chipmunk and see for myself where he live , '' say Peter to himself .
So Peter Rabbit hid behind a tuft of grass close by the old log and sat very , very still .
It be a very good place to hide , a very good place .
Probably if Peter Rabbit have not be so brim over with curiosity he would have succeed in escape the sharp eye of Striped Chipmunk .
But people full of curiosity be forever prick up their ear to hear thing which do not in the least concern them .
It be so with Peter Rabbit .
He be so afraid that he would miss something that both his long ear be stand up straight , and they come above the grass behind which Peter Rabbit be hide .
Of course Striped Chipmunk saw them the very instant he jump up on the old log with both pocket in his cheek stuff full .
He do n't say a word , but his sharp little eye twinkle a he jump off the end of the old log and scurry along under the bush , for he guess what Peter Rabbit be hide for , and though he do not once turn his head he know that Peter be follow him .
You see Peter run with big jump , lipperty-lipperty-lip , and people who jump must make a noise .
So , though he try very hard not to make a sound , Peter be in such a hurry to keep Striped Chipmunk in sight that he really make a great deal of noise .
The more noise Peter make , the more Striped Chipmunk chuckle to himself .
Presently Striped Chipmunk stop .
Then he sit up very straight and look this way and look that way , just a if try to make sure that no one be watch him .
Then he empty two pocketful of shin yellow gravel on to a nice new mound which he be build .
Once more he sit up and look this way and look that way .
Then he scuttle back towards the old log .
As he run Striped Chipmunk chuckle and chuckle to himself , for all the time he have see Peter Rabbit lie flat down behind a little bush and know that Peter Rabbit be think to himself how smart he have be to find Striped Chipmunk 's home when no one else know where it be .
No sooner be Striped Chipmunk out of sight than up jumped Peter Rabbit .
He smile to himself a he hurry over to the shin mound of yellow gravel .
You see Peter 's curiosity be so great that not once do he think how mean he be to spy on Striped Chipmunk .
`` Now , '' think Peter , `` I know where Striped Chipmunk live .
Jimmy Skunk do n't know .
Johnny Chuck do n't know .
Bobby Coon do n't know .
But I know .
Striped Chipmunk may fool all the others , but he ca n't fool me . ''
By this time Peter Rabbit have reach the shin mound of yellow gravel .
At once he begin to hunt for the doorway to Striped Chipmunk 's home .
But there be n't any doorway .
No , Sir , there be n't any doorway !
Look a he would , Peter Rabbit could not find the least sign of a doorway .
He walk ` round and ` round the mound and look here and look there , but not the least sign of a door be to be see .
There be nothing but the shin mound of yellow gravel , the green grass , the green bush and the blue , blue sky , with jolly , round , red Mr. Sun look down and laugh at him .
Peter Rabbit sit down on Striped Chipmunk 's shin mound of yellow gravel and scratch his left ear with his left hindfoot .
Then he scratch his right ear with his right hindfoot .
It be very perplexing .
Indeed , it be so perplexing that Peter quite forget that Striped Chipmunk would soon be come back .
Suddenly right behind Peter 's back Striped Chipmunk speak .
`` How do you like my sand pile , Peter Rabbit ?
Do n't you think it be a pretty nice sand pile ? ''
ask Striped Chipmunk politely .
And all the time he be chuckle away to himself .
Peter be so surprised that he very nearly fell backward off the shin mound of yellow gravel .
For a minute he do n't know what to say .
Then he find his tongue .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter be so surprised that he nearly fell backward . -RSB-
`` Oh , '' say Peter Rabbit , apparently in the great surprise , `` be this your sand pile , Striped Chipmunk ?
It 's a very nice sand pile indeed .
Is this where you live ? ''
Striped Chipmunk shake his head .
`` No , oh , my , no ! ''
say he .
`` I would n't think of live in such an exposed place !
My goodness , no indeed !
Everybody know where this be .
I 'm build a new home , you know , and of course I do n't want the gravel to clutter up my dooryard .
So I 've bring it all here .
Makes a nice sand pile , do n't it ?
You be very welcome to sit on my sand pile whenever you feel like it , Peter Rabbit .
It 's a good place to take a sun bath ; I hope you 'll come often . ''
All the time Striped Chipmunk be say this his sharp little eye twinkle with mischief and he chuckle softly to himself .
Peter Rabbit be more curious than ever .
`` Where be your new home , Striped Chipmunk ? ''
he ask .
`` Not far from here ; come call on me , '' say Striped Chipmunk .
Then with a jerk of his funny little tail he be go .
It seem a if the earth must have swallow him up .
Striped Chipmunk can move very quickly , and he have whisk out of sight in the bush before Peter Rabbit could turn his head to watch him .
Peter look behind every bush and under every stone , but nowhere could he find Striped Chipmunk or a sign of Striped Chipmunk 's home , except the shin mound of yellow gravel .
At last Peter push his inquisitive nose right into the doorway of Bumble the Bee .
Now Bumble the Bee happen to be at home , and be very short of temper , he thrust a sharp little needle into the inquisitive nose of Peter Rabbit .
`` Oh !
oh !
oh ! ''
shriek Peter , clap both hand to his nose , and start off home as fast a he could go .
And though he do n't know it and do n't know it to this day , he go right across the doorstep of Striped Chipmunk 's home .
So Peter still wonder and wonder where Striped Chipmunk live , and no one can tell him , not even the Merry Little Breezes .
You see there be not even a sign of a path lead to his doorway , for Striped Chipmunk never go or come twice the same way .
His doorway be very small , just large enough for him to squeeze through , and it be so hidden in the grass that often the Merry Little Breezes skip right over it without see it .
Every grain of sand and gravel from the fine long hall and snug chamber Striped Chipmunk have build underground he have carefully carry in the pocket in his cheek to the shin mound of yellow gravel find by Peter Rabbit .
Not so much a a grain be drop on his doorstep to let his secret out .
So in and out among the little meadow people skip Striped Chipmunk all the long day , and not one have find out where he live .
But no one really care except Peter Rabbit , who be still curious .
XIV JERRY MUSKRAT 'S NEW HOUSE Jerry Muskrat would n't play .
Billy Mink have try to get him to .
Little Joe Otter have try to get him to .
The Merry Little Breezes have try to get him to .
It be of no use , no use at all .
Jerry Muskrat would n't play .
`` Come on , Jerry , come on play with u , '' they beg all together .
But Jerry shake his head .
`` Ca n't , '' say he .
`` Why not ?
Wo n't your mother let you ? ''
demand Billy Mink , make a long dive into the Smiling Pool .
He be up again in time to hear Jerry reply : `` Yes , my mother will let me .
It be n't that .
It 's because we be go to have a long winter and a cold winter and I must prepare for it . ''
Every one laugh , every one except Grandfather Frog , who sit on his big green lily-pad watching for foolish green fly .
`` Pooh ! ''
exclaim Little Joe Otter .
`` A lot you know about it , Jerry Muskrat !
Ho , ho , ho !
A lot you know about it !
Are you clerk of the weather ?
It be only fall now -- what can you know about what the winter will be ?
Oh come , Jerry Muskrat , do n't pretend to be so wise .
I can swim twice across the Smiling Pool while you be swim across once -- come on ! ''
Jerry Muskrat shake his head .
`` Have n't time , '' say he .
`` I tell you we be go to have a long winter and a hard winter , and I 've get to prepare for it .
When it come you 'll remember what I have tell you . ''
Little Joe Otter make a wry face and slide down his slippery slide , splash into the Smiling Pool , throw water all over Jerry Muskrat , who be sit on the end of a log close by .
Jerry shake the water from his coat , which be water-proof , you know .
Everybody laugh , that be , everybody but Grandfather Frog .
He do not even smile .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog , who be very wise .
`` Jerry Muskrat know .
If Jerry say that we be go to have a long cold winter you may be sure that he know what he be talk about . ''
Billy Mink turn a back somersault into the Smiling Pool so close to the big green lily-pad on which Grandfather Frog sit that the wave almost throw Grandfather Frog into the water .
`` Pooh , '' say Billy Mink , `` how can Jerry Muskrat know anything more about it than we do ? ''
Grandfather Frog look at Billy Mink severely .
He do not like Billy Mink , who have be know to gobble up some of Grandfather Frog 's child when he think that no one be look .
`` Old Mother Nature be here and tell him , '' say Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Oh ! ''
exclaim Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter together .
`` That 's different , '' and they look at Jerry Muskrat with great respect .
`` How be you go to prepare for the long cold winter , Jerry Muskrat ? ''
ask one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` I 'm go to build a house , a big , warm house , '' reply Jerry Muskrat , `` and I 'm go to begin right now . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` I 'm go , to build a house , '' reply Jerry Muskrat . -RSB-
Splash !
Jerry have disappear into the Smiling Pool .
Presently , over on the far side where the water be shallow , it begin to bubble and boil a if a great fuss be go on underneath the surface .
Jerry Muskrat have begin work .
The water grow muddy , very muddy indeed , so muddy that Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink climb out on the Big Rock in disgust .
When finally Jerry Muskrat swim out to rest on the end of a log they shout to him angrily .
`` Hi , Jerry Muskrat , you 're spoil our swimming water !
What be you do anyway ? ''
`` I 'm dig for the foundation for my new house , and it be n't your water any more than it 's mine , '' reply Jerry Muskrat , draw a long breath before he disappear under water again .
The water grow muddy and muddy , until even Grandfather Frog begin to look annoyed .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter start off up the Laughing Brook , where the water be clear .
The Merry Little Breezes dance away across the Green Meadows to play with Johnny Chuck , and Grandfather Frog settle himself comfortably on his big green lily-pad to dream of the day when the world be young and the frog rule the world .
But Jerry Muskrat work steadily , dig and pile sod in a circle for the foundation of his house .
In the center he dig out a chamber from which he plan a long tunnel to his secret burrow far away in the bank , and another to the deep part of the Smiling Pool , where even in the coldest weather the water would not freeze to the bottom a it would do in the shallow place .
All day long while Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and the Merry Little Breezes and Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse and all the other little meadow people be play or lazily take sun nap , Jerry Muskrat work steadily .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , look down from the blue , blue sky , smile to see how industrious the little fellow be .
That evening , when Old Mother West Wind hurry across the Green Meadows on her way to her home behind the Purple Hills , she find Jerry Muskrat sit on the end of a log eat his supper of fresh-water clam .
Showing just above the water on the edge of the Smiling Pool be the foundation of Jerry Muskrat 's new house .
The next morning Jerry be up and at work even before Old Mother West Wind , who be a very early riser , come down from the Purple Hills .
Of course every one be interested to see how the new house be come along and to offer advice .
`` Are you go to build it all of mud ? ''
ask one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` No , '' say Jerry Muskrat , `` I 'm go to use green alder twig and willow shoot and bulrush stalk .
It 's go to be two story high , with a room down deep under water and another room up above with a beautiful bed of grass and soft moss . ''
`` That will be splendid ! ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes .
Then one of them have an idea .
He whisper to the other Little Breezes .
They all giggle and clap their hand .
Then they hurry off to find Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
They even hunt up Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse .
Jerry Muskrat be so busy that he pay no attention to any one or anything else .
He be attend strictly to the business of build a house that would keep him warm and comfortable when the long cold winter should freeze up tight the Smiling Pool .
Pretty soon he be ready for some green twig to use in the wall of the new house .
He swim across the Smiling Pool to the Laughing Brook , where the alder grow , to cut the green twig which he need .
What do you think he find when he get there ?
Why , the nice little pile of green twig , all cut ready to use , and Johnny Chuck cut more .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` I 've cut all these green twig for your new house .
I hope you can use them . ''
Jerry be so surprised that he hardly know what to say .
He thank Johnny Chuck , and with the bundle of green twig swim back to his new house .
When he have use the last one he swim across to the bulrush on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Good morning , Jerry Muskrat , '' say some one almost hide by a big pile of bulrush , all nicely cut .
`` I want to help build the new house . ''
It be Danny Meadow Mouse .
Jerry Muskrat be more surprised than ever .
`` Oh , thank you , Danny Meadow Mouse , thank you ! ''
he say , and push the pile of bulrush before him he swim back to his new house .
When he have use the rush , Jerry want some young willow shoot , so he start for the place where the willow grow .
Before he reach them he hear some one shouting : `` Hi , Jerry Muskrat !
See the pile of willow shoot I 've cut for your new house . ''
It be Peter Rabbit , who be never know to work .
Jerry Muskrat be more surprised than ever and so pleased that all he could say be , `` Thank you , thank you , Peter Rabbit ! ''
Back to the new house he swim with the pile of young willow shoot .
When he have place them to suit him he sit up on the wall of his house to rest .
He look across the Smiling Pool .
Then he rub his eye and look again .
Could it be -- yes , it certainly be a bundle of green alder twig float straight across the Smiling Pool towards the new house !
When they get close to him Jerry spy a sharp little black nose push them along , and back of the little black nose twinkle two little black eye .
`` What be you do with those alder twig , Billy Mink ? ''
cry Jerry .
`` Bringing them for your new house , '' shout Billy Mink , pop out from behind the bundle of alder twig .
And that be the beginning of the busy day that the Smiling Pool have ever know .
Billy Mink bring more alder twig and willow shoot and bulrush as fast a Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse could cut them .
Little Joe Otter bring sod and mud to hold them in place .
Thick and high grow the wall of the new house .
In the upper part Jerry build the nice little room , and line it with grass and soft moss , so that he could sleep warm and comfortable through the long cold winter .
Over all he build a strong , thick roof beautifully round .
An hour before it be time for Old Mother West Wind to come for the Merry Little Breezes , Jerry Muskrat 's new house be finish .
Then such a frolic a there be in and around the Smiling Pool !
Little Joe Otter make a new slippery slide down one side of the roof .
Billy Mink say that the new house be good to dive off of than the Big Rock .
Then the two of them , with Jerry Muskrat , cut up all sort of monkey-shines in the water , while Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , Danny Meadow Mouse and the Merry Little Breezes dance on the shore and shout themselves hoarse .
When at last jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the black shadow creep ever so softly out across the Smiling Pool , Jerry Muskrat sit on the roof of his house eat his supper of fresh-water clam .
He be very tired , be Jerry Muskrat , very tired indeed , but he be very happy , for now he have no fear of the long cold winter .
Best of all his heart be full of love -- love for his little playmate of the Smiling Pool and the Green Meadows .
XV PETER RABBIT 'S BIG COUSIN Jumper the Hare have come down out of the Great Woods to the Green Meadows .
He be first cousin to Peter Rabbit , you know , and he look just like Peter , only he be twice as big .
His leg be twice a long and he can jump twice a far .
All the little meadow people be very polite to Jumper the Hare , all but Reddy Fox , who be never polite to any one unless he have a favor to ask .
Peter Rabbit be very proud of his big cousin , very proud indeed .
He show Jumper the Hare all the secret path in the Green Forest and across the Green Meadows .
He take him to the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook , and everywhere Jumper the Hare be meet with the great politeness .
But Jumper the Hare be timid , oh , very timid indeed .
Every few jump he sit up very straight to look this way and look that way , and to listen with his long ear .
He jump nervously at the least little noise .
Yes , Sir , Jumper the Hare certainly be very timid .
`` He 's a coward ! ''
sneer Reddy Fox .
And Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jimmy Skunk , even Johnny Chuck , see Jumper the Hare duck and dodge at the shadow of Blacky the Crow , agree with Reddy Fox .
Still , they be polite to him for the sake of Peter Rabbit and because Jumper really be such a big , handsome fellow .
But behind his back they laugh at him .
Even little Danny Meadow Mouse laugh .
Now it happen that Jumper the Hare have live all his life in the Great Woods , where Mr. Panther and Tufty the Lynx and fierce Mr. Fisher be always hunt him , but where the shadow be deep and where there be plenty of place to hide .
Indeed , his whole life have be a game of hide and seek , and always he have be the one sought .
So on the Green Meadows , where hide place be few and far between , Jumper the Hare be nervous .
But the little meadow people , not know this , think him a coward , and while they be polite to him they have little to do with him , for no one really like a coward .
Peter Rabbit , however , could see no fault in his big cousin .
He show him where Farmer Brown 's tender young carrot grow , and the short way to the cabbage patch .
He make him acquaint with all his own secret hiding place in the old brier patch .
Then one bright sunny morning something happen .
Johnny Chuck saw it .
Jimmy Skunk saw it .
Happy Jack Squirrel saw it .
Sammy Jay saw it .
And they tell all the others .
Very early that morning Reddy Fox have start out to hunt for his breakfast .
He be tiptoe softly along the edge of the Green Forest look for wood mouse when whom should he see but Peter Rabbit .
Peter be get his breakfast in the sweet-clover bed , just beyond the old brier patch .
Reddy Fox squat down behind a bush to watch .
Peter Rabbit look plump and fat .
Reddy Fox lick his chop .
`` Peter Rabbit would make a good breakfast than wood mouse , a very much good breakfast , '' say Reddy Fox to himself .
Beside , he owe Peter Rabbit a grudge .
He have not forget how Peter have try to save his little brother from Reddy by bring up Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox lick his chop again .
He look this way and he look that way , but he could see no one watching .
Old Mother West Wind have go about her business .
The Merry Little Breezes be over at the Smiling Pool to pay their respect to Grandfather Frog .
Even jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be behind a cloud .
From his hide place Reddy could not see Johnny Chuck or Jimmy Skunk or Happy Jack Squirrel or Sammy Jay .
`` No one will know what become of Peter Rabbit , '' think Reddy Fox .
Very cautiously Reddy Fox creep out from behind the bush into the tall meadow grass .
Flat on his stomach he crawl inch by inch .
Every few minute he stop to listen and to peep over at the sweet-clover bed .
There sat Peter Rabbit , eat , eat , eat the tender young clover a if he have n't a care in the world but to fill his little round stomach .
Nearer and nearer crawl Reddy Fox .
Now he be almost near enough to spring .
`` Thump , thump , thump ! ''
The sound come from the brier patch .
`` Thump , thump ! ''
This be Peter Rabbit hit the ground with one of his hind foot .
He have stop eat and be sit up very straight .
`` Thump , thump , thump ! ''
come the signal from the brier patch .
`` Thump , thump ! ''
respond Peter Rabbit , and start to run .
With a snarl Reddy Fox sprang after him .
Then the thing happen .
Reddy Fox catch a glimpse of something go over him and at the same time he receive a blow that roll him over and over in the grass .
In an instant he be on his foot and have whirl about , his eye yellow with anger .
There right in front of him sit Jumper the Hare .
Reddy Fox could hardly believe his own eye !
Could it be that Jumper the Hare , the coward , have dare to strike him such a blow ?
Reddy forget all about Peter Rabbit .
With a snarl he rush at Jumper the Hare .
Then it happen again .
As light a a feather Jumper leap over him , and a he pass , those big hind leg , at which Reddy Fox have laugh , come back with a kick that knock all the breath out of Reddy Fox .
Reddy Fox be furious .
Twice more he spring , and twice more he be send sprawling , with the breath knock out of his body .
That be enough .
Tucking his tail between his leg , Reddy Fox sneak away towards the Green Forest .
As he run he hear Peter Rabbit thump in the old brier patch .
`` I 'm safe , '' signal Peter Rabbit .
`` Thump , thump , thump , thump !
The coast be clear , '' reply Jumper the Hare .
Reddy Fox look back from the edge of the Green Forest and gnash his teeth .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare be rub nose and contentedly eat tender young clover leave .
`` Now who 's the coward ? ''
jeered Sammy Jay from the top of the Lone Pine .
Reddy Fox say nothing , but slink out of sight .
Late that afternoon he sit on the hill at the top of the Crooked Little Path , and look down on the Green Meadows .
Over near the Smiling Pool be gather all the little meadow people have the jolly time in the world .
While he watch they join hand in a big circle and begin to dance , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Bobby Coon , Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , Happy Jack Squirrel , Striped Chipmunk , Danny Meadow Mouse , Peter Rabbit , Spotty the Turtle , even Grandfather Frog and old Mr. Toad .
And in the middle , sit very straight , be Jumper the Hare .
And since that day Peter Rabbit have be prouder than ever of his big cousin , Jumper the Hare , for now no one call him a coward .
THE END * * * * * BOOKS BY THORNTON W. BURGESS BEDTIME STORY-BOOKS 1 .
THE ADVENTURES OF REDDY FOX 2 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY CHUCK 3 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PETER COTTONTAIL 4 .
THE ADVENTURES OF UNC ' BILLY POSSUM 5 .
THE ADVENTURES OF MR. MOCKER 6 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JERRY MUSKRAT 7 .
THE ADVENTURES OF DANNY MEADOW MOUSE 8 .
THE ADVENTURES OF GRANDFATHER FROG 9 .
THE ADVENTURES OF CHATTERER , THE RED SQUIRREL 10 .
THE ADVENTURES OF SAMMY JAY 11 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BUSTER BEAR 12 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MR. TOAD 13 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PRICKLY PORKY 14 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MAN COYOTE 15 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PADDY THE BEAVER 16 .
THE ADVENTURES OF POOR MRS. QUACK 17 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOBBY COON 18 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY SKUNK 19 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOB WHITE 20 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OL ' MISTAH BUZZARD MOTHER WEST WIND SERIES 1 .
OLD MOTHER WEST WIND 2 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S CHILDREN 3 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S ANIMAL FRIENDS 4 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S NEIGHBORS 5 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHY '' STORIES 6 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` HOW '' STORIES 7 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHEN '' STORIES 8 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHERE '' STORIES GREEN MEADOW SERIES 1 .
HAPPY JACK 2 .
MRS. PETER RABBIT 3 .
BOWSER THE HOUND 4 .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mrs._Peter_Rabbit.txt.out
CHAPTER I PETER RABBIT LOSES HIS APPETITE Good appetite , you 'll always find , Depends upon your state of mind .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit have lose his appetite .
Now when Peter Rabbit lose his appetite , something be very wrong indeed with him .
Peter have boast that he can eat any time and all the time .
In fact , the two thing that Peter think most about be his stomach and satisfy his curiosity , and nearly all of the scrape that Peter have get into have be because of those two thing .
So when Peter lose his appetite or his curiosity , there be surely something the matter with him .
Ever since Old Man Coyote have come to live on the Green Meadows , Peter have be afraid to go very far from the dear Old Briar-patch where he make his home , and where he always feel safe .
Now there be n't any reason why he should go far from the dear Old Briar-patch .
There be plenty to eat in it and all around it , for sweet clover grow almost up to the very edge of it , and you know Peter be very fond of sweet clover .
So there be plenty for Peter to eat without run any risk of danger .
With nothing to do but eat and sleep , Peter should have grow fat and content .
But he do n't .
Now that be just the way with a lot of people .
The more they have and the less they have to worry about , the more discontented they become , and at last they be positively unhappy .
There be little Danny Meadow Mouse , live out on the Green Meadows ; he be happy all the livelong day , and yet he have no safe castle like the dear Old Briar-patch where he could always be safe .
Every minute of every day Danny have to keep his eye wide open and his wit work their very quick , for any minute he be likely to be in danger .
Old Man Coyote or Reddy Fox or Granny Fox or Digger the Badger or Mr. Blacksnake be likely to come creep through the grass any time , and they be always hungry for a fat Meadow Mouse .
And a if that be n't worry enough , Danny have to watch the sky , too , for Old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , or his cousin Redtail , or Blacky the Crow , each of whom would be glad of a Meadow Mouse dinner .
Yet in spite of all this , Danny be happy and never once lose his appetite .
But Peter Rabbit , with nothing to worry him so long a he stay in the Old Briar-patch , could n't eat and grow more and more unhappy .
`` I do n't know what 's the matter with me .
I really do n't know what 's the matter with me , '' say Peter , a he turn up his nose at a patch of sweet , tender young clover .
`` I think I 'll go and cut some new path through the Old Briar-patch . ''
Now , though he do n't know it , that be the very best thing he could do .
It give him something to think about .
For two or three day he be very busy cut new path , and his appetite come back .
But when he have make all the path he want , and there be nothing else to do , he lose his appetite again .
He just sit still all day long and mop and think and think and think .
The trouble with Peter Rabbit 's thinking be that it be all about himself and how unhappy he be .
Of course , the more he think about this , the more unhappy he grow .
`` If I only have some one to talk to , I 'd feel well , '' say he to himself .
That remind him of Johnny Chuck and what good time they use to have together when Johnny live on the Green Meadows .
Then he think of how happy Johnny seem with his little family in his new home in the Old Orchard , in spite of all the worry his family make him .
And right then Peter find out what be the matter with him .
`` I believe I 'm just lonesome , '' say Peter .
`` Yes , Sir , that 's what 's the matter with me .
`` It be n't good to be alone , I 've often hear my mother say .
It make one selfish , grouchy , cross , And quite unhappy all the day .
One need to think of other folk , And not of just one 's self alone , To find the true happiness , And joy and real content to own .
`` Now that I 've find out what be the trouble with me , the question be , what be I go to do about it ? ''
CHAPTER II PETER RABBIT PLANS A JOURNEY It 's a long jump that make no landing .
Peter Rabbit .
`` The trouble with me be that I 'm lonesome , '' repeat Peter Rabbit a he sit in the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` Yes , Sir , that 's the only thing that 's wrong with me .
I 'm just tire of myself , and that 's why I 've lose my appetite .
And now I know what 's the matter , what be I go to do about it ?
If I be sure , absolutely sure , that Old Man Coyote mean what he say about our be friend , I 'd start out this very minute to call on all my old friend .
My , my , my , it seem an age since I visit the Smiling Pool and saw Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter !
Mr. Coyote sound a if he really mean to leave me alone , but , but -- well , perhaps he do mean it when he saw me sit here safe among the bramble , but if I should meet him out in the open , he might change his mind and -- oh , dear , his teeth be terrible long and sharp ! ''
Peter sit a little long , think and thinking .
Then a bright idea pop into his head .
He kick up his heel .
`` I 'll do it , '' say he .
`` I 'll make a journey !
That 's what I 'll do !
I 'll make a journey and see the Great World .
`` By stay here and sit still I 'm sure I 'll simply grow quite ill .
A change of scene be what I need To be from all my trouble freed . ''
Of course if Peter have really stop to think the matter over thoroughly he would have know that run away from one kind of trouble be almost sure to lead to other trouble .
But Peter be one of those who do his think afterward .
Peter be what be call impulsive .
That be , he do thing and then think about them later , and often wish he have n't do them .
So now the minute the idea of make a journey pop into his head , he make up his mind that he would do it , and that be all there be to it .
You see , Peter never look ahead .
If he could get rid of the trouble that bother him now , which , you know , be nothing but lonesomeness , he would n't worry about the trouble he might get into later .
Now the minute Peter make up his mind to make a journey , he begin to feel well .
His lose appetite return , and the first thing he do be to eat a good meal of sweet clover .
`` Let me see , '' say he , a he fill his big stomach , `` I believe I 'll visit the Old Pasture .
It 's a long way off and I 've never be there , but I 've hear Sammy Jay say that it 's a very wonderful place , and I do n't believe it be any more dangerous than the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , now that Old Man Coyote and Reddy and Granny Fox be all living here .
I 'll start tonight when I be sure that Old Man Coyote be nowhere around , and I wo n't tell a soul where I be go . ''
So Peter settle himself and try to sleep the long day away , but his mind be so full of the long journey he be go to make that he could n't sleep much , and when he do have a nap , he dream of wonderful sight and adventure out in the Great World .
At last he saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun drop down to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
Old Mother West Wind come hurry back from her day 's work and gather her child , the Merry Little Breezes , into her big bag , and then she , too , start for her home behind the Purple Hills .
A little star come out and wink at Peter , and then way over on the edge of the Green Forest he hear Old Man Coyote laugh .
Peter grin .
That be what he have be wait for , since it mean that Old Man Coyote be so far away that there be nothing to fear from him .
Peter hop out from the dear , safe Old Briar-patch , look this way and that way , and then , with his heart in his mouth , start towards the Old Pasture as fast a he could go , lipperty -- lipperty -- lip .
CHAPTER III HOOTY THE OWL CHANGES HIS HUNTING GROUNDS A full stomach make a pleasant Day ; An empty stomach turn the whole world gray .
Peter Rabbit .
Hooty the owl sit on the tip-top of a tall dead tree in the Green Forest while the Black Shadows creep swiftly among the tree .
He be talk to himself .
It would n't have do for him to have speak aloud what he be say to himself , for then the little people in feather and fur on whom he like to make his dinner would have hear him and know just where he be .
So he say it to himself , and sit so still that he look for all the world like a part of the tree on which he be sit .
What he be say be this : `` Towhit , towhoo !
Towhit , towhoo !
Will some one tell me what to do ?
My child have an appetite That keep me hunt all the night , And though their stomach I may stuff They never seem to have enough .
Towhit , towhoo !
Towhit , towhoo !
Will some one tell me what to do ? ''
When it be dark enough he give his fierce hunt call -- `` Whooo-hoo - hoo , whoo-hoo ! ''
Now that be a terrible sound in the dark wood , very terrible indeed to the little forest people , because it sound so fierce and hungry .
It make them jump and shiver , and that be just what Hooty want them to do , for in do it one of them be likely to make just the least scratching with his claw , or to rustle a leaf .
If he do , Hooty , whose ear be very , very wonderful , be almost sure to hear , and with his great yellow eye see him , and then -- Hooty have his dinner .
The very night when Peter Rabbit start on his journey to the Old Pasture , Hooty the Owl have make up his mind that something have get to be do to get more food for those hungry baby of his up in the big hemlock-tree in the dark corner of the Green Forest .
Hunting be very poor , very poor indeed , and Hooty be at his wit ' end to know what he should do .
He have hoot and hoot in vain in the Green Forest , and he have sail back and forth over the Green Meadows like a great black shadow without see so much a a single Mouse .
`` It 's all because of Old Man Coyote and Granny and Reddy Fox , '' say Hooty angrily .
`` They 've spoil the hunting .
Yes , Sir , that 's just what they have do !
If I expect to fee those hungry baby of mine , I must find new hunt ground .
I believe I 'll go up to the Old Pasture .
Perhaps I 'll have good luck up there . ''
So Hooty the Owl spread his broad wing and start for the Old Pasture just a little while after Peter Rabbit have start for the same place .
Of course he do n't know that Peter be on his way there , and of course Peter do n't know that Hooty even think of the Old Pasture .
If he have , perhaps he would have think twice before start .
Anyway , he would have keep a sharp watch on the sky .
But a it be his thought be all of Old Man Coyote and Granny Fox , and that be where Peter make a very grave mistake , a very grave mistake indeed , a he be soon to find out .
CHAPTEE IV THE SHADOW WITH SHARP CLAWS Now what 's the use , pray tell me this , When all be say and do ; A thousand thing and one to learn And then forget the one ?
For when that one alone you need , And nothing else will do , What good be all the thousand then ?
I do not see ; do you ?
Peter Rabbit .
Forgetting lead to more trouble than almost anything under the sun .
Peter Rabbit know this .
Of course he know it .
Peter have have many a narrow escape just from forget something .
He know just as well a you know that he might just as well not learn a thing a to learn it and then forget it .
But Peter be such a happy-go-lucky little fellow that he be very apt to forget , and forget lead him into all kind of difficulty , just a it do most folk .
Now Peter have learn when he be a very little fellow that when he go out at night , he must watch out quite a sharply for Hooty the Owl a for either Granny or Reddy Fox , and usually he do .
But the night he start to make a journey to the Old Pasture , his mind be so full of Old Man Coyote and Granny and Reddy Fox that he wholly forget Hooty the Owl .
So , a he scamper across the Green Meadows , lipperty -- lipperty -- lip , as fast a he could go , with his long ear and his big eye and his wobbly nose all watch out for danger on the ground , not once do he think that there might be danger from the sky above him .
It be a moonlight night , and Peter be sharp enough to keep in the shadow whenever he could .
He would scamper as fast a he know how from one shadow to another and then sit down in the black part of each shadow to get his breath , and to look and listen and so make sure that no one be follow him .
The nearer he get to the Old Pasture , the safer he felt from Old Man Coyote and Granny and Reddy Fox .
When he scamper across the patch of moonshine his heart do n't come up in his mouth the way it have at first .
He grow bolder and bolder .
Once or twice he stop for a mouthful of sweet clover .
He be tire , for he have come a long way , but he be almost to the Old Pasture now , and it look very dark and safe , for it be cover with bush and bramble .
`` Plenty of hide place there , '' think Peter .
`` It really look as safe a the dear Old Briar-patch .
No one will ever think to look for me way off here . ''
Just then he spy a patch of sweet clover out in the moonlight .
His mouth begin to water .
`` I 'll just fill my stomach before I go into the Old Pasture , for there may not be any clover there , '' say Peter .
`` You 'd well be careful , Peter Rabbit , '' say a wee warn voice inside him .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Peter .
`` There 's nothing to be afraid of way up here ! ''
A shadow drift across the sweet clover patch .
Peter saw it .
`` That must be make by a cloud cross the moon , '' say Peter , and he be so sure of it that he do n't even look up to see , but boldly hop out to fill his stomach .
Just a he reach the patch of clover , the shadow drift over it again .
Then all in a flash a terrible thought enter Peter 's head .
He do n't stop to look up .
He suddenly spring sideways , and even a he do so , sharp claw tear his coat and hurt him dreadfully .
He twist and dodge and jump and turn this way and that way , and all the time the shadow follow him .
Once again sharp claw tear his coat and make him squeal with pain .
-LSB- Illustration : HE DODGED AND JUMPED , AND ALL THE TIME THE SHADOW FOLLOWED HIM . -RSB-
At last , when his breath be almost go , he reach the edge of the Old Pasture and dive under a friendly old bramble-bush .
`` Oh , '' sob Peter , `` I forget all about Hooty the Owl !
Besides , I do n't suppose he ever come way up here . ''
CHAPTER V IN THE OLD PASTURE Brambles never scratch those who understand and be considerate of them .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit sit under a friendly bramble-bush on the edge of the Old Pasture and pant for breath , while his heart go pit-a-pat , pit-a - pat , a if it would thump it way right through his side .
Peter have have a terrible fright .
There be long tear in his coat , and he smart and ache dreadfully where the cruel claw of Hooty the Owl have tear him .
And there he be in a strange place , not know which way to turn , for you know he never have visit the Old Pasture before .
But Peter have have so many narrow escape in his life that he have learn not to worry over danger that be past .
Peter be what wise men call a phi-los-o-pher .
That be a big word , but it meaning be very simple .
A philosopher be one who believe that it be foolish to think about thing that have happen , except to learn some lesson from them , and that the best thing to do be to make the most of the present .
Peter have learn his lesson .
He be sure of that .
`` I never , never will forget again to watch out for Hooty the Owl , '' say he to himself , a he nurse his wound , `` and so perhaps it be a good thing that he so nearly catch me this time .
If he have n't , I might have forget all about him some time when he could catch me .
I certainly would n't have watch out for him way up here , for I do n't think he ever come up to the Old Pasture .
But now I know he do , Mr. Hooty 'll have to be smart than he 's ever be before to catch me nap again .
My , how I do smart and ache !
I know now just how Danny Meadow Mouse felt that time Hooty catch him and drop him into the Old Briar-patch .
Ouch !
Well , a my mother use to say : ` Yesterday have go away ; Make the most of just to-day . '
Here I be up in the Old Pasture , and the question be , what shall I do next ? ''
Peter felt a queer little thrill a he peep out from under the friendly bramble-bush .
Very strange and wonderful it seem .
Of course he could n't see very far , because the Old Pasture be all overgrown with bush and briar , and they make the very black of black shadow in the moonlight .
Peter wonder what danger might be await him there , but somehow he do n't feel much afraid .
No , Sir , he do n't feel much afraid .
You see those briar look good to him , for briar be always friendly to Peter and unfriendly to those who would do harm to Peter .
So when he saw them , he felt almost at home .
Peter draw a long breath .
Then he cry `` Ouch ! ''
You see , he have forget for a minute how sore he be .
He be eager to explore this new wonderland , for Sammy Jay have tell him wonderful tale about it , and he know that here old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox have find safety when Farmer Brown 's boy have hunt for them so hard on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
He felt sure that there must be the most splendid hiding - place , and it seem a if he certainly must start right out to see them , for you know Peter be very , very curious .
But the first move he make bring another `` Ouch '' from him , and he make up a wry face .
`` I guess the best thing for me to do be to stay right where I be , '' say he , `` for here I be safe under this friendly old bramble . ''
So with a sigh Peter settle down to make himself as comfortable a he could , and once , a far , far away on the Green Meadows he hear the voice of Old Man Coyote , Peter even smile .
`` I have n't anything to fear from him , anyway , for he 'll never think of come way up here , '' say he .
CHAPTER VI PETER RABBIT IS STILL LONESOME A sympathetic word or two A wond ` rous help be , when you 're blue .
So pity him who sit alone His ache and trouble to bemoan .
Peter Rabbit .
All the rest of that night Peter sit under a friendly old bramble-bush on the edge of the Old Pasture and nurse the sore place make by the claw of Hooty the Owl .
At last jolly , round , red Mr. Sun begin to climb up in the blue , blue sky , just a he do every day .
Peter look up at him , and he felt sure that Mr. Sun wink at him .
Somehow it make him feel well .
The fact be , Peter be begin to feel just a wee , wee bit homesick .
It be bad enough to be in a strange place alone , but to be sore and to smart and ache a Peter do make that lonesome feel a whole lot hard to bear .
It be dreadful not to have any one to speak to , but to look around and not see a single thing you have ever see before , -- my , my , my , it certainly do give you a strange , sink feel way down inside !
Before that long night be over Peter felt a if his heart have go way down to his very toe .
Yes , Sir , that 's the way he felt .
Every time he move at all he cry `` Ouch ! ''
He just know that he be grow more stiff and sore every minute .
Then he begin to wonder what he should do for something to eat , for he be in a strange place , you remember .
And that make him think of all his private little path through the dear Old Briar-patch , the little path he have make all himself , and which no one use but himself , except Danny Meadow Mouse when he come for a visit .
`` Perhaps I shall never , never see them again , '' moan Peter , and two big tear fill his eye and be just ready to drop .
At that moment he look up and saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun wink .
Peter try to wink back , and that make the two tear fall .
But there be no more tear to follow .
You see that wink have make all the difference in the world , Peter 's heart have jump right back where it belong .
Mr. Sun be one of his old friend and you know When trouble come , a friendly face Makes bright the very dark place .
And so , just a he make bright all the Old Pasture , Mr. Sun also make bright the dark little corner in Peter 's heart just because he be an old friend .
To be sure Peter be still lonesome , but it be a different kind of lonesomeness .
He have n't anybody to talk to , which be always a dreadful thing to Peter , but he have only to look up to catch a friendly wink , and somehow that not only make him feel well inside but it seem to make his ache and smart well too .
CHAPTER VII PETER FINDS TRACKS Every day be different from every other day , And always there be something new to see along the way .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit have sit still just as long a he could .
He be stiff and lame and sore from the wound make by Hooty the Owl , but his curiosity would n't let him sit still a minute longer .
He just HAD to explore the Old Pasture .
So with many a wry face and many an `` Ouch '' he limp out from the shelter of the friendly old bramble-bush and start out to see what the Old Pasture be like .
Now Hooty the Owl have teach Peter wisdom .
With his torn clothes and his ache and smart he could n't very well forget to be careful .
First he make sure that there be no danger near , and this time he take pain to look all around in the sky as well a on the ground .
Then he limp out to the very patch of sweet clover where Hooty have so nearly catch him the night before .
`` A good breakfast , '' say Peter , `` will make a new Rabbit of me . ''
You know Peter think a great deal of his stomach .
So he begin to eat as fast a he could , stop every other mouthful to look and listen .
`` I know it 's a bad habit to eat fast , '' say he , `` but it 's a whole lot bad to have an empty stomach . ''
So he eat and eat and eat as fast a he could make his little jaw go , which be very fast indeed .
When Peter 's stomach be stuff full he give a great sigh of relief and limp back to the friendly old bramble-bush to rest .
But he could n't sit still long , for he just have to find out all about the Old Pasture .
So pretty soon he start out to explore .
Such a wonderful place a it seem to Peter !
There be clump of bush with little open space between , just the nice kind of playground .
Then there be funny spreading , prickly juniper-trees , which make the very safe place to crawl out of harm 's way and to hide .
Everywhere be path make by cow .
Very wonderful they seem to Peter , who have never see any like them before .
He like to follow them because they lead to all kind of queer place .
Sometimes he would come to place where tall tree make him think of the Green Forest , only there be never more than a few tree together .
Once he find an old tumble-down stone wall all cover with vine , and he shout right out with delight .
`` It 's a regular castle ! ''
cry Peter , and he know that there he would be safe from every one but Shadow the Weasel .
But he never be wholly safe from Shadow the Weasel anywhere , so he do n't let that thought worry him .
By and by he come to a wet place call a swamp .
The ground be soft , and there be little pool of water .
Great ferns grow here just a they do along the bank of the Laughing Brook , only more of them .
There be pretty birch-trees and wild cherry-trees .
It be still and dark and oh , so peaceful !
Peter like that place and sit down under a big fern to rest .
He do n't hear a sound except the beautiful silvery voice of Veery the Thrush .
Listening to it , Peter fell asleep , for he be very tired .
By and by Peter awoke .
For a minute he could n't think where he be .
Then he remember .
But for a long time he sit perfectly still , think of his adventure and wonder if he would be miss down on the Green Meadows .
Then all of a sudden Peter saw something that make him sit up so suddenly that he cry `` Ouch ! ''
for he have forget all about how stiff and sore he be .
What do you think Peter saw ?
Tracks !
Yes , Sir , he saw track , Rabbit track in the soft mud , and Peter know that he have n't make them !
CHAPTER VIII THE STRANGE TRACKS IN THE OLD PASTURE Who have attentive ear and eye Will learn a lot if he but try .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit star and star at the track in the soft mud of the swamp in the Old Pasture .
He would look first at the track , then at his own foot , and finally back at the track again .
He scratch his long right ear with his long right hind foot .
Then he scratch his long left ear with his long left hind foot , all the time star his hardest at those strange track .
They certainly be the track of a Rabbit , and it be equally certain that they be not his own .
`` They be too big for mine , and they be too small for Jumper the Hare 's .
Besides , Jumper be in the Green Forest and not way off up here , '' say Peter to himself .
`` I wonder -- well , I wonder if he will try to drive me away . ''
You see Peter know that if he have find a strange Rabbit in his dear Old Briar-patch he certainly would have try his best to drive him out , for he felt that the Old Briar-patch belong to him .
Now he wonder if the maker of these track would feel the same way about the Old Pasture .
Peter look troubled a he think it over .
Then his face clear .
`` Perhaps , '' say he hopefully , `` he be a new comer here , too , and if he be , I 'll have just as much right here a he have .
Perhaps he simply have big foot and be n't any big or strong than I be , and if that 's the case I 'd like to see him drive me out ! ''
Peter swell himself out and try to look as big a he could when he say this , but swell himself out this way remind him of how stiff and sore he be from the wound give him by Hooty the Owl , and he make a wry face .
You see he realize all of a sudden that he do n't feel much like fight .
`` My , '' say Peter , `` I guess I 'd better find out all about this other fellow before I have any trouble with him .
The Old Pasture look big enough for a lot of Rabbits , and perhaps if I do n't bother him , he wo n't bother me .
I wonder what he look like .
I believe I 'll follow these track and see what I can find . ''
So Peter begin to follow the track of the strange Rabbit , and he be so interested that he almost forget to limp .
They lead him this way and they lead him that way through the swamp and then out of it .
At the foot of a certain birch-tree Peter stop .
`` Ha ! ''
say he , `` now I shall know just how big this fellow be . ''
How be he to know ?
Why , that tree be a kind of Rabbit measure - stick .
Yes , Sir , that be just what it be .
You see , Rabbits like to keep a record of how they grow , just a some little boy and girl do , but a they have no door or wall to stand against , they use tree .
And this be the measuring-tree of the Rabbit whose track Peter have be follow .
Peter stop at the foot of it and sit down to think it over .
He know what that tree meant perfectly well .
He have one or two measuring-trees of his own on the edge of the Green Forest .
He know , too , that it be more than a mere measuring-tree .
It be a kind of `` no trespassing '' sign .
It mean that some other Rabbit have live here for some time and felt that he own this part of the Old Pasture .
Peter 's nose tell him that , for the tree smell very , very strong of Rabbit -- of the Rabbit with the big foot .
This be because whoever use it for a measuring-tree use to rub himself against it a far up a he could reach .
Peter hop up close to it .
Then he sit up very straight and stretch himself as tall a he could , but he wisely take care not to rub against the tree .
You see , he do n't want to leave his own mark there .
So he stretch and stretch , but stretch a he would , he could n't make his wobbly little nose reach the mark make by the other Rabbit .
`` My sake , he be a big fellow ! ''
exclaim Peter .
`` I guess I do n't want to meet him until I feel well and strong than I do now . ''
CHAPTER IX AN UNPLEASANT SURPRISE Legs be very useful when you want to run away ; Long , sharp teeth be splendid if to fight you want to stay ; But a far , far great blessing , whether one may stay or quit , Is a clever , trusty , quick and ever ready wit .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit sit in a snug hiding-place in the Old Pasture and think over what he have find out about the strange Rabbit whose track he have follow .
They have lead him to a rubbing or measuring-tree , where the strange Rabbit have place his mark , and that mark be so high up on the tree that Peter know the strange Rabbit must be a great deal big than himself .
`` If he 's big , of course he be strong , '' think Peter , `` and if he be both big and strong , of course it wo n't be the least bit of use for me to fight him .
Then , anyway , I 'm too stiff and sore to fight .
And then , he have no business to think he own the Old Pasture , because he do n't .
I have just as much right here a he have .
Yes , Sir , I have just as much right in this Old Pasture a he have , and if he think he can drive me out he be go to find that he be never more mistaken in his life !
I 'll show him !
Yes , Sir-e-e , I 'll show him !
I guess my wit be as sharp a his , and I would n't wonder if they be a little bit sharp . ''
Foolish Peter Rabbit !
There he be boast and brag to himself of what he would do to some one whom he have n't even see , all because he have find a sign that tell him the Old Pasture , in which he have make up his mind to make his new home , be already the home of some one else .
Peter be like a lot of other people ; he be n't fair .
No , Sir , he be n't fair .
He let his own desire destroy his sense of fair play .
It be all right for him to put up sign in the dear Old Briar-patch and the Green Forest , warn other Rabbits that they must keep away , but it be all wrong for another Rabbit to do the same thing in the Old Pasture .
Oh , my , yes !
That be quite a different matter !
The very thought of it make Peter very , very angry .
When he think of this other Rabbit , it be always a the stranger .
That show just how unfair Peter be , because , you see , Peter himself be really the stranger .
It be his first visit to the Old Pasture , while it be very plain that the other have live there for some time .
But Peter could n't or would n't see that .
He have count so much on have the Old Pasture to himself and do a he please , that he be too upset and disappointed to be fair .
If the other Rabbit have be small than he -- well , that might have make a difference .
The truth be , Peter be just a wee bit afraid .
And perhaps it be that wee bit of fear that make him unfair and unjust .
Anyway , the longer he sit and think about it , the angrier he grow , and the more he brag and boast to himself about what he would do .
`` I 'll just keep out of sight until my wound be heal , and then we 'll see who own the Old Pasture ! ''
think Peter .
No sooner have this thought pop into his head than he receive a surprise , such an unpleasant surprise !
It be three heavy thump right behind him .
Peter know what that meant .
Of course he know .
It mean that he must run or fight .
It mean that he have be so busy think about how smart he be go to be that he have forget to cover his own track , and so the maker of the big track he have follow have find him out .
Thump !
Thump !
Thump !
There it be again .
Peter knew by the sound that it be of no use to stay and fight , especially when he be so sore and stiff .
There be nothing to do but run away .
He simply have to .
And that be just what he do do , while his eye be fill with tear of rage and bitterness .
CHAPTER X PETER RABBIT ALMOST DECIDES TO RETURN HOME I have no doubt that you 've be told How timid folk be sometimes bold .
Peter Rabbit .
In all his life Peter Rabbit have never be so disappointed .
Here he be in the Old Pasture , about which he have dream and think so long , and in reach which he have have such a narrow escape from Hooty the Owl , and yet he be unhappy .
The fact be , Peter be more unhappy than he could remember ever to have be before .
Not only be he unhappy , but he be in great fear , and the bad of it be he be in fear of an enemy who could go wherever he could go himself .
You see , it be this way : Peter have expect to find some enemy in the Old Pasture .
He have felt quite sure that fierce old Mr. Goshawk be to be watch for , and perhaps Mr. Redtail and one or two others of the Hawk family .
He know that Granny and Reddy Fox have live there once upon a time and might come back if thing get too unpleasant for them on the Green Meadows , now that Old Man Coyote have make his home there .
But Peter do n't worry about any of these danger .
He be use to them , be Peter .
He have be dodge them ever since he could remember , A friendly bramble-bush , a little patch of briar , or an old stone wall near be all that Peter need to feel perfectly safe from these enemy , But now he be in danger wherever he go , for he have an enemy who could go everywhere he could , and it seem to Peter that this enemy be follow him all the time .
Who be it ?
Why , it be a great big old Rabbit with a very short temper , who , because he have live there for a long time , felt that he own the Old Pasture and that Peter have no right there .
Now , In spite of all his trouble , Peter have see enough of the Old Pasture to think it a very wonderful place , a very wonderful place indeed .
He have see just enough to want to see more .
You know how very curious Peter be .
It seem to him that he just could n't go back to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows until he have see everything to be see in the Old Pasture .
So he could n't make up his mind to go back home , but stay and stay , hop each day that the old gray Rabbit would get tire of hunt for him , and would let him alone .
But the old gray Rabbit do n't do anything of the kind .
He seem to take the great delight in wait until Peter think that he have find a corner of the Old Pasture where he would be safe , and then in steal there when Peter be try to take a nap , and drive him out .
Twice Peter have try to fight , but the old gray Rabbit be too big for him .
He knock all the wind out of poor Peter with a kick from his big hind leg , and then with his sharp teeth he tear Peter 's coat .
Poor Peter !
His coat have already be badly tear by the cruel claw of Hooty the Owl , and Old Mother Nature have n't have time to mend it when he fight with the old gray Rabbit .
After the second time Peter do n't try to fight again .
He just try to keep out of the way .
And he do , too .
But in do it he lose so much sleep and he have so little to eat that he grow thin and thin and thinner , until , with his torn clothes , he look like a scarecrow .
And still he hat to give in When there be still so much to see .
`` Persistence , I be teach , will win , And so I will persist , '' say he .
And he do persist day after day , until at last he felt that he really must give it up .
He have stretch out wearily on a tiny sunning-bank in the farthest corner of the Old Pasture , and have just about make up his mind that he would go back that very night to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows , when a tiny rustle behind him make him jump to his foot with his heart in his mouth .
But instead of the angry face of the old gray Rabbit he saw -- what do you think ?
Why , two of the soft , gentle eye peep at him from behind a big fern .
CHAPTER XI PETER RABBIT HAS A SUDDEN CHANGE OF MIND Whatever you decide to do Make up your mind to see it through .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit star at the two soft , gentle eye peep at him from behind the big fern just back of the sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture .
He have so fully expect to see the angry face of the big , gray , old Rabbit who have make life so miserable for him that for a minute he could n't believe that he really saw what he do see .
And so he just star and star .
It be very rude .
Of course it be .
It be very rude indeed .
It be always rude to stare at any one .
So it be no wonder that after a minute the two soft , gentle eye disappear behind one of the great green leaf of the fern .
Peter give a great sigh .
Then he remember how rude he have be to stare so .
`` I -- I beg your pardon , '' say Peter in his politest manner , which be very polite indeed , for Peter can be very polite when he want to be .
`` I beg your pardon .
I do n't mean to frighten you .
Please forgive me . ''
With the great eagerness Peter wait for a reply .
You know it be because he have be so lonesome that he have leave his home in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows .
And since he have be in the Old Pasture he have be almost a lonesome , for he have have no one to talk to .
So now he wait eagerly for a reply .
You see , he felt sure that the owner of such soft , gentle eye must have a soft , gentle voice and a soft , gentle heart , and there be nothing in the world that Peter need just then so much a sympathy .
But though he wait and wait , there be n't a sound from the big fern .
`` Perhaps you do n't know who I be .
I 'm Peter Rabbit , and I 've come up here from the Green Meadows , and I 'd like very much to be your friend , '' continue Peter after a while .
Still there be no sound .
Peter peep from the corner of one eye at the place where he have see the two soft , gentle eye , but there be nothing to be see but the gently wave leaf of the big fern .
Peter do n't know just what to do .
He want to hop over to the big fern and peep behind it , but he do n't dare to .
He be afraid that whoever be hide there would run away .
`` I 'm very lonesome ; wo n't you speak to me ? ''
say Peter , in his gentle voice , and he sigh a deep , doleful sort of sigh .
Still there be no reply .
Peter have just about make up his mind that he would go over to the big fern when he saw those two soft , gentle eye peep from under a different leaf .
It seem to Peter that never in all his life have he see such beautiful eye .
They look so shy and bashful that Peter hold his breath for fear that he would frighten them away .
After a time the eye disappear .
Then Peter saw a little movement among the fern , and he know that whoever be there be steal away .
He want to follow , but something down inside him warn him that It be best to sit still .
So Peter sit just where he be and keep perfectly still for the long time .
But the eye do n't appear again , and at last he felt sure that whoever they belong to have really go away .
Then he sigh another great sigh , for suddenly he felt more lonesome than ever .
He hop over to the big fern and look behind it .
There in the soft earth be a footprint , the footprint of a Rabbit , and it be SMALLER than his own .
It seem to Peter that it be the most wonderful little footprint he ever have see .
`` I believe , '' say Peter right out loud , `` that I 'll change my mind .
I wo n't go back to the dear Old Briar-patch just yet , after all . ''
CHAPTER XII PETER LEARNS SOMETHING FEOM TOMMY TIT When you find a friend in trouble Pass along a word of cheer .
Often it be very helpful Just to feel a friend be near .
Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
What be you do way up here , and what be you look so mournful about ? ''
Peter give a great start of pleased surprise .
That be the first friendly voice he have hear for day and day .
`` Hello yourself , Tommy Tit ! ''
shout Peter joyously .
`` My , my , my , but I be glad to see you !
But what be you do up here in the Old Pasture yourself ? ''
Tommy Tit the Chickadee hung head down from the tip of a slender branch of a maple-tree and wink a saucy bright eye at Peter .
`` I 've get a secret up here , '' he say .
Now there be nothing in the world Peter Rabbit love more than a secret .
But he can not keep one to save him .
No , Sir , Peter Rabbit can no more keep a secret than he can fly .
He mean to .
His intention be the very best in the world , but -- Alas !
alack !
poor Peter 's tongue Is very , very loosely hung .
And so , because he MUST talk and WILL talk every chance he get , he can not keep a secret .
People who talk too much never can .
`` What be your secret ? ''
ask Peter eagerly .
Tommy Tit look down at Peter , and his sharp little eye twinkle .
`` It 's a nest with six of the dear little baby in the world in it , '' he reply .
`` Oh , how lovely ! ''
cry Peter .
`` Where be it , Tommy Tit ? ''
`` In a hollow birch-stub , '' reply Tommy , his eye twinkle more than ever .
`` But where be the hollow birch-stub ? ''
persist Peter .
Tommy laugh .
`` That 's my real secret , '' say he , `` and if I should tell you it would n't be a secret at all .
Now tell me what you be do up here in the Old Pasture , Peter Rabbit . ''
Peter saw that it be of no use to tease Tommy Tit for his secret , so instead he pour out all his own trouble .
He tell how lonesome he have be in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows because he do n't dare to go about for fear of Old Man Coyote , and how at last he have decide to visit the Old Pasture .
He tell how Hooty the Owl have nearly catch him on his way , and then how , ever since his arrival , he have be hunt by the big , gray , old Rabbit so that he could neither eat nor sleep and have become so miserable that at last he have make up his mind to go back to the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` Ho ! ''
interrupt Tommy Tit , `` I know him .
He 's Old Jed Thumper , the old , big , cross Rabbit anywhere around .
He 's live in the Old Pasture so long that he think he own it .
It 's a wonder that he have n't kill you . ''
`` I guess perhaps he would have only I can run faster than he can , '' reply Peter , look a little shamefaced because he have to own up that he run away instead of fight .
Tommy Tit laugh .
`` That 's the very wise thing you could have do , '' say he .
`` But why do n't you go back to the dear Old Briar-patch in the Green Meadows ? ''
Peter hesitate and look a wee bit foolish .
Finally he tell Tommy Tit all about the two soft , gentle eye he have see peep at him from behind a big fern , and how he want to know who the eye belong to .
`` If that 's all you want to know , I can tell you , '' say Tommy Tit , jump out into the air to catch a foolish little bug who try to fly past .
`` Those eye belong to little Miss Fuzzy-tail , and she 's the favorite daughter of Old Jed Thumper .
You take my advice , Peter Rabbit , and trot along home to the Old Briar-patch before you get into any more trouble .
There 's my wife call .
Yes , my dear , I 'm come !
Chickadee - dee-dee ! ''
And with a wink and a nod to Peter Rabbit , off fly Tommy Tit .
CHAPTER XIII LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL Foolish question waste time , but wise question lead to knowledge .
Peter Rabbit .
`` Little Miss Fuzzytail ! ''
Peter say it over and over again , a he sit on the sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture , where Tommy Tit the Chickadee have leave him .
`` It 's a pretty name , '' say Peter .
`` Yes , Sir , it 's a pretty name .
It 's the prettiest name I 've ever hear .
I wonder if she be just a pretty .
I -- I -- think she must be .
Yes , I be quite sure she must be . ''
Peter be think of the soft , gentle eye he have see peep at him from behind the big fern , and of the dainty little footprint he have find there afterward .
So he sit on the sunning-bank , dream pleasant dream and wonder if he could find little Miss Fuzzytail if he should go look for her .
Now all the time , although Peter do n't know it , little Miss Fuzzytail be very close by .
She be right back in her old hiding-place behind the big fern , shyly peep out at him from under a great leaf , where she be sure he would n't see her .
She saw the long tear in Peter 's coat , make by the cruel claw of Hooty the Owl , and she saw the place where her father , Old Jed Thumper , have pull the hair out with his teeth .
She saw how thin and miserable Peter look , and tear of pity fill the soft , gentle eye of little Miss Fuzzytail , for , you see , she have a very tender heart .
`` He 's get a very nice face , '' think Miss Fuzzytail , `` and he certainly be very polite , and I do love good manner .
And Peter be such a nice sounding name !
It sound so honest and good and true .
Poor fellow !
Poor Peter Rabbit ! ''
Here little Miss Fuzzytail wipe her eye .
`` He look so miserable I do wish I could do something for him .
I -- I -- oh , dear , I do believe he be come right over here !
I guess I good be go .
How he limp ! ''
Once more the tear fill her soft , gentle eye a she steal away , make not the least little sound .
When she be sure she be far enough away to hurry without attract Peter 's attention , she begin to run .
`` I saw him talk to my old friend Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and I just know that Tommy will tell me all about him , '' she think , a she scamper along certain private little path of her own .
Just a she expect , she find Tommy Tit and his anxious little wife , Phoebe , very busy hunt for food for six hungry little baby snugly hide in a hollow near the top of the old birch-stub .
Tommy be too busy to talk then , so little Miss Fuzzytail sit down under a friendly bramble-bush to rest and wait , and while she wait , she carefully wash her face and brush her coat until it fairly shone .
You see , not in all the Old Pasture , or the Green Forest , be there so slim and trim and neat and dainty a Rabbit a little Miss Fuzzytail , and she be very , very particular about her appearance .
By and by , Tommy Tit stop to rest .
He look down at Miss Fuzzytail and wink a saucy black eye .
Miss Fuzzytail wink back .
Then both laugh , for they be very good friend , indeed .
`` Tell me , Tommy Tit , all about Peter Rabbit , '' command little Miss Fuzzytail .
And Tommy do .
CHAPTER XIV SOME ONE FOOLS OLD JED THUMPER You can not judge a person 's temper by his size .
There be more meanness in the head of a Weasel than in the whole of a Bear .
Peter Rabbit .
Old Jed Thumper sit in his bull-briar castle in the middle of the Old Pasture , scowl fiercely and mutter to himself .
He be very angry , be Old Jed Thumper .
He be so angry that presently he stop mutter and begin to chew rapidly on nothing at all but his temper , which be a way angry Rabbits have .
The more he chew his temper , the angrier he grow .
He be big and stout and strong and gray .
He have live so long in the Old Pasture that he felt that it belong to him and that no other Rabbit have any right there unless he say so .
Yet here be a strange Rabbit who have have the impudence to come up from the Green Meadows and refuse to be drive away .
Such impudence !
Of course it be Peter Rabbit of whom Old Jed Thumper be think .
It be two day since he have catch a glimpse of Peter , but he know that Peter be still in the Old Pasture , for he have find fresh track each day .
That very morning he have visit his favorite feeding ground , only to find Peter 's track there .
It have make him so angry that he have lose his appetite , and he have go straight back to his bull-briar castle to think it over .
At last Old Jed Thumper stop chew on his temper .
He scowl more fiercely than ever and stamp the ground impatiently .
`` I 'll hunt that fellow till I kill him , or drive him so far from the Old Pasture that he 'll never think of come back .
I certainly will ! ''
he say aloud , and start forth to hunt .
Now it would have be good for the plan of Old Jed Thumper if he have keep them to himself instead of speak aloud .
Two dainty little ear hear what he say , and two soft , gentle eye watch him leave the bull-briar castle .
He start straight for the far corner of the Old Pasture where , although he do n't know it , Peter Rabbit have find a warm little sunning-bank .
But he have n't go far when , from way off in the opposite direction , he hear a sound that make him stop short and prick up his long ear to listen .
There it be again -- thump , thump !
He be just go to thump back an angry reply , when he think good of it .
`` If do that , '' think he , `` I 'll only warn him , and he 'll run away , just a he have before . ''
So instead , he turn and hurry in the direction from which the thump have come , take the great care to make no noise .
Every few jump he would stop to listen .
Twice more he hear those thump , and each time new rage fill his heart , and for a minute or two he chew his temper .
`` He 's down at my blueberry-patch , '' he mutter .
At last he reach the blueberry-patch .
Very softly he creep to a place where he could see and not be see .
No one be there .
No , Sir , no one be there !
He wait and watch , and there be n't a hair of Peter Rabbit to be see .
He be just get ready to go look for Peter 's track when he hear that thump , thump again .
This time it come from his favorite clover-patch where he never allow even his favorite daughter , little Miss Fuzzytail , to go .
Anger nearly choke him a he hurry in that direction .
But when he get there , just a before no one be to be see .
So , all the morning long , Old Jed Thumper hurry from one place to another and never once caught sight of Peter Rabbit .
Can you guess why ?
Well , the reason be that all the time Peter be stretch out on his warm sunning-bank get the rest he so much need .
It be some one else who be fool Old Jed Thumper .
CHAPTER XV A PLEASANT SURPRISE FOR PETER Sticks will break and stick will bend , And all thing bad will have an end .
Peter Rabbit .
All morning , while someone be fool Old Jed Thumper , the cross old Rabbit who think he own the Old Pasture , Peter Rabbit lay stretch out on the warm little sunning-bank , dream of soft , gentle eye and beautiful little footprint .
It be a dangerous place to go to sleep , because at any time fierce Mr. Goshawk might have come that way , and if he have , and have find Peter Rabbit asleep , why , that would have be the end of Peter and all the story about him .
Peter do go to sleep .
You see , the sunning-bank be so warm and comfortable , and he be so tired and have have so little sleep for such a long time that , in spite of all he could do , he nod and nod and finally slip off into dreamland .
Peter sleep a long time , for no one come to disturb him .
It be past noon when he open his eye and blink up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
For a minute he could n't remember where he be .
When he do , he spring to his foot and hastily look this way and that way .
`` My gracious ! ''
exclaim Peter .
`` My gracious , what a careless fellow I be !
It 's a wonder that Old Jed Thumper do n't find me asleep .
My , but I 'm hungry !
Seems a if I have n't have a good square meal for a year . ''
Peter stop suddenly and begin to wrinkle his nose .
`` Um-m ! ''
say he , `` if I do n't know good , I should say that there be a patch of sweet clover close by .
Um-m , my , my !
Am I really awake , or be I still dream ?
I certainly do smell sweet clover ! ''
Slowly Peter turn his head In the direction from which the delicious smell seem to come .
Then he whirl around and star as hard a ever he could , his mouth gap wide open in surprise .
He blink , rub his eye , then blink again .
There could be no doubt of it ; there on the edge of the sunning-bank be a neat little pile of tender , sweet clover .
Yes , Sir , there it be !
Peter walk all around it , look for all the world a if he could n't believe that it be real .
Finally he reach out and nibble a leaf of it .
It WAS real !
There be no doubt in Peter 's mind then .
Some one have put it there while Peter be asleep , and Peter know that it be mean for him .
Who could it have be ?
Suddenly a thought pop into Peter 's head .
He stop eat and hop over to the big fern from behind which he have first see the two soft , gentle eye peep at him the day before .
There in the soft earth be a fresh footprint , and it look very , very much like the footprint of dainty little Miss Fuzzytail !
Peter 's heart give a happy little jump .
He felt sure now who have put the clover there .
He look wistfully about among the fern , but she be nowhere to be see .
Finally he hop back to the pile of clover and eat it , every bit , and it seem to him that it be the sweet , tenderest clover he have ever taste in all his life .
CHAPTER XVI PETER RABBIT 'S LOOKING-GLASS If people by their look be judge , As judged they 're sure to be , Why each should always look his best , I 'm sure you will agree .
Peter Rabbit .
For the first time in his life Peter Rabbit have begin to think about his clothes .
Always he have be such a happy-go-lucky fellow that it never have enter his head to care how he look .
He laugh at Sammy Jay for think so much of that beautiful blue-and-white coat he wear , and he poke fun at Reddy Fox for brag so much about his handsome suit .
As for himself , Peter do n't care how he look .
If his coat be whole , or in rag and tag , it be all the same to Peter .
But now Peter , sit on the edge of his sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture , suddenly realize that he want to be good-looking .
Yes , Sir , he want to be good-looking .
He wish that he be big .
He wish that he be the big and strong Rabbit in the world .
He wish that he have a handsome coat .
And it be all because of the soft , gentle eye of little Miss Fuzzytail that he have see peep out at him so often .
He felt sure that it be little Miss Fuzzytail herself who have leave the pile of sweet clover close by his sunning-bank the other day while he be asleep .
The fact be , Peter Rabbit be fall in love .
Yes , Sir , Peter Rabbit be fall in love .
All he have see of little Miss Fuzzytail be her soft , gentle eye , for she be very shy and have keep out of sight .
But ever since he have first see them , he have think and dream of nothing else , until it seem a if there be nothing in the world he want so much a to meet her .
Perhaps he would have want this still more if he have know that it be she who have fool her father , Old Jed Thumper , the big , gray , old Rabbit , so that Peter might have the long nap on the sunning-bank he so need .
`` I 've just get to meet her .
I 've just get to ! ''
say Peter to himself , and right then he begin to wish that he be big and fine-looking .
`` My , I must be a sight ! ''
he think , `` I wonder how I do look , anyway .
I must hunt up a looking-glass and find out . ''
Now when Peter Rabbit think of do a thing , he waste very little time .
It be that way now .
He start at once for the bit of swamp where he have first see the track of Old Jed Thumper .
He still limp from the wound make by Hooty the Owl .
But in spite of this he could travel pretty fast , and it do n't take him long to reach the swamp .
There , just a he expect , he find a looking-glass .
What be it like ?
Why , it be just a tiny pool of water .
Yes , Sir , it be a quiet pool of water that reflect the fern grow around it and the branch of the tree hang over it , and Peter Rabbit himself sit on the edge of it .
That be Peter 's looking-glass .
For a long time he star into it .
At last he give a great sigh .
`` My , but I be a sight ! ''
he exclaim .
He be .
His coat be rag and tear from the claw of Hooty the Owl and the teeth of Old Jed Thumper .
The white patch on the seat of his trouser be stain and dirty from sit down in the mud .
There be burr tangle in his waistcoat .
He be thin and altogether a miserable look Rabbit .
`` It must be that Miss Fuzzytail just pity me .
She certainly ca n't admire me , '' mutter Peter , a he pull out the burr .
For the next hour Peter be very busy .
He wash and he brush and he comb .
When , at last , he have do all that he could , he take another look in his looking-glass , and what he saw be a very different look Rabbit .
`` Though I be homely , lank and lean , I can at least be neat and clean , '' say he , a he start back for the sunning-bank .
CHAPTER XVII PETER MEETS MISS FUZZYTAIL That this be true there 's no denying -- There 's nothing in the world like try .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit be feel good .
Certainly he be look good .
You see , just as soon a Old Mother Nature saw that Peter be try to look as well a he could , and be keep himself a neat and tidy a he know how , she be ready to help , a she always be .
She do her best with the rent in his coat , make by the claw of Hooty the Owl and the teeth of Old Jed Thumper , and so it be n't long before Peter 's coat look nearly as good a new .
Then , too , Peter be get enough to eat these day .
Days and day have pass since he have see Old Jed Thumper , and this have give him time to eat and sleep .
Peter wonder what have become of Old Jed Thumper .
`` Perhaps something have happen to him , '' think Peter .
`` I -- I almost hope something have . ''
Then , be ashamed of such a wish , he add , `` Something not very dreadful , but which will keep him from hunt me for a while and try to drive me out of the Old Pasture . ''
Now all this time Peter have be try to find little Miss Fuzzytail .
He be already in love with her , although all he have see of her be her two soft , gentle eye , shyly peep at him from behind a big fern .
He have wander here and saunter there , look for her , but although he find her footprint very often , she always manage to keep out of his sight , You see , she know the Old Pasture so much good than he do , and all the little path in it , that she have very little trouble in keep out of his way .
Then , too , she be very busy , for it be she who be keep her cross father , Old Jed Thumper , away from Peter , because she be so sorry for Peter .
But Peter do n't know this .
If he have , I be afraid that he would have be more in love than ever .
The harder she be to find , the more Peter want to find her .
He spend a great deal of time each day brush his coat and make himself look as fine a he could , and while he be do it , he keep wish over and over again that something would happen so that he could show little Miss Fuzzytail what a smart , brave fellow he really be .
But one day follow another , and Peter seem no nearer than ever to meet little Miss Fuzzytail .
He be think of this one morning and be really grow very down-hearted , a he sit under a friendly bramble-bush , when suddenly there be a sharp little scream of fright from behind a little juniper-tree .
Somehow Peter know whose voice that be , although he never have hear it before .
He spring around the little juniper-tree , and what he saw fill him with such rage that he do n't once stop to think of himself .
There be little Miss Fuzzytail in the clutch of Black Pussy , Farmer Brown 's cat , who often steal away from home to hunt in the Old Pasture .
Like a flash Peter sprang over Black Pussy , and a he do so he kick with all his might .
The cat have n't see him come , and the kick knock her right into the prickly juniper-tree .
Of course she lose her grip on little Miss Fuzzytail , who have n't be hurt so much a frightened .
By the time the cat get out of the juniper-tree , Peter and Miss Fuzzytail be sit side by side safe in the middle of a bull-briar patch .
`` Oh ?
how brave you be ! ''
sob little Miss Fuzzytail .
And this be the way that Peter Rabbit at last get his heart 's desire .
CHAPTER XVIII TOMMY TIT PROVES A FRIEND INDEED Nothing in all the world be so precious a a true friend .
Peter Rabbit .
After Peter Rabbit have save little Miss Fuzzytail from Black Pussy , the cat who belong way down at Farmer Brown 's house and have no business hunt in the Old Pasture , he go with her a near to her home a she would let him .
She say that it be n't necessary that he should go a single step , but Peter insist that she need him to see that no more harm come to her .
Miss Fuzzytail laugh at that , for she felt quite able to take care of herself .
It have be just stupid carelessness on her part that have give Black Pussy the chance to catch her , she say , and she be very sure that she never would be so careless again .
What she do n't tell Peter be that she have be so busy peep at him and admire him that she have quite forget to watch out for danger for herself .
Finally she say that he could go part way with her .
But when they be almost within sight of the bull-briar castle of her father , Old Jed Thumper , the big , gray Rabbit who think he own the Old Pasture , she make Peter turn back .
You see , she be afraid of what Old Jed Thumper might do to Peter , and -- well , the truth be she be afraid of what he might do to her if he should find out that she have make friend with Peter .
So Peter be force to go back , but he take with him a half promise that she would meet him the next night up near his sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture .
After that there be many pleasant day for Peter Rabbit .
Sometimes little Miss Fuzzytail would meet him , and sometimes she would shyly hide from , him , but somehow , somewhere , he manage to see her every day , and so all the time in Peter 's heart be a little song : `` The sky be blue ; the leaf be green ; The golden sunbeam peep between ; My heart be joyful a can be , And all the world look bright to me . ''
And then one day Old Jed Thumper find out all about how his daughter , little Miss Fuzzytail , and Peter Rabbit have become such good friend .
Old Jed Thumper go into a terrible rage .
He chew and chew with nothing in his mouth , that be , nothing but his temper , the way an angry Rabbit will .
He vow and declare that if he never eat another mouthful he would drive Peter Rabbit from the Old Pasture .
My , my , my , those be bad day for Peter Rabbit !
Yes , Sir , those certainly be bad day !
Old Jed Thumper have find out how little Miss Fuzzytail have be fool him by make him think Peter be in part of the Old Pasture in quite the opposite direction from where he really be .
Worse still , he find Peter 's favorite sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture and would hide near it and try to catch Peter every time Peter try to get a few minute ' rest there .
He do something bad than that .
One day he saw fierce Mr. Goshawk hunt .
He let Mr. Goshawk almost catch him .
and then duck under a bramble-bush .
Then he show himself again and once more escaped in the same way .
So he lead fierce Mr. Goshawk to a point where Mr. Goshawk could look down and see Peter Rabbit stretch out on his sunning-bank , try to get a little rest .
Right ; away Mr. Goshawk forget all about Old Jed Thumper and sail up in the sky from where he could swoop down on Peter , while Old Jed Thumper , chuckle to himself wickedly , hid where he could watch what would happen .
That certainly would have be the last of Peter Rabbit if it have n't be for Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
Tommy saw Mr. Goshawk and just in time warn Peter , and so Mr. Goshawk get only his claws full of soft earth for his pain , while Old Jed Thumper once more chewed on nothing in rage and disappointment .
Dear me , dear me , those certainly be dreadful day for Peter Rabbit and little Miss Fuzzytail .
You see , all the time little Miss Fuzzytail be terribly worry for fear Peter would be catch .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : THAT NIGHT OLD MAN COYOTE STARTED FOR THE OLD PASTURE . -RSB-
CHAPTER XIX OLD MAN COYOTE PAYS A DEBT Some little seed of goodness You 'll find in every heart , To sprout and keep on grow When once they get a start .
Peter Rabbit .
Matters go from bad to worse with Peter Rabbit and little Miss Fuzzytail .
Peter would have make up his mind to go back to his old home in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows , but he felt that he just could n't leave little Miss Fuzzytail , and little Miss Fuzzytail could n't make up her mind to go with Peter , because she felt that she just could n't leave the Old Pasture , which always have be her home .
So Peter spend his day and night ready to jump and run from Jed Thumper , the gray old Rabbit who think he own the Old Pasture , and who have declare that he would drive Peter out .
Now Peter , a you know , have an old friend in the Old Pasture , Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
One day Tommy take it into his head to fly down to the Green Meadows .
There he find everybody wonder what have become of Peter Rabbit , for you remember Peter have steal away from the dear Old Briar-patch in the night and have tell no one where he be go .
Now one of the first to ask Tommy Tit if he have see Peter Rabbit be Old Man Coyote .
Tommy tell him where Peter be and of the dreadful time Peter be have , Old Man Coyote ask a lot of question about the Old Pasture and thank Tommy very politely a Tommy fly over to the Smiling Pool to call on Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat .
That night , after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows have creep over the Green Meadows , Old Man Coyote start for the Old Pasture , Now , he have never be there before , but he have ask so many question of Tommy Tit , and he be so smart anyway , that it do n't take him long to go all through the Old Pasture and to find the bull-briar castle of Old Jed Thumper , who be make life so miserable for Peter Rabbit , He be n't at home , but Old Man Coyote 's wonderful nose soon find his track , and he follow them swiftly , without make a sound .
Pretty soon he come to a bramble-bush , and under it he could see Old Jed Thumper .
For just a minute he chuckle , a noiseless chuckle , to himself .
Then he open his mouth and out come that terrible sound which have so frighten all the little people on the Green Meadows when Old Man Coyote have first come there to live .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Hee , hee , hee !
Ha , ho , hee , ho ! ''
Old Jed Thumper never have hear anything like that before .
It frighten him so that before he think what he be do he have jump out from under the bramble-bush .
Of course this be just what Old Man Coyote want .
In a flash he be after him , and then begin such a race a the Old Pasture never have see before .
Round and round , this way and that way , along the cow path race Old Jed Thumper with Old Man Coyote at his heel , until at last , out of breath , so tired that it seem to him he could n't run another step , frighten almost out of his sens , Old Jed Thumper reach his bull-briar castle and be safe .
Then Old Man Coyote laugh his terrible laugh once more and trot over to the tumble-down stone-wall in which his keen nose tell him Peter Rabbit be hide .
`` One good turn deserve another , and I always pay my debt , Peter Rabbit '' say he .
`` You do me a good turn some time ago down on the Green Meadows , when you tell me how Granny and Reddy Fox be plan to make trouble for me by lead Bowser the Hound to the place where I take my daily nap , and now we be even .
I do n't think that old gray Rabbit will dare to poke so much a his nose out of his bull-briar castle for a week .
Now I be go back to the Green Meadows , Good night , Peter Rabbit , and do n't forget that I always pay my debt . ''
`` Good night , and thank you , Mr. Coyote , '' say Peter , and then , when Old Man Coyote have go , he add to himself in a shame-faced way : `` I do n't believe him when he say that he guess we would be friend . ''
CHAPTER XX LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL WHISPERS `` YES '' Love be a beautiful , wonderful thing .
There 's nothing quite like it on all the green earth .
'T be love in the heart teach birdie to sing , And give the wide world all it joy and it mirth .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit be find this out .
Always he have be happy , for happiness have be bear in him .
But the happiness he have know before be nothing to the happiness that be his when he find that he love little Miss Fuzzytail and that little Miss Fuzzytail love him , Peter be sure that she do love him , although she would n't say so .
But love do n't need word , and Peter have see it shin in the two soft , gentle eye of little Miss Fuzzytail .
So Peter be happy in spite of the trouble that Old lead Thumper , the big , gray Rabbit who be the father of little Miss Fuzzytail , have make for him in the Old Pasture , He have try very hard , very hard indeed , to get little Miss Fuzzytail to go back with him to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows , but in spite of all he could say she could n't make up her mind to leave the Old Pasture , which , you know , have be her home ever since she be bear .
And Peter could n't make up his mind to go back there and leave her , because -- why , because he love her so much that he felt that he could never , never be happy without her .
Then , when Old Jed Thumper be hunt Peter so hard that he hardly have a chance to eat or sleep , have come Old Man Coyote the Wolf and give Old Jed Thumper such a fright that for a week he do n't dare poke so much a his nose out of his bull - briar castle .
Now , although Old Man Coyote do n't know it , his terrible voice have frighten little Miss Fuzzytail almost as much a it have Old Jed Thumper .
You see , she never have hear it before , She do n't even know what it be , and all that night she have crouch in her most secret hiding-place , shiver and shake with fright .
The next morning Peter have find her there .
She have n't sleep a wink , and she be still too frighten to even go look for her breakfast .
`` Oh , Peter Rabbit , do you hear that terrible noise last night ? ''
she cry .
`` What noise ? ''
ask Peter , just a if he do n't know anything about it .
`` Why , that terrible voice ! ''
cry little Miss Fuzzytail , and shiver at the thought of it .
`` What be it like ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Oh , I ca n't tell you , '' say little Miss Fuzzy tall , `` It be n't like anything I ever have hear before .
It be something like the voice of Hooty the Owl and the voice of Dippy the Loon and the voice of a little yelping dog all in one , and it be just terrible ! ''
`` Oh ? ''
replied Peter , `` you must mean the voice of my friend .
Old Man Coyote .
He come up here last night just to do me a good turn because I once do him a good turn . ''
Then he tell all about how Old Man Coyote have come to the Green Meadows to live , and how he be smarter than even old Granny Fox , but he do n't tell her how he himself have once be frighten almost out of a year 's growth by that terrible voice , or that it be because he have n't really believe that Old Man Coyote be his friend that have lead him to leave the Old Briar-patch and come up to the Old Pasture .
`` Is -- be he fond of Rabbits ? ''
ask little Miss Fuzzytail .
Peter be quite sure that he be .
`` And do you think he 'll come up here hunt again ? ''
she ask .
Peter do n't know , but he suspect that he would .
`` Oh , dear , '' wail little Miss Fuzzytail .
`` Now , I never , never will feel safe again ! ''
Then Peter have a happy thought .
`` I tell you what , '' say he , `` the safe place in the world for you and me be my dear Old Briar-patch , Wo n't you go there now ? ''
Little Miss Fuzzytail sigh and drop a tear or two .
Then she nestle up close to Peter .
`` Yes , '' she whisper .
CHAPTER XXI PETER AND LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL LEAVE THE OLD PASTURE A danger past be a danger past , So why not just forget it ?
Watch out instead for the one ahead Until you 've safely meet it , Peter Rabbit .
As soon a little Miss Fuzzytail have agree to go with him to make her home in the dear Old Briar-patch down on the Green Meadows , Peter Rabbit fairly boil over with impatience to start , He have have so much trouble in the Old Pasture that he be afraid if they wait too long little Miss Fuzzytail might change her mind , and if she should do that -- well , Peter do n't know what he would do .
But Peter , who always have be so happy-go-lucky , with no one to think about but himself , now felt for the first time re-sponsi-bil-ity .
That 's a big word , but it be a word that everybody have to learn the meaning of sometime .
Johnny Chuck learn it when he make a home for Polly Chuck in Farmer Brown 's orchard , and try to keep it a secret , so that no harm would come to Polly .
It mean take care of other people or other people 's thing , and feel that you must take even great care than you would of yourself or your own thing , So , while Peter himself would have be willing to take chance , and might even have make the journey down to the dear Old Briar-patch in broad daylight , he felt that that would n't do at all for little Miss Fuzzytail ; that he must avoid every possible chance of danger for her .
So Peter wait for a dark night , not too dark , you know , but a night when there be no moon to make great patch of light , but only the kindly little Stars look down and twinkle in the friendly way they have .
At last there be just such a night .
All the afternoon little Miss Fuzzytail go about in the Old Pasture say good-by to her friend and visit each one of her favorite little path and hiding-places , and I suspect that in each one she drop a tear or two , for you see she felt sure that she never would see them again , although Peter have promise that he would bring her back to the Old Pasture for a visit whenever she want to come .
At last it be time to start .
Peter lead the way .
Very big and brave and strong and important he felt , and very timid and frighten felt little Miss Fuzzytail , hop after him close at his heel .
You see , she felt that she be go out into the Great World , of which she know nothing at all .
`` Oh , Peter , '' she whisper , `` suppose we should meet Reddy Fox !
I would n't know where to run or hide . ''
`` We be not go to meet Reddy Fox , '' reply Peter , `` but if we should , all you have to do be to just keep your eye on the white patch on the seat of my trouser and follow me .
I have fool Reddy so many time that I 'm not afraid of him . ''
Never in all his life have Peter be so watchful and careful .
That be because he felt his re-sponsi-bil-ity .
Every few jump he would stop to sit up and look and listen .
Then little Miss Fuzzytail would nestle up close to him , and Peter 's heart would swell with happiness , and he would feel , oh , so proud and important .
Once they hear the sharp bark of Reddy Fox , but it be a long way off , and Peter smile , for he know that Reddy be hunt on the edge of the Green Forest .
Once a dim shadow sweep across the meadow grass ahead of them .
Peter drop flat in the grass and keep perfectly still , and little Miss Fuzzytail do just a he do , a she have promise she would .
`` Wha -- what be it ? ''
she whisper .
`` I think it be Hooty the Owl , '' Peter whisper back , `` but he do n't see u . ''
After what seem like a long , long time they hear Hooty 's fierce hunting call , but it come from way back of them on the edge of the Old Pasture .
Peter hop to his foot .
`` Come on , '' say he .
`` There 's nothing to fear from him now . ''
So slowly and watchfully Peter lead the way down across the Green Meadows while the little Stars look down and twinkle in the most friendly way , and just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun start to kick off his bedclothes behind the Purple Hills they reach the dear Old Briar - patch .
`` Here we be ! ''
cry Peter .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad ! ''
cry little Miss Fuzzytail , hop along one of Peter 's private little path .
CHAPTER XXII SAMMY JAY BECOMES CURIOUS Learn all you can about others , but keep your own affair to yourself .
Peter Rabbit .
Of course it be Sammy Jay who first find out that Peter Rabbit be back in the dear Old Briar-patch .
Sammy take it into his head to fly over there the very morning of Peter 's home-coming .
Indeed , little Miss Fuzzytail have n't have time to half see the clear Old Briar-patch which , you know , be to be her new home , when Peter saw Sammy Jay come .
Now Peter be not quite ready to have all the world know that there be a Mrs. Peter , for of course that be what little Miss Fuzzytail be now that she have come to make her home with Peter .
They want to keep by themselves for a little while and just be happy with each other .
So as soon a Peter saw Sammy Jay head towards the Old Briar-patch , he hide little Miss Fuzzytail under the thick sweet-briar bush , and then hurry out to the near sweet-clover patch .
Of course Sammy Jay saw him right away , and of course Sammy be very much surprise .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
Where 'd you come from ? ''
he shout , a he settle himself comfortably in a little poplar-tree grow on the edge of the Old Briar-patch .
`` Oh , '' say Peter with a very grand air , `` I 've be on a long journey to see the Great World . ''
`` Which mean , '' say Sammy Jay with a chuckle , `` that you 've be in the Old Pasture all this time , and let me tell you , Peter Rabbit , the Old Pasture be a very small part of the Great World .
By the way , Tommy Tit the Chickadee be down here the other day and tell u all about you .
He say that you have fall in love with little Miss Fuzzytail , and he guess that you be go to make your home up there .
What 's the matter ?
Did her father , Old Jed Thumper , drive you out ? ''
`` No , he do n't ! ''
snap Peter angrily , `` It 's none of your business what I come home for , Sammy Jay , but I 'll tell you just the same .
I come home because I want to . ''
Sammy chuckle , for he dearly love to tease Peter and make him angry .
Then the imp of mischief , who seem always to live just under that smart cap of Sammy 's , prompt him to ask : `` Did you come home alone ? ''
Now Peter could n't say `` yes '' for that would be an untruth , and whatever fault Peter may have , he be at least truthful .
So he just pretend not to have hear Sammy 's question .
Now when Sammy have ask the question he have think nothing about it .
It have just pop into his head by way of something to say .
But Sammy Jay be sharp , and he notice right away that Peter do n't answer but begin to talk about other thing , `` Ha , ha ! ''
think Sammy to himself , `` I believe he do n't come alone , I wonder now if he bring Miss Fuzzytail with him . ''
Right away Sammy begin to peer down into the Old Briar-patch , twist and turn so that he could see in every direction , and all the time talk as fast a his tongue could go .
Two or three time he fly out over the Old Briar-patch , pretend to try to catch moth , but really so that he could look down into certain hiding-places .
The last time that he do this he spy little Mrs. Peter , who be , you know , Miss Fuzzytail .
At once Sammy Jay start for the Green Forest , scream at the top of his voice : `` Peter Rabbit 's married !
Peter Rabbit 's married ! ''
CHAPTER XXIII PETER INTRODUCES MRS. PETER It 's what you do for others , Not what they do for you , That make you feel so happy All through and through and through .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit make a wry face a he listen to Sammy Jay shriek at the top of his voice a he fly through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows , '' Peter Rabbit 's married ! ''
`` Peter Rabbit 's married ! ''
He saw the Merry Little Breezes who , you know , be the child of Old Mother West Wind , start for the dear Old Briar-patch as soon a they hear Sammy Jay , and he know that they would be only the first of a lot of visitor .
He hurry to where Mrs. Peter be hide under a sweet - briar bush .
`` Do you hear what that mischief-maker , Sammy Jay , be scream ? ''
ask Peter .
Mrs. Peter nod .
`` Do n't -- do n't you think it sound kind of -- well , kind of NICE , Peter ? ''
she ask in a bashful sort of way .
Peter chuckle .
`` It sound more than KIND of nice to me , '' say he .
`` Do you know , I use to think that Sammy Jay never do and never could say anything nice , but I 've just change my mind .
Though he be n't say it to be nice , it really be the nice thing I 've ever hear him say .
We have n't be able to keep our secret , so I think the very best thing we can do be to invite everybody to call .
Then we can get it over with and have a little time to ourselves .
Here come the Merry Little Breezes , and I know that they will be glad to take the invitation for u . ''
Mrs. Peter agree , for she think that anything Peter do or suggest be just about right .
So the Merry Little Breezes be soon skip and dance over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest with this message : `` Mr. and Mrs. Peter Rabbit will be at home in the Old Briar-patch to their friend to-morrow after-noon at shadow-time . ''
`` Why do you make it at shadow-time ? ''
ask Mrs. Peter .
`` Because that will give all our friend a chance to come , '' reply Peter .
`` Those who sleep through the day will have wake up , and those who sleep through the night will not have go to bed .
Besides , it will be safe for some of the small of them if the Black Shadows be about for them to hide in on their way here . ''
`` How thoughtful you be , '' say little Mrs. Peter with a little sigh of happiness .
Of course , every one who could walk , creep , or fly head for the Old Briar-patch the next day at shadow-time , for almost every one know and love Peter Rabbit , and of course every one be very anxious to meet Mrs. Peter .
From the Smiling Pool come Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Spotty the Turtle , and old Grandfather Frog .
From the Green Forest come Bobby Coon , Unc ' Billy Possum and Mrs. Possum , Prickly Porky the Porcupine , Whitefoot the Woodmouse , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Blacky the Crow , Sammy Jay , Ol ' Mistah Buzzard , Mistah Mockingbird , and Sticky-toes the Treetoad .
From the Green Meadows come Danny Meadow Mouse , Old Mr. Toad , Digger the Badger , Jimmy Skunk , and Striped Chipmunk , who live near the old stone - wall between the edge of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Johnny and Polly Chuck come down from the Old Orchard and Drummer the Woodpecker come from the same place .
Of course Old Man Coyote pay his respect , and when he come everybody but Prickly Porky and Digger the Badger and Jimmy Skunk make way for him with great respect .
Granny and Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl do n't call , but they sit where they could look on and make fun .
You see , Peter have fool all three so many time that they felt none too friendly .
Very proud look Peter a he stand under a bramble-bush with Mrs. Peter by his side and introduce her to his many friend , and very sweet and modest and retire look little Mrs. Peter a she sit beside him .
Everybody say that she be `` too sweet for anything '' , and when Reddy Fox overheard that remark he grin and say : `` Not for me !
She ca n't be too sweet for me , and I hope I 'll have a chance to find out just how sweet she be . ''
What do you suppose he mean ?
CHAPTER XXIV DANNY MEADOW MOUSE WARNS PETER RABBIT Good advice Is always need But , ala !
be seldom heed , Peter Rabbit .
Danny Meadow Mouse wait until all the rest of Peter Rabbit 's friend have leave the Old Briar-patch after pay their respect to Peter and Mrs. Peter , He wait for two reason , do Danny Meadow Mouse .
In the first place , he have see old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox hang about a little way off , and though they have disappear after a while , Danny have an idea that they be not far away , but be hide so that they might catch him on his way home .
Of course , he have n't the slight intention of give them the chance .
He have make up his mind to ask Peter if he might spend the night in a corner of the Old Briar-patch , and he be very sure that Peter would say he might , for he and Peter be very good friend , very good friend indeed .
The second good reason Danny have for wait be this very friendship .
You see , Peter have be away from the Green Meadows so long that Danny felt sure he could n't know all about how thing be there now , and so he want to warn Peter that the Green Meadows be not nearly as safe a before Old Man Coyote have come there to live .
So Danny wait , and when all the rest of the caller have leave he call Peter to one side where little Mrs. Peter could n't hear .
Danny stand up on his hind legs so a to whisper in one of Peter 's ear .
`` Do you know that Old Man Coyote be the most dangerous enemy we have , Peter Rabbit ?
Do you know that ? ''
he ask .
Peter Rabbit shake his head .
`` I do n't believe that , Danny , '' say he .
`` His terrible voice have frighten you so that you just think him as bad a he sound .
Why , Old Man Coyote be a friend of mine . ''
Then he tell Danny how Old Man Coyote have do him a good turn In the Old Pasture in return for a good turn Peter have once do him , and how he say that he always pay his debt .
Danny Meadow Mouse look doubtful .
`` What else do he say ? ''
he demand .
`` Nothing , except that we be even now , '' reply Peter .
`` Ha ! ''
say Danny Meadow Mouse .
The way he say it make Peter turn to look at him sharply .
`` Ha ! ''
say Danny again .
`` If you be even , why you do n't owe him anything , and he do n't owe you anything .
Watch out , Peter Rabbit !
Watch out !
I would stick pretty close to the Old Briar-patch with Mrs. Peter if I be you .
I would indeed .
You use to think old Granny Fox pretty smart , but Old Man Coyote be smarter .
Yes , Sir , he be smart !
And every one of the rest of u have get to be smarter than ever before to keep out of his clutch .
Watch out , Peter Rabbit , if you and Old Man Coyote be even .
Now , if you do n't mind , I 'll curl up in my old hiding - place for the night .
I really do n't dare go back home to-night . ''
Of course Peter tell Danny Meadow Mouse that he be welcome to spend the night in the Old Briar-patch , and thank Danny for his warning a he bid him good-night .
But Peter never carry his trouble with him for long , and by the time he have rejoin little Mrs. Peter he be very much incline to laugh at Danny 's fear .
`` What do that funny little Meadow Mouse have to say ? ''
ask Mrs. Peter .
Peter tell her and then add , `` But I do n't believe we have anything to fear from Old Man Coyote .
You know he be my friend . ''
`` But I do n't know that he be mine ! ''
reply little Mrs. Peter , and the way she say it make Peter look at her anxiously .
`` I believe Danny Meadow Mouse be right , '' she continue , `` Oh , Peter , you will watch out , wo n't you ? ''
And Peter promise her that he would .
CHAPTER XXV PETER RABBIT 'S HEEDLESSNESS Heedlessness be just the twin of thoughtlessness , you know , And where you find them both at once , there trouble 's sure to grow .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit do n't mean to be heedless .
No , indeed !
Oh , my , no !
Peter think so much of Mrs. Peter , he mean to be so thoughtful that she never would have a thing to worry about .
But Peter be heedless .
He always be heedless .
This be the bad of a bad habit -- you can try to let go of it , but it wo n't let go of you .
So it be with Peter .
He have be heedless so long that now he actually do n't know when he be heedless .
When there be nobody but himself to think about , and no one to worry about him , his heedlessness do n't so much matter .
If anything have happen to him then , there would have be no one to suffer .
But now all this be change .
You see , there be little Mrs. Peter .
At first Peter have be perfectly content to stay with her in the dear Old Briar - patch .
He have lead her through all his private little path , and they have plan where they would make two or three more .
He have show her all his secret hiding-places and the short way to the sweet-clover patch .
He have point out where the Lone Little Path come down to the edge of the Green Forest and so out on to the Green Meadows .
He have show her where the Crooked Little Path come down the hill .
Little Mrs. Peter have be delight with everything , and not once have she complain of be homesick for the Old Pasture .
But after a little while Peter begin to get uneasy .
You see in the day before Old Man Coyote have come to live on the Green Meadows , Peter have come and go about a he please .
Of course he have have to watch out for Granny and Reddy Fox , but he have have to watch out for them ever since he be a baby , so he do n't fear them very much in spite of their smartness .
He felt quite as smart a they and perhaps a little bit smarter .
Anyway , they never have catch him , and he do n't believe they ever would .
So he have come and go a he please , and poke his nose into everybody 's business , and gossip with everybody .
Of course it be quite natural that Peter should want to call on all his old friend and visit the Green Forest , the Old Orchard , the Laughing Brook , and the Smiling Pool .
Probably Mrs. Peter would n't have worry very much if it have n't be for the warning leave by Danny Meadow Mouse .
Danny have say that Old Man Coyote be more to be fear than all the Hawk family and all the Fox family together , because he be smarter and slyer than any of them .
At first Peter have look very serious , but after Danny have go back to his own home Peter have laugh at Danny for be so afraid , and he begin to go far and farther away from the safe Old Briar-patch .
One day he have venture as far a halfway up the Crooked Little Path .
He be think so hard of a surprise he be plan for little Mrs. Peter that he forget to watch out and almost run into Old Man Coyote before he saw him .
There be a hungry look , such a hungry look in Old Man Coyote 's eye a he grin and say `` Good morning '' that Peter do n't even stop to be polite .
He remember that Jimmy Skunk 's old house be near , and he reach it just one jump ahead of Old Man Coyote .
`` I think you say that we be friend , '' pant Peter , a he hear Mr. Coyote sniff at the doorway .
`` So we be until I have pay my debt to you .
Now that I 've pay that , we be even , and it be everybody watch out for himself , '' reply Old Man Coyote .
`` But do n't forget that I always pay my debt , Peter Rabbit . ''
CHAPTER XXVI PETER RABBIT LISTENS TO MRS. PETER Safety first be a wise rule for those who would live long .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit be glad enough to get back to the dear Old Briar-patch after his narrow escape from Old Man Coyote by dodge into Jimmy Skunk 's old house halfway up the hill .
And little Mrs. Peter be glad enough to have him , you may be sure .
She have be watch Peter when he so heedlessly almost ran into Old Man Coyote , and it have seem to her a if her heart stop beat until Peter reach the safety of that old house of Jimmy Skunk just one jump ahead .
Then she saw Old Man Coyote hide in the grass near by and she be terribly , terribly afraid that Peter would be heedless again and come out , think that Mr. Coyote have go .
Poor little Mrs. Peter !
She be so anxious that she could n't sit still .
She felt that she just have to do something to warn Peter .
She steal out from the dear Old Briar-patch and halfway to where Old Man Coyote be hide .
He be so busy watch the doorway of the old house where Peter be hide that he do n't notice her at all .
Little Mrs. Peter find a bunch of tall grass behind which she could sit up and still not be see .
So there she sit without move for a long , long time , never once take her eye from Old Man Coyote and the doorway of the old house .
By and by she saw Peter poke his nose out to see if the way be clear .
Old Man Coyote saw him too , and begin to grin .
It be a hungry , wicked-looking grin , and it make little Mrs. Peter very , very angry indeed .
She wait just a minute long to make sure that Peter be where he could see her , and then she thump the ground very hard , which , you know , be the way Rabbits signal to each other .
Peter hear it right away and thump back that he would stay right where he be , though right down in his heart Peter think that little Mrs. Peter be just nervous and foolish , for he be sure that Old Man Coyote have give up and go away long ago .
Now of course Old Man Coyote hear those thump , and he know just what they mean .
He know that he never , never could catch Peter so long a Mrs. Peter be watch him and ready to warn Peter , So he come out of his hiding-place with an ugly snarl and spring toward little Mrs. Peter just to frighten her .
He laugh a he watch her run and , all breathless , dive into the dear , Old Briar-patch , and then he trot away to his favorite napping-place .
As soon a Peter be sure that he be safe he start for home , and there little Mrs. Peter scold him soundly for be so heedless and thoughtless .
Peter do n't have a word to say .
For a long time he sit think and thinking , every once in a while scratch his head a if puzzle .
Little Mrs. Peter notice it .
`` What 's the matter with you , Peter ? ''
she ask finally .
`` I 'm just study what Old Man Coyote mean by tell me one day that he be my friend , and prove it by do me a good turn , and then try to catch me the very next time he see me .
I do n't understand it , '' say Peter , shake his head , `` Oh , you dear old stupid ! ''
reply little Mrs. Peter .
`` Now , you listen to me .
You do Old Man Coyote a good turn and he pay you back by do you a good turn .
That make you even , do n't it ? ''
Peter nod .
`` Well , then you be right back where you start from , and Old Man Coyote do n't see any reason why he should treat you any differently than at first , and I do n't see why he should either , when I come to think it over .
I tell you what , Peter , the thing for you to do be to keep do good turn to Old Man Coyote so that he will always be in debt to you .
Then he will always be your friend , '' As little Mrs. Peter stop speak , Peter sprang to his foot .
`` The very thing ! ''
he cry .
`` It 's sort of a Golden Rule , and I do believe it will work . ''
`` Of course it will , '' reply little Mrs. Peter .
CHAPTER XXVII MISTAH MOCKER PLAYS A JOKE ON MRS. PETER This little point remember , please -- There 's little gain by those who tease .
Peter Rabbit .
Mistah Mocker the Mockingbird have be very late in come up to the Green Meadows from way down South .
The truth be , he have almost decide not to come .
You see , he love the sunny south-land so much , and all who live there love him so much , that if it have n't be for Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol ' Mistah Buzzard he never , never would have think of leave , even for a little while .
Unc ' Billy and Ol ' Mistah Buzzard be particular friend of his , very particular friend , and he felt that he just have to come up for a little visit .
Now Mistah Mocker reach the Green Meadows just after Peter Rabbit have bring little Mrs. Peter down from the Old Pasture to live with him in the dear Old Briar-patch .
He know that little Mrs. Peter do n't know anything about him , for he never have visit the Old Pasture where she have spend her life .
But he know all the bird people who do live there , for he have meet them in the sunny southland , where they spend the winter , `` I believe I 'll go pay my respect to Mrs. Peter , '' say Mistah Mocker one day , wink at Ol ' Mistah Buzzard .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard chuckle and wink back .
`` Ah cert ` nly hop yo'all will behave yo ` self right proper and not forget that yo ' be a member of one of the old family in the Souf , '' say he .
Mistah Mocker look quite solemn a he promise to behave himself , but there be a twinkle in his eye a he fly toward the Old Briar-patch .
There he hide in a thick tangle of vine .
Now it happen that Peter Rabbit have go over to the sweet-clover patch , and little Mrs. Peter be quite alone .
Somehow she get to think of her old home , and for the first time she begin to feel just a wee , wee bit homesick .
It be just then that she hear a familiar voice .
Little Mrs. Peter prick up her ear and smile happily .
`` That 's the voice of Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and it must be that his wife be with him , for I hear him call ` Phoebe !
Phoebe ! '
How lovely of them to come down to see me so soon . ''
Just then she hear another voice , a deep , beautiful , ring voice , a voice that she love .
It be the voice of Veery the Thrush .
`` Oh ! ''
cry little Mrs. Peter , and then hold her breath so a not to miss one note of the beautiful song .
Hardly have the song end when she hear the familiar voice of Redeye the Vireo .
Little Mrs. Peter clap her hand happily .
`` It must be a surprise party by my old friend and neighbor of the Old Pasture ! ''
she cry .
`` How good of them to come way down here , and how glad I shall be to see them ! ''
With that little Mrs. Peter hurry over to the tangle of vine from which all the voice seem to come and eagerly peer this way and that way for a sight of her friend .
But all she saw be a stranger wear a very sober-colored suit .
He be very polite and tell her that he be an old friend of Peter Rabbit .
`` If you be a friend of Peter , then you be a friend of mine . ''
say little Mrs. Peter very prettily .
`` Have you see anybody in this tangle of vine since you arrive ?
I be sure some friend of mine be here , but I have n't be able to find them . ''
`` No , '' say the stranger , who be , of course , Mistah Mocker the Mockingbird .
`` I have n't see any one here , and I do n't think there have be any one here but myself . ''
`` Oh , yes , indeed there have ! ''
cry little Mrs. Peter .
`` I hear their voice , and I could n't possibly be mistake in those , especially the beautiful voice of Veery the Thrush , I -- I would like very much to find them . ''
Mistah Mocker have the grace to look ashamed of himself when saw how disappointed little Mrs. Peter be .
Very softly he begin to sing the song of Veery the Thrush .
Little Mrs. Peter look up quickly .
`` There it be ! ''
she cry .
`` There '' -- she stop with her mouth gap wide open .
She suddenly realize that it be Mistah Mocker who be sing .
`` I -- I 'm very sorry , '' he stammer .
`` I do it just for a joke and not to make you feel bad .
Will you forgive me ? ''
`` Yes , '' reply little Mrs. Peter , `` if you will come here often at shadow-time and sing to me . ''
And Mistah Mocker promise that he would .
CHAPTER XXVIII NEWS FROM THE OLD BRIAR-PATCH To use your eye be very wise And much to be commend ; But never see what can not be For such a you intend .
Peter Rabbit .
Jenny Wren be a busybody .
Yes , Sir , she certainly be a busybody .
If there be anything go on in her neighborhood that she do n't know about , it be n't because she do n't try to find out .
She be so small and spry that it be hard work to keep track of her , and she pop out at the most unexpected time and place .
Then , before you can say a word , she be go .
And in all the Old Orchard or on the Green Meadows there be not to be find another tongue so busy a that of Jenny Wren .
It be sharp sometimes , but when she want it to be so there be none smoother .
You see she be a great gossip , be Jenny Wren , a great gossip .
But if you get on the right side of Jenny Wren and ask her to keep a secret , she 'll do it .
No one know how to keep a secret good than she do .
How it happen nobody know , but it do happen that when Peter Rabbit come home to the clear Old Briar-patch , bring Mrs. Peter with him , Jenny Wren do n't hear about it .
Probably it be because the new home which she have just complete be so carefully hide that the messenger send by Peter to invite all his friend to call do n't find it , and afterward she be so busy with household affair that she do n't have time to gossip .
Anyway , Peter have be back some time before Jenny Wren know it .
She be quite upset to think that she be the last to hear the news , but she console herself with the thought that she have be attend strictly to her duty , and now that her child be able to look out for themselves she could make up for lose time .
Just as soon a she could get away , she start for the Old Briar-patch .
She want to hear all about Peter 's adventure in the Old Pasture and to meet Mrs. Peter .
But like a great many other busybody , she want to find out all she could about Peter 's affair , and she think that the sure way to do it be not to let Peter know that she be about until she have have a chance to use her sharp little eye all she want to .
So when she reach the Old Briar-patch , she do n't make a sound .
It do n't take her long to find Peter .
He be sit under one of his favorite bramble-bushes smile to himself .
He smile and smile until Jenny Wren have to bite her tongue to keep from ask what be please him so .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` THE QUICKEST WAY FOR ME TO KNOW IS FOR YOU TO TELL ME , '' REPLIED JIMMY . -RSB-
`` He look tickle almost to death over something , but very likely if I should ask him what it be he would n't tell me , '' think Jenny Wren .
`` I guess I 'll look around a bit first .
I wonder where Mrs. Peter be . ''
So leave Peter to smile to his heart 's content , she go peek and peer through the Old Briar-patch .
Of course it be n't a nice thing to do , not a bit nice .
But Jenny Wren do n't stop to think of that .
By and by she saw something that make her flutter all over with excitement .
She look and look until she could sit still no longer .
Then she hurry back to where Peter be sit .
He be still smile .
`` Oh , Peter Rabbit , it 's perfectly lovely ! ''
she cry .
Peter look up quickly , and a worried look chase the smile away .
`` Hello , Jenny Wren !
Where do you come from ?
I have n't see you since I get back , '' say he .
`` I 've be so busy that I have n't have time to call before , '' reply Jenny .
`` I know what you 've be smile about , Peter , and it 's perfectly splendid .
Has everybody hear the news ? ''
`` No , '' say Peter , `` nobody know it but you , and I do n't want anybody else to know it just yet .
Will you keep it a secret , Jenny Wren ? ''
Now Jenny be just burst with desire to spread the news , but Peter look so anxious that finally she promise that she would keep it to herself , and she really mean to .
But though Peter look greatly relieve a he watch her start for home , he do n't smile a he have before .
`` I wish her tongue do n't wag so much , '' say he .
CHAPTER XXIX JIMMY SKUNK VISITS PETER RABBIT It 's hard to keep a secret which you fairly ache to tell ; So not to know such secret be often quite as well .
Peter Rabbit .
On her way home from the Old Briar-patch , Jenny Wren stop to rest in a bush beside the Crooked Little Path that come down the hill , when who should come along but Jimmy Skunk .
Now just a usual Jenny Wren be fidget and fuss about , and Jimmy Skunk grin a he watch her .
`` Hello , Jenny Wren ! ''
say he .
`` What be you do here ? ''
`` I 'm rest on my way home from the Old Briar-patch , if you must know , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
reply Jenny Wren , change her position half a dozen time while she be speak .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
laugh Jimmy Skunk .
`` Do you call that rest !
That 's a joke , Jenny Wren .
Resting !
Why , you could n't sit still and rest if you try ! ''
`` I could so !
I 'm rest right now , so there , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
protest Jenny Wren in a very indignant tone of voice , and hop all over the little bush while she be speak .
`` I guess if you know what I know , you 'd be excite too . ''
`` Well , I guess the quick way for me to know be for you to tell me , '' reply Jimmy .
`` I 'm just ache to be excite . ''
Jimmy grin , for you know Jimmy Skunk never do get excite and never hurry , no matter what happen .
`` You 'll have to keep right on ache then , '' reply Jenny Wren , with a saucy flirt of her funny little tail .
`` There 's great news in the Old Briar-patch , and I 'm the only one that know it , but I 've promise not to tell . ''
Jimmy prick up his ear .
`` News in the Old Briar-patch must have something to do with Peter Rabbit , '' say he .
`` What have Peter do now ? ''
`` I 'll never tell !
I 'll never tell ! ''
cry Jenny Wren , grow so excited that it seem to Jimmy a if there be danger that she would turn herself inside out .
`` I promise not to and I never will ! ''
Then , for fear that she would in spite of herself , she fly on her way home .
Jimmy watch her out of sight with a puzzled frown .
`` If I do n't know that she get so terribly excite over nothing , I 'd think that there really be some news in the Old Briar-patch , '' he mutter to himself .
`` Anyway , I have n't anything well to do , so I believe I 'll drop around that way and make Peter Rabbit a call . ''
He find Peter in some sweet clover just outside the Old Briar-patch , and it strike Jimmy that Peter look uncommonly happy .
He say as much .
`` I be , '' reply Peter , before he think .
Then he add hastily , `` You see , I 've be uncommonly happy ever since I return with Mrs. Peter from the Old Pasture . ''
`` But I hear there 's great news over here in the Old Briar-patch , '' persist Jimmy Skunk .
`` What be it , Peter ? ''
Peter pretend to be very much surprise .
`` Great news ! ''
he repeat .
`` Great news !
Why , what news can there be over here ?
Who tell you that ? ''
`` A little bird tell me , '' reply Jimmy slyly .
`` It must have be Jenny Wren ! ''
say Peter , once more speaking before he think .
`` Then there IS news over here ! ''
cry Jimmy triumphantly .
`` What be it , Peter ? ''
But Peter shake his head a if he have n't the slight idea and could n't imagine .
Jimmy coaxed and teased , but all in vain .
Finally he start for home no wise than before .
`` Just the same , I believe that Jenny Wren tell the truth and that there be news over in the Old Briar-patch , '' he mutter to himself .
`` Something have happen over there , and Peter wo n't tell .
I wonder what it can be . ''
CHAPTER XXX REDDY FOX LEARNS THE SECRET Nothing that you ever do , Nothing good or nothing bad , But have effect on other folk -- Gives them pain or make them glad .
Peter Rabbit .
Of course Jenny Wren do n't mean to tell the secret of the Old Briar - patch , because she have promise Peter Rabbit that she would n't .
But she do n't see any harm in tell every one she meet that there be a secret there , at least that there be great news there , and so , because Jenny Wren be a great gossip , it be n't long before all the little people on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest and around the Smiling Pool have hear it and be wonder what the news could be .
After Jimmy Skunk 's visit come a whole string of visitor to the Old Briar-patch .
One would hardly have leave before another would appear .
Each one try to act a if he have just happen around that way and do n't want to pass Peter 's home without make a call , but each one ask so many question that Peter know what have really bring him there be the desire to find out what the news in the Old Briar-patch could be .
But Peter be too smart for them , and they all go away no wise than they come , that be , all but one , and that one be Reddy Fox .
There be n't much go on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that Reddy do n't know about .
He be sly , be Reddy Fox , and his eye be sharp and his ear be keen , so little happens that he do n't see or hear about .
Of course he hear the foolish gossip of Jenny Wren and he prick up his ear .
`` So there 's news down in the Old Briar-patch , be there ?
A secret that Jenny Wren wo n't tell ?
I think I 'll trot down there and make Peter a call .
Of course he 'll be glad to see me . ''
Reddy grin wickedly a he say this to himself , for he know that there be no one for whom Peter Rabbit have less love , unless it be old Granny Fox .
So Reddy trot down to the Old Briar-patch .
Peter saw him come and scowl , for he guess right away what Reddy be come for , and he make ready to answer all Reddy 's question and still tell him nothing , a he have with all the others who have call .
But Reddy ask no question .
He do n't once mention the fact that he have hear there be news in the Old Briar-patch .
He do n't once speak of Jenny Wren .
He just talk about the weather and the Old Pasture , where Peter have make such a long visit , and all the time be a pleasant and polite a if he and Peter be the dear of friend .
But while he be talk , Reddy be use those sharp eye and those keen ear of his the best he know how .
But the Old Briar-patch be very thick , and he could see only a little way into it , and out of it come no sound to hint of a secret there .
Then Reddy begin to walk around the Old Briar-patch in quite the most matter-of-fact way , but a he walk that wonderful nose of his be test every little breath of air that come out of the Old Briar-patch .
At last he reach a certain place where a little strong breath of air tickle his nose .
He stop for a few minute , and slowly a smile grow and grow .
Then , without say a word , he turn and trot back towards the Green Forest .
Peter Rabbit watch him go .
Then he join Mrs. Peter in the heart of the Old Briar-patch .
`` My dear , '' he say , with a sigh that be almost a sob , `` Reddy Fox have find out our secret . ''
`` Never mind , '' say little Mrs. Peter brightly .
`` It would have to be find out soon , anyway . ''
Trotting back up the Lone Little Path , Reddy Fox be grin broadly .
`` It IS news ! ''
say he .
`` Jenny Wren be right , it IS news !
But I do n't believe anybody else know it yet , and I hope they wo n't find it out right away , least of all Old Man Coyote .
What a wonderful thing a good nose be !
It tell me what my eye can not see nor my ear hear . ''
CHAPTER XXXI BLACKY THE CROW HAS SHARP EYES Mischief always wait to greet Idle hand and idle foot .
Peter Rabbit .
That be what a lot of people say about Blacky the Crow .
Of course it be true that Blacky do get into a lot of mischief , but if people really know him they would find that he be n't as black a he look .
In fact , Blacky the Crow do a whole lot of good in his own peculiar way , but people be always look for him to do bad thing , and you know you most always see what you expect to see .
Thus the good Blacky do be n't see , while the bad be , and so he have grow to have a reputation blacker than the coat he wear .
But this do n't worry Blacky the Crow .
No , Sir , it do n't worry him a bit .
You see he have grow use to it .
And then he be so smart that he be never afraid of be catch when he do do wrong thing .
No one have sharp eye than Blacky , and no one know well how to use them .
There be very little go on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that he miss when he be about .
The day after Reddy Fox visit the Old Briar-patch and with his wonderful nose find out Peter Rabbit 's secret , Blacky just happen to fly over the Old Briar-patch on his way to Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
Now , be over the Old Briar-patch , he could look right down into it and see all through it .
Just a he reach it , he remember have hear Sammy Jay say something about gossipy little Jenny Wren 's have say that there be great news there .
He have n't think much about it at the time , but now that he be right there , he might as well have a look for himself and see if there be any truth in it .
So Blacky the Crow fly a little low , and his sharp eye look this way and that way through all the bramble-bushes of the Old Briar-patch .
He saw Peter Rabbit right away and wink at him .
He think Peter look worried and anxious .
`` Peter must have something on his mind , '' think Blacky .
`` I wonder where Mrs. Peter be . ''
Just then he catch sight of her under the thick grow sweet-briar bush .
He have open his mouth to shout , `` Hello , Mrs. Peter , '' when he saw something that surprise him so that he do n't speak at all .
He almost forget to flap his wing to keep himself in the air .
He hover right where he be for a few minute , look down through the bramble .
Then with a hoarse chuckle , he start for the Smiling Pool , forget all about Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
he shriek , `` Peter Rabbit 's get a family !
Peter Rabbit 's get a family ! ''
Reddy Fox hear him and grind his teeth .
`` Now Old Man Coyote will know and will try to catch those young Rabbits , when they ought to be mine because I find out about them first , '' he grumble .
Jimmy Skunk hear Blacky and grin broadly .
`` So that 's the great news Jenny Wren find out ! ''
say he .
`` I hope Peter will take good care of his baby than he ever have of himself .
I must call at once . ''
Redtail the Hawk heard , and he smile too , but it be n't a kindly smile like Jimmy Skunk 's .
`` I think young Rabbit will taste very good for a change , '' say he .
CHAPTER XXXII PETER RABBIT 'S NURSERY With home , the home you call your own , It really do n't matter where , There be no place , in all the world , That ever will or can compare .
Peter Rabbit .
The news be out at last , thanks to Blacky the Crow .
Peter Rabbit have a family !
Yes , Sir , Peter Rabbit have a family !
Right away the Old Briar - patch become the most interesting place on the Green Meadows to all the little people who live there and in the near-by Green Forest .
Of course all of Peter 's friend call as soon a ever they could .
They find Peter look very proud , and very important , and very happy .
Mrs. Peter look just a proud , and just a happy , but she also look very anxious .
You see , while she be very glad to have so many friend call , there be also other visitor .
That be , they be not exactly caller , but they hang around the outside of the Old Briar-patch , and they seem quite as much interested a the friend who really call .
Indeed , they seem more interested .
Who be they ?
Why , Reddy Fox be one .
Then there be Old Man Coyote , also Redtail the Hawk and Digger the Badger , and just at dusk Hooty the Owl .
They all seem very much interested indeed , but every time little Mrs. Peter saw them , she shiver .
You see , she could n't help think that there be a dreadful , hungry look in their eye , and if the truth be to be tell , there probably be .
But happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit do n't let this worry him .
Had n't he grow up from a teeny-weeny baby and be smart enough to escape all these danger which worry Mrs. Peter so ?
And if he could do it , of course his own baby could do it , with him to teach them and show them how .
Besides , they be too little to go outside of the Old Briar-patch now .
Indeed , they be too little to go outside their nursery , which be in a clump of sweet-briar bush in the very middle of the Old Briar - patch , and Peter felt that there they be perfectly safe .
`` It be n't time to worry yet , '' say Peter to little Mrs. Peter , a he saw the fright in her eye a the shadow of Redtail pass over them .
`` I do n't believe in borrow trouble .
Time enough to worry when there be something to worry about , and that wo n't be until these little scallawags of ours be big enough to run around and get into mischief .
Did you ever see such beautiful baby in all your life ? ''
For a minute the worried look leave little Mrs. Peter , and she gaze at the four little helpless baby fondly .
`` No , '' she reply softly , `` I never do .
Oh , Peter , they be perfectly lovely !
This one be the perfect image of you , and I 'm go to call him Little Pete .
And do n't you think his brother look like his grandfather ?
I think we 'll call him Little Jed . ''
Peter cough behind his hand a if something have stick in his throat .
He have no love for Little Jed 's grandfather , Old Jed Thumper , the big , gray , old Rabbit who have try so hard to drive him from the Old Pasture , but he do n't say anything .
If Mrs. Peter want to name this one Little Jed , he would n't say a word .
Aloud he say : `` I think , my dear , that this one look just a you must have look when you be little , and so we 'll call her Fuzzy .
And her sister we 'll call Wuzzy , '' continue Peter .
`` Was ever there such a splendid nursery for baby Rabbits ? ''
`` I do n't believe there ever be , Peter .
It 's good than my old nursery in the Old Pasture , '' reply little Mrs. Peter , a with a sigh of perfect happiness she stretch out beside their four baby .
And Peter softly tiptoe away to the near sweet-clover patch with his heart almost burst with pride .
Of the doings of Peter and Mrs. Peter Rabbit and their four child there be many more story , so many that one book will not hold all of them .
Besides , Bowser the Hound insist that I must write a book about him , and I have promise to do it right away .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Old_Granny_Fox.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Reddy Fox Brings Granny News Pray who be there who would refuse To bearer be of happy news ?
-- Old Granny Fox .
Snow cover the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and ice bound the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook .
Reddy and Granny Fox be hungry most of the time .
It be not easy to find enough to eat these day , and so they spend nearly every minute they be awake in hunting .
Sometimes they hunt together , but usually one go one way , and the other go another way so a to have a great chance of find something .
If either find enough for two , the one finding it take the food back to their home if it could be carry .
If not , the other be tell where to find it .
For several day they have have very little indeed to eat , and they be so hungry that they be willing to take almost any chance to get a good meal .
For two night they have visit Farmer Brown 's henhouse , hop that they would be able to find a way inside .
But the biddy have be securely lock up , and try a they would , they could n't find a way in .
`` It 's of no use , '' say Granny , a they start back home after the second try , `` to hope to get one of those hen at night .
If we be go to get any at all , we will have to do it in broad daylight .
It can be do , for I have do it before , but I do n't like the idea .
We be likely to be see , and that mean that Bowser the Hound will be set to hunt u . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
exclaim Reddy .
`` What of it ?
It 's easy enough to fool him . ''
`` You think so , do you ? ''
snap Granny .
`` I never yet saw a young Fox who do n't think he know all there be to know , and you 're just like the rest .
When you 've live as long a I have you will have learn not to be quite so sure of your own opinion .
I grant you that when there be no snow on the ground , any Fox with a reasonable amount of Fox sense in his head can fool Bowser , but with snow everywhere it be a very different matter .
If Bowser once take it into his head to follow your trail these day , you will have to be smart than I think you be to fool him .
The only way you will be able to get away from him will be by go into a hole in the ground , and when you do that you will have give away a secret that will mean we will never have any peace at all .
We will never know when Farmer Brown 's boy will take it into his head to smoke u out .
I 've see it do .
No , Sir , we be not go to try for one of those hen in the daytime unless we be starve . ''
`` I 'm starve now , '' whine Reddy .
`` No such thing ! ''
Granny snap .
`` I 've be without food long than this many a time .
Have you be over to the Big River lately ? ''
`` No , '' reply Reddy .
`` What 's the use ?
It 's frozen over .
There be n't anything there . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' reply Granny , `` but I learn a long time ago that it be a poor plan to overlook any chance .
There be a place in the Big River which never freeze because the water run too swiftly to freeze , and I 've find more than one meal wash ashore there .
You go over there now while I see what I can find in the Green Forest .
If neither of u find anything , it will be time enough to think about Farmer Brown 's hens to-morrow . ''
Much against his will Reddy obeyed .
`` It be n't the least bit of use , '' he grumble , a he trot towards the Big River .
`` There wo n't be anything there .
It be just a waste of time . ''
Late that afternoon he come hurry back , and Granny knew by the way that he cock his ear and carry his tail that he have news of some kind .
`` Well , what be it ? ''
she demand .
`` I find a dead fish that have be wash ashore , '' reply Reddy .
`` It be n't big enough for two , so I eat it . ''
`` Anything else ? ''
ask Granny .
`` No-o , '' reply Reddy slowly ; `` that be , nothing that will do u any good .
Quacker the Wild Duck be swim about out in the open water , but though I watch and watch he never once come ashore . ''
`` Ha ! ''
exclaim Granny .
`` That be good news .
I think we 'll go Duck hunting . ''
CHAPTER II : Granny And Reddy Fox Go Hunting When you 're in doubt what course be right , The thing to do be just sit tight .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun have just get well start on his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky that morning when he spy two figure trot across the snow-covered Green Meadows , one behind the other .
They be trot along quite a if they have make up their mind just where they be go .
They have .
You see they be Granny and Reddy Fox , and they be bind for the Big River at the place where the water run too swiftly to freeze .
The day before Reddy have discover Quacker the Wild Duck swim about there , and now they be on their way to try to catch him .
Granny lead the way and Reddy meekly follow her .
To tell the truth , Reddy have n't the least idea that they would have a chance to catch Quacker , because Quacker keep out in the water where he be a safe from them a if they be a thousand mile away .
The only reason that Reddy have willingly start with Granny be the hope that he might find a dead fish wash up on the shore a he have the day before .
`` Granny certainly be grow foolish in her old age , '' think Reddy , a he trot along behind her .
`` I tell her that Quacker never once come ashore all the time I watch yesterday .
I do n't believe he ever come ashore , and if she know anything at all she ought to know that she ca n't catch him out there in the water .
Granny use to be smart enough when she be young , I guess , but she certainly be lose her mind now .
It 's a pity , a great pity .
I can just imagine how Quacker will laugh at her .
I have to laugh myself . ''
He do laugh , but you may be sure he take great pain that Granny should not see him laugh .
Whenever she look around he be as sober a could be .
In fact , he appear to be quite as eager a if he felt sure they would catch Quacker .
Now old Granny Fox be very wise in the way of the Great World , and if Reddy could have know what be go on in her mind a she lead the way to the Big River , he might not have felt quite so sure of his own smartness .
Granny be do some quiet laugh herself .
`` He think I 'm old and foolish and do n't know what I 'm about , the young scamp ! ''
think she .
`` He think he have learn all there be to learn .
It be n't the least use in the world to try to tell him anything .
When young folk feel the way he do , it be a waste of time to talk to them .
He have get to be show .
There be nothing like experience to take the conceit out of these youngster . ''
Now conceit be the feeling that you know more than any one else .
Perhaps you do .
Then again , perhaps you do n't .
So sometimes it be best not to be too sure of your own opinion .
Reddy be sure .
He trot along behind old Granny Fox and plan smart thing to say to her when she find that there be n't a chance to catch Quacker the Duck .
I be afraid , very much afraid , that Reddy be plan to be saucy .
People who think themselves smart be quite apt to be saucy .
Presently they come to the bank of the Big River .
Old Granny Fox tell Reddy to sit still while she creep up behind some bush where she could peek out over the Big River .
He grin a he watch her .
He be still grin when she tiptoe back .
He expect to see her face long with disappointment .
Instead she look very much please .
`` Quacker be there , '' say she , `` and I think he will make u a very good dinner .
Creep up behind those bush and see for yourself , then come back here and tell me what you think we 'd better do to get him . ''
So Reddy steal up behind the bush , and this time it be Granny who grin a she watch .
As he creep along , Reddy wonder if it could be that for once Quacker have come ashore .
Granny seem so sure they could catch him that this must be the case .
But when he peep through the hush , there be Quacker way out in the middle of the open water just where he have be the day before .
CHAPTER III : Reddy Is Sure Granny Has Lost Her Senses Perhaps 't be just as well that we Ca n't see ourselves a others see .
-- Old Granny Fox .
`` Just a I think , '' mutter Reddy Fox a he peep through the bush on the bank of the Big River and saw Quacker swim about in the water where it run too swiftly to freeze .
`` We 've get just as much chance of catch him a I have of jumping over the moon .
That 's what I 'll tell Granny . ''
He creep back carefully so a not to be see by Quacker , and when he have reach the place where Granny be wait for him , his face wear a very impudent look .
`` Well , '' say Granny Fox , `` what shall we do to catch him ? ''
`` Learn to swim like a fish and fly like a bird , '' reply Reddy in such a saucy tone that Granny have hard work to keep from box his ear .
`` You mean that you think he ca n't be catch ? ''
say she quietly .
`` I do n't think anything about it ; I know he ca n't ! ''
snap Reddy .
`` Not by u , anyway , '' he add .
`` I suppose you would n't even try ? ''
retort Granny .
`` I 'm old enough to know when I 'm waste my time , '' reply Reddy with a toss of his head .
`` In other word you think I 'm a silly old Fox who have lose her sens , '' say Granny sharply .
`` No-o .
I do n't say that , '' protest Reddy , look very uncomfortable .
`` But you think it , '' declare Granny .
`` Now look here , Mr. Smarty , you do just a I tell you .
You creep back there where you can watch Quacker and all that happen , and mind that you keep out of his sight .
Now go . ''
Reddy go .
There be nothing else to do .
He do n't dare disobey .
Granny watch until Reddy have readied his hiding-place .
Then what do you think she do ?
Why , she walk right out on the little beach just below Reddy and in plain sight of Quacker !
Yes , Sir , that be what she do !
Then begin such a queer performance that it be no wonder that Reddy be sure Granny have lose her sens .
She roll over and over .
She chase her tail round and round until it make Reddy dizzy to watch her .
She jump up in the air .
She race back and forth .
She play with a bit of stick .
And all the time she do n't pay the least attention to Quacker the Duck .
Reddy star and star .
Whatever have come over Granny ?
She be crazy .
Yes , Sir , that must be the matter .
It must be that she have go without food so long that she have go crazy .
Poor Granny !
She be in her second childhood .
Reddy could remember how he have do such thing when he be very young , just by way of show how fine he felt .
But for a grown-up Fox to do such thing be undignified , to say the least .
You know Reddy think a great deal of dignity .
It be bad than undignified ; it be positively disgraceful .
He do hope that none of his neighbor would happen along and see Granny cut up so .
He never would hear the end of it if they do .
Over and over rolled Granny , and around and around she chase her tail .
The snow fly up in a cloud .
And all the time she make no sound .
Reddy be just try to decide whether to go off and leave her until she have regain her common sense , or to go out and try to stop her , when he happen to look out in the open water where Quacker be .
Quacker be sit up as straight a he could .
In fact , he have his wing raise to help him sit up on his tail , the good to see what old Granny Fox be do .
`` As I live , '' mutter Reddy , `` I believe that fellow be near than he be ! ''
Reddy crouch low than ever , and instead of watch Granny he watch Quacker the Duck .
CHAPTER IV : Quacker The Duck Grows Curious The most curious thing in the world be curiosity .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox never say a truer thing than that .
It be curious , very curious , how sometimes curiosity will get the best of even the wise and most sensible of people .
Even Old Granny Fox herself have be know to be lead into trouble by it .
We expect it of Peter Rabbit , but Peter be n't a bit more curious than some others of whom we do not expect it .
Now Quacker the Wild Duck be the last one in the world you would expect to be lead into trouble by curiosity .
Quacker have spend the summer in the Far North with Honker the Goose .
In fact , he have be bear there .
He have start for the far away Southland at the same time Honker have , but when he reach the Big River he have find plenty to eat and have decide to stay until he have to move on .
The Big River have freeze over everywhere except in this one place where the water be too swift to freeze , and there Quacker have remain .
You see , he be a good diver and on the bottom of the river he find plenty to eat .
No one could get at him out there , unless it be Roughleg the Hawk , and if Roughleg do happen along , all he have to do be to dive and come up far away to laugh and make fun of Roughleg .
The water could n't get through his oily feather , and so he do n't mind how cold it be .
Now in his home in the Far North there be so many danger that Quacker have early learn to be always on the watch and to take the best of care of himself .
On his way down to the Big River he have be hunt by men with terrible gun , and he have learn all about them .
In fact , he felt quite able to keep out of harm 's way .
He rather pride himself that there be no one smart enough to catch him .
I suspect he think he know all there be to know .
In this respect he be a good deal like Reddy Fox himself .
That be because he be young .
It be the way with young Ducks and Foxes and with some other youngster I know .
When Quacker first saw Granny Fox on the little beach , he flirt his absurd little tail and smile a he think how she must wish she could catch him .
But so far a he could see , Granny do n't once look at him .
`` She do n't know I 'm out here at all , '' think Quacker .
Then suddenly he sit up very straight and look with all his might .
What under the sun be the matter with that Fox ?
She be act a if she have suddenly lose her sens .
Over and over she roll .
Around and around she spin .
She turn somersault .
She lay on her back and kick her heel in the air .
Never in his life have he know any one to act like that .
There must be something the matter with her .
Quacker begin to get excite .
He could n't keep his eye off Old Granny Fox .
He begin to swim nearer .
He want to see good .
He quite forget she be a Fox .
She move so fast that she be just a queer red spot on the beach .
Whatever she be do be very curious and very exciting .
He swim near and nearer .
The excitement be catch .
He begin to swim in circle himself .
All the time he draw nearer and near to the shore .
He do n't have the least bit of fear .
He be just curious .
He want to see good .
All the time Granny be cut up her antic , she be watch Quacker , though he do n't suspect it .
As he swim near and near to the shore , Granny roll and tumble farther and far back .
At last Quacker be close to the shore .
If he keep on , he would be right on the land in a few minute .
And all the time he star and star .
No thought of danger enter his head .
You see , there be no room because it be so filled with curiosity .
`` In a minute more I 'll have him , '' think Granny , and whirl faster than ever .
And just then something happen .
CHAPTER V : Reddy Fox Is Afraid To Go Home Yes , Sir , a chicken track be good to see , but it often put nothing but water in my mouth .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Reddy Fox thought of that say many time a he hunt through the Green Forest that night , afraid to go home .
You see , he have almost din on Quacker the Duck over at the Big River that day and then have n't , and it be all his own fault .
That be why he be afraid to go home .
From his hiding-place on the bank he have watch Quacker swim in and in until he be almost on the shore where old Granny Fox be whirl and roll and tumble about a if she have entirely lose her sens .
Indeed , Reddy have be quite sure that she have when she begin .
It be n't until he saw that curiosity be draw Quacker right in so that in a minute or two Granny would be able to catch him , that he understand that Granny be anything but crazy , and really be teach him a new trick as well a try to catch a dinner .
When he realize this , he should have be ashamed of himself for doubt the smartness of Granny and for thinking that he know all there be to know .
But he be too much excite for any such thought .
Nearer and nearer to the shore come Quacker , his eye fix on the red , whirl form of Granny .
Reddy 's own eye gleam with excitement .
Would Quacker keep on right up to the shore ?
Nearer and nearer and nearer he come .
Reddy squirm uneasily .
He could n't see as well a he want to .
The bush behind which he be lie be in his way .
He want to see Granny make that jump which would mean a dinner for both .
Forgetting what Granny have charge him , Reddy eagerly raise his head to look over the edge of the bank .
Now it just happen that at that very minute Quacker chance to look that way .
His quick eye catch the movement of Reddy 's head and in an instant all his curiosity vanish .
That sharp face peer at him over the edge of the bank could mean but one thing -- danger !
It be all a trick !
He saw through it now .
Like a flash he turn .
There be the whistle of stiff wing beat the air and the patter of foot strike the water a he get under way .
Then he fly out to the safety of the open water .
Granny sprang , but she be just too late and succeed in do no more than wet her foot .
Of course , Granny do n't know what have frighten Quacker , not at first , anyway .
But she have her suspicion .
She turn and look up at the place where Reddy have be hide .
She could n't see him .
Then she bound up the bank .
There be no Reddy there , but far away across the snow-covered Green Meadows be a red spot grow small and small .
Reddy be run away .
Then she know .
At first Granny be very angry .
You know it be a dreadful thing to be hungry and have a good dinner disappear just a it be almost within reach .
`` I 'll teach that young scamp a lesson he wo n't soon forget when I get home , '' she mutter , a she watch him .
Then she go back to the edge of the Big River and there she find a dead fish which have be wash ashore .
It be a very good fish , and when she have eat it Granny felt well .
`` Anyway , '' think she , `` I have teach him a new trick and one he be n't likely to forget .
He know now that Granny still know a few trick that he do n't , and next time he wo n't feel so sure he know it all .
I guess it be worth while even if I do n't catch Quacker .
My , but he would have taste good ! ''
Granny smack her lip and start for home .
But Reddy , with a guilty conscience , be afraid to go home .
And so , miserable and hungry , he hunt through the Green Forest all the long night and wish and wish that he have heed what old Granny Fox have tell him .
CHAPTER VI : Old Granny Fox Is Caught Napping The wise folk will make mistake , but if they be truly wise they will profit from them .
-- Old Granny Fox .
There be a say among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows which run something like this : `` You must your eye wide open keep To catch Old Granny Fox asleep . ''
Of course this mean that Old Granny Fox be so smart , so clever , so keenly on the watch at all time , that he must be very smart indeed who fool her or get ahead of her .
Reddy Fox be smart , very smart .
But Reddy be n't nearly as smart a Old Granny Fox .
You see , he have n't live nearly as long , so of course there be much knowledge of many thing store away in Granny 's head of which Reddy know little .
But once in a while even the smart people be catch nap .
Yes , Sir , that do happen .
They will be careless sometimes .
It be just so with Old Granny Fox .
With all her smartness and cleverness and wisdom she grow careless , and all the smartness and cleverness and wisdom in the world be useless if the possessor become careless .
You see , Old Granny Fox have become so used to think that she be smarter than any one else , unless it be Old Man Coyote , that she actually believe that no one be smart enough ever to surprise her .
Yes , Sir , she actually believe that .
Now , you know when a person reach the point of think that no one else in all the Great World be quite so smart , that person be like Peter Rabbit when he make ready one winter day to jump out on the smooth ice of the Smiling Pool , -- get ready for a fall .
It be this way with Old Granny Fox .
Because she have live near Farmer Brown 's so long and have be hunt so often by Farmer Brown 's boy and by Bowser the Hound , she have get the idea in her head that no matter what she do they would not be able to catch her .
So at last she grow careless .
Yes , Sir , she grow careless .
And that be something no Fox or anybody else can afford to do .
Now on the edge of the Green Forest be a warm , sunny knoll , which , a you know , be a sort of little hill .
It overlook the Green Meadows and be quite the most pleasant and comfortable place for a sun-nap that ever be .
At least , that be what Old Granny Fox think .
She take sun-naps there very often .
It be her favorite rest place .
When Bowser the Hound have find her trail and have chase her until she be tire of run and have have quite all the exercise she need or want , she would play one of her clever trick by which to make Bowser lose her trail .
Then she would hurry straight to that knoll to rest and grin at her own smartness .
It happen that she do this one day when there be fresh snow on the ground .
Of course , every time she put a foot down she leave a print in the snow .
And where she curl up in the sun she leave the print of her body .
They be very plain to see , be these print , and Farmer Brown 's boy saw them .
He have be tramp through the Green Forest late in the afternoon and just by chance happen across Granny 's footprint .
Just for fun he follow them and so come to the sunny knoll .
Granny have leave some time before , but of course she could n't take the print of her body with her .
That remain in the snow , and Farmer Brown 's boy saw it and know instantly what it mean .
He grin , and could Granny Fox have see that grin , she would have be uncomfortable .
