I be condemn to do this , for neither I nor any of my kindred can die till I have root up this great tree , ' reply the king of the eagle .
` But it be now even , and I need work no more to-day .
Come to my house with me , and be my guest for the night . '
The prince accept gratefully the eagle 's invitation , for he be tire and hungry .
They be receive at the palace by the king 's beautiful daughter , who give order that dinner should be lay for them at once .
While they be eat , the eagle question his guest about his travel , and if he be wander for pleasure 's sake , or with any special aim .
Then the prince tell him everything , and how he could never turn back till he have discover the Land of Immortality .
` Dear brother , ' say the eagle , ` you have discover it already , and it rejoice my heart to think that you will stay with u .
Have you not just hear me say that death have no power either over myself or any of my kindred till that great tree be root up ?
It will take me six hundred year ' hard work to do that ; so marry my daughter and let u all live happily together here .
After all , six hundred year be an eternity ! '
` Ah , dear king , ' reply the young man , ` your offer be very tempting !
But at the end of six hundred year we should have to die , so we should be no good off !
No , I must go on till I find the country where there be no death at all . '
Then the princess speak , and try to persuade the guest to change his mind , but he sorrowfully shake his head .
At length , see that his resolution be firmly fix , she take from a cabinet a little box which contain her picture , and give it to him say : ` As you will not stay with u , prince , accept this box , which will sometimes recall u to your memory .
If you be tire of travel before you come to the Land of Immortality , open this box and look at my picture , and you will be bear along either on earth or in the air , quick a thought , or swift a the whirlwind . '
The prince thank her for her gift , which he place in his tunic , and sorrowfully bid the eagle and his daughter farewell .
Never be any present in the world as useful a that little box , and many time do he bless the kind thought of the princess .
One even it have carry him to the top of a high mountain , where he saw a man with a bald head , busily engage in dig up spadeful of earth and throw them in a basket .
When the basket be full he take it away and return with an empty one , which he likewise fill .
The prince stand and watch him for a little , till the bald-headed man look up and say to him : ` Dear brother , what surprise you so much ? ' '
I be wonder why you be fill the basket , ' reply the prince .
` Oh ! '
reply the man , ' I be condemn to do this , for neither I nor any of my family can die till I have dig away the whole of this mountain and make it level with the plain .
But , come , it be almost dark , and I shall work no longer . '
And he pluck a leaf from a tree close by , and from a rough digger he be change into a stately bald-headed king .
` Come home with me , ' he add ; ` you must be tire and hungry , and my daughter will have supper ready for u . '
The prince accept gladly , and they go back to the palace , where the bald-headed king 's daughter , who be still more beautiful than the other princess , welcome them at the door and lead the way into a large hall and to a table cover with silver dish .
While they be eat , the bald-headed king ask the prince how he have happen to wander so far , and the young man tell him all about it , and how he be seek the Land of Immortality .
` You have find it already , ' answer the king , ` for , a I say , neither I nor my family can die till I have level this great mountain ; and that will take full eight hundred year longer .
Stay here with u and marry my daughter .
Eight hundred year be surely long enough to live . '
` Oh , certainly , ' answer the prince ; ` but , all the same , I would rather go and seek the land where there be no death at all . '
So next morning he bid them farewell , though the princess beg him to stay with all her might ; and when she find that she could not persuade him she give him a a remembrance a gold ring .
This ring be still more useful than the box , because when one wish oneself at any place one be there directly , without even the trouble of fly to it through the air .
The prince put it on his finger , and thank her heartily , go his way .
He walk on for some distance , and then he recollect the ring and thought he would try if the princess have speak truly a to it power . '
I wish I be at the end of the world , ' he say , shut his eye , and when he open them he be stand in a street full of marble palace .
The men who pass him be tall and strong , and their clothes be magnificent .
He stop some of them and ask in all the twenty-seven language he know what be the name of the city , but no one answer him .
Then his heart sank within him ; what should he do in this strange place if nobody could understand anything ?
he say .
Suddenly his eye fell upon a man dress after the fashion of his native country , and he run up to him and speak to him in his own tongue .
` What city be this , my friend ? '
he inquire .
` It be the capital city of the Blue Kingdom , ' reply the man , ` but the king himself be dead , and his daughter be now the ruler . '
With this news the prince be satisfy , and beg his countryman to show him the way to the young queen 's palace .
The man lead him through several street into a large square , one side of which be occupy by a splendid building that seem bear up on slender pillar of soft green marble .
In front be a flight of step , and on these the queen be sit wrap in a veil of shin silver mist , listen to the complaint of her people and deal out justice .
When the prince come up she saw directly that he be no ordinary man , and tell her chamberlain to dismiss the rest of her petitioner for that day , she sign to the prince to follow her into the palace .
Luckily she have be teach his language a a child , so they have no difficulty in talk together .
The prince tell all his story and how he be journey in search of the Land of Immortality .
When he have finish , the princess , who have listen attentively , rise , and take his arm , lead him to the door of another room , the floor of which be make entirely of needle , stick so close together that there be not room for a single needle more .
` Prince , ' she say , turn to him , ` you see these needle ?
Well , know that neither I nor any of my family can die till I have wear out these needle in sewing .
It will take at least a thousand year for that .
Stay here , and share my throne ; a thousand year be long enough to live ! '
` Certainly , ' answer he ; ` still , at the end of the thousand year I should have to die !
No , I must find the land where there be no death . '
The queen do all she could to persuade him to stay , but a her word prove useless , at length she give it up .
Then she say to him : ` As you will not stay , take this little golden rod a a remembrance of me .
It have the power to become anything you wish it to be , when you be in need . '
So the prince thank her , and put the rod in his pocket , go his way .
Scarcely have he leave the town behind him when he come to a broad river which no man might pass , for he be stand at the end of the world , and this be the river which flow round it .
Not know what to do next , he walk a little distance up the bank , and there , over his head , a beautiful city be float in the air .
He long to get to it , but how ?
neither road nor bridge be anywhere to be see , yet the city draw him upwards , and he felt that here at last be the country which he seek .
Suddenly he remember the golden rod which the mist-veiled queen have give him .
With a beating heart he fling it to the ground , wish with all his might that it should turn into a bridge , and fear that , after all , this might prove beyond it power .
But no , instead of the rod , there stand a golden ladder , lead straight up to the city of the air .
He be about to enter the golden gate , when there spring at him a wondrous beast , whose like he have never see .
` Out sword from the sheath , ' cry the prince , spring back with a cry .
And the sword leapt from the scabbard and cut off some of the monster 's head , but others grow again directly , so that the prince , pale with terror , stand where he be , call for help , and put his sword back in the sheath again .
The queen of the city hear the noise and look from her window to see what be happen .
Summoning one of her servant , she bid him go and rescue the stranger , and bring him to her .
The prince thankfully obey her order , and enter her presence .
The moment she look at him , the queen also felt that he be no ordinary man , and she welcome him graciously , and ask him what have bring him to the city .
In answer the prince tell all his story , and how he have travel long and far in search of the Land of Immortality .
` You have find it , ' say she , ` for I be queen over life and over death .
Here you can dwell among the immortal . '
A thousand year have pass since the prince first enter the city , but they have fly so fast that the time seem no more than six month .
There have not be one instant of the thousand year that the prince be not happy till one night when he dream of his father and mother .
Then the longing for his home come upon him with a rush , and in the morning he tell the Queen of the Immortals that he must go and see his father and mother once more .
The queen star at him with amazement , and cry : ` Why , prince , be you out of your sens ?
It be more than eight hundred year since your father and mother die !
There will not even be their dust remain . ' '
I must go all the same , ' say he .
` Well , do not be in a hurry , ' continue the queen , understand that he would not be prevent .
` Wait till I make some preparation for your journey . '
So she unlock her great treasure chest , and take out two beautiful flask , one of gold and one of silver , which she hang round his neck .
Then she show him a little trap-door in one corner of the room , and say : ` Fill the silver flask with this water , which be below the trap-door .
It be enchant , and whoever you sprinkle with the water will become a dead man at once , even if he have live a thousand year .
The golden flask you must fill with the water here , ' she add , point to a well in another corner .
` It spring from the rock of eternity ; you have only to sprinkle a few drop on a body and it will come to life again , if it have be a thousand year dead . '
The prince thank the queen for her gift , and , bid her farewell , go on his journey .
He soon arrive in the town where the mist-veiled queen reign in her palace , but the whole city have change , and he could scarcely find his way through the street .
In the palace itself all be still , and he wander through the room without meet anyone to stop him .
At last he enter the queen 's own chamber , and there she lay , with her embroidery still in her hand , fast asleep .
He pull at her dress , but she do not waken .
Then a dreadful idea come over him , and he run to the chamber where the needle have be keep , but it be quite empty .
The queen have break the last over the work she hold in her hand , and with it the spell be break too , and she lay dead .
Quick a think the prince pull out the golden flask , and sprinkle some drop of the water over the queen .
In a moment she move gently , and raise her head , open her eye .
` Oh , my dear friend , I be so glad you waken me ; I must have sleep a long while ! '
` You would have sleep till eternity , ' answer the prince , ` if I have not be here to waken you . '
At these word the queen remember about the needle .
She know now that she have be dead , and that the prince have restore her to life .
She give him thanks from her heart for what he have do , and vow she would repay him if she ever get a chance .
The prince take his leave , and set out for the country of the bald-headed king .
As he draw near the place he saw that the whole mountain have be dig away , and that the king be lie dead on the ground , his spade and bucket beside him .
But as soon a the water from the golden flask touch him he yawn and stretch himself , and slowly rise to his foot .
` Oh , my dear friend , I be so glad to see you , ' cry he , ' I must have sleep a long while ! '
` You would have sleep till eternity if I have not be here to waken you , ' answer the prince .
And the king remember the mountain , and the spell , and vow to repay the service if he ever have a chance .
Further along the road which lead to his old home the prince find the great tree tear up by it root , and the king of the eagle sit dead on the ground , with his wing outspread a if for flight .
A flutter run through the feather a the drop of water fell on them , and the eagle lift his beak from the ground and say : ` Oh , how long I must have slept !
How can I thank you for have awaken me , my dear , good friend ! '
` You would have sleep till eternity if I have not be here to waken you ' ; answer the prince .
Then the king remember about the tree , and know that he have be dead , and promise , if ever he have the chance , to repay what the prince have do for him .
At last he reach the capital of his father 's kingdom , but on reach the place where the royal palace have stand , instead of the marble gallery where he use to play , there lay a great sulphur lake , it blue flame dart into the air .
How be he to find his father and mother , and bring them back to life , if they be lie at the bottom of that horrible water ?
He turn away sadly and wander back into the street , hardly know where he be go ; when a voice behind him cry : ` Stop , prince , I have catch you at last !
It be a thousand year since I first begin to seek you . '
And there beside him stand the old , white-bearded , figure of Death .
Swiftly he draw the ring from his finger , and the king of the eagle , the bald-headed king , and the mist-veiled queen , hasten to his rescue .
In an instant they have seize upon Death and hold him tight , till the prince should have time to reach the Land of Immortality .
But they do not know how quickly Death could fly , and the prince have only one foot across the border , when he felt the other grasped from behind , and the voice of Death call : ` Halt !
now you be mine . '
The Queen of the Immortals be watch from her window , and cry to Death that he have no power in her kingdom , and that he must seek his prey elsewhere .
` Quite true , ' answered Death ; ` but his foot be in my kingdom , and that belong to me ! '
` At any rate half of him be mine , ' reply the Queen , ` and what good can the other half do you ?
Half a man be no use , either to you or to me !
But this once I will allow you to cross into my kingdom , and we will decide by a wager whose he be . '
And so it be settle .
Death step across the narrow line that surround the Land of Immortality , and the queen propose the wager which be to decide the prince 's fate . '
I will throw him up into the sky , ' she say , ` right to the back of the morning star , and if he fall down into this city , then he be mine .
But if he should fall outside the wall , he shall belong to you . '
In the middle of the city be a great open square , and here the queen wish the wager to take place .
When all be ready , she put her foot under the foot of the prince and swung him into the air .
Up , up , he go , high amongst the star , and no man 's eye could follow him .
Had she throw him up straight ?
the queen wonder anxiously , for , if not , he would fall outside the wall , and she would lose him for ever .
The moment seem long while she and Death stand gaze up into the air , wait to know whose prize the prince would be .
Suddenly they both catch sight of a tiny speck no big than a wasp , right up in the blue .
Was he come straight ?
No !
Yes !
But a he be near the city , a light wind spring up , and sway him in the direction of the wall .
Another second and he would have fall half over it , when the queen sprang forward , seize him in her arm , and fling him into the castle .
Then she command her servant to cast Death out of the city , which they do , with such hard blow that he never dare to show his face again in the Land of Immortality .
-LSB- From Ungarischen Volksmurchen . -RSB-
The Stone-Cutter Once upon a time there live a stone-cutter , who go every day to a great rock in the side of a big mountain and cut out slab for gravestone or for house .
He understand very well the kind of stone want for the different purpose , and a he be a careful workman he have plenty of customer .
For a long time he be quite happy and content , and ask for nothing good than what he have .
Now in the mountain dwell a spirit which now and then appear to men , and help them in many way to become rich and prosperous .
The stone-cutter , however , have never see this spirit , and only shake his head , with an unbelieving air , when anyone spoke of it .
But a time be come when he learn to change his opinion .
One day the stone-cutter carry a gravestone to the house of a rich man , and saw there all sort of beautiful thing , of which he have never even dream .
Suddenly his daily work seem to grow harder and heavy , and he say to himself : ` Oh , if only I be a rich man , and could sleep in a bed with silken curtain and golden tassel , how happy I should be ! '
And a voice answer him : ` Your wish be hear ; a rich man you shall be ! '
At the sound of the voice the stone-cutter look round , but could see nobody .
He think it be all his fancy , and pick up his tool and go home , for he do not feel inclined to do any more work that day .
But when he reach the little house where he live , he stand still with amazement , for instead of his wooden hut be a stately palace fill with splendid furniture , and most splendid of all be the bed , in every respect like the one he have envy .
He be nearly beside himself with joy , and in his new life the old one be soon forget .
It be now the beginning of summer , and each day the sun blaze more fiercely .
One morning the heat be so great that the stone-cutter could scarcely breathe , and he determine he would stay at home till the evening .
He be rather dull , for he have never learn how to amuse himself , and be peep through the closed blind to see what be go on in the street , when a little carriage pass by , draw by servant dress in blue and silver .
In the carriage sit a prince , and over his head a golden umbrella be hold , to protect him from the sun 's ray .
` Oh , if I be only a prince ! '
say the stone-cutter to himself , a the carriage vanish round the corner .
` Oh , if I be only a prince , and could go in such a carriage and have a golden umbrella hold over me , how happy I should be ! '
And the voice of the mountain spirit answer : ` Your wish be hear ; a prince you shall be . '
And a prince he be .
Before his carriage ride one company of men and another behind it ; servant dress in scarlet and gold bore him along , the coveted umbrella be hold over his head , everything heart could desire be his .
But yet it be not enough .
He look round still for something to wish for , and when he saw that in spite of the water he pour on his grass the ray of the sun scorch it , and that in spite of the umbrella held over his head each day his face grow brown and browner , he cry in his anger : ` The sun be mighty than I ; oh , if I be only the sun ! '
And the mountain spirit answer : ` Your wish be hear ; the sun you shall be . '
And the sun he be , and felt himself proud in his power .
He shoot his beam above and below , on earth and in heaven ; he burn up the grass in the field and scorch the face of prince as well a of poorer folk .
But in a short time he begin to grow tired of his might , for there seem nothing left for him to do .
Discontent once more filled his soul , and when a cloud cover his face , and hide the earth from him , he cry in his anger : ` Does the cloud hold captive my ray , and be it mighty than I ?
Oh , that I be a cloud , and mighty than any ! '
And the mountain spirit answer : ` Your wish be hear ; a cloud you shall be ! '
And a cloud he be , and lay between the sun and the earth .
He catch the sun 's beam and hold them , and to his joy the earth grow green again and flower blossom .
But that be not enough for him , and for day and week he pour forth rain till the river overflow their bank , and the crop of rice stand in water .
Towns and village be destroy by the power of the rain , only the great rock on the mountain side remain unmoved .
The cloud be amaze at the sight , and cry in wonder : ` Is the rock , then , mighty than I ?
Oh , if I be only the rock ! '
And the mountain spirit answer : ` Your wish be hear ; the rock you shall be !
And the rock he be , and glory in his power .
Proudly he stand , and neither the heat of the sun nor the force of the rain could move him .
` This be good than all ! '
he say to himself .
But one day he hear a strange noise at his foot , and when he look down to see what it could be , he saw a stone-cutter driving tool into his surface .
Even while he look a tremble feeling run all through him , and a great block break off and fell upon the ground .
Then he cry in his wrath : ` Is a mere child of earth mighty than a rock ?
Oh , if I be only a man ! '
And the mountain spirit answer : ` Your wish be hear .
A man once more you shall be ! '
And a man he be , and in the sweat of his brow he toil again at his trade of stone-cutting .
His bed be hard and his food scanty , but he have learn to be satisfy with it , and do not long to be something or somebody else .
And a he never ask for thing he have not get , or desire to be great and mighty than other people , he be happy at last , and hear the voice of the mountain spirit no longer .
-LSB- From Japanische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Gold-Bearded Man Once upon a time there live a great king who have a wife and one son whom he love very much .
The boy be still young when , one day , the king say to his wife : ' I feel that the hour of my death draw near , and I want you to promise that you will never take another husband but will give up your life to the care of our son . '
The queen burst into tear at these word , and sob out that she would never , never marry again , and that her son 's welfare should be her first thought as long a she live .
Her promise comfort the troubled heart of the king , and a few day after he die , at peace with himself and with the world .
But no sooner be the breath out of his body , than the queen say to herself , ` To promise be one thing , and to keep be quite another . '
And hardly be the last spadeful of earth flung over the coffin than she marry a noble from a neighbouring country , and get him make king instead of the young prince .
Her new husband be a cruel , wicked man , who treat his stepson very badly , and give him scarcely anything to eat , and only rag to wear ; and he would certainly have kill the boy but for fear of the people .
Now by the palace ground there run a brook , but instead of be a water-brook it be a milk-brook , and both rich and poor flock to it daily and draw as much milk a they choose .
The first thing the new king do when he be seat on the throne , be to forbid anyone to go near the brook , on pain of be seize by the watchman .
And this be purely spite , for there be plenty of milk for everybody .
For some day no one dare venture near the bank of the stream , but at length some of the watchman notice that early in the morning , just at dawn , a man with a gold beard come down to the brook with a pail , which he fill up to the brim with milk , and then vanish like smoke before they could get near enough to see who he be .
So they go and tell the king what they have see .
At first the king would not believe their story , but a they persist it be quite true , he say that he would go and watch the stream that night himself .
With the early streak of dawn the gold-bearded man appear , and fill his pail a before .
Then in an instant he have vanish , a if the earth have swallow him up .
The king stand star with eye and mouth open at the place where the man have disappear .
He have never see him before , that be certain ; but what matter much more be how to catch him , and what should be do with him when he be catch ?
He would have a cage build a a prison for him , and everyone would talk of it , for in other country thief be put in prison , and it be long indeed since any king have use a cage .
It be all very well to plan , and even to station a watchman behind every bush , but it be of no use , for the man be never catch .
They would creep up to him softly on the grass , a he be stoop to fill his pail , and just a they stretch out their hand to seize him , he vanish before their eye .
Time after time this happen , till the king grow mad with rage , and offer a large reward to anyone who could tell him how to capture his enemy .
The first person that come with a scheme be an old soldier who promise the king that if he would only put some bread and bacon and a flask of wine on the bank of the stream , the gold-bearded man would be sure to eat and drink , and they could shake some powder into the wine , which would send him to sleep at once .
After that there be nothing to do but to shut him in the cage .
This idea please the king , and he order bread and bacon and a flask of drugged wine to be place on the bank of the stream , and the watcher to be redouble .
Then , full of hope , he await the result .
Everything turn out just a the soldier have say .
Early next morning the gold-bearded man come down to the brook , ate , drank , and fell sound asleep , so that the watcher easily bound him , and carry him off to the palace .
In a moment the king have him fast in the golden cage , and show him , with ferocious joy , to the stranger who be visit his court .
The poor captive , when he awake from his drunken sleep , try to talk to them , but no one would listen to him , so he shut himself up altogether , and the people who come to stare take him for a dumb man of the wood .
He weep and moan to himself all day , and would hardly touch food , though , in dread that he should die and escape his tormentor , the king order his head cook to send him dish from the royal table .
The gold-bearded man have be in captivity about a month , when the king be force to make war upon a neighbouring country , and leave the palace , to take command of his army .
But before he go he call his stepson to him and say : ` Listen , boy , to what I tell you .
While I be away I trust the care of my prisoner to you .
See that he have plenty to eat and drink , but be careful that he do not escape , or even walk about the room .
If I return and find him go , you will pay for it by a terrible death . '
The young prince be thankful that his stepfather be go to the war , and secretly hop he might never come back .
Directly he have ride off the boy go to the room where the cage be keep , and never leave it night and day .
He even play his game beside it .
One day he be shoot at a mark with a silver bow ; one of his arrow fell into the golden cage .
` Please give me my arrow , ' say the prince , run up to him ; but the gold-bearded man answer : ` No , I shall not give it to you unless you let me out of my cage . ' '
I may not let you out , ' reply the boy , ` for if I do my stepfather say that I shall have to die a horrible death when he return from the war .
My arrow can be of no use to you , so give it to me . '
The man hand the arrow through the bar , but when he have do so he beg hard than ever that the prince would open the door and set him free .
Indeed , he pray so earnestly that the prince 's heart be touch , for he be a tender-hearted boy who pity the sorrow of other people .
So he shoot back the bolt , and the gold-bearded man step out into the world . '
I will repay you a thousand fold for that good deed . '
say the man , and then he vanish .
The prince begin to think what he should say to the king when he come back ; then he wonder whether it would be wise to wait for his stepfather 's return and run the risk of the dreadful death which have be promise him .
` No , ' he say to himself , ' I be afraid to stay .
Perhaps the world will be kinder to me than he have be . '
Unseen he steal out when twilight fell , and for many day he wander over mountain and through forest and valley without know where he be go or what he should do .
He have only the berry for food , when , one morning , he saw a wood-pigeon sitting on a bough .
In an instant he have fit an arrow to his bow , and be take aim at the bird , think what a good meal he would make off him , when his weapon fell to the ground at the sound of the pigeon 's voice : ` Do not shoot , I implore you , noble prince !
I have two little son at home , and they will die of hunger if I be not there to bring them food . '
And the young prince have pity , and unstring his bow .
` Oh , prince , I will repay your deed of mercy , say the grateful wood-pigeon .
` Poor thing !
how can you repay me ? '
ask the prince .
` You have forget , ' answer the wood-pigeon , ` the proverb that run , `` mountain and mountain can never meet , but one living creature can always come across another . '' '
The boy laugh at this speech and go his way .
By-and-by he reach the edge of a lake , and fly towards some rush which grow near the shore he behold a wild duck .
Now , in the day that the king , his father , be alive , and he have everything to eat he could possibly wish for , the prince always have wild duck for his birthday dinner , so he quickly fit an arrow to his bow and take a careful aim .
` Do not shoot , I pray you , noble prince ! '
cry the wild duck ; ' I have two little son at home ; they will die of hunger if I be not there to bring them food . '
And the prince have pity , and let fall his arrow and unstring his bow .
` Oh , prince !
I will repay your deed of mercy , ' exclaim the grateful wild duck .
` You poor thing !
how can you repay me ? '
ask the prince .
` You have forget , ' answer the wild duck , ` the proverb that run , `` mountain and mountain can never meet , but one living creature can always come across another . '' '
The boy laugh at this speech and go his way .
He have not wander far from the shore of the lake , when he notice a stork stand on one leg , and again he raise his bow and prepared to take aim .
` Do not shoot , I pray you , noble prince , ' cry the stork ; ' I have two little son at home ; they will die of hunger if I be not there to bring them food . '
Again the prince be fill with pity , and this time also he do not shoot .
` Oh , prince , I will repay your deed of mercy , ' cry the stork .
` You poor stork !
how can you repay me ? '
ask the prince .
` You have forget , ' answer the stork , ` the proverb that run , `` mountain and mountain can never meet , but one living creature can always come across another . '' '
The boy laugh at hear these word again , and walk slowly on .
He have not go far , when he fell in with two discharged soldier .
` Where be you go , little brother ? '
ask one . '
I be seek work , ' answer the prince .
` So be we , ' reply the soldier .
` We can all go together . '
The boy be glad of company and they go on , and on , and on , through seven kingdom , without find anything they be able to do .
At length they reach a palace , and there be the king stand on the step .
` You seem to be look for something , ' say he .
` It be work we want , ' they all answer .
So the king tell the soldier that they might become his coachman ; but he make the boy his companion , and give him room near his own .
The soldier be dreadfully angry when they hear this , for of course they do not know that the boy be really a prince ; and they soon begin to lay their head together to plot his ruin .
Then they go to the king .
` Your Majesty , ' they say , ` we think it our duty to tell you that your new companion have boast to u that if he be only your steward he would not lose a single grain of corn out of the storehouse .
Now , if your Majesty would give order that a sack of wheat should be mix with one of barley , and would send for the youth , and command him to separate the grain one from another , in two hour ' time , you would soon see what his talk be worth . '
The king , who be weak , listen to what these wicked men have tell him , and desire the prince to have the content of the sack pile into two heap by the time that he return from his council .
` If you succeed , ' he add , ` you shall be my steward , but if you fail , I will put you to death on the spot . '
The unfortunate prince declare that he have never make any such boast a be report ; but it be all in vain .
The king do not believe him , and turn him into an empty room , bid his servant carry in the huge sack fill with wheat and barley , and scatter them in a heap on the floor .
The prince hardly know where to begin , and indeed if he have have a thousand people to help him , and a week to do it in , he could never have finish his task .
So he fling himself on the ground in despair , and cover his face with his hand .
While he lay thus , a wood-pigeon flew in through the window .
` Why be you weep , noble prince ? '
ask the wood-pigeon .
` How can I help weep at the task set me by the king .
For he say , if I fail to do it , I shall die a horrible death . '
` Oh , there be really nothing to cry about , ' answer the wood-pigeon soothingly . '
I be the king of the wood-pigeons , whose life you spar when you be hungry .
And now I will repay my debt , a I promise . '
So say he fly out of the window , leave the prince with some hope in his heart .
In a few minute he return , follow by a cloud of wood-pigeons , so dense that it seem to fill the room .
Their king show them what they have to do , and they set to work so hard that the grain be sort into two heap long before the council be over .
When the king come back he could not believe his eye ; but search a he might through the two heap , he could not find any barley among the wheat , or any wheat amongst the barley .
So he praise the prince for his industry and cleverness , and make him his steward at once .
This make the two soldier more envious still , and they begin to hatch another plot .
` Your Majesty , ' they say to the king , one day , a he be stand on the step of the palace , ` that fellow have be boast again , that if he have the care of your treasure not so much a a gold pin should ever be lose .
Put this vain fellow to the proof , we pray you , and throw the ring from the princess 's finger into the brook , and bid him find it .
We shall soon see what his talk be worth . '
And the foolish king listen to them , and order the prince to be bring before him .
` My son , ' he say , ' I have hear that you have declare that if I make you keeper of my treasure you would never lose so much a a gold pin .
Now , in order to prove the truth of your word , I be go to throw the ring from the princess 's finger into the brook , and if you do not find it before I come back from council , you will have to die a horrible death . '
It be no use deny that he have say anything of the kind .
The king do not believe him ; in fact he pay no attention at all , and hurry off , leave the poor boy speechless with despair in the corner .
However , he soon remember that though it be very unlikely that he should find the ring in the brook , it be impossible that he should find it by stay in the palace .
For some time the prince wander up and down peer into the bottom of the stream , but though the water be very clear , nothing could he see of the ring .
At length he give it up in despair , and throw himself down at the foot of the tree , he weep bitterly .
` What be the matter , dear prince ? '
say a voice just above him , and raise his head , he saw the wild duck .
` The king of this country declare I must die a horrible death if I can not find the princess 's ring which he have throw into the brook , ' answer the prince .
` Oh , you must not vex yourself about that , for I can help you , ' reply the bird . '
I be the king of the wild duck , whose life you spar , and now it be my turn to save yours . '
Then he fly away , and in a few minute a great flock of wild duck be swim all up and down the stream look with all their might , and long before the king come back from his council there it be , safe on the grass beside the prince .
At this sight the king be yet more astonished at the cleverness of his steward , and at once promote him to be the keeper of his jewel .
Now you would have think that by this time the king would have be satisfy with the prince , and would have leave him alone ; but people 's nature be very hard to change , and when the two envious soldier come to him with a new falsehood , he be as ready to listen to them a before .
` Gracious Majesty , ' say they , ` the youth whom you have make keeper of your jewel have declare to u that a child shall be bear in the palace this night , which will be able to speak every language in the world and to play every instrument of music .
Is he then become a prophet , or a magician , that he should know thing which have not yet come to pass ? '
At these word the king become more angry than ever .
He have try to learn magic himself , but somehow or other his spell would never work , and he be furious to hear that the prince claim a power that he do not posse .
Stammering with rage , he order the youth to be bring before him , and vow that unless this miracle be accomplish he would have the prince drag at a horse 's tail until he be dead .
In spite of what the soldier have say , the boy know no more magic than the king do , and his task seem more hopeless than before .
He lay weep in the chamber which he be forbid to leave , when suddenly he hear a sharp tapping at the window , and , look up , he behold a stork .
` What make you so sad , prince ? '
ask he .
` Someone have tell the king that I have prophesy that a child shall be bear this night in the palace , who can speak all the language in the world and play every musical instrument .
I be no magician to bring these thing to pass , but he say that if it do not happen he will have me drag through the city at a horse 's tail till I die . '
` Do not trouble yourself , ' answer the stork . '
I will manage to find such a child , for I be the king of the stork whose life you spar , and now I can repay you for it . '
The stork fly away and soon return carry in his beak a baby wrap in swaddle clothes , and lay it down near a lute .
In an instant the baby stretch out it little hand and begin to play a tune so beautiful that even the prince forget his sorrow a he listen .
Then he be give a flute and a zither , but he be just as well able to draw music from them ; and the prince , whose courage be gradually rise , speak to him in all the language he know .
The baby answer him in all , and no one could have tell which be his native tongue !
The next morning the king go straight to the prince 's room , and saw with his own eye the wonder that baby could do .
` If your magic can produce such a baby , ' he say , ` you must be great than any wizard that ever live , and shall have my daughter in marriage . '
And , be a king , and therefore accustom to have everything the moment he want it , he command the ceremony to be perform without delay , and a splendid feast to be make for the bride and bridegroom .
When it be over , he say to the prince : ` Now that you be really my son , tell me by what art you be able to fulfil the task I set you ? '
` My noble father-in-law , ' answer the prince , ' I be ignorant of all spell and art .
But somehow I have always manage to escape the death which have threaten me . '
And he tell the king how he have be force to run away from his stepfather , and how he have spar the three bird , and have join the two soldier , who have from envy do their utmost to ruin him .
The king be rejoice in his heart that his daughter have marry a prince , and not a common man , and he chase the two soldier away with whip , and tell them that if they ever dare to show their face across the border of his kingdom , they should die the same death he have prepare for the prince .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen -RSB- Tritill , Litill , And The Birds Once upon a time there live a princess who be so beautiful and so good that everybody love her .
Her father could hardly bear her out of his sight , and he almost die of grief when , one day , she disappear , and though the whole kingdom be search through and through , she could not be find in any corner of it .
In despair , the king order a proclamation to be make that whoever could bring her back to the palace should have her for his wife .
This make the young men start afresh on the search , but they be no more successful than before , and return sorrowfully to their home .
Now there dwelt , not far from the palace , an old man who have three son .
The two eldest be allow by their parent to do just a they like , but the young be always oblige to give way to his brother .
When they be all grow up , the eldest tell his father that he be tire of lead such a quiet life , and that he mean to go away and see the world .
The old people be very unhappy at the thought that they must part with him , but they say nothing , and begin to collect all that he would want for his travel , and be careful to add a pair of new boot .
When everything be ready , he bid them farewell , and start merrily on his way .
For some mile his road lay through a wood , and when he leave it he suddenly come out on a bare hillside .
Here he sit down to rest , and pull out his wallet prepare to eat his dinner .
He have only eat a few mouthful when an old man badly dress pass by , and see the food , ask if the young man could not spare him a little .
` Not I , indeed ! '
answered he ; ` why I have scarcely enough for myself .
If you want food you must earn it . '
And the beggar go on .
After the young man have finish his dinner he rise and walk on for several hour , till he reach a second hill , where he throw himself down on the grass , and take some bread and milk from his wallet .
While he be eat and drinking , there come by an old man , yet more wretched than the first , and beg for a few mouthful .
But instead of food he only get hard word , and limp sadly away .
Towards even the young man reach an open space in the wood , and by this time he think he would like some supper .
The bird saw the food , and fly round his head in number hop for some crumb , but he throw stone at them , and frighten them off .
Then he begin to wonder where he should sleep .
Not in the open space he be in , for that be bare and cold , and though he have walk a long way that day , and be tire , he drag himself up , and go on seek for a shelter .
At length he saw a deep sort of hole or cave under a great rock , and a it seem quite empty , he go in , and lay down in a corner .
About midnight he be awaken by a noise , and peep out he behold a terrible ogress approaching .
He implore her not to hurt him , but to let him stay there for the rest of the night , to which she consent , on condition that he should spend the next day in do any task which she might choose to set him .
To this the young man willingly agree , and turn over and go to sleep again .
In the morning , the ogress bid him sweep the dust out of the cave , and to have it clean before her return in the evening , otherwise it would be the bad for him .
Then she leave the cave .
The young man take the spade , and begin to clean the floor of the cave , but try a he would to move it the dirt still stick to it place .
He soon give up the task , and sit sulkily in the corner , wonder what punishment the ogress would find for him , and why she have set him to do such an impossible thing .
He have not long to wait , after the ogress come home , before he know what his punishment be to be !
She just give one look at the floor of the cave , then deal him a blow on the head which crack his skull , and there be an end of him .
Meanwhile his next brother grow tire of stay at home , and let his parent have no rest till they have consent that he also should be give some food and some new boot , and go out to see the world .
On his road , he also meet the two old beggar , who pray for a little of his bread and milk , but this young man have never be teach to help other people , and have make it a rule through his life to keep all he have to himself .
So he turn a deaf ear and finish his dinner .
By-and-by he , too , come to the cave , and be bid by the ogress to clean the floor , but he be no more successful than his brother , and his fate be the same .
Anyone would have think that when the old people have only one son leave that at least they would have be kind to him , even if they do not love him .
But for some reason they could hardly bear the sight of him , though he try much hard to make them comfortable than his brother have ever do .
So when he ask their leave to go out into the world they give it at once , and seem quite glad to be rid of him .
They felt it be quite generous of them to provide him with a pair of new boot and some bread and milk for his journey .
Besides the pleasure of see the world , the youth be very anxious to discover what have become of his brother , and he determine to trace , as far a he could , the way that they must have go .
He follow the road that lead from his father 's cottage to the hill , where he sit down to rest , say to himself : ' I be sure my brother must have stop here , and I will do the same . '
He be hungry as well a tire , and take out some of the food his parent have give him .
He be just go to begin to eat when the old man appear , and ask if he could not spare him a little .
The young man at once break off some of the bread , beg the old man to sit down beside him , and treat him a if he be an old friend .
At last the stranger rise , and say to him : ` If ever you be in trouble call me , and I will help you .
My name be Tritill . '
Then he vanish , and the young man could not tell where he have go .
However , he felt he have now rest long enough , and that he have good be go his way .
At the next hill he meet with the second old man , and to him also he give food and drink .
And when this old man have finish he say , like the first : ` If you ever want help in the small thing call to me .
My name be Litill . '
The young man walk on till he reach the open space in the wood , where he stop for dinner .
In a moment all the bird in the world seem fly round his head , and he crumble some of his bread for them and watch them a they dart down to pick it up .
When they have clear off every crumb the large bird with the gay plumage say to him : ` If you be in trouble and need help say , `` My bird , come to me ! ''
and we will come . '
Then they fly away .
Towards even the young man reach the cave where his brother have meet their death , and , like them , he think it would be a good place to sleep in .
Looking round , he saw some piece of the dead men 's clothes and of their bone .
The sight make him shiver , but he would not move away , and resolve to await the return of the ogress , for such he know she must be .
Very soon she come stride in , and he ask politely if she would give him a night 's lodging .
She answer a before , that he might stay on condition that he should do any work that she might set him to next morning .
So the bargain be conclude , the young man curl himself up in his corner and go to sleep .
The dirt lay thicker than ever on the floor of the cave when the young man take the spade and begin his work .
He could not clear it any more than his brother have do , and at last the spade itself stick in the earth so that he could not pull it out .
The youth star at it in despair , then the old beggar 's word flash into his mind , and he cry : ` Tritill , Tritill , come and help me ! '
And Tritill stand beside him and ask what he want .
The youth tell him all his story , and when he have finish , the old man say : ` Spade and shovel do your duty , ' and they dance about the cave till , in a short time , there be not a speck of dust leave on the floor .
As soon a it be quite clean Tritill go his way .
With a light heart the young man await the return of the ogress .
When she come in she look carefully round , and then say to him : ` You do not do that quite alone .
However , a the floor be clean I will leave your head on . '
The following morning the ogress tell the young man that he must take all the feather out of her pillow and spread them to dry in the sun .
But if one feather be miss when she come back at night his head should pay for it . '
The young man fetch the pillow , and shake out all the feather , and oh !
what quantity of them there be !
He be think to himself , a he spread them out carefully , how lucky it be that the sun be so bright and that there be no wind , when suddenly a breeze sprang up , and in a moment the feather be dance high in the air .
At first the youth try to collect them again , but he soon find that it be no use , and he cry in despair : ` Tritill , Litill , and all my bird , come and help me ! '
He have hardly say the word when there they all be ; and when the bird have bring all the feather back again , Tritill , and Litill , and he , put them away in the pillow , a the ogress have bid him .
But one little feather they keep out , and tell the young man that if the ogress miss it he be to thrust it up her nose .
Then they all vanish , Tritill , Litill , and the bird .
Directly the ogress return home she fling herself with all her weight on the bed , and the whole cave quiver under her .
The pillow be soft and full instead of be empty , which surprise her , but that do not content her .
She get up , shake out the pillow-cases one by one , and begin to count the feather that be in each .
` If one be miss I will have your head , ' say she , and at that the young man draw the feather from his pocket and thrust it up her nose , cry ` If you want your feather , here it be . '
` You do not sort those feather alone , ' answer the ogress calmly ; ` however , this time I will let that pas . '
That night the young man sleep soundly in his corner , and in the morning the ogress tell him that his work that day would be to slay one of her great ox , to cook it heart , and to make drinking cup of it horn , before she return home ` There be fifty ox , ' add she , ` and you must guess which of the herd I want kill .
If you guess right , to-morrow you shall be free to go where you will , and you shall choose besides three thing a a reward for your service .
But if you slay the wrong ox your head shall pay for it . '
Left alone , the young man stand think for a little .
Then he call : ` Tritill , Litill , come to my help ! '
In a moment he saw them , far away , drive the big ox the youth have ever see .
When they draw near , Tritill kill it , Litill take out it heart for the young man to cook , and both begin quickly to turn the horn into drinking cup .
The work go merrily on , and they talk gaily , and the young man tell his friend of the payment promise him by the ogress if he have do her bidding .
The old men warn him that he must ask her for the chest which stand at the foot of her bed , for whatever lay on the top of the bed , and for what lay under the side of the cave .
The young man thank them for their counsel , and Tritill and Litill then take leave of him , say that for the present he would need them no more .
Scarcely have they disappear when the ogress come back , and find everything ready just a she have order .
Before she sit down to eat the bullock 's heart she turn to the young man , and say : ` You do not do that all alone , my friend ; but , nevertheless , I will keep my word , and to-morrow you shall go your way . '
So they go to bed and slept till dawn .
When the sun rise the ogress awake the young man , and call to him to choose any three thing out of her house . '
I choose , ' answer he , ` the chest which stand at the foot of your bed ; whatever lie on the top of the bed , and whatever be under the side of the cave . '
` You do not choose those thing by yourself , my friend , ' say the ogress ; ` but what I have promise , that will I do . '
And then she give him his reward .
` The thing which lay on the top of the bed ' turn out to be the lost princess .
` The chest which stand at the foot of the bed ' proved full of gold and precious stone ; and ` what be under the side of the cave ' he find to be a great ship , with oar and sail that go of itself as well on land a in the water .
` You be the lucky man that ever be bear , ' say the ogress a she go out of the cave a usual .
With much difficulty the youth put the heavy chest on his shoulder and carry it on board the ship , the princess walking by his side .
Then he take the helm and steer the vessel back to her father 's kingdom .
The king 's joy at receive back his lost daughter be so great that he almost faint , but when he recover himself he make the young man tell him how everything have really happen .
` You have find her , and you shall marry her , ' say the king ; and so it be do .
And this be the end of the story .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Three Robes Long , long ago , a king and queen reign over a large and powerful country .
What their name be nobody know , but their son be call Sigurd , and their daughter Lineik , and these young people be famed throughout the whole kingdom for their wisdom and beauty .
There be only a year between them , and they love each other so much that they could do nothing apart .
When they begin to grow up the king give them a house of their own to live in , with servant and carriage , and everything they could possibly want .
For many year they all live happily together , and then the queen fell ill , and know that she would never get good .
` Promise me two thing , ' she say one day to the king ; ` one , that if you marry again , a indeed you must , you will not choose a your wife a woman from some small state or distant island , who know nothing of the world , and will be take up with thought of her grandeur .
But rather seek out a princess of some great kingdom , who have be use to court all her life , and hold them at their true worth .
The other thing I have to ask be , that you will never cease to watch over our child , who will soon become your great joy . '
These be the queen 's last word , and a few hour later she be dead .
The king be so bow down with sorrow that he would not attend even to the business of the kingdom , and at last his Prime Minister have to tell him that the people be complain that they have nobody to right their wrong .
` You must rouse yourself , sir , ' go on the minister , ` and put aside your own sorrow for the sake of your country . '
` You do not spare me , ' answer the king ; ` but what you say be just , and your counsel be good .
I have hear that men say , likewise , that it will be for the good of my kingdom for me to marry again , though my heart will never cease to be with my lose wife .
But it be her wish also ; therefore , to you I entrust the duty of find a lady fit to share my throne ; only , see that she come neither from a small town nor a remote island . '
So an embassy be prepare , with the minister at it head , to visit the great court in the world , and to choose out a suitable princess .
But the vessel which carry them have not be go many day when a thick fog come on , and the captain could see neither to the right nor to the left .
For a whole month the ship drift about in darkness , till at length the fog lift and they behold a cliff jut out just in front .
On one side of the cliff lay a sheltered bay , in which the vessel be soon anchor , and though they do not know where they be , at any rate they felt sure of fresh fruit and water .
The minister leave the rest of his follower on board the ship , and take a small boat row himself to land , in order to look about him and to find out if the island be really as desert a it seem .
He have not go far , when he hear the sound of music , and , turn in it direction , he saw a woman of marvellous beauty sit on a low stool playing on a harp , while a girl beside her sang .
The minister stop and greet the lady politely , and she reply with friendliness , ask him why he have come to such an out-of-the way place .
In answer he tell her of the object of his journey . '
I be in the same state a your master , ' reply the lady ; ' I be marry to a mighty king who rule over this land , till Vikings -LSB- sea-robbers -RSB- come and slew him and put all the people to death .
But I manage to escape , and hide myself here with my daughter . '
And the daughter listen , and say softly to her mother : ` Are you speak the truth now ? '
` Remember your promise , ' answer the mother angrily , give her a pinch which be unseen by the minister .
` What be your name , madam ? '
ask he , much touch by this sad story .
` Blauvor , ' she reply ` and my daughter be call Laufer ' ; and then she inquire the name of the minister , and of the king his master .
After this they talk of many thing , and the lady show herself learn in all that a woman should know , and even in much that men only be commonly teach .
` What a wife she would make for the king , ' think the minister to himself , and before long he have beg the honour of her hand for his master .
She declare at first that she be too unworthy to accept the position offer her , and that the minister would soon repent his choice ; but this only make him the more eager , and in the end he gain her consent , and prevail on her to return with him at once to his own country .
The minister then conduct the mother and daughter back to the ship ; the anchor be raise , the sail spread , and a fair wind be behind them .
Now that the fog have lift they could see a they look back that , except just along the shore , the island be bare and deserted and not fit for men to live in ; but about that nobody care .
They have a quick voyage , and in six day they reach the land , and at once set out for the capital , a messenger be send on first by the minister to inform the king of what have happen .
When his Majesty 's eye fell on the two beautiful woman , clad in dress of gold and silver , he forget his sorrow and order preparation for the wedding to be make without delay .
In his joy he never remember to inquire in what kind of country the future queen have be find .
In fact his head be so turn by the beauty of the two lady that when the invitation be send by his order to all the great people in the kingdom , he do not even recollect his two child , who remain shut up in their own house !
After the marriage the king cease to have any will of his own and do nothing without consult his wife .
She be present at all his council , and her opinion be ask before make peace or war .
But when a few month have pass the king begin to have doubt a to whether the minister 's choice have really be a wise one , and he notice that his child live more and more in their palace and never come near their stepmother .
It always happen that if a person 's eye be once open they see a great deal more than they ever expect ; and soon it strike the king that the member of his court have a way of disappear one after the other without any reason .
At first he have not pay much attention to the fact , but merely appoint some fresh person to the vacant place .
As , however , man after man vanish without leave any trace , he begin to grow uncomfortable and to wonder if the queen could have anything to do with it .
Things be in this state when , one day , his wife say to him that it be time for him to make a progress through his kingdom and see that his governor be not cheat him of the money that be his due .
` And you need not be anxious about go , ' she add , ` for I will rule the country while you be away as carefully a you could yourself . '
The king have no great desire to undertake this journey , but the queen 's will be strong than his , and he be too lazy to make a fight for it .
So he say nothing and set about his preparation , order his fine ship to be ready to carry him round the coast .
Still his heart be heavy , and he felt uneasy , though he could not have tell why ; and the night before he be to start he go to the child 's palace to take leave of his son and daughter .
He have not see them for some time , and they give him a warm welcome , for they love him dearly and he have always be kind to them .
They have much to tell him , but after a while he check their merry talk and say : ` If I should never come back from this journey I fear that it may not be safe for you to stay here ; so directly there be no more hope of my return go instantly and take the road eastward till you reach a high mountain , which you must cross .
Once over the mountain keep along by the side of a little bay till you come to two tree , one green and the other red , stand in a thicket , and so far back from the road that without look for them you would never see them .
Hide each in the trunk of one of the tree and there you will be safe from all your enemy . '
With these word the king bid them farewell and enter sadly into his ship .
For a few day the wind be fair , and everything seem go smoothly ; then , suddenly , a gale sprang up , and a fearful storm of thunder and lightning , such a have never happen within the memory of man .
In spite of the effort of the frightened sailor the vessel be drive on the rock , and not a man on board be save .
That very night Prince Sigurd have a dream , in which he think his father appear to him in drip clothes , and , take the crown from his head , lay it at his son 's foot , leave the room as silently a he have enter it .
Hastily the prince awake his sister Lineik , and they agree that their father must be dead , and that they must lose no time in obey his order and put themselves in safety .
So they collect their jewel and a few clothes and leave the house without be observe by anyone .
They hurry on till they arrive at the mountain without once look back .
Then Sigurd glance round and saw that their stepmother be follow them , with an expression on her face which make her ugly than the ugly old witch .
Between her and them lay a thick wood , and Sigurd stop for a moment to set it on fire ; then he and his sister hasten on more swiftly than before , till they reach the grove with the red and green tree , into which they jump , and felt that at last they be safe .
Now , at that time there reign over Greece a king who be very rich and powerful , although his name have somehow be forget .
He have two child , a son and a daughter , who be more beautiful and accomplish than any Greeks have be before , and they be the pride of their father 's heart .
The prince have no sooner grow out of boyhood than he prevail on his father to make war during the summer month on a neighbouring nation , so a to give him a chance of make himself famous .
In winter , however , when it be difficult to get food and horse in that wild country , the army be disperse , and the prince return home .
During one of these war he have hear report of the Princess Lineik 's beauty , and he resolve to seek her out , and to ask for her hand in marriage .
All this Blauvor , the queen , find out by mean of her black art , and when the prince draw near the capital she put a splendid dress on her own daughter and then go to meet her guest .
She bid him welcome to her palace , and when they have finish supper she tell him of the loss of her husband , and how there be no one leave to govern the kingdom but herself .
` But where be the Princess Lineik ? '
ask the prince when she have end her tale .
` Here , ' answer the queen , bring forward the girl , whom she have hitherto kept in the background .
The prince look at her and be rather disappointed .
The maiden be pretty enough , but not much out of the common .
` Oh , you must not wonder at her pale face and heavy eye , ' say the queen hastily , for she saw what be pass in his mind .
` She have never get over the loss of both father and mother . '
` That show a good heart , ' think the prince ; ` and when she be happy her beauty will soon come back . '
And without any further delay he beg the queen to consent to their betrothal , for the marriage must take place in his own country .
The queen be enchant .
She have hardly expect to succeed so soon , and she at once set about her preparation .
Indeed she wish to travel with the young couple , to make sure that nothing should go wrong ; but here the prince be firm , that he would take no one with him but Laufer , whom he think be Lineik .
They soon take leave of the queen , and set sail in a splendid ship ; but in a short time a dense fog come on , and in the dark the captain steer out of his course , and they find themselves in a bay which be quite strange to all the crew .
The prince order a boat to be lower , and go on shore to look about him , and it be not long before he notice the two beautiful tree , quite different from any that grow in Greece .
Calling one of the sailor , he bid him cut them down , and carry them on board the ship .
This be do , and a the sky be now clear they put out to sea , and arrive in Greece without any more adventure .
The news that the prince have bring home a bride have go before them , and they be greet with flowery arch and crown of coloured light .
The king and queen meet them on the step of the palace , and conduct the girl to the woman 's house , where she would have to remain until her marriage .
The prince then go to his own room and order that the tree should be bring in to him .
The next morning the prince bid his attendant bring his future bride to his own apartment , and when she come he give her silk which she be to weave into three robe -- one red , one green , and one blue -- and these must all be ready before the wedding .
The blue one be to be do first and the green last , and this be to be the most splendid of all , ` for I will wear it at our marriage , ' say he .
Left alone , Laufer sit and star at the heap of shin silk before her .
She do not know how to weave , and burst into tear a she think that everything would be discover , for Lineik 's skill in weave be as famous a her beauty .
As she sit with her face hidden and her body shake by sob , Sigurd in his tree heard her and be move to pity .
` Lineik , my sister , ' he call , softly , ` Laufer be weep ; help her , I pray you . '
` Have you forget the wrong her mother do to u ' answered Lineik , ` and that it be owe to her that we be banish from home ? '
But she be not really unforgiving , and very soon she slide quietly out of her hiding-place , and take the silk from Laufer 's hand begin to weave it .
So quick and clever be she that the blue dress be not only woven but embroider , and Lineik be safe back in her tree before the prince return .
` It be the most beautiful work I have ever see , ' say he , take up a bit .
` And I be sure that the red one will be still well , because the stuff be rich , ' and with a low bow he leave the room .
Laufer have hop secretly that when the prince have see the blue dress finish he would have let her off the other two ; but when she find she be expect to fulfil the whole task , her heart sank and she begin to cry loudly .
Again Sigurd hear her , and beg Lineik to come to her help , and Lineik , feel sorry for her distress , wove and embroider the second dress a she have do the first , mix gold thread and precious stone till you could hardly see the red of the stuff .
When it be do she glide into her tree just a the prince come in .
` You be as quick a you be clever , ' say he , admiringly .
` This look a if it have be embroider by the fairy !
But a the green robe must outshine the other two I will give you three day in which to finish it .
After it be ready we will be marry at once . '
Now , a he speak , there rise up in Laufer 's mind all the unkind thing that she and her mother have do to Lineik .
Could she hope that they would be forget , and that Lineik would come to her rescue for the third time ?
And perhaps Lineik , who have not forget the past either , might have leave her alone , to get on a best she could , have not Sigurd , her brother , implore her to help just once more .
So Lineik again slide out of her tree , and , to Laufer 's great relief , set herself to work .
When the shin green silk be ready she catch the sun 's ray and the moon 's beam on the point of her needle and weave them into a pattern such a no man have ever see .
But it take a long time , and on the third morning , just a she be put the last stitch into the last flower the prince come in .
Lineik jump up quickly , and try to get past him back to her tree ; but the fold of the silk be wrapped round her , and she would have fall have not the prince catch her . '
I have think for some time that all be not quite straight here , ' say he .
` Tell me who you be , and where you come from ? '
Lineik then tell her name and her story .
When she have end the prince turn angrily to Laufer , and declare that , a a punishment for her wicked lie , she deserve to die a shameful death .
But Laufer fell at his foot and beg for mercy .
It be her mother 's fault , she say : ` It be she , and not I , who pass me off a the Princess Lineik .
The only lie I have ever tell you be about the robe , and I do not deserve death for that . '
She be still on her knee when Prince Sigurd enter the room .
He pray the Prince of Greece to forgive Laufer , which he do , on condition that Lineik would consent to marry him .
` Not till my stepmother be dead , ' answer she , ` for she have bring misery to all that come near her . '
Then Laufer tell them that Blauvor be not the wife of a king , but an ogress who have steal her from a neighbouring palace and have bring her up a her daughter .
And besides be an ogress she be also a witch , and by her black art have sink the ship in which the father of Sigurd and Lineik have set sail .
It be she who have cause the disappearance of the courtier , for which no one could account , by eat them during the night , and she hop to get rid of all the people in the country , and then to fill the land with ogre and ogress like herself .
So Prince Sigurd and the Prince of Greece collect an army swiftly , and march upon the town where Blauvor have her palace .
They come so suddenly that no one knew of it , and if they have , Blauvor have eat most of the strong men ; and others , fearful of something they could not tell what , have secretly leave the place .
Therefore she be easily capture , and the next day be behead in the market-place .
Afterwards the two prince march back to Greece .
Lineik have no longer any reason for put off her wedding , and marry the Prince of Greece at the same time that Sigurd marry the princess .
And Laufer remain with Lineik a her friend and sister , till they find a husband for her in a great nobleman ; and all three couple live happily until they die .
-LSB- From Islandische Muhrchen Poestion Wien . -RSB-
The Six Hungry Beasts Once upon a time there live a man who dwell with his wife in a little hut , far away from any neighbour .
But they do not mind be alone , and would have be quite happy , if it have not be for a marten , who come every night to their poultry yard , and carry off one of their fowl .
The man lay all sort of trap to catch the thief , but instead of capture the foe , it happen that one day he get catch himself , and fall down , strike his head against a stone , and be kill .
Not long after the marten come by on the look out for his supper .
Seeing the dead man lie there , he say to himself : ` That be a prize , this time I have do well ' ; and drag the body with great difficulty to the sledge which be wait for him , drive off with his booty .
He have not drive far when he meet a squirrel , who bow and say : ` Good-morning , godfather !
what have you get behind you ? '
The marten laugh and answer : ` Did you ever hear anything so strange ?
The old man that you see here set trap about his hen-house , think to catch me but he fell into his own trap , and break his own neck .
He be very heavy ; I wish you would help me to draw the sledge . '
The squirrel do a he be ask , and the sledge move slowly along .
By-and-by a hare come run across a field , but stop to see what wonderful thing be come .
` What have you get there ? '
she ask , and the marten tell his story and beg the hare to help them pull .
The hare pull her hard , and after a while they be join by a fox , and then by a wolf , and at length a bear be add to the company , and he be of more use than all the other five beast put together .
Besides , when the whole six have sup off the man he be not so heavy to draw .
The bad of it be that they soon begin to get hungry again , and the wolf , who be the hungry of all , say to the rest : ` What shall we eat now , my friend , a there be no more man ? ' '
I suppose we shall have to eat the small of u , ' reply the bear , and the marten turn round to seize the squirrel who be much small than any of the rest .
But the squirrel run up a tree like lightning , and the marten remembering , just in time , that he be the next in size , slip quick a thought into a hole in the rock .
` What shall we eat now ? '
ask the wolf again , when he have recover from his surprise .
` We must eat the small of u , ' repeat the bear , stretch out a paw towards the hare ; but the hare be not a hare for nothing , and before the paw have touch her , she have dart deep into the wood .
Now that the squirrel , the marten , and the hare have all go , the fox be the small of the three who be leave , and the wolf and the bear explain that they be very sorry , but they would have to eat him .
Michael , the fox , do not run away a the others have do , but smile in a friendly manner , and remark : ` Things taste so stale in a valley ; one 's appetite be so much good up on a mountain . '
The wolf and the bear agree , and they turn out of the hollow where they have be walk , and choose a path that lead up the mountain side .
The fox trot cheerfully by his two big companion , but on the way he manage to whisper to the wolf : ` Tell me , Peter , when I be eaten , what will you have for your next dinner ? '
This simple question seem to put out the wolf very much .
What would they have for their next dinner , and , what be more important still , who would there be to eat it ?
They have make a rule always to dine off the small of the party , and when the fox be go , why of course , he be small than the bear .
These thought flash quickly through his head , and he say hastily : ` Dear brother , would it not be good for u to live together a comrade , and everyone to hunt for the common dinner ?
Is not my plan a good one ? '
` It be the best thing I have ever hear , ' answer the fox ; and a they be two to one the bear have to be content , though in his heart he would much have prefer a good dinner at once to any friendship .
For a few day all go well ; there be plenty of game in the forest , and even the wolf have as much to eat a he could wish .
One morning the fox a usual be go his round when he notice a tall , slender tree , with a magpie 's nest in one of the top branch .
Now the fox be particularly fond of young magpie , and he set about make a plan by which he could have one for dinner .
At last he hit upon something which he think would do , and accordingly he sit down near the tree and begin to stare hard at it .
` What be you look at , Michael ? '
ask the magpie , who be watch him from a bough .
` I 'm look at this tree .
It have just strike me what a good tree it would be to cut my new snow-shoes out of . '
But at this answer the magpie screech loudly , and exclaim : ` Oh , not this tree , dear brother , I implore you !
I have build my nest on it , and my young one be not yet old enough to fly . '
` It will not be easy to find another tree that would make such good snow-shoes , ' answer the fox , cock his head on one side , and gaze at the tree thoughtfully ; ` but I do not like to be ill-natured , so if you will give me one of your young one I will seek my snow-shoes elsewhere . '
Not know what to do the poor magpie have to agree , and fly back , with a heavy heart , he throw one of his young one out of the nest .
The fox seize it in his mouth and run off in triumph , while the magpie , though deeply grieve for the loss of his little one , find some comfort in the thought that only a bird of extraordinary wisdom would have dream of save the rest by the sacrifice of the one .
But what do you think happen ?
Why , a few day later , Michael the fox might have be see sit under the very same tree , and a dreadful pang shot through the heart of the magpie a he peep at him from a hole in the nest .
` What be you look at ? '
he ask in a trembling voice .
` At this tree .
I be just think what good snowshoe it would make , ' answer the fox in an absent voice , a if he be not think of what he be say .
` Oh , my brother , my dear little brother , do n't do that , ' cry the magpie , hop about in his anguish .
` You know you promise only a few day ago that you would get your snow-shoes elsewhere . '
` So I do ; but though I have search through the whole forest , there be not a single tree that be as good a this .
I be very sorry to put you out , but really it be not my fault .
The only thing I can do for you be to offer to give up my snow-shoes altogether if you will throw me down one of your young one in exchange . '
And the poor magpie , in spite of his wisdom , be oblige to throw another of his little one out of the nest ; and this time he be not able to console himself with the thought that he have be much clever than other people .
He sit on the edge of his nest , his head drooping and his feather all ruffle , look the picture of misery .
Indeed he be so different from the gay , jaunty magpie whom every creature in the forest knew , that a crow who be fly past , stop to inquire what be the matter .
` Where be the two young one who be not in the nest ? '
ask he . '
I have to give them to the fox , ' reply the magpie in a quivering voice ; ` he have be here twice in the last week , and want to cut down my tree for the purpose of make snow-shoes out of it , and the only way I could buy him off be by give him two of my young one . '
Oh , you fool , ' cry the crow , ` the fox be only try to frighten you .
He could not have cut down the tree , for he have neither axe nor knife .
Dear me , to think that you have sacrifice your young one for nothing !
Dear , dear !
how could you be so very foolish ! '
And the crow fly away , leave the magpie overcome with shame and sorrow .
The next morning the fox come to his usual place in front of the tree , for he be hungry , and a nice young magpie would have suit him very well for dinner .
But this time there be no cowering , timid magpie to do his bidding , but a bird with his head erect and a determined voice .
` My good fox , ' say the magpie put his head on one side and look very wise -- ` my good fox , if you take my advice , you will go home as fast a you can .
There be no use your talk about make snow-shoes out of this tree , when you have neither knife nor axe to cut it down with ! '
` Who have be teach you wisdom ? '
ask the fox , forget his manner in his surprise at this new turn of affair .
` The crow , who pay me a visit yesterday , ' answer the magpie .
` The crow be it ? '
say the fox , ` well , the crow have well not meet me for the future , or it may be the bad for him . '
As Michael , the cunning beast , have no desire to continue the conversation , he leave the forest ; but when he come to the high road he lay himself at full length on the ground , stretch himself out , just a if he be dead .
Very soon he notice , out of the corner of his eye , that the crow be fly towards him , and he keep stiller and stiffer than ever , with his tongue hang out of his mouth .
The crow , who want her supper very badly , hop quickly towards him , and be stoop forward to peck at his tongue when the fox give a snap , and catch him by the wing .
The crow know that it be of no use struggle , so he say : ` Ah , brother , if you be really go to eat me , do it , I beg of you , in good style .
Throw me first over this precipice , so that my feather may be strew here and there , and that all who see them may know that your cunning be great than mine . '
This idea please the fox , for he have not yet forgive the crow for deprive him of the young magpie , so he carry the crow to the edge of the precipice and throw him over , intend to go round by a path he know and pick him up at the bottom .
But no sooner have the fox let the crow go than he soar up into the air , and hover just out of teach of his enemy 's jaw , he cry with a laugh : ` Ah , fox !
you know well how to catch , but you can not keep . '
With his tail between his leg , the fox slunk into the forest .
He do not know where to look for a dinner , a he guess that the crow would have fly back before him , and put every one on their guard .
The notion of go to bed supperless be very unpleasant to him , and he be wonder what in the world he should do , when he chance to meet with his old friend the bear .
This poor animal have just lose his wife , and be go to get some one to mourn over her , for he felt her loss greatly .
He have hardly leave his comfortable cave when he have come across the wolf , who inquire where he be go . '
I be go to find a mourner , ' answer the bear , and tell his story .
` Oh , let me mourn for you , ' cry the wolf .
` Do you understand how to howl ? '
say the bear .
` Oh , certainly , godfather , certainly , ' reply the wolf ; but the bear say he should like to have a specimen of his howling , to make sure that he know his business .
So the wolf break forth in his song of lament : ` Hu , hu , hu , hum , hoh , ' he shout , and he make such a noise that the bear put up his paw to his ear , and beg him to stop .
` You have no idea how it be do .
Be off with you , ' say he angrily .
A little further down the road the hare be rest in a ditch , but when she saw the bear , she come out and speak to him , and inquire why he look so sad .
The bear tell her of the loss of his wife , and of his search after a mourner that could lament over her in the proper style .
The hare instantly offer her service , but the bear take care to ask her to give him a proof of her talent , before he accept them .
` Pu , pu , pu , pum , poh , ' pip the hare ; but this time her voice be so small that the bear could hardly hear her .
` That be not what I want , ' he say , ' I will bid you good morning . '
It be after this that the fox come up , and he also be strike with the bear 's altered look , and stop .
` What be the matter with you , godfather ? '
ask he , ` and where be you go ? ' '
I be go to find a mourner for my wife , ' answer the bear .
` Oh , do choose me , ' cry the fox , and the bear look at him thoughtfully .
` Can you howl well ? '
he say .
` Yes , beautifully , just listen , ' and the fox lift up his voice and sang weeping : ` Lou , lou , lou !
the famous spinner , the baker of good cake , the prudent housekeeper be torn from her husband !
Lou , lou , lou !
she be go !
she be go ! '
` Now at last I have find some one who know the art of lamentation , ' exclaim the bear , quite delight ; and he lead the fox back to his cave , and bid him begin his lament over the dead wife who be lie stretch out on her bed of grey moss .
But this do not suit the fox at all .
` One can not wail properly in this cave , ' he say , ` it be much too damp .
You have good take the body to the storehouse .
It will sound much finer there . '
So the bear carry his wife 's body to the storehouse , while he himself go back to the cave to cook some pap for the mourner .
From time to time he pause and listen for the sound of wailing , but he hear nothing .
At last he go to the door of the storehouse , and call to the fox : ` Why do n't you howl , godfather ?
What be you about ? '
And the fox , who , instead of weep over the dead bear , have be quietly eat her , answer : ` There only remain now her leg and the sol of her foot .
Give me five minute more and they will be go also ! '
When the bear heard that he run back for the kitchen ladle , to give the traitor the beating he deserve .
But a he open the door of the storehouse , Michael be ready for him , and slip between his leg , dash straight off into the forest .
The bear , see that the traitor have escape , fling the ladle after him , and it just catch the tip of his tail , and that be how there come to be a spot of white on the tail of all fox .
-LSB- From Finnische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How The Beggar Boy Turned Into Count Piro Once upon a time there live a man who have only one son , a lazy , stupid boy , who would never do anything he be tell .
When the father be die , he send for his son and tell him that he would soon be leave alone in the world , with no possession but the small cottage they live in and a pear tree which grow behind it , and that , whether he like it or not , he would have to work , or else he would starve .
Then the old man die .
But the boy do not work ; instead , he idle about a before , content himself with eat the pear off his tree , which , unlike other pear tree before or since , bore fruit the whole year round .
Indeed , the pear be so much fine than any you could get even in the autumn , that one day , in the middle of the winter , they attract the notice of a fox who be creep by .
` Dear me ; what lovely pears ! '
he say to the youth .
` Do give me a basket of them .
It will bring you luck ! '
` Ah , little fox , but if I give you a basketful , what be I to eat ? '
ask the boy .
` Oh , trust me , and do what I tell you , ' say the fox ; ' I know it will bring you luck . '
So the boy get up and pick some of the ripest pear and put them into a rush basket .
The fox thank him , and , take the basket in his mouth , trot off to the king 's palace and make his way straight to the king .
` Your Majesty , my master send you a few of his best pear , and begs you will graciously accept them , ' he say , lay the basket at the foot of the king .
` Pears !
at this season ? '
cry the king , peer down to look at them ; ` and , pray , who be your master ? '
` The Count Piro , ' answer the fox .
` But how do he manage to get pear in midwinter ? '
ask the king .
` Oh , he have everything he want , ' reply the fox ; ` he be rich even than you be , your Majesty . '
` Then what can I send him in return for his pear ? '
say the king .
` Nothing , your Majesty , or you would hurt his feeling , ' answer the fox .
` Well , tell him how heartily I thank him , and how much I shall enjoy them . '
And the fox go away .
He trot back to the cottage with his empty basket and tell his tale , but the youth do not seem a pleased to hear a the fox be to tell .
` But , my dear little fox , ' say he , ` you have bring me nothing in return , and I be so hungry ! '
` Let me alone , ' reply the fox ; ' I know what I be do .
You will see , it will bring you luck . '
A few day after this the fox come back again . '
I must have another basket of pear , ' say he .
` Ah , little fox , what shall I eat if you take away all my pear ? '
answer the youth .
` Be quiet , it will be all right , ' say the fox ; and take a big basket than before , he fill it quite full of pear .
Then he pick it up in his mouth , and trot off to the palace .
` Your Majesty , a you seem to like the first basket of pear , I have bring you some more , ' say he , ` with my master , the Count Piro 's humble respect . '
` Now , surely it be not possible to grow such pear with deep snow on the ground ? '
cry the king .
` Oh , that never affect them , ' answer the fox lightly ; ` he be rich enough to do anything .
But to-day he send me to ask if you will give him your daughter in marriage ? '
` If he be so much rich than I be , ' say the king , ' I shall be oblige to refuse .
My honour would not permit me to accept his offer . '
` Oh , your Majesty , you must not think that , ' reply the fox ; ` and do not let the question of a dowry trouble you .
The Count Piro would not dream of ask anything but the hand of the princess . '
` Is he really so rich that he can do without a dowry ? '
ask the king .
` Did I not tell your Majesty that he be rich than you ? '
answer the fox reproachfully .
` Well , beg him to come here , that we may talk together , ' say the king .
So the fox go back to the young man and say : ' I have tell the king that you be Count Piro , and have ask his daughter in marriage . '
` Oh , little fox , what have you do ? '
cry the youth in dismay ; ` when the king see me he will order my head to be cut off . '
` Oh , no , he wo n't ! '
reply the fox ; ` just do a I tell you . '
And he go off to the town , and stop at the house of the best tailor .
` My master , the Count Piro , beg that you will send him at once the fine coat that you have in your shop , ' say the fox , put on his grand air , ` and if it fit him I will call and pay for it to-morrow !
Indeed , a he be in a great hurry , perhaps it might be as well if I take it round myself . '
The tailor be not accustom to serve count , and he at once get out all the coat he have ready .
The fox choose out a beautiful one of white and silver , bid the tailor tie it up in a parcel , and carry the string in his teeth , he leave the shop , and go to a horse-dealer 's , whom he persuade to send his fine horse round to the cottage , say that the king have bid his master to the palace .
Very unwillingly the young man put on the coat and mount the horse , and ride up to meet the king , with the fox run before him .
` What be I to say to his Majesty , little fox ? '
he ask anxiously ; ` you know that I have never speak to a king before . '
` Say nothing , ' answer the fox , ` but leave the talk to me .
`` Good morning , your Majesty , '' will be all that be necessary for you . '
By this time they have reach the palace , and the king come to the door to receive Count Piro , and lead him to the great hall , where a feast be spread .
The princess be already seat at the table , but be as dumb a Count Piro himself .
` The Count speak very little , ' the king say at last to the fox , and the fox answer : ` He have so much to think about in the management of his property that he can not afford to talk like ordinary people . '
The king be quite satisfied , and they finish dinner , after which Count Piro and the fox take leave .
The next morning the fox come round again .
` Give me another basket of pear , ' he say .
` Very well , little fox ; but remember it may cost me my life , ' answer the youth .
` Oh , leave it to me , and do a I tell you , and you will see that in the end it will bring you luck , ' answer the fox ; and pluck the pear he take them up to the king .
` My master , Count Piro , send you these pear , ' he say , ` and ask for an answer to his proposal . '
` Tell the count that the wedding can take place whenever he please , ' answer the king , and , fill with pride , the fox trot back to deliver his message .
` But I ca n't bring the princess here , little fox ? '
cry the young man in dismay .
` You leave everything to me , ' answer the fox ; ` have I not manage well so far ? '
And up at the palace preparation be make for a grand wedding , and the youth be marry to the princess .
After a week of feasting , the fox say to the king : ` My master wish to take his young bride home to his own castle . '
` Very well , I will accompany them , ' reply the king ; and he order his courtier and attendant to get ready , and the best horse in his stable to be bring out for himself , Count Piro and the princess .
So they all set out , and rode across the plain , the little fox run before them .
He stop at the sight of a great flock of sheep , which be feed peacefully on the rich grass .
` To whom do these sheep belong ? '
ask he of the shepherd .
` To an ogre , ' reply the shepherd .
` Hush , ' say the fox in a mysterious manner .
` Do you see that crowd of arm men rid along ?
If you be to tell them that those sheep belong to an ogre , they would kill them , and then the ogre would kill you !
If they ask , just say the sheep belong to Count Piro ; it will be good for everybody . '
And the fox run hastily on , a he do not wish to be see talk to the shepherd .
Very soon the king come up .
` What beautiful sheep ! '
he say , draw up his horse . '
I have none so fine in my pasture .
Whose be they ? '
` Count Piro 's , ' answer the shepherd , who do not know the king .
` Well , he must be a very rich man , ' think the king to himself , and rejoice that he have such a wealthy son-in-law .
Meanwhile the fox have meet with a huge herd of pig , snuffle about the root of some tree .
` To whom do these pig belong ? '
he ask of the swineherd .
` To an ogre , ' reply he .
` Hush ! '
whisper the fox , though nobody could hear him ; ` do you see that troop of arm men rid towards u ?
If you tell them that the pig belong to the ogre they will kill them , and then the ogre will kill you !
If they ask , just say that the pig belong to Count Piro ; it will be good for everybody . '
And he run hastily on .
Soon after the king rode up .
` What fine pig ! '
he say , rein in his horse .
` They be fatter than any I have get on my farm .
Whose be they ? '
` Count Piro 's , ' answer the swineherd , who do not know the king ; and again the king felt he be lucky to have such a rich son-in-law .
This time the fox run fast than before , and in a flowery meadow he find a troop of horse feed .
` Whose horse be these ? '
he ask of the man who be watch them .
` An ogre 's , ' reply he .
` Hush ! '
whisper the fox , ` do you see that crowd of arm men come towards u ?
If you tell them the horse belong to an ogre they will drive them off , and then the ogre will kill you !
If they ask , just say they be Count Piro 's ; it will be good for everybody . '
And he run on again .
In a few minute the king rode up .
` Oh , what lovely creatures !
how I wish they be mine ! '
he exclaim .
` Whose be they ? '
Count Piro 's , ' answer the man , who do not know the king ; and the king 's heart leapt a he think that if they belong to his rich son-in-law they be as good a his .
At last the fox come to the castle of the ogre himself .
He run up the step , with tear fall from his eye , and cry : ` Oh , you poor , poor people , what a sad fate be yours ! '
` What have happen ? '
ask the ogre , tremble with fright .
` Do you see that troop of horseman who be rid along the road ?
They be send by the king to kill you ! '
` Oh , dear little fox , help u , we implore you ! '
cry the ogre and his wife .
` Well , I will do what I can , ' answer the fox .
` The best place be for you both to hide in the big oven , and when the soldier have go by I will let you out . '
The ogre and ogress scramble into the oven as quick a thought , and the fox bang the door on them ; just a he do so the king come up .
` Do u the honour to dismount , your Majesty , ' say the fox , bow low .
` This be the palace of Count Piro ! '
` Why it be more splendid than my own ! '
exclaim the king , look round on all the beautiful thing that fill the hall .
But why be there no servant ? '
` His Excellency the Count Piro wish the princess to choose them for herself , ' answer the fox , and the king nod his approval .
He then ride on , leave the bridal pair in the castle .
But when it be dark and all be still , the fox crept downstairs and light the kitchen fire , and the ogre and his wife be burn to death .
The next morning the fox say to Count Piro : ` Now that you be rich and happy , you have no more need of me ; but , before I go , there be one thing I must ask of you in return : when I die , promise me that you will give me a magnificent coffin , and bury me with due honour . '
` Oh , little , little fox , do n't talk of dying , ' cry the princess , nearly weeping , for she have take a great liking to the fox .
After some time the fox think he would see if the Count Piro be really grateful to him for all he have do , and go back to the castle , where he lay down on the door-step , and pretend to be dead .
The princess be just go out for a walk , and directly she saw him lie there , she burst into tear and fell on her knee beside him .
` My dear little fox , you be not dead , ' she wail ; ` you poor , poor little creature , you shall have the fine coffin in the world ! ' '
A coffin for an animal ? '
say Count Piro .
` What nonsense !
just take him by the leg and throw him into the ditch . '
Then the fox spring up and cry : ` You wretched , thankless beggar ; have you forget that you owe all your rich to me ? '
Count Piro be frighten when he hear these word , a he think that perhaps the fox might have power to take away the castle , and leave him as poor a when he have nothing to eat but the pear off his tree .
So he try to soften the fox 's anger , say that he have only speak in joke , a he have know quite well that he be not really dead .
For the sake of the princess , the fox let himself be soften , and he live in the castle for many year , and play with Count Piro 's child .
And when he actually do die , his coffin be make of silver , and Count Piro and his wife follow him to the grave .
-LSB- From Sicilianische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Rogue And The Herdsman In a tiny cottage near the king 's palace there once live an old man , his wife , and his son , a very lazy fellow , who would never do a stroke of work .
He could not be get even to look after their one cow , but leave her to look after herself , while he lay on a bank and go to sleep in the sun .
For a long time his father bore with him , hop that a he grow old he might gain more sense ; but at last the old man 's patience be wear out , and he tell his son that he should not stay at house in idleness , and must go out into the world to seek his fortune .
The young man saw that there be no help for it , and he set out with a wallet full of food over his shoulder .
At length he come to a large house , at the door of which he knock .
` What do you want ? '
ask the old man who open it .
And the youth tell him how his father have turn him out of his house because he be so lazy and stupid , and he need shelter for the night .
` That you shall have , ' reply the man ; ` but to-morrow I shall give you some work to do , for you must know that I be the chief herdsman of the king . '
The youth make no answer to this .
He felt , if he be to be make to work after all , that he might as well have stay where he be .
But a he do not see any other way of get a bed , he go slowly in .
The herdsman 's two daughter and their mother be sit at supper , and invite him to join them .
Nothing more be say about work , and when the meal be over they all go to bed .
In the morning , when the young man be dress , the herdsman call to him and say : ` Now listen , and I will tell you what you have to do . '
` What be it ? '
ask the youth , sulkily .
` Nothing less than to look after two hundred pig , ' be the reply .
` Oh , I be use to that , ' answer the youth .
` Yes ; but this time you will have to do it properly , ' say the herdsman ; and he take the youth to the place where the pig be feed , and tell him to drive them to the wood on the side of the mountain .
This the young man do , but as soon a they reach the outskirt of the mountain they grow quite wild , and would have run away altogether , have they not luckily go towards a narrow ravine , from which the youth easily drive them home to his father 's cottage .
` Where do all these pig come from , and how do you get them ? '
ask the old man in surprise , when his son knock at the door of the hut he have leave only the day before .
` They belong to the king 's chief herdsman , ' answer his son .
` He give them to me to look after , but I know I could not do it , so I drive them straight to you .
Now make the best of your good fortune , and kill them and hang them up at once . '
` What be you talk about ? '
cry the father , pale with horror .
` We should certainly both be put to death if I do any such thing . '
` No , no ; do a I tell you , and I will get out of it somehow , ' reply the young man .
And in the end he have his way .
The pig be kill , and laid side by side in a row .
Then he cut off the tail and tie them together with a piece of cord , and swing the bundle over his back , he return to the place where they should have be feed .
Here there be a small swamp , which be just what he want , and find a large stone , he fasten the rope to it , and sink it in the swamp , after which he arrange the tail carefully one by one , so that only their point be see stick out of the water .
When everything be in order , he hasten home to his master with such a sorrowful face that the herdsman saw at once that something dreadful have happen .
` Where be the pig ? '
ask he .
` Oh , do n't speak of them ! '
answer the young man ; ' I really can hardly tell you .
The moment they get into the field they become quite mad , and each ran in a different direction .
I run too , hither and thither , but as fast a I catch one , another be off , till I be in despair .
At last , however , I collect them all and be about to drive them back , when suddenly they rush down the hill into the swamp , where they vanish completely , leave only the point of their tail , which you can see for yourself . '
` You have make up that story very well , ' reply the herdsman .
` No , it be the real truth ; come with me and I 'll prove it . '
And they go together to the spot , and there sure enough be the point of the tail stick up out of the water .
The herdsman lay hold of the near , and pull at it with all his might , but it be no use , for the stone and the rope hold them all fast .
He call to the young man to help him , but the two do not succeed any good than the one have do .
` Yes , your story be true after all ; it be a wonderful thing , ' say the herdsman .
` But I see it be no fault of yours , and I must put up with my loss as well a I can .
Now let u return home , for it be time for supper .
Next morning the herdsman say to the young man : ' I have get some other work for you to do .
To-day you must take a hundred sheep to graze ; but be careful that no harm befall them . ' '
I will do my best , ' reply the youth .
And he open the gate of the fold , where the sheep have be all night , and drive them out into the meadow .
But in a short time they grow as wild a the pig have do , and scatter in all direction .
The young man could not collect them , try a he would , and he think to himself that this be the punishment for his laziness in refuse to look after his father 's one cow .
At last , however , the sheep seem tired of run about , and then the youth manage to gather them together , and drive them , a before , straight to his father 's house .
` Whose sheep be these , and what be they do here ? '
ask the old man in wonder , and his son tell him .
But when the tale be end the father shake his head .
` Give up these bad way and take them back to your master , ' say he .
` No , no , ' answer the youth ; ' I be not so stupid a that !
We will kill them and have them for dinner . '
` You will lose your life if you do , ' reply the father .
` Oh , I be not sure of that ! '
say the son , ` and , anyway , I will have my will for once . '
And he kill all the sheep and lay them on the grass .
But he cut off the head of the ram which always lead the flock and have bell round it horn .
This he take back to the place where they should have be feed , for here he have notice a high rock , with a patch of green grass in the middle and two or three thick bush grow on the edge .
Up this rock he climb with great difficulty , and fasten the ram 's head to the bush with a cord , leave only the tip of the horn with the bell visible .
As there be a soft breeze blowing , the bush to which the head be tie move gently , and the bell rang .
When all be do to his like he hasten quickly back to his master .
` Where be the sheep ? '
ask the herdsman a the young man run pant up the step .
` Oh !
do n't speak of them , ' answer he .
` It be only by a miracle that I be here myself . '
` Tell me at once what have happen , ' say the herdsman sternly .
The youth begin to sob , and stammer out : ` I -- I hardly know how to tell you !
They -- they -- they be so -- so troublesome -- that I could not manage them at all .
They -- run about in -- in all direction , and I -- I -- run after them and nearly die of fatigue .
Then I hear a -- a noise , which I -- I think be the wind .
But -- but -- it be the sheep , which , be -- before my very eyes , be carry straight up -- up into the air .
I stand watch them a if I be turn to stone , but there keep ring in my ear the sound of the bell on the ram which lead them . '
` That be nothing but a lie from begin to end , ' say the herdsman .
` No , it be as true a that there be a sun in heaven , ' answer the young man .
` Then give me a proof of it , ' cry his master .
` Well , come with me , ' say the youth .
By this time it be even and the dusk be fall .
The young man bring the herdsman to the foot of the great rock , but it be so dark you could hardly see .
Still the sound of sheep bell ring softly from above , and the herdsman know them to be those he have hang on the horn of his ram .
` Do you hear ? '
ask the youth .
` Yes , I hear ; you have speak the truth , and I can not blame you for what have happen .
I must bear the loss as best a I can . '
He turn and go home , follow by the young man , who felt highly please with his own cleverness . '
I should not be surprise if the task I set you be too difficult , and that you be tire of them , ' say the herdsman next morning ; ` but to-day I have something quite easy for you to do .
You must look after forty ox , and be sure you be very careful , for one of them have gold-tipped horn and hoof , and the king reckons it among his great treasure . '
The young man drive out the ox into the meadow , and no sooner have they get there than , like the sheep and the pig , they begin to scamper in all direction , the precious bull be the wild of all .
As the youth stand watch them , not know what to do next , it come into his head that his father 's cow be put out to grass at no great distance ; and he forthwith make such a noise that he quite frighten the ox , who be easily persuade to take the path he wish .
When they hear the cow low they gallop all the faster , and soon they all arrive at his father 's house .
The old man be stand before the door of his hut when the great herd of animal dash round a corner of the road , with his son and his own cow at their head .
` Whose cattle be these , and why be they here ? '
he ask ; and his son tell him the story .
` Take them back to your master as soon a you can , ' say the old man ; but the son only laugh , and say : ` No , no ; they be a present to you !
They will make you fat ! '
For a long while the old man refuse to have anything to do with such a wicked scheme ; but his son talk him over in the end , and they kill the ox a they have kill the sheep and the pig .
Last of all they come to the king 's cherished ox .
The son have a rope ready to cast round it horn , and throw it to the ground , but the ox be strong than the rope , and soon tear it in piece .
Then it dash away to the wood , the youth follow ; over hedge and ditch they both go , till they reach the rocky pas which border the herdsman 's land .
Here the ox , think itself safe , stop to rest , and thus give the young man a chance to come up with it .
Not know how to catch it , he collect all the wood he could find and make a circle of fire round the ox , who by this time have fall asleep , and do not wake till the fire have catch it head , and it be too late for it to escape .
Then the young man , who have be watch , run home to his master .
` You have be away a long while , ' say the herdsman .
` Where be the cattle ? '
The young man gasp , and seem a if he be unable to speak .
At last he answer : ` It be always the same story !
The ox be -- go -- go ! '
` G-g-gone ? '
cry the herdsman .
` Scoundrel , you lie ! ' '
I be tell you the exact truth , ' answer the young man .
` Directly we come to the meadow they grow so wild that I could not keep them together .
Then the big ox break away , and the others follow till they all disappear down a deep hole into the earth .
It seem to me that I hear sound of bellowing , and I think I recognise the voice of the golden horned ox ; but when I get to the place from which the sound have come , I could neither see nor hear anything in the hole itself , though there be trace of a fire all round it . '
` Wretch ! '
cry the herdsman , when he have hear this story , ` even if you do not lie before , you be lie now . '
` No , master , I be speak the truth .
Come and see for yourself . '
` If I find you have deceive me , you be a dead man , say the herdsman ; and they go out together .
` What do you call that ? '
ask the youth .
And the herdsman look and saw the trace of a fire , which seem to have spring up from under the earth .
` Wonder upon wonder , ' he exclaim , ` so you really do speak the truth after all !
Well , I can not reproach you , though I shall have to pay heavily to my royal master for the value of that ox .
But come , let u go home !
I will never set you to herd cattle again , henceforward I will give you something easy to do . ' '
I have think of exactly the thing for you , ' say the herdsman a they walk along , ` and it be so simple that you can not make a mistake .
Just make me ten scythe , one for every man , for I want the grass mown in one of my meadow to-morrow . '
At these word the youth 's heart sank , for he have never be train either a a smith or a joiner .
However , he dare not say no , but smile and nod .
Slowly and sadly he go to bed , but he could not sleep , for wonder how the scythe be to be make .
All the skill and cunning he have show before be of no use to him now , and after think about the scythe for many hour , there seem only one way open to him .
So , listen to make sure that all be still , he steal away to his parent , and tell them the whole story .
When they have hear everything , they hide him where no one could find him .
Time pass away , and the young man stay at home do all his parent bid him , and show himself very different from what he have be before he go out to see the world ; but one day he say to his father that he should like to marry , and have a house of his own .
` When I serve the king 's chief herdsman , ' add he , ' I saw his daughter , and I be resolve to try if I can not win her for my wife . '
` It will cost you your life , if you do , ' answer the father , shake his head .
` Well , I will do my best , ' reply his son ; ` but first give me the sword which hang over your bed ! '
The old man do not understand what good the sword would do , however he take it down , and the young man go his way .
Late in the evening he arrive at the house of the herdsman , and knock at the door , which be open by a little boy . '
I want to speak to your master , ' say he .
` So it be you ? '
cry the herdsman , when he have receive the message .
` Well , you can sleep here to-night if you wish . ' '
I have come for something else besides a bed , ' reply the young man , draw his sword , ` and if you do not promise to give me your young daughter a my wife I will stab you through the heart . '
What could the poor man do but promise ?
And he fetch his young daughter , who seem quite pleased at the propose match , and give the youth her hand .
Then the young man go home to his parent , and bid them get ready to welcome his bride .
And when the wedding be over he tell his father-in-law , the herdsman , what he have do with the sheep , and pig , and cattle .
By-and-by the story come to the king 's ear , and he think that a man who be so clever be just the man to govern the country ; so he make him his minister , and after the king himself there be no one so great a he .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Eisenkopf Once upon a time there live an old man who have only one son , whom he love dearly ; but they be very poor , and often have scarcely enough to eat .
Then the old man fell ill , and thing grow bad than ever , so he call his son and say to him : ` My dear boy , I have no long any food to give you , and you must go into the world and get it for yourself .
It do not matter what work you do , but remember if you do it well and be faithful to your master , you will always have your reward . '
So Peter put a piece of black bread in his knapsack , and strap it on his back , take a stout stick in his hand , and set out to seek his fortune .
For a long while he travel on and on , and nobody seem to want him ; but one day he meet an old man , and be a polite youth , he take off his hat and say : ` Good morning , ' in a pleasant voice .
` Good morning , ' answer the old man ; ` and where be you go ? ' '
I be wander through the country try to get work , ' reply Peter .
` Then stay with me , for I can give you plenty , ' say the old man , and Peter stay .
His work do not seem hard , for he have only two horse and a cow to see after , and though he have be hire for a year , the year consist of but three day , so that it be not long before he receive his wage .
In payment the old man give him a nut , and offer to keep him for another year ; but Peter be home-sick ; and , besides , he would rather have be pay ever so small a piece of money than a nut ; for , think he , nuts grow on every tree , and I can gather as many a I like .
However , he do not say this to the old man , who have be kind to him , but just bid him farewell .
The nearer Peter draw to his father 's house the more ashamed he felt at have bring back such poor wage .
What could one nut do for him ?
Why , it would not buy even a slice of bacon .
It be no use take it home , he might as well eat it .
So he sit down on a stone and crack it with his teeth , and then take it out of his mouth to break off the shell .
But who could ever guess what come out of that nut ?
Why , horse and ox and sheep step out in such number that they seem a if they would stretch to the world 's end !
The sight give Peter such a shock that he wring his hand in dismay .
What be he to do with all these creature , where be he to put them ?
He stand and gaze in terror , and at this moment Eisenkopf come by .
` What be the matter , young man ? '
ask he .
` Oh , my friend , there be plenty the matter , ' answer Peter . '
I have gain a nut a my wage , and when I crack it this crowd of beast come out , and I do n't know what to do with them all ! '
` Listen to me , my son , ' say Eisenkopf .
` If you will promise never to marry I will drive them all back into the nut again . '
In his trouble Peter would have promise far hard thing than this , so he gladly give the promise Eisenkopf ask for ; and at a whistle from the stranger the animal all begin crowd into the nut again , nearly tumble over each other in their haste .
When the last foot have get inside , the two half of the shell shut close .
Then Peter put it in his pocket and go on to the house .
No sooner have he reach it than he crack his nut for the second time , and out come the horse , sheep , and oxen again .
Indeed Peter think that there be even more of them than before .
The old man could not believe his eye when he saw the multitude of horse , ox and sheep standing before his door .
` How do you come by all these ? '
he gasp , as soon a he could speak ; and the son tell him the whole story , and of the promise he have give Eisenkopf .
The next day some of the cattle be drive to market and sell , and with the money the old man be able to buy some of the field and garden round his house , and in a few month have grow the rich and most prosperous man in the whole village .
Everything seem to turn to gold in his hand , till one day , when he and his son be sit in the orchard watch their herd of cattle graze in the meadow , he suddenly say : ` Peter , my boy , it be time that you be think of marry . '
` But , my dear father , I tell you I can never marry , because of the promise I give to Eisenkopf . '
` Oh , one promise here and promise there , but no one ever think of keep such promise .
If Eisenkopf do not like your marrying , he will have to put up with it all the same !
Besides , there stand in the stable a grey horse which be saddle night and day ; and if Eisenkopf should show his face , you have only get to jump on the horse 's back and ride away , and nobody on earth can catch you .
When all be safe you will come back again , and we shall live as happily a two fish in the sea . '
And so it all happen .
The young man find a pretty , brown-skinned girl who be willing to have him for a husband , and the whole village come to the wedding feast .
The music be at it gay , and the dance at it merry , when Eisenkopf look in at the window .
` Oh , ho , my brother !
what be go on here ?
It have the air of be a wedding feast .
Yet I fancy -- be I mistaken ?
-- that you have give me a promise that you never would marry . '
But Peter have not wait for the end of this speech .
Scarcely have he see Eisenkopf than he dart like the wind to the stable and flung himself on the horse 's back .
In another moment he be away over the mountain , with Eisenkopf run fast behind him .
On they go through thick forest where the sun never shone , over river so wide that it take a whole day to sail across them , up hill whose side be all of glass ; on they go through seven time seven country till Peter rein in his horse before the house of an old woman .
` Good day , mother , ' say he , jump down and open the door .
` Good day , my son , ' answer she , ` and what be you do here , at the world 's end ? ' '
I be fly for my life , mother , fly to the world which be beyond all world ; for Eisenkopf be at my heel . '
` Come in and rest then , and have some food , for I have a little dog who will begin to howl when Eisenkopf be still seven mile off . '
So Peter go in and warm himself and eat and drink , till suddenly the dog begin to howl .
` Quick , my son , quick , you must go , ' cry the old woman .
And the lightning itself be not quick than Peter .
` Stop a moment , ' cry the old woman again , just a he be mount his horse , ` take this napkin and this cake , and put them in your bag where you can get hold of them easily . '
Peter take them and put them into his bag , and wave his thanks for her kindness , he be off like the wind .
Round and round he ride , through seven time seven country , through forest still thicker , and river still wider , and mountain still more slippery than the others he have pass , till at length he reach a house where dwelt another old woman .
` Good day , mother , ' say he .
` Good day , my son !
What be you seek here at the world 's end ? ' '
I be fly for my life , mother , fly to the world that be beyond all world , for Eisenkopf be at my heel . '
` Come in , my son , and have some food .
I have a little dog who will begin to howl when Eisenkopf be still seven mile off ; so lie on this bed and rest yourself in peace . '
Then she go to the kitchen and bake a number of cake , more than Peter could have eat in a whole month .
He have not finish a quarter of them , when the dog begin to howl .
` Now , my son , you must go , ' cry the old woman ` but first put these cake and this napkin in your bag , where you can easily get at them . '
So Peter thank her and be off like the wind .
On he ride , through seven time seven country , till he come to the house of a third old woman , who welcome him a the others have do .
But when the dog howl , and Peter spring up to go , she say , a she give him the same gift for his journey : ` You have now three cake and three napkin , for I know that my sister have each give you one .
Listen to me , and do what I tell you .
Ride seven day and night straight before you , and on the eighth morning you will see a great fire .
Strike it three time with the three napkin and it will part in two .
Then ride into the opening , and when you be in the middle of the opening , throw the three cake behind your back with your left hand . '
Peter thank her for her counsel , and be careful to do exactly all the old woman have tell him .
On the eighth morning he reach a fire so large that he could see nothing else on either side , but when he strike it with the napkin it part , and stand on each hand like a wall .
As he ride through the opening he throw the cake behind him .
From each cake there spring a huge dog , and he give them the name of World 's - weight , Ironstrong , and Quick-ear .
They bay with joy at the sight of him , and a Peter turn to pat them , he behold Eisenkopf at the edge of the fire , but the opening have close up behind Peter , and he could not get through .
` Stop , you promise-breaker , ' shriek he ; ` you have slip through my hand once , but wait till I catch you again ! '
Then he lay down by the fire and watch to see what would happen .
When Peter know that he have nothing more to fear from Eisenkopf , he ride on slowly till he come to a small white house .
Here he enter and find himself in a room where a gray-haired woman be spin and a beautiful girl be sit in the window comb her golden hair .
` What bring you here , my son ? '
ask the old woman . '
I be seek for a place , mother , ' answer Peter .
` Stay with me , then , for I need a servant , ' say the old woman .
` With pleasure , mother , ' reply he .
After that Peter 's life be a very happy one .
He sow and plough all day , except now and then when he take his dog and go to hunt .
And whatever game he bring back the maiden with the golden hair know how to dress it .
One day the old woman have go to the town to buy some flour , and Peter and the maiden be leave alone in the house .
They fell into talk , and she ask him where his home be , and how he have manage to come through the fire .
Peter then tell her the whole story , and of his strike the flame with the three napkin a he have be tell to do .
The maiden listen attentively and wonder in herself whether what he say be true .
So after Peter have go out to the field , she creep up to his room and steal the napkin and then set off as fast a she could to the fire by a path she know of over the hill .
At the third blow she give the flame divide , and Eisenkopf , who have be watch and hop for a chance of this kind , run down the opening and stood before her .
At this sight the maiden be almost frighten to death , but with a great effort she recover herself and run home as fast a her leg would carry her , closely pursue by Eisenkopf .
Panting for breath she rush into the house and fell faint on the floor ; but Eisenkopf enter behind her , and hid himself in the kitchen under the hearth .
Not long after , Peter come in and pick up the three napkin which the maiden have drop on the threshold .
He wonder how they get there , for he know he have leave them in his room ; but what be his horror when he saw the form of the fainting girl lie where she have drop , a still and white a if she have be dead .
He lift her up and carry her to her bed , where she soon revive , but she do not tell Peter about Eisenkopf , who have be almost crush to death under the hearth-stone by the body of World 's - weight .
The next morning Peter lock up his dog and go out into the forest alone .
Eisenkopf , however , have see him go , and follow so closely at his heel that Peter have barely time to clamber up a tall tree , where Eisenkopf could not reach him .
` Come down at once , you gallows bird , ' he cry .
` Have you forget your promise that you never would marry ? '
` Oh , I know it be all up with me , ' answer Peter , ` but let me call out three time . '
` You can call a hundred time if you like , ' return Eisenkopf , ` for now I have get you in my power , and you shall pay for what you have do . '
` Iron-strong , World 's - weight , Quick-ear , fly to my help ! '
cried Peter ; and Quick-ear heard , and say to his brother : ` Listen , our master be call u . '
` You be dream , fool , ' answer World 's - weight ; ` why he have not finish his breakfast . '
And he give Quick-ear a slap with his paw , for he be young and need to be taught sense .
` Iron-strong , World 's - weight , Quick-ear , fly to my help ! '
cry Peter again .
This time World 's - weight heard also , and he say , ` Ah , now our master be really call . '
` How silly you be ! '
answered Iron-strong ; ` you know that at this hour he be always eat . '
And he give World 's - weight a cuff , because he be old enough to know good .
Peter sit tremble on the tree dread l his dog have never hear , or else that , have hear , they have refuse to come .
It be his last chance , so make a mighty effort he shriek once more : ` Iron-strong , World 's - weight , Quick-ear , fly to my help , or I be a dead man ! '
And Iron-strong heard , and say : ` Yes , he be certainly call , we must go at once . '
And in an instant he have burst open the door , and all three be bound away in the direction of the voice .
When they reach the foot of the tree Peter just say : ` At him ! '
And in a few minute there be nothing left of Eisenkopf .
As soon a his enemy be dead Peter get down and return to the house , where he bid farewell to the old woman and her daughter , who give him a beautiful ring , all set with diamond .
It be really a magic ring , but neither Peter nor the maiden knew that .
Peter 's heart be heavy a he set out for home .
He have cease to love the wife whom he have leave at his wedding feast , and his heart have go out to the golden-haired girl .
However , it be no use thinking of that , so he ride forward steadily .
The fire have to be pass through before he have go very far , and when he come to it , Peter shake the napkin three time in the flame and a passage open for trim .
But then a curious thing happen ; the three dog , who have follow at his heel all the way , now become three cake again , which Peter put into his bag with the napkin .
After that he stop at the house of the three old woman , and give each one back her napkin and her cake .
` Where be my wife ? '
ask Peter , when he reach home .
` Oh , my dear son , why do you ever leave u ?
After you have vanish , no one knew where , your poor wife grow more and more wretched , and would neither eat nor drink .
Little by little she fade away , and a month ago we lay her in her grave , to hide her sorrow under the earth . '
At this news Peter begin to weep , for he have love his wife before he go away and have see the golden-haired maiden .
He go sorrowfully about his work for the space of half a year , when , one night , he dream that he move the diamond ring give him by the maiden from his right hand and put it on the wedding finger of the left .
The dream be so real that he awake at once and change the ring from one hand to the other .
And a he do so guess what he saw ?
Why , the golden-haired girl stand before him .
And he spring up and kiss her , and say : ` Now you be mine for ever and ever , and when we die we will both be bury in one grave . '
And so they be .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Death Of Abu Nowas And Of His Wife Once upon a time there live a man whose name be Abu Nowas , and he be a great favourite with the Sultan of the country , who have a palace in the same town where Abu Nowas dwelt .
One day Abu Nowas come weep into the hall of the palace where the Sultan be sit , and say to him : ` Oh , mighty Sultan , my wife be dead . '
` That be bad news , ' reply the Sultan ; ' I must get you another wife . '
And he bid his Grand Vizir send for the Sultana .
` This poor Abu Nowas have lose his wife , ' say he , when she enter the hall .
` Oh , then we must get him another , ' answer the Sultana ; ' I have a girl that will suit him exactly , ' and clap her hand loudly .
At this signal a maiden appear and stand before her . '
I have get a husband for you , ' say the Sultana .
` Who be he ? '
ask the girl .
` Abu Nowas , the jester , ' reply the Sultana . '
I will take him , ' answer the maiden ; and a Abu Nowas make no objection , it be all arrange .
The Sultana have the most beautiful clothes make for the bride , and the Sultan give the bridegroom his wedding suit , and a thousand gold piece into the bargain , and soft carpet for the house .
So Abu Nowas take his wife home , and for some time they be very happy , and spend the money freely which the Sultan have give them , never think what they should do for more when that be go .
But come to an end it do , and they have to sell their fine thing one by one , till at length nothing be leave but a cloak apiece , and one blanket to cover them .
` We have run through our fortune , ' say Abu Nowas , ` what be we to do now ?
I be afraid to go back to the Sultan , for he will command his servant to turn me from the door .
But you shall return to your mistress , and throw yourself at her foot and weep , and perhaps she will help u . '
` Oh , you have much well go , ' say the wife . '
I shall not know what to say . '
` Well , then , stay at home , if you like , ' answer Abu Nowas , ` and I will ask to be admit to the Sultan 's presence , and will tell him , with sob , that my wife be dead , and that I have no money for her burial .
When he hear that perhaps he will give u something . '
` Yes , that be a good plan , ' say the wife ; and Abu Nowas set out .
The Sultan be sit in the hall of justice when Abu Nowas enter , his eye stream with tear , for he have rub some pepper into them .
They smart dreadfully , and he could hardly see to walk straight , and everyone wonder what be the matter with him .
` Abu Nowas !
What have happen ? '
cry the Sultan .
` Oh , noble Sultan , my wife be dead , ' wept he .
` We must all die , ' answer the Sultan ; but this be not the reply for which Abu Nowas have hop .
` True , O Sultan , but I have neither shroud to wrap her in , nor money to bury her with , ' go on Abu Nowas , in no wise abash by the way the Sultan have receive his news .
` Well , give him a hundred piece of gold , ' say the Sultan , turn to the Grand Vizir .
And when the money be count out Abu Nowas bow low , and leave the hall , his tear still flow , but with joy in his heart .
` Have you get anything ? '
cry his wife , who be wait for him anxiously .
` Yes , a hundred gold piece , ' say he , throw down the bag , ` but that will not last u any time .
Now you must go to the Sultana , clothe in sackcloth and robe of mourning , and tell her that your husband , Abu Nowas , be dead , and you have no money for his burial .
When she hear that , she will be sure to ask you what have become of the money and the fine clothes she give u on our marriage , and you will answer , `` before he die he sell everything . '' '
The wife do a she be tell , and wrap herself in sackcloth go up to the Sultana 's own palace , and a she be know to have be one of Subida 's favourite attendant , she be take without difficulty into the private apartment .
` What be the matter ? '
inquire the Sultana , at the sight of the dismal figure .
` My husband lie dead at home , and he have spend all our money , and sell everything , and I have nothing leave to bury him with , ' sob the wife .
Then Subida take up a purse contain two hundred gold piece , and say : ` Your husband serve u long and faithfully .
You must see that he have a fine funeral . '
The wife take the money , and , kiss the foot of the Sultana , she joyfully hasten home .
They spend some happy hour plan how they should spend it , and think how clever they have be .
` When the Sultan go this evening to Subida 's palace , ' say Abu Nowas , ` she will be sure to tell him that Abu Nowas be dead .
`` Not Abu Nowas , it be his wife , '' he will reply , and they will quarrel over it , and all the time we shall be sit here enjoy ourselves .
Oh , if they only know , how angry they would be ! '
As Abu Nowas have foresee , the Sultan go , in the evening after his business be over , to pay his usual visit to the Sultana .
` Poor Abu Nowas be dead ! '
say Subida when he enter the room .
` It be not Abu Nowas , but his wife who be dead , ' answer the Sultan .
` No ; really you be quite wrong .
She come to tell me herself only a couple of hour ago , ' reply Subida , ` and a he have spend all their money , I give her something to bury him with . '
` You must be dream , ' exclaim the Sultan .
` Soon after midday Abu Nowas come into the hall , his eye stream with tear , and when I ask him the reason he answer that his wife be dead , and they have sell everything they have , and he have nothing left , not so much a would buy her a shroud , far less for her burial . '
For a long time they talk , and neither would listen to the other , till the Sultan sent for the door-keeper and bid him go instantly to the house of Abu Nowas and see if it be the man or his wife who be dead .
But Abu Nowas happen to be sit with his wife behind the latticed window , which look on the street , and he saw the man come , and spring up at once .
` There be the Sultan 's door-keeper !
They have send him here to find out the truth .
Quick !
throw yourself on the bed and pretend that you be dead . '
And in a moment the wife be stretch out stiffly , with a linen sheet spread across her , like a corpse .
She be only just in time , for the sheet be hardly draw across her when the door open and the porter come in .
` Has anything happen ? '
ask he .
` My poor wife be dead , ' reply Abu Nowas .
` Look !
she be lay out here . '
And the porter approach the bed , which be in a corner of the room , and saw the stiff form lie underneath .
` We must all die , ' say he , and go back to the Sultan .
` Well , have you find out which of them be dead ? '
ask the Sultan .
` Yes , noble Sultan ; it be the wife , ' reply the porter .
` He only say that to please you , ' cry Subida in a rage ; and call to her chamberlain , she order him to go at once to the dwelling of Abu Nowas and see which of the two be dead .
` And be sure you tell the truth about it , ' add she , ` or it will be the bad for you . '
As her chamberlain draw near the house , Abu Nowas catch sight of him .
` There be the Sultana 's chamberlain , ' he exclaim in a fright .
` Now it be my turn to die .
Be quick and spread the sheet over me . '
And he lay himself on the bed , and hold his breath when the chamberlain come in .
` What be you weep for ? '
ask the man , find the wife in tear .
` My husband be dead , ' answer she , point to the bed ; and the chamberlain draw back the sheet and beheld Abu Nowas lie stiff and motionless .
Then he gently replace the sheet and return to the palace .
` Well , have you find out this time ? '
ask the Sultan .
` My lord , it be the husband who be dead . '
` But I tell you he be with me only a few hour ago , ' cry the Sultan angrily . '
I must get to the bottom of this before I sleep !
Let my golden coach be bring round at once . '
The coach be before the door in another five minute , and the Sultan and Sultana both get in .
Abu Nowas have cease be a dead man , and be look into the street when he saw the coach come .
` Quick !
quick ! '
he call to his wife .
` The Sultan will be here directly , and we must both be dead to receive him . '
So they lay themselves down , and spread the sheet over them , and hold their breath .
At that instant the Sultan enter , follow by the Sultana and the chamberlain , and he go up to the bed and find the corps stiff and motionless . '
I would give a thousand gold piece to anyone who would tell me the truth about this , ' cry he , and at the word Abu Nowas sit up .
` Give them to me , then , ' say he , hold out his hand .
` You can not give them to anyone who need them more . '
` Oh , Abu Nowas , you impudent dog ! '
exclaim the Sultan , burst into a laugh , in which the Sultana join . '
I might have know it be one of your trick ! '
But he send Abu Nowas the gold he have promise , and let u hope that it do not fly so fast a the last have do .
-LSB- From Tunische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Motiratika Once upon a time , in a very hot country , a man live with his wife in a little hut , which be surround by grass and flower .
They be perfectly happy together till , by-and-by , the woman fell ill and refuse to take any food .
The husband try to persuade her to eat all sort of delicious fruit that he have find in the forest , but she would have none of them , and grow so thin he fear she would die .
` Is there nothing you would like ? '
he say at last in despair .
` Yes , I think I could eat some wild honey , ' answer she .
The husband be overjoy , for he think this sounded easy enough to get , and he go off at once in search of it .
He come back with a wooden pan quite full , and give it to his wife . '
I ca n't eat that , ' she say , turn away in disgust .
` Look !
there be some dead bee in it !
I want honey that be quite pure . '
And the man throw the reject honey on the grass , and start off to get some fresh .
When he get back he offer it to his wife , who treat it a she have do the first bowlful .
` That honey have get ant in it : throw it away , ' she say , and when he bring her some more , she declare it be full of earth .
In his fourth journey he manage to find some that she would eat , and then she beg him to get her some water .
This take him some time , but at length he come to a lake whose water be sweeten with sugar .
He fill a pannikin quite full , and carry it home to his wife , who drink it eagerly , and say that she now felt quite well .
When she be up and have dress herself , her husband lay down in her place , say : ` You have give me a great deal of trouble , and now it be my turn ! '
` What be the matter with you ? '
ask the wife . '
I be thirsty and want some water , ' answer he ; and she take a large pot and carry it to the near spring , which be a good way off .
` Here be the water , ' she say to her husband , lift the heavy pot from her head ; but he turn away in disgust .
` You have draw it from the pool that be full of frog and willow ; you must get me some more . '
So the woman set out again and walk still further to another lake .
` This water taste of rush , ' he exclaim , ` go and get some fresh . '
But when she bring back a third supply he declare that it seem make up of water-lilies , and that he must have water that be pure , and not spoil by willow , or frog , or rush .
So for the fourth time she put her jug on her head , and pass all the lake she have hitherto try , she come to another , where the water be golden like honey .
She stoop down to drink , when a horrible head bob up on the surface .
` How dare you steal my water ? '
cry the head .
` It be my husband who have send me , ' she reply , tremble all over .
` But do not kill me !
You shall have my baby , if you will only let me go . '
` How be I to know which be your baby ? '
ask the Ogre .
` Oh , that be easily manage .
I will shave both side of his head , and hang some white bead round his neck .
And when you come to the hut you have only to call `` Motikatika ! ''
and he will run to meet you , and you can eat him . '
` Very well , ' say the ogre , ` you can go home . '
And after fill the pot she return , and tell her husband of the dreadful danger she have be in .
Now , though his mother do not know it , the baby be a magician and he have hear all that his mother have promise the ogre ; and he laugh to himself a he plan how to outwit her .
The next morning she shave his head on both side , and hang the white bead round his neck , and say to him : ' I be go to the field to work , but you must stay at home .
Be sure you do not go outside , or some wild beast may eat you . '
` Very well , ' answer he .
As soon a his mother be out of sight , the baby take out some magic bone , and place them in a row before him .
` You be my father , ' he tell one bone , ` and you be my mother .
You be the big , ' he say to the third , ` so you shall be the ogre who want to eat me ; and you , ' to another , ` be very little , therefore you shall be me .
Now , then , tell me what I be to do . '
` Collect all the baby in the village the same size a yourself , ' answer the bone ; ` shave the side of their head , and hang white bead round their neck , and tell them that when anybody call `` Motikatika , '' they be to answer to it .
And be quick for you have no time to lose . '
Motikatika go out directly , and bring back quite a crowd of baby , and shave their head and hung white bead round their little black neck , and just a he have finish , the ground begin to shake , and the huge ogre come stride along , cry : ` Motikatika !
Motikatika ! '
` Here we be !
here we be ! '
answer the baby , all run to meet him .
` It be Motikatika I want , ' say the ogre .
` We be all Motikatika , ' they reply .
And the ogre sit down in bewilderment , for he dare not eat the child of people who have do him no wrong , or a heavy punishment would befall him .
The child wait for a little , wonder , and then they go away .
The ogre remain where he be , till the evening , when the woman return from the field . '
I have not see Motikatika , ' say he .
` But why do you not call him by his name , a I tell you ? '
she ask . '
I do , but all the baby in the village seem to be name Motikatika , ' answer the ogre ; ` you can not think the number who come run to me . '
The woman do not know what to make of it , so , to keep him in a good temper , she enter the hut and prepare a bowl of maize , which she bring him . '
I do not want maize , I want the baby , ' grumble he ` and I will have him . '
` Have patience , ' answer she ; ' I will call him , and you can eat him at once . '
And she go into the hut and cry , ` Motikatika ! ' '
I be come , mother , ' reply he ; but first he take out his bone , and , crouch down on the ground behind the hut , ask them how he should escape the ogre .
` Change yourself into a mouse , ' say the bone ; and so he do , and the ogre grow tired of wait , and tell the woman she must invent some other plan .
` To-morrow I will send him into the field to pick some bean for me , and you will find him there , and can eat him . '
` Very well , ' reply the ogre , ` and this time I will take care to have him , ' and he go back to his lake .
Next morning Motikatika be send out with a basket , and tell to pick some bean for dinner .
On the way to the field he take out his bone and ask them what he be to do to escape from the ogre .
` Change yourself into a bird and snap off the bean , ' say the bone .
And the ogre chase away the bird , not know that it be Motikatika .
The ogre go back to the hut and tell the woman that she have deceive him again , and that he would not be put off any long .
` Return here this evening , ' answer she , ` and you will find him in bed under this white coverlet .
Then you can carry him away , and eat him at once . '
But the boy heard , and consult his bone , which say : ` Take the red coverlet from your father 's bed , and put yours on his , ' and so he do .
And when the ogre come , he seize Motikatika 's father and carry him outside the hut and eat him .
When his wife find out the mistake , she cry bitterly ; but Motikatika say : ` It be only just that he should be eat , and not I ; for it be he , and not I , who send you to fetch the water . '
-LSB- Adapted from the Ba-Ronga -LRB- H. Junod -RRB- . -RSB-
Niels And The Giants On one of the great moor over in Jutland , where tree wo n't grow because the soil be so sandy and the wind so strong , there once live a man and his wife , who have a little house and some sheep , and two son who help them to herd them .
The elder of the two be call Rasmus , and the young Niels .
Rasmus be quite content to look after sheep , a his father have do before him , but Niels have a fancy to be a hunter , and be not happy till he get hold of a gun and learn to shoot .
It be only an old muzzle-loading flint-lock after all , but Niels think it a great prize , and go about shoot at everything he could see .
So much do he practice that in the long run he become a wonderful shot , and be hear of even where he have never be see .
Some people say there be very little in him beyond this , but that be an idea they find reason to change in the course of time .
The parent of Rasmus and Niels be good Catholics , and when they be get old the mother take it into her head that she would like to go to Rome and see the Pope .
The others do n't see much use in this , but she have her way in the end : they sell all the sheep , shut up the house , and set out for Rome on foot .
Niels take his gun with him .
` What do you want with that ? '
say Rasmus ; ` we have plenty to carry without it . '
But Niels could not be happy without his gun , and take it all the same .
It be in the hot part of summer that they begin their journey , so hot that they could not travel at all in the middle of the day , and they be afraid to do it by night l they might lose their way or fall into the hand of robber .
One day , a little before sunset , they come to an inn which lay at the edge of a forest .
` We have well stay here for the night , ' say Rasmus .
` What an idea ! '
say Niels , who be grow impatient at the slow progress they be make .
` We ca n't travel by day for the heat , and we remain where we be all night .
It will be long enough before we get to Rome if we go on at this rate . '
Rasmus be unwilling to go on , but the two old people side with Niels , who say , ` The night be n't dark , and the moon will soon be up .
We can ask at the inn here , and find out which way we ought to take . '
So they hold on for some time , but at last they come to a small opening in the forest , and here they find that the road split in two .
There be no sign-post to direct them , and the people in the inn have not tell them which of the two road to take .
` What 's to be do now ? '
say Rasmus . '
I think we have well have stay at the inn . '
` There 's no harm do , ' say Niels .
` The night be warm , and we can wait here till morning .
One of u will keep watch till midnight , and then waken the other . '
Rasmus choose to take the first watch , and the others lay down to sleep .
It be very quiet in the forest , and Rasmus could hear the deer and fox and other animal move about among the rustle leaf .
After the moon rise he could see them occasionally , and when a big stag come quite close to him he get hold of Niels ' gun and shot it .
Niels be waken by the report .
` What 's that ? '
he say .
` I 've just shoot a stag , ' say Rasmus , highly pleased with himself .
` That 's nothing , ' say Niels .
` I 've often shoot a sparrow , which be a much more difficult thing to do . '
It be now close on midnight , so Niels begin his watch , and Rasmus go to sleep .
It begin to get colder , and Niels begin to walk about a little to keep himself warm .
He soon find that they be not far from the edge of the forest , and when he climb up one of the tree there he could see out over the open country beyond .
At a little distance he saw a fire , and beside it there sit three giant , busy with broth and beef .
They be so huge that the spoon they use be as large a spade , and their fork as big a hay-forks : with these they lift whole bucketful of broth and great joint of meat out of an enormous pot which be set on the ground between them .
Niels be startle and rather scar at first , but he comfort himself with the thought that the giant be a good way off , and that if they come nearer he could easily hide among the bush .
After watch them for a little , however , he begin to get over his alarm , and finally slide down the tree again , resolve to get his gun and play some trick with them .
When he have climb back to his former position , he take good aim , and wait till one of the giant be just in the act of put a large piece of meat into his mouth .
Bang !
go Niels ' gun , and the bullet strike the handle of the fork so hard that the point go into the giant 's chin , instead of his mouth .
` None of your trick , ' growl the giant to the one who sit next him .
` What do you mean by hit my fork like that , and make me prick myself ? ' '
I never touch your fork , ' say the other .
` Do n't try to get up a quarrel with me . '
` Look at it , then , ' say the first .
` Do you suppose I stick it into my own chin for fun ? '
The two get so angry over the matter that each offer to fight the other there and then , but the third giant act a peace-maker , and they again fell to their eating .
While the quarrel be go on , Niels have load the gun again , and just a the second giant be about to put a nice tit-bit into his mouth , bang !
go the gun again , and the fork fly into a dozen piece .
This giant be even more furious than the first have be , and word be just come to blow , when the third giant again interpose .
` Do n't be fools , ' he say to them ; ` what 's the good of begin to fight among ourselves , when it be so necessary for the three of u to work together and get the upper hand over the king of this country .
It will be a hard enough task a it be , but it will be altogether hopeless if we do n't stick together .
Sit down again , and let u finish our meal ; I shall sit between you , and then neither of you can blame the other . '
Niels be too far away to hear their talk , but from their gesture he could guess what be happen , and think it good fun .
` Thrice be lucky , ' say he to himself ; ` I 'll have another shot yet . '
This time it be the third giant 's fork that catch the bullet , and snap in two .
` Well , ' say he , ` if I be as foolish a you two , I would also fly into a rage , but I begin to see what time of day it be , and I 'm go off this minute to see who it be that 's play these trick with u . '
So well have the giant make his observation , that though Niels climb down the tree a fast a he could , so a to hide among the bush , he have just get to the ground when the enemy be upon him .
` Stay where you be , ' say the giant , ` or I 'll put my foot on you , and there wo n't be much of you leave after that . '
Niels give in , and the giant carry him back to his comrade .
` You do n't deserve any mercy at our hand , ' say his captor ` but a you be such a good shot you may be of great use to u , so we shall spare your life , if you will do u a service .
Not far from here there stand a castle , in which the king 's daughter live ; we be at war with the king , and want to get the upper hand of him by carry off the princess , but the castle be so well guard that there be no get into it .
By our skill in magic we have cast sleep on every live thing in the castle , except a little black dog , and , as long a he be awake , we be no good off than before ; for , as soon a we begin to climb over the wall , the little dog will hear u , and it barking will waken all the others again .
Having get you , we can place you where you will be able to shoot the dog before it begin to bark , and then no one can hinder u from get the princess into our hand .
If you do that , we shall not only let you off , but reward you handsomely . '
Niels have to consent , and the giant set out for the castle at once .
It be surround by a very high rampart , so high that even the giant could not touch the top of it .
` How be I to get over that ? '
say Niels .
` Quite easily , ' say the third giant ; ` I 'll throw you up on it . '
` No , thanks , ' say Niels . '
I might fall down on the other side , or break my leg or neck , and then the little dog would n't get shoot after all . '
` No fear of that , ' say the giant ; ` the rampart be quite wide on the top , and cover with long grass , so that you will come down as softly a though you fell on a feather-bed . '
Niels have to believe him , and allow the giant to throw him up .
He come down on his foot quite unhurt , but the little black dog hear the dump , and rush out of it kennel at once .
It be just open it mouth to bark , when Niels fire , and it fell dead on the spot .
` Go down on the inside now , ' say the giant , ` and see if you can open the gate to u . '
Niels make his way down into the courtyard , but on his way to the outer gate he find himself at the entrance to the large hall of the castle .
The door be open , and the hall be brilliantly light , though there be no one to be see .
Niels go in here and look round him : on the wall there hang a huge sword without a sheath , and beneath it be a large drinking-horn , mount with silver .
Niels go close to look at these , and saw that the horn have letter engrave on the silver rim : when he take it down and turn it round , he find that the inscription be : -- Whoever drink the wine I hold Can wield the sword that hang above ; Then let him use it for the right , And win a royal maiden 's love .
Niels take out the silver stopper of the horn , and drink some of the wine , but when he try to take down the sword he find himself unable to move it .
So he hang up the horn again , and go far in to the castle .
` The giant can wait a little , ' he say .
Before long he come to an apartment in which a beautiful princess lay asleep in a bed , and on a table by her side there lay a gold-hemmed handkerchief .
Niels tear this in two , and put one half in his pocket , leave the other half on the table .
On the floor he saw a pair of gold-embroidered slipper , and one of these he also put in his pocket .
After that he go back to the hall , and take down the horn again .
` Perhaps I have to drink all that be in it before I can move the sword , ' he think ; so he put it to his lip again and drink till it be quite empty .
When he have do this , he could wield the sword with the great of ease , and felt himself strong enough to do anything , even to fight the giant he have leave outside , who be no doubt wonder why he have not open the gate to them before this time .
To kill the giant , he think , would be use the sword for the right ; but a to win the love of the princess , that be a thing which the son of a poor sheep-farmer need not hope for .
When Niels come to the gate of the castle , he find that there be a large door and a small one , so he open the latter .
` Ca n't you open the big door ? '
say the giant ; ` we shall hardly be able to get in at this one . '
` The bar be too heavy for me to draw , ' say Niels ; ` if you stoop a little you can quite well come in here . '
The first giant accordingly bend down and enter in a stooping posture , but before he have time to straighten his back again Niels make a sweep with the sword , and oft go the giant 's head .
To push the body aside a it fell be quite easy for Niels , so strong have the wine make him , and the second giant a he enter meet the same reception .
The third be slow in coming , so Niels call out to him : ` Be quick , ' he say , ` you be surely the old of the three , since you be so slow in your movement , but I ca n't wait here long ; I must get back to my own people as soon a possible . '
So the third also come in , and be serve in the same way .
It appear from the story that giant be not give fair play !
By this time day be begin to break , and Niels think that his folk might already be search for him , so , instead of wait to see what take place at the castle , he run off to the forest as fast a he could , take the sword with him .
He find the others still asleep , so he wake them up , and they again set out on their journey .
Of the night 's adventure he say not a word , and when they ask where he get the sword , he only point in the direction of the castle , and say , ` Over that way . '
They think he have find it , and ask no more question .
When Niels leave the castle , he shut the door behind him , and it close with such a bang that the porter wake up .
He could scarcely believe his eye when he saw the three headless giant lie in a heap in the courtyard , and could not imagine what have take place .
The whole castle be soon arouse , and then everybody wonder at the affair : it be soon see that the body be those of the king 's great enemy , but how they come to be there and in that condition be a perfect mystery .
Then it be notice that the drinking-horn be empty and the sword go , while the princess report that half of her handkerchief and one of her slipper have be take away .
How the giant have be kill seem a little clearer now , but who have do it be a great a puzzle a before .
The old knight who have charge of the castle say that in his opinion it must have be some young knight , who have immediately set off to the king to claim the hand of the princess .
This sound likely , but the messenger who be send to the Court return with the news that no one there know anything about the matter .
` We must find him , however , ' say the princess ; ` for if he be willing to marry me I can not in honour refuse him , after what my father put on the horn . '
She take council with her father 's wise men a to what ought to be do , and among other thing they advise her to build a house beside the highway , and put over the door this inscription : -- ` Whoever will tell the story of his life , may stay here three night for nothing . '
This be do , and many strange tale be tell to the princess , but none of the traveller say a word about the three giant .
In the meantime Niels and the others tramp on towards Rome .
Autumn pass , and winter be just begin when they come to the foot of a great range of mountain , tower up to the sky .
` Must we go over these ? '
say they .
` We shall be freeze to death or bury in the snow . '
` Here come a man , ' say Niels ; ` let u ask him the way to Rome . '
They do so , and be tell that there be no other way .
` And be it far yet ? '
say the old people , who be begin to be wear out by the long journey .
The man hold up his foot so that they could see the sole of his shoe ; it be wear as thin a paper , and there be a hole in the middle of it .
` These shoe be quite new when I leave Rome , ' he say , ` and look at them now ; that will tell you whether you be far from it or not . '
This discourage the old people so much that they give up all thought of finish the journey , and only wish to get back to Denmark as quickly a they could .
What with the winter and bad road they take long to return than they have take to go , but in the end they find themselves in sight of the forest where they have sleep before .
` What 's this ? '
say Rasmus .
` Here 's a big house build since we pass this way before . '
` So it be , ' say Peter ; ` let 's stay all night in it . '
` No , we ca n't afford that , ' say the old people ; ` it will be too dear for the like of u . '
However , when they saw what be write above the door , they be all well please to get a night 's lodging for nothing .
They be well receive , and have so much attention give to them , that the old people be quite put out by it .
After they have get time to rest themselves , the princess 's steward come to hear their story .
` You saw what be write above the door , ' he say to the father .
` Tell me who you be and what your history have be . '
` Dear me , I have nothing of any importance to tell you , ' say the old man , ` and I be sure we should never have make so bold a to trouble you at all if it have n't be for the young of our two son here . '
` Never mind that , ' say the steward ; ` you be very welcome if you will only tell me the story of your life . '
` Well , well , I will , ' say he , ` but there be nothing to tell about it .
I and my wife have live all our day on a moor in North Jutland , until this last year , when she take a fancy to go to Rome .
We set out with our two son but turn back long before we get there , and be now on our way home again .
That 's all my own story , and our two son have live with u all their day , so there be nothing more to be tell about them either . '
` Yes there be , ' say Rasmus ; ` when we be on our way south , we sleep in the wood near here one night , and I shoot a stag . '
The steward be so much accustom to hear story of no importance that he think there be no use go further with this , but report to the princess that the newcomer have nothing to tell .
` Did you question them all ? '
she say .
` Well , no ; not directly , ' say he ; ` but the father say that none of them could tell me any more than he have do . '
` You be get careless , ' say the princess ; ' I shall go and talk to them myself . '
Niels know the princess again as soon a she enter the room , and be greatly alarmed , for he immediately suppose that all this be a device to discover the person who have run away with the sword , the slipper and the half of the handkerchief , and that it would fare badly with him if he be discover .
So he tell his story much the same a the others do -LRB- Niels be not very particular -RRB- , and think he have escape all far trouble , when Rasmus put in his word .
` You 've forget something , Niels , ' he say ; ` you remember you find a sword near here that night I shoot the stag . '
` Where be the sword ? '
say the princess . '
I know , ' say the steward , ' I saw where he lay it down when they come in ; ' and off he go to fetch it , while Niels wonder whether he could make his escape in the meantime .
Before he have make up his mind , however , the steward be back with the sword , which the princess recognise at once .
` Where do you get this ? '
she say to Niels .
Niels be silent , and wonder what the usual penalty be for a poor sheep-farmer 's son who be so unfortunate a to deliver a princess and carry off thing from her bed-room .
` See what else he have about him , ' say the princess to the steward , and Niels have to submit to be search : out of one pocket come a gold-embroidered slipper , and out of another the half of a gold-hemmed handkerchief .
` That be enough , ' say the princess ; ` now we need n't ask any more question .
Send for my father the king at once . '
` Please let me go , ' say Niels ; ' I do you a much good a harm , at any rate . '
` Why , who say anything about do harm ? '
say the princess .
` You must stay here till my father come . '
The way in which the princess smile when she say this give Niels some hope that thing might not be bad for him after all , and he be yet more encouraged when he think of the word engraver on the horn , though the last line still seem too good to be true .
However , the arrival of the king soon settle the matter : the princess be willing and so be Niels , and in a few day the wedding bell be ring .
Niels be make an earl by that time , and look as handsome a any of them when dress in all his robe .
Before long the old king die , and Niels reign after him ; but whether his father and mother stay with him , or go back to the moor in Jutland , or be send to Rome in a carriage and four , be something that all the historian of his reign have forget to mention .
Shepherd Paul Once upon a time a shepherd be take his flock out to pasture , when he find a little baby lie in a meadow , leave there by some wicked person , who think it be too much trouble to look after it .
The shepherd be fond of child , so he take the baby home with him and give it plenty of milk , and by the time the boy be fourteen he could tear up oaks a if they be weed .
Then Paul , a the shepherd have call him , grow tire of living at home , and go out into the world to try his luck .
He walk on for many mile , see nothing that surprise him , but in an open space of the wood he be astonish at find a man comb tree a another man would comb flax .
` Good morning , friend , ' say Paul ; ` upon my word , you must be a strong man ! '
The man stop his work and laugh . '
I be Tree Comber , ' he answer proudly ; ` and the great wish of my life be to wrestle with Shepherd Paul . '
` May all your wish be fulfil a easily , for I be Shepherd Paul , and can wrestle with you at once , ' reply the lad ; and he seize Tree Comber and fling him with such force to the ground that he sink up to his knee in the earth .
However , in a moment he be up again , and catch hold of Paul , throw him so that he sink up to his waist ; but then it be Paul 's turn again , and this time the man be bury up to his neck .
` That be enough , ' cry he ; ' I see you be a smart fellow , let u become friend . '
` Very good , ' answer Paul , and they continue their journey together .
By-and-by they reach a man who be grind stone to powder in his hand , a if they have be nut .
` Good morning , ' say Paul politely ; ` upon my word , you must be a strong fellow ! ' '
I be Stone Crusher , ' answer the man , and the great wish of my life be to wrestle with Shepherd Paul . '
` May all your wish be a easily fulfil , for I be Shepherd Paul , and will wrestle with you at once , ' and the sport begin .
After a short time the man declare himself beat , and beg leave to go with them ; so they all three travel together .
A little further on they come upon a man who be knead iron a if it have be dough .
` Good morning , ' say Paul , ` you must be a strong fellow . ' '
I be Iron Kneader , and should like to fight Shepherd Paul , ' answer he .
` Let u begin at once then , ' reply Paul ; and on this occasion also , Paul get the good of his foe , and they all four continue their journey .
At midday they enter a forest , and Paul stop suddenly .
` We three will go and look for game , ' he say , ` and you , Tree Comber , will stay behind and prepare a good supper for u . '
So Tree Comber set to work to boil and roast , and when dinner be nearly ready , a little dwarf with a pointed beard stroll up to the place .
` What be you cook ? '
ask he , ` give me some of it . '
` I 'll give you some on your back , if you like , ' answer Tree Comber rudely .
The dwarf take no notice , but wait patiently till the dinner be cook , then suddenly throw Tree Comber on the ground , he eat up the content of the saucepan and vanish .
Tree Comber felt rather ashamed of himself , and set about boil some more vegetable , but they be still very hard when the hunter return , and though they complain of his bad cooking , he do not tell them about the dwarf .
Next day Stone Crusher be leave behind , and after him Iron Kneader , and each time the dwarf appear , and they fare no good than Tree Comber have do .
The fourth day Paul say to them : ` My friend , there must be some reason why your cooking have always be so bad , now you shall go and hunt and I will stay behind . '
So they go off , amuse themselves by think what be in store for Paul .
He set to work at once , and have just get all his vegetable simmer in the pot when the dwarf appear a before , and ask to have some of the stew .
` Be off , ' cry Paul , snatch up the saucepan a he speak .
The dwarf try to get hold of his collar , but Paul seize him by the beard , and tie him to a big tree so that he could not stir , and go on quietly with his cooking .
The hunter come back early , long to see how Paul have get on , and , to their surprise , dinner be quite ready for them .
` You be great useless creature , ' say he , ` who could n't even outwit that little dwarf .
When we have finish supper I will show you what I have do with him ! '
But when they reach the place where Paul have leave the dwarf , neither he nor the tree be to be see , for the little fellow have pull it up by the root and run away , drag it after him .
The four friend follow the track of the tree and find that it end in a deep hole .
` He must have go down here , ' say Paul , ` and I will go after him .
See !
there be a basket that will do for me to sit in , and a cord to lower me with .
But when I pull the cord again , lose no time in draw the basket up . '
And he step into the basket , which be lower by his friend .
At last it touch the ground and he jump out and look about him .
He be in a beautiful valley , full of meadow and stream , with a splendid castle standing by .
As the door be open he walk in , but a lovely maiden meet him and implore him to go back , for the owner of the castle be a dragon with six head , who have steal her from her home and bring her down to this underground spot .
But Paul refuse to listen to all her entreaty , and declare that he be not afraid of the dragon , and do not care how many head he have ; and he sit down calmly to wait for him .
In a little while the dragon come in , and all the long teeth in his six head chatter with anger at the sight of the stranger . '
I be Shepherd Paul , ' say the young man , ` and I have come to fight you , and a I be in a hurry we have well begin at once . '
` Very good , ' answer the dragon . '
I be sure of my supper , but let u have a mouthful of something first , just to give u an appetite . '
Whereupon he begin to eat some huge boulder a if they have be cake , and when he have quite finish , he offer Paul one .
Paul be not fond of boulder , but he take a wooden knife and cut one in two , then he snatch up both half in his hand and throw them with all his strength at the dragon , so that two out of the six head be smash in .
At this the dragon , with a mighty roar , rush upon Paul , but he spring on one side , and with a swing blow cut off two of the other head .
Then , seize the monster by the neck , he dash the remain head against the rock .
When the maiden heard that the dragon be dead , she thank her deliverer with tear in her eye , but tell him that her two young sister be in the power of dragon still fiercer and more horrible than this one .
He vow that his sword should never rest in it sheath till they be set free , and bid the girl come with him , and show him the way .
The maiden gladly consent to go with him , but first she give him a golden rod , and bid him strike the castle with it .
He do so , and it instantly change into a golden apple , which he put in his pocket .
After that , they start on their search .
They have not go far before they reach the castle where the second girl be confine by the power of the dragon with twelve head , who have steal her from her home .
She be overjoy at the sight of her sister and of Paul , and bring him a shirt belonging to the dragon , which make every one who wear it twice as strong a they be before .
Scarcely have he put it on when the dragon come back , and the fight begin .
Long and hard be the struggle , but Paul 's sword and his shirt help him , and the twelve head lay dead upon the ground .
Then Paul change the castle into an apple , which he put into his pocket , and set out with the two girl in search of the third castle .
It be not long before they find it , and within the wall be the third sister , who be young and pretty than either of the other two .
Her husband have eighteen head , but when he quit the low region for the surface of the earth , he leave them all at home except one , which he change for the head of a little dwarf , with a pointed beard .
The moment that Paul know that this terrible dragon be no other than the dwarf whom he have tie to the tree , he long more than ever to fly at his throat .
But the thought of the eighteen head warn him to be careful , and the third sister bring him a silk shirt which would make him ten time strong than he be before .
He have scarcely put it on , when the whole castle begin to shake violently , and the dragon fly up the step into the hall .
` Well , my friend , so we meet once more !
Have you forget me ?
I be Shepherd Paul , and I have come to wrestle with you , and to free your wife from your clutch . '
` Ah , I be glad to see you again , ' say the dragon .
` Those be my two brother whom you kill , and now your blood shall pay for them . '
And he go into his room to look for his shirt and to drink some magic wine , but the shirt be on Paul 's back , and a for the wine , the girl have give a cupful to Paul and then have allow the rest to run out of the cask .
At this the dragon grow rather frightened , but in a moment have recollect his eighteen head , and be bold again .
` Come on , ' he cry , rear himself up and prepare to dart all his head at once at Paul .
But Paul jump underneath , and give an upward cut so that six of the head go roll down .
They be the best head too , and very soon the other twelve lay beside them .
Then Paul change the castle into an apple , and put it in his pocket .
Afterwards he and the three girl set off for the opening which lead upwards to the earth .
The basket be still there , dangle from the rope , but it be only big enough to hold the three girl , so Paul send them up , and tell them to be sure and let down the basket for him .
Unluckily , at the sight of the maiden ' beauty , so far beyond anything they have ever see , the friend forget all about Paul , and carry the girl straight away into a far country , so that they be not much good off than before .
Meanwhile Paul , mad with rage at the ingratitude of the three sister , vow he would be revenge upon them , and set about find some way of get back to earth .
But it be not very easy , and for month , and month , and month , he wander about underground , and , at the end , seem no nearer to fulfil his purpose than he be at the beginning .
At length , one day , he happen to pass the nest of a huge griffin , who have leave her young one all alone .
Just a Paul come along a cloud contain fire instead of rain burst overhead , and all the little griffin would certainly have be kill have not Paul spread his cloak over the nest and save them .
When their father return the young one tell him what Paul have do , and he lose no time in fly after Paul , and ask how he could reward him for his goodness .
` By carry me up to the earth , ' answered Paul ; and the griffin agree , but first go to get some food to eat on the way , a it be a long journey .
` Now get on my back , ' he say to Paul , ` and when I turn my head to the right , cut a slice off the bullock that hang on that side , and put it in my mouth , and when I turn my head to the left , draw a cupful of wine from the cask that hang on that side , and pour it down my throat . '
For three day and three night Paul and the griffin fly upwards , and on the fourth morning it touch the ground just outside the city where Paul 's friend have go to live .
Then Paul thank him and bid him farewell , and he return home again .
At first Paul be too tired to do anything but sleep , but as soon a he be rest he start off in search of the three faithless one , who almost die from fright at the sight of him , for they have think he would never come back to reproach them for their wickedness .
` You know what to expect , ' Paul say to them quietly .
` You shall never see me again .
Off with you ! '
He next take the three apple out of his pocket and place them all in the prettiest place he could find ; after which he tap them with his golden rod , and they become castle again .
He give two of the castle to the eldest sister , and keep the other for himself and the young , whom he marry , and there they be live still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How The Wicked Tanuki Was Punished The hunter have hunt the wood for so many year that no wild animal be any more to be find in it .
You might walk from one end to the other without ever see a hare , or a deer , or a boar , or hear the cooing of the dove in their nest .
If they be not dead , they have fly elsewhere .
Only three creature remain alive , and they have hide themselves in the thick part of the forest , high up the mountain .
These be a grey-furred , long-tailed tanuki , his wife the fox , who be one of his own family , and their little son .
The fox and the tanuki be very clever , prudent beast , and they also be skilled in magic , and by this mean have escape the fate of their unfortunate friend .
If they hear the twang of an arrow or saw the glitter of a spear , ever so far off , they lay very still , and be not to be tempt from their hiding-place , if their hunger be ever so great , or the game ever so delicious .
` We be not so foolish a to risk our life , ' they say to each other proudly .
But at length there come a day when , in spite of their prudence , they seem likely to die of starvation , for no more food be to be have .
Something have to be do , but they do not know what .
Suddenly a bright thought strike the tanuki . '
I have get a plan , ' he cry joyfully to his wife . '
I will pretend to be dead , and you must change yourself into a man , and take me to the village for sale .
It will be easy to find a buyer , tanukis ' skin be always want ; then buy some food with the money and come home again .
I will manage to escape somehow , so do not worry about me . '
The fox laugh with delight , and rub her paw together with satisfaction .
` Well , next time I will go , ' she say , ` and you can sell me . '
And then she change herself into a man , and pick up the stiff body of the tanuki , set off towards the village .
She find him rather heavy , but it would never have do to let him walk through the wood and risk his be see by somebody .
As the tanaki have foretell , buyer be many , and the fox hand him over to the person who offer the large price , and hurry to get some food with the money .
The buyer take the tanuki back to his house , and throw him into a corner go out .
Directly the tanaki find he be alone , he creep cautiously through a chink of the window , think , a he do so , how lucky it be that he be not a fox , and be able to climb .
Once outside , he hide himself in a ditch till it grow dusk , and then gallop away into the forest .
While the food last they be all three as happy a king ; but there soon arrive a day when the larder be as empty a ever .
` It be my turn now to pretend to be dead , ' cry the fox .
So the tanuki change himself into a peasant , and start for the village , with his wife 's body hanging over his shoulder .
A buyer be not long in come forward , and while they be make the bargain a wicked thought dart into the tanuki 's head , that if he get rid of the fox there would be more food for him and his son .
So a he put the money in his pocket he whisper softly to the buyer that the fox be not really dead , and that if he do not take care she might run away from him .
The man do not need twice tell .
He give the poor fox a blow on the head , which put an end to her , and the wicked tanuki go smile to the near shop .
In former time he have be very fond of his little son ; but since he have betray his wife he seem to have change all in a moment , for he would not give him as much a a bite , and the poor little fellow would have starve have he not find some nut and berry to eat , and he wait on , always hop that his mother would come back .
At length some notion of the truth begin to dawn on him ; but he be careful to let the old tanuki see nothing , though in his own mind he turn over plan from morning till night , wonder how best he might avenge his mother .
One morning , a the little tanuki be sit with his father , he remember , with a start , that his mother have teach him all she know of magic , and that he could work spell as well a his father , or perhaps well . '
I be as good a wizard a you , ' he say suddenly , and a cold chill run through the tanuki a he hear him , though he laugh , and pretend to think it a joke .
But the little tanaki stick to his point , and at last the father propose they should have a wager .
` Change yourself into any shape you like , ' say he , ` and I will undertake to know you .
I will go and wait on the bridge which lead over the river to the village , and you shall transform yourself into anything you please , but I will know you through any disguise . '
The little tanuki agree , and go down the road which his father have point out .
But instead of transform himself into a different shape , he just hide himself in a corner of the bridge , where he could see without be see .
He have not be there long when his father arrive and take up his place near the middle of the bridge , and soon after the king come by , follow by a troop of guard and all his court .
` Ah !
he think that now he have change himself into a king I shall not know him , ' think the old tanuki , and a the king pass in his splendid carriage , borne by his servant , he jump upon it cry : ' I have win my wager ; you can not deceive me . '
But in reality it be he who have deceive himself .
The soldier , conceive that their king be be attack , seize the tanuki by the leg and fling him over into the river , and the water close over him .
And the little tanoki saw it all , and rejoice that his mother 's death have be avenge .
Then he go back to the forest , and if he have not find it too lonely , he be probably live there still .
-LSB- From Japanische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Crab And The Monkey There be once a crab who live in a hole on the shady side of a mountain .
She be a very good housewife , and so careful and industrious that there be no creature in the whole country whose hole be so neat and clean a hers , and she take great pride in it .
One day she saw lie near the mouth of her hole a handful of cooked rice which some pilgrim must have let fall when he be stop to eat his dinner .
Delighted at this discovery , she hasten to the spot , and be carry the rice back to her hole when a monkey , who live in some tree near by , come down to see what the crab be do .
His eye shone at the sight of the rice , for it be his favourite food , and like the sly fellow he be , he propose a bargain to the crab .
She be to give him half the rice in exchange for the kernel of a sweet red kaki fruit which he have just eat .
He half expect that the crab would laugh in his face at this impudent proposal , but instead of do so she only look at him for a moment with her head on one side and then say that she would agree to the exchange .
So the monkey go off with his rice , and the crab return to her hole with the kernel .
For some time the crab saw no more of the monkey , who have go to pay a visit on the sunny side of the mountain ; but one morning he happen to pass by her hole , and find her sit under the shadow of a beautiful kaki tree .
` Good day , ' he say politely , ` you have some very fine fruit there !
I be very hungry , could you spare me one or two ? '
` Oh , certainly , ' reply the crab , ` but you must forgive me if I can not get them for you myself .
I be no tree-climber . '
` Pray do not apologise , ' answer the monkey .
` Now that I have your permission I can get them myself quite easily . '
And the crab consent to let him go up , merely say that he must throw her down half the fruit .
In another moment he be swing himself from branch to branch , eat all the ripe kaki and fill his pocket with the rest , and the poor crab saw to her disgust that the few he throw down to her be either not ripe at all or else quite rotten .
` You be a shock rogue , ' she call in a rage ; but the monkey take no notice , and go on eating as fast a he could .
The crab understood that it be no use her scolding , so she resolve to try what cunning would do .
` Sir Monkey , ' she say , ` you be certainly a very good climber , but now that you have eat so much , I be quite sure you would never be able to turn one of your somersault . '
The monkey pride himself on turn good somersault than any of his family , so he instantly go head over heel three time on the bough on which he be sit , and all the beautiful kaki that he have in his pocket roll to the ground .
Quick a lightning the crab pick them up and carry a quantity of them into her house , but when she come up for another the monkey sprang on her , and treat her so badly that he leave her for dead .
When he have beat her till his arm ache he go his way .
It be a lucky thing for the poor crab that she have some friend to come to her help or she certainly would have die then and there .
The wasp fly to her , and take her back to bed and look after her , and then he consult with a rice-mortar and an egg which have fall out of a nest near by , and they agree that when the monkey return , a he be sure to do , to steal the rest of the fruit , that they would punish him severely for the manner in which he have behave to the crab .
So the mortar climb up to the beam over the front door , and the egg lay quite still on the ground , while the wasp set down the water-bucket in a corner .
Then the crab dig itself a deep hole in the ground , so that not even the tip of her claw might be see .
Soon after everything be ready the monkey jump down from his tree , and creep to the door begin a long hypocritical speech , ask pardon for all he have do .
He wait for an answer of some sort , but none come .
He listen , but all be still ; then he peep , and saw no one ; then he go in .
He peer about for the crab , but in vain ; however , his eye fell on the egg , which he snatch up and set on the fire .
But in a moment the egg have burst into a thousand piece , and it sharp shell strike him in the face and scratch him horribly .
Smarting with pain he run to the bucket and stoop down to throw some water over his head .
As he stretch out his hand up start the wasp and sting him on the nose .
The monkey shriek and run to the door , but a he pass through down fell the mortar and strike him dead .
` After that the crab live happily for many year , and at length die in peace under her own kaki tree .
-LSB- From Japanische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Horse Gullfaxi And The Sword Gunnfoder Many many year ago there live a king and queen who have one only son , call Sigurd .
When the little boy be only ten year old the queen , his mother , fell ill and die , and the king , who love her dearly , build a splendid monument to his wife 's memory , and day after day he sit by it and bewail his sad loss .
One morning , a he sit by the grave , he notice a richly dress lady close to him .
He ask her name and she answer that it be Ingiborg , and seem surprised to see the king there all alone .
Then he tell her how he have lose his queen , and how he come daily to weep at her grave .
In return , the lady inform him that she have lately lose her husband , and suggest that they might both find it a comfort if they make friend .
This please the king so much that he invite her to his palace , where they saw each other often ; and after a time he marry her .
After the wedding be over he soon regain his good spirit , and use to ride out hunt a in old day ; but Sigurd , who be very fond of his stepmother , always stay at home with her .
One evening Ingiborg say to Sigurd : ` To-morrow your father be go out hunting , and you must go with him . '
But Sigurd say he would much rather stay at home , and the next day when the king ride off Sigurd refuse to accompany him .
The stepmother be very angry , but he would not listen , and at last she assure him that he would be sorry for his disobedience , and that in future he have good do a he be tell .
After the hunt party have start she hide Sigurd under her bed , and bid him be sure to lie there till she call him .
Sigurd lay very still for a long while , and be just think it be no good staying there any more , when he felt the floor shake under him a if there be an earthquake , and peep out he saw a great giantess wad along ankle deep through the ground and plough it up a she walk .
` Good morning , Sister Ingiborg , ' cry she a she enter the room , ` be Prince Sigurd at home ? '
` No , ' say Ingiborg ; ` he ride off to the forest with his father this morning . '
And she lay the table for her sister and set food before her .
After they have both do eat the giantess say : ` Thank you , sister , for your good dinner -- the best lamb , the best can of beer and the best drink I have ever have ; but -- be not Prince Sigurd at home ? '
Ingiborg again say ` No ' ; and the giantess take leave of her and go away .
When she be quite out of sight Ingiborg tell Sigurd to come out of his hiding-place .
The king return home at night , but his wife tell him nothing of what have happen , and the next morning she again beg the prince to go out hunt with his father .
Sigurd , however , reply a before , that he would much rather stay at home .
So once more the king ride off alone .
This time Ingiborg hid Sigurd under the table , and scold him well for not do a she bid him .
For some time he lay quite still , and then suddenly the floor begin to shake , and a giantess come along wad half way to her knee through the ground .
As she enter the house she ask , a the first one have do : ` Well , Sister Ingiborg , be Prince Sigurd at home ? '
` No , ' answer Ingiborg , ' he ride off hunt with his father this morning ' ; and go to the cupboard she lay the table for her sister .
When they have finish their meal the giantess rise and say : ` Thank you for all these nice dish , and for the best lamb , the best can of beer and the nice drink I have ever have ; but -- be Prince Sigurd really not at home ? '
` No , certainly not ! '
replied Ingiborg ; and with that they take leave of each other .
When she be well out of sight Sigurd crept from under the table , and his stepmother declare that it be most important that he should not stay at home next day ; but he say he do not see what harm could come of it , and he do not mean to go out hunting , and the next morning , when the king prepare to start , Ingiborg implore Sigurd to accompany his father .
But it be all no use , he be quite obstinate and would not listen to a word she say .
` You will have to hide me again , ' say he , so no sooner have the king go than Ingiborg hide Sigurd between the wall and the panelling , and by-and-by there be hear once more a sound like an earthquake , a a great giantess , wad knee deep through the ground , come in at the door .
` Good day , Sister Ingiborg ! '
she cry , in a voice like thunder ; ` be Prince Sigurd at home ? '
` Oh , no , ' answer Ingiborg , ` he be enjoy himself out there in the forest .
I expect it will be quite dark before he come back again . '
` That 's a lie ! '
shout the giantess .
And they squabble about it till they be tire , after which Ingiborg lay the table ; and when the giantess have do eat she say : ` Well , I must thank you for all these good thing , and for the best lamb , the best can of beer and the best drink I have have for a long time ; but -- be you quite sure Prince Sigurd be not at home ? '
` Quite , ' say Ingiborg .
` I 've tell you already that he ride off with his father this morning to hunt in the forest . '
At this the giantess roar out with a terrible voice : ` If he be near enough to hear my word , I lay this spell on him : Let him be half scorched and half wither ; and may he have neither rest nor peace till he find me . '
And with these word she stalk off .
For a moment Ingiborg stand a if turn to stone , then she fetch Sigurd from his hiding-place , and , to her horror , there he be , half scorch and half wither .
` Now you see what have happen through your own obstinacy , ' say she ; ` but we must lose no time , for your father will soon be come home . '
Going quickly into the next room she open a chest and take out a ball of string and three gold ring , and give them to Sigurd , say : ` If you throw this ball on the ground it will roll along till it reach some high cliff .
There you will see a giantess look out over the rock .
She will call down to you and say : `` Ah , this be just what I want !
Here be Prince Sigurd .
He shall go into the pot to-night '' ; but do n't be frighten by her .
She will draw you up with a long boat-hook , and you must greet her from me , and give her the small ring a a present .
This will please her , and she will ask you to wrestle with her .
When you be exhaust , she will offer you a horn to drink out of , and though she do not know it , the wine will make you so strong that you will easily be able to conquer her .
After that she will let you stay there all night .
The same thing will happen with my two other sister .
But , above all , remember this : should my little dog come to you and lay his paw on you , with tear run down his face , then hurry home , for my life will be in danger .
Now , good-bye , and do n't forget your stepmother . '
Then Ingiborg drop the ball on the ground , and Sigurd bid her farewell .
That same even the ball stop roll at the foot of some high rock , and on glance up , Sigurd saw the giantess look out at the top .
` Ah , just what I want ! '
she cry out when she saw him ; ` here be Prince Sigurd .
He shall go into the pot to-night .
Come up , my friend , and wrestle with me . '
With these word she reach out a long boat hook and haul him up the cliff .
At first Sigurd be rather frightened , but he remember what Ingiborg have say , and give the giantess her sister 's message and the ring .
The giantess be delight , and challenge him to wrestle with her .
Sigurd be fond of all game , and begin to wrestle with joy ; but he be no match for the giantess , and a she notice that he be get faint she give him a horn to drink out of , which be very foolish on her part , a it make Sigurd so strong that he soon overthrow her .
` You may stay here to-night , ' say she ; and he be glad of the rest .
Next morning Sigurd throw down the ball again and away it roll for some time , till it stop at the foot of another high rock .
Then he look up and saw another giantess , even big and ugly than the first one , who call out to him : ` Ah , this be just what I want !
Here be Prince Sigurd .
He shall go into the pot to-night .
Come up quickly and wrestle with me . '
And she lose no time in haul him up .
The prince give her his stepmother 's message and the second large ring .
The giantess be greatly pleased when she saw the ring , and at once challenge Sigurd to wrestle with her .
They struggle for a long time , till at last Sigurd grow faint ; so she hand him a horn to drink from , and when he have drunk he become so strong that he throw her down with one hand .
On the third morning Sigurd once more laid down his ball , and it roll far away , till at last it stop under a very high rock indeed , over the top of which the most hideous giantess that ever be see look down .
When she saw who be there she cry out : ` Ah , this be just what I want !
Here come Prince Sigurd .
Into the pot he go this very night .
Come up here , my friend , and wrestle with me . '
And she haul him up just a her sister have do .
Sigurd then give her his stepmother 's message and the last and large ring .
The sight of the red gold delight the giantess , and she challenge Sigurd to a wrestling match .
This time the fight be fierce and long , but when at length Sigurd 's strength be fail the giantess give him something to drink , and after he have drunk it he soon bring her to her knee .
` You have beat me , ' she gasp , so now , listen to me .
` Not far from here be a lake .
Go there ; you will find a little girl play with a boat .
Try to make friend with her , and give her this little gold ring .
You be strong than ever you be , and I wish you good luck . '
With these word they take leave of each other , and Sigurd wander on till he reach the lake , where he find the little girl play with a boat , just a he have be tell .
He go up to her and ask what her name be .
She be call Helga , she answer , and she live near by .
So Sigurd give her the little gold ring , and propose that they should have a game .
The little girl be delight , for she have no brother or sister , and they play together all the rest of the day .
When even come Sigurd ask leave to go home with her , but Helga at first forbid him , a no stranger have ever manage to enter their house without be find out by her father , who be a very fierce giant .
However , Sigurd persist , and at length she give way ; but when they come near the door she hold her glove over him and Sigurd be at once transform into a bundle of wool .
Helga tuck the bundle under her arm and throw it on the bed in her room .
Almost at the same moment her father rush in and hunt round in every corner , cry out : ` This place smell of men .
What 's that you throw on the bed , Helga ? ' '
A bundle of wool , ' say she .
` Oh , well , perhaps it be that I smelt , ' say the old man , and trouble himself no more .
The following day Helga go out to play and take the bundle of wool with her under her arm .
When she reach the lake she hold her glove over it again and Sigurd resume his own shape .
They play the whole day , and Sigurd teach Helga all sort of game she have never even heard of .
As they walk home in the evening she say : ` We shall be able to play good still to-morrow , for my father will have to go to the town , so we can stay at home . '
When they be near the house Helga again hold her glove over Sigurd , and once more he be turn into a bundle of wool , and she carry him in without his be see .
Very early next morning Helga 's father go to the town , and as soon a he be well out of the way the girl hold up her glove and Sigurd be himself again .
Then she take him all over the house to amuse him , and open every room , for her father have give her the key before he leave ; but when they come to the last room Sigurd notice one key on the bunch which have not be use and ask which room it belong to . '
Helga grow red and do not answer . '
I suppose you do n't mind my see the room which it open ? '
ask Sigurd , and a he speak he saw a heavy iron door and beg Helga to unlock it for him .
But she tell him she dare not do so , at least if she do open the door it must only be a very tiny chink ; and Sigurd declare that would do quite well .
The door be so heavy , that it take Helga some time to open it , and Sigurd grow so impatient that he push it wide open and walk in .
There he saw a splendid horse , all ready saddle , and just above it hang a richly ornament sword on the handle of which be engrave these word : ` He who rid this horse and wear this sword will find happiness . '
At the sight of the horse Sigurd be so fill with wonder that he be not able to speak , but at last he gasp out : ` Oh , do let me mount him and ride him round the house !
Just once ; I promise not to ask any more . '
` Ride him round the house ! '
cry Helga , grow pale at the mere idea .
` Ride Gullfaxi !
Why father would never , never forgive me , if I let you do that . '
` But it ca n't do him any harm , ' argue Sigurd ; ` you do n't know how careful I will be .
I have ride all sort of horse at home , and have never fall off not once .
Oh , Helga , do ! '
` Well , perhaps , if you come back directly , ' reply Helga , doubtfully ; ` but you must be very quick , or father will find out ! '
But , instead of mount Gullfaxi , a she expect , Sigurd stand still .
` And the sword , ' he say , look fondly up to the place where it hang .
` My father be a king , but he have not get any sword so beautiful a that .
Why , the jewel in the scabbard be more splendid than the big ruby in his crown !
Has it get a name ?
Some sword have , you know . '
` It be call `` Gunnfjoder , '' the `` Battle Plume , '' ' answered Helga , ` and `` Gullfaxi '' mean `` Golden Mane . ''
I do n't suppose , if you be to get on the horse at all , it would matter your take the sword too .
And if you take the sword you will have to carry the stick and the stone and the twig as well . '
` They be easily carry , ' say Sigurd , gaze at them with scorn ; ` what wretched dried-up thing !
Why in the world do you keep them ? '
` Bather say that he would rather lose Gullfaxi than lose them , ' reply Helga , ` for if the man who rid the horse be pursue he have only to throw the twig behind him and it will turn into a forest , so thick that even a bird could hardly fly through .
But if his enemy happen to know magic , and can throw down the forest , the man have only to strike the stone with the stick , and hailstone as large a pigeon ' egg will rain down from the sky and will kill every one for twenty mile round . '
Having say all this she allow Sigurd to ride ` just once ' round the house , take the sword and other thing with him .
But when he have ride round , instead of dismounting , he suddenly turn the horse 's head and gallop away .
Soon after this Helga 's father come home and find his daughter in tear .
He ask what be the matter , and when he hear all that have happen , he rush off as fast a he could to pursue Sigurd .
Now , a Sigurd happen to look behind him he saw the giant come after him with great stride , and in all haste he throw the twig behind him .
Immediately such a thick wood spring up at once between him and his enemy that the giant be oblige to run home for an axe with which to cut his way through .
The next time Sigurd glance round , the giant be so near that he almost touch Gullfaxi 's tail .
In an agony of fear Sigurd turn quickly in his saddle and hit the stone with the stick .
No sooner have he do this than a terrible hailstorm burst behind , and the giant be kill on the spot .
But have Sigurd strike the stone without turn round , the hail would have drive right into his face and kill him instead .
After the giant be dead Sigurd rode on towards his own home , and on the way he suddenly meet his stepmother 's little dog , run to meet him , with tear pour down it face .
He gallop on as hard a he could , and on arrive find nine men-servants in the act of tie Queen Ingiborg to a post in the courtyard of the palace , where they intend to burn her .
Wild with anger Prince Sigurd sprang from his horse and , sword in hand , fell on the men and kill them all .
Then he release his stepmother , and go in with her to see his father .
The king lay in bed sick with sorrow , and neither eat nor drinking , for he think that his son have be kill by the queen .
He could hardly believe his own eye for joy when he saw the prince , and Sigurd tell him all his adventure .
After that Prince Sigurd ride back to fetch Helga , and a great feast be make which last three day ; and every one say no bride be ever see so beautiful a Helga , and they live happily for many , many year , and everybody love them .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Story Of The Sham Prince , Or The Ambitious Tailor Once upon a time there live a respectable young tailor call Labakan , who work for a clever master in Alexandria .
No one could call Labakan either stupid or lazy , for he could work extremely well and quickly -- when he choose ; but there be something not altogether right about him .
Sometimes he would stitch away as fast a if he have a red-hot needle and a burning thread , and at other time he would sit lose in thought , and with such a queer look about him that his fellow-workmen use to say , ` Labakan have get on his aristocratic face today . '
On Fridays he would put on his fine robe which he have buy with the money he have manage to save up , and go to the mosque .
As he come back , after prayer , if he meet any friend who say ` Good-day , ' or ` How be you , friend Labakan ? '
he would wave his hand graciously or nod in a condescending way ; and if his master happen to say to him , a he sometimes do , ` Really , Labakan , you look like a prince , ' he be delight , and would answer , ` Have you notice it too ? '
or ` Well , so I have long think . '
Things go on like this for some time , and the master put up with Labakan 's absurdity because he be , on the whole , a good fellow and a clever workman .
One day , the sultan 's brother happen to be pass through Alexandria , and want to have one of his state robe alter , so he send for the master tailor , who hand the robe over to Labakan a his best workman .
In the evening , when every one have leave the workshop and go home , a great longing drive Labakan back to the place where the royal robe hung .
He stand a long time gaze at it , admire the rich material and the splendid embroidery in it .
At last he could hold out no longer .
He felt he must try it on , and lo !
and behold , it fit a though it have be make for him .
` Am not I as good a prince a any other ? '
he ask himself , a he proudly pace up and down the room .
` Has not the master often say that I seem bear to be a prince ? '
It seem to him that he must be the son of some unknown monarch , and at last he determine to set out at once and travel in search of his proper rank .
He felt a if the splendid robe have be send him by some kind fairy , and he take care not to neglect such a precious gift .
He collect all his saving , and , conceal by the darkness of the night , he pass through the gate of Alexandria .
The new prince excite a good deal of curiosity where ever he go , for his splendid robe and majestic manner do not seem quite suitable to a person travel on foot .
If anyone ask question , he only reply with an important air of mystery that he have his own reason for not rid .
However , he soon find out that walk make him ridiculous , so at last he buy a quiet , steady old horse , which he manage to get cheap .
One day , a he be amble along upon Murva -LRB- that be the horse 's name -RRB- , a horseman overtook him and ask leave to join him , so that they might both beguile the journey with pleasant talk .
The newcomer be a bright , cheerful , good-looking young man , who soon plunge into conversation and ask many question .
He tell Labakan that his own name be Omar , that he be a nephew of Elfi Bey , and be travel in order to carry out a command give him by his uncle on his death bed .
Labakan be not quite so open in his confidence , but hint that he too be of noble birth and be travel for pleasure .
The two young men take a fancy to each other and ride on together .
On the second day of their journey Labakan question Omar a to the order he have to carry out , and to his surprise heard this tale .
Elfi Bey , Pacha of Cairo , have bring up Omar from his early childhood , and the boy have never know his parent .
On his deathbed Elfi Bey call Omar to him , and then tell him that he be not his nephew , but the son of a great king , who , have be warn of come danger by his astrologer , have send the young prince away and make a vow not to see him till his twenty-second birthday .
Elfi Bey do not tell Omar his father 's name , but expressly desire him to be at a great pillar four day ' journey east of Alexandria on the fourth day of the come month , on which day he would be twenty-two year old .
Here he would meet some men , to whom he be to hand a dagger which Elfi Bey give him , and to say ` Here be I for whom you seek . '
If they answer : ` Praised be the Prophet who have preserve you , ' he be to follow them , and they would take him to his father .
Labakan be greatly surprised and interested by this story , but after hear it he could not help look on Prince Omar with envious eye , angry that his friend should have the position he himself long so much for .
He begin to make comparison between the prince and himself , and be oblige to confess that he be a fine-looking young man with very good manner and a pleasant expression .
At the same time , he felt sure that have he be in the prince 's place any royal father might have be glad to own him .
These thought haunt him all day , and he dream them all night .
He wake very early , and a he saw Omar sleep quietly , with a happy smile on his face , a wish arose in his mind to take by force or by cunning the thing which an unkind fate have deny him .
The dagger which be to act a a passport be stick in Omar 's girdle .
Labakan draw it gently out , and hesitate for a moment whether or not to plunge it into the heart of the sleep prince .
However , he shrink from the idea of murder , so he content himself with place the dagger in his own belt , and , saddle Omar 's swift horse for himself , be many mile away before the prince wake up to realise his loss .
For two day Labakan rode on steadily , fear l , after all , Omar might reach the meeting place before him .
At the end of the second day he saw the great pillar at a distance .
It stand on a little hill in the middle of a plain , and could be see a very long way off .
Labakan 's heart beat fast at the sight .
Though he have have some time in which to think over the part he mean to play his conscience make him rather uneasy .
However , the thought that he must certainly have be bear to be a king support him , and he bravely ride on .
The neighbourhood be quite bare and desert , and it be a good thing that the new prince have bring food for some time with him , a two day be still want till the appointed time .
Towards the middle of the next day he saw a long procession of horse and camel come towards him .
It halt at the bottom of the hill , and some splendid tent be pitch .
Everything look like the escort of some great man .
Labakan make a shrewd guess that all these people have come here on his account ; but he check his impatience , know that only on the fourth day could his wish be fulfil .
The first ray of the rise sun wake the happy tailor .
As he begin to saddle his horse and prepare to ride to the pillar , he could not help have some remorseful thought of the trick he have play and the blighted hope of the real prince .
But the die be cast , and his vanity whisper that he be a fine look a young man a the proud king might wish his son to be , and that , moreover , what have happen have happen .
With these thought he summon up all his courage sprang on his horse , and in less than a quarter of an hour be at the foot of the hill .
Here he dismount , tie the horse to a bush , and , draw out Prince Omar 's dagger climb up the hill .
At the foot of the pillar stand six men round a tall and stately person .
His superb robe of cloth of gold be gird round him by a white cashmere shawl , and his white , richly jewelled turban show that he be a man of wealth and high rank .
Labakan go straight up to him , and , bend low , hand him the dagger , say : ` Here be I whom you seek . '
` Praised be the Prophet who have preserve you !
reply the old man with tear of joy .
'Em brace me , my dear son Omar ! '
The proud tailor be deeply move by these solemn word , and with mingled shame and joy sank into the old king 's arm .
But his happiness be not long unclouded .
As he raise his head he saw a horseman who seem try to urge a tired or unwilling horse across the plain .
Only too soon Labakan recognise his own old horse , Murva , and the real Prince Omar , but have once tell a lie he make up his mind not to own his deceit .
At last the horseman reach the foot of the hill .
Here he fling himself from the saddle and hurry up to the pillar .
` Stop ! '
he cry , ` whoever you may be , and do not let a disgraceful impostor take you in .
My name be Omar , and let no one attempt to rob me of it . '
This turn of affair throw the standers-by into great surprise .
The old king in particular seem much move a he look from one face to the other .
At last Labakan speak with forced calmness , ` Most gracious lord and father , do not let yourself be deceive by this man .
As far a I know , he be a half-crazy tailor 's apprentice from Alexandria , call Labakan , who really deserve more pity than anger . '
These word infuriate the prince .
Foaming with rage , he try to press towards Labakan , but the attendant throw themselves upon him and hold him fast , whilst the king say , ` Truly , my dear son , the poor fellow be quite mad .
Let him be bind and place on a dromedary .
Perhaps we may be able to get some help for him . '
The prince 's first rage be over , and with tear he cry to the king , ` My heart tell me that you be my father , and in my mother 's name I entreat you to hear me . '
` Oh !
heaven forbid ! '
be the reply .
` He be talk nonsense again .
How can the poor man have get such notion into his head ? '
With these word the king take Labakan 's arm to support him down the hill .
They both mount richly caparison horse and rode across the plain at the head of their follower .
The unlucky prince be tie hand and foot , and fasten on a dromedary , a guard rid on either side and keep a sharp look-out on him .
The old king be Sached , Sultan of the Wachabites .
For many year he have have no child , but at length the son he have so long wished for be bear .
But the sooth-sayers and magician whom he consult a to the child 's future all say that until he be twenty-two year old he stand in danger of be injure by an enemy .
So , to make all safe , the sultan have confide the prince to his trusty friend Elfi Bey , and deprive himself of the happiness of see him for twenty-two year .
All this the sultan told Labakan , and be much please by his appearance and dignified manner .
When they reach their own country they be receive with every sign of joy , for the news of the prince 's safe return have spread like wildfire , and every town and village be decorate , whilst the inhabitant throng to greet them with cry of joy and thankfulness .
All this fill Labakan 's proud heart with rapture , whilst the unfortunate Omar follow in silent rage and despair .
At length they arrive in the capital , where the public rejoicing be grand and more brilliant than anywhere else .
The queen await them in the great hall of the palace , surround by her entire court .
It be get dark , and hundred of coloured hang lamp be light to turn night into day .
The bright hung round the throne on which the queen sit , and which stand above four step of pure gold inlaid with great amethyst .
The four great noble in the kingdom hold a canopy of crimson silk over the queen , and the Sheik of Medina fan her with a peacock-feather fan .
In this state she await her husband and her son .
She , too , have not see Omar since his birth , but so many dream have show her what he would look like that she felt she would know him among a thousand .
And now the sound of trumpet and drum and of shout and cheer outside announce the long look for moment .
The door fly open , and between row of low-bending courtier and servant the king approach the throne , lead his pretended son by the hand .
` Here , ' say he , ` be he for whom you have be long so many year . '
But the queen interrupt him , ` That be not my son ! '
she cry .
` That be not the face the Prophet have show me in my dream ! '
Just a the king be about to reason with her , the door be throw violently open , and Prince Omar rush in , follow by his keeper , whom he have manage to get away from .
He fling himself down before the throne , pant out , ` Here will I die ; kill me at once , cruel father , for I can not bear this shame any longer . '
Everyone press round the unhappy man , and the guard be about to seize him , when the queen , who at first be dumb with surprise , spring up from her throne .
` Hold ! '
cry she .
` This and no other be the right one ; this be the one whom my eye have never yet see , but whom my heart recognise . '
The guard have step back , but the king call to them in a furious voice to secure the madman .
` It be I who must judge , ' he say in tone of command ; ` and this matter can not be decide by woman 's dream , but by certain unmistakable sign .
This one ' -LRB- point to Labakan -RRB- ` be my son , for it be he who bring me the token from my friend Elfi -- the dagger . '
` He steal it from me , ' shriek Omar ; ` he betray my unsuspicious confidence . '
But the king would not listen to his son 's voice , for he have always be accustom to depend on his own judgment .
He let the unhappy Omar be drag from the hall , whilst he himself retire with Labakan to his own room , full of anger with the queen his wife , in spite of their many year of happy life together .
The queen , on her side , be plunge in grief , for she felt certain that an impostor have win her husband 's heart and take the place of her real son .
When the first shock be over she begin to think how she could manage to convince the king of his mistake .
Of course it would be a difficult matter , a the man who declare he be Omar have produce the dagger a a token , besides talk of all sort of thing which happen when he be a child .
She call her old and wise lady about her and ask their advice , but none of them have any to give .
At last one very clever old woman say : ` Did not the young man who bring the dagger call him whom your majesty believe to be your son Labakan , and say he be a crazy tailor ? '
` Yes , ' reply the queen ; ` but what of that ? '
` Might it not be , ' say the old lady , ` that the impostor have call your real son by his own name ?
If this should be the case , I know of a capital way to find out the truth . '
And she whisper some word to the queen , who seem much pleased , and go off at once to see the king .
Now the queen be a very wise woman , so she pretend to think she might have make a mistake , and only beg to be allow to put a test to the two young men to prove which be the real prince .
The king , who be feel much ashamed of the rage he have be in with his dear wife , consent at once , and she say : ` No doubt others would make them ride or shoot , or something of that sort , but every one learn these thing .
I wish to set them a task which require sharp wit and clever hand , and I want them to try which of them can best make a kaftan and pair of trouser . '
The king laugh .
` No , no , that will never do .
Do you suppose my son would compete with that crazy tailor a to which could make the best clothes ?
Oh , dear , no , that wo n't do at all . '
But the queen claim his promise , and a he be a man of his word the king give in at last .
He go to his son and beg that he would humour his mother , who have set her heart on his make a kaftan .
The worthy Labakan laugh to himself .
` If that be all she want , ' think he , ` her majesty will soon be please to own me . '
Two room be prepare , with piece of material , scissors , needle and thread , and each young man be shut up in one of them .
The king felt rather curious a to what sort of garment his son would make , and the queen , too , be very anxious a to the result of her experiment .
On the third day they send for the two young men and their work .
Labakan come first and spread out his kaftan before the eye of the astonished king .
` See , father , ' he say ; ` see , my honoured mother , if this be not a masterpiece of work .
I 'll bet the court tailor himself can not do good .
The queen smile and turn to Omar : ` And what have you do , my son ? '
Impatiently he throw the stuff and scissors down on the floor . '
I have be taught how to manage a horse , to draw a sword , and to throw a lance some sixty pace , but I never learn to sew , and such a thing would have be think beneath the notice of the pupil of Elfi Bey , the ruler of Cairo . '
` Ah , true son of your father , ' cry the queen ; ` if only I might embrace you and call you son !
Forgive me , my lord and husband , ' she add , turn to the king , ` for try to find out the truth in this way .
Do you not see yourself now which be the prince and which the tailor ?
Certainly this kaftan be a very fine one , but I should like to know what master teach this young man how to make clothes . '
The king sit deep in thought , look now at his wife and now at Labakan , who be do his best to hide his vexation at his own stupidity .
At last the king say : ` Even this trial do not satisfy me ; but happily I know of a sure way to discover whether or not I have be deceive . '
He order his swift horse to be saddle , mount , and ride off alone into a forest at some little distance .
Here live a kindly fairy call Adolzaide , who have often help the king of his race with her good advice , and to her he betook himself .
In the middle of the forest be a wide open space surround by great cedar tree , and this be suppose to be the fairy 's favourite spot .
When the king reach this place he dismount , tie his horse to the tree , and stand in the middle of the open place say : ` If it be true that you have help my ancestor in their time of need , do not despise their descendant , but give me counsel , for that of men have fail me . '
He have hardly finish speaking when one of the cedar tree open , and a veiled figure all dress in white step from it . '
I know your errand , King Sached , ' she say ; ` it be an honest one , and I will give you my help .
Take these two little box and let the two men who claim to be your son choose between them .
I know that the real prince will make no mistake . '
She then hand him two little box make of ivory set with gold and pearl .
On the lid of each -LRB- which the king vainly try to open -RRB- be an inscription in diamond .
On one stand the word ` Honour and Glory , ' and on the other ` Wealth and Happiness . '
` It would be a hard choice , ' think the king a he ride home .
He lose no time in send for the queen and for all his court , and when all be assemble he make a sign , and Labakan be lead in .
With a proud air he walk up to the throne , and kneel down , ask : ` What do my lord and father command ? '
The king reply : ` My son , doubt have be throw on your claim to that name .
One of these box contain the proof of your birth .
Choose for yourself .
No doubt you will choose right . '
He then point to the ivory box , which be place on two little table near the throne .
Labakan rise and look at the box .
He think for some minute , and then say : ` My honoured father , what can be good than the happiness of be your son , and what noble than the rich of your love .
I choose the box with the word `` Wealth and Happiness . '' '
` We shall see presently if you have choose the right one .
For the present take a seat there beside the Pacha of Medina , ' reply the king .
Omar be next lead in , look sad and sorrowful .
He throw himself down before the throne and ask what be the king 's pleasure .
The king point out the two box to him , and he rise and go to the table .
He carefully read the two motto and say : ` The last few day have show me how uncertain be happiness and how easily riches vanish away .
Should I lose a crown by it I make my choice of `` Honour and Glory . '' '
He lay his hand on the box a he speak , but the king sign to him to wait , and order Labakan to come to the other table and lay his hand on the box he have choose .
Then the king rise from his throne , and in solemn silence all present rise too , whilst he say : ` Open the box , and may Allah show u the truth . '
The box be open with the great ease .
In the one Omar have choose lay a little gold crown and sceptre on a velvet cushion .
In Labakan 's box be find -- a large needle with some thread !
The king tell the two young men to bring him their box .
They do so .
He take the crown in his hand , and a he hold it , it grow big and big , till it be as large a a real crown .
He place it on the head of his son Omar , kiss him on the forehead , and place him on his right hand .
Then , turn to Labakan , he say : ` There be an old proverb , `` The cobbler stick to his last . ''
It seem a though you be to stick to your needle .
You have not deserve any mercy , but I can not be harsh on this day .
I give you your life , but I advise you to leave this country as fast a you can . '
Full of shame , the unlucky tailor could not answer .
He fling himself down before Omar , and with tear in his eye ask : ` Can you forgive me , prince ? '
` Go in peace , ' say Omar a he raise him .
` Oh , my true son ! '
cry the king a he clasp the prince in his arm , whilst all the pacha and emir shout , ` Long live Prince Omar ! '
In the midst of all the noise and rejoice Labakan slip off with his little box under his arm .
He go to the stable , saddle his old horse , Murva , and ride out of the gate towards Alexandria .
Nothing but the ivory box with it diamond motto be leave to show him that the last few week have not be a dream .
When he reach Alexandria he ride up to his old master 's door .
When he enter the shop , his master come forward to ask what be his pleasure , but as soon a he saw who it be he call his workman , and they all fell on Labakan with blow and angry word , till at last he fell , half fainting , on a heap of old clothes .
The master then scold him soundly about the stolen robe , but in vain Labakan tell him he have come to pay for it and offer three time it price .
They only fell to beat him again , and at last push him out of the house more dead than alive .
He could do nothing but remount his horse and ride to an inn .
Here he find a quiet place in which to rest his bruise and batter limb and to think over his many misfortune .
He fell asleep fully determine to give up try to be great , but to lead the life of an honest workman .
Next morning he set to work to fulfil his good resolution .
He sell his little box to a jeweller for a good price , buy a house and open a workshop .
Then he hang up a sign with , ` Labakan , Tailor , ' over his door , and sit down to mend his own torn clothes with the very needle which have be in the ivory box .
After a while he be call away , and when he go back to his work he find a wonderful thing have happen !
The needle be sew away all by itself and make the neat little stitch , such a Labakan have never be able to make even at his best .
Certainly even the small gift of a kind fairy be of great value , and this one have yet another advantage , for the thread never come to an end , however much the needle sewed .
Labakan soon get plenty of customer .
He use to cut out the clothes , make the first stitch with the magic needle , and then leave it to do the rest .
Before long the whole town go to him , for his work be both so good and so cheap .
The only puzzle be how he could do so much , work all alone , and also why he work with closed door .
And so the promise on the ivory box of ` Wealth and Happiness ' come true for him , and when he hear of all the brave doings of Prince Omar , who be the pride and darling of his people and the terror of his enemy , the ex-prince thought to himself , ` After all , I be well off a a tailor , for `` Honour and Glory '' be apt to be very dangerous thing . '
The Colony Of Cats Long , long ago , a far back a the time when animal speak , there live a community of cat in a desert house they have take possession of not far from a large town .
They have everything they could possibly desire for their comfort , they be well feed and well lodge , and if by any chance an unlucky mouse be stupid enough to venture in their way , they catch it , not to eat it , but for the pure pleasure of catch it .
The old people of the town relate how they have hear their parent speak of a time when the whole country be so overrun with rat and mouse that there be not so much a a grain of corn nor an ear of maize to be gather in the field ; and it might be out of gratitude to the cat who have rid the country of these plague that their descendant be allow to live in peace .
No one know where they get the money to pay for everything , nor who pay it , for all this happen so very long ago .
But one thing be certain , they be rich enough to keep a servant ; for though they live very happily together , and do not scratch nor fight more than human being would have do , they be not clever enough to do the housework themselves , and prefer at all event to have some one to cook their meat , which they would have scorn to eat raw .
Not only be they very difficult to please about the housework , but most woman quickly tire of live alone with only cat for companion , consequently they never keep a servant long ; and it have become a say in the town , when anyone find herself reduce to her last penny : ' I will go and live with the cat , ' and so many a poor woman actually do .
Now Lizina be not happy at home , for her mother , who be a widow , be much fonder of her elder daughter ; so that often the young one fare very badly , and have not enough to eat , while the elder could have everything she desire , and if Lizina dare to complain she be certain to have a good beating .
At last the day come when she be at the end of her courage and patience , and exclaim to her mother and sister : ` As you hate me so much you will be glad to be rid of me , so I be go to live with the cat ! '
` Be off with you ! '
cry her mother , seize an old broom-handle from behind the door .
Poor Lizina do not wait to be tell twice , but run off at once and never stop till she reach the door of the cat ' house .
Their cook have leave them that very morning , with her face all scratch , the result of such a quarrel with the head of the house that he have very nearly scratch out her eye .
Lizina therefore be warmly welcome , and she set to work at once to prepare the dinner , not without many misgiving a to the taste of the cat , and whether she would be able to satisfy them .
Going to and fro about her work , she find herself frequently hinder by a constant succession of cat who appear one after another in the kitchen to inspect the new servant ; she have one in front of her foot , another perch on the back of her chair while she peel the vegetable , a third sat on the table beside her , and five or six others prowl about among the pot and pan on the shelf against the wall .
The air resound with their purring , which mean that they be please with their new maid , but Lizina have not yet learn to understand their language , and often she do not know what they want her to do .
However , a she be a good , kindhearted girl , she set to work to pick up the little kitten which tumble about on the floor , she patch up quarrel , and nurse on her lap a big tabby -- the old of the community -- which have a lame paw .
All these kindness could hardly fail to make a favourable impression on the cat , and it be even good after a while , when she have have time to grow accustom to their strange way .
Never have the house be keep so clean , the meat so well serve , nor the sick cat so well care for .
After a time they have a visit from an old cat , whom they call their father , who live by himself in a barn at the top of the hill , and come down from time to time to inspect the little colony .
He too be much take with Lizina , and inquire , on first see her : ` Are you well serve by this nice , black-eyed little person ? '
and the cat answer with one voice : ` Oh , yes , Father Gatto , we have never have so good a servant ! '
At each of his visit the answer be always the same ; but after a time the old cat , who be very observant , notice that the little maid have grow to look sadder and sadder .
` What be the matter , my child have any one be unkind to you ? '
he ask one day , when he find her cry in her kitchen .
She burst into tear and answer between her sob : ` Oh , no !
they be all very good to me ; but I long for news from home , and I pine to see my mother and my sister . '
Old Gatto , be a sensible old cat , understand the little servant 's feeling .
` You shall go home , ' he say , ` and you shall not come back here unless you please .
But first you must be reward for all your kind service to my child .
Follow me down into the inner cellar , where you have never yet be , for I always keep it locked and carry the key away with me . '
Lizina look round her in astonishment a they go down into the great vaulted cellar underneath the kitchen .
Before her stand the big earthenware water jar , one of which contain oil , the other a liquid shining like gold .
` In which of these jar shall I dip you ? '
ask Father Gatto , with a grin that show all his sharp white teeth , while his moustache stand out straight on either side of his face .
The little maid look at the two jar from under her long dark lash : ` In the oil jar , ' she answer timidly , think to herself : ' I could not ask to be bath in gold . '
But Father Gatto reply : ` No , no ; you have deserve something well than that . '
And seize her in his strong paw he plunge her into the liquid gold .
Wonder of wonder !
when Lizina come out of the jar she shine from head to foot like the sun in the heaven on a fine summer 's day .
Her pretty pink cheek and long black hair alone keep their natural colour , otherwise she have become like a statue of pure gold .
Father Gatto purr loudly with satisfaction .
` Go home , ' he say , ` and see your mother and sister ; but take care if you hear the cock crow to turn towards it ; if on the contrary the as bray , you must look the other way . '
The little maid , have gratefully kiss the white paw of the old cat , set off for home ; but just a she get near her mother 's house the cock crow , and quickly she turn towards it .
Immediately a beautiful golden star appear on her forehead , crown her glossy black hair .
At the same time the as begin to bray , but Lizina take care not to look over the fence into the field where the donkey be feed .
Her mother and sister , who be in front of their house , uttered cry of admiration and astonishment when they saw her , and their cry become still louder when Lizina , take her handkerchief from her pocket , draw out also a handful of gold .
For some day the mother and her two daughter live very happily together , for Lizina have give them everything she have bring away except her golden clothing , for that would not come off , in spite of all the effort of her sister , who be madly jealous of her good fortune .
The golden star , too , could not be remove from her forehead .
But all the gold piece she draw from her pocket have find their way to her mother and sister . '
I will go now and see what I can get out of the pussy , ' say Peppina , the elder girl , one morning , a she take Lizina 's basket and fasten her pocket into her own skirt . '
I should like some of the cat ' gold for myself , ' she think , a she leave her mother 's house before the sun rise .
The cat colony have not yet take another servant , for they know they could never get one to replace Lizina , whose loss they have not yet cease to mourn .
When they hear that Peppina be her sister , they all run to meet her .
` She be not the least like her , ' the kitten whisper among themselves .
` Hush , be quiet ! '
the old cat say ; ` all servant can not be pretty . '
No , decidedly she be not at all like Lizina .
Even the most reasonable and large-minded of the cat soon acknowledge that .
The very first day she shut the kitchen door in the face of the tom-cats who use to enjoy watch Lizina at her work , and a young and mischievous cat who jump in by the open kitchen window and alight on the table get such a blow with the rolling-pin that he squall for an hour .
With every day that pass the household become more and more aware of it misfortune .
The work be a badly do a the servant be surly and disagreeable ; in the corner of the room there be collect heap of dust ; spider ' web hang from the ceiling and in front of the window-panes ; the bed be hardly ever make , and the feather bed , so beloved by the old and feeble cat , have never once be shake since Lizina leave the house .
At Father Gatto 's next visit he find the whole colony in a state of uproar .
` Caesar have one paw so badly swell that it look a if it be break , ' say one .
` Peppina kick him with her great wooden shoe on .
Hector have an abscess in his back where a wooden chair be fling at him ; and Agrippina 's three little kitten have die of hunger beside their mother , because Peppina forget them in their basket up in the attic .
There be no put up with the creature -- do send her away , Father Gatto !
Lizina herself would not be angry with u ; she must know very well what her sister be like . '
` Come here , ' say Father Gatto , in his most severe tone to Peppina .
And he take her down into the cellar and show her the same two great jar that he have show Lizina .
` In which of these shall I dip you ? '
he ask ; and she make haste to answer : ` In the liquid gold , ' for she be no more modest than she be good and kind .
Father Gatto 's yellow eye dart fire .
` You have not deserve it , ' he utter , in a voice like thunder , and seize her he fling her into the jar of oil , where she be nearly suffocate .
When she come to the surface screaming and struggling , the vengeful cat seize her again and roll her in the ash-heap on the floor ; then when she rise , dirty , blind , and disgust to behold , he thrust her from the door , say : ` Begone , and when you meet a braying as be careful to turn your head towards it . '
Stumbling and rag , Peppina set off for home , think herself fortunate to find a stick by the wayside with which to support herself .
She be within sight of her mother 's house when she hear in the meadow on the right , the voice of a donkey loudly bray .
Quickly she turn her head towards it , and at the same time put her hand up to her forehead , where , wave like a plume , be a donkey 's tail .
She run home to her mother at the top of her speed , yell with rage and despair ; and it take Lizina two hour with a big basin of hot water and two cake of soap to get rid of the layer of ash with which Father Gatto have adorn her .
As for the donkey 's tail , it be impossible to get rid of that ; it be a firmly fix on her forehead a be the golden star on Lizina 's .
Their mother be furious .
She first beat Lizina unmercifully with the broom , then she take her to the mouth of the well and lower her into it , leave her at the bottom weeping and cry for help .
Before this happen , however , the king 's son in pass the mother 's house have see Lizina sit sew in the parlour , and have be dazzle by her beauty .
After come back two or three time , he at last ventured to approach the window and to whisper in the soft voice : ` Lovely maiden , will you be my bride ? '
and she have answer : ' I will . '
Next morning , when the prince arrive to claim his bride , he find her wrap in a large white veil .
` It be so that maiden be receive from their parent ' hand , ' say the mother , who hop to make the king 's son marry Peppina in place of her sister , and have fasten the donkey 's tail round her head like a lock of hair under the veil .
The prince be young and a little timid , so he make no objection , and seat Peppina in the carriage beside him .
Their way lead past the old house inhabit by the cat , who be all at the window , for the report have get about that the prince be go to marry the most beautiful maiden in the world , on whose forehead shone a golden star , and they know that this could only be their adored Lizina .
As the carriage slowly pass in front of the old house , where cat from all part of world seem to be gather a song burst from every throat : Mew , mew , mew !
Prince , look quick behind you !
In the well be fair Lizina , And you 've get nothing but Peppina .
When he hear this the coachman , who understand the cat 's language well than the prince , his master , stop his horse and ask : ` Does your highness know what the grimalkins be say ? '
and the song break forth again louder than ever .
With a turn of his hand the prince throw back the veil , and discover the puffed-up , swollen face of Peppina , with the donkey 's tail twist round her head .
` Ah , traitress ! '
he exclaim , and order the horse to be turn round , he drive the elder daughter , quiver with rage , to the old woman who have seek to deceive him .
With his hand on the hilt of his sword he demand Lizina in so terrific a voice that the mother hasten to the well to draw her prisoner out .
Lizina 's clothing and her star shone so brilliantly that when the prince lead her home to the king , his father , the whole palace be light up .
Next day they be marry , and live happy ever after ; and all the cat , head by old Father Gatto , be present at the wedding .
How To Find Out A True Friend Once upon a time there live a king and queen who long to have a son .
As none come , one day they make a vow at the shrine of St. James that if their prayer be grant the boy should set out on a pilgrimage as soon a he have pass his eighteenth birthday .
And fancy their delight when one even the king return home from hunt and saw a baby lie in the cradle .
All the people come crowd round to peep at it , and declare it be the most beautiful baby that ever be see .
Of course that be what they always say , but this time it happen to be true .
And every day the boy grow big and strong till he be twelve year old , when the king die , and he be leave alone to take care of his mother .
In this way six year pass by , and his eighteenth birthday draw near .
When she think of this the queen 's heart sank within her , for he be the light of her eye ' and how be she to send him forth to the unknown danger that beset a pilgrim ?
So day by day she grow more and more sorrowful , and when she be alone wept bitterly .
Now the queen imagine that no one but herself know how sad she be , but one morning her son say to her , ` Mother , why do you cry the whole day long ? '
` Nothing , nothing , my son ; there be only one thing in the world that trouble me . '
` What be that one thing ? '
ask he .
` Are you afraid your property be badly manage ?
Let me go and look into the matter . '
This please the queen , and he ride off to the plain country , where his mother own great estate ; but everything be in beautiful order , and he return with a joyful heart , and say , ` Now , mother , you can be happy again , for your land be well manage than anyone else 's I have see .
The cattle be thrive ; the field be thick with corn , and soon they will be ripe for harvest . '
` That be good news indeed , ' answer she ; but it do not seem to make any difference to her , and the next morning she be weep and wail as loudly a ever .
` Dear mother , ' say her son in despair , ` if you will not tell me what be the cause of all this misery I shall leave home and wander far through the world . '
` Ah , my son , my son , ' cry the queen , ` it be the thought that I must part from you which cause me such grief ; for before you be bear we vow a vow to St. James that when your eighteenth birthday be pass you should make a pilgrimage to his shrine , and very soon you will be eighteen , and I shall lose you .
And for a whole year my eye will never be gladden by the sight of you , for the shrine be far away . '
` Will it take no long than that to reach it ? '
say he .
` Oh , do n't be so wretched ; it be only dead people who never return .
As long a I be alive you may be sure I will come back to you . '
After this manner he comfort his mother , and on his eighteenth birthday his best horse be lead to the door of the palace , and he take leave of the queen in these word , ` Dear mother , farewell , and by the help of fate I shall return to you as soon a I can . '
The queen burst into tear and weep sore ; then amidst her sobs she draw three apple from her pocket and hold them out , say , ` My son , take these apple and give heed unto my word .
You will need a companion in the long journey on which you be go .
If you come across a young man who please you beg him to accompany you , and when you get to an inn invite him to have dinner with you .
After you have eat cut one of these apple in two unequal part , and ask him to take one .
If he take the large bit , then part from him , for he be no true friend to you .
But if he take the small bit treat him a your brother , and share with him all you have . '
Then she kiss her son once more , and bless him , and let him go .
The young man ride a long way without meet a single creature , but at last he saw a youth in the distance about the same age a himself , and he spur his horse till he come up with the stranger , who stop and ask : ` Where be you go , my fine fellow ? ' '
I be make a pilgrimage to the shrine of St. James , for before I be bear my mother vow that I should go forth with a thank offering on my eighteenth birthday . '
` That be my case too , ' say the stranger , ` and , a we must both travel in the same direction , let u bear each other company . '
The young man agree to this proposal , but he take care not to get on term of familiarity with the new comer until he have try him with the apple .
By-and-by they reach an inn , and at sight of it the king 's son say , ' I be very hungry .
Let u enter and order something to eat . '
The other consent , and they be soon sit before a good dinner .
When they have finish the king 's son draw an apple from his pocket , and cut it into a big half and a little half , and offer both to the stranger , who take the big bit .
` You be no friend of mine , ' think the king 's son , and in order to part company with him he pretend to be ill and declare himself unable to proceed on his journey .
` Well , I ca n't wait for you , ' reply the other ; ' I be in haste to push on , so farewell . '
` Farewell , ' say the king 's son , glad in his heart to get rid of him so easily .
The king 's son remain in the inn for some time , so a to let the young man have a good start ; them he order his horse and rode after him .
But he be very sociable and the way seem long and dull by himself .
` Oh , if I could only meet with a true friend , ' he think , ` so that I should have some one to speak to .
I hate be alone . '
Soon after he come up with a young man , who stop and ask him , ` Where be you go , my fine fellow ? '
The king 's son explain the object of his journey , and the young man answer , a the other have do , that he also be fulfil the vow of his mother make at his birth .
` Well , we can ride on together , ' say the king 's son , and the road seem much short now that he have some one to talk to .
At length they reach an inn , and the king 's son exclaim , ' I be very hungry ; let u go in and get something to eat . '
When they have finish the king 's son draw an apple out of his pocket and cut it in two ; he hold the big bit and the little bit out to his companion , who take the big bit at once and soon eat it up .
` You be no friend of mine , ' think the king 's son , and begin to declare he felt so ill he could not continue his journey .
When he have give the young man a good start he set off himself , but the way seem even longer and duller than before .
` Oh , if I could only meet with a true friend he should be a a brother to me , ' he sigh sadly ; and a the thought pass through his mind , he notice a youth go the same road a himself .
The youth come up to him and say , ` Which way be you go , my fine fellow ? '
And for the third time the king 's son explain all about his mother 's vow .
Why , that be just like me , ' cry the youth .
` Then let u ride on together , ' answer the king 's son .
Now the mile seem to slip by , for the new comer be so lively and entertain that the king 's son could not help hop that he indeed might prove to be the true friend .
More quickly than he could have think possible they reach an inn by the road-side , and turn to his companion the king 's son say , ' I be hungry ; let u go in and have something to eat . '
So they go in and order dinner , and when they have finish the king 's son draw out of his pocket the last apple , and cut it into two unequal part , and hold both out to the stranger .
And the stranger take the little piece , and the heart of the king 's son be glad within him , for at last he have find the friend he have be look for .
` Good youth , ' he cry , ` we will be brother , and what be mine shall be thine , and what be thine shall be mine .
And together we will push on to the shrine , and if one of u die on the road the other shall carry his body there . '
And the stranger agree to all he say , and they ride forward together .
It take them a whole year to reach the shrine , and they pass through many different land on their way .
One day they arrive tired and half-starved in a big city , and say to one another , ` Let u stay here for a little and rest before we set forth again . '
So they hire a small house close to the royal castle , and take up their abode there .
The following morning the king of the country happen to step on to his balcony , and saw the young men in the garden , and say to himself , ` Dear me , those be wonderfully handsome youth ; but one be handsome than the other , and to him will I give my daughter to wife ; ' and indeed the king 's son excel his friend in beauty .
In order to set about his plan the king ask both the young men to dinner , and when they arrive at the castle he receive them with the utmost kindness , and send for his daughter , who be more lovely than both the sun and moon put together .
But at bed-time the king cause the other young man to be give a poisoned drink , which kill him in a few minute , for he think to himself , ` If his friend die the other will forget his pilgrimage , and will stay here and marry my daughter . '
When the king 's son awake the next morning he inquire of the servant where his friend have go , a he do not see him .
` He die suddenly last night , ' say they , ` and be to be bury immediately . '
But the king 's son spring up , and cry , ` If my friend be dead I can stay here no long , and can not linger an hour in this house . '
` Oh , give up your journey and remain here , ' exclaim the king , ` and you shall have my daughter for your wife . '
` No , ' answer the king 's son , ' I can not stay ; but , I pray you , grant my request , and give me a good horse , and let me go in peace , and when I have fulfil my vow then I will return and marry your daughter . '
So the king , see no word would move him , order a horse to be bring round , and the king 's son mount it , and take his dead friend before him on the saddle , and ride away .
Now the young man be not really dead , but only in a deep sleep .
When the king 's son reach the shrine of St. James he get down from his horse , take his friend in his arm a if he have be a child , and lay him before the altar .
` St. James , ' he say , ' I have fulfil the vow my parent make for me .
I have come myself to your shrine , and have bring my friend .
I place him in your hand .
Restore him to life , I pray , for though he be dead yet have he fulfil his vow also . '
And , behold !
while he yet pray his friend get up and stand before him as well a ever .
And both the young men give thanks , and set their face towards home .
When they arrive at the town where the king dwelt they enter the small house over against the castle .
The news of their coming spread very soon , and the king rejoice greatly that the handsome young prince have come back again , and command great feast to be prepare , for in a few day his daughter should marry the king 's son .
The young man himself could imagine no great happiness , and when the marriage be over they spend some month at the court making merry .
At length the king 's son say , ` My mother await me at home , full of care and anxiety .
Here I must remain no long , and to-morrow I will take my wife and my friend and start for home . '
And the king be content that he should do so , and give order to prepare for their journey .
Now in his heart the king cherish a deadly hate towards the poor young man whom he have try to kill , but who have return to him living , and in order to do him hurt send him on a message to some distant spot .
` See that you be quick , ' say he , ` for your friend will await your return before he start . '
The youth put spur to his horse and depart , bid the prince farewell , so that the king 's message might be deliver the sooner .
As soon a he have start the king go to the chamber of the prince , and say to him , ` If you do not start immediately , you will never reach the place where you must camp for the night . ' '
I can not start without my friend , ' reply the king 's son .
` Oh , he will be back in an hour , ' reply the king , ` and I will give him my best horse , so that he will be sure to catch you up . '
The king 's son allow himself to be persuade and take leave of his father-in-law , and set out with his wife on his journey home .
Meanwhile the poor friend have be unable to get through his task in the short time appoint by the king , and when at last he return the king say to him , ` Your comrade be a long way off by now ; you have good see if you can overtake him . '
So the young man bow and leave the king 's presence , and follow after his friend on foot , for he have no horse .
Night and day he run , till at length he reach the place where the king 's son have pitch his tent , and sink down before him , a miserable object , wear out and cover with mud and dust .
But the king 's son welcome him with joy , and tend him a he would his brother .
And at last they come home again , and the queen be wait and watch in the palace , a she have never cease to do since her son have ride away .
She almost die of joy at see him again , but after a little she remember his sick friend , and order a bed to be make ready and the best doctor in all the country to be send for .
When they hear of the queen 's summons they flock from all part , but none could cure him .
After everyone have try and fail a servant enter and inform the queen that a strange old man have just knock at the palace gate and declare that he be able to heal the die youth .
Now this be a holy man , who have heard of the trouble the king 's son be in , and have come to help .
It happen that at this very time a little daughter be bear to the king 's son , but in his distress for his friend he have hardly a thought to spare for the baby .
He could not be prevail on to leave the sick bed , and he be bend over it when the holy man enter the room .
` Do you wish your friend to be cure ? '
ask the new comer of the king 's son .
` And what price would you pay ? '
` What price ? '
answer the king 's son ; ` only tell me what I can do to heal him . '
` Listen to me , then , ' say the old man .
` This evening you must take your child , and open her vein , and smear the wound of your friend with her blood .
And you will see , he will get well in an instant . '
At these word the king 's son shriek with horror , for he love the baby dearly , but he answer , ' I have swear that I would treat my friend a if he be my brother , and if there be no other way my child must be sacrifice . '
As by this time even have already fall he take the child and open it vein , and smear the blood over the wound of the sick man , and the look of death depart from him , and he grow strong and rosy once more .
But the little child lay a white and still a if she have be dead .
They lay her in the cradle and weep bitterly , for they think that by the next morning she would be lose to them .
At sunrise the old man return and ask after the sick man .
` He be as well a ever , ' answer the king 's son .
` And where be your baby ? '
` In the cradle yonder , and I think she be dead , ' reply the father sadly .
` Look at her once more , ' say the holy man , and a they draw near the cradle there lay the baby smile up at them . '
I be St. James of Lizia , ' say the old man , ` and I have come to help you , for I have see that you be a true friend .
From henceforward live happily , all of you , together , and if trouble should draw near you send for me , and I will aid you to get through them . '
With these word he lift his hand in blessing and vanish .
And they obey him , and be happy and content , and try to make the people of the land happy and content too .
-LSB- From Sicilianische Mahrehen Gonzenbach . -RSB-
Clever Maria There be once a merchant who live close to the royal palace , and have three daughter .
They be all pretty , but Maria , the young , be the pretty of the three .
One day the king sent for the merchant , who be a widower , to give him direction about a journey he wish the good man to take .
The merchant would rather not have go , a he do not like leave his daughter at home , but he could not refuse to obey the king 's command , and with a heavy heart he return home to say farewell to them .
Before he leave , he take three pot of basil , and give one to each girl , say , ' I be go a journey , but I leave these pot .
You must let nobody into the house .
When I come back , they will tell me what have happen . '
` Nothing will have happen , ' say the girl .
The father go away , and the following day the king , accompany by two friend , pay a visit to the three girl , who be sit at supper .
When they saw who be there , Maria say , ` Let u go and get a bottle of wine from the cellar .
I will carry the key , my eldest sister can take the light , while the other bring the bottle . '
But the king reply , ` Oh , do not trouble ; we be not thirsty . '
` Very well , we will not go , ' answer the two elder girl ; but Maria merely say , ' I shall go , anyhow . '
She leave the room , and go to the hall where she put out the light , and put down the key and the bottle , run to the house of a neighbour , and knock at the door .
` Who be there so late ? '
ask the old woman , thrust her head out of the window .
` Oh , let me in , ' answer Maria . '
I have quarrel with my eldest sister , and a I do not want to fight any more , I have come to beg you to allow me to sleep with you . '
So the old woman open the door and Maria slept in her house .
The king be very angry at her for play truant , but when she return home the next day , she find the plant of her sister wither away , because they have disobey their father .
Now the window in the room of the eldest overlook the garden of the king , and when she saw how fine and ripe the medlar be on the tree , she long to eat some , and beg Maria to scramble down by a rope and pick her a few , and she would draw her up again .
Maria , who be good-natured , swing herself into the garden by the rope , and get the medlar , and be just make the rope fast under her arm so a to be haul up , when her sister cry : ` Oh , there be such delicious lemon a little farther on .
You might bring me one or two . '
Maria turn round to pluck them , and find herself face to face with the gardener , who catch hold of her , exclaim , ` What be you do here , you little thief ? '
` Do n't call me names , ' she say , ` or you will get the bad of it , ' give him a she speak such a violent push that he fell pant into the lemon bush .
Then she seize the cord and clamber up to the window .
The next day the second sister have a fancy for banana and beg so hard , that , though Maria have declare she would never do such a thing again , at last she consent , and go down the rope into the king 's garden .
This time she meet the king , who say to her , ` Ah , here you be again , cunning one !
Now you shall pay for your misdeed . '
And he begin to cross-question her about what she have do .
Maria deny nothing , and when she have finish , the king say again , ` Follow me to the house , and there you shall pay the penalty . '
As he speak , he start for the house , look back from time to time to make sure that Maria have not run away .
All of a sudden , when he glance round , he find she have vanish completely , without leave a trace of where she have go .
Search be make all through the town , and there be not a hole or corner which be not ransack , but there be no sign of her anywhere .
This so enraged the king that he become quite ill , and for many month his life be despair of .
Meanwhile the two elder sister have marry the two friend of the king , and be the mother of little daughter .
Now one day Maria stole secretly to the house where her elder sister live , and snatch up the child put them into a beautiful basket she have with her , cover with flower inside and out , so that no one would ever guess it hold two baby .
Then she dress herself a a boy , and place the basket on her head , she walk slowly past the palace , cry a she go : ` Who will carry these flower to the king , who lie sick of love ? '
And the king in his bed hear what she say , and order one of his attendant to go out and buy the basket .
It be bring to his bedside , and a he raise the lid cry be hear , and peep in he saw two little child .
He be furious at this new trick which he felt have be play on him by Maria , and be still look at them , wonder how he should pay her out , when he be tell that the merchant , Maria 's father , have finish the business on which he have be send and return home .
Then the king remember how Maria have refuse to receive his visit , and how she have steal his fruit , and he determine to be revenge on her .
So he send a message by one of his page that the merchant be to come to see him the next day , and bring with him a coat make of stone , or else he would be punish .
Now the poor man have be very sad since he get home the evening before , for though his daughter have promise that nothing should happen while he be away , he have find the two elder one marry without ask his leave .
And now there be this fresh misfortune , for how be he to make a coat of stone ?
He wring his hand and declare that the king would be the ruin of him , when Maria suddenly enter .
` Do not grieve about the coat of stone , dear father ; but take this bit of chalk , and go to the palace and say you have come to measure the king . '
The old man do not see the use of this , but Maria have so often help him before that he have confidence in her , so he put the chalk in his pocket and go to the palace .
` That be no good , ' say the king , when the merchant have tell him what he have come for .
` Well , I ca n't make the coat you want , ' reply he .
` Then if you would save your head , hand over to me your daughter Maria . '
The merchant do not reply , but go sorrowfully back to his house , where Maria sit wait for him .
` Oh , my dear child , why be I born ?
The king say that , instead of the coat , I must deliver you up to him . '
` Do not be unhappy , dear father , but get a doll make , exactly like me , with a string attach to it head , which I can pull for `` Yes '' and `` No . '' '
So the old man go out at once to see about it .
The king remain patiently in his palace , feel sure that this time Maria could not escape him ; and he say to his page , ` If a gentleman should come here with his daughter and ask to be allow to speak with me , put the young lady in my room and see she do not leave it . '
When the door be shut on Maria , who have conceal the doll under her cloak , she hide herself under the couch , keep fast hold of the string which be fasten to it head .
` Senhora Maria , I hope you be well , ' say the king when he enter the room .
The doll nod .
` Now we will reckon up account , ' continue he , and he begin at the beginning , and end up with the flower-basket , and at each fresh misdeed Maria pull the string , so that the doll 's head nod assent .
` Who-so mock at me merit death , ' declare the king when he have end , and draw his sword , cut off the doll 's head .
It fell towards him , and a he felt the touch of a kiss , he exclaim , ` Ah , Maria , Maria , so sweet in death , so hard to me in life !
The man who could kill you deserves to die ! '
And he be about to turn his sword on himself , when the true Maria sprung out from under the bed , and fling herself into his arm .
And the next day they be marry and live happily for many year .
-LSB- From the Portuguese . -RSB-
The Magic Kettle Right in the middle of Japan , high up among the mountain , an old man live in his little house .
He be very proud of it , and never tire of admire the whiteness of his straw mat , and the pretty papered wall , which in warm weather always slide back , so that the smell of the tree and flower might come in .
One day he be stand look at the mountain opposite , when he hear a kind of rumble noise in the room behind him .
He turn round , and in the corner he behold a rusty old iron kettle , which could not have see the light of day for many year .
How the kettle get there the old man do not know , but he take it up and look it over carefully , and when he find that it be quite whole he clean the dust off it and carry it into his kitchen .
` That be a piece of luck , ' he say , smile to himself ; ' a good kettle cost money , and it be as well to have a second one at hand in case of need ; mine be get wear out , and the water be already begin to come through it bottom . '
Then he take the other kettle off the fire , fill the new one with water , and put it in it place .
No sooner be the water in the kettle get warm than a strange thing happen , and the man , who be stand by , think he must be dream .
First the handle of the kettle gradually change it shape and become a head , and the spout grow into a tail , while out of the body spring four paw , and in a few minute the man find himself watch , not a kettle , but a tanuki !
The creature jump off the fire , and bound about the room like a kitten , run up the wall and over the ceiling , till the old man be in an agony l his pretty room should be spoil .
He cry to a neighbour for help , and between them they manage to catch the tanuki , and shut him up safely in a wooden chest .
Then , quite exhaust , they sit down on the mat , and consult together what they should do with this troublesome beast .
At length they decide to sell him , and bid a child who be pass send them a certain tradesman call Jimmu .
When Jimmu arrive , the old man tell him that he have something which he wish to get rid of , and lift the lid of the wooden chest , where he have shut up the tanuki .
But , to his surprise , no tanuki be there , nothing but the kettle he have find in the corner .
It be certainly very odd , but the man remember what have take place on the fire , and do not want to keep the kettle any more , so after a little bargaining about the price , Jimmu go away carry the kettle with him .
Now Jimmu have not go very far before he felt that the kettle be get heavy and heavy , and by the time he reach home he be so tired that he be thankful to put it down in the corner of his room , and then forget all about it .
In the middle of the night , however , he be awaken by a loud noise in the corner where the kettle stand , and raise himself up in bed to see what it be .
But nothing be there except the kettle , which seem quiet enough .
He think that he must have be dream , and fell asleep again , only to be rouse a second time by the same disturbance .
He jump up and go to the corner , and by the light of the lamp that he always keep burn he saw that the kettle have become a tanuki , which be run round after his tail .
After he grow weary of that , he run on the balcony , where he turn several somersault , from pure gladness of heart .
The tradesman be much troubled a to what to do with the animal , and it be only towards morning that he manage to get any sleep ; but when he open his eye again there be no tanuki , only the old kettle he have leave there the night before .
As soon a he have tidy his house , Jimmu set off to tell his story to a friend next door .
The man listen quietly , and do not appear so surprised a Jimmu expect , for he recollect have heard , in his youth , something about a wonder-working kettle .
` Go and travel with it , and show it off , ' say he , ` and you will become a rich man ; but be careful first to ask the tanuki 's leave , and also to perform some magic ceremony to prevent him from run away at the sight of the people . '
Jimmu thank his friend for his counsel , which he follow exactly .
The tanuki 's consent be obtain , a booth be build , and a notice be hang up outside it invite the people to come and witness the most wonderful transformation that ever be see .
They come in crowd , and the kettle be pass from hand to hand , and they be allow to examine it all over , and even to look inside .
Then Jimmu take it back , and set it on the platform , command it to become a tanuki .
In an instant the handle begin to change into a head , and the spout into a tail , while the four paw appear at the side .
` Dance , ' say Jimmu , and the tanuki do his step , and move first on one side and then on the other , till the people could not stand still any long , and begin to dance too .
Gracefully he lead the fan dance , and glide without a pause into the shadow dance and the umbrella dance , and it seem a if he might go on dance for ever .
And so very likely he would , if Jimmu have not declare he have dance enough , and that the booth must now be close .
Day after day the booth be so full it be hardly possible to enter it , and what the neighbour foretold have come to pass , and Jimmu be a rich man .
Yet he do not feel happy .
He be an honest man , and he think that he owe some of his wealth to the man from whom he have buy the kettle .
So , one morning , he put a hundred gold piece into it , and hang the kettle once more on his arm , he return to the seller of it . '
I have no right to keep it any longer , ' he add when he have end his tale , ` so I have bring it back to you , and inside you will find a hundred gold piece a the price of it hire . '
The man thank Jimmu , and say that few people would have be as honest a he .
And the kettle bring them both luck , and everything go well with them till they die , which they do when they be very old , respect by everyone .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Lilac_Fairy_Book.txt.out
The Shifty Lad In the land of Erin there dwelt long ago a widow who have an only son .
He be a clever boy , so she save up enough money to send him to school , and , as soon a he be old enough , to apprentice him to any trade that he would choose .
But when the time come , he say he would not be bind to any trade , and that he mean to be a thief .
Now his mother be very sorrowful when she hear of this , but she know quite well that if she try to stop his have his own way he would only grow more determined to get it .
So all the answer she make be that the end of thief be hang at the bridge of Dublin , and then she leave him alone , hop that when he be old he might become more sensible .
One day she be go to church to hear a sermon from a great preacher , and she beg the Shifty Lad , a the neighbour call him from the trick he play , to come with her .
But he only laugh and declare that he do not like sermon , add : ` However , I will promise you this , that the first trade you hear name after you come out from church shall be my trade for the rest of my life . '
These word give a little comfort to the poor woman , and her heart be light than before a she bid him farewell .
When the Shifty Lad think that the hour have nearly come for the sermon to be over , he hide himself in some bush in a little path that lead straight to his mother 's house , and , a she pass along , think of all the good thing she have hear , a voice shout close to her ear ` Robbery !
Robbery !
Robbery ! '
The suddenness of it make her jump .
The naughty boy have manage to change his voice , so that she do not know it for his , and he have conceal himself so well that , though she peer about all round her , she could see no one .
As soon a she have turn the corner the Shifty Lad come out , and by run very fast through the wood he contrive to reach home before his mother , who find him stretch out comfortably before the fire .
` Well , have you get any news to tell me ? '
ask he .
` No , nothing ; for I leave the church at once , and do not stop to speak to anyone . '
` Oh , then no one have mention a trade to you ? '
he say in tone of disappointment .
` Ye -- e , ' she reply slowly .
` At least , a I walk down the path a voice cry out `` Robbery !
Robbery !
Robbery ! ''
but that be all . '
` And quite enough too , ' answer the boy .
` What do I tell you ?
That be go to be my trade . '
` Then your end will be hang at the bridge of Dublin , ' say she .
But there be no sleep for her that night , for she lay in the dark think about her son .
` If he be to be a thief at all , he have well be a good one .
And who be there that can teach him ? '
the mother ask herself .
But an idea come to her , and she arise early , before the sun be up , and set off for the home of the Black Rogue , or Gallows Bird , who be such a wonderful thief that , though all have be rob by him , no one could catch him .
` Good-morning to you , ' say the woman a she reach the place where the Black Gallows Bird live when he be not away on his business .
` My son have a fancy to learn your trade .
Will you be kind enough to teach him ? '
` If he be clever , I do n't mind try , ' answer the Black Gallows Bird ; ` and , of course , if ANY one can turn him into a first-rate thief , it be I .
But if he be stupid , it be of no use at all ; I ca n't bear stupid people . '
` No , he be n't stupid , ' say the woman with a sigh .
` So to-night , after dark , I will send him to you . '
The Shifty Lad jump for joy when his mother tell him where she have be . '
I will become the best thief in all Erin ! '
he cry , and pay no heed when his mother shake her head and murmur something about ` the bridge of Dublin . '
Every evening after dark the Shifty Lad go to the home of the Black Gallows Bird , and many be the new trick he learn .
By-and-by he be allow to go out with the Bird and watch him at work , and at last there come a day when his master though that he have grow clever enough to help in a big robbery .
` There be a rich farmer up there on the hill , who have just sell all his fat cattle for much money and have buy some lean one which will cost him little .
Now it happen that , while he have receive the money for the fat cattle , he have not yet pay the price of the thin one , which he have in the cowhouse .
To-morrow he will go to the market with the money in his hand , so to-night we must get at the chest .
When all be quiet we will hide in the loft . '
There be no moon , and it be the night of Hallowe'en , and everyone be burn nut and catch apple in a tub of water with their hand tie , and play all sort of other game , till the Shifty Lad grow quite tired of wait for them to get to bed .
The Black Gallows Bird , who be more accustomed to the business , tuck himself up on the hay and go to sleep , tell the boy to wake him when the merry-makers have depart .
But the Shifty Lad , who could keep still no longer , creep down to the cowshed and loosen the head of the cattle which be tie , and they begin to kick each other and bellow , and make such a noise that the company in the farmhouse run out to tie them up again .
Then the Shifty Lad enter the room and pick up a big handful of nut , and return to the loft , where the Black Rogue be still sleep .
At first the Shifty Lad shut his eye too , but very soon he sit up , and take a big needle and thread from his pocket , he sew the hem of the Black Gallows Bird 's coat to a heavy piece of bullock 's hide that be hang at his back .
By this time the cattle be all tie up again , but a the people could not find their nut they sit round the fire and begin to tell story . '
I will crack a nut , ' say the Shifty Lad .
` You shall not , ' cry the Black Gallows Bird ; ` they will hear you . ' '
I do n't care , ' answer the Shifty Lad . '
I never spend Hallowe'en yet without crack a nut ' ; and he crack one .
` Some one be crack nut up there , ' say one of the merry-makers in the farmhouse .
` Come quickly , and we will see who it be . '
He speak loudly , and the Black Gallows Bird heard , and run out of the loft , drag the big leather hide after him which the Shifty Lad have sew to his coat .
` He be steal my hide ! '
shout the farmer , and they all dart after him ; but he be too swift for them , and at last he manage to tear the hide from his coat , and then he fly like a hare till he reach his old hiding-place .
But all this take a long time , and meanwhile the Shifty Lad get down from the loft , and search the house till he find the chest with the gold and silver in it , conceal behind a load of straw and cover with loaf of bread and a great cheese .
The Shifty Lad sling the money bag round his shoulder and take the bread and the cheese under his arm , then set out quietly for the Black Rogue 's house .
` Here you be at last , you villain ! '
cry his master in great wrath .
` But I will be revenge on you . '
` It be all right , ' reply the Shifty Lad calmly . '
I have bring what you want ' ; and he lay the thing he be carry down on the ground .
` Ah !
you be the good thief , ' say the Black Rogue 's wife ; and the Black Rogue add : ` Yes , it be you who be the clever boy ' ; and they divide the spoil and the Black Gallows Bird have one half and the Shifty Lad the other half .
A few week after that the Black Gallows Bird have news of a wedding that be to be hold near the town ; and the bridegroom have many friend and everybody send him a present .
Now a rich farmer who live up near the moor think that nothing be so useful to a young couple when they first begin to keep house a a fine fat sheep , so he bid his shepherd go off to the mountain where the flock be feed , and bring him back the best he could find .
And the shepherd choose out the large and fat of the sheep and the one with the white fleece ; then he tie it foot together and put it across his shoulder , for he have a long way to go .
That day , the Shifty Lad happen to be wander over the moor , when he saw the man with the sheep on his shoulder walking along the road which lead past the Black Rogue 's house .
The sheep be heavy and the man be in no hurry , so he come slowly and the boy know that he himself could easily get back to his master before the shepherd be even in sight . '
I will wager , ' he cry , a he push quickly through the bush which hide the cabin -- ' I will wager that I will steal the sheep from the man that be come before he pass here . '
` Will you indeed ? '
say the Gallows Bird . '
I will wager you a hundred silver piece that you can do nothing of the sort . '
` Well , I will try it , anyway , ' reply the boy , and disappear in the bush .
He run fast till he enter a wood through which the shepherd must go , and then he stop , and take off one of his shoe smear it with mud and set it in the path .
When this be do he slip behind a rock and wait .
Very soon the man come up , and see the shoe lie there , he stoop and look at it .
` It be a good shoe , ' he say to himself , ` but very dirty .
Still , if I have the fellow , I would be at the trouble of clean it ' ; so he throw the shoe down again and go on .
The Shifty Lad smile a he hear him , and , pick up the shoe , he creep round by a short way and lay the other shoe on the path .
A few minute after the shepherd arrive , and behold the second shoe lie on the path .
` Why , that be the fellow of the dirty shoe ! '
he exclaim when he saw it . '
I will go back and pick up the other one , and then I shall have a pair of good shoe , ' and he put the sheep on the grass and return to fetch the shoe .
Then the Shifty Lad put on his shoe , and , pick up the sheep , carry it home .
And the Black Rogue pay him the hundred mark of his wager .
When the shepherd reach the farmhouse that night he tell his tale to his master , who scold him for be stupid and careless , and bid him go the next day to the mountain and fetch him a kid , and he would send that a a wedding gift .
But the Shifty Lad be on the look-out , and hid himself in the wood , and the moment the man draw near with the kid on his shoulder begin to bleat like a sheep , and no one , not even the sheep 's own mother , could have tell the difference .
` Why , it must have get it foot loose , and have stray after all , ' think the man ; and he put the kid on the grass and hurry off in the direction of the bleating .
Then the boy run back and pick up the kid , and take it to the Black Gallows Bird .
The shepherd could hardly believe his eye when he return from seek the sheep and find that the kid have vanish .
He be afraid to go home and tell the same tale that he have tell yesterday ; so he search the wood through and through till night be nearly come .
Then he felt that there be no help for it , and he must go home and confess to his master .
Of course , the farmer be very angry at this second misfortune ; but this time he tell him to drive one of the big bull from the mountain , and warn him that if he lose THAT he would lose his place also .
Again the Shifty Lad , who be on the watch , perceive him pas by , and when he saw the man return with the great bull he cry to the Black Rogue : ` Be quick and come into the wood , and we will try to get the bull also . '
` But how can we do that ? '
ask the Black Rogue .
` Oh , quite easily !
You hide yourself out there and baa like a sheep , and I will go in the other direction and bleat like a kid .
It will be all right , I assure you . '
The shepherd be walk slowly , drive the bull before him , when he suddenly hear a loud baa amongst the bush far away on one side of the path , and a feeble bleat answer it from the other side .
` Why , it must be the sheep and the kid that I lose , ' say he .
` Yes , surely it must ' ; and tie the bull hastily to a tree , he go off after the sheep and the kid , and search the wood till he be tire .
Of course by the time he come back the two thief have drive the bull home and kill him for meat , so the man be oblige to go to his master and confess that he have be trick again .
After this the Black Rogue and the Shifty Lad grow bolder and bolder , and stole great quantity of cattle and sell them and grow quite rich .
One day they be return from the market with a large sum of money in their pocket when they pass a gallows erect on the top of a hill .
` Let u stop and look at that gallows , ' exclaim the Shifty Lad . '
I have never see one so close before .
Yet some say that it be the end of all thief . '
There be no one in sight , and they carefully examine every part of it . '
I wonder how it feel to be hang , ' say the Shifty Lad . '
I should like to know , in case they ever catch me .
I 'll try first , and then you can do so . '
As he speak he fasten the loose cord about his neck , and when it be quite secure he tell the Black Rogue to take the other end of the rope and draw him up from the ground .
` When I be tire of it I will shake my leg , and then you must let me down , ' say he .
The Black Rogue draw up the rope , but in half a minute the Shifty Lad 's leg begin to shake , and he quickly let it down again .
` You ca n't imagine what a funny feeling hang give you , ' murmur the Shifty Lad , who look rather purple in the face and speak in an odd voice . '
I do n't think you have every try it , or you would n't have let me go up first .
Why , it be the pleasant thing I have ever do .
I be shake my leg from sheer delight , and if you have be there you would have shake your leg too . '
` Well , let me try , if it be so nice , ' answer the Black Rogue .
` But be sure you tie the knot securely , for I do n't want to fall down and break my neck . '
` Oh , I will see to that ! '
reply the Shifty Lad .
` When you be tire , just whistle , and I 'll let you down . '
So the Black Rogue be draw up , and as soon a he be as high a the rope would allow him to go the Shifty Lad call to him : ` Do n't forest to whistle when you want to come down ; but if you be enjoy yourself a I do , shake your leg . '
And in a moment the Black Rogue 's leg begin to shake and to kick , and the Shifty Lad stand below , watch him and laugh heartily .
` Oh , how funny you be !
If you could only see yourself !
Oh , you ARE funny !
But when you have have enough , whistle and you shall be let down ' ; and he rock again with laughter .
But no whistle come , and soon the leg cease to shake and to kick , for the Black Gallows Bird be dead , a the Shifty Lad intend he should be .
Then he go home to the Black Rogue 's wife , and tell her that her husband be dead , and that he be ready to marry her if she like .
But the woman have be fond of the Black Rogue , thief though he be , and she shrink from the Shifty Lad in horror , and set the people after him , and he have to fly to another part of the country where none knew of his doings .
Perhaps if the Shifty Lad 's mother know anything of this , she may have think that by this time her son might be tire of steal , and ready to try some honest trade .
But in reality he love the trick and danger , and life would have seem very dull without them .
So he go on just a before , and make friend whom he teach to be as wicked a himself , till they take to rob the king 's storehouse , and by the advice of the Wise Man the king send out soldier to catch the band of thief .
For a long while they try in vain to lay hand on them .
The Shifty Lad be too clever for them all , and if they lay trap he lay good one .
At last one night he steal upon some soldier while they be asleep in a barn and kill them , and persuade the villager that if THEY do not kill the other soldier before morning they would certainly be kill themselves .
Thus it happen that when the sun rise not a single soldier be alive in the village .
Of course this news soon reach the king 's ear , and he be very angry , and summon the Wise Man to take counsel with him .
And this be the counsel of the Wise Man -- that he should invite all the people in the countryside to a ball , and among them the bold and impudent thief would be sure to come , and would be sure to ask the king 's daughter to dance with him .
` Your counsel be good , ' say the king , who make his feast and prepare for his ball ; and all the people of the countryside be present , and the Shifty Lad come with them .
When everyone have eat and drink as much a they want they go into the ballroom .
There be a great throng , and while they be press through the doorway the Wise Man , who have a bottle of black ointment hidden in his robe , place a tiny dot on the cheek of the Shifty Lad near his ear .
The Shifty Lad felt nothing , but a he approach the king 's daughter to ask her to be his partner he catch sight of the black dot in a silver mirror .
Instantly he guess who have put it there and why , but he say nothing , and dance so beautifully that the princess be quite delight with him .
At the end of the dance he bow low to his partner and leave her , to mingle with the crowd that be fill the doorway .
As he pass the Wise Man he contrive not only to steal the bottle but to place two black dot on his face , and one on the face of twenty other men .
Then he slip the bottle back in the Wise Man 's robe .
By-and-by he go up to the king 's daughter again , and beg for the honour of another dance .
She consent , and while he be stoop to tie the ribbon on his shoe she take out from her pocket another bottle , which the Wizard have give her , and put a black dot on his cheek .
But she be not as skilful a the Wise Man , and the Shifty Lad felt the touch of her finger ; so as soon a the dance be over he contrive to place a second black dot on the face of the twenty men and two more on the Wizard , after which he slip the bottle into her pocket .
At length the ball come to an end , and then the king order all the door to be shut , and search make for a man with two black dot on his cheek .
The chamberlain go among the guest , and soon find such a man , but just a he be go to arrest him and bring him before the king his eye fell on another with the same mark , and another , and another , till he have count twenty -- besides the Wise Man -- on whose face be find spot .
Not know what to do , the chamberlain hurry back with his tale to the king , who immediately send for the Wise Man , and then for his daughter .
` The thief must have steal your bottle , ' say the king to the Wizard .
` No , my lord , it be here , ' answer the Wise Man , hold it out .
` Then he must have get yours , ' he cry , turn to his daughter .
` Indeed , father , it be safe in my pocket , ' reply she , take it out a she speak ; and they all three look at each other and remain silent .
` Well , ' say the king at last , ` the man who have do this be clever than most men , and if he will make himself know to me he shall marry the princess and govern half my kingdom while I be alive , and the whole of it when I be dead .
Go and announce this in the ballroom , ' he add to an attendant , ` and bring the fellow hither . '
So the attendant go into the ballroom and do a the king have bid him , when , to his surprise , not one man , but twenty , step forward , all with black dot on their face . '
I be the person you want , ' they all exclaim at once , and the attendant , a much bewilder a the chamberlain have be , desire them to follow him into the king 's presence .
But the question be too difficult for the king to decide , so he call together his council .
For hour they talk , but to no purpose , and in the end they hit upon a plan which they might just as well have think of at the beginning .
And this be the plan .
A child be to be bring to the palace , and next the king 's daughter would give her an apple .
Then the child be to take the apple and be lead into a room where the twenty men with the black dot be sit in a ring .
And to whomsoever the child give the apple , that man should marry the king 's daughter .
` Of course , ' say the king , ` it may not be the right man , after all , but then again it MAY be .
Anyhow , it be the best we can do . '
The princess herself lead the child into the room where the twenty men be now seat .
She stand in the centre of the ring for a moment , look at one man after another , and then hold out the apple to the Shifty Lad , who be twist a shaving of wood round his finger , and have the mouthpiece of a bagpipe hang from his neck .
` You ought not to have anything which the others have not get , ' say the chamberlain , who have accompany the princess ; and he bid the child stand outside for a minute , while he take away the shaving and the mouthpiece , and make the Shifty Lad change his place .
Then he call the child in , but the little girl know him again , and go straight up to him with the apple .
` This be the man whom the child have twice choose , ' say the chamberlain , sign to the Shifty Lad to kneel before the king .
` It be all quite fair ; we try it twice over . '
In this way the Shifty Lad win the king 's daughter , and they be marry the next day .
A few day later the bride and bridegroom be take a walk together , and the path lead down to the river , and over the river be a bridge .
` And what bridge may this be ? '
ask the Shifty Lad ; and the princess tell him that this be the bridge of Dublin .
` Is it indeed ? '
cry he .
` Well , now , many be the time that my mother have say , when I play her a trick , that my end would be that I should hang on the bridge of Dublin . '
` Oh , if you want to fulfil her prophecy , ' laugh the princess , ` you have only to let me tie my handkerchief round your ankle , and I will hold you a you hang over the wall of the bridge . '
` That would be fine fun , ' say he ; ` but you be not strong enough to hold me up . '
` Oh , yes , I be , ' say the princess ; ` just try . '
So at last he let her bind the handkerchief round his ankle and hang him over the wall , and they both laugh and jest at the strength of the princess .
` Now pull me up again , ' call he ; but a he speak a great cry arise that the palace be burn .
The princess turn round with a start , and let go her handkerchief , and the Shifty Lad fell , and strike his head on a stone , and die in an instant .
So his mother 's prophecy have come true , after all .
West Highland Tales .
The False Prince and the True The king have just awaken from his midday sleep , for it be summer , and everyone rise early and rest from twelve to three , a they do in hot country .
He have dress himself in cool white clothes , and be pass through the hall on his way to the council chamber , when a number of young noble suddenly appear before him , and one amongst them step forward and speak .
` Sire , this morning we be all play tennis in the court , the prince and this gentleman with the rest , when there break out some dispute about the game .
The prince lose his temper , and say many insulting thing to the other , who be play against him , till at length the gentleman whom you see there strike him violently in the face , so that the blood ran from his mouth and nose .
We be all so horrify at the sight , that we should most likely have kill the man then and there , for dare to lay hand on the prince , have not his grandfather the duke step between and command u to lay the affair before you . '
The king have listen attentively to the story , and when it be end he say : ' I suppose the prince have no arm with him , or else he would have use them ? '
` Yes , sire , he have arm ; he always carry a dagger in his belt .
But when he saw the blood pour from his face , he go to a corner of the court and begin to cry , which be the strange thing of all . '
On hear this the king walk to the window and stood for a few minute with his back to the room , where the company of young men remain silent .
Then he come back , his face white and stern . '
I tell you , ' he say , ` and it be the solemn truth , that I would rather you have tell me that the prince be dead , though he be my only son , than know that he would suffer such an injury without attempt to avenge it .
As for the gentleman who strike him , he will be bring before my judge , and will plead his own cause , but I hardly think he can escape death , after have assault the heir to the crown . '
The young man raise his head a if to reply , but the king would not listen , and command his guard to put him under arrest , add , however , that if the prisoner wish to visit any part of the city , he be at liberty to do so properly guard , and in fifteen day he would be bring to trial before the high judge in the land .
The young man leave the king 's presence , surround by soldier , and accompany by many of his friend , for he be a great favourite .
By their advice he spend the fourteen day that remain to him go about to seek counsel from wise men of all sort , a to how he might escape death , but no one could help him , for none could find any excuse for the blow he have give to the prince .
The fourteenth night have come , and in despair the prisoner go out to take his last walk through the city .
He wander on hardly know where he go , and his face be so white and desperate that none of his companion dare speak to him .
The sad little procession have pass some hour in this manner , when , near the gate of a monastery , an old woman appear round a corner , and suddenly stand before the young man .
She be bent almost double , and be so wizened and wrinkle that she look at least ninety ; only her eye be bright and quick a those of a girl .
` Sir , ' she say , ' I know all that have happen to you , and how you be seek if in any wise you can save your life .
But there be none that can answer that question save only I myself , if you will promise to do all I ask . '
At her word the prisoner felt a if a load have all at once be roll off him .
` Oh , save me , and I will do anything ! '
he cry .
` It be so hard to leave the world and go out into the darkness . '
` You will not need to do that , ' answer the old woman , ` you have only get to marry me , and you will soon be free . '
` Marry you ? '
exclaim he , ` but -- but -- I be not yet twenty , and you -- why , you must be a hundred at least !
Oh , no , it be quite impossible . '
He speak without thinking , but the flash of anger which dart from her eye make him feel uncomfortable .
However , all she say be : ` As you like ; since you reject me , let the crow have you , ' and hurry away down the street .
Left to himself , the full horror of his come death rush upon the young man , and he understand that he have throw away his sole chance of life .
Well , if he must , he must , he say to himself , and begin to run as fast a he could after the old crone , who by this time could scarcely be see , even in the moonlight .
Who would have believe a woman past ninety could walk with such speed ?
It seem more like fly !
But at length , breathless and exhaust , he reach her side , and gasp out : ` Madam , pardon me for my hasty word just now ; I be wrong , and will thankfully accept the offer you make me . '
` Ah , I think you would come to your sens , ' answer she , in rather an odd voice .
` We have no time to lose -- follow me at once , ' and they go on silently and swiftly till they stop at the door of a small house in which the priest live .
Before him the old woman bid the prisoner swear that she should be his wife , and this he do in the presence of witness .
Then , beg the priest and the guard to leave them alone for a little , she tell the young man what he be to do , when the next morning he be bring before the king and the judge .
The hall be full to overflow when the prisoner enter it , and all marvel at the brightness of his face .
The king inquired if he have any excuse to plead for the high treason he have commit by strike the heir to the throne , and , if so , to be quick in set it forth .
With a low bow the youth make answer in a clear voice : ' O my lord and gracious king , and you , noble and wise men of the land , I leave my cause without fear in your hand , know that you will listen and judge rightly , and that you will suffer me to speak to the end , before you give judgment .
` For four year , you , O king , have be marry to the queen and yet have no child , which grieve you greatly .
The queen saw this , and likewise that your love be go from her , and think night and day of some plan that might put an end to this evil .
At length , when you be away fight in distant country , she decide what she would do , and adopt in secret the baby of a poor quarryman , send a messenger to tell you that you have a son .
No one suspect the truth except a priest to whom the queen confess the truth , and in a few week she fell ill and die , leave the baby to be bring up a become a prince .
And now , if your highness will permit me , I will speak of myself . '
` What you have already tell me , ' answer the king , ` be so strange that I can not imagine what more there be to tell , but go on with your story . '
` One day , shortly after the death of the queen , ' continue the young man , ` your highness be hunt , and outstrip all your attendant while chase the deer .
You be in a part of the country which you do not know , so see an orchard all pink and white with apple-blossoms , and a girl toss a ball in one corner , you go up to her to ask your way .
But when she turn to answer you , you be so struck with her beauty that all else flee from your mind .
Again and again you ride back to see her , and at length persuade her to marry you .
She only think you a poor knight , and agree that a you wish it , the marriage should be keep secret .
` After the ceremony you give her three ring and a charm with a cross on it , and then put her in a cottage in the forest , think to hide the matter securely .
` For some month you visit the cottage every week ; but a rebellion break out in a distant part of the kingdom , and call for your presence .
When next you ride up to the cottage , it be empty , and none could inform you whither your bride have go .
That , sire , I can now tell you , ' and the young man pause and look at the king , who colour deeply .
` She go back to her father the old duke , once your chamberlain , and the cross on her breast reveal at once who you be .
Fierce be his anger when he hear his daughter 's tale , and he vow that he would hide her safely from you , till the day when you would claim her publicly a your queen .
` By and bye I be bear , and be bring up by my grandfather in one of his great house .
Here be the ring you give to my mother , and here be the cross , and these will prove if I be your son or not . '
As he speak the young man lay the jewel at the foot of the king , and the noble and the judge press round to examine them .
The king alone do not move from his seat , for he have forget the hall of justice and all about him , and saw only the apple-orchard , a it be twenty year ago , and the beautiful girl playing at ball .
A sudden silence round him make him look up , and he find the eye of the assembly fix on him .
` It be true ; it be he who be my son , and not the other , ' he say with an effort , ` and let every man present swear to acknowledge him a king , after my death . '
Therefore one by one they all kneel before him and take the oath , and a message be send to the false prince , forbid him ever again to appear at court , though a handsome pension be grant him .
At last the ceremony be over , and the king , sign to his newly find son to follow him , rise and go into another room .
` Tell me how you know all that , ' he say , throw himself into a carved chair fill with crimson cushion , and the prince tell of his meeting with the old woman who have bring him the jewel from his mother , and how he have swear before a priest to marry her , though he do not want to do it , on account of the difference in their age , and besides , he would rather receive a bride choose by the king himself .
But the king frown , and answer sharply : ` You swear to marry her if she save your life , and , come what may , you must fulfil your promise . '
Then , strike a silver shield that hang close by , he say to the equerry who appear immediately : ` Go and seek the priest who live near the door of the prison , and ask him where you can find the old woman who visit him last night ; and when you have find her , bring her to the palace . '
It take some time to discover the whereabouts of the old woman , but at length it be accomplish , and when she arrive at the palace with the equerry , she be receive with royal honour , a become the bride of the prince .
The guard look at each other with astonished eye , a the wizened creature , bow with age , pass between their line ; but they be more amazed still at the lightness of her step a she skip up the step to the great door before which the king be stand , with the prince at his side .
If they both felt a shock at the appearance of the age lady they do not show it , and the king , with a grave bow , take her band , and lead her to the chapel , where a bishop be wait to perform the marriage ceremony .
For the next few week little be see of the prince , who spend all his day in hunting , and try to forget the old wife at home .
As for the princess , no one trouble himself about her , and she pass the day alone in her apartment , for she have absolutely decline the service of the ladies-in-waiting whom the king have appoint for her .
One night the prince return after a longer chase than usual , and he be so tired that he go up straight to bed .
Suddenly he be awaken by a strange noise in the room , and suspect that a robber might have steal in , he jump out of bed , and seize his sword , which lay ready to his hand .
Then he perceive that the noise proceed from the next room , which belong to the princess , and be light by a burning torch .
Creeping softly to the door , he peep through it , and behold her lie quietly , with a crown of gold and pearl upon her head , her wrinkle all go , and her face , which be white than the snow , as fresh a that of a girl of fourteen .
Could that really be his wife -- that beautiful , beautiful creature ?
The prince be still gaze in surprise when the lady open her eye and smile at him .
` Yes , I really be your wife , ' she say , a if she have guess his thought , ` and the enchantment be end .
Now I must tell you who I be , and what befell to cause me to take the shape of an old woman .
` The king of Granada be my father , and I be bear in the palace which overlook the plain of the Vega .
I be only a few month old when a wicked fairy , who have a spite against my parent , cast a spell over me , bend my back and wrinkling my skin till I look a if I be a hundred year old , and make me such an object of disgust to everyone , that at length the king order my nurse to take my away from the palace .
She be the only person who care about me , and we live together in this city on a small pension allow me by the king .
` When I be about three an old man arrive at our house , and beg my nurse to let him come in and rest , a he could walk no longer .
She saw that he be very ill , so put him to bed and take such care of him that by and bye he be as strong a ever .
In gratitude for her goodness to him , he tell her that he be a wizard and could give her anything she choose to ask for , except life or death , so she answer that what she long for most in the world be that my wrinkled skin should disappear , and that I should regain the beauty with which I be bear .
To this he reply that a my misfortune result from a spell , this be rather difficult , but he would do his best , and at any rate he could promise that before my fifteenth birthday I should be free from the enchantment if I could get a man who would swear to marry me a I be .
` As you may suppose , this be not easy , a my ugliness be such that no one would look at me a second time .
My nurse and I be almost in despair , a my fifteenth birthday be draw near , and I have never so much a speak to a man .
At last we receive a visit from the wizard , who tell u what have happen at court , and your story , bid me to put myself in your way when you have lose all hope , and offer to save you if you would consent to marry me .
` That be my history , and now you must beg the king to send messenger at once to Granada , to inform my father of our marriage , and I think , ' she add with a smile , ` that he will not refuse u his blessing . '
Adapted from the Portuguese .
The Jogi 's Punishment Once upon a time there come to the ancient city of Rahmatabad a jogi -LSB- FN # 1 : A Hindu holy man . -RSB-
of holy appearance , who take up his abode under a tree outside the city , where he would sit for day at a time fast from food and drink , motionless except for the finger that turn restlessly his string of bead .
The fame of such holiness a this soon spread , and daily the citizen would flock to see him , eager to get his blessing , to watch his devotion , or to hear his teaching , if he be in the mood to speak .
Very soon the rajah himself heard of the jogi , and begin regularly to visit him to seek his counsel and to ask his prayer that a son might be vouchsafe to him .
Days pass by , and at last the rajah become so possess with the thought of the holy man that he determine if possible to get him all to himself .
So he build in the neighbourhood a little shrine , with a room or two add to it , and a small courtyard closely wall up ; and , when all be ready , beseech the jogi to occupy it , and to receive no other visitor except himself and his queen and such pupil a the jogi might choose , who would hand down his teaching .
To this the jogi consent ; and thus he live for some time upon the king 's bounty , whilst the fame of his godliness grow day by day .
Now , although the rajah of Rahmatabad have no son , he possess a daughter , who a she grow up become the most beautiful creature that eye ever rest upon .
Her father have long before betroth her to the son of the neighbouring rajah of Dilaram , but a yet she have not be marry to him , and live the quiet life proper to a maiden of her beauty and position .
The princess have of course heard of the holy man and of his miracle and his fasting , and she be fill with curiosity to see and to speak to him ; but this be difficult , since she be not allow to go out except into the palace ground , and then be always closely guard .
However , at length she find an opportunity , and make her way one even alone to the hermit 's shrine .
Unhappily , the hermit be not really as holy a he seem ; for no sooner do he see the princess than he fell in love with her wonderful beauty , and begin to plot in his heart how he could win her for his wife .
But the maiden be not only beautiful , she be also shrewd ; and as soon a she read in the glance of the jogi the love that fill his soul , she spring to her foot , and , gather her veil about her , run from the place as fast a she could .
The jogi try to follow , but he be no match for her ; so , beside himself with rage at find that he could not overtake her , he fling at her a lance , which wound her in the leg .
The brave princess stoop for a second to pluck the lance out of the wound , and then run on until she find herself safe at home again .
There she bath and bind up the wound secretly , and tell no one how naughty she have be , for she know that her father would punish her severely .
Next day , when the king go to visit the jogi , the holy man would neither speak to nor look at him .
` What be the matter ? '
ask the king .
` Wo n't you speak to me to-day ? ' '
I have nothing to say that you would care to hear , ' answer the jogi .
` Why ? '
say the king .
` Surely you know that I value all that you say , whatever it may be . '
But still the jogi sit with his face turn away , and the more the king press him the more silent and mysterious he become .
At last , after much persuasion , he say : ` Let me tell you , then , that there be in this city a creature which , if you do not put an end to it , will kill every single person in the place . '
The king , who be easily frighten , grow pale .
` What ? '
he gasp -- ` what be this dreadful thing ?
How be I to know it and to catch it ?
Only counsel me and help me , and I will do all that you advise . '
` Ah ! '
reply the jogi , ` it be indeed dreadful .
It be in the shape of a beautiful girl , but it be really an evil spirit .
Last evening it come to visit me , and when I look upon it it beauty fade into hideousness , it teeth become horrible fang , it eye glare like coal of fire , great claw spring from it slender finger , and be I not what I be it might have consume me . '
The king could hardly speak from alarm , but at last he say : ` How be I to distinguish this awful thing when I see it ? '
` Search , ' say the jogi , ` for a lovely girl with a lance wound in her leg , and when she be found secure her safely and come and tell me , and I will advise you what to do next . '
Away hurry the king , and soon set all his soldier scour the country for a girl with a lance wound in her left .
For two day the search go on , and then it be somehow discover that the only person with a lance wound in the leg be the princess herself .
The king , greatly agitate , go off to tell the jogi , and to assure him that there must be some mistake .
But of course the jogi be prepare for this , and have his answer ready .
` She be not really your daughter , who be steal away at her birth , but an evil spirit that have take her form , ' say he solemnly .
` You can do what you like , but if you do n't take my advice she will kill you all . '
And so solemn he appear , and so unshaken in his confidence , that the king 's wisdom be blind , and he declare that he would do whatever the jogi advise , and believe whatever he say .
So the jogi direct him to send him secretly two carpenter ; and when they arrive he set them to make a great chest , so cunningly jointed and put together that neither air nor water could penetrate it .
There and then the chest be make , and , when it be ready , the jogi bid the king to bring the princess by night ; and they two thrust the poor little maiden into the chest and fasten it down with long nail , and between them carry it to the river and push it out into the stream .
As soon a the jogi get back from this deed he call two of his pupil , and pretend that it have be reveal to him that there should be find float on the river a chest with something of great price within it ; and he bid them go and watch for it at such a place far down the stream , and when the chest come slowly along , bob and turn in the tide , they be to seize it and secretly and swiftly bring it to him , for he be now determine to put the princess to death himself .
The pupil set off at once , wonder at the strangeness of their errand , and still more at the holiness of the jogi to whom such secret be reveal .
It happen that , a the next morning be dawn , the gallant young prince of Dilaram be hunt by the bank of the river , with a great following of wazirs , attendant , and huntsman , and a he ride he saw float on the river a large chest , which come slowly along , bob and turn in the tide .
Raising himself in his saddle , he give an order , and half a dozen men plunge into the water and draw the chest out on to the river bank , where every one crowd around to see what it could contain .
The prince be certainly not the least curious among them ; but he be a cautious young man , and , a he prepare to open the chest himself , he bid all but a few stand back , and these few to draw their sword , so a to be prepare in case the chest should hold some evil beast , or djinn , or giant .
When all be ready and expectant , the prince with his dagger force open the lid and flung it back , and there lay , live and breathing , the most lovely maiden he have ever see in his life .
Although she be half stifle from her confinement in the chest , the princess speedily revive , and , when she be able to sit up , the prince begin to question her a to who she be and how she come to be shut up in the chest and set afloat upon the water ; and she , blush and tremble to find herself in the presence of so many stranger , tell him that she be the princess of Rahmatabad , and that she have be put into the chest by her own father .
When he on his part tell her that he be the prince of Dilaram , the astonishment of the young people be unbounded to find that they , who have be betroth without ever have see one another , should have actually meet for the first time in such strange circumstance .
In fact , the prince be so move by her beauty and modest way that he call up his wazirs and demand to be marry at once to this lovely lady who have so completely win his heart .
And marry they be then and there upon the river bank , and go home to the prince 's palace , where , when the story be tell , they be welcome by the old rajah , the prince 's father , and the remainder of the day be give over to feast and rejoice .
But when the banquet be over , the bride tell her husband that now , on the threshold of their married life , she have more to relate of her adventure than he have give her the opportunity to tell a yet ; and then , without hide anything , she inform him of all that happen to her from the time she have steal out to visit the wicked jogi .
In the morning the prince call his chief wazir and order him to shut up in the chest in which the princess have be find a great monkey that live chain up in the palace , and to take the chest back to the river and set it afloat once more and watch what become of it .
So the monkey be catch and put into the chest , and some of the prince 's servant take it down to the river and push it off into the water .
Then they follow secretly a long way off to see what become of it .
Meanwhile the jogi 's two pupil watch and watch for the chest until they be nearly tire of watching , and be begin to wonder whether the jogi be right after all , when on the second day they spy the great chest come float on the river , slowly bobbing and turning in the tide ; and instantly a great joy and exultation seize them , for they think that here indeed be further proof of the wonderful wisdom of their master .
With some difficulty they secure the chest , and carry it back a swiftly and secretly a possible to the jogi 's house .
As soon a they bring in the chest , the jogi , who have be get very cross and impatient , tell them to put it down , and to go outside whilst he open the magic chest .
` And even if you hear cry and sound , however alarm , you must on no account enter , ' say the jogi , walk over to a closet where lay the silken cord that be to strangle the princess .
And the two pupil do a they be tell , and go outside and shut close all the door .
Presently they hear a great outcry within and the jogi 's voice cry aloud for help ; but they dare not enter , for have they not be tell that whatever the noise , they must not come in ?
So they sit outside , wait and wondering ; and at last all grow still and quiet , and remain so for such a long time that they determine to enter and see if all be well .
No sooner have they open the door lead into the courtyard than they be nearly upset by a huge monkey that come leap straight to the doorway and escape past them into the open field .
Then they step into the room , and there they saw the jogi 's body lie torn to piece on the threshold of his dwelling !
Very soon the story spread , a story will , and reach the ear of the princess and her husband , and when she know that her enemy be dead she make her peace with her father .
From Major Campbell , Feroshepore .
The Heart of a Monkey A long time ago a little town make up of a collection of low hut stand in a tiny green valley at the foot of a cliff .
Of course the people have take great care to build their house out of reach of the high tide which might be drive on shore by a west wind , but on the very edge of the town there have spring up a tree so large that half it bough hung over the hut and the other half over the deep sea right under the cliff , where shark love to come and splash in the clear water .
The branch of the tree itself be laden with fruit , and every day at sunrise a big grey monkey might have be see sit in the topmost branch have his breakfast , and chatter to himself with delight .
After he have eat all the fruit on the town side of the tree the monkey swung himself along the branch to the part which hung over the water .
While he be look out for a nice shady place where he might perch comfortably he notice a shark watch him from below with greedy eye .
` Can I do anything for you , my friend ? '
ask the monkey politely .
` Oh !
if you only would throw me down some of those delicious thing , I should be so grateful , ' answer the shark .
` After you have live on fish for fifty year you begin to feel you would like a change .
And I be so very , very tired of the taste of salt . '
` Well , I do n't like salt myself , ' say the monkey ; ` so if you will open your mouth I will throw this beautiful juicy kuyu into it , ' and , a he speak , he pull one off the branch just over his head .
But it be not so easy to hit the shark 's mouth a he suppose , even when the creature have turn on his back , and the first kuyu only struck one of his teeth and roll into the water .
However , the second time the monkey have good luck , and the fruit fell right in .
` Ah , how good ! '
cry the shark .
` Send me another , please . '
And the monkey grow tire of pick the kuyu long before the shark be tire of eat them .
` It be get late , and I must be go home to my child , ' he say , at length , ` but if you be here at the same time to-morrow I will give you another treat . '
` Thank you , thank you , ' say the shark , show all his great ugly teeth a he grin with delight ; ` you ca n't guess how happy you have make me , ' and he swim away into the shadow , hop to sleep away the time till the monkey come again .
For week the monkey and the shark breakfast together , and it be a wonder that the tree have any fruit left for them .
They become fast friend , and tell each other about their home and their child , and how to teach them all they ought to know .
By and bye the monkey become rather discontent with his green house in a grove of palm beyond the town , and long to see the strange thing under the sea which he have hear of from the shark .
The shark perceive this very clearly , and describe great marvel , and the monkey a he listen grow more and more gloomy .
Matters be in this state when one day the shark say : ' I really hardly know how to thank you for all your kindness to me during these week .
Here I have nothing of my own to offer you , but if you would only consent to come home with me , how gladly would I give you anything that might happen to take your fancy . ' '
I should like nothing well , ' cry the monkey , his teeth chatter , a they always do when he be pleased .
` But how could I get there ?
Not by water .
Ugh !
It make me ill to think of it ! '
` Oh !
do n't let that trouble you , ' reply the shark , ` you have only to sit on my back and I will undertake that not a drop of water shall touch you . '
So it be arrange , and directly after breakfast next morning the shark swam close up under the tree and the monkey drop neatly on his back , without even a splash .
After a few minute -- for at first he felt a little frighten at his strange position -- the monkey begin to enjoy himself vastly , and ask the shark a thousand question about the fish and the sea-weeds and the oddly-shaped thing that float past them , and a the shark always give him some sort of answer , the monkey never guess that many of the object they saw be a new to his guide a to himself .
The sun have rise and set six time when the shark suddenly say , ` My friend , we have now perform half our journey , and it be time that I should tell you something . '
` What be it ? '
ask the monkey .
` Nothing unpleasant , I hope , for you sound rather grave ? '
` Oh , no !
Nothing at all .
It be only that shortly before we leave I hear that the sultan of my country be very ill , and that the only thing to cure him be a monkey 's heart . '
` Poor man , I be very sorry for him , ' reply the monkey ; ` but you be unwise not to tell me till we have start . '
` What do you mean ? '
ask the shark ; but the monkey , who now understand the whole plot , do not answer at once , for he be consider what he should say .
` Why be you so silent ? '
inquire the shark again . '
I be think what a pity it be you do not tell me while I be still on land , and then I would have bring my heart with me . '
` Your heart !
Why be n't your heart here ? '
say the shark , with a puzzled expression .
` Oh , no !
Of course not .
Is it possible you do n't know that when we leave home we always hang up our heart on tree , to prevent their be troublesome ?
However , perhaps you wo n't believe that , and will just think I have invent it because I be afraid , so let u go on to your country as fast a we can , and when we arrive you can look for my heart , and if you find it you can kill me . '
The monkey spoke in such a calm , indifferent way that the shark be quite deceive , and begin to wish he have not be in such a hurry .
` But there be no use go on if your heart be not with you , ' he say at last .
` We have well turn back to the town , and then you can fetch it . '
Of course , this be just what the monkey want , but he be careful not to seem too pleased .
` Well , I do n't know , ' he remark carelessly , ` it be such a long way ; but you may be right . ' '
I be sure I be , ' answer the shark , ` and I will swim as quickly a I can , ' and so he do , and in three day they catch sight of the kuyu tree hanging over the water .
With a sigh of relief the monkey catch hold of the near branch and swung himself up .
` Wait for me here , ' he call out to the shark . '
I be so hungry I must have a little breakfast , and then I will go and look for my heart , ' and he go far and far into the branch so that the shark could not see him .
Then he curl himself up and go to sleep .
` Are you there ? '
cry the shark , who be soon tire of swim about under the cliff , and be in haste to be go .
The monkey awoke with a start , but do not answer .
` Are you there ? '
call the shark again , loud than before , and in a very cross voice .
` Oh , yes .
I be here , ' reply the monkey ; ` but I wish you have not waken me up .
I be have such a nice nap . '
` Have you get it ? '
ask the shark .
` It be time we be go . '
` Going where ? '
inquire the monkey .
` Why , to my country , of course , with your heart .
You CA N'T have forget ! '
` My dear friend , ' answer the monkey , with a chuckle , ' I think you must be go a little mad .
Do you take me for a washerman 's donkey ? '
` Do n't talk nonsense , ' exclaim the shark , who do not like be laugh at .
` What do you mean about a washerman 's donkey ?
And I wish you would be quick , or we may be too late to save the sultan . '
` Did you really never hear of the washerman 's donkey ? '
ask the monkey , who be enjoy himself immensely .
` Why , he be the beast who have no heart .
And a I be not feeling very well , and be afraid to start while the sun be so high l I should get a sunstroke , if you like , I will come a little nearer and tell you his story . '
` Very well , ' say the shark sulkily , ` if you wo n't come , I suppose I may as well listen to that a do nothing . '
So the monkey begin . '
A washerman once live in the great forest on the other side of the town , and he have a donkey to keep him company and to carry him wherever he want to go .
For a time they get on very well , but by and bye the donkey grow lazy and ungrateful for her master 's kindness , and run away several mile into the heart of the forest , where she do nothing but eat and eat and eat , till she grow so fat she could hardly move .
` One day a she be taste quite a new kind of grass and wonder if it be as good a what she have have for dinner the day before , a hare happen to pass by . '
`` Well , that be a fat creature , '' think she , and turn out of her path to tell the news to a lion who be a friend of hers .
Now the lion have be very ill , and be not strong enough to go hunt for himself , and when the hare come and tell him that a very fat donkey be to be find only a few hundred yard off , tear of disappointment and weakness fill his eye . '
`` What be the good of tell me that ? ''
he ask , in a weepy voice ; `` you know I can not even walk as far a that palm . '' '
`` Never mind , '' answer the hare briskly .
`` If you ca n't go to your dinner your dinner shall come to you , '' and nod a farewell to the lion she go back to the donkey . '
`` Good morning , '' say she , bow politely to the donkey , who lift her head in surprise .
`` Excuse my interrupting you , but I have come on very important business . '' '
`` Indeed , '' answer the donkey , `` it be most kind of you to take the trouble .
May I inquire what the business be ? '' '
`` Certainly , '' reply the hare .
`` It be my friend the lion who have hear so much of your charm and good quality that he have send me to beg that you will give him your paw in marriage .
He regret deeply that he be unable to make the request in person , but he have be ill and be too weak to move . '' '
`` Poor fellow !
How sad ! ''
say the donkey .
`` But you must tell him that I feel honour by his proposal , and will gladly consent to be Queen of the Beasts . '' '
`` Will you not come and tell him so yourself ? ''
ask the hare .
` Side by side they go down the road which lead to the lion 's house .
It take a long while , for the donkey be so fat with eat she could only walk very slowly , and the hare , who could have run the distance in about five minute , be oblige to creep along till she almost drop with fatigue at not be able to go at her own pace .
When at last they arrive the lion be sit up at the entrance , look very pale and thin .
The donkey suddenly grow shy and hang her head , but the lion put on his best manner and invite both his visitor to come in and make themselves comfortable .
` Very soon the hare get up and say , `` Well , a I have another engagement I will leave you to make acquaintance with your future husband , '' and wink at the lion she bound away .
` The donkey expect that as soon a they be leave alone the lion would begin to speak of their marriage , and where they should live , but a he say nothing she look up .
To her surprise and terror she saw him crouch in the corner , his eye glare with a red light , and with a loud roar he spring towards her .
But in that moment the donkey have have time to prepare herself , and jump on one side deal the lion such a hard kick that he shriek with the pain .
Again and again he strike at her with his claw , but the donkey could bite too , as well a the lion , who be very weak after his illness , and at last a well-planted kick knock him right over , and he roll on the floor , groan with pain .
The donkey do not wait for him to get up , but run away as fast a she could and be lose in the forest .
` Now the hare , who know quite well what would happen , have not go to do her business , but hide herself in some bush behind the cave , where she could hear quite clearly the sound of the battle .
When all be quiet again she creep gently out , and stole round the corner . '
`` Well , lion , have you kill her ? ''
ask she , run swiftly up the path . '
`` Killed her , indeed ! ''
answer the lion sulkily , `` it be she who have nearly kill me .
I never know a donkey could kick like that , though I take care she should carry away the mark of my claw . '' '
`` Dear me !
Fancy such a great fat creature be able to fight ! ''
cry the hare .
`` But do n't vex yourself .
Just lie still , and your wound will soon heal , '' and she bid her friend , good bye , and return to her family .
` Two or three week pass , and only bare place on the donkey 's back show where the lion 's claw have be , while , on his side , the lion have recover from his illness and be now as strong a ever .
He be begin to think that it be almost time for him to begin hunt again , when one morning a rustle be hear in the creeper outside , and the hare 's head peep through . '
`` Ah !
there be no need to ask how you be , '' she say .
`` Still you must n't overtire yourself , you know .
Shall I go and bring you your dinner ? '' '
`` If you will bring me that donkey I will tear it in two , '' cry the lion savagely , and the hare laugh and nod and go on her errand .
` This time the donkey be much further than before , and it take longer to find her .
At last the hare catch sight of four hoof in the air , and run towards them .
The donkey be lie on a soft cool bed of moss near a stream , roll herself backwards and forward from pleasure . '
`` Good morning , '' say the hare politely , and the donkey get slowly on to her leg , and look to see who her visitor could be . '
`` Oh , it be you , be it ? ''
she exclaim .
`` Come and have a chat .
What news have you get ? '' '
`` I must n't stay , '' answer the hare ; `` but I promise the lion to beg you to pay him a visit , a he be not well enough to call on you . '' '
`` Well , I do n't know , '' reply the donkey gloomily , `` the last time we go he scratch me very badly , and really I be quite afraid . '' '
`` He be only try to kiss you , '' say the hare , `` and you bite him , and of course that make him cross . '' '
`` If I be sure of that , '' hesitate the donkey . '
`` Oh , you may be quite sure , '' laugh the hare .
`` I have a large acquaintance among lion .
But let u be quick , '' and rather unwillingly the donkey set out .
` The lion saw them come and hid himself behind a large tree .
As the donkey go past , follow by the hare , he spring out , and with one blow of his paw stretch the poor foolish creature dead before him . '
`` Take this meat and skin it and roast it , '' he say to the hare ; `` but my appetite be not so good a it be , and the only part I want for myself be the heart .
The rest you can either eat yourself or give away to your friend . '' '
`` Thank you , '' reply the hare , balance the donkey on her back as well a she be able , and though the leg trail along the ground she manage to drag it to an open space some distance off , where she make a fire and roast it .
As soon a it be cook the hare take out the heart and have just finish eat it when the lion , who be tire of wait , come up . '
`` I be hungry , '' say he .
`` Bring me the creature 's heart ; it be just what I want for supper . '' '
`` But there be no heart , '' answer the hare , look up at the lion with a puzzled face . '
`` What nonsense ! ''
say the lion .
`` As if every beast have not get a heart .
What do you mean ? '' '
`` This be a washerman 's donkey , '' reply the hare gravely . '
`` Well , and suppose it be ? '' '
`` Oh , fie ! ''
exclaim the hare .
`` You , a lion and a grown-up person , and ask question like that .
If the donkey have have a heart would she be here now ?
The first time she come she know you be try to kill her , and run away .
Yet she come back a second time .
Well , if she have have a heart would she have come back a second time ?
Now would she ? ''
` And the lion answer slowly , `` No , she would not . ''
` So you think I be a washerman 's donkey ? '
say the monkey to the shark , when the story be end .
` You be wrong ; I be not .
And a the sun be get low in the sky , it be time for you to begin your homeward journey .
You will have a nice cool voyage , and I hope you will find the sultan well .
Farewell ! '
And the monkey disappear among the green branch , and be go .
From ` Swahili Tales , ' by Edward Steere , LL.D .
The Fairy Nurse There be once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow .
They have three child , and my story happen while the young be a baby .
The wife be a good wife enough , but her mind be all on her family and her farm , and she hardly ever go to her knee without fall asleep , and she think the time spend in the chapel be twice as long a it need be .
So , friend , she let her man and her two child go before her one day to Mass , while she call to consult a fairy man about a disorder one of her cow have .
She be late at the chapel , and be sorry all the day after , for her husband be in grief about it , and she be very fond of him .
Late that night he be waken up by the cry of his child call out ` Mother !
Mother ! '
When he sit up and rub his eye , there be no wife by his side , and when he ask the little one what be become of their mother , they say they saw the room full of nice little men and woman , dress in white and red and green , and their mother in the middle of them , go out by the door a if she be walk in her sleep .
Out he run , and search everywhere round the house but , neither tale nor tidings do he get of her for many a day .
Well , the poor man be miserable enough , for he be a fond of his woman a she be of him .
It use to bring the salt tear down his cheek to see his poor child neglect and dirty , a they often be , and they 'd be bad enough only for a kind neighbour that use to look in whenever she could spare time .
The infant be away with a nurse .
About six week after -- just a he be go out to his work one morning -- a neighbour , that use to mind woman when they be ill , come up to him , and keep step by step with him to the field , and this be what she tell him .
` Just a I be fall asleep last night , I hear a horse 's tramp on the grass and a knock at the door , and there , when I come out , be a fine-looking dark man , mount on a black horse , and he tell me to get ready in all haste , for a lady be in great want of me .
As soon a I put on my cloak and thing , he take me by the hand , and I be sit behind him before I felt myself stir .
`` Where be we go , sir ? ''
say I . `` You 'll soon know , '' say he ; and he draw his finger across my eye , and not a ray could I see .
I keep a tight grip of him , and I little knew whether he be go backwards or forward , or how long we be about it , till my hand be take again , and I felt the ground under me .
The finger go the other way across my eye , and there we be before a castle door , and in we go through a big hall and great room all paint in fine green colour , with red and gold band and ornament , and the fine carpet and chair and table and window curtain , and grand lady and gentleman walk about .
At last we come to a bedroom , with a beautiful lady in bed , with a fine bouncing boy beside her .
The lady clap her hand , and in come the Dark Man and kiss her and the baby , and praise me , and give me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over .
` Well , the child I rub , sure enough ; but my right eye begin to smart , and I put up my finger and give it a rub , and then star , for never in all my life be I so frighten .
The beautiful room be a big , rough cave , with water ooze over the edge of the stone and through the clay ; and the lady , and the lord , and the child weazened , poverty-bitten creature -- nothing but skin and bone -- and the rich dress be old rag .
I do n't let on that I find any difference , and after a bit say the Dark Man , `` Go before me to the hall door , and I will be with you in a few moment , and see you safe home . ''
Well , just a I turn into the outside cave , who should I see watch near the door but poor Molly .
She look round all terrify , and say she to me in a whisper , `` I 'm bring here to nurse the child of the king and queen of the fairy ; but there be one chance of save me .
All the court will pass the cross near Templeshambo next Friday night , on a visit to the fairy of Old Ross .
If John can catch me by the hand or cloak when I ride by , and have courage not to let go his grip , I 'll be safe .
Here 's the king .
Do n't open your mouth to answer .
I saw what happen with the ointment . ''
` The Dark Man do n't once cast his eye towards Molly , and he seem to have no suspicion of me .
When we come out I look about me , and where do you think we be but in the dyke of the Rath of Cromogue .
I be on the horse again , which be nothing but a big rag-weed , and I be in dread every minute I 'd fall off ; but nothing happen till I find myself in my own cabin .
The king slip five guinea into my hand as soon a I be on the ground , and thank me , and bid me good night .
I hope I 'll never see his face again .
I get into bed , and could n't sleep for a long time ; and when I examine my five guinea this morning , that I leave in the table drawer the last thing , I find five withered leaf of oak -- bad luck to the giver ! '
Well , you may all think the fright , and the joy , and the grief the poor man be in when the woman finish her story .
They talk and they talk , but we need n't mind what they say till Friday night come , when both be stand where the mountain road cross the one go to Ross .
There they stand , look towards the bridge of Thuar , in the dead of the night , with a little moonlight shin from over Kilachdiarmid .
At last she give a start , and `` By this and by that , '' say she , `` here they come , bridle jingle and feather toss ! ''
He look , but could see nothing ; and she stand tremble and her eye wide open , look down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola .
`` I see your wife , '' say she , `` rid on the outside just so a to rub against u .
We 'll walk on quietly , a if we suspect nothing , and when we be pass I 'll give you a shove .
If you do n't do YOUR duty then , woe be with you ! ''
Well , they walk on easy , and the poor heart beat in both their breast ; and though he could see nothing , he hear a faint jingle and trampling and rustling , and at last he get the push that she promise .
He spread out his arm , and there be his wife 's waist within them , and he could see her plain ; but such a hullabulloo rise a if there be an earthquake , and he find himself surround by horrible-looking thing , roar at him and strive to pull his wife away .
But he make the sign of the cross and bid them begone in God 's name , and hold his wife a if it be iron his arm be make of .
Bedad , in one moment everything be as silent a the grave , and the poor woman lie in a faint in the arm of her husband and her good neighbour .
Well , all in good time she be mind her family and her business again ; and I 'll go bail , after the fright she get , she spend more time on her knee , and avoid fairy men all the day of the week , and particularly on Sunday .
It be hard to have anything to do with the good people without get a mark from them .
My brave nurse do n't escape no more than another .
She be one Thursday at the market of Enniscorthy , when what do she see walk among the tub of butter but the Dark Man , very hungry-looking , and take a scoop out of one tub and out of another .
` Oh , sir , ' say she , very foolish , ' I hope your lady be well , and the baby . '
` Pretty well , thank you , ' say he , rather frighten like .
` How do I look in this new suit ? '
say he , get to one side of her . '
I ca n't see you plain at all , sir , ' say she .
` Well , now ? '
say he , get round her back to the other side .
` Musha , indeed , sir , your coat look no good than a withered dock-leaf . '
` Maybe , then , ' say he , ` it will be different now , ' and he strike the eye next him with a switch .
Friends , she never saw a glimmer after with that one till the day of her death .
` Legendary Fictions of the Irish Celts , ' by Patrick Kennedy .
A Lost Paradise In the middle of a great forest there live a long time ago a charcoal-burner and his wife .
They be both young and handsome and strong , and when they get marry , they think work would never fail them .
But bad time come , and they grow poor and poor , and the night in which they go hungry to bed become more and more frequent .
Now one even the king of that country be hunt near the charcoal-burner 's hut .
As he pass the door , he hear a sound of sobbing , and be a good-natured man he stop to listen , think that perhaps he might be able to give some help .
` Were there ever two people so unhappy ! '
say a woman 's voice .
` Here we be , ready to work like slave the whole day long , and no work can we get .
And it be all because of the curiosity of old mother Eve !
If she have only be like me , who never want to know anything , we should all have be as happy a king to-day , with plenty to eat , and warm clothes to wear .
Why -- ' but at this point a loud knock interrupt her lamentation .
` Who be there ? '
ask she .
` I ! '
reply somebody .
` And who be `` I '' ? '
` The king .
Let me in . '
Full of surprise the woman jump up and pull the bar away from the door .
As the king enter , he notice that there be no furniture in the room at all , not even a chair , so he pretend to be in too great a hurry to see anything around him , and only say ` You must not let me disturb you .
I have no time to stay , but you seem to be in trouble .
Tell me ; be you very unhappy ? '
` Oh , my lord , we can find no work and have eat nothing for two day ! '
answer she .
` Nothing remain for u but to die of hunger . '
` No , no , you sha n't do that , ' cry the king , ` or if you do , it will be your own fault .
You shall come with me into my palace , and you will feel a if you be in Paradise , I promise you .
In return , I only ask one thing of you , that you shall obey my order exactly . '
The charcoal-burner and his wife both star at him for a moment , a if they could hardly believe their ear ; and , indeed , it be not to be wonder at !
Then they find their tongue , and exclaim together : ` Oh , yes , yes , my lord !
we will do everything you tell u .
How could we be so ungrateful a to disobey you , when you be so kind ? '
The king smile , and his eye twinkle .
` Well , let u start at once , ' say he .
` Lock your door , and put the key in your pocket . '
The woman look a if she think this be needless , see it be quite , quite certain they would never come back .
But she dare not say so , and do a the king tell her .
After walk through the forest for a couple of mile , they all three reach the palace , and by the king 's order servant lead the charcoal-burner and his wife into room fill with beautiful thing such a they have never even dream of .
First they bath in green marble bath where the water look like the sea , and then they put on silken clothes that felt soft and pleasant .
When they be ready , one of the king 's special servant enter , and take them into a small hall , where dinner be lay , and this please them good than anything else .
They be just about to sit down to the table when the king walk in . '
I hope you have be attend to properly , ' say he , ` and that you will enjoy your dinner .
My steward will take care you have all you want , and I wish you to do exactly a you please .
Oh , by the bye , there be one thing !
You notice that soup-tureen in the middle of the table ?
Well , be careful on no account to lift the lid .
If once you take off the cover , there be an end of your good fortune . '
Then , bow to his guest , he leave the room .
` Did you hear what he say ? '
inquire the charcoal-burner in an awe-stricken voice .
` We be to have what we want , and do what we please .
Only we must not touch the soup-tureen . '
` No , of course we wo n't , ' answer the wife .
` Why should we wish to ?
But all the same it be rather odd , and one ca n't help wonder what be inside . '
For many day life go on like a beautiful dream to the charcoal-burner and his wife .
Their bed be so comfortable , they could hardly make up their mind to get up , their clothes be so lovely they could scarcely bring themselves to take them off ; their dinner be so good that they find it very difficult to leave off eat .
Then outside the palace be garden fill with rare flower and fruit and singing bird , or if they desire to go far , a golden coach , paint with wreath of forget-me-not and line with blue satin , await their order .
Sometimes it happen that the king come to see them , and he smile a he glance at the man , who be get rosy and plump each day .
But when his eye rest on the woman , they take on a look which seem to say ' I know it , ' though this neither the charcoal-burner nor his wife ever notice .
` Why be you so silent ? '
ask the man one morning when dinner have pass before his wife have uttered one word . '
A little while ago you use to be chatter all the day long , and now I have almost forget the sound of your voice . '
` Oh , nothing ; I do not feel inclined to talk , that be all ! '
She stop , and add carelessly after a pause , ` Do n't you ever wonder what be in that soup-tureen ? '
` No , never , ' reply the man .
` It be no affair of ours , ' and the conversation drop once more , but a time go on , the woman speak less and less , and seem so wretched that her husband grow quite frightened about her .
As to her food , she refuse one thing after another .
` My dear wife , ' say the man at last , ` you really must eat something .
What in the world be the matter with you ?
If you go on like this you will die . ' '
I would rather die than not know what be in that tureen , ' she burst forth so violently that the husband be quite startle .
` Is that it ? '
cry he ; ` be you make yourself miserable because of that ?
Why , you know we should be turn out of the palace , and send away to starve . '
` Oh no , we should n't .
The king be too good-natured .
Of course he do n't mean a little thing like this !
Besides , there be no need to lift the lid off altogether .
Just raise one corner so that I may peep .
We be quite alone : nobody will ever know . '
The man hesitate : it do seem a ` little thing , ' and if it be to make his wife content and happy it be well worth the risk .
So he take hold of the handle of the cover and raise it very slowly and carefully , while the woman stoop down to peep .
Suddenly she startle back with a scream , for a small mouse have spring from the inside of the tureen , and have nearly hit her in the eye .
Round and round the room it run , round and round they both run after it , knock down chair and vas in their effort to catch the mouse and put it back in the tureen .
In the middle of all the noise the door open , and the mouse run out between the foot of the king .
In one instant both the man and his wife be hide under the table , and to all appearance the room be empty .
` You may as well come out , ' say the king , ` and hear what I have to say . ' '
I know what it be , ' answer the charcoal-burner , hang his head .
The mouse have escape . ' '
A guard of soldier will take you back to your hut , ' say the king .
` Your wife have the key . '
` Were n't they silly ? '
cry the grandchild of the charcoal-burners when they hear the story .
` How we wish that we have have the chance !
WE should never have want to know what be in the soup-tureen ! '
From ` Litterature Orale de l'Auvergne , ' par Paul Sebillot .
How Brave Walter Hunted Wolves A little back from the high road there stand a house which be call ` Hemgard . '
Perhaps you remember the two beautiful mountain ash tree by the reddish-brown paling , and the high gate , and the garden with the beautiful barberry bush which be always the first to become grown in spring , and which in summer be weigh down with their beautiful berry .
Behind the garden there be a hedge with tall aspen which rustle in the morning wind , behind the hedge be a road , behind the road be a wood , and behind the wood the wide world .
But on the other side of the garden there be a lake , and beyond the lake be a village , and all around stretch meadow and field , now yellow , now green .
In the pretty house , which have white window-frames , a neat porch and clean step , which be always strew with finely-cut juniper leave , Walter 's parent live .
His brother Frederick , his sister Lotta , old Lena , Jonah , Caro and Bravo , Putte and Murre , and Kuckeliku .
Caro live in the dog house , Bravo in the stable , Putte with the stableman , Murre a little here and a little there , and Kuckeliku live in the hen house , that be his kingdom .
Walter be six year old , and he must soon begin to go to school .
He can not read yet , but he can do many other thing .
He can turn cartwheel , stand on his head , ride see-saw , throw snowball , play ball , crow like a cock , eat bread and butter and drink sour milk , tear his trouser , wear hole in his elbow , break the crockery in piece , throw ball through the windowpane , draw old men on important paper , walk over the flower-beds , eat himself sick with gooseberry , and be well after a whipping .
For the rest he have a good heart but a bad memory , and forget his father 's and his mother 's admonition , and so often get into trouble and meet with adventure , a you shall hear , but first of all I must tell you how brave he be and how he hunt wolf .
Once in the spring , a little before Midsummer , Walter hear that there be a great many wolf in the wood , and that please him .
He be wonderfully brave when he be in the midst of his companion or at home with his brother and sister , then he use often to say ` One wolf be nothing , there ought to be at least four . '
When he wrestle with Klas Bogenstrom or Frithiof Waderfelt and strike them in the back , he would say ` That be what I shall do to a wolf ! '
and when he shoot arrow at Jonas and they rattle against his sheepskin coat he would say : ` That be how I should shoot you if you be a wolf ! '
Indeed , some think that the brave boy boast a little ; but one must indeed believe him since he say so himself .
So Jonas and Lena use to say of him ` Look , there go Walter , who shoot the wolf . '
And other boy and girl would say ` Look , there go brave Walter , who be brave enough to fight with four . '
There be no one so fully convince of this a Walter himself , and one day he prepare himself for a real wolf hunt .
He take with him his drum , which have hole in one end since the time he have climb up on it to reach a cluster of rowan berry , and his tin sabre , which be a little broken , because he have with incredible courage fight his way through a whole unfriendly army of gooseberry bush .
He do not forget to arm himself quite to the teeth with his pop-gun , his bow , and his air-pistol .
He have a burnt cork in his pocket to blacken his moustache , and a red cock 's feather to put in his cap to make himself look fierce .
He have besides in his trouser pocket a clasp knife with a bone handle , to cut off the ear of the wolf as soon a he have kill them , for he think it would be cruel to do that while they be still live .
It be such a good thing that Jonas be go with corn to the mill , for Walter get a seat on the load , while Caro run bark beside them .
As soon a they come to the wood Walter look cautiously around him to see perchance there be a wolf in the bush , and he do not omit to ask Jonas if wolf be afraid of a drum .
` Of course they be ' -LRB- that be understood -RRB- say Jonas .
Thereupon Walter begin to beat his drum with all his might while they be go through the wood .
When they come to the mill Walter immediately ask if there have be any wolf in the neighbourhood lately .
` Alas !
yes , ' say the miller , ` last night the wolf have eat our fat ram there by the kiln not far from here . '
` Ah ! '
say Walter , ` do you think that there be many ? '
` We do n't know , ' answer the miller .
` Oh , it be all the same , ' say Walter . '
I only ask so that I should know if I should take Jonas with me . '
I could manage very well alone with three , but if there be more , I might not have time to kill them all before they run away . '
` In Walter 's place I should go quite alone , it be more manly , ' say Jonas .
` No , it be well for you to come too , ' say Walter .
` Perhaps there be many . '
` No , I have not time , ' say Jonas , ` and besides , there be sure not to be more than three .
Walter can manage them very well alone . '
` Yes , ' say Walter , ` certainly I could ; but , you see , Jonas , it might happen that one of them might bite me in the back , and I should have more trouble in kill them .
If I only know that there be not more than two I should not mind , for them I should take one in each hand and give them a good shaking , like Susanna once shake me . ' '
I certainly think that there will not be more than two , ' say Jonas , ` there be never more than two when they slay child and ram ; Walter can very well shake them without me . '
` But , you see , Jonas , ' say Walter , ` if there be two , it might still happen that one of them escape and bite me in the leg , for you see I be not so strong in the left hand a in the right .
You can very well come with me , and take a good stick in case there be really two .
Look , if there be only one , I shall take him so with both my hand and throw him live on to his back , and he can kick as much a he like , I shall hold him fast . '
` Now , when I really think over the thing , ' say Jonas , ' I be almost sure there will not be more than one .
What would two do with one ram ?
There will certainly not be more than one . '
` But you should come with me all the same , Jonas , ' say Walter .
` You see I can very well manage one , but I be not quite accustomed to wolf yet , and he might tear hole in my new trouser . '
` Well , just listen , ' say Jonas , ' I be begin to think that Walter be not so brave a people say .
First of all Walter would fight against four , and then against three , then two , and then one , and now Walter want help with one .
Such a thing must never be ; what would people say ?
Perhaps they would think that Walter be a coward ? '
` That 's a lie , ' say Walter , ' I be not at all frighten , but it be more amusing when there be two .
I only want someone who will see how I strike the wolf and how the dust fly out of his skin . '
` Well , then , Walter can take the miller 's little Lisa with him .
She can sit on a stone and look on , ' say Jonas .
` No , she would certainly be frighten , ' say Walter , ` and how would it do for a girl to go wolf-hunting ?
Come with me , Jonas , and you shall have the skin , and I will be content with the ear and the tail . '
` No , thank you , ' say Jonas , ` Walter can keep the skin for himself .
Now I see quite well that he be frighten .
Fie , shame on him ! '
This touch Walter 's pride very near . '
I shall show that I be not frighten , ' he say ; and so he take his drum , sabre , cock 's feather , clasp-knife , pop-gun and air-pistol , and go off quite alone to the wood to hunt wolf .
It be a beautiful evening , and the bird be sing in all the branch .
Walter go very slowly and cautiously .
At every step he look all round him to see if perchance there be anything lurk behind the stone .
He quite think something move away there in the ditch .
Perhaps it be a wolf .
` It be well for me to beat the drum a little before I go there , ' thought Walter .
Br-r-r , so he begin to beat his drum .
Then something move again .
Caw !
caw !
a crow fly up from the ditch .
Walter immediately regain courage .
` It be well I take my drum with me , ' he think , and go straight on with courageous step .
Very soon he come quite close to the kiln , where the wolf have kill the ram .
But the nearer he come the more dreadful he think the kiln look .
It be so gray and old .
Who know how many wolf there might be hide there ?
Perhaps the very one which kill the ram be still sit there in a corner .
Yes , it be not at all safe here , and there be no other people to be see in the neighbourhood .
It would be horrible to be eat up here in the daylight , think Walter to himself ; and the more he think about it the ugly and grayer the old kiln look , and the more horrible and dreadful it seem to become the food of wolf .
` Shall I go back and say that I strike one wolf and it escape ? '
thought Walter .
` Fie ! '
say his conscience , ` Do you not remember that a lie be one of the bad sin , both in the sight of God and man ?
If you tell a lie to-day and say you strike a wolf , to-morrow surely it will eat you up . '
` No , I will go to the kiln , ' thought Walter , and so he go .
But he do not go quite near .
He go only so near that he could see the ram 's blood which colour the grass red , and some tuft of wool which the wolf have tear from the back of the poor animal .
It look so dreadful . '
I wonder what the ram think when they eat him up , ' think Walter to himself ; and just then a cold shiver run through him from his collar right down to his boot .
` It be well for me to beat the drum , ' he think to himself again , and so he begin to beat it .
But it sound horrid , and an echo come out from the kiln that seem almost like the howl of a wolf .
The drumstick stiffen in Walter 's hand , and he think now they be come ... !
Yes , sure enough , just then a shaggy , reddish-brown wolf 's head look out from under the kiln !
What do Walter do now ?
Yes , the brave Walter who alone could manage four , throw his drum far away , take to his heel and ran , and run as fast a he could back to the mill .
But , ala !
the wolf run after him .
Walter look back ; the wolf be quick than he and only a few step behind him .
Then Walter run faster .
But fear get the good of him , he neither hear nor saw anything more .
He run over stick , stone and ditch ; he lose drum-sticks , sabre , bow , and air-pistol , and in his terrible hurry he trip over a tuft of grass .
There he lay , and the wolf jump on to him ... It be a gruesome tale !
Now you may well believe that it be all over with Walter and all his adventure .
That would have be a pity .
But do not be surprise if it be not quite so bad a that , for the wolf be quite a friendly one .
He certainly jump on to Walter , but he only shake his coat and rub his nose against his face ; and Walter shriek .
Yes , he shriek terribly !
Happily Jonas hear his cry of distress , for Walter be quite near the mill now , and he run and help him up .
` What have happen ? '
he ask .
` Why do Walter scream so terribly ? ' '
A wolf !
A wolf ! '
cry Walter , and that be all he could say .
` Where be the wolf ? '
say Jonas . '
I do n't see any wolf . '
` Take care , he be here , he have bite me to death , ' groan Walter .
Then Jonas begin to laugh ; yes , he laugh so that he nearly burst his skin belt .
Well , well , be that the wolf ?
Was that the wolf which Walter be to take by the neck and shake and throw down on it back , no matter how much it struggle ?
Just look a little close at him : he be your old friend , your own good old Caro .
I quite expect he find a leg of the ram in the kiln .
When Walter beat his drum , Caro creep out , and when Walter run away , Caro run after him , a he so often do when Walter want to romp and play .
` Down , Caro !
you ought to be rather ashamed to have put such a great hero to flight ! '
Walter get up feel very foolish .
` Down , Caro ! '
he say , both relieve and annoy .
` It be only a dog , then if it have be a wolf I certainly should have kill him ... ' ` If Walter would listen to my advice , and boast a little less , and do a little more , ' say Jonas , consolingly .
` Walter be not a coward , be he ? '
` I !
You shall see , Jonas , when we next meet a bear .
You see I like so much good to fight with bear . '
` Indeed ! '
laugh Jonas .
` Are you at it again ?
` Dear Walter , remember that it be only coward who boast ; a really brave man never talk of his bravery . '
From Z. Topelius .
The King of the Waterfalls When the young king of Easaidh Ruadh come into his kingdom , the first thing he think of be how he could amuse himself best .
The sport that all his life have pleased him best suddenly seem to have grow dull , and he want to do something he have never do before .
At last his face brighten . '
I know ! '
he say . '
I will go and play a game with the Gruagach . '
Now the Gruagach be a kind of wicked fairy , with long curly brown hair , and his house be not very far from the king 's house .
But though the king be young and eager , he be also prudent , and his father have tell him on his deathbed to be very careful in his dealing with the ` good people , ' a the fairy be call .
Therefore before go to the Gruagach the king seek out a wise man of the countryside . '
I be want to play a game with the curly-haired Gruagach , ' say he .
` Are you , indeed ? '
reply the wizard .
` If you will take my counsel , you will play with someone else . '
` No ; I will play with the Gruagach , ' persist the king .
` Well , if you must , you must , I suppose , ' answer the wizard ; ` but if you win that game , ask a a prize the ugly crop-headed girl that stand behind the door . ' '
I will , ' say the king .
So before the sun rise he get up and go to the house of the Gruagach , who be sit outside . '
O king , what have bring you here to-day ? '
ask the Gruagach .
` But right welcome you be , and more welcome will you be still if you will play a game with me . '
` That be just what I want , ' say the king , and they play ; and sometimes it seem a if one would win , and sometimes the other , but in the end it be the king who be the winner .
` And what be the prize that you will choose ? '
inquire the Gruagach .
` The ugly crop-headed girl that stand behind the door , ' reply the king .
` Why , there be twenty others in the house , and each fairer than she ! '
exclaim the Gruagach .
` Fairer they may be , but it be she whom I wish for my wife , and none other , ' and the Gruagach saw that the king 's mind be set upon her , so he enter his house , and bid all the maiden in it come out one by one , and pas before the king .
One by one they come ; tall and short , dark and fair , plump and thin , and each say ' I be she whom you want .
You will be foolish indeed if you do not take me . '
But he take none of them , neither short nor tall , dark nor fair , plump nor thin , till at the last the crop-headed girl come out .
` This be mine , ' say the king , though she be so ugly that most men would have turn from her .
` We will be marry at once , and I will carry you home . '
And marry they be , and they set forth across a meadow to the king 's house .
As they go , the bride stoop and pick a sprig of shamrock , which grow amongst the grass , and when she stand upright again her ugliness have all go , and the most beautiful woman that ever be see stand by the king 's side .
The next day , before the sun rise , the king sprang from his bed , and tell his wife he must have another game with the Gruagach .
` If my father lose that game , and you win it , ' say she , ` accept nothing for your prize but the shaggy young horse with the stick saddle . ' '
I will do that , ' answer the king , and he go .
` Does your bride please you ? '
ask the Gruagach , who be stand at his own door .
` Ah !
do she not ! '
answer the king quickly .
` Otherwise I should be hard indeed to please .
But will you play a game to-day ? ' '
I will , ' reply the Gruagach , and they play , and sometimes it seem a if one would win , and sometimes the other , but in the end the king be the winner .
` What be the prize that you will choose ? '
ask the Gruagach .
` The shaggy young horse with the stick saddle , ' answer the king , but he notice that the Gruagach hold his peace , and his brow be dark a he lead out the horse from the stable .
Rough be it mane and dull be it skin , but the king care nothing for that , and throw his leg over the stick saddle , ride away like the wind .
On the third morning the king get up as usual before dawn , and as soon a he have eat food he prepare to go out , when his wife stop him . '
I would rather , ' she say , ` that you do not go to play with the Gruagach , for though twice you have win yet some day he will win , and then he will put trouble upon you . '
` Oh !
I must have one more game , ' cry the king ; ` just this one . '
And he go off to the house of the Gruagach .
Joy fill the heart of the Gruagach when he saw him come , and without wait to talk they play their game .
Somehow or other , the king 's strength and skill have depart from him , and soon the Gruagach be the victor .
` Choose your prize , ' say the king , when the game be end , ` but do not be too hard on me , or ask what I can not give . '
` The prize I choose , ' answer the Gruagach , ` be that the crop-headed creature should take thy head and thy neck , if thou dost not get for me the Sword of Light that hang in the house of the king of the oak windows . ' '
I will get it , ' reply the young man bravely ; but as soon a he be out of sight of the Gruagach he pretend no more , and his face grow dark and his step lag .
` You have bring nothing with you to-night , ' say the queen , who be stand on the step await him .
She be so beautiful that the king be fain to smile when he look at her , but then he remember what have happen , and his heart grow heavy again .
` What be it ?
What be the matter ?
Tell me thy sorrow that I may bear it with thee , or , it may be , help thee ! '
Then the king tell her everything that have befall him , and she stroke his hair the while .
` That be nothing to grieve about , ' she say when the tale be finish .
` You have the best wife in Erin , and the best horse in Erin .
Only do a I bid you , and all will go well . '
And the king suffer himself to be comfort .
He be still sleep when the queen rise and dress herself , to make everything ready for her husband 's journey ; and the first place she go to be the stable , where she feed and water the shaggy brown horse and put the saddle on it .
Most people think this saddle be of wood , and do not see the little sparkle of gold and silver that be hide in it .
She strap it lightly on the horse 's back , and then lead it down before the house , where the king wait .
` Good luck to you , and victory in all your battle , ' she say , a she kiss him before he mount . '
I need not be tell you anything .
Take the advice of the horse , and see you obey it . '
So he wave his hand and set out on his journey , and the wind be not swift than the brown horse -- no , not even the March wind which race it and could not catch it .
But the horse never stop nor look behind , till in the dark of the night he reach the castle of the king of the oak window .
` We be at the end of the journey , ' say the horse , ` and you will find the Sword of Light in the king 's own chamber .
If it come to you without scrape or sound , the token be a good one .
At this hour the king be eat his supper , and the room be empty , so none will see you .
The sword have a knob at the end , and take heed that when you grasp it , you draw it softly out of it sheath .
Now go !
I will be under the window . '
Stealthily the young man crept along the passage , pause now and then to make sure that no man be follow him , and enter the king 's chamber .
A strange white line of light tell him where the sword be , and cross the room on tiptoe , he seize the knob , and draw it slowly out of the sheath .
The king could hardly breathe with excitement lest it should make some noise , and bring all the people in the castle run to see what be the matter .
But the sword slide swiftly and silently along the case till only the point be leave touch it .
Then a low sound be heard , a of the edge of a knife touch a silver plate , and the king be so startled that he nearly drop the knob .
` Quick !
quick ! '
cry the horse , and the king scramble hastily through the small window , and leapt into the saddle .
` He have hear and he will follow , ' say the horse ; ` but we have a good start , ' And on they speed , on and on , leave the wind behind them .
At length the horse slacken it pace .
` Look and see who be behind you , ' it say ; and the young man look . '
I see a swarm of brown horse race madly after u , ' he answer .
` We be swift than those , ' say the horse , and fly on again .
` Look again , O king !
Is anyone come now ? ' '
A swarm of black horse , and one have a white face , and on that horse a man be seat .
He be the king of the oak windows . '
` That be my brother , and swifter still than I , ' say the horse , ` and he will fly past me with a rush .
Then you must have your sword ready , and take off the head of the man who sit on him , a he turn and look at you .
And there be no sword in the world that will cut off his head , save only that one . ' '
I will do it , ' reply the king ; and he listen with all his might , till he judge that the white-faced horse be close to him .
Then he sit up very straight and make ready .
The next moment there be a rushing noise a of a mighty tempest , and the young man catch a glimpse of a face turn towards him .
Almost blindly he strike , not know whether he have kill or only wound the rider .
But the head roll off , and be catch in the brown horse 's mouth .
` Jump on my brother , the black horse , and go home as fast a you can , and I will follow as quickly a I may , ' cry the brown horse ; and leap forward the king alight on the back of the black horse , but so near the tail that he almost fell off again .
But he stretch out his arm and clutch wildly at the mane and pull himself into the saddle .
Before the sky be streak with red he be at home again , and the queen be sit wait till he arrive , for sleep be far from her eye .
Glad be she to see him enter , but she say little , only take her harp and sang softly the song which he love , till he go to bed , soothe and happy .
It be broad day when he wake , and he spring up say : ` Now I must go to the Gruagach , to find out if the spell he lay on me be loose . '
` Have a care , ' answer the queen , ` for it be not with a smile a on the other day that he will greet you .
Furiously he will meet you , and will ask you in his wrath if you have get the sword , and you will reply that you have get it .
Next he will want to know how you get it , and to this you must say that but for the knob you have not get it at all .
Then he will raise his head to look at the knob , and you must stab him in the mole which be on the right side of his neck ; but take heed , for if you miss the mole with the point of the sword , then my death and your death be certain .
He be brother to the king of the oak window , and sure will he be that the king must be head , or the sword would not be in your hand . '
After that she kiss him , and bid him good speed .
` Didst thou get the sword ? '
ask the Gruagach , when they meet in the usual place . '
I get the sword . '
` And how didst thou get it ? '
` If it have not have a knob on the top , then I have not get it , ' answer the king .
` Give me the sword to look at , ' say the Gruagach , peer forward ; but like a flash the king have draw it from under his nose and pierce the mole , so that the Gruagach roll over on the ground .
` Now I shall be at peace , ' think the king .
But he be wrong , for when he reach home he find his servant tie together back to back with cloth bind round their mouth , so that they could not speak .
He hasten to set them free , and he ask who have treat them in so evil a manner .
` No sooner have you go than a great giant come , and dealt with u a you see , and carry off your wife and your two horse , ' say the men .
` Then my eye will not close nor will my head lay itself down till I fetch my wife and horse home again , ' answer he , and he stop and note the track of the horse on the grass , and follow after them till he arrive at the wood , when the darkness fell . '
I will sleep here , ' he say to himself , ` but first I will make a fire , ' And he gather together some twig that be lie about , and then take two dry stick and rub them together till the fire come , and he sat by it .
The twig crack and the flame blaze up , and a slim yellow dog push through the bush and lay his head on the king 's knee , and the king stroke his head .
` Wuf , wuf , ' say the dog .
` Sore be the plight of thy wife and thy horse when the giant drive them last night through the forest . '
` That be why I have come , ' answer the king ; and suddenly his heart seem to fail him and he felt that he could not go on . '
I can not fight that giant , ' he cry , look at the dog with a white face . '
I be afraid , let me turn homewards . '
` No , do n't do that , ' reply the dog .
` Eat and sleep , and I will watch over you . '
So the king ate and lay down , and sleep till the sun wake him .
` It be time for you to start on your way , ' say the dog , ` and if danger press , call on me , and I will help you . '
` Farewell , then , ' answer the king ; ' I will not forget that promise , ' and on he go , and on , and on , till he reach a tall cliff with many stick lie about .
` It be almost night , ' he think ; ' I will make a fire and rest , ' and thus he do , and when the flame blaze up , the hoary hawk of the grey rock fly on to a bough above him .
` Sore be the plight of thy wife and thy horse when they pass here with the giant , ' say the hawk .
` Never shall I find them , ' answer the king , ` and nothing shall I get for all my trouble . '
` Oh , take heart , ' reply the hawk ; ` thing be never so bad but what they might be bad .
Eat and sleep and I will watch thee , ' and the king do a he be bid by the hawk , and by the morning he felt brave again .
` Farewell , ' say the bird , ` and if danger press call to me , and I will help you . '
On he walk , and on and on , till a dusk be fall he come to a great river , and on the bank there be stick lie about . '
I will make myself a fire , ' he think , and thus he do , and by and bye a smooth brown head peer at him from the water , and a long body follow it .
` Sore be the plight of thy wife and thy horse when they pass the river last night , ' say the otter . '
I have seek them and not find them , ' answer the king , ` and nought shall I get for my trouble . '
` Be not so downcast , ' reply the otter ; ` before noon to-morrow thou shalt behold thy wife .
But eat and sleep and I will watch over thee . '
So the king do a the otter bid him , and when the sun rise he wake and saw the otter lie on the bank .
` Farewell , ' cry the otter a he jump into the water , ` and if danger press , call to me and I will help you . '
For many hour the king walk , and at length he reach a high rock , which be rent into two by a great earthquake .
Throwing himself on the ground he look over the side , and right at the very bottom he saw his wife and his horse .
His heart give a great bound , and all his fear leave him , but he be force to be patient , for the side of the rock be smooth , and not even a goat could find foothold .
So he get up again , and make his way round through the wood , push by tree , scramble over rock , wad through stream , till at last he be on flat ground again , close to the mouth of the cavern .
His wife give a shriek of joy when he come in , and then burst into tear , for she be tired and very frightened .
But her husband do not understand why she weep , and he be tire and bruise from his climb , and a little cross too .
` You give me but a sorry welcome , ' grumble he , ` when I have half-killed myself to get to you . '
` Do not heed him , ' say the horse to the weep woman ; ` put him in front of u , where he will be safe , and give him food , for he be weary . '
And she do a the horse tell her , and he ate and rest , till by and bye a long shadow fell over them , and their heart beat with fear , for they know that the giant be come . '
I smell a stranger , ' cry the giant , a he enter ; but it be dark inside the chasm , and he do not see the king , who be crouch down between the foot of the horse . '
A stranger , my lord !
no stranger ever come here , not even the sun ! '
and the king 's wife laugh gaily a she go up to the giant and stroke the huge hand which hang down by his side .
` Well , I perceive nothing , certainly , ' answer he , ` but it be very odd .
However , it be time that the horse be feed ; ' and he lift down an armful of hay from a shelf of rock and hold out a handful to each animal , who move forward to meet him , leave the king behind .
As soon a the giant 's hand be near their mouth they each make a snap , and begin to bite them , so that his groan and shriek might have be hear a mile off .
Then they wheel round and kick him till they could kick no more .
At length the giant crawl away , and lay quiver in a corner , and the queen go up to him .
` Poor thing !
poor thing ! '
she say , ` they seem to have go mad ; it be awful to behold . '
` If I have have my soul in my body they would certainly have kill me , ' groan the giant .
` It be lucky indeed , ' answer the queen ; ` but tell me , where be thy soul , that I may take care of it ? '
` Up there , in the Bonnach stone , ' answer the giant , point to a stone which be balance loosely on an edge of rock .
` But now leave me , that I may sleep , for I have far to go to-morrow . '
Soon snore be hear from the corner where the giant lay , and then the queen lay down too , and the horse , and the king be hide between them , so that none could see him .
Before the dawn the giant rise and go out , and immediately the queen run up to the Bonnach stone , and tug and push at it till it be quite steady on it ledge , and could not fall over .
And so it be in the evening when the giant come home ; and when they saw his shadow , the king creep down in front of the horse .
` Why , what have you do to the Bonnach stone ? '
ask the giant . '
I fear l it should fall over , and be break , with your soul in it , ' say the queen , ` so I put it far back on the ledge . '
` It be not there that my soul be , ' answer he , ` it be on the threshold .
But it be time the horse be feed ; ' and he fetch the hay , and give it to them , and they bite and kick him a before , till he lay half dead on the ground .
Next morning he rise and go out , and the queen run to the threshold of the cave , and wash the stone , and pull up some moss and little flower that be hide in the cranny , and by and bye when dusk have fall the giant come home .
` You have be clean the threshold , ' say he .
` And be I not right to do it , see that your soul be in it ? '
ask the queen .
` It be not there that my soul be , ' answer the giant .
` Under the threshold be a stone , and under the stone be a sheep , and in the sheep 's body be a duck , and in the duck be an egg , and in the egg be my soul .
But it be late , and I must fee the horse ; ' and he bring them the hay , but they only bit and kick him a before , and if his soul have be within him , they would have kill him outright .
It be still dark when the giant get up and go his way , and then the king and the queen run forward to take up the threshold , while the horse look on .
But sure enough !
just a the giant have say , underneath the threshold be the flagstone , and they pull and tug till the stone give way .
Then something jump out so suddenly , that it nearly knock them down , and a it flee past , they saw it be a sheep .
` If the slim yellow dog of the greenwood be only here , he would soon have that sheep , ' cry the king ; and a he speak , the slim yellow dog appear from the forest , with the sheep in his mouth .
With a blow from the king , the sheep fell dead , and they open it body , only to be blind by a rush of wing a the duck fly past .
` If the hoary hawk of the rock be only here , he would soon have that duck , ' cry the king ; and a he speak the hoary hawk be see hover above them , with the duck in his mouth .
They cut off the duck 's head with a swing of the king 's sword , and take the egg out of it body , but in his triumph the king hold it carelessly , and it slip from his hand , and roll swiftly down the hill right into the river .
` If the brown otter of the stream be only here , he would soon have that egg , ' cry the king ; and the next minute there be the brown otter , drip with water , hold the egg in his mouth .
But beside the brown otter , a huge shadow come steal along -- the shadow of the giant .
The king stand star at it , a if he be turn into stone , but the queen snatch the egg from the otter and crush it between her two hand .
And after that the shadow suddenly shrink and be still , and they know that the giant be dead , because they have find his soul .
Next day they mount the two horse and rode home again , visit their friend the brown otter and the hoary hawk and the slim yellow dog by the way .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
A French Puck Among the mountain pasture and valley that lie in the centre of France there dwell a mischievous kind of spirit , whose delight it be to play trick on everybody , and particularly on the shepherd and the cowboy .
They never know when they be safe from him , a he could change himself into a man , woman or child , a stick , a goat , a ploughshare .
Indeed , there be only one thing whose shape he could not take , and that be a needle .
At least , he could transform himself into a needle , but try a he might he never be able to imitate the hole , so every woman would have find him out at once , and this he know .
Now the hour oftenest choose by this naughty sprite -LRB- whom we will call Puck -RRB- for perform his prank be about midnight , just when the shepherd and cowherd , tire out with their long day 's work , be sound asleep .
Then he would go into the cowshed and unfasten the chain that fix each beast in it own stall , and let them fall with a heavy clang to the ground .
The noise be so loud that it be certain to awaken the cowboy , however fatigue they might be , and they drag themselves wearily to the stable to put back the chain .
But no sooner have they return to their bed than the same thing happen again , and so on till the morning .
Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plait together the mane and tail of two of the horse , so that it would take the groom hour of labour to get them right in the morning , while Puck , hidden among the hay in the loft , would peep out to watch them , enjoy himself amazingly all the time .
One even more than eighty year ago a man name William be pass along the bank of a stream when he notice a sheep who be bleat loudly .
William think it must have stray from the flock , and that he have well take it home with him till he could discover it owner .
So he go up to where it be stand , and a it seem so tired that it could hardly walk , he hoist it on his shoulder and continue on his way .
The sheep be pretty heavy , but the good man be merciful and stagger along as best he could under his load .
` It be not much far , ' he think to himself a he reach an avenue of walnut tree , when suddenly a voice speak out from over his head , and make him jump .
` Where be you ? '
say the voice , and the sheep answer : ` Here on the shoulder of a donkey . '
In another moment the sheep be stand on the ground and William be run towards home as fast a his leg would carry him .
But a he go , a laugh , which yet be something of a bleat , rang in his ear , and though he try not to hear , the word reach him , ` Oh , dear !
What fun I have have , to be sure ! '
Puck be careful not always to play his trick in the same place , but visit one village after another , so that everyone tremble l he should be the next victim .
After a bit he grow tire of cowboy and shepherd , and wonder if there be no one else to give him some sport .
At length he be tell of a young couple who be go to the near town to buy all that they need for set up house .
Quite certain that they would forget something which they could not do without , Puck wait patiently till they be jog along in their cart on their return journey , and change himself into a fly in order to overhear their conversation .
For a long time it be very dull -- all about their wedding day next month , and who be to be invite .
This lead the bride to her wedding dress , and she give a little scream .
` Just think !
Oh !
how could I be so stupid !
I have forget to buy the different coloured reel of cotton to match my clothes ! '
` Dear , dear ! '
exclaim the young man .
` That be unlucky ; and do n't you tell me that the dressmaker be come in to-morrow ? '
` Yes , I do , ' and then suddenly she give another little scream , which have quite a different sound from the first .
` Look !
Look ! '
The bridegroom look , and on one side of the road he saw a large ball of thread of all colour -- of all the colour , that be , of the dress that be tie on to the back of the cart .
` Well , that be a wonderful piece of good fortune , ' cry he , a he spring out to get it .
` One would think a fairy have put it there on purpose . '
` Perhaps she have , ' laugh the girl , and a she speak she seem to hear an echo of her laughter come from the horse , but of course that be nonsense .
The dressmaker be delight with the thread that be give her .
It match the stuff so perfectly , and never tie itself in knot , or break perpetually , a most thread do .
She finish her work much quick than she expect and the bride say she be to be sure to come to the church and see her in her wedding dress .
There be a great crowd assemble to witness the ceremony , for the young people be immense favourite in the neighbourhood , and their parent be very rich .
The door be open , and the bride could be see from afar , walk under the chestnut avenue .
` What a beautiful girl ! '
exclaim the men .
` What a lovely dress ! '
whisper the woman .
But just a she enter the church and take the hand of the bridegroom , who be wait for her , a loud noise be hear .
` Crick !
crack !
Crick !
crack ! '
and the wedding garment fell to the ground , to the great confusion of the wearer .
Not that the ceremony be put off for a little thing like that !
Cloaks in profusion be instantly offer to the young bride , but she be so upset that she could hardly keep from tear .
One of the guest , more curious than the rest , stay behind to examine the dress , determine , if she could , to find out the cause of the disaster .
` The thread must have be rotten , ' she say to herself . '
I will see if I can break it . '
But search a she would she could find none .
The thread have vanish !
From ` Litterature Orale de l'Auvergne , ' par Paul Sebillot .
The Three Crowns There be once a king who have three daughter .
The two eldest be very proud and quarrelsome , but the young be as good a they be bad .
Well , three prince come to court them , and two of them be exactly like the eldest lady , and one be just as lovable a the young .
One day they be all walk down to a lake that lay at the bottom of the lawn when they meet a poor beggar .
The king would n't give him anything , and the eldest princess would n't give him anything , nor their sweetheart ; but the young daughter and her true love do give him something , and kind word along with it , and that be good than all .
When they get to the edge of the lake what do they find but the beautifullest boat you ever saw in your life ; and say the eldest , ` I 'll take a sail in this fine boat ' ; and say the second eldest , ` I 'll take a sail in this fine boat ' ; and say the young , ' I wo n't take a sail in that fine boat , for I be afraid it 's an enchanted one . '
But the others persuade her to go in , and her father be just go in after her , when up sprung on the deck a little man only seven inch high , and order him to stand back .
Well , all the men put their hand to their sword ; and if the same sword be only plaything , they be n't able to draw them , for all strength that be leave their arm .
Seven Inches loosen the silver chain that fasten the boat , and push away , and after grin at the four men , say he to them .
` Bid your daughter and your bride farewell for awhile .
You , ' say he to the young , ` need n't fear , you 'll recover your princess all in good time , and you and she will be as happy a the day be long .
Bad people , if they be roll stark naked in gold , would not be rich .
Good-bye . '
Away they sail , and the lady stretch out their hand , but be n't able to say a word .
Well , they be n't cross the lake while a cat ` ud be lickin ' her ear , and the poor men could n't stir hand or foot to follow them .
They saw Seven Inches hand the three princess out of the boat , and let them down by a basket into a draw-well , but king nor prince ever saw an opening before in the same place .
When the last lady be out of sight , the men find the strength in their arm and leg again .
Round the lake they run , and never draw rein till they come to the well and windlass ; and there be the silk rope roll on the axle , and the nice white basket hang to it .
` Let me down , ' say the young prince .
` I 'll die or recover them again . '
` No , ' say the second daughter 's sweetheart , ` it be my turn first . '
And say the other , ' I be the eldest . '
So they give way to him , and in he get into the basket , and down they let him .
First they lose sight of him , and then , after wind off a hundred perch of the silk rope , it slacken , and they stop turn .
They wait two hour , and then they go to dinner , because there be no pull make at the rope .
Guards be set till next morning , and then down go the second prince , and sure enough , the young of all get himself let down on the third day .
He go down perch and perch , while it be a dark about him a if he be in a big pot with a cover on .
At last he saw a glimmer far down , and in a short time he felt the ground .
Out he come from the big lime-kiln , and , lo !
and behold you , there be a wood , and green field , and a castle in a lawn , and a bright sky over all .
` It 's in Tir-na-n-Oge I be , ' say he .
` Let 's see what sort of people be in the castle . '
On he walk , across field and lawn , and no one be there to keep him out or let him into the castle ; but the big hall-door be wide open .
He go from one fine room to another that be finer , and at last he reach the handsome of all , with a table in the middle .
And such a dinner a be lay upon it !
The prince be hungry enough , but he be too mannerly to eat without be invite .
So he sit by the fire , and he do not wait long till he hear step , and in come Seven Inches with the young sister by the hand .
Well , prince and princess fly into one another 's arm , and say the little man , say he , ` Why be n't you eat ? ' '
I think , sir , ' say the prince , ` it be only good manner to wait to be ask . '
` The other prince do n't think so , ' say he .
` Each o ' them fell to without leave , and only give me the rough word when I tell them they be make more free than welcome .
Well , I do n't think they feel much hunger now .
There they be , good marble instead of flesh and blood , ' say he , point to two statue , one in one corner , and the other in the other corner of the room .
The prince be frighten , but he be afraid to say anything , and Seven Inches make him sit down to dinner between himself and his bride ; and he 'd be as happy a the day be long , only for the sight of the stone men in the corner .
Well , that day go by , and when the next come , say Seven Inches to him , ` Now , you 'll have to set out that way , ' point to the sun , ` and you 'll find the second princess in a giant 's castle this evening , when you 'll be tire and hungry , and the eldest princess to-morrow evening ; and you may as well bring them here with you .
You need not ask leave of their master ; and perhaps if they ever get home , they 'll look on poor people a if they be flesh and blood like themselves . '
Away go the prince , and bedad !
it 's tired and hungry he be when he reach the first castle , at sunset .
Oh , be n't the second princess glad to see him !
And what a good supper she give him .
But she hear the giant at the gate , and she hide the prince in a closet .
Well , when he come in , he snuff , an ' he snuff , and say he , ` By the life , I smell fresh meat . '
` Oh , ' say the princess , ` it 's only the calf I get kill to-day . '
` Ay , ay , ' say he , ` be supper ready ? '
` It be , ' say she ; and before he rise from the table he eat three-quarters of a calf , and a flask of wine . '
I think , ' say he , when all be do , ' I smell fresh meat still . '
` It 's sleepy you be , ' say she ; ` go to bed . '
` When will you marry me ? '
say the giant .
` You 're put me off too long . '
` St. Tibb 's Eve , ' say she . '
I wish I know how far off that be , ' say he ; and he fell asleep , with his head in the dish .
Next day , he go out after breakfast , and she send the prince to the castle where the eldest sister be .
The same thing happen there ; but when the giant be snore , the princess waken up the prince , and they saddle two steed in the stable and rode into the field on them .
But the horse ' heel strike the stone outside the gate , and up get the giant and strode after them .
He roar and he shout , and the more he shout , the faster run the horse , and just a the day be break he be only twenty perch behind .
But the prince do n't leave the castle of Seven Inches without be provide with something good .
He rein in his steed , and fling a short , sharp knife over his shoulder , and up spring a thick wood between the giant and themselves .
They catch the wind that blow before them , and the wind that blow behind them do not catch them .
At last they be near the castle where the other sister live ; and there she be , wait for them under a high hedge , and a fine steed under her .
But the giant be now in sight , roar like a hundred lion , and the other giant be out in a moment , and the chase keep on .
For every two spring the horse give , the giant give three , and at last they be only seventy perch off .
Then the prince stop again , and fling the second knife behind him .
Down go all the flat field , till there be a quarry between them a quarter of a mile deep , and the bottom fill with black water ; and before the giant could get round it , the prince and princess be inside the kingdom of the great magician , where the high thorny hedge open of itself to everyone that he choose to let in .
There be joy enough between the three sister , till the two eldest saw their lover turn into stone .
But while they be shed tear for them , Seven Inches come in , and touch them with his rod .
So they be flesh , and blood , and life once more , and there be great hugging and kissing , and all sit down to breakfast , and Seven Inches sit at the head of the table .
When breakfast be over , he take them into another room , where there be nothing but heap of gold , and silver , and diamond , and silk , and satin ; and on a table there be lie three set of crown : a gold crown be in a silver crown , and that be lie in a copper crown .
He take up one set of crown , and give it to the eldest princess ; and another set , and give it to the second youngest princess ; and another , and give it to the young of all ; and say he , ` Now you may all go to the bottom of the pit , and you have nothing to do but stir the basket , and the people that be watch above will draw you up .
But remember , lady , you be to keep your crow safe , and be marry in them , all the same day .
If you be marry separately , or if you be marry without your crown , a curse will follow -- mind what I say . '
So they take leave of him with great respect , and walk arm-in-arm to the bottom of the draw-well .
There be a sky and a sun over them , and a great high wall , cover with ivy , rise before them , and be so high they could not see to the top of it ; and there be an arch in this wall , and the bottom of the draw-well be inside the arch .
The young pair go last ; and say the princess to the prince , ` I 'm sure the two prince do n't mean any good to you .
Keep these crown under your cloak , and if you be oblige to stay last , do n't get into the basket , but put a big stone , or any heavy thing inside , and see what will happen . '
As soon a they be inside the dark cave , they put in the eldest princess first , and stir the basket , and up she go .
Then the basket be let down again , and up go the second princess , and then up go the young ; but first she put her arm round her prince 's neck , and kiss him , and cry a little .
At last it come to the turn of the young prince , and instead of go into the basket he put in a big stone .
He draw on one side and listen , and after the basket be draw up about twenty perch , down come it and the stone like thunder , and the stone be break into little bit .
Well , the poor prince have nothing for it but to walk back to the castle ; and through it and round it he walk , and the fine of eating and drinking he get , and a bed of bog-down to sleep on , and long walk he take through garden and lawn , but not a sight could he get , high or low , of Seven Inches .
He , before a week , get tire of it , he be so lonesome for his true love ; and at the end of a month he do n't know what to do with himself .
One morning he go into the treasure room , and take notice of a beautiful snuff-box on the table that he do n't remember see there before .
He take it in his hand and open it , and out Seven Inches walk on the table . '
I think , prince , ' say he , ` you 're get a little tired of my castle ? '
` Ah ! '
say the other , ` if I have my princess here , and could see you now and then , I 'd never know a dismal day . '
` Well , you 're long enough here now , and you 're want there above .
Keep your bride 's crown safe , and whenever you want my help , open this snuff-box .
Now take a walk down the garden , and come back when you 're tire . '
The prince be go down a gravel walk with a quickset hedge on each side , and his eye on the ground , and he be think of one thing and another .
At last he lift his eye , and there he be outside of a smith 's gate that he often pass before , about a mile away from the palace of his betrothed princess .
The clothes he have on him be as rag a you please , but he have his crown safe under his old cloak .
Then the smith come out , and say he , ` It 's a shame for a strong , big fellow like you to be lazy , and so much work to be do .
Are you any good with hammer and tongs ?
Come in and bear a hand , an I 'll give you diet and lodging , and a few penny when you earn them . '
` Never say ' t twice , ' say the prince . '
I want nothing but to be busy . '
So he take the hammer , and pound away at the red-hot bar that the smith be turn on the anvil to make into a set of horse-shoes .
They have n't be long at work when a tailor come in , and he sit down and begin to talk .
` You all hear how the two princess be loth to be marry till the young would be ready with her crown and her sweetheart .
But after the windlass loosen accidentally when they be pull up her bridegroom that be to be , there be no more sign of a well , or a rope , or a windlass , than there be on the palm of your hand .
So the prince that be court the eldest lady would n't give peace or ease to their lover nor the king till they get consent to the marriage , and it be to take place this morning .
Myself go down out o ' curiousity , and to be sure I be delight with the grand dress of the two bride , and the three crown on their head -- gold , silver , and copper , one inside the other .
The young be stand by mournful enough , and all be ready .
The two bridegroom come in a proud and grand a you please , and up they be walk to the altar rail , when the board open two yard wide under their foot , and down they go among the dead men and the coffin in the vault .
Oh , such shriek a the lady give !
and such running and racing and peep down a there be !
but the clerk soon open the door of the vault , and up come the two prince , their fine clothes cover an inch thick with cobweb and mould .
So the king say they should put off the marriage .
` For , ' say he , ' I see there be no use in thinking of it till the young get her three crown , and be marry with the others .
I 'll give my young daughter for a wife to whoever brings three crown to me like the others ; and if he do n't care to be marry , some other one will , and I 'll make his fortune . ' '
I wish , ' say the smith , ' I could do it ; but I be look at the crown after the princess get home , and I do n't think there 's a black or a white smith on the face of the earth that could imitate them . '
` Faint heart never win fair lady , ' say the prince .
` Go to the palace and ask for a quarter of a pound of gold , a quarter of a pound of silver , and a quarter of a pound of copper .
Get one crown for a pattern , and my head for a pledge , I 'll give you out the very thing that be want in the morning . '
` Are you in earnest ? '
say the smith .
` Faith , I be so , ' say he .
` Go !
you ca n't do bad than lose . '
To make a long story short , the smith get the quarter of a pound of gold , and the quarter of a pound of silver , and the quarter of a pound of copper , and give them and the pattern crown to the prince .
He shut the forge door at nightfall , and the neighbour all gather in the yard , and they hear him hammer , hammer , hammer , from that to daybreak ; and every now and then he 'd throw out through the window bit of gold , silver , and copper ; and the idler scramble for them , and curse one another , and pray for the good luck of the workman .
Well , just a the sun be think to rise , he open the door , and bring out the three crown he get from his true love , and such shouting and huzzaing a there be !
The smith ask him to go along with him to the palace , but he refuse ; so off set the smith , and the whole townland with him ; and be n't the king rejoice when he saw the crown !
` Well , ' say he to the smith , ` you 're a married man .
What 's to be do ? '
` Faith , your majesty , I do n't make them crown at all .
It be a big fellow that take service with me yesterday . '
` Well , daughter , will you marry the fellow that make these crown ? '
` Let me see them first , father , ' say she ; but when she examine them she know them right well , and guess it be her true love that send them . '
I will marry the man that these crown come from , ' say she .
` Well , ' say the king to the elder of the two prince , ` go up to the smith 's forge , take my best coach , and bring home the bridegroom . '
He do not like do this , he be so proud , but he could not refuse .
When he come to the forge he saw the prince standing at the door , and beckon him over to the coach .
` Are you the fellow , ' say he , ` that make these crown ? '
` Yes , ' say the other .
` Then , ' say he , ` maybe you 'd give yourself a brushing , and get into that coach ; the king want to see you .
I pity the princess . '
The young prince get into the carriage , and while they be on the way he open the snuff-box , and out walk Seven Inches , and stand on his thigh .
` Well , ' say he , ` what trouble be on you now ? '
` Master , ' say the other , ` please let me go back to my forge , and let this carriage be fill with paving stone . '
No sooner say than do .
The prince be sit in his forge , and the horse wonder what be after happen to the carriage .
When they come into the palace yard , the king himself open the carriage door , for respect to his new son-in-law .
As soon a he turn the handle , a shower of small stone fell on his powdered wig and his silk coat , and down he fell under them .
There be great fright and some laughter , and the king , after he wipe the blood from his forehead , look very cross at the eldest prince .
` My lord , ' say he , ` I 'm very sorry for this accident , but I 'm not to blame .
I saw the young smith get into the carriage , and we never stop a minute since . '
` It 's uncivil you be to him .
Go , ' say he to the other prince , ` and bring the young smith here , and be polite . '
` Never fear , ' say he .
But there 's some people that could n't be good-natured if they try , and not a bit civiller be the new messenger than the old , and when the king open the carriage door a second time , it 's shower of mud that come down on him .
` There 's no use , ' say he , ` go on this way .
The fox never get a good messenger than himself . '
So he change his clothes , and wash himself , and out he set to the prince 's forge and ask him to sit along with himself .
The prince beg to be allow to sit in the other carriage , and when they be half-way he open his snuff-box .
` Master , ' say he , ` I 'd wish to be dress now accord to my rank . '
` You shall be that , ' say Seven Inches .
` And now I 'll bid you farewell .
Continue a good and kind a you always be ; love your wife ; and that 's all the advice I 'll give you . '
So Seven Inches vanish ; and when the carriage door be open in the yard , out walk the prince as fine a hand could make him , and the first thing he do be to run over to his bride and embrace her .
Every one be full of joy but the two other prince .
There be not much delay about the marriage , and they be all celebrate on the one day .
Soon after , the two elder couple go to their own court , but the young pair stay with the old king , and they be as happy a the happy married couple you ever heard of in a story .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
The Story of a Very Bad Boy Once upon a time there live in a little village in the very middle of France a widow and her only son , a boy about fifteen , whose name be Antoine , though no one ever call him anything but Toueno-Boueno .
They be very poor indeed , and their hut shook about their ear on windy night , till they expect the wall to fall in and crush them , but instead of go to work a a boy of his age ought to do , Toueno-Boueno do nothing but lounge along the street , his eye fix on the ground , see nothing that go on round him .
` You be very , very stupid , my dear child , ' his mother would sometimes say to him , and then she would add with a laugh , ` Certainly you will never catch a wolf by the tail . '
One day the old woman bid Antoine go into the forest and collect enough dry leaf to make bed for herself and him .
Before he have finish it begin to rain heavily , so he hide himself in the hollow trunk of a tree , where he be so dry and comfortable that he soon fell fast asleep .
By and by he be awaken by a noise which sound like a dog scratching at the door , and he suddenly felt frighten , why he do not know .
Very cautiously he raise his head , and right above him he saw a big hairy animal , come down tail foremost .
` It be the wolf that they talk so much about , ' he say to himself , and he make himself as small a he could and shrink into a corner .
The wolf come down the inside of the tree , slowly , slowly ; Antoine felt turn to stone , so terrified be he , and hardly dare to breathe .
Suddenly an idea enter his mind , which he think might save him still .
He remember to have hear from his mother that a wolf could neither bend his back nor turn his head , so a to look behind him , and quick a lightning he stretch up his hand , and seize the wolf 's tail , pull it towards him .
Then he leave the tree and drag the animal to his mother 's house .
` Mother , you have often declare that I be too stupid to catch a wolf by the tail .
Now see , ' he cry triumphantly .
` Well , well , wonder will never cease , ' answer the good woman , who take care to keep at a safe distance .
` But a you really have get him , let u see if we ca n't put him to some use .
Fetch the skin of the ram which die last week out of the chest , and we will sew the wolf up in it .
He will make a splendid ram , and to-morrow we will drive him to the fair and sell him . '
Very likely the wolf , who be cunning and clever , may have understood what she say , but he think it best to give no sign , and suffer the skin to be sew upon him . '
I can always get away if I choose , ' think he , ` it be well not to be in a hurry ; ' so he remain quite still while the skin be draw over his head , which make him very hot and uncomfortable , and resist the temptation to snap off the finger or nose that be so close to his mouth .
The fair be at it height next day when Toueno-Boueno arrive with his wolf in ram 's clothing .
All the farmer crowd round him , each offer a high price than the last .
Never have they behold such a beautiful beast , say they , and at last , after much bargaining , he be hand over to three brother for a good sum of money .
It happen that these three brother own large flock of sheep , though none so large and fine a the one they have just buy .
` My flock be the near , ' observe the eldest brother ; ` we will leave him in the fold for the night , and to-morrow we will decide which pasture will be best for him . '
And the wolf grin a he listen , and hold up his head a little high than before .
Early next morning the young farmer begin to go his round , and the sheep-fold be the first place he visit .
To his horror , the sheep be all stretch out dead before him , except one , which the wolf have eat , bone and all .
Instantly the truth flash upon him .
It be no ram that lay curl up in the corner pretend to be asleep -LRB- for in reality he could bend back and turn his head as much a he like -RRB- , but a wolf who be watch him out of the corner of his eye , and might spring upon him at any moment .
So the farmer take no notice , and only think that here be a fine chance of revenge himself on his next brother for a trick which he have play , and merely tell him that the ram would not eat the grass in that field , and it might be well to drive him to the pasture by the river , where his own flock be feed .
The second brother eagerly swallow the bait , and that even the wolf be drive down to the field where the young man keep the sheep which have be leave him by his father .
By the next morning they also be all dead , but the second brother likewise hold his peace , and allow the sheep which belong to the young to share the fate of the other two .
Then they meet and confess to each other their disaster , and resolve to take the animal as fast a possible back to Toueno-Boueno , who should get a sound thrashing .
Antoine be sit on a plum tree belong to a neighbour , eat the ripe fruit , when he saw the three young farmer come towards him .
Swinging himself down , he fly home to the hut , cry breathlessly , ` Mother , mother , the farmer be close by with the wolf .
They have find out all about it , and will certainly kill me , and perhaps you too .
But if you do a I tell you , I may be able to save u both .
Lie down on the floor , and pretend to be dead , and be sure not to speak , whatever happen .
Thus when the three brother , each arm with a whip , enter the hut a few second later , they find a woman extend on the floor , and Toueno kneeling at her side , whistle loudly into her ear .
` What be you do now , you rascal ? '
ask the eldest .
` What be I do ?
Oh , my poor friend , I be the most miserable creature in the world !
I have lose the best of mother , and I do n't know what will become of me , ' and he hide his face in his hand and sob again .
` But what be you whistle like that for ? '
` Well , it be the only chance .
This whistle have be know to bring the dead back to life , and I hop -- ' here he bury his face in his hand again , but peep between his finger he saw that the brother have open their six eye as wide a saucer .
` Look ! '
he suddenly exclaim with a cry , ` Look !
I be sure I felt her body move !
And now her nostril be twitch .
Ah !
the whistle have not lose it power after all , ' and stoop down , Toueno whistle more loudly than before , so that the old woman 's foot and hand show sign of life , and she soon be able to life her head .
The farmer be so astonished at her restoration , that it be some time before they could speak .
At length the eldest turn to the boy and say : ` Now listen to me .
There be no manner of doubt that you be a young villain .
You sell u a ram knowing full well that it be a wolf , and we come here to-day to pay you out for it .
But if you will give u that whistle , we will pardon what you have do , and will leave you alone . '
` It be my only treasure , and I set great store by it , ' answer the boy , pretend to hesitate .
` But a you wish for it so much , well , I suppose I ca n't refuse , ' and he hold out the whistle , which the eldest brother put in his pocket .
Armed with the precious whistle , the three brother return home full of joy , and a they go the young say to the others , ' I have such a good idea !
Our wife be all lazy and grumbling , and make our life a burden .
Let u give them a lesson , and kill them as soon a we get in .
Of course we can restore them to life at once , but they will have have a rare fright . '
` Ah , how clever you be , ' answer the other two .
` Nobody else would have think of that . '
So gaily the three husband knock down their three wife , who fell dead to the ground .
Then one by one the men try the whistle , and blow so loudly that it seem a if their lung would burst , but the woman lay stark and stiff and never move an eyelid .
The husband grow pale and cold , for they have never dream of this , nor meant any harm , and after a while they understand that their effort be of no use , and that once more the boy have trick them .
With stern face they rise to their foot , and take a large sack they retrace their step to the hut .
This time there be no escape .
Toueno have be asleep , and only open his eye a they enter .
Without a word on either side they thrust him into the sack , and tie up the mouth , the eldest threw it over his shoulder .
After that they all set out to the river , where they intend to drown the boy .
But the river be a long way off , and the day be very hot , and Antoine be heavy , heavy than a whole sheaf of corn .
They carry him in turn , but even so they grow very tired and thirsty , and when a little tavern come in sight on the roadside , they thankfully fling the sack down on a bench and enter to refresh themselves .
They never notice that a beggar be sit in the shade at the end of the bench , but Toueno 's sharp ear catch the sound of someone eating , and as soon a the farmer have go into the inn he begin to groan softly .
` What be the matter ? '
ask the beggar , draw a little nearer .
` Why have they shut you up , poor boy ? '
` Because they want to make me a bishop , and I would not consent , ' answer Toueno .
` Dear me , ' exclaim the beggar , ` yet it be n't such a bad thing to be a bishop . ' '
I do n't say it be , ' reply the young rascal , ` but I should never like it .
However , if you have any fancy for wear a mitre , you need only untie the sack , and take my place . ' '
I should like nothing well , ' say the man , a he stoop to undo the big knot .
So it be the beggar and not Toueno-Boueno who be fling into the water .
The next morning the three wife be bury , and on return from the cemetery , their husband meet Toueno-Boueno drive a magnificent flock of sheep .
At the sight of him the three farmer stand still with astonishment .
` What !
you scoundrel ! '
they cry at last , ` we drown you yesterday , and to-day we find you again , as well a ever ! '
` It do seem odd , do n't it ? '
answer he .
` But perhaps you do n't know that beneath this world there lie another yet more beautiful and far , far rich .
Well , it be there that you send me when you fling me into the river , and though I felt a little strange at first , yet I soon begin to look about me , and to see what be happen .
There I notice that close to the place where I have fall , a sheep fair be be hold , and a bystander tell me that every day horse or cattle be sell somewhere in the town .
If I have only have the luck to be throw into the river on the side of the horse fair I might have make my fortune !
As it be , I have to content myself with buy these sheep , which you can get for nothing . '
` And do you know exactly the spot in the river which lie over the horse fair ? '
` As if I do not know it , when I have see it with my own eye . '
` Then if you do not want u to avenge our dead flock and our murdered wife , you will have to throw u into the river just over the place of the horse fair . '
` Very well ; only you must get three sack and come with me to that rock which jut into the river .
I will throw you in from there , and you will fall nearly on to the horse ' back . '
So he throw them in , and a they be never see again , no one ever know into which fair they have fall .
From ` Litterature Orale de L'Auvergne , ' par Paul Sebillot .
The Brown Bear of Norway There be once a king in Ireland , and he have three daughter , and very nice princess they be .
And one day , when they and their father be walk on the lawn , the king begin to joke with them , and to ask them whom they would like to be marry to .
` I 'll have the king of Ulster for a husband , ' say one ; ` and I 'll have the king of Munster , ' say another ; ` and , ' say the young , ` I 'll have no husband but the Brown Bear of Norway . '
For a nurse of hers use to be tell her of an enchanted prince that she call by that name , and she fell in love with him , and his name be the first name on her tongue , for the very night before she be dream of him .
Well , one laugh , and another laugh , and they joke with the princess all the rest of the evening .
But that very night she wake up out of her sleep in a great hall that be light up with a thousand lamp ; the rich carpet be on the floor , and the wall be cover with cloth of gold and silver , and the place be full of grand company , and the very beautiful prince she saw in her dream be there , and it be n't a moment till he be on one knee before her , and tell her how much he love her , and ask her would n't she be his queen .
Well , she have n't the heart to refuse him , and marry they be the same evening .
` Now , my darling , ' say he , when they be leave by themselves , ` you must know that I be under enchantment .
A sorceress , that have a beautiful daughter , wish me for her son-in-law ; but the mother get power over me , and when I refuse to wed her daughter she make me take the form of a bear by day , and I be to continue so till a lady would marry me of her own free will , and endure five year of great trial after . '
Well , when the princess wake in the morning , she miss her husband from her side , and spend the day very sadly .
But as soon a the lamp be light in the grand hall , where she be sit on a sofa cover with silk , the folding door fly open , and he be sit by her side the next minute .
So they spend another happy evening , but he warn her that whenever she begin to tire of him , or cease to have faith in him , they would be part for ever , and he 'd be oblige to marry the witch 's daughter .
She get use to find him absent by day , and they spend a happy twelvemonth together , and at last a beautiful little boy be bear ; and happy a she be before , she be twice a happy now , for she have her child to keep her company in the day when she could n't see her husband .
At last , one evening , when herself , and himself , and her child be sit with a window open because it be a sultry night , in flew an eagle , take the infant 's sash in his beak , and fly up in the air with him .
She scream , and be go to throw herself out the window after him , but the prince catch her , and look at her very seriously .
She bethink of what he say soon after their marriage , and she stop the cry and complaint that be on her tongue .
She spend her day very lonely for another twelvemonth , when a beautiful little girl be send to her .
Then she think to herself she 'd have a sharp eye about her this time ; so she never would allow a window to be more than a few inch open .
But all her care be in vain .
Another evening , when they be all so happy , and the prince dandle the baby , a beautiful greyhound stand before them , take the child out of the father 's hand , and be out of the door before you could wink .
This time she shout and run out of the room , but there be some of the servant in the next room , and all declare that neither child nor dog pass out .
She felt , somehow , a if it be her husband 's fault , but still she keep command over herself , and do n't once reproach him .
When the third child be bear she would hardly allow a window or a door to be leave open for a moment ; but she be n't the nearer to keep the child to herself .
They be sit one evening by the fire , when a lady appear standing by them .
The princess open her eye in a great fright and star at her , and while she be do so , the lady wrap a shawl round the baby that be sit in it father 's lap , and either sank through the ground with it or go up through the wide chimney .
This time the mother keep her bed for a month .
` My dear , ' say she to her husband , when she be begin to recover , ' I think I 'd feel well if I be to see my father and mother and sister once more .
If you give me leave to go home for a few day I 'd be glad . '
` Very well , ' say he , ' I will do that , and whenever you feel inclined to return , only mention your wish when you lie down at night . '
The next morning when she awake she find herself in her own old chamber in her father 's palace .
She ring the bell , and in a short time she have her mother and father and married sister about her , and they laugh till they cry for joy at find her safe back again .
In time she tell them all that have happen to her , and they do n't know what to advise her to do .
She be a fond of her husband a ever , and say she be sure that he could n't help let the child go ; but still she be afraid beyond the world to have another child torn from her .
Well , the mother and sister consult a wise woman that use to bring egg to the castle , for they have great faith in her wisdom .
She say the only plan be to secure the bear 's skin that the prince be oblige to put on every morning , and get it burn , and then he could n't help be a man night and day , and the enchantment would be at an end .
So they all persuade her to do that , and she promise she would ; and after eight day she felt so great a longing to see her husband again that she make the wish the same night , and when she wake three hour after , she be in her husband 's palace , and he himself be watch over her .
There be great joy on both side , and they be happy for many day .
Now she begin to think how she never mind her husband leave her in the morning , and how she never find him neglect to give her a sweet drink out of a gold cup just a she be go to bed .
One night she contrive not to drink any of it , though she pretend to do so ; and she be wakeful enough in the morning , and saw her husband pass out through a panel in the wainscot , though she keep her eyelid nearly close .
The next night she get a few drop of the sleepy posset that she save the evening before put into her husband 's night drink , and that make him sleep sound enough .
She get up after midnight , pass through the panel , and find a Beautiful brown bear 's hide hanging in the corner .
Then she steal back , and go down to the parlour fire , and put the hide into the middle of it till it be all fine ash .
She then lay down by her husband , give him a kiss on the cheek , and fell asleep .
If she be to live a hundred year she 'd never forget how she waken next morning , and find her husband look down on her with misery and anger in his face .
` Unhappy woman , ' say he , ` you have separate u for ever !
Why have n't you patience for five year ?
I be now oblige , whether I like or no , to go a three day ' journey to the witch 's castle , and marry her daughter .
The skin that be my guard you have burn it , and the egg-wife that give you the counsel be the witch herself .
I wo n't reproach you : your punishment will be severe without it .
Farewell for ever ! '
He kiss her for the last time , and be off the next minute , walk as fast a he could .
She shout after him , and then see there be no use , she dress herself and pursue him .
He never stop , nor stay , nor look back , and still she keep him in sight ; and when he be on the hill she be in the hollow , and when he be in the hollow she be on the hill .
Her life be almost leave her , when , just a the sun be set , he turn up a lane , and go into a little house .
She crawl up after him , and when she get inside there be a beautiful little boy on his knee , and he kiss and hug him .
` Here , my poor darling , ' say he , ` be your eldest child , and there , ' say he , point to a woman that be look on with a smile on her face , ` be the eagle that carry him away . '
She forget all her sorrow in a moment , hug her child , and laugh and cry over him .
The woman wash their foot , and rub them with an ointment that take all the soreness out of their bone , and make them as fresh a a daisy .
Next morning , just before sunrise , he be up , and prepare to be off , ` Here , ' say he to her , ` be a thing which may be of use to you .
It 's a scissors , and whatever stuff you cut with it will be turn into silk .
The moment the sun rise , I 'll lose all memory of yourself and the child , but I 'll get it at sunset again .
Farewell ! '
But he be n't far go till she be in sight of him again , leave her boy behind .
It be the same to-day a yesterday : their shadow go before them in the morning and follow them in the evening .
He never stop , and she never stop , and a the sun be set he turn up another lane , and there they find their little daughter .
It be all joy and comfort again till morning , and then the third day 's journey commence .
But before he start he give her a comb , and tell her that whenever she use it , pearl and diamond would fall from her hair .
Still he have his memory from sunset to sunrise ; but from sunrise to sunset he travel on under the charm , and never throw his eye behind .
This night they come to where the young baby be , and the next morning , just before sunrise , the prince speak to her for the last time .
` Here , my poor wife , ' say he , ` be a little hand-reel , with gold thread that have no end , and the half of our marriage ring .
If you ever get to my house , and put your half-ring to mine , I shall recollect you .
There be a wood yonder , and the moment I enter it I shall forget everything that ever happen between u , just a if I be bear yesterday .
Farewell , dear wife and child , for ever ! '
Just then the sun rise , and away he walk towards the wood .
She saw it open before him and close after him , and when she come up , she could no more get in than she could break through a stone wall .
She wring her hand and shed tear , but then she recollect herself , and cry out , ` Wood , I charge you by my three magic gift , the scissors , the comb , and the reel -- to let me through ' ; and it open , and she go along a walk till she come in sight of a palace , and a lawn , and a woodman 's cottage on the edge of the wood where it come nearest the palace .
She go into the lodge , and ask the woodman and his wife to take her into their service .
They be not willing at first ; but she tell them she would ask no wage , and would give them diamond , and pearl , and silk stuff , and gold thread whenever they wish for them , and then they agree to let her stay .
It be n't long till she hear how a young prince , that be just arrive , be live in the palace of the young mistress .
He seldom stir abroad , and every one that saw him remark how silent and sorrowful he go about , like a person that be search for some lost thing .
The servant and conceited folk at the big house begin to take notice of the beautiful young woman at the lodge , and to annoy her with their impudence .
The head footman be the most troublesome , and at last she invite him to come and take tea with her .
Oh , how rejoice he be , and how he brag of it in the servant ' hall !
Well , the evening come , and the footman walk into the lodge , and be show to her sitting-room ; for the lodge-keeper and his wife stand in great awe of her , and give her two nice room for herself .
Well , he sit down as stiff a a ramrod , and be talk in a grand style about the great doings at the castle , while she be get the tea and toast ready .
` Oh , ' say she to him , ` would you put your hand out at the window and cut me off a sprig or two of honeysuckle ? '
He get up in great glee , and put out his hand and head ; and say she , ` By the virtue of my magic gift , let a pair of horn spring out of your head , and sing to the lodge . '
Just a she wish , so it be .
They spring from the front of each ear , and meet at the back .
Oh , the poor wretch !
And how he bawl and roar !
and the servant that he use to be boast to be soon flock from the castle , and grinning , and huzzaing , and beat tune on tongs and shovel and pan ; and he curse and swearing , and the eye ready to start out of his head , and he so black in the face , and kick out his leg behind him like mad .
At last she pity him , and remove the charm , and the horn drop down on the ground , and he would have kill her on the spot , only he be as weak a water , and his fellow-servants come in and carry him up to the big house .
Well , some way or other the story come to the ear of the prince , and he stroll down that way .
She have only the dress of a countrywoman on her a she sit sew at the window , but that do not hide her beauty , and he be greatly puzzle after he have a good look , just a a body be puzzle to know whether something happen to him when he be young or if he only dream it .
Well , the witch 's daughter heard about it too , and she come to see the strange girl ; and what do she find her do but cut out the pattern of a gown from brown paper ; and a she cut away , the paper become the rich silk she ever saw .
The witch 's daughter look on with greedy eye , and , say she , ` What would you be satisfy to take for that scissors ? '
` I 'll take nothing , ' say she , ` but leave to spend one night outside the prince 's chamber . '
Well , the proud lady fire up , and be go to say something dreadful ; but the scissors keep on cut , and the silk grow rich and rich every inch .
So she promise what the girl have ask her .
When night come on she be let into the palace and lay down till the prince be in such a dead sleep that all she do could n't awake him .
She sing this verse to him , sigh and sobbing , and keep sing it the night long , and it be all in vain : Four long year I be marry to thee ; Three sweet babe I bore to thee ; Brown Bear of Norway , turn to me .
At the first dawn the proud lady be in the chamber , and lead her away , and the footman of the horn put out his tongue at her a she be quit the palace .
So there be no luck so far ; but the next day the prince pass by again and look at her , and salute her kindly , a a prince might a farmer 's daughter , and pass one ; and soon the witch 's daughter pass by , and find her comb her hair , and pearl and diamond drop from it .
Well , another bargain be make , and the princess spend another night of sorrow , and she leave the castle at daybreak , and the footman be at his post and enjoy his revenge .
The third day the prince go by , and stop to talk with the strange woman .
He ask her could he do anything to serve her , and she say he might .
She ask him do he ever wake at night .
He say that he often do , but that during the last two night he be listen to a sweet song in his dream , and could not wake , and that the voice be one that he must have know and love in some other world long ago .
Says she , ` Did you drink any sleepy posset either of these evening before you go to bed ? ' '
I do , ' say he .
` The two evening my wife give me something to drink , but I do n't know whether it be a sleepy posset or not . '
` Well , prince , ' say she , ` a you say you would wish to oblige me , you can do it by not taste any drink to-night . ' '
I will not , ' say he , and then he go on his walk .
Well , the great lady come soon after the prince , and find the stranger use her hand-reel and wind thread of gold off it , and the third bargain be make .
That even the prince be lie on his bed at twilight , and his mind much disturb ; and the door open , and in his princess walk , and down she sit by his bedside and sung : Four long year I be marry to thee ; Three sweet babe I bore to thee ; Brown Bear of Norway , turn to me .
` Brown Bear of Norway ! '
say he . '
I do n't understand you . '
` Do n't you remember , prince , that I be your wedded wife for four year ? ' '
I do not , ' say he , ` but I 'm sure I wish it be so . '
` Do n't you remember our three babe that be still alive ? '
` Show me them .
My mind be all a heap of confusion . '
` Look for the half of our marriage ring , that hang at your neck , and fit it to this . '
He do so , and the same moment the charm be break .
His full memory come back on him , and he fling his arm round his wife 's neck , and both burst into tear .
Well , there be a great cry outside , and the castle wall be hear splitting and cracking .
Everyone in the castle be alarm , and make their way out .
The prince and princess go with the rest , and by the time all be safe on the lawn , down come the building , and make the ground tremble for mile round .
No one ever saw the witch and her daughter afterwards .
It be not long till the prince and princess have their child with them , and then they set out for their own palace .
The king of Ireland and of Munster and Ulster , and their wife , soon come to visit them , and may every one that deserve it be as happy a the Brown Bear of Norway and his family .
From ` West Highland Tales . '
Little Lasse There be once a little boy whose name be Lars , and because he be so little he be call Little Lasse ; he be a brave little man , for he sail round the world in a pea-shell boat .
It be summer time , when the pea shell grow long and green in the garden .
Little Lasse crept into the pea bed where the pea stalk rise high above his cap , and he pick seventeen large shell , the long and straightest he could find .
Little Lasse think , perhaps , that no one saw him ; but that be foolish , for God see everywhere .
Then the gardener come with his gun over his shoulder , and he hear something rustling in the pea bed . '
I think that must be a sparrow , ' he say .
` Ras !
Ras ! '
but no sparrow fly out , for Little Lasse have no wing , only two small leg .
` Wait !
I will load my gun and shoot the sparrow , ' say the gardener .
Then Little Lasse be frighten , and creep out on to the path .
` Forgive me , dear gardener ! '
he say . '
I want to get some fine boat . '
` Well , I will this time , ' say the gardener .
` But another time Little Lasse must ask leave to go and look for boat in the pea bed . ' '
I will , ' answer Lasse ; and he go off to the shore .
Then he open the shell with a pin , split them carefully in two , and break small little bit of stick for the rower ' seat .
Then he take the pea which be in the shell and put them in the boat for cargo .
Some of the shell get break , some remain whole , and when all be ready Lasse have twelve boat .
But they should not be boat , they should be large warship .
He have three liner , three frigate , three brig and three schooner .
The large liner be call Hercules , and the small schooner The Flea .
Little Lasse put all the twelve into the water , and they float a splendidly and as proudly a any great ship over the wave of the ocean .
And now the ship must sail round the world .
The great island over there be Asia ; that large stone Africa ; the little island America ; the small stone be Polynesia ; and the shore from which the ship sail out be Europe .
The whole fleet set off and sail far away to other part of the world .
The ship of the line steer a straight course to Asia , the frigate sail to Africa , the brig to America , and the schooner to Polynesia .
But Little Lasse remain in Europe , and throw small stone out into the great sea .
Now , there be on the shore of Europe a real boat , father 's own , a beautiful white-painted boat , and Little Lasse get into it .
Father and mother have forbid this , but Little Lasse forget .
He think he should very much like to travel to some other part of the world . '
I shall row out a little way -- only a very little way , ' he think .
The pea-shell boat have travel so far that they only look like little speck on the ocean . '
I shall seize Hercules on the coast of Asia , ' say Lasse , ` and then row home again to Europe . '
He shake the rope that hold the boat , and , strange to say , the rope become loose .
Ditsch , ratsch , a man be a man , and so Little Lasse man the boat .
Now he would row -- and he could row , for he have row so often on the step sit home , when the step pretend to be a boat and father 's big stick an oar .
But when Little Lasse want to row there be no oar to be find in the boat .
The oar be lock up in the boat-house , and Little Lasse have not notice that the boat be empty .
It be not so easy a one think to row to Asia without oar .
What could Little Lasse do now ?
The boat be already some distance out on the sea , and the wind , which blow from land , be drive it still far out .
Lasse be frighten and begin to cry .
But there be no one on the shore to hear him .
Only a big crow perch alone in the birch tree ; and the gardener 's black cat sit under the birch tree , wait to catch the crow .
Neither of them trouble themselves in the least about Little Lasse , who be drift out to sea .
Ah !
how sorry Little Lasse be now that he have be disobedient and get into the boat , when father and mother have so often forbidden him to do so !
Now it be too late , he could not get back to land .
Perhaps he would be lose out on the great sea .
What should he do ?
When he have shout until he be tire and no one heard him , he put his two little hand together and say , ` Good God , do not be angry with Little Lasse . '
And then he go to sleep .
For although it be daylight , old Nukku Matti be sit on the shore of the ` Land of Nod , ' and be fish for little child with his long fishing rod .
He hear the low word which Little Lasse say to God , and he immediately draw the boat to himself and lay Little Lasse to sleep on a bed of rise leaf .
Then Nukku Matti say to one of the Dreams , ` Play with Little Lasse , so that he do not feel lonesome . '
It be a little dream-boy , so little , so little , that he be less than Lasse himself ; he have blue eye and fair hair , a red cap with a silver band , and white coat with pearl on the collar .
He come to Little Lasse and say , ` Would you like to sail round the world ? '
` Yes , ' say Lasse in his sleep , ' I should like to . '
` Come , then , ' say the dream-boy , ` and let u sail in your pea-shell boat .
You shall sail in Hercules and I shall sail in The Flea . '
So they sail away from the ` Land of Nod , ' and in a little while Hercules and The Flea be on the shore of Asia away at the other end of the world , where the Ice Sea flow through Behring Straits into the Pacific Ocean .
A long way off in the winter mist they could see the explorer Nordenskiold with his ship Vega try to find an opening between the ice .
It be so cold , so cold ; the great iceberg glitter strangely , and the huge whale now live under the ice , for they could not make a hole through with their awkward head .
All around on the dreary shore there be snow and snow as far a the eye could see ; little grey men in shaggy skin move about , and drive in small sledge through the snow drift , but the sledge be draw by dog .
` Shall we land here ? '
ask the dream-boy .
` No , ' say Little Lasse . '
I be so afraid that the whale would swallow u up , and the big dog bite u .
Let u sail instead to another part of the world . '
` Very well , ' say the dream-boy with the red cap and the silver band ; ` it be not far to America ' -- and at the same moment they be there .
The sun be shin and it be very warm .
Tall palm tree grow in long row on the shore and bore coconut in their top branch .
Men red a copper gallop over the immense green prairie and shoot their arrow at the buffalo , who turn against them with their sharp horn .
An enormous cobra which have creep up the stem of a tall palm tree throw itself on to a little llama that be graze at the foot .
Knaps !
it be all over the little llama .
` Shall we land here ? '
ask the dream-boy .
` No , ' say Little Lasse . '
I be so afraid that the buffalo will butt u , and the great serpent eat u up .
Let u travel to another part of the world . '
` Very well , ' say the dream-boy with the white coat , ` it be only a little way to Polynesia ' -- and then they be there .
It be very warm there , as warm a in a hot bath in Finland .
Costly spice grow on the shore : the pepper plant , the cinnamon tree , ginger , saffron ; the coffee plant and the tea plant .
Brown people with long ear and thick lip , and hideously painted face , hunt a yellow-spotted tiger among the high bamboo on the shore , and the tiger turn on them and stick it claw into one of the brown men .
Then all the others take to flight .
` Shall we land here ? '
ask the dream-boy .
` No , ' say Little Lasse .
` Do n't you see the tiger away there by the pepper plant ?
Let u travel to another part of the world . '
` We can do so , ' say the dream-boy with the blue eye .
` We be not far from Africa ' -- and a he say that they be there .
They anchor at the mouth of a great river where the shore be as green a the green velvet .
A little distance from the river an immense desert stretch away .
The air be yellow ; the sun shone so hot , so hot a if it would burn the earth to ash , and the people be as black a the black jet .
They ride across the desert on tall camel ; the lion roar with thirst , and the great crocodile with their grey lizard head and sharp white teeth gap up out of the river .
` Shall we land here ? '
ask the dream-boy .
` No , ' say Little Lasse .
` The sun would burn u , and the lion and the crocodile would eat u up .
Let u travel to another part of the world . '
` We can travel back to Europe , ' say the dream-boy with the fair hair .
And with that they be there .
They come to a shore where it be all so cool and familiar and friendly .
There stand the tall birch tree with it droop leaf ; at the top sit the old crow , and at it foot creep the gardener 's black cat .
Not far away be a house which Little Lasse have see before ; near the house there be a garden , and in the garden a pea bed with long pea shell .
An old gardener with a green coat walk about and wonder if the cucumber be ripe .
Fylax be bark on the step , and when he saw Little Lasse he wag his tail .
Old Stina be milk the cow in the farmyard , and there be a very familiar lady in a check woollen shawl on her way to the bleach green to see if the clothes be bleach .
There be , too , a well-known gentleman in a yellow summer coat , with a long pipe in his mouth ; he be go to see if the reaper have cut the rye .
A boy and a girl be run on the shore and call out , ` Little Lasse !
Come home for bread-and-butter ! '
` Shall we land here ? '
ask the dream-boy , and he blink his blue eye roguishly .
` Come with me , and I shall ask mother to give you some bread-and-butter and a glass of milk , ' say Little Lasse .
` Wait a little , ' say the dream-boy .
And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door be open , and from within there be hear a low , pleasant frizzling , like that which be hear when one whisk yellow batter with a wooden ladle into a hot frying-pan .
` Perhaps we should sail back to Polynesia now ? '
say the happy dream-boy .
` No ; they be fry pancake in Europe just now , ' say Little Lasse ; and he want to jump ashore , but he could not .
The dream-boy have tie him with a chain of flower , so that he could not move .
And now all the little dream come about him , thousand and thousand of little child , and they make a ring around him and sing a little song : The world be very , very wide , Little Lasse , Lasse , And though you 've sail beyond the tide , You can never tell how wide It be on the other side , Lasse , Little Lasse .
You have find it cold and hot , Little Lasse , Lasse ; But in no land be God not , Lasse , Little Lasse .
Many men live there a here , But they all to God be dear , Little Lasse , Lasse .
When His angel be your guide , Little Lasse , Lasse , Then no harm can e'er betide , Even on the other side Where the wild beast wander .
But tell u now , Whene'er you roam , Do you not find the best be home Of all the land you 've look upon , Lasse , Little Lasse ?
When the dream have sing their song they skip away , and Nukku Matti carry Lasse back to the boat .
He lay there for a long time quite still , and he still hear the frying-pan frizzling at home of the fire , the frizzling be very plain , Little Lasse hear it quite near him ; and so he wake up and rub his eye .
There he lay in the boat , where he have fall asleep .
The wind have turn , and the boat have drift out with one wind and drift in with another while Little Lasse slept , and what Lasse thought be frizzle in a frying-pan be the low murmur of the wave a they wash against the stone on the shore .
But he be not altogether wrong , for the clear blue sea be like a great pan in which God 's sun all day make cake for good child .
Little Lasse rub the sleep out of his eye and look around him .
Everything be the same a before ; the crow in the birch tree , the cat on the grass , and the pea-shell fleet on the shore .
Some of the ship have founder , and some have drift back to land .
Hercules have come back with it cargo from Asia , The Flea have arrive from Polynesia , and the other part of the world be just where they be before .
Little Lasse do not know what to think .
He have so often be in that grotto in the ` Land of Nod ' and do not know what trick dream can play .
But Little Lasse do not trouble his head with such thing ; he gather together his boat and walk up the shore back to the house .
His brother and sister run to meet him , and call out from the distance , ` Where have you be so long , Lasse ?
Come home and get some bread-and-butter . '
The kitchen door stand open , and inside be hear a strange frizzling .
The gardener be near the gate , water the dill and parsley , the carrot and parsnip .
` Well , ' he say , ` where have Little Lasse be so long ? '
Little Lasse straighten himself up stiff , and answer : ' I have sail round the world in a pea-shell boat . '
` Oh ! '
say the gardener .
He have forget Dreamland .
But you have not forget it ; you know that it exist .
You know the beautiful grotto and the bright silver wall whose lustre never fade , the sparkle diamond which never grow dim , the music which never cease it low , soft murmur through the sweet evening twilight .
The airy fairy fancy of happy Dreamland never grow old ; they , like the glorious star above u , be always young .
Perhaps you have catch a glimpse of their ethereal wing a they fly around your pillow .
Perhaps you have meet the same dream-boy with the blue eye and the fair hair , the one who wear the red cap with the silver band and the white coat with pearl on the collar .
Perhaps he have take you to see all the country of the world and the people , the cold waste land and the burning desert , the many colour men and the wild creature in the sea and in the wood , so that you may earn many thing , but come gladly home again .
Yes , who know ?
Perhaps you also have sail round the wide world once in a pea-shell boat .
From Z. Topelius .
` Moti ' Once upon a time there be a youth call Moti , who be very big and strong , but the clumsy creature you can imagine .
So clumsy be he that he be always put his great foot into the bowl of sweet milk or curd which his mother set out on the floor to cool , always smash , upset , break , until at last his father say to him : ` Here , Moti , be fifty silver piece which be the saving of year ; take them and go and make your living or your fortune if you can . '
Then Moti start off one early spring morning with his thick staff over his shoulder , sing gaily to himself a he walk along .
In one way and another he get along very well until a hot evening when he come to a certain city where he enter the traveller ' ` serai ' or inn to pass the night .
Now a serai , you must know , be generally just a large square enclose by a high wall with an open colonnade along the inside all round to accommodate both men and beast , and with perhaps a few room in tower at the corner for those who be too rich or too proud to care about sleep by their own camel and horse .
Moti , of course , be a country lad and have live with cattle all his life , and he be n't rich and he be n't proud , so he just borrow a bed from the innkeeper , set it down beside an old buffalo who remind him of home , and in five minute be fast asleep .
In the middle of the night he wake , feel that he have be disturb , and put his hand under his pillow find to his horror that his bag of money have be steal .
He jump up quietly and begin to prowl around to see whether anyone seem to be awake , but , though he manage to arouse a few men and beast by fall over them , he walk in the shadow of the archway round the whole serai without come across a likely thief .
He be just about to give it up when he overheard two men whisper , and one laugh softly , and peer behind a pillar , he saw two Afghan horsedealers count out his bag of money !
Then Moti go back to bed !
In the morning Moti follow the two Afghans outside the city to the horsemarket in which they horse be offer for sale .
Choosing the best-looking horse amongst them he go up to it and say : ` Is this horse for sale ?
may I try it ? '
and , the merchant assent , he scramble up on it back , dug in his heel , and off they fly .
Now Moti have never be on a horse in his life , and have so much ado to hold on with both hand as well a with both leg that the animal go just where it like , and very soon break into a break-neck gallop and make straight back to the serai where it have spend the last few night .
` This will do very well , ' thought Moti a they whirl in at the entrance .
As soon a the horse have arrive at it table it stop of it own accord and Moti immediately roll off ; but he jump up at once , tie the beast up , and call for some breakfast .
Presently the Afghans appear , out of breath and furious , and claim the horse .
` What do you mean ? '
cry Moti , with his mouth full of rice , ` it 's my horse ; I pay you fifty piece of silver for it -- quite a bargain , I 'm sure ! '
` Nonsense !
it be our horse , ' answer one of the Afghans begin to untie the bridle .
` Leave off , ' shout Moti , seize his staff ; ` if you do n't let my horse alone I 'll crack your skull !
you thieve !
I know you !
Last night you take my money , so to-day I take your horse ; that 's fair enough ! '
Now the Afghans begin to look a little uncomfortable , but Moti seem so determine to keep the horse that they resolve to appeal to the law , so they go off and lay a complaint before the king that Moti have steal one of their horse and would not give it up nor pay for it .
Presently a soldier come to summon Moti to the king ; and , when he arrive and make his obeisance , the king begin to question him a to why he have gallop off with the horse in this fashion .
But Moti declare that he have get the animal in exchange for fifty piece of silver , whilst the horse merchant vow that the money they have on them be what they have receive for the sale of other horse ; and in one way and another the dispute get so confuse that the king -LRB- who really think that Moti have steal the horse -RRB- say at last , ` Well , I tell you what I will do .
I will lock something into this box before me , and if he guess what it be , the horse be his , and if he do n't then it be yours . '
To this Moti agree , and the king arose and go out alone by a little door at the back of the Court , and presently come back clasp something closely wrap up in a cloth under his robe , slip it into the little box , lock the box , and set it up where all might see .
` Now , ' say the king to Moti , ` guess ! '
It happen that when the king have open the door behind him , Moti notice that there be a garden outside : without wait for the king 's return he begin to think what could be get out of the garden small enough to be shut in the box .
` Is it likely to be a fruit or a flower ?
No , not a flower this time , for he clasp it too tight .
Then it must be a fruit or a stone .
Yet not a stone , because he would n't wrap a dirty stone in his nice clean cloth .
Then it be a fruit !
And a fruit without much scent , or else he would be afraid that I might smell it .
Now what fruit without much scent be in season just now ?
When I know that I shall have guess the riddle ! '
As have be say before , Moti be a country lad , and be accustom to work in his father 's garden .
He know all the common fruit , so he think he ought to be able to guess right ; but so a not to let it seem too easy , he gaze up at the ceiling with a puzzled expression , and look down at the floor with an air or wisdom and his finger press against his forehead , and then he say , slowly , with his eye on the king , -- ` It be freshly pluck !
It be round and it be red !
It be a pomegranate ! '
Now the king know nothing about fruit except that they be good to eat ; and , a for season , he ask for whatever fruit he want whenever he want it , and saw that he get it ; so to him Moti 's guess be like a miracle , and clear proof not only of his wisdom but of his innocence , for it be a pomegranate that he have put into the box .
Of course when the king marvel and praise Moti 's wisdom , everybody else do so too ; and , whilst the Afghans go off crestfallen , Moti take the horse and enter the king 's service .
Very soon after this , Moti , who continue to live in the serai , come back one wet and stormy evening to find that his precious horse have stray .
Nothing remain of him but a broken halter cord , and no one know what have become of him .
After inquire of everyone who be likely to know , Moti seize the cord and his big staff and sallied out to look for him .
Away and away he tramp out of the city and into the neighbouring forest , track hoof-mark in the mud .
Presently it grow late , but still Moti wander on until suddenly in the gathering darkness he come right upon a tiger who be contentedly eat his horse .
` You thief ! '
shriek Moti , and run up and , just a the tiger , in astonishment , drop a bone -- whack !
come Moti 's staff on his head with such good will that the beast be half stun and could hardly breathe or see .
Then Moti continue to shower upon him blow and abuse until the poor tiger could hardly stand , whereupon his tormentor tie the end of the broken halter round his neck and drag him back to the serai .
` If you have my horse , ' he say , ' I will at least have you , that 's fair enough ! '
And he tie him up securely by the head and heel , much a he use to tie the horse ; then , the night be far go , he fling himself beside him and sleep soundly .
You can not imagine anything like the fright of the people in the serai , when they wake up and find a tiger -- very batter but still a tiger -- securely tethered amongst themselves and their beast !
Men gather in group talk and exclaiming , and find fault with the innkeeper for allow such a dangerous beast into the serai , and all the while the innkeeper be just as troubled a the rest , and none dare go near the place where the tiger stand blink miserably on everyone , and where Moti lay stretch out snore like thunder .
At last news reach the king that Moti have exchange his horse for a live tiger ; and the monarch himself come down , half disbelieve the tale , to see if it be really true .
Someone at last awaked Moti with the news that his royal master be come ; and he arise yawning , and be soon delightedly explain and show off his new possession .
The king , however , do not share his pleasure at all , but call up a soldier to shoot the tiger , much to the relief of all the inmate of the serai except Moti .
If the king , however , be before convinced that Moti be one of the wise of men , he be now still more convinced that he be the brave , and he increase his pay a hundredfold , so that our hero think that he be the lucky of men .
A week or two after this incident the king sent for Moti , who on arrival find his master in despair .
A neighbouring monarch , he explain , who have many more soldier than he , have declare war against him , and he be at his wit ' end , for he have neither money to buy him off nor soldier enough to fight him -- what be he to do ?
` If that be all , do n't you trouble , ' say Moti .
` Turn out your men , and I 'll go with them , and we 'll soon bring this robber to reason . '
The king begin to revive at these hopeful word , and take Moti off to his stable where he bid him choose for himself any horse he like .
There be plenty of fine horse in the stall , but to the king 's astonishment Moti choose a poor little rat of a pony that be use to carry grass and water for the rest of the stable .
` But why do you choose that beast ? '
say the king .
` Well , you see , your majesty , ' reply Moti , ` there be so many chance that I may fall off , and if I choose one of your fine big horse I shall have so far to fall that I shall probably break my leg or my arm , if not my neck , but if I fall off this little beast I ca n't hurt myself much . '
A very comical sight be Moti when he ride out to the war .
The only weapon he carry be his staff , and to help him to keep his balance on horseback he have tie to each of his ankle a big stone that nearly touch the ground a he sit astride the little pony .
The rest of the king 's cavalry be not very numerous , but they prance along in armour on fine horse .
Behind them come a great rabble of men on foot arm with all sort of weapon , and last of all be the king with his attendant , very nervous and ill at ease .
So the army start .
They have not very far to go , but Moti 's little pony , weight with a heavy man and two big rock , soon begin to lag behind the cavalry , and would have lag behind the infantry too , only they be not very anxious to be too early in the fight , and hang back so a to give Moti plenty of time .
The young man jog along more and more slowly for some time , until at last , get impatient at the slowness of the pony , he give him such a tremendous thwack with his staff that the pony completely lose his temper and bolt .
First one stone become untied and roll away in a cloud of dust to one side of the road , whilst Moti nearly roll off too , but clasp his steed valiantly by it ragged mane , and , drop his staff , hold on for dear life .
Then , fortunately the other rock break away from his other leg and roll thunderously down a neighbouring ravine .
Meanwhile the advanced cavalry have barely time to draw to one side when Moti come dash by , yell bloodthirsty threat to his pony : ` You wait till I get hold of you !
I 'll skin you alive !
I 'll wring your neck !
I 'll break every bone in your body ! '
The cavalry think that this dreadful language be mean for the enemy , and be fill with admiration of his courage .
Many of their horse too be quite upset by this whirlwind that gallop howl through their midst , and in a few minute , after a little plunging and rearing and kicking , the whole troop be follow on Moti 's heel .
Far in advance , Moti continue his wild career .
Presently in his course he come to a great field of castor-oil plant , ten or twelve foot high , big and bushy , but quite green and soft .
Hoping to escape from the back of his fiery steed Moti grasp one in passing , but it root give way , and he dash on , with the whole plant look like a young tree flourish in his grip .
The enemy be in battle array , advance over the plain , their king with them confident and cheerful , when suddenly from the front come a desperate rider at a furious gallop .
` Sire ! '
he cry , ` save yourself !
the enemy be come ! '
` What do you mean ? '
say the king .
` Oh , sire ! '
pant the messenger , ` fly at once , there be no time to lose .
Foremost of the enemy rid a mad giant at a furious gallop .
He flourish a tree for a club and be wild with anger , for a he go he cry , `` You wait till I get hold of you !
I 'll skin you alive !
I 'll wring your neck !
I 'll break every bone in your body ! ''
Others ride behind , and you will do well to retire before this whirlwind of destruction come upon you . '
Just then out of a cloud of dust in the distance the king saw Moti approach at a hard gallop , look indeed like a giant compare with the little beast he ride , whirl his castor-oil plant , which in the distance might have be an oak tree , and the sound of his revilings and shouting come down upon the breeze !
Behind him the dust cloud move to the sound of the thunder of hoof , whilst here and there flash the glitter of steel .
The sight and the sound struck terror into the king , and , turn his horse , he flee at top speed , think that a regiment of yell giant be upon him ; and all his force follow him as fast a they might go .
One fat officer alone could not keep up on foot with that mad rush , and a Moti come gallop up he fling himself on the ground in abject fear .
This be too much for Moti 's excited pony , who shy so suddenly that Moti go fly over his head like a sky rocket , and alight right on the top of his fat foe .
Quickly regain his foot Moti begin to swing his plant round his head and to shout : ` Where be your men ?
Bring them up and I 'll kill them .
My regiment !
Come on , the whole lot of you !
Where 's your king ?
Bring him to me .
Here be all my fine fellow come up and we 'll each pull up a tree by the root and lay you all flat and your house and town and everything else !
Come on ! '
But the poor fat officer could do nothing but squat on his knee with his hand together , gasp .
At last , when he get his breath , Moti send him off to bring his king , and to tell him that if he be reasonable his life should be spar .
Off the poor man go , and by the time the troop of Moti 's side have come up and arrange themselves to look as formidable a possible , he return with his king .
The latter be very humble and apologetic , and promise never to make war any more , to pay a large sum of money , and altogether do whatever his conqueror wish .
So the army on both side go rejoice home , and this be really the making of the fortune of clumsy Moti , who live long and contrive always to be look up to a a fountain of wisdom , valour , and discretion by all except his relation , who could never understand what he have do to be consider so much wise than anyone else .
A Pushto Story .
The Enchanted Deer A young man be out walk one day in Erin , lead a stout cart-horse by the bridle .
He be think of his mother and how poor they be since his father , who be a fisherman , have be drown at sea , and wonder what he should do to earn a living for both of them .
Suddenly a hand be lay on his shoulder , and a voice say to him : ` Will you sell me your horse , son of the fisherman ? '
and look up he behold a man stand in the road with a gun in his hand , a falcon on his shoulder , and a dog by his side .
` What will you give me for my horse ? '
ask the youth .
` Will you give me your gun , and your dog , and your falcon ? ' '
I will give them , ' answer the man , and he take the horse , and the youth take the gun and the dog and the falcon , and go home with them .
But when his mother hear what he have do she be very angry , and beat him with a stick which she have in her hand .
` That will teach you to sell my property , ' say she , when her arm be quite tired , but Ian her son answer her nothing , and go off to his bed , for he be very sore .
That night he rise softly , and leave the house carry the gun with him . '
I will not stay here to be beat , ' think he , and he walk and he walk and he walk , till it be day again , and he be hungry and look about him to see if he could get anything to eat .
Not very far off be a farm-house , so he go there , and knock at the door , and the farmer and his wife beg him to come in , and share their breakfast .
` Ah , you have a gun , ' say the farmer a the young man place it in a corner .
` That be well , for a deer come every evening to eat my corn , and I can not catch it .
It be fortune that have send you to me . ' '
I will gladly remain and shoot the deer for you , ' reply the youth , and that night he hide himself and watch till the deer come to the cornfield ; then he lift his gun to his shoulder and be just go to pull the trigger , when , behold !
instead of a deer , a woman with long black hair be stand there .
At this sight his gun almost drop from his hand in surprise , but a he look , there be the deer eat the corn again .
And thrice this happen , till the deer run away over the moor , and the young man after her .
On they go , on and on and one , till they reach a cottage which be thatch with heather .
With a bound the deer sprang on the roof , and lay down where none could see her , but a she do so she call out , ` Go in , fisher 's son , and eat and drink while you may . '
So he enter and find food and wine on the table , but no man , for the house belong to some robber , who be still away at their wicked business .
After Ian , the fisher 's son , have eat all he want , he hide himself behind a great cask , and very soon he hear a noise , a of men come through the heather , and the small twig snap under their foot .
From his dark corner he could see into the room , and he count four and twenty of them , all big , cross-looking men .
` Some one have be eat our dinner , ' cry they , ` and there be hardly enough for ourselves . '
` It be the man who be lie under the cask , ' answer the leader .
` Go and kill him , and then come and eat your food and sleep , for we must be off betimes in the morning . '
So four of them kill the fisher 's son and leave him , and then go to bed .
By sunrise they be all out of the house , for they have far to go .
And when they have disappear the deer come off the roof , to where the dead man lay , and she shake her head over him , and wax fell from her ear , and he jump up as well a ever .
` Trust me and eat a you do before , and no harm shall happen to you , ' say she .
So Ian ate and drank , and fell sound asleep under the cask .
In the even the robber arrive very tired , and cross than they have be yesterday , for their luck have turn and they have bring back scarcely anything .
` Someone have eat our dinner again , ' cry they .
` It be the man under the barrel , ' answer the captain .
` Let four of you go and kill him , but first slay the other four who pretend to kill him last night and do n't because he be still alive . '
Then Ian be kill a second time , and after the rest of the robber have eat , they lay down and sleep till morning .
No sooner be their face touch with the sun 's ray than they be up and off .
Then the deer enter and drop the heal wax on the dead man , and he be as well a ever .
By this time he do not mind what befall him , so sure be he that the deer would take care of him , and in the evening that which have happen before happen again -- the four robber be put to death and the fisher 's son also , but because there be no food leave for them to eat , they be nearly mad with rage , and begin to quarrel .
From quarrel they go on to fight , and fought so hard that by and bye they be all stretch dead on the floor .
Then the deer enter , and the fisher 's son be restore to life , and bid him follow her , she run on to a little white cottage where dwelt an old woman and her son , who be thin and dark .
` Here I must leave you , ' say the deer , ` but to-morrow meet me at midday in the church that be yonder . '
And jump across the stream , she vanish into a wood .
Next day he set out for the church , but the old woman of the cottage have go before him , and have stick an enchanted stick call ` the spike of hurt ' in a crack of the door , so that he would brush against it a he step across the threshold .
Suddenly he felt so sleepy that he could not stand up , and throw himself on the ground he sink into a deep slumber , not know that the dark lad be watch him .
Nothing could waken him , not even the sound of sweet music , nor the touch of a lady who bend over him .
A sad look come on her face , a she saw it be no use , and at last she give it up , and lift his arm , write her name across the side -- ` the daughter of the king of the town under the wave . ' '
I will come to-morrow , ' she whisper , though he could not hear her , and she go sorrowfully away .
Then he awake , and the dark lad tell him what have befall him , and he be very grieved .
But the dark lad do not tell him of the name that be write underneath his arm .
On the following morning the fisher 's son again go to the church , determine that he would not go to sleep , whatever happen .
But in his hurry to enter he touch with his hand the spike of hurt , and sink down where he stand , wrap in slumber .
A second time the air be fill with music , and the lady come in , step softly , but though she lay his head on her knee , and comb his hair with a golden comb , his eye open not .
Then she burst into tear , and place a beautifully wrought box in his pocket she go her way .
The next day the same thing befell the fisher 's son , and this time the lady weep more bitterly than before , for she say it be the last chance , and she would never be allow to come any more , for home she must go .
As soon a the lady have depart the fisher 's son awoke , and the dark lad tell him of her visit , and how he would never see her as long a he live .
At this the fisher 's son felt the cold creep up to his heart , yet he know the fault have not be his that sleep have overtake him . '
I will search the whole world through till I find her , ' cry he , and the dark lad laugh a he hear him .
But the fisher 's son take no heed , and off he go , follow the sun day after day , till his shoe be in hole and his foot be sore from the journey .
Nought do he see but the bird that make their nest in the tree , not so much a a goat or a rabbit .
On and on and on he go , till suddenly he come upon a little house , with a woman stand outside it .
` All hail , fisher 's son ! '
say she . '
I know what you be seek ; enter in and rest and eat , and to-morrow I will give you what help I can , and send you on your way . '
Gladly do Ian the fisher 's son accept her offer , and all that day he rest , and the woman give him ointment to put on his foot , which heal his sore .
At daybreak he get up , ready to be go , and the woman bid him farewell , say : ' I have a sister who dwell on the road which you must travel .
It be a long road , and it would take you a year and a day to reach it , but put on these old brown shoe with hole all over them , and you will be there before you know it .
Then shake them off , and turn their toe to the know , and their heel to the unknown , and they will come home of themselves . '
The fisher 's son do a the woman tell him , and everything happen just a she have say .
But at part the second sister say to him , a she give him another pair of shoe : ` Go to my third sister , for she have a son who be keeper of the bird of the air , and send them to sleep when night come .
He be very wise , and perhaps he can help you . '
Then the young man thank her , and go to the third sister .
The third sister be very kind , but have no counsel to give him , so he eat and drink and wait till her son come home , after he have send all the bird to sleep .
He think a long while after his mother have tell him the young man 's story , and at last he say that he be hungry , and the cow must be kill , a he want some supper .
So the cow be kill and the meat cook , and a bag make of it red skin .
` Now get into the bag , ' bid the son , and the young man get in and take his gun with him , but the dog and the falcon he leave outside .
The keeper of the bird draw the string at the top of the bag , and leave it to finish his supper , when in fly an eagle through the open door , and pick the bag up in her claw and carry it through the air to an island .
There be nothing to eat on the island , and the fisher 's son think he would die of food , when he remember the box that the lady have put in his pocket .
He open the lid , and three tiny little bird fly out , and flap their wing they ask , ` Good master , be there anything we can do for thee ? '
` Bear me to the kingdom of the king under the wave , ' he answer , and one little bird fly on to his head , and the others perch on each of his shoulder , and he shut his eye , and in a moment there he be in the country under the sea .
Then the bird fly away , and the young man look about him , his heart beat fast at the thought that here dwell the lady whom he have seek all the world over .
He walk on through the street , and presently he reach the house of a weaver who be stand at his door , rest from his work .
` You be a stranger here , that be plain , ' say the weaver , ` but come in , and I will give you food and drink . '
And the young man be glad , for he know not where to go , and they sit and talk till it grow late .
` Stay with me , I pray , for I love company and be lonely , ' observe the weaver at last , and he point to a bed in a corner , where the fisher 's son throw himself , and sleep till dawn .
` There be to be a horse-race in the town to-day , ' remark the weaver , ` and the winner be to have the king 's daughter to wife . '
The young man tremble with excitement at the news , and his voice shook a he answer : ` That will be a prize indeed , I should like to see the race . '
` Oh , that be quite easy -- anyone can go , ' reply the weaver . '
I would take you myself , but I have promise to weave this cloth for the king . '
` That be a pity , ' return the young man politely , but in his heart he rejoice , for he wish to be alone .
Leaving the house , he enter a grove of tree which stand behind , and take the box from his pocket .
He raise the lid , and out fly the three little bird .
` Good master , what shall we do for thee ? '
ask they , and he answer , ` Bring me the fine horse that ever be see , and the grand dress , and glass shoe . '
` They be here , master , ' say the bird , and so they be , and never have the young man see anything so splendid .
Mounting the horse he ride into the ground where the horse be assemble for the great race , and take his place among them .
Many good beast be there which have win many race , but the horse of the fisher 's son leave them all behind , and he be first at the win post .
The king 's daughter wait for him in vain to claim his prize , for he go back to the wood , and get off his horse , and put on his old clothes , and bid the box place some gold in his pocket .
After that he go back to the weaver 's house , and tell him that the gold have be give him by the man who have win the race , and that the weaver might have it for his kindness to him .
Now a nobody have appear to demand the hand of the princess , the king order another race to be run , and the fisher 's son rode into the field still more splendidly dress than he be before , and easily distance everybody else .
But again he leave the prize unclaimed , and so it happen on the third day , when it seem a if all the people in the kingdom be gather to see the race , for they be fill with curiosity to know who the winner could be .
` If he will not come of his own free will , he must be bring , ' say the king , and the messenger who have see the face of the victor be send to seek him in every street of the town .
This take many day , and when at last they find the young man in the weaver 's cottage , he be so dirty and ugly and have such a strange appearance , that they declare he could not be the winner they have be search for , but a wicked robber who have murder ever so many people , but have always manage to escape .
` Yes , it must be the robber , ' say the king , when the fisher 's son be lead into his presence ; ` build a gallows at once and hang him in the sight of all my subject , that they may behold him suffer the punishment of his crime . '
So the gallows be build upon a high platform , and the fisher 's son mount the step up to it , and turn at the top to make the speech that be expect from every doom man , innocent or guilt .
As he speak he happen to raise his arm , and the king 's daughter , who be there at her father 's side , saw the name which she have write under it .
With a shriek she spring from her seat , and the eye of the spectator be turned towards her .
` Stop !
stop ! '
she cry , hardly know what she say .
` If that man be hang there be not a soul in the kingdom but shall die also . '
And run up to where the fisher 's son be stand , she take him by the hand , say , ` Father , this be no robber or murderer , but the victor in the three race , and he loose the spell that be lay upon me . '
Then , without wait for a reply , she conduct him into the palace , and he bath in a marble bath , and all the dirt that the fairy have put upon him disappear like magic , and when he have dress himself in the fine garment the princess have send to him , he look a match for any king 's daughter in Erin .
He go down into the great hall where she be await him , and they have much to tell each other but little time to tell it in , for the king her father , and the prince who be visit him , and all the people of the kingdom be still in their place expect her return .
` How do you find me out ? '
she whisper a they go down the passage .
` The bird in the box tell me , ' answer he , but he could say no more , a they step out into the open space that be crowd with people .
There the prince stop . '
O king ! '
she say , turn towards them , ` if one of you be kill to-day , the rest would fly ; but this man put his trust in me , and have his head cut off three time .
Because he have do this , I will marry him rather than one of you , who have come hither to wed me , for many king here seek to free me from the spell , but none could do it save Ian the fisher 's son . '
From ` Popular Tales of the West Highlands . '
A Fish Story Perhaps you think that fish be always fish , and never live anywhere except in the water , but if you go to Australia and talk to the black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country , you would learn something quite different .
They would tell you that long , long ago you would have meet fish on the land , wander from place to place , and hunt all sort of animal , and if you consider how fish be make , you will understand how difficult this must have be and how clever they be to do it .
Indeed , so clever be they that they might have be hunt still if a terrible thing have not happen .
One day the whole fish tribe come back very tire from a hunt expedition , and look about for a nice , cool spot in which to pitch their camp .
It be very hot , and they think that they could not find a more comfortable place than under the branch of a large tree which grow by the bank of a river .
So they make their fire to cook some food , right on the edge of a steep bank , which have a deep pool of water lie beneath it at the bottom .
While the food be cook they all stretch themselves lazily out under the tree , and be just drop off to sleep when a big black cloud which they have never notice spread over the sun , and heavy drop of rain begin to fall , so that the fire be almost put out , and that , you know , be a very serious thing in savage country where they have no match , for it be very hard to light it again .
To make matter bad , an icy wind begin to blow , and the poor fish be chill right through their body .
` This will never do , ' say Thuggai , the old of the fish tribe .
` We shall die of cold unless we can light the fire again , ' and he bid his son rub two stick together in the hope of kindle a flame , but though they rub till they be tire , not a spark could they produce .
` Let me try , ' cry Biernuga , the bony fish , but he have no good luck , and no more have Kumbal , the bream , nor any of the rest .
` It be no use , ' exclaim Thuggai , at last .
` The wood be too wet .
We must just sit and wait till the sun come out again and dry it . '
Then a very little fish indeed , not more than four inch long and the young of the tribe , bow himself before Thuggai , say , ` Ask my father , Guddhu the cod , to light the fire .
He be skilled in magic more than most fish . '
So Thuggai ask him , and Guddhu strip some piece of bark off a tree , and place them on top of the smouldering ash .
Then he kneel by the side of the fire and blew at it for a long while , till slowly the feeble red glow become a little strong and the edge of the bark show sign of curl up .
When the rest of the tribe saw this they press close , keep their back towards the piercing wind , but Guddhu tell them they must go to the other side , a he want the wind to fan his fire .
By and by the spark grow into a flame , and a merry crackling be hear .
` More wood , ' cry Guddhi , and they all run and gather wood and heap it on the flame , which leap and roar and sputter .
` We shall soon be warm now , ' say the people one to another .
` Truly Guddhu be great ' ; and they crowd round again , close and closer .
Suddenly , with a shriek , a blast of wind sweep down from the hill and blow the fire out towards them .
They spring back hurriedly , quite forget where they stand , and all fell down the bank , each tumble over the other , till they roll into the pool that lay below .
Oh , how cold it be in that dark water on which the sun never shone !
Then in an instant they felt warm again , for the fire , drive by the strong wind , have follow them right down to the bottom of the pool , where it burn as brightly a ever .
And the fish gather round it a they have do on the top of the cliff , and find the flame as hot a before , and that fire never go out , like those upon land , but keep burning for ever .
So now you know why , if you dive deep down below the cold surface of the water on a frosty day , you will find it comfortable and pleasant underneath , and be quite sorry that you can not stay there .
Australian Folk Tale .
The Wonderful Tune .
Maurice Connor be the king , and that 's no small word , of all the piper in Munster .
He could play jig and reel without end , and Ollistrum 's March , and the Eagle 's Whistle , and the Hen 's Concert , and odd tune of every sort and kind .
But he know one far more surprising than the rest , which have in it the power to set everything dead or alive dancing .
In what way he learn it be beyond my knowledge for he be mighty cautious about tell how he come by so wonderful a tune .
At the very first note of that tune the shoe begin shake upon the foot of all how heard it -- old or young , it matter not -- just a if the shoe have the ague ; then the foot begin go , go , go from under them , and at last up and away with them , dance like mad , whisk here , there , and everywhere , like a straw in a storm -- there be no halt while the music last .
Not a fair , nor a wedding , nor a feast in the seven parish round , be count worth the speaking of without ` blind Maurice and his pipe . '
His mother , poor woman , use to lead him about from one place to another just like a dog .
Down through Iveragh , Maurice Connor and his mother be take their round .
Beyond all other place Iveragh be the place for stormy coast and steep mountain , a proper a spot it be a any in Ireland to get yourself drown , or your neck break on the land , should you prefer that .
But , notwithstanding , in Ballinskellig Bay there be a neat bit of ground , well fit for diversion , and down from it , towards the water , be a clean smooth piece of strand , the dead image of a calm summer 's sea on a moonlight night , with just the curl of the small wave upon it .
Here be be that Maurice 's music have bring from all part a great gathering of the young men and the young woman ; for 't be not every day the strand of Trafraska be stir up by the voice of a bagpipe .
The dance begin ; and a pretty a dance it be a ever be dance .
` Brave music , ' say everybody , ` and well do , ' when Maurice stop .
` More power to your elbow , Maurice , and a fair wind in the bellow , ' cry Paddy Dorman , a hump-backed dancing master , who be there to keep order . ''
Tis a pity , ' say he , ` if we 'd let the piper run dry after such music ; ` twould be a disgrace to Iveragh , that do n't come on it since the week of the three Sundays . '
So , a well become him , for he be always a decent man , say he , ` Did you drink , piper ? ' '
I will , sir , ' say Maurice , answer the question on the safe side , for you never yet know piper or schoolmaster who refuse his drink .
` What will you drink , Maurice ? '
say Paddy .
` I 'm no way particular , ' say Maurice ; ' I drink anything , bar raw water ; but if it 's all the same to you , Mister Dorman , may be you would n't lend me the loan of a glass of whisky . '
` I 've no glass , Maurice , ' say Paddy ; ` I 've only the bottle . '
` Let that be no hindrance , ' answered Maurice ; ` my mouth just hold a glass to the drop ; often I 've try it sure . '
So Paddy Dorman trust him with the bottle -- more fool be he ; and , to his cost , he find that though Maurice 's mouth might not hold more than the glass at one time , yet , owe to the hole in his throat , it take many a filling .
` That be no bad whisky neither , ' say Maurice , hand back the empty bottle .
` By the holy frost , then ! '
say Paddy , '' ti but cold comfort there 's in that bottle now ; and 't be your word we must take for the strength of the whisky , for you 've leave u no sample to judge by ' ; and to be sure Maurice have not .
Now I need not tell any gentleman or lady that if he or she be to drink an honest bottle of whisky at one pull , it be not at all the same thing a drink a bottle of water ; and in the whole course of my life I never know more than five men who could do so without be the worse .
Of these Maurice Connor be not one , though he have a stiff head enough of his own .
Do n't think I blame him for it ; but true be the word that say , ` When liquor 's in sense be out ' ; and puff , at a breath , out he blast his wonderful tune .
'T be really then beyond all belief or tell the dancing .
Maurice himself could not keep quiet ; stagger now on one leg , now on the other , and roll about like a ship in a cross sea , try to humour the tune .
There be his mother , too , move her old bone as light a the young girl of them all ; but her dancing , no , nor the dancing of all the rest , be not worthy the speak about to the work that be go on down upon the strand .
Every inch of it cover with all manner of fish jumping and plunge about to the music , and every moment more and more would tumble in and out of the water , charm by the wonderful tune .
Crabs of monstrous size spun round and round on one claw with the nimbleness of a dancing master , and twirl and toss their other claw about like limb that do not belong to them .
It be a sight surprising to behold .
But perhaps you may have heard of Father Florence Conry , a pleasant a man a one would wish to drink with of a hot summer 's day ; and he have rhyme out all about the dancing fish so neatly that it would be a thousand pity not to give you his verse ; so here they be in English : The big seal in motion , Like wave of the ocean , Or gouty foot prance , Came head the gay fish , Crabs , lobster , and cray-fish , Determined on dancing .
The sweet sound they follow , The gasp cod swallow 'd -- 'T be wonderful , really ; And turbot and flounder , ` Mid fish that be rounder , Just caper 'd a gaily .
John-dories come trip ; Dull hake , by their skipping , To frisk it seem 'd give ; Bright mackrel go spring , Like small rainbow wing Their flight up to heaven .
The whiting and haddock Left salt water paddock This dance to be put in ; Where skate with flat face Edged out some old plaice ; But sol keep their footing .
Sprats and herring in power Of silvery shower All number out-numbered ; And great ling so lengthy Was there in such plenty The shore be encumber 'd .
The scallop and oyster Their two shell do roister , Like castanets flit ; While limpet move clearly , And rock very nearly With laughter be split .
Never be such a hullabaloo in this world , before or since ; 't be a if heaven and earth be come together ; and all out of Maurice Connor 's wonderful tune !
In the height of all these doings , what should there be dance among the outlandish set of fish but a beautiful young woman -- as beautiful a the dawn of day !
She have a cock hat upon her head ; from under it her long green hair -- just the colour of the sea -- fell down behind , without hindrance to her dancing .
Her teeth be like row of pearl ; her lip for all the world look like red coral ; and she have a shin gown pale green a the hollow of the wave , with little row of purple and red seaweed settle out upon it ; for you never yet saw a lady , under the water or over the water , who have not a good notion of dress herself out .
Up she dance at last to Maurice , who be fling his foot from under him as fast a hop -- for nothing in this world could keep still while that tune of his be go on -- and say she to him , chant it out with a voice as sweet a honey : I 'm a lady of honour Who live in the sea ; Come down , Maurice Connor , And be marry to me .
Silver plate and gold dish You shall have , and shall be The king of the fish , When you 're marry to me .
Drink be strong in Maurice 's head , and out he chant in return for her great civility .
It be not every lady , may be , that would be after make such an offer to a blind piper ; therefore 't be only right in him to give her as good a she give herself , so say Maurice : I 'm oblige to you , madam : Off a gold dish or plate , If a king , and I have 'em , I could dine in great state .
With your own father 's daughter I 'd be sure to agree , But to drink the salt water Would n't do so with me !
The lady look at him quite amaze , and swing her head from side to side like a great scholar , ` Well , ' say she , ` Maurice , if you 're not a poet , where be poetry to be find ? '
In this way they keep on at it , frame high compliment ; one answer the other , and their foot go with the music as fast a their tongue .
All the fish kept dancing , too ; Maurice hear the clatter and be afraid to stop playing lest it might be displease to the fish , and not know what so many of them may take it into their head to do to him if they get vexed .
Well , the lady with the green hair keep on coax Maurice with soft speech , till at last she over persuade him to promise to marry her , and be king over the fish , great and small .
Maurice be well fit to be their king , if they want one that could make them dance ; and he surely would drink , bar the salt water , with any fish of them all .
When Maurice 's mother saw him with that unnatural thing in the form of a green-haired lady a his guide , and he and she dance down together so lovingly to the water 's edge , through the thick of the fish , she call out after him to stop and come back .
` Oh , then , ' say she , ` a if I be not widow enough before , there he be go away from me to be marry to that scaly woman .
And who know but 't be grandmother I may be to a hake or a cod -- Lord help and pity me , but 't be a mighty unnatural thing !
And my be 't be boil and eat my own grandchild I 'll be , with a bit of salt butter , and I not know it !
Oh , Maurice , Maurice , if there 's any love or nature leave in you , come back to your own ould mother , who rear you like a decent Christian ! '
Then the poor woman begin to cry and sob so finely that it would do anyone good to hear her .
Maurice be not long get to the rim of the water .
There he keep play and dance on a if nothing be the matter , and a great thundering wave come in towards him ready to swallow him up alive ; but a he could not see it , he do not fear it .
His mother it be who saw it plainly through the big tear that be roll down her cheek ; and though she saw it , and her heart be ache as much a ever mother 's heart ache for a son , she keep dance , dance all the time for the bare life of her .
Certain it be she could not help it , for Maurice never stop play that wonderful tune of his .
He only turn his ear to the sound of his mother 's voice , fear it might put him out in his step , and all the answer he make back be , ` Whisht with you mother -- sure I 'm go to be king over the fish down in the sea , and for a token of luck , and a sign that I 'm alive and well , I 'll send you in , every twelvemonth on this day , a piece of burn wood to Trafraska . '
Maurice have not the power to say a word more , for the strange lady with the green hair , see the wave just upon them , cover him up with herself in a thing like a cloak with a big hood to it , and the wave curling over twice as high a their head , burst upon the strand , with a rush and a roar that might be hear as far a Cape Clear .
That day twelvemonth the piece of burn wood come ashore in Trafraska .
It be a queer thing for Maurice to think of send all the way from the bottom of the sea .
A gown or a pair of shoe would have be something like a present for his poor mother ; but he have say it , and he keep his word .
The bit of burn wood regularly come ashore on the appoint day for as good , ay , and good than a hundred year .
The day be now forget , and may be that be the reason why people say how Maurice Connor have stop send the luck-token to his mother .
Poor woman , she do not live to get as much a one of them ; for what through the loss of Maurice , and the fear of eat her own grandchild , she die in three week after the dance .
Some say it be the fatigue that kill her , but whichever it be , Mrs. Connor be decently bury with her own people .
Seafaring people have often hear , off the coast of Kerry , on a still night , the sound of music come up from the water ; and some , who have have good ear , could plainly distinguish Maurice Connor 's voice sing these word to his pipe -- Beautiful shore , with thy spread strand , Thy crystal water , and diamond sand ; Never would I have part from thee , But for the sake of my fair ladie .
From ` Fairy Tales and Traditions of the South of Ireland . '
The Rich Brother and the Poor Brother There be once a rich old man who have two son , and a his wife be dead , the elder live with him , and help him to look after his property .
For a long time all go well ; the young man get up very early in the morning , and work hard all day , and at the end of every week his father count up the money they have make , and rub his hand with delight , a he saw how big the pile of gold in the strong iron chest be become .
` It will soon be full now , and I shall have to buy a large one , ' he say to himself , and so busy be he with the thought of his money , that he do not notice how bright his son 's face have grow , nor how he sometimes start when he be speak to , a if his mind be far away .
One day , however , the old man go to the city on business , which he have not do for three year at least .
It be market day , and he meet with many people he know , and it be get quite late when he turn into the inn yard , and bid an ostler saddle his horse , and bring it round directly .
While he be wait in the hall , the landlady come up for a gossip , and after a few remark about the weather and the vineyard she ask him how he like his new daughter-in-law , and whether he have be surprise at the marriage .
The old man star a he listen to her .
` Daughter-in-law ?
Marriage ? '
say he . '
I do n't know what you be talk about !
I 've get no daughter-in-law , and nobody have be marry lately , that I ever heard of . '
Now this be exactly what the landlady , who be very curious , want to find out ; but she put on a look of great alarm , and exclaim : ` Oh , dear !
I hope I have not make mischief .
I have no idea -- or , of course , I would not have speak -- but ' -- and here she stop and fumble with her apron , a if she be greatly embarrass .
` As you have say so much you will have to say a little more , ' retort the old man , a suspicion of what she mean dart across him ; and the woman , nothing loth , answer a before .
` Ah , it be not all for buy or sell that your handsome son have be come to town every week these many month past .
And not by the short way , either !
No , it be over the river he ride , and across the hill and past the cottage of Miguel the vine-keeper , whose daughter , they say , be the pretty girl in the whole country side , though she be too white for my taste , ' and then the landlady pause again , and glance up at the farmer , to see how he be take it .
She do not learn much .
He be look straight before him , his teeth set .
But a she cease to talk , he say quietly , ` Go on . '
` There be not much more to tell , ' reply the landlady , for she suddenly remember that she must prepare supper for the hungry men who always stop at the inn on market day , before start for home , ` but one fine morning they both go to the little church on top of the hill , and be marry .
My cousin be servant to the priest , and she find out about it and tell me .
But good-day to you , sir ; here be your horse , and I must hurry off to the kitchen . '
It be lucky that the horse be sure-footed and know the road , for his bridle hung loose on his neck , and his master take no heed of the way he be go .
When the farm-house be reach , the man lead the animal to the stable , and then go to look for his son . '
I know everything -- you have deceive me .
Get out of my sight at once -- I have do with you , ' he stammer , choke with passion a he come up to the young man , who be cut a stick in front of the door , whistle gaily the while .
` But , father -- ' ` You be no son of mine ; I have only one now .
Begone , or it will be the bad for you , ' and a he speak he lift up his whip .
The young man shrink back .
He fear l his father should fall down in a fit , his face be so red and his eye seem burst from his head .
But it be no use staying : perhaps next morning the old man might listen to reason , though in his heart the son felt that he would never take back his word .
So he turn slowly away , and walk heavily along a path which end in a cave on the side of his hill , and there he sit through the night , thinking of what have happen .
Yes , he have be wrong , there be no doubt of that , and he do not quite know how it have come about .
He have mean to have tell his father all about it , and he be sure , quite sure , that if once the old man have see his wife , he would have forgive her poverty on account of her great beauty and goodness .
But he have put it off from day to day , hop always for a good opportunity , and now this be the end !
If the son have no sleep that night , no more have the father , and as soon a the sun rise , he send a messenger into the great city with order to bring back the younger brother .
When he arrive the farmer do not waste word , but inform him that he be now his only heir , and would inherit all his land and money , and that he be to come and live at home , and to help manage the property .
Though very pleased at the thought of become such a rich man -- for the brother have never care much for each other -- the young would rather have stay where he be , for he soon get tire of the country , and long for a town life .
However , this he keep to himself , and make the best of thing , work hard like his brother before him .
In this way the year go on , but the crop be not so good a they have be , and the old man give order that some fine house he be build in the city should be leave unfinished , for it would take all the saving to complete them .
As to the elder son , he would never even hear his name mention , and die at last without ever see his face , leave to the young , a he have promise , all his land , as well a his money .
Meanwhile , the son whom he have disinherit have grow poorer and poorer .
He and his wife be always look out for something to do , and never spend a penny that they could help , but luck be against them , and at the time of his father 's death they have hardly bread to eat or clothes to cover them .
If there have be only himself , he would have manage to get on somehow , but he could not bear to watch his child become weak day by day , and swallow his pride , at length he cross the mountain to his old home where his brother be live .
It be the first time for long that the two men have come face to face , and they look at each other in silence .
Then tear rise in the eye of the elder , but wink them hastily away , he say : ` Brother , it be not needful that I should tell you how poor I be ; you can see that for yourself .
I have not come to beg for money , but only to ask if you will give me those unfinished house of yours in the city , and I will make them watertight , so that my wife and child can live in them , and that will save our rent .
For a they be , they profit you nothing . '
And the young brother listen and pity him , and give him the house that he ask for , and the elder go away happy .
For some year thing go on a they be , and then the rich brother begin to feel lonely , and think to himself that he be get old , and it be time for him to be marry .
The wife he choose be very wealthy , but she be also very greedy , and however much she have , she always want more .
She be , besides , one of those unfortunate people who invariably fancy that the possession of other people must be good than their own .
Many a time her poor husband regret the day that he have first see her , and often her meanness and shabby way put him to shame .
But he have not the courage to rule her , and she only get bad and bad .
After she have be marry a few month the bride want to go into the city and buy herself some new dress .
She have never be there before , and when she have finish her shopping , she think she would pay a visit to her unknown sister-in-law , and rest for a bit .
The house she be seek be in a broad street , and ought to have be very magnificent , but the carved stone portico enclose a mean little door of rough wood , while a row of beautiful pillar lead to nothing .
The dwelling on each side be in the same unfinished condition , and water trickle down the wall .
Most people would have consider it a wretched place , and turn their back on it as soon a they could , but this lady saw that by spend some money the house could be make as splendid a they be originally intend to be , and she instantly resolve to get them for herself .
Full of this idea she walk up the marble staircase , and enter the little room where her sister-in-law sat , make clothes for her child .
The bride seem full of interest in the house , and ask a great many question about them , so that her new relation like her much good than they expect , and hop they might be good friend .
However , as soon a she reach home , she go straight to her husband , and tell him that he must get back those house from his brother , a they would exactly suit her , and she could easily make them into a palace as fine a the king 's .
But her husband only tell her that she might buy house in some other part of the town , for she could not have those , a he have long since make a gift of them to his brother , who have live there for many year past .
At this answer the wife grow very angry .
She begin to cry , and make such a noise that all the neighbour hear her and put their head out of the window , to see what be the matter .
` It be absurd , ' she sob out , ` quite unjust .
Indeed , if you come to think of it , the gift be worth nothing , a when her husband make it he be a bachelor , and since then he have be marry , and she have never give her consent to any such thing . '
And so she lament all day and all night , till the poor man be nearly worried to death ; and at last he do what she wish , and summon his brother in a court of law to give up the house which , he say , have only be lend to him .
But when the evidence on both side have be hear , the judge decide in favour of the poor man , which make the rich lady more furious than ever , and she determine not to rest until she have gain the day .
If one judge would not give her the house another should , and so time after time the case be try over again , till at last it come before the high judge of all , in the city of Evora .
Her husband be heartily tire and ashamed of the whole affair , but his weakness in not put a stop to it in the beginning have get him into this difficulty , and now he be force to go on .
On the same day the two brother set out on their journey to the city , the rich one on horseback , with plenty of food in his knapsack , the poor one on foot with nothing but a piece of bread and four onion to eat on the way .
The road be hilly and neither could go very fast , and when night fell , they be both glad to see some light in a window a little distance in front of them .
The light turn out to have be place there by a farmer , who have plan to have a particularly good supper a it be his wife 's birthday , and bid the rich man enter and sit down , while he himself take the horse to the stable .
The poor man ask timidly if he might spend the night in a corner , add that he have bring his own supper with him .
Another time permission might have be refuse him , for the farmer be no lover of humble folk , but now he give the elder brother leave to come in , point out a wooden chair where he could sit .
Supper be soon serve , and very glad the young brother be to eat it , for his long ride have make him very hungry .
The farmer 's wife , however , would touch nothing , and at last declare that the only supper she want be one of the onion the poor man be cook at the fire .
Of course he give it to her , though he would gladly have eat it himself , a three onion be not much at the end of a long day 's walk , and soon after they all go to sleep , the poor man make himself as comfortable a he could in his corner .
A few hour later the farmer be arouse by the cry and groan of his wife .
` Oh , I feel so ill , I 'm sure I 'm go to die , ' wept she .
` It be that onion , I know it be .
I wish I have never eat it .
It must have be poison . '
` If the man have poison you he shall pay for it , ' say her husband , and seize a thick stick he run downstairs and begin to beat the poor man , who have be sound asleep , and have nothing to defend himself with .
Luckily , the noise arouse the young brother , who jump up and snatch the stick from the farmer 's hand , say : ` We be both go to Evora to try a law-suit .
Come too , and accuse him there if he have attempt to rob you or murder you , but do n't kill him now , or you will get yourself into trouble . '
` Well , perhaps you be right , ' answer the farmer , ` but the sooner that fellow have his desert , the good I shall be please , ' and without more word he go to the stable and bring out a horse for himself and also the black Andalusian mare ridden by the rich man , while the poor brother , fear more ill-treatment , start at once on foot .
Now all that night it have rain heavily , and do not seem likely to stop , and in some place the road be so thick with mud that it be almost impossible to get across it .
In one spot it be so very bad that a mule laden with baggage have get stick in it , and tug a he might , his master be quite unable to pull him out .
The muleteer in despair appeal to the two horseman , who be carefully skirt the swamp at some distance off , but they pay no heed to his cry , and he begin to talk cheerfully to his mule , hop to keep up his spirit , declare that if the poor beast would only have a little patience help be sure to come .
And so it do , for very soon the poor brother reach the place , bespatter with mud from head to foot , but ready to do all he could to help with the mule and his master .
First they set about find some stout log of wood to lay down on the marsh so that they could reach the mule , for by this time his frantic struggle have break his bridle , and he be deeply in than ever .
Stepping cautiously along the wood , the poor man contrive to lay hold of the animal 's tale , and with a desperate effort the mule manage to regain his foot on dry ground , but at the cost of leave his tail in the poor man 's hand .
When he saw this the muleteer 's anger know no bound , and forget that without the help give him he would have lose his mule altogether , he begin to abuse the poor man , declare that he have ruin his beast , and the law would make him pay for it .
Then , jump on the back of the mule , which be so glad to be out of the choke mud that he do not seem to mind the loss of his tail , the ungrateful wretch rode on , and that even reach the inn at Evora , where the rich man and the farmer have already arrive for the night .
Meanwhile the poor brother walk wearily along , wonder what other dreadful adventure be in store for him . '
I shall certainly be condemn for one or other of them , ' think he sadly ; ` and after all , if I have to die , I would rather choose my own death than leave it to my enemy , ' and as soon a he enter Evora he look about for a place suitable for carry out the plan he have make .
At length he find what he seek , but a it be too late and too dark for him to make sure of success , he curl himself up under a doorway , and sleep till morning .
Although it be winter , the sun rise in a clear sky , and it ray felt almost warm when the poor man get up and shake himself .
He intend it to be the day of his death , but in spite of that , and of the fact that he be leave his wife and child behind him , he felt almost cheerful .
He have struggle so long , and be so very , very tired ; but he would not have mind that if he could have prove his innocence , and triumph over his enemy .
However , they have all be too clever for him , and he have no strength to fight any more .
So he mount the stone step that lead to the battlement of the city , and stop for a moment to gaze about him .
It happen that an old sick man who live near by have beg to be carry out and to be lay at the foot of the wall so that the beam of the rise sun might fall upon him , and he would be able to talk with his friend a they pass by to their work .
Little do he guess that on top of the battlement , exactly over his head , stand a man who be take his last look at the same sun , before go to his death that await him .
But so it be ; and a the steeple opposite be touch by the golden light , the poor man shut his eye and sprang forward .
The wall be high , and he fly rapidly through the air , but it be not the ground he touch , only the body of the sick man , who roll over and die without a groan .
As for the other , he be quite unhurt , and be slowly rise to his foot when his arm be suddenly seize and hold .
` You have kill our father , do you see ?
do you see ? '
cry two young men , ` and you will come with u this instant before the judge , and answer for it . '
` Your father ?
but I do n't know him .
What do you mean ? '
ask the poor man , who be quite bewilder with his sudden rush through the air , and could not think why he should be accuse of this fresh crime .
But he get no reply , and be only hurry through the street to the court-house , where his brother , the muleteer , and the farmer have just arrive , all as angry a ever , all talk at once , till the judge enter and order them to be silent . '
I will hear you one by one , ' he say , and motion the young brother to begin .
He do not take long to state his case .
The unfinished house be his , leave him with the rest of the property by his father , and his brother refuse to give them up .
In answer , the poor man tell , in a few word , how he have beg the house from his brother , and produce the deed of gift which make him their owner .
The judge listen quietly and ask a few question ; then he give his verdict .
` The house shall remain the property of the man to whom they be give , and to whom they belong .
And a you , ' he add , turn to the young brother , ` brought this accusation know full well it be wicked and unjust , I order you , besides lose the house , to pay a thousand pound damage to your brother . '
The rich man hear the judge with rage in his heart , the poor man with surprise and gratitude .
But he be not safe yet , for now it be the turn of the farmer .
The judge could hardly conceal a smile at the story , and inquired if the wife be dead before the farmer leave the house , and receive for answer that he be in such a hurry for justice to be do that he have not wait to see .
Then the poor man tell his tale , and once more judgment be give in his favour , while twelve hundred pound be order to be pay him .
As for the muleteer , he be inform very plainly that he have prove himself mean and ungrateful for the help that have be give him , and a a punishment he must pay to the poor man a fine of fifty pound , and hand him over the mule till his tail have grow again .
Lastly , there come the two son of the sick man .
` This be the wretch who kill our father , ' they say , ` and we demand that he should die also . '
` How do you kill him ? '
ask the judge , turn to the accuse , and the poor man tell how he have leap from the wall , not know that anyone be beneath .
` Well , this be my judgment , ' reply the judge , when they have all speak : ` Let the accused sit under the wall , and let the son of the dead man jump from the top and fall on him and kill him , and if they will not to this , then they be condemn to pay eight hundred pound for their false accusation . '
The young men look at each other , and slowly shake their head .
` We will pay the fine , ' say they , and the judge nod .
So the poor man ride the mule home , and bring back to his family enough money to keep them in comfort to the end of their day .
Adapted from the Portuguese .
The One-Handed Girl An old couple once live in a hut under a grove of palm tree , and they have one son and one daughter .
They be all very happy together for many year , and then the father become very ill , and felt he be go to die .
He call his child to the place where he lay on the floor -- for no one have any bed in that country -- and say to his son , ' I have no herd of cattle to leave you -- only the few thing there be in the house -- for I be a poor man , a you know .
But choose : will you have my blessing or my property ? '
` Your property , certainly , ' answer the son , and his father nod .
` And you ? '
ask the old man of the girl , who stand by her brother . '
I will have blessing , ' she answer , and her father give her much blessing .
That night he die , and his wife and son and daughter mourn for him seven day , and give him a burial accord to the custom of his people .
But hardly be the time of mourn over , than the mother be attack by a disease which be common in that country . '
I be go away from you , ' she say to her child , in a faint voice ; ` but first , my son , choose which you will have : blessing or property . '
` Property , certainly , ' answer the son .
` And you , my daughter ? ' '
I will have blessing , ' say the girl ; and her mother give her much blessing , and that night she die .
When the day of mourn be end , the brother bid his sister put outside the hut all that belong to his father and his mother .
So the girl put them out , and he take them away , save only a small pot and a vessel in which she could clean her corn .
But she have no corn to clean .
She sit at home , sad and hungry , when a neighbour knock at the door .
` My pot have crack in the fire , lend me yours to cook my supper in , and I will give you a handful of corn in return . '
And the girl be glad , and that night she be able to have supper herself , and next day another woman borrow her pot , and then another and another , for never be know so many accident a befell the village pot at that time .
She soon grow quite fat with all the corn she earn with the help of her pot , and then one even she pick up a pumpkin seed in a corner , and plant it near her well , and it spring up , and give her many pumpkin .
At last it happen that a youth from her village pass through the place where the girl 's brother be , and the two met and talk .
` What news be there of my sister ? '
ask the young man , with whom thing have go badly , for he be idle .
` She be fat and well-liking , ' reply the youth , ` for the woman borrow her mortar to clean their corn , and borrow her pot to cook it in , and for al this they give her more food than she can eat . '
And he go his way .
Now the brother be fill with envy at the word of the man , and he set out at once , and before dawn he have reach the hut , and saw the pot and the mortar be stand outside .
He sling them over his shoulder and depart , pleased with his own cleverness ; but when his sister awoke and sought for the pot to cook her corn for breakfast , she could find it nowhere .
At length she say to herself , ` Well , some thief must have steal them while I sleep .
I will go and see if any of my pumpkin be ripe . '
And indeed they be , and so many that the tree be almost break by the weight of them .
So she eat what she want and take the others to the village , and give them in exchange for corn , and the woman say that no pumpkin be as sweet a these , and that she be to bring every day all that she have .
In this way she earn more than she need for herself , and soon be able to get another mortar and cooking pot in exchange for her corn .
Then she think she be quite rich .
Unluckily someone else think so too , and this be her brother 's wife , who have hear all about the pumpkin tree , and send her slave with a handful of grain to buy her a pumpkin .
At first the girl tell him that so few be leave that she could not spare any ; but when she find that he belong to her brother , she change her mind , and go out to the tree and gather the large and the ripest that be there .
` Take this one , ' she say to the slave , ` and carry it back to your mistress , but tell her to keep the corn , a the pumpkin be a gift . '
The brother 's wife be overjoy at the sight of the fruit , and when she taste it , she declare it be the nice she have ever eat .
Indeed , all night she think of nothing else , and early in the morning she call another slave -LRB- for she be a rich woman -RRB- and bid him go and ask for another pumpkin .
But the girl , who have just be out to look at her tree , tell him that they be all eaten , so he go back empty-handed to his mistress .
In the evening her husband return from hunt a long way off , and find his wife in tear .
` What be the matter ? '
ask he . '
I send a slave with some grain to your sister to buy some pumpkin , but she would not sell me any , and tell me there be none , though I know she let other people buy them . '
` Well , never mind now -- go to sleep , ' say he , ` and to-morrow I will go and pull up the pumpkin tree , and that will punish her for treat you so badly . '
So before sunrise he get up and set out for his sister 's house , and find her cleaning some corn .
` Why do you refuse to sell my wife a pumpkin yesterday when she want one ? '
he ask .
` The old one be finish , and the new one be not yet come , ' answer the girl .
` When her slave arrive two day ago , there be only four leave ; but I give him one , and would take no corn for it . ' '
I do not believe you ; you have sell them all to other people .
I shall go and cut down the pumpkin , ' cry her brother in a rage .
` If you cut down the pumpkin you shall cut off my hand with it , ' exclaim the girl , run up to her tree and catch hold of it .
But her brother follow , and with one blow cut off the pumpkin and her hand too .
Then he go into the house and take away everything he could find , and sell the house to a friend of his who have long wish to have it , and his sister have no home to go to .
Meanwhile she have bath her arm carefully , and bound on it some heal leaf that grow near by , and wrap a cloth round the leaf , and go to hide in the forest , that her brother might not find her again .
For seven day she wander about , eat only the fruit that hung from the tree above her , and every night she climb up and tuck herself safely among the creeper which bind together the big branch , so that neither lion nor tiger nor panther might get at her .
When she wake up on the seventh morning she saw from her perch smoke come up from a little town on the edge of the forest .
The sight of the hut make her feel more lonely and helpless than before .
She long desperately for a draught of milk from a gourd , for there be no stream in that part , and she be very thirsty , but how be she to earn anything with only one hand ?
And at this think her courage fail , and she begin to cry bitterly .
It happen that the king 's son have come out from the town very early to shoot bird , and when the sun grow hot he leave tired . '
I will lie here and rest under this tree , ' he say to his attendant .
` You can go and shoot instead , and I will just have this slave to stay with me ! '
Away they go , and the young man fell asleep , and sleep long .
Suddenly he be awaken by something wet and salt fall on his face .
` What be that ?
Is it rain ? '
he say to his slave .
` Go and look . '
` No , master , it be not rain , ' answer the slave .
` Then climb up the tree and see what it be , ' and the slave climb up , and come back and tell his master that a beautiful girl be sit up there , and that it must have be her tear which have fall on the face of the king 's son .
` Why be she cry ? '
inquire the prince . '
I can not tell -- I do not dare to ask her ; but perhaps she would tell you . '
And the master , greatly wonder , climb up the tree .
` What be the matter with you ? '
say he gently , and , a she only sob louder , he continue : ` Are you a woman , or a spirit of the wood ? ' '
I be a woman , ' she answer slowly , wipe her eye with a leaf of the creeper that hung about her .
` Then why do you cry ? '
he persist . '
I have many thing to cry for , ' she reply , ` more than you could ever guess . '
` Come home with me , ' say the prince ; ` it be not very far .
Come home to my father and mother .
I be a king 's son . '
` Then why be you here ? '
she say , open her eye and star at him .
` Once every month I and my friend shoot bird in the forest , ' he answer , ` but I be tire and bid them leave me to rest .
And you -- what be you do up in this tree ? '
At that she begin to cry again , and tell the king 's son all that have befall her since the death of her mother . '
I can not come down with you , for I do not like anyone to see me , ' she end with a sob .
` Oh !
I will manage all that , ' say the king 's son , and swing himself to a low branch , he bid his slave go quickly into the town , and bring back with him four strong men and a curtained litter .
When the man be go , the girl climb down , and hide herself on the ground in some bush .
Very soon the slave return with the litter , which be place on the ground close to the bush where the girl lay .
` Now go , all of you , and call my attendant , for I do not wish to say here any longer , ' he say to the men , and as soon a they be out of sight he bid the girl get into the litter , and fasten the curtain tightly .
Then he get in on the other side , and wait till his attendant come up .
` What be the matter , O son of a king ? '
ask they , breathless with run . '
I think I be ill ; I be cold , ' he say , and sign to the bearer , he draw the curtain , and be carry through the forest right inside his own house .
` Tell my father and mother that I have a fever , and want some gruel , ' say he , ` and bid them send it quickly . '
So the slave hasten to the king 's palace and give his message , which trouble both the king and the queen greatly .
A pot of hot gruel be instantly prepared , and carry over to the sick man , and as soon a the council which be sit be over , the king and his minister go to pay him a visit , bear a message from the queen that she would follow a little later .
Now the prince have pretend to be ill in order to soften his parent 's heart , and the next day he declare he felt well , and , get into his litter , be carry to the palace in state , drum be beat all along the road .
He dismount at the foot of the step and walk up , a great parasol be hold over his head by a slave .
Then he enter the cool , dark room where his father and mother be sit , and say to them : ' I saw a girl yesterday in the forest whom I wish to marry , and , unknown to my attendant , I bring her back to my house in a litter .
Give me your consent , I beg , for no other woman please me a well , even though she have but one hand ! '
Of course the king and queen would have prefer a daughter-in-law with two hand , and one who could have bring rich with her , but they could not bear to say ` No ' to their son , so they tell him it should be a he choose , and that the wedding feast should be prepare immediately .
The girl could scarcely believe her good fortune , and , in gratitude for all the kindness show her , be so useful and pleasant to her husband 's parent that they soon love her .
By and bye a baby be bear to her , and soon after that the prince be send on a journey by his father to visit some of the distant town of the kingdom , and to set right thing that have go wrong .
No sooner have he start than the girl 's brother , who have waste all the rich his wife have bring him in recklessness and folly , and be now very poor , chance to come into the town , and a he pass he hear a man say , ` Do you know that the king 's son have marry a woman who have lose one of her hand ? '
On hear these word the brother stop and ask , ` Where do he find such a woman ? '
` In the forest , ' answer the man , and the cruel brother guess at once it must be his sister .
A great rage take possession of his soul a he think of the girl whom he have try to ruin be after all so much good off than himself , and he vow that he would work her ill .
Therefore that very afternoon he make his way to the palace and ask to see the king .
When he be admit to his presence , he kneel down and touch the ground with his forehead , and the king bid him stand up and tell wherefore he have come .
` By the kindness of your heart have you be deceive , O king , ' say he .
` Your son have marry a girl who have lose a hand .
Do you know why she have lose it ?
She be a witch , and have wed three husband , and each husband she have put to death with her art .
Then the people of the town cut off her hand , and turn her into the forest .
And what I say be true , for her town be my town also . '
The king listen , and his face grow dark .
Unluckily he have a hasty temper , and do not stop to reason , and , instead of send to the town , and discover people who know his daughter-in-law and could have tell him how hard she have work and how poor she have be , he believe all the brother 's lying word , and make the queen believe them too .
Together they take counsel what they should do , and in the end they decide that they also would put her out of the town .
But this do not content the brother .
` Kill her , ' he say .
` It be no more than she deserve for dare to marry the king 's son .
Then she can do no more hurt to anyone . '
` We can not kill her , ' answer they ; ` if we do , our son would assuredly kill u .
Let u do a the others do , and put her out of the town .
And with this the envious brother be force to be content .
The poor girl love her husband very much , but just then the baby be more to her than all else in the world , and as long a she have him with her , she do not very much mind anything .
So , take her son on her arm , and hang a little earthen pot for cook round her neck , she leave her house with it great peacock fan and slave and seat of ivory , and plunge into the forest .
For a while she walk , not know whither she go , then by and bye she grow tired , and sit under a tree to rest and to hush her baby to sleep .
Suddenly she raise her eye , and saw a snake wriggling from under the bush towards her . '
I be a dead woman , ' she say to herself , and stay quite still , for indeed she be too frighten to move .
In another minute the snake have reach her side , and to her surprise he speak .
` Open your earthen pot , and let me go in .
Save me from sun , and I will save you from rain , ' and she open the pot , and when the snake have slip in , she put on the cover .
Soon she behold another snake come after the other one , and when it have reach her it stop and say , ` Did you see a small grey snake pas this way just now ? '
` Yes , ' she answer , ` it be go very quickly . '
` Ah , I must hurry and catch it up , ' reply the second snake , and it hasten on .
When it be out of sight , a voice from the pot say : ` Uncover me , ' and she lift the lid , and the little grey snake slide rapidly to the ground . '
I be safe now , ' he say .
` But tell me , where be you go ? ' '
I can not tell you , for I do not know , ' she answer . '
I be just wander in the wood . '
` Follow me , and let u go home together , ' say the snake , and the girl follow his through the forest and along the green path , till they come to a great lake , where they stop to rest .
` The sun be hot , ' say the snake , ` and you have walk far .
Take your baby and bathe in that cool place where the bough of the tree stretch far over the water . '
` Yes , I will , ' answer she , and they go in .
The baby splash and crow with delight , and then he give a spring and fell right in , down , down , down , and his mother could not find him , though she search all among the reed .
Full of terror , she make her way back to the bank , and call to the snake , ` My baby be go !
-- he be drown , and never shall I see him again . '
` Go in once more , ' say the snake , ` and feel everywhere , even among the tree that have their root in the water , l perhaps he may be hold fast there . '
Swiftly she go back and felt everywhere with her whole hand , even put her finger into the tiny cranny , where a crab could hardly have take shelter .
` No , he be not here , ' she cry .
` How be I to live without him ? '
But the snake take no notice , and only answer , ` Put in your other arm too . '
` What be the use of that ? '
she ask , ` when it have no hand to feel with ? '
but all the same she do a she be bid , and in an instant the wounded arm touch something round and soft , lie between two stone in a clump of reed .
` My baby , my baby ! '
she shout , and lift him up , merry and laughing , and not a bit hurt or frighten .
` Have you find him this time ? '
ask the snake .
` Yes , oh , yes ! '
she answer , ` and , why -- why -- I have get my hand back again ! '
and from sheer joy she burst into tear .
The snake let her weep for a little while , and then he say -- ` Now we will journey on to my family , and we will all repay you for the kindness you show to me . '
` You have do more than enough in give me back my hand , ' reply the girl ; but the snake only smile .
` Be quick , l the sun should set , ' he answer , and begin to wriggle along so fast that the girl could hardly follow him .
By and bye they arrive at the house in a tree where the snake live , when he be not travel with his father and mother .
And he tell them all his adventure , and how he have escape from his enemy .
The father and mother snake could not do enough to show their gratitude .
They make their guest lie down on a hammock woven of the strong creeper which hang from bough to bough , till she be quite rested after her wandering , while they watch the baby and give him milk to drink from the cocoa-nuts which they persuade their friend the monkey to crack for them .
They even manage to carry small fruit tie up in their tail for the baby 's mother , who felt at last that she be safe and at peace .
Not that she forget her husband , for she often think of him and long to show him her son , and in the night she would sometimes lie awake and wonder where he be .
In this manner many week pass by .
And what be the prince do ?
Well , he have fall very ill when he be on the furthest border of the kingdom , and he be nurse by some kind people who do not know who he be , so that the king and queen heard nothing about him .
When he be well he make his way home again , and into his father 's palace , where he find a strange man stand behind the throne with the peacock 's feather .
This be his wife 's brother , whom the king have take into high favour , though , of course , the prince be quite ignorant of what have happen .
For a moment the king and queen star at their son , a if he have be unknown to them ; he have grow so thin and weak during his illness that his shoulder be bow like those of an old man .
` Have you forget me so soon ? '
he ask .
At the sound of his voice they give a cry and run towards him , and pour out question a to what have happen , and why he look like that .
But the prince do not answer any of them .
` How be my wife ? '
he say .
There be a pause .
Then the queen reply : ` She be dead . '
` Dead ! '
he repeat , step a little backwards .
` And my child ? '
` He be dead too . '
The young man stand silent .
Then he say , ` Show me their graf . '
At these word the king , who have be feel rather uncomfortable , take heart again , for have he not prepare two beautiful tomb for his son to see , so that he might never , never guess what have be do to his wife ?
All these month the king and queen have be tell each other how good and merciful they have be not to take her brother 's advice and to put her to death .
But now , this somehow do not seem so certain .
Then the king lead the way to the courtyard just behind the palace , and through the gate into a beautiful garden where stand two splendid tomb in a green space under the tree .
The prince advance alone , and , rest his head against the stone , he burst into tear .
His father and mother stand silently behind with a curious pang in their soul which they do not quite understand .
Could it be that they be ashamed of themselves ?
But after a while the prince turn round , and walk past them in to the palace he bid the slave bring him mourning .
For seven day no one saw him , but at the end of them he go out hunting , and help his father rule his people .
Only no one dare to speak to him of his wife and son .
At last one morning , after the girl have be lie awake all night thinking of her husband , she say to her friend the snake : ` You have all show me much kindness , but now I be well again , and want to go home and hear some news of my husband , and if he still mourn for me ! '
Now the heart of the snake be sad at her word , but he only say : ` Yes , thus it must be ; go and bid farewell to my father and mother , but if they offer you a present , see that you take nothing but my father 's ring and my mother 's casket . '
So she go to the parent snake , who weep bitterly at the thought of lose her , and offer her gold and jewel as much a she could carry in remembrance of them .
But the girl shake her head and push the shin heap away from her . '
I shall never forget you , never , ' she say in a broken voice , ` but the only tokens I will accept from you be that little ring and this old casket . '
The two snake look at each other in dismay .
The ring and the casket be the only thing they do not want her to have .
Then after a short pause they speak .
` Why do you want the ring and casket so much ?
Who have tell you of them ? '
` Oh , nobody ; it be just my fancy , ' answer she .
But the old snake shake their head and reply : ` Not so ; it be our son who tell you , and , a he say , so it must be .
If you need food , or clothes , or a house , tell the ring and it will find them for you .
And if you be unhappy or in danger , tell the casket and it will set thing right . '
Then they both give her their blessing , and she pick up her baby and go her way .
She walk for a long time , till at length she come near the town where her husband and his father dwelt .
Here she stop under a grove of palm tree , and tell the ring that she want a house .
` It be ready , mistress , ' whisper a queer little voice which make her jump , and , look behind her , she saw a lovely palace make of the fine wood , and a row of slave with tall fan bow before the door .
Glad indeed be she to enter , for she be very tired , and , after eat a good supper of fruit and milk which she find in one of the room , she fling herself down on a pile of cushion and go to sleep with her baby beside her .
Here she stay quietly , and every day the baby grow taller and strong , and very soon he could run about and even talk .
Of course the neighbour have a great deal to say about the house which have be build so quickly -- so very quickly -- on the outskirt of the town , and invent all kind of story about the rich lady who live in it .
And by and bye , when the king return with his son from the war , some of these tale reach his ear .
` It be really very odd about that house under the palm , ' he say to the queen ; ' I must find out something of the lady whom no one ever see .
I daresay it be not a lady at all , but a gang of conspirator who want to get possession of my throne .
To-morrow I shall take my son and my chief minister and insist on get inside . '
Soon after sunrise next day the prince 's wife be stand on a little hill behind the house , when she saw a cloud of dust come through the town .
A moment afterwards she hear faintly the roll of the drum that announce the king 's presence , and saw a crowd of people approach the grove of palm .
Her heart beat fast .
Could her husband be among them ?
In any case they must not discover her there ; so just bid the ring prepare some food for them , she run inside , and bound a veil of golden gauze round her head and face .
Then , take the child 's hand , she go to the door and wait .
In a few minute the whole procession come up , and she step forward and beg them to come in and rest .
` Willingly , ' answer the king ; ` go first , and we will follow you . '
They follow her into a long dark room , in which be a table cover with gold cup and basket fill with date and cocoa-nuts and all kind of ripe yellow fruit , and the king and the prince sit upon cushion and be serve by slave , while the minister , among whom she recognise her own brother , stand behind .
` Ah , I owe all my misery to him , ' she say to herself .
` From the first he have hat me , ' but outwardly she show nothing .
And when the king ask her what news there be in the town she only answer : ` You have ride far ; eat first , and drink , for you must be hungry and thirsty , and then I will tell you my news . '
` You speak sense , ' answer the king , and silence prevail for some time longer .
Then he say : ` Now , lady , I have finish , and be refresh , therefore tell me , I pray you , who you be , and whence you come ?
But , first , be seat . '
She bow her head and sit down on a big scarlet cushion , draw her little boy , who be asleep in a corner , on to her knee , and begin to tell the story of her life .
As her brother listen , he would fain have leave the house and hidden himself in the forest , but it be his duty to wave the fan of peacock 's feather over the king 's head to keep off the fly , and he know he would be seize by the royal guard if he try to desert his post .
He must stay where he be , there be no help for it , and luckily for him the king be too much interested in the tale to notice that the fan have cease moving , and that fly be dance right on the top of his thick curly hair .
The story go on , but the story-teller never once look at the prince , even through her veil , though he on his side never move his eye from her .
When she reach the part where she have sit weep in the tree , the king 's son could restrain himself no longer .
` It be my wife , ' he cry , spring to where she sit with the sleep child in her lap .
` They have lie to me , and you be not dead after all , nor the boy either !
But what have happen ?
Why do they lie to me ?
and why do you leave my house where you be safe ? '
And he turn and look fiercely at his father .
` Let me finish my tale first , and then you will know , ' answer she , throw back her veil , and she tell how her brother have come to the palace and accuse her of be a witch , and have try to persuade the king to slay her .
` But he would not do that , ' she continue softly , ` and after all , if I have stay on in your house , I should never have meet the snake , nor have get my hand back again .
So let u forget all about it , and be happy once more , for see !
our son be grow quite a big boy . '
` And what shall be do to your brother ? '
ask the king , who be glad to think that someone have act in this matter bad than himself .
` Put him out of the town , ' answer she .
From ` Swaheli Tales , ' by E. Steere .
The Bones of Djulung In a beautiful island that lie in the southern sea , where chain of gay orchid bind the tree together , and the day and night be equally long and nearly equally hot , there once live a family of seven sister .
Their father and mother be dead , and they have no brother , so the eldest girl rule over the rest , and they all do a she bid them .
One sister have to clean the house , a second carried water from the spring in the forest , a third cook their food , while to the young fell the hard task of all , for she have to cut and bring home the wood which be to keep the fire continually burn .
This be very hot and tiring work , and when she have feed the fire and heap up in a corner the stick that be to supply it till the next day , she often throw herself down under a tree , and go sound asleep .
One morning , however , a she be stagger along with her bundle on her back , she think that the river which flow past their hut look so cool and invite that she determine to bathe in it , instead of take her usual nap .
Hastily pile up her load by the fire , and thrust some stick into the flame , she run down to the river and jump in .
How delicious it be dive and swim and float in the dark forest , where the tree be so thick that you could hardly see the sun !
But after a while she begin to look about her , and her eye fell on a little fish that seem make out of a rainbow , so brilliant be the colour he flash out . '
I should like him for a pet , ' think the girl , and the next time the fish swam by , she put out her hand and catch him .
Then she run along the grassy path till she come to a cave in front of which a stream fell over some rock into a basin .
Here she put her little fish , whose name be Djulung-djulung , and promise to return soon and bring him some dinner , she go away .
By the time she get home , the rice for their dinner be ready cook , and the eldest sister give the other six their portion in wooden bowl .
But the young do not finish hers , and when no one be look , steal off to the fountain in the forest where the little fish be swim about .
` See !
I have not forget you , ' she cry , and one by one she let the grain of rice fall into the water , where the fish gobble them up greedily , for he have never taste anything so nice .
` That be all for to-day , ' she say at last , ` but I will come again to-morrow , ' and bid him good-bye she go down the path .
Now the girl do not tell her sister about the fish , but every day she save half of her rice to give him , and call him softly in a little song she have make for herself .
If she sometimes felt hungry , no one knew of it , and , indeed , she do not mind that much , when she saw how the fish enjoy it .
And the fish grow fat and big , but the girl grow thin and weak , and the load of wood felt heavier every day , and at last her sister notice it .
Then they take counsel together , and watch her to see what she do , and one of them follow her to the fountain where Djulung live , and saw her give him all the rice she have save from her breakfast .
Hastening home the sister tell the others what she have witness , and that a lovely fat fish might be have for the catching .
So the eldest sister go and catch him , and he be boil for supper , but the young sister be away in the wood , and do not know anything about it .
Next morning she go as usual to the cave , and sing her little song , but no Djulung come to answer it ; twice and thrice she sang , then throw herself on her knee by the edge , and peer into the dark water , but the tree cast such a deep shadow that her eye could not pierce it .
` Djulung can not be dead , or his body would be float on the surface , ' she say to herself , and rise to her foot she set out homewards , feel all of a sudden strangely tire .
