` You 're sure , a n't you , mother ? '
` Yes , sure . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Harry drop his little weary head upon her shoulder , and be soon fast asleep .
Eliza walk on and on , never rest , all through the night .
When the sun rise , she be many mile away from her old home .
Still she walk on , only stop , in the middle of the day , to buy a little dinner for herself and Harry at a farm-house .
At last , when it be nearly dark , she arrive at a village , on the bank of the river Ohio .
If she could only get across that river , Eliza felt she would be safe .
She go to a little inn on the bank , where a kind-looking woman be busy cook supper .
` Is there a boat that take people across the river now ? '
she ask .
` No , indeed , ' reply the woman .
` The boat have stop run .
It be n't safe , there be too many block of ice float about . '
Eliza look so sad and disappointed when she hear this , that the good woman be sorry for her .
Harry too be so tired , that he begin to cry .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Here , take him into this room , ' say the woman , open the door into a small bed-room .
Eliza lay her tired little boy upon the bed , and he soon fell fast asleep .
But for her there be no rest .
She stand at the window , watch the river with it great floating block of ice , wonder how she could cross it .
As she stand there she hear a shout .
Looking up she saw Sam .
She draw back just in time , for Haley and Andy be rid only a yard or two behind him .
It be a dreadful moment for Eliza .
Her room open by a side door to the river .
She seize her child and spring down the step towards it .
Haley catch sight of her a she disappear down the bank .
Throwing himself from his horse , and call loudly to Sam and Andy , he be after her in a moment .
In that terrible moment her foot scarcely seem to touch the ground .
The next , she be at the water 's edge .
On they come behind her .
With one wild cry and fly leap , she jump right over the water by the shore , on to the raft of ice beyond .
It be a desperate leap .
Haley , Sam , and Andy cry out , and lift up their hand in astonishment .
The great piece of ice pitch and creak a her weight come upon it .
But she stay there not a moment .
With wild cry she leap to another and still another -- stumbling -- leaping -- slipping -- spring up again !
Her shoe be go , her stocking cut from her foot by the sharp edge of the ice .
Blood mark every step .
But she know nothing , felt nothing , till dimly , a in a dream , she saw the Ohio side , and a man help her up the bank .
` Yer a brave gal , now , whoever ye be ! '
say the man .
` Oh , save me -- do save me -- do hide me , ' she cry .
` Why , what 's the matter ? '
ask the man .
` My child !
this boy -- ma ' r sell him .
There 's his new ma ` r , ' she say , point to the other shore .
` Oh , save me . '
` Yer a right brave gal , ' say the man .
` Go there , ' point to a big white house close by .
` They be kind folk ; they 'll help you . '
` Oh , thank you , thank you , ' say Eliza , a she walk quickly away .
The man stand and look after her wonderingly .
On the other side of the river Haley be stand perfectly amaze at the scene .
When Eliza disappear over the bank he turn and look at Sam and Andy , with terrible anger in his eye .
But Sam and Andy be glad , oh , so glad , that Eliza have escape .
They be so glad that they laugh till the tear roll down their cheek .
` I 'll make ye laugh , ' say Haley , lay about their head with his rid whip .
They duck their head , run shout up the bank , and be on their horse before he could reach them .
` Good evening , ma ` r , ' say Sam . '
I berry much ` spect missis be anxious ` bout u .
Mas ' r Haley wo n't want u no longer . '
Then off they go as fast a their horse could gallop .
It be late at night before they reach home again , but Mrs. Shelby be wait for them .
As soon a she hear the horse gallop up she run out to the balcony .
` Is that you , Sam ? '
she call .
` Where be they ? '
` Mas ' r Haley 's a-restin ' at the tavern .
He 's drefful fatigue , missis . '
` And Eliza , Sam ? '
` Come up here , Sam , ' call Mr. Shelby , who have follow his wife , ` and tell your mistress what she want to know . '
So Sam go up and tell the wonderful story of how Eliza have cross the river on the floating ice .
Mr. and Mrs. Shelby find it hard to believe that such a thing be possible .
Mrs. Shelby be very , very glad that Eliza have escape .
She tell Aunt Chloe to give Sam and Andy a specially good supper .
Then they go to bed quite pleased with their day 's work .
CHAPTER V ELIZA FINDS A REFUGE A lady and gentleman be sit talk happily together in the drawing-room of the white house to which Eliza have go .
Suddenly their old black man-of-all-work put his head in at the door and say , ` Will missis come into the kitchen ? '
The lady go .
Presently she call to her husband , ' I do wish you would come here a moment . '
He rise and go into the kitchen .
There lay Eliza on two kitchen chair .
Her poor foot be all cut and bleeding , and she have faint quite away .
The master of the house draw his breath short , and stand silent .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- His wife and the cook be try to bring Eliza round .
The old man have Harry on his knee , and be busy pull off his shoe and stocking , to warm the little cold foot .
` Poor creature , ' say the lady .
Suddenly Eliza open her eye .
A dreadful look of pain come into her face .
She spring up say , ` Oh , my Harry , have they get him ? '
As soon a he hear her voice , Harry jump from the old man 's knee , and run to her side , put up his arm .
` Oh , he 's here !
he 's here , ' she say , kiss him .
` Oh , ma'am , ' she go , on turn wildly to the lady of the house , ` do protect u , do n't let them get him . '
` Nobody shall hurt you here , poor woman , ' say the lady .
` You be safe ; do n't be afraid . '
` God bless you , ' say Eliza , cover her face and sobbing , while Harry , see her cry , try to get into her lap to comfort her .
` You need n't be afraid of anything ; we be friend here , poor woman .
Tell me where you come from and what you want , ' say the lady . '
I come from the other side of the river , ' say Eliza .
` When ? '
say the gentleman , very much astonish .
` To-night . '
` How do you come ? ' '
I cross on the ice . '
` Crossed on the ice ! '
exclaim every one .
` Yes , ' say Eliza slowly , ' I do .
God help me , and I cross on the ice .
They be close behind me -- right behind , and there be no other way . '
` Law , missis , ' say the old servant , ` the ice be all in break up block , a-swinging up and down in the water . ' '
I know it be .
I know it , ' say Eliza wildly .
` But I do it .
I would ` nt have think I could -- I do n't think I could get over , but I do n't care .
I could but die if I do n't .
And God help me . '
` Were you a slave ? '
say the gentleman .
` Yes , sir . '
` Was your master unkind to you ? '
` No , sir . '
` Was your mistress unkind to you ? '
` No , sir -- no .
My mistress be always good to me . '
` What could make you leave a good home , then , and run away , and go through such danger ? '
` They want to take my boy away from me -- to sell him -- to sell him down south , ma'am .
To go all alone -- a baby that have never be away from his mother in his life .
I could n't bear it .
I take him , and run away in the night .
They chase me , they be come down close behind me , and I hear 'em .
I jump right on to the ice .
How I get across I do n't know .
The first I know , a man be help me up the bank . '
It be such a sad story , that the tear come into the eye of everyone who hear her tell it .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Where do you mean to go to , poor woman ? '
ask the lady .
` To Canada , if I only know where that be .
Is it very far off , be Canada ' ?
say Eliza , look up in a simple , trust way , to the kind lady 's face .
` Poor woman , ' say she again .
` Is it a great way off ? '
ask Eliza .
` Yes , ' say the lady of the house sadly , ` it be far away .
But we will try to help you to get there . '
Eliza want to go to Canada , because it belong to the British .
They do not allow any one to be make a slave there .
George , too , be go to try to reach Canada .
` Wife , ' say the gentleman , when they have go back again into their own sitting-room , ` we must get that poor woman away to-night .
She be not safe here .
I know some good people , far in the country , who will take care of her . '
So this kind gentleman get the carriage ready , and drive Eliza and her boy a long , long way , through the dark night , to a cottage far in the country .
There he leave her with a good man and his wife , who promise to be kind to her , and help her to go to Canada .
He give some money to the good man too , and tell him to use it for Eliza .
CHAPTER VI UNCLE TOM SAYS GOOD-BYE The day after the hunt for Eliza be a very sad one in Uncle Tom 's cabin .
It be the day on which Haley be go to take Uncle Tom away .
Aunt Chloe have be up very early .
She have wash and iron all Tom 's clothes , and pack his trunk neatly .
Now she be cook the breakfast , -- the last breakfast she would ever cook for her dear husband .
Her eye be quite red and swell with cry , and the tear keep run down her cheek all the time .
` It 's the last time , ' say Tom sadly .
Aunt Chloe could not answer .
She sit down , bury her face in her hand , and sob aloud .
'S ` pose we must be resign .
But , O Lord , how can I ?
If I know anything where you be goin ' , or how they 'd treat you !
Missis say she 'll try and buy you back again in a year or two .
But , Lor ' , nobody never come back that go down there . '
` There 'll be the same God there , Chloe , that there be here . '
` Well , ' say Aunt Chloe , 's ` pose dere will .
But the Lord let drefful thing happen sometimes .
I do n't seem to get no comfort dat way . '
` Let 's think on our mercy , ' say Tom , in a shaking voice .
` Mercies ! '
say Aunt Chloe , ` do n't see any mercy in ` t .
It be n't right !
it be n't right it should be so !
Mas ' r never ought to have leave it so that ye could be take for his debt .
Mebbe he ca n't help himself now , but I feel it 's wrong .
Nothing can beat that out of me .
Such a faithful crittur a ye 've be , reckonin ' on him more than your own wife and chil ` en . '
` Chloe !
now , if ye love me , you wo n't talk so , when it be perhaps jest the last time we 'll ever have together , ' say Tom .
` Wall , anyway , there 's wrong about it somewhere , ' say Aunt Chloe , ' I ca n't jest make out where 't be .
But there be wrong somewhere , I 'm sure of that . '
Neither Tom nor Chloe could eat any breakfast ; their heart be too full of sorrow .
But the little child , who hardly understand what be happen , enjoy theirs .
It be not often that they have such a fine one a Chloe have cook for Tom 's last morning at home .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Breakfast be just finish , when Mrs. Shelby come .
Chloe be not very pleased to see her .
She be angry , and blame her for let Tom be sell .
But Mrs. Shelby do not seem to see Aunt Chloe 's angry look .
` Tom , ' she say , turn to him , ' I come to -- ' she could say no more , she be cry so bitterly .
Then all Aunt Chloe 's anger fade away .
` Lor ' , now missis , do n't - do n't , ' she say .
She too burst out cry again , and for a few minute they all sob together .
` Tom , ' say Mrs. Shelby at last , ' I ca n't do anything for you now .
But I promise you , most solemnly , to save as much , money a I can .
As soon a I have enough , I will buy you back again . '
Just then Haley arrive .
Tom say a last sad good-bye to his wife and child , and get into the cart , which Haley have bring with him .
As soon a Tom be seat in the cart , Haley take a heavy chain , and fasten it round his ankle .
Poor Tom have do nothing wrong , yet he be treat bad than a thief , just because he be a slave .
` You do n't need to do that , ' say Mrs. Shelby , ` Tom wo n't run away . '
` Do n't know so much about that , ma'am ; I 've lose one already .
I ca n't afford to run any more risk , ' reply Haley .
` Please give my love to Mas ' r George , ' say Tom , look round sadly .
` Tell him how sorry I be he be not at home to say good-bye . '
Master George be Mr. and Mrs. Shelby 's son .
He be very fond of Tom , and be teach him to write .
He often use to come and have tea in Uncle Tom 's little cottage .
Aunt Chloe use to make her very nice cake when Mas ' r George come to tea .
But he be not at home now , and do not know that Tom have be sell .
Haley whip up the horse , and , with a last sad look at the old place , Tom be whirl away to a town call Washington .
CHAPTER VII UNCLE TOM MEETS EVA Haley stay in Washington several day .
He go to market each day and buy more slave .
He put heavy chain on their hand and foot , and send them to prison along with Tom .
When he have buy all the slave he want , and be ready to go , he drive them before him , like a herd of cattle , on to a boat which be go south .
It be a beautiful boat .
The deck be gay with lovely lady and fine gentleman walk about enjoy the bright spring sunshine .
Down on the low deck , in the dark , among the luggage , be crowd Tom and the other poor slave .
Some of the lady and gentleman on board be very sorry for the poor nigger , and pity them .
Others never think about them at all , or if they do , think it be quite just and proper that they should be treat badly .
` They be only slave , ' they say .
Among the passenger be a pretty little girl , about six year old .
She have beautiful golden hair , and big blue eye .
She run about here , there , and everywhere , dance and laugh like a little fairy .
There be other child on board , but not one so pretty or so merry a she .
She be always dress in white , and Tom think she look like a little angel , a she dance and run about .
Often and often she would come and walk sadly around the place where the poor slave sit in their chain .
She would look pityingly at them , and then go slowly away .
Once or twice she come with her dress full of sweet , nut , and orange , and give them all some .
Tom watch the little lady , and try to make friend with her .
His pocket be full of all kind of thing , with which he use to amuse his old master 's child .
He could make whistle of every sort and size , cut basket out of cherry-stones , face out of nut-shells , jump figure out of bit of wood .
He bring these out one by one , and though the little girl be shy at first , they soon grow to be great friend .
` What be missy 's name ? '
say Tom one day .
` Evangeline St. Clare , ' say the little girl ; ` though papa and everybody else call me Eva .
Now , what 's your name ? '
` My name 's Tom .
The little chil ` en at my old home use to call me Uncle Tom . '
` Then I mean to call you Uncle Tom , because , you see , I like you , ' say Eva .
` So , Uncle Tom , where be you go ? ' '
I do n't know , Miss Eva . '
` Do n't know ? '
say Eva .
` No .
I 'm go to be sell to somebody .
I do n't know who . '
` My papa can buy you , say Eva quickly .
` If he buy you you will have good time .
I mean to ask him to , this very day . '
` Thank you , my little lady , ' say Tom .
Just at this moment , the boat stop at a small landing-place to take in some wood .
Eva hear her father 's voice , and run away to speak to him .
Tom too rise and walk to the side .
He be allow to go about now without chain .
He be so good and gentle , that even a man like Haley could not help see that it could do no harm to let him go free .
Tom help the sailor to carry the wood on the boat .
He be so big and strong that they be very glad to have his help .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Eva and her father be stand by the railing a the boat once more begin to move .
It have hardly leave the landing-stage when , some how or other , Eva lose her balance .
She fell right over the side of the boat into the water .
Tom be stand just under her , on the low deck , a she fell .
In one moment he spring after her .
The next he have catch her his arm , and be swim with her to the boat-side , where eager hand be hold out to take her .
The whole boat be in confusion .
Every one ran to help Eva , while the poor slave go back to his place , unnoticed and uncared for .
But Mr. St. Clare do not forget .
The next day Tom sit on the low deck , with folded arm , anxiously watch him a he talk to Haley .
Eva 's father be a very handsome man .
He be like Eva , with the same beautiful blue eye and golden-brown hair .
He be very fond of fun and laughter , and though he have quite make up his mind to buy Tom , he be now tease Haley , and pretend to think that he be ask too much money for him .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Papa do buy him , it 's no matter what you pay ' , whisper Eva softly , put her arm around her father 's neck .
` You have money enough , I know .
I want him . '
` What for , pussy ?
Are you go to use him for a rattle-box , or a rocking-horse , or what ? ' '
I want to make him happy . '
Mr. St. Clare laugh ; but after make a few more joke about it , he give Haley the money he ask for , and Tom have a new master .
` Come , Eva , ' say Mr. St. Clare , and , take her hand , go across the boat to Tom .
` Look up , Tom , ' he say to him , ` and see how you like your new master . '
Tom look up .
Mr. St. Clare have such a gay , young , handsome face , that Tom could not help feel glad .
Grateful tear rush to his eye a he say , ` God bless you , mas ` r. ' ` Can you drive horse , Tom ? '
` I 've be allays use to horse , ' say Tom .
` Well , I think I 'll make you a coachman .
But you must not get drunk . '
Tom look surprised and a little hurt . '
I never drink ' , ma ` r , ' he say .
` Never mind , my boy , ' say Mr. St. Clare , see him look so grave ; ' I do n't doubt you mean to do well . ' '
I certainly do , mas ` r , ' say Tom .
` And you shall have good time , ' say Eva .
` Papa be very good to everybody , only he always will laugh at them . '
` Papa be much oblige to you , ' say Mr. St. Clare laugh , a he walk away .
CHAPTER VIII ELIZA AMONG THE QUAKERS While Uncle Tom be sail South , down the wide river , to his new master 's home , Eliza with her boy be travel north to Canada .
Kind people help her all the way .
She pass from friend to friend , till she arrive safely at a village where the people be Quakers .
The Quakers be gentle , quiet people .
They all dress alike in plain grey clothes , and the woman wear big , white muslin cap .
Because they think it be wicked to have slave , they help those who run away from their cruel master .
Often they be punish for do this , but still they go on help the poor slave .
For though the law say it be wrong , they felt quite sure that it be really right to do so .
The kind Quaker woman grow to be very fond of Eliza , and would have be glad if she would have stay with them .
But Eliza say , ` No , I must go on ; I dare not stop .
I ca n't sleep at night : I ca n't rest .
Last night I dream I saw that man come into the yard . '
` Poor child , ' say Rachel , the kind Quaker woman to whom she be speak , ` poor child , thee must n't feel so .
No slave that have run away have ever be steal from our village .
It be safe here . '
While they be talk , Simeon , Rachel 's husband , come to the door and call , ` Wife , I want to speak to thee a minute . '
Rachel go out to him .
` Eliza 's husband be here , ' he say .
` Art thee sure ? '
ask Rachel , her face bright with joy .
` Yes , quite certain ; he will be here soon .
Will thee tell her ? '
Rachel go back into the kitchen , where Eliza be sew , and , open the door of a small bedroom , say gently , ` Come in here with me , my daughter ; I have news to tell thee . '
Eliza rise trembling , she be so afraid it be bad news .
` No , no !
never fear thee .
It 's good news , Eliza , ' say Simeon , Rachel shut the door , and draw Eliza towards her .
` The Lord have be very good to thee , ' she say gently .
` Thy husband hath escape , and will be here to-night . '
` To-night ! '
repeat Eliza , ` to-night ! '
Then it seem a if the room and everything in it swam round her , and she fell into Rachel 's arm .
Very gently Rachel lay her down on the bed .
Eliza sleep a she have not sleep since the dreadful night when she have take her boy and run away through the cold , dark night .
She dream of a beautiful country -- a land , it seem to her , of rest -- green shore , pleasant island , and lovely glittering water .
There in a house , which kind voice tell her be her home , she saw Harry play happily .
She hear her husband 's footstep .
She felt him come nearer .
His arm be around her , his tear fall upon her face , and she awake .
It be no dream .
The sun have set , the candle be light .
Harry be sleep by her side , and George , her husband , be hold her in his arm .
CHAPTER IX UNCLE TOM 'S NEW HOME Uncle Tom soon settle down in his new home .
He be as happy a he could be , so far away from his wife and dear little child .
He have a kind master .
Mrs. St. Clare , however , be not nearly so nice a her husband .
She be cruel , and would often have beat her poor slave , but Mr. St. Clare would not allow it .
She always pretend that she be very ill , and spend most of her time lie on a sofa , or drive about in her comfortable carriage .
Mrs. St. Clare say she really be too ill to look after the house , so everything be leave to the slave .
Soon thing begin to be very uncomfortable , and even good-natured Mr. St. Clare could stand it no longer .
He go to his cousin , Miss Ophelia St. Clare , and beg her to come and keep house for him , and to look after Eva .
It be on the journey back with her that the accident to Eva happen , which end in his buying Tom .
Miss Ophelia be a very prim and precise person , not at all like the St. Clares .
In her home people do not have slave .
Though her cousin have a great many , and be kind to them , she could not help see that it be a very wicked thing to buy and sell men and woman a if they be cattle .
She be very , very sorry for the poor slave , and would have like to free them all .
Yet she do not love them .
She could not bear even to have them near her , nor to touch them , just because they be black .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- It make her quite ill to see Eva kiss and hug the black slave woman when she come home .
` Well , I could n't do that , ' she say .
` Why not ? '
say Mr. St. Clare , who be look on .
` Well , I want to be kind to every one .
I would n't have anybody hurt .
But , a to kiss nigger -- ' she give a little shudder .
` How can she ? '
Presently a gay laugh sound from the court .
Mr. St. Clare step out to see what be happen .
` What be it ? '
say Miss Ophelia , follow him .
There sat Tom on a little mossy seat in the court .
Every one of his buttonhole be stick full of flower .
Eva , laugh gaily , be hang a wreath of rose round his neck .
Then , still laugh , she perch on his knee like a little sparrow .
` Oh , Tom , you look so funny ! '
Tom have a sober smile on his face .
He seem in his own quiet way to be enjoy the fun quite as much a his little mistress .
When he lift his eye and saw his master he look a if he be afraid he might be scold .
But Mr. St. Clare only smile .
` How can you let her do that ? '
say Miss Ophelia .
` Why not ? '
say Mr. St. Clare .
` Why ?
I do n't know .
It seem dreadful to me . '
` You would think it be quite right and natural if you saw Eva play with a large dog , even if he be black .
But a fellow-creature that can think , and reason , and feel , and be immortal , you shudder at .
I know how you north-country people feel about it .
You loathe the black a you would a toad or a snake .
Yet you pity them , and be angry because they be often ill-treated . '
` Well , cousin , ' say Miss Ophelia thoughtfully , ' I daresay you be right .
I suppose I must try to get over my feeling . '
CHAPTER X UNCLE TOM 'S LETTER Uncle Tom felt that he be indeed very fortunate to have find such a kind master and so good a home .
He have nice clothes , plenty of food , and a comfortable room to sleep in .
He have no hard , disagreeable work to do .
His chief duty be to drive Mrs. St. Clare 's carriage when she want to go out , and to attend on Eva when she want him .
He soon grow to love his little mistress very , very much indeed .
Mr. St. Clare too begin to find Tom very useful .
He be dreadfully careless about money , and his chief servant be just as careless a his master .
So between them a great deal be not only spent but waste .
Mr. Shelby have trust Tom in everything , and Tom have always be careful of his master 's money -- as careful a if it have be his own .
Waste seem dreadful to him , and he try to do something to stop it now .
Mr. St. Clare be not long in find out how clever Tom be , and soon trust him as thoroughly a Mr. Shelby have do .
But in spite of all his good fortune , Tom use to long very much to go home to see his dear one again .
He have plenty of spare time , and whenever he have nothing to do he would pull his Bible out of his pocket and try to find comfort in read it .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- But a time go on , Uncle Tom long more and more for his home .
At last one day he have a grand idea .
He would write a letter .
Before Uncle Tom be sell , George Shelby have be teach him to write so he think he could manage a letter .
He beg a sheet of writing-paper from Eva , and go to his room begin to make a rough copy on his slate .
It be very difficult .
Poor Uncle Tom find that he have quite forget how to make some of the letter .
Of those he do remember , he be not quite sure which he ought to use .
Yes , it be a very difficult thing indeed .
While he be work away , breathe very hard over it , Eva come behind him , and peep over his shoulder .
` Oh , Uncle Tom !
what funny thing you be make there ! '
Eva put her little golden head close to Uncle Tom 's black one , and the two begin a grave and anxious talk over the letter .
They be both very earnest , and both very ignorant .
But after a great deal of consult over every word , the writing begin , they really think , to look quite like a proper letter .
` Yes , Uncle Tom , it begin to look beautiful , ' say Eva , gaze on it with delight .
` How pleased your wife will be , and the poor little child !
Oh , it be a shame that you ever have to go away from them !
I mean to ask papa to let you go back , some day . '
` Missis say that she would send down money for me , as soon a they could get it together , ' say Tom .
` Young Mas ' r George , he say he 'd come for me .
He give me this dollar a a sign , ' and Tom draw the precious dollar from under his coat .
` Oh , he be sure to come , then , ' say Eva , ' I be so glad . ' '
I want to send a letter , you see , to let 'em know where I be , and tell poor Chloe that I be well off , 'cause she felt so dreadful , poor soul . ' '
I say , Tom , ' say Mr. St. Clare , come in at the door at this minute .
Tom and Eva both start .
` What 's this ? '
Mr. St. Clare go on , come up and look at the slate .
` Oh , it 's Tom 's letter .
I 'm help him to write it , ' say Eva .
` Is n't it nice ? ' '
I would n't discourage either of you , ' say her father ; ` but I rather think , Tom , you have good let me write your letter for you .
I 'll do it when I come home from my ride . '
` It be very important that he should write , ' say Eva , ` because his mistress be go to send money to buy him back again , you know , papa .
He tell me they have say so . '
Mr. St. Clare think in his heart that very likely this meant nothing .
He think it be only one of these thing which good-natured people say to their slave to comfort them when they be take away from their dear one to be sell .
He do not really believe Mrs. Shelby meant to buy Tom back again .
However , he do not say so out loud , but just tell Tom to get the horse ready for a ride .
That even the letter be write , and Uncle Tom carry it joyfully to the post-office .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- CHAPTER XII GEORGE FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM The day after George and Eliza meet each other once more at the end of so many sad month of parting , be a very happy one in the Quaker house .
The two have much to say to each other .
George have to tell how he have escape from his cruel master , and how he have follow Eliza all the way and at last find her .
Then there be plan to make for go on towards Canada .
It be arrange that they should start that night at ten o'clock .
` The pursuer be hard after thee , we must not delay , ' say Simeon .
Rachel be happy and busy , pack up food and clothes for them to take on the journey .
Late in the afternoon another Quaker , call Phineas , come with the dreadful news that the wicked men , whom Haley have send to catch Eliza , be only a few mile away .
So George and Eliza decide to start as soon a it be dark .
A little while after supper a large covered waggon draw up before the door .
They get in and the waggon drive off .
On and on , all through the dark night they drive .
About three o'clock , George hear the click of a horse 's hoof come behind them .
` That 's Simeon , ' say Phineas , who be drive , a he pull up the horse to listen .
` Halloa , there , Simeon , ' he shout , ` what news ?
Are they come ? '
` Yes , right on behind , eight or ten of them . '
` Oh !
what shall we do ? '
groan Eliza .
But Phineas know the road well .
He lash the horse till they fly along , the waggon rattling and jumping over the hard road behind them .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- On they go till they come to a place where the rock rise straight up from the road like a wall .
It seem impossible for any one to climb up there .
But Phineas know a way .
He stop the horse .
` Here , Simeon , ' he say , ` take the waggon , and drive on as fast a thou canst , and bring back help .
Now follow me , ' he say to the others , ` quick , for your life .
Run now , if you you ever do run . '
Quicker than we can say it , they be follow him up a tiny narrow path to the top of the rock , and Simeon be gallop the horse with the empty waggon along the road .
` We be pretty safe here , ' say Phineas , when they have reach the top .
` Only one person can come up that path at a time .
If any one try it , shoot him . '
The men who be chase them have now arrive at the foot of of the rock .
They be lead by a big man call Tom Loker , and another mean-looking little man , whom Haley have send .
After some hunt about , they find the path , and , head by Tom Loker , begin to climb up .
` Come up if you like , ' George call out , ` but if you do we will shoot you . '
For answer , the little man take aim at George , and fire .
Eliza scream , but the shot do not hurt him .
It pass close to his hair , nearly touch her cheek , and , strike a tree behind .
Tom Loker come on .
George wait until he be near enough , then he fire .
The shot hit him in the side .
But , though wound , he would not go back .
With a yell like that of a mad bull he come leap on , and sprang right in among them .
Quakers be not allow to use gun and pistol , so Phineas have be stand back while George shot .
Now he spring forward .
As Tom Loker land in the middle of them , he give him a great push , say , ` Friend , thee be n't want here . '
Down fell Tom Loker , down , down the steep side of the rock .
He crash and crackle among tree , bush , log , loose stone , till he lay bruise and groan far below .
The fall might have kill him , have it not be break by his clothes catch on the branch of a large tree .
Cruel people be , very often , cowardly too .
When the men saw their leader first wound , and then throw down , they all run away .
Mounting their horse , they ride off as fast a they could , leave Tom Loker lie on the ground wound and groan with pain .
As soon a Phineas and the others saw that the wicked men have really ridden away , they climb down , mean to walk along the road till they meet Simeon .
They have just reach the bottom , when they saw him come back with the waggon and two other men .
` Now we be safe , ' cry Phineas joyfully .
` Well , do stop then , ' say Eliza , ` and do something for that poor man .
He be groan dreadfully . '
` It would be no more than Christian , ' say George .
` Let u take him with u . '
They lift the wounded man gently , a if he have be a friend instead of a cruel enemy , and lay him in the waggon .
Then they all set out once more .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- A drive of about an hour bring them to a neat farm-house .
There the tired traveller be kindly receive and give a good breakfast .
Tom Loker be put into a comfortable bed , far clean and soft than any he have ever sleep in before .
George and Eliza walk about the garden hand-in-hand , feel happy together , and almost safe .
They be so near Canada now .
CHAPTER XIII AUNT DINAH Miss Ophelia find that it be no easy matter to bring anything like order into the St. Clare household .
The slave have be leave to themselves so long , and have grow so untidy , that they be not at all pleased with Miss Feely , a they call her , for try to make them be tidy .
However , she have quite make up her mind that order there must be .
She get up at four o'clock in the morning , much to the surprise of the housemaid .
All day long she be busy dusting and tidying , till Mrs. St. Clare say it make her tired to see cousin Ophelia so busy .
CHAPTER XIV TOPSY One morning , while Miss Ophelia be busy , a usual , she hear Mr. St. Clare call her from the foot of the stair .
` Come down here , cousin .
I have something to show you . '
` What be it ? '
say Miss Ophelia , come down with her sewing in her hand . '
I have buy something for you .
See here , ' he say , pull forward a little negro girl of about eight or nine year old .
She be quite black .
Her round , shin eye glitter like glass bead .
Her wooly hair be plait into little tail which stick out in all direction .
Her clothes be dirty and rag .
Miss Ophelia think she have never see such a dreadful little girl in all her life .
` Cousin , what in the world have you bring that thing here for ? '
she ask , in dismay .
` For you to teach , to be sure , and train in the way she should go , ' say Mr. St. Clare , laugh .
` Topsy , ' he go on , ` this be your new mistress .
See , now , that you behave yourself . '
` Yes , ma ` r , ' say Topsy gravely , but her eye have a wicked twinkle in them .
` You 're go to be good , Topsy , you understand ? '
say Mr. St. Clare .
` Oh yes , mas ` r ' say Topsy again , meekly fold her hand , but with another twinkle in her eye .
` Now cousin , what be this for ?
Your house be full of these little plague a it be .
I get up in the morning and find one asleep behind the door ; see one black head poke out from under the table ; another lie on the mat .
They tumble over the kitchen floor , so that a body ca n't put their foot down without tread on them .
What on earth do you want to bring this one for ? '
` For you to teach , do n't I tell you ? ' '
I do n't want her , I 'm sure .
I have more to do with them now than I want . '
` Well the fact be , cousin , ' say Mr. St. Clare , draw her aside , ` she belong to some people who be dreadfully cruel and beat her .
I could n't bear to hear her scream every day , so I buy her .
I will give her to you .
Do try and make something of her . '
` Well , I 'll do what I can , ' say Miss Ophelia .
` She be fearfully dirty , and half naked . '
` Well , take her downstairs , and tell somebody to clean her up , and give her some decent clothes . '
Getting Topsy clean be a very long business .
But at last it be do .
Then , sit down before her , Miss Ophelia begin to question her .
` How old be you , Topsy ? '
` Dunno , missis , ' say she , grin like an ugly little black doll .
` Do n't know how old you be !
Did nobody ever tell you ?
Who be your mother ? '
` Never have none , ' say Topsy , with another grin .
` Never have any mother !
What do you mean ?
Where be you bear ? '
` Never be bear . '
` You must n't answer me like that , child , ' say Miss Ophelia sternly . '
I be not play with you .
Tell me where you be bear , and who your father and mother be . '
` Never be bear , ' say Topsy again very decidedly .
` Never have no father , nor mother , nor nothin ! '
Miss Ophelia hardly know what to make of her .
` How long have you live with your master and mistress , then ? '
she ask .
` Dunno , missis . '
` Is it a year , or more , or less ? '
` Dunno , missis . '
` Have you ever hear anything about God , Topsy ? '
ask Miss Ophelia next .
Topsy look puzzled , but keep on grinning .
` Do you know who make you ? '
` Nobody a I know on , ' reply Topsy , with a laugh .
` Spect I grow 'd .
Do n't think nobody ever make me . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Do you know how to sew ? '
ask Miss Ophelia , quite shock .
` No , missis . '
` What can you do ?
What do you do for your master and mistress ? '
` Fetch water , and wash dish , and clean knife , and wait on folk . '
` Well , now , Topsy , I 'm go to show you just how my bed be to be make .
I be very particular about my bed .
You must learn exactly how to do it . '
` Yes , missis , ' say Topsy , with a deep sigh and a face of woeful earnestness .
` Now , Topsy , look here .
This be the hem of the sheet .
This be the right side of the sheet .
This be the wrong .
Will you remember ? '
` Yes , missis , ' say Topsy with another sigh .
` Well , now , the under-sheet you must bring over the bolster -- so , and tuck it right down under the mattress nice and smooth -- so .
Do you see ? '
` Yes , missis . '
` But the upper sheet , ' say Miss Ophelia , ` must be bring down in this way , and tuck under , firm and smooth , at the foot -- so , the narrow hem at the foot . '
` Yes , missis , ' say Topsy a before .
But while Miss Ophelia be bend over the bed she have quickly seize a pair of glove and a ribbon , which be lie on the dressing-table , and slip them up her sleeve .
When Miss Ophelia look up again , the naughty little girl be stand with meekly-folded hand a before .
` Now , Topsy , let me see you do this , ' say Miss Ophelia , pull the clothes off again and seat herself .
Topsy , look very earnest , do it all just a she have be show .
She do it so quickly and well that Miss Ophelia be very pleased .
But , ala !
a she be finish , an end of ribbon come dangle out of her sleeve .
` What be this ? '
say Miss Ophelia , seize it .
` You naughty , wicked child -- you have be steal this . '
The ribbon be pull out of Topsy 's own sleeve .
Yet she do not seem a bit ashamed .
She only look at it with an air of surprise and innocence .
` Why , that 's Miss Feely 's ribbon , a n't it ?
How could it a get into my sleeve ? '
` Topsy , you naughty girl , do n't tell me a lie .
You steal that ribbon , ' ` Missis , I declare I do n't .
Never seed it till dis bless minnit . '
` Topsy , ' say Miss Ophelia , ` do n't you know it be wicked to tell lie ? ' '
I never tell no lie , Miss Feely , ' say Topsy .
` It 's jist the truth I 've be , tellin ' now .
It a n't nothin ' else . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Topsy , I shall have to whip you , if you tell lie so . '
` Laws , missis , if you whip 's all day , could n't say no other way , ' say Topsy , begin to cry . '
I never seed dat ribbon .
It must a caught in my sleeve .
Miss Feely must ' a left it on the bed , and it get catch in the clothes , and so get in my sleeve . '
Miss Ophelia be so angry at such a barefaced lie that she catch Topsy and shake her .
` Do n't tell me that again , ' she say .
The shake bring the glove on the floor from the other sleeve .
` There , ' say Miss Ophelia , ` will you tell me now you do n't steal the ribbon ? '
Topsy now confess to steal the glove .
But she , still say she have not take the ribbon .
` Now , Topsy ' , say Miss Ophelia kindly , ` if you will confess all about it I wo n't whip you this time . '
So Topsy confess to have steal both the ribbon and the glove .
She say she be very , very sorry , and would never do it again .
` Well , now , tell me , ' say Miss Ophelia , ` have you take anything else since you have be in the house ?
If you confess I wo n't whip you . '
` Laws , missis , I take Miss Eva 's red thing she wear on her neck . '
` You do , you naughty child !
Well , what else ? ' '
I take Rosa 's ear-rings -- them red one . '
` Go and bring them to me this minute -- both of them . '
` Laws , missis , I ca n't -- they 's burn up . '
` Burnt up ?
What a story !
Go and get them , or I shall whip you . '
Topsy begin to cry and groan , and declare that she could not .
` They 's burn up , they be . '
` What do you burn them up for ? '
ask Miss Ophelia .
'Cause I 's wicked , I be .
I 's mighty wicked , anyhow .
I ca n't help it . '
Just at this minute Eva come into the room wear her coral necklace .
` Why , Eva , where do you get your necklace ? '
say Miss Ophelia .
` Get it ?
Why , I have have it on all day , ' answer Eva , rather surprise .
` And what be funny , aunty , I have it on all night too .
I forget to take it off when I go to bed . '
Miss Ophelia look perfectly astonish .
She be more astonished still when , next minute , Rosa , who be one of the housemaid , come in with a basket of clean clothes , wear her coral ear-rings a usual .
I 'm sure I do n't know what to do with such a child , ' she say , in despair .
` What in the world make you tell me you take those thing , Topsy ? '
` Why , missis say I must ` fes .
I could n't think of nothing else to ` fess , ' say Topsy , wipe her eye .
` But of course , I do n't want you to confess thing you do n't do , ' say Miss Ophelia .
` That be tell a lie just as much a the other . '
` Laws , now , be it ? '
say Topsy , look surprised and innocent .
` Poor Topsy , ' say Eva , ` why need you steal ?
You be go to be take good care of now .
I be sure I would rather give you anything of mine than have you steal it . '
Topsy have never be speak to so kindly and gently in all her life .
For a minute she look a if she be go to cry .
The next she be grin as usual in her ugly way .
What be to be do with Topsy ?
Miss Ophelia be quite puzzle .
She shut her up in a dark room till she could think about it . '
I do n't see , ' she say to Mr. St. Clare , ` how I be go to manage that child without whip her . '
` Well , whip her , then . ' '
I never heard of bring up child without it , ' say Miss Ophelia .
` Oh , well , do a you think best .
Only , I have see this child beat with a poker , knock down with the shovel or tongs , or anything that come handy .
So I do n't think your beating will have much effect . '
` What be to be do with her , then ? '
say Miss Ophelia . '
I never saw such a child a this . '
But Mr. St. Clare could not answer her question .
So Miss Ophelia have to go on , a best she could , try to make Topsy a good girl .
She teach her to read and to sew .
Topsy like reading , and learn her letter like magic .
But she could not bear sewing .
So she break her needle or throw them away .
She tangle , break , and dirty her cotton and hide her reel .
Miss Ophelia felt sure all these thing could not be accident .
Yet she could never catch Topsy do them .
In a very few day Topsy have learn how to do Miss Ophelia 's room perfectly , for she be very quick and clever .
But if Miss Ophelia ever leave her to do it by herself there be sure to be dreadful confusion .
Instead of make the bed , she would amuse herself with pull off the pillow-cases .
Then she would butt her woolly head among the pillow , until it be cover with feather stick out in all direction .
She would climb the bedpost , and hang head downwards from the top ; wave the sheet and cover all over the room ; dress the bolster up in Miss Ophelia 's nightgown and act scene with it , sing , whistle , and make face at herself in the looking-glass all the time .
` Topsy , ' Miss Ophelia would say , when her patience be at an end , ` what make you behave so badly ? '
` Dunno , missis -- I ` spects ' cause I 's so wicked . ' '
I do n't know what I shall do with you , Topsy . '
` Laws , missis , you must whip me .
My old missis always do .
I a n't use to workin ' unless I get whip . '
So Miss Ophelia try it .
Topsy would scream and groan and implore .
But half an hour later she would be sit among the other little nigger belong to the house , laugh about it .
` Miss Feely whip ! '
she would say , ` she ca n't do it nohow . '
` Law , you nigger , ' she would go on , ` do you know you 's all sinner ?
Well , you be ; everybody be .
White folk be sinner too -- Miss Feely say so .
But I ` spects nigger be the big one .
But ye a n't any of ye up to me .
I 's so awful wicked , there ca n't nobody do nothin ' with me .
I ` spects I 's the wicked crittur in the world . '
Then she would turn a somersault , and come up bright and smiling , evidently quite pleased with herself .
CHAPTER XV EVA AND TOPSY Two or three year pass .
Uncle Tom be still with Mr. St. Clare , far away from his home .
He be not really unhappy .
But always in his heart be the ache longing to see his dear one again .
Now he begin to have a new sorrow .
He love his little mistress Eva very tenderly , and she be ill .
He saw that she be grow white and thin .
She no longer run and play in the garden for hour together a she use to do .
She be always tire now .
Miss Ophelia notice it too , and try to make Mr. St. Clare see it .
But he would not .
He love his little Eva so much , that he do not want to believe that anything could be the matter with her .
Mrs. St. Clare never think that any one , except herself , could be ill .
So Eva grow daily thinner and weaker , and Uncle Tom and Aunt Ophelia more and more sad and anxious .
But at last she become so unwell , that even Mr. St. Clare have to own that something be wrong , and the doctor be send for .
In a week or two she be very much good .
Once more she run about playing and laughing , and her father be delight .
Only Miss Ophelia and the doctor sigh and shake their head .
And little Eva herself know ; but she be not troubled .
She know she be go to God .
` Papa ' she say one day , ` there be some thing I want to say to you .
I want to say them now while I be able . '
She seat herself on his knee , and lay her head on his shoulder .
` It be all no use , papa , to keep it to myself any long .
The time be come when I be go to leave you .
I be go , never to come back ' , and Eva sob .
` Eva , darling , do n't say such thing ; you be well you know . '
` No , papa , I be not any good .
I know it quite well , and I be go soon . '
` And I want to go , ' she go on , ` only I do n't want to leave you -- it almost break my heart . '
` Do n't , Eva , do n't talk so .
What make you so sad ? ' '
I feel sad for our poor people .
I wish , papa , they be all free .
Is n't there any way to have all slave make free ? '
` That be a difficult question , dearest .
There be no doubt that this way be a very bad one .
A great many people think so .
I do myself .
I wish there be not a slave in the land .
But then , I do n't know what be to be do about it . '
` Papa , you be such a good man , and so noble and kind .
Could n't you go all around and try and persuade people to do right about this ?
When I be dead , papa , then you will think of me , and do it for my sake . '
` When you be dead , Eva !
Oh , child , do n't talk to me so . '
` Promise me at least , father , that Tom shall have his freedom , as soon a I be go . '
` Yes , dear , I will do anything you wish .
Only do n't talk so . '
Miss Ophelia and Eva have be to church together .
Miss Ophelia have go to her room to take off her bonnet , while Eva talk to her father .
Suddenly Mr. St. Clare and his little girl heard a great noise come from Miss Ophelia 's room .
A minute later she appear , drag Topsy behind her .
` Come out here ' she be say . '
I will tell your master . '
` What be the matter now ? '
ask Mr. St. Clare .
` The matter be that I can not be plague with this child any long ' say Miss Ophelia .
` It be past all bearing .
Here , I lock her up , and give her a hymn to learn .
What do she do , but spy out where I put my key .
She have go to my wardrobe , take a bonnet-trimming , and cut it all to piece to make doll ' jacket !
I never saw anything like it in my life . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ' I do n't know what to do ' she go on ; ' I have teach and teach .
I have talk till I 'm tired .
I 've whip her .
I 've punish her in every way I can think of , and still she be as naughty a she be at first . '
` Come here , Topsy , you monkey , ' say Mr. St. Clare .
Topsy come , her hard , round eye glitter and blinking , half in fear , half in mischief .
` What make you behave so ? '
say Mr. St. Clare , who could not help be amuse at her funny expression .
` Spects it 's my wicked heart ; Miss Feely say so . '
` Do n't you see how much Miss Ophelia have do for you ?
She say she have do everything she can think of . '
` Lor ' , yes , mas ` r !
Old missis use to say so , too .
She whip me a heap harder , and use to pull my hair and knock my head agin the door .
But it do n't do me no good .
I ` spect if they be to pull every hair out o ' my head it would n't do no good neither .
I 's so wicked .
Laws !
I 's nothin ' but a nigger noways . ' '
I shall have to give her up , ' say Miss Ophelia . '
I ca n't have that trouble any longer . '
Eva have stand silent , listen .
Now she take Topsy by the hand , and lead her into a little room close by .
` What make you so naughty , Topsy ? '
she say , with tear in her eye .
` Why do n't you try to be good ?
Do n't you love anybody , Topsy ? '
` Dunno nothin ' ` bout love .
I love candy , that 's all . '
` But you love your father and mother ? '
` Never have none , ye know .
I tell ye that , Miss Eva . '
` Oh , I forget , ' say Eva sadly .
` But have n't you any brother , or sister or aunt , or -- ' ` No , none on 'em .
Never have nothin ' nor nobody . '
` But , Topsy , if you would only try to be good you might -- ' ` Could n't never be nothin ' but a nigger , if I be ever so good , ' say Topsy .
` If I could be skin , and come white , I 'd try then . '
` But people can love you , if you be black , Topsy .
Miss Ophelia would love you if you be good . '
Topsy laugh scornfully .
` Do n't you think so ? '
say Eva .
` No .
She ca n't bear me , 'cause I 'm a nigger .
She 'd as soon have a toad touch her .
There ca n't nobody love nigger , and nigger ca n't do nothin ' .
I do n't care , ' and Topsy begin whistle to show that she do n't .
` Oh , Topsy !
I love you , ' say Eva , lay her little , thin hand on Topsy 's shoulder . '
I love you , because you have n't have any mother , or father , or friend ; because you have be a poor , ill-used child .
I love you , and I want you to be good .
It make me sorry to have you so naughty .
I wish you would try to be good for my sake , because I 'm go to die soon .
I sha n't be here very long . '
Topsy 's round , bright eye grow suddenly dim with tear .
She do believe at last that it be possible for some one to love her .
She lay her head down between her knee and wept and sobbed .
` Poor Topsy , ' say Eva gently .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Oh , Miss Eva , dear Miss Eva , ' cry the poor little black child , ' I will try , I will try .
I never do care nothin ' about it before . '
CHAPTER XVI EVA 'S LAST GOOD-BYE It soon become quite plain to everybody that Eva be very ill indeed .
She never run about and play now , but spend most of the day lie on the sofa in her own pretty room .
Every one love her , and try to do thing for her .
Even naughty little Topsy use to bring her flower , and try to be good for her sake .
Uncle Tom be a great deal in Eva 's room .
She use to get very restless , and then she like to be carry about .
He be so big and strong that he could do it very easily .
He would walk about with her under the orange-trees in the garden , or sit down on some of their old seat , would sing their favorite hymn .
He love to do it , and could not bear to be long away from his little mistress .
He give up sleeping in his bed , and lay all night on the mat outside her door .
One day Eva make her aunt cut off a lot of her beautiful hair .
Then she call all the slave together , say good-bye to them , and give them each a curl of her hair a a keepsake .
They all cry very much , and say they would never forget her , and would try to be good for her sake .
A few night later Miss Ophelia come quickly to Tom , a he lay on the mat outside Eva 's door .
` Go , Tom , ' she say , ` go as fast a you can for the doctor . '
Tom run .
But in the morning little Eva lay on her bed , cold and white , with closed eye and fold hand .
She have go to God .
Mr. St. Clare be very , very unhappy for a long time after Eva die .
He have love her so much , that now his life seem quite empty without her .
He do not forget his promise to her about Tom .
He go to his lawyer , and tell him to begin write out the paper that would make Tom free .
It take some time to make a slave free .
` Well , Tom , ' say Mr. St. Clare the day after he have speak to his Lawyer , ` I 'm go to make a free man of you .
So have your trunk pack and get ready to set out for home . '
Joy shone in Uncle Tom 's face .
` Bless the Lord , ' he say , raise his hand to heaven .
Mr. St. Clare felt rather hurt .
He do not like Tom to be so glad to leave him .
` You have n't have such a very bad time here that you need be in such rapture , Tom , ' he say .
` No , no , mas ` r !
ta n't that .
It 's bein ' a free man !
That 's what I 'm joyin ' for . '
` Why , Tom , do n't you think that you be really good off a you be ? '
` No , indeed , Mas ' r St. Clare , ' say Tom , very decidedly ; ` no , indeed . '
` But , Tom , you could n't possibly have earn by your work such clothes and such nice , comfortable room and good food a I have give you . ' '
I know all that , Mas ' r St. Clare .
Mas ' r have be too good .
But , ma ` r , I 'd rather have poor clothes , poor house , poor everything , and have 'em mine than have the best , and have 'em any man 's else .
I have so , ma ` r. I think it 's nature , ma ` r. ' ' I suppose so , Tom .
You will be go off and leave me , in a month or two , ' he say , rather discontentedly .
` Though why you should n't , I do n't know , ' he add , in a gay voice .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Not while ma ' r be in trouble , ' say Tom .
` I 'll stay with ma ' r as long a he want me -- so a I can be of any use . '
` Not while I be in trouble , Tom ? '
say Mr. St. Clare , look sadly out of the window .
` And when will my trouble be over ? '
Then half-smiling he turn from the window , and lay his hand on Tom 's shoulder .
` Ah , Tom , you soft , silly boy , ' he say . '
I wo n't keep you .
Go home to your wife and child , and give them all my love . '
` Cousin , ' say Miss Ophelia , come into the room , ' I want to speak to you about Topsy . '
` What have she be do now ? '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Nothing ; she be a much good girl than she use to be .
But I want to ask you , whose be she -- yours or mine ? '
` Why yours , of course ; I give her to you , ' say Mr. St. Clare .
` But not by law .
There be no use my try to make this child a Christian , unless I can be quite sure that she will not be sell a a slave again .
If you be really willing I should have her , I want you to give me a paper say she be mine . '
` But you think it be wicked to keep slave .
Now you want to have one of your own .
Oh !
shocking , cousin , ' say Mr. St. Clare , who love to tease .
` Nonsense !
I only want to have her , so that I can set her free . '
` Very well , ' say Mr. St. Clare , ' I will write the paper for you . '
Then he sit down and begin to read .
` But I want it do now , ' say Miss Ophelia .
` Why be you in such a hurry ? '
` Because now be the only time there ever be to do a thing in , ' say Miss Ophelia .
` want to make sure of it .
You may die or lose all your money .
Then Topsy would be take away and sell , in spite of anything I could say . '
Mr. St. Clare hat be make to do thing when he do n't want to .
However , after tease his cousin a little more , he write out the paper , and Topsy belong to Miss Ophelia .
That even Mr. St. Clare go out for a ride .
Tom saw him go , and ask if he should come too .
` No , my boy , ' say Mr. St. Clare , ' I shall be back in an hour . '
Tom sit down on the verandah to wait till his master come home .
While he wait , he fell asleep .
Presently he be awaken by loud knocking , and the sound of voice at the gate .
He run to open it .
Several men be there carry a load .
It be Mr. St. Clare .
He have be hurt in an accident , and be die .
Very gently they lay him on a sofa .
Nothing could be do .
In a short time he have go to join his little Eva .
CHAPTER XVII UNCLE TOM 'S NEW MASTER There have be great grief in the house when Eva die .
Now there be not only sorrow , but gloom and fear .
The kind master be dead , and the poor slave ask themselves in despair what would happen to them now .
They be not long left in doubt .
One morning Mrs. St. Clare tell them that they be all to be sell .
She be go back to her father 's house to live , and would not want them any more .
Poor Uncle Tom !
The news be a dreadful blow to him .
For a few day he have be so happy in the thought of go home .
Once more , after all these year , he think he would see his dear wife and little child .
Now , at one stroke , he have lose both his kind master and his hope of freedom .
Instead of go home , he be to be send far away than ever from his dear one .
He could not bear it .
He try to say , `` Thy will be do '' , but bitter tear almost choke the word .
He have one hope leave .
He would ask Miss Ophelia to speak to Mrs. St. Clare for him .
` Mas ' r St. Clare promise me my freedom , Miss Feely , ' he say .
` He tell me that he have begin to take it out for me .
And now , perhaps , if you would be good enough to speak about it to missis , she would feel like go on with it .
Seeing it be Mas ' r St. Clare 's wish , she might . '
` I 'll speak for you , Tom , and do my best , ' say Miss Ophelia . '
I have n't much hope , but I will try . '
So Miss Ophelia ask Mrs. St. Clare to set Tom free .
` Indeed , I shall do no such thing , ' she reply .
` Tom be worth more than any of the other slave .
I could n't afford to lose so much money .
Besides , what do he want with his freedom ?
He be a great deal good off a he be . '
` But he do want it very much , ' reply Miss Ophelia .
` And his master promise it to him . ' '
I dare say he do want it , ' reply Mrs. St. Clare .
` They all want it .
Just because they be a discontented set , always want what they have n't get . '
` But Tom be so good and gentle , and such a splendid worker .
If you sell him there be the chance of his get a bad master . '
` Oh , I have no fear about that .
Most master be good , in spite of all the talk people make about it , ' reply Mrs. St. Clare .
` Well ' , say Miss Ophelia at last , ' I know it be one of the last wish of your husband that Tom should have his freedom .
He promise dear little Eva that he should have it .
I think you ought to do it . '
Then Mrs. St. Clare begin to cry , and say every one be unkind to her , and Miss Ophelia saw it be no use say anything more .
There be only one other thing she could do .
She write to Mrs. Shelby , tell her that poor Uncle Tom be go to be sell again .
She ask her to send money to buy him back , as soon a possible .
The next day , Uncle Tom and the other slave belong to Mr. St. Clare be send to market to be sell .
As Uncle Tom stand in the market-place , wait for some one to buy him , he look anxiously round .
In the crowd of face , he be try to find one kind , handsome one , like Mr. St. Clare 's .
But there be none .
Presently a short , broad man , with a coarse , ugly face and dirty hand , come up to Tom .
He look him all over , pull his mouth open and look at his teeth , pinch his arm , make him walk and jump , and indeed treat him a he would a horse or cow he have wish to buy .
Tom know from the way this man look and speak , that he must be bad and cruel .
He pray in his heart that this might not be his new master .
But it be .
His name be Legree .
He buy Uncle Tom , several other men slave , and two woman .
One of the woman be a pretty young girl , who have never be away from her mother before , and who be very much afraid of her new master .
The other be an old woman .
The two woman be chain together .
The men , Uncle Tom among them , have heavy chain put on both hand and foot .
Then Legree drive them all on to a boat which be go up the river to his plantation .
It be a sad journey .
This time there be no pretty Eva , nor kind-hearted Mr. St. Clare , to bring any happiness to the poor slave .
One of the first thing Legree do be to take away all Tom 's nice clothes which Mr. St. Clare have give him .
He make him put on his old clothes , then he sell all the others to the sailor .
Legree make his slave unhappy in every way he could think of .
Then he would come up to them and say , ` Come , come , I do n't allow any sulky look .
Be cheerful , now , or -- ' and he would crack his whip in a way to make them tremble .
At last the weary journey be over .
Legree and his slave land .
His house be a long way from the river .
The men slave walk , while Legree and the two woman drive in a cart .
Mile after mile they trudge along , over the rough road through wild and dreary country , till , hungry , thirsty , and tire , they arrive at the farm , or plantation a it be call .
Legree be not a gentleman like Mr. Shelby or Mr. St. Clare .
He be a very rough kind of farmer .
On his farm he grow cotton .
The cotton have to be gather and tie into bundle .
Then he sell it to people who make it into calico , muslin , and other thing , which we need to use and wear .
Gathering cotton be very hard work .
The house Legree live in have once be a very fine one , and have belong to a rich gentleman .
Now , it be old , neglect , and almost in ruin .
The house be bad enough , but the cabin where the slave live be far bad .
They be roughly build of wood .
The wind and the rain come through the chink between the plank .
There be no window .
The floor be nothing but the bare earth .
There be no furniture of any kind in them , only heap of dirty straw to sleep upon .
Uncle Tom felt more unhappy than ever .
He have hop at least to have a little room which he could keep clean and tidy .
But this hole he do not even have to himself .
He have to share it with five or six others .
Now begin the sad time of Uncle Tom 's life .
Every morning very early the slave be drive out into the field like cattle .
All day long they work hard .
The burning sun blaze down upon them , make them hot and tired .
Legree and his two chief slave , call Quimbo and Sambo , march about all the time with whip in their hand .
At night they drive the slave back again to their miserable hut .
But before they could rest , they have to grind and cook the corn for their supper .
When at last they do go to sleep , they have to lie on the heap of dirty straw instead of in comfortable bed .
CHAPTER XVIII GEORGE AND ELIZA FIND FREEDOM Tom Loker lay toss and tumble in his clean , comfortable bed at the Quaker farmhouse .
A pretty , old Quaker lady , with white hair and a kind face , be nurse him .
Tom Loker do not like be ill and have to lie in bed .
He throw the clothes about , grumble and use naughty word all the tune . '
I must ask thee , Thomas Loker , not to use such language , ' say the nice lady , a she smooth his sheet , and make his bed comfortable again for him .
` Well , I wo n't , granny , if I can help it , ' he reply ; ` but it be enough to make a fellow swear , it be so awfully hot . '
He give another great lunge , and make the sheet and blanket all untidy again . '
I suppose that fellow George and the girl Eliza be here , ' he say , in a sulky voice , after a few minute ' silence .
` Yes , they be , ' say the old lady .
` They have well get away across the lake , ' say Tom Loker , ` the quicker the good . '
` Very likely they will do so , ' say the old lady , calmly go on with her knitting .
` But , listen , ' say Tom Loker , get excite , ` there be people who be watch the boat for u .
I do n't care if I tell now .
I hope they will get away , just to spite the others for go and leave me a they do -- the mean puppy , the -- ' ` Thomas Loker ! '
say the old lady . '
I tell you , granny , if you bottle a fellow up too tight he 'll split , ' say Tom Loker .
` But about Eliza -- tell them to dress her up some way so a to alter her .
We have send a description of what she look like to the town where the boat start from .
She will be catch yet if she do n't dress up differently . ' '
I thank thee , Thomas Loker , ' reply the old lady with her usual calmness .
` We will attend to that .
Thank thee . '
Then she go to tell George and Eliza what Tom Loker have say .
They be indeed very grateful to him , and very glad that they have not leave him , a his own friend have do , to die by the roadside .
So next day Eliza cut off all her beautiful black hair , and dress herself like a boy .
` Do n't I make a pretty young fellow ? '
she say to George , laugh and blush at the same time .
` You always will be pretty , ' say George gravely , ` do what you will . '
` What make you so sober ? '
ask Eliza , kneel on one knee , and lay her hand on his .
` We be within twenty-four hour of Canada , they say .
Only a day and a night on the lake , and then -- oh , then ! ' '
O Eliza , ' say George , hold her fast , ` that be just it .
To be so near liberty , to be almost in sight of it -- and then if we lose it .
O Eliza , I should die . '
` Do n't fear , ' say Eliza hopefully .
` The good Lord would not have bring u so far if He do n't mean to save u .
I seem to feel him with u , George . '
So George kiss his wife and take heart again .
Then the kind old lady bring Harry in dress a a little girl .
And a very pretty girl he make too .
They call him ` Harriet , ' a it be so like Harry it be easy to remember .
Harry do not know his mamma , dress a she be , and clung to the kind lady , feel rather afraid of the strange young man .
That be just as well , a he be too young to understand what this dressing-up and pretending meant , and he might have spoil it all by call the nice-looking young man ` Mamma . '
So the kind lady be go with them , pretend to be the little girl 's aunt .
When everything be ready they get into a cab , and drive to the wharf .
The two young men , a they seem to be , get out , Eliza help the kind lady and little girl , while George saw to the luggage .
As he be stand at the office , take the ticket , George overheard two men talk by his side .
` I 've watch every one that come on board , ' say one , ` and I know they be not on this boat . '
` You would scarcely know the woman from a white one , ' say the other .
` The man be very fair too .
He have an H burn into the palm of his hand . '
The hand with which George be take the ticket and change tremble a little , but he turn calmly round , look straight at the speaker , and then walk slowly away to where Eliza be wait for him .
It be a terribly anxious time , but at last the bell rang , the boat begin to move , and George and Eliza draw long sigh of relief a they saw the shore get far and far away .
It be a lovely day .
The blue wave of Lake Erie dance , ripple and sparkle , in the sunlight .
Hour after hour the boat steam on .
Night come ; and in the morning , clear and beautiful before them , rise the shore of Canada .
George and his wife stand arm in arm a the boat come near the little town , where they be go to land .
His breath come thick and short ; a mist gather before his eye ; he silently press the little hand that lay tremble on his arm .
The bell rang -- the boat stop .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Scarcely see what he do , George look out his luggage , and gather his little party .
They be land on the shore , and stand still till the boat have start again .
Then with tear of joy , the husband and wife , with their wondering little boy in their arm , kneel down and lift up their heart to God .
They be free .
CHAPTER XIX UNCLE TOM FINDS FREEDOM The letter which Miss Ophelia write to Mrs. Shelby , tell her that Tom be to be sell again , be delay a long time in the post .
When at last it do arrive , Mr. Shelby be very ill , and though Mrs. Shelby felt dreadfully sorry about Uncle Tom , she could do nothing , a her husband be so ill .
Soon Mr. Shelby die .
Mrs. Shelby be very sad , but in her sorrow she do not forget her promise to Aunt Chloe and Uncle Tom .
As soon a she could , she sell some land , and George Shelby , take the money with him , go off to try to find Uncle Tom and buy him back again .
But by the time George Shelby , come to the place where Mr. St. Clare use to live , Uncle Tom have be sell to Legree , and no one know where he have go .
At last , after search about for month , George Shelby find out where Uncle Tom be , and follow him .
Two day after Legree have be so cruel , George Shelby drive up the avenue and stop at the door of the old house . '
I hear , ' he say to Legree , ` that you buy a slave name Tom .
He use to belong to my father .
I have come to buy him back again . '
Legree 's face grow black with anger .
` Yes , I do buy such a fellow , ' he growl in rage .
` And a bad bargain it be , too !
The most rebellious , saucy , impudent dog !
Set up my nigger to run away .
He own to it , and , when I bid him tell me where they be , he say he know , but would n't tell .
He stick to it , too , though I give him the very bad beating I ever give a nigger yet .
I believe he be try to die .
I should n't wonder if he do . '
` Where be he ? '
say George .
` Let me see him . '
His cheek be crimson , and his eye flash fire at the thought that Legree have dare to treat dear Uncle Tom so badly .
` He be in that shed , ' say a little fellow who be hold George Shelby 's horse .
George , without say another word , hurry to the place to which the little boy point .
As he enter the shed , his head felt giddy and his heart sick .
Uncle Tom lay on a heap of straw on the floor , still and quiet .
` Oh , dear Uncle Tom , ' cried George a he kneel beside him , ` dear Uncle Tom , do wake -- do speak once more .
Here 's Mas ' r George -- your own little Mas ' r George .
Do n't you know me ? '
` Mas ' r George ! '
say Tom , open his eye , and speak in a feeble voice .
` Mas ' r George ?
it be -- it be .
It 's all I want .
They have n't forget me .
It warm my soul ; it do my old heart good .
Now I shall die content . '
` You sha n't die !
you must n't die , nor think of it .
I 've come to buy you and take you home , ' say George , and the tear come into his eye a he bend over poor Uncle Tom .
` Oh , Mas ' r George , ye 're too late .
The Lord have buy me , and be go to take me home . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` Oh , do n't .
It break my heart to think of what you 've suffer -- lie in this old shed , too . '
` You must n't , now , tell Chloe , poor soul , how ye find me , ' say Tom , take George by the hand .
` It would seem so dreadful to her .
Only tell her ye find me go into glory , and that I could n't stay for no one .
And oh , the poor chil ` en , and the baby -- my old heart 's be most broke for them .
Tell them to follow me .
Give my love to mas ` r , and dear , good missis , and everybody in the place .
I love them all . '
He close his eye , and with a smile he fell asleep .
Uncle Tom too be free .
Beyond the gate of Legree 's farm , George have notice a dry , sandy knoll , shade by a few tree .
There he make Uncle Tom 's grave .
No stone mark his last resting-place .
He need none .
God know where he lie .
Kneeling there George bend his head , in shame and sorrow .
` Here me , dear God , ' he say , ` from this day , I will do what one man can to drive out the curse of slavery from this land . '
CHAPTER XX GEORGE SHELBY FREES HIS SLAVES George Shelby write a little note to his mother , tell her that he be come home .
He try to write about Uncle Tom , but he could not ; tear blind him , and sob choke him .
On the day he be expect every one be in a state of bustle and excitement .
Aunt Chloe in a new print dress , and clean white apron walk round the supper-table , make sure that everything be right .
Her black face shone with joy at the thought of see Uncle Tom again .
` I 'm think my old man wo n't know the boy and the baby , ' she say .
Mrs. Shelby sigh .
Ever since the letter have come from George she have have a very sad heart .
She felt sure something must be wrong .
` He wo n't know the baby , my old man wo n't , ' say Chloe again , ` Why , it 's five year since they take him . '
Just then the sound of wheel be hear .
` It 's Mas ' r George , ' cry Aunt Chloe , run to the window in great excitement .
Mrs. Shelby run to the door .
As George meet her he put his arm round her , and kiss her tenderly .
Aunt Chloe stand behind anxiously look out into the darkness .
` Oh , poor Aunt Chloe , ' say George , gently take her hard , black hand between both his own .
` I 'd have give all my fortune to have bring Uncle Tom home with me ; but he have go to a good country . '
Mrs. Shelby cry out a if she have be hurt , but Aunt Chloe do not make a sound .
In silence they go into the supper-room .
-LSB- Illustration : ] ` There , ' say Aunt Chloe , hold out her tremble hand to her mistress , ` it 's just a I know it would be .
He 's be sell and murder on dem old plantation . '
Then she turn and walk proudly out of the room .
Mrs. Shelby follow her softly , take one of her hand , draw her down into a chair , and sit down beside her .
` My poor , good Chloe , ' she say gently .
Chloe lean her head on her mistress 's shoulder , and sob out , ` Oh , missis , ` scuse me , my heart 's broke -- dat 's all . ' '
I know it be , ' say Mrs. Shelby , a her tear fell fast , ` and I can not heal it . '
There be silence for a little a they weep together .
Then George sit down beside Aunt Chloe , and take her hand .
He talk gently to her , tell her of Uncle Tom 's last loving message .
So she be comfort a little .
One morning , about a month after this , George Shelby call all his servant together , tell them he have something to say to them .
They wonder what it could be , and be very much surprise when he appear , carry a bundle of paper in his hand .
They be still more astonished when he give a paper to each one , and tell them all that they be free .
With sob and tear and shout they press round him , thank and bless him .
But some of them come with anxious face , beg him to take their free paper back again , and not to send them away .
` We do n't want to be any free than we be , ' they say .
` We have always have all we want . '
` We do n't want to leave the old place , and young ma ' r and Missis , and the rest . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` My good friend , ' say George , when he could get silence , ` there will be no need for you to leave me .
We want quite a many servant a we do before .
But now you be free men and free woman .
I shall pay you wage for your work , and if I die , or get into debt , you ca n't be take away to be sell .
That be all the difference .
I want you all to stay with me , for I want to teach you how to live a free men and woman ought . '
` One thing more , ' add George , when the cheering and rejoicing have die away a little .
` You all remember our good old Uncle Tom .
You have hear how he die , and how he send his love to you all .
It be on his grave , my friend , that I make up my mind , with God 's help , never to own another slave , if it be possible to free him .
I resolve that nobody , through my fault , should ever run the risk of be part from his dear one , and of die far from them , a he die .
` So , when you rejoice in your freedom , remember that you owe it to dear old Uncle Tom , and pay it back in kindness to his wife and child .
Think of your freedom every time you see Uncle Tom 's Cabin ; and let it help you to try to live a he do , and be a honest and faithful and Christian a he be . '
_BOOK_TITLE_ : James_Matthew_Barrie___Peter_Pan.txt.out
Chapter 1 PETER BREAKS THROUGH All child , except one , grow up .
They soon know that they will grow up , and the way Wendy know be this .
One day when she be two year old she be play in a garden , and she pluck another flower and ran with it to her mother .
I suppose she must have look rather delightful , for Mrs . Darling put her hand to her heart and cry , `` Oh , why ca n't you remain like this for ever ! ''
This be all that pass between them on the subject , but henceforth Wendy know that she must grow up .
You always know after you be two .
Two be the beginning of the end .
Of course they live at 14 -LSB- their house number on their street -RSB- , and until Wendy come her mother be the chief one .
She be a lovely lady , with a romantic mind and such a sweet mocking mouth .
Her romantic mind be like the tiny box , one within the other , that come from the puzzle East , however many you discover there be always one more ; and her sweet mocking mouth have one kiss on it that Wendy could never get , though there it be , perfectly conspicuous in the right-hand corner .
The way Mr . Darling win her be this : the many gentleman who have be boys when she be a girl discover simultaneously that they love her , and they all run to her house to propose to her except Mr . Darling , who take a cab and nip in first , and so he get her .
He get all of her , except the innermost box and the kiss .
He never know about the box , and in time he give up try for the kiss .
Wendy think Napoleon could have get it , but I can picture him try , and then go off in a passion , slam the door .
Mr . Darling use to boast to Wendy that her mother not only love him but respect him .
He be one of those deep one who know about stock and share .
Of course no one really know , but he quite seem to know , and he often say stock be up and share be down in a way that would have make any woman respect him .
Mrs . Darling be marry in white , and at first she keep the book perfectly , almost gleefully , a if it be a game , not so much a a Brussels sprout be miss ; but by and by whole cauliflower drop out , and instead of them there be picture of baby without face .
She draw them when she should have be tot up .
They be Mrs . Darling 's guess .
Wendy come first , then John , then Michael .
For a week or two after Wendy come it be doubtful whether they would be able to keep her , a she be another mouth to fee .
Mr . Darling be frightfully proud of her , but he be very honourable , and he sit on the edge of Mrs . Darling 's bed , hold her hand and calculating expense , while she look at him imploringly .
She want to risk it , come what might , but that be not his way ; his way be with a pencil and a piece of paper , and if she confuse him with suggestion he have to begin at the beginning again .
`` Now do n't interrupt , '' he would beg of her .
`` I have one pound seventeen here , and two and six at the office ; I can cut off my coffee at the office , say ten shilling , make two nine and six , with your eighteen and three make three nine seven , with five naught naught in my cheque-book make eight nine seven -- who be that move ?
-- eight nine seven , dot and carry seven -- do n't speak , my own -- and the pound you lend to that man who come to the door -- quiet , child -- dot and carry child -- there , you 've do it !
-- do I say nine nine seven ?
yes , I say nine nine seven ; the question be , can we try it for a year on nine nine seven ? ''
`` Of course we can , George , '' she cry .
But she be prejudice in Wendy 's favour , and he be really the grander character of the two .
`` Remember mumps , '' he warn her almost threateningly , and off he go again .
`` Mumps one pound , that be what I have put down , but I daresay it will be more like thirty shilling -- do n't speak -- measles one five , German measles half a guinea , make two fifteen six -- do n't waggle your finger -- whooping-cough , say fifteen shilling '' -- and so on it go , and it add up differently each time ; but at last Wendy just get through , with mumps reduce to twelve six , and the two kind of measles treat a one .
There be the same excitement over John , and Michael have even a narrow squeak ; but both be keep , and soon , you might have see the three of them go in a row to Miss Fulsom 's Kindergarten school , accompany by their nurse .
Mrs . Darling love to have everything just so , and Mr . Darling have a passion for be exactly like his neighbour ; so , of course , they have a nurse .
As they be poor , owe to the amount of milk the child drank , this nurse be a prim Newfoundland dog , call Nana , who have belong to no one in particular until the Darlings engage her .
She have always think child important , however , and the Darlings have become acquainted with her in Kensington Gardens , where she spend most of her spare time peep into perambulator , and be much hat by careless nursemaid , whom she follow to their home and complain of to their mistress .
She prove to be quite a treasure of a nurse .
How thorough she be at bath-time , and up at any moment of the night if one of her charge make the slight cry .
Of course her kennel be in the nursery .
She have a genius for know when a cough be a thing to have no patience with and when it need stock around your throat .
She believe to her last day in old-fashioned remedy like rhubarb leaf , and make sound of contempt over all this new-fangled talk about germ , and so on .
It be a lesson in propriety to see her escort the child to school , walk sedately by their side when they be well behave , and butt them back into line if they stray .
On John 's footer -LSB- in England soccer be call football , `` footer '' for short -RSB- day she never once forget his sweater , and she usually carry an umbrella in her mouth in case of rain .
There be a room in the basement of Miss Fulsom 's school where the nurse wait .
They sit on form , while Nana lay on the floor , but that be the only difference .
They affect to ignore her a of an inferior social status to themselves , and she despise their light talk .
She resent visit to the nursery from Mrs . Darling 's friend , but if they do come she first whip off Michael 's pinafore and put him into the one with blue braiding , and smooth out Wendy and make a dash at John 's hair .
No nursery could possibly have be conduct more correctly , and Mr . Darling know it , yet he sometimes wonder uneasily whether the neighbour talk .
He have his position in the city to consider .
Nana also trouble him in another way .
He have sometimes a feeling that she do not admire him .
`` I know she admire you tremendously , George , '' Mrs . Darling would assure him , and then she would sign to the child to be specially nice to father .
Lovely dance follow , in which the only other servant , Liza , be sometimes allow to join .
Such a midget she look in her long skirt and maid 's cap , though she have swear , when engage , that she would never see ten again .
The gaiety of those romp !
And gay of all be Mrs . Darling , who would pirouette so wildly that all you could see of her be the kiss , and then if you have dash at her you might have get it .
There never be a simpler happy family until the come of Peter Pan .
Mrs . Darling first heard of Peter when she be tidy up her child 's mind .
It be the nightly custom of every good mother after her child be asleep to rummage in their mind and put thing straight for next morning , repacking into their proper place the many article that have wander during the day .
If you could keep awake -LRB- but of course you ca n't -RRB- you would see your own mother do this , and you would find it very interesting to watch her .
It be quite like tidy up drawer .
You would see her on her knee , I expect , linger humorously over some of your content , wonder where on earth you have pick this thing up , make discovery sweet and not so sweet , press this to her cheek a if it be as nice a a kitten , and hurriedly stow that out of sight .
When you wake in the morning , the naughtiness and evil passion with which you go to bed have be fold up small and place at the bottom of your mind and on the top , beautifully air , be spread out your prettier thought , ready for you to put on .
I do n't know whether you have ever see a map of a person 's mind .
Doctors sometimes draw map of other part of you , and your own map can become intensely interesting , but catch them try to draw a map of a child 's mind , which be not only confused , but keep go round all the time .
There be zigzag line on it , just like your temperature on a card , and these be probably road in the island , for the Neverland be always more or less an island , with astonishing splash of colour here and there , and coral reef and rakish-looking craft in the offing , and savage and lonely lair , and gnome who be mostly tailor , and cave through which a river run , and prince with six elder brother , and a hut fast go to decay , and one very small old lady with a hooked nose .
It would be an easy map if that be all , but there be also first day at school , religion , father , the round pond , needle-work , murder , hanging , verbs that take the dative , chocolate pudding day , get into brace , say ninety-nine , three-pence for pull out your tooth yourself , and so on , and either these be part of the island or they be another map show through , and it be all rather confusing , especially a nothing will stand still .
Of course the Neverlands vary a good deal .
John 's , for instance , have a lagoon with flamingo fly over it at which John be shoot , while Michael , who be very small , have a flamingo with lagoon fly over it .
John live in a boat turn upside down on the sand , Michael in a wigwam , Wendy in a house of leaf deftly sew together .
John have no friend , Michael have friend at night , Wendy have a pet wolf forsake by it parent , but on the whole the Neverlands have a family resemblance , and if they stand still in a row you could say of them that they have each other 's nose , and so forth .
On these magic shore child at play be for ever beach their coracle -LSB- simple boat -RSB- .
We too have be there ; we can still hear the sound of the surf , though we shall land no more .
Of all delectable islands the Neverland be the snug and most compact , not large and sprawly , you know , with tedious distance between one adventure and another , but nicely cram .
When you play at it by day with the chair and table-cloth , it be not in the least alarming , but in the two minute before you go to sleep it become very real .
That be why there be night-light .
Occasionally in her travel through her child 's mind Mrs . Darling found thing she could not understand , and of these quite the most perplexing be the word Peter .
She know of no Peter , and yet he be here and there in John and Michael 's mind , while Wendy 's begin to be scrawl all over with him .
The name stand out in bolder letter than any of the other word , and a Mrs . Darling gazed she felt that it have an oddly cocky appearance .
`` Yes , he be rather cocky , '' Wendy admit with regret .
Her mother have be question her .
`` But who be he , my pet ? ''
`` He be Peter Pan , you know , mother . ''
At first Mrs . Darling do not know , but after think back into her childhood she just remember a Peter Pan who be say to live with the fairy .
There be odd story about him , a that when child die he go part of the way with them , so that they should not be frighten .
She have believe in him at the time , but now that she be marry and full of sense she quite doubt whether there be any such person .
`` Besides , '' she say to Wendy , `` he would be grow up by this time . ''
`` Oh no , he be n't grow up , '' Wendy assure her confidently , `` and he be just my size . ''
She mean that he be her size in both mind and body ; she do n't know how she know , she just know it .
Mrs . Darling consult Mr . Darling , but he smile pooh-pooh .
`` Mark my word , '' he say , `` it be some nonsense Nana have be put into their head ; just the sort of idea a dog would have .
Leave it alone , and it will blow over . ''
But it would not blow over and soon the troublesome boy give Mrs . Darling quite a shock .
Children have the strange adventure without be trouble by them .
For instance , they may remember to mention , a week after the event happen , that when they be in the wood they have meet their dead father and have a game with him .
It be in this casual way that Wendy one morning make a disquieting revelation .
Some leaf of a tree have be find on the nursery floor , which certainly be not there when the child go to bed , and Mrs . Darling be puzzle over them when Wendy say with a tolerant smile : `` I do believe it be that Peter again ! ''
`` Whatever do you mean , Wendy ? ''
`` It be so naughty of him not to wipe his foot , '' Wendy say , sigh .
She be a tidy child .
She explain in quite a matter-of-fact way that she think Peter sometimes come to the nursery in the night and sit on the foot of her bed and play on his pipe to her .
Unfortunately she never wake , so she do n't know how she know , she just know .
`` What nonsense you talk , precious .
No one can get into the house without knock . ''
`` I think he come in by the window , '' she say .
`` My love , it be three floor up . ''
`` Were not the leaf at the foot of the window , mother ? ''
It be quite true ; the leaf have be find very near the window .
Mrs . Darling do not know what to think , for it all seem so natural to Wendy that you could not dismiss it by say she have be dream .
`` My child , '' the mother cry , `` why do you not tell me of this before ? ''
`` I forget , '' say Wendy lightly .
She be in a hurry to get her breakfast .
Oh , surely she must have be dream .
But , on the other hand , there be the leaf .
Mrs . Darling examine them very carefully ; they be skeleton leaf , but she be sure they do not come from any tree that grow in England .
She crawl about the floor , peer at it with a candle for mark of a strange foot .
She rattle the poker up the chimney and tap the wall .
She let down a tape from the window to the pavement , and it be a sheer drop of thirty foot , without so much a a spout to climb up by .
Certainly Wendy have be dream .
But Wendy have not be dream , a the very next night show , the night on which the extraordinary adventure of these child may be say to have begin .
On the night we speak of all the child be once more in bed .
It happen to be Nana 's evening off , and Mrs . Darling have bath them and sing to them till one by one they have let go her hand and slide away into the land of sleep .
All be look so safe and cosy that she smile at her fear now and sit down tranquilly by the fire to sew .
It be something for Michael , who on his birthday be get into shirt .
The fire be warm , however , and the nursery dimly light by three night-light , and presently the sewing lay on Mrs . Darling 's lap .
Then her head nod , oh , so gracefully .
She be asleep .
Look at the four of them , Wendy and Michael over there , John here , and Mrs . Darling by the fire .
There should have be a fourth night-light .
While she sleep she have a dream .
She dream that the Neverland have come too near and that a strange boy have break through from it .
He do not alarm her , for she think she have see him before in the face of many woman who have no child .
Perhaps he be to be find in the face of some mother also .
But in her dream he have rent the film that obscure the Neverland , and she saw Wendy and John and Michael peep through the gap .
The dream by itself would have be a trifle , but while she be dream the window of the nursery blew open , and a boy do drop on the floor .
He be accompany by a strange light , no big than your fist , which dart about the room like a living thing and I think it must have be this light that waken Mrs . Darling .
She start up with a cry , and saw the boy , and somehow she know at once that he be Peter Pan .
If you or I or Wendy have be there we should have see that he be very like Mrs . Darling 's kiss .
He be a lovely boy , clad in skeleton leaf and the juice that ooze out of tree but the most entrancing thing about him be that he have all his first teeth .
When he saw she be a grown-up , he gnash the little pearl at her .
Chapter 2 THE SHADOW Mrs . Darling scream , and , a if in answer to a bell , the door open , and Nana enter , return from her even out .
She growl and sprang at the boy , who leap lightly through the window .
Again Mrs . Darling scream , this time in distress for him , for she think he be kill , and she run down into the street to look for his little body , but it be not there ; and she look up , and in the black night she could see nothing but what she think be a shooting star .
She return to the nursery , and find Nana with something in her mouth , which prove to be the boy 's shadow .
As he leap at the window Nana have close it quickly , too late to catch him , but his shadow have not have time to get out ; slam go the window and snap it off .
You may be sure Mrs . Darling examine the shadow carefully , but it be quite the ordinary kind .
Nana have no doubt of what be the best thing to do with this shadow .
She hang it out at the window , mean `` He be sure to come back for it ; let u put it where he can get it easily without disturb the child . ''
But unfortunately Mrs . Darling could not leave it hang out at the window , it look so like the washing and lower the whole tone of the house .
She think of show it to Mr . Darling , but he be tot up winter great-coats for John and Michael , with a wet towel around his head to keep his brain clear , and it seem a shame to trouble him ; besides , she know exactly what he would say : `` It all come of have a dog for a nurse . ''
She decide to roll the shadow up and put it away carefully in a drawer , until a fitting opportunity come for tell her husband .
Ah me !
The opportunity come a week later , on that never-to-be-forgotten Friday .
Of course it be a Friday .
`` I ought to have be specially careful on a Friday , '' she use to say afterwards to her husband , while perhaps Nana be on the other side of her , hold her hand .
`` No , no , '' Mr . Darling always say , `` I be responsible for it all .
I , George Darling , do it .
MEA CULPA , MEA CULPA . ''
He have have a classical education .
They sit thus night after night recall that fatal Friday , till every detail of it be stamp on their brain and come through on the other side like the face on a bad coinage .
`` If only I have not accept that invitation to dine at 27 , '' Mrs . Darling say .
`` If only I have not pour my medicine into Nana 's bowl , '' say Mr . Darling .
`` If only I have pretend to like the medicine , '' be what Nana 's wet eye say .
`` My liking for party , George . ''
`` My fatal gift of humour , dearest . ''
`` My touchiness about trifle , dear master and mistress . ''
Then one or more of them would break down altogether ; Nana at the thought , `` It 's true , it 's true , they ought not to have have a dog for a nurse . ''
Many a time it be Mr . Darling who put the handkerchief to Nana 's eye .
`` That fiend ! ''
Mr . Darling would cry , and Nana 's bark be the echo of it , but Mrs . Darling never upbraid Peter ; there be something in the right-hand corner of her mouth that want her not to call Peter name .
They would sit there in the empty nursery , recall fondly every small detail of that dreadful evening .
It have begin so uneventfully , so precisely like a hundred other evening , with Nana put on the water for Michael 's bath and carry him to it on her back .
`` I wo n't go to bed , '' he have shout , like one who still believe that he have the last word on the subject , `` I wo n't , I wo n't .
Nana , it be n't six o'clock yet .
Oh dear , oh dear , I sha n't love you any more , Nana .
I tell you I wo n't be bath , I wo n't , I wo n't ! ''
Then Mrs . Darling have come in , wear her white evening-gown .
She have dress early because Wendy so love to see her in her evening-gown , with the necklace George have give her .
She be wear Wendy 's bracelet on her arm ; she have ask for the loan of it .
Wendy love to lend her bracelet to her mother .
She have find her two old child play at be herself and father on the occasion of Wendy 's birth , and John be say : `` I be happy to inform you , Mrs . Darling , that you be now a mother , '' in just such a tone a Mr . Darling himself may have use on the real occasion .
Wendy have dance with joy , just a the real Mrs . Darling must have do .
Then John be bear , with the extra pomp that he conceive due to the birth of a male , and Michael come from his bath to ask to be bear also , but John say brutally that they do not want any more .
Michael have nearly cry .
`` Nobody want me , '' he say , and of course the lady in the evening-dress could not stand that .
`` I do , '' she say , `` I so want a third child . ''
`` Boy or girl ? ''
ask Michael , not too hopefully .
`` Boy . ''
Then he have leapt into her arm .
Such a little thing for Mr. and Mrs . Darling and Nana to recall now , but not so little if that be to be Michael 's last night in the nursery .
They go on with their recollection .
`` It be then that I rush in like a tornado , be n't it ? ''
Mr . Darling would say , scorn himself ; and indeed he have be like a tornado .
Perhaps there be some excuse for him .
He , too , have be dress for the party , and all have go well with him until he come to his tie .
It be an astound thing to have to tell , but this man , though he know about stock and share , have no real mastery of his tie .
Sometimes the thing yield to him without a contest , but there be occasion when it would have be good for the house if he have swallow his pride and use a made-up tie .
This be such an occasion .
He come rush into the nursery with the crumpled little brute of a tie in his hand .
`` Why , what be the matter , father dear ? ''
`` Matter ! ''
he yell ; he really yell .
`` This tie , it will not tie . ''
He become dangerously sarcastic .
`` Not round my neck !
Round the bed-post !
Oh yes , twenty time have I make it up round the bed-post , but round my neck , no !
Oh dear no !
begs to be excuse ! ''
He think Mrs . Darling be not sufficiently impress , and he go on sternly , `` I warn you of this , mother , that unless this tie be round my neck we do n't go out to dinner to-night , and if I do n't go out to dinner to-night , I never go to the office again , and if I do n't go to the office again , you and I starve , and our child will be fling into the street . ''
Even then Mrs . Darling be placid .
`` Let me try , dear , '' she say , and indeed that be what he have come to ask her to do , and with her nice cool hand she tie his tie for him , while the child stand around to see their fate decide .
Some men would have resent her be able to do it so easily , but Mr . Darling have far too fine a nature for that ; he thank her carelessly , at once forget his rage , and in another moment be dance round the room with Michael on his back .
`` How wildly we romp ! ''
say Mrs . Darling now , recall it .
`` Our last romp ! ''
Mr . Darling groan .
`` O George , do you remember Michael suddenly say to me , ` How do you get to know me , mother ? ' ''
`` I remember ! ''
`` They be rather sweet , do n't you think , George ? ''
`` And they be ours , ours !
and now they be go . ''
The romp have end with the appearance of Nana , and most unluckily Mr . Darling collide against her , cover his trouser with hair .
They be not only new trouser , but they be the first he have ever have with braid on them , and he have have to bite his lip to prevent the tear come .
Of course Mrs . Darling brush him , but he begin to talk again about it be a mistake to have a dog for a nurse .
`` George , Nana be a treasure . ''
`` No doubt , but I have an uneasy feeling at time that she look upon the child a puppy . ''
`` Oh no , dear one , I feel sure she know they have souls . ''
`` I wonder , '' Mr . Darling say thoughtfully , `` I wonder . ''
It be an opportunity , his wife felt , for tell him about the boy .
At first he pooh-pooh the story , but he become thoughtful when she show him the shadow .
`` It be nobody I know , '' he say , examine it carefully , `` but it do look a scoundrel . ''
`` We be still discuss it , you remember , '' say Mr . Darling , `` when Nana come in with Michael 's medicine .
You will never carry the bottle in your mouth again , Nana , and it be all my fault . ''
Strong man though he be , there be no doubt that he have behave rather foolishly over the medicine .
If he have a weakness , it be for think that all his life he have take medicine boldly , and so now , when Michael dodge the spoon in Nana 's mouth , he have say reprovingly , `` Be a man , Michael . ''
`` Wo n't ; wo n't ! ''
Michael cry naughtily .
Mrs . Darling leave the room to get a chocolate for him , and Mr . Darling think this show want of firmness .
`` Mother , do n't pamper him , '' he call after her .
`` Michael , when I be your age I take medicine without a murmur .
I say , ` Thank you , kind parent , for give me bottle to make me well . ' ''
He really think this be true , and Wendy , who be now in her night-gown , believe it also , and she say , to encourage Michael , `` That medicine you sometimes take , father , be much nasty , be n't it ? ''
`` Ever so much nasty , '' Mr . Darling say bravely , `` and I would take it now a an example to you , Michael , if I have n't lose the bottle . ''
He have not exactly lose it ; he have climb in the dead of night to the top of the wardrobe and hide it there .
What he do not know be that the faithful Liza have find it , and put it back on his wash-stand .
`` I know where it be , father , '' Wendy cry , always glad to be of service .
`` I 'll bring it , '' and she be off before he could stop her .
Immediately his spirit sank in the strange way .
`` John , '' he say , shudder , `` it 's most beastly stuff .
It 's that nasty , sticky , sweet kind . ''
`` It will soon be over , father , '' John say cheerily , and then in rush Wendy with the medicine in a glass .
`` I have be as quick a I could , '' she pant .
`` You have be wonderfully quick , '' her father retort , with a vindictive politeness that be quite thrown away upon her .
`` Michael first , '' he say doggedly .
`` Father first , '' say Michael , who be of a suspicious nature .
`` I shall be sick , you know , '' Mr . Darling say threateningly .
`` Come on , father , '' say John .
`` Hold your tongue , John , '' his father rap out .
Wendy be quite puzzle .
`` I think you take it quite easily , father . ''
`` That be not the point , '' he retort .
`` The point be , that there be more in my glass than in Michael 's spoon . ''
His proud heart be nearly burst .
`` And it be n't fair : I would say it though it be with my last breath ; it be n't fair . ''
`` Father , I be wait , '' say Michael coldly .
`` It 's all very well to say you be wait ; so be I wait . ''
`` Father 's a cowardly custard . ''
`` So be you a cowardly custard . ''
`` I 'm not frighten . ''
`` Neither be I frighten . ''
`` Well , then , take it . ''
`` Well , then , you take it . ''
Wendy have a splendid idea .
`` Why not both take it at the same time ? ''
`` Certainly , '' say Mr . Darling .
`` Are you ready , Michael ? ''
Wendy give the word , one , two , three , and Michael take his medicine , but Mr . Darling slip his behind his back .
There be a yell of rage from Michael , and `` O father ! ''
Wendy exclaim .
`` What do you mean by ' O father ' ? ''
Mr . Darling demand .
`` Stop that row , Michael .
I mean to take mine , but I -- I miss it . ''
It be dreadful the way all the three be look at him , just a if they do not admire him .
`` Look here , all of you , '' he say entreatingly , as soon a Nana have go into the bathroom .
`` I have just think of a splendid joke .
I shall pour my medicine into Nana 's bowl , and she will drink it , think it be milk ! ''
It be the colour of milk ; but the child do not have their father 's sense of humour , and they look at him reproachfully a he pour the medicine into Nana 's bowl .
`` What fun ! ''
he say doubtfully , and they do not dare expose him when Mrs . Darling and Nana return .
`` Nana , good dog , '' he say , pat her , `` I have put a little milk into your bowl , Nana . ''
Nana wag her tail , run to the medicine , and begin lap it .
Then she give Mr . Darling such a look , not an angry look : she show him the great red tear that make u so sorry for noble dog , and crept into her kennel .
Mr . Darling be frightfully ashamed of himself , but he would not give in .
In a horrid silence Mrs . Darling smelt the bowl .
`` O George , '' she say , `` it 's your medicine ! ''
`` It be only a joke , '' he roar , while she comfort her boy , and Wendy hug Nana .
`` Much good , '' he say bitterly , `` my wear myself to the bone try to be funny in this house . ''
And still Wendy hug Nana .
`` That 's right , '' he shout .
`` Coddle her !
Nobody coddle me .
Oh dear no !
I be only the breadwinner , why should I be coddle -- why , why , why ! ''
`` George , '' Mrs . Darling entreat him , `` not so loud ; the servant will hear you . ''
Somehow they have get into the way of call Liza the servant .
`` Let them ! ''
he answer recklessly .
`` Bring in the whole world .
But I refuse to allow that dog to lord it in my nursery for an hour longer . ''
The child wept , and Nana run to him beseechingly , but he wave her back .
He felt he be a strong man again .
`` In vain , in vain , '' he cry ; `` the proper place for you be the yard , and there you go to be tie up this instant . ''
`` George , George , '' Mrs . Darling whisper , `` remember what I tell you about that boy . ''
Alas , he would not listen .
He be determine to show who be master in that house , and when command would not draw Nana from the kennel , he lure her out of it with honeyed word , and seize her roughly , drag her from the nursery .
He be ashamed of himself , and yet he do it .
It be all owe to his too affectionate nature , which crave for admiration .
When he have tie her up in the back-yard , the wretched father go and sit in the passage , with his knuckle to his eye .
In the meantime Mrs . Darling have put the child to bed in unwonted silence and light their night-light .
They could hear Nana barking , and John whimper , `` It be because he be chain her up in the yard , '' but Wendy be wiser .
`` That be not Nana 's unhappy bark , '' she say , little guess what be about to happen ; `` that be her bark when she smell danger . ''
Danger !
`` Are you sure , Wendy ? ''
`` Oh , yes . ''
Mrs . Darling quiver and go to the window .
It be securely fasten .
She look out , and the night be pepper with star .
They be crowd round the house , a if curious to see what be to take place there , but she do not notice this , nor that one or two of the small one wink at her .
Yet a nameless fear clutch at her heart and make her cry , `` Oh , how I wish that I be n't go to a party to-night ! ''
Even Michael , already half asleep , know that she be perturb , and he ask , `` Can anything harm u , mother , after the night-light be light ? ''
`` Nothing , precious , '' she say ; `` they be the eye a mother leave behind her to guard her child . ''
She go from bed to bed sing enchantment over them , and little Michael fling his arm round her .
`` Mother , '' he cry , `` I 'm glad of you . ''
They be the last word she be to hear from him for a long time .
No . 27 be only a few yard distant , but there have be a slight fall of snow , and Father and Mother Darling pick their way over it deftly not to soil their shoe .
They be already the only person in the street , and all the star be watch them .
Stars be beautiful , but they may not take an active part in anything , they must just look on for ever .
It be a punishment put on them for something they do so long ago that no star now know what it be .
So the old one have become glassy-eyed and seldom speak -LRB- winking be the star language -RRB- , but the little one still wonder .
They be not really friendly to Peter , who have a mischievous way of steal up behind them and try to blow them out ; but they be so fond of fun that they be on his side to-night , and anxious to get the grown-ups out of the way .
So as soon a the door of 27 close on Mr. and Mrs . Darling there be a commotion in the firmament , and the small of all the star in the Milky Way scream out : `` Now , Peter ! ''
Chapter 3 COME AWAY , COME AWAY !
For a moment after Mr. and Mrs . Darling leave the house the night-light by the bed of the three child continue to burn clearly .
They be awfully nice little night-light , and one can not help wish that they could have keep awake to see Peter ; but Wendy 's light blink and give such a yawn that the other two yawn also , and before they could close their mouth all the three go out .
There be another light in the room now , a thousand time brighter than the night-light , and in the time we have take to say this , it have be in all the drawer in the nursery , look for Peter 's shadow , rummage the wardrobe and turn every pocket inside out .
It be not really a light ; it make this light by flash about so quickly , but when it come to rest for a second you saw it be a fairy , no long than your hand , but still grow .
It be a girl call Tinker Bell exquisitely gown in a skeleton leaf , cut low and square , through which her figure could be see to the best advantage .
She be slightly incline to EMBONPOINT .
-LSB- plump hourglass figure -RSB- A moment after the fairy 's entrance the window be blow open by the breathing of the little star , and Peter drop in .
He have carry Tinker Bell part of the way , and his hand be still messy with the fairy dust .
`` Tinker Bell , '' he call softly , after make sure that the child be asleep , `` Tink , where be you ? ''
She be in a jug for the moment , and like it extremely ; she have never be in a jug before .
`` Oh , do come out of that jug , and tell me , do you know where they put my shadow ? ''
The lovely tinkle a of golden bell answer him .
It be the fairy language .
You ordinary child can never hear it , but if you be to hear it you would know that you have hear it once before .
Tink say that the shadow be in the big box .
She mean the chest of drawer , and Peter jump at the drawer , scatter their content to the floor with both hand , a king toss ha ` penny to the crowd .
In a moment he have recover his shadow , and in his delight he forget that he have shut Tinker Bell up in the drawer .
If he think at all , but I do n't believe he ever think , it be that he and his shadow , when bring near each other , would join like drop of water , and when they do not he be appal .
He try to stick it on with soap from the bathroom , but that also fail .
A shudder pass through Peter , and he sit on the floor and cry .
His sob wake Wendy , and she sit up in bed .
She be not alarm to see a stranger cry on the nursery floor ; she be only pleasantly interested .
`` Boy , '' she say courteously , `` why be you cry ? ''
Peter could be exceed polite also , have learn the grand manner at fairy ceremony , and he rise and bow to her beautifully .
She be much pleased , and bow beautifully to him from the bed .
`` What 's your name ? ''
he ask .
`` Wendy Moira Angela Darling , '' she reply with some satisfaction .
`` What be your name ? ''
`` Peter Pan . ''
She be already sure that he must be Peter , but it do seem a comparatively short name .
`` Is that all ? ''
`` Yes , '' he say rather sharply .
He felt for the first time that it be a shortish name .
`` I 'm so sorry , '' say Wendy Moira Angela .
`` It do n't matter , '' Peter gulp .
She ask where he live .
`` Second to the right , '' say Peter , `` and then straight on till morning . ''
`` What a funny address ! ''
Peter have a sinking .
For the first time he felt that perhaps it be a funny address .
`` No , it be n't , '' he say .
`` I mean , '' Wendy say nicely , remember that she be hostess , `` be that what they put on the letter ? ''
He wish she have not mention letter .
`` Do n't get any letter , '' he say contemptuously .
`` But your mother get letter ? ''
`` Do n't have a mother , '' he say .
Not only have he no mother , but he have not the slight desire to have one .
He think them very over-rated person .
Wendy , however , felt at once that she be in the presence of a tragedy .
`` O Peter , no wonder you be cry , '' she say , and get out of bed and run to him .
`` I be n't cry about mother , '' he say rather indignantly .
`` I be cry because I ca n't get my shadow to stick on .
Besides , I be n't cry . ''
`` It have come off ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Then Wendy saw the shadow on the floor , look so draggle , and she be frightfully sorry for Peter .
`` How awful ! ''
she say , but she could not help smile when she saw that he have be try to stick it on with soap .
How exactly like a boy !
Fortunately she know at once what to do .
`` It must be sew on , '' she say , just a little patronisingly .
`` What 's sewn ? ''
he ask .
`` You 're dreadfully ignorant . ''
`` No , I 'm not . ''
But she be exult in his ignorance .
`` I shall sew it on for you , my little man , '' she say , though he be tall a herself , and she get out her housewife -LSB- sew bag -RSB- , and sew the shadow on to Peter 's foot .
`` I daresay it will hurt a little , '' she warn him .
`` Oh , I sha n't cry , '' say Peter , who be already of the opinion that he have never cry in his life .
And he clench his teeth and do not cry , and soon his shadow be behave properly , though still a little creased .
`` Perhaps I should have iron it , '' Wendy say thoughtfully , but Peter , boylike , be indifferent to appearance , and he be now jump about in the wild glee .
Alas , he have already forget that he owe his bliss to Wendy .
He think he have attach the shadow himself .
`` How clever I be ! ''
he crow rapturously , `` oh , the cleverness of me ! ''
It be humiliate to have to confess that this conceit of Peter be one of his most fascinating quality .
To put it with brutal frankness , there never be a cocky boy .
But for the moment Wendy be shock .
`` You conceit -LSB- braggart -RSB- , '' she exclaim , with frightful sarcasm ; `` of course I do nothing ! ''
`` You do a little , '' Peter say carelessly , and continue to dance .
`` A little ! ''
she reply with hauteur -LSB- pride -RSB- ; `` if I be no use I can at least withdraw , '' and she spring in the most dignified way into bed and cover her face with the blanket .
To induce her to look up he pretend to be go away , and when this fail he sit on the end of the bed and tap her gently with his foot .
`` Wendy , '' he say , `` do n't withdraw .
I ca n't help crowing , Wendy , when I 'm pleased with myself . ''
Still she would not look up , though she be listen eagerly .
`` Wendy , '' he continue , in a voice that no woman have ever yet be able to resist , `` Wendy , one girl be more use than twenty boy . ''
Now Wendy be every inch a woman , though there be not very many inch , and she peep out of the bed-clothes .
`` Do you really think so , Peter ? ''
`` Yes , I do . ''
`` I think it 's perfectly sweet of you , '' she declare , `` and I 'll get up again , '' and she sit with him on the side of the bed .
She also say she would give him a kiss if he like , but Peter do not know what she mean , and he hold out his hand expectantly .
`` Surely you know what a kiss be ? ''
she ask , aghast .
`` I shall know when you give it to me , '' he reply stiffly , and not to hurt his feel she give him a thimble .
`` Now , '' say he , `` shall I give you a kiss ? ''
and she reply with a slight primness , `` If you please . ''
She make herself rather cheap by incline her face toward him , but he merely drop an acorn button into her hand , so she slowly return her face to where it have be before , and say nicely that she would wear his kiss on the chain around her neck .
It be lucky that she do put it on that chain , for it be afterwards to save her life .
When people in our set be introduce , it be customary for them to ask each other 's age , and so Wendy , who always like to do the correct thing , ask Peter how old he be .
It be not really a happy question to ask him ; it be like an examination paper that ask grammar , when what you want to be ask be Kings of England .
`` I do n't know , '' he reply uneasily , `` but I be quite young . ''
He really know nothing about it , he have merely suspicion , but he say at a venture , `` Wendy , I run away the day I be bear . ''
Wendy be quite surprised , but interested ; and she indicate in the charming drawing-room manner , by a touch on her night-gown , that he could sit nearer her .
`` It be because I hear father and mother , '' he explain in a low voice , `` talk about what I be to be when I become a man . ''
He be extraordinarily agitate now .
`` I do n't want ever to be a man , '' he say with passion .
`` I want always to be a little boy and to have fun .
So I run away to Kensington Gardens and live a long long time among the fairy . ''
She give him a look of the most intense admiration , and he think it be because he have run away , but it be really because he know fairy .
Wendy have live such a home life that to know fairy strike her a quite delightful .
She pour out question about them , to his surprise , for they be rather a nuisance to him , get in his way and so on , and indeed he sometimes have to give them a hiding -LSB- spank -RSB- .
Still , he like them on the whole , and he tell her about the beginning of fairy .
`` You see , Wendy , when the first baby laugh for the first time , it laugh broke into a thousand piece , and they all go skip about , and that be the beginning of fairy . ''
Tedious talk this , but be a stay-at-home she like it .
`` And so , '' he go on good-naturedly , `` there ought to be one fairy for every boy and girl . ''
`` Ought to be ?
Is n't there ? ''
`` No .
You see child know such a lot now , they soon do n't believe in fairy , and every time a child say , ' I do n't believe in fairy , ' there be a fairy somewhere that fall down dead . ''
Really , he think they have now talk enough about fairy , and it strike him that Tinker Bell be keep very quiet .
`` I ca n't think where she have go to , '' he say , rise , and he call Tink by name .
Wendy 's heart go flutter with a sudden thrill .
`` Peter , '' she cry , clutch him , `` you do n't mean to tell me that there be a fairy in this room ! ''
`` She be here just now , '' he say a little impatiently .
`` You do n't hear her , do you ? ''
and they both listen .
`` The only sound I hear , '' say Wendy , `` be like a tinkle of bell . ''
`` Well , that 's Tink , that 's the fairy language .
I think I hear her too . ''
The sound come from the chest of drawer , and Peter make a merry face .
No one could ever look quite so merry a Peter , and the lovely of gurgle be his laugh .
He have his first laugh still .
`` Wendy , '' he whisper gleefully , `` I do believe I shut her up in the drawer ! ''
He let poor Tink out of the drawer , and she fly about the nursery scream with fury .
`` You should n't say such thing , '' Peter retort .
`` Of course I 'm very sorry , but how could I know you be in the drawer ? ''
Wendy be not listen to him .
`` O Peter , '' she cry , `` if she would only stand still and let me see her ! ''
`` They hardly ever stand still , '' he say , but for one moment Wendy saw the romantic figure come to rest on the cuckoo clock .
`` O the lovely ! ''
she cry , though Tink 's face be still distort with passion .
`` Tink , '' say Peter amiably , `` this lady say she wish you be her fairy . ''
Tinker Bell answer insolently .
`` What do she say , Peter ? ''
He have to translate .
`` She be not very polite .
She say you be a great -LSB- huge -RSB- ugly girl , and that she be my fairy . ''
He try to argue with Tink .
`` You know you ca n't be my fairy , Tink , because I be an gentleman and you be a lady . ''
To this Tink reply in these word , `` You silly ass , '' and disappear into the bathroom .
`` She be quite a common fairy , '' Peter explain apologetically , `` she be call Tinker Bell because she mend the pot and kettle LSB tinker tin worker RSB . ''
-LSB- Similar to `` cinder '' plus `` elle '' to get Cinderella -RSB- They be together in the armchair by this time , and Wendy ply him with more question .
`` If you do n't live in Kensington Gardens now -- '' `` Sometimes I do still . ''
`` But where do you live mostly now ? ''
`` With the lose boy . ''
`` Who be they ? ''
`` They be the child who fall out of their perambulator when the nurse be look the other way .
If they be not claim in seven day they be sent far away to the Neverland to defray expense .
I 'm captain . ''
`` What fun it must be ! ''
`` Yes , '' say cunning Peter , `` but we be rather lonely .
You see we have no female companionship . ''
`` Are none of the others girl ? ''
`` Oh , no ; girl , you know , be much too clever to fall out of their pram . ''
This flatter Wendy immensely .
`` I think , '' she say , `` it be perfectly lovely the way you talk about girl ; John there just despise u . ''
For reply Peter rise and kick John out of bed , blanket and all ; one kick .
This seem to Wendy rather forward for a first meeting , and she tell him with spirit that he be not captain in her house .
However , John continue to sleep so placidly on the floor that she allow him to remain there .
`` And I know you mean to be kind , '' she say , relent , `` so you may give me a kiss . ''
For the moment she have forget his ignorance about kiss .
`` I think you would want it back , '' he say a little bitterly , and offer to return her the thimble .
`` Oh dear , '' say the nice Wendy , `` I do n't mean a kiss , I mean a thimble . ''
`` What 's that ? ''
`` It 's like this . ''
She kiss him .
`` Funny ! ''
say Peter gravely .
`` Now shall I give you a thimble ? ''
`` If you wish to , '' say Wendy , keep her head erect this time .
Peter thimbled her , and almost immediately she screech .
`` What be it , Wendy ? ''
`` It be exactly a if someone be pull my hair . ''
`` That must have be Tink .
I never know her so naughty before . ''
And indeed Tink be dart about again , use offensive language .
`` She say she will do that to you , Wendy , every time I give you a thimble . ''
`` But why ? ''
`` Why , Tink ? ''
Again Tink reply , `` You silly ass . ''
Peter could not understand why , but Wendy understood , and she be just slightly disappointed when he admit that he come to the nursery window not to see her but to listen to story .
`` You see , I do n't know any story .
None of the lose boy know any story . ''
`` How perfectly awful , '' Wendy say .
`` Do you know , '' Peter ask `` why swallow build in the eaves of house ?
It be to listen to the story .
O Wendy , your mother be tell you such a lovely story . ''
`` Which story be it ? ''
`` About the prince who could n't find the lady who wear the glass slipper . ''
`` Peter , '' say Wendy excitedly , `` that be Cinderella , and he find her , and they live happily ever after . ''
Peter be so glad that he rise from the floor , where they have be sit , and hurry to the window .
`` Where be you go ? ''
she cry with misgiving .
`` To tell the other boy . ''
`` Do n't go Peter , '' she entreat , `` I know such lot of story . ''
Those be her precise word , so there can be no denying that it be she who first tempt him .
He come back , and there be a greedy look in his eye now which ought to have alarm her , but do not .
`` Oh , the story I could tell to the boy ! ''
she cry , and then Peter grip her and begin to draw her toward the window .
`` Let me go ! ''
she order him .
`` Wendy , do come with me and tell the other boy . ''
Of course she be very pleased to be ask , but she say , `` Oh dear , I ca n't .
Think of mummy !
Besides , I ca n't fly . ''
`` I 'll teach you . ''
`` Oh , how lovely to fly . ''
`` I 'll teach you how to jump on the wind 's back , and then away we go . ''
`` Oo ! ''
she exclaim rapturously .
`` Wendy , Wendy , when you be sleep in your silly bed you might be fly about with me say funny thing to the star . ''
`` Oo ! ''
`` And , Wendy , there be mermaid . ''
`` Mermaids !
With tail ? ''
`` Such long tail . ''
`` Oh , '' cry Wendy , `` to see a mermaid ! ''
He have become frightfully cunning .
`` Wendy , '' he say , `` how we should all respect you . ''
She be wriggle her body in distress .
It be quite a if she be try to remain on the nursery floor .
But he have no pity for her .
`` Wendy , '' he say , the sly one , `` you could tuck u in at night . ''
`` Oo ! ''
`` None of u have ever be tuck in at night . ''
`` Oo , '' and her arm go out to him .
`` And you could darn our clothes , and make pocket for u .
None of u have any pocket . ''
How could she resist .
`` Of course it 's awfully fascinating ! ''
she cry .
`` Peter , would you teach John and Michael to fly too ? ''
`` If you like , '' he say indifferently , and she run to John and Michael and shake them .
`` Wake up , '' she cry , `` Peter Pan have come and he be to teach u to fly . ''
John rub his eye .
`` Then I shall get up , '' he say .
Of course he be on the floor already .
`` Hallo , '' he say , `` I be up ! ''
Michael be up by this time also , look as sharp a a knife with six blade and a saw , but Peter suddenly sign silence .
Their face assume the awful craftiness of child listen for sound from the grown-up world .
All be as still a salt .
Then everything be right .
No , stop !
Everything be wrong .
Nana , who have be bark distressfully all the evening , be quiet now .
It be her silence they have hear .
`` Out with the light !
Hide !
Quick ! ''
cry John , take command for the only time throughout the whole adventure .
And thus when Liza enter , hold Nana , the nursery seem quite it old self , very dark , and you would have swear you hear it three wicked inmate breathe angelically a they sleep .
They be really do it artfully from behind the window curtain .
Liza be in a bad temper , for she be mix the Christmas pudding in the kitchen , and have be draw from them , with a raisin still on her cheek , by Nana 's absurd suspicion .
She think the best way of get a little quiet be to take Nana to the nursery for a moment , but in custody of course .
`` There , you suspicious brute , '' she say , not sorry that Nana be in disgrace .
`` They be perfectly safe , be n't they ?
Every one of the little angels sound asleep in bed .
Listen to their gentle breathing . ''
Here Michael , encourage by his success , breathe so loudly that they be nearly detect .
Nana know that kind of breathing , and she try to drag herself out of Liza 's clutch .
But Liza be dense .
`` No more of it , Nana , '' she say sternly , pull her out of the room .
`` I warn you if you bark again I shall go straight for master and missus and bring them home from the party , and then , oh , wo n't master whip you , just . ''
She tie the unhappy dog up again , but do you think Nana cease to bark ?
Bring master and missus home from the party !
Why , that be just what she want .
Do you think she care whether she be whip so long a her charge be safe ?
Unfortunately Liza return to her pudding , and Nana , see that no help would come from her , strain and strain at the chain until at last she break it .
In another moment she have burst into the dining-room of 27 and fling up her paw to heaven , her most expressive way of make a communication .
Mr. and Mrs . Darling know at once that something terrible be happen in their nursery , and without a good-bye to their hostess they rush into the street .
But it be now ten minute since three scoundrel have be breathe behind the curtain , and Peter Pan can do a great deal in ten minute .
We now return to the nursery .
`` It 's all right , '' John announce , emerge from his hiding-place .
`` I say , Peter , can you really fly ? ''
Instead of trouble to answer him Peter fly around the room , take the mantelpiece on the way .
`` How topping ! ''
say John and Michael .
`` How sweet ! ''
cry Wendy .
`` Yes , I 'm sweet , oh , I be sweet ! ''
say Peter , forget his manner again .
It look delightfully easy , and they try it first from the floor and then from the bed , but they always go down instead of up .
`` I say , how do you do it ? ''
ask John , rub his knee .
He be quite a practical boy .
`` You just think lovely wonderful thought , '' Peter explain , `` and they lift you up in the air . ''
He show them again .
`` You 're so nippy at it , '' John say , `` could n't you do it very slowly once ? ''
Peter do it both slowly and quickly .
`` I 've get it now , Wendy ! ''
cry John , but soon he find he have not .
Not one of them could fly an inch , though even Michael be in word of two syllable , and Peter do not know A from Z . Of course Peter have be trifle with them , for no one can fly unless the fairy dust have be blow on him .
Fortunately , a we have mention , one of his hand be messy with it , and he blow some on each of them , with the most superb result .
`` Now just wiggle your shoulder this way , '' he say , `` and let go . ''
They be all on their bed , and gallant Michael let go first .
He do not quite mean to let go , but he do it , and immediately he be borne across the room .
`` I flewed ! ''
he scream while still in mid-air .
John let go and meet Wendy near the bathroom .
`` Oh , lovely ! ''
`` Oh , rip ! ''
`` Look at me ! ''
`` Look at me ! ''
`` Look at me ! ''
They be not nearly so elegant a Peter , they could not help kick a little , but their head be bob against the ceiling , and there be almost nothing so delicious a that .
Peter give Wendy a hand at first , but have to desist , Tink be so indignant .
Up and down they go , and round and round .
Heavenly be Wendy 's word .
`` I say , '' cry John , `` why should n't we all go out ? ''
Of course it be to this that Peter have be lure them .
Michael be ready : he want to see how long it take him to do a billion mile .
But Wendy hesitate .
`` Mermaids ! ''
say Peter again .
`` Oo ! ''
`` And there be pirate . ''
`` Pirates , '' cry John , seize his Sunday hat , `` let u go at once . ''
It be just at this moment that Mr. and Mrs . Darling hurry with Nana out of 27 .
They run into the middle of the street to look up at the nursery window ; and , yes , it be still shut , but the room be ablaze with light , and most heart-gripping sight of all , they could see in shadow on the curtain three little figure in night attire circle round and round , not on the floor but in the air .
Not three figure , four !
In a tremble they open the street door .
Mr . Darling would have rush upstairs , but Mrs . Darling sign him to go softly .
She even try to make her heart go softly .
Will they reach the nursery in time ?
If so , how delightful for them , and we shall all breathe a sigh of relief , but there will be no story .
On the other hand , if they be not in time , I solemnly promise that it will all come right in the end .
They would have reach the nursery in time have it not be that the little star be watch them .
Once again the star blow the window open , and that small star of all call out : `` Cave , Peter ! ''
Then Peter know that there be not a moment to lose .
`` Come , '' he cry imperiously , and soar out at once into the night , follow by John and Michael and Wendy .
Mr. and Mrs . Darling and Nana rush into the nursery too late .
The bird be fly .
Chapter 4 THE FLIGHT `` Second to the right , and straight on till morning . ''
That , Peter have tell Wendy , be the way to the Neverland ; but even bird , carry map and consult them at windy corner , could not have sight it with these instruction .
Peter , you see , just say anything that come into his head .
At first his companion trust him implicitly , and so great be the delight of fly that they waste time circle round church spire or any other tall object on the way that take their fancy .
John and Michael race , Michael get a start .
They recall with contempt that not so long ago they have think themselves fine fellow for be able to fly round a room .
Not long ago .
But how long ago ?
They be fly over the sea before this thought begin to disturb Wendy seriously .
John think it be their second sea and their third night .
Sometimes it be dark and sometimes light , and now they be very cold and again too warm .
Did they really feel hungry at time , or be they merely pretend , because Peter have such a jolly new way of feed them ?
His way be to pursue bird who have food in their mouth suitable for human and snatch it from them ; then the bird would follow and snatch it back ; and they would all go chase each other gaily for mile , part at last with mutual expression of good-will .
But Wendy notice with gentle concern that Peter do not seem to know that this be rather an odd way of get your bread and butter , nor even that there be other way .
Certainly they do not pretend to be sleepy , they be sleepy ; and that be a danger , for the moment they pop off , down they fell .
The awful thing be that Peter think this funny .
`` There he go again ! ''
he would cry gleefully , a Michael suddenly drop like a stone .
`` Save him , save him ! ''
cry Wendy , look with horror at the cruel sea far below .
Eventually Peter would dive through the air , and catch Michael just before he could strike the sea , and it be lovely the way he do it ; but he always wait till the last moment , and you felt it be his cleverness that interest him and not the saving of human life .
Also he be fond of variety , and the sport that engross him one moment would suddenly cease to engage him , so there be always the possibility that the next time you fell he would let you go .
He could sleep in the air without fall , by merely lie on his back and floating , but this be , partly at least , because he be so light that if you get behind him and blow he go faster .
`` Do be more polite to him , '' Wendy whisper to John , when they be play `` Follow my Leader . ''
`` Then tell him to stop show off , '' say John .
When play Follow my Leader , Peter would fly close to the water and touch each shark 's tail in passing , just a in the street you may run your finger along an iron railing .
They could not follow him in this with much success , so perhaps it be rather like show off , especially a he keep look behind to see how many tail they miss .
`` You must be nice to him , '' Wendy impress on her brother .
`` What could we do if he be to leave u ! ''
`` We could go back , '' Michael say .
`` How could we ever find our way back without him ? ''
`` Well , then , we could go on , '' say John .
`` That be the awful thing , John .
We should have to go on , for we do n't know how to stop . ''
This be true , Peter have forget to show them how to stop .
John say that if the bad come to the bad , all they have to do be to go straight on , for the world be round , and so in time they must come back to their own window .
`` And who be to get food for u , John ? ''
`` I nip a bit out of that eagle 's mouth pretty neatly , Wendy . ''
`` After the twentieth try , '' Wendy remind him .
`` And even though we become good at pick up food , see how we bump against cloud and thing if he be not near to give u a hand . ''
Indeed they be constantly bump .
They could now fly strongly , though they still kick far too much ; but if they saw a cloud in front of them , the more they try to avoid it , the more certainly do they bump into it .
If Nana have be with them , she would have have a bandage round Michael 's forehead by this time .
Peter be not with them for the moment , and they felt rather lonely up there by themselves .
He could go so much fast than they that he would suddenly shoot out of sight , to have some adventure in which they have no share .
He would come down laugh over something fearfully funny he have be say to a star , but he have already forget what it be , or he would come up with mermaid scale still stick to him , and yet not be able to say for certain what have be happen .
It be really rather irritate to child who have never see a mermaid .
`` And if he forget them so quickly , '' Wendy argue , `` how can we expect that he will go on remember u ? ''
Indeed , sometimes when he return he do not remember them , at least not well .
Wendy be sure of it .
She saw recognition come into his eye a he be about to pass them the time of day and go on ; once even she have to call him by name .
`` I 'm Wendy , '' she say agitatedly .
He be very sorry .
`` I say , Wendy , '' he whisper to her , `` always if you see me forget you , just keep on say ` I 'm Wendy , ' and then I 'll remember . ''
Of course this be rather unsatisfactory .
However , to make amends he show them how to lie out flat on a strong wind that be go their way , and this be such a pleasant change that they try it several time and find that they could sleep thus with security .
Indeed they would have sleep longer , but Peter tire quickly of sleep , and soon he would cry in his captain voice , `` We get off here . ''
So with occasional tiff , but on the whole rollicking , they draw near the Neverland ; for after many moon they do reach it , and , what be more , they have be go pretty straight all the time , not perhaps so much owing to the guidance of Peter or Tink a because the island be look for them .
It be only thus that any one may sight those magic shore .
`` There it be , '' say Peter calmly .
`` Where , where ? ''
`` Where all the arrow be point . ''
Indeed a million golden arrow be point it out to the child , all direct by their friend the sun , who want them to be sure of their way before leave them for the night .
Wendy and John and Michael stand on tip-toe in the air to get their first sight of the island .
Strange to say , they all recognize it at once , and until fear fell upon them they hail it , not a something long dreamt of and see at last , but a a familiar friend to whom they be return home for the holiday .
`` John , there 's the lagoon . ''
`` Wendy , look at the turtle bury their egg in the sand . ''
`` I say , John , I see your flamingo with the broken leg ! ''
`` Look , Michael , there 's your cave ! ''
`` John , what 's that in the brushwood ? ''
`` It 's a wolf with her whelp .
Wendy , I do believe that 's your little whelp ! ''
`` There 's my boat , John , with her side stave in ! ''
`` No , it be n't .
Why , we burn your boat . ''
`` That 's her , at any rate .
I say , John , I see the smoke of the redskin camp ! ''
`` Where ?
Show me , and I 'll tell you by the way smoke curl whether they be on the war-path . ''
`` There , just across the Mysterious River . ''
`` I see now .
Yes , they be on the war-path right enough . ''
Peter be a little annoyed with them for know so much , but if he want to lord it over them his triumph be at hand , for have I not tell you that anon fear fell upon them ?
It come a the arrow go , leave the island in gloom .
In the old day at home the Neverland have always begin to look a little dark and threatening by bedtime .
Then unexplored patch arise in it and spread , black shadow move about in them , the roar of the beast of prey be quite different now , and above all , you lose the certainty that you would win .
You be quite glad that the night-light be on .
You even like Nana to say that this be just the mantelpiece over here , and that the Neverland be all make-believe .
Of course the Neverland have be make-believe in those day , but it be real now , and there be no night-light , and it be get darker every moment , and where be Nana ?
They have be fly apart , but they huddle close to Peter now .
His careless manner have go at last , his eye be sparkle , and a tingle go through them every time they touch his body .
They be now over the fearsome island , fly so low that sometimes a tree graze their foot .
Nothing horrid be visible in the air , yet their progress have become slow and labour , exactly a if they be push their way through hostile force .
Sometimes they hang in the air until Peter have beat on it with his fist .
`` They do n't want u to land , '' he explain .
`` Who be they ? ''
Wendy whisper , shudder .
But he could not or would not say .
Tinker Bell have be asleep on his shoulder , but now he waken her and send her on in front .
Sometimes he poise himself in the air , listen intently , with his hand to his ear , and again he would stare down with eye so bright that they seem to bore two hole to earth .
Having do these thing , he go on again .
His courage be almost appalling .
`` Would you like an adventure now , '' he say casually to John , `` or would you like to have your tea first ? ''
Wendy say `` tea first '' quickly , and Michael press her hand in gratitude , but the braver John hesitate .
`` What kind of adventure ? ''
he ask cautiously .
`` There 's a pirate asleep in the pampas just beneath u , '' Peter tell him .
`` If you like , we 'll go down and kill him . ''
`` I do n't see him , '' John say after a long pause .
`` I do . ''
`` Suppose , '' John say , a little huskily , `` he be to wake up . ''
Peter speak indignantly .
`` You do n't think I would kill him while he be sleep !
I would wake him first , and then kill him .
That 's the way I always do . ''
`` I say !
Do you kill many ? ''
`` Tons . ''
John say `` How ripping , '' but decide to have tea first .
He ask if there be many pirate on the island just now , and Peter say he have never know so many .
`` Who be captain now ? ''
`` Hook , '' answer Peter , and his face become very stern a he say that hat word .
`` Jas .
Hook ? ''
`` Ay . ''
Then indeed Michael begin to cry , and even John could speak in gulp only , for they know Hook 's reputation .
`` He be Blackbeard 's bo ` sun , '' John whisper huskily .
`` He be the bad of them all .
He be the only man of whom Barbecue be afraid . ''
`` That 's him , '' say Peter .
`` What be he like ?
Is he big ? ''
`` He be not so big a he be . ''
`` How do you mean ? ''
`` I cut off a bit of him . ''
`` You ! ''
`` Yes , me , '' say Peter sharply .
`` I be n't mean to be disrespectful . ''
`` Oh , all right . ''
`` But , I say , what bit ? ''
`` His right hand . ''
`` Then he ca n't fight now ? ''
`` Oh , ca n't he just ! ''
`` Left-hander ? ''
`` He have an iron hook instead of a right hand , and he claw with it . ''
`` Claws ! ''
`` I say , John , '' say Peter .
`` Yes . ''
`` Say , ` Ay , ay , sir . ' ''
`` Ay , ay , sir . ''
`` There be one thing , '' Peter continue , `` that every boy who serve under me have to promise , and so must you . ''
John pal .
`` It be this , if we meet Hook in open fight , you must leave him to me . ''
`` I promise , '' John say loyally .
For the moment they be feel less eerie , because Tink be fly with them , and in her light they could distinguish each other .
Unfortunately she could not fly so slowly a they , and so she have to go round and round them in a circle in which they move as in a halo .
Wendy quite like it , until Peter point out the drawback .
`` She tell me , '' he say , `` that the pirate sight u before the darkness come , and get Long Tom out . ''
`` The big gun ? ''
`` Yes .
And of course they must see her light , and if they guess we be near it they be sure to let fly . ''
`` Wendy ! ''
`` John ! ''
`` Michael ! ''
`` Tell her to go away at once , Peter , '' the three cry simultaneously , but he refuse .
`` She think we have lose the way , '' he reply stiffly , `` and she be rather frighten .
You do n't think I would send her away all by herself when she be frightened ! ''
For a moment the circle of light be break , and something give Peter a loving little pinch .
`` Then tell her , '' Wendy beg , `` to put out her light . ''
`` She ca n't put it out .
That be about the only thing fairy ca n't do .
It just go out of itself when she fall asleep , same a the star . ''
`` Then tell her to sleep at once , '' John almost order .
`` She ca n't sleep except when she 's sleepy .
It be the only other thing fairy ca n't do . ''
`` Seems to me , '' growl John , `` these be the only two thing worth do . ''
Here he get a pinch , but not a love one .
`` If only one of u have a pocket , '' Peter say , `` we could carry her in it . ''
However , they have set off in such a hurry that there be not a pocket between the four of them .
He have a happy idea .
John 's hat !
Tink agree to travel by hat if it be carry in the hand .
John carry it , though she have hop to be carry by Peter .
Presently Wendy take the hat , because John say it strike against his knee a he fly ; and this , a we shall see , lead to mischief , for Tinker Bell hat to be under an obligation to Wendy .
In the black topper the light be completely hidden , and they fly on in silence .
It be the still silence they have ever know , break once by a distant lapping , which Peter explain be the wild beast drink at the ford , and again by a rasp sound that might have be the branch of tree rub together , but he say it be the redskin sharpen their knife .
Even these noise cease .
To Michael the loneliness be dreadful .
`` If only something would make a sound ! ''
he cry .
As if in answer to his request , the air be rent by the most tremendous crash he have ever hear .
The pirate have fire Long Tom at them .
The roar of it echo through the mountain , and the echo seem to cry savagely , `` Where be they , where be they , where be they ? ''
Thus sharply do the terrified three learn the difference between an island of make-believe and the same island come true .
When at last the heaven be steady again , John and Michael find themselves alone in the darkness .
John be tread the air mechanically , and Michael without know how to float be float .
`` Are you shot ? ''
John whisper tremulously .
`` I have n't try -LSB- myself out -RSB- yet , '' Michael whisper back .
We know now that no one have be hit .
Peter , however , have be carry by the wind of the shot far out to sea , while Wendy be blow upwards with no companion but Tinker Bell .
It would have be well for Wendy if at that moment she have drop the hat .
I do n't know whether the idea come suddenly to Tink , or whether she have plan it on the way , but she at once pop out of the hat and begin to lure Wendy to her destruction .
Tink be not all bad ; or , rather , she be all bad just now , but , on the other hand , sometimes she be all good .
Fairies have to be one thing or the other , because be so small they unfortunately have room for one feel only at a time .
They be , however , allow to change , only it must be a complete change .
At present she be full of jealousy of Wendy .
What she say in her lovely tinkle Wendy could not of course understand , and I believe some of it be bad word , but it sound kind , and she fly back and forward , plainly mean `` Follow me , and all will be well . ''
What else could poor Wendy do ?
She call to Peter and John and Michael , and get only mock echo in reply .
She do not yet know that Tink hat her with the fierce hatred of a very woman .
And so , bewilder , and now stagger in her flight , she follow Tink to her doom .
Chapter 5 THE ISLAND COME TRUE Feeling that Peter be on his way back , the Neverland have again wake into life .
We ought to use the pluperfect and say waken , but wake be well and be always use by Peter .
In his absence thing be usually quiet on the island .
The fairy take an hour longer in the morning , the beast attend to their young , the redskin fee heavily for six day and night , and when pirate and lose boy meet they merely bite their thumb at each other .
But with the come of Peter , who hat lethargy , they be under way again : if you put your ear to the ground now , you would hear the whole island seethe with life .
On this even the chief force of the island be dispose a follow .
The lose boy be out look for Peter , the pirate be out look for the lost boy , the redskin be out look for the pirate , and the beast be out look for the redskin .
They be go round and round the island , but they do not meet because all be go at the same rate .
All want blood except the boy , who like it a a rule , but to-night be out to greet their captain .
The boy on the island vary , of course , in number , accord a they get kill and so on ; and when they seem to be grow up , which be against the rule , Peter thin them out ; but at this time there be six of them , count the twin a two .
Let u pretend to lie here among the sugar-cane and watch them a they steal by in single file , each with his hand on his dagger .
They be forbid by Peter to look in the least like him , and they wear the skin of the bear slay by themselves , in which they be so round and furry that when they fall they roll .
They have therefore become very sure-footed .
The first to pass be Tootles , not the least brave but the most unfortunate of all that gallant band .
He have be in few adventure than any of them , because the big thing constantly happen just when he have step round the corner ; all would be quiet , he would take the opportunity of go off to gather a few stick for firewood , and then when he return the others would be sweep up the blood .
This ill-luck have give a gentle melancholy to his countenance , but instead of sour his nature have sweeten it , so that he be quite the humblest of the boy .
Poor kind Tootles , there be danger in the air for you to-night .
Take care l an adventure be now offer you , which , if accept , will plunge you in deep woe .
Tootles , the fairy Tink , who be bend on mischief this night be look for a tool -LSB- for do her mischief -RSB- , and she think you be the most easily trick of the boy .
` Ware Tinker Bell .
Would that he could hear u , but we be not really on the island , and he pass by , bite his knuckle .
Next come Nibs , the gay and debonair , follow by Slightly , who cut whistle out of the tree and dance ecstatically to his own tune .
Slightly be the most conceited of the boy .
He think he remember the day before he be lose , with their manner and custom , and this have give his nose an offensive tilt .
Curly be fourth ; he be a pickle , -LSB- a person who get in pickles-predicaments -RSB- and so often have he have to deliver up his person when Peter say sternly , `` Stand forth the one who do this thing , '' that now at the command he stand forth automatically whether he have do it or not .
Last come the Twins , who can not be describe because we should be sure to be describe the wrong one .
Peter never quite know what twin be , and his band be not allow to know anything he do not know , so these two be always vague about themselves , and do their best to give satisfaction by keep close together in an apologetic sort of way .
The boy vanish in the gloom , and after a pause , but not a long pause , for thing go briskly on the island , come the pirate on their track .
We hear them before they be see , and it be always the same dreadful song : `` Avast belay , yo ho , heave to , A-pirating we go , And if we 're part by a shot We 're sure to meet below ! ''
A more villainous-looking lot never hang in a row on Execution dock .
Here , a little in advance , ever and again with his head to the ground listening , his great arm bare , piece of eight in his ear a ornament , be the handsome Italian Cecco , who cut his name in letter of blood on the back of the governor of the prison at Gao .
That gigantic black behind him have have many name since he drop the one with which dusky mother still terrify their child on the bank of the Guadjo-mo .
Here be Bill Jukes , every inch of him tattoo , the same Bill Jukes who get six dozen on the WALRUS from Flint before he would drop the bag of moidores -LSB- Portuguese gold piece -RSB- ; and Cookson , say to be Black Murphy 's brother -LRB- but this be never prove -RRB- , and Gentleman Starkey , once an usher in a public school and still dainty in his way of kill ; and Skylights -LRB- Morgan 's Skylights -RRB- ; and the Irish bo ` sun Smee , an oddly genial man who stab , so to speak , without offence , and be the only Non-conformist in Hook 's crew ; and Noodler , whose hand be fix on backwards ; and Robt .
Mullins and Alf Mason and many another ruffian long know and fear on the Spanish Main .
In the midst of them , the black and large in that dark setting , recline James Hook , or a he write himself , Jas .
Hook , of whom it be say he be the only man that the Sea-Cook fear .
He lay at his ease in a rough chariot drawn and propel by his men , and instead of a right hand he have the iron hook with which ever and anon he encourage them to increase their pace .
As dog this terrible man treat and address them , and a dog they obey him .
In person he be cadaverous -LSB- dead look -RSB- and blackavized -LSB- dark face -RSB- , and his hair be dress in long curl , which at a little distance look like black candle , and give a singularly threatening expression to his handsome countenance .
His eye be of the blue of the forget-me-not , and of a profound melancholy , save when he be plunge his hook into you , at which time two red spot appear in them and light them up horribly .
In manner , something of the grand seigneur still cling to him , so that he even rip you up with an air , and I have be tell that he be a RACONTEUR -LSB- storyteller -RSB- of repute .
He be never more sinister than when he be most polite , which be probably the true test of breeding ; and the elegance of his diction , even when he be swear , no less than the distinction of his demeanour , show him one of a different cast from his crew .
A man of indomitable courage , it be say that the only thing he shy at be the sight of his own blood , which be thick and of an unusual colour .
In dress he somewhat ape the attire associate with the name of Charles II , have hear it say in some early period of his career that he bore a strange resemblance to the ill-fated Stuarts ; and in his mouth he have a holder of his own contrivance which enable him to smoke two cigar at once .
But undoubtedly the grim part of him be his iron claw .
Let u now kill a pirate , to show Hook 's method .
Skylights will do .
As they pass , Skylights lurch clumsily against him , ruffle his lace collar ; the hook shoot forth , there be a tear sound and one screech , then the body be kick aside , and the pirate pass on .
He have not even take the cigar from his mouth .
Such be the terrible man against whom Peter Pan be pit .
Which will win ?
On the trail of the pirate , steal noiselessly down the war-path , which be not visible to inexperienced eye , come the redskin , every one of them with his eye peel .
They carry tomahawk and knife , and their naked body gleam with paint and oil .
Strung around them be scalps , of boy as well a of pirate , for these be the Piccaninny tribe , and not to be confuse with the softer-hearted Delawares or the Hurons .
In the van , on all four , be Great Big Little Panther , a brave of so many scalp that in his present position they somewhat impede his progress .
Bringing up the rear , the place of great danger , come Tiger Lily , proudly erect , a princess in her own right .
She be the most beautiful of dusky Dianas -LSB- Diana goddess of the wood -RSB- and the belle of the Piccaninnies , coquettish -LSB- flirt -RSB- , cold and amorous -LSB- love -RSB- by turn ; there be not a brave who would not have the wayward thing to wife , but she stave off the altar with a hatchet .
Observe how they pass over fall twig without make the slight noise .
The only sound to be hear be their somewhat heavy breathing .
The fact be that they be all a little fat just now after the heavy gorging , but in time they will work this off .
For the moment , however , it constitute their chief danger .
The redskin disappear a they have come like shadow , and soon their place be take by the beast , a great and motley procession : lion , tiger , bear , and the innumerable small savage thing that flee from them , for every kind of beast , and , more particularly , all the man-eater , live cheek by jowl on the favoured island .
Their tongue be hang out , they be hungry to-night .
When they have pass , come the last figure of all , a gigantic crocodile .
We shall see for whom she be look presently .
The crocodile pass , but soon the boy appear again , for the procession must continue indefinitely until one of the party stop or change it pace .
Then quickly they will be on top of each other .
All be keep a sharp look-out in front , but none suspect that the danger may be creep up from behind .
This show how real the island be .
The first to fall out of the move circle be the boy .
They fling themselves down on the sward -LSB- turf -RSB- , close to their underground home .
`` I do wish Peter would come back , '' every one of them say nervously , though in height and still more in breadth they be all large than their captain .
`` I be the only one who be not afraid of the pirate , '' Slightly say , in the tone that prevent his be a general favourite ; but perhaps some distant sound disturb him , for he add hastily , `` but I wish he would come back , and tell u whether he have hear anything more about Cinderella . ''
They talk of Cinderella , and Tootles be confident that his mother must have be very like her .
It be only in Peter 's absence that they could speak of mother , the subject be forbid by him a silly .
`` All I remember about my mother , '' Nibs tell them , `` be that she often say to my father , ` Oh , how I wish I have a cheque-book of my own ! '
I do n't know what a cheque-book be , but I should just love to give my mother one . ''
While they talk they hear a distant sound .
You or I , not be wild thing of the wood , would have hear nothing , but they hear it , and it be the grim song : `` Yo ho , yo ho , the pirate life , The flag o ' skull and bone , A merry hour , a hempen rope , And hey for Davy Jones . ''
At once the lose boy -- but where be they ?
They be no longer there .
Rabbits could not have disappear more quickly .
I will tell you where they be .
With the exception of Nibs , who have dart away to reconnoitre -LSB- look around -RSB- , they be already in their home under the ground , a very delightful residence of which we shall see a good deal presently .
But how have they reach it ?
for there be no entrance to be see , not so much a a large stone , which if roll away , would disclose the mouth of a cave .
Look closely , however , and you may note that there be here seven large tree , each with a hole in it hollow trunk as large a a boy .
These be the seven entrance to the home under the ground , for which Hook have be search in vain these many moon .
Will he find it tonight ?
As the pirate advance , the quick eye of Starkey sight Nibs disappear through the wood , and at once his pistol flash out .
But an iron claw grip his shoulder .
`` Captain , let go ! ''
he cry , writhe .
Now for the first time we hear the voice of Hook .
It be a black voice .
`` Put back that pistol first , '' it say threateningly .
`` It be one of those boy you hate .
I could have shoot him dead . ''
`` Ay , and the sound would have bring Tiger Lily 's redskin upon u .
Do you want to lose your scalp ? ''
`` Shall I after him , Captain , '' ask pathetic Smee , `` and tickle him with Johnny Corkscrew ? ''
Smee have pleasant name for everything , and his cutlas be Johnny Corkscrew , because he wiggle it in the wound .
One could mention many lovable trait in Smee .
For instance , after kill , it be his spectacle he wipe instead of his weapon .
`` Johnny 's a silent fellow , '' he remind Hook .
`` Not now , Smee , '' Hook say darkly .
`` He be only one , and I want to mischief all the seven .
Scatter and look for them . ''
The pirate disappear among the tree , and in a moment their Captain and Smee be alone .
Hook heave a heavy sigh , and I know not why it be , perhaps it be because of the soft beauty of the evening , but there come over him a desire to confide to his faithful bo ` sun the story of his life .
He speak long and earnestly , but what it be all about Smee , who be rather stupid , do not know in the least .
Anon -LSB- later -RSB- he catch the word Peter .
`` Most of all , '' Hook be say passionately , `` I want their captain , Peter Pan .
'T be he cut off my arm . ''
He brandish the hook threateningly .
`` I 've wait long to shake his hand with this .
Oh , I 'll tear him ! ''
`` And yet , '' say Smee , `` I have often hear you say that hook be worth a score of hand , for comb the hair and other homely us . ''
`` Ay , '' the captain answer , `` if I be a mother I would pray to have my child bear with this instead of that , '' and he cast a look of pride upon his iron hand and one of scorn upon the other .
Then again he frown .
`` Peter flung my arm , '' he say , wincing , `` to a crocodile that happen to be pass by . ''
`` I have often , '' say Smee , `` notice your strange dread of crocodile . ''
`` Not of crocodile , '' Hook correct him , `` but of that one crocodile . ''
He lower his voice .
`` It like my arm so much , Smee , that it have follow me ever since , from sea to sea and from land to land , lick it lip for the rest of me . ''
`` In a way , '' say Smee , `` it 's sort of a compliment . ''
`` I want no such compliment , '' Hook bark petulantly .
`` I want Peter Pan , who first give the brute it taste for me . ''
He sit down on a large mushroom , and now there be a quiver in his voice .
`` Smee , '' he say huskily , `` that crocodile would have have me before this , but by a lucky chance it swallow a clock which go tick tick inside it , and so before it can reach me I hear the tick and bolt . ''
He laugh , but in a hollow way .
`` Some day , '' say Smee , `` the clock will run down , and then he 'll get you . ''
Hook wet his dry lip .
`` Ay , '' he say , `` that 's the fear that haunt me . ''
Since sit down he have felt curiously warm .
`` Smee , '' he say , `` this seat be hot . ''
He jump up .
`` Odds bob , hammer and tongs I 'm burn . ''
They examine the mushroom , which be of a size and solidity unknown on the mainland ; they try to pull it up , and it come away at once in their hand , for it have no root .
Stranger still , smoke begin at once to ascend .
The pirate look at each other .
`` A chimney ! ''
they both exclaim .
They have indeed discover the chimney of the home under the ground .
It be the custom of the boy to stop it with a mushroom when enemy be in the neighbourhood .
Not only smoke come out of it .
There come also child 's voice , for so safe do the boy feel in their hiding-place that they be gaily chatter .
The pirate listen grimly , and then replace the mushroom .
They look around them and note the hole in the seven tree .
`` Did you hear them say Peter Pan 's from home ? ''
Smee whisper , fidget with Johnny Corkscrew .
Hook nod .
He stand for a long time lose in thought , and at last a curdle smile light up his swarthy face .
Smee have be wait for it .
`` Unrip your plan , captain , '' he cry eagerly .
`` To return to the ship , '' Hook reply slowly through his teeth , `` and cook a large rich cake of a jolly thickness with green sugar on it .
There can be but one room below , for there be but one chimney .
The silly mole have not the sense to see that they do not need a door apiece .
That show they have no mother .
We will leave the cake on the shore of the Mermaids ' Lagoon .
These boy be always swim about there , play with the mermaid .
They will find the cake and they will gobble it up , because , have no mother , they do n't know how dangerous 't be to eat rich damp cake . ''
He burst into laughter , not hollow laughter now , but honest laughter .
`` Aha , they will die . ''
Smee have listen with grow admiration .
`` It 's the wicked , prettiest policy ever I hear of ! ''
he cry , and in their exultation they dance and sing : `` Avast , belay , when I appear , By fear they 're overtake ; Nought 's left upon your bone when you Have shake claw with Hook . ''
They begin the verse , but they never finish it , for another sound break in and still them .
There be at first such a tiny sound that a leaf might have fall on it and smother it , but a it come nearer it be more distinct .
Tick tick tick tick !
Hook stand shudder , one foot in the air .
`` The crocodile ! ''
he gasp , and bound away , follow by his bo ` sun .
It be indeed the crocodile .
It have pass the redskin , who be now on the trail of the other pirate .
It ooze on after Hook .
Once more the boy emerge into the open ; but the danger of the night be not yet over , for presently Nibs rush breathless into their midst , pursue by a pack of wolf .
The tongue of the pursuer be hang out ; the baying of them be horrible .
`` Save me , save me ! ''
cry Nibs , fall on the ground .
`` But what can we do , what can we do ? ''
It be a high compliment to Peter that at that dire moment their thought turn to him .
`` What would Peter do ? ''
they cry simultaneously .
Almost in the same breath they cry , `` Peter would look at them through his leg . ''
And then , `` Let u do what Peter would do . ''
It be quite the most successful way of defy wolf , and a one boy they bend and look through their leg .
The next moment be the long one , but victory come quickly , for a the boy advance upon them in the terrible attitude , the wolf drop their tail and flee .
Now Nibs rise from the ground , and the others think that his star eye still saw the wolf .
But it be not wolves he saw .
`` I have see a wonderfuller thing , '' he cry , a they gather round him eagerly .
`` A great white bird .
It be fly this way . ''
`` What kind of a bird , do you think ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' Nibs say , awestruck , `` but it look so weary , and a it fly it moan , ` Poor Wendy , ' '' `` Poor Wendy ? ''
`` I remember , '' say Slightly instantly , `` there be bird call Wendies . ''
`` See , it come ! ''
cry Curly , point to Wendy in the heaven .
Wendy be now almost overhead , and they could hear her plaintive cry .
But more distinct come the shrill voice of Tinker Bell .
The jealous fairy have now cast off all disguise of friendship , and be dart at her victim from every direction , pinch savagely each time she touch .
`` Hullo , Tink , '' cry the wondering boy .
Tink 's reply ring out : `` Peter want you to shoot the Wendy . ''
It be not in their nature to question when Peter order .
`` Let u do what Peter wish ! ''
cry the simple boy .
`` Quick , bow and arrows ! ''
All but Tootles pop down their tree .
He have a bow and arrow with him , and Tink note it , and rub her little hand .
`` Quick , Tootles , quick , '' she scream .
`` Peter will be so pleased . ''
Tootles excitedly fit the arrow to his bow .
`` Out of the way , Tink , '' he shout , and then he fire , and Wendy flutter to the ground with an arrow in her breast .
Chapter 6 THE LITTLE HOUSE Foolish Tootles be stand like a conqueror over Wendy 's body when the other boy sprang , arm , from their tree .
`` You be too late , '' he cry proudly , `` I have shoot the Wendy .
Peter will be so pleased with me . ''
Overhead Tinker Bell shout `` Silly as ! ''
and dart into hiding .
The others do not hear her .
They have crowd round Wendy , and a they look a terrible silence fell upon the wood .
If Wendy 's heart have be beat they would all have hear it .
Slightly be the first to speak .
`` This be no bird , '' he say in a scared voice .
`` I think this must be a lady . ''
`` A lady ? ''
say Tootles , and fell a-trembling .
`` And we have kill her , '' Nibs say hoarsely .
They all whip off their cap .
`` Now I see , '' Curly say : `` Peter be bring her to u . ''
He throw himself sorrowfully on the ground .
`` A lady to take care of u at last , '' say one of the twin , `` and you have kill her ! ''
They be sorry for him , but sorry for themselves , and when he take a step nearer them they turn from him .
Tootles ' face be very white , but there be a dignity about him now that have never be there before .
`` I do it , '' he say , reflect .
`` When lady use to come to me in dream , I say , ` Pretty mother , pretty mother . '
But when at last she really come , I shoot her . ''
He move slowly away .
`` Do n't go , '' they call in pity .
`` I must , '' he answer , shake ; `` I be so afraid of Peter . ''
It be at this tragic moment that they hear a sound which make the heart of every one of them rise to his mouth .
They hear Peter crow .
`` Peter ! ''
they cry , for it be always thus that he signal his return .
`` Hide her , '' they whisper , and gather hastily around Wendy .
But Tootles stand aloof .
Again come that ring crow , and Peter drop in front of them .
`` Greetings , boy , '' he cry , and mechanically they salute , and then again be silence .
He frown .
`` I be back , '' he say hotly , `` why do you not cheer ? ''
They open their mouth , but the cheer would not come .
He overlook it in his haste to tell the glorious tidings .
`` Great news , boy , '' he cry , `` I have bring at last a mother for you all . ''
Still no sound , except a little thud from Tootles a he drop on his knee .
`` Have you not see her ? ''
ask Peter , become trouble .
`` She fly this way . ''
`` Ah me ! ''
once voice say , and another say , `` Oh , mournful day . ''
Tootles rise .
`` Peter , '' he say quietly , `` I will show her to you , '' and when the others would still have hide her he say , `` Back , twin , let Peter see . ''
So they all stand back , and let him see , and after he have look for a little time he do not know what to do next .
`` She be dead , '' he say uncomfortably .
`` Perhaps she be frighten at be dead . ''
He think of hop off in a comic sort of way till he be out of sight of her , and then never go near the spot any more .
They would all have be glad to follow if he have do this .
But there be the arrow .
He take it from her heart and face his band .
`` Whose arrow ? ''
he demand sternly .
`` Mine , Peter , '' say Tootles on his knee .
`` Oh , dastard hand , '' Peter say , and he raise the arrow to use it a a dagger .
Tootles do not flinch .
He bar his breast .
`` Strike , Peter , '' he say firmly , `` strike true . ''
Twice do Peter raise the arrow , and twice do his hand fall .
`` I can not strike , '' he say with awe , `` there be something stay my hand . ''
All look at him in wonder , save Nibs , who fortunately look at Wendy .
`` It be she , '' he cry , `` the Wendy lady , see , her arm ! ''
Wonderful to relate -LSB- tell -RSB- , Wendy have raise her arm .
Nibs bent over her and listen reverently .
`` I think she say , ` Poor Tootles , ' '' he whisper .
`` She live , '' Peter say briefly .
Slightly cry instantly , `` The Wendy lady live . ''
Then Peter kneel beside her and find his button .
You remember she have put it on a chain that she wear round her neck .
`` See , '' he say , `` the arrow struck against this .
It be the kiss I give her .
It have save her life . ''
`` I remember kiss , '' Slightly interposed quickly , `` let me see it .
Ay , that 's a kiss . ''
Peter do not hear him .
He be beg Wendy to get well quickly , so that he could show her the mermaid .
Of course she could not answer yet , be still in a frightful faint ; but from overhead come a wailing note .
`` Listen to Tink , '' say Curly , `` she be cry because the Wendy live . ''
Then they have to tell Peter of Tink 's crime , and almost never have they see him look so stern .
`` Listen , Tinker Bell , '' he cry , `` I be your friend no more .
Begone from me for ever . ''
She fly on to his shoulder and plead , but he brush her off .
Not until Wendy again raise her arm do he relent sufficiently to say , `` Well , not for ever , but for a whole week . ''
Do you think Tinker Bell be grateful to Wendy for raise her arm ?
Oh dear no , never want to pinch her so much .
Fairies indeed be strange , and Peter , who understand them best , often cuffed -LSB- slap -RSB- them .
But what to do with Wendy in her present delicate state of health ?
`` Let u carry her down into the house , '' Curly suggest .
`` Ay , '' say Slightly , `` that be what one do with lady . ''
`` No , no , '' Peter say , `` you must not touch her .
It would not be sufficiently respectful . ''
`` That , '' say Slightly , `` be what I be think . ''
`` But if she lie there , '' Tootles say , `` she will die . ''
`` Ay , she will die , '' Slightly admit , `` but there be no way out . ''
`` Yes , there be , '' cry Peter .
`` Let u build a little house round her . ''
They be all delight .
`` Quick , '' he order them , `` bring me each of you the best of what we have .
Gut our house .
Be sharp . ''
In a moment they be as busy a tailor the night before a wedding .
They skurried this way and that , down for bedding , up for firewood , and while they be at it , who should appear but John and Michael .
As they drag along the ground they fell asleep stand , stop , wake up , move another step and slept again .
`` John , John , '' Michael would cry , `` wake up !
Where be Nana , John , and mother ? ''
And then John would rub his eye and mutter , `` It be true , we do fly . ''
You may be sure they be very relieve to find Peter .
`` Hullo , Peter , '' they say .
`` Hullo , '' reply Peter amicably , though he have quite forget them .
He be very busy at the moment measure Wendy with his foot to see how large a house she would need .
Of course he mean to leave room for chair and a table .
John and Michael watch him .
`` Is Wendy asleep ? ''
they ask .
`` Yes . ''
`` John , '' Michael propose , `` let u wake her and get her to make supper for u , '' but a he say it some of the other boy rush on carry branch for the building of the house .
`` Look at them ! ''
he cry .
`` Curly , '' say Peter in his most captainy voice , `` see that these boy help in the building of the house . ''
`` Ay , ay , sir . ''
`` Build a house ? ''
exclaim John .
`` For the Wendy , '' say Curly .
`` For Wendy ? ''
John say , aghast .
`` Why , she be only a girl ! ''
`` That , '' explain Curly , `` be why we be her servant . ''
`` You ?
Wendy 's servant ! ''
`` Yes , '' say Peter , `` and you also .
Away with them . ''
The astounded brother be drag away to hack and hew and carry .
`` Chairs and a fender -LSB- fireplace -RSB- first , '' Peter order .
`` Then we shall build a house round them . ''
`` Ay , '' say Slightly , `` that be how a house be build ; it all come back to me . ''
Peter thought of everything .
`` Slightly , '' he cry , `` fetch a doctor . ''
`` Ay , ay , '' say Slightly at once , and disappear , scratch his head .
But he know Peter must be obey , and he return in a moment , wear John 's hat and look solemn .
`` Please , sir , '' say Peter , go to him , `` be you a doctor ? ''
The difference between him and the other boy at such a time be that they know it be make-believe , while to him make-believe and true be exactly the same thing .
This sometimes troubled them , a when they have to make-believe that they have have their dinner .
If they break down in their make-believe he rap them on the knuckle .
`` Yes , my little man , '' Slightly anxiously reply , who have chap knuckle .
`` Please , sir , '' Peter explain , `` a lady lie very ill . ''
She be lie at their foot , but Slightly have the sense not to see her .
`` Tut , tut , tut , '' he say , `` where do she lie ? ''
`` In yonder glade . ''
`` I will put a glass thing in her mouth , '' say Slightly , and he made-believe to do it , while Peter wait .
It be an anxious moment when the glass thing be withdraw .
`` How be she ? ''
inquired Peter .
`` Tut , tut , tut , '' say Slightly , `` this have cure her . ''
`` I be glad ! ''
Peter cry .
`` I will call again in the evening , '' Slightly say ; `` give her beef tea out of a cup with a spout to it ; '' but after he have return the hat to John he blow big breath , which be his habit on escape from a difficulty .
In the meantime the wood have be alive with the sound of ax ; almost everything need for a cosy dwelling already lay at Wendy 's foot .
`` If only we know , '' say one , `` the kind of house she like best . ''
`` Peter , '' shout another , `` she be move in her sleep . ''
`` Her mouth open , '' cry a third , look respectfully into it .
`` Oh , lovely ! ''
`` Perhaps she be go to sing in her sleep , '' say Peter .
`` Wendy , sing the kind of house you would like to have . ''
Immediately , without open her eye , Wendy begin to sing : `` I wish I have a pretty house , The little ever see , With funny little red wall And roof of mossy green . ''
They gurgle with joy at this , for by the great good luck the branch they have bring be sticky with red sap , and all the ground be carpet with moss .
As they rattle up the little house they break into song themselves : `` We 've build the little wall and roof And make a lovely door , So tell u , mother Wendy , What be you want more ? ''
To this she answer greedily : `` Oh , really next I think I 'll have Gay windows all about , With rose peep in , you know , And baby peep out . ''
With a blow of their fist they make window , and large yellow leaf be the blind .
But rose -- ?
`` Roses , '' cry Peter sternly .
Quickly they made-believe to grow the lovely roses up the wall .
Babies ?
To prevent Peter order baby they hurry into song again : `` We 've make the rose peep out , The babe be at the door , We can not make ourselves , you know , ` co we 've be make before . ''
Peter , see this to be a good idea , at once pretend that it be his own .
The house be quite beautiful , and no doubt Wendy be very cosy within , though , of course , they could no longer see her .
Peter stride up and down , order finishing touch .
Nothing escape his eagle eye .
Just when it seem absolutely finish : `` There 's no knocker on the door , '' he say .
They be very ashamed , but Tootles give the sole of his shoe , and it make an excellent knocker .
Absolutely finish now , they think .
Not of bit of it .
`` There 's no chimney , '' Peter say ; `` we must have a chimney . ''
`` It certainly do need a chimney , '' say John importantly .
This give Peter an idea .
He snatch the hat off John 's head , knock out the bottom -LSB- top -RSB- , and put the hat on the roof .
The little house be so pleased to have such a capital chimney that , a if to say thank you , smoke immediately begin to come out of the hat .
Now really and truly it be finish .
Nothing remain to do but to knock .
`` All look your best , '' Peter warn them ; `` first impression be awfully important . ''
He be glad no one ask him what first impression be ; they be all too busy look their best .
He knock politely , and now the wood be as still a the child , not a sound to be hear except from Tinker Bell , who be watch from a branch and openly sneering .
What the boy be wonder be , would any one answer the knock ?
If a lady , what would she be like ?
The door open and a lady come out .
It be Wendy .
They all whip off their hat .
She look properly surprise , and this be just how they have hop she would look .
`` Where be I ? ''
she say .
Of course Slightly be the first to get his word in .
`` Wendy lady , '' he say rapidly , `` for you we build this house . ''
`` Oh , say you 're pleased , '' cry Nibs .
`` Lovely , darling house , '' Wendy say , and they be the very word they have hop she would say .
`` And we be your child , '' cry the twin .
Then all go on their knee , and hold out their arm cry , `` O Wendy lady , be our mother . ''
`` Ought I ? ''
Wendy say , all shining .
`` Of course it 's frightfully fascinating , but you see I be only a little girl .
I have no real experience . ''
`` That do n't matter , '' say Peter , a if he be the only person present who know all about it , though he be really the one who know least .
`` What we need be just a nice motherly person . ''
`` Oh dear ! ''
Wendy say , `` you see , I feel that be exactly what I be . ''
`` It be , it be , '' they all cry ; `` we saw it at once . ''
`` Very well , '' she say , `` I will do my best .
Come inside at once , you naughty child ; I be sure your foot be damp .
And before I put you to bed I have just time to finish the story of Cinderella . ''
In they go ; I do n't know how there be room for them , but you can squeeze very tight in the Neverland .
And that be the first of the many joyous evening they have with Wendy .
By and by she tuck them up in the great bed in the home under the tree , but she herself sleep that night in the little house , and Peter keep watch outside with drawn sword , for the pirate could be hear carouse far away and the wolf be on the prowl .
The little house look so cosy and safe in the darkness , with a bright light show through it blind , and the chimney smoking beautifully , and Peter stand on guard .
After a time he fell asleep , and some unsteady fairy have to climb over him on their way home from an orgy .
Any of the other boy obstruct the fairy path at night they would have mischiefed , but they just tweak Peter 's nose and pass on .
Chapter 7 THE HOME UNDER THE GROUND One of the first thing Peter do next day be to measure Wendy and John and Michael for hollow tree .
Hook , you remember , have sneer at the boy for think they need a tree apiece , but this be ignorance , for unless your tree fit you it be difficult to go up and down , and no two of the boy be quite the same size .
Once you fit , you draw in -LSB- let out -RSB- your breath at the top , and down you go at exactly the right speed , while to ascend you draw in and let out alternately , and so wriggle up .
Of course , when you have master the action you be able to do these thing without thinking of them , and nothing can be more graceful .
But you simply must fit , and Peter measure you for your tree as carefully a for a suit of clothes : the only difference be that the clothes be make to fit you , while you have to be make to fit the tree .
Usually it be do quite easily , a by your wear too many garment or too few , but if you be bumpy in awkward place or the only available tree be an odd shape , Peter do some thing to you , and after that you fit .
Once you fit , great care must be take to go on fitting , and this , a Wendy be to discover to her delight , keep a whole family in perfect condition .
Wendy and Michael fit their tree at the first try , but John have to be alter a little .
After a few day ' practice they could go up and down as gaily a bucket in a well .
And how ardently they grow to love their home under the ground ; especially Wendy .
It consist of one large room , a all house should do , with a floor in which you could dig -LSB- for worm -RSB- if you want to go fishing , and in this floor grow stout mushroom of a charming colour , which be use a stool .
A Never tree try hard to grow in the centre of the room , but every morning they saw the trunk through , level with the floor .
By tea-time it be always about two foot high , and then they put a door on top of it , the whole thus become a table ; as soon a they clear away , they saw off the trunk again , and thus there be more room to play .
There be an enormous fireplace which be in almost any part of the room where you care to light it , and across this Wendy stretch string , make of fibre , from which she suspend her washing .
The bed be tilt against the wall by day , and let down at 6:30 , when it fill nearly half the room ; and all the boy sleep in it , except Michael , lie like sardine in a tin .
There be a strict rule against turn round until one give the signal , when all turn at once .
Michael should have use it also , but Wendy would have -LSB- desire -RSB- a baby , and he be the little , and you know what woman be , and the short and long of it be that he be hang up in a basket .
It be rough and simple , and not unlike what baby bear would have make of an underground house in the same circumstance .
But there be one recess in the wall , no large than a bird-cage , which be the private apartment of Tinker Bell .
It could be shut off from the rest of the house by a tiny curtain , which Tink , who be most fastidious -LSB- particular -RSB- , always keep drawn when dressing or undressing .
No woman , however large , could have have a more exquisite boudoir -LSB- dressing room -RSB- and bed-chamber combine .
The couch , a she always call it , be a genuine Queen Mab , with club leg ; and she vary the bedspread accord to what fruit-blossom be in season .
Her mirror be a Puss-in-Boots , of which there be now only three , unchipped , know to fairy dealer ; the washstand be Pie-crust and reversible , the chest of drawer an authentic Charming the Sixth , and the carpet and rugs the best -LRB- the early -RRB- period of Margery and Robin .
There be a chandelier from Tiddlywinks for the look of the thing , but of course she light the residence herself .
Tink be very contemptuous of the rest of the house , a indeed be perhaps inevitable , and her chamber , though beautiful , look rather conceited , have the appearance of a nose permanently turn up .
I suppose it be all especially entrance to Wendy , because those rampagious boy of hers give her so much to do .
Really there be whole week when , except perhaps with a stocking in the evening , she be never above ground .
The cooking , I can tell you , keep her nose to the pot , and even if there be nothing in it , even if there be no pot , she have to keep watching that it come aboil just the same .
You never exactly know whether there would be a real meal or just a make-believe , it all depend upon Peter 's whim : he could eat , really eat , if it be part of a game , but he could not stodge -LSB- cram down the food -RSB- just to feel stodgy -LSB- stuffed with food -RSB- , which be what most child like good than anything else ; the next best thing be to talk about it .
Make-believe be so real to him that during a meal of it you could see him get rounder .
Of course it be try , but you simply have to follow his lead , and if you could prove to him that you be get loose for your tree he let you stodge .
Wendy 's favourite time for sew and darning be after they have all go to bed .
Then , a she express it , she have a breathing time for herself ; and she occupy it in make new thing for them , and put double piece on the knee , for they be all most frightfully hard on their knee .
When she sit down to a basketful of their stocking , every heel with a hole in it , she would fling up her arm and exclaim , `` Oh dear , I be sure I sometimes think spinster be to be envy ! ''
Her face beam when she exclaim this .
You remember about her pet wolf .
Well , it very soon discover that she have come to the island and it find her out , and they just run into each other 's arm .
After that it follow her about everywhere .
As time wore on do she think much about the beloved parent she have leave behind her ?
This be a difficult question , because it be quite impossible to say how time do wear on in the Neverland , where it be calculate by moon and sun , and there be ever so many more of them than on the mainland .
But I be afraid that Wendy do not really worry about her father and mother ; she be absolutely confident that they would always keep the window open for her to fly back by , and this give her complete ease of mind .
What do disturb her at time be that John remember his parent vaguely only , a people he have once know , while Michael be quite willing to believe that she be really his mother .
These thing scar her a little , and nobly anxious to do her duty , she try to fix the old life in their mind by set them examination paper on it , as like a possible to the one she use to do at school .
The other boy think this awfully interesting , and insist on joining , and they make slate for themselves , and sit round the table , write and think hard about the question she have write on another slate and pass round .
They be the most ordinary question -- `` What be the colour of Mother 's eye ?
Which be taller , Father or Mother ?
Was Mother blonde or brunette ?
Answer all three question if possible . '' ''
-LRB- A -RRB- Write an essay of not less than 40 word on How I spend my last Holidays , or The Characters of Father and Mother compare .
Only one of these to be attempt . ''
Or '' -LRB- 1 -RRB- Describe Mother 's laugh ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- Describe Father 's laugh ; -LRB- 3 -RRB- Describe Mother 's Party Dress ; -LRB- 4 -RRB- Describe the Kennel and it Inmate . ''
They be just everyday question like these , and when you could not answer them you be tell to make a cross ; and it be really dreadful what a number of cross even John make .
Of course the only boy who reply to every question be Slightly , and no one could have be more hopeful of come out first , but his answer be perfectly ridiculous , and he really come out last : a melancholy thing .
Peter do not compete .
For one thing he despise all mother except Wendy , and for another he be the only boy on the island who could neither write nor spell ; not the small word .
He be above all that sort of thing .
By the way , the question be all write in the past tense .
What be the colour of Mother 's eye , and so on .
Wendy , you see , have be forget , too .
Adventures , of course , a we shall see , be of daily occurrence ; but about this time Peter invent , with Wendy 's help , a new game that fascinate him enormously , until he suddenly have no more interest in it , which , a you have be tell , be what always happen with his game .
It consist in pretend not to have adventure , in do the sort of thing John and Michael have be do all their life , sit on stool fling ball in the air , push each other , go out for walk and come back without have kill so much a a grizzly .
To see Peter do nothing on a stool be a great sight ; he could not help look solemn at such time , to sit still seem to him such a comic thing to do .
He boast that he have go walk for the good of his health .
For several sun these be the most novel of all adventure to him ; and John and Michael have to pretend to be delight also ; otherwise he would have treat them severely .
He often go out alone , and when he come back you be never absolutely certain whether he have have an adventure or not .
He might have forget it so completely that he say nothing about it ; and then when you go out you find the body ; and , on the other hand , he might say a great deal about it , and yet you could not find the body .
Sometimes he come home with his head bandage , and then Wendy cooed over him and bath it in lukewarm water , while he tell a dazzling tale .
But she be never quite sure , you know .
There be , however , many adventure which she know to be true because she be in them herself , and there be still more that be at least partly true , for the other boy be in them and say they be wholly true .
To describe them all would require a book as large a an English-Latin , Latin-English Dictionary , and the most we can do be to give one a a specimen of an average hour on the island .
The difficulty be which one to choose .
Should we take the brush with the redskin at Slightly Gulch ?
It be a sanguinary -LSB- cheerful -RSB- affair , and especially interesting a show one of Peter 's peculiarity , which be that in the middle of a fight he would suddenly change side .
At the Gulch , when victory be still in the balance , sometimes lean this way and sometimes that , he call out , `` I 'm redskin to-day ; what be you , Tootles ? ''
And Tootles answer , `` Redskin ; what be you , Nibs ? ''
and Nibs say , `` Redskin ; what be you Twin ? ''
and so on ; and they be all redskin ; and of course this would have end the fight have not the real redskin fascinate by Peter 's method , agree to be lose boy for that once , and so at it they all go again , more fiercely than ever .
The extraordinary upshot of this adventure be -- but we have not decide yet that this be the adventure we be to narrate .
Perhaps a good one would be the night attack by the redskin on the house under the ground , when several of them stick in the hollow tree and have to be pull out like cork .
Or we might tell how Peter save Tiger Lily 's life in the Mermaids ' Lagoon , and so make her his ally .
Or we could tell of that cake the pirate cook so that the boy might eat it and perish ; and how they place it in one cunning spot after another ; but always Wendy snatch it from the hand of her child , so that in time it lose it succulence , and become as hard a a stone , and be use a a missile , and Hook fell over it in the dark .
Or suppose we tell of the bird that be Peter 's friend , particularly of the Never bird that build in a tree overhang the lagoon , and how the nest fell into the water , and still the bird sit on her egg , and Peter give order that she be not to be disturb .
That be a pretty story , and the end show how grateful a bird can be ; but if we tell it we must also tell the whole adventure of the lagoon , which would of course be tell two adventure rather than just one .
A short adventure , and quite a exciting , be Tinker Bell 's attempt , with the help of some street fairy , to have the sleeping Wendy convey on a great float leaf to the mainland .
Fortunately the leaf give way and Wendy wake , think it be bath-time , and swim back .
Or again , we might choose Peter 's defiance of the lion , when he draw a circle round him on the ground with an arrow and dare them to cross it ; and though he wait for hour , with the other boy and Wendy look on breathlessly from tree , not one of them dare to accept his challenge .
Which of these adventure shall we choose ?
The best way will be to toss for it .
I have toss , and the lagoon have win .
This almost make one wish that the gulch or the cake or Tink 's leaf have win .
Of course I could do it again , and make it best out of three ; however , perhaps fair to stick to the lagoon .
Chapter 8 THE MERMAIDS ' LAGOON If you shut your eye and be a lucky one , you may see at time a shapeless pool of lovely pale colour suspend in the darkness ; then if you squeeze your eye tighter , the pool begin to take shape , and the colour become so vivid that with another squeeze they must go on fire .
But just before they go on fire you see the lagoon .
This be the near you ever get to it on the mainland , just one heavenly moment ; if there could be two moment you might see the surf and hear the mermaid singing .
The child often spend long summer day on this lagoon , swim or float most of the time , play the mermaid game in the water , and so forth .
You must not think from this that the mermaid be on friendly term with them : on the contrary , it be among Wendy 's lasting regret that all the time she be on the island she never have a civil word from one of them .
When she steal softly to the edge of the lagoon she might see them by the score , especially on Marooners ' Rock , where they love to bask , comb out their hair in a lazy way that quite irritated her ; or she might even swim , on tiptoe a it be , to within a yard of them , but then they saw her and dive , probably splash her with their tail , not by accident , but intentionally .
They treat all the boy in the same way , except of course Peter , who chat with them on Marooners ' Rock by the hour , and sit on their tail when they get cheeky .
He give Wendy one of their comb .
The most haunting time at which to see them be at the turn of the moon , when they utter strange wailing cry ; but the lagoon be dangerous for mortal then , and until the evening of which we have now to tell , Wendy have never see the lagoon by moonlight , le from fear , for of course Peter would have accompany her , than because she have strict rule about every one be in bed by seven .
She be often at the lagoon , however , on sunny day after rain , when the mermaid come up in extraordinary number to play with their bubble .
The bubble of many colour make in rainbow water they treat a ball , hit them gaily from one to another with their tail , and try to keep them in the rainbow till they burst .
The goal be at each end of the rainbow , and the keeper only be allow to use their hand .
Sometimes a dozen of these game will be go on in the lagoon at a time , and it be quite a pretty sight .
But the moment the child try to join in they have to play by themselves , for the mermaid immediately disappear .
Nevertheless we have proof that they secretly watch the interloper , and be not above take an idea from them ; for John introduce a new way of hit the bubble , with the head instead of the hand , and the mermaid adopt it .
This be the one mark that John have leave on the Neverland .
It must also have be rather pretty to see the child rest on a rock for half an hour after their mid-day meal .
Wendy insist on their do this , and it have to be a real rest even though the meal be make-believe .
So they lay there in the sun , and their body glisten in it , while she sit beside them and look important .
It be one such day , and they be all on Marooners ' Rock .
The rock be not much large than their great bed , but of course they all know how not to take up much room , and they be doze , or at least lie with their eye shut , and pinch occasionally when they think Wendy be not look .
She be very busy , stitch .
While she stitch a change come to the lagoon .
Little shiver run over it , and the sun go away and shadow stole across the water , turn it cold .
Wendy could no longer see to thread her needle , and when she look up , the lagoon that have always hitherto be such a laughing place seem formidable and unfriendly .
It be not , she know , that night have come , but something as dark a night have come .
No , bad than that .
It have not come , but it have send that shiver through the sea to say that it be come .
What be it ?
There crowd upon her all the story she have be tell of Marooners ' Rock , so call because evil captain put sailor on it and leave them there to drown .
They drown when the tide rise , for then it be submerge .
Of course she should have rouse the child at once ; not merely because of the unknown that be stalk toward them , but because it be no longer good for them to sleep on a rock grow chilly .
But she be a young mother and she do not know this ; she think you simply must stick to your rule about half an hour after the mid-day meal .
So , though fear be upon her , and she long to hear male voice , she would not waken them .
Even when she hear the sound of muffled oar , though her heart be in her mouth , she do not waken them .
She stand over them to let them have their sleep out .
Was it not brave of Wendy ?
It be well for those boy then that there be one among them who could sniff danger even in his sleep .
Peter sprang erect , a wide awake at once a a dog , and with one warn cry he rouse the others .
He stand motionless , one hand to his ear .
`` Pirates ! ''
he cry .
The others come close to him .
A strange smile be play about his face , and Wendy saw it and shudder .
While that smile be on his face no one dare address him ; all they could do be to stand ready to obey .
The order come sharp and incisive .
`` Dive ! ''
There be a gleam of leg , and instantly the lagoon seem desert .
Marooners ' Rock stand alone in the forbidding water a if it be itself maroon .
The boat draw nearer .
It be the pirate dinghy , with three figure in her , Smee and Starkey , and the third a captive , no other than Tiger Lily .
Her hand and ankle be tie , and she know what be to be her fate .
She be to be leave on the rock to perish , an end to one of her race more terrible than death by fire or torture , for be it not write in the book of the tribe that there be no path through water to the happy hunting-ground ?
Yet her face be impassive ; she be the daughter of a chief , she must die a a chief 's daughter , it be enough .
They have catch her board the pirate ship with a knife in her mouth .
No watch be keep on the ship , it be Hook 's boast that the wind of his name guard the ship for a mile around .
Now her fate would help to guard it also .
One more wail would go the round in that wind by night .
In the gloom that they bring with them the two pirate do not see the rock till they crash into it .
`` Luff , you lubber , '' cry an Irish voice that be Smee 's ; `` here 's the rock .
Now , then , what we have to do be to hoist the redskin on to it and leave her here to drown . ''
It be the work of one brutal moment to land the beautiful girl on the rock ; she be too proud to offer a vain resistance .
Quite near the rock , but out of sight , two head be bob up and down , Peter 's and Wendy 's .
Wendy be cry , for it be the first tragedy she have see .
Peter have see many tragedy , but he have forget them all .
He be less sorry than Wendy for Tiger Lily : it be two against one that anger him , and he mean to save her .
An easy way would have be to wait until the pirate have go , but he be never one to choose the easy way .
There be almost nothing he could not do , and he now imitate the voice of Hook .
`` Ahoy there , you lubbers ! ''
he call .
It be a marvellous imitation .
`` The captain ! ''
say the pirate , star at each other in surprise .
`` He must be swim out to u , '' Starkey say , when they have look for him in vain .
`` We be put the redskin on the rock , '' Smee call out .
`` Set her free , '' come the astonishing answer .
`` Free ! ''
`` Yes , cut her bond and let her go . ''
`` But , captain -- '' `` At once , d 'ye hear , '' cry Peter , `` or I 'll plunge my hook in you . ''
`` This be queer ! ''
Smee gasp .
`` Better do what the captain order , '' say Starkey nervously .
`` Ay , ay . ''
Smee say , and he cut Tiger Lily 's cord .
At once like an eel she slide between Starkey 's leg into the water .
Of course Wendy be very elate over Peter 's cleverness ; but she know that he would be elate also and very likely crow and thus betray himself , so at once her hand go out to cover his mouth .
But it be stay even in the act , for `` Boat ahoy ! ''
rang over the lagoon in Hook 's voice , and this time it be not Peter who have speak .
Peter may have be about to crow , but his face pucker in a whistle of surprise instead .
`` Boat ahoy ! ''
again come the voice .
Now Wendy understood .
The real Hook be also in the water .
He be swim to the boat , and a his men show a light to guide him he have soon reach them .
In the light of the lantern Wendy saw his hook grip the boat 's side ; she saw his evil swarthy face a he rise drip from the water , and , quake , she would have like to swim away , but Peter would not budge .
He be tingle with life and also top-heavy with conceit .
`` Am I not a wonder , oh , I be a wonder ! ''
he whisper to her , and though she think so also , she be really glad for the sake of his reputation that no one hear him except herself .
He sign to her to listen .
The two pirate be very curious to know what have bring their captain to them , but he sit with his head on his hook in a position of profound melancholy .
`` Captain , be all well ? ''
they ask timidly , but he answer with a hollow moan .
`` He sigh , '' say Smee .
`` He sigh again , '' say Starkey .
`` And yet a third time he sigh , '' say Smee .
Then at last he speak passionately .
`` The game 's up , '' he cry , `` those boy have find a mother . ''
Affrighted though she be , Wendy swell with pride .
`` O evil day ! ''
cry Starkey .
`` What 's a mother ? ''
ask the ignorant Smee .
Wendy be so shocked that she exclaim .
`` He do n't know ! ''
and always after this she felt that if you could have a pet pirate Smee would be her one .
Peter pull her beneath the water , for Hook have start up , cry , `` What be that ? ''
`` I hear nothing , '' say Starkey , raise the lantern over the water , and a the pirate look they saw a strange sight .
It be the nest I have tell you of , float on the lagoon , and the Never bird be sit on it .
`` See , '' say Hook in answer to Smee 's question , `` that be a mother .
What a lesson !
The nest must have fall into the water , but would the mother desert her egg ?
No . ''
There be a break in his voice , a if for a moment he recall innocent day when -- but he brush away this weakness with his hook .
Smee , much impressed , gaze at the bird a the nest be borne past , but the more suspicious Starkey say , `` If she be a mother , perhaps she be hang about here to help Peter . ''
Hook wince .
`` Ay , '' he say , `` that be the fear that haunt me . ''
He be rouse from this dejection by Smee 's eager voice .
`` Captain , '' say Smee , `` could we not kidnap these boy ' mother and make her our mother ? ''
`` It be a princely scheme , '' cry Hook , and at once it take practical shape in his great brain .
`` We will seize the child and carry them to the boat : the boy we will make walk the plank , and Wendy shall be our mother . ''
Again Wendy forget herself .
`` Never ! ''
she cry , and bob .
`` What be that ? ''
But they could see nothing .
They think it must have be a leaf in the wind .
`` Do you agree , my bully ? ''
ask Hook .
`` There be my hand on it , '' they both say .
`` And there be my hook .
Swear . ''
They all swear .
By this time they be on the rock , and suddenly Hook remember Tiger Lily .
`` Where be the redskin ? ''
he demand abruptly .
He have a playful humour at moment , and they think this be one of the moment .
`` That be all right , captain , '' Smee answer complacently ; `` we let her go . ''
`` Let her go ! ''
cry Hook . ''
'T be your own order , '' the bo ` sun falter .
`` You call over the water to u to let her go , '' say Starkey .
`` Brimstone and gall , '' thunder Hook , `` what cozen -LSB- cheat -RSB- be go on here ! ''
His face have go black with rage , but he saw that they believe their word , and he be startle .
`` Lads , '' he say , shake a little , `` I give no such order . ''
`` It be pass queer , '' Smee say , and they all fidget uncomfortably .
Hook raise his voice , but there be a quiver in it .
`` Spirit that haunt this dark lagoon to-night , '' he cry , `` dost hear me ? ''
Of course Peter should have keep quiet , but of course he do not .
He immediately answer in Hook 's voice : `` Odds , bob , hammer and tongs , I hear you . ''
In that supreme moment Hook do not blanch , even at the gill , but Smee and Starkey clung to each other in terror .
`` Who be you , strange ?
Speak ! ''
Hook demand .
`` I be James Hook , '' reply the voice , `` captain of the JOLLY ROGER . ''
`` You be not ; you be not , '' Hook cry hoarsely .
`` Brimstone and gall , '' the voice retort , `` say that again , and I 'll cast anchor in you . ''
Hook try a more ingratiating manner .
`` If you be Hook , '' he say almost humbly , `` come tell me , who be I ? ''
`` A codfish , '' reply the voice , `` only a codfish . ''
`` A codfish ! ''
Hook echo blankly , and it be then , but not till then , that his proud spirit break .
He saw his men draw back from him .
`` Have we be captain all this time by a codfish ! ''
they mutter .
`` It be lower to our pride . ''
They be his dog snap at him , but , tragic figure though he have become , he scarcely heed them .
Against such fearful evidence it be not their belief in him that he need , it be his own .
He felt his ego slip from him .
`` Do n't desert me , bully , '' he whisper hoarsely to it .
In his dark nature there be a touch of the feminine , a in all the great pirate , and it sometimes give him intuition .
Suddenly he try the guessing game .
`` Hook , '' he call , `` have you another voice ? ''
Now Peter could never resist a game , and he answer blithely in his own voice , `` I have . ''
`` And another name ? ''
`` Ay , ay . ''
`` Vegetable ? ''
ask Hook .
`` No . ''
`` Mineral ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Animal ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Man ? ''
`` No ! ''
This answer ring out scornfully .
`` Boy ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Ordinary boy ? ''
`` No ! ''
`` Wonderful boy ? ''
To Wendy 's pain the answer that ring out this time be `` Yes . ''
`` Are you in England ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Are you here ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Hook be completely puzzle .
`` You ask him some question , '' he say to the others , wipe his damp brow .
Smee reflect .
`` I ca n't think of a thing , '' he say regretfully .
`` Ca n't guess , ca n't guess ! ''
crow Peter .
`` Do you give it up ? ''
Of course in his pride he be carry the game too far , and the miscreant -LSB- villain -RSB- saw their chance .
`` Yes , yes , '' they answer eagerly .
`` Well , then , '' he cry , `` I be Peter Pan . ''
Pan !
In a moment Hook be himself again , and Smee and Starkey be his faithful henchman .
`` Now we have him , '' Hook shout .
`` Into the water , Smee .
Starkey , mind the boat .
Take him dead or alive ! ''
He leap a he speak , and simultaneously come the gay voice of Peter .
`` Are you ready , boys ? ''
`` Ay , ay , '' from various part of the lagoon .
`` Then lam into the pirate . ''
The fight be short and sharp .
First to draw blood be John , who gallantly climb into the boat and hold Starkey .
There be fierce struggle , in which the cutlas be tear from the pirate 's grasp .
He wriggle overboard and John leap after him .
The dinghy drift away .
Here and there a head bob up in the water , and there be a flash of steel follow by a cry or a whoop .
In the confusion some strike at their own side .
The corkscrew of Smee get Tootles in the fourth rib , but he be himself pink -LSB- nick -RSB- in turn by Curly .
Farther from the rock Starkey be press Slightly and the twin hard .
Where all this time be Peter ?
He be seek big game .
The others be all brave boy , and they must not be blame for back from the pirate captain .
His iron claw make a circle of dead water round him , from which they flee like affrighted fish .
But there be one who do not fear him : there be one prepared to enter that circle .
Strangely , it be not in the water that they meet .
Hook rise to the rock to breathe , and at the same moment Peter scale it on the opposite side .
The rock be slippery a a ball , and they have to crawl rather than climb .
Neither know that the other be come .
Each feeling for a grip meet the other 's arm : in surprise they raise their head ; their face be almost touching ; so they meet .
Some of the great hero have confess that just before they fell to -LSB- begin combat -RSB- they have a sinking -LSB- feeling in the stomach -RSB- .
Had it be so with Peter at that moment I would admit it .
After all , he be the only man that the Sea-Cook have fear .
But Peter have no sinking , he have one feel only , gladness ; and he gnash his pretty teeth with joy .
Quick a thought he snatch a knife from Hook 's belt and be about to drive it home , when he saw that he be high up the rock that his foe .
It would not have be fight fair .
He give the pirate a hand to help him up .
It be then that Hook bite him .
Not the pain of this but it unfairness be what daze Peter .
It make him quite helpless .
He could only stare , horrify .
Every child be affect thus the first time he be treat unfairly .
All he think he have a right to when he come to you to be yours be fairness .
After you have be unfair to him he will love you again , but will never afterwards be quite the same boy .
No one ever get over the first unfairness ; no one except Peter .
He often meet it , but he always forget it .
I suppose that be the real difference between him and all the rest .
So when he meet it now it be like the first time ; and he could just stare , helpless .
Twice the iron hand claw him .
A few moment afterwards the other boy saw Hook in the water strike wildly for the ship ; no elation on the pestilent face now , only white fear , for the crocodile be in dogged pursuit of him .
On ordinary occasion the boy would have swim alongside cheer ; but now they be uneasy , for they have lose both Peter and Wendy , and be scour the lagoon for them , call them by name .
They find the dinghy and go home in it , shout `` Peter , Wendy '' a they go , but no answer come save mocking laughter from the mermaid .
`` They must be swim back or fly , '' the boy conclude .
They be not very anxious , because they have such faith in Peter .
They chuckle , boylike , because they would be late for bed ; and it be all mother Wendy 's fault !
When their voice die away there come cold silence over the lagoon , and then a feeble cry .
`` Help , help ! ''
Two small figure be beat against the rock ; the girl have faint and lay on the boy 's arm .
With a last effort Peter pull her up the rock and then lay down beside her .
Even a he also faint he saw that the water be rise .
He know that they would soon be drown , but he could do no more .
As they lay side by side a mermaid caught Wendy by the foot , and begin pull her softly into the water .
Peter , feel her slip from him , wake with a start , and be just in time to draw her back .
But he have to tell her the truth .
`` We be on the rock , Wendy , '' he say , `` but it be grow small .
Soon the water will be over it . ''
She do not understand even now .
`` We must go , '' she say , almost brightly .
`` Yes , '' he answer faintly .
`` Shall we swim or fly , Peter ? ''
He have to tell her .
`` Do you think you could swim or fly as far a the island , Wendy , without my help ? ''
She have to admit that she be too tired .
He moan .
`` What be it ? ''
she ask , anxious about him at once .
`` I ca n't help you , Wendy .
Hook wound me .
I can neither fly nor swim . ''
`` Do you mean we shall both be drown ? ''
`` Look how the water be rise . ''
They put their hand over their eye to shut out the sight .
They think they would soon be no more .
As they sit thus something brush against Peter as light a a kiss , and stay there , a if say timidly , `` Can I be of any use ? ''
It be the tail of a kite , which Michael have make some day before .
It have tear itself out of his hand and float away .
`` Michael 's kite , '' Peter say without interest , but next moment he have seize the tail , and be pull the kite toward him .
`` It lift Michael off the ground , '' he cry ; `` why should it not carry you ? ''
`` Both of u ! ''
`` It ca n't lift two ; Michael and Curly try . ''
`` Let u draw lot , '' Wendy say bravely .
`` And you a lady ; never . ''
Already he have tie the tail round her .
She cling to him ; she refuse to go without him ; but with a `` Good-bye , Wendy , '' he push her from the rock ; and in a few minute she be bear out of his sight .
Peter be alone on the lagoon .
The rock be very small now ; soon it would be submerge .
Pale ray of light tiptoed across the water ; and by and by there be to be hear a sound at once the most musical and the most melancholy in the world : the mermaid call to the moon .
Peter be not quite like other boy ; but he be afraid at last .
A tremour run through him , like a shudder passing over the sea ; but on the sea one shudder follow another till there be hundred of them , and Peter felt just the one .
Next moment he be stand erect on the rock again , with that smile on his face and a drum beating within him .
It be say , `` To die will be an awfully big adventure . ''
Chapter 9 THE NEVER BIRD The last sound Peter heard before he be quite alone be the mermaid retire one by one to their bedchamber under the sea .
He be too far away to hear their door shut ; but every door in the coral cave where they live ring a tiny bell when it open or close -LRB- a in all the nice house on the mainland -RRB- , and he hear the bell .
Steadily the water rise till they be nibble at his foot ; and to pass the time until they make their final gulp , he watch the only thing on the lagoon .
He think it be a piece of float paper , perhaps part of the kite , and wonder idly how long it would take to drift ashore .
Presently he notice a an odd thing that it be undoubtedly out upon the lagoon with some definite purpose , for it be fight the tide , and sometimes win ; and when it win , Peter , always sympathetic to the weak side , could not help clapping ; it be such a gallant piece of paper .
It be not really a piece of paper ; it be the Never bird , make desperate effort to reach Peter on the nest .
By work her wing , in a way she have learn since the nest fell into the water , she be able to some extent to guide her strange craft , but by the time Peter recognise her she be very exhausted .
She have come to save him , to give him her nest , though there be egg in it .
I rather wonder at the bird , for though he have be nice to her , he have also sometimes torment her .
I can suppose only that , like Mrs . Darling and the rest of them , she be melt because he have all his first teeth .
She call out to him what she have come for , and he call out to her what she be do there ; but of course neither of them understand the other 's language .
In fanciful story people can talk to the bird freely , and I wish for the moment I could pretend that this be such a story , and say that Peter reply intelligently to the Never bird ; but truth be best , and I want to tell you only what really happen .
Well , not only could they not understand each other , but they forget their manner .
`` I -- want -- you -- to -- get -- into -- the -- nest , '' the bird call , speak a slowly and distinctly a possible , `` and -- then -- you -- can -- drift -- ashore , but -- I -- be -- too -- tire -- to -- bring -- it -- any -- nearer -- so -- you -- must -- try to -- swim -- to -- it . ''
`` What be you quack about ? ''
Peter answer .
`` Why do n't you let the nest drift a usual ? ''
`` I -- want -- you -- '' the bird say , and repeat it all over .
Then Peter try slow and distinct .
`` What -- be -- you -- quack -- about ? ''
and so on .
The Never bird become irritated ; they have very short temper .
`` You dunderheaded little jay , '' she scream , `` Why do n't you do a I tell you ? ''
Peter felt that she be call him names , and at a venture he retort hotly : `` So be you ! ''
Then rather curiously they both snap out the same remark : `` Shut up ! ''
`` Shut up ! ''
Nevertheless the bird be determine to save him if she could , and by one last mighty effort she propel the nest against the rock .
Then up she fly ; desert her egg , so a to make her meaning clear .
Then at last he understand , and clutch the nest and wave his thanks to the bird a she flutter overhead .
It be not to receive his thanks , however , that she hang there in the sky ; it be not even to watch him get into the nest ; it be to see what he do with her egg .
There be two large white egg , and Peter lift them up and reflect .
The bird cover her face with her wing , so a not to see the last of them ; but she could not help peep between the feather .
I forget whether I have tell you that there be a stave on the rock , drive into it by some buccaneer of long ago to mark the site of buried treasure .
The child have discover the glitter hoard , and when in a mischievous mood use to fling shower of moidores , diamond , pearl and piece of eight to the gull , who pounce upon them for food , and then fly away , rag at the scurvy trick that have be play upon them .
The stave be still there , and on it Starkey have hang his hat , a deep tarpaulin , watertight , with a broad brim .
Peter put the egg into this hat and set it on the lagoon .
It float beautifully .
The Never bird saw at once what he be up to , and scream her admiration of him ; and , ala , Peter crow his agreement with her .
Then he get into the nest , rear the stave in it a a mast , and hang up his shirt for a sail .
At the same moment the bird flutter down upon the hat and once more sat snugly on her egg .
She drift in one direction , and he be bear off in another , both cheer .
Of course when Peter land he beach his barque -LSB- small ship , actually the Never Bird 's nest in this particular case in point -RSB- in a place where the bird would easily find it ; but the hat be such a great success that she abandon the nest .
It drift about till it go to piece , and often Starkey come to the shore of the lagoon , and with many bitter feeling watch the bird sit on his hat .
As we shall not see her again , it may be worth mention here that all Never bird now build in that shape of nest , with a broad brim on which the youngster take an airing .
Great be the rejoicing when Peter reach the home under the ground almost as soon a Wendy , who have be carry hither and thither by the kite .
Every boy have adventure to tell ; but perhaps the big adventure of all be that they be several hour late for bed .
This so inflated them that they do various dodgy thing to get stay up still longer , such a demand bandage ; but Wendy , though glory in have them all home again safe and sound , be scandalise by the lateness of the hour , and cry , `` To bed , to bed , '' in a voice that have to be obey .
Next day , however , she be awfully tender , and give out bandage to every one , and they play till bed-time at limp about and carry their arm in sling .
Chapter 10 THE HAPPY HOME One important result of the brush -LSB- with the pirate -RSB- on the lagoon be that it make the redskin their friend .
Peter have save Tiger Lily from a dreadful fate , and now there be nothing she and her brave would not do for him .
All night they sit above , keep watch over the home under the ground and await the big attack by the pirate which obviously could not be much long delay .
Even by day they hang about , smoke the pipe of peace , and look almost a if they want tit-bits to eat .
They call Peter the Great White Father , prostrate themselves -LSB- lie down -RSB- before him ; and he like this tremendously , so that it be not really good for him .
`` The great white father , '' he would say to them in a very lordly manner , a they grovel at his foot , `` be glad to see the Piccaninny warrior protect his wigwam from the pirate . ''
`` Me Tiger Lily , '' that lovely creature would reply .
`` Peter Pan save me , me his velly nice friend .
Me no let pirate hurt him . ''
She be far too pretty to cringe in this way , but Peter think it his due , and he would answer condescendingly , `` It be good .
Peter Pan have speak . ''
Always when he say , `` Peter Pan have speak , '' it mean that they must now shut up , and they accept it humbly in that spirit ; but they be by no mean so respectful to the other boy , whom they look upon a just ordinary brave .
They say `` How-do ? ''
to them , and thing like that ; and what annoy the boy be that Peter seem to think this all right .
Secretly Wendy sympathise with them a little , but she be far too loyal a housewife to listen to any complaint against father .
`` Father know best , '' she always say , whatever her private opinion must be .
Her private opinion be that the redskin should not call her a squaw .
We have now reach the evening that be to be know among them a the Night of Nights , because of it adventure and their upshot .
The day , a if quietly gather it force , have be almost uneventful , and now the redskin in their blanket be at their post above , while , below , the child be have their evening meal ; all except Peter , who have go out to get the time .
The way you get the time on the island be to find the crocodile , and then stay near him till the clock strike .
The meal happen to be a make-believe tea , and they sit around the board , guzzle in their greed ; and really , what with their chatter and recrimination , the noise , a Wendy say , be positively deafen .
To be sure , she do not mind noise , but she simply would not have them grab thing , and then excuse themselves by say that Tootles have push their elbow .
There be a fixed rule that they must never hit back at meal , but should refer the matter of dispute to Wendy by raise the right arm politely and say , `` I complain of so-and-so ; '' but what usually happen be that they forget to do this or do it too much .
`` Silence , '' cry Wendy when for the twentieth time she have tell them that they be not all to speak at once .
`` Is your mug empty , Slightly darling ? ''
`` Not quite empty , mummy , '' Slightly say , after look into an imaginary mug .
`` He have n't even begin to drink his milk , '' Nibs interpose .
This be tell , and Slightly seize his chance .
`` I complain of Nibs , '' he cry promptly .
John , however , have hold up his hand first .
`` Well , John ? ''
`` May I sit in Peter 's chair , a he be not here ? ''
`` Sit in father 's chair , John ! ''
Wendy be scandalise .
`` Certainly not . ''
`` He be not really our father , '' John answer .
`` He do n't even know how a father do till I show him . ''
This be grumble .
`` We complain of John , '' cry the twin .
Tootles hold up his hand .
He be so much the humble of them , indeed he be the only humble one , that Wendy be specially gentle with him .
`` I do n't suppose , '' Tootles say diffidently -LSB- bashfully or timidly -RSB- , `` that I could be father . ''
`` No , Tootles . ''
Once Tootles begin , which be not very often , he have a silly way of go on .
`` As I ca n't be father , '' he say heavily , `` I do n't suppose , Michael , you would let me be baby ? ''
`` No , I wo n't , '' Michael rap out .
He be already in his basket .
`` As I ca n't be baby , '' Tootles say , get heavy and heavy and heavy , `` do you think I could be a twin ? ''
`` No , indeed , '' reply the twin ; `` it 's awfully difficult to be a twin . ''
`` As I ca n't be anything important , '' say Tootles , `` would any of you like to see me do a trick ? ''
`` No , '' they all reply .
Then at last he stop .
`` I have n't really any hope , '' he say .
The hateful tell break out again .
`` Slightly be cough on the table . ''
`` The twin begin with cheese-cakes . ''
`` Curly be take both butter and honey . ''
`` Nibs be speak with his mouth full . ''
`` I complain of the twin . ''
`` I complain of Curly . ''
`` I complain of Nibs . ''
`` Oh dear , oh dear , '' cry Wendy , `` I 'm sure I sometimes think that spinster be to be envy . ''
She tell them to clear away , and sit down to her work-basket , a heavy load of stocking and every knee with a hole in it a usual .
`` Wendy , '' remonstrate -LSB- scold -RSB- Michael , `` I 'm too big for a cradle . ''
`` I must have somebody in a cradle , '' she say almost tartly , `` and you be the little .
A cradle be such a nice homely thing to have about a house . ''
While she sew they play around her ; such a group of happy face and dance limb light up by that romantic fire .
It have become a very familiar scene , this , in the home under the ground , but we be look on it for the last time .
There be a step above , and Wendy , you may be sure , be the first to recognize it .
`` Children , I hear your father 's step .
He like you to meet him at the door . ''
Above , the redskin crouch before Peter .
`` Watch well , brave .
I have speak . ''
And then , a so often before , the gay child drag him from his tree .
As so often before , but never again .
He have bring nut for the boy as well a the correct time for Wendy .
`` Peter , you just spoil them , you know , '' Wendy simper -LSB- exaggerate a smile -RSB- .
`` Ah , old lady , '' say Peter , hang up his gun .
`` It be me tell him mother be call old lady , '' Michael whisper to Curly .
`` I complain of Michael , '' say Curly instantly .
The first twin come to Peter .
`` Father , we want to dance . ''
`` Dance away , my little man , '' say Peter , who be in high good humour .
`` But we want you to dance . ''
Peter be really the best dancer among them , but he pretend to be scandalise .
`` Me !
My old bone would rattle ! ''
`` And mummy too . ''
`` What , '' cry Wendy , `` the mother of such an armful , dance ! ''
`` But on a Saturday night , '' Slightly insinuate .
It be not really Saturday night , at least it may have be , for they have long lose count of the day ; but always if they want to do anything special they say this be Saturday night , and then they do it .
`` Of course it be Saturday night , Peter , '' Wendy say , relent .
`` People of our figure , Wendy ! ''
`` But it be only among our own progeny -LSB- child -RSB- . ''
`` True , true . ''
So they be tell they could dance , but they must put on their nightie first .
`` Ah , old lady , '' Peter say aside to Wendy , warm himself by the fire and look down at her a she sit turn a heel , `` there be nothing more pleasant of an evening for you and me when the day 's toil be over than to rest by the fire with the little one near by . ''
`` It be sweet , Peter , be n't it ? ''
Wendy say , frightfully gratify .
`` Peter , I think Curly have your nose . ''
`` Michael take after you . ''
She go to him and put her hand on his shoulder .
`` Dear Peter , '' she say , `` with such a large family , of course , I have now pass my best , but you do n't want to -LSB- ex -RSB- change me , do you ? ''
`` No , Wendy . ''
Certainly he do not want a change , but he look at her uncomfortably , blink , you know , like one not sure whether he be awake or asleep .
`` Peter , what be it ? ''
`` I be just thinking , '' he say , a little scared .
`` It be only make-believe , be n't it , that I be their father ? ''
`` Oh yes , '' Wendy say primly -LSB- formally and properly -RSB- .
`` You see , '' he continue apologetically , `` it would make me seem so old to be their real father . ''
`` But they be ours , Peter , yours and mine . ''
`` But not really , Wendy ? ''
he ask anxiously .
`` Not if you do n't wish it , '' she reply ; and she distinctly hear his sigh of relief .
`` Peter , '' she ask , try to speak firmly , `` what be your exact feeling to -LSB- about -RSB- me ? ''
`` Those of a devoted son , Wendy . ''
`` I think so , '' she say , and go and sit by herself at the extreme end of the room .
`` You be so queer , '' he say , frankly puzzle , `` and Tiger Lily be just the same .
There be something she want to be to me , but she say it be not my mother . ''
`` No , indeed , it be not , '' Wendy reply with frightful emphasis .
Now we know why she be prejudice against the redskin .
`` Then what be it ? ''
`` It be n't for a lady to tell . ''
`` Oh , very well , '' Peter say , a little nettled .
`` Perhaps Tinker Bell will tell me . ''
`` Oh yes , Tinker Bell will tell you , '' Wendy retort scornfully .
`` She be an abandoned little creature . ''
Here Tink , who be in her bedroom , eavesdropping , squeak out something impudent .
`` She say she glory in be abandon , '' Peter interpret .
He have a sudden idea .
`` Perhaps Tink want to be my mother ? ''
`` You silly ass ! ''
cry Tinker Bell in a passion .
She have say it so often that Wendy need no translation .
`` I almost agree with her , '' Wendy snap .
Fancy Wendy snapping !
But she have be much try , and she little know what be to happen before the night be out .
If she have know she would not have snap .
None of them knew .
Perhaps it be best not to know .
Their ignorance give them one more glad hour ; and a it be to be their last hour on the island , let u rejoice that there be sixty glad minute in it .
They sing and dance in their night-gowns .
Such a deliciously creepy song it be , in which they pretend to be frighten at their own shadow , little witting that so soon shadow would close in upon them , from whom they would shrink in real fear .
So uproariously gay be the dance , and how they buffet each other on the bed and out of it !
It be a pillow fight rather than a dance , and when it be finish , the pillow insist on one bout more , like partner who know that they may never meet again .
The story they tell , before it be time for Wendy 's good-night story !
Even Slightly try to tell a story that night , but the beginning be so fearfully dull that it appal not only the others but himself , and he say happily : `` Yes , it be a dull beginning .
I say , let u pretend that it be the end . ''
And then at last they all get into bed for Wendy 's story , the story they love best , the story Peter hat .
Usually when she begin to tell this story he leave the room or put his hand over his ear ; and possibly if he have do either of those thing this time they might all still be on the island .
But to-night he remain on his stool ; and we shall see what happen .
Chapter 11 WENDY 'S STORY `` Listen , then , '' say Wendy , settle down to her story , with Michael at her foot and seven boy in the bed .
`` There be once a gentleman -- '' `` I have rather he have be a lady , '' Curly say .
`` I wish he have be a white rat , '' say Nibs .
`` Quiet , '' their mother admonish -LSB- caution -RSB- them .
`` There be a lady also , and -- '' `` Oh , mummy , '' cry the first twin , `` you mean that there be a lady also , do n't you ?
She be not dead , be she ? ''
`` Oh , no . ''
`` I be awfully glad she be n't dead , '' say Tootles .
`` Are you glad , John ? ''
`` Of course I be . ''
`` Are you glad , Nibs ? ''
`` Rather . ''
`` Are you glad , Twins ? ''
`` We be glad . ''
`` Oh dear , '' sigh Wendy .
`` Little less noise there , '' Peter call out , determine that she should have fair play , however beastly a story it might be in his opinion .
`` The gentleman 's name , '' Wendy continue , `` be Mr . Darling , and her name be Mrs . Darling . ''
`` I know them , '' John say , to annoy the others .
`` I think I know them , '' say Michael rather doubtfully .
`` They be marry , you know , '' explain Wendy , `` and what do you think they have ? ''
`` White rat , '' cry Nibs , inspire .
`` No . ''
`` It 's awfully puzzling , '' say Tootles , who know the story by heart .
`` Quiet , Tootles .
They have three descendant . ''
`` What be descendant ? ''
`` Well , you be one , Twin . ''
`` Did you hear that , John ?
I be a descendant . ''
`` Descendants be only child , '' say John .
`` Oh dear , oh dear , '' sigh Wendy .
`` Now these three child have a faithful nurse call Nana ; but Mr . Darling be angry with her and chain her up in the yard , and so all the child fly away . ''
`` It 's an awfully good story , '' say Nibs .
`` They fly away , '' Wendy continue , `` to the Neverland , where the lose child be . ''
`` I just think they do , '' Curly break in excitedly .
`` I do n't know how it be , but I just think they do ! ''
`` O Wendy , '' cry Tootles , `` be one of the lost child call Tootles ? ''
`` Yes , he be . ''
`` I be in a story .
Hurrah , I be in a story , Nibs . ''
`` Hush .
Now I want you to consider the feeling of the unhappy parent with all their child fly away . ''
`` Oo ! ''
they all moan , though they be not really consider the feeling of the unhappy parent one jot .
`` Think of the empty bed ! ''
`` Oo ! ''
`` It 's awfully sad , '' the first twin say cheerfully .
`` I do n't see how it can have a happy end , '' say the second twin .
`` Do you , Nibs ? ''
`` I 'm frightfully anxious . ''
`` If you know how great be a mother 's love , '' Wendy tell them triumphantly , `` you would have no fear . ''
She have now come to the part that Peter hat .
`` I do like a mother 's love , '' say Tootles , hit Nibs with a pillow .
`` Do you like a mother 's love , Nibs ? ''
`` I do just , '' say Nibs , hit back .
`` You see , '' Wendy say complacently , `` our heroine know that the mother would always leave the window open for her child to fly back by ; so they stay away for year and have a lovely time . ''
`` Did they ever go back ? ''
`` Let u now , '' say Wendy , brace herself up for her fine effort , `` take a peep into the future ; '' and they all give themselves the twist that make peep into the future easy .
`` Years have roll by , and who be this elegant lady of uncertain age alight at London Station ? ''
`` O Wendy , who be she ? ''
cry Nibs , every bit as excite a if he do n't know .
`` Can it be -- yes -- no -- it be -- the fair Wendy ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
`` And who be the two noble portly figure accompany her , now grow to man 's estate ?
Can they be John and Michael ?
They be ! ''
`` Oh ! '' ''
` See , dear brother , ' say Wendy point upwards , ` there be the window still stand open .
Ah , now we be reward for our sublime faith in a mother 's love . '
So up they fly to their mummy and daddy , and pen can not describe the happy scene , over which we draw a veil . ''
That be the story , and they be a pleased with it a the fair narrator herself .
Everything just a it should be , you see .
Off we skip like the most heartless thing in the world , which be what child be , but so attractive ; and we have an entirely selfish time , and then when we have need of special attention we nobly return for it , confident that we shall be reward instead of smack .
So great indeed be their faith in a mother 's love that they felt they could afford to be callous for a bit longer .
But there be one there who know good , and when Wendy finish he utter a hollow groan .
`` What be it , Peter ? ''
she cry , run to him , think he be ill .
She felt him solicitously , low down than his chest .
`` Where be it , Peter ? ''
`` It be n't that kind of pain , '' Peter reply darkly .
`` Then what kind be it ? ''
`` Wendy , you be wrong about mother . ''
They all gather round him in affright , so alarm be his agitation ; and with a fine candour he tell them what he have hitherto conceal .
`` Long ago , '' he say , `` I think like you that my mother would always keep the window open for me , so I stay away for moon and moon and moon , and then fly back ; but the window be bar , for mother have forget all about me , and there be another little boy sleep in my bed . ''
I be not sure that this be true , but Peter think it be true ; and it scar them .
`` Are you sure mother be like that ? ''
`` Yes . ''
So this be the truth about mother .
The toad !
Still it be best to be careful ; and no one know so quickly a a child when he should give in .
`` Wendy , let u -LSB- let 's -RSB- go home , '' cry John and Michael together .
`` Yes , '' she say , clutch them .
`` Not to-night ? ''
ask the lose boy bewilder .
They know in what they call their heart that one can get on quite well without a mother , and that it be only the mother who think you ca n't .
`` At once , '' Wendy reply resolutely , for the horrible thought have come to her : `` Perhaps mother be in half mourning by this time . ''
This dread make her forgetful of what must be Peter 's feeling , and she say to him rather sharply , `` Peter , will you make the necessary arrangement ? ''
`` If you wish it , '' he reply , as coolly a if she have ask him to pass the nut .
Not so much a a sorry-to-lose-you between them !
If she do not mind the parting , he be go to show her , be Peter , that neither do he .
But of course he care very much ; and he be so full of wrath against grown-ups , who , a usual , be spoil everything , that as soon a he get inside his tree he breathe intentionally quick short breath at the rate of about five to a second .
He do this because there be a say in the Neverland that , every time you breathe , a grown-up dy ; and Peter be kill them off vindictively as fast a possible .
Then have give the necessary instruction to the redskin he return to the home , where an unworthy scene have be enact in his absence .
Panic-stricken at the thought of lose Wendy the lose boy have advance upon her threateningly .
`` It will be bad than before she come , '' they cry .
`` We sha n't let her go . ''
`` Let 's keep her prisoner . ''
`` Ay , chain her up . ''
In her extremity an instinct tell her to which of them to turn .
`` Tootles , '' she cry , `` I appeal to you . ''
Was it not strange ?
She appeal to Tootles , quite the silly one .
Grandly , however , do Tootles respond .
For that one moment he drop his silliness and speak with dignity .
`` I be just Tootles , '' he say , `` and nobody mind me .
But the first who do not behave to Wendy like an English gentleman I will blood him severely . ''
He draw back his hanger ; and for that instant his sun be at noon .
The others hold back uneasily .
Then Peter return , and they saw at once that they would get no support from him .
He would keep no girl in the Neverland against her will .
`` Wendy , '' he say , stride up and down , `` I have ask the redskin to guide you through the wood , a fly tire you so . ''
`` Thank you , Peter . ''
`` Then , '' he continue , in the short sharp voice of one accustomed to be obey , `` Tinker Bell will take you across the sea .
Wake her , Nibs . ''
Nibs have to knock twice before he get an answer , though Tink have really be sit up in bed listening for some time .
`` Who be you ?
How dare you ?
Go away , '' she cry .
`` You be to get up , Tink , '' Nibs call , `` and take Wendy on a journey . ''
Of course Tink have be delight to hear that Wendy be go ; but she be jolly well determine not to be her courier , and she say so in still more offensive language .
Then she pretend to be asleep again .
`` She say she wo n't ! ''
Nibs exclaim , aghast at such insubordination , whereupon Peter go sternly toward the young lady 's chamber .
`` Tink , '' he rap out , `` if you do n't get up and dress at once I will open the curtain , and then we shall all see you in your negligee -LSB- nightgown -RSB- . ''
This make her leap to the floor .
`` Who say I be n't get up ? ''
she cry .
In the meantime the boy be gaze very forlornly at Wendy , now equip with John and Michael for the journey .
By this time they be deject , not merely because they be about to lose her , but also because they felt that she be go off to something nice to which they have not be invite .
Novelty be beckon to them a usual .
Crediting them with a nobler feeling Wendy melt .
`` Dear one , '' she say , `` if you will all come with me I feel almost sure I can get my father and mother to adopt you . ''
The invitation be mean specially for Peter , but each of the boy be think exclusively of himself , and at once they jump with joy .
`` But wo n't they think u rather a handful ? ''
Nibs ask in the middle of his jump .
`` Oh no , '' say Wendy , rapidly think it out , `` it will only mean have a few bed in the drawing-room ; they can be hide behind the screen on first Thursdays . ''
`` Peter , can we go ? ''
they all cry imploringly .
They take it for grant that if they go he would go also , but really they scarcely care .
Thus child be ever ready , when novelty knock , to desert their dear one .
`` All right , '' Peter reply with a bitter smile , and immediately they rush to get their thing .
`` And now , Peter , '' Wendy say , think she have put everything right , `` I be go to give you your medicine before you go . ''
She love to give them medicine , and undoubtedly give them too much .
Of course it be only water , but it be out of a bottle , and she always shake the bottle and count the drop , which give it a certain medicinal quality .
On this occasion , however , she do not give Peter his draught -LSB- portion -RSB- , for just a she have prepare it , she saw a look on his face that make her heart sink .
`` Get your thing , Peter , '' she cry , shake .
`` No , '' he answer , pretend indifference , `` I be not go with you , Wendy . ''
`` Yes , Peter . ''
`` No . ''
To show that her departure would leave him unmoved , he skip up and down the room , play gaily on his heartless pipe .
She have to run about after him , though it be rather undignified .
`` To find your mother , '' she coax .
Now , if Peter have ever quite have a mother , he no longer miss her .
He could do very well without one .
He have think them out , and remember only their bad point .
`` No , no , '' he tell Wendy decisively ; `` perhaps she would say I be old , and I just want always to be a little boy and to have fun . ''
`` But , Peter -- '' `` No . ''
And so the others have to be tell .
`` Peter be n't come . ''
Peter not come !
They gaze blankly at him , their stick over their back , and on each stick a bundle .
Their first thought be that if Peter be not go he have probably change his mind about let them go .
But he be far too proud for that .
`` If you find your mother , '' he say darkly , `` I hope you will like them . ''
The awful cynicism of this make an uncomfortable impression , and most of them begin to look rather doubtful .
After all , their face say , be they not noodle to want to go ?
`` Now then , '' cry Peter , `` no fuss , no blubbering ; good-bye , Wendy ; '' and he hold out his hand cheerily , quite a if they must really go now , for he have something important to do .
She have to take his hand , and there be no indication that he would prefer a thimble .
`` You will remember about change your flannel , Peter ? ''
she say , linger over him .
She be always so particular about their flannel .
`` Yes . ''
`` And you will take your medicine ? ''
`` Yes . ''
That seem to be everything , and an awkward pause follow .
Peter , however , be not the kind that break down before other people .
`` Are you ready , Tinker Bell ? ''
he call out .
`` Ay , ay . ''
`` Then lead the way . ''
Tink dart up the near tree ; but no one follow her , for it be at this moment that the pirate make their dreadful attack upon the redskin .
Above , where all have be so still , the air be rent with shriek and the clash of steel .
Below , there be dead silence .
Mouths open and remain open .
Wendy fell on her knee , but her arm be extend toward Peter .
All arm be extend to him , a if suddenly blow in his direction ; they be beseech him mutely not to desert them .
As for Peter , he seize his sword , the same he think he have slay Barbecue with , and the lust of battle be in his eye .
Chapter 12 THE CHILDREN ARE CARRIED OFF The pirate attack have be a complete surprise : a sure proof that the unscrupulous Hook have conduct it improperly , for to surprise redskin fairly be beyond the wit of the white man .
By all the unwritten law of savage warfare it be always the redskin who attack , and with the wiliness of his race he do it just before the dawn , at which time he know the courage of the white to be at it low ebb .
The white men have in the meantime make a rude stockade on the summit of yonder undulate ground , at the foot of which a stream run , for it be destruction to be too far from water .
There they await the onslaught , the inexperienced one clutch their revolver and tread on twig , but the old hand sleep tranquilly until just before the dawn .
Through the long black night the savage scout wriggle , snake-like , among the grass without stir a blade .
The brushwood close behind them , as silently a sand into which a mole have dive .
Not a sound be to be hear , save when they give vent to a wonderful imitation of the lonely call of the coyote .
The cry be answer by other brave ; and some of them do it even well than the coyote , who be not very good at it .
So the chill hour wear on , and the long suspense be horribly try to the paleface who have to live through it for the first time ; but to the trained hand those ghastly call and still ghastly silence be but an intimation of how the night be march .
That this be the usual procedure be so well know to Hook that in disregard it he can not be excuse on the plea of ignorance .
The Piccaninnies , on their part , trust implicitly to his honour , and their whole action of the night stand out in marked contrast to his .
They leave nothing undone that be consistent with the reputation of their tribe .
With that alertness of the sens which be at once the marvel and despair of civilised people , they know that the pirate be on the island from the moment one of them tread on a dry stick ; and in an incredibly short space of time the coyote cry begin .
Every foot of ground between the spot where Hook have land his force and the home under the tree be stealthily examine by brave wear their mocassin with the heel in front .
They find only one hillock with a stream at it base , so that Hook have no choice ; here he must establish himself and wait for just before the dawn .
Everything be thus map out with almost diabolical cunning , the main body of the redskin fold their blanket around them , and in the phlegmatic manner that be to them , the pearl of manhood squat above the child 's home , await the cold moment when they should deal pale death .
Here dream , though wide-awake , of the exquisite torture to which they be to put him at break of day , those confide savage be find by the treacherous Hook .
From the account afterwards supply by such of the scout a escape the carnage , he do not seem even to have pause at the rise ground , though it be certain that in that grey light he must have see it : no thought of wait to be attack appear from first to last to have visit his subtle mind ; he would not even hold off till the night be nearly spend ; on he pound with no policy but to fall to -LSB- get into combat -RSB- .
What could the bewilder scout do , master a they be of every war-like artifice save this one , but trot helplessly after him , expose themselves fatally to view , while they give pathetic utterance to the coyote cry .
Around the brave Tiger Lily be a dozen of her stout warrior , and they suddenly saw the perfidious pirate bear down upon them .
Fell from their eye then the film through which they have look at victory .
No more would they torture at the stake .
For them the happy hunting-grounds be now .
They know it ; but a their father 's son they acquit themselves .
Even then they have time to gather in a phalanx -LSB- dense formation -RSB- that would have be hard to break have they rise quickly , but this they be forbid to do by the tradition of their race .
It be write that the noble savage must never express surprise in the presence of the white .
Thus terrible a the sudden appearance of the pirate must have be to them , they remain stationary for a moment , not a muscle move ; a if the foe have come by invitation .
Then , indeed , the tradition gallantly uphold , they seize their weapon , and the air be tear with the war-cry ; but it be now too late .
It be no part of ours to describe what be a massacre rather than a fight .
Thus perish many of the flower of the Piccaninny tribe .
Not all unavenged do they die , for with Lean Wolf fell Alf Mason , to disturb the Spanish Main no more , and among others who bite the dust be Geo .
Scourie , Chas .
Turley , and the Alsatian Foggerty .
Turley fell to the tomahawk of the terrible Panther , who ultimately cut a way through the pirate with Tiger Lily and a small remnant of the tribe .
To what extent Hook be to blame for his tactic on this occasion be for the historian to decide .
Had he wait on the rise ground till the proper hour he and his men would probably have be butcher ; and in judge him it be only fair to take this into account .
What he should perhaps have do be to acquaint his opponent that he propose to follow a new method .
On the other hand , this , a destroy the element of surprise , would have make his strategy of no avail , so that the whole question be beset with difficulty .
One can not at least withhold a reluctant admiration for the wit that have conceive so bold a scheme , and the fell -LSB- deadly -RSB- genius with which it be carry out .
What be his own feeling about himself at that triumphant moment ?
Fain -LSB- gladly -RSB- would his dog have know , a breathe heavily and wipe their cutlass , they gather at a discreet distance from his hook , and squint through their ferret eye at this extraordinary man .
Elation must have be in his heart , but his face do not reflect it : ever a dark and solitary enigma , he stand aloof from his follower in spirit a in substance .
The night 's work be not yet over , for it be not the redskin he have come out to destroy ; they be but the bee to be smoke , so that he should get at the honey .
It be Pan he want , Pan and Wendy and their band , but chiefly Pan .
Peter be such a small boy that one tend to wonder at the man 's hatred of him .
True he have fling Hook 's arm to the crocodile , but even this and the increased insecurity of life to which it lead , owe to the crocodile 's pertinacity -LSB- persistance -RSB- , hardly account for a vindictiveness so relentless and malignant .
The truth be that there be a something about Peter which goad the pirate captain to frenzy .
It be not his courage , it be not his engage appearance , it be not -- .
There be no beat about the bush , for we know quite well what it be , and have get to tell .
It be Peter 's cockiness .
This have get on Hook 's nerve ; it make his iron claw twitch , and at night it disturb him like an insect .
While Peter live , the tortured man felt that he be a lion in a cage into which a sparrow have come .
The question now be how to get down the tree , or how to get his dog down ?
He run his greedy eye over them , search for the thin one .
They wriggle uncomfortably , for they know he would not scruple -LSB- hesitate -RSB- to ram them down with pole .
In the meantime , what of the boy ?
We have see them at the first clang of the weapon , turn a it be into stone figure , open-mouthed , all appeal with outstretched arm to Peter ; and we return to them a their mouth close , and their arm fall to their side .
The pandemonium above have cease almost as suddenly a it arise , pass like a fierce gust of wind ; but they know that in the passing it have determine their fate .
Which side have win ?
The pirate , listen avidly at the mouth of the tree , hear the question put by every boy , and ala , they also hear Peter 's answer .
`` If the redskin have win , '' he say , `` they will beat the tom-tom ; it be always their sign of victory . ''
Now Smee have find the tom-tom , and be at that moment sit on it .
`` You will never hear the tom-tom again , '' he mutter , but inaudibly of course , for strict silence have be enjoin -LSB- urged -RSB- .
To his amazement Hook sign him to beat the tom-tom , and slowly there come to Smee an understanding of the dreadful wickedness of the order .
Never , probably , have this simple man admire Hook so much .
Twice Smee beat upon the instrument , and then stop to listen gleefully .
`` The tom-tom , '' the miscreant hear Peter cry ; `` an Indian victory ! ''
The doomed child answer with a cheer that be music to the black heart above , and almost immediately they repeat their good-bye to Peter .
This puzzle the pirate , but all their other feeling be swallow by a base delight that the enemy be about to come up the tree .
They smirk at each other and rub their hand .
Rapidly and silently Hook give his order : one man to each tree , and the others to arrange themselves in a line two yard apart .
Chapter 13 DO YOU BELIEVE IN FAIRIES ?
The more quickly this horror be dispose of the good .
The first to emerge from his tree be Curly .
He rise out of it into the arm of Cecco , who fling him to Smee , who fling him to Starkey , who fling him to Bill Jukes , who fling him to Noodler , and so he be toss from one to another till he fell at the foot of the black pirate .
All the boy be pluck from their tree in this ruthless manner ; and several of them be in the air at a time , like bale of good flung from hand to hand .
A different treatment be accord to Wendy , who come last .
With ironical politeness Hook raise his hat to her , and , offer her his arm , escort her to the spot where the others be be gag .
He do it with such an air , he be so frightfully DISTINGUE -LSB- imposingly distinguish -RSB- , that she be too fascinate to cry out .
She be only a little girl .
Perhaps it be tell-tale to divulge that for a moment Hook entrance her , and we tell on her only because her slip lead to strange result .
Had she haughtily unhand him -LRB- and we should have love to write it of her -RRB- , she would have be hurl through the air like the others , and then Hook would probably not have be present at the tying of the child ; and have he not be at the tying he would not have discover Slightly 's secret , and without the secret he could not presently have make his foul attempt on Peter 's life .
They be tie to prevent their fly away , double up with their knee close to their ear ; and for the trussing of them the black pirate have cut a rope into nine equal piece .
All go well until Slightly 's turn come , when he be find to be like those irritate parcel that use up all the string in go round and leave no tags -LSB- end -RSB- with which to tie a knot .
The pirate kick him in their rage , just a you kick the parcel -LRB- though in fairness you should kick the string -RRB- ; and strange to say it be Hook who tell them to belay their violence .
His lip be curl with malicious triumph .
While his dog be merely sweat because every time they try to pack the unhappy lad tight in one part he bulge out in another , Hook 's master mind have go far beneath Slightly 's surface , probe not for effect but for cause ; and his exultation show that he have find them .
Slightly , white to the gill , know that Hook have surprise -LSB- discover -RSB- his secret , which be this , that no boy so blow out could use a tree wherein an average man need stick .
Poor Slightly , most wretched of all the child now , for he be in a panic about Peter , bitterly regret what he have do .
Madly addict to the drinking of water when he be hot , he have swell in consequence to his present girth , and instead of reduce himself to fit his tree he have , unknown to the others , whittle his tree to make it fit him .
Sufficient of this Hook guess to persuade him that Peter at last lay at his mercy , but no word of the dark design that now form in the subterranean cavern of his mind cross his lip ; he merely sign that the captive be to be convey to the ship , and that he would be alone .
How to convey them ?
Hunched up in their rope they might indeed be roll down hill like barrel , but most of the way lay through a morass .
Again Hook 's genius surmount difficulty .
He indicate that the little house must be use a a conveyance .
The child be fling into it , four stout pirate raise it on their shoulder , the others fell in behind , and sing the hateful pirate chorus the strange procession set off through the wood .
I do n't know whether any of the child be cry ; if so , the singing drown the sound ; but a the little house disappear in the forest , a brave though tiny jet of smoke issue from it chimney a if defy Hook .
Hook saw it , and it do Peter a bad service .
It dry up any trickle of pity for him that may have remain in the pirate 's infuriated breast .
The first thing he do on find himself alone in the fast fall night be to tiptoe to Slightly 's tree , and make sure that it provide him with a passage .
Then for long he remain brood ; his hat of ill omen on the sward , so that any gentle breeze which have arise might play refreshingly through his hair .
Dark a be his thought his blue eye be as soft a the periwinkle .
Intently he listen for any sound from the nether world , but all be a silent below a above ; the house under the ground seem to be but one more empty tenement in the void .
Was that boy asleep , or do he stand wait at the foot of Slightly 's tree , with his dagger in his hand ?
There be no way of knowing , save by go down .
Hook let his cloak slip softly to the ground , and then bite his lip till a lewd blood stand on them , he step into the tree .
He be a brave man , but for a moment he have to stop there and wipe his brow , which be drip like a candle .
Then , silently , he let himself go into the unknown .
He arrive unmolested at the foot of the shaft , and stand still again , bite at his breath , which have almost leave him .
As his eye become accustomed to the dim light various object in the home under the tree take shape ; but the only one on which his greedy gaze rest , long sought for and find at last , be the great bed .
On the bed lay Peter fast asleep .
Unaware of the tragedy be enact above , Peter have continue , for a little time after the child leave , to play gaily on his pipe : no doubt rather a forlorn attempt to prove to himself that he do not care .
Then he decide not to take his medicine , so a to grieve Wendy .
Then he lay down on the bed outside the coverlet , to vex her still more ; for she have always tuck them inside it , because you never know that you may not grow chilly at the turn of the night .
Then he nearly cry ; but it strike him how indignant she would be if he laugh instead ; so he laugh a haughty laugh and fell asleep in the middle of it .
Sometimes , though not often , he have dream , and they be more painful than the dream of other boy .
For hour he could not be separate from these dream , though he wail piteously in them .
They have to do , I think , with the riddle of his existence .
At such time it have be Wendy 's custom to take him out of bed and sit with him on her lap , soothe him in dear way of her own invention , and when he grow calmer to put him back to bed before he quite wake up , so that he should not know of the indignity to which she have subject him .
But on this occasion he have fall at once into a dreamless sleep .
One arm drop over the edge of the bed , one leg be arch , and the unfinished part of his laugh be strand on his mouth , which be open , show the little pearl .
Thus defenceless Hook find him .
He stand silent at the foot of the tree look across the chamber at his enemy .
Did no feeling of compassion disturb his sombre breast ?
The man be not wholly evil ; he love flower -LRB- I have be tell -RRB- and sweet music -LRB- he be himself no mean performer on the harpsichord -RRB- ; and , let it be frankly admit , the idyllic nature of the scene stir him profoundly .
Mastered by his good self he would have return reluctantly up the tree , but for one thing .
What stay him be Peter 's impertinent appearance a he sleep .
The open mouth , the drooping arm , the arched knee : they be such a personification of cockiness a , take together , will never again , one may hope , be present to eye so sensitive to their offensiveness .
They steel Hook 's heart .
If his rage have break him into a hundred piece every one of them would have disregard the incident , and leapt at the sleeper .
Though a light from the one lamp shone dimly on the bed , Hook stand in darkness himself , and at the first stealthy step forward he discover an obstacle , the door of Slightly 's tree .
It do not entirely fill the aperture , and he have be look over it .
Feeling for the catch , he find to his fury that it be low down , beyond his reach .
To his disordered brain it seem then that the irritate quality in Peter 's face and figure visibly increase , and he rattle the door and flung himself against it .
Was his enemy to escape him after all ?
But what be that ?
The red in his eye have catch sight of Peter 's medicine standing on a ledge within easy reach .
He fathom what it be straightaway , and immediately know that the sleeper be in his power .
Lest he should be take alive , Hook always carry about his person a dreadful drug , blend by himself of all the death-dealing ring that have come into his possession .
These he have boil down into a yellow liquid quite unknown to science , which be probably the most virulent poison in existence .
Five drop of this he now add to Peter 's cup .
His hand shook , but it be in exultation rather than in shame .
As he do it he avoid glance at the sleeper , but not l pity should unnerve him ; merely to avoid spilling .
Then one long gloat look he cast upon his victim , and turn , worm his way with difficulty up the tree .
As he emerge at the top he look the very spirit of evil breaking from it hole .
Donning his hat at it most rakish angle , he wind his cloak around him , hold one end in front a if to conceal his person from the night , of which it be the black part , and mutter strangely to himself , steal away through the tree .
Peter sleep on .
The light gutter -LSB- burn to edge -RSB- and go out , leave the tenement in darkness ; but still he sleep .
It must have be not less than ten o'clock by the crocodile , when he suddenly sit up in his bed , waken by he know not what .
It be a soft cautious tap on the door of his tree .
Soft and cautious , but in that stillness it be sinister .
Peter felt for his dagger till his hand grip it .
Then he speak .
`` Who be that ? ''
For long there be no answer : then again the knock .
`` Who be you ? ''
No answer .
He be thrill , and he love be thrill .
In two stride he reach the door .
Unlike Slightly 's door , it fill the aperture -LSB- opening -RSB- , so that he could not see beyond it , nor could the one knocking see him .
`` I wo n't open unless you speak , '' Peter cry .
Then at last the visitor speak , in a lovely bell-like voice .
`` Let me in , Peter . ''
It be Tink , and quickly he unbar to her .
She fly in excitedly , her face flush and her dress stain with mud .
`` What be it ? ''
`` Oh , you could never guess ! ''
she cry , and offer him three guess .
`` Out with it ! ''
he shout , and in one ungrammatical sentence , as long a the ribbon that conjurer -LSB- magician -RSB- pull from their mouth , she tell of the capture of Wendy and the boy .
Peter 's heart bob up and down a he listen .
Wendy bound , and on the pirate ship ; she who love everything to be just so !
`` I 'll rescue her ! ''
he cry , leap at his weapon .
As he leap he think of something he could do to please her .
He could take his medicine .
His hand close on the fatal draught .
`` No ! ''
shriek Tinker Bell , who have hear Hook mutter about his deed a he speed through the forest .
`` Why not ? ''
`` It be poison . ''
`` Poisoned ?
Who could have poison it ? ''
`` Hook . ''
`` Do n't be silly .
How could Hook have get down here ? ''
Alas , Tinker Bell could not explain this , for even she do not know the dark secret of Slightly 's tree .
Nevertheless Hook 's word have leave no room for doubt .
The cup be poison .
`` Besides , '' say Peter , quite believe himself `` I never fell asleep . ''
He raise the cup .
No time for word now ; time for deed ; and with one of her lightning movement Tink get between his lip and the draught , and drain it to the dreg .
`` Why , Tink , how dare you drink my medicine ? ''
But she do not answer .
Already she be reel in the air .
`` What be the matter with you ? ''
cry Peter , suddenly afraid .
`` It be poison , Peter , '' she tell him softly ; `` and now I be go to be dead . ''
`` O Tink , do you drink it to save me ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` But why , Tink ? ''
Her wing would scarcely carry her now , but in reply she alight on his shoulder and give his nose a loving bite .
She whisper in his ear `` You silly ass , '' and then , totter to her chamber , lay down on the bed .
His head almost fill the fourth wall of her little room a he kneel near her in distress .
Every moment her light be grow fainter ; and he know that if it go out she would be no more .
She like his tear so much that she put out her beautiful finger and let them run over it .
Her voice be so low that at first he could not make out what she say .
Then he make it out .
She be say that she think she could get well again if child believe in fairy .
Peter fling out his arm .
There be no child there , and it be night time ; but he address all who might be dream of the Neverland , and who be therefore near to him than you think : boy and girl in their nightie , and naked papoose in their basket hang from tree .
`` Do you believe ? ''
he cry .
Tink sit up in bed almost briskly to listen to her fate .
She fancy she hear answer in the affirmative , and then again she be n't sure .
`` What do you think ? ''
she ask Peter .
`` If you believe , '' he shout to them , `` clap your hand ; do n't let Tink die . ''
Many clap .
Some do n't .
A few beast hiss .
The clapping stop suddenly ; a if countless mother have rush to their nursery to see what on earth be happen ; but already Tink be save .
First her voice grow strong , then she pop out of bed , then she be flash through the room more merry and impudent than ever .
She never think of thank those who believe , but she would have like to get at the one who have hiss .
`` And now to rescue Wendy ! ''
The moon be rid in a cloudy heaven when Peter rise from his tree , begirt -LSB- belt -RSB- with weapon and wear little else , to set out upon his perilous quest .
It be not such a night a he would have choose .
He have hop to fly , keep not far from the ground so that nothing unwonted should escape his eye ; but in that fitful light to have fly low would have mean trail his shadow through the tree , thus disturb bird and acquaint a watchful foe that he be astir .
He regret now that he have give the bird of the island such strange name that they be very wild and difficult of approach .
There be no other course but to press forward in redskin fashion , at which happily he be an adept -LSB- expert -RSB- .
But in what direction , for he could not be sure that the child have be take to the ship ?
A light fall of snow have obliterate all footmark ; and a deathly silence pervade the island , a if for a space Nature stand still in horror of the recent carnage .
He have teach the child something of the forest lore that he have himself learn from Tiger Lily and Tinker Bell , and know that in their dire hour they be not likely to forget it .
Slightly , if he have an opportunity , would blaze -LSB- cut a mark in -RSB- the tree , for instance , Curly would drop seed , and Wendy would leave her handkerchief at some important place .
The morning be need to search for such guidance , and he could not wait .
The upper world have call him , but would give no help .
The crocodile pass him , but not another living thing , not a sound , not a movement ; and yet he know well that sudden death might be at the next tree , or stalk him from behind .
He swear this terrible oath : `` Hook or me this time . ''
Now he crawl forward like a snake , and again erect , he dart across a space on which the moonlight play , one finger on his lip and his dagger at the ready .
He be frightfully happy .
Chapter 14 THE PIRATE SHIP One green light squint over Kidd 's Creek , which be near the mouth of the pirate river , mark where the brig , the JOLLY ROGER , lay , low in the water ; a rakish-looking -LSB- speedy-looking -RSB- craft foul to the hull , every beam in her detestable , like ground strewn with mangled feather .
She be the cannibal of the sea , and scarce need that watchful eye , for she float immune in the horror of her name .
She be wrap in the blanket of night , through which no sound from her could have reach the shore .
There be little sound , and none agreeable save the whir of the ship 's sewing machine at which Smee sit , ever industrious and obliging , the essence of the commonplace , pathetic Smee .
I know not why he be so infinitely pathetic , unless it be because he be so pathetically unaware of it ; but even strong men have to turn hastily from look at him , and more than once on summer evening he have touch the fount of Hook 's tear and make it flow .
Of this , a of almost everything else , Smee be quite unconscious .
A few of the pirate lean over the bulwark , drinking in the miasma -LSB- putrid mist -RSB- of the night ; others sprawl by barrel over game of dice and card ; and the exhausted four who have carry the little house lay prone on the deck , where even in their sleep they roll skillfully to this side or that out of Hook 's reach , lest he should claw them mechanically in passing .
Hook tread the deck in thought .
O man unfathomable .
It be his hour of triumph .
Peter have be remove for ever from his path , and all the other boy be in the brig , about to walk the plank .
It be his grim deed since the day when he have bring Barbecue to heel ; and know a we do how vain a tabernacle be man , could we be surprise have he now pace the deck unsteadily , belly out by the wind of his success ?
But there be no elation in his gait , which keep pace with the action of his sombre mind .
Hook be profoundly deject .
He be often thus when commune with himself on board ship in the quietude of the night .
It be because he be so terribly alone .
This inscrutable man never felt more alone than when surround by his dog .
They be socially inferior to him .
Hook be not his true name .
To reveal who he really be would even at this date set the country in a blaze ; but a those who read between the line must already have guess , he have be at a famous public school ; and it tradition still cling to him like garment , with which indeed they be largely concerned .
Thus it be offensive to him even now to board a ship in the same dress in which he grapple -LSB- attack -RSB- her , and he still adhere in his walk to the school 's distinguish slouch .
But above all he retain the passion for good form .
Good form !
However much he may have degenerate , he still know that this be all that really matter .
From far within him he hear a creaking a of rusty portal , and through them come a stern tap-tap-tap , like hammer in the night when one can not sleep .
`` Have you be good form to-day ? ''
be their eternal question .
`` Fame , fame , that glitter bauble , it be mine , '' he cry .
`` Is it quite good form to be distinguish at anything ? ''
the tap-tap from his school reply .
`` I be the only man whom Barbecue fear , '' he urge , `` and Flint fear Barbecue . ''
`` Barbecue , Flint -- what house ? ''
come the cut retort .
Most disquieting reflection of all , be it not bad form to think about good form ?
His vitals be torture by this problem .
It be a claw within him sharp than the iron one ; and a it tear him , the perspiration drip down his tallow -LSB- waxy -RSB- countenance and streak his doublet .
Ofttimes he draw his sleeve across his face , but there be no damming that trickle .
Ah , envy not Hook .
There come to him a presentiment of his early dissolution -LSB- death -RSB- .
It be a if Peter 's terrible oath have board the ship .
Hook felt a gloomy desire to make his die speech , l presently there should be no time for it .
`` Better for Hook , '' he cry , `` if he have have less ambition ! ''
It be in his darkest hour only that he refer to himself in the third person .
`` No little child to love me ! ''
Strange that he should think of this , which have never trouble him before ; perhaps the sewing machine bring it to his mind .
For long he mutter to himself , star at Smee , who be hem placidly , under the conviction that all child fear him .
Feared him !
Feared Smee !
There be not a child on board the brig that night who do not already love him .
He have say horrid thing to them and hit them with the palm of his hand , because he could not hit with his fist , but they have only cling to him the more .
Michael have try on his spectacle .
To tell poor Smee that they think him lovable !
Hook itch to do it , but it seem too brutal .
Instead , he revolve this mystery in his mind : why do they find Smee lovable ?
He pursue the problem like the sleuth-hound that he be .
If Smee be lovable , what be it that make him so ?
A terrible answer suddenly present itself -- `` Good form ? ''
Had the bo ` sun good form without know it , which be the best form of all ?
He remember that you have to prove you do n't know you have it before you be eligible for Pop -LSB- an elite social club at Eton -RSB- .
With a cry of rage he raise his iron hand over Smee 's head ; but he do not tear .
What arrest him be this reflection : `` To claw a man because he be good form , what would that be ? ''
`` Bad form ! ''
The unhappy Hook be a impotent -LSB- powerless -RSB- a he be damp , and he fell forward like a cut flower .
His dog think him out of the way for a time , discipline instantly relax ; and they break into a bacchanalian -LSB- drunken -RSB- dance , which bring him to his foot at once , all trace of human weakness go , a if a bucket of water have pass over him .
`` Quiet , you scugs , '' he cry , `` or I 'll cast anchor in you ; '' and at once the din be hush .
`` Are all the child chain , so that they can not fly away ? ''
`` Ay , ay . ''
`` Then hoist them up . ''
The wretched prisoner be drag from the hold , all except Wendy , and range in line in front of him .
For a time he seem unconscious of their presence .
He loll at his ease , hum , not unmelodiously , snatch of a rude song , and finger a pack of card .
Ever and anon the light from his cigar give a touch of colour to his face .
`` Now then , bully , '' he say briskly , `` six of you walk the plank to-night , but I have room for two cabin boy .
Which of you be it to be ? ''
`` Do n't irritate him unnecessarily , '' have be Wendy 's instruction in the hold ; so Tootles step forward politely .
Tootles hat the idea of sign under such a man , but an instinct tell him that it would be prudent to lay the responsibility on an absent person ; and though a somewhat silly boy , he know that mother alone be always willing to be the buffer .
All child know this about mother , and despise them for it , but make constant use of it .
So Tootles explain prudently , `` You see , sir , I do n't think my mother would like me to be a pirate .
Would your mother like you to be a pirate , Slightly ? ''
He wink at Slightly , who say mournfully , `` I do n't think so , '' a if he wish thing have be otherwise .
`` Would your mother like you to be a pirate , Twin ? ''
`` I do n't think so , '' say the first twin , as clever a the others .
`` Nibs , would -- '' `` Stow this gab , '' roar Hook , and the spokesman be drag back .
`` You , boy , '' he say , address John , `` you look a if you have a little pluck in you .
Didst never want to be a pirate , my hearty ? ''
Now John have sometimes experience this hankering at math .
prep . ; and he be strike by Hook 's pick him out .
`` I once think of call myself Red-handed Jack , '' he say diffidently .
`` And a good name too .
We 'll call you that here , bully , if you join . ''
`` What do you think , Michael ? ''
ask John .
`` What would you call me if I join ? ''
Michael demand .
`` Blackbeard Joe . ''
Michael be naturally impressed .
`` What do you think , John ? ''
He want John to decide , and John want him to decide .
`` Shall we still be respectful subject of the King ? ''
John inquire .
Through Hook 's teeth come the answer : `` You would have to swear , ` Down with the King . ' ''
Perhaps John have not behave very well so far , but he shine out now .
`` Then I refuse , '' he cry , bang the barrel in front of Hook .
`` And I refuse , '' cry Michael .
`` Rule Britannia ! ''
squeak Curly .
The infuriated pirate buffet them in the mouth ; and Hook roar out , `` That seal your doom .
Bring up their mother .
Get the plank ready . ''
They be only boys , and they go white a they saw Jukes and Cecco prepare the fatal plank .
But they try to look brave when Wendy be bring up .
No word of mine can tell you how Wendy despise those pirate .
To the boy there be at least some glamour in the pirate call ; but all that she saw be that the ship have not be tidy for year .
There be not a porthole on the grimy glass of which you might not have write with your finger `` Dirty pig '' ; and she have already write it on several .
But a the boy gather round her she have no thought , of course , save for them .
`` So , my beauty , '' say Hook , a if he speak in syrup , `` you be to see your child walk the plank . ''
Fine gentleman though he be , the intensity of his communings have soil his ruff , and suddenly he know that she be gaze at it .
With a hasty gesture he try to hide it , but he be too late .
`` Are they to die ? ''
ask Wendy , with a look of such frightful contempt that he nearly faint .
`` They be , '' he snarl .
`` Silence all , '' he call gloatingly , `` for a mother 's last word to her child . ''
At this moment Wendy be grand .
`` These be my last word , dear boy , '' she say firmly .
`` I feel that I have a message to you from your real mother , and it be this : ` We hope our son will die like English gentleman . ' ''
Even the pirate be awe , and Tootles cry out hysterically , `` I be go to do what my mother hope .
What be you to do , Nibs ? ''
`` What my mother hope .
What be you to do , Twin ? ''
`` What my mother hope .
John , what be -- '' But Hook have find his voice again .
`` Tie her up ! ''
he shout .
It be Smee who tie her to the mast .
`` See here , honey , '' he whisper , `` I 'll save you if you promise to be my mother . ''
But not even for Smee would she make such a promise .
`` I would almost rather have no child at all , '' she say disdainfully -LSB- scornfully -RSB- .
It be sad to know that not a boy be look at her a Smee tie her to the mast ; the eye of all be on the plank : that last little walk they be about to take .
They be no longer able to hope that they would walk it manfully , for the capacity to think have go from them ; they could stare and shiver only .
Hook smile on them with his teeth close , and take a step toward Wendy .
His intention be to turn her face so that she should see the boy walk the plank one by one .
But he never reach her , he never hear the cry of anguish he hop to wring from her .
He hear something else instead .
It be the terrible tick-tick of the crocodile .
They all hear it -- pirate , boy , Wendy ; and immediately every head be blow in one direction ; not to the water whence the sound proceed , but toward Hook .
All know that what be about to happen concerned him alone , and that from be actor they be suddenly become spectator .
Very frightful be it to see the change that come over him .
It be a if he have be clip at every joint .
He fell in a little heap .
The sound come steadily nearer ; and in advance of it come this ghastly think , `` The crocodile be about to board the ship ! ''
Even the iron claw hung inactive ; a if knowing that it be no intrinsic part of what the attack force want .
Left so fearfully alone , any other man would have lie with his eye shut where he fell : but the gigantic brain of Hook be still work , and under it guidance he crawl on the knee along the deck a far from the sound a he could go .
The pirate respectfully clear a passage for him , and it be only when he bring up against the bulwark that he speak .
`` Hide me ! ''
he cry hoarsely .
They gather round him , all eye avert from the thing that be come aboard .
They have no thought of fight it .
It be Fate .
Only when Hook be hide from them do curiosity loosen the limb of the boy so that they could rush to the ship 's side to see the crocodile climb it .
Then they get the strange surprise of the Night of Nights ; for it be no crocodile that be come to their aid .
It be Peter .
He sign to them not to give vent to any cry of admiration that might rouse suspicion .
Then he go on ticking .
Chapter 15 `` HOOK OR ME THIS TIME '' Odd thing happen to all of u on our way through life without our noticing for a time that they have happen .
Thus , to take an instance , we suddenly discover that we have be deaf in one ear for we do n't know how long , but , say , half an hour .
Now such an experience have come that night to Peter .
When last we saw him he be steal across the island with one finger to his lip and his dagger at the ready .
He have see the crocodile pas by without notice anything peculiar about it , but by and by he remember that it have not be tick .
At first he think this eerie , but soon conclude rightly that the clock have run down .
Without give a thought to what might be the feeling of a fellow-creature thus abruptly deprive of it close companion , Peter begin to consider how he could turn the catastrophe to his own use ; and he decide to tick , so that wild beast should believe he be the crocodile and let him pass unmolested .
He tick superbly , but with one unforeseen result .
The crocodile be among those who hear the sound , and it follow him , though whether with the purpose of regain what it have lose , or merely a a friend under the belief that it be again tick itself , will never be certainly know , for , like slave to a fixed idea , it be a stupid beast .
Peter reach the shore without mishap , and go straight on , his legs encounter the water a if quite unaware that they have enter a new element .
Thus many animal pass from land to water , but no other human of whom I know .
As he swim he have but one thought : `` Hook or me this time . ''
He have tick so long that he now go on tick without know that he be do it .
Had he know he would have stop , for to board the brig by help of the tick , though an ingenious idea , have not occur to him .
On the contrary , he think he have scale her side as noiseless a a mouse ; and he be amaze to see the pirate cower from him , with Hook in their midst as abject a if he have hear the crocodile .
The crocodile !
No sooner do Peter remember it than he hear the ticking .
At first he think the sound do come from the crocodile , and he look behind him swiftly .
Then he realise that he be do it himself , and in a flash he understand the situation .
`` How clever of me ! ''
he think at once , and sign to the boy not to burst into applause .
It be at this moment that Ed Teynte the quartermaster emerge from the forecastle and come along the deck .
Now , reader , time what happen by your watch .
Peter strike true and deep .
John clap his hand on the ill-fated pirate 's mouth to stifle the die groan .
He fell forward .
Four boy catch him to prevent the thud .
Peter give the signal , and the carrion be cast overboard .
There be a splash , and then silence .
How long have it take ?
`` One ! ''
-LRB- Slightly have begin to count . -RRB-
None too soon , Peter , every inch of him on tiptoe , vanish into the cabin ; for more than one pirate be screw up his courage to look round .
They could hear each other 's distressed breathing now , which show them that the more terrible sound have pass .
`` It 's go , captain , '' Smee say , wipe off his spectacle .
`` All 's still again . ''
Slowly Hook let his head emerge from his ruff , and listen so intently that he could have catch the echo of the tick .
There be not a sound , and he draw himself up firmly to his full height .
`` Then here 's to Johnny Plank ! ''
he cry brazenly , hat the boy more than ever because they have see him unbend .
He break into the villainous ditty : `` Yo ho , yo ho , the frisky plank , You walk along it so , Till it go down and you go down To Davy Jones below ! ''
To terrorize the prisoner the more , though with a certain loss of dignity , he dance along an imaginary plank , grimace at them a he sing ; and when he finish he cry , `` Do you want a touch of the cat -LSB- o ' nine tail -RSB- before you walk the plank ? ''
At that they fell on their knee .
`` No , no ! ''
they cry so piteously that every pirate smile .
`` Fetch the cat , Jukes , '' say Hook ; `` it 's in the cabin . ''
The cabin !
Peter be in the cabin !
The child gaze at each other .
`` Ay , ay , '' say Jukes blithely , and he stride into the cabin .
They follow him with their eye ; they scarce know that Hook have resume his song , his dog join in with him : `` Yo ho , yo ho , the scratch cat , Its tail be nine , you know , And when they 're writ upon your back -- '' What be the last line will never be know , for of a sudden the song be stay by a dreadful screech from the cabin .
It wail through the ship , and die away .
Then be hear a crowing sound which be well understood by the boy , but to the pirate be almost more eerie than the screech .
`` What be that ? ''
cry Hook .
`` Two , '' say Slightly solemnly .
The Italian Cecco hesitate for a moment and then swing into the cabin .
He totter out , haggard .
`` What 's the matter with Bill Jukes , you dog ? ''
hiss Hook , tower over him .
`` The matter wi ' him be he 's dead , stab , '' reply Cecco in a hollow voice .
`` Bill Jukes dead ! ''
cry the startled pirate .
`` The cabin 's as black a a pit , '' Cecco say , almost gibbering , `` but there be something terrible in there : the thing you hear crow . ''
The exultation of the boy , the lower look of the pirate , both be see by Hook .
`` Cecco , '' he say in his most steely voice , `` go back and fetch me out that doodle-doo . ''
Cecco , brave of the brave , cower before his captain , cry `` No , no '' ; but Hook be purr to his claw .
`` Did you say you would go , Cecco ? ''
he say musingly .
Cecco go , first fling his arm despairingly .
There be no more singing , all listen now ; and again come a death-screech and again a crow .
No one speak except Slightly .
`` Three , '' he say .
Hook rally his dog with a gesture . ''
'S ` death and odds fish , '' he thunder , `` who be to bring me that doodle-doo ? ''
`` Wait till Cecco come out , '' growl Starkey , and the others take up the cry .
`` I think I hear you volunteer , Starkey , '' say Hook , purr again .
`` No , by thunder ! ''
Starkey cry .
`` My hook think you do , '' say Hook , cross to him .
`` I wonder if it would not be advisable , Starkey , to humour the hook ? ''
`` I 'll swing before I go in there , '' reply Starkey doggedly , and again he have the support of the crew .
`` Is this mutiny ? ''
ask Hook more pleasantly than ever .
`` Starkey 's ringleader ! ''
`` Captain , mercy ! ''
Starkey whimper , all of a tremble now .
`` Shake hand , Starkey , '' say Hook , proffer his claw .
Starkey look round for help , but all desert him .
As he back up Hook advance , and now the red spark be in his eye .
With a despair scream the pirate leap upon Long Tom and precipitate himself into the sea .
`` Four , '' say Slightly .
`` And now , '' Hook say courteously , `` do any other gentleman say mutiny ? ''
Seizing a lantern and raise his claw with a menacing gesture , `` I 'll bring out that doodle-doo myself , '' he say , and speed into the cabin .
`` Five . ''
How Slightly long to say it .
He wet his lip to be ready , but Hook come stagger out , without his lantern .
`` Something blow out the light , '' he say a little unsteadily .
`` Something ! ''
echoed Mullins .
`` What of Cecco ? ''
demand Noodler .
`` He 's as dead a Jukes , '' say Hook shortly .
His reluctance to return to the cabin impress them all unfavourably , and the mutinous sound again break forth .
All pirate be superstitious , and Cookson cry , `` They do say the sure sign a ship 's accurst be when there 's one on board more than can be account for . ''
`` I 've hear , '' mutter Mullins , `` he always board the pirate craft last .
Had he a tail , captain ? ''
`` They say , '' say another , look viciously at Hook , `` that when he come it 's in the likeness of the wicked man aboard . ''
`` Had he a hook , captain ? ''
ask Cookson insolently ; and one after another take up the cry , `` The ship 's doomed ! ''
At this the child could not resist raise a cheer .
Hook have well-nigh forget his prisoner , but a he swing round on them now his face light up again .
`` Lads , '' he cry to his crew , `` now here 's a notion .
Open the cabin door and drive them in .
Let them fight the doodle-doo for their life .
If they kill him , we 're so much the good ; if he kill them , we 're none the worse . ''
For the last time his dog admire Hook , and devotedly they do his bidding .
The boy , pretend to struggle , be push into the cabin and the door be close on them .
`` Now , listen ! ''
cry Hook , and all listen .
But not one dare to face the door .
Yes , one , Wendy , who all this time have be bind to the mast .
It be for neither a scream nor a crow that she be watch , it be for the reappearance of Peter .
She have not long to wait .
In the cabin he have find the thing for which he have go in search : the key that would free the child of their manacle , and now they all steal forth , arm with such weapon a they could find .
First sign them to hide , Peter cut Wendy 's bond , and then nothing could have be easy than for them all to fly off together ; but one thing bar the way , an oath , `` Hook or me this time . ''
So when he have free Wendy , he whisper for her to conceal herself with the others , and himself take her place by the mast , her cloak around him so that he should pass for her .
Then he take a great breath and crow .
To the pirate it be a voice cry that all the boy lay slain in the cabin ; and they be panic-stricken .
Hook try to hearten them ; but like the dog he have make them they show him their fang , and he know that if he take his eye off them now they would leap at him .
`` Lads , '' he say , ready to cajole or strike a need be , but never quail for an instant , `` I 've think it out .
There 's a Jonah aboard . ''
`` Ay , '' they snarl , `` a man wi ' a hook . ''
`` No , lad , no , it 's the girl .
Never be luck on a pirate ship wi ' a woman on board .
We 'll right the ship when she 's go . ''
Some of them remember that this have be a say of Flint 's .
`` It 's worth try , '' they say doubtfully .
`` Fling the girl overboard , '' cry Hook ; and they make a rush at the figure in the cloak .
`` There 's none can save you now , missy , '' Mullins hiss jeeringly .
`` There 's one , '' reply the figure .
`` Who 's that ? ''
`` Peter Pan the avenger ! ''
come the terrible answer ; and a he speak Peter fling off his cloak .
Then they all know who 't be that have be undo them in the cabin , and twice Hook essay to speak and twice he fail .
In that frightful moment I think his fierce heart break .
At last he cry , `` Cleave him to the brisket ! ''
but without conviction .
`` Down , boy , and at them ! ''
Peter 's voice ring out ; and in another moment the clash of arm be resound through the ship .
Had the pirate keep together it be certain that they would have win ; but the onset come when they be still unstrung , and they run hither and thither , strike wildly , each think himself the last survivor of the crew .
Man to man they be the strong ; but they fight on the defensive only , which enable the boy to hunt in pair and choose their quarry .
Some of the miscreant leap into the sea ; others hide in dark recess , where they be find by Slightly , who do not fight , but run about with a lantern which he flash in their face , so that they be half blind and fell a an easy prey to the reeking sword of the other boy .
There be little sound to be hear but the clang of weapon , an occasional screech or splash , and Slightly monotonously count -- five -- six -- seven eight -- nine -- ten -- eleven .
I think all be go when a group of savage boy surround Hook , who seem to have a charmed life , a he keep them at bay in that circle of fire .
They have do for his dog , but this man alone seem to be a match for them all .
Again and again they close upon him , and again and again he hew a clear space .
He have lift up one boy with his hook , and be use him a a buckler -LSB- shield -RSB- , when another , who have just pass his sword through Mullins , sprang into the fray .
`` Put up your sword , boy , '' cry the newcomer , `` this man be mine . ''
Thus suddenly Hook find himself face to face with Peter .
The others draw back and form a ring around them .
For long the two enemy look at one another , Hook shudder slightly , and Peter with the strange smile upon his face .
`` So , Pan , '' say Hook at last , `` this be all your do . ''
`` Ay , James Hook , '' come the stern answer , `` it be all my do . ''
`` Proud and insolent youth , '' say Hook , `` prepare to meet thy doom . ''
`` Dark and sinister man , '' Peter answer , `` have at thee . ''
Without more word they fell to , and for a space there be no advantage to either blade .
Peter be a superb swordsman , and parry with dazzling rapidity ; ever and anon he follow up a feint with a lunge that get past his foe 's defence , but his shorter reach stand him in ill stead , and he could not drive the steel home .
Hook , scarcely his inferior in brilliancy , but not quite so nimble in wrist play , force him back by the weight of his onset , hop suddenly to end all with a favourite thrust , teach him long ago by Barbecue at Rio ; but to his astonishment he find this thrust turn aside again and again .
Then he seek to close and give the quietus with his iron hook , which all this time have be paw the air ; but Peter double under it and , lunge fiercely , pierce him in the rib .
At the sight of his own blood , whose peculiar colour , you remember , be offensive to him , the sword fell from Hook 's hand , and he be at Peter 's mercy .
`` Now ! ''
cry all the boy , but with a magnificent gesture Peter invite his opponent to pick up his sword .
Hook do so instantly , but with a tragic feeling that Peter be show good form .
Hitherto he have think it be some fiend fight him , but darker suspicion assail him now .
`` Pan , who and what art thou ? ''
he cry huskily .
`` I 'm youth , I 'm joy , '' Peter answer at a venture , `` I 'm a little bird that have break out of the egg . ''
This , of course , be nonsense ; but it be proof to the unhappy Hook that Peter do not know in the least who or what he be , which be the very pinnacle of good form .
`` To ' t again , '' he cry despairingly .
He fought now like a human flail , and every sweep of that terrible sword would have sever in twain any man or boy who obstruct it ; but Peter flutter round him a if the very wind it make blow him out of the danger zone .
And again and again he dart in and prick .
Hook be fight now without hope .
That passionate breast no longer ask for life ; but for one boon it crave : to see Peter show bad form before it be cold forever .
Abandoning the fight he rush into the powder magazine and fire it .
`` In two minute , '' he cry , `` the ship will be blow to piece . ''
Now , now , he think , true form will show .
But Peter issue from the powder magazine with the shell in his hand , and calmly fling it overboard .
What sort of form be Hook himself show ?
Misguided man though he be , we may be glad , without sympathise with him , that in the end he be true to the tradition of his race .
The other boy be fly around him now , flout , scornful ; and he stagger about the deck strike up at them impotently , his mind be no longer with them ; it be slouch in the playing field of long ago , or be send up -LSB- to the headmaster -RSB- for good , or watch the wall-game from a famous wall .
And his shoe be right , and his waistcoat be right , and his tie be right , and his sock be right .
James Hook , thou not wholly unheroic figure , farewell .
For we have come to his last moment .
Seeing Peter slowly advance upon him through the air with dagger poise , he spring upon the bulwark to cast himself into the sea .
He do not know that the crocodile be wait for him ; for we purposely stop the clock that this knowledge might be spar him : a little mark of respect from u at the end .
He have one last triumph , which I think we need not grudge him .
As he stand on the bulwark look over his shoulder at Peter glide through the air , he invite him with a gesture to use his foot .
It make Peter kick instead of stab .
At last Hook have get the boon for which he crave .
`` Bad form , '' he cry jeeringly , and go content to the crocodile .
Thus perish James Hook .
`` Seventeen , '' Slightly sing out ; but he be not quite correct in his figure .
Fifteen pay the penalty for their crime that night ; but two reach the shore : Starkey to be capture by the redskin , who make him nurse for all their papoose , a melancholy come-down for a pirate ; and Smee , who henceforth wander about the world in his spectacle , make a precarious living by say he be the only man that Jas .
Hook have fear .
Wendy , of course , have stand by take no part in the fight , though watch Peter with glisten eye ; but now that all be over she become prominent again .
She praise them equally , and shudder delightfully when Michael show her the place where he have kill one ; and then she take them into Hook 's cabin and point to his watch which be hang on a nail .
It say `` half-past one ! ''
The lateness of the hour be almost the big thing of all .
She get them to bed in the pirate ' bunk pretty quickly , you may be sure ; all but Peter , who strut up and down on the deck , until at last he fell asleep by the side of Long Tom .
He have one of his dream that night , and cry in his sleep for a long time , and Wendy hold him tightly .
Chapter 16 THE RETURN HOME By three bell that morning they be all stir their stump -LSB- legs -RSB- ; for there be a big sea running ; and Tootles , the bo ` sun , be among them , with a rope 's end in his hand and chewing tobacco .
They all don pirate clothes cut off at the knee , shave smartly , and tumble up , with the true nautical roll and hitch their trouser .
It need not be say who be the captain .
Nibs and John be first and second mate .
There be a woman aboard .
The rest be tar -LSB- sailor -RSB- before the mast , and live in the fo ` c ` sle .
Peter have already lash himself to the wheel ; but he pip all hand and deliver a short address to them ; say he hop they would do their duty like gallant hearties , but that he know they be the scum of Rio and the Gold Coast , and if they snap at him he would tear them .
The bluff strident word strike the note sailor understand , and they cheer him lustily .
Then a few sharp order be give , and they turn the ship round , and nose her for the mainland .
Captain Pan calculate , after consult the ship 's chart , that if this weather last they should strike the Azores about the 21st of June , after which it would save time to fly .
Some of them want it to be an honest ship and others be in favour of keep it a pirate ; but the captain treat them a dog , and they dare not express their wish to him even in a round robin -LSB- one person after another , a they have to Cpt .
Hook -RSB- .
Instant obedience be the only safe thing .
Slightly get a dozen for look perplexed when told to take sounding .
The general feeling be that Peter be honest just now to lull Wendy 's suspicion , but that there might be a change when the new suit be ready , which , against her will , she be make for him out of some of Hook 's wicked garment .
It be afterwards whisper among them that on the first night he wear this suit he sit long in the cabin with Hook 's cigar-holder in his mouth and one hand clench , all but for the forefinger , which he bend and hold threateningly aloft like a hook .
Instead of watch the ship , however , we must now return to that desolate home from which three of our character have take heartless flight so long ago .
It seem a shame to have neglect No . 14 all this time ; and yet we may be sure that Mrs . Darling do not blame u .
If we have return sooner to look with sorrowful sympathy at her , she would probably have cry , `` Do n't be silly ; what do I matter ?
Do go back and keep an eye on the child . ''
So long a mother be like this their child will take advantage of them ; and they may lay to -LSB- bet on -RSB- that .
Even now we venture into that familiar nursery only because it lawful occupant be on their way home ; we be merely hurry on in advance of them to see that their bed be properly air and that Mr. and Mrs . Darling do not go out for the evening .
We be no more than servant .
Why on earth should their bed be properly air , see that they leave them in such a thankless hurry ?
Would it not serve them jolly well right if they come back and find that their parent be spend the week-end in the country ?
It would be the moral lesson they have be in need of ever since we meet them ; but if we contrive thing in this way Mrs . Darling would never forgive u .
One thing I should like to do immensely , and that be to tell her , in the way author have , that the child be come back , that indeed they will be here on Thursday week .
This would spoil so completely the surprise to which Wendy and John and Michael be look forward .
They have be plan it out on the ship : mother 's rapture , father 's shout of joy , Nana 's leap through the air to embrace them first , when what they ought to be prepare for be a good hiding .
How delicious to spoil it all by break the news in advance ; so that when they enter grandly Mrs . Darling may not even offer Wendy her mouth , and Mr . Darling may exclaim pettishly , `` Dash it all , here be those boy again . ''
However , we should get no thanks even for this .
We be begin to know Mrs . Darling by this time , and may be sure that she would upbraid u for deprive the child of their little pleasure .
`` But , my dear madam , it be ten day till Thursday week ; so that by tell you what 's what , we can save you ten day of unhappiness . ''
`` Yes , but at what a cost !
By deprive the child of ten minute of delight . ''
`` Oh , if you look at it in that way ! ''
`` What other way be there in which to look at it ? ''
You see , the woman have no proper spirit .
I have mean to say extraordinarily nice thing about her ; but I despise her , and not one of them will I say now .
She do not really need to be tell to have thing ready , for they be ready .
All the bed be air , and she never leave the house , and observe , the window be open .
For all the use we be to her , we might well go back to the ship .
However , a we be here we may as well stay and look on .
That be all we be , lookers-on .
Nobody really want u .
So let u watch and say jaggy thing , in the hope that some of them will hurt .
The only change to be see in the night-nursery be that between nine and six the kennel be no longer there .
When the child fly away , Mr . Darling felt in his bone that all the blame be his for have chain Nana up , and that from first to last she have be wiser than he .
Of course , a we have see , he be quite a simple man ; indeed he might have pass for a boy again if he have be able to take his baldness off ; but he have also a noble sense of justice and a lion 's courage to do what seem right to him ; and have think the matter out with anxious care after the flight of the child , he go down on all four and crawl into the kennel .
To all Mrs . Darling 's dear invitation to him to come out he reply sadly but firmly : `` No , my own one , this be the place for me . ''
In the bitterness of his remorse he swear that he would never leave the kennel until his child come back .
Of course this be a pity ; but whatever Mr . Darling do he have to do in excess , otherwise he soon give up do it .
And there never be a more humble man than the once proud George Darling , a he sit in the kennel of an evening talk with his wife of their child and all their pretty way .
Very touch be his deference to Nana .
He would not let her come into the kennel , but on all other matter he follow her wish implicitly .
Every morning the kennel be carry with Mr . Darling in it to a cab , which convey him to his office , and he return home in the same way at six .
Something of the strength of character of the man will be see if we remember how sensitive he be to the opinion of neighbour : this man whose every movement now attract surprised attention .
Inwardly he must have suffer torture ; but he preserve a calm exterior even when the young criticise his little home , and he always lift his hat courteously to any lady who look inside .
It may have be Quixotic , but it be magnificent .
Soon the inward meaning of it leak out , and the great heart of the public be touch .
Crowds follow the cab , cheer it lustily ; charm girl scale it to get his autograph ; interview appear in the good class of paper , and society invite him to dinner and add , `` Do come in the kennel . ''
On that eventful Thursday week , Mrs . Darling be in the night-nursery awaiting George 's return home ; a very sad-eyed woman .
Now that we look at her closely and remember the gaiety of her in the old day , all go now just because she have lose her babe , I find I wo n't be able to say nasty thing about her after all .
If she be too fond of her rubbishy child , she could n't help it .
Look at her in her chair , where she have fall asleep .
The corner of her mouth , where one look first , be almost wither up .
Her hand move restlessly on her breast a if she have a pain there .
Some like Peter best , and some like Wendy best , but I like her best .
Suppose , to make her happy , we whisper to her in her sleep that the brat be come back .
They be really within two mile of the window now , and fly strong , but all we need whisper be that they be on the way .
Let 's .
It be a pity we do it , for she have start up , call their name ; and there be no one in the room but Nana .
`` O Nana , I dream my dear one have come back . ''
Nana have filmy eye , but all she could do be put her paw gently on her mistress 's lap ; and they be sit together thus when the kennel be bring back .
As Mr . Darling put his head out to kiss his wife , we see that his face be more worn than of yore , but have a soft expression .
He give his hat to Liza , who take it scornfully ; for she have no imagination , and be quite incapable of understand the motif of such a man .
Outside , the crowd who have accompany the cab home be still cheer , and he be naturally not unmoved .
`` Listen to them , '' he say ; `` it be very gratifying . ''
`` Lots of little boy , '' sneer Liza .
`` There be several adult to-day , '' he assure her with a faint flush ; but when she toss her head he have not a word of reproof for her .
Social success have not spoil him ; it have make him sweeter .
For some time he sit with his head out of the kennel , talk with Mrs . Darling of this success , and press her hand reassuringly when she say she hop his head would not be turn by it .
`` But if I have be a weak man , '' he say .
`` Good heaven , if I have be a weak man ! ''
`` And , George , '' she say timidly , `` you be a full of remorse a ever , be n't you ? ''
`` Full of remorse a ever , dear !
See my punishment : living in a kennel . ''
`` But it be punishment , be n't it , George ?
You be sure you be not enjoy it ? ''
`` My love ! ''
You may be sure she beg his pardon ; and then , feel drowsy , he curl round in the kennel .
`` Wo n't you play me to sleep , '' he ask , `` on the nursery piano ? ''
and a she be cross to the day-nursery he add thoughtlessly , `` And shut that window .
I feel a draught . ''
`` O George , never ask me to do that .
The window must always be leave open for them , always , always . ''
Now it be his turn to beg her pardon ; and she go into the day-nursery and play , and soon he be asleep ; and while he sleep , Wendy and John and Michael fly into the room .
Oh no .
We have write it so , because that be the charming arrangement plan by them before we leave the ship ; but something must have happen since then , for it be not they who have fly in , it be Peter and Tinker Bell .
Peter 's first word tell all .
`` Quick Tink , '' he whisper , `` close the window ; bar it !
That 's right .
Now you and I must get away by the door ; and when Wendy come she will think her mother have bar her out ; and she will have to go back with me . ''
Now I understand what have hitherto puzzle me , why when Peter have exterminate the pirate he do not return to the island and leave Tink to escort the child to the mainland .
This trick have be in his head all the time .
Instead of feeling that he be behave badly he dance with glee ; then he peep into the day-nursery to see who be play .
He whisper to Tink , `` It 's Wendy 's mother !
She be a pretty lady , but not so pretty a my mother .
Her mouth be full of thimble , but not so full a my mother 's be . ''
Of course he know nothing whatever about his mother ; but he sometimes brag about her .
He do not know the tune , which be `` Home , Sweet Home , '' but he know it be say , `` Come back , Wendy , Wendy , Wendy '' ; and he cry exultantly , `` You will never see Wendy again , lady , for the window be bar ! ''
He peep in again to see why the music have stop , and now he saw that Mrs . Darling have lay her head on the box , and that two tear be sit on her eye .
`` She want me to unbar the window , '' think Peter , `` but I wo n't , not I ! ''
He peep again , and the tear be still there , or another two have take their place .
`` She 's awfully fond of Wendy , '' he say to himself .
He be angry with her now for not see why she could not have Wendy .
The reason be so simple : `` I 'm fond of her too .
We ca n't both have her , lady . ''
But the lady would not make the best of it , and he be unhappy .
He cease to look at her , but even then she would not let go of him .
He skip about and make funny face , but when he stop it be just a if she be inside him , knock .
`` Oh , all right , '' he say at last , and gulp .
Then he unbar the window .
`` Come on , Tink , '' he cry , with a frightful sneer at the law of nature ; `` we do n't want any silly mother ; '' and he fly away .
Thus Wendy and John and Michael find the window open for them after all , which of course be more than they deserve .
They alight on the floor , quite unashamed of themselves , and the young one have already forget his home .
`` John , '' he say , look around him doubtfully , `` I think I have be here before . ''
`` Of course you have , you silly .
There be your old bed . ''
`` So it be , '' Michael say , but not with much conviction .
`` I say , '' cry John , `` the kennel ! ''
and he dash across to look into it .
`` Perhaps Nana be inside it , '' Wendy say .
But John whistle .
`` Hullo , '' he say , `` there 's a man inside it . ''
`` It 's father ! ''
exclaim Wendy .
`` Let me see father , '' Michael beg eagerly , and he take a good look .
`` He be not so big a the pirate I kill , '' he say with such frank disappointment that I be glad Mr . Darling be asleep ; it would have be sad if those have be the first word he hear his little Michael say .
Wendy and John have be take aback somewhat at find their father in the kennel .
`` Surely , '' say John , like one who have lose faith in his memory , `` he use not to sleep in the kennel ? ''
`` John , '' Wendy say falteringly , `` perhaps we do n't remember the old life as well a we think we do . ''
A chill fell upon them ; and serve them right .
`` It be very careless of mother , '' say that young scoundrel John , `` not to be here when we come back . ''
It be then that Mrs . Darling begin play again .
`` It 's mother ! ''
cry Wendy , peeping .
`` So it be ! ''
say John .
`` Then be you not really our mother , Wendy ? ''
ask Michael , who be surely sleepy .
`` Oh dear ! ''
exclaim Wendy , with her first real twinge of remorse -LSB- for have go -RSB- , `` it be quite time we come back . ''
`` Let u creep in , '' John suggest , `` and put our hand over her eye . ''
But Wendy , who saw that they must break the joyous news more gently , have a good plan .
`` Let u all slip into our bed , and be there when she come in , just a if we have never be away . ''
And so when Mrs . Darling go back to the night-nursery to see if her husband be asleep , all the bed be occupy .
The child wait for her cry of joy , but it do not come .
She saw them , but she do not believe they be there .
You see , she saw them in their bed so often in her dream that she think this be just the dream hang around her still .
She sit down in the chair by the fire , where in the old day she have nurse them .
They could not understand this , and a cold fear fell upon all the three of them .
`` Mother ! ''
Wendy cry .
`` That 's Wendy , '' she say , but still she be sure it be the dream .
`` Mother ! ''
`` That 's John , '' she say .
`` Mother ! ''
cry Michael .
He know her now .
`` That 's Michael , '' she say , and she stretch out her arm for the three little selfish child they would never envelop again .
Yes , they do , they go round Wendy and John and Michael , who have slip out of bed and run to her .
`` George , George ! ''
she cry when she could speak ; and Mr . Darling wake to share her bliss , and Nana come rush in .
There could not have be a lovely sight ; but there be none to see it except a little boy who be star in at the window .
He have have ecstasy innumerable that other child can never know ; but he be look through the window at the one joy from which he must be for ever bar .
Chapter 17 WHEN WENDY GREW UP I hope you want to know what become of the other boy .
They be wait below to give Wendy time to explain about them ; and when they have count five hundred they go up .
They go up by the stair , because they think this would make a good impression .
They stand in a row in front of Mrs . Darling , with their hat off , and wish they be not wear their pirate clothes .
They say nothing , but their eye ask her to have them .
They ought to have look at Mr . Darling also , but they forget about him .
Of course Mrs . Darling say at once that she would have them ; but Mr . Darling be curiously depress , and they saw that he consider six a rather large number .
`` I must say , '' he say to Wendy , `` that you do n't do thing by half , '' a grudging remark which the twin think be point at them .
The first twin be the proud one , and he ask , flushing , `` Do you think we should be too much of a handful , sir ?
Because , if so , we can go away . ''
`` Father ! ''
Wendy cry , shock ; but still the cloud be on him .
He know he be behave unworthily , but he could not help it .
`` We could lie double up , '' say Nibs .
`` I always cut their hair myself , '' say Wendy .
`` George ! ''
Mrs . Darling exclaim , pain to see her dear one show himself in such an unfavourable light .
Then he burst into tear , and the truth come out .
He be a glad to have them a she be , he say , but he think they should have ask his consent as well a hers , instead of treat him a a cypher -LSB- zero -RSB- in his own house .
`` I do n't think he be a cypher , '' Tootles cry instantly .
`` Do you think he be a cypher , Curly ? ''
`` No , I do n't .
Do you think he be a cypher , Slightly ? ''
`` Rather not .
Twin , what do you think ? ''
It turn out that not one of them think him a cypher ; and he be absurdly gratify , and say he would find space for them all in the drawing-room if they fit in .
`` We 'll fit in , sir , '' they assure him .
`` Then follow the leader , '' he cry gaily .
`` Mind you , I be not sure that we have a drawing-room , but we pretend we have , and it 's all the same .
Hoop la ! ''
He go off dance through the house , and they all cry `` Hoop la ! ''
and dance after him , search for the drawing-room ; and I forget whether they find it , but at any rate they find corner , and they all fit in .
As for Peter , he saw Wendy once again before he fly away .
He do not exactly come to the window , but he brush against it in pass so that she could open it if she like and call to him .
That be what she do .
`` Hullo , Wendy , good-bye , '' he say .
`` Oh dear , be you go away ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` You do n't feel , Peter , '' she say falteringly , `` that you would like to say anything to my parent about a very sweet subject ? ''
`` No . ''
`` About me , Peter ? ''
`` No . ''
Mrs . Darling come to the window , for at present she be keep a sharp eye on Wendy .
She tell Peter that she have adopt all the other boy , and would like to adopt him also .
`` Would you send me to school ? ''
he inquire craftily .
`` Yes . ''
`` And then to an office ? ''
`` I suppose so . ''
`` Soon I would be a man ? ''
`` Very soon . ''
`` I do n't want to go to school and learn solemn thing , '' he tell her passionately .
`` I do n't want to be a man .
O Wendy 's mother , if I be to wake up and feel there be a beard ! ''
`` Peter , '' say Wendy the comforter , `` I should love you in a beard ; '' and Mrs . Darling stretch out her arm to him , but he repulse her .
`` Keep back , lady , no one be go to catch me and make me a man . ''
`` But where be you go to live ? ''
`` With Tink in the house we build for Wendy .
The fairy be to put it high up among the tree top where they sleep at night . ''
`` How lovely , '' cry Wendy so longingly that Mrs . Darling tighten her grip .
`` I think all the fairy be dead , '' Mrs . Darling say .
`` There be always a lot of young one , '' explain Wendy , who be now quite an authority , `` because you see when a new baby laugh for the first time a new fairy be bear , and a there be always new baby there be always new fairy .
They live in nest on the top of tree ; and the mauve one be boy and the white one be girl , and the blue one be just little silly who be not sure what they be . ''
`` I shall have such fun , '' say Peter , with eye on Wendy .
`` It will be rather lonely in the evening , '' she say , `` sitting by the fire . ''
`` I shall have Tink . ''
`` Tink ca n't go a twentieth part of the way round , '' she remind him a little tartly .
`` Sneaky tell-tale ! ''
Tink call out from somewhere round the corner .
`` It do n't matter , '' Peter say .
`` O Peter , you know it matter . ''
`` Well , then , come with me to the little house . ''
`` May I , mummy ? ''
`` Certainly not .
I have get you home again , and I mean to keep you . ''
`` But he do so need a mother . ''
`` So do you , my love . ''
`` Oh , all right , '' Peter say , a if he have ask her from politeness merely ; but Mrs . Darling saw his mouth twitch , and she make this handsome offer : to let Wendy go to him for a week every year to do his spring cleaning .
Wendy would have prefer a more permanent arrangement ; and it seem to her that spring would be long in come ; but this promise send Peter away quite gay again .
He have no sense of time , and be so full of adventure that all I have tell you about him be only a halfpenny-worth of them .
I suppose it be because Wendy know this that her last word to him be these rather plaintive one : `` You wo n't forget me , Peter , will you , before spring cleaning time come ? ''
Of course Peter promise ; and then he fly away .
He take Mrs . Darling 's kiss with him .
The kiss that have be for no one else , Peter take quite easily .
Funny .
But she seem satisfied .
Of course all the boy go to school ; and most of them get into Class III , but Slightly be put first into Class IV and then into Class V. Class I be the top class .
Before they have attend school a week they saw what goats they have be not to remain on the island ; but it be too late now , and soon they settle down to be as ordinary a you or me or Jenkins minor -LSB- the young Jenkins -RSB- .
It be sad to have to say that the power to fly gradually leave them .
At first Nana tie their foot to the bed-posts so that they should not fly away in the night ; and one of their diversion by day be to pretend to fall off bus -LSB- the English double-decker -RSB- ; but by and by they cease to tug at their bond in bed , and find that they hurt themselves when they let go of the bus .
In time they could not even fly after their hat .
Want of practice , they call it ; but what it really mean be that they no longer believe .
Michael believe long than the other boy , though they jeer at him ; so he be with Wendy when Peter come for her at the end of the first year .
She fly away with Peter in the frock she have weave from leaf and berry in the Neverland , and her one fear be that he might notice how short it have become ; but he never notice , he have so much to say about himself .
She have look forward to thrill talk with him about old time , but new adventure have crowd the old one from his mind .
`` Who be Captain Hook ? ''
he ask with interest when she speak of the arch enemy .
`` Do n't you remember , '' she ask , amaze , `` how you kill him and save all our life ? ''
`` I forget them after I kill them , '' he reply carelessly .
When she express a doubtful hope that Tinker Bell would be glad to see her he say , `` Who be Tinker Bell ? ''
`` O Peter , '' she say , shock ; but even when she explain he could not remember .
`` There be such a lot of them , '' he say .
`` I expect she be no more . ''
I expect he be right , for fairy do n't live long , but they be so little that a short time seem a good while to them .
Wendy be pain too to find that the past year be but a yesterday to Peter ; it have seem such a long year of wait to her .
But he be exactly as fascinating a ever , and they have a lovely spring cleaning in the little house on the tree top .
Next year he do not come for her .
She wait in a new frock because the old one simply would not meet ; but he never come .
`` Perhaps he be ill , '' Michael say .
`` You know he be never ill . ''
Michael come close to her and whisper , with a shiver , `` Perhaps there be no such person , Wendy ! ''
and then Wendy would have cry if Michael have not be cry .
Peter come next spring cleaning ; and the strange thing be that he never know he have miss a year .
That be the last time the girl Wendy ever saw him .
For a little long she try for his sake not to have grow pain ; and she felt she be untrue to him when she get a prize for general knowledge .
But the year come and go without bring the careless boy ; and when they meet again Wendy be a married woman , and Peter be no more to her than a little dust in the box in which she have keep her toy .
Wendy be grow up .
You need not be sorry for her .
She be one of the kind that like to grow up .
In the end she grow up of her own free will a day quick than other girl .
All the boy be grow up and do for by this time ; so it be scarcely worth while say anything more about them .
You may see the twin and Nibs and Curly any day go to an office , each carry a little bag and an umbrella .
Michael be an engine-driver -LSB- train engineer -RSB- .
Slightly marry a lady of title , and so he become a lord .
You see that judge in a wig come out at the iron door ?
That use to be Tootles .
The bearded man who do n't know any story to tell his child be once John .
Wendy be marry in white with a pink sash .
It be strange to think that Peter do not alight in the church and forbid the banns -LSB- formal announcement of a marriage -RSB- .
Years roll on again , and Wendy have a daughter .
This ought not to be write in ink but in a golden splash .
She be call Jane , and always have an odd inquiring look , a if from the moment she arrive on the mainland she want to ask question .
When she be old enough to ask them they be mostly about Peter Pan .
She love to hear of Peter , and Wendy tell her all she could remember in the very nursery from which the famous flight have take place .
It be Jane 's nursery now , for her father have buy it at the three per cent -LSB- mortgage rate -RSB- from Wendy 's father , who be no long fond of stair .
Mrs . Darling be now dead and forgotten .
There be only two bed in the nursery now , Jane 's and her nurse 's ; and there be no kennel , for Nana also have pass away .
She die of old age , and at the end she have be rather difficult to get on with ; be very firmly convince that no one know how to look after child except herself .
Once a week Jane 's nurse have her even off ; and then it be Wendy 's part to put Jane to bed .
That be the time for story .
It be Jane 's invention to raise the sheet over her mother 's head and her own , thus make a tent , and in the awful darkness to whisper : `` What do we see now ? ''
`` I do n't think I see anything to-night , '' say Wendy , with a feeling that if Nana be here she would object to further conversation .
`` Yes , you do , '' say Jane , `` you see when you be a little girl . ''
`` That be a long time ago , sweetheart , '' say Wendy .
`` Ah me , how time fly ! ''
`` Does it fly , '' ask the artful child , `` the way you fly when you be a little girl ? ''
`` The way I fly ?
Do you know , Jane , I sometimes wonder whether I ever do really fly . ''
`` Yes , you do . ''
`` The dear old day when I could fly ! ''
`` Why ca n't you fly now , mother ? ''
`` Because I be grow up , dear .
When people grow up they forget the way . ''
`` Why do they forget the way ? ''
`` Because they be no longer gay and innocent and heartless .
It be only the gay and innocent and heartless who can fly . ''
`` What be gay and innocent and heartless ?
I do wish I be gay and innocent and heartless . ''
Or perhaps Wendy admits she do see something .
`` I do believe , '' she say , `` that it be this nursery . ''
`` I do believe it be , '' say Jane .
`` Go on . ''
They be now embark on the great adventure of the night when Peter fly in look for his shadow .
`` The foolish fellow , '' say Wendy , `` try to stick it on with soap , and when he could not he cry , and that wake me , and I sew it on for him . ''
`` You have miss a bit , '' interrupt Jane , who now know the story well than her mother .
`` When you saw him sit on the floor cry , what do you say ? ''
`` I sit up in bed and I say , ` Boy , why be you cry ? ' ''
`` Yes , that be it , '' say Jane , with a big breath .
`` And then he fly u all away to the Neverland and the fairy and the pirate and the redskin and the mermaid 's lagoon , and the home under the ground , and the little house . ''
`` Yes !
which do you like best of all ? ''
`` I think I like the home under the ground best of all . ''
`` Yes , so do I .
What be the last thing Peter ever say to you ? ''
`` The last thing he ever say to me be , ` Just always be wait for me , and then some night you will hear me crow . ' ''
`` Yes . ''
`` But , alas , he forget all about me , '' Wendy say it with a smile .
She be a grow up a that .
`` What do his crow sound like ? ''
Jane ask one evening .
`` It be like this , '' Wendy say , try to imitate Peter 's crow .
`` No , it be n't , '' Jane say gravely , `` it be like this ; '' and she do it ever so much good than her mother .
Wendy be a little startled .
`` My darling , how can you know ? ''
`` I often hear it when I be sleep , '' Jane say .
`` Ah yes , many girl hear it when they be sleep , but I be the only one who hear it awake . ''
`` Lucky you , '' say Jane .
And then one night come the tragedy .
It be the spring of the year , and the story have be tell for the night , and Jane be now asleep in her bed .
Wendy be sit on the floor , very close to the fire , so a to see to darn , for there be no other light in the nursery ; and while she sit darn she hear a crow .
Then the window blow open a of old , and Peter drop in on the floor .
He be exactly the same a ever , and Wendy saw at once that he still have all his first teeth .
He be a little boy , and she be grow up .
She huddle by the fire not dare to move , helpless and guilty , a big woman .
`` Hullo , Wendy , '' he say , not notice any difference , for he be think chiefly of himself ; and in the dim light her white dress might have be the nightgown in which he have see her first .
`` Hullo , Peter , '' she reply faintly , squeeze herself as small a possible .
Something inside her be cry `` Woman , Woman , let go of me . ''
`` Hullo , where be John ? ''
he ask , suddenly miss the third bed .
`` John be not here now , '' she gasp .
`` Is Michael asleep ? ''
he ask , with a careless glance at Jane .
`` Yes , '' she answer ; and now she felt that she be untrue to Jane as well a to Peter .
`` That be not Michael , '' she say quickly , l a judgment should fall on her .
Peter look .
`` Hullo , be it a new one ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Boy or girl ? ''
`` Girl . ''
Now surely he would understand ; but not a bit of it .
`` Peter , '' she say , faltering , `` be you expect me to fly away with you ? ''
`` Of course ; that be why I have come . ''
He add a little sternly , `` Have you forget that this be spring clean time ? ''
She know it be useless to say that he have let many spring clean time pas .
`` I ca n't come , '' she say apologetically , `` I have forget how to fly . ''
`` I 'll soon teach you again . ''
`` O Peter , do n't waste the fairy dust on me . ''
She have rise ; and now at last a fear assail him .
`` What be it ? ''
he cry , shrink .
`` I will turn up the light , '' she say , `` and then you can see for yourself . ''
For almost the only time in his life that I know of , Peter be afraid .
`` Do n't turn up the light , '' he cry .
She let her hand play in the hair of the tragic boy .
She be not a little girl heart-broken about him ; she be a grown woman smile at it all , but they be wet eyed smile .
Then she turn up the light , and Peter saw .
He give a cry of pain ; and when the tall beautiful creature stoop to lift him in her arm he draw back sharply .
`` What be it ? ''
he cry again .
She have to tell him .
`` I be old , Peter .
I be ever so much more than twenty .
I grow up long ago . ''
`` You promise not to ! ''
`` I could n't help it .
I be a married woman , Peter . ''
`` No , you 're not . ''
`` Yes , and the little girl in the bed be my baby . ''
`` No , she 's not . ''
But he suppose she be ; and he take a step towards the sleep child with his dagger upraise .
Of course he do not strike .
He sit down on the floor instead and sob ; and Wendy do not know how to comfort him , though she could have do it so easily once .
She be only a woman now , and she run out of the room to try to think .
Peter continue to cry , and soon his sob wake Jane .
She sit up in bed , and be interested at once .
`` Boy , '' she say , `` why be you cry ? ''
Peter rise and bow to her , and she bow to him from the bed .
`` Hullo , '' he say .
`` Hullo , '' say Jane .
`` My name be Peter Pan , '' he tell her .
`` Yes , I know . ''
`` I come back for my mother , '' he explain , `` to take her to the Neverland . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' Jane say , `` I have be wait for you . ''
When Wendy return diffidently she find Peter sit on the bed-post crowing gloriously , while Jane in her nighty be fly round the room in solemn ecstasy .
`` She be my mother , '' Peter explain ; and Jane descend and stood by his side , with the look in her face that he like to see on lady when they gaze at him .
`` He do so need a mother , '' Jane say .
`` Yes , I know . ''
Wendy admit rather forlornly ; `` no one know it so well a I. '' `` Good-bye , '' say Peter to Wendy ; and he rise in the air , and the shameless Jane rise with him ; it be already her easy way of move about .
Wendy rush to the window .
`` No , no , '' she cry .
`` It be just for spring cleaning time , '' Jane say , `` he want me always to do his spring cleaning . ''
`` If only I could go with you , '' Wendy sigh .
`` You see you ca n't fly , '' say Jane .
Of course in the end Wendy let them fly away together .
Our last glimpse of her show her at the window , watch them recede into the sky until they be as small a star .
As you look at Wendy , you may see her hair become white , and her figure little again , for all this happen long ago .
Jane be now a common grown-up , with a daughter call Margaret ; and every spring cleaning time , except when he forget , Peter come for Margaret and take her to the Neverland , where she tell him story about himself , to which he listen eagerly .
When Margaret grow up she will have a daughter , who be to be Peter 's mother in turn ; and thus it will go on , so long a child be gay and innocent and heartless .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : James_Matthew_Barrie___Peter_Pan_in_Kensington_Gardens , _Version_1.txt.out
I THE GRAND TOUR OF THE GARDENS You must see for yourselves that it will be difficult to follow Peter Pan 's adventure unless you be familiar with the Kensington Gardens .
They be in London , where the King life , and I use to take David there nearly every day unless he be look decidedly flush .
No child have ever be in the whole of the Gardens , because it be so soon time to turn back .
The reason it be soon time to turn back be that , if you be as small a David , you sleep from twelve to one .
If your mother be not so sure that you sleep from twelve to one , you could most likely see the whole of them .
The Gardens be bound on one side by a never-ending line of omnibus , over which your nurse have such authority that if she hold up her finger to any one of them it stop immediately .
She then cross with you in safety to the other side .
There be more gate to the Gardens than one gate , but that be the one you go in at , and before you go in you speak to the lady with the balloon , who sit just outside .
This be as near to be inside a she may venture , because , if she be to let go her hold of the railing for one moment , the balloon would lift her up , and she would be fly away .
She sit very squat , for the balloon be always tug at her , and the strain have give her quite a red face .
Once she be a new one , because the old one have let go , and David be very sorry for the old one , but a she do let go , he wish he have be there to see .
-LSB- Illustration : The Hump , which be the part of the Broad Walk where all the big race be run -RSB- The Gardens be a tremendous big place , with million and hundred of tree ; and first you come to the Figs , but you scorn to loiter there , for the Figs be the resort of superior little person , who be forbid to mix with the commonalty , and be so name , accord to legend , because they dress in full fig .
These dainty one be themselves contemptuously call Figs by David and other hero , and you have a key to the manner and custom of this dandiacal section of the Gardens when I tell you that cricket be call cricket here .
Occasionally a rebel Fig climb over the fence into the world , and such a one be Miss Mabel Grey , of whom I shall tell you when we come to Miss Mabel Grey 's gate .
She be the only really celebrate Fig .
We be now in the Broad Walk , and it be as much big than the other walk a your father be big than you .
David wonder if it begin little , and grow and grow , until it be quite grow up , and whether the other walk be it baby , and he draw a picture , which divert him very much , of the Broad Walk give a tiny walk an airing in a perambulator .
In the Broad Walk you meet all the people who be worth knowing , and there be usually a grown-up with them to prevent them go on the damp grass , and to make them stand disgrace at the corner of a seat if they have be mad-dog or Mary-Annish .
To be Mary-Annish be to behave like a girl , whimper because nurse wo n't carry you , or simper with your thumb in your mouth , and it be a hateful quality ; but to be mad-dog be to kick out at everything , and there be some satisfaction in that .
If I be to point out all the notable place a we pass up the Broad Walk , it would be time to turn back before we reach them , and I simply wave my stick at Cecco Hewlett 's Tree , that memorable spot where a boy call Cecco lose his penny , and , look for it , find twopence .
There have be a good deal of excavation go on there ever since .
Farther up the walk be the little wooden house in which Marmaduke Perry hid .
There be no more awful story of the Gardens than this of Marmaduke Perry , who have be Mary-Annish three day in succession , and be sentence to appear in the Broad Walk dress in his sister 's clothes .
He hide in the little wooden house , and refuse to emerge until they bring him knickerbockers with pocket .
You now try to go to the Round Pond , but nurse hate it , because they be not really manly , and they make you look the other way , at the Big Penny and the Baby 's Palace .
She be the most celebrated baby of the Gardens , and live in the palace all alone , with ever so many doll , so people ring the bell , and up she get out of her bed , though it be past six o'clock , and she light a candle and open the door in her nighty , and then they all cry with great rejoicing , ` Hail , Queen of England ! '
What puzzle David most be how she know where the match be keep .
The Big Penny be a statue about her .
Next we come to the Hump , which be the part of the Broad Walk where all the big race be run ; and even though you have no intention of run you do run when you come to the Hump , it be such a fascinating , slide-down kind of place .
Often you stop when you have run about half-way down it , and then you be lose ; but there be another little wooden house near here , call the Lost House , and so you tell the man that you be lose and then he find you .
It be glorious fun race down the Hump , but you ca n't do it on windy day because then you be not there , but the fallen leave do it instead of you .
There be almost nothing that have such a keen sense of fun a a fallen leaf .
From the Hump we can see the gate that be call after Miss Mabel Grey , the Fig I promise to tell you about .
There be always two nurse with her , or else one mother and one nurse , and for a long time she be a pattern-child who always cough off the table and say , ` How do you do ? '
to the other Figs , and the only game she play at be fling a ball gracefully and let the nurse bring it back to her .
Then one day she tire of it all and go mad-dog , and , first , to show that she really be mad-dog , she unloosen both her boot-laces and put out her tongue east , west , north , and south .
She then fling her sash into a puddle and dance on it till dirty water be squirt over her frock , after which she climb the fence and have a series of incredible adventure , one of the least of which be that she kick off both her boot .
At last she come to the gate that be now call after her , out of which she run into street David and I have never be in though we have hear them roar , and still she run on and would never again have be hear of have not her mother jump into a ` bus and thus overtake her .
It all happen , I should say , long ago , and this be not the Mabel Grey whom David know .
-LSB- Illustration : There be almost nothing that have such a keen sense of fun a a fall leaf -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- Returning up the Broad Walk we have on our right the Baby Walk , which be so full of perambulator that you could cross from side to side step on baby , but the nurse wo n't let you do it .
From this walk a passage call Bunting 's Thumb , because it be that length , lead into Picnic Street , where there be real kettle , and chestnut-blossom fall into your mug a you be drink .
Quite common child picnic here also , and the blossom fall into their mug just the same .
Next come St. Govor 's Well , which be full of water when Malcolm the Bold fell into it .
He be his mother 's favourite , and he let her put her arm round his neck in public because she be a widow ; but he be also partial to adventure , and like to play with a chimney-sweep who have kill a good many bear .
The sweep 's name be Sooty , and one day , when they be play near the well , Malcolm fell in and would have be drown have not Sooty dive in and rescue him ; and the water have wash Sooty clean , and he now stand reveal a Malcolm 's long-lost father .
So Malcolm would not let his mother put her arm round his neck any more .
Between the well and the Round Pond be the cricket pitch , and frequently the choosing of side exhaust so much time that there be scarcely any cricket .
Everybody want to bat first , and as soon a he be out he bowl unless you be the good wrestler , and while you be wrestle with him the fielder have scatter to play at something else .
The Gardens be note for two kind of cricket : boy cricket , which be real cricket with a bat , and girl cricket , which be with a racquet and the governess .
Girls ca n't really play cricket , and when you be watch their futile effort you make funny sound at them .
Nevertheless , there be a very disagreeable incident one day when some forward girl challenge David 's team , and a disturbing creature call Angela Clare send down so many yorkers that -- However , instead of tell you the result of that regrettable match I shall pass on hurriedly to the Round Pond , which be the wheel that keep all the garden go .
-LSB- Illustration : The Serpentine be a lovely lake , and there be a drowned forest at the bottom of it .
If you peer over the edge you can see the tree all grow upside down , and they say that at night there be also drowned star in it -RSB- It be round because it be in the very middle of the Gardens , and when you be come to it you never want to go any farther .
You ca n't be good all the time at the Round Pond , however much you try .
You can be good in the Broad Walk all the time , but not at the Round Pond , and the reason be that you forget , and , when you remember , you be so wet that you may as well be wet .
There be men who sail boat on the Round Pond , such big boat that they bring them in barrow , and sometimes in perambulator , and then the baby have to walk .
The bow-legged child in the Gardens be those who have to walk too soon because their father need the perambulator .
You always want to have a yacht to sail on the Round Pond , and in the end your uncle give you one ; and to carry it to the pond the first day be splendid , also to talk about it to boys who have no uncle be splendid , but soon you like to leave it at home .
For the sweet craft that slip her mooring in the Round Pond be what be call a stick-boat , because she be rather like a stick until she be in the water and you be hold the string .
Then a you walk round , pull her , you see little men run about her deck , and sail rise magically and catch the breeze , and you put in on dirty night at snug harbour which be unknown to the lordly yacht .
Night pass in a twink , and again your rakish craft nose for the wind , whale spout , you glide over buried city , and have brush with pirate , and cast anchor on coral isle .
You be a solitary boy while all this be take place , for two boy together can not adventure far upon the Round Pond , and though you may talk to yourself throughout the voyage , give order and execute them with despatch , you know not , when it be time to go home , where you have be or what swell your sail ; your treasure-trove be all lock away in your hold , so to speak , which will be open , perhaps , by another little boy many year afterwards .
But those yacht have nothing in their hold .
Does any one return to this haunt of his youth because of the yacht that use to sail it ?
Oh no .
It be the stick-boat that be freight with memory .
The yacht be toy , their owner a fresh-water mariner ; they can cross and recross a pond only while the stick-boat go to sea .
You yachtsmen with your wand , who think we be all there to gaze on you , your ship be only accident of this place , and be they all to be board and sink by the duck , the real business of the Round Pond would be carry on a usual .
-LSB- Illustration : The island on which all the bird be bear that become baby boy and girl -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- Paths from everywhere crowd like child to the pond .
Some of them be ordinary path , which have a rail on each side , and be make by men with their coat off , but others be vagrant , wide at one spot , and at another so narrow that you can stand astride them .
They be call Paths that have Made Themselves , and David do wish he could see them do it .
But , like all the most wonderful thing that happen in the Gardens , it be do , we conclude , at night after the gate be close .
We have also decide that the path make themselves because it be their only chance of get to the Round Pond .
One of these gypsy path come from the place where the sheep get their hair cut .
When David shed his curl at the hairdresser 's , I be told , he say good-bye to them without a tremor , though his mother have never be quite the same bright creature since ; so he despise the sheep a they run from their shearer , and call out tauntingly , ` Cowardly , cowardly custard ! '
But when the man grip them between his leg David shake a fist at him for use such big scissors .
Another startling moment be when the man turn back the grimy wool from the sheep 's shoulder and they look suddenly like lady in the stall of a theatre .
The sheep be so frighten by the shearing that it make them quite white and thin , and as soon a they be set free they begin to nibble the grass at once , quite anxiously , a if they fear that they would never be worth eat .
David wonder whether they know each other , now that they be so different , and if it make them fight with the wrong one .
They be great fighter , and thus so unlike country sheep that every year they give my St. Bernard dog , Porthos , a shock .
He can make a field of country sheep fly by merely announce his approach , but these town sheep come toward him with no promise of gentle entertainment , and then a light from last year break upon Porthos .
He can not with dignity retreat , but he stop and look about him a if lose in admiration of the scenery , and presently he stroll away with a fine indifference and a glint at me from the corner of his eye .
-LSB- Illustration : Porthos -RSB- The Serpentine begin near here .
It be a lovely lake , and there be a drowned forest at the bottom of it .
If you peer over the edge you can see the tree all grow upside down , and they say that at night there be also drowned star in it .
If so , Peter Pan see them when he be sail across the lake in the Thrush 's Nest .
A small part only of the Serpentine be in the Gardens , for soon it pass beneath a bridge to far away where the island be on which all the bird be bear that become baby boy and girl .
No one who be human , except Peter Pan -LRB- and he be only half human -RRB- , can land on the island , but you may write what you want -LRB- boy or girl , dark or fair -RRB- on a piece of paper , and then twist it into the shape of a boat and slip it into the water , and it reach Peter Pan 's island after dark .
-LSB- Illustration : One of the Paths that have Made Themselves -RSB- We be on the way home now , though of course , it be all pretence that we can go to so many of the place in one day .
I should have have to be carry David long ago , and rest on every seat like old Mr. Salford .
That be what we call him , because he always talk to u of a lovely place call Salford where he have be bear .
He be a crab-apple of an old gentleman who wander all day in the Gardens from seat to seat try to fall in with somebody who be acquaint with the town of Salford , and when we have know him for a year or more we actually do meet another age solitary who have once spend Saturday to Monday in Salford .
He be meek and timid , and carry his address inside his hat , and whatever part of London he be in search of he always go to Westminster Abbey first a a starting-point .
Him we carry in triumph to our other friend , with the story of that Saturday to Monday , and never shall I forget the gloat joy with which Mr. Salford leap at him .
They have be crony ever since , and I notice that Mr. Salford , who naturally do most of the talk , keep tight grip of the other old man 's coat .
-LSB- Illustration : Old Mr. Salford be a crab-apple of an old gentleman who wander all day in the Gardens -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Away he fly , right over the house to the Gardens -RSB- The two last place before you come to our gate be the Dogs ' Cemetery and the chaffinch 's nest , but we pretend not to know what the Dogs ' Cemetery be , a Porthos be always with u .
The nest be very sad .
It be quite white , and the way we find it be wonderful .
We be have another look among the bush for David 's lose worsted ball , and instead of the ball we find a lovely nest make of the worst , and contain four egg , with scratch on them very like David 's handwriting , so we think they must have be the mother 's love-letters to the little one inside .
Every day we be in the Gardens we pay a call at the nest , take care that no cruel boy should see u , and we drop crumb , and soon the bird know u a friend , and sit in the nest look at u kindly with her shoulder hunch up .
But one day when we go there be only two egg in the nest , and the next time there be none .
The sad part of it be that the poor little chaffinch flutter about the bush , look so reproachfully at u that we know she think we have do it ; and though David try to explain to her , it be so long since he have speak the bird language that I fear she do not understand .
He and I leave the Gardens that day with our knuckle in our eye .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` The Grand Tour of the Gardens ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` Peter Pan ' -RSB- II PETER PAN If you ask your mother whether she know about Peter Pan when she be a little girl , she will say , ` Why , of course I do , child ' ; and if you ask her whether he ride on a goat in those day , she will say , ` What a foolish question to ask ; certainly he do . '
Then if you ask your grandmother whether she know about Peter Pan when she be a girl , she also say , ` Why , of course I do , child , ' but if you ask her whether he ride on a goat in those day , she say she never heard of his have a goat .
Perhaps she have forget , just a she sometimes forgets your name and call you Mildred , which be your mother 's name .
Still , she could hardly forget such an important thing a the goat .
Therefore there be no goat when your grandmother be a little girl .
This show that , in tell the story of Peter Pan , to begin with the goat -LRB- a most people do -RRB- be as silly a to put on your jacket before your vest .
Of course , it also show that Peter be ever so old , but he be really always the same age , so that do not matter in the least .
His age be one week , and though he be bear so long ago he have never have a birthday , nor be there the slight chance of his ever have one .
The reason be that he escape from be a human when he be seven day old ; he escape by the window and fly back to the Kensington Gardens .
If you think he be the only baby who ever want to escape , it show how completely you have forget your own young day .
When David hear this story first he be quite certain that he have never try to escape , but I tell him to think back hard , press his hand to his temple , and when he have do this hard , and even hard , he distinctly remember a youthful desire to return to the tree-tops , and with that memory come others , a that he have lie in bed planning to escape as soon a his mother be asleep , and how she have once catch him half-way up the chimney .
All child could have such recollection if they would press their hand hard to their temple , for , have be bird before they be human , they be naturally a little wild during the first few week , and very itchy at the shoulder , where their wing use to be .
So David tell me .
-LSB- Illustration : The fairy have their tiff with the bird -RSB- I ought to mention here that the following be our way with a story : First I tell it to him , and then he tell it to me , the understand be that it be quite a different story ; and then I retell it with his addition , and so we go on until no one could say whether it be more his story or mine .
In this story of Peter Pan , for instance , the bald narrative and most of the moral reflection be mine , though not all , for this boy can be a stern moralist ; but the interesting bit about the way and custom of baby in the bird-stage be mostly reminiscence of David 's , recall by press his hand to his temple and think hard .
Well , Peter Pan get out by the window , which have no bar .
Standing on the ledge he could see tree far away , which be doubtless the Kensington Gardens , and the moment he saw them he entirely forget that he be now a little boy in a nightgown , and away he fly , right over the house to the Gardens .
It be wonderful that he could fly without wing , but the place itch tremendously , and -- and -- perhaps we could all fly if we be a dead-confident-sure of our capacity to do it a be bold Peter Pan that even .
He alight gaily on the open sward , between the Baby 's Palace and the Serpentine , and the first thing he do be to lie on his back and kick .
He be quite unaware already that he have ever be human , and think he be a bird , even in appearance , just the same a in his early day , and when he try to catch a fly he do not understand that the reason he miss it be because he have attempt to seize it with his hand , which , of course , a bird never do .
He saw , however , that it must be past Lock-out Time , for there be a good many fairy about , all too busy to notice him ; they be get breakfast ready , milk their cow , draw water , and so on , and the sight of the water-pails make him thirsty , so he fly over to the Round Pond to have a drink .
He stoop and dip his beak in the pond ; he think it be his beak , but , of course , it be only his nose , and therefore , very little water come up , and that not so refreshing a usual , so next he try a puddle and he fell flop into it .
When a real bird fall in flop , he spread out his feather and peck them dry , but Peter could not remember what be the thing to do , and he decide rather sulkily to go to sleep on the weeping-beech in the Baby Walk .
At first he find some difficulty in balance himself on a branch , but presently he remember the way , and fell asleep .
He awake long before morning , shivering , and say to himself , ' I never be out on such a cold night ' ; he have really be out on colder night when he be a bird , but , of course , a everybody know , what seem a warm night to a bird be a cold night to a boy in a nightgown .
Peter also felt strangely uncomfortable , a if his head be stuffy ; he hear loud noise that make him look round sharply , though they be really himself sneeze .
There be something he want very much , but , though he know he want it , he could not think what it be .
What he want so much be his mother to blow his nose , but that never strike him , so he decide to appeal to the fairy for enlightenment .
They be repute to know a good deal .
-LSB- Illustration : When he hear Peter 's voice he pop in alarm behind a tulip -RSB- There be two of them stroll along the Baby Walk , with their arm round each other 's waist , and he hop down to address them .
The fairy have their tiff with the bird , but they usually give a civil answer to a civil question , and he be quite angry when these two run away the moment they saw him .
Another be loll on a garden chair , read a postage-stamp which some human have let fall , and when he hear Peter 's voice he pop in alarm behind a tulip .
To Peter 's bewilderment he discover that every fairy he meet flee from him .
A band of workman , who be saw down a toadstool , rush away , leave their tool behind them .
A milkmaid turn her pail upside down and hide in it .
Soon the Gardens be in an uproar .
Crowds of fairy be run this way and that , ask each other stoutly who be afraid ; light be extinguish , door barricade , and from the ground of Queen Mab 's palace come the rub-a-dub of drum , show that the royal guard have be call out .
A regiment of Lancers come charge down the Broad Walk , arm with holly-leaves , with which they jag the enemy horribly in passing .
Peter hear the little people cry everywhere that there be a human in the Gardens after Lock-out Time , but he never think for a moment that he be the human .
He be feel stuffy and stuffy , and more and more wistful to learn what he want do to his nose , but he pursue them with the vital question in vain ; the timid creature run from him , and even the Lancers , when he approach them up the Hump , turn swiftly into a side-walk , on the pretence that they saw him there .
-LSB- Illustration : A band of workman , who be saw down a toadstool , rush away , leave their tool behind them -RSB- Despairing of the fairy , he resolve to consult the bird , but now he remember , a an odd thing , that all the bird on the weeping-beech have fly away when he alight on it , and though this have not troubled him at the time , he saw it meaning now .
Every living thing be shun him .
Poor little Peter Pan !
he sit down and cried , and even then he do not know that , for a bird , he be sit on his wrong part .
It be a blessing that he do not know , for otherwise he would have lose faith in his power to fly , and the moment you doubt whether you can fly , you cease for ever to be able to do it .
The reason bird can fly and we ca n't be simply that they have perfect faith , for to have faith be to have wing .
Now , except by fly , no one can reach the island in the Serpentine , for the boat of human be forbid to land there , and there be stake round it , stand up in the water , on each of which a bird-sentinel sits by day and night .
It be to the island that Peter now fly to put his strange case before old Solomon Caw , and he alight on it with relief , much hearten to find himself at last at home , a the bird call the island .
All of them be asleep , include the sentinel , except Solomon , who be wide awake on one side , and he listen quietly to Peter 's adventure , and then tell him their true meaning .
` Look at your nightgown , if you do n't believe me , ' Solomon say ; and with star eye Peter look at his nightgown , and then at the sleeping bird .
Not one of them wear anything .
` How many of your toe be thumbs ? '
say Solomon a little cruelly , and Peter saw , to his consternation , that all his toe be finger .
The shock be so great that it drive away his cold .
` Ruffle your feather , ' say that grim old Solomon , and Peter try most desperately hard to ruffle his feather , but he have none .
Then he rise up , quake , and for the first time since he stand on the window ledge , he remember a lady who have be very fond of him .
-LSB- Illustration : Put his strange case before old Solomon Caw -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- ' I think I shall go back to mother , ' he say , timidly .
` Good-bye , ' reply Solomon Caw with a queer look .
But Peter hesitate .
` Why do n't you go ? '
the old one ask politely . '
I suppose , ' say Peter huskily , ' I suppose I can still fly ? '
You see he have lose faith .
` Poor little half-and-half ! '
say Solomon , who be not really hard-hearted , ` you will never be able to fly again , not even on windy day .
You must live here on the island always . '
` And never even go to the Kensington Gardens ? '
Peter ask tragically .
` How could you get across ? '
say Solomon .
He promise very kindly , however , to teach Peter a many of the bird way a could be learn by one of such an awkward shape .
` Then I sha n't be exactly a human ? '
Peter ask .
` No . '
` Nor exactly a bird ? '
` No . '
` What shall I be ? '
` You will be a Betwixt-and-Between , ' Solomon say , and certainly he be a wise old fellow , for that be exactly how it turn out .
The bird on the island never get use to him .
His oddity tickle them every day , a if they be quite new , though it be really the bird that be new .
They come out of the eggs daily , and laugh at him at once ; then off they soon fly to be human , and other bird come out of other egg ; and so it go on for ever .
The crafty mother-birds , when they tire of sit on their egg , use to get the young one to break their shell a day before the right time by whisper to them that now be their chance to see Peter wash or drinking or eating .
Thousands gather round him daily to watch him do these thing , just a you watch the peacock , and they scream with delight when he lift the crust they fling him with his hand instead of in the usual way with the mouth .
All his food be bring to him from the Gardens at Solomon 's order by the bird .
He would not eat worm or insect -LRB- which they think very silly of him -RRB- , so they bring him bread in their beak .
Thus , when you cry out , ` Greedy !
Greedy ! '
to the bird that fly away with the big crust , you know now that you ought not to do this , for he be very likely take it to Peter Pan .
-LSB- Illustration : The bird on the island never get use to him .
His oddity tickle them every day -RSB- Peter wear no nightgown now .
You see , the bird be always beg him for bit of it to line their nest with , and , be very good-natured , he could not refuse , so by Solomon 's advice he have hide what be leave of it .
But , though he be now quite naked , you must not think that he be cold or unhappy .
He be usually very happy and gay , and the reason be that Solomon have keep his promise and teach him many of the bird way .
To be easily pleased , for instance , and always to be really do something , and to think that whatever he be do be a thing of vast importance .
Peter become very clever at help the bird to build their nest ; soon he could build good than a wood-pigeon , and nearly as well a a blackbird , though never do he satisfy the finch , and he make nice little water-troughs near the nest and dig up worm for the young one with his finger .
He also become very learn in bird-lore , and know an east wind from a west wind by it smell , and he could see the grass growing and hear the insect walk about inside the tree-trunks .
But the best thing Solomon have do be to teach him to have a glad heart .
All bird have glad heart unless you rob their nest , and so , a they be the only kind of heart Solomon know about , it be easy to him to teach Peter how to have one .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter scream out , ` Do it again ! '
and with great good-nature they do it several time -RSB- Peter 's heart be so glad that he felt he must sing all day long , just a the bird sing for joy , but , be partly human , he need an instrument , so he make a pipe of reed , and he use to sit by the shore of the island of an evening , practise the sough of the wind and the ripple of the water , and catch handful of the shine of the moon , and he put them all in his pipe and play them so beautifully that even the bird be deceive , and they would say to each other , ` Was that a fish leaping in the water or be it Peter play leap fish on his pipe ? '
And sometimes he play the birth of bird , and then the mother would turn round in their nest to see whether they have lay an egg .
If you be a child of the Gardens you must know the chestnut-tree near the bridge , which come out in flower first of all the chestnut , but perhaps you have not hear why this tree lead the way .
It be because Peter wearies for summer and play that it have come , and the chestnut be so near , hear him and be cheat .
-LSB- Illustration : A hundred fly off with the string , and Peter clung to the tail -RSB- But a Peter sat by the shore tootle divinely on his pipe he sometimes fell into sad thought , and then the music become sad also , and the reason of all this sadness be that he could not reach the Gardens , though he could see them through the arch of the bridge .
He know he could never be a real human again , and scarcely want to be one , but oh !
how he long to play a other child play , and of course there be no such lovely place to play in a the Gardens .
The bird bring him news of how boy and girl play , and wistful tear start in Peter 's eye .
Perhaps you wonder why he do not swim across .
The reason be that he could not swim .
He want to know how to swim , but no one on the island know the way except the duck , and they be so stupid .
They be quite willing to teach him , but all they could say about it be , ` You sit down on the top of the water in this way , and then you kick out like that . '
Peter try it often , but always before he could kick out he sink .
What he really need to know be how you sit on the water without sinking , and they say it be quite impossible to explain such an easy thing a that .
Occasionally swan touch on the island , and he would give them all his day 's food and then ask them how they sit on the water , but as soon a he have no more to give them the hateful thing hiss at him and sail away .
Once he really think he have discover a way of reach the Gardens .
A wonderful white thing , like a runaway newspaper , float high over the island and then tumble , roll over and over after the manner of a bird that have break it wing .
Peter be so frightened that he hide , but the bird tell him it be only a kite , and what a kite be , and that it must have tug it string out of a boy 's hand , and soar away .
After that they laugh at Peter for be so fond of the kite ; he love it so much that he even sleep with one hand on it , and I think this be pathetic and pretty , for the reason he love it be because it have belong to a real boy .
-LSB- Illustration : After this the bird say that they would help him no more in his mad enterprise -RSB- To the bird this be a very poor reason , but the old one felt grateful to him at this time because he have nurse a number of fledgling through the German measles , and they offer to show him how bird fly a kite .
So six of them take the end of the string in their beak and fly away with it ; and to his amazement it fly after them and go even high than they .
Peter scream out , ` Do it again ! '
and with great good-nature they do it several time , and always instead of thank them he cry , ` Do it again ! '
which show that even now he have not quite forget what it be to be a boy .
At last , with a grand design burn within his brave heart , he beg them to do it once more with him cling to the tail , and now a hundred fly off with the string , and Peter clung to the tail , mean to drop off when he be over the Gardens .
But the kite broke to piece in the air , and he would have be drown in the Serpentine have he not catch hold of two indignant swan and make them carry him to the island .
After this the bird say that they would help him no more in his mad enterprise .
Nevertheless , Peter do reach the Gardens at last by the help of Shelley 's boat , a I be now to tell you .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` Peter Pan ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` The Thrush 's Nest ' -RSB- III THE THRUSH 'S NEST Shelley be a young gentleman and as grown-up a he need ever expect to be .
He be a poet ; and they be never exactly grown-up .
They be people who despise money except what you need for to-day , and he have all that and five pound over .
So , when he be walk in the Kensington Gardens , he make a paper boat of his bank-note , and send it sail on the Serpentine .
It reach the island at night ; and the look-out brought it to Solomon Caw , who think at first that it be the usual thing , a message from a lady , say she would be oblige if he could let her have a good one .
They always ask for the best one he have , and if he like the letter he send one from Class A , but if it ruffle him he send very funny one indeed .
Sometimes he send none at all , and at another time he send a nestful ; it all depend on the mood you catch him in .
He like you to leave it all to him , and if you mention particularly that you hope he will see his way to make it a boy this time , he be almost sure to send another girl .
And whether you be a lady or only a little boy who want a baby-sister , always take pain to write your address clearly .
You ca n't think what a lot of baby Solomon have send to the wrong house .
Shelley 's boat , when open , completely puzzle Solomon , and he take counsel of his assistant , who have walk over it twice , first with their toe point out , and then with their toe point in , decide that it come from some greedy person who want five .
They think this because there be a large five print on it .
` Preposterous ! '
cried Solomon in a rage , and he present it to Peter ; anything useless which drift upon the island be usually give to Peter a a plaything .
But he do not play with his precious bank-note , for he know what it be at once , have be very observant during the week when he be an ordinary boy .
With so much money , he reflect , he could surely at last contrive to reach the Gardens , and he consider all the possible way , and decide -LRB- wisely , I think -RRB- to choose the best way .
But , first , he have to tell the bird of the value of Shelley 's boat ; and though they be too honest to demand it back , he saw that they be gall , and they cast such black look at Solomon , who be rather vain of his cleverness , that he fly away to the end of the island , and sit there very depressed with his head bury in his wing .
Now Peter know that unless Solomon be on your side , you never get anything do for you in the island , so he follow him and try to hearten him .
-LSB- Illustration : ` Preposterous ! '
cried Solomon in a rage -RSB- Nor be this all that Peter do to gain the powerful old fellow 's good-will .
You must know that Solomon have no intention of remain in office all his life .
He look forward to retire by and by , and devote his green old age to a life of pleasure on a certain yew-stump in the Figs which have take his fancy , and for year he have be quietly fill his stocking .
It be a stock belonging to some bath person which have be cast upon the island , and at the time I speak of it contain a hundred and eighty crumb , thirty-four nut , sixteen crust , a pen-wiper , and a boot-lace .
When his stocking be full , Solomon calculate that he would be able to retire on a competency .
Peter now give him a pound .
He cut it off his bank-note with a sharp stick .
This make Solomon his friend for ever , and after the two have consult together they call a meeting of the thrush .
You will see presently why thrush only be invite .
The scheme to be put before them be really Peter 's , but Solomon do most of the talk , because he soon become irritable if other people talk .
He begin by say that he have be much impress by the superior ingenuity show by the thrush in nest-building , and this put them into good-humour at once , a it be mean to do ; for all the quarrel between bird be about the best way of building nest .
Other bird , say Solomon , omit to line their nest with mud , and a a result they do not hold water .
Here he cock his head a if he have use an unanswerable argument ; but , unfortunately , a Mrs. Finch have come to the meeting uninvited , and she squeak out , ` We do n't build nest to hold water , but to hold egg , ' and then the thrush stop cheer , and Solomon be so perplexed that he take several sip of water .
` Consider , ' he say at last , ` how warm the mud make the nest . '
` Consider , ' cry Mrs. Finch , ` that when water get into the nest it remain there and your little one be drown . '
The thrush beg Solomon with a look to say something crush in reply to this , but again he be perplex .
` Try another drink , ' suggest Mrs. Finch pertly .
Kate be her name , and all Kates be saucy .
-LSB- Illustration : For year he have be quietly fill his stock -RSB- Solomon do try another drink , and it inspire him .
` If , ' say he , ' a finch 's nest be place on the Serpentine it fill and break to piece , but a thrush 's nest be still as dry a the cup of a swan 's back . '
How the thrush applaud !
Now they know why they line their nest with mud , and when Mrs. Finch call out , ` We do n't place our nest on the Serpentine , ' they do what they should have do at first -- chase her from the meeting .
After this it be most orderly .
What they have be bring together to hear , say Solomon , be this : their young friend , Peter Pan , a they well knew , want very much to be able to cross to the Gardens , and he now propose , with their help , to build a boat .
At this the thrush begin to fidget , which make Peter tremble for his scheme .
Solomon explain hastily that what he mean be not one of the cumbrous boat that human use ; the propose boat be to be simply a thrush 's nest large enough to hold Peter .
But still , to Peter 's agony , the thrush be sulky .
` We be very busy people , ' they grumble , ` and this would be a big job . '
` Quite so , ' say Solomon , ` and , of course , Peter would not allow you to work for nothing .
You must remember that he be now in comfortable circumstance , and he will pay you such wage a you have never be pay before .
Peter Pan authorise me to say that you shall all be pay sixpence a day . '
Then all the thrush hop for joy , and that very day be begin the celebrated Building of the Boat .
All their ordinary business fell into arrears .
It be the time of the year when they should have be pair , but not a thrush 's nest be build except this big one , and so Solomon soon run short of thrush with which to supply the demand from the mainland .
The stout , rather greedy child , who look so well in perambulator but get puff easily when they walk , be all young thrush once , and lady often ask specially for them .
What do you think Solomon do ?
He send over to the house-tops for a lot of sparrow and order them to lay their egg in old thrush ' nest , and send their young to the lady and swore they be all thrush !
It be know afterwards on the island a the Sparrows ' Year ; and so , when you meet grown-up people in the Gardens who puff and blow a if they think themselves big than they be , very likely they belong to that year .
You ask them .
-LSB- Illustration : When you meet grown-up people in the Gardens who puff and blow a if they think themselves big than they be -RSB- Peter be a just master , and pay his work-people every evening .
They stand in row on the branch , wait politely while he cut the paper sixpences out of his bank-note , and presently he call the roll , and then each bird , a the name be mention , fly down and get sixpence .
It must have be a fine sight .
And at last , after month of labour , the boat be finish .
O the glory of Peter a he saw it grow more and more like a great thrush 's nest !
From the very beginning of the building of it he sleep by it side , and often wake up to say sweet thing to it , and after it be line with mud and the mud have dry he always sleep in it .
He sleep in his nest still , and have a fascinating way of curl round in it , for it be just large enough to hold him comfortably when he curl round like a kitten .
It be brown inside , of course , but outside it be mostly green , be weave of grass and twig , and when these wither or snap the wall be thatch afresh .
There be also a few feather here and there , which come off the thrush while they be build .
The other bird be extremely jealous , and say that the boat would not balance on the water , but it lay most beautifully steady ; they say the water would come into it , but no water come into it .
Next they say that Peter have no oar , and this cause the thrush to look at each other in dismay ; but Peter reply that he have no need of oar , for he have a sail , and with such a proud , happy face he produce a sail which he have fashion out of his nightgown , and though it be still rather like a nightgown it make a lovely sail .
And that night , the moon be full , and all the bird asleep , he do enter his coracle -LRB- a Master Francis Pretty would have say -RRB- and depart out of the island .
And first , he know not why , he look upward , with his hand clasp , and from that moment his eye be pin to the west .
He have promise the thrush to begin by make short voyage , with them a his guide , but far away he saw the Kensington Gardens beckon to him beneath the bridge , and he could not wait .
His face be flush , but he never look back ; there be an exultation in his little breast that drive out fear .
Was Peter the least gallant of the English mariner who have sail westward to meet the Unknown ?
At first , his boat turn round and round , and he be drive back to the place of his starting , whereupon he shorten sail , by remove one of the sleeve , and be forthwith carried backwards by a contrary breeze , to his no small peril .
He now let go the sail , with the result that he be drift towards the far shore , where be black shadow he know not the danger of , but suspect them , and so once more hoisted his nightgown and go roomer of the shadow until he catch a favouring wind , which bore him westward , but at so great a speed that he be like to be break against the bridge .
Which , have avoid , he pass under the bridge and come , to his great rejoicing , within full sight of the delectable Gardens .
But have try to cast anchor , which be a stone at the end of a piece of the kite-string , he find no bottom , and be fain to hold off , seek for moorage ; and , feel his way , he buffet against a sunken reef that cast him overboard by the greatness of the shock , and he be near to be drown , but clamber back into the vessel .
There now arise a mighty storm , accompany by roar of water , such a he have never hear the like , and he be toss this way and that , and his hand so numbed with the cold that he could not close them .
Having escape the danger of which , he be mercifully carry into a small bay , where his boat rode at peace .
Nevertheless , he be not yet in safety ; for , on pretend to disembark , he find a multitude of small people draw up on the shore to contest his landing , and shout shrilly to him to be off , for it be long past Lock-out Time .
This , with much brandishing of their holly-leaves ; and also a company of them carry an arrow which some boy have leave in the Gardens , and this they be prepare to use a a battering-ram .
Then Peter , who know them for the fairy , call out that he be not an ordinary human and have no desire to do them displeasure , but to be their friend ; nevertheless , have find a jolly harbour , he be in no temper to draw off therefrom , and he warn them if they seek to mischief him to stand to their harm .
So say , he boldly leap ashore , and they gather around him with intent to slay him , but there then arise a great cry among the woman , and it be because they have now observe that his sail be a baby 's nightgown .
Whereupon , they straightway love him , and grieve that their lap be too small , the which I can not explain , except by say that such be the way of woman .
The men-fairies now sheathe their weapon on observe the behaviour of their woman , on whose intelligence they set great store , and they lead him civilly to their queen , who confer upon him the courtesy of the Gardens after Lock-out Time , and henceforth Peter could go whither he choose , and the fairy have order to put him in comfort .
-LSB- Illustration : He pass under the bridge and come within full sight of the delectable Gardens -RSB- Such be his first voyage to the Gardens , and you may gather from the antiquity of the language that it take place a long time ago .
But Peter never grow any old , and if we could be watch for him under the bridge to-night -LRB- but , of course , we ca n't -RRB- , I dare say we should see him hoist his nightgown and sailing or paddling towards u in the Thrush 's Nest .
When he sail , he sit down , but he stand up to paddle .
I shall tell you presently how he get his paddle .
Long before the time for the opening of the gate come he steal back to the island , for people must not see him -LRB- he be not so human a all that -RRB- , but this give him hour for play , and he play exactly a real child play .
At least he think so , and it be one of the pathetic thing about him that he often play quite wrongly .
You see , he have no one to tell him how child really play , for the fairy be all more or less in hide until dusk , and so know nothing , and though the bird pretend that they could tell him a great deal , when the time for tell come , it be wonderful how little they really know .
They tell him the truth about hide-and-seek , and he often play it by himself , but even the duck on the Round Pond could not explain to him what it be that make the pond so fascinating to boys .
Every night the duck have forget all the event of the day , except the number of piece of cake throw to them .
They be gloomy creature , and say that cake be not what it be in their young day .
So Peter have to find out many thing for himself .
He often play ship at the Round Pond , but his ship be only a hoop which he have find on the grass .
Of course , he have never see a hoop , and he wonder what you play at with them , and decide that you play at pretend they be boat .
This hoop always sink at once , but he wad in for it , and sometimes he drag it gleefully round the rim of the pond , and he be quite proud to think that he have discover what boys do with hoop .
-LSB- Illustration : There now arise a mighty storm , and he be toss this way and that -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- Another time , when he find a child 's pail , he think it be for sit in , and he sit so hard in it that he could scarcely get out of it .
Also he find a balloon .
It be bob about on the Hump , quite a if it be have a game by itself , and he catch it after an exciting chase .
But he think it be a ball , and Jenny Wren have tell him that boys kick ball , so he kick it ; and after that he could not find it anywhere .
Perhaps the most surprising thing he find be a perambulator .
It be under a lime-tree , near the entrance to the Fairy Queen 's Winter Palace -LRB- which be within the circle of the seven Spanish chestnut -RRB- , and Peter approach it warily , for the bird have never mention such thing to him .
Lest it be alive , he address it politely ; and then , a it give no answer , he go nearer and felt it cautiously .
He give it a little push , and it run from him , which make him think it must be alive after all ; but , a it have run from him , he be not afraid .
So he stretch out his hand to pull it to him , but this time it run at him , and he be so alarmed that he leap the railing and scud away to his boat .
You must not think , however , that he be a coward , for he come back next night with a crust in one hand and a stick in the other , but the perambulator have go , and he never saw any other one .
I have promise to tell you also about his paddle .
It be a child 's spade which he have find near St. Govor 's Well , and he think it be a paddle .
Do you pity Peter Pan for make these mistake ?
If so , I think it rather silly of you .
What I mean be that , of course , one must pity him now and then , but to pity him all the time would be impertinence .
He think he have the most splendid time in the Gardens , and to think you have it be almost quite as good a really to have it .
He play without cease , while you often waste time by be mad-dog or Mary-Annish .
He could be neither of these thing , for he have never hear of them , but do you think he be to be pity for that ?
Oh , he be merry !
He be as much merry than you , for instance , a you be merry than your father .
Sometimes he fell , like a spinning-top , from sheer merriment .
Have you see a greyhound leap the fence of the Gardens ?
That be how Peter leap them .
-LSB- Illustration : Fairies be all more or less in hide until dusk -RSB- And think of the music of his pipe .
Gentlemen who walk home at night write to the paper to say they hear a nightingale in the Gardens , but it be really Peter 's pipe they hear .
Of course , he have no mother -- at least , what use be she to him ?
You can be sorry for him for that , but do n't be too sorry , for the next thing I mean to tell you be how he revisit her .
It be the fairy who give him the chance .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` The Thrush 's Nest ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` Lock-out Time ' -RSB- IV LOCK-OUT TIME It be frightfully difficult to know much about the fairy , and almost the only thing know for certain be that there be fairy wherever there be child .
Long ago child be forbid the Gardens , and at that time there be not a fairy in the place ; then the child be admit , and the fairy come troop in that very evening .
They ca n't resist follow the child , but you seldom see them , partly because they live in the daytime behind the railing , where you be not allow to go , and also partly because they be so cunning .
They be not a bit cunning after Lock-out , but until Lock-out , my word !
-LSB- Illustration : They be so cunning -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : When they think you be not look they skip along pretty lively -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- When you be a bird you know the fairy pretty well , and you remember a good deal about them in your babyhood , which it be a great pity you ca n't write down , for gradually you forget , and I have hear of child who declare that they have never once see a fairy .
Very likely if they say this in the Kensington Gardens , they be stand look at a fairy all the time .
The reason they be cheat be that she pretend to be something else .
This be one of their best trick .
They usually pretend to be flower , because the court sit in the Fairies ' Basin , and there be so many flower there , and all along the Baby Walk , that a flower be the thing least likely to attract attention .
They dress exactly like flower , and change with the season , put on white when lily be in and blue for bluebell , and so on .
They like crocus and hyacinth time best of all , a they be partial to a bit of colour , but tulip -LRB- except white one , which be the fairy cradle -RRB- they consider garish , and they sometimes put off dress like tulip for day , so that the beginning of the tulip week be almost the best time to catch them .
When they think you be not look they skip along pretty lively , but if you look , and they fear there be no time to hide , they stand quite still pretend to be flower .
Then , after you have pass without know that they be fairy , they rush home and tell their mother they have have such an adventure .
The Fairy Basin , you remember , be all covered with ground-ivy -LRB- from which they make their castor-oil -RRB- , with flower grow in it here and there .
Most of them really be flower , but some of them be fairy .
You never can be sure of them , but a good plan be to walk by look the other way , and then turn round sharply .
Another good plan , which David and I sometimes follow , be to stare them down .
After a long time they ca n't help winking , and then you know for certain that they be fairy .
-LSB- Illustration : But if you look , and they fear there be no time to hide , they stand quite still pretend to be flower -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- There be also number of them along the Baby Walk , which be a famous gentle place , a spot frequent by fairy be call .
Once twenty-four of them have an extraordinary adventure .
They be a girl ' school out for a walk with the governess , and all wear hyacinth gown , when she suddenly put her finger to her mouth , and then they all stand still on an empty bed and pretend to be hyacinth .
Unfortunately what the governess have hear be two gardener come to plant new flower in that very bed .
They be wheel a hand-cart with the flower in it , and be quite surprised to find the bed occupy .
` Pity to lift them hyacinth , ' say the one man .
` Duke 's order , ' reply the other , and , have empty the cart , they dig up the boarding-school and put the poor , terrified thing in it in five row .
Of course , neither the governess nor the girl dare let on that they be fairy , so they be cart far away to a potting-shed , out of which they escape in the night without their shoe , but there be a great row about it among the parent , and the school be ruin .
As for their house , it be no use look for them , because they be the exact opposite of our house .
You can see our house by day but you ca n't see them by dark .
Well , you can see their house by dark , but you ca n't see them by day , for they be the colour of night , and I never heard of any one yet who could see night in the daytime .
This do not mean that they be black , for night have it colour just a day have , but ever so much brighter .
Their blue and red and green be like ours with a light behind them .
The palace be entirely build of many-coloured glass , and it be quite the lovely of all royal residence , but the queen sometimes complain because the common people will peep in to see what she be do .
They be very inquisitive folk , and press quite hard against the glass , and that be why their nose be mostly snubby .
The street be mile long and very twisty , and have path on each side make of bright worst .
The bird use to steal the worst for their nest , but a policeman have be appoint to hold on at the other end .
-LSB- Illustration : The fairy be exquisite dancer -RSB- One of the great difference between the fairy and u be that they never do anything useful .
When the first baby laugh for the first time , his laugh broke into a million piece , and they all go skip about .
That be the beginning of fairy .
They look tremendously busy , you know , a if they have not a moment to spare , but if you be to ask them what they be do , they could not tell you in the least .
They be frightfully ignorant , and everything they do be make-believe .
They have a postman , but he never call except at Christmas with his little box , and though they have beautiful school , nothing be teach in them ; the young child be chief person be always elect mistress , and when she have call the roll , they all go out for a walk and never come back .
It be a very noticeable thing that , in fairy family , the young be always chief person , and usually become a prince or princess ; and child remember this , and think it must be so among human also , and that be why they be often make uneasy when they come upon their mother furtively put new frill on the basinette .
You have probably observe that your baby-sister want to do all sort of thing that your mother and her nurse want her not to do -- to stand up at sitting-down time , and to sit down at stand-up time , for instance , or to wake up when she should fall asleep , or to crawl on the floor when she be wear her best frock , and so on , and perhaps you put this down to naughtiness .
But it be not ; it simply mean that she be do a she have see the fairy do ; she begin by follow their way , and it take about two year to get her into the human way .
Her fit of passion , which be awful to behold , and be usually call teething , be no such thing ; they be her natural exasperation , because we do n't understand her , though she be talk an intelligible language .
She be talk fairy .
The reason mother and nurse know what her remark mean , before other people know , a that ` Guch ' mean ` Give it to me at once , ' while ` Wa ' be ` Why do you wear such a funny hat ? '
be because , mix so much with baby , they have pick up a little of the fairy language .
-LSB- Illustration : A fairy ring -RSB- Of late David have be think back hard about the fairy tongue , with his hand clutch his temple , and he have remember a number of their phrase which I shall tell you some day if I do n't forget .
He have hear them in the day when he be a thrush , and though I suggest to him that perhaps it be really bird language he be remember , he say not , for these phrase be about fun and adventure , and the bird talk of nothing but nest-building .
He distinctly remember that the bird use to go from spot to spot like lady at shop window , look at the different nest and say , ` Not my colour , my dear , ' and ` How would that do with a soft lining ? '
and ` But will it wear ? '
and ` What hideous trim ! '
and so on .
-LSB- Illustration : These tricky fairy sometimes slyly change the board on a ball night -RSB- The fairy be exquisite dancer , and that be why one of the first thing the baby do be to sign to you to dance to him and then to cry when you do it .
They hold their great ball in the open air , in what be call a fairy ring .
For week afterwards you can see the ring on the grass .
It be not there when they begin , but they make it by waltz round and round .
Sometimes you will find mushroom inside the ring , and these be fairy chair that the servant have forget to clear away .
The chair and the ring be the only tell-tale mark these little people leave behind them , and they would remove even these be they not so fond of dance that they toe it till the very moment of the opening of the gate .
David and I once find a fairy ring quite warm .
But there be also a way of find out about the ball before it take place .
You know the board which tell at what time the Gardens be to close to-day .
Well , these tricky fairy sometimes slyly change the board on a ball night , so that it say the Gardens be to close at six-thirty , for instance , instead of at seven .
This enable them to get begin half an hour earlier .
If on such a night we could remain behind in the Gardens , a the famous Maimie Mannering do , we might see delicious sight ; hundred of lovely fairy hasten to the ball , the married one wear their wedding ring round their waist ; the gentleman , all in uniform , hold up the lady ' train , and linkman run in front carry winter cherry , which be the fairy-lanterns ; the cloakroom where they put on their silver slipper and get a ticket for their wrap ; the flower stream up from the Baby Walk to look on , and always welcome because they can lend a pin ; the supper-table , with Queen Mab at the head of it , and behind her chair the Lord Chamberlain , who carry a dandelion on which he blow when her Majesty want to know the time .
-LSB- Illustration : Linkmen run in front carry winter cherry -RSB- The table-cloth varies accord to the season , and in May it be make of chestnut blossom .
The way the fairy servant do be this : The men , score of them , climb up the tree and shake the branch , and the blossom fall like snow .
Then the lady servants sweep it together by whisk their skirt until it be exactly like a tablecloth , and that be how they get their tablecloth .
They have real glass and real wine of three kind , namely , blackthorn wine , berberris wine , and cowslip wine , and the Queen pour out , but the bottle be so heavy that she just pretend to pour out .
There be bread-and-butter to begin with , of the size of a threepenny bit ; and cake to end with , and they be so small that they have no crumb .
The fairy sit round on mushroom , and at first they be well-behaved and always cough off the table , and so on , but after a bit they be not so well-behaved and stick their finger into the butter , which be get from the root of old tree , and the really horrid one crawl over the tablecloth chasing sugar or other delicacy with their tongue .
When the Queen see them do this she sign to the servant to wash up and put away , and then everybody adjourn to the dance , the Queen walk in front while the Lord Chamberlain walk behind her , carry two little pot , one of which contain the juice of wallflower and the other the juice of Solomon 's Seal .
Wallflower juice be good for revive dancer who fall to the ground in a fit , and Solomon 's Seal juice be for bruise .
They bruise very easily , and when Peter play faster and faster they foot it till they fall down in fit .
For , a you know without my telling you , Peter Pan be the fairy ' orchestra .
He sit in the middle of the ring , and they would never dream of have a smart dance nowadays without him .
` P. P. ' be write on the corner of the invitation-cards send out by all really good family .
They be grateful little people , too , and at the princess 's coming-of-age ball -LRB- they come of age on their second birthday and have a birthday every month -RRB- they give him the wish of his heart .
-LSB- Illustration : When her Majesty want to know the time -RSB- The way it be do be this .
The Queen order him to kneel , and then say that for play so beautifully she would give him the wish of his heart .
Then they all gather round Peter to hear what be the wish of his heart , but for a long time he hesitate , not be certain what it be himself .
` If I choose to go back to mother , ' he ask at last , ` could you give me that wish ? '
Now this question vex them , for be he to return to his mother they should lose his music , so the Queen tilt her nose contemptuously and say , ` Pooh !
ask for a much big wish than that . '
` Is that quite a little wish ? '
he inquire .
` As little a this , ' the Queen answer , put her hand near each other .
` What size be a big wish ? '
he ask .
She measure it off on her skirt and it be a very handsome length .
Then Peter reflect and say , ` Well , then , I think I shall have two little wish instead of one big one . '
Of course , the fairy have to agree , though his cleverness rather shock them , and he say that his first wish be to go to his mother , but with the right to return to the Gardens if he find her disappointing .
His second wish he would hold in reserve .
They try to dissuade him , and even put obstacle in the way . '
I can give you the power to fly to her house , ' the Queen say , ` but I ca n't open the door for you . '
` The window I fly out at will be open , ' Peter say confidently .
` Mother always keep it open in the hope that I may fly back . '
` How do you know ? '
they ask , quite surprised , and , really , Peter could not explain how he know . '
I just do know , ' he say .
So a he persist in his wish , they have to grant it .
The way they give him power to fly be this : They all tickle him on the shoulder , and soon he felt a funny itching in that part , and then up he rise high and high , and fly away out of the Gardens and over the housetop .
It be so delicious that instead of fly straight to his own home he skim away over St. Paul 's to the Crystal Palace and back by the river and Regent 's Park , and by the time he reach his mother 's window he have quite make up his mind that his second wish should be to become a bird .
The window be wide open , just a he know it would be , and in he flutter , and there be his mother lie asleep .
Peter alight softly on the wooden rail at the foot of the bed and have a good look at her .
She lay with her head on her hand , and the hollow in the pillow be like a nest line with her brown wavy hair .
He remember , though he have long forget it , that she always give her hair a holiday at night .
How sweet the frill of her nightgown be !
He be very glad she be such a pretty mother .
But she look sad , and he know why she look sad .
One of her arm move a if it want to go round something , and he know what it want to go round . '
O mother ! '
say Peter to himself , ` if you just know who be sit on the rail at the foot of the bed . '
Very gently he pat the little mound that her foot make , and he could see by her face that she like it .
He know he have but to say ` Mother ' ever so softly , and she would wake up .
They always wake up at once if it be you that say their name .
Then she would give such a joyous cry and squeeze him tight .
How nice that would be to him , but oh !
how exquisitely delicious it would be to her .
That , I be afraid , be how Peter regard it .
In return to his mother he never doubt that he be give her the great treat a woman can have .
Nothing can be more splendid , he think , than to have a little boy of your own .
How proud of him they be !
and very right and proper , too .
-LSB- Illustration : The fairy sit round on mushroom , and at first they be well behave -RSB- But why do Peter sit so long on the rail ; why do he not tell his mother that he have come back ?
I quite shrink from the truth , which be that he sit there in two mind .
Sometimes he look longingly at his mother , and sometimes he look longingly at the window .
Certainly it would be pleasant to be her boy again , but on the other hand , what time those have be in the Gardens !
Was he so sure that he should enjoy wear clothes again ?
He pop off the bed and open some drawer to have a look at his old garment .
They be still there , but he could not remember how you put them on .
The sock , for instance , be they wear on the hand or on the foot ?
He be about to try one of them on his hand , when he have a great adventure .
Perhaps the drawer have creak ; at any rate , his mother wake up , for he hear her say ` Peter , ' a if it be the most lovely word in the language .
He remain sit on the floor and hold his breath , wonder how she know that he have come back .
If she say ` Peter ' again , he mean to cry ` Mother ' and run to her .
But she speak no more , she make little moan only , and when he next peep at her she be once more asleep , with tear on her face .
It make Peter very miserable , and what do you think be the first thing he do ?
Sitting on the rail at the foot of the bed , he play a beautiful lullaby to his mother on his pipe .
He have make it up himself out of the way she say ` Peter , ' and he never stop play until she look happy .
He think this so clever of him that he could scarcely resist waken her to hear her say , ' O Peter , how exquisitely you play ! '
However , a she now seem comfortable , he again cast look at the window .
You must not think that he meditate fly away and never come back .
He have quite decide to be his mother 's boy , but hesitate about begin to-night .
It be the second wish which trouble him .
He no longer mean to make it a wish to be a bird , but not to ask for a second wish seem wasteful , and , of course , he could not ask for it without return to the fairy .
Also , if he put off ask for his wish too long it might go bad .
He ask himself if he have not be hard-hearted to fly away without say good-bye to Solomon . '
I should like awfully to sail in my boat just once more , ' he say wistfully to his sleep mother .
He quite argue with her a if she could hear him .
` It would be so splendid to tell the bird of this adventure , ' he say coaxingly . '
I promise to come back , ' he say solemnly , and mean it , too .
-LSB- Illustration : Butter be get from the root of old tree -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- And in the end , you know , he fly away .
Twice he come back from the window , want to kiss his mother , but he fear the delight of it might waken her , so at last he play her a lovely kiss on his pipe , and then he fly back to the Gardens .
Many night , and even month , pass before he ask the fairy for his second wish ; and I be not sure that I quite know why he delay so long .
One reason be that he have so many good-bye to say , not only to his particular friend , but to a hundred favourite spot .
Then he have his last sail , and his very last sail , and his last sail of all , and so on .
Again , a number of farewell feast be give in his honour ; and another comfortable reason be that , after all , there be no hurry , for his mother would never weary of wait for him .
This last reason displease old Solomon , for it be an encouragement to the bird to procrastinate .
Solomon have several excellent motto for keep them at their work , such a ` Never put off lay to-day because you can lay to-morrow , ' and ` In this world there be no second chance , ' and yet here be Peter gaily put off and none the bad for it .
The bird point this out to each other , and fell into lazy habit .
But , mind you , though Peter be so slow in go back to his mother , he be quite decided to go back .
The best proof of this be his caution with the fairy .
They be most anxious that he should remain in the Gardens to play to them , and to bring this to pass they try to trick him into make such a remark a ' I wish the grass be not so wet , ' and some of them dance out of time in the hope that he might cry , ' I do wish you would keep time ! '
Then they would have say that this be his second wish .
But he smoke their design , and though on occasion he begin , ' I wish -- ' he always stop in time .
So when at last he say to them bravely , ' I wish now to go back to mother for ever and always , ' they have to tickle his shoulder and let him go .
He go in a hurry in the end , because he have dreamt that his mother be cry , and he know what be the great thing she cry for , and that a hug from her splendid Peter would quickly make her to smile .
Oh !
he felt sure of it , and so eager be he to be nestle in her arm that this time he fly straight to the window , which be always to be open for him .
-LSB- Illustration : Wallflower juice be good for revive dancer who fall to the ground in a fit -RSB- But the window be close , and there be iron bar on it , and peer inside he saw his mother sleep peacefully with her arm round another little boy .
Peter call , ` Mother !
mother ! '
but she hear him not ; in vain he beat his little limb against the iron bar .
He have to fly back , sob , to the Gardens , and he never saw his dear again .
What a glorious boy he have mean to be to her !
Ah , Peter !
we who have make the great mistake , how differently we should all act at the second chance .
But Solomon be right -- there be no second chance , not for most of u .
When we reach the window it be Lock-out Time .
The iron bar be up for life .
-LSB- Illustration : Tailpiece to ` Lock-out Time ' -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Headpiece to ` The Little House ' -RSB- V THE LITTLE HOUSE Everybody have hear of the Little House in the Kensington Gardens , which be the only house in the whole world that the fairy have build for human .
But no one have really see it , except just three or four , and they have not only see it but sleep in it , and unless you sleep in it you never see it .
This be because it be not there when you lie down , but it be there when you wake up and step outside .
In a kind of way every one may see it , but what you see be not really it , but only the light in the window .
You see the light after Lock-out Time .
David , for instance , saw it quite distinctly far away among the tree a we be go home from the pantomime , and Oliver Bailey saw it the night he stay so late at the Temple , which be the name of his father 's office .
Angela Clare , who love to have a tooth extract because then she be treat to tea in a shop , saw more than one light , she saw hundred of them all together ; and this must have be the fairy build the house , for they build it every night , and always in a different part of the Gardens .
She think one of the light be big than the others , though she be not quite sure , for they jump about so , and it might have be another one that be big .
But if it be the same one , it be Peter Pan 's light .
Heaps of child have see the light , so that be nothing .
But Maimie Mannering be the famous one for whom the house be first build .
Maimie be always rather a strange girl , and it be at night that she be strange .
She be four year of age , and in the daytime she be the ordinary kind .
She be pleased when her brother Tony , who be a magnificent fellow of six , take notice of her , and she look up to him in the right way , and try in vain to imitate him , and be flatter rather than annoy when he shove her about .
Also , when she be bat , she would pause though the ball be in the air to point out to you that she be wear new shoe .
She be quite the ordinary kind in the daytime .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter Pan be the fairy ' orchestra -RSB- But a the shade of night fell , Tony , the swaggerer , lose his contempt for Maimie and eye her fearfully ; and no wonder , for with dark there come into her face a look that I can describe only a a leary look .
It be also a serene look that contrast grandly with Tony 's uneasy glance .
Then he would make her present of his favourite toy -LRB- which he always take away from her next morning -RRB- , and she accept them with a disturb smile .
The reason he be now become so wheedling and she so mysterious be -LRB- in brief -RRB- that they know they be about to be send to bed .
It be then that Maimie be terrible .
Tony entreat her not to do it to-night , and the mother and their coloured nurse threaten her , but Maimie merely smile her agitate smile .
And by and by when they be alone with their night-light she would start up in bed cry ` Hsh !
what be that ? '
Tony beseech her , ` It be nothing -- do n't , Maimie , do n't ! '
and pull the sheet over his head .
` It be come nearer ! '
she cry .
` Oh , look at it , Tony !
It be feel your bed with it horn -- it be bore for you , O Tony , oh ! '
and she desist not until he rush downstairs in his combination , screech .
When they come up to whip Maimie they usually find her sleep tranquilly -- not sham , you know , but really sleeping , and look like the sweet little angel , which seem to me to make it almost worse .
But of course it be daytime when they be in the Gardens , and then Tony do most of the talk .
You could gather from his talk that he be a very brave boy , and no one be so proud of it a Maimie .
She would have love to have a ticket on her say that she be his sister .
And at no time do she admire him more than when he tell her , a he often do with splendid firmness , that one day he mean to remain behind in the Gardens after the gate be close . '
O Tony , ' she would say with awful respect , ` but the fairy will be so angry ! ' '
I dare say , ' reply Tony carelessly .
` Perhaps , ' she say , thrill , ` Peter Pan will give you a sail in his boat ! ' '
I shall make him , ' reply Tony ; no wonder she be proud of him .
-LSB- Illustration : They all tickle him on the shoulder -LRB- miss from book -RRB- -RSB- But they should not have talk so loudly , for one day they be overhear by a fairy who have be gather skeleton leaf , from which the little people weave their summer curtain , and after that Tony be a marked boy .
