`` I 'm glad it 's so full of old-fashioned flower .
Speaking of gardening , we want to get a man to dig up that little lot beyond the fir grove and set it out with strawberry plant for u .
Gilbert be so busy he will never get time for it this fall .
Do you know anyone we can get ? ''
`` Well , Henry Hammond up at the Glen go out do job like that .
He 'll do , maybe .
He 's always a heap more interested in his wage than in his work , just like a man , and he 's so slow in the uptake that he stand still for five minute before it dawn on him that he 's stop .
His father throw a stump at him when he be small .
`` Nice gentle missile , be n't it ?
So like a man !
Course , the boy never get over it .
But he 's the only one I can recommend at all .
He paint my house for me last spring .
It look real nice now , do n't you think ? ''
Anne be save by the clock strike five .
`` Lord , be it that late ? ''
exclaim Miss Cornelia .
`` How time do slip by when you 're enjoy yourself !
Well , I must betake myself home . ''
`` No , indeed !
You be go to stay and have tea with u , '' say Anne eagerly .
`` Are you ask me because you think you ought to , or because you really want to ? ''
demand Miss Cornelia .
`` Because I really want to . ''
`` Then I 'll stay .
YOU belong to the race that know Joseph . ''
`` I know we be go to be friend , '' say Anne , with the smile that only they of the household of faith ever saw .
`` Yes , we be , dearie .
Thank goodness , we can choose our friend .
We have to take our relative a they be , and be thankful if there be no penitentiary bird among them .
Not that I 've many -- none near than second cousin .
I 'm a kind of lonely soul , Mrs. Blythe . ''
There be a wistful note in Miss Cornelia 's voice .
`` I wish you would call me Anne , '' exclaim Anne impulsively .
`` It would seem more HOMEY .
Everyone in Four Winds , except my husband , call me Mrs. Blythe , and it make me feel like a stranger .
Do you know that your name be very near be the one I yearn after when I be a child .
I hat ` Anne ' and I call myself ` Cordelia ' in imagination . ''
`` I like Anne .
It be my mother 's name .
Old-fashioned name be the best and sweet in my opinion .
If you 're go to get tea you might send the young doctor to talk to me .
He 's be lie on the sofa in that office ever since I come , laugh fit to kill over what I 've be say . ''
`` How do you know ? ''
cry Anne , too aghast at this instance of Miss Cornelia 's uncanny prescience to make a polite denial .
`` I saw him sit beside you when I come up the lane , and I know men 's trick , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` There , I 've finish my little dress , dearie , and the eighth baby can come as soon a it please . ''
CHAPTER 9 AN EVENING AT FOUR WINDS POINT It be late September when Anne and Gilbert be able to pay Four Winds light their promised visit .
They have often plan to go , but something always occur to prevent them .
Captain Jim have `` drop in '' several time at the little house .
`` I do n't stand on ceremony , Mistress Blythe , '' he tell Anne .
`` It 's a real pleasure to me to come here , and I 'm not go to deny myself jest because you have n't get down to see me .
There ought n't to be no bargaining like that among the race that know Joseph .
I 'll come when I can , and you come when you can , and so long 's we have our pleasant little chat it do n't matter a mite what roof 's over u . ''
Captain Jim take a great fancy to Gog and Magog , who be preside over the destiny of the hearth in the little house with as much dignity and aplomb a they have do at Patty 's Place .
`` Are n't they the cut little cuss ? ''
he would say delightedly ; and he bid them greet and farewell a gravely and invariably a he do his host and hostess .
Captain Jim be not go to offend household deity by any lack of reverence and ceremony .
`` You 've make this little house just about perfect , '' he tell Anne .
`` It never be so nice before .
Mistress Selwyn have your taste and she do wonder ; but folk in those day do n't have the pretty little curtain and picture and nicknack you have .
As for Elizabeth , she live in the past .
You 've kinder bring the future into it , so to speak .
I 'd be real happy even if we could n't talk at all , when I come here -- jest to sit and look at you and your picture and your flower would be enough of a treat .
It 's beautiful -- beautiful . ''
Captain Jim be a passionate worshipper of beauty .
Every lovely thing heard or see give him a deep , subtle , inner joy that irradiate his life .
He be quite keenly aware of his own lack of outward comeliness and lament it .
`` Folks say I 'm good , '' he remark whimsically upon one occasion , `` but I sometimes wish the Lord have make me only half a good and put the rest of it into look .
But there , I reckon He know what He be about , a a good Captain should .
Some of u have to be homely , or the purty one -- like Mistress Blythe here -- would n't show up so well . ''
One evening Anne and Gilbert finally walk down to the Four Winds light .
The day have begin sombrely in gray cloud and mist , but it have end in a pomp of scarlet and gold .
Over the western hill beyond the harbor be amber deep and crystalline shallow , with the fire of sunset below .
The north be a mackerel sky of little , fiery golden cloud .
The red light flame on the white sail of a vessel glide down the channel , bound to a southern port in a land of palm .
Beyond her , it smite upon and incarnadine the shining , white , grassless face of the sand dune .
To the right , it fell on the old house among the willow up the brook , and give it for a fleeting space casement more splendid than those of an old cathedral .
They glow out of it quiet and grayness like the throbbing , blood-red thought of a vivid soul imprison in a dull husk of environment .
`` That old house up the brook always seem so lonely , '' say Anne .
`` I never see visitor there .
Of course , it lane open on the upper road -- but I do n't think there 's much come and go .
It seem odd we 've never meet the Moores yet , when they live within fifteen minute ' walk of u .
I may have see them in church , of course , but if so I do n't know them .
I 'm sorry they be so unsociable , when they be our only near neighbor . ''
`` Evidently they do n't belong to the race that know Joseph , '' laugh Gilbert .
`` Have you ever find out who that girl be whom you think so beautiful ? ''
`` No .
Somehow I have never remember to ask about her .
But I 've never see her anywhere , so I suppose she must have be a stranger .
Oh , the sun have just vanish -- and there 's the light . ''
As the dusk deepen , the great beacon cut swathe of light through it , sweep in a circle over the field and the harbor , the sandbar and the gulf .
`` I feel a if it might catch me and whisk me league out to sea , '' say Anne , a one drench them with radiance ; and she felt rather relieve when they get so near the Point that they be inside the range of those dazzling , recurrent flash .
As they turn into the little lane that lead across the field to the Point they meet a man come out of it -- a man of such extraordinary appearance that for a moment they both frankly star .
He be a decidedly fine-looking person-tall , broad-shouldered , well-featured , with a Roman nose and frank gray eye ; he be dress in a prosperous farmer 's Sunday best ; in so far he might have be any inhabitant of Four Winds or the Glen .
But , flow over his breast nearly to his knee , be a river of crinkly brown beard ; and adown his back , beneath his commonplace felt hat , be a corresponding cascade of thick , wavy , brown hair .
`` Anne , '' murmur Gilbert , when they be out of earshot , `` you do n't put what Uncle Dave call ' a little of the Scott Act ' in that lemonade you give me just before we leave home , do you ? ''
`` No , I do n't , '' say Anne , stifle her laughter , lest the retreat enigma should hear here .
`` Who in the world can he be ? ''
`` I do n't know ; but if Captain Jim keep apparition like that down at this Point I 'm go to carry cold iron in my pocket when I come here .
He be n't a sailor , or one might pardon his eccentricity of appearance ; he must belong to the over-harbor clan .
Uncle Dave say they have several freak over there . ''
`` Uncle Dave be a little prejudiced , I think .
You know all the over-harbor people who come to the Glen Church seem very nice .
Oh , Gilbert , be n't this beautiful ? ''
The Four Winds light be build on a spur of red sand-stone cliff jut out into the gulf .
On one side , across the channel , stretch the silvery sand shore of the bar ; on the other , extend a long , curve beach of red cliff , rise steeply from the pebbled cove .
It be a shore that know the magic and mystery of storm and star .
There be a great solitude about such a shore .
The wood be never solitary -- they be full of whisper , beckon , friendly life .
But the sea be a mighty soul , forever moaning of some great , unshareable sorrow , which shut it up into itself for all eternity .
We can never pierce it infinite mystery -- we may only wander , awed and spellbound , on the out fringe of it .
The wood call to u with a hundred voice , but the sea have one only -- a mighty voice that drown our soul in it majestic music .
The wood be human , but the sea be of the company of the archangel .
Anne and Gilbert find Uncle Jim sit on a bench outside the lighthouse , put the finishing touch to a wonderful , full-rigged , toy schooner .
He rise and welcome them to his abode with the gentle , unconscious courtesy that become him so well .
`` This have be a purty nice day all through , Mistress Blythe , and now , right at the last , it 's bring it best .
Would you like to sit down here outside a bit , while the light last ?
I 've just finish this bit of a plaything for my little grand nephew , Joe , up at the Glen .
After I promise to make it for him I be kinder sorry , for his mother be vex .
She 's afraid he 'll be want to go to sea later on and she do n't want the notion encourage in him .
But what could I do , Mistress Blythe ?
I 'd PROMISED him , and I think it 's sorter real dastardly to break a promise you make to a child .
Come , sit down .
It wo n't take long to stay an hour . ''
The wind be off shore , and only break the sea 's surface into long , silvery ripple , and send sheeny shadow fly out across it , from every point and headland , like transparent wing .
The dusk be hang a curtain of violet gloom over the sand dune and the headland where gull be huddle .
The sky be faintly film over with scarf of silken vapor .
Cloud fleet ride at anchor along the horizon .
An evening star be watch over the bar .
`` Is n't that a view worth look at ? ''
say Captain Jim , with a loving , proprietary pride .
`` Nice and far from the market-place , ai n't it ?
No buying and selling and get gain .
You do n't have to pay anything -- all that sea and sky free -- ` without money and without price . '
There 's go to be a moonrise purty soon , too -- I 'm never tire of find out what a moonrise can be over them rock and sea and harbor .
There 's a surprise in it every time . ''
They have their moonrise , and watch it marvel and magic in a silence that ask nothing of the world or each other .
Then they go up into the tower , and Captain Jim show and explain the mechanism of the great light .
Finally they find themselves in the dining room , where a fire of driftwood be weave flame of wavering , elusive , sea-born hue in the open fireplace .
`` I put this fireplace in myself , '' remark Captain Jim .
`` The Government do n't give lighthouse keeper such luxury .
Look at the color that wood make .
If you 'd like some driftwood for your fire , Mistress Blythe , I 'll bring you up a load some day .
Sit down .
I 'm go to make you a cup of tea . ''
Captain Jim place a chair for Anne , have first remove therefrom a huge , orange-colored cat and a newspaper .
`` Get down , Matey .
The sofa be your place .
I must put this paper away safe till I can find time to finish the story in it .
It 's call A Mad Love .
'T be n't my favorite brand of fiction , but I 'm read it jest to see how long she can spin it out .
It 's at the sixty-second chapter now , and the wedding ai n't any near than when it begin , far 's I can see .
When little Joe come I have to read him pirate yarn .
Ai n't it strange how innocent little creature like child like the blood-thirstiest story ? ''
`` Like my lad Davy at home , '' say Anne .
`` He want tale that reek with gore . ''
Captain Jim 's tea prove to be nectar .
He be pleased a a child with Anne 's compliment , but he affect a fine indifference .
`` The secret be I do n't skimp the cream , '' he remark airily .
Captain Jim have never hear of Oliver Wendell Holmes , but he evidently agree with that writer 's dictum that `` big heart never like little cream pot . ''
`` We meet an odd-looking personage come out of your lane , '' say Gilbert a they sip .
`` Who be he ? ''
Captain Jim grin .
`` That 's Marshall Elliott -- a mighty fine man with jest one streak of foolishness in him .
I s ` pose you wonder what his object be in turn himself into a sort of dime museum freak . ''
`` Is he a modern Nazarite or a Hebrew prophet leave over from olden time ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Neither of them .
It 's politics that 's at the bottom of his freak .
All those Elliotts and Crawfords and MacAllisters be dyed-in-the-wool politician .
They 're born Grit or Tory , a the case may be , and they live Grit or Tory , and they die Grit or Tory ; and what they 're go to do in heaven , where there 's probably no politics , be more than I can fathom .
This Marshall Elliott be bear a Grit .
I 'm a Grit myself in moderation , but there 's no moderation about Marshall .
Fifteen year ago there be a specially bitter general election .
Marshall fought for his party tooth and nail .
He be dead sure the Liberals would win -- so sure that he get up at a public meeting and vow that he would n't shave his face or cut his hair until the Grits be in power .
Well , they do n't go in -- and they 've never get in yet -- and you saw the result today for yourselves .
Marshall stick to his word . ''
`` What do his wife think of it ? ''
ask Anne .
`` He 's a bachelor .
But if he have a wife I reckon she could n't make him break that vow .
That family of Elliotts have always be more stubborn than natteral .
Marshall 's brother Alexander have a dog he set great store by , and when it die the man actilly want to have it bury in the graveyard , ` along with the other Christians , ' he say .
Course , he be n't allow to ; so he bury it just outside the graveyard fence , and never darken the church door again .
But Sundays he 'd drive his family to church and sit by that dog 's grave and read his Bible all the time service be go on .
They say when he be die he ask his wife to bury him beside the dog ; she be a meek little soul but she fire up at THAT .
She say SHE be n't go to be bury beside no dog , and if he 'd rather have his last resting place beside the dog than beside her , jest to say so .
Alexander Elliott be a stubborn mule , but he be fond of his wife , so he give in and say , ` Well , durn it , bury me where you please .
But when Gabriel 's trump blow I expect my dog to rise with the rest of u , for he have a much soul a any durned Elliott or Crawford or MacAllister that ever strut . '
Them be HIS parting word .
As for Marshall , we 're all use to him , but he must strike stranger a right down peculiar-looking .
I 've know him ever since he be ten -- he 's about fifty now -- and I like him .
Him and me be out cod-fishing today .
That 's about all I 'm good for now -- catch trout and cod occasional .
But ` twere n't always so -- not by no manner of mean .
I use to do other thing , a you 'd admit if you saw my life-book . ''
Anne be just go to ask what his life-book be when the First Mate create a diversion by spring upon Captain Jim 's knee .
He be a gorgeous beastie , with a face as round a a full moon , vivid green eye , and immense , white , double paw .
Captain Jim stroke his velvet back gently .
`` I never fancy cat much till I find the First Mate , '' he remark , to the accompaniment of the Mate 's tremendous purr .
`` I save his life , and when you 've save a creature 's life you 're bind to love it .
It 's next thing to give life .
There 's some turrible thoughtless people in the world , Mistress Blythe .
Some of them city folk who have summer home over the harbor be so thoughtless that they 're cruel .
It 's the bad kind of cruelty -- the thoughtless kind .
You ca n't cope with it .
They keep cat there in the summer , and feed and pet 'em , and doll 'em up with ribbon and collar .
And then in the fall they go off and leave 'em to starve or freeze .
It make my blood boil , Mistress Blythe .
One day last winter I find a poor old mother cat dead on the shore , lie against the skin-and-bone body of her three little kitten .
She 'd die try to shelter 'em .
She have her poor stiff paw around 'em .
Master , I cry .
Then I swear .
Then I carry them poor little kitten home and fed 'em up and found good home for 'em .
I know the woman who leave the cat and when she come back this summer I jest go over the harbor and tell her my opinion of her .
It be rank meddling , but I do love meddling in a good cause . ''
`` How do she take it ? ''
ask Gilbert .
`` Cried and say she ` do n't think . '
I say to her , say I , ` Do you s ` pose that 'll be hold for a good excuse in the day of Jedgment , when you 'll have to account for that poor old mother 's life ?
The Lord 'll ask you what He give you your brain for if it be n't to think , I reckon . '
I do n't fancy she 'll leave cat to starve another time . ''
`` Was the First Mate one of the forsaken ? ''
ask Anne , make advance to him which be respond to graciously , if condescendingly .
`` Yes .
I find HIM one bitter cold day in winter , catch in the branch of a tree by his durn-fool ribbon collar .
He be almost starve .
If you could have see his eye , Mistress Blythe !
He be nothing but a kitten , and he 'd get his living somehow since he 'd be left until he get hang up .
When I loose him he give my hand a pitiful swipe with his little red tongue .
He be n't the able seaman you see now .
He be meek a Moses .
That be nine year ago .
His life have be long in the land for a cat .
He 's a good old pal , the First Mate be . ''
`` I should have expect you to have a dog , '' say Gilbert .
Captain Jim shake his head .
`` I have a dog once .
I think so much of him that when he die I could n't bear the thought of get another in his place .
He be a FRIEND -- you understand , Mistress Blythe ?
Matey 's only a pal .
I 'm fond of Matey -- all the fonder on account of the spice of devilment that 's in him -- like there be in all cat .
But I LOVED my dog .
I always have a sneaking sympathy for Alexander Elliott about HIS dog .
There be n't any devil in a good dog .
That 's why they 're more lovable than cat , I reckon .
But I 'm darned if they 're a interesting .
Here I be , talk too much .
Why do n't you check me ?
When I do get a chance to talk to anyone I run on turrible .
If you 've do your tea I 've a few little thing you might like to look at -- pick 'em up in the queer corner I use to be poke my nose into . ''
Captain Jim 's `` few little thing '' turn out to be a most interesting collection of curio , hideous , quaint and beautiful .
And almost every one have some striking story attach to it .
Anne never forget the delight with which she listen to those old tale that moonlit even by that enchant driftwood fire , while the silver sea call to them through the open window and sob against the rock below them .
Captain Jim never say a boastful word , but it be impossible to help see what a hero the man have be -- brave , true , resourceful , unselfish .
He sit there in his little room and make those thing live again for his hearer .
By a lift of the eyebrow , a twist of the lip , a gesture , a word , he paint a whole scene or character so that they saw it a it be .
Some of Captain Jim 's adventure have such a marvellous edge that Anne and Gilbert secretly wonder if he be not draw a rather long bow at their credulous expense .
But in this , a they find later , they do him injustice .
His tale be all literally true .
Captain Jim have the gift of the born storyteller , whereby `` unhappy , far-off thing '' can be bring vividly before the hearer in all their pristine poignancy .
Anne and Gilbert laugh and shiver over his tale , and once Anne find herself cry .
Captain Jim survey her tear with pleasure shin from his face .
`` I like to see folk cry that way , '' he remark .
`` It 's a compliment .
But I ca n't do justice to the thing I 've see or help to do .
I 've 'em all jot down in my life-book , but I have n't get the knack of write them out properly .
If I could hit on jest the right word and string 'em together proper on paper I could make a great book .
It would beat A Mad Love holler , and I believe Joe 'd like it as well a the pirate yarn .
Yes , I 've have some adventure in my time ; and , do you know , Mistress Blythe , I still lust after 'em .
Yes , old and useless a I be , there 's an awful longing sweep over me at time to sail out -- out -- out there -- forever and ever . ''
`` Like Ulysses , you would ` Sail beyond the sunset and the bath Of all the western star until you die , ' '' say Anne dreamily .
`` Ulysses ?
I 've read of him .
Yes , that 's just how I feel -- jest how all u old sailor feel , I reckon .
I 'll die on land after all , I s ` pose .
Well , what be to be will be .
There be old William Ford at the Glen who never go on the water in his life , 'cause he be afraid of be drown .
A fortune-teller have predict he would be .
And one day he faint and fell with his face in the barn trough and be drown .
Must you go ?
Well , come soon and come often .
The doctor be to do the talk next time .
He know a heap of thing I want to find out .
I 'm sorter lonesome here by time .
It 's be bad since Elizabeth Russell die .
Her and me be such crony . ''
Captain Jim speak with the pathos of the age , who see their old friend slip from them one by one -- friend whose place can never be quite fill by those of a young generation , even of the race that know Joseph .
Anne and Gilbert promise to come soon and often .
`` He 's a rare old fellow , be n't he ? ''
say Gilbert , a they walk home .
`` Somehow , I ca n't reconcile his simple , kindly personality with the wild , adventurous life he have live , '' muse Anne .
`` You would n't find it so hard if you have see him the other day down at the fishing village .
One of the men of Peter Gautier 's boat make a nasty remark about some girl along the shore .
Captain Jim fairly scorch the wretched fellow with the lightning of his eye .
He seem a man transform .
He do n't say much -- but the way he say it !
You 'd have think it would strip the flesh from the fellow 's bone .
I understand that Captain Jim will never allow a word against any woman to be say in his presence . ''
`` I wonder why he never marry , '' say Anne .
`` He should have son with their ship at sea now , and grandchild climb over him to hear his story -- he 's that kind of a man .
Instead , he have nothing but a magnificent cat . ''
But Anne be mistake .
Captain Jim have more than that .
He have a memory .
CHAPTER 10 LESLIE MOORE `` I 'm go for a walk to the outside shore tonight , '' Anne tell Gog and Magog one October evening .
There be no one else to tell , for Gilbert have go over the harbor .
Anne have her little domain in the speckle order one would expect of anyone bring up by Marilla Cuthbert , and felt that she could gad shoreward with a clear conscience .
Many and delightful have be her shore ramble , sometimes with Gilbert , sometimes with Captain Jim , sometimes alone with her own thought and new , poignantly-sweet dream that be begin to span life with their rainbow .
She love the gentle , misty harbor shore and the silvery , wind-haunted sand shore , but best of all she love the rock shore , with it cliff and cave and pile of surf-worn boulder , and it cove where the pebble glitter under the pool ; and it be to this shore she hie herself tonight .
There have be an autumn storm of wind and rain , last for three day .
Thunderous have be the crash of billow on the rock , wild the white spray and spume that blow over the bar , troubled and misty and tempest-torn the erstwhile blue peace of Four Winds Harbor .
Now it be over , and the shore lay clean-washed after the storm ; not a wind stir , but there be still a fine surf on , dash on sand and rock in a splendid white turmoil -- the only restless thing in the great , pervade stillness and peace .
`` Oh , this be a moment worth live through week of storm and stress for , '' Anne exclaim , delightedly send her far gaze across the toss water from the top of the cliff where she stand .
Presently she scramble down the steep path to the little cove below , where she seem shut in with rock and sea and sky .
`` I 'm go to dance and sing , '' she say .
`` There 's no one here to see me -- the seagull wo n't carry tale of the matter .
I may be as crazy a I like . ''
She catch up her skirt and pirouette along the hard strip of sand just out of reach of the wave that almost lap her foot with their spent foam .
Whirling round and round , laugh like a child , she reach the little headland that run out to the east of the cove ; then she stop suddenly , blush crimson ; she be not alone ; there have be a witness to her dance and laughter .
The girl of the golden hair and sea-blue eye be sit on a boulder of the headland , half-hidden by a jutting rock .
She be look straight at Anne with a strange expression -- part wonder , part sympathy , part -- could it be ?
-- envy .
She be bare-headed , and her splendid hair , more than ever like Browning 's `` gorgeous snake , '' be bind about her head with a crimson ribbon .
She wear a dress of some dark material , very plainly make ; but swathe about her waist , outline it fine curve , be a vivid girdle of red silk .
Her hand , clasp over her knee , be brown and somewhat work-hardened ; but the skin of her throat and cheek be as white a cream .
A fly gleam of sunset break through a low-lying western cloud and fell across her hair .
For a moment she seem the spirit of the sea personify -- all it mystery , all it passion , all it elusive charm .
`` You -- you must think me crazy , '' stammer Anne , try to recover her self-possession .
To be see by this stately girl in such an abandon of childishness -- she , Mrs. Dr. Blythe , with all the dignity of the matron to keep up -- it be too bad !
`` No , '' say the girl , `` I do n't . ''
She say nothing more ; her voice be expressionless ; her manner slightly repellent ; but there be something in her eye -- eager yet shy , defiant yet plead -- which turn Anne from her purpose of walk away .
Instead , she sit down on the boulder beside the girl .
`` Let 's introduce ourselves , '' she say , with the smile that have never yet fail to win confidence and friendliness .
`` I be Mrs. Blythe -- and I live in that little white house up the harbor shore . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' say the girl .
`` I be Leslie Moore -- Mrs. Dick Moore , '' she add stiffly .
Anne be silent for a moment from sheer amazement .
It have not occur to her that this girl be marry -- there seem nothing of the wife about her .
And that she should be the neighbor whom Anne have picture a a commonplace Four Winds housewife !
Anne could not quickly adjust her mental focus to this astonishing change .
`` Then -- then you live in that gray house up the brook , '' she stammer .
`` Yes .
I should have go over to call on you long ago , '' say the other .
She do not offer any explanation or excuse for not have go .
`` I wish you WOULD come , '' say Anne , recover herself somewhat .
`` We 're such near neighbor we ought to be friend .
That be the sole fault of Four Winds -- there be n't quite enough neighbor .
Otherwise it be perfection . ''
`` You like it ? ''
`` LIKE it !
I love it .
It be the most beautiful place I ever saw . ''
`` I 've never see many place , '' say Leslie Moore , slowly , `` but I 've always think it be very lovely here .
I -- I love it , too . ''
She speak , a she look , shyly , yet eagerly .
Anne have an odd impression that this strange girl -- the word `` girl '' would persist -- could say a good deal if she choose .
`` I often come to the shore , '' she add .
`` So do I , '' say Anne .
`` It 's a wonder we have n't meet here before . ''
`` Probably you come earlier in the evening than I do .
It be generally late -- almost dark -- when I come .
And I love to come just after a storm -- like this .
I do n't like the sea so well when it 's calm and quiet .
I like the struggle -- and the crash -- and the noise . ''
`` I love it in all it mood , '' declare Anne .
`` The sea at Four Winds be to me what Lover 's Lane be at home .
Tonight it seem so free -- so untamed -- something break loose in me , too , out of sympathy .
That be why I dance along the shore in that wild way .
I do n't suppose anybody be look , of course .
If Miss Cornelia Bryant have see me she would have forboded a gloomy prospect for poor young Dr. Blythe . ''
`` You know Miss Cornelia ? ''
say Leslie , laugh .
She have an exquisite laugh ; it bubble up suddenly and unexpectedly with something of the delicious quality of a baby 's .
Anne laugh , too .
`` Oh , yes .
She have be down to my house of dreams several time . ''
`` Your house of dream ? ''
`` Oh , that 's a dear , foolish little name Gilbert and I have for our home .
We just call it that between ourselves .
It slip out before I think . ''
`` So Miss Russell 's little white house be YOUR house of dream , '' say Leslie wonderingly . ''
I have a house of dreams once -- but it be a palace , '' she add , with a laugh , the sweetness of which be mar by a little note of derision .
`` Oh , I once dream of a palace , too , '' say Anne .
`` I suppose all girl do .
And then we settle down contentedly in eight-room house that seem to fulfill all the desire of our heart -- because our prince be there .
YOU should have have your palace really , though -- you be so beautiful .
You MUST let me say it -- it have to be say -- I 'm nearly burst with admiration .
You be the lovely thing I ever saw , Mrs. Moore . ''
`` If we be to be friend you must call me Leslie , '' say the other with an odd passion .
`` Of course I will .
And MY friends call me Anne . ''
`` I suppose I be beautiful , '' Leslie go on , look stormily out to sea .
`` I hate my beauty .
I wish I have always be a brown and plain a the brownest and plain girl at the fishing village over there .
Well , what do you think of Miss Cornelia ? ''
The abrupt change of subject shut the door on any further confidence .
`` Miss Cornelia be a darling , be n't she ? ''
say Anne .
`` Gilbert and I be invite to her house to a state tea last week .
You 've hear of groan table . ''
`` I seem to recall see the expression in the newspaper report of wedding , '' say Leslie , smile .
`` Well , Miss Cornelia 's groan -- at least , it creak -- positively .
You could n't have believe she would have cook so much for two ordinary people .
She have every kind of pie you could name , I think -- except lemon pie .
She say she have take the prize for lemon pie at the Charlottetown Exhibition ten year ago and have never make any since for fear of lose her reputation for them . ''
`` Were you able to eat enough pie to please her ? '' ''
I be n't .
Gilbert win her heart by eat -- I wo n't tell you how much .
She say she never know a man who do n't like pie good than his Bible .
Do you know , I love Miss Cornelia . ''
`` So do I , '' say Leslie .
`` She be the best friend I have in the world . ''
Anne wonder secretly why , if this be so , Miss Cornelia have never mention Mrs. Dick Moore to her .
Miss Cornelia have certainly talk freely about every other individual in or near Four Winds .
`` Is n't that beautiful ? ''
say Leslie , after a brief silence , point to the exquisite effect of a shaft of light fall through a cleft in the rock behind them , across a dark green pool at it base .
`` If I have come here -- and see nothing but just that -- I would go home satisfy . ''
`` The effect of light and shadow all along these shore be wonderful , '' agree Anne .
`` My little sewing room look out on the harbor , and I sit at it window and feast my eye .
The color and shadow be never the same two minute together . ''
`` And you be never lonely ? ''
ask Leslie abruptly .
`` Never -- when you be alone ? ''
`` No .
I do n't think I 've ever be really lonely in my life , '' answer Anne .
`` Even when I 'm alone I have real good company -- dream and imagination and pretending .
I LIKE to be alone now and then , just to think over thing and TASTE them .
But I love friendship -- and nice , jolly little time with people .
Oh , WO N'T you come to see me -- often ?
Please do .
I believe , '' Anne add , laugh , `` that you 'd like me if you know me . ''
`` I wonder if YOU would like ME , '' say Leslie seriously .
She be not fish for a compliment .
She look out across the wave that be begin to be garland with blossom of moonlit foam , and her eye fill with shadow .
`` I 'm sure I would , '' say Anne .
`` And please do n't think I 'm utterly irresponsible because you saw me dance on the shore at sunset .
No doubt I shall be dignify after a time .
You see , I have n't be marry very long .
I feel like a girl , and sometimes like a child , yet . ''
`` I have be marry twelve year , '' say Leslie .
Here be another unbelievable thing .
`` Why , you ca n't be as old a I be ! ''
exclaim Anne .
`` You must have be a child when you be marry . ''
`` I be sixteen , '' say Leslie , rise , and pick up the cap and jacket lie beside her .
`` I be twenty-eight now .
Well , I must go back . ''
`` So must I. Gilbert will probably be home .
But I 'm so glad we both come to the shore tonight and meet each other . ''
Leslie say nothing , and Anne be a little chilled .
She have offer friendship frankly but it have not be accept very graciously , if it have not be absolutely repel .
In silence they climb the cliff and walk across a pasture-field of which the feathery , bleach , wild grass be like a carpet of creamy velvet in the moonlight .
When they reach the shore lane Leslie turn .
`` I go this way , Mrs. Blythe .
You will come over and see me some time , wo n't you ? ''
Anne felt a if the invitation have be throw at her .
She get the impression that Leslie Moore give it reluctantly .
`` I will come if you really want me to , '' she say a little coldly .
`` Oh , I do -- I do , '' exclaim Leslie , with an eagerness which seem to burst forth and beat down some restraint that have be impose on it .
`` Then I 'll come .
Good-night -- Leslie . ''
`` Good-night , Mrs. Blythe . ''
Anne walk home in a brown study and pour out her tale to Gilbert .
`` So Mrs. Dick Moore be n't one of the race that know Joseph ? ''
say Gilbert teasingly .
`` No -- o -- o , not exactly .
And yet -- I think she WAS one of them once , but have go or get into exile , '' say Anne musingly .
`` She be certainly very different from the other woman about here .
You ca n't talk about egg and butter to HER .
To think I 've be imagine her a second Mrs. Rachel Lynde !
Have you ever see Dick Moore , Gilbert ? ''
`` No .
I 've see several men work about the field of the farm , but I do n't know which be Moore . ''
`` She never mention him .
I KNOW she be n't happy . ''
`` From what you tell me I suppose she be marry before she be old enough to know her own mind or heart , and find out too late that she have make a mistake .
It 's a common tragedy enough , Anne .
`` A fine woman would have make the best of it .
Mrs. Moore have evidently let it make her bitter and resentful . ''
`` Do n't let u judge her till we know , '' plead Anne .
`` I do n't believe her case be so ordinary .
You will understand her fascination when you meet her , Gilbert .
It be a thing quite apart from her beauty .
I feel that she possess a rich nature , into which a friend might enter a into a kingdom ; but for some reason she bar every one out and shut all her possibility up in herself , so that they can not develop and blossom .
There , I 've be struggle to define her to myself ever since I leave her , and that be the near I can get to it .
I 'm go to ask Miss Cornelia about her . ''
CHAPTER 11 THE STORY OF LESLIE MOORE `` Yes , the eighth baby arrive a fortnight ago , '' say Miss Cornelia , from a rocker before the fire of the little house one chilly October afternoon .
`` It 's a girl .
Fred be rant mad -- say he want a boy -- when the truth be he do n't want it at all .
If it have be a boy he 'd have rant because it be n't a girl .
They have four girl and three boy before , so I ca n't see that it make much difference what this one be , but of course he 'd have to be cantankerous , just like a man .
The baby be real pretty , dress up in it nice little clothes .
It have black eye and the dear , tiny hand . ''
`` I must go and see it .
I just love baby , '' say Anne , smile to herself over a thought too dear and sacred to be put into word .
`` I do n't say but what they 're nice , '' admit Miss Cornelia .
`` But some folk seem to have more than they really need , believe ME .
My poor cousin Flora up at the Glen have eleven , and such a slave a she be !
Her husband suicided three year ago .
Just like a man ! ''
`` What make him do that ? ''
ask Anne , rather shock .
`` Could n't get his way over something , so he jump into the well .
A good riddance !
He be a born tyrant .
But of course it spoil the well .
Flora could never abide the thought of use it again , poor thing !
So she have another dug and a frightful expense it be , and the water as hard a nail .
If he HAD to drown himself there be plenty of water in the harbor , be n't there ?
I 've no patience with a man like that .
We 've only have two suicide in Four Winds in my recollection .
The other be Frank West -- Leslie Moore 's father .
By the way , have Leslie ever be over to call on you yet ? ''
`` No , but I meet her on the shore a few night ago and we scrap an acquaintance , '' say Anne , prick up her ear .
Miss Cornelia nod .
`` I 'm glad , dearie .
I be hop you 'd foregather with her .
What do you think of her ? ''
`` I think her very beautiful . ''
`` Oh , of course .
There be never anybody about Four Winds could touch her for look .
Did you ever see her hair ?
It reach to her foot when she let it down .
But I mean how do you like her ? ''
`` I think I could like her very much if she 'd let me , '' say Anne slowly .
`` But she would n't let you -- she push you off and keep you at arm 's length .
Poor Leslie !
You would n't be much surprise if you know what her life have be .
It 's be a tragedy -- a tragedy ! ''
repeat Miss Cornelia emphatically .
`` I wish you would tell me all about her -- that be , if you can do so without betray any confidence . ''
`` Lord , dearie , everybody in Four Winds know poor Leslie 's story .
It 's no secret -- the OUTSIDE , that be .
Nobody know the INSIDE but Leslie herself , and she do n't take folk into her confidence .
I 'm about the best friend she have on earth , I reckon , and she 's never utter a word of complaint to me .
Have you ever see Dick Moore ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , I may as well begin at the beginning and tell you everything straight through , so you 'll understand it .
As I say , Leslie 's father be Frank West .
He be clever and shiftless -- just like a man .
Oh , he have heap of brain -- and much good they do him !
He start to go to college , and he go for two year , and then his health break down .
The Wests be all incline to be consumptive .
So Frank come home and start farming .
He marry Rose Elliott from over harbor .
Rose be reckon the beauty of Four Winds -- Leslie take her look from her mother , but she have ten time the spirit and go that Rose have , and a far good figure .
Now you know , Anne , I always take the ground that u woman ought to stand by each other .
We 've get enough to endure at the hand of the men , the Lord know , so I hold we have n't ought to clapper-claw one another , and it be n't often you 'll find me run down another woman .
But I never have much use for Rose Elliott .
She be spoil to begin with , believe ME , and she be nothing but a lazy , selfish , whining creature .
Frank be no hand to work , so they be poor a Job 's turkey .
Poor !
They live on potato and point , believe ME .
They have two child -- Leslie and Kenneth .
Leslie have her mother 's look and her father 's brain , and something she do n't get from either of them .
She take after her Grandmother West -- a splendid old lady .
She be the bright , friendly , merry thing when she be a child , Anne .
Everybody like her .
She be her father 's favorite and she be awful fond of him .
They be ` chum , ' a she use to say .
She could n't see any of his fault -- and he WAS a take sort of man in some way .
`` Well , when Leslie be twelve year old , the first dreadful thing happen .
She worship little Kenneth -- he be four year young than her , and he WAS a dear little chap .
And he be kill one day -- fell off a big load of hay just a it be go into the barn , and the wheel go right over his little body and crush the life out of it .
And mind you , Anne , Leslie saw it .
She be look down from the loft .
She give one screech -- the hired man say he never hear such a sound in all his life -- he say it would ring in his ear till Gabriel 's trump drive it out .
But she never screech or cry again about it .
She jump from the loft onto the load and from the load to the floor , and catch up the little bleeding , warm , dead body , Anne -- they have to tear it from her before she would let it go .
They send for me -- I ca n't talk of it . ''
Miss Cornelia wipe the tear from her kindly brown eye and sew in bitter silence for a few minute .
`` Well , '' she resume , `` it be all over -- they bury little Kenneth in that graveyard over the harbor , and after a while Leslie go back to her school and her study .
She never mention Kenneth 's name -- I 've never hear it cross her lip from that day to this .
I reckon that old hurt still ache and burn at time ; but she be only a child and time be real kind to child , Anne , dearie .
After a while she begin to laugh again -- she have the pretty laugh .
You do n't often hear it now . ''
`` I hear it once the other night , '' say Anne .
`` It IS a beautiful laugh . ''
`` Frank West begin to go down after Kenneth 's death .
He be n't strong and it be a shock to him , because he be real fond of the child , though , a I 've say , Leslie be his favorite .
He get mopy and melancholy , and could n't or would n't work .
And one day , when Leslie be fourteen year of age , he hang himself -- and in the parlor , too , mind you , Anne , right in the middle of the parlor from the lamp hook in the ceiling .
Was n't that like a man ?
It be the anniversary of his wedding day , too .
Nice , tasty time to pick for it , be n't it ?
And , of course , that poor Leslie have to be the one to find him .
She go into the parlor that morning , singing , with some fresh flower for the vas , and there she saw her father hang from the ceiling , his face as black a a coal .
It be something awful , believe ME ! ''
`` Oh , how horrible ! ''
say Anne , shudder .
`` The poor , poor child ! ''
`` Leslie do n't cry at her father 's funeral any more then she have cry at Kenneth 's .
Rose whoop and howl for two , however , and Leslie have all she could do try to calm and comfort her mother .
I be disgust with Rose and so be everyone else , but Leslie never get out of patience .
She love her mother .
Leslie be clannish -- her own could never do wrong in her eye .
Well , they bury Frank West beside Kenneth , and Rose put up a great big monument to him .
It be big than his character , believe ME !
Anyhow , it be big than Rose could afford , for the farm be mortgage for more than it value .
But not long after Leslie 's old grandmother West die and she leave Leslie a little money -- enough to give her a year at Queen 's Academy .
Leslie have make up her mind to pass for a teacher if she could , and then earn enough to put herself through Redmond College .
That have be her father 's pet scheme -- he want her to have what he have lose .
Leslie be full of ambition and her head be chock full of brain .
She go to Queen 's , and she take two year ' work in one year and get her First ; and when she come home she get the Glen school .
She be so happy and hopeful and full of life and eagerness .
When I think of what she be then and what she be now , I say -- drat the men ! ''
Miss Cornelia snip her thread off as viciously a if , Nero-like , she be sever the neck of mankind by the stroke .
`` Dick Moore come into her life that summer .
His father , Abner Moore , keep store at the Glen , but Dick have a sea-going streak in him from his mother ; he use to sail in summer and clerk in his father 's store in winter .
He be a big , handsome fellow , with a little ugly soul .
He be always want something till he get it , and then he stop want it -- just like a man .
Oh , he do n't growl at the weather when it be fine , and he be mostly real pleasant and agreeable when everything go right .
But he drink a good deal , and there be some nasty story tell of him and a girl down at the fishing village .
He be n't fit for Leslie to wipe her foot on , that 's the long and short of it .
And he be a Methodist !
But he be clean mad about her -- because of her good look in the first place , and because she would n't have anything to say to him in the second .
He vow he 'd have her -- and he get her ! ''
`` How do he bring it about ? ''
`` Oh , it be an iniquitous thing !
I 'll never forgive Rose West .
You see , dearie , Abner Moore hold the mortgage on the West farm , and the interest be overdue some year , and Dick just go and tell Mrs. West that if Leslie would n't marry him he 'd get his father to foreclose the mortgage .
Rose carry on terrible -- faint and weep , and plead with Leslie not to let her be turn out of her home .
She say it would break her heart to leave the home she 'd come to a a bride .
I would n't have blame her for feel dreadful bad over it -- but you would n't have think she 'd be so selfish a to sacrifice her own flesh and blood because of it , would you ?
Well , she be .
`` And Leslie give in -- she love her mother so much she would have do anything to save her pain .
She marry Dick Moore .
None of u know why at the time .
It be n't till long afterward that I find out how her mother have worry her into it .
I be sure there be something wrong , though , because I know how she have snub him time and again , and it be n't like Leslie to turn face -- about like that .
Besides , I know that Dick Moore be n't the kind of man Leslie could ever fancy , in spite of his good look and dash way .
Of course , there be no wedding , but Rose ask me to go and see them marry .
I go , but I be sorry I do .
I 'd see Leslie 's face at her brother 's funeral and at her father 's funeral -- and now it seem to me I be see it at her own funeral .
But Rose be smile a a basket of chip , believe ME !
`` Leslie and Dick settle down on the West place -- Rose could n't bear to part with her dear daughter !
-- and live there for the winter .
In the spring Rose take pneumonia and die -- a year too late !
Leslie be heart-broken enough over it .
Is n't it terrible the way some unworthy folk be love , while others that deserve it far more , you 'd think , never get much affection ?
As for Dick , he 'd have enough of quiet married life -- just like a man .
He be for up and off .
He go over to Nova Scotia to visit his relation -- his father have come from Nova Scotia -- and he write back to Leslie that his cousin , George Moore , be go on a voyage to Havana and he be go too .
The name of the vessel be the Four Sisters and they be to be go about nine week .
`` It must have be a relief to Leslie .
But she never say anything .
From the day of her marriage she be just what she be now -- cold and proud , and keep everyone but me at a distance .
I wo n't BE keep at a distance , believe ME !
I 've just stick to Leslie as close a I know how in spite of everything . ''
`` She tell me you be the best friend she have , '' say Anne .
`` Did she ? ''
exclaim Miss Cornelia delightedly .
`` Well , I 'm real thankful to hear it .
Sometimes I 've wonder if she really do want me around at all -- she never let me think so .
You must have thaw her out more than you think , or she would n't have say that much itself to you .
Oh , that poor , heart-broken girl !
I never see Dick Moore but I want to run a knife clean through him . ''
Miss Cornelia wipe her eye again and have relieve her feeling by her blood-thirsty wish , take up her tale .
`` Well , Leslie be leave over there alone .
Dick have put in the crop before he go , and old Abner look after it .
The summer go by and the Four Sisters do n't come back .
The Nova Scotia Moores investigate , and find she have get to Havana and discharge her cargo and take on another and leave for home ; and that be all they ever find out about her .
By degree people begin to talk of Dick Moore a one that be dead .
Almost everyone believe that he be , though no one felt certain , for men have turn up here at the harbor after they 'd be go for year .
Leslie never think he be dead -- and she be right .
A thousand pity too !
The next summer Captain Jim be in Havana -- that be before he give up the sea , of course .
He think he 'd poke round a bit -- Captain Jim be always meddlesome , just like a man -- and he go to inquire round among the sailor ' boarding house and place like that , to see if he could find out anything about the crew of the Four Sisters .
He 'd well have let sleep dog lie , in my opinion !
Well , he go to one out-of-the-way place , and there he find a man he know at first sight it be Dick Moore , though he have a big beard .
Captain Jim get it shave off and then there be no doubt -- Dick Moore it be -- his body at least .
His mind be n't there -- a for his soul , in my opinion he never have one ! ''
`` What have happen to him ? ''
`` Nobody know the right of it .
All the folk who keep the boarding house could tell be that about a year before they have find him lie on their doorstep one morning in an awful condition -- his head batter to a jelly almost .
They suppose he 'd get hurt in some drunken row , and likely that 's the truth of it .
They take him in , never think he could live .
But he do -- and he be just like a child when he get well .
He have n't memory or intellect or reason .
They try to find out who he be but they never could .
He could n't even tell them his name -- he could only say a few simple word .
He have a letter on him begin ` Dear Dick ' and sign ` Leslie , ' but there be no address on it and the envelope be go .
They let him stay on -- he learn to do a few odd job about the place -- and there Captain Jim find him .
He bring him home -- I 've always say it be a bad day 's work , though I s ` pose there be nothing else he could do .
He think maybe when Dick get home and saw his old surroundings and familiar face his memory would wake up .
But it have n't any effect .
There he 's be at the house up the brook ever since .
He 's just like a child , no more nor less .
Takes fractious spell occasionally , but mostly he 's just vacant and good humored and harmless .
He 's apt to run away if he be n't watch .
That 's the burden Leslie have have to carry for eleven year -- and all alone .
Old Abner Moore die soon after Dick be bring home and it be find he be almost bankrupt .
When thing be settle up there be nothing for Leslie and Dick but the old West farm .
Leslie rent it to John Ward , and the rent be all she have to live on .
Sometimes in summer she take a boarder to help out .
But most visitor prefer the other side of the harbor where the hotel and summer cottage be .
Leslie 's house be too far from the bathing shore .
She 's take care of Dick and she 's never be away from him for eleven year -- she 's tie to that imbecile for life .
And after all the dream and hop she once have !
You can imagine what it have be like for her , Anne , dearie -- with her beauty and spirit and pride and cleverness .
It 's just be a living death . ''
`` Poor , poor girl ! ''
say Anne again .
Her own happiness seem to reproach her .
What right have she to be so happy when another human soul must be so miserable ?
`` Will you tell me just what Leslie say and how she act the night you meet her on the shore ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia .
She listen intently and nod her satisfaction .
`` YOU think she be stiff and cold , Anne , dearie , but I can tell you she thaw out wonderful for her .
She must have take to you real strong .
I 'm so glad .
You may be able to help her a good deal .
I be thankful when I hear that a young couple be come to this house , for I hop it would mean some friend for Leslie ; especially if you belong to the race that know Joseph .
You WILL be her friend , wo n't you , Anne , dearie ? ''
`` Indeed I will , if she 'll let me , '' say Anne , with all her own sweet , impulsive earnestness .
`` No , you must be her friend , whether she 'll let you or not , '' say Miss Cornelia resolutely .
`` Do n't you mind if she 's stiff by time -- do n't notice it .
Remember what her life have be -- and be -- and must always be , I suppose , for creature like Dick Moore live forever , I understand .
You should see how fat he 's get since he come home .
He use to be lean enough .
Just MAKE her be friend -- you can do it -- you 're one of those who have the knack .
Only you must n't be sensitive .
And do n't mind if she do n't seem to want you to go over there much .
She know that some woman do n't like to be where Dick be -- they complain he give them the creep .
Just get her to come over here as often a she can .
She ca n't get away so very much -- she ca n't leave Dick long , for the Lord know what he 'd do -- burn the house down most likely .
At night , after he 's in bed and asleep , be about the only time she 's free .
He always go to bed early and sleep like the dead till next morning .
That be how you come to meet her at the shore likely .
She wander there considerable . ''
`` I will do everything I can for her , '' say Anne .
Her interest in Leslie Moore , which have be vivid ever since she have see her drive her geese down the hill , be intensify a thousand fold by Miss Cornelia 's narration .
The girl 's beauty and sorrow and loneliness draw her with an irresistible fascination .
She have never know anyone like her ; her friend have hitherto be wholesome , normal , merry girl like herself , with only the average trial of human care and bereavement to shadow their girlish dream .
Leslie Moore stand apart , a tragic , appealing figure of thwarted womanhood .
Anne resolve that she would win entrance into the kingdom of that lonely soul and find there the comradeship it could so richly give , be it not for the cruel fetter that hold it in a prison not of it own making .
`` And mind you this , Anne , dearie , '' say Miss Cornelia , who have not yet wholly relieve her mind , `` You must n't think Leslie be an infidel because she hardly ever go to church -- or even that she 's a Methodist .
She ca n't take Dick to church , of course -- not that he ever trouble church much in his best day .
But you just remember that she 's a real strong Presbyterian at heart , Anne , dearie . ''
CHAPTER 12 LESLIE COMES OVER Leslie come over to the house of dreams one frosty October night , when moonlit mist be hang over the harbor and curl like silver ribbon along the seaward glens .
She look a if she repent come when Gilbert answer her knock ; but Anne fly past him , pounce on her , and draw her in .
`` I 'm so glad you pick tonight for a call , '' she say gaily .
`` I make up a lot of extra good fudge this afternoon and we want someone to help u eat it -- before the fire -- while we tell story .
Perhaps Captain Jim will drop in , too .
This be his night . ''
`` No .
Captain Jim be over home , '' say Leslie .
`` He -- he make me come here , '' she add , half defiantly .
`` I 'll say a thank-you to him for that when I see him , '' say Anne , pull easy chair before the fire .
`` Oh , I do n't mean that I do n't want to come , '' protest Leslie , flush a little .
`` I -- I 've be think of come -- but it be n't always easy for me to get away . ''
`` Of course it must be hard for you to leave Mr. Moore , '' say Anne , in a matter-of-fact tone .
She have decide that it would be best to mention Dick Moore occasionally a an accepted fact , and not give undue morbidness to the subject by avoid it .
She be right , for Leslie 's air of constraint suddenly vanish .
Evidently she have be wonder how much Anne knew of the condition of her life and be relieve that no explanation be need .
She allow her cap and jacket to be take , and sit down with a girlish snuggle in the big armchair by Magog .
She be dress prettily and carefully , with the customary touch of color in the scarlet geranium at her white throat .
Her beautiful hair gleam like molten gold in the warm firelight .
Her sea-blue eye be full of soft laughter and allurement .
For the moment , under the influence of the little house of dream , she be a girl again -- a girl forgetful of the past and it bitterness .
The atmosphere of the many love that have sanctify the little house be all about her ; the companionship of two healthy , happy , young folk of her own generation encircle her ; she felt and yield to the magic of her surroundings -- Miss Cornelia and Captain Jim would scarcely have recognize her ; Anne find it hard to believe that this be the cold , unresponsive woman she have meet on the shore -- this animated girl who talk and listen with the eagerness of a starved soul .
And how hungrily Leslie 's eye look at the bookcase between the window !
`` Our library be n't very extensive , '' say Anne , `` but every book in it be a FRIEND .
We 've pick our book up through the year , here and there , never buy one until we have first read it and know that it belong to the race of Joseph . ''
Leslie laugh -- beautiful laughter that seem akin to all the mirth that have echo through the little house in the vanished year .
`` I have a few book of father 's -- not many , '' she say .
`` I 've read them until I know them almost by heart .
I do n't get many book .
There 's a circulating library at the Glen store -- but I do n't think the committee who pick the book for Mr. Parker know what book be of Joseph 's race -- or perhaps they do n't care .
It be so seldom I get one I really like that I give up get any . ''
`` I hope you 'll look on our bookshelf a your own , '' say Anne .
`` You be entirely and wholeheartedly welcome to the loan of any book on them . ''
`` You be set a feast of fat thing before me , '' say Leslie , joyously .
Then , a the clock strike ten , she rise , half unwillingly .
`` I must go .
I do n't realise it be so late .
Captain Jim be always say it do n't take long to stay an hour .
But I 've stay two -- and oh , but I 've enjoy them , '' she add frankly .
`` Come often , '' say Anne and Gilbert .
They have rise and stand together in the firelight 's glow .
Leslie look at them -- youthful , hopeful , happy , typify all she have miss and must forever miss .
The light go out of her face and eye ; the girl vanish ; it be the sorrowful , cheated woman who answer the invitation almost coldly and get herself away with a pitiful haste .
Anne watch her until she be lose in the shadow of the chill and misty night .
Then she turn slowly back to the glow of her own radiant hearthstone .
`` Is n't she lovely , Gilbert ?
Her hair fascinate me .
Miss Cornelia say it reach to her foot .
Ruby Gillis have beautiful hair -- but Leslie 's be ALIVE -- every thread of it be live gold . ''
`` She be very beautiful , '' agree Gilbert , so heartily that Anne almost wish he be a LITTLE less enthusiastic .
`` Gilbert , would you like my hair well if it be like Leslie 's ? ''
she ask wistfully .
`` I would n't have your hair any color but just what it be for the world , '' say Gilbert , with one or two convincing accompaniment .
You would n't be ANNE if you have golden hair -- or hair of any color but '' -- `` Red , '' say Anne , with gloomy satisfaction .
`` Yes , red -- to give warmth to that milk-white skin and those shin gray-green eye of yours .
Golden hair would n't suit you at all Queen Anne -- MY Queen Anne -- queen of my heart and life and home . ''
`` Then you may admire Leslie 's all you like , '' say Anne magnanimously .
CHAPTER 13 A GHOSTLY EVENING One evening , a week later , Anne decide to run over the field to the house up the brook for an informal call .
It be an evening of gray fog that have creep in from the gulf , swathe the harbor , fill the glen and valley , and cling heavily to the autumnal meadow .
Through it the sea sob and shudder .
Anne saw Four Winds in a new aspect , and find it weird and mysterious and fascinating ; but it also give her a little feeling of loneliness .
Gilbert be away and would be away until the morrow , attend a medical pow-wow in Charlottetown .
Anne long for an hour of fellowship with some girl friend .
Captain Jim and Miss Cornelia be `` good fellow '' each , in their own way ; but youth yearn to youth .
`` If only Diana or Phil or Pris or Stella could drop in for a chat , '' she say to herself , `` how delightful it would be !
This be such a GHOSTLY night .
I 'm sure all the ship that ever sail out of Four Winds to their doom could be see tonight sail up the harbor with their drown crew on their deck , if that shroud fog could suddenly be draw aside .
I feel a if it conceal innumerable mystery -- a if I be surround by the wraith of old generation of Four Winds people peer at me through that gray veil .
If ever the dear dead lady of this little house come back to revisit it they would come on just such a night a this .
If I sit here any long I 'll see one of them there opposite me in Gilbert 's chair .
This place be n't exactly canny tonight .
Even Gog and Magog have an air of prick up their ear to hear the footstep of unseen guest .
I 'll run over to see Leslie before I frighten myself with my own fancy , a I do long ago in the matter of the Haunted Wood .
I 'll leave my house of dream to welcome back it old inhabitant .
My fire will give them my good-will and greeting -- they will be go before I come back , and my house will be mine once more .
Tonight I be sure it be keep a tryst with the past . ''
Laughing a little over her fancy , yet with something of a creepy sensation in the region of her spine , Anne kiss her hand to Gog and Magog and slip out into the fog , with some of the new magazine under her arm for Leslie .
`` Leslie 's wild for book and magazine , '' Miss Cornelia have tell her , `` and she hardly ever see one .
She ca n't afford to buy them or subscribe for them .
She 's really pitifully poor , Anne .
I do n't see how she make out to live at all on the little rent the farm bring in .
She never even hint a complaint on the score of poverty , but I know what it must be .
She 's be handicap by it all her life .
She do n't mind it when she be free and ambitious , but it must gall now , believe ME .
I 'm glad she seem so bright and merry the evening she spend with you .
Captain Jim tell me he have fairly to put her cap and coat on and push her out of the door .
Do n't be too long go to see her either .
If you be she 'll think it 's because you do n't like the sight of Dick , and she 'll crawl into her shell again .
Dick 's a great , big , harmless baby , but that silly grin and chuckle of his do get on some people 's nerve .
Thank goodness , I 've no nerve myself .
I like Dick Moore well now than I ever do when he be in his right sens -- though the Lord know that be n't say much .
I be down there one day in houseclean time help Leslie a bit , and I be fry doughnut .
Dick be hang round to get one , a usual , and all at once he pick up a scalding hot one I 'd just fish out and drop it on the back of my neck when I be bend over .
Then he laugh and laugh .
Believe ME , Anne , it take all the grace of God in my heart to keep me from just whisk up that stew-pan of boil fat and pour it over his head . ''
Anne laugh over Miss Cornelia 's wrath a she speed through the darkness .
But laughter accord ill with that night .
She be sober enough when she reach the house among the willow .
Everything be very silent .
The front part of the house seem dark and deserted , so Anne slip round to the side door , which open from the veranda into a little sitting room .
There she halt noiselessly .
The door be open .
Beyond , in the dimly light room , sit Leslie Moore , with her arm fling out on the table and her head bent upon them .
She be weep horribly -- with low , fierce , choke sob , a if some agony in her soul be try to tear itself out .
An old black dog be sit by her , his nose rest on his lap , his big doggish eye full of mute , implore sympathy and devotion .
Anne draw back in dismay .
She felt that she could not intermeddle with this bitterness .
Her heart ache with a sympathy she might not utter .
To go in now would be to shut the door forever on any possible help or friendship .
Some instinct warn Anne that the proud , bitter girl would never forgive the one who thus surprise her in her abandonment of despair .
Anne slip noiselessly from the veranda and find her way across the yard .
Beyond , she hear voice in the gloom and saw the dim glow of a light .
At the gate she meet two men -- Captain Jim with a lantern , and another who she know must be Dick Moore -- a big man , badly go to fat , with a broad , round , red face , and vacant eye .
Even in the dull light Anne get the impression that there be something unusual about his eye .
`` Is this you , Mistress Blythe ? ''
say Captain Jim .
`` Now , now , you have n't oughter be roam about alone on a night like this .
You could get lose in this fog easy than not .
Jest you wait till I see Dick safe inside the door and I 'll come back and light you over the field .
I ai n't go to have Dr. Blythe come home and finding that you walk clean over Cape Leforce in the fog .
A woman do that once , forty year ago .
`` So you 've be over to see Leslie , '' he say , when he rejoin her .
`` I do n't go in , '' say Anne , and tell what she have see .
Captain Jim sigh .
`` Poor , poor , little girl !
She do n't cry often , Mistress Blythe -- she 's too brave for that .
She must feel terrible when she do cry .
A night like this be hard on poor woman who have sorrow .
There 's something about it that kinder bring up all we 've suffer -- or fear . ''
`` It 's full of ghost , '' say Anne , with a shiver .
`` That be why I come over -- I want to clasp a human hand and hear a human voice .
`` There seem to be so many INHUMAN presence about tonight .
Even my own dear house be full of them .
They fairly elbow me out .
So I flee over here for companionship of my kind . ''
`` You be right not to go in , though , Mistress Blythe .
Leslie would n't have like it .
She would n't have like me go in with Dick , a I 'd have do if I have n't meet you .
I have Dick down with me all day .
I keep him with me as much a I can to help Leslie a bit . ''
`` Is n't there something odd about his eye ? ''
ask Anne .
`` You notice that ?
Yes , one be blue and t ` other be hazel -- his father have the same .
It 's a Moore peculiarity .
That be what tell me he be Dick Moore when I saw him first down in Cuby .
If it have n't a-bin for his eye I might n't a-known him , with his beard and fat .
You know , I reckon , that it be me find him and bring him home .
Miss Cornelia always say I should n't have do it , but I ca n't agree with her .
It be the RIGHT thing to do -- and so 't be the only thing .
There ai n't no question in my mind about THAT .
But my old heart ache for Leslie .
She 's only twenty-eight and she 's eaten more bread with sorrow than most woman do in eighty year . ''
They walk on in silence for a little while .
Presently Anne say , `` Do you know , Captain Jim , I never like walk with a lantern .
I have always the strange feeling that just outside the circle of light , just over it edge in the darkness , I be surround by a ring of furtive , sinister thing , watch me from the shadow with hostile eye .
I 've have that feel from childhood .
What be the reason ?
I never feel like that when I 'm really in the darkness -- when it be close all around me -- I 'm not the least frightened . ''
`` I 've something of that feel myself , '' admit Captain Jim .
`` I reckon when the darkness be close to u it be a friend .
But when we sorter push it away from u -- divorce ourselves from it , so to speak , with lantern light -- it become an enemy .
But the fog be lift .
`` There 's a smart west wind rising , if you notice .
The star will be out when you get home . ''
They be out ; and when Anne re-enter her house of dream the red ember be still glow on the hearth , and all the haunting presence be go .
CHAPTER 14 NOVEMBER DAYS The splendor of color which have glow for week along the shore of Four Winds Harbor have fade out into the soft gray-blue of late autumnal hill .
There come many day when field and shore be dim with misty rain , or shiver before the breath of a melancholy sea-wind -- night , too , of storm and tempest , when Anne sometimes waken to pray that no ship might be beat up the grim north shore , for if it be so not even the great , faithful light whirl through the darkness unafraid , could avail to guide it into safe haven .
`` In November I sometimes feel a if spring could never come again , '' she sigh , grieve over the hopeless unsightliness of her frosted and bedraggle flower-plots .
The gay little garden of the schoolmaster 's bride be rather a forlorn place now , and the Lombardies and birch be under bare pole , a Captain Jim say .
But the fir-wood behind the little house be forever green and staunch ; and even in November and December there come gracious day of sunshine and purple haze , when the harbor dance and sparkle as blithely a in midsummer , and the gulf be so softly blue and tender that the storm and the wild wind seem only thing of a long-past dream .
Anne and Gilbert spend many an autumn evening at the lighthouse .
It be always a cheery place .
Even when the east wind sang in minor and the sea be dead and gray , hint of sunshine seem to be lurk all about it .
Perhaps this be because the First Mate always parade it in panoply of gold .
He be so large and effulgent that one hardly miss the sun , and his resound purr form a pleasant accompaniment to the laughter and conversation which go on around Captain Jim 's fireplace .
Captain Jim and Gilbert have many long discussion and high converse on matter beyond the ken of cat or king .
`` I like to ponder on all kind of problem , though I ca n't solve 'em , '' say Captain Jim .
`` My father hold that we should never talk of thing we could n't understand , but if we do n't , doctor , the subject for conversation would be mighty few .
I reckon the god laugh many a time to hear u , but what matter so long a we remember that we 're only men and do n't take to fancy that we 're god ourselves , really , know good and evil .
I reckon our pow-wows wo n't do u or anyone much harm , so let 's have another whack at the whence , why and whither this evening , doctor . ''
While they `` whack , '' Anne listen or dream .
Sometimes Leslie go to the lighthouse with them , and she and Anne wander along the shore in the eerie twilight , or sit on the rock below the lighthouse until the darkness drive them back to the cheer of the driftwood fire .
Then Captain Jim would brew them tea and tell them `` tale of land and sea And whatsoever might betide The great forgotten world outside . ''
Leslie seem always to enjoy those lighthouse carousal very much , and bloom out for the time be into ready wit and beautiful laughter , or glowing-eyed silence .
There be a certain tang and savor in the conversation when Leslie be present which they miss when she be absent .
Even when she do not talk she seem to inspire others to brilliancy .
Captain Jim tell his story well , Gilbert be quicker in argument and repartee , Anne felt little gush and trickle of fancy and imagination bubbling to her lip under the influence of Leslie 's personality .
`` That girl be bear to be a leader in social and intellectual circle , far away from Four Winds , '' she say to Gilbert a they walk home one night .
`` She 's just waste here -- waste . ''
`` Were n't you listen to Captain Jim and yours truly the other night when we discuss that subject generally ?
We come to the comfort conclusion that the Creator probably know how to run His universe quite as well a we do , and that , after all , there be no such thing a ` wasted ' life , save and except when an individual wilfully squanders and waste his own life -- which Leslie Moore certainly have n't do .
And some people might think that a Redmond B.A . , whom editor be begin to honor , be ` wasted ' a the wife of a struggle country doctor in the rural community of Four Winds . ''
`` Gilbert ! ''
`` If you have marry Roy Gardner , now , '' continue Gilbert mercilessly , `` YOU could have be ' a leader in social and intellectual circle far away from Four Winds . ' ''
`` Gilbert BLYTHE ! ''
`` You KNOW you be in love with him at one time , Anne . ''
`` Gilbert , that 's mean -- ` pisen mean , just like all the men , ' a Miss Cornelia say .
I NEVER be in love with him .
I only imagine I be .
YOU know that .
You KNOW I 'd rather be your wife in our house of dream and fulfillment than a queen in a palace . ''
Gilbert 's answer be not in word ; but I be afraid that both of them forget poor Leslie speed her lonely way across the field to a house that be neither a palace nor the fulfillment of a dream .
The moon be rise over the sad , dark sea behind them and transfigure it .
Her light have not yet reach the harbor , the further side of which be shadowy and suggestive , with dim cove and rich gloom and jewel light .
`` How the home light shine out tonight through the dark ! ''
say Anne .
`` That string of them over the harbor look like a necklace .
And what a coruscation there be up at the Glen !
Oh , look , Gilbert ; there be ours .
I 'm so glad we leave it burn .
I hate to come home to a dark house .
OUR homelight , Gilbert !
Is n't it lovely to see ? ''
`` Just one of earth 's many million of home , Anne -- girl -- but ours -- OURS -- our beacon in ' a naughty world . '
When a fellow have a home and a dear , little , red-haired wife in it what more need he ask of life ? ''
`` Well , he might ask ONE thing more , '' whisper Anne happily .
`` Oh , Gilbert , it seem a if I just COULD N'T wait for the spring . ''
CHAPTER 15 CHRISTMAS AT FOUR WINDS At first Anne and Gilbert talk of go home to Avonlea for Christmas ; but eventually they decide to stay in Four Winds .
`` I want to spend the first Christmas of our life together in our own home , '' decree Anne .
So it fell out that Marilla and Mrs. Rachel Lynde and the twin come to Four Winds for Christmas .
Marilla have the face of a woman who have circumnavigate the globe .
She have never be sixty mile away from home before ; and she have never eat a Christmas dinner anywhere save at Green Gables .
Mrs. Rachel have make and brought with her an enormous plum pudding .
Nothing could have convince Mrs. Rachel that a college graduate of the young generation could make a Christmas plum pudding properly ; but she bestow approval on Anne 's house .
`` Anne 's a good housekeeper , '' she say to Marilla in the spare room the night of their arrival .
`` I 've look into her bread box and her scrap pail .
I always judge a housekeeper by those , that 's what .
There 's nothing in the pail that should n't have be throw away , and no stale piece in the bread box .
Of course , she be train up with you -- but , then , she go to college afterwards .
I notice she 's get my tobacco stripe quilt on the bed here , and that big round braid mat of yours before her living-room fire .
It make me feel right at home . ''
Anne 's first Christmas in her own house be as delightful a she could have wish .
The day be fine and bright ; the first skim of snow have fall on Christmas Eve and make the world beautiful ; the harbor be still open and glittering .
Captain Jim and Miss Cornelia come to dinner .
Leslie and Dick have be invite , but Leslie make excuse ; they always go to her Uncle Isaac West 's for Christmas , she say .
`` She 'd rather have it so , '' Miss Cornelia tell Anne .
`` She ca n't bear take Dick where there be stranger .
Christmas be always a hard time for Leslie .
She and her father use to make a lot of it . ''
Miss Cornelia and Mrs. Rachel do not take a very violent fancy to each other .
`` Two sun hold not their course in one sphere . ''
But they do not clash at all , for Mrs. Rachel be in the kitchen help Anne and Marilla with the dinner , and it fell to Gilbert to entertain Captain Jim and Miss Cornelia , -- or rather to be entertain by them , for a dialogue between those two old friend and antagonist be assuredly never dull .
`` It 's many a year since there be a Christmas dinner here , Mistress Blythe , '' say Captain Jim .
`` Miss Russell always go to her friend in town for Christmas .
But I be here to the first Christmas dinner that be ever eat in this house -- and the schoolmaster 's bride cook it .
That be sixty year ago today , Mistress Blythe -- and a day very like this -- just enough snow to make the hill white , and the harbor as blue a June .
I be only a lad , and I 'd never be invite out to dinner before , and I be too shy to eat enough .
I 've get all over THAT . ''
`` Most men do , '' say Miss Cornelia , sew furiously .
Miss Cornelia be not go to sit with idle hand , even on Christmas .
Babies come without any consideration for holiday , and there be one expect in a poverty-stricken household at Glen St. Mary .
Miss Cornelia have send that household a substantial dinner for it little swarm , and so meant to eat her own with a comfortable conscience .
`` Well , you know , the way to a man 's heart be through his stomach , Cornelia , '' explain Captain Jim .
`` I believe you -- when he HAS a heart , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` I suppose that 's why so many woman kill themselves cook -- just a poor Amelia Baxter do .
She die last Christmas morning , and she say it be the first Christmas since she be marry that she do n't have to cook a big , twenty-plate dinner .
It must have be a real pleasant change for her .
Well , she 's be dead a year , so you 'll soon hear of Horace Baxter take notice . ''
`` I hear he be take notice already , '' say Captain Jim , wink at Gilbert .
`` Was n't he up to your place one Sunday lately , with his funeral black on , and a boiled collar ? ''
`` No , he be n't .
And he need n't come neither .
I could have have him long ago when he be fresh .
I do n't want any second-hand good , believe ME .
As for Horace Baxter , he be in financial difficulty a year ago last summer , and he pray to the Lord for help ; and when his wife die and he get her life insurance he say he believe it be the answer to his prayer .
Was n't that like a man ? ''
`` Have you really proof that he say that , Cornelia ? ''
`` I have the Methodist minister 's word for it -- if you call THAT proof .
Robert Baxter tell me the same thing too , but I admit THAT be n't evidence .
Robert Baxter be n't often know to tell the truth . ''
`` Come , come , Cornelia , I think he generally tell the truth , but he change his opinion so often it sometimes sound a if he do n't . ''
`` It sound like it mighty often , believe ME .
But trust one man to excuse another .
I have no use for Robert Baxter .
He turn Methodist just because the Presbyterian choir happen to be sing ` Behold the bridegroom cometh ' for a collection piece when him and Margaret walk up the aisle the Sunday after they be marry .
Served him right for be late !
He always insist the choir do it on purpose to insult him , a if he be of that much importance .
But that family always think they be much big potato than they really be .
His brother Eliphalet imagine the devil be always at his elbow -- but I never believe the devil waste that much time on him . ''
`` I -- do n't -- know , '' say Captain Jim thoughtfully .
`` Eliphalet Baxter live too much alone -- have n't even a cat or dog to keep him human .
When a man be alone he 's mighty apt to be with the devil -- if he ai n't with God .
He have to choose which company he 'll keep , I reckon .
If the devil always be at Life Baxter 's elbow it must have be because Life like to have him there . ''
`` Man-like , '' say Miss Cornelia , and subside into silence over a complicated arrangement of tuck until Captain Jim deliberately stir her up again by remark in a casual way : `` I be up to the Methodist church last Sunday morning . ''
`` You 'd better have be home read your Bible , '' be Miss Cornelia 's retort .
`` Come , now , Cornelia , I ca n't see any harm in go to the Methodist church when there 's no preaching in your own .
I 've be a Presbyterian for seventy-six year , and it be n't likely my theology will hoist anchor at this late day . ''
`` It 's set a bad example , '' say Miss Cornelia grimly .
`` Besides , '' continue wicked Captain Jim , `` I want to hear some good singing .
The Methodists have a good choir ; and you ca n't deny , Cornelia , that the singing in our church be awful since the split in the choir . ''
`` What if the singing be n't good ?
They 're do their best , and God see no difference between the voice of a crow and the voice of a nightingale . ''
`` Come , come , Cornelia , '' say Captain Jim mildly , `` I 've a good opinion of the Almighty 's ear for music than THAT . ''
`` What cause the trouble in our choir ? ''
ask Gilbert , who be suffer from suppress laughter .
`` It date back to the new church , three year ago , '' answer Captain Jim .
`` We have a fearful time over the building of that church -- fell out over the question of a new site .
The two site be n't more 'n two hundred yard apart , but you 'd have think they be a thousand by the bitterness of that fight .
We be split up into three faction -- one want the east site and one the south , and one held to the old .
It be fight out in bed and at board , and in church and at market .
All the old scandal of three generation be drag out of their graf and air .
Three match be break up by it .
And the meeting we have to try to settle the question !
Cornelia , will you ever forget the one when old Luther Burns get up and make a speech ?
HE state his opinion forcibly . ''
`` Call a spade a spade , Captain .
You mean he get red-mad and rake them all , fore and aft .
They deserve it too -- a pack of incapables .
But what would you expect of a committee of men ?
That building committee hold twenty-seven meeting , and at the end of the twenty-seventh be n't no near have a church than when they begin -- not so near , for a fact , for in one fit of hurry thing along they 'd go to work and tear the old church down , so there we be , without a church , and no place but the hall to worship in . ''
`` The Methodists offer u their church , Cornelia . ''
`` The Glen St. Mary church would n't have be build to this day , '' go on Miss Cornelia , ignore Captain Jim , `` if we woman have n't just start in and take charge .
We say WE mean to have a church , if the men mean to quarrel till doomsday , and we be tire of be a laughing-stock for the Methodists .
We hold ONE meeting and elect a committee and canvass for subscription .
We get them , too .
When any of the men try to sass u we tell them they 'd try for two year to build a church and it be our turn now .
We shut them up close , believe ME , and in six month we have our church .
Of course , when the men saw we be determine they stop fight and go to work , man-like , as soon a they saw they have to , or quit bossing .
Oh , woman ca n't preach or be elder ; but they can build church and scare up the money for them . ''
`` The Methodists allow woman to preach , '' say Captain Jim .
Miss Cornelia glare at him .
`` I never say the Methodists have n't common sense , Captain .
What I say be , I doubt if they have much religion . ''
`` I suppose you be in favor of vote for woman , Miss Cornelia , '' say Gilbert .
`` I 'm not hanker after the vote , believe ME , '' say Miss Cornelia scornfully . ''
I know what it be to clean up after the men .
But some of these day , when the men realize they 've get the world into a mess they ca n't get it out of , they 'll be glad to give u the vote , and shoulder their trouble over on u .
That 's THEIR scheme .
Oh , it 's well that woman be patient , believe ME ! ''
`` What about Job ? ''
suggest Captain Jim .
`` Job !
It be such a rare thing to find a patient man that when one be really discover they be determine he should n't be forget , '' retort Miss Cornelia triumphantly .
`` Anyhow , the virtue do n't go with the name .
There never be such an impatient man bear a old Job Taylor over harbor . ''
`` Well , you know , he have a good deal to try him , Cornelia .
Even you ca n't defend his wife .
I always remember what old William MacAllister say of her at her funeral , ` There 's nae doot she be a Chreestian wumman , but she have the de'il 's own temper . ' ''
`` I suppose she WAS try , '' admit Miss Cornelia reluctantly , `` but that do n't justify what Job say when she die .
He ride home from the graveyard the day of the funeral with my father .
He never say a word till they get near home .
Then he heave a big sigh and say , ` You may not believe it , Stephen , but this be the happy day of my life ! '
Was n't that like a man ? ''
`` I s ` pose poor old Mrs. Job do make life kinder uneasy for him , '' reflect Captain Jim .
`` Well , there 's such a thing a decency , be n't there ?
Even if a man be rejoice in his heart over his wife be dead , he need n't proclaim it to the four wind of heaven .
And happy day or not , Job Taylor be n't long in marry again , you might notice .
His second wife could manage him .
She make him walk Spanish , believe me !
The first thing she do be to make him hustle round and put up a tombstone to the first Mrs. Job -- and she have a place leave on it for her own name .
She say there 'd be nobody to make Job put up a monument to HER . ''
`` Speaking of Taylors , how be Mrs. Lewis Taylor up at the Glen , doctor ? ''
ask Captain Jim .
`` She 's get well slowly -- but she have to work too hard , '' reply Gilbert .
`` Her husband work hard too -- raise prize pig , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` He 's note for his beautiful pig .
He 's a heap prouder of his pig than of his child .
But then , to be sure , his pig be the best pig possible , while his child do n't amount to much .
He pick a poor mother for them , and starve her while she be bear and rear them .
His pig get the cream and his child get the skim milk .
`` There be time , Cornelia , when I have to agree with you , though it hurt me , '' say Captain Jim .
`` That 's just exactly the truth about Lewis Taylor .
When I see those poor , miserable child of his , robbed of all child ought to have , it p ` isens my own bite and sup for day afterwards . ''
Gilbert go out to the kitchen in response to Anne 's beckoning .
Anne shut the door and give him a connubial lecture .
`` Gilbert , you and Captain Jim must stop baiting Miss Cornelia .
Oh , I 've be listen to you -- and I just wo n't allow it . ''
` Anne , Miss Cornelia be enjoy herself hugely .
You know she be . '
`` Well , never mind .
You two need n't egg her on like that .
Dinner be ready now , and , Gilbert , DO N'T let Mrs. Rachel carve the goose .
I know she mean to offer to do it because she do n't think you can do it properly .
Show her you can . ''
`` I ought to be able to .
I 've be study A-B-C-D diagram of carve for the past month , '' say Gilbert .
`` Only do n't talk to me while I 'm do it , Anne , for if you drive the letter out of my head I 'll be in a bad predicament than you be in old geometry day when the teacher change them . ''
Gilbert carve the geese beautifully .
Even Mrs. Rachel have to admit that .
And everybody ate of them and enjoy them .
Anne 's first Christmas dinner be a great success and she beam with housewifely pride .
Merry be the feast and long ; and when it be over they gather around the cheer of the red hearth flame and Captain Jim tell them story until the red sun swung low over Four Winds Harbor , and the long blue shadow of the Lombardies fell across the snow in the lane .
`` I must be get back to the light , '' he say finally .
`` I 'll jest have time to walk home before sundown .
Thank you for a beautiful Christmas , Mistress Blythe .
Bring Master Davy down to the light some night before he go home .
`` I want to see those stone god , '' say Davy with a relish .
CHAPTER 16 NEW YEAR 'S EVE AT THE LIGHT The Green Gables folk go home after Christmas , Marilla under solemn covenant to return for a month in the spring .
More snow come before New Year 's , and the harbor froze over , but the gulf still be free , beyond the white , imprisoned field .
The last day of the old year be one of those bright , cold , dazzling winter day , which bombard u with their brilliancy , and command our admiration but never our love .
The sky be sharp and blue ; the snow diamond sparkle insistently ; the stark tree be bare and shameless , with a kind of brazen beauty ; the hill shot assault lance of crystal .
Even the shadow be sharp and stiff and clear-cut , a no proper shadow should be .
Everything that be handsome seem ten time handsome and less attractive in the glaring splendor ; and everything that be ugly seem ten time ugly , and everything be either handsome or ugly .
There be no soft blending , or kind obscurity , or elusive mistiness in that search glitter .
The only thing that hold their own individuality be the fir -- for the fir be the tree of mystery and shadow , and yield never to the encroachment of crude radiance .
But finally the day begin to realise that she be grow old .
Then a certain pensiveness fell over her beauty which dim yet intensify it ; sharp angle , glitter point , melt away into curve and entice gleam .
The white harbor put on soft gray and pink ; the far-away hill turn amethyst .
`` The old year be go away beautifully , '' say Anne .
She and Leslie and Gilbert be on their way to the Four Winds Point , have plot with Captain Jim to watch the New Year in at the light .
The sun have set and in the southwestern sky hung Venus , glorious and golden , have draw a near to her earth-sister a be possible for her .
For the first time Anne and Gilbert saw the shadow cast by that brilliant star of evening , that faint , mysterious shadow , never see save when there be white snow to reveal it , and then only with averted vision , vanish when you gaze at it directly .
`` It 's like the spirit of a shadow , be n't it ? ''
whisper Anne .
`` You can see it so plainly haunt your side when you look ahead ; but when you turn and look at it -- it 's go . ''
`` I have hear that you can see the shadow of Venus only once in a lifetime , and that within a year of see it your life 's most wonderful gift will come to you , '' say Leslie .
But she speak rather hardly ; perhaps she think that even the shadow of Venus could bring her no gift of life .
Anne smile in the soft twilight ; she felt quite sure what the mystic shadow promise her .
They find Marshall Elliott at the lighthouse .
At first Anne felt incline to resent the intrusion of this long-haired , long-bearded eccentric into the familiar little circle .
But Marshall Elliott soon prove his legitimate claim to membership in the household of Joseph .
He be a witty , intelligent , well-read man , rival Captain Jim himself in the knack of tell a good story .
They be all glad when he agree to watch the old year out with them .
Captain Jim 's small nephew Joe have come down to spend New Year 's with his great-uncle , and have fall asleep on the sofa with the First Mate curl up in a huge golden ball at his foot .
`` Ai n't he a dear little man ? ''
say Captain Jim gloatingly .
`` I do love to watch a little child asleep , Mistress Blythe .
It 's the most beautiful sight in the world , I reckon .
Joe do love to get down here for a night , because I have him sleep with me .
At home he have to sleep with the other two boy , and he do n't like it .
Why ca n't I sleep with father , Uncle Jim ? ''
say he .
` Everybody in the Bible slept with their father . '
As for the question he ask , the minister himself could n't answer them .
They fair swamp me .
` Uncle Jim , if I be n't ME who 'd I be ? '
and , ` Uncle Jim , what would happen if God die ? '
He fire them two off at me tonight , afore he go to sleep .
As for his imagination , it sail away from everything .
He make up the most remarkable yarn -- and then his mother shut him up in the closet for tell story .
And he sit down and make up another one , and have it ready to relate to her when she let him out .
He have one for me when he come down tonight .
` Uncle Jim , ' say he , solemn a a tombstone , ' I have a ` venture in the Glen today . '
` Yes , what be it ? '
say I , expect something quite startling , but nowise prepared for what I really get . '
I meet a wolf in the street , ' say he , ' a ` normous wolf with a big , red mouf and AWFUL long teeth , Uncle Jim . ' '
I do n't know there be any wolves up at the Glen , ' say I . ` Oh , he come there from far , far away , ' say Joe , ` and I fight he be go to eat me up , Uncle Jim . '
` Were you scar ? '
say I . ` No , 'cause I have a big gun , ' say Joe , ` and I shoot the wolf dead , Uncle Jim , -- solid dead -- and then he go up to heaven and bite God , ' say he .
Well , I be fair staggered , Mistress Blythe . ''
The hour bloom into mirth around the driftwood fire .
Captain Jim tell tale , and Marshall Elliott sing old Scotch ballad in a fine tenor voice ; finally Captain Jim take down his old brown fiddle from the wall and begin to play .
He have a tolerable knack of fiddling , which all appreciate save the First Mate , who spring from the sofa a if he have be shoot , emit a shriek of protest , and flee wildly up the stair .
`` Ca n't cultivate an ear for music in that cat nohow , '' say Captain Jim .
`` He wo n't stay long enough to learn to like it .
When we get the organ up at the Glen church old Elder Richards bounce up from his seat the minute the organist begin to play and scuttle down the aisle and out of the church at the rate of no-man 's - business .
It remind me so strong of the First Mate tear loose as soon a I begin to fiddle that I come nearer to laugh out loud in church than I ever do before or since . ''
There be something so infectious in the rollicking tune which Captain Jim play that very soon Marshall Elliott 's foot begin to twitch .
He have be a noted dancer in his youth .
Presently he start up and hold out his hand to Leslie .
Instantly she respond .
Round and round the firelit room they circle with a rhythmic grace that be wonderful .
Leslie dance like one inspired ; the wild , sweet abandon of the music seem to have enter into and possess her .
Anne watch her in fascinated admiration .
She have never see her like this .
All the innate richness and color and charm of her nature seem to have break loose and overflow in crimson cheek and glow eye and grace of motion .
Even the aspect of Marshall Elliott , with his long beard and hair , could not spoil the picture .
On the contrary , it seem to enhance it .
Marshall Elliott look like a Viking of elder day , dance with one of the blue-eyed , golden-haired daughter of the Northland .
`` The purtiest dancing I ever saw , and I 've see some in my time , '' declare Captain Jim , when at last the bow fell from his tired hand .
Leslie drop into her chair , laugh , breathless .
`` I love dance , '' she say apart to Anne .
`` I have n't dance since I be sixteen -- but I love it .
The music seem to run through my vein like quicksilver and I forget everything -- everything -- except the delight of keep time to it .
There be n't any floor beneath me , or wall about me , or roof over me -- I 'm float amid the star . ''
Captain Jim hang his fiddle up in it place , beside a large frame enclose several banknote .
`` Is there anybody else of your acquaintance who can afford to hang his wall with banknote for picture ? ''
he ask .
`` There 's twenty ten-dollar note there , not worth the glass over them .
They 're old Bank of P. E. Island note .
Had them by me when the bank fail , and I have 'em frame and hang up , partly a a reminder not to put your trust in bank , and partly to give me a real luxurious , millionairy feeling .
Hullo , Matey , do n't be scar .
You can come back now .
The music and revelry be over for tonight .
The old year have just another hour to stay with u .
I 've see seventy-six New Years come in over that gulf yonder , Mistress Blythe . ''
`` You 'll see a hundred , '' say Marshall Elliott .
Captain Jim shake his head .
`` No ; and I do n't want to -- at least , I think I do n't .
Death grow friendly a we grow old .
Not that one of u really want to die though , Marshall .
Tennyson speak truth when he say that .
There 's old Mrs. Wallace up at the Glen .
She 's have heap of trouble all her life , poor soul , and she 's lose almost everyone she care about .
She 's always say that she 'll be glad when her time come , and she do n't want to sojourn any longer in this vale of tear .
But when she take a sick spell there 's a fuss !
Doctors from town , and a trained nurse , and enough medicine to kill a dog .
Life may be a vale of tear , all right , but there be some folk who enjoy weep , I reckon . ''
They spend the old year 's last hour quietly around the fire .
A few minute before twelve Captain Jim rise and open the door .
`` We must let the New Year in , '' he say .
Outside be a fine blue night .
A sparkling ribbon of moonlight garland the gulf .
Inside the bar the harbor shone like a pavement of pearl .
They stand before the door and wait -- Captain Jim with his ripe , full experience , Marshall Elliott in his vigorous but empty middle life , Gilbert and Anne with their precious memory and exquisite hope , Leslie with her record of starved year and her hopeless future .
The clock on the little shelf above the fireplace strike twelve .
`` Welcome , New Year , '' say Captain Jim , bow low a the last stroke die away .
`` I wish you all the best year of your life , mate .
I reckon that whatever the New Year bring u will be the best the Great Captain have for u -- and somehow or other we 'll all make port in a good harbor . ''
CHAPTER 17 A FOUR WINDS WINTER Winter set in vigorously after New Year 's .
Big , white drift heap themselves about the little house , and palm of frost cover it window .
The harbor ice grow hard and thicker , until the Four Winds people begin their usual winter travelling over it .
The safe way be `` bush '' by a benevolent Government , and night and day the gay tinkle of the sleigh-bells sound on it .
On moonlit night Anne hear them in her house of dream like fairy chime .
The gulf froze over , and the Four Winds light flash no more .
During the month when navigation be close Captain Jim 's office be a sinecure .
`` The First Mate and I will have nothing to do till spring except keep warm and amuse ourselves .
The last lighthouse keeper use always to move up to the Glen in winter ; but I 'd rather stay at the Point .
The First Mate might get poison or chew up by dog at the Glen .
It 's a mite lonely , to be sure , with neither the light nor the water for company , but if our friend come to see u often we 'll weather it through . ''
Captain Jim have an ice boat , and many a wild , glorious spin Gilbert and Anne and Leslie have over the glib harbor ice with him .
Anne and Leslie take long snowshoe tramp together , too , over the field , or across the harbor after storm , or through the wood beyond the Glen .
They be very good comrade in their ramble and their fireside communings .
Each have something to give the other -- each felt life the rich for friendly exchange of thought and friendly silence ; each look across the white field between their home with a pleasant consciousness of a friend beyond .
But , in spite of all this , Anne felt that there be always a barrier between Leslie and herself -- a constraint that never wholly vanish .
`` I do n't know why I ca n't get close to her , '' Anne say one evening to Captain Jim .
`` I like her so much -- I admire her so much -- I WANT to take her right into my heart and creep right into hers .
But I can never cross the barrier . ''
`` You 've be too happy all your life , Mistress Blythe , '' say Captain Jim thoughtfully .
`` I reckon that 's why you and Leslie ca n't get real close together in your soul .
The barrier between you be her experience of sorrow and trouble .
She ai n't responsible for it and you ai n't ; but it 's there and neither of you can cross it . ''
`` My childhood be n't very happy before I come to Green Gables , '' say Anne , gaze soberly out of the window at the still , sad , dead beauty of the leafless tree-shadows on the moonlit snow .
`` Mebbe not -- but it be just the usual unhappiness of a child who have n't anyone to look after it properly .
There have n't be any TRAGEDY in your life , Mistress Blythe .
And poor Leslie 's have be almost ALL tragedy .
She feel , I reckon , though mebbe she hardly know she feel it , that there 's a vast deal in her life you ca n't enter nor understand -- and so she have to keep you back from it -- hold you off , so to speak , from hurt her .
You know if we 've get anything about u that hurt we shrink from anyone 's touch on or near it .
It hold good with our soul as well a our body , I reckon .
Leslie 's soul must be near raw -- it 's no wonder she hide it away . ''
`` If that be really all , I would n't mind , Captain Jim .
I would understand .
But there be time -- not always , but now and again -- when I almost have to believe that Leslie do n't -- do n't like me .
Sometimes I surprise a look in her eye that seem to show resentment and dislike -- it go so quickly -- but I 've see it , I 'm sure of that .
And it hurt me , Captain Jim .
I 'm not use to be dislike -- and I 've try so hard to win Leslie 's friendship . ''
`` You have win it , Mistress Blythe .
Do n't you go cherish any foolish notion that Leslie do n't like you .
If she do n't she would n't have anything to do with you , much less chumming with you a she do .
I know Leslie Moore too well not to be sure of that . ''
`` The first time I ever saw her , drive her geese down the hill on the day I come to Four Winds , she look at me with the same expression , '' persist Anne .
`` I felt it , even in the midst of my admiration of her beauty .
She look at me resentfully -- she do , indeed , Captain Jim . ''
`` The resentment must have be about something else , Mistress Blythe , and you jest come in for a share of it because you happen past .
Leslie DOES take sullen spell now and again , poor girl .
I ca n't blame her , when I know what she have to put up with .
I do n't know why it 's permit .
The doctor and I have talk a lot abut the origin of evil , but we have n't quite find out all about it yet .
There 's a vast of onunderstandable thing in life , ai n't there , Mistress Blythe ?
Sometimes thing seem to work out real proper-like , same a with you and the doctor .
And then again they all seem to go catawampus .
There 's Leslie , so clever and beautiful you 'd think she be mean for a queen , and instead she 's cooped up over there , robbed of almost everything a woman 'd value , with no prospect except wait on Dick Moore all her life .
Though , mind you , Mistress Blythe , I daresay she 'd choose her life now , such a it be , rather than the life she live with Dick before he go away .
THAT 'S something a clumsy old sailor 's tongue must n't meddle with .
But you 've help Leslie a lot -- she 's a different creature since you come to Four Winds .
Us old friend see the difference in her , a you ca n't .
Miss Cornelia and me be talk it over the other day , and it 's one of the mighty few p ` ints that we see eye to eye on .
So jest you throw overboard any idea of her not like you . ''
Anne could hardly discard it completely , for there be undoubtedly time when she felt , with an instinct that be not to be combat by reason , that Leslie harbor a queer , indefinable resentment towards her .
At time , this secret consciousness mar the delight of their comradeship ; at others it be almost forget ; but Anne always felt the hidden thorn be there , and might prick her at any moment .
She felt a cruel sting from it on the day when she tell Leslie of what she hop the spring would bring to the little house of dream .
Leslie look at her with hard , bitter , unfriendly eye .
`` So you be to have THAT , too , '' she say in a choked voice .
And without another word she have turn and go across the field homeward .
Anne be deeply hurt ; for the moment she felt a if she could never like Leslie again .
But when Leslie come over a few evening later she be so pleasant , so friendly , so frank , and witty , and winsome , that Anne be charm into forgiveness and forgetfulness .
Only , she never mention her darling hope to Leslie again ; nor do Leslie ever refer to it .
But one evening , when late winter be listen for the word of spring , she come over to the little house for a twilight chat ; and when she go away she leave a small , white box on the table .
Anne find it after she be go and open it wonderingly .
In it be a tiny white dress of exquisite workmanship -- delicate embroidery , wonderful tucking , sheer loveliness .
Every stitch in it be handwork ; and the little frill of lace at neck and sleeve be of real Valenciennes .
Lying on it be a card -- `` with Leslie 's love . ''
`` What hour of work she must have put on it , '' say Anne .
`` And the material must have cost more than she could really afford .
It be very sweet of her . ''
But Leslie be brusque and curt when Anne thank her , and again the latter felt throw back upon herself .
Leslie 's gift be not alone in the little house .
Miss Cornelia have , for the time be , give up sew for unwanted , unwelcome eighth baby , and fall to sew for a very much want first one , whose welcome would leave nothing to be desire .
Philippa Blake and Diana Wright each send a marvellous garment ; and Mrs. Rachel Lynde send several , in which good material and honest stitch take the place of embroidery and frill .
Anne herself make many , desecrate by no touch of machinery , spending over them the happy hour of the happy winter .
Captain Jim be the most frequent guest of the little house , and none be more welcome .
Every day Anne love the simple-souled , true-hearted old sailor more and more .
He be as refreshing a a sea breeze , as interesting a some ancient chronicle .
She be never tire of listen to his story , and his quaint remark and comment be a continual delight to her .
Captain Jim be one of those rare and interesting people who `` never speak but they say something . ''
The milk of human kindness and the wisdom of the serpent be mingle in his composition in delightful proportion .
Nothing ever seem to put Captain Jim out or depress him in any way .
`` I 've kind of contract a habit of enj ` ying thing , '' he remark once , when Anne have comment on his invariable cheerfulness .
`` It 's get so chronic that I believe I even enj ' y the disagreeable thing .
It 's great fun think they ca n't last .
` Old rheumatiz , ' say I , when it grip me hard , ` you 've GOT to stop aching sometime .
The bad you be the sooner you 'll stop , mebbe .
I 'm bind to get the good of you in the long run , whether in the body or out of the body . ' ''
One night , by the fireside at the light Anne saw Captain Jim 's `` life-book . ''
He need no coax to show it and proudly give it to her to read .
`` I writ it to leave to little Joe , '' he say .
`` I do n't like the idea of everything I 've do and see be clean forgot after I 've ship for my last v ` yage .
Joe , he 'll remember it , and tell the yarn to his child . ''
It be an old leather-bound book fill with the record of his voyage and adventure .
Anne think what a treasure trove it would be to a writer .
Every sentence be a nugget .
In itself the book have no literary merit ; Captain Jim 's charm of storytelling fail him when he come to pen and ink ; he could only jot roughly down the outline of his famous tale , and both spelling and grammar be sadly askew .
But Anne felt that if anyone possess of the gift could take that simple record of a brave , adventurous life , read between the bald line the tale of danger staunchly face and duty manfully do , a wonderful story might be make from it .
Rich comedy and thrill tragedy be both lie hidden in Captain Jim 's `` life-book , '' wait for the touch of the master hand to waken the laughter and grief and horror of thousand .
Anne say something of this to Gilbert a they walk home .
`` Why do n't you try your hand at it yourself , Anne ? ''
Anne shake her head .
`` No .
I only wish I could .
But it 's not in the power of my gift .
You know what my forte be , Gilbert -- the fanciful , the fairylike , the pretty .
To write Captain Jim 's life-book a it should be write one should be a master of vigorous yet subtle style , a keen psychologist , a born humorist and a born tragedian .
A rare combination of gift be need .
Paul might do it if he be old .
Anyhow , I 'm go to ask him to come down next summer and meet Captain Jim . ''
`` Come to this shore , '' write Anne to Paul .
`` I be afraid you can not find here Nora or the Golden Lady or the Twin Sailors ; but you will find one old sailor who can tell you wonderful story . ''
Paul , however write back , say regretfully that he could not come that year .
He be go abroad for two year 's study .
`` When I return I 'll come to Four Winds , dear Teacher , '' he write .
`` But meanwhile , Captain Jim be grow old , '' say Anne , sorrowfully , `` and there be nobody to write his life-book . ''
CHAPTER 18 SPRING DAYS The ice in the harbor grow black and rotten in the March sun ; in April there be blue water and a windy , white-capped gulf again ; and again the Four Winds light begemmed the twilight .
`` I 'm so glad to see it once more , '' say Anne , on the first evening of it reappearance .
`` I 've miss it so all winter .
The northwestern sky have seem blank and lonely without it . ''
The land be tender with brand-new , golden-green , baby leaf .
There be an emerald mist on the wood beyond the Glen .
The seaward valley be full of fairy mist at dawn .
Vibrant wind come and go with salt foam in their breath .
The sea laugh and flash and preen and allure , like a beautiful , coquettish woman .
The herring school and the fishing village wake to life .
The harbor be alive with white sail make for the channel .
The ship begin to sail outward and inward again .
`` On a spring day like this , '' say Anne , `` I know exactly what my soul will feel like on the resurrection morning . ''
`` There be time in spring when I sorter feel that I might have be a poet if I 'd be catch young , '' remark Captain Jim .
`` I catch myself con over old line and verse I hear the schoolmaster recite sixty year ago .
They do n't trouble me at other time .
Now I feel a if I have to get out on the rock or the field or the water and spout them . ''
Captain Jim have come up that afternoon to bring Anne a load of shell for her garden , and a little bunch of sweet-grass which he have find in a ramble over the sand dune .
`` It 's get real scarce along this shore now , '' he say .
`` When I be a boy there be a-plenty of it .
But now it 's only once in a while you 'll find a plot -- and never when you 're look for it .
You jest have to stumble on it -- you 're walk along on the sand hill , never thinking of sweet-grass -- and all at once the air be full of sweetness -- and there 's the grass under your foot .
I favor the smell of sweet-grass .
It always make me think of my mother . ''
`` She be fond of it ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Not that I know on .
Dunno 's she ever saw any sweet-grass .
No , it 's because it have a kind of motherly perfume -- not too young , you understand -- something kind of seasoned and wholesome and dependable -- jest like a mother .
The schoolmaster 's bride always keep it among her handkerchief .
You might put that little bunch among yours , Mistress Blythe .
I do n't like these boughten scent -- but a whiff of sweet-grass belongs anywhere a lady do . ''
Anne have not be especially enthusiastic over the idea of surround her flower bed with quahog shell ; a a decoration they do not appeal to her on first thought .
But she would not have hurt Captain Jim 's feeling for anything ; so she assume a virtue she do not at first feel , and thank him heartily .
And when Captain Jim have proudly encircle every bed with a rim of the big , milk-white shell , Anne find to her surprise that she like the effect .
On a town lawn , or even up at the Glen , they would not have be in keep , but here , in the old-fashioned , sea-bound garden of the little house of dream , they BELONGED .
`` They DO look nice , '' she say sincerely .
`` The schoolmaster 's bride always have cowhawks round her bed , '' say Captain Jim .
`` She be a master hand with flower .
She LOOKED at 'em -- and touched 'em -- SO -- and they grow like mad .
Some folk have that knack -- I reckon you have it , too , Mistress Blythe . ''
`` Oh , I do n't know -- but I love my garden , and I love work in it .
To potter with green , grow thing , watch each day to see the dear , new sprout come up , be like take a hand in creation , I think .
Just now my garden be like faith -- the substance of thing hop for .
But bide a wee . ''
`` It always amaze me to look at the little , wrinkle brown seed and think of the rainbow in 'em , '' say Captain Jim .
`` When I ponder on them seed I do n't find it nowise hard to believe that we 've get soul that 'll live in other world .
You could n't hardly believe there be life in them tiny thing , some no big than grain of dust , let alone color and scent , if you have n't see the miracle , could you ? ''
Anne , who be count her day like silver bead on a rosary , could not now take the long walk to the lighthouse or up the Glen road .
But Miss Cornelia and Captain Jim come very often to the little house .
Miss Cornelia be the joy of Anne 's and Gilbert 's existence .
They laugh side-splittingly over her speech after every visit .
When Captain Jim and she happen to visit the little house at the same time there be much sport for the listening .
They wag wordy warfare , she attack , he defend .
Anne once reproach the Captain for his baiting of Miss Cornelia .
`` Oh , I do love to set her go , Mistress Blythe , '' chuckle the unrepentant sinner .
`` It 's the great amusement I have in life .
That tongue of hers would blister a stone .
And you and that young dog of a doctor enj ' y listening to her as much a I do . ''
Captain Jim come along another evening to bring Anne some mayflower .
The garden be full of the moist , scent air of a maritime spring evening .
There be a milk-white mist on the edge of the sea , with a young moon kiss it , and a silver gladness of star over the Glen .
The bell of the church across the harbor be ring dreamily sweet .
The mellow chime drift through the dusk to mingle with the soft spring-moan of the sea .
Captain Jim 's mayflower add the last completing touch to the charm of the night .
`` I have n't see any this spring , and I 've miss them , '' say Anne , bury her face in them .
`` They ai n't to be find around Four Winds , only in the barren away behind the Glen up yander .
I take a little trip today to the Land-of-nothing-to-do , and hunt these up for you .
I reckon they 're the last you 'll see this spring , for they 're nearly do . ''
`` How kind and thoughtful you be , Captain Jim .
Nobody else -- not even Gilbert '' -- with a shake of her head at him -- `` remember that I always long for mayflower in spring . ''
`` Well , I have another errand , too -- I want to take Mr. Howard back yander a mess of trout .
He like one occasional , and it 's all I can do for a kindness he do me once .
I stay all the afternoon and talk to him .
He like to talk to me , though he 's a highly eddicated man and I 'm only an ignorant old sailor , because he 's one of the folk that 's GOT to talk or they 're miserable , and he find listener scarce around here .
The Glen folk fight shy of him because they think he 's an infidel .
He ai n't that far go exactly -- few men be , I reckon -- but he 's what you might call a heretic .
Heretics be wicked , but they 're mighty int ` resting .
It 's jest that they 've get sorter lose look for God , be under the impression that He 's hard to find -- which He ai n't never .
Most of 'em blunder to Him after awhile , I guess .
I do n't think listen to Mr. Howard 's argument be likely to do me much harm .
Mind you , I believe what I be bring up to believe .
It save a vast of bother -- and back of it all , God be good .
The trouble with Mr. Howard be that he 's a leetle TOO clever .
He think that he 's bind to live up to his cleverness , and that it 's smart to thrash out some new way of get to heaven than to go by the old track the common , ignorant folk be travel .
But he 'll get there sometime all right , and then he 'll laugh at himself . ''
`` Mr. Howard be a Methodist to begin with , '' say Miss Cornelia , a if she think he have not far to go from that to heresy .
`` Do you know , Cornelia , '' say Captain Jim gravely , `` I 've often think that if I be n't a Presbyterian I 'd be a Methodist . ''
`` Oh , well , '' concede Miss Cornelia , `` if you be n't a Presbyterian it would n't matter much what you be .
Speaking of heresy , remind me , doctor -- I 've bring back that book you lend me -- that Natural Law in the Spiritual World -- I do n't read more 'n a third of it .
I can read sense , and I can read nonsense , but that book be neither the one nor the other . ''
`` It IS consider rather heretical in some quarter , '' admit Gilbert , `` but I tell you that before you take it , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Oh , I would n't have mind it be heretical .
I can stand wickedness , but I ca n't stand foolishness , '' say Miss Cornelia calmly , and with the air of have say the last thing there be to say about Natural Law .
`` Speaking of book , A Mad Love come to an end at last two week ago , '' remark Captain Jim musingly .
`` It run to one hundred and three chapter .
When they get marry the book stop right off , so I reckon their trouble be all over .
It 's real nice that that 's the way in book anyhow , be n't it , even if 't ist n't so anywhere else ? ''
`` I never read novel , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Did you hear how Geordie Russell be today , Captain Jim ? ''
`` Yes , I call in on my way home to see him .
He 's get round all right -- but stew in a broth of trouble , a usual , poor man . ''
` Course he brew up most of it for himself , but I reckon that do n't make it any easy to bear . ''
`` He 's an awful pessimist , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Well , no , he ai n't a pessimist exactly , Cornelia .
He only jest never find anything that suit him . ''
`` And be n't that a pessimist ? ''
`` No , no .
A pessimist be one who never expect to find anything to suit him .
Geordie hai n't get THAT far yet . ''
`` You 'd find something good to say of the devil himself , Jim Boyd . ''
`` Well , you 've hear the story of the old lady who say he be persevere .
But no , Cornelia , I 've nothing good to say of the devil . ''
`` Do you believe in him at all ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia seriously .
`` How can you ask that when you know what a good Presbyterian I be , Cornelia ?
How could a Presbyterian get along without a devil ? ''
`` DO you ? ''
persist Miss Cornelia .
Captain Jim suddenly become grave .
`` I believe in what I hear a minister once call ' a mighty and malignant and INTELLIGENT power of evil working in the universe , ' '' he say solemnly .
`` I do THAT , Cornelia .
You can call it the devil , or the ` principle of evil , ' or the Old Scratch , or any name you like .
It 's THERE , and all the infidel and heretic in the world ca n't argue it away , any more 'n they can argue God away .
It 's there , and it 's work .
But , mind you , Cornelia , I believe it 's go to get the bad of it in the long run . ''
`` I be sure I hope so , '' say Miss Cornelia , none too hopefully .
`` But speaking of the devil , I be positive that Billy Booth be possess by him now .
Have you hear of Billy 's late performance ? ''
`` No , what be that ? ''
`` He 's go and burn up his wife 's new , brown broadcloth suit , that she pay twenty-five dollar for in Charlottetown , because he declare the men look too admire at her when she wear it to church the first time .
Was n't that like a man ? ''
`` Mistress Booth IS mighty pretty , and brown 's her color , '' say Captain Jim reflectively .
`` Is that any good reason why he should poke her new suit into the kitchen stave ?
Billy Booth be a jealous fool , and he make his wife 's life miserable .
She 's cry all the week about her suit .
Oh , Anne , I wish I could write like you , believe ME .
Would n't I score some of the men round here ! ''
`` Those Booths be all a mite queer , '' say Captain Jim .
`` Billy seem the sane of the lot till he get married and then this queer jealous streak crop out in him .
His brother Daniel , now , be always odd . ''
`` Took tantrum every few day or so and would n't get out of bed , '' say Miss Cornelia with a relish .
`` His wife would have to do all the barn work till he get over his spell .
When he die people write her letter of condolence ; if I 'd write anything it would have be one of congratulation .
Their father , old Abram Booth , be a disgust old sot .
He be drunk at his wife 's funeral , and keep reel round and hiccup ' I do n't dri -- i -- i -- nk much but I feel a -- a -- awfully que -- e -- e -- r. ' I give him a good jab in the back with my umbrella when he come near me , and it sober him up until they get the casket out of the house .
Young Johnny Booth be to have be marry yesterday , but he could n't be because he 's go and get the mumps .
Was n't that like a man ? ''
`` How could he help get the mumps , poor fellow ? ''
`` I 'd poor fellow him , believe ME , if I be Kate Sterns .
I do n't know how he could help get the mumps , but I DO know the wedding supper be all prepared and everything will be spoil before he 's well again .
Such a waste !
He should have have the mumps when he be a boy . ''
`` Come , come , Cornelia , do n't you think you 're a mite unreasonable ? ''
Miss Cornelia disdain to reply and turn instead to Susan Baker , a grim-faced , kind-hearted elderly spinster of the Glen , who have be instal a maid-of-all-work at the little house for some week .
Susan have be up to the Glen to make a sick call , and have just return .
`` How be poor old Aunt Mandy tonight ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia .
Susan sigh .
`` Very poorly -- very poorly , Cornelia .
I be afraid she will soon be in heaven , poor thing ! ''
`` Oh , surely , it 's not so bad a that ! ''
exclaim Miss Cornelia , sympathetically .
Captain Jim and Gilbert look at each other .
Then they suddenly rise and go out .
`` There be time , '' say Captain Jim , between spasm , `` when it would be a sin NOT to laugh .
Them two excellent woman ! ''
CHAPTER 19 DAWN AND DUSK In early June , when the sand hill be a great glory of pink wild rose , and the Glen be smother in apple blossom , Marilla arrive at the little house , accompany by a black horsehair trunk , pattern with brass nail , which have repose undisturbed in the Green Gables garret for half a century .
Susan Baker , who , during her few week ' sojourn in the little house , have come to worship `` young Mrs . Doctor , '' a she call Anne , with blind fervor , look rather jealously askance at Marilla at first .
But a Marilla do not try to interfere in kitchen matter , and show no desire to interrupt Susan 's ministration to young Mrs . Doctor , the good handmaiden become reconciled to her presence , and tell her crony at the Glen that Miss Cuthbert be a fine old lady and know her place .
One evening , when the sky 's limpid bowl be fill with a red glory , and the robin be thrill the golden twilight with jubilant hymn to the star of evening , there be a sudden commotion in the little house of dream .
Telephone message be send up to the Glen , Doctor Dave and a white-capped nurse come hastily down , Marilla pace the garden walk between the quahog shell , murmur prayer between her set lip , and Susan sit in the kitchen with cotton wool in her ear and her apron over her head .
Leslie , look out from the house up the brook , saw that every window of the little house be alight , and do not sleep that night .
The June night be short ; but it seem an eternity to those who wait and watch .
`` Oh , will it NEVER end ? ''
say Marilla ; then she saw how grave the nurse and Doctor Dave look , and she dare ask no more question .
Suppose Anne -- but Marilla could not suppose it .
`` Do not tell me , '' say Susan fiercely , answer the anguish in Marilla 's eye , `` that God could be so cruel a to take that darling lamb from u when we all love her so much . ''
`` He have take others a well beloved , '' say Marilla hoarsely .
But at dawn , when the rise sun rent apart the mist hang over the sandbar , and make rainbow of them , joy come to the little house .
Anne be safe , and a wee , white lady , with her mother 's big eye , be lie beside her .
Gilbert , his face gray and haggard from his night 's agony , come down to tell Marilla and Susan .
`` Thank God , '' shudder Marilla .
Susan get up and take the cotton wool out of her ear .
`` Now for breakfast , '' she say briskly .
`` I be of the opinion that we will all be glad of a bite and sup .
You tell young Mrs . Doctor not to worry about a single thing -- Susan be at the helm .
You tell her just to think of her baby . ''
Gilbert smile rather sadly a he go away .
Anne , her pale face blanch with it baptism of pain , her eye aglow with the holy passion of motherhood , do not need to be tell to think of her baby .
She think of nothing else .
For a few hour she taste of happiness so rare and exquisite that she wonder if the angel in heaven do not envy her .
`` Little Joyce , '' she murmur , when Marilla come in to see the baby .
`` We plan to call her that if she be a girlie .
There be so many we would have like to name her for ; we could n't choose between them , so we decide on Joyce -- we can call her Joy for short -- Joy -- it suit so well .
Oh , Marilla , I think I be happy before .
Now I know that I just dream a pleasant dream of happiness .
THIS be the reality . ''
`` You must n't talk , Anne -- wait till you 're strong , '' say Marilla warningly .
`` You know how hard it be for me NOT to talk , '' smile Anne .
At first she be too weak and too happy to notice that Gilbert and the nurse look grave and Marilla sorrowful .
Then , a subtly , and coldly , and remorselessly a a sea-fog stealing landward , fear crept into her heart .
Why be not Gilbert gladder ?
Why would he not talk about the baby ?
Why would they not let her have it with her after that first heavenly -- happy hour ?
Was -- be there anything wrong ?
`` Gilbert , '' whisper Anne imploringly , `` the baby -- be all right -- be n't she ?
Tell me -- tell me . ''
Gilbert be a long while in turn round ; then he bend over Anne and look in her eye .
Marilla , listen fearfully outside the door , hear a pitiful , heartbroken moan , and flee to the kitchen where Susan be weep .
`` Oh , the poor lamb -- the poor lamb !
How can she bear it , Miss Cuthbert ?
I be afraid it will kill her .
She have be that build up and happy , long for that baby , and plan for it .
Can not anything be do nohow , Miss Cuthbert ? ''
`` I 'm afraid not , Susan .
Gilbert say there be no hope .
He know from the first the little thing could n't live . ''
`` And it be such a sweet baby , '' sob Susan .
`` I never saw one so white -- they be mostly red or yallow .
And it open it big eye a if it be month old .
The little , little thing !
Oh , the poor , young Mrs . Doctor ! ''
At sunset the little soul that have come with the dawn go away , leave heartbreak behind it .
Miss Cornelia take the wee , white lady from the kindly but strange hand of the nurse , and dress the tiny waxen form in the beautiful dress Leslie have make for it .
Leslie have ask her to do that .
Then she take it back and lay it beside the poor , broken , tear-blinded little mother .
`` The Lord have give and the Lord have take away , dearie , '' she say through her own tear .
`` Blessed be the name of the Lord . ''
Then she go away , leave Anne and Gilbert alone together with their dead .
The next day , the small white Joy be lay in a velvet casket which Leslie have line with apple-blossoms , and take to the graveyard of the church across the harbor .
Miss Cornelia and Marilla put all the little love-made garment away , together with the ruffle basket which have be befrilled and belaced for dimpled limb and downy head .
Little Joy be never to sleep there ; she have find a colder , narrow bed .
`` This have be an awful disappointment to me , '' sigh Miss Cornelia .
`` I 've look forward to this baby -- and I do want it to be a girl , too . ''
`` I can only be thankful that Anne 's life be spar , '' say Marilla , with a shiver , recall those hour of darkness when the girl she love be pass through the valley of the shadow .
`` Poor , poor lamb !
Her heart be break , '' say Susan .
`` I ENVY Anne , '' say Leslie suddenly and fiercely , `` and I 'd envy her even if she have die !
She be a mother for one beautiful day .
I 'd gladly give my life for THAT ! ''
`` I would n't talk like that , Leslie , dearie , '' say Miss Cornelia deprecatingly .
She be afraid that the dignified Miss Cuthbert would think Leslie quite terrible .
Anne 's convalescence be long , and make bitter for her by many thing .
The bloom and sunshine of the Four Winds world grate harshly on her ; and yet , when the rain fell heavily , she picture it beat so mercilessly down on that little grave across the harbor ; and when the wind blew around the eaves she hear sad voice in it she have never hear before .
Kindly caller hurt her , too , with the well-meant platitude with which they strive to cover the nakedness of bereavement .
A letter from Phil Blake be an added sting .
Phil have hear of the baby 's birth , but not of it death , and she write Anne a congratulatory letter of sweet mirth which hurt her horribly .
`` I would have laugh over it so happily if I have my baby , '' she sob to Marilla .
`` But when I have n't it just seem like wanton cruelty -- though I know Phil would n't hurt me for the world .
Oh , Marilla , I do n't see how I can EVER be happy again -- EVERYTHING will hurt me all the rest of my life . ''
`` Time will help you , '' say Marilla , who be rack with sympathy but could never learn to express it in other than age-worn formula .
`` It do n't seem FAIR , '' say Anne rebelliously .
`` Babies be bear and live where they be not want -- where they will be neglect -- where they will have no chance .
I would have love my baby so -- and care for it so tenderly -- and try to give her every chance for good .
And yet I be n't allow to keep her . ''
`` It be God 's will , Anne , '' say Marilla , helpless before the riddle of the universe -- the WHY of undeserved pain .
`` And little Joy be good off . ''
`` I ca n't believe THAT , '' cry Anne bitterly .
Then , see that Marilla look shocked , she add passionately , `` Why should she be bear at all -- why should any one be bear at all -- if she 's good off dead ?
I DO N'T believe it be well for a child to die at birth than to live it life out -- and love and be love -- and enjoy and suffer -- and do it work -- and develop a character that would give it a personality in eternity .
And how do you know it be God 's will ?
Perhaps it be just a thwarting of His purpose by the Power of Evil .
We ca n't be expect to be resign to THAT . ''
`` Oh , Anne , do n't talk so , '' say Marilla , genuinely alarmed l Anne be drift into deep and dangerous water .
`` We ca n't understand -- but we must have faith -- we MUST believe that all be for the best .
I know you find it hard to think so , just now .
But try to be brave -- for Gilbert 's sake .
He 's so worried about you .
You be n't get strong as fast a you should . ''
`` Oh , I know I 've be very selfish , '' sigh Anne .
`` I love Gilbert more than ever -- and I want to live for his sake .
But it seem a if part of me be bury over there in that little harbor graveyard -- and it hurt so much that I 'm afraid of life . ''
`` It wo n't hurt so much always , Anne . ''
`` The thought that it may stop hurt sometimes hurt me bad than all else , Marilla . ''
`` Yes , I know , I 've felt that too , about other thing .
But we all love you , Anne .
Captain Jim have be up every day to ask for you -- and Mrs. Moore haunt the place -- and Miss Bryant spend most of her time , I think , cook up nice thing for you .
Susan do n't like it very well .
She think she can cook as well a Miss Bryant . ''
`` Dear Susan !
Oh , everybody have be so dear and good and lovely to me , Marilla .
I 'm not ungrateful -- and perhaps -- when this horrible ache grow a little less -- I 'll find that I can go on living . ''
CHAPTER 20 LOST MARGARET Anne find that she could go on living ; the day come when she even smile again over one of Miss Cornelia 's speech .
But there be something in the smile that have never be in Anne 's smile before and would never be absent from it again .
On the first day she be able to go for a drive Gilbert take her down to Four Winds Point , and leave her there while he row over the channel to see a patient at the fishing village .
A rollicking wind be scud across the harbor and the dune , whip the water into white-caps and wash the sandshore with long line of silvery breaker .
`` I 'm real proud to see you here again , Mistress Blythe , '' say Captain Jim .
`` Sit down -- sit down .
I 'm afeared it 's mighty dusty here today -- but there 's no need of look at dust when you can look at such scenery , be there ? ''
`` I do n't mind the dust , '' say Anne , `` but Gilbert say I must keep in the open air .
I think I 'll go and sit on the rock down there . ''
`` Would you like company or would you rather be alone ? ''
`` If by company you mean yours I 'd much rather have it than be alone , '' say Anne , smile .
Then she sigh .
She have never before mind be alone .
Now she dread it .
When she be alone now she felt so dreadfully alone .
`` Here 's a nice little spot where the wind ca n't get at you , '' say Captain Jim , when they reach the rock .
`` I often sit here .
It 's a great place jest to sit and dream . ''
`` Oh -- dream , '' sigh Anne .
`` I ca n't dream now , Captain Jim -- I 'm do with dream . ''
`` Oh , no , you 're not , Mistress Blythe -- oh , no , you 're not , '' say Captain Jim meditatively .
`` I know how you feel jest now -- but if you keep on living you 'll get glad again , and the first thing you know you 'll be dream again -- thank the good Lord for it !
If it be n't for our dream they might as well bury u .
How 'd we stand live if it be n't for our dream of immortality ?
And that 's a dream that 's BOUND to come true , Mistress Blythe .
You 'll see your little Joyce again some day . ''
`` But she wo n't be my baby , '' say Anne , with tremble lip .
`` Oh , she may be , a Longfellow say , ' a fair maiden clothe with celestial grace ' -- but she 'll be a stranger to me . ''
`` God will manage good 'n THAT , I believe , '' say Captain Jim .
They be both silent for a little time .
Then Captain Jim say very softly : `` Mistress Blythe , may I tell you about lose Margaret ? ''
`` Of course , '' say Anne gently .
She do not know who `` lose Margaret '' be , but she felt that she be go to hear the romance of Captain Jim 's life .
`` I 've often want to tell you about her , '' Captain Jim go on .
`` Do you know why , Mistress Blythe ?
It 's because I want somebody to remember and think of her sometime after I 'm go .
I ca n't bear that her name should be forget by all living soul .
And now nobody remembers lose Margaret but me . ''
Then Captain Jim tell the story -- an old , old forgotten story , for it be over fifty year since Margaret have fall asleep one day in her father 's dory and drift -- or so it be suppose , for nothing be ever certainly know a to her fate -- out of the channel , beyond the bar , to perish in the black thundersquall which have come up so suddenly that long-ago summer afternoon .
But to Captain Jim those fifty year be but a yesterday when it be past .
`` I walk the shore for month after that , '' he say sadly , `` look to find her dear , sweet little body ; but the sea never give her back to me .
But I 'll find her sometime , Mistress Blythe -- I 'll find her sometime .
She 's wait for me .
I wish I could tell you jest how she look , but I ca n't .
I 've see a fine , silvery mist hanging over the bar at sunrise that seem like her -- and then again I 've see a white birch in the wood back yander that make me think of her .
She have pale , brown hair and a little white , sweet face , and long slender finger like yours , Mistress Blythe , only browner , for she be a shore girl .
Sometimes I wake up in the night and hear the sea call to me in the old way , and it seem a if lose Margaret call in it .
And when there 's a storm and the wave be sob and moan I hear her lamenting among them .
And when they laugh on a gay day it 's HER laugh -- lose Margaret 's sweet , roguish , little laugh .
The sea take her from me , but some day I 'll find her .
Mistress Blythe .
It ca n't keep u apart forever . ''
`` I be glad you have tell me about her , '' say Anne .
`` I have often wonder why you have live all your life alone . ''
`` I could n't ever care for anyone else .
Lost Margaret take my heart with her -- out there , '' say the old lover , who have be faithful for fifty year to his drowned sweetheart .
`` You wo n't mind if I talk a good deal about her , will you , Mistress Blythe ?
It 's a pleasure to me -- for all the pain go out of her memory year ago and jest leave it blessing .
I know you 'll never forget her , Mistress Blythe .
And if the year , a I hope , bring other little folk to your home , I want you to promise me that you 'll tell THEM the story of lose Margaret , so that her name wo n't be forget among humankind . ''
CHAPTER 21 BARRIERS SWEPT AWAY `` Anne , '' say Leslie , break abruptly a short silence , `` you do n't know how GOOD it be to be sit here with you again -- work -- and talk -- and be silent together . ''
They be sit among the blue-eyed grass on the bank of the brook in Anne 's garden .
The water sparkle and croon past them ; the birch throw dappled shadow over them ; rose bloom along the walk .
The sun be begin to be low , and the air be full of woven music .
There be one music of the wind in the fir behind the house , and another of the wave on the bar , and still another from the distant bell of the church near which the wee , white lady slept .
Anne love that bell , though it bring sorrowful thought now .
She look curiously at Leslie , who have throw down her sewing and speak with a lack of restraint that be very unusual with her .
`` On that horrible night when you be so ill , '' Leslie go on , `` I keep think that perhaps we 'd have no more talk and walk and WORKS together .
And I realise just what your friendship have come to mean to me -- just what YOU mean -- and just what a hateful little beast I have be . ''
`` Leslie !
Leslie !
I never allow anyone to call my friend names . ''
`` It 's true .
That 's exactly what I be -- a hateful little beast .
There 's something I 've GOT to tell you , Anne .
I suppose it will make you despise me , but I MUST confess it .
Anne , there have be time this past winter and spring when I have HATED you . ''
`` I KNEW it , '' say Anne calmly .
`` You KNEW it ? ''
`` Yes , I saw it in your eye . ''
`` And yet you go on like me and be my friend . ''
`` Well , it be only now and then you hat me , Leslie .
Between time you love me , I think . ''
`` I certainly do .
But that other horrid feeling be always there , spoil it , back in my heart .
I keep it down -- sometimes I forget it -- but sometimes it would surge up and take possession of me .
I hat you because I ENVIED you -- oh , I be sick with envy of you at time .
You have a dear little home -- and love -- and happiness -- and glad dream -- everything I want -- and never have -- and never could have .
Oh , never could have !
THAT be what stung .
I would n't have envy you , if I have have any HOPE that life would ever be different for me .
But I have n't -- I have n't -- and it do n't seem FAIR .
It make me rebellious -- and it hurt me -- and so I hat you at time .
Oh , I be so ashamed of it -- I 'm die of shame now -- but I could n't conquer it .
`` That night , when I be afraid you might n't live -- I think I be go to be punish for my wickedness -- and I love you so then .
Anne , Anne , I never have anything to love since my mother die , except Dick 's old dog -- and it 's so dreadful to have nothing to love -- life be so EMPTY -- and there 's NOTHING bad than emptiness -- and I might have love you so much -- and that horrible thing have spoil it -- '' Leslie be tremble and grow almost incoherent with the violence of her emotion .
`` Do n't , Leslie , '' implore Anne , `` oh , do n't .
I understand -- do n't talk of it any more . ''
`` I must -- I must .
When I know you be go to live I vow that I would tell you as soon a you be well -- that I would n't go on accept your friendship and companionship without tell you how unworthy I be of it .
And I 've be so afraid -- it would turn you against me . ''
`` You need n't fear that , Leslie . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so glad -- so glad , Anne . ''
Leslie clasp her brown , work-hardened hand tightly together to still their shaking .
`` But I want to tell you everything , now I 've begin .
You do n't remember the first time I saw you , I suppose -- it be n't that night on the shore -- '' `` No , it be the night Gilbert and I come home .
You be drive your geese down the hill .
I should think I DO remember it !
I think you be so beautiful -- I long for week after to find out who you be . ''
`` I know who YOU be , although I have never see either of you before .
I have hear of the new doctor and his bride who be come to live in Miss Russell 's little house .
I -- I hat you that very moment , Anne . ''
`` I felt the resentment in your eye -- then I doubt -- I think I must be mistake -- because WHY should it be ? ''
`` It be because you look so happy .
Oh , you 'll agree with me now that I AM a hateful beast -- to hate another woman just because she be happy , -- and when her happiness do n't take anything from me !
That be why I never go to see you .
I know quite well I ought to go -- even our simple Four Winds custom demand that .
But I could n't .
I use to watch you from my window -- I could see you and your husband stroll about your garden in the evening -- or you run down the poplar lane to meet him .
And it hurt me .
And yet in another way I want to go over .
I felt that , if I be not so miserable , I could have like you and find in you what I 've never have in my life -- an intimate , REAL friend of my own age .
And then you remember that night at the shore ?
You be afraid I would think you crazy .
You must have think I be . ''
`` No , but I could n't understand you , Leslie .
One moment you draw me to you -- the next you push me back . ''
`` I be very unhappy that even .
I have have a hard day .
Dick have be very -- very hard to manage that day .
Generally he be quite good-natured and easily control , you know , Anne .
But some day he be very different .
I be so heartsick -- I run away to the shore as soon a he go to sleep .
It be my only refuge .
I sit there think of how my poor father have end his life , and wonder if I would n't be drive to it some day .
Oh , my heart be full of black thought !
And then you come dance along the cove like a glad , light-hearted child .
I -- I hat you more then than I 've ever do since .
And yet I crave your friendship .
The one feeling sway me one moment ; the other feel the next .
When I get home that night I cry for shame of what you must think of me .
But it 's always be just the same when I come over here .
Sometimes I 'd be happy and enjoy my visit .
And at other time that hideous feeling would mar it all .
There be time when everything about you and your house hurt me .
You have so many dear little thing I could n't have .
Do you know -- it 's ridiculous -- but I have an especial spite at those china dog of yours .
There be time when I want to catch up Gog and Magog and bang their pert black nose together !
Oh , you smile , Anne -- but it be never funny to me .
I would come here and see you and Gilbert with your book and your flower , and your household god , and your little family joke -- and your love for each other showing in every look and word , even when you do n't know it -- and I would go home to -- you know what I go home to !
Oh , Anne , I do n't believe I 'm jealous and envious by nature .
When I be a girl I lack many thing my schoolmate have , but I never care -- I never dislike them for it .
But I seem to have grow so hateful -- '' `` Leslie , dear , stop blame yourself .
You be NOT hateful or jealous or envious .
The life you have to live have warp you a little , perhaps-but it would have ruin a nature less fine and noble than yours .
I 'm let you tell me all this because I believe it 's good for you to talk it out and rid your soul of it .
But do n't blame yourself any more . ''
`` Well , I wo n't .
I just want you to know me a I be .
That time you tell me of your darling hope for the spring be the bad of all , Anne .
I shall never forgive myself for the way I behave then .
I repent it with tear .
And I DID put many a tender and love thought of you into the little dress I make .
But I might have know that anything I make could only be a shroud in the end . ''
`` Now , Leslie , that IS bitter and morbid -- put such thought away .
`` I be so glad when you bring the little dress ; and since I have to lose little Joyce I like to think that the dress she wear be the one you make for her when you let yourself love me . ''
`` Anne , do you know , I believe I shall always love you after this .
I do n't think I 'll ever feel that dreadful way about you again .
Talking it all out seem to have do away with it , somehow .
It 's very strange -- and I think it so real and bitter .
It 's like open the door of a dark room to show some hideous creature you 've believe to be there -- and when the light stream in your monster turn out to have be just a shadow , vanish when the light come .
It will never come between u again . ''
`` No , we be real friend now , Leslie , and I be very glad . ''
`` I hope you wo n't misunderstand me if I say something else .
Anne , I be grieve to the core of my heart when you lose your baby ; and if I could have save her for you by cut off one of my hand I would have do it .
But your sorrow have bring u close together .
Your perfect happiness be n't a barrier any long .
Oh , do n't misunderstand , dear -- I 'm NOT glad that your happiness be n't perfect any long -- I can say that sincerely ; but since it be n't , there be n't such a gulf between u . ''
`` I DO understand that , too , Leslie .
Now , we 'll just shut up the past and forget what be unpleasant in it .
It 's all go to be different .
We 're both of the race of Joseph now .
I think you 've be wonderful -- wonderful .
And , Leslie , I ca n't help believe that life have something good and beautiful for you yet . ''
Leslie shake her head .
`` No , '' she say dully .
`` There be n't any hope .
Dick will never be good -- and even if his memory be to come back -- oh , Anne , it would be bad , even bad , than it be now .
This be something you ca n't understand , you happy bride .
Anne , do Miss Cornelia ever tell you how I come to marry Dick ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` I 'm glad -- I want you to know -- but I could n't bring myself to talk of it if you have n't know .
Anne , it seem to me that ever since I be twelve year old life have be bitter .
Before that I have a happy childhood .
We be very poor -- but we do n't mind .
Father be so splendid -- so clever and loving and sympathetic .
We be chum a far back a I can remember .
And mother be so sweet .
She be very , very beautiful .
I look like her , but I be not so beautiful a she be . ''
`` Miss Cornelia say you be far more beautiful . ''
`` She be mistake -- or prejudice .
I think my figure IS well -- mother be slight and bent by hard work -- but she have the face of an angel .
I use just to look up at her in worship .
We all worship her , -- father and Kenneth and I. '' Anne remember that Miss Cornelia have give her a very different impression of Leslie 's mother .
But have not love the truer vision ?
Still , it WAS selfish of Rose West to make her daughter marry Dick Moore .
`` Kenneth be my brother , '' go on Leslie .
`` Oh , I ca n't tell you how I love him .
And he be cruelly kill .
Do you know how ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Anne , I saw his little face a the wheel go over him .
He fell on his back .
Anne -- Anne -- I can see it now .
I shall always see it .
Anne , all I ask of heaven be that that recollection shall be blot out of my memory .
O my God ! ''
`` Leslie , do n't speak of it .
I know the story -- do n't go into detail that only harrow your soul up unavailingly .
It WILL be blot out . ''
After a moment 's struggle , Leslie regain a measure of self-control .
`` Then father 's health get bad and he grow despondent -- his mind become unbalanced -- you 've hear all that , too ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` After that I have just mother to live for .
But I be very ambitious .
I mean to teach and earn my way through college .
I mean to climb to the very top -- oh , I wo n't talk of that either .
It 's no use .
You know what happen .
I could n't see my dear little heart-broken mother , who have be such a slave all her life , turn out of her home .
Of course , I could have earn enough for u to live on .
But mother COULD N'T leave her home .
She have come there a a bride -- and she have love father so -- and all her memory be there .
Even yet , Anne , when I think that I make her last year happy I 'm not sorry for what I do .
As for Dick -- I do n't hate him when I marry him -- I just felt for him the indifferent , friendly feeling I have for most of my schoolmate .
I know he drink some -- but I have never hear the story of the girl down at the fishing cove .
If I have , I COULD N'T have marry him , even for mother 's sake .
Afterwards -- I DID hate him -- but mother never know .
She die -- and then I be alone .
I be only seventeen and I be alone .
Dick have go off in the Four Sisters .
I hop he would n't be home very much more .
The sea have always be in his blood .
I have no other hope .
Well , Captain Jim bring him home , a you know -- and that 's all there be to say .
You know me now , Anne -- the bad of me -- the barrier be all down .
And you still want to be my friend ? ''
Anne look up through the birch , at the white paper-lantern of a half moon drift downwards to the gulf of sunset .
Her face be very sweet .
`` I be your friend and you be mine , for always , '' she say .
`` Such a friend a I never have before .
I have have many dear and beloved friend -- but there be a something in you , Leslie , that I never find in anyone else .
You have more to offer me in that rich nature of yours , and I have more to give you than I have in my careless girlhood .
We be both woman -- and friend forever . ''
They clasp hand and smile at each other through the tear that fill the gray eye and the blue .
CHAPTER 22 MISS CORNELIA ARRANGES MATTERS Gilbert insist that Susan should be keep on at the little house for the summer .
Anne protest at first .
`` Life here with just the two of u be so sweet , Gilbert .
It spoil it a little to have anyone else .
Susan be a dear soul , but she be an outsider .
It wo n't hurt me to do the work here . ''
`` You must take your doctor 's advice , '' say Gilbert .
`` There 's an old proverb to the effect that shoemaker ' wife go barefoot and doctor ' wife die young .
I do n't mean that it shall be true in my household .
You will keep Susan until the old spring come back into your step , and those little hollow on your cheek fill out . ''
`` You just take it easy , Mrs . Doctor , dear , '' say Susan , come abruptly in .
`` Have a good time and do not worry about the pantry .
Susan be at the helm .
There be no use in keep a dog and do your own barking .
I be go to take your breakfast up to you every morning . ''
`` Indeed you be not , '' laugh Anne .
`` I agree with Miss Cornelia that it 's a scandal for a woman who be n't sick to eat her breakfast in bed , and almost justifies the men in any enormity . ''
`` Oh , Cornelia ! ''
say Susan , with ineffable contempt .
`` I think you have good sense , Mrs . Doctor , dear , than to heed what Cornelia Bryant say .
I can not see why she must be always run down the men , even if she be an old maid .
I be an old maid , but you never hear ME abuse the men .
I like 'em .
I would have marry one if I could .
Is it not funny nobody ever ask me to marry him , Mrs . Doctor , dear ?
I be no beauty , but I be as good-looking a most of the married woman you see .
But I never have a beau .
What do you suppose be the reason ? ''
`` It may be predestination , '' suggest Anne , with unearthly solemnity .
Susan nod .
`` That be what I have often think , Mrs . Doctor , dear , and a great comfort it be .
I do not mind nobody want me if the Almighty decree it so for His own wise purpose .
But sometimes doubt creep in , Mrs . Doctor , dear , and I wonder if maybe the Old Scratch have not more to do with it than anyone else .
I can not feel resign THEN .
But maybe , '' add Susan , brighten up , `` I will have a chance to get married yet .
I often and often think of the old verse my aunt use to repeat : There never be a goose so gray but sometime soon or late Some honest gander come her way and take her for his mate !
A woman can not ever be sure of not be marry till she be bury , Mrs . Doctor , dear , and meanwhile I will make a batch of cherry pie .
I notice the doctor favor 'em , and I DO like cook for a man who appreciate his victual . ''
Miss Cornelia drop in that afternoon , puff a little .
`` I do n't mind the world or the devil much , but the flesh DOES rather bother me , '' she admit .
`` You always look as cool a a cucumber , Anne , dearie .
Do I smell cherry pie ?
If I do , ask me to stay to tea .
Have n't taste a cherry pie this summer .
My cherry have all be steal by those scamp of Gilman boys from the Glen . ''
`` Now , now , Cornelia , '' remonstrate Captain Jim , who have be read a sea novel in a corner of the living room , `` you should n't say that about those two poor , motherless Gilman boys , unless you 've get certain proof .
Jest because their father ai n't none too honest be n't any reason for call them thief .
It 's more likely it 's be the robin take your cherry .
They 're turrible thick this year . ''
`` Robins ! ''
say Miss Cornelia disdainfully .
`` Humph !
Two-legged robin , believe ME ! ''
`` Well , most of the Four Winds robin ARE construct on that principle , '' say Captain Jim gravely .
Miss Cornelia star at him for a moment .
Then she lean back in her rocker and laugh long and ungrudgingly .
`` Well , you HAVE get one on me at last , Jim Boyd , I 'll admit .
Just look how pleased he be , Anne , dearie , grin like a Chessy-cat .
As for the robin ' leg if robin have great , big , bare , sunburn leg , with ragged trouser hang on 'em , such a I saw up in my cherry tree one morning at sunrise last week , I 'll beg the Gilman boys ' pardon .
By the time I get down they be go .
I could n't understand how they have disappear so quick , but Captain Jim have enlighten me .
They fly away , of course . ''
Captain Jim laugh and go away , regretfully decline an invitation to stay to supper and partake of cherry pie .
`` I 'm on my way to see Leslie and ask her if she 'll take a boarder , '' Miss Cornelia resume .
`` I 'd a letter yesterday from a Mrs. Daly in Toronto , who board a spell with me two year ago .
She want me to take a friend of hers for the summer .
His name be Owen Ford , and he 's a newspaper man , and it seem he 's a grandson of the schoolmaster who build this house .
John Selwyn 's old daughter marry an Ontario man name Ford , and this be her son .
He want to see the old place his grandparent live in .
He have a bad spell of typhoid in the spring and have n't get rightly over it , so his doctor have order him to the sea .
He do n't want to go to the hotel -- he just want a quiet home place .
I ca n't take him , for I have to be away in August .
I 've be appoint a delegate to the W.F.M.S . convention in Kingsport and I 'm go .
I do n't know whether Leslie 'll want to be bother with him , either , but there 's no one else .
If she ca n't take him he 'll have to go over the harbor . ''
`` When you 've see her come back and help u eat our cherry pie , '' say Anne .
`` Bring Leslie and Dick , too , if they can come .
And so you 're go to Kingsport ?
What a nice time you will have .
I must give you a letter to a friend of mine there -- Mrs. Jonas Blake . ''
`` I 've prevail on Mrs. Thomas Holt to go with me , '' say Miss Cornelia complacently .
`` It 's time she have a little holiday , believe ME .
She have just about work herself to death .
Tom Holt can crochet beautifully , but he ca n't make a living for his family .
He never seem to be able to get up early enough to do any work , but I notice he can always get up early to go fishing .
Is n't that like a man ? ''
Anne smile .
She have learn to discount largely Miss Cornelia 's opinion of the Four Winds men .
Otherwise she must have believe them the most hopeless assortment of reprobate and ne'er - do-wells in the world , with veritable slave and martyr for wife .
This particular Tom Holt , for example , she know to be a kind husband , a much love father , and an excellent neighbor .
If he be rather incline to be lazy , like well the fishing he have be bear for than the farming he have not , and if he have a harmless eccentricity for do fancy work , nobody save Miss Cornelia seem to hold it against him .
His wife be a `` hustler , '' who glory in hustling ; his family get a comfortable living off the farm ; and his strapping son and daughter , inherit their mother 's energy , be all in a fair way to do well in the world .
There be not a happier household in Glen St. Mary than the Holts ' .
Miss Cornelia return satisfied from the house up the brook .
`` Leslie 's go to take him , '' she announce .
`` She jump at the chance .
She want to make a little money to shingle the roof of her house this fall , and she do n't know how she be go to manage it .
I expect Captain Jim 'll be more than interested when he hear that a grandson of the Selwyns ' be come here .
Leslie say to tell you she hanker after cherry pie , but she could n't come to tea because she have to go and hunt up her turkey .
They 've stray away .
But she say , if there be a piece left , for you to put it in the pantry and she 'd run over in the cat 's light , when prowl 's in order , to get it .
You do n't know , Anne , dearie , what good it do my heart to hear Leslie send you a message like that , laugh like she use to long ago .
`` There 's a great change come over her lately .
She laugh and joke like a girl , and from her talk I gather she 's here real often . ''
`` Every day -- or else I 'm over there , '' say Anne .
`` I do n't know what I 'd do without Leslie , especially just now when Gilbert be so busy .
He 's hardly ever home except for a few hour in the wee sma 's .
He 's really work himself to death .
So many of the over-harbor people send for him now . ''
`` They might well be content with their own doctor , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Though to be sure I ca n't blame them , for he 's a Methodist .
Ever since Dr. Blythe bring Mrs. Allonby round folk think he can raise the dead .
I believe Dr. Dave be a mite jealous -- just like a man .
He think Dr. Blythe have too many new-fangled notion !
` Well , ' I say to him , ` it be a new-fangled notion save Rhoda Allonby .
If YOU 'D be attend her she 'd have die , and have a tombstone say it have pleased God to take her away . '
Oh , I DO like to speak my mind to Dr. Dave !
He 's boss the Glen for year , and he think he 's forgotten more than other people ever know .
Speaking of doctor , I wish Dr. Blythe 'd run over and see to that boil on Dick Moore 's neck .
It 's get past Leslie 's skill .
I 'm sure I do n't know what Dick Moore want to start in have boil for -- a if he be n't enough trouble without that ! ''
`` Do you know , Dick have take quite a fancy to me , '' say Anne .
`` He follow me round like a dog , and smile like a pleased child when I notice him . ''
`` Does it make you creepy ? ''
`` Not at all .
I rather like poor Dick Moore .
He seem so pitiful and appeal , somehow . ''
`` You would n't think him very appeal if you 'd see him on his cantankerous day , believe ME .
But I 'm glad you do n't mind him -- it 's all the nicer for Leslie .
She 'll have more to do when her boarder come .
I hope he 'll be a decent creature .
You 'll probably like him -- he 's a writer . ''
`` I wonder why people so commonly suppose that if two individual be both writer they must therefore be hugely congenial , '' say Anne , rather scornfully .
`` Nobody would expect two blacksmith to be violently attract toward each other merely because they be both blacksmith . ''
Nevertheless , she look forward to the advent of Owen Ford with a pleasant sense of expectation .
If he be young and likeable he might prove a very pleasant addition to society in Four Winds .
The latch-string of the little house be always out for the race of Joseph .
CHAPTER 23 OWEN FORD COMES One evening Miss Cornelia telephone down to Anne .
`` The writer man have just arrive here .
I 'm go to drive him down to your place , and you can show him the way over to Leslie 's .
It 's short than drive round by the other road , and I 'm in a mortal hurry .
The Reese baby have go and fall into a pail of hot water at the Glen , and get nearly scald to death and they want me right off -- to put a new skin on the child , I presume .
Mrs. Reese be always so careless , and then expect other people to mend her mistake .
You wo n't mind , will you , dearie ?
His trunk can go down tomorrow . ''
`` Very well , '' say Anne .
`` What be he like , Miss Cornelia ? ''
`` You 'll see what he 's like outside when I take him down .
As for what he 's like inside only the Lord who make him know THAT .
I 'm not go to say another word , for every receiver in the Glen be down . ''
`` Miss Cornelia evidently ca n't find much fault with Mr. Ford 's look , or she would find it in spite of the receiver , '' say Anne .
`` I conclude therefore , Susan , that Mr. Ford be rather handsome than otherwise . ''
`` Well , Mrs . Doctor , dear , I DO enjoy see a well-looking man , '' say Susan candidly .
`` Had I not well get up a snack for him ?
There be a strawberry pie that would melt in your mouth . ''
`` No , Leslie be expect him and have his supper ready .
Besides , I want that strawberry pie for my own poor man .
He wo n't be home till late , so leave the pie and a glass of milk out for him , Susan . ''
`` That I will , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
Susan be at the helm .
After all , it be well to give pie to your own men than to stranger , who may be only seek to devour , and the doctor himself be a well-looking a man a you often come across . ''
When Owen Ford come Anne secretly admit , a Miss Cornelia tow him in , that he be very `` well-looking '' indeed .
He be tall and broad-shouldered , with thick , brown hair , finely-cut nose and chin , large and brilliant dark-gray eye .
`` And do you notice his ear and his teeth , Mrs . Doctor , dear ? ''
query Susan later on .
`` He have get the nicest-shaped ear I ever saw on a man 's head .
I be choice about ear .
When I be young I be scar that I might have to marry a man with ear like flap .
But I need not have worry , for never a chance do I have with any kind of ear . ''
Anne have not notice Owen Ford 's ear , but she do see his teeth , a his lip part over them in a frank and friendly smile .
Unsmiling , his face be rather sad and absent in expression , not unlike the melancholy , inscrutable hero of Anne 's own early dream ; but mirth and humor and charm light it up when he smile .
Certainly , on the outside , a Miss Cornelia say , Owen Ford be a very presentable fellow .
`` You can not realise how delighted I be to be here , Mrs. Blythe , '' he say , look around him with eager , interested eye .
`` I have an odd feeling of coming home .
My mother be bear and spend her childhood here , you know .
She use to talk a great deal to me of her old home .
I know the geography of it as well a of the one I live in , and , of course , she tell me the story of the building of the house , and of my grandfather 's agonised watch for the Royal William .
I have think that so old a house must have vanish year ago , or I should have come to see it before this . ''
`` Old house do n't vanish easily on this enchant coast , '' smile Anne .
`` This be a ` land where all thing always seem the same ' -- nearly always , at least .
John Selwyn 's house have n't even be much change , and outside the rose-bushes your grandfather plant for his bride be bloom this very minute . ''
`` How the thought link me with them !
With your leave I must explore the whole place soon . ''
`` Our latch-string will always be out for you , '' promise Anne .
`` And do you know that the old sea captain who keep the Four Winds light know John Selwyn and his bride well in his boyhood ?
He tell me their story the night I come here -- the third bride of the old house . ''
`` Can it be possible ?
This IS a discovery .
I must hunt him up . ''
`` It wo n't be difficult ; we be all crony of Captain Jim .
He will be as eager to see you a you could be to see him .
Your grandmother shine like a star in his memory .
But I think Mrs. Moore be expect you .
I 'll show you our ` cross-lots ' road . ''
Anne walk with him to the house up the brook , over a field that be as white a snow with daisy .
A boat-load of people be sing far across the harbor .
The sound drift over the water like faint , unearthly music wind-blown across a starlit sea .
The big light flash and beacon .
Owen Ford look around him with satisfaction .
`` And so this be Four Winds , '' he say .
`` I be n't prepared to find it quite so beautiful , in spite of all mother 's praise .
What color -- what scenery -- what charm !
I shall get as strong a a horse in no time .
And if inspiration come from beauty , I should certainly be able to begin my great Canadian novel here . ''
`` You have n't begin it yet ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Alack-a-day , no .
I 've never be able to get the right central idea for it .
It lurk beyond me -- it allure -- and beckons -- and recedes -- I almost grasp it and it be go .
Perhaps amid this peace and loveliness , I shall be able to capture it .
Miss Bryant tell me that you write . ''
`` Oh , I do little thing for child .
I have n't do much since I be marry .
And -- I have no design on a great Canadian novel , '' laugh Anne .
`` That be quite beyond me . ''
Owen Ford laugh too .
`` I dare say it be beyond me a well .
All the same I mean to have a try at it some day , if I can ever get time .
A newspaper man do n't have much chance for that sort of thing .
I 've do a good deal of short story write for the magazine , but I 've never have the leisure that seem to be necessary for the writing of a book .
With three month of liberty I ought to make a start , though -- if I could only get the necessary motif for it -- the SOUL of the book . ''
An idea whisk through Anne 's brain with a suddenness that make her jump .
But she do not utter it , for they have reach the Moore house .
As they enter the yard Leslie come out on the veranda from the side door , peer through the gloom for some sign of her expect guest .
She stand just where the warm yellow light flood her from the open door .
She wear a plain dress of cheap , cream-tinted cotton voile , with the usual girdle of crimson .
Leslie be never without her touch of crimson .
She have tell Anne that she never felt satisfied without a gleam of red somewhere about her , if it be only a flower .
To Anne , it always seem to symbolise Leslie 's glowing , pent-up personality , deny all expression save in that flame glint .
Leslie 's dress be cut a little away at the neck and have short sleeve .
Her arm gleam like ivory-tinted marble .
Every exquisite curve of her form be outline in soft darkness against the light .
Her hair shone in it like flame .
Beyond her be a purple sky , flower with star over the harbor .
Anne hear her companion give a gasp .
Even in the dusk she could see the amazement and admiration on his face .
`` Who be that beautiful creature ? ''
he ask .
`` That be Mrs. Moore , '' say Anne .
`` She be very lovely , be n't she ? ''
`` I -- I never saw anything like her , '' he answer , rather dazedly .
`` I be n't prepared -- I do n't expect -- good heaven , one DOES N'T expect a goddess for a landlady !
Why , if she be clothe in a gown of sea-purple , with a rope of amethyst in her hair , she would be a veritable sea-queen .
And she take in boarder ! ''
`` Even goddess must live , '' say Anne .
`` And Leslie be n't a goddess .
She 's just a very beautiful woman , as human a the rest of u .
Did Miss Bryant tell you about Mr. Moore ? ''
`` Yes , -- he 's mentally deficient , or something of the sort , be n't he ?
But she say nothing about Mrs. Moore , and I suppose she 'd be the usual hustling country housewife who take in boarder to earn an honest penny . ''
`` Well , that 's just what Leslie be do , '' say Anne crisply .
`` And it be n't altogether pleasant for her , either .
I hope you wo n't mind Dick .
If you do , please do n't let Leslie see it .
It would hurt her horribly .
He 's just a big baby , and sometimes a rather annoy one . ''
`` Oh , I wo n't mind him .
I do n't suppose I 'll be much in the house anyhow , except for meal .
But what a shame it all be !
Her life must be a hard one . ''
`` It be .
But she do n't like to be pity . ''
Leslie have go back into the house and now meet them at the front door .
She greet Owen Ford with cold civility , and tell him in a business-like tone that his room and his supper be ready for him .
Dick , with a pleased grin , shamble upstairs with the valise , and Owen Ford be instal a an inmate of the old house among the willow .
CHAPTER 24 THE LIFE-BOOK OF CAPTAIN JIM `` I have a little brown cocoon of an idea that may possibly expand into a magnificent moth of fulfilment , '' Anne tell Gilbert when she reach home .
He have return earlier than she have expect , and be enjoy Susan 's cherry pie .
Susan herself hover in the background , like a rather grim but beneficent guardian spirit , and find as much pleasure in watch Gilbert eat pie a he do in eat it .
`` What be your idea ? ''
he ask .
`` I sha 'n ' t tell you just yet -- not till I see if I can bring the thing about . ''
`` What sort of a chap be Ford ? ''
`` Oh , very nice , and quite good-looking . ''
`` Such beautiful ear , doctor , dear , '' interject Susan with a relish .
`` He be about thirty or thirty-five , I think , and he meditate write a novel .
His voice be pleasant and his smile delightful , and he know how to dress .
He look a if life have n't be altogether easy for him , somehow . ''
Owen Ford come over the next evening with a note to Anne from Leslie ; they spend the sunset time in the garden and then go for a moonlit sail on the harbor , in the little boat Gilbert have set up for summer outing .
They like Owen immensely and have that feeling of have know him for many year which distinguish the freemasonry of the house of Joseph .
`` He be as nice a his ear , Mrs . Doctor , dear , '' say Susan , when he have go .
He have tell Susan that he have never taste anything like her strawberry shortcake and Susan 's susceptible heart be his forever .
`` He have get a way with him , '' she reflect , a she clear up the relic of the supper .
`` It be real queer he be not marry , for a man like that could have anybody for the asking .
Well , maybe he be like me , and have not meet the right one yet . ''
Susan really grow quite romantic in her musing a she wash the supper dish .
Two night later Anne take Owen Ford down to Four Winds Point to introduce him to Captain Jim .
The clover field along the harbor shore be whiten in the western wind , and Captain Jim have one of his fine sunset on exhibition .
He himself have just return from a trip over the harbor .
`` I have to go over and tell Henry Pollack he be die .
Everybody else be afraid to tell him .
They expect he 'd take on turrible , for he 's be dreadful determine to live , and be make no end of plan for the fall .
His wife think he oughter be tell and that I 'd be the best one to break it to him that he could n't get good .
Henry and me be old crony -- we sail in the Gray Gull for year together .
Well , I go over and sit down by Henry 's bed and I say to him , say I , jest right out plain and simple , for if a thing 's get to be tell it may as well be tell first a last , say I , ` Mate , I reckon you 've get your sail order this time , ' I be sorter quake inside , for it 's an awful thing to have to tell a man who hai n't any idea he 's die that he be .
But lo and behold , Mistress Blythe , Henry look up at me , with those bright old black eye of his in his wizened face and say , say he , ` Tell me something I do n't know , Jim Boyd , if you want to give me information .
I 've know THAT for a week . '
I be too astonish to speak , and Henry , he chuckle .
` To see you come in here , ' say he , ` with your face as solemn a a tombstone and sit down there with your hand clasp over your stomach , and pass me out a blue-mouldy old item of news like that !
It 'd make a cat laugh , Jim Boyd , ' say he .
` Who tell you ? '
say I , stupid like .
` Nobody , ' say he . '
A week ago Tuesday night I be lie here awake -- and I jest knew .
I 'd suspicioned it before , but then I KNEW .
I 've be keep up for the wife 's sake .
And I 'd LIKE to have get that barn build , for Eben 'll never get it right .
But anyhow , now that you 've ease your mind , Jim , put on a smile and tell me something interesting , ' Well , there it be .
They 'd be so scared to tell him and he know it all the time .
Strange how nature look out for u , ai n't it , and let u know what we should know when the time come ?
Did I never tell you the yarn about Henry get the fish hook in his nose , Mistress Blythe ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , him and me have a laugh over it today .
It happen nigh unto thirty year ago .
Him and me and several more be out mackerel fish one day .
It be a great day -- never saw such a school of mackerel in the gulf -- and in the general excitement Henry get quite wild and contrive to stick a fish hook clean through one side of his nose .
Well , there he be ; there be barb on one end and a big piece of lead on the other , so it could n't be pull out .
We want to take him ashore at once , but Henry be game ; he say he 'd be jiggered if he 'd leave a school like that for anything short of lockjaw ; then he keep fish away , haul in hand over fist and groaning between time .
Fin ` lly the school pass and we come in with a load ; I get a file and begin to try to file through that hook .
I try to be as easy a I could , but you should have hear Henry -- no , you should n't either .
It be well no lady be around .
Henry be n't a swearing man , but he 'd hear some few matter of that sort along shore in his time , and he fish 'em all out of his recollection and hurl 'em at me .
Fin ` lly he declare he could n't stand it and I have no bowel of compassion .
So we hitch up and I drive him to a doctor in Charlottetown , thirty-five mile -- there be n't none nearer in them day -- with that bless hook still hang from his nose .
When we get there old Dr. Crabb jest take a file and file that hook jest the same a I 'd try to do , only he be n't a mite particular about do it easy ! ''
Captain Jim 's visit to his old friend have revive many recollection and he be now in the full tide of reminiscence .
`` Henry be ask me today if I remember the time old Father Chiniquy bless Alexander MacAllister 's boat .
Another odd yarn -- and true a gospel .
I be in the boat myself .
We go out , him and me , in Alexander MacAllister 's boat one morning at sunrise .
Besides , there be a French boy in the boat -- Catholic of course .
You know old Father Chiniquy have turn Protestant , so the Catholics have n't much use for him .
Well , we sit out in the gulf in the broiling sun till noon , and not a bite do we get .
When we go ashore old Father Chiniquy have to go , so he say in that polite way of his , ` I 'm very sorry I can not go out with you dis afternoon , Mr. MacAllister , but I leave you my blessing .
You will catch a t ` ousand dis afternoon .
` Well , we do not catch a thousand , but we catch exactly nine hundred and ninety-nine -- the big catch for a small boat on the whole north shore that summer .
Curious , be n't it ?
Alexander MacAllister , he say to Andrew Peters , ` Well , and what do you think of Father Chiniquy now ? '
` Vell , ' growl Andrew , ' I t ` ink de old devil have get a blessing left yet . '
Laws , how Henry do laugh over that today ! ''
`` Do you know who Mr. Ford be , Captain Jim ? ''
ask Anne , see that Captain Jim 's fountain of reminiscence have run out for the present .
`` I want you to guess . ''
Captain Jim shake his head .
`` I never be any hand at guessing , Mistress Blythe , and yet somehow when I come in I think , ` Where have I see them eye before ? '
-- for I HAVE see 'em . ''
`` Think of a September morning many year ago , '' say Anne , softly .
`` Think of a ship sail up the harbor -- a ship long wait for and despaired of .
Think of the day the Royal William come in and the first look you have at the schoolmaster 's bride . ''
Captain Jim spring up .
`` They 're Persis Selwyn 's eye , '' he almost shout .
`` You ca n't be her son -- you must be her -- '' `` Grandson ; yes , I be Alice Selwyn 's son . ''
Captain Jim swoop down on Owen Ford and shake his hand over again .
`` Alice Selwyn 's son !
Lord , but you 're welcome !
Many 's the time I 've wonder where the descendant of the schoolmaster be live .
I know there be none on the Island .
Alice -- Alice -- the first baby ever bear in that little house .
No baby ever bring more joy !
I 've dandle her a hundred time .
It be from my knee she take her first step alone .
Ca n't I see her mother 's face watch her -- and it be near sixty year ago .
Is she live yet ? ''
`` No , she die when I be only a boy . ''
`` Oh , it do n't seem right that I should be live to hear that , '' sigh Captain Jim .
`` But I 'm heart-glad to see you .
It 's bring back my youth for a little while .
You do n't know yet what a boon THAT be .
Mistress Blythe here have the trick -- she do it quite often for me . ''
Captain Jim be still more excited when he discover that Owen Ford be what he call a `` real writing man . ''
He gaze at him as at a superior be .
Captain Jim know that Anne write , but he have never take that fact very seriously .
Captain Jim think woman be delightful creature , who ought to have the vote , and everything else they want , bless their heart ; but he do not believe they could write .
`` Jest look at A Mad Love , '' he would protest .
`` A woman write that and jest look at it -- one hundred and three chapter when it could all have be tell in ten .
A write woman never know when to stop ; that 's the trouble .
The p ` int of good writing be to know when to stop . ''
`` Mr. Ford want to hear some of your story , Captain Jim '' say Anne .
`` Tell him the one about the captain who go crazy and imagine he be the Flying Dutchman . ''
This be Captain Jim 's best story .
It be a compound of horror and humor , and though Anne have hear it several time she laugh a heartily and shiver a fearsomely over it a Mr. Ford do .
Other tale follow , for Captain Jim have an audience after his own heart .
He tell how his vessel have be run down by a steamer ; how he have be board by Malay pirate ; how his ship have catch fire ; how he help a political prisoner escape from a South African republic ; how he have be wreck one fall on the Magdalens and strand there for the winter ; how a tiger have break loose on board ship ; how his crew have mutiny and maroon him on a barren island -- these and many other tale , tragic or humorous or grotesque , do Captain Jim relate .
The mystery of the sea , the fascination of far land , the lure of adventure , the laughter of the world -- his hearer felt and realise them all .
Owen Ford listen , with his head on his hand , and the First Mate purring on his knee , his brilliant eye fasten on Captain Jim 's rugged , eloquent face .
`` Wo n't you let Mr. Ford see your life-book , Captain Jim ? ''
ask Anne , when Captain Jim finally declare that yarn-spinning must end for the time .
`` Oh , he do n't want to be bother with THAT , '' protest Captain Jim , who be secretly die to show it .
`` I should like nothing good than to see it , Captain Boyd , '' say Owen .
`` If it be half as wonderful a your tale it will be worth see . ''
With pretended reluctance Captain Jim dig his life-book out of his old chest and hand it to Owen .
`` I reckon you wo n't care to wrastle long with my old hand o ' write .
I never have much schooling , '' he observe carelessly .
`` Just write that there to amuse my nephew Joe .
He 's always wanting story .
Comes here yesterday and say to me , reproachful-like , a I be lift a twenty-pound codfish out of my boat , ` Uncle Jim , ai n't a codfish a dumb animal ? '
I 'd be a-telling him , you see , that he must be real kind to dumb animal , and never hurt 'em in any way .
I get out of the scrape by say a codfish be dumb enough but it be n't an animal , but Joe do n't look satisfied , and I be n't satisfy myself .
You 've get to be mighty careful what you tell them little critter .
THEY can see through you . ''
While talk , Captain Jim watch Owen Ford from the corner of his eye a the latter examine the life-book ; and presently observe that his guest be lose in it page , he turn smilingly to his cupboard and proceed to make a pot of tea .
Owen Ford separate himself from the life-book , with as much reluctance a a miser wrench himself from his gold , long enough to drink his tea , and then return to it hungrily .
`` Oh , you can take that thing home with you if you want to , '' say Captain Jim , a if the `` thing '' be not his most treasured possession .
`` I must go down and pull my boat up a bit on the skid .
There 's a wind come .
Did you notice the sky tonight ?
Mackerel sky and mare ' tail Make tall ship carry short sail . ''
Owen Ford accept the offer of the life-book gladly .
On their way home Anne tell him the story of lose Margaret .
`` That old captain be a wonderful old fellow , '' he say .
`` What a life he have lead !
Why , the man have more adventure in one week of his life than most of u have in a lifetime .
Do you really think his tale be all true ? ''
`` I certainly do .
I be sure Captain Jim could not tell a lie ; and besides , all the people about here say that everything happen a he relate it .
There use to be plenty of his old shipmate alive to corroborate him .
He 's one of the last of the old type of P.E . Island sea-captains .
They be almost extinct now . ''
CHAPTER 25 THE WRITING OF THE BOOK Owen Ford come over to the little house the next morning in a state of great excitement .
`` Mrs. Blythe , this be a wonderful book -- absolutely wonderful .
If I could take it and use the material for a book I feel certain I could make the novel of the year out of it .
Do you suppose Captain Jim would let me do it ? ''
`` Let you !
I 'm sure he would be delight , '' cry Anne .
`` I admit that it be what be in my head when I take you down last night .
Captain Jim have always be wish he could get somebody to write his life-book properly for him . ''
`` Will you go down to the Point with me this evening , Mrs. Blythe ?
I 'll ask him about that life-book myself , but I want you to tell him that you tell me the story of lose Margaret and ask him if he will let me use it a a thread of romance with which to weave the story of the life-book into a harmonious whole . ''
Captain Jim be more excited than ever when Owen Ford tell him of his plan .
At last his cherished dream be to be realize and his `` life-book '' give to the world .
He be also pleased that the story of lose Margaret should be weave into it .
`` It will keep her name from be forget , '' he say wistfully .
`` That 's why I want it put in . ''
`` We 'll collaborate , '' cry Owen delightedly .
`` You will give the soul and I the body .
Oh , we 'll write a famous book between u , Captain Jim .
And we 'll get right to work . ''
`` And to think my book be to be writ by the schoolmaster 's grandson ! ''
exclaim Captain Jim .
`` Lad , your grandfather be my dear friend .
I think there be nobody like him .
I see now why I have to wait so long .
It could n't be writ till the right man come .
You BELONG here -- you 've get the soul of this old north shore in you -- you 're the only one who COULD write it . ''
It be arrange that the tiny room off the living room at the lighthouse should be give over to Owen for a workshop .
It be necessary that Captain Jim should be near him a he write , for consultation upon many matter of sea-faring and gulf lore of which Owen be quite ignorant .
He begin work on the book the very next morning , and flung himself into it heart and soul .
As for Captain Jim , he be a happy man that summer .
He look upon the little room where Owen work a a sacred shrine .
Owen talk everything over with Captain Jim , but he would not let him see the manuscript .
`` You must wait until it be publish , '' he say .
`` Then you 'll get it all at once in it best shape . ''
He delve into the treasure of the life-book and use them freely .
He dream and brood over lose Margaret until she become a vivid reality to him and live in his page .
As the book progress it take possession of him and he work at it with feverish eagerness .
He let Anne and Leslie read the manuscript and criticise it ; and the conclude chapter of the book , which the critic , later on , be pleased to call idyllic , be model upon a suggestion of Leslie 's .
Anne fairly hug herself with delight over the success of her idea .
`` I know when I look at Owen Ford that he be the very man for it , '' she tell Gilbert .
`` Both humor and passion be in his face , and that , together with the art of expression , be just what be necessary for the writing of such a book .
As Mrs. Rachel would say , he be predestine for the part . ''
Owen Ford write in the morning .
The afternoon be generally spend in some merry out with the Blythes .
Leslie often go , too , for Captain Jim take charge of Dick frequently , in order to set her free .
They go boat on the harbor and up the three pretty river that flow into it ; they have clambake on the bar and mussel-bakes on the rock ; they pick strawberry on the sand-dunes ; they go out cod-fishing with Captain Jim ; they shoot plover in the shore field and wild duck in the cove -- at least , the men do .
In the evening they ramble in the low-lying , daisied , shore field under a golden moon , or they sit in the living room at the little house where often the coolness of the sea breeze justify a driftwood fire , and talk of the thousand and one thing which happy , eager , clever young people can find to talk about .
Ever since the day on which she have make her confession to Anne Leslie have be a changed creature .
There be no trace of her old coldness and reserve , no shadow of her old bitterness .
The girlhood of which she have be cheat seem to come back to her with the ripeness of womanhood ; she expand like a flower of flame and perfume ; no laugh be ready than hers , no wit quicker , in the twilight circle of that enchant summer .
When she could not be with them all felt that some exquisite savor be lack in their intercourse .
Her beauty be illumine by the awakened soul within , a some rosy lamp might shine through a flawless vase of alabaster .
There be hour when Anne 's eye seem to ache with the splendor of her .
As for Owen Ford , the `` Margaret '' of his book , although she have the soft brown hair and elfin face of the real girl who have vanish so long ago , `` pillow where lose Atlantis sleep , '' have the personality of Leslie Moore , a it be reveal to him in those halcyon day at Four Winds Harbor .
All in all , it be a never-to-be-forgotten summer -- one of those summer which come seldom into any life , but leave a rich heritage of beautiful memory in their go -- one of those summer which , in a fortunate combination of delightful weather , delightful friend and delightful doings , come a near to perfection a anything can come in this world .
`` Too good to last , '' Anne tell herself with a little sigh , on the September day when a certain nip in the wind and a certain shade of intense blue on the gulf water say that autumn be hard by .
That even Owen Ford tell them that he have finish his book and that his vacation must come to an end .
`` I have a good deal to do to it yet -- revise and pruning and so forth , '' he say , `` but in the main it 's do .
I write the last sentence this morning .
If I can find a publisher for it it will probably be out next summer or fall . ''
Owen have not much doubt that he would find a publisher .
He know that he have write a great book -- a book that would score a wonderful success -- a book that would LIVE .
He know that it would bring him both fame and fortune ; but when he have write the last line of it he have bow his head on the manuscript and so sat for a long time .
And his thought be not of the good work he have do .
CHAPTER 26 OWEN FORD 'S CONFESSION `` I 'm so sorry Gilbert be away , '' say Anne .
`` He have to go -- Allan Lyons at the Glen have meet with a serious accident .
He will not likely be home till very late .
But he tell me to tell you he 'd be up and over early enough in the morning to see you before you leave .
It 's too provoking .
Susan and I have plan such a nice little jamboree for your last night here . ''
She be sit beside the garden brook on the little rustic seat Gilbert have build .
Owen Ford stand before her , lean against the bronze column of a yellow birch .
He be very pale and his face bore the mark of the precede sleepless night .
Anne , glance up at him , wonder if , after all , his summer have bring him the strength it should .
Had he work too hard over his book ?
She remember that for a week he have not be look well .
`` I 'm rather glad the doctor be away , '' say Owen slowly .
`` I want to see you alone , Mrs. Blythe .
There be something I must tell somebody , or I think it will drive me mad .
I 've be try for a week to look it in the face -- and I ca n't .
I know I can trust you -- and , besides , you will understand .
A woman with eye like yours always understands .
You be one of the folk people instinctively tell thing to .
Mrs. Blythe , I love Leslie .
LOVE her !
That seem too weak a word ! ''
His voice suddenly break with the suppressed passion of his utterance .
He turn his head away and hide his face on his arm .
His whole form shook .
Anne sit look at him , pale and aghast .
She have never think of this !
And yet -- how be it she have never think of it ?
It now seem a natural and inevitable thing .
She wonder at her own blindness .
But -- but -- thing like this do not happen in Four Winds .
Elsewhere in the world human passion might set at defiance human convention and law -- but not HERE , surely .
Leslie have keep summer boarder off and on for ten year , and nothing like this have happen .
But perhaps they have not be like Owen Ford ; and the vivid , LIVING Leslie of this summer be not the cold , sullen girl of other year .
Oh , SOMEBODY should have think of this !
Why have n't Miss Cornelia thought of it ?
Miss Cornelia be always ready enough to sound the alarm where men be concern .
Anne felt an unreasonable resentment against Miss Cornelia .
Then she give a little inward groan .
No matter who be to blame the mischief be do .
And Leslie -- what of Leslie ?
It be for Leslie Anne felt most concerned .
`` Does Leslie know this , Mr. Ford ? ''
she ask quietly .
`` No -- no , -- unless she have guess it .
You surely do n't think I 'd be cad and scoundrel enough to tell her , Mrs. Blythe .
I could n't help love her -- that 's all -- and my misery be great than I can bear . ''
`` Does SHE care ? ''
ask Anne .
The moment the question cross her lip she felt that she should not have ask it .
Owen Ford answer it with overeager protest .
`` No -- no , of course not .
But I could make her care if she be free -- I know I could . ''
`` She do care -- and he know it , '' think Anne .
Aloud she say , sympathetically but decidedly : `` But she be not free , Mr. Ford .
And the only thing you can do be to go away in silence and leave her to her own life . ''
`` I know -- I know , '' groan Owen .
He sit down on the grassy bank and star moodily into the amber water beneath him .
`` I know there 's nothing to do -- nothing but to say conventionally , ` Good-bye , Mrs. Moore .
Thank you for all your kindness to me this summer , ' just a I would have say it to the sonsy , bustling , keen-eyed housewife I expect her to be when I come .
Then I 'll pay my board money like any honest boarder and go !
Oh , it 's very simple .
No doubt -- no perplexity -- a straight road to the end of the world !
`` And I 'll walk it -- you need n't fear that I wo n't , Mrs. Blythe .
But it would be easy to walk over red-hot ploughshare . ''
Anne flinch with the pain of his voice .
And there be so little she could say that would be adequate to the situation .
Blame be out of the question -- advice be not need -- sympathy be mock by the man 's stark agony .
She could only feel with him in a maze of compassion and regret .
Her heart ache for Leslie !
Had not that poor girl suffer enough without this ?
`` It would n't be so hard to go and leave her if she be only happy , '' resume Owen passionately .
`` But to think of her live death -- to realise what it be to which I do leave her !
THAT be the bad of all .
I would give my life to make her happy -- and I can do nothing even to help her -- nothing .
She be bind forever to that poor wretch -- with nothing to look forward to but grow old in a succession of empty , meaningless , barren year .
It drive me mad to think of it .
But I must go through my life , never see her , but always know what she be endure .
It 's hideous -- hideous ! ''
`` It be very hard , '' say Anne sorrowfully .
`` We -- her friend here -- all know how hard it be for her . ''
`` And she be so richly fit for life , '' say Owen rebelliously .
`` Her beauty be the least of her dower -- and she be the most beautiful woman I 've ever know .
That laugh of hers !
I 've angle all summer to evoke that laugh , just for the delight of hear it .
And her eye -- they be a deep and blue a the gulf out there .
I never saw such blueness -- and gold !
Did you ever see her hair down , Mrs. Blythe ? ''
`` No . ''
`` I do -- once .
I have go down to the Point to go fishing with Captain Jim but it be too rough to go out , so I come back .
She have take the opportunity of what she expect to be an afternoon alone to wash her hair , and she be stand on the veranda in the sunshine to dry it .
It fell all about her to her foot in a fountain of living gold .
When she saw me she hurry in , and the wind catch her hair and swirl it all around her -- Danae in her cloud .
Somehow , just then the knowledge that I love her come home to me -- and realise that I have love her from the moment I first saw her stand against the darkness in that glow of light .
And she must live on here -- pet and soothe Dick , pinch and save for a mere existence , while I spend my life long vainly for her , and debar , by that very fact , from even give her the little help a friend might .
I walk the shore last night , almost till dawn , and thrash it all out over and over again .
And yet , in spite of everything , I ca n't find it in my heart to be sorry that I come to Four Winds .
It seem to me that , bad a everything be , it would be still bad never to have know Leslie .
It 's burning , sear pain to love her and leave her -- but not to have love her be unthinkable .
I suppose all this sound very crazy -- all these terrible emotion always do sound foolish when we put them into our inadequate word .
They be not mean to be speak -- only felt and endure .
I should n't have speak -- but it have help -- some .
At least , it have give me strength to go away respectably tomorrow morning , without make a scene .
You 'll write me now and then , wo n't you , Mrs. Blythe , and give me what news there be to give of her ? ''
`` Yes , '' say Anne .
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry you be go -- we 'll miss you so -- we 've all be such friend !
If it be not for this you could come back other summer .
Perhaps , even yet -- by-and-by -- when you 've forget , perhaps -- '' `` I shall never forget -- and I shall never come back to Four Winds , '' say Owen briefly .
Silence and twilight fell over the garden .
Far away the sea be lap gently and monotonously on the bar .
The wind of even in the poplar sound like some sad , weird , old rune -- some broken dream of old memory .
A slender shapely young aspen rise up before them against the fine maize and emerald and pal rise of the western sky , which bring out every leaf and twig in dark , tremulous , elfin loveliness .
`` Is n't that beautiful ? ''
say Owen , point to it with the air of a man who put a certain conversation behind him .
`` It 's so beautiful that it hurt me , '' say Anne softly .
`` Perfect thing like that always do hurt me -- I remember I call it ` the queer ache ' when I be a child .
What be the reason that pain like this seem inseparable from perfection ?
Is it the pain of finality -- when we realise that there can be nothing beyond but retrogression ? ''
`` Perhaps , '' say Owen dreamily , `` it be the prisoned infinite in u call out to it kindred infinite a express in that visible perfection . ''
`` You seem to have a cold in the head .
Better rub some tallow on your nose when you go to bed , '' say Miss Cornelia , who have come in through the little gate between the fir in time to catch Owen 's last remark .
Miss Cornelia like Owen ; but it be a matter of principle with her to visit any `` high-falutin '' language from a man with a snub .
Miss Cornelia personate the comedy that ever peep around the corner at the tragedy of life .
Anne , whose nerve have be rather strain , laugh hysterically , and even Owen smile .
Certainly , sentiment and passion have a way of shrink out of sight in Miss Cornelia 's presence .
And yet to Anne nothing seem quite a hopeless and dark and painful a it have seem a few moment before .
But sleep be far from her eye that night .
CHAPTER 27 ON THE SAND BAR Owen Ford leave Four Winds the next morning .
In the evening Anne go over to see Leslie , but find nobody .
The house be lock and there be no light in any window .
It look like a home left soulless .
Leslie do not run over on the following day -- which Anne think a bad sign .
Gilbert have occasion to go in the evening to the fishing cove , Anne drive with him to the Point , intend to stay awhile with Captain Jim .
But the great light , cut it swathe through the fog of the autumn evening , be in care of Alec Boyd and Captain Jim be away .
`` What will you do ? ''
ask Gilbert .
`` Come with me ? ''
`` I do n't want to go to the cove -- but I 'll go over the channel with you , and roam about on the sand shore till you come back .
The rock shore be too slippery and grim tonight . ''
Alone on the sand of the bar Anne give herself up to the eerie charm of the night .
It be warm for September , and the late afternoon have be very foggy ; but a full moon have in part lessen the fog and transform the harbor and the gulf and the surrounding shore into a strange , fantastic , unreal world of pale silver mist , through which everything loom phantom-like .
Captain Josiah Crawford 's black schooner sail down the channel , laden with potato for Bluenose port , be a spectral ship bound for a far uncharted land , ever recede , never to be reach .
The call of unseen gull overhead be the cry of the soul of doomed seaman .
The little curl of foam that blow across the sand be elfin thing steal up from the sea-caves .
The big , round-shouldered sand-dunes be the sleeping giant of some old northern tale .
The light that glimmer palely across the harbor be the delusive beacon on some coast of fairyland .
Anne please herself with a hundred fancy a she wander through the mist .
It be delightful -- romantic -- mysterious to be roam here alone on this enchant shore .
But be she alone ?
Something loom in the mist before her -- take shape and form -- suddenly move towards her across the wave-rippled sand .
`` Leslie ! ''
exclaim Anne in amazement .
`` Whatever be you do -- HERE -- tonight ? ''
`` If it come to that , whatever be YOU do here ? ''
say Leslie , try to laugh .
The effort be a failure .
She look very pale and tired ; but the love lock under her scarlet cap be curl about her face and eye like little sparkling ring of gold .
`` I 'm wait for Gilbert -- he 's over at the Cove .
I intend to stay at the light , but Captain Jim be away . ''
`` Well , I come here because I want to walk -- and walk -- and WALK , '' say Leslie restlessly .
`` I could n't on the rock shore -- the tide be too high and the rock prisoned me .
I have to come here -- or I should have go mad , I think .
I row myself over the channel in Captain Jim 's flat .
I 've be here for an hour .
Come -- come -- let u walk .
I ca n't stand still .
Oh , Anne ! ''
`` Leslie , dear , what be the trouble ? ''
ask Anne , though she know too well already .
`` I ca n't tell you -- do n't ask me .
I would n't mind your knowing -- I wish you do know -- but I ca n't tell you -- I ca n't tell anyone .
I 've be such a fool , Anne -- and oh , it hurt so terribly to be a fool .
There 's nothing so painful in the world . ''
She laugh bitterly .
Anne slip her arm around her .
`` Leslie , be it that you have learn to care for Mr. Ford ? ''
Leslie turn herself about passionately .
`` How do you know ? ''
she cry .
`` Anne , how do you know ?
Oh , be it write in my face for everyone to see ?
Is it as plain a that ? ''
`` No , no .
I -- I ca n't tell you how I know .
It just come into my mind , somehow .
Leslie , do n't look at me like that ! ''
`` Do you despise me ? ''
demand Leslie in a fierce , low tone .
`` Do you think I 'm wicked -- unwomanly ?
Or do you think I 'm just plain fool ? ''
`` I do n't think you any of those thing .
Come , dear , let 's just talk it over sensibly , a we might talk over any other of the great crisis of life .
You 've be brood over it and let yourself drift into a morbid view of it .
You know you have a little tendency to do that about everything that go wrong , and you promise me that you would fight against it . ''
`` But -- oh , it 's so -- so shameful , '' murmur Leslie .
`` To love him -- unsought -- and when I 'm not free to love anybody . ''
`` There 's nothing shameful about it .
But I 'm very sorry that you have learn to care for Owen , because , a thing be , it will only make you more unhappy . ''
`` I do n't LEARN to care , '' say Leslie , walk on and speak passionately .
`` If it have be like that I could have prevent it .
I never dream of such a thing until that day , a week ago , when he tell me he have finish his book and must soon go away .
Then -- then I know .
I felt a if someone have strike me a terrible blow .
I do n't say anything -- I could n't speak -- but I do n't know what I look like .
I 'm so afraid my face betray me .
Oh , I would die of shame if I think he know -- or suspect . ''
Anne be miserably silent , hamper by her deduction from her conversation with Owen .
Leslie go on feverishly , a if she find relief in speech .
`` I be so happy all this summer , Anne -- happy than I ever be in my life .
I think it be because everything have be make clear between you and me , and that it be our friendship which make life seem so beautiful and full once more .
And it WAS , in part -- but not all -- oh , not nearly all .
I know now why everything be so different .
And now it 's all over -- and he have go .
How can I live , Anne ?
When I turn back into the house this morning after he have go the solitude strike me like a blow in the face . ''
`` It wo n't seem so hard by and by , dear , '' say Anne , who always felt the pain of her friend so keenly that she could not speak easy , fluent word of comforting .
Besides , she remember how well-meant speech have hurt her in her own sorrow and be afraid .
`` Oh , it seem to me it will grow hard all the time , '' say Leslie miserably .
`` I 've nothing to look forward to .
Morning will come after morning -- and he will not come back -- he will never come back .
Oh , when I think that I will never see him again I feel a if a great brutal hand have twist itself among my heartstrings , and be wrench them .
Once , long ago , I dream of love -- and I think it must be beautiful -- and NOW -- it like THIS .
When he go away yesterday morning he be so cold and indifferent .
He say ` Good-bye , Mrs. Moore ' in the cold tone in the world -- a if we have not even be friend -- a if I mean absolutely nothing to him .
I know I do n't -- I do n't want him to care -- but he MIGHT have be a little kinder . ''
`` Oh , I wish Gilbert would come , '' think Anne .
She be rack between her sympathy for Leslie and the necessity of avoid anything that would betray Owen 's confidence .
She know why his good-bye have be so cold -- why it could not have the cordiality that their good-comradeship demand -- but she could not tell Leslie .
`` I could n't help it , Anne -- I could n't help it , '' say poor Leslie .
`` I know that . ''
`` Do you blame me so very much ? ''
`` I do n't blame you at all . ''
`` And you wo n't -- you wo n't tell Gilbert ? ''
`` Leslie !
Do you think I would do such a thing ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know -- you and Gilbert be such CHUMS .
I do n't see how you could help tell him everything . ''
`` Everything about my own concern -- yes .
But not my friend ' secret . ''
`` I could n't have HIM know .
But I 'm glad YOU know .
I would feel guilty if there be anything I be ashamed to tell you .
I hope Miss Cornelia wo n't find out .
Sometimes I feel a if those terrible , kind brown eye of hers read my very soul .
Oh , I wish this mist would never lift -- I wish I could just stay in it forever , hide away from every living be .
I do n't see how I can go on with life .
This summer have be so full .
I never be lonely for a moment .
Before Owen come there use to be horrible moment -- when I have be with you and Gilbert -- and then have to leave you .
You two would walk away together and I would walk away ALONE .
After Owen come he be always there to walk home with me -- we would laugh and talk a you and Gilbert be do -- there be no more lonely , envious moment for me .
And NOW !
Oh , yes , I 've be a fool .
Let 's have do talk about my folly .
I 'll never bore you with it again . ''
`` Here be Gilbert , and you be come back with u , '' say Anne , who have no intention of leave Leslie to wander alone on the sand-bar on such a night and in such a mood .
`` There 's plenty of room in our boat for three , and we 'll tie the flat on behind . ''
`` Oh , I suppose I must reconcile myself to be the odd one again , '' say poor Leslie with another bitter laugh .
`` Forgive me , Anne -- that be hateful .
I ought to be thankful -- and I AM -- that I have two good friend who be glad to count me in a a third .
Do n't mind my hateful speech .
I just seem to be one great pain all over and everything hurt me . ''
`` Leslie seem very quiet tonight , do n't she ? ''
say Gilbert , when he and Anne reach home .
`` What in the world be she do over there on the bar alone ? ''
`` Oh , she be tire -- and you know she like to go to the shore after one of Dick 's bad day . ''
`` What a pity she have n't meet and marry a fellow like Ford long ago , '' ruminate Gilbert .
`` They 'd have make an ideal couple , would n't they ? ''
`` For pity 's sake , Gilbert , do n't develop into a match-maker .
It 's an abominable profession for a man , '' cry Anne rather sharply , afraid that Gilbert might blunder on the truth if he keep on in this strain .
`` Bless u , Anne-girl , I 'm not matchmaking , '' protest Gilbert , rather surprise at her tone .
`` I be only think of one of the might-have-been . ''
`` Well , do n't .
It 's a waste of time , '' say Anne .
Then she add suddenly : `` Oh , Gilbert , I wish everybody could be as happy a we be . ''
CHAPTER 28 ODDS AND ENDS `` I 've be read obituary notice , '' say Miss Cornelia , lay down the Daily Enterprise and take up her sewing .
The harbor be lie black and sullen under a dour November sky ; the wet , dead leaf cling drench and sodden to the window sill ; but the little house be gay with firelight and spring-like with Anne 's fern and geranium .
`` It 's always summer here , Anne , '' Leslie have say one day ; and all who be the guest of that house of dream felt the same .
`` The Enterprise seem to run to obituaries these day , '' quoth Miss Cornelia .
`` It always have a couple of column of them , and I read every line .
It 's one of my form of recreation , especially when there 's some original poetry attach to them .
Here 's a choice sample for you : She 's go to be with her Maker , Never more to roam .
She use to play and sing with joy The song of Home , Sweet Home .
Who say we have n't any poetical talent on the Island !
Have you ever notice what heap of good people die , Anne , dearie ?
It 's kind of pitiful .
Here 's ten obituary , and every one of them saint and model , even the men .
Here 's old Peter Stimson , who have ` leave a large circle of friend to mourn his untimely loss . '
Lord , Anne , dearie , that man be eighty , and everybody who know him have be wish him dead these thirty year .
Read obituary when you 're blue , Anne , dearie -- especially the one of folk you know .
If you 've any sense of humor at all they 'll cheer you up , believe ME .
I just wish I have the writing of the obituary of some people .
Is n't ` obituary ' an awful ugly word ?
This very Peter I 've be speak of have a face exactly like one .
I never saw it but I think of the word OBITUARY then and there .
There 's only one ugly word that I know of , and that 's RELICT .
Lord , Anne , dearie , I may be an old maid , but there 's this comfort in it -- I 'll never be any man 's ` relict . ' ''
`` It IS an ugly word , '' say Anne , laugh .
`` Avonlea graveyard be full of old tombstone ` sacred to the memory of So-and-So , RELICT of the late So-and-So . '
It always make me think of something wear out and moth eaten .
Why be it that so many of the word connect with death be so disagreeable ?
I do wish that the custom of call a dead body ` the remains ' could be abolish .
I positively shiver when I hear the undertaker say at a funeral , ` All who wish to see the remains please step this way . '
It always give me the horrible impression that I be about to view the scene of a cannibal feast . ''
`` Well , all I hope , '' say Miss Cornelia calmly , `` be that when I 'm dead nobody will call me ` our departed sister . '
I take a scunner at this sister-and-brothering business five year ago when there be a travelling evangelist hold meeting at the Glen .
I have n't any use for him from the start .
I felt in my bone that there be something wrong with him .
And there be .
Mind you , he be pretend to be a Presbyterian -- PresbyTARian , HE call it -- and all the time he be a Methodist .
He brothered and sistered everybody .
He have a large circle of relation , that man have .
He clutch my hand fervently one night , and say imploringly , ` My DEAR sister Bryant , be you a Christian ? '
I just look him over a bit , and then I say calmly , ` The only brother I ever have , MR. Fiske , be bury fifteen year ago , and I have n't adopt any since .
As for be a Christian , I be that , I hope and believe , when you be crawl about the floor in petticoat . '
THAT squelch him , believe ME .
Mind you , Anne dearie , I 'm not down on all evangelist .
We 've have some real fine , earnest men , who do a lot of good and make the old sinner squirm .
But this Fiske-man be n't one of them .
I have a good laugh all to myself one evening .
Fiske have ask all who be Christians to stand up .
I do n't , believe me !
I never have any use for that sort of thing .
But most of them do , and then he ask all who want to be Christians to stand up .
Nobody stir for a spell , so Fiske start up a hymn at the top of his voice .
Just in front of me poor little Ikey Baker be sit in the Millison pew .
He be a home boy , ten year old , and Millison just about work him to death .
The poor little creature be always so tired he fell asleep right off whenever he go to church or anywhere he could sit still for a few minute .
He 'd be sleep all through the meeting , and I be thankful to see the poor child get a rest , believe ME .
Well , when Fiske 's voice go soar skyward and the rest join in , poor Ikey waken with a start .
He think it be just an ordinary singing and that everybody ought to stand up , so he scramble to his foot mighty quick , know he 'd get a comb down from Maria Millison for sleep in meeting .
Fiske saw him , stop and shout , ` Another soul save !
Glory Hallelujah ! '
And there be poor , frighten Ikey , only half awake and yawning , never think about his soul at all .
Poor child , he never have time to think of anything but his tired , overwork little body .
`` Leslie go one night and the Fiske-man get right after her -- oh , he be especially anxious about the soul of the nice-looking girl , believe me !
-- and he hurt her feeling so she never go again .
And then he pray every night after that , right in public , that the Lord would soften her hard heart .
Finally I go to Mr. Leavitt , our minister then , and tell him if he do n't make Fiske stop that I 'd just rise up the next night and throw my hymn book at him when he mention that ` beautiful but unrepentant young woman . '
I 'd have do it too , believe ME .
Mr. Leavitt do put a stop to it , but Fiske keep on with his meeting until Charley Douglas put an end to his career in the Glen .
Mrs. Charley have be out in California all winter .
She 'd be real melancholy in the fall -- religious melancholy -- it run in her family .
Her father worry so much over believe that he have commit the unpardonable sin that he die in the asylum .
So when Rose Douglas get that way Charley pack her off to visit her sister in Los Angeles .
She get perfectly well and come home just when the Fiske revival be in full swing .
She step off the train at the Glen , real smiling and chipper , and the first thing she saw star her in the face on the black , gable-end of the freight shed , be the question , in big white letter , two foot high , ` Whither go thou -- to heaven or hell ? '
That have be one of Fiske 's idea , and he have get Henry Hammond to paint it .
Rose just give a shriek and faint ; and when they get her home she be bad than ever .
Charley Douglas go to Mr. Leavitt and tell him that every Douglas would leave the church if Fiske be keep there any long .
Mr. Leavitt have to give in , for the Douglases pay half his salary , so Fiske depart , and we have to depend on our Bibles once more for instruction on how to get to heaven .
After he be go Mr. Leavitt find out he be just a masquerading Methodist , and he felt pretty sick , believe ME .
Mr. Leavitt fell short in some way , but he be a good , sound Presbyterian . ''
`` By the way , I have a letter from Mr. Ford yesterday , '' say Anne .
`` He ask me to remember him kindly to you . ''
`` I do n't want his remembrance , '' say Miss Cornelia , curtly .
`` Why ? ''
say Anne , in astonishment .
`` I think you like him . ''
`` Well , so I do , in a kind of way .
But I 'll never forgive him for what he do to Leslie .
There 's that poor child eat her heart out about him -- a if she have n't have trouble enough -- and him rant round Toronto , I 've no doubt , enjoy himself same a ever .
Just like a man . ''
`` Oh , Miss Cornelia , how do you find out ? ''
`` Lord , Anne , dearie , I 've get eye , have n't I ?
And I 've know Leslie since she be a baby .
There 's be a new kind of heartbreak in her eye all the fall , and I know that writer-man be behind it somehow .
I 'll never forgive myself for be the mean of bring him here .
But I never expect he 'd be like he be .
I think he 'd just be like the other men Leslie have board -- conceited young ass , every one of them , that she never have any use for .
One of them do try to flirt with her once and she freeze him out -- so bad , I feel sure he 's never get himself thaw since .
So I never think of any danger . ''
`` Do n't let Leslie suspect you know her secret , '' say Anne hurriedly .
`` I think it would hurt her . ''
`` Trust me , Anne , dearie .
I be n't bear yesterday .
Oh , a plague on all the men !
One of them ruin Leslie 's life to begin with , and now another of the tribe come and make her still more wretched .
Anne , this world be an awful place , believe me . ''
`` There 's something in the world amiss Will be unriddled by and by , '' quote Anne dreamily .
`` If it be , it 'll be in a world where there be n't any men , '' say Miss Cornelia gloomily .
`` What have the men be do now ? ''
ask Gilbert , enter .
`` Mischief -- mischief !
What else do they ever do ? ''
`` It be Eve ate the apple , Miss Cornelia . '' ''
'T be a he-creature tempt her , '' retort Miss Cornelia triumphantly .
Leslie , after her first anguish be over , find it possible to go on with life after all , a most of u do , no matter what our particular form of torment have be .
It be even possible that she enjoy moment of it , when she be one of the gay circle in the little house of dream .
But if Anne ever hop that she be forget Owen Ford she would have be undeceive by the furtive hunger in Leslie 's eye whenever his name be mention .
Pitiful to that hunger , Anne always contrive to tell Captain Jim or Gilbert bit of news from Owen 's letter when Leslie be with them .
The girl 's flush and pallor at such moment speak all too eloquently of the emotion that fill her be .
But she never speak of him to Anne , or mention that night on the sand-bar .
One day her old dog die and she grieve bitterly over him .
`` He 's be my friend so long , '' she say sorrowfully to Anne .
`` He be Dick 's old dog , you know -- Dick have him for a year or so before we be marry .
He leave him with me when he sail on the Four Sisters .
Carlo get very fond of me -- and his dog-love help me through that first dreadful year after mother die , when I be alone .
When I hear that Dick be come back I be afraid Carlo would n't be so much mine .
But he never seem to care for Dick , though he have be so fond of him once .
He would snap and growl at him a if he be a stranger .
I be glad .
It be nice to have one thing whose love be all mine .
That old dog have be such a comfort to me , Anne .
He get so feeble in the fall that I be afraid he could n't live long -- but I hop I could nurse him through the winter .
He seem pretty well this morning .
He be lie on the rug before the fire ; then , all at once , he get up and creep over to me ; he put his head on my lap and give me one love look out of his big , soft , dog eye -- and then he just shiver and die .
I shall miss him so . ''
`` Let me give you another dog , Leslie , '' say Anne .
`` I 'm get a lovely Gordon setter for a Christmas present for Gilbert .
Let me give you one too . ''
Leslie shake her head .
`` Not just now , thank you , Anne .
I do n't feel like have another dog yet .
I do n't seem to have any affection leave for another .
Perhaps -- in time -- I 'll let you give me one .
I really need one a a kind of protection .
But there be something almost human about Carlo -- it would n't be DECENT to fill his place too hurriedly , dear old fellow . ''
Anne go to Avonlea a week before Christmas and stay until after the holiday .
Gilbert come up for her , and there be a glad New Year celebration at Green Gables , when Barrys and Blythes and Wrights assemble to devour a dinner which have cost Mrs. Rachel and Marilla much careful thought and preparation .
When they go back to Four Winds the little house be almost drift over , for the third storm of a winter that be to prove phenomenally stormy have whirl up the harbor and heap huge snow mountains about everything it encounter .
But Captain Jim have shovel out door and path , and Miss Cornelia have come down and kindle the hearth-fire .
`` It 's good to see you back , Anne , dearie !
But do you ever see such drift ?
You ca n't see the Moore place at all unless you go upstairs .
Leslie 'll be so glad you 're back .
She 's almost bury alive over there .
Fortunately Dick can shovel snow , and think it 's great fun .
Susan send me word to tell you she would be on hand tomorrow .
Where be you off to now , Captain ? ''
`` I reckon I 'll plough up to the Glen and sit a bit with old Martin Strong .
He 's not far from his end and he 's lonesome .
He have n't many friend -- be too busy all his life to make any .
He 's make heap of money , though . ''
`` Well , he think that since he could n't serve God and Mammon he 'd better stick to Mammon , '' say Miss Cornelia crisply .
`` So he should n't complain if he do n't find Mammon very good company now . ''
Captain Jim go out , but remember something in the yard and turn back for a moment .
`` I 'd a letter from Mr. Ford , Mistress Blythe , and he say the life-book be accept and be go to be publish next fall .
I felt fair uplifted when I get the news .
To think that I 'm to see it in print at last . ''
`` That man be clean crazy on the subject of his life-book , '' say Miss Cornelia compassionately .
`` For my part , I think there 's far too many book in the world now . ''
CHAPTER 29 GILBERT AND ANNE DISAGREE Gilbert lay down the ponderous medical tome over which he have be pore until the increase dusk of the March evening make him desist .
He lean back in his chair and gaze meditatively out of the window .
It be early spring -- probably the ugly time of the year .
Not even the sunset could redeem the dead , sodden landscape and rotten black harbor ice upon which he look .
No sign of life be visible , save a big black crow wing his solitary way across a leaden field .
Gilbert speculate idly concern that crow .
Was he a family crow , with a black but comely crow wife await him in the wood beyond the Glen ?
Or be he a glossy young buck of a crow on court thought intent ?
Or be he a cynical bachelor crow , believe that he travel the fast who travel alone ?
Whatever he be , he soon disappear in congenial gloom and Gilbert turn to the cheery view indoors .
The firelight flicker from point to point , gleam on the white and green coat of Gog and Magog , on the sleek , brown head of the beautiful setter bask on the rug , on the picture frame on the wall , on the vaseful of daffodil from the window garden , on Anne herself , sit by her little table , with her sew beside her and her hand clasp over her knee while she trace out picture in the fire -- Castles in Spain whose airy turret pierce moonlit cloud and sunset bar-ships sail from the Haven of Good Hopes straight to Four Winds Harbor with precious burthen .
For Anne be again a dreamer of dream , albeit a grim shape of fear go with her night and day to shadow and darken her vision .
Gilbert be accustom to refer to himself a `` an old married man . ''
But he still look upon Anne with the incredulous eye of a lover .
He could n't wholly believe yet that she be really his .
It MIGHT be only a dream after all , part and parcel of this magic house of dream .
His soul still go on tip-toe before her , lest the charm be shatter and the dream dispel .
`` Anne , '' he say slowly , `` lend me your ear .
I want to talk with you about something . ''
Anne look across at him through the fire-lit gloom .
`` What be it ? ''
she ask gaily .
`` You look fearfully solemn , Gilbert .
I really have n't do anything naughty today .
Ask Susan . ''
`` It 's not of you -- or ourselves -- I want to talk .
It 's about Dick Moore . ''
`` Dick Moore ? ''
echoed Anne , sit up alertly .
`` Why , what in the world have you to say about Dick Moore ? ''
`` I 've be think a great deal about him lately .
Do you remember that time last summer I treat him for those carbuncle on his neck ? ''
`` Yes -- yes . ''
`` I take the opportunity to examine the scar on his head thoroughly .
I 've always think Dick be a very interesting case from a medical point of view .
Lately I 've be study the history of trephining and the case where it have be employ .
Anne , I have come to the conclusion that if Dick Moore be take to a good hospital and the operation of trephine perform on several place in his skull , his memory and faculty might be restore . ''
`` Gilbert ! ''
Anne 's voice be full of protest .
`` Surely you do n't mean it ! ''
`` I do , indeed .
And I have decide that it be my duty to broach the subject to Leslie . ''
`` Gilbert Blythe , you shall NOT do any such thing , '' cry Anne vehemently .
`` Oh , Gilbert , you wo n't -- you wo n't .
You could n't be so cruel .
Promise me you wo n't . ''
`` Why , Anne-girl , I do n't suppose you would take it like this .
Be reasonable -- '' `` I wo n't be reasonable -- I ca n't be reasonable -- I AM reasonable .
It be you who be unreasonable .
Gilbert , have you ever once think what it would mean for Leslie if Dick Moore be to be restore to his right sens ?
Just stop and think !
She 's unhappy enough now ; but life a Dick 's nurse and attendant be a thousand time easier for her than life a Dick 's wife .
I know -- I KNOW !
It 's unthinkable .
Do n't you meddle with the matter .
Leave well enough alone . ''
`` I HAVE think over that aspect of the case thoroughly , Anne .
But I believe that a doctor be bind to set the sanctity of a patient 's mind and body above all other consideration , no matter what the consequence may be .
I believe it his duty to endeavor to restore health and sanity , if there be any hope whatever of it . ''
`` But Dick be n't your patient in that respect , '' cry Anne , take another tack .
`` If Leslie have ask you if anything could be do for him , THEN it might be your duty to tell her what you really think .
But you 've no right to meddle . ''
`` I do n't call it meddle .
Uncle Dave tell Leslie twelve year ago that nothing could be do for Dick .
She believe that , of course . ''
`` And why do Uncle Dave tell her that , if it be n't true ? ''
cry Anne , triumphantly .
`` Does n't he know a much about it a you ? ''
`` I think not -- though it may sound conceited and presumptuous to say it .
And you know as well a I that he be rather prejudice against what he call ` these new-fangled notion of cut and carve . '
He 's even oppose to operate for appendicitis . ''
`` He 's right , '' exclaim Anne , with a complete change of front . '
I believe myself that you modern doctor be entirely too fond of make experiment with human flesh and blood . ''
`` Rhoda Allonby would not be a living woman today if I have be afraid of make a certain experiment , '' argue Gilbert .
`` I take the risk -- and save her life . ''
`` I 'm sick and tired of hear about Rhoda Allonby , '' cry Anne -- most unjustly , for Gilbert have never mention Mrs. Allonby 's name since the day he have tell Anne of his success in regard to her .
And he could not be blame for other people 's discussion of it .
Gilbert felt rather hurt .
`` I have not expect you to look at the matter a you do , Anne , '' he say a little stiffly , get up and move towards the office door .
It be their first approach to a quarrel .
But Anne fly after him and drag him back .
`` Now , Gilbert , you be not ` go off mad . '
Sit down here and I 'll apologise bee-YEW-ti-fully , I should n't have say that .
But -- oh , if you know -- '' Anne check herself just in time .
She have be on the very verge of betray Leslie 's secret .
`` Knew what a woman feel about it , '' she conclude lamely .
`` I think I do know .
I 've look at the matter from every point of view -- and I 've be drive to the conclusion that it be my duty to tell Leslie that I believe it be possible that Dick can be restore to himself ; there my responsibility end .
It will be for her to decide what she will do . ''
`` I do n't think you 've any right to put such a responsibility on her .
She have enough to bear .
She be poor -- how could she afford such an operation ? ''
`` That be for her to decide , '' persist Gilbert stubbornly .
`` You say you think that Dick can be cure .
But be you SURE of it ? ''
`` Certainly not .
Nobody could be sure of such a thing .
There may have be lesion of the brain itself , the effect of which can never be remove .
But if , a I believe , his loss of memory and other faculty be due merely to the pressure on the brain center of certain depressed area of bone , then he can be cure . ''
`` But it 's only a possibility ! ''
insist Anne .
`` Now , suppose you tell Leslie and she decide to have the operation .
It will cost a great deal .
She will have to borrow the money , or sell her little property .
And suppose the operation be a failure and Dick remain the same .
`` How will she be able to pay back the money she borrow , or make a living for herself and that big helpless creature if she sell the farm ? ''
`` Oh , I know -- I know .
But it be my duty to tell her .
I ca n't get away from that conviction . ''
`` Oh , I know the Blythe stubbornness , '' groan Anne .
`` But do n't do this solely on your own responsibility .
Consult Doctor Dave . ''
`` I HAVE do so , '' say Gilbert reluctantly .
`` And what do he say ? ''
`` In brief -- a you say -- leave well enough alone .
Apart from his prejudice against new-fangled surgery , I 'm afraid he look at the case from your point of view -- do n't do it , for Leslie 's sake . ''
`` There now , '' cry Anne triumphantly .
`` I do think , Gilbert , that you ought to abide by the judgment of a man nearly eighty , who have see a great deal and save score of life himself -- surely his opinion ought to weigh more than a mere boy 's . ''
`` Thank you . ''
`` Do n't laugh .
It 's too serious . ''
`` That 's just my point .
It IS serious .
Here be a man who be a helpless burden .
He may be restore to reason and usefulness -- '' `` He be so very useful before , '' interject Anne witheringly .
`` He may be give a chance to make good and redeem the past .
His wife do n't know this .
I do .
It be therefore my duty to tell her that there be such a possibility .
That , boil down , be my decision . ''
`` Do n't say ` decision ' yet , Gilbert .
Consult somebody else .
Ask Captain Jim what he think about it . ''
`` Very well .
But I 'll not promise to abide by his opinion , Anne .
`` This be something a man must decide for himself .
My conscience would never be easy if I keep silent on the subject . ''
`` Oh , your conscience ! ''
moan Anne .
`` I suppose that Uncle Dave have a conscience too , have n't he ? ''
`` Yes .
But I be not the keeper of his conscience .
Come , Anne , if this affair do not concern Leslie -- if it be a purely abstract case , you would agree with me , -- you know you would . ''
`` I would n't , '' vow Anne , try to believe it herself .
`` Oh , you can argue all night , Gilbert , but you wo n't convince me .
Just you ask Miss Cornelia what she think of it . ''
`` You 're drive to the last ditch , Anne , when you bring up Miss Cornelia a a reinforcement .
She will say , ` Just like a man , ' and rage furiously .
No matter .
This be no affair for Miss Cornelia to settle .
Leslie alone must decide it . ''
`` You know very well how she will decide it , '' say Anne , almost in tear .
`` She have ideal of duty , too .
I do n't see how you can take such a responsibility on your shoulder .
I could n't . '' ''
` Because right be right to follow right Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence , ' '' quote Gilbert .
`` Oh , you think a couplet of poetry a convincing argument ! ''
scoffed Anne .
`` That be so like a man . ''
And then she laugh in spite of herself .
It sound so like an echo of Miss Cornelia .
`` Well , if you wo n't accept Tennyson a an authority , perhaps you will believe the word of a Greater than he , '' say Gilbert seriously . ''
` Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free . '
I believe that , Anne , with all my heart .
It 's the great and grand verse in the Bible -- or in any literature -- and the TRUEST , if there be comparative degree of trueness .
And it 's the first duty of a man to tell the truth , a he see it and believe it . ''
`` In this case the truth wo n't make poor Leslie free , '' sigh Anne .
`` It will probably end in still more bitter bondage for her .
Oh , Gilbert , I CA N'T think you be right . ''
CHAPTER 30 LESLIE DECIDES A sudden outbreak of a virulent type of influenza at the Glen and down at the fishing village keep Gilbert so busy for the next fortnight that he have no time to pay the promised visit to Captain Jim .
Anne hop against hope that he have abandon the idea about Dick Moore , and , resolve to let sleep dog lie , she say no more about the subject .
But she think of it incessantly .
`` I wonder if it would be right for me to tell him that Leslie care for Owen , '' she think .
`` He would never let her suspect that he know , so her pride would not suffer , and it MIGHT convince him that he should let Dick Moore alone .
Shall I -- shall I ?
No , after all , I can not .
A promise be sacred , and I 've no right to betray Leslie 's secret .
But oh , I never felt so worried over anything in my life a I do over this .
It 's spoil the spring -- it 's spoil everything . ''
One evening Gilbert abruptly propose that they go down and see Captain Jim .
With a sink heart Anne agree , and they set forth .
Two week of kind sunshine have work a miracle in the bleak landscape over which Gilbert 's crow have fly .
The hill and field be dry and brown and warm , ready to break into bud and blossom ; the harbor be laughter-shaken again ; the long harbor road be like a gleaming red ribbon ; down on the dune a crowd of boy , who be out smelt fishing , be burn the thick , dry sandhill grass of the precede summer .
The flame sweep over the dune rosily , fling their cardinal banner against the dark gulf beyond , and illuminate the channel and the fishing village .
It be a picturesque scene which would at other time have delight Anne 's eye ; but she be not enjoy this walk .
Neither be Gilbert .
Their usual good-comradeship and Josephian community of taste and viewpoint be sadly lack .
Anne 's disapproval of the whole project show itself in the haughty uplift of her head and the studied politeness of her remark .
Gilbert 's mouth be set in all the Blythe obstinacy , but his eye be trouble .
He mean to do what he believe to be his duty ; but to be at out with Anne be a high price to pay .
Altogether , both be glad when they reach the light -- and remorseful that they should be glad .
Captain Jim put away the fishing net upon which he be work , and welcome them joyfully .
In the search light of the spring evening he look old than Anne have ever see him .
His hair have grow much grayer , and the strong old hand shake a little .
But his blue eye be clear and steady , and the staunch soul look out through them gallant and unafraid .
Captain Jim listen in amazed silence while Gilbert say what he have come to say .
Anne , who know how the old man worship Leslie , felt quite sure that he would side with her , although she have not much hope that this would influence Gilbert .
She be therefore surprised beyond measure when Captain Jim , slowly and sorrowfully , but unhesitatingly , give it a his opinion that Leslie should be tell .
`` Oh , Captain Jim , I do n't think you 'd say that , '' she exclaim reproachfully .
`` I think you would n't want to make more trouble for her . ''
Captain Jim shake his head .
`` I do n't want to .
I know how you feel about it , Mistress Blythe -- just a I feel meself .
But it ai n't our feeling we have to steer by through life -- no , no , we 'd make shipwreck mighty often if we do that .
There 's only the one safe compass and we 've get to set our course by that -- what it 's right to do .
I agree with the doctor .
If there 's a chance for Dick , Leslie should be tell of it .
There 's no two side to that , in my opinion . ''
`` Well , '' say Anne , give up in despair , `` wait until Miss Cornelia get after you two men . ''
`` Cornelia 'll rake u fore and aft , no doubt , '' assent Captain Jim .
`` You woman be lovely critter , Mistress Blythe , but you 're just a mite illogical .
You 're a highly eddicated lady and Cornelia be n't , but you 're like a two pea when it come to that .
I dunno 's you 're any the bad for it .
Logic be a sort of hard , merciless thing , I reckon .
Now , I 'll brew a cup of tea and we 'll drink it and talk of pleasant thing , jest to calm our mind a bit . ''
At least , Captain Jim 's tea and conversation calm Anne 's mind to such an extent that she do not make Gilbert suffer so acutely on the way home a she have deliberately intend to do .
She do not refer to the burn question at all , but she chat amiably of other matter , and Gilbert understand that he be forgive under protest .
`` Captain Jim seem very frail and bent this spring .
The winter have age him , '' say Anne sadly .
`` I be afraid that he will soon be go to seek lose Margaret .
I ca n't bear to think of it . ''
`` Four Winds wo n't be the same place when Captain Jim ` set out to sea , ' '' agree Gilbert .
The following evening he go to the house up the brook .
Anne wander dismally around until his return .
`` Well , what do Leslie say ? ''
she demand when he come in .
`` Very little .
I think she felt rather daze . ''
`` And be she go to have the operation ? ''
`` She be go to think it over and decide very soon . ''
Gilbert fling himself wearily into the easy chair before the fire .
He look tired .
It have not be an easy thing for him to tell Leslie .
And the terror that have sprung into her eye when the meaning of what he tell her come home to her be not a pleasant thing to remember .
Now , when the die be cast , he be beset with doubt of his own wisdom .
Anne look at him remorsefully ; then she slip down on the rug beside him and lay her glossy red head on his arm .
`` Gilbert , I 've be rather hateful over this .
I wo n't be any more .
Please just call me red-headed and forgive me . ''
By which Gilbert understood that , no matter what come of it , there would be no I-told-you-so 's .
But he be not wholly comfort .
Duty in the abstract be one thing ; duty in the concrete be quite another , especially when the doer be confront by a woman 's stricken eye .
Some instinct make Anne keep away from Leslie for the next three day .
On the third evening Leslie come down to the little house and tell Gilbert that she have make up her mind ; she would take Dick to Montreal and have the operation .
She be very pale and seem to have wrap herself in her old mantle of aloofness .
But her eye have lose the look which have haunt Gilbert ; they be cold and bright ; and she proceed to discuss detail with him in a crisp , business-like way .
There be plan to be make and many thing to be think over .
When Leslie have get the information she want she go home .
Anne want to walk part of the way with her .
`` Better not , '' say Leslie curtly .
`` Today 's rain have make the ground damp .
Good-night . ''
`` Have I lose my friend ? ''
say Anne with a sigh .
`` If the operation be successful and Dick Moore find himself again Leslie will retreat into some remote fastness of her soul where none of u can ever find her . ''
`` Perhaps she will leave him , '' say Gilbert .
`` Leslie would never do that , Gilbert .
Her sense of duty be very strong .
She tell me once that her Grandmother West always impress upon her the fact that when she assume any responsibility she must never shirk it , no matter what the consequence might be .
That be one of her cardinal rule .
I suppose it 's very old-fashioned . ''
`` Do n't be bitter , Anne-girl .
You know you do n't think it old-fashioned -- you know you have the very same idea of sacredness of assumed responsibility yourself .
And you be right .
Shirking responsibility be the curse of our modern life -- the secret of all the unrest and discontent that be seethe in the world . ''
`` Thus saith the preacher , '' mock Anne .
But under the mockery she felt that he be right ; and she be very sick at heart for Leslie .
A week later Miss Cornelia descend like an avalanche upon the little house .
Gilbert be away and Anne be compel to bear the shock of the impact alone .
Miss Cornelia hardly wait to get her hat off before she begin .
`` Anne , do you mean to tell me it 's true what I 've hear -- that Dr. Blythe have tell Leslie Dick can be cure , and that she be go to take him to Montreal to have him operate on ? ''
`` Yes , it be quite true , Miss Cornelia , '' say Anne bravely .
`` Well , it 's inhuman cruelty , that 's what it be , '' say Miss Cornelia , violently agitate .
`` I do think Dr. Blythe be a decent man .
I do n't think he could have be guilty of this . ''
`` Dr. Blythe think it be his duty to tell Leslie that there be a chance for Dick , '' say Anne with spirit , `` and , '' she add , loyalty to Gilbert get the good of her , `` I agree with him . ''
`` Oh , no , you do n't , dearie , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` No person with any bowel of compassion could . ''
`` Captain Jim do . ''
`` Do n't quote that old ninny to me , '' cry Miss Cornelia .
`` And I do n't care who agree with him .
Think -- THINK what it mean to that poor hunt , harry girl . ''
`` We DO think of it .
But Gilbert believe that a doctor should put the welfare of a patient 's mind and body before all other consideration . ''
`` That 's just like a man .
But I expect good thing of you , Anne , '' say Miss Cornelia , more in sorrow than in wrath ; then she proceed to bombard Anne with precisely the same argument with which the latter have attack Gilbert ; and Anne valiantly defend her husband with the weapon he have use for his own protection .
Long be the fray , but Miss Cornelia make an end at last .
`` It 's an iniquitous shame , '' she declare , almost in tear .
`` That 's just what it be -- an iniquitous shame .
Poor , poor Leslie ! ''
`` Do n't you think Dick should be consider a little too ? ''
plead Anne .
`` Dick !
Dick Moore !
HE 'S happy enough .
He 's a good behave and more reputable member of society now than he ever be before .
`` Why , he be a drunkard and perhaps bad .
Are you go to set him loose again to roar and to devour ? ''
`` He may reform , '' say poor Anne , beset by foe without and traitor within .
`` Reform your grandmother ! ''
retort Miss Cornelia .
`` Dick Moore get the injury that leave him a he be in a drunken brawl .
He DESERVES his fate .
It be send on him for a punishment .
I do n't believe the doctor have any business to tamper with the visitation of God . ''
`` Nobody know how Dick be hurt , Miss Cornelia .
It may not have be in a drunken brawl at all .
He may have be waylay and rob . ''
`` Pigs MAY whistle , but they 've poor mouth for it , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` Well , the gist of what you tell me be that the thing be settle and there 's no use in talk .
If that 's so I 'll hold my tongue .
I do n't propose to wear MY teeth out gnaw file .
When a thing have to be I give in to it .
But I like to make mighty sure first that it HAS to be .
Now , I 'll devote MY energy to comfort and sustain Leslie .
And after all , '' add Miss Cornelia , brighten up hopefully , `` perhaps nothing can be do for Dick . ''
CHAPTER 31 THE TRUTH MAKES FREE Leslie , have once make up her mind what to do , proceed to do it with characteristic resolution and speed .
House-cleaning must be finish with first , whatever issue of life and death might await beyond .
The gray house up the brook be put into flawless order and cleanliness , with Miss Cornelia 's ready assistance .
Miss Cornelia , have say her say to Anne , and later on to Gilbert and Captain Jim -- spar neither of them , let it be assure -- never spoke of the matter to Leslie .
She accept the fact of Dick 's operation , refer to it when necessary in a business-like way , and ignore it when it be not .
Leslie never attempt to discuss it .
She be very cold and quiet during these beautiful spring day .
She seldom visit Anne , and though she be invariably courteous and friendly , that very courtesy be a an icy barrier between her and the people of the little house .
The old joke and laughter and chumminess of common thing could not reach her over it .
Anne refuse to feel hurt .
She know that Leslie be in the grip of a hideous dread -- a dread that wrap her away from all little glimpse of happiness and hour of pleasure .
When one great passion seize possession of the soul all other feeling be crowd aside .
Never in all her life have Leslie Moore shudder away from the future with more intolerable terror .
But she go forward a unswervingly in the path she have elect a the martyr of old walk their chosen way , know the end of it to be the fiery agony of the stake .
The financial question be settle with great ease than Anne have fear .
Leslie borrow the necessary money from Captain Jim , and , at her insistence , he take a mortgage on the little farm .
`` So that be one thing off the poor girl 's mind , '' Miss Cornelia tell Anne , `` and off mine too .
Now , if Dick get well enough to work again he 'll be able to earn enough to pay the interest on it ; and if he do n't I know Captain Jim 'll manage someway that Leslie wo n't have to .
He say as much to me .
` I 'm get old , Cornelia , ' he say , ` and I 've no chick or child of my own .
Leslie wo n't take a gift from a living man , but mebbe she will from a dead one . '
So it will be all right as far a THAT go .
I wish everything else might be settle a satisfactorily .
As for that wretch of a Dick , he 's be awful these last few day .
The devil be in him , believe ME !
Leslie and I could n't get on with our work for the trick he 'd play .
He chase all her duck one day around the yard till most of them die .
And not one thing would he do for u .
Sometimes , you know , he 'll make himself quite handy , bring in pail of water and wood .
But this week if we send him to the well he 'd try to climb down into it .
I think once , ` If you 'd only shoot down there head-first everything would be nicely settle . ' ''
`` Oh , Miss Cornelia ! ''
`` Now , you need n't Miss Cornelia me , Anne , dearie .
ANYBODY would have think the same .
If the Montreal doctor can make a rational creature out of Dick Moore they 're wonder . ''
Leslie take Dick to Montreal early in May .
Gilbert go with her , to help her , and make the necessary arrangement for her .
He come home with the report that the Montreal surgeon whom they have consult agree with him that there be a good chance of Dick 's restoration .
`` Very comforting , '' be Miss Cornelia 's sarcastic comment .
Anne only sigh .
Leslie have be very distant at their parting .
But she have promise to write .
Ten day after Gilbert 's return the letter come .
Leslie write that the operation have be successfully perform and that Dick be make a good recovery .
`` What do she mean by ` successfully ? ' ''
ask Anne .
`` Does she mean that Dick 's memory be really restore ? ''
`` Not likely -- since she say nothing of it , '' say Gilbert .
`` She use the word ` successfully ' from the surgeon 's point of view .
The operation have be perform and follow by normal result .
But it be too soon to know whether Dick 's faculty will be eventually restore , wholly or in part .
His memory would not be likely to return to him all at once .
The process will be gradual , if it occur at all .
Is that all she say ? ''
`` Yes -- there 's her letter .
It 's very short .
Poor girl , she must be under a terrible strain .
Gilbert Blythe , there be heap of thing I long to say to you , only it would be mean . ''
`` Miss Cornelia say them for you , '' say Gilbert with a rueful smile .
`` She comb me down every time I encounter her .
She make it plain to me that she regard me a little good than a murderer , and that she think it a great pity that Dr. Dave ever let me step into his shoe .
She even tell me that the Methodist doctor over the harbor be to be prefer before me .
With Miss Cornelia the force of condemnation can no further go . ''
`` If Cornelia Bryant be sick , it would not be Doctor Dave or the Methodist doctor she would send for , '' sniff Susan .
`` She would have you out of your hard-earned bed in the middle of the night , doctor , dear , if she take a spell of misery , that she would .
And then she would likely say your bill be past all reason .
But do not mind her , doctor , dear .
It take all kind of people to make a world . ''
No further word come from Leslie for some time .
The May day creep away in a sweet succession and the shore of Four Winds Harbor green and bloom and purple .
One day in late May Gilbert come home to be meet by Susan in the stable yard .
`` I be afraid something have upset Mrs . Doctor , doctor , dear , '' she say mysteriously .
`` She get a letter this afternoon and since then she have just be walk round the garden and talk to herself .
You know it be not good for her to be on her foot so much , doctor , dear .
She do not see fit to tell me what her news be , and I be no pry , doctor , dear , and never be , but it be plain something have upset her .
And it be not good for her to be upset . ''
Gilbert hurry rather anxiously to the garden .
Had anything happen at Green Gables ?
But Anne , sit on the rustic seat by the brook , do not look troubled , though she be certainly much excite .
Her eye be their grayest , and scarlet spot burn on her cheek .
`` What have happen , Anne ? ''
Anne give a queer little laugh .
`` I think you 'll hardly believe it when I tell you , Gilbert .
I ca n't believe it yet .
As Susan say the other day , ' I feel like a fly come to live in the sun -- dazed-like . '
It 's all so incredible .
I 've read the letter a score of time and every time it 's just the same -- I ca n't believe my own eye .
Oh , Gilbert , you be right -- so right .
I can see that clearly enough now -- and I 'm so ashamed of myself -- and will you ever really forgive me ? ''
`` Anne , I 'll shake you if you do n't grow coherent .
Redmond would be ashamed of you .
WHAT have happen ? ''
`` You wo n't believe it -- you wo n't believe it -- '' `` I 'm go to phone for Uncle Dave , '' say Gilbert , pretend to start for the house .
`` Sit down , Gilbert .
I 'll try to tell you .
I 've have a letter , and oh , Gilbert , it 's all so amazing -- so incredibly amazing -- we never think -- not one of u ever dream -- '' `` I suppose , '' say Gilbert , sit down with a resigned air , `` the only thing to do in a case of this kind be to have patience and go at the matter categorically .
Whom be your letter from ? ''
`` Leslie -- and , oh , Gilbert -- '' `` Leslie !
Whew !
What have she to say ?
What 's the news about Dick ? ''
Anne lift the letter and hold it out , calmly dramatic in a moment .
`` There be NO Dick !
The man we have think Dick Moore -- whom everybody in Four Winds have believe for twelve year to be Dick Moore -- be his cousin , George Moore , of Nova Scotia , who , it seem , always resemble him very strikingly .
Dick Moore die of yellow fever thirteen year ago in Cuba . ''
CHAPTER 32 MISS CORNELIA DISCUSSES THE AFFAIR `` And do you mean to tell me , Anne , dearie , that Dick Moore have turn out not to be Dick Moore at all but somebody else ?
Is THAT what you phone up to me today ? ''
`` Yes , Miss Cornelia .
It be very amazing , be n't it ? ''
`` It 's -- it 's -- just like a man , '' say Miss Cornelia helplessly .
She take off her hat with tremble finger .
For once in her life Miss Cornelia be undeniably stagger .
`` I ca n't seem to sense it , Anne , '' she say .
`` I 've hear you say it -- and I believe you -- but I ca n't take it in .
Dick Moore be dead -- have be dead all these year -- and Leslie be free ? ''
`` Yes .
The truth have make her free .
Gilbert be right when he say that verse be the grand in the Bible . ''
`` Tell me everything , Anne , dearie .
Since I get your phone I 've be in a regular muddle , believe ME .
Cornelia Bryant be never so kerflummuxed before . ''
`` There be n't a very great deal to tell .
Leslie 's letter be short .
She do n't go into particular .
This man -- George Moore -- have recover his memory and know who he be .
He say Dick take yellow fever in Cuba , and the Four Sisters have to sail without him .
George stay behind to nurse him .
But he die very shortly afterwards .
`` George do not write Leslie because he intend to come right home and tell her himself . ''
`` And why do n't he ? ''
`` I suppose his accident must have intervene .
Gilbert say it be quite likely that George Moore remembers nothing of his accident , or what lead to it , and may never remember it .
It probably happen very soon after Dick 's death .
We may find out more particular when Leslie write again . ''
`` Does she say what she be go to do ?
When be she come home ? ''
`` She say she will stay with George Moore until he can leave the hospital .
She have write to his people in Nova Scotia .
It seem that George 's only near relative be a married sister much old than himself .
She be live when George sail on the Four Sisters , but of course we do not know what may have happen since .
Did you ever see George Moore , Miss Cornelia ? ''
`` I do .
It be all come back to me .
He be here visit his Uncle Abner eighteen year ago , when he and Dick would be about seventeen .
They be double cousin , you see .
Their father be brother and their mother be twin sister , and they do look a terrible lot alike .
Of course , '' add Miss Cornelia scornfully , `` it be n't one of those freak resemblance you read of in novel where two people be so much alike that they can fill each other 's place and their near and dear ca n't tell between them .
In those day you could tell easy enough which be George and which be Dick , if you saw them together and near at hand .
Apart , or some distance away , it be n't so easy .
They play lot of trick on people and think it great fun , the two scamp .
George Moore be a little taller and a good deal fatter than Dick -- though neither of them be what you would call fat -- they be both of the lean kind .
Dick have high color than George , and his hair be a shade lighter .
But their feature be just alike , and they both have that queer freak of eye -- one blue and one hazel .
They be n't much alike in any other way , though .
George be a real nice fellow , though he be a scalawag for mischief , and some say he have a liking for a glass even then .
But everybody like him good than Dick .
He spend about a month here .
Leslie never saw him ; she be only about eight or nine then and I remember now that she spend that whole winter over harbor with her grandmother West .
Captain Jim be away , too -- that be the winter he be wreck on the Magdalens .
I do n't suppose either he or Leslie have ever hear about the Nova Scotia cousin look so much like Dick .
Nobody ever think of him when Captain Jim bring Dick -- George , I should say -- home .
Of course , we all think Dick have change considerable -- he 'd get so lumpish and fat .
But we put that down to what have happen to him , and no doubt that be the reason , for , a I 've say , George be n't fat to begin with either .
And there be no other way we could have guess , for the man 's sens be clean go .
I ca n't see that it be any wonder we be all deceive .
But it 's a staggering thing .
And Leslie have sacrifice the best year of her life to nurse a man who have n't any claim on her !
Oh , drat the men !
No matter what they do , it 's the wrong thing .
And no matter who they be , it 's somebody they should n't be .
They do exasperate me . ''
`` Gilbert and Captain Jim be men , and it be through them that the truth have be discover at last , '' say Anne .
`` Well , I admit that , '' concede Miss Cornelia reluctantly .
`` I 'm sorry I rake the doctor off so .
It 's the first time in my life I 've ever felt ashamed of anything I say to a man .
I do n't know a I shall tell him so , though .
He 'll just have to take it for grant .
Well , Anne , dearie , it 's a mercy the Lord do n't answer all our prayer .
I 've be pray hard right along that the operation would n't cure Dick .
Of course I do n't put it just quite so plain .
But that be what be in the back of my mind , and I have no doubt the Lord know it . ''
`` Well , He have answer the spirit of your prayer .
You really wish that thing should n't be make any harder for Leslie .
I 'm afraid that in my secret heart I 've be hop the operation would n't succeed , and I be wholesomely ashamed of it . ''
`` How do Leslie seem to take it ? ''
`` She write like one dazed .
I think that , like ourselves , she hardly realise it yet .
She say , ` It all seem like a strange dream to me , Anne . '
That be the only reference she make to herself . ''
`` Poor child !
I suppose when the chain be strike off a prisoner he 'd feel queer and lose without them for a while .
Anne , dearie , here 's a thought keep come into my mind .
What about Owen Ford ?
We both know Leslie be fond of him .
Did it ever occur to you that he be fond of her ? ''
`` It -- do -- once , '' admit Anne , feeling that she might say so much .
`` Well , I have n't any reason to think he be , but it just appear to me he MUST be .
Now , Anne , dearie , the Lord know I 'm not a match-maker , and I scorn all such doings .
But if I be you and write to that Ford man I 'd just mention , casual-like , what have happen .
That be what I 'd do . ''
`` Of course I will mention it when I write him , '' say Anne , a trifle distantly .
Somehow , this be a thing she could not discuss with Miss Cornelia .
And yet , she have to admit that the same thought have be lurk in her mind ever since she have heard of Leslie 's freedom .
But she would not desecrate it by free speech .
`` Of course there be no great rush , dearie .
But Dick Moore 's be dead for thirteen year and Leslie have waste enough of her life for him .
We 'll just see what come of it .
As for this George Moore , who 's go and come back to life when everyone think he be dead and do for , just like a man , I 'm real sorry for him .
He wo n't seem to fit in anywhere . ''
`` He be still a young man , and if he recover completely , a seem likely , he will be able to make a place for himself again .
It must be very strange for him , poor fellow .
I suppose all these year since his accident will not exist for him . ''
CHAPTER 33 LESLIE RETURNS A fortnight later Leslie Moore come home alone to the old house where she have spend so many bitter year .
In the June twilight she go over the field to Anne 's , and appear with ghost-like suddenness in the scented garden .
`` Leslie ! ''
cry Anne in amazement .
`` Where have you spring from ?
We never know you be come .
Why do n't you write ?
We would have meet you . ''
`` I could n't write somehow , Anne .
It seem so futile to try to say anything with pen and ink .
And I want to get back quietly and unobserved . ''
Anne put her arm about Leslie and kiss her .
Leslie return the kiss warmly .
She look pale and tired , and she give a little sigh a she drop down on the grass beside a great bed of daffodil that be gleam through the pale , silvery twilight like golden star .
`` And you have come home alone , Leslie ? ''
`` Yes .
George Moore 's sister come to Montreal and take him home with her .
Poor fellow , he be sorry to part with me -- though I be a stranger to him when his memory first come back .
He cling to me in those first hard day when he be try to realise that Dick 's death be not the thing of yesterday that it seem to him .
It be all very hard for him .
I help him all I could .
When his sister come it be easier for him , because it seem to him only the other day that he have see her last .
Fortunately she have not change much , and that help him , too . ''
`` It be all so strange and wonderful , Leslie .
I think we none of u realise it yet . ''
`` I can not .
When I go into the house over there an hour ago , I felt that it MUST be a dream -- that Dick must be there , with his childish smile , a he have be for so long .
Anne , I seem stun yet .
I 'm not glad or sorry -- or ANYTHING .
I feel a if something have be tear suddenly out of my life and leave a terrible hole .
I feel a if I could n't be I -- a if I must have change into somebody else and could n't get use to it .
It give me a horrible lonely , daze , helpless feeling .
It 's good to see you again -- it seem a if you be a sort of anchor for my drifting soul .
Oh , Anne , I dread it all -- the gossip and wonderment and questioning .
When I think of that , I wish that I need not have come home at all .
Dr. Dave be at the station when I come off the train -- he bring me home .
Poor old man , he feel very badly because he tell me year ago that nothing could be do for Dick . '
I honestly think so , Leslie , ' he say to me today .
` But I should have tell you not to depend on my opinion -- I should have tell you to go to a specialist .
If I have , you would have be save many bitter year , and poor George Moore many waste one .
I blame myself very much , Leslie . '
I tell him not to do that -- he have do what he think right .
He have always be so kind to me -- I could n't bear to see him worry over it . ''
`` And Dick -- George , I mean ?
Is his memory fully restore ? ''
`` Practically .
Of course , there be a great many detail he ca n't recall yet -- but he remember more and more every day .
He go out for a walk on the evening after Dick be bury .
He have Dick 's money and watch on him ; he mean to bring them home to me , along with my letter .
He admit he go to a place where the sailor resort -- and he remember drinking -- and nothing else .
Anne , I shall never forget the moment he remember his own name .
I saw him look at me with an intelligent but puzzled expression .
I say , ` Do you know me , Dick ? '
He answer , ' I never saw you before .
Who be you ?
And my name be not Dick .
I be George Moore , and Dick die of yellow fever yesterday !
Where be I ?
What have happen to me ? '
I -- I faint , Anne .
And ever since I have felt a if I be in a dream . ''
`` You will soon adjust yourself to this new state of thing , Leslie .
And you be young -- life be before you -- you will have many beautiful year yet . ''
`` Perhaps I shall be able to look at it in that way after a while , Anne .
Just now I feel too tired and indifferent to think about the future .
I 'm -- I 'm -- Anne , I 'm lonely .
I miss Dick .
Is n't it all very strange ?
Do you know , I be really fond of poor Dick -- George , I suppose I should say -- just a I would have be fond of a helpless child who depend on me for everything .
I would never have admit it -- I be really ashamed of it -- because , you see , I have hat and despise Dick so much before he go away .
When I hear that Captain Jim be bring him home I expect I would just feel the same to him .
But I never do -- although I continue to loathe him a I remember him before .
From the time he come home I felt only pity -- a pity that hurt and wring me .
I suppose then that it be just because his accident have make him so helpless and change .
But now I believe it be because there be really a different personality there .
Carlo know it , Anne -- I know now that Carlo know it .
I always think it strange that Carlo should n't have know Dick .
Dogs be usually so faithful .
But HE know it be not his master who have come back , although none of the rest of u do .
I have never see George Moore , you know .
I remember now that Dick once mention casually that he have a cousin in Nova Scotia who look as much like him a a twin ; but the thing have go out of my memory , and in any case I would never have think it of any importance .
You see , it never occur to me to question Dick 's identity .
Any change in him seem to me just the result of the accident .
`` Oh , Anne , that night in April when Gilbert tell me he think Dick might be cure !
I can never forget it .
It seem to me that I have once be a prisoner in a hideous cage of torture , and then the door have be open and I could get out .
I be still chain to the cage but I be not in it .
And that night I felt that a merciless hand be draw me back into the cage -- back to a torture even more terrible than it have once be .
I do n't blame Gilbert .
I felt he be right .
And he have be very good -- he say that if , in view of the expense and uncertainty of the operation , I should decide not to risk it , he would not blame me in the least .
But I know how I ought to decide -- and I could n't face it .
All night I walk the floor like a mad woman , try to compel myself to face it .
I could n't , Anne -- I think I could n't -- and when morning break I set my teeth and resolve that I WOULD N'T .
I would let thing remain a they be .
It be very wicked , I know .
It would have be just punishment for such wickedness if I have just be leave to abide by that decision .
I keep to it all day .
That afternoon I have to go up to the Glen to do some shopping .
It be one of Dick 's quiet , drowsy day , so I leave him alone .
I be go a little long than I have expect , and he miss me .
He felt lonely .
And when I get home , he run to meet me just like a child , with such a pleased smile on his face .
Somehow , Anne , I just give way then .
That smile on his poor vacant face be more than I could endure .
I felt a if I be deny a child the chance to grow and develop .
I know that I must give him his chance , no matter what the consequence might be .
So I come over and tell Gilbert .
Oh , Anne , you must have think me hateful in those week before I go away .
I do n't mean to be -- but I could n't think of anything except what I have to do , and everything and everybody about me be like shadow . ''
`` I know -- I understand , Leslie .
And now it be all over -- your chain be break -- there be no cage . ''
`` There be no cage , '' repeat Leslie absently , pluck at the fringing grass with her slender , brown hand .
`` But -- it do n't seem a if there be anything else , Anne .
You -- you remember what I tell you of my folly that night on the sand-bar ?
I find one do n't get over be a fool very quickly .
Sometimes I think there be people who be fool forever .
And to be a fool -- of that kind -- be almost as bad a be a -- a dog on a chain . ''
`` You will feel very differently after you get over be tire and bewilder , '' say Anne , who , know a certain thing that Leslie do not know , do not feel herself call upon to waste overmuch sympathy .
Leslie lay her splendid golden head against Anne 's knee .
`` Anyhow , I have YOU , '' she say .
`` Life ca n't be altogether empty with such a friend .
Anne , pat my head -- just a if I be a little girl -- MOTHER me a bit -- and let me tell you while my stubborn tongue be loose a little just what you and your comradeship have mean to me since that night I meet you on the rock shore . ''
CHAPTER 34 THE SHIP O'DREAMS COMES TO HARBOR One morning , when a windy golden sunrise be billow over the gulf in wave of light , a certain weary stork fly over the bar of Four Winds Harbor on his way from the Land of Evening Stars .
Under his wing be tuck a sleepy , starry-eyed , little creature .
The stork be tire , and he look wistfully about him .
He know he be somewhere near his destination , but he could not yet see it .
The big , white light-house on the red sandstone cliff have it good point ; but no stork possess of any gumption would leave a new , velvet baby there .
An old gray house , surround by willow , in a blossomy brook valley , look more promising , but do not seem quite the thing either .
The star green abode far on be manifestly out of the question .
Then the stork brighten up .
He have catch sight of the very place -- a little white house nestle against a big , whisper firwood , with a spiral of blue smoke wind up from it kitchen chimney -- a house which just look a if it be mean for baby .
The stork give a sigh of satisfaction , and softly alight on the ridge-pole .
Half an hour later Gilbert run down the hall and tap on the spare-room door .
A drowsy voice answer him and in a moment Marilla 's pale , scar face peep out from behind the door .
`` Marilla , Anne have send me to tell you that a certain young gentleman have arrive here .
He have n't bring much luggage with him , but he evidently mean to stay . ''
`` For pity 's sake ! ''
say Marilla blankly .
`` You do n't mean to tell me , Gilbert , that it 's all over .
Why be n't I call ? ''
`` Anne would n't let u disturb you when there be no need .
Nobody be call until about two hour ago .
There be no ` passage perilous ' this time . ''
`` And -- and -- Gilbert -- will this baby live ? ''
`` He certainly will .
He weigh ten pound and -- why , listen to him .
Nothing wrong with his lung , be there ?
The nurse say his hair will be red .
Anne be furious with her , and I 'm tickled to death . ''
That be a wonderful day in the little house of dream .
`` The best dream of all have come true , '' say Anne , pale and rapturous .
`` Oh , Marilla , I hardly dare believe it , after that horrible day last summer .
I have have a heartache ever since then -- but it be go now . ''
`` This baby will take Joy 's place , '' say Marilla .
`` Oh , no , no , NO , Marilla .
He ca n't -- nothing can ever do that .
He have his own place , my dear , wee man-child .
But little Joy have hers , and always will have it .
If she have live she would have be over a year old .
She would have be toddle around on her tiny foot and lisp a few word .
I can see her so plainly , Marilla .
Oh , I know now that Captain Jim be right when he say God would manage good than that my baby would seem a stranger to me when I find her Beyond .
I 've learn THAT this past year .
I 've follow her development day by day and week by week -- I always shall .
I shall know just how she grow from year to year -- and when I meet her again I 'll know her -- she wo n't be a stranger .
Oh , Marilla , LOOK at his dear , darling toe !
Is n't it strange they should be so perfect ? ''
`` It would be strange if they be n't , '' say Marilla crisply .
Now that all be safely over , Marilla be herself again .
`` Oh , I know -- but it seem a if they could n't be quite FINISHED , you know -- and they be , even to the tiny nail .
And his hand -- JUST look at his hand , Marilla . ''
`` They appear to be a good deal like hand , '' Marilla concede .
`` See how he cling to my finger .
I 'm sure he know me already .
He cry when the nurse take him away .
Oh , Marilla , do you think -- you do n't think , do you -- that his hair be go to be red ? ''
`` I do n't see much hair of any color , '' say Marilla .
`` I would n't worry about it , if I be you , until it become visible . ''
`` Marilla , he HAS hair -- look at that fine little down all over his head .
Anyway , nurse say his eye will be hazel and his forehead be exactly like Gilbert 's . ''
`` And he have the nice little ear , Mrs . Doctor , dear , '' say Susan .
`` The first thing I do be to look at his ear .
Hair be deceitful and nose and eye change , and you can not tell what be go to come of them , but ear be ear from start to finish , and you always know where you be with them .
Just look at their shape -- and they be set right back against his precious head .
You will never need to be ashamed of his ear , Mrs . Doctor , dear . ''
Anne 's convalescence be rapid and happy .
Folks come and worship the baby , a people have bow before the kingship of the new-born since long before the Wise Men of the East knelt in homage to the Royal Babe of the Bethlehem manger .
Leslie , slowly find herself amid the new condition of her life , hover over it , like a beautiful , golden-crowned Madonna .
Miss Cornelia nurse it as knackily a could any mother in Israel .
Captain Jim hold the small creature in his big brown hand and gaze tenderly at it , with eye that saw the child who have never be bear to him .
`` What be you go to call him ? ''
ask Miss Cornelia .
`` Anne have settle his name , '' answer Gilbert .
`` James Matthew -- after the two fine gentleman I 've ever know -- not even save your presence , '' say Anne with a saucy glance at Gilbert .
Gilbert smile .
`` I never know Matthew very well ; he be so shy we boy could n't get acquaint with him -- but I quite agree with you that Captain Jim be one of the rarest and fine soul God ever clothe in clay .
He be so delighted over the fact that we have give his name to our small lad .
It seem he have no other namesake . ''
`` Well , James Matthew be a name that will wear well and not fade in the washing , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` I 'm glad you do n't load him down with some highfalutin , romantic name that he 'd be ashamed of when he get to be a grandfather .
Mrs. William Drew at the Glen have call her baby Bertie Shakespeare .
Quite a combination , be n't it ?
And I 'm glad you have n't have much trouble pick on a name .
Some folk have an awful time .
When the Stanley Flaggs ' first boy be bear there be so much rivalry a to who the child should be name for that the poor little soul have to go for two year without a name .
Then a brother come along and there it be -- ` Big Baby ' and ` Little Baby . '
Finally they call Big Baby Peter and Little Baby Isaac , after the two grandfather , and have them both christen together .
And each try to see if it could n't howl the other down .
You know that Highland Scotch family of MacNabs back of the Glen ?
They 've get twelve boy and the old and the young be both call Neil -- Big Neil and Little Neil in the same family .
Well , I s ` pose they run out of name . ''
`` I have read somewhere , '' laugh Anne , `` that the first child be a poem but the tenth be very prosy prose .
Perhaps Mrs. MacNab think that the twelfth be merely an old tale re-told . ''
`` Well , there 's something to be say for large family , '' say Miss Cornelia , with a sigh .
`` I be an only child for eight year and I do long for a brother and sister .
Mother tell me to pray for one -- and pray I do , believe ME .
Well , one day Aunt Nellie come to me and say , ` Cornelia , there be a little brother for you upstairs in your ma 's room .
You can go up and see him . '
I be so excited and delighted I just fly upstairs .
And old Mrs. Flagg lift up the baby for me to see .
Lord , Anne , dearie , I never be so disappointed in my life .
You see , I 'd be pray for A BROTHER TWO YEARS OLDER THAN MYSELF . ''
`` How long do it take you to get over your disappointment ? ''
ask Anne , amid her laughter .
`` Well , I have a spite at Providence for a good spell , and for week I would n't even look at the baby .
Nobody know why , for I never tell .
Then he begin to get real cute , and hold out his wee hand to me and I begin to get fond of him .
But I do n't get really reconcile to him until one day a school chum come to see him and say she think he be awful small for his age .
I just get boil mad , and I sail right into her , and tell her she do n't know a nice baby when she saw one , and ours be the nice baby in the world .
And after that I just worship him .
Mother die before he be three year old and I be sister and mother to him both .
Poor little lad , he be never strong , and he die when he be n't much over twenty .
Seems to me I 'd have give anything on earth , Anne , dearie , if he 'd only live . ''
Miss Cornelia sigh .
Gilbert have go down and Leslie , who have be croon over the small James Matthew in the dormer window , lay him asleep in his basket and go her way .
As soon a she be safely out of earshot , Miss Cornelia bent forward and say in a conspirator 's whisper : `` Anne , dearie , I 'd a letter from Owen Ford yesterday .
He 's in Vancouver just now , but he want to know if I can board him for a month later on .
YOU know what that mean .
Well , I hope we 're do right . ''
`` We 've nothing to do with it -- we could n't prevent him from come to Four Winds if he want to , '' say Anne quickly .
She do not like the feeling of match-making Miss Cornelia 's whisper give her ; and then she weakly succumb herself .
`` Do n't let Leslie know he be come until he be here , '' she say .
`` If she find out I feel sure she would go away at once .
She intend to go in the fall anyhow -- she tell me so the other day .
She be go to Montreal to take up nursing and make what she can of her life . ''
`` Oh , well , Anne , dearie , '' say Miss Cornelia , nod sagely `` that be all a it may be .
You and I have do our part and we must leave the rest to Higher Hands . ''
CHAPTER 35 POLITICS AT FOUR WINDS When Anne come downstairs again , the Island , as well a all Canada , be in the throe of a campaign precede a general election .
Gilbert , who be an ardent Conservative , find himself caught in the vortex , be much in demand for speech-making at the various county rally .
Miss Cornelia do not approve of his mix up in politics and tell Anne so .
`` Dr. Dave never do it .
Dr. Blythe will find he be make a mistake , believe ME .
Politics be something no decent man should meddle with . ''
`` Is the government of the country to be leave solely to the rogue then ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Yes -- so long a it 's Conservative rogue , '' say Miss Cornelia , march off with the honor of war .
`` Men and politician be all tar with the same brush .
The Grits have it lay on thicker than the Conservatives , that 's all -- CONSIDERABLY thicker .
But Grit or Tory , my advice to Dr. Blythe be to steer clear of politics .
First thing you know , he 'll be run an election himself , and go off to Ottawa for half the year and leave his practice to go to the dog . ''
`` Ah , well , let 's not borrow trouble , '' say Anne .
`` The rate of interest be too high .
Instead , let 's look at Little Jem .
It should be spell with a G. Is n't he perfectly beautiful ?
Just see the dimple in his elbow .
We 'll bring him up to be a good Conservative , you and I , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Bring him up to be a good man , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` They 're scarce and valuable ; though , mind you , I would n't like to see him a Grit .
As for the election , you and I may be thankful we do n't live over harbor .
The air there be blue these day .
Every Elliott and Crawford and MacAllister be on the warpath , load for bear .
This side be peaceful and calm , see there 's so few men .
Captain Jim 's a Grit , but it 's my opinion he 's ashamed of it , for he never talk politics .
There be n't any earthly doubt that the Conservatives will be return with a big majority again . ''
Miss Cornelia be mistake .
On the morning after the election Captain Jim drop in at the little house to tell the news .
So virulent be the microbe of party politics , even in a peaceable old man , that Captain Jim 's cheek be flush and his eye be flash with all his old-time fire .
`` Mistress Blythe , the Liberals be in with a sweeping majority .
After eighteen year of Tory mismanagement this down-trodden country be go to have a chance at last . ''
`` I never hear you make such a bitter partisan speech before , Captain Jim .
I do n't think you have so much political venom in you , '' laugh Anne , who be not much excite over the tidings .
Little Jem have say `` Wow-ga '' that morning .
What be principality and power , the rise and fall of dynasty , the overthrow of Grit or Tory , compare with that miraculous occurrence ?
`` It 's be accumulate for a long while , '' say Captain Jim , with a deprecate smile .
`` I think I be only a moderate Grit , but when the news come that we be in I find out how Gritty I really be . ''
`` You know the doctor and I be Conservatives . ''
`` Ah , well , it 's the only bad thing I know of either of you , Mistress Blythe .
Cornelia be a Tory , too .
I call in on my way from the Glen to tell her the news . ''
`` Did n't you know you take your life in your hand ? ''
`` Yes , but I could n't resist the temptation . ''
`` How do she take it ? ''
`` Comparatively calm , Mistress Blythe , comparatively calm .
She say , say she , ` Well , Providence send season of humiliation to a country , same a to individual .
You Grits have be cold and hungry for many a year .
Make haste to get warmed and fed , for you wo n't be in long . '
` Well , now Cornelia , ' I say , ` mebbe Providence think Canada need a real long spell of humiliation . '
Ah , Susan , have YOU hear the news ?
The Liberals be in . ''
Susan have just come in from the kitchen , attend by the odor of delectable dish which always seem to hover around her .
`` Now , be they ? ''
she say , with beautiful unconcern .
`` Well , I never could see but that my bread rise just as light when Grits be in a when they be not .
And if any party , Mrs . Doctor , dear , will make it rain before the week be out , and save our kitchen garden from entire ruination , that be the party Susan will vote for .
In the meantime , will you just step out and give me your opinion on the meat for dinner ?
I be fear that it be very tough , and I think that we have well change our butcher as well a our government . ''
One evening , a week later , Anne walk down to the Point , to see if she could get some fresh fish from Captain Jim , leave Little Jem for the first time .
It be quite a tragedy .
Suppose he cry ?
Suppose Susan do not know just exactly what to do for him ?
Susan be calm and serene .
`` I have have a much experience with him a you , Mrs . Doctor , dear , have I not ? ''
`` Yes , with him -- but not with other baby .
Why , I look after three pair of twin , when I be a child , Susan .
When they cry , I give them peppermint or castor oil quite coolly .
It 's quite curious now to recall how lightly I take all those baby and their woe . ''
`` Oh , well , if Little Jem cry , I will just clap a hot water bag on his little stomach , '' say Susan .
`` Not too hot , you know , '' say Anne anxiously .
Oh , be it really wise to go ?
`` Do not you fret , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
Susan be not the woman to burn a wee man .
Bless him , he have no notion of cry . ''
Anne tear herself away finally and enjoy her walk to the Point after all , through the long shadow of the sun-setting .
Captain Jim be not in the living room of the lighthouse , but another man be -- a handsome , middle-aged man , with a strong , clean-shaven chin , who be unknown to Anne .
Nevertheless , when she sit down , he begin to talk to her with all the assurance of an old acquaintance .
There be nothing amiss in what he say or the way he say it , but Anne rather resent such a cool taking-for-granted in a complete stranger .
Her reply be frosty , and as few a decency require .
Nothing daunt , her companion talk on for several minute , then excuse himself and go away .
Anne could have swear there be a twinkle in his eye and it annoy her .
Who be the creature ?
There be something vaguely familiar about him but she be certain she have never see him before .
`` Captain Jim , who be that who just go out ? ''
she ask , a Captain Jim come in .
`` Marshall Elliott , '' answer the captain .
`` Marshall Elliott ! ''
cry Anne .
`` Oh , Captain Jim -- it be n't -- yes , it WAS his voice -- oh , Captain Jim , I do n't know him -- and I be quite insulting to him !
WHY do n't he tell me ?
He must have see I do n't know him . ''
`` He would n't say a word about it -- he 'd just enjoy the joke .
Do n't worry over snub him -- he 'll think it fun .
Yes , Marshall 's shave off his beard at last and cut his hair .
His party be in , you know .
I do n't know him myself first time I saw him .
He be up in Carter Flagg 's store at the Glen the night after election day , along with a crowd of others , wait for the news .
About twelve the ` phone come through -- the Liberals be in .
Marshall just get up and walk out -- he do n't cheer or shout -- he leave the others to do that , and they nearly lift the roof off Carter 's store , I reckon .
Of course , all the Tories be over in Raymond Russell 's store .
Not much cheering THERE .
Marshall go straight down the street to the side door of Augustus Palmer 's barber shop .
Augustus be in bed asleep , but Marhall hammer on the door until he get up and come down , want to know what all the racket be about .
`` Come into your shop and do the best job you ever do in your life , Gus , ' say Marshall .
` The Liberals be in and you 're go to barber a good Grit before the sun rise . '
`` Gus be mad a hop -- partly because he 'd be drag out of bed , but more because he 's a Tory .
He vow he would n't shave any man after twelve at night . ''
` You 'll do what I want you to do , sonny , ' say Marshall , ` or I 'll jest turn you over my knee and give you one of those spanking your mother forget . '
`` He 'd have do it , too , and Gus know it , for Marshall be as strong a an ox and Gus be only a midget of a man .
So he give in and tow Marshall in to the shop and go to work .
` Now , ' say he , ` I 'll barber you up , but if you say one word to me about the Grits get in while I 'm do it I 'll cut your throat with this razor , ' say he .
You would n't have think mild little Gus could be so bloodthirsty , would you ?
Shows what party politics will do for a man .
Marshall keep quiet and get his hair and beard dispose of and go home .
When his old housekeeper heard him come upstairs she peek out of her bedroom door to see whether 't be him or the hired boy .
And when she saw a strange man stride down the hall with a candle in his hand she scream blue murder and faint dead away .
They have to send for the doctor before they could bring her to , and it be several day before she could look at Marshall without shake all over . ''
Captain Jim have no fish .
He seldom go out in his boat that summer , and his long tramping expedition be over .
He spend a great deal of his time sit by his seaward window , look out over the gulf , with his swiftly-whitening head lean on his hand .
He sit there tonight for many silent minute , keep some tryst with the past which Anne would not disturb .
Presently he point to the iris of the West : `` That 's beautiful , be n't , it , Mistress Blythe ?
But I wish you could have see the sunrise this morning .
It be a wonderful thing -- wonderful .
I 've see all kind of sunrise come over that gulf .
I 've be all over the world , Mistress Blythe , and take it all in all , I 've never see a finer sight than a summer sunrise over the gulf .
A man ca n't pick his time for die , Mistress Blythe -- jest get to go when the Great Captain give His sailing order .
But if I could I 'd go out when the morning come across that water .
I 've watch it many a time and think what a thing it would be to pass out through that great white glory to whatever be wait beyant , on a sea that ai n't map out on any airthly chart .
I think , Mistress Blythe , that I 'd find lost Margaret there . ''
Captain Jim have often talk to Anne of lose Margaret since he have tell her the old story .
His love for her tremble in every tone -- that love that have never grow faint or forgetful .
`` Anyway , I hope when my time come I 'll go quick and easy .
I do n't think I 'm a coward , Mistress Blythe -- I 've look an ugly death in the face more than once without blench .
But the thought of a linger death do give me a queer , sick feeling of horror . ''
`` Do n't talk about leave u , dear , DEAR Captain , Jim , '' plead Anne , in a choked voice , pat the old brown hand , once so strong , but now grown very feeble .
`` What would we do without you ? ''
Captain Jim smile beautifully .
`` Oh , you 'd get along nicely -- nicely -- but you would n't forget the old man altogether , Mistress Blythe -- no , I do n't think you 'll ever quite forget him .
The race of Joseph always remember one another .
But it 'll be a memory that wo n't hurt -- I like to think that my memory wo n't hurt my friend -- it 'll always be kind of pleasant to them , I hope and believe .
It wo n't be very long now before lose Margaret call me , for the last time .
I 'll be all ready to answer .
I jest spoke of this because there 's a little favor I want to ask you .
Here 's this poor old Matey of mine '' -- Captain Jim reach out a hand and poke the big , warm , velvety , golden ball on the sofa .
The First Mate uncoil himself like a spring with a nice , throaty , comfortable sound , half purr , half meow , stretch his paw in air , turn over and coil himself up again .
`` HE 'll miss me when I start on the V'yage .
I ca n't bear to think of leave the poor critter to starve , like he be leave before .
If anything happen to me will you give Matey a bite and a corner , Mistress Blythe ? ''
`` Indeed I will . ''
`` Then that be all I have on my mind .
Your Little Jem be to have the few curious thing I pick up -- I 've see to that .
And now I do n't like to see tear in those pretty eye , Mistress Blythe .
I 'll mebbe hang on for quite a spell yet .
I hear you read a piece of poetry one day last winter -- one of Tennyson 's piece .
I 'd sorter like to hear it again , if you could recite it for me . ''
Softly and clearly , while the seawind blew in on them , Anne repeat the beautiful line of Tennyson 's wonderful swan song -- `` Crossing the Bar . ''
The old captain keep time gently with his sinewy hand .
`` Yes , yes , Mistress Blythe , '' he say , when she have finish , `` that 's it , that 's it .
He be n't a sailor , you tell me -- I dunno how he could have put an old sailor 's feeling into word like that , if he be n't one .
He do n't want any ` sadness o ' farewell ' and neither do I , Mistress Blythe -- for all will be well with me and mine beyant the bar . ''
CHAPTER 36 BEAUTY FOR ASHES `` Any news from Green Gables , Anne ? ''
`` Nothing very especial , '' reply Anne , fold up Marilla 's letter .
`` Jake Donnell have be there shingle the roof .
He be a full-fledged carpenter now , so it seem he have have his own way in regard to the choice of a life-work .
You remember his mother want him to be a college professor .
I shall never forget the day she come to the school and rat me for fail to call him St. Clair . ''
`` Does anyone ever call him that now ? ''
`` Evidently not .
It seem that he have completely live it down .
Even his mother have succumb .
I always think that a boy with Jake 's chin and mouth would get his own way in the end .
Diana write me that Dora have a beau .
Just think of it -- that child ! ''
`` Dora be seventeen , '' say Gilbert .
`` Charlie Sloane and I be both mad about you when you be seventeen , Anne . ''
`` Really , Gilbert , we must be get on in year , '' say Anne , with a half-rueful smile , `` when child who be six when we think ourselves grow up be old enough now to have beau .
Dora 's be Ralph Andrews -- Jane 's brother .
I remember him a a little , round , fat , white-headed fellow who be always at the foot of his class .
But I understand he be quite a fine-looking young man now . ''
`` Dora will probably marry young .
She 's of the same type a Charlotta the Fourth -- she 'll never miss her first chance for fear she might not get another . ''
`` Well ; if she marry Ralph I hope he will be a little more up-and-coming than his brother Billy , '' muse Anne .
`` For instance , '' say Gilbert , laughing , `` let u hope he will be able to propose on his own account .
Anne , would you have marry Billy if he have ask you himself , instead of get Jane to do it for him ? ''
`` I might have . ''
Anne go off into a shriek of laughter over the recollection of her first proposal .
`` The shock of the whole thing might have hypnotize me into some such rash and foolish act .
Let u be thankful he do it by proxy . ''
`` I have a letter from George Moore yesterday , '' say Leslie , from the corner where she be read .
`` Oh , how be he ? ''
ask Anne interestedly , yet with an unreal feeling that she be inquire about some one whom she do not know .
`` He be well , but he find it very hard to adapt himself to all the change in his old home and friend .
He be go to sea again in the spring .
It 's in his blood , he say , and he long for it .
But he tell me something that make me glad for him , poor fellow .
Before he sail on the Four Sisters he be engage to a girl at home .
He do not tell me anything about her in Montreal , because he say he suppose she would have forget him and marry someone else long ago , and with him , you see , his engagement and love be still a thing of the present .
It be pretty hard on him , but when he get home he find she have never marry and still care for him .
They be to be marry this fall .
I 'm go to ask him to bring her over here for a little trip ; he say he want to come and see the place where he live so many year without know it . ''
`` What a nice little romance , '' say Anne , whose love for the romantic be immortal .
`` And to think , '' she add with a sigh of self-reproach , `` that if I have have my way George Moore would never have come up from the grave in which his identity be bury .
How I do fight against Gilbert 's suggestion !
Well , I be punish : I shall never be able to have a different opinion from Gilbert 's again !
If I try to have , he will squelch me by cast George Moore 's case up to me ! ''
`` As if even that would squelch a woman ! ''
mock Gilbert .
`` At least do not become my echo , Anne .
A little opposition give spice to life .
I do not want a wife like John MacAllister 's over the harbor .
No matter what he say , she at once remark in that drab , lifeless little voice of hers , ` That be very true , John , dear me ! ' ''
Anne and Leslie laugh .
Anne 's laughter be silver and Leslie 's golden , and the combination of the two be as satisfactory a a perfect chord in music .
Susan , come in on the heel of the laughter , echo it with a resounding sigh .
`` Why , Susan , what be the matter ? ''
ask Gilbert .
`` There 's nothing wrong with little Jem , be there , Susan ? ''
cry Anne , start up in alarm .
`` No , no , calm yourself , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
Something have happen , though .
Dear me , everything have go catawampus with me this week .
I spoil the bread , a you know too well -- and I scorch the doctor 's best shirt bosom -- and I break your big platter .
And now , on the top of all this , come word that my sister Matilda have break her leg and want me to go and stay with her for a spell . ''
`` Oh , I 'm very sorry -- sorry that your sister have meet with such an accident , I mean , '' exclaim Anne .
`` Ah , well , man be make to mourn , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
That sound a if it ought to be in the Bible , but they tell me a person name Burns write it .
And there be no doubt that we be bear to trouble a the spark fly upward .
As for Matilda , I do not know what to think of her .
None of our family ever break their leg before .
But whatever she have do she be still my sister , and I feel that it be my duty to go and wait on her , if you can spare me for a few week , Mrs . Doctor , dear . ''
`` Of course , Susan , of course .
I can get someone to help me while you be go . ''
`` If you can not I will not go , Mrs . Doctor , dear , Matilda 's leg to the contrary notwithstanding .
I will not have you worry , and that bless child upset in consequence , for any number of leg . ''
`` Oh , you must go to your sister at once , Susan .
I can get a girl from the cove , who will do for a time . ''
`` Anne , will you let me come and stay with you while Susan be away ? ''
exclaim Leslie .
`` Do !
I 'd love to -- and it would be an act of charity on your part .
I 'm so horribly lonely over there in that big barn of a house .
There 's so little to do -- and at night I 'm bad than lonely -- I 'm frightened and nervous in spite of locked door .
There be a tramp around two day ago . ''
Anne joyfully agree , and next day Leslie be instal a an inmate of the little house of dream .
Miss Cornelia warmly approve of the arrangement .
`` It seem Providential , '' she tell Anne in confidence .
`` I 'm sorry for Matilda Clow , but since she have to break her leg it could n't have happen at a good time .
Leslie will be here while Owen Ford be in Four Winds , and those old cat up at the Glen wo n't get the chance to meow , a they would if she be live over there alone and Owen go to see her .
They be do enough of it a it be , because she do n't put on mourning .
I say to one of them , ` If you mean she should put on mourn for George Moore , it seem to me more like his resurrection than his funeral ; and if it 's Dick you mean , I confess I ca n't see the propriety of go into weed for a man who die thirteen year ago and good riddance then ! '
And when old Louisa Baldwin remark to me that she think it very strange that Leslie should never have suspect it be n't her own husband I say , ` YOU never suspect it be n't Dick Moore , and you be next-door neighbor to him all his life , and by nature you 're ten time as suspicious a Leslie . '
But you ca n't stop some people 's tongue , Anne , dearie , and I 'm real thankful Leslie will be under your roof while Owen be court her . ''
Owen Ford come to the little house one August evening when Leslie and Anne be absorb in worship the baby .
He pause at the open door of the living room , unseen by the two within , gaze with greedy eye at the beautiful picture .
Leslie sit on the floor with the baby in her lap , make ecstatic dab at his fat little hand a he flutter them in the air .
`` Oh , you dear , beautiful , beloved baby , '' she mumble , catch one wee hand and cover it with kiss .
`` Is n't him ze darling itty sing , '' croon Anne , hang over the arm of her chair adoringly .
`` Dem itty wee pad be ze very tweetest handy in ze whole big world , be n't dey , you darling itty man . ''
Anne , in the month before Little Jem 's coming , have pore diligently over several wise volume , and pin her faith to one in especial , `` Sir Oracle on the Care and Training of Children . ''
Sir Oracle implore parent by all they hold sacred never to talk `` baby talk '' to their child .
Infants should invariably be address in classical language from the moment of their birth .
So should they learn to speak English undefiled from their early utterance .
`` How , '' demand Sir Oracle , `` can a mother reasonably expect her child to learn correct speech , when she continually accustom it impressionable gray matter to such absurd expression and distortion of our noble tongue a thoughtless mother inflict every day on the helpless creature commit to their care ?
Can a child who be constantly call ` tweet itty wee singie ' ever attain to any proper conception of his own be and possibility and destiny ? ''
Anne be vastly impress with this , and inform Gilbert that she mean to make it an inflexible rule never , under any circumstance , to talk `` baby talk '' to her child .
Gilbert agree with her , and they make a solemn compact on the subject -- a compact which Anne shamelessly violate the very first moment Little Jem be lay in her arm .
`` Oh , the darling itty wee sing ! ''
she have exclaim .
And she have continue to violate it ever since .
When Gilbert tease her she laugh Sir Oracle to scorn .
`` He never have any child of his own , Gilbert -- I be positive he have n't or he would never have write such rubbish .
You just ca n't help talk baby talk to a baby .
It come natural -- and it 's RIGHT .
It would be inhuman to talk to those tiny , soft , velvety little creature a we do to great big boy and girl .
Babies want love and cuddling and all the sweet baby talk they can get , and Little Jem be go to have it , bless his dear itty heartums . ''
`` But you 're the bad I ever hear , Anne , '' protest Gilbert , who , not be a mother but only a father , be not wholly convinced yet that Sir Oracle be wrong .
`` I never hear anything like the way you talk to that child . ''
`` Very likely you never do .
Go away -- go away .
Did n't I bring up three pair of Hammond twin before I be eleven ?
You and Sir Oracle be nothing but cold-blooded theorist .
Gilbert , JUST look at him !
He 's smile at me -- he know what we 're talk about .
And oo d agwees wif evy word muzzer say , do n't oo , angel-lover ? ''
Gilbert put his arm about them .
`` Oh you mother ! ''
he say .
`` You mother !
God know what He be about when He make you . ''
So Little Jem be talk to and love and cuddle ; and he thrive a become a child of the house of dream .
Leslie be quite a foolish over him a Anne be .
When their work be do and Gilbert be out of the way , they give themselves over to shameless orgy of love-making and ecstasy of adoration , such a that in which Owen Ford have surprise them .
Leslie be the first to become aware of him .
Even in the twilight Anne could see the sudden whiteness that sweep over her beautiful face , blot out the crimson of lip and cheek .
Owen come forward , eagerly , blind for a moment to Anne .
`` Leslie ! ''
he say , hold out his hand .
It be the first time he have ever call her by her name ; but the hand Leslie give him be cold ; and she be very quiet all the evening , while Anne and Gilbert and Owen laugh and talk together .
Before his call end she excuse herself and go upstairs .
Owen 's gay spirit flag and he go away soon after with a downcast air .
Gilbert look at Anne .
`` Anne , what be you up to ?
There 's something go on that I do n't understand .
The whole air here tonight have be charge with electricity .
Leslie sit like the muse of tragedy ; Owen Ford joke and laugh on the surface , and watch Leslie with the eye of his soul .
You seem all the time to be burst with some suppressed excitement .
Own up .
What secret have you be keep from your deceive husband ? ''
`` Do n't be a goose , Gilbert , '' be Anne 's conjugal reply .
`` As for Leslie , she be absurd and I 'm go up to tell her so . ''
Anne find Leslie at the dormer window of her room .
The little place be fill with the rhythmic thunder of the sea .
Leslie sit with locked hand in the misty moonshine -- a beautiful , accuse presence .
`` Anne , '' she say in a low , reproachful voice , `` do you know Owen Ford be come to Four Winds ? ''
`` I do , '' say Anne brazenly .
`` Oh , you should have tell me , Anne , '' Leslie cry passionately .
`` If I have know I would have go away -- I would n't have stay here to meet him .
You should have tell me .
It be n't fair of you , Anne -- oh , it be n't fair ! ''
Leslie 's lip be tremble and her whole form be tense with emotion .
But Anne laugh heartlessly .
She bend over and kiss Leslie 's upturned reproachful face .
`` Leslie , you be an adorable goose .
Owen Ford do n't rush from the Pacific to the Atlantic from a burn desire to see ME .
Neither do I believe that he be inspire by any wild and frenzied passion for Miss Cornelia .
Take off your tragic air , my dear friend , and fold them up and put them away in lavender .
You 'll never need them again .
There be some people who can see through a grindstone when there be a hole in it , even if you can not .
I be not a prophetess , but I shall venture on a prediction .
The bitterness of life be over for you .
After this you be go to have the joy and hope -- and I daresay the sorrow , too -- of a happy woman .
The omen of the shadow of Venus do come true for you , Leslie .
The year in which you saw it bring your life 's best gift for you -- your love for Owen Ford .
Now , go right to bed and have a good sleep . ''
Leslie obey order in so far that she go to bed : but it may be question if she sleep much .
I do not think she dare to dream wakingly ; life have be so hard for this poor Leslie , the path on which she have have to walk have be so strait , that she could not whisper to her own heart the hope that might wait on the future .
But she watch the great revolving light bestarring the short hour of the summer night , and her eye grow soft and bright and young once more .
Nor , when Owen Ford come next day , to ask her to go with him to the shore , do she say him nay .
CHAPTER 37 MISS CORNELIA MAKES A STARTLING ANNOUNCEMENT Miss Cornelia sail down to the little house one drowsy afternoon , when the gulf be the faint , bleach blue of the August sea , and the orange lily at the gate of Anne 's garden hold up their imperial cup to be fill with the molten gold of August sunshine .
Not that Miss Cornelia concern herself with paint ocean or sun-thirsty lily .
She sit in her favorite rocker in unusual idleness .
She sew not , neither do she spin .
Nor do she say a single derogatory word concern any portion of mankind .
In short , Miss Cornelia 's conversation be singularly devoid of spice that day , and Gilbert , who have stay home to listen to her , instead of go a-fishing , a he have intend , felt himself aggrieve .
What have come over Miss Cornelia ?
She do not look cast down or worried .
On the contrary , there be a certain air of nervous exultation about her .
`` Where be Leslie ? ''
she ask -- not a if it matter much either .
`` Owen and she go raspberrying in the wood back of her farm , '' answer Anne .
`` They wo n't be back before supper time -- if then . ''
`` They do n't seem to have any idea that there be such a thing a a clock , '' say Gilbert .
`` I ca n't get to the bottom of that affair .
I 'm certain you woman pull string .
But Anne , undutiful wife , wo n't tell me .
Will you , Miss Cornelia ? ''
`` No , I shall not .
But , '' say Miss Cornelia , with the air of one determine to take the plunge and have it over , `` I will tell you something else .
I come today on purpose to tell it .
I be go to be marry . ''
Anne and Gilbert be silent .
If Miss Cornelia have announce her intention of go out to the channel and drown herself the thing might have be believable .
This be not .
So they wait .
Of course Miss Cornelia have make a mistake .
`` Well , you both look sort of kerflummexed , '' say Miss Cornelia , with a twinkle in her eye .
Now that the awkward moment of revelation be over , Miss Cornelia be her own woman again .
`` Do you think I 'm too young and inexperienced for matrimony ? ''
`` You know -- it IS rather staggering , '' say Gilbert , try to gather his wit together .
`` I 've hear you say a score of time that you would n't marry the best man in the world . ''
`` I 'm not go to marry the best man in the world , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` Marshall Elliott be a long way from be the best . ''
`` Are you go to marry Marshall Elliott ? ''
exclaim Anne , recover her power of speech under this second shock .
`` Yes .
I could have have him any time these twenty year if I 'd lift my finger .
But do you suppose I be go to walk into church beside a perambulating haystack like that ? ''
`` I be sure we be very glad -- and we wish you all possible happiness , '' say Anne , very flatly and inadequately , a she felt .
She be not prepared for such an occasion .
She have never imagine herself offer betrothal felicitation to Miss Cornelia .
`` Thanks , I know you would , '' say Miss Cornelia .
`` You be the first of my friend to know it . ''
`` We shall be so sorry to lose you , though , dear Miss Cornelia , '' say Anne , begin to be a little sad and sentimental .
`` Oh , you wo n't lose me , '' say Miss Cornelia unsentimentally .
`` You do n't suppose I would live over harbor with all those MacAllisters and Elliotts and Crawfords , do you ?
` From the conceit of the Elliotts , the pride of the MacAllisters and the vain-glory of the Crawfords , good Lord deliver u . '
Marshall be come to live at my place .
I 'm sick and tired of hired men .
That Jim Hastings I 've get this summer be positively the bad of the specie .
He would drive anyone to get marry .
What do you think ?
He upset the churn yesterday and spill a big churning of cream over the yard .
And not one whit concern about it be he !
Just give a foolish laugh and say cream be good for the land .
Was n't that like a man ?
I tell him I be n't in the habit of fertilise my back yard with cream . ''
`` Well , I wish you all manner of happiness too , Miss Cornelia , '' say Gilbert , solemnly ; `` but , '' he add , unable to resist the temptation to tease Miss Cornelia , despite Anne 's imploring eye , `` I fear your day of independence be do .
As you know , Marshall Elliott be a very determined man . ''
`` I like a man who can stick to a thing , '' retort Miss Cornelia .
`` Amos Grant , who use to be after me long ago , could n't .
You never saw such a weather-vane .
He jump into the pond to drown himself once and then change his mind and swim out again .
Was n't that like a man ?
Marshall would have stick to it and drown . ''
`` And he have a bit of a temper , they tell me , '' persist Gilbert .
`` He would n't be an Elliott if he have n't .
I 'm thankful he have .
It will be real fun to make him mad .
And you can generally do something with a tempery man when it come to repenting time .
But you ca n't do anything with a man who just keep placid and aggravating . ''
`` You know he 's a Grit , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Yes , he IS , '' admit Miss Cornelia rather sadly .
`` And of course there be no hope of make a Conservative of him .
But at least he be a Presbyterian .
So I suppose I shall have to be satisfy with that . ''
`` Would you marry him if he be a Methodist , Miss Cornelia ? ''
`` No , I would not .
Politics be for this world , but religion be for both . ''
`` And you may be a ` relict ' after all , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Not I. Marshall will live me out .
The Elliotts be long-lived , and the Bryants be not . ''
`` When be you to be marry ? ''
ask Anne .
`` In about a month 's time .
My wedding dress be to be navy blue silk .
And I want to ask you , Anne , dearie , if you think it would be all right to wear a veil with a navy blue dress .
I 've always think I 'd like to wear a veil if I ever get marry .
Marshall say to have it if I want to .
Is n't that like a man ? ''
`` Why should n't you wear it if you want to ? ''
ask Anne .
`` Well , one do n't want to be different from other people , '' say Miss Cornelia , who be not noticeably like anyone else on the face of the earth .
`` As I say , I do fancy a veil .
But maybe it should n't be wear with any dress but a white one .
Please tell me , Anne , dearie , what you really think .
I 'll go by your advice . ''
`` I do n't think veil be usually wear with any but white dress , '' admit Anne , `` but that be merely a convention ; and I be like Mr. Elliott , Miss Cornelia .
I do n't see any good reason why you should n't have a veil if you want one . ''
But Miss Cornelia , who make her call in calico wrapper , shake her head .
`` If it be n't the proper thing I wo n't wear it , '' she say , with a sigh of regret for a lost dream .
`` Since you be determine to be marry , Miss Cornelia , '' say Gilbert solemnly , `` I shall give you the excellent rule for the management of a husband which my grandmother give my mother when she marry my father . ''
`` Well , I reckon I can manage Marshall Elliott , '' say Miss Cornelia placidly .
`` But let u hear your rule . ''
`` The first one be , catch him . ''
`` He 's caught .
Go on . ''
`` The second one be , fee him well . ''
`` With enough pie .
What next ? ''
`` The third and fourth be -- keep your eye on him . ''
`` I believe you , '' say Miss Cornelia emphatically .
CHAPTER 38 RED ROSES The garden of the little house be a haunt beloved of bee and redden by late rose that August .
The little house folk live much in it , and be give to take picnic supper in the grassy corner beyond the brook and sit about in it through the twilight when great night moth sail athwart the velvet gloom .
One evening Owen Ford find Leslie alone in it .
Anne and Gilbert be away , and Susan , who be expect back that night , have not yet return .
The northern sky be amber and pale green over the fir top .
The air be cool , for August be near September , and Leslie wear a crimson scarf over her white dress .
Together they wander through the little , friendly , flower-crowded path in silence .
Owen must go soon .
His holiday be nearly over .
Leslie find her heart beating wildly .
She know that this beloved garden be to be the scene of the binding word that must seal their a yet unworded understanding .
`` Some evening a strange odor blow down the air of this garden , like a phantom perfume , '' say Owen .
`` I have never be able to discover from just what flower it come .
It be elusive and haunting and wonderfully sweet .
I like to fancy it be the soul of Grandmother Selwyn pass on a little visit to the old spot she love so well .
There should be a lot of friendly ghost about this little old house . ''
`` I have live under it roof only a month , '' say Leslie , `` but I love it a I never love the house over there where I have live all my life . ''
`` This house be build and consecrate by love , '' say Owen .
`` Such house , MUST exert an influence over those who live in them .
And this garden -- it be over sixty year old and the history of a thousand hope and joy be write in it blossom .
Some of those flower be actually set out by the schoolmaster 's bride , and she have be dead for thirty year .
Yet they bloom on every summer .
Look at those red rose , Leslie -- how they queen it over everything else ! ''
`` I love the red rose , '' say Leslie .
`` Anne like the pink one best , and Gilbert like the white .
But I want the crimson one .
They satisfy some craving in me a no other flower do . ''
`` These rose be very late -- they bloom after all the others have go -- and they hold all the warmth and soul of the summer come to fruition , '' say Owen , pluck some of the glowing , half-opened bud .
`` The rise be the flower of love -- the world have acclaim it so for century .
The pink rose be love hopeful and expectant -- the white rose be love dead or forsaken -- but the red rose -- ah , Leslie , what be the red rose ? ''
`` Love triumphant , '' say Leslie in a low voice .
`` Yes -- love triumphant and perfect .
Leslie , you know -- you understand .
I have love you from the first .
And I KNOW you love me -- I do n't need to ask you .
But I want to hear you say it -- my darling -- my darling ! ''
Leslie say something in a very low and tremulous voice .
Their hand and lip meet ; it be life 's supreme moment for them and a they stand there in the old garden , with it many year of love and delight and sorrow and glory , he crown her shin hair with the red , red rise of a love triumphant .
Anne and Gilbert return presently , accompany by Captain Jim .
Anne light a few stick of driftwood in the fireplace , for love of the pixy flame , and they sit around it for an hour of good fellowship .
`` When I sit look at a driftwood fire it 's easy to believe I 'm young again , '' say Captain Jim .
`` Can you read future in the fire , Captain Jim ? ''
ask Owen .
Captain Jim look at them all affectionately and then back again at Leslie 's vivid face and glowing eye .
`` I do n't need the fire to read your future , '' he say .
`` I see happiness for all of you -- all of you -- for Leslie and Mr. Ford -- and the doctor here and Mistress Blythe -- and Little Jem -- and child that ai n't bear yet but will be .
Happiness for you all -- though , mind you , I reckon you 'll have your trouble and worry and sorrow , too .
They 're bind to come -- and no house , whether it 's a palace or a little house of dream , can bar 'em out .
But they wo n't get the good of you if you face 'em TOGETHER with love and trust .
You can weather any storm with them two for compass and pilot . ''
The old man rise suddenly and place one hand on Leslie 's head and one on Anne 's .
`` Two good , sweet woman , '' he say .
`` True and faithful and to be depend on .
Your husband will have honor in the gate because of you -- your child will rise up and call you bless in the year to come . ''
There be a strange solemnity about the little scene .
Anne and Leslie bow a those receive a benediction .
Gilbert suddenly brush his hand over his eye ; Owen Ford be rapt a one who can see vision .
All be silent for a space .
The little house of dream add another poignant and unforgettable moment to it store of memory .
`` I must be go now , '' say Captain Jim slowly at last .
He take up his hat and look lingeringly about the room .
`` Good night , all of you , '' he say , a he go out .
Anne , pierce by the unusual wistfulness of his farewell , run to the door after him .
`` Come back soon , Captain Jim , '' she call , a he pass through the little gate hung between the fir .
`` Ay , ay , '' he call cheerily back to her .
But Captain Jim have sit by the old fireside of the house of dream for the last time .
Anne go slowly back to the others .
`` It 's so -- so pitiful to think of him go all alone down to that lonely Point , '' she say .
`` And there be no one to welcome him there . ''
`` Captain Jim be such good company for others that one ca n't imagine him be anything but good company for himself , '' say Owen .
`` But he must often be lonely .
There be a touch of the seer about him tonight -- he speak a one to whom it have be give to speak .
Well , I must be go , too . ''
Anne and Gilbert discreetly melt away ; but when Owen have go Anne return , to find Leslie standing by the hearth .
`` Oh , Leslie -- I know -- and I 'm so glad , dear , '' she say , put her arm about her .
`` Anne , my happiness frightens me , '' whisper Leslie .
`` It seem too great to be real -- I 'm afraid to speak of it -- to think of it .
It seem to me that it must just be another dream of this house of dream and it will vanish when I leave here . ''
`` Well , you be not go to leave here -- until Owen take you .
You be go to stay with me until that time come .
Do you think I 'd let you go over to that lonely , sad place again ? ''
`` Thank you , dear .
I mean to ask you if I might stay with you .
I do n't want to go back there -- it would seem like go back into the chill and dreariness of the old life again .
Anne , Anne , what a friend you 've be to me -- ' a good , sweet woman -- true and faithful and to be depend on ' -- Captain Jim sum you up . ''
`` He say ` woman , ' not ` woman , ' '' smile Anne .
`` Perhaps Captain Jim see u both through the rose-colored spectacle of his love for u .
But we can try to live up to his belief in u , at least . ''
`` Do you remember , Anne , '' say Leslie slowly , `` that I once say -- that night we meet on the shore -- that I hat my good look ?
I do -- then .
It always seem to me that if I have be homely Dick would never have think of me .
I hat my beauty because it have attract him , but now -- oh , I 'm glad that I have it .
It 's all I have to offer Owen , -- his artist soul delight in it .
I feel a if I do not come to him quite empty-handed . ''
`` Owen love your beauty , Leslie .
Who would not ?
But it 's foolish of you to say or think that that be all you bring him .
HE will tell you that -- I need n't .
And now I must lock up .
I expect Susan back tonight , but she have not come . ''
`` Oh , yes , here I be , Mrs . Doctor , dear , '' say Susan , enter unexpectedly from the kitchen , `` and puff like a hen draw rail at that !
It 's quite a walk from the Glen down here . ''
`` I 'm glad to see you back , Susan .
How be your sister ? ''
`` She be able to sit up , but of course she can not walk yet .
However , she be very well able to get on without me now , for her daughter have come home for her vacation .
And I be thankful to be back , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
Matilda 's leg be break and no mistake , but her tongue be not .
She would talk the leg off an iron pot , that she would , Mrs . Doctor , dear , though I grieve to say it of my own sister .
She be always a great talker and yet she be the first of our family to get marry .
She really do not care much about marry James Clow , but she could not bear to disoblige him .
Not but what James be a good man -- the only fault I have to find with him be that he always start in to say grace with such an unearthly groan , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
It always frighten my appetite clear away .
And speaking of get marry , Mrs . Doctor , dear , be it true that Cornelia Bryant be go to be marry to Marshall Elliott ? ''
`` Yes , quite true , Susan . ''
`` Well , Mrs . Doctor , dear , it do NOT seem to me fair .
Here be me , who never say a word against the men , and I can not get married nohow .
And there be Cornelia Bryant , who be never do abuse them , and all she have to do be to reach out her hand and pick one up , a it be .
It be a very strange world , Mrs . Doctor , dear . ''
`` There 's another world , you know , Susan . ''
`` Yes , '' say Susan with a heavy sigh , `` but , Mrs . Doctor , dear , there be neither marry nor give in marriage there . ''
CHAPTER 39 CAPTAIN JIM CROSSES THE BAR One day in late September Owen Ford 's book come at last .
Captain Jim have go faithfully to the Glen post office every day for a month , expect it .
This day he have not go , and Leslie bring his copy home with hers and Anne 's .
`` We 'll take it down to him this evening , '' say Anne , excite a a schoolgirl .
The long walk to the Point on that clear , beguile even along the red harbor road be very pleasant .
Then the sun drop down behind the western hill into some valley that must have be full of lose sunset , and at the same instant the big light flash out on the white tower of the point .
`` Captain Jim be never late by the fraction of a second , '' say Leslie .
Neither Anne nor Leslie ever forget Captain Jim 's face when they give him the book -- HIS book , transfigure and glorify .
The cheek that have be blanch of late suddenly flame with the color of boyhood ; his eye glow with all the fire of youth ; but his hand tremble a he open it .
It be call simply The Life-Book of Captain Jim , and on the title page the name of Owen Ford and James Boyd be print a collaborator .
The frontispiece be a photograph of Captain Jim himself , stand at the door of the lighthouse , look across the gulf .
Owen Ford have `` snap '' him one day while the book be be write .
Captain Jim have know this , but he have not know that the picture be to be in the book .
`` Just think of it , '' he say , `` the old sailor right there in a real printed book .
This be the proud day of my life .
I 'm like to bust , girl .
There 'll be no sleep for me tonight .
I 'll read my book clean through before sun-up . ''
`` We 'll go right away and leave you free to begin it , '' say Anne .
Captain Jim have be handle the book in a kind of reverent rapture .
Now he decidedly close it and lay it aside .
`` No , no , you 're not go away before you take a cup of tea with the old man , '' he protest .
`` I could n't hear to that -- could you , Matey ?
The life-book will keep , I reckon .
I 've wait for it this many a year .
I can wait a little long while I 'm enjoy my friend . ''
Captain Jim move about get his kettle on to boil , and set out his bread and butter .
Despite his excitement he do not move with his old briskness .
His movement be slow and halting .
But the girl do not offer to help him .
They know it would hurt his feeling .
`` You just pick the right evening to visit me , '' he say , produce a cake from his cupboard .
`` Leetle Joe 's mother send me down a big basket full of cake and pie today .
A blessing on all good cook , say I . Look at this purty cake , all frosting and nut .
` Tai n't often I can entertain in such style .
Set in , girl , set in !
We 'll ` tak a cup o ' kindness yet for auld lang syne . ' ''
The girl `` set in '' right merrily .
The tea be up to Captain Jim 's best brewing .
Little Joe 's mother 's cake be the last word in cake ; Captain Jim be the prince of gracious host , never even permit his eye to wander to the corner where the life-book lay , in all it bravery of green and gold .
But when his door finally close behind Anne and Leslie they know that he go straight to it , and a they walk home they picture the delight of the old man poring over the printed page wherein his own life be portray with all the charm and color of reality itself .
`` I wonder how he will like the end -- the end I suggest , '' say Leslie .
She be never to know .
Early the next morning Anne awaken to find Gilbert bending over her , fully dress , and with an expression of anxiety on his face .
`` Are you call out ? ''
she ask drowsily .
`` No .
Anne , I 'm afraid there 's something wrong at the Point .
It 's an hour after sunrise now , and the light be still burn .
You know it have always be a matter of pride with Captain Jim to start the light the moment the sun set , and put it out the moment it rise . ''
Anne sit up in dismay .
Through her window she saw the light blink palely against the blue sky of dawn .
`` Perhaps he have fall asleep over his life-book , '' she say anxiously , `` or become so absorbed in it that he have forget the light . ''
Gilbert shake his head .
`` That would n't be like Captain Jim .
Anyway , I 'm go down to see . ''
`` Wait a minute and I 'll go with you , '' exclaim Anne .
`` Oh , yes , I must -- Little Jem will sleep for an hour yet , and I 'll call Susan .
You may need a woman 's help if Captain Jim be ill . ''
It be an exquisite morning , full of tint and sound at once ripe and delicate .
The harbor be sparkle and dimple like a girl ; white gull be soar over the dune ; beyond the bar be a shining , wonderful sea .
The long field by the shore be dewy and fresh in that first fine , purely-tinted light .
The wind come dance and whistle up the channel to replace the beautiful silence with a music more beautiful still .
Had it not be for the baleful star on the white tower that early walk would have be a delight to Anne and Gilbert .
But they go softly with fear .
Their knock be not respond to .
Gilbert open the door and they go in .
The old room be very quiet .
On the table be the remnant of the little evening feast .
The lamp still burn on the corner stand .
The First Mate be asleep in a square of sunshine by the sofa .
Captain Jim lay on the sofa , with his hand clasp over the life-book , open at the last page , lie on his breast .
His eye be close and on his face be a look of the most perfect peace and happiness -- the look of one who have long seek and find at last .
`` He be asleep ? ''
whisper Anne tremulously .
Gilbert go to the sofa and bent over him for a few moment .
Then he straighten up .
`` Yes , he sleep -- well , '' he add quietly .
`` Anne , Captain Jim have cross the bar . ''
They could not know precisely at what hour he have die , but Anne always believe that he have have his wish , and go out when the morning come across the gulf .
Out on that shin tide his spirit drift , over the sunrise sea of pearl and silver , to the haven where lose Margaret wait , beyond the storm and calm .
CHAPTER 40 FAREWELL TO THE HOUSE OF DREAMS Captain Jim be bury in the little over-harbor graveyard , very near to the spot where the wee white lady slept .
His relative put up a very expensive , very ugly `` monument '' -- a monument at which he would have poke sly fun have he see it in life .
But his real monument be in the heart of those who know him , and in the book that be to live for generation .
Leslie mourn that Captain Jim have not live to see the amazing success of it .
`` How he would have delight in the review -- they be almost all so kindly .
And to have see his life-book head the list of the best seller -- oh , if he could just have live to see it , Anne ! ''
But Anne , despite her grief , be wiser .
`` It be the book itself he care for , Leslie -- not what might be say of it -- and he have it .
He have read it all through .
That last night must have be one of the great happiness for him -- with the quick , painless end he have hop for in the morning .
I be glad for Owen 's sake and yours that the book be such a success -- but Captain Jim be satisfy -- I KNOW . ''
The lighthouse star still keep a nightly vigil ; a substitute keeper have be send to the Point , until such time a an all-wise government could decide which of many applicant be best fit for the place -- or have the strong pull .
The First Mate be at home in the little house , beloved by Anne and Gilbert and Leslie , and tolerate by a Susan who have small liking for cat .
`` I can put up with him for the sake of Captain Jim , Mrs . Doctor , dear , for I like the old man .
And I will see that he get bite and sup , and every mouse the trap account for .
But do not ask me to do more than that , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
Cats be cat , and take my word for it , they will never be anything else .
And at least , Mrs . Doctor , dear , do keep him away from the bless wee man .
Picture to yourself how awful it would be if he be to suck the darling 's breath . ''
`` That might be fitly call a CAT-astrophe , '' say Gilbert .
`` Oh , you may laugh , doctor , dear , but it would be no laughing matter . ''
`` Cats never suck baby ' breath , '' say Gilbert .
`` That be only an old superstition , Susan . ''
`` Oh , well , it may be a superstition or it may not , doctor , dear .
All that I know be , it have happen .
My sister 's husband 's nephew 's wife 's cat suck their baby 's breath , and the poor innocent be all but go when they find it .
And superstition or not , if I find that yellow beast lurking near our baby I will whack him with the poker , Mrs . Doctor , dear . ''
Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Elliott be live comfortably and harmoniously in the green house .
Leslie be busy with sewing , for she and Owen be to be marry at Christmas .
Anne wonder what she would do when Leslie be go .
`` Changes come all the time .
Just as soon a thing get really nice they change , '' she say with a sigh .
`` The old Morgan place up at the Glen be for sale , '' say Gilbert , apropos of nothing in especial .
`` Is it ? ''
ask Anne indifferently .
`` Yes .
Now that Mr. Morgan have go , Mrs. Morgan want to go to live with her child in Vancouver .
She will sell cheaply , for a big place like that in a small village like the Glen will not be very easy to dispose of . ''
`` Well , it 's certainly a beautiful place , so it be likely she will find a purchaser , '' say Anne , absently , wonder whether she should hemstitch or feather-stitch little Jem 's `` short '' dress .
He be to be shorten the next week , and Anne felt ready to cry at the thought of it .
`` Suppose we buy it , Anne ? ''
remark Gilbert quietly .
Anne drop her sewing and star at him .
`` You 're not in earnest , Gilbert ? ''
`` Indeed I be , dear . ''
`` And leave this darling spot -- our house of dream ? ''
say Anne incredulously .
`` Oh , Gilbert , it 's -- it 's unthinkable ! ''
`` Listen patiently to me , dear .
I know just how you feel about it .
I feel the same .
But we 've always know we would have to move some day . ''
`` Oh , but not so soon , Gilbert -- not just yet . ''
`` We may never get such a chance again .
If we do n't buy the Morgan place someone else will -- and there be no other house in the Glen we would care to have , and no other really good site on which to build .
This little house be -- well , it be and have be what no other house can ever be to u , I admit , but you know it be out-of-the-way down here for a doctor .
We have felt the inconvenience , though we 've make the best of it .
And it 's a tight fit for u now .
Perhaps , in a few year , when Jem want a room of his own , it will be entirely too small . ''
`` Oh , I know -- I know , '' say Anne , tear fill her eye .
`` I know all that can be say against it , but I love it so -- and it 's so beautiful here . ''
`` You would find it very lonely here after Leslie go -- and Captain Jim have go too .
The Morgan place be beautiful , and in time we would love it .
You know you have always admire it , Anne . ''
`` Oh , yes , but -- but -- this have all seem to come up so suddenly , Gilbert .
I 'm dizzy .
Ten minute ago I have no thought of leave this dear spot .
I be plan what I mean to do for it in the spring -- what I mean to do in the garden .
And if we leave this place who will get it ?
It IS out-of-the-way , so it 's likely some poor , shiftless , wander family will rent it -- and over-run it -- and oh , that would be desecration .
It would hurt me horribly . ''
`` I know .
But we can not sacrifice our own interest to such consideration , Anne-girl .
The Morgan place will suit u in every essential particular -- we really ca n't afford to miss such a chance .
Think of that big lawn with those magnificent old tree ; and of that splendid hardwood grove behind it -- twelve acre of it .
What a play place for our child !
There 's a fine orchard , too , and you 've always admire that high brick wall around the garden with the door in it -- you 've think it be so like a story-book garden .
And there be almost a fine a view of the harbor and the dune from the Morgan place a from here . ''
`` You ca n't see the lighthouse star from it . ''
`` Yes , You can see it from the attic window .
THERE 'S another advantage , Anne-girl -- you love big garret . ''
`` There 's no brook in the garden . ''
`` Well , no , but there be one run through the maple grove into the Glen pond .
And the pond itself be n't far away .
You 'll be able to fancy you have your own Lake of Shining Waters again . ''
`` Well , do n't say anything more about it just now , Gilbert .
Give me time to think -- to get use to the idea . ''
`` All right .
There be no great hurry , of course .
Only -- if we decide to buy , it would be well to be move in and settle before winter . ''
Gilbert go out , and Anne put away Little Jem 's short dress with tremble hand .
She could not sew any more that day .
With tear-wet eye she wander over the little domain where she have reign so happy a queen .
The Morgan place be all that Gilbert claim .
The ground be beautiful , the house old enough to have dignity and repose and tradition , and new enough to be comfortable and up-to-date .
Anne have always admire it ; but admire be not loving ; and she love this house of dream so much .
She love EVERYTHING about it -- the garden she have tend , and which so many woman have tend before her -- the gleam and sparkle of the little brook that creep so roguishly across the corner -- the gate between the creak fir tree -- the old red sandstone step -- the stately Lombardies -- the two tiny quaint glass cupboard over the chimney-piece in the living-room -- the crooked pantry door in the kitchen -- the two funny dormer windows upstairs -- the little jog in the staircase -- why , these thing be a part of her !
How could she leave them ?
And how this little house , consecrate aforetime by love and joy , have be re-consecrated for her by her happiness and sorrow !
Here she have spend her bridal moon ; here wee Joyce have live her one brief day ; here the sweetness of motherhood have come again with Little Jem ; here she have hear the exquisite music of her baby 's cooing laughter ; here beloved friend have sit by her fireside .
Joy and grief , birth and death , have make sacred forever this little house of dream .
And now she must leave it .
She know that , even while she have contend against the idea to Gilbert .
The little house be outgrow .
Gilbert 's interest make the change necessary ; his work , successful though it have be , be hamper by his location .
Anne realise that the end of their life in this dear place draw nigh , and that she must face the fact bravely .
But how her heart ache !
`` It will be just like tear something out of my life , '' she sob .
`` And oh , if I could hope that some nice folk would come here in our place -- or even that it would be leave vacant .
That itself would be good than have it overrun with some horde who know nothing of the geography of dreamland , and nothing of the history that have give this house it soul and it identity .
And if such a tribe come here the place will go to rack and ruin in no time -- an old place go down so quickly if it be not carefully attend to .
They 'll tear up my garden -- and let the Lombardies get rag -- and the paling will come to look like a mouth with half the teeth missing -- and the roof will leak -- and the plaster fall -- and they 'll stuff pillow and rag in broken window pane -- and everything will be out-at-elbows . ''
Anne 's imagination picture forth so vividly the come degeneration of her dear little house that it hurt her as severely a if it have already be an accomplished fact .
She sit down on the stair and have a long , bitter cry .
Susan find her there and enquire with much concern what the trouble be .
`` You have not quarrel with the doctor , have you now , Mrs . Doctor , dear ?
But if you have , do not worry .
It be a thing quite likely to happen to married couple , I be told , although I have have no experience that way myself .
He will be sorry , and you can soon make it up . ''
`` No , no , Susan , we have n't quarrel .
It 's only -- Gilbert be go to buy the Morgan place , and we 'll have to go and live at the Glen .
And it will break my heart . ''
Susan do not enter into Anne 's feeling at all .
She be , indeed , quite rejoice over the prospect of living at the Glen .
Her one grievance against her place in the little house be it lonesome location .
`` Why , Mrs . Doctor , dear , it will be splendid .
The Morgan house be such a fine , big one . ''
`` I hate big house , '' sob Anne .
`` Oh , well , you will not hate them by the time you have half a dozen child , '' remark Susan calmly .
`` And this house be too small already for u .
We have no spare room , since Mrs. Moore be here , and that pantry be the most aggravating place I ever try to work in .
There be a corner every way you turn .
Besides , it be out-of-the-world down here .
There be really nothing at all but scenery . ''
`` Out of your world perhaps , Susan -- but not out of mine , '' say Anne with a faint smile .
`` I do not quite understand you , Mrs . Doctor , dear , but of course I be not well educate .
But if Dr. Blythe buy the Morgan place he will make no mistake , and that you may tie to .
They have water in it , and the pantry and closet be beautiful , and there be not another such cellar in P. E. Island , so I have be tell .
Why , the cellar here , Mrs . Doctor , dear , have be a heart-break to me , as well you know . ''
`` Oh , go away , Susan , go away , '' say Anne forlornly .
`` Cellars and pantry and closet do n't make a HOME .
Why do n't you weep with those who weep ? ''
`` Well , I never be much hand for weeping , Mrs . Doctor , dear .
I would rather fall to and cheer people up than weep with them .
Now , do not you cry and spoil your pretty eye .
This house be very well and have serve your turn , but it be high time you have a well . ''
Susan 's point of view seem to be that of most people .
Leslie be the only one who sympathise understandingly with Anne .
She have a good cry , too , when she hear the news .
Then they both dry their tear and go to work at the preparation for move .
`` Since we must go let u go as soon a we can and have it over , '' say poor Anne with bitter resignation .
`` You know you will like that lovely old place at the Glen after you have live in it long enough to have dear memory weave about it , '' say Leslie .
`` Friends will come there , a they have come here -- happiness will glorify it for you .
Now , it 's just a house to you -- but the year will make it a home . ''
Anne and Leslie have another cry the next week when they shorten Little Jem .
Anne felt the tragedy of it until even when in his long nightie she find her own dear baby again .
`` But it will be romper next -- and then trouser -- and in no time he will be grown-up , '' she sigh .
`` Well , you would not want him to stay a baby always , Mrs . Doctor , dear , would you ? ''
say Susan .
`` Bless his innocent heart , he look too sweet for anything in his little short dress , with his dear foot stick out .
And think of the save in the ironing , Mrs . Doctor , dear . ''
`` Anne , I have just have a letter from Owen , '' say Leslie , enter with a bright face .
`` And , oh !
I have such good news .
He write me that he be go to buy this place from the church trustee and keep it to spend our summer vacation in .
Anne , be you not glad ? ''
`` Oh , Leslie , ` glad ' be n't the word for it !
It seem almost too good to be true .
I sha 'n ' t feel half so badly now that I know this dear spot will never be desecrate by a vandal tribe , or leave to tumble down in decay .
Why , it 's lovely !
It 's lovely ! ''
One October morning Anne waken to the realisation that she have sleep for the last time under the roof of her little house .
The day be too busy to indulge regret and when even come the house be strip and bare .
Anne and Gilbert be alone in it to say farewell .
Leslie and Susan and Little Jem have go to the Glen with the last load of furniture .
The sunset light stream in through the curtainless window .
`` It have all such a heart-broken , reproachful look , have n't it ? ''
say Anne .
`` Oh , I shall be so homesick at the Glen tonight ! ''
`` We have be very happy here , have n't we , Anne-girl ? ''
say Gilbert , his voice full of feeling .
Anne choke , unable to answer .
Gilbert wait for her at the fir-tree gate , while she go over the house and say farewell to every room .
She be go away ; but the old house would still be there , look seaward through it quaint window .
The autumn wind would blow around it mournfully , and the gray rain would beat upon it and the white mist would come in from the sea to enfold it ; and the moonlight would fall over it and light up the old path where the schoolmaster and his bride have walk .
There on that old harbor shore the charm of story would linger ; the wind would still whistle alluringly over the silver sand-dunes ; the wave would still call from the red rock-coves .
`` But we will be go , '' say Anne through her tear .
She go out , close and lock the door behind her .
Gilbert be wait for her with a smile .
The lighthouse star be gleam northward .
The little garden , where only marigold still bloom , be already hood itself in shadow .
Anne kneel down and kiss the worn old step which she have cross a a bride .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Anne_Of_Avonlea.txt.out
I An Irate Neighbor A tall , slim girl , `` half-past sixteen , '' with serious gray eye and hair which her friend call auburn , have sit down on the broad red sandstone doorstep of a Prince Edward Island farmhouse one ripe afternoon in August , firmly resolve to construe so many line of Virgil .
But an August afternoon , with blue haze scarf the harvest slope , little wind whisper elfishly in the poplar , and a dance slendor of red poppy outflaming against the dark coppice of young fir in a corner of the cherry orchard , be fitter for dream than dead language .
The Virgil soon slip unheeded to the ground , and Anne , her chin propped on her clasped hand , and her eye on the splendid mass of fluffy cloud that be heap up just over Mr. J . A. Harrison 's house like a great white mountain , be far away in a delicious world where a certain schoolteacher be do a wonderful work , shape the destiny of future statesman , and inspire youthful mind and heart with high and lofty ambition .
To be sure , if you come down to harsh fact ... which , it must be confess , Anne seldom do until she have to ... it do not seem likely that there be much promising material for celebrity in Avonlea school ; but you could never tell what might happen if a teacher use her influence for good .
Anne have certain rose-tinted ideal of what a teacher might accomplish if she only go the right way about it ; and she be in the midst of a delightful scene , forty year hence , with a famous personage ... just exactly what he be to be famous for be leave in convenient haziness , but Anne think it would be rather nice to have him a college president or a Canadian premier ... bow low over her wrinkled hand and assure her that it be she who have first kindle his ambition , and that all his success in life be due to the lesson she have instill so long ago in Avonlea school .
This pleasant vision be shatter by a most unpleasant interruption .
A demure little Jersey cow come scuttle down the lane and five second later Mr. Harrison arrive ... if `` arrive '' be not too mild a term to describe the manner of his irruption into the yard .
He bounce over the fence without wait to open the gate , and angrily confront astonished Anne , who have rise to her foot and stand look at him in some bewilderment .
Mr. Harrison be their new righthand neighbor and she have never meet him before , although she have see him once or twice .
In early April , before Anne have come home from Queen 's , Mr. Robert Bell , whose farm adjoin the Cuthbert place on the west , have sell out and move to Charlottetown .
His farm have be buy by a certain Mr. J . A. Harrison , whose name , and the fact that he be a New Brunswick man , be all that be know about him .
But before he have be a month in Avonlea he have win the reputation of be an odd person ... `` a crank , '' Mrs. Rachel Lynde say .
Mrs. Rachel be an outspoken lady , a those of you who may have already make her acquaintance will remember .
Mr. Harrison be certainly different from other people ... and that be the essential characteristic of a crank , a everybody know .
In the first place he keep house for himself and have publicly state that he want no fool of woman around his digging .
Feminine Avonlea take it revenge by the gruesome tale it relate about his house-keeping and cooking .
He have hire little John Henry Carter of White Sands and John Henry start the story .
For one thing , there be never any stated time for meal in the Harrison establishment .
Mr. Harrison `` get a bite '' when he felt hungry , and if John Henry be around at the time , he come in for a share , but if he be not , he have to wait until Mr. Harrison 's next hungry spell .
John Henry mournfully aver that he would have starve to death if it be n't that he get home on Sundays and get a good filling up , and that his mother always give him a basket of `` grub '' to take back with him on Monday morning .
As for wash dish , Mr. Harrison never make any pretence of do it unless a rainy Sunday come .
Then he go to work and wash them all at once in the rainwater hogshead , and leave them to drain dry .
Again , Mr. Harrison be `` close . ''
When he be ask to subscribe to the Rev . Mr. Allan 's salary he say he 'd wait and see how many dollar ' worth of good he get out of his preaching first ... he do n't believe in buy a pig in a poke .
And when Mrs. Lynde go to ask for a contribution to mission ... and incidentally to see the inside of the house ... he tell her there be more heathen among the old woman gossip in Avonlea than anywhere else he know of , and he 'd cheerfully contribute to a mission for Christianizing them if she 'd undertake it .
Mrs. Rachel get herself away and say it be a mercy poor Mrs. Robert Bell be safe in her grave , for it would have break her heart to see the state of her house in which she use to take so much pride .
`` Why , she scrub the kitchen floor every second day , '' Mrs. Lynde tell Marilla Cuthbert indignantly , `` and if you could see it now !
I have to hold up my skirt a I walk across it . ''
Finally , Mr. Harrison keep a parrot call Ginger .
Nobody in Avonlea have ever keep a parrot before ; consequently that proceeding be consider barely respectable .
And such a parrot !
If you take John Henry Carter 's word for it , never be such an unholy bird .
It swear terribly .
Mrs. Carter would have take John Henry away at once if she have be sure she could get another place for him .
Besides , Ginger have bite a piece right out of the back of John Henry 's neck one day when he have stoop down too near the cage .
Mrs. Carter show everybody the mark when the luckless John Henry go home on Sundays .
All these thing flash through Anne 's mind a Mr. Harrison stand , quite speechless with wrath apparently , before her .
In his most amiable mood Mr. Harrison could not have be consider a handsome man ; he be short and fat and bald ; and now , with his round face purple with rage and his prominent blue eye almost stick out of his head , Anne think he be really the ugly person she have ever see .
All at once Mr. Harrison find his voice .
`` I 'm not go to put up with this , '' he splutter , `` not a day longer , do you hear , miss .
Bless my soul , this be the third time , miss ... the third time !
Patience have cease to be a virtue , miss .
I warn your aunt the last time not to let it occur again ... and she 's let it ... she 's do it ... what do she mean by it , that be what I want to know .
That be what I 'm here about , miss . ''
`` Will you explain what the trouble be ? ''
ask Anne , in her most dignified manner .
She have be practice it considerably of late to have it in good work order when school begin ; but it have no apparent effect on the irate J . A. Harrison .
`` Trouble , be it ?
Bless my soul , trouble enough , I should think .
The trouble be , miss , that I find that Jersey cow of your aunt 's in my oat again , not half an hour ago .
The third time , mark you .
I find her in last Tuesday and I find her in yesterday .
I come here and tell your aunt not to let it occur again .
She have let it occur again .
Where 's your aunt , miss ?
I just want to see her for a minute and give her a piece of my mind ... a piece of J . A. Harrison 's mind , miss . ''
`` If you mean Miss Marilla Cuthbert , she be not my aunt , and she have go down to East Grafton to see a distant relative of hers who be very ill , '' say Anne , with due increase of dignity at every word .
`` I be very sorry that my cow should have break into your oat ... she be my cow and not Miss Cuthbert 's ... Matthew give her to me three year ago when she be a little calf and he buy her from Mr. Bell . ''
`` Sorry , miss !
Sorry be n't go to help matter any .
You 'd better go and look at the havoc that animal have make in my oat ... trample them from center to circumference , miss . ''
`` I be very sorry , '' repeat Anne firmly , `` but perhaps if you keep your fence in good repair Dolly might not have break in .
It be your part of the line fence that separate your oatfield from our pasture and I notice the other day that it be not in very good condition . ''
`` My fence be all right , '' snap Mr. Harrison , angry than ever at this carrying of the war into the enemy 's country .
`` The jail fence could n't keep a demon of a cow like that out .
And I can tell you , you redheaded snippet , that if the cow be yours , a you say , you 'd be good employ in watch her out of other people 's grain than in sit round read yellow-covered novel , '' ... with a scathing glance at the innocent tan-colored Virgil by Anne 's foot .
Something at that moment be red besides Anne 's hair ... which have always be a tender point with her .
`` I 'd rather have red hair than none at all , except a little fringe round my ear , '' she flash .
The shot tell , for Mr. Harrison be really very sensitive about his bald head .
His anger choke him up again and he could only glare speechlessly at Anne , who recover her temper and follow up her advantage .
`` I can make allowance for you , Mr. Harrison , because I have an imagination .
I can easily imagine how very try it must be to find a cow in your oat and I shall not cherish any hard feeling against you for the thing you 've say .
I promise you that Dolly shall never break into your oat again .
I give you my word of honor on THAT point . ''
`` Well , mind you she do n't , '' mutter Mr. Harrison in a somewhat subdued tone ; but he stamp off angrily enough and Anne hear him growl to himself until he be out of earshot .
Grievously disturb in mind , Anne march across the yard and shut the naughty Jersey up in the milking pen .
`` She ca n't possibly get out of that unless she tear the fence down , '' she reflect .
`` She look pretty quiet now .
I daresay she have sicken herself on those oat .
I wish I 'd sell her to Mr. Shearer when he want her last week , but I think it be just as well to wait until we have the auction of the stock and let them all go together .
I believe it be true about Mr. Harrison be a crank .
Certainly there 's nothing of the kindred spirit about HIM . ''
Anne have always a weather eye open for kindred spirit .
Marilla Cuthbert be drive into the yard a Anne return from the house , and the latter flew to get tea ready .
They discuss the matter at the tea table .
`` I 'll be glad when the auction be over , '' say Marilla .
`` It be too much responsibility have so much stock about the place and nobody but that unreliable Martin to look after them .
He have never come back yet and he promise that he would certainly be back last night if I 'd give him the day off to go to his aunt 's funeral .
I do n't know how many aunt he have get , I be sure .
That 's the fourth that 's die since he hire here a year ago .
I 'll be more than thankful when the crop be in and Mr. Barry take over the farm .
We 'll have to keep Dolly shut up in the pen till Martin come , for she must be put in the back pasture and the fence there have to be fix .
I declare , it be a world of trouble , a Rachel say .
Here 's poor Mary Keith dying and what be to become of those two child of hers be more than I know .
She have a brother in British Columbia and she have write to him about them , but she have n't hear from him yet . ''
`` What be the child like ?
How old be they ? ''
`` Six past ... they 're twin . ''
`` Oh , I 've always be especially interested in twin ever since Mrs. Hammond have so many , '' say Anne eagerly .
`` Are they pretty ? ''
`` Goodness , you could n't tell ... they be too dirty .
Davy have be out make mud pie and Dora go out to call him in .
Davy push her headfirst into the big pie and then , because she cry , he get into it himself and wallow in it to show her it be nothing to cry about .
Mary say Dora be really a very good child but that Davy be full of mischief .
He have never have any bring up you might say .
His father die when he be a baby and Mary have be sick almost ever since . ''
`` I 'm always sorry for child that have no bring up , '' say Anne soberly .
`` You know I have n't any till you take me in hand .
I hope their uncle will look after them .
Just what relation be Mrs. Keith to you ? ''
`` Mary ?
None in the world .
It be her husband ... he be our third cousin .
There 's Mrs. Lynde come through the yard .
I think she 'd be up to hear about Mary . ''
`` Do n't tell her about Mr. Harrison and the cow , '' implore Anne .
Marilla promise ; but the promise be quite unnecessary , for Mrs. Lynde be no sooner fairly seat than she say , `` I saw Mr. Harrison chase your Jersey out of his oat today when I be come home from Carmody .
I think he look pretty mad .
Did he make much of a rumpus ? ''
Anne and Marilla furtively exchange amused smile .
Few thing in Avonlea ever escape Mrs. Lynde .
It be only that morning Anne have say , `` If you go to your own room at midnight , lock the door , pull down the blind , and SNEEZED , Mrs. Lynde would ask you the next day how your cold be ! ''
`` I believe he do , '' admit Marilla .
`` I be away .
He give Anne a piece of his mind . ''
`` I think he be a very disagreeable man , '' say Anne , with a resentful toss of her ruddy head .
`` You never say a truer word , '' say Mrs. Rachel solemnly .
`` I know there 'd be trouble when Robert Bell sell his place to a New Brunswick man , that 's what .
I do n't know what Avonlea be come to , with so many strange people rush into it .
It 'll soon not be safe to go to sleep in our bed . ''
`` Why , what other stranger be come in ? ''
ask Marilla .
`` Have n't you hear ?
Well , there 's a family of Donnells , for one thing .
They 've rent Peter Sloane 's old house .
Peter have hire the man to run his mill .
They belong down east and nobody know anything about them .
Then that shiftless Timothy Cotton family be go to move up from White Sands and they 'll simply be a burden on the public .
He be in consumption ... when he be n't steal ... and his wife be a slack-twisted creature that ca n't turn her hand to a thing .
She wash her dish SITTING DOWN .
Mrs. George Pye have take her husband 's orphan nephew , Anthony Pye .
He 'll be go to school to you , Anne , so you may expect trouble , that 's what .
And you 'll have another strange pupil , too .
Paul Irving be come from the States to live with his grandmother .
You remember his father , Marilla ... Stephen Irving , him that jilt Lavendar Lewis over at Grafton ? ''
`` I do n't think he jilt her .
There be a quarrel ... I suppose there be blame on both side . ''
`` Well , anyway , he do n't marry her , and she 's be as queer a possible ever since , they say ... live all by herself in that little stone house she call Echo Lodge .
Stephen go off to the States and go into business with his uncle and marry a Yankee .
He 's never be home since , though his mother have be up to see him once or twice .
His wife die two year ago and he 's send the boy home to his mother for a spell .
He 's ten year old and I do n't know if he 'll be a very desirable pupil .
You can never tell about those Yankees . ''
Mrs Lynde look upon all people who have the misfortune to be bear or bring up elsewhere than in Prince Edward Island with a decided can-any-good-thing-come-out-of-Nazareth air .
They MIGHT be good people , of course ; but you be on the safe side in doubt it .
She have a special prejudice against `` Yankees . ''
Her husband have be cheat out of ten dollar by an employer for whom he have once work in Boston and neither angel nor principality nor power could have convince Mrs. Rachel that the whole United States be not responsible for it .
`` Avonlea school wo n't be the bad for a little new blood , '' say Marilla drily , `` and if this boy be anything like his father he 'll be all right .
Steve Irving be the nice boy that be ever raise in these part , though some people do call him proud .
I should think Mrs. Irving would be very glad to have the child .
She have be very lonesome since her husband die . ''
`` Oh , the boy may be well enough , but he 'll be different from Avonlea child , '' say Mrs. Rachel , a if that clinch the matter .
Mrs. Rachel 's opinion concern any person , place , or thing , be always warrant to wear .
`` What 's this I hear about your go to start up a Village Improvement Society , Anne ? ''
`` I be just talk it over with some of the girl and boy at the last Debating Club , '' say Anne , flushing .
`` They think it would be rather nice ... and so do Mr. and Mrs. Allan .
Lots of village have them now . ''
`` Well , you 'll get into no end of hot water if you do .
Better leave it alone , Anne , that 's what .
People do n't like be improve . ''
`` Oh , we be not go to try to improve the PEOPLE .
It be Avonlea itself .
There be lot of thing which might be do to make it pretty .
For instance , if we could coax Mr. Levi Boulter to pull down that dreadful old house on his upper farm would n't that be an improvement ? ''
`` It certainly would , '' admit Mrs. Rachel .
`` That old ruin have be an eyesore to the settlement for year .
But if you Improvers can coax Levi Boulter to do anything for the public that he be n't to be pay for do , may I be there to see and hear the process , that 's what .
I do n't want to discourage you , Anne , for there may be something in your idea , though I suppose you do get it out of some rubbishy Yankee magazine ; but you 'll have your hand full with your school and I advise you a a friend not to bother with your improvement , that 's what .
But there , I know you 'll go ahead with it if you 've set your mind on it .
You be always one to carry a thing through somehow . ''
Something about the firm outline of Anne 's lip tell that Mrs. Rachel be not far astray in this estimate .
Anne 's heart be bend on form the Improvement Society .
Gilbert Blythe , who be to teach in White Sands but would always be home from Friday night to Monday morning , be enthusiastic about it ; and most of the other folk be willing to go in for anything that mean occasional meeting and consequently some `` fun . ''
As for what the `` improvement '' be to be , nobody have any very clear idea except Anne and Gilbert .
They have talk them over and plan them out until an ideal Avonlea exist in their mind , if nowhere else .
Mrs. Rachel have still another item of news .
`` They 've give the Carmody school to a Priscilla Grant .
Did n't you go to Queen 's with a girl of that name , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , indeed .
Priscilla to teach at Carmody !
How perfectly lovely ! ''
exclaim Anne , her gray eye light up until they look like even star , cause Mrs. Lynde to wonder anew if she would ever get it settle to her satisfaction whether Anne Shirley be really a pretty girl or not .
II Selling in Haste and Repenting at Leisure Anne drive over to Carmody on a shopping expedition the next afternoon and take Diana Barry with her .
Diana be , of course , a pledged member of the Improvement Society , and the two girl talk about little else all the way to Carmody and back .
`` The very first thing we ought to do when we get start be to have that hall paint , '' say Diana , a they drive past the Avonlea hall , a rather shabby building set down in a wooded hollow , with spruce tree hood it about on all side .
`` It 's a disgraceful look place and we must attend to it even before we try to get Mr. Levi Boulder to pull his house down .
Father say we 'll never succeed in DOING that .
Levi Boulter be too mean to spend the time it would take . ''
`` Perhaps he 'll let the boy take it down if they promise to haul the board and split them up for him for kindle wood , '' say Anne hopefully .
`` We must do our best and be content to go slowly at first .
We ca n't expect to improve everything all at once .
We 'll have to educate public sentiment first , of course . ''
Diana be n't exactly sure what educate public sentiment meant ; but it sound fine and she felt rather proud that she be go to belong to a society with such an aim in view .
`` I think of something last night that we could do , Anne .
You know that three-cornered piece of ground where the road from Carmody and Newbridge and White Sands meet ?
It 's all grow over with young spruce ; but would n't it be nice to have them all clear out , and just leave the two or three birch tree that be on it ? ''
`` Splendid , '' agree Anne gaily .
`` And have a rustic seat put under the birch .
And when spring come we 'll have a flower-bed make in the middle of it and plant geranium . ''
`` Yes ; only we 'll have to devise some way of get old Mrs. Hiram Sloane to keep her cow off the road , or she 'll eat our geranium up , '' laugh Diana .
`` I begin to see what you mean by educate public sentiment , Anne .
There 's the old Boulter house now .
Did you ever see such a rookery ?
And perch right close to the road too .
An old house with it window go always make me think of something dead with it eye pick out . ''
`` I think an old , deserted house be such a sad sight , '' say Anne dreamily .
`` It always seem to me to be think about it past and mourning for it old-time joy .
Marilla say that a large family be raise in that old house long ago , and that it be a real pretty place , with a lovely garden and roses climb all over it .
It be full of little child and laughter and song ; and now it be empty , and nothing ever wander through it but the wind .
How lonely and sorrowful it must feel !
Perhaps they all come back on moonlit night ... the ghost of the little child of long ago and the rose and the song ... and for a little while the old house can dream it be young and joyous again . ''
Diana shake her head .
`` I never imagine thing like that about place now , Anne .
Do n't you remember how cross mother and Marilla be when we imagine ghost into the Haunted Wood ?
To this day I ca n't go through that bush comfortably after dark ; and if I begin imagine such thing about the old Boulter house I 'd be frighten to pass it too .
Besides , those child be n't dead .
They 're all grow up and do well ... and one of them be a butcher .
And flower and song could n't have ghost anyhow . ''
Anne smother a little sigh .
She love Diana dearly and they have always be good comrade .
But she have long ago learn that when she wander into the realm of fancy she must go alone .
The way to it be by an enchanted path where not even her dearest might follow her .
A thunder-shower come up while the girl be at Carmody ; it do not last long , however , and the drive home , through lane where the raindrop sparkle on the bough and little leafy valley where the drenched fern give out spicy odor , be delightful .
But just a they turn into the Cuthbert lane Anne saw something that spoil the beauty of the landscape for her .
Before them on the right extend Mr. Harrison 's broad , gray-green field of late oat , wet and luxuriant ; and there , stand squarely in the middle of it , up to her sleek side in the lush growth , and blink at them calmly over the intervening tassel , be a Jersey cow !
Anne drop the rein and stand up with a tightening of the lip that bode no good to the predatory quadruped .
Not a word say she , but she climb nimbly down over the wheel , and whisk across the fence before Diana understand what have happen .
`` Anne , come back , '' shriek the latter , as soon a she find her voice .
`` You 'll ruin your dress in that wet grain ... ruin it .
She do n't hear me !
Well , she 'll never get that cow out by herself .
I must go and help her , of course . ''
Anne be charge through the grain like a mad thing .
Diana hop briskly down , tie the horse securely to a post , turn the skirt of her pretty gingham dress over her shoulder , mount the fence , and start in pursuit of her frantic friend .
She could run fast than Anne , who be hamper by her clinging and drench skirt , and soon overtake her .
Behind them they leave a trail that would break Mr. Harrison 's heart when he should see it .
`` Anne , for mercy 's sake , stop , '' pant poor Diana .
`` I 'm right out of breath and you be wet to the skin . ''
`` I must ... get ... that cow ... out ... before ... Mr. Harrison ... see her , '' gasp Anne .
`` I do n't ... care ... if I 'm ... drown ... if we ... can ... only ... do that . ''
But the Jersey cow appear to see no good reason for be hustle out of her luscious browsing ground .
No sooner have the two breathless girl get near her than she turn and bolt squarely for the opposite corner of the field .
`` Head her off , '' scream Anne .
`` Run , Diana , run . ''
Diana do run .
Anne try to , and the wicked Jersey go around the field a if she be possess .
Privately , Diana think she be .
It be fully ten minute before they head her off and drive her through the corner gap into the Cuthbert lane .
There be no deny that Anne be in anything but an angelic temper at that precise moment .
Nor do it soothe her in the least to behold a buggy halt just outside the lane , wherein sit Mr. Shearer of Carmody and his son , both of whom wear a broad smile .
`` I guess you 'd better have sell me that cow when I want to buy her last week , Anne , '' chuckle Mr. Shearer .
`` I 'll sell her to you now , if you want her , '' say her flushed and disheveled owner .
`` You may have her this very minute . ''
`` Done .
I 'll give you twenty for her a I offer before , and Jim here can drive her right over to Carmody .
She 'll go to town with the rest of the shipment this evening .
Mr. Reed of Brighton want a Jersey cow . ''
Five minute later Jim Shearer and the Jersey cow be march up the road , and impulsive Anne be drive along the Green Gables lane with her twenty dollar .
`` What will Marilla say ? ''
ask Diana .
`` Oh , she wo n't care .
Dolly be my own cow and it be n't likely she 'd bring more than twenty dollar at the auction .
But oh dear , if Mr. Harrison see that grain he will know she have be in again , and after my give him my word of honor that I 'd never let it happen !
Well , it have teach me a lesson not to give my word of honor about cow .
A cow that could jump over or break through our milk-pen fence could n't be trust anywhere . ''
Marilla have go down to Mrs. Lynde 's , and when she return knew all about Dolly 's sale and transfer , for Mrs. Lynde have see most of the transaction from her window and guess the rest .
`` I suppose it 's just as well she 's go , though you DO do thing in a dreadful headlong fashion , Anne .
I do n't see how she get out of the pen , though .
She must have break some of the board off . ''
`` I do n't think of look , '' say Anne , `` but I 'll go and see now .
Martin have never come back yet .
Perhaps some more of his aunt have die .
I think it 's something like Mr. Peter Sloane and the octogenarian .
The other even Mrs. Sloane be read a newspaper and she say to Mr. Sloane , ' I see here that another octogenarian have just die .
What be an octogenarian , Peter ? '
And Mr. Sloane say he do n't know , but they must be very sickly creature , for you never hear tell of them but they be die .
That 's the way with Martin 's aunt . ''
`` Martin 's just like all the rest of those French , '' say Marilla in disgust .
`` You ca n't depend on them for a day . ''
Marilla be look over Anne 's Carmody purchase when she hear a shrill shriek in the barnyard .
A minute later Anne dash into the kitchen , wring her hand .
`` Anne Shirley , what 's the matter now ? ''
`` Oh , Marilla , whatever shall I do ?
This be terrible .
And it 's all my fault .
Oh , will I EVER learn to stop and reflect a little before do reckless thing ?
Mrs. Lynde always tell me I would do something dreadful some day , and now I 've do it ! ''
`` Anne , you be the most exasperating girl !
WHAT be it you 've do ? ''
`` Sold Mr. Harrison 's Jersey cow ... the one he buy from Mr. Bell ... to Mr. Shearer !
Dolly be out in the milking pen this very minute . ''
`` Anne Shirley , be you dream ? ''
`` I only wish I be .
There 's no dream about it , though it 's very like a nightmare .
And Mr. Harrison 's cow be in Charlottetown by this time .
Oh , Marilla , I think I 'd finish get into scrape , and here I be in the very bad one I ever be in in my life .
What can I do ? ''
`` Do ?
There 's nothing to do , child , except go and see Mr. Harrison about it .
We can offer him our Jersey in exchange if he do n't want to take the money .
She be just as good a his . ''
`` I 'm sure he 'll be awfully cross and disagreeable about it , though , '' moan Anne .
`` I daresay he will .
He seem to be an irritable sort of a man .
I 'll go and explain to him if you like . ''
`` No , indeed , I 'm not as mean a that , '' exclaim Anne .
`` This be all my fault and I 'm certainly not go to let you take my punishment .
I 'll go myself and I 'll go at once .
The sooner it 's over the good , for it will be terribly humiliate . ''
Poor Anne get her hat and her twenty dollar and be pass out when she happen to glance through the open pantry door .
On the table repose a nut cake which she have bake that morning ... a particularly toothsome concoction ice with pink icing and adorn with walnut .
Anne have intend it for Friday evening , when the youth of Avonlea be to meet at Green Gables to organize the Improvement Society .
But what be they compare to the justly offend Mr. Harrison ?
Anne think that cake ought to soften the heart of any man , especially one who have to do his own cooking , and she promptly pop it into a box .
She would take it to Mr. Harrison a a peace offering .
`` That be , if he give me a chance to say anything at all , '' she think ruefully , a she climb the lane fence and start on a short cut across the field , golden in the light of the dreamy August evening .
`` I know now just how people feel who be be lead to execution . ''
III Mr. Harrison at Home Mr. Harrison 's house be an old-fashioned , low-eaved , whitewashed structure , set against a thick spruce grove .
Mr. Harrison himself be sit on his vineshaded veranda , in his shirt sleeve , enjoy his evening pipe .
When he realize who be come up the path he spring suddenly to his foot , bolt into the house , and shut the door .
This be merely the uncomfortable result of his surprise , mingle with a good deal of shame over his outburst of temper the day before .
But it nearly sweep the remnant of her courage from Anne 's heart .
`` If he 's so cross now what will he be when he hear what I 've do , '' she reflect miserably , a she rap at the door .
But Mr. Harrison open it , smile sheepishly , and invite her to enter in a tone quite mild and friendly , if somewhat nervous .
He have lay aside his pipe and don his coat ; he offer Anne a very dusty chair very politely , and her reception would have pass off pleasantly enough if it have not be for the telltale of a parrot who be peer through the bar of his cage with wicked golden eye .
No sooner have Anne seat herself than Ginger exclaim , `` Bless my soul , what 's that redheaded snippet come here for ? ''
It would be hard to say whose face be the redder , Mr. Harrison 's or Anne 's .
`` Do n't you mind that parrot , '' say Mr. Harrison , cast a furious glance at Ginger .
`` He 's ... he 's always talk nonsense .
I get him from my brother who be a sailor .
Sailors do n't always use the choice language , and parrot be very imitative bird . ''
`` So I should think , '' say poor Anne , the remembrance of her errand quell her resentment .
She could n't afford to snub Mr. Harrison under the circumstance , that be certain .
When you have just sell a man 's Jersey cow offhand , without his knowledge or consent you must not mind if his parrot repeat uncomplimentary thing .
Nevertheless , the `` redheaded snippet '' be not quite so meek a she might otherwise have be .
`` I 've come to confess something to you , Mr. Harrison , '' she say resolutely .
`` It 's ... it 's about ... that Jersey cow . ''
`` Bless my soul , '' exclaim Mr. Harrison nervously , `` have she go and break into my oat again ?
Well , never mind ... never mind if she have .
It 's no difference ... none at all , I ... I be too hasty yesterday , that 's a fact .
Never mind if she have . ''
`` Oh , if it be only that , '' sigh Anne .
`` But it 's ten time worse .
I do n't ... '' `` Bless my soul , do you mean to say she 's get into my wheat ? ''
`` No ... no ... not the wheat .
But ... '' `` Then it 's the cabbage !
She 's break into my cabbage that I be raise for Exhibition , hey ? ''
`` It 's NOT the cabbage , Mr. Harrison .
I 'll tell you everything ... that be what I come for -- but please do n't interrupt me .
It make me so nervous .
Just let me tell my story and do n't say anything till I get through -- and then no doubt you 'll say plenty , '' Anne conclude , but in think only .
`` I wo n't say another word , '' say Mr. Harrison , and he do n't .
But Ginger be not bind by any contract of silence and keep ejaculating , `` Redheaded snippet '' at interval until Anne felt quite wild .
`` I shut my Jersey cow up in our pen yesterday .
This morning I go to Carmody and when I come back I saw a Jersey cow in your oat .
Diana and I chase her out and you ca n't imagine what a hard time we have .
I be so dreadfully wet and tired and vexed -- and Mr. Shearer come by that very minute and offer to buy the cow .
I sell her to him on the spot for twenty dollar .
It be wrong of me .
I should have wait and consult Marilla , of course .
But I 'm dreadfully give to do thing without thinking -- everybody who know me will tell you that .
Mr. Shearer take the cow right away to ship her on the afternoon train . ''
`` Redheaded snippet , '' quote Ginger in a tone of profound contempt .
At this point Mr. Harrison arise and , with an expression that would have strike terror into any bird but a parrot , carry Ginger 's cage into an adjoining room and shut the door .
Ginger shriek , swore , and otherwise conduct himself in keep with his reputation , but find himself leave alone , relapse into sulky silence .
`` Excuse me and go on , '' say Mr. Harrison , sit down again .
`` My brother the sailor never teach that bird any manner . ''
`` I go home and after tea I go out to the milking pen .
Mr. Harrison , '' ... Anne lean forward , clasp her hand with her old childish gesture , while her big gray eye gaze imploringly into Mr. Harrison 's embarrassed face ... `` I find my cow still shut up in the pen .
It be YOUR cow I have sell to Mr. Shearer . ''
`` Bless my soul , '' exclaim Mr. Harrison , in blank amazement at this unlooked-for conclusion .
`` What a VERY extraordinary thing ! ''
`` Oh , it be n't in the least extraordinary that I should be get myself and other people into scrape , '' say Anne mournfully .
`` I 'm noted for that .
You might suppose I 'd have grow out of it by this time ... I 'll be seventeen next March ... but it seem that I have n't .
Mr. Harrison , be it too much to hope that you 'll forgive me ?
I 'm afraid it 's too late to get your cow back , but here be the money for her ... or you can have mine in exchange if you 'd rather .
She 's a very good cow .
And I ca n't express how sorry I be for it all . ''
`` Tut , tut , '' say Mr. Harrison briskly , `` do n't say another word about it , miss .
It 's of no consequence ... no consequence whatever .
Accidents will happen .
I 'm too hasty myself sometimes , miss ... far too hasty .
But I ca n't help speak out just what I think and folk must take me a they find me .
If that cow have be in my cabbage now ... but never mind , she be n't , so it 's all right .
I think I 'd rather have your cow in exchange , since you want to be rid of her . ''
`` Oh , thank you , Mr. Harrison .
I 'm so glad you be not vexed .
I be afraid you would be . ''
`` And I suppose you be scar to death to come here and tell me , after the fuss I make yesterday , hey ?
But you must n't mind me , I 'm a terrible outspoken old fellow , that 's all ... awful apt to tell the truth , no matter if it be a bit plain . ''
`` So be Mrs. Lynde , '' say Anne , before she could prevent herself .
`` Who ?
Mrs. Lynde ?
Do n't you tell me I 'm like that old gossip , '' say Mr. Harrison irritably .
`` I 'm not ... not a bit .
What have you get in that box ? ''
`` A cake , '' say Anne archly .
In her relief at Mr. Harrison 's unexpected amiability her spirit soar upward feather-light .
`` I bring it over for you ... I think perhaps you do n't have cake very often . ''
`` I do n't , that 's a fact , and I 'm mighty fond of it , too .
I 'm much oblige to you .
It look good on top .
I hope it 's good all the way through . ''
`` It be , '' say Anne , gaily confident .
`` I have make cake in my time that be NOT , a Mrs. Allan could tell you , but this one be all right .
I make it for the Improvement Society , but I can make another for them . ''
`` Well , I 'll tell you what , miss , you must help me eat it .
I 'll put the kettle on and we 'll have a cup of tea .
How will that do ? ''
`` Will you let me make the tea ? ''
say Anne dubiously .
Mr. Harrison chuckle .
`` I see you have n't much confidence in my ability to make tea .
You 're wrong ... I can brew up as good a jorum of tea a you ever drink .
But go ahead yourself .
Fortunately it rain last Sunday , so there 's plenty of clean dish . ''
Anne hop briskly up and go to work .
She wash the teapot in several water before she put the tea to steep .
Then she sweep the stove and set the table , bring the dish out of the pantry .
The state of that pantry horrify Anne , but she wisely say nothing .
Mr. Harrison tell her where to find the bread and butter and a can of peach .
Anne adorn the table with a bouquet from the garden and shut her eye to the stain on the tablecloth .
Soon the tea be ready and Anne find herself sit opposite Mr. Harrison at his own table , pour his tea for him , and chat freely to him about her school and friend and plan .
She could hardly believe the evidence of her sens .
Mr. Harrison have bring Ginger back , aver that the poor bird would be lonesome ; and Anne , feeling that she could forgive everybody and everything , offer him a walnut .
But Ginger 's feeling have be grievously hurt and he reject all overture of friendship .
He sit moodily on his perch and ruffle his feather up until he look like a mere ball of green and gold .
`` Why do you call him Ginger ? ''
ask Anne , who like appropriate name and think Ginger accord not at all with such gorgeous plumage .
`` My brother the sailor name him .
Maybe it have some reference to his temper .
I think a lot of that bird though ... you 'd be surprise if you know how much .
He have his fault of course .
That bird have cost me a good deal one way and another .
Some people object to his swear habit but he ca n't be break of them .
I 've try ... other people have try .
Some folk have prejudice against parrot .
Silly , ai n't it ?
I like them myself .
Ginger 's a lot of company to me .
Nothing would induce me to give that bird up ... nothing in the world , miss . ''
Mr. Harrison fling the last sentence at Anne as explosively a if he suspect her of some latent design of persuade him to give Ginger up .
Anne , however , be begin to like the queer , fussy , fidgety little man , and before the meal be over they be quite good friend .
Mr. Harrison find out about the Improvement Society and be dispose to approve of it .
`` That 's right .
Go ahead .
There 's lot of room for improvement in this settlement ... and in the people too . ''
`` Oh , I do n't know , '' flash Anne .
To herself , or to her particular crony , she might admit that there be some small imperfection , easily removable , in Avonlea and it inhabitant .
But to hear a practical outsider like Mr. Harrison say it be an entirely different thing .
`` I think Avonlea be a lovely place ; and the people in it be very nice , too . ''
`` I guess you 've get a spice of temper , '' comment Mr. Harrison , survey the flushed cheek and indignant eye opposite him .
`` It go with hair like yours , I reckon .
Avonlea be a pretty decent place or I would n't have locate here ; but I suppose even you will admit that it have SOME fault ? ''
`` I like it all the good for them , '' say loyal Anne .
`` I do n't like place or people either that have n't any fault .
I think a truly perfect person would be very uninteresting .
Mrs. Milton White say she never meet a perfect person , but she 's heard enough about one ... her husband 's first wife .
Do n't you think it must be very uncomfortable to be marry to a man whose first wife be perfect ? ''
`` It would be more uncomfortable to be marry to the perfect wife , '' declare Mr. Harrison , with a sudden and inexplicable warmth .
When tea be over Anne insist on wash the dish , although Mr. Harrison assure her that there be enough in the house to do for week yet .
She would dearly have love to sweep the floor also , but no broom be visible and she do not like to ask where it be for fear there be n't one at all .
`` You might run across and talk to me once in a while , '' suggest Mr. Harrison when she be leave . ''
'T be n't far and folk ought to be neighborly .
I 'm kind of interested in that society of yours .
Seems to me there 'll be some fun in it .
Who be you go to tackle first ? ''
`` We be not go to meddle with PEOPLE ... it be only PLACES we mean to improve , '' say Anne , in a dignified tone .
She rather suspect that Mr. Harrison be make fun of the project .
When she have go Mr. Harrison watch her from the window ... a lithe , girlish shape , trip lightheartedly across the field in the sunset afterglow .
`` I 'm a crusty , lonesome , crab old chap , '' he say aloud , `` but there 's something about that little girl make me feel young again ... and it 's such a pleasant sensation I 'd like to have it repeat once in a while . ''
`` Redheaded snippet , '' croak Ginger mockingly .
Mr. Harrison shake his fist at the parrot .
`` You ornery bird , '' he mutter , `` I almost wish I 'd wring your neck when my brother the sailor bring you home .
Will you never be do get me into trouble ? ''
Anne run home blithely and recount her adventure to Marilla , who have be not a little alarmed by her long absence and be on the point of start out to look for her .
`` It 's a pretty good world , after all , be n't it , Marilla ? ''
conclude Anne happily .
`` Mrs. Lynde be complain the other day that it be n't much of a world .
She say whenever you look forward to anything pleasant you be sure to be more or less disappointed ... perhaps that be true .
But there be a good side to it too .
The bad thing do n't always come up to your expectation either ... they nearly always turn out ever so much good than you think .
I look forward to a dreadfully unpleasant experience when I go over to Mr. Harrison 's tonight ; and instead he be quite kind and I have almost a nice time .
I think we 're go to be real good friend if we make plenty of allowance for each other , and everything have turn out for the best .
But all the same , Marilla , I shall certainly never again sell a cow before make sure to whom she belong .
And I do NOT like parrot ! ''
IV Different Opinions One evening at sunset , Jane Andrews , Gilbert Blythe , and Anne Shirley be linger by a fence in the shadow of gently sway spruce bough , where a wood cut know a the Birch Path join the main road .
Jane have be up to spend the afternoon with Anne , who walk part of the way home with her ; at the fence they meet Gilbert , and all three be now talk about the fateful morrow ; for that morrow be the first of September and the school would open .
Jane would go to Newbridge and Gilbert to White Sands .
`` You both have the advantage of me , '' sigh Anne .
`` You 're go to teach child who do n't know you , but I have to teach my own old schoolmate , and Mrs. Lynde say she 's afraid they wo n't respect me a they would a stranger unless I 'm very cross from the first .
But I do n't believe a teacher should be cross .
Oh , it seem to me such a responsibility ! ''
`` I guess we 'll get on all right , '' say Jane comfortably .
Jane be not troubled by any aspiration to be an influence for good .
She mean to earn her salary fairly , please the trustee , and get her name on the School Inspector 's roll of honor .
Further ambition Jane have none .
`` The main thing will be to keep order and a teacher have to be a little cross to do that .
If my pupil wo n't do a I tell them I shall punish them . ''
`` How ? ''
`` Give them a good whipping , of course . ''
`` Oh , Jane , you would n't , '' cry Anne , shock .
`` Jane , you COULD N'T ! ''
`` Indeed , I could and would , if they deserve it , '' say Jane decidedly .
`` I could NEVER whip a child , '' say Anne with equal decision .
`` I do n't believe in it AT ALL .
Miss Stacy never whip any of u and she have perfect order ; and Mr. Phillips be always whip and he have no order at all .
No , if I ca n't get along without whip I shall not try to teach school .
There be good way of managing .
I shall try to win my pupil ' affection and then they will WANT to do what I tell them . ''
`` But suppose they do n't ? ''
say practical Jane .
`` I would n't whip them anyhow .
I 'm sure it would n't do any good .
Oh , do n't whip your pupil , Jane dear , no matter what they do . ''
`` What do you think about it , Gilbert ? ''
demand Jane .
`` Do n't you think there be some child who really need a whipping now and then ? ''
`` Do n't you think it 's a cruel , barbarous thing to whip a child ... ANY child ? ''
exclaim Anne , her face flush with earnestness .
`` Well , '' say Gilbert slowly , torn between his real conviction and his wish to measure up to Anne 's ideal , `` there 's something to be say on both side .
I do n't believe in whip child MUCH .
I think , a you say , Anne , that there be good way of manage a a rule , and that corporal punishment should be a last resort .
But on the other hand , a Jane say , I believe there be an occasional child who ca n't be influence in any other way and who , in short , need a whipping and would be improve by it .
Corporal punishment a a last resort be to be my rule . ''
Gilbert , have try to please both side , succeed , a be usual and eminently right , in please neither .
Jane toss her head .
`` I 'll whip my pupil when they 're naughty .
It 's the shortest and easy way of convince them . ''
Anne give Gilbert a disappointed glance .
`` I shall never whip a child , '' she repeat firmly .
`` I feel sure it be n't either right or necessary . ''
`` Suppose a boy sauce you back when you tell him to do something ? ''
say Jane .
`` I 'd keep him in after school and talk kindly and firmly to him , '' say Anne .
`` There be some good in every person if you can find it .
