he say , and when he speak her name it sound a if he speak the name of one dead .
After a little the bad sting pass away .
He refuse to believe long that Blossom would be ashamed of him ; he know she would not .
Three year could not so alter her loyal nature -- no , nor ten time three year .
But she would be change -- she would have grow away from him in those three busy , brilliant year .
His companionship could no longer satisfy her .
How simple and childish he have be to expect it !
She would be sweet and kind -- Blossom could never be anything else .
She would not show open discontent or dissatisfaction ; she would not be like Lauretta Bradley ; but it would be there , and he would divine it , and it would break his heart .
Mrs. Blewett be right .
When he have give Blossom up he should not have make a half-hearted thing of his sacrifice -- he should not have bind her to come back to him .
He walk about in his little garden until late at night , under the star , with the sea crooning and call to him down the slope .
When he finally go to bed he do not sleep , but lay until morning with tear-wet eye and despair in his heart .
All the forenoon he go about his usual daily work absently .
Frequently he fell into long revery , stand motionless wherever he happen to be , and look dully before him .
Only once do he show any animation .
When he saw Mrs. Blewett come up the lane he dart into the house , lock the door , and listen to her knocking in grim silence .
After she have go he go out , and find a plate of fresh doughnut , cover with a napkin , place on the bench at the door .
Mrs. Blewett mean to indicate thus that she bore him no malice for her curt dismissal the day before ; possibly her conscience give her some twinge also .
But her doughnut could not minister to the mind she have diseased .
Old Man Shaw take them up ; carry them to the pig-pen , and feed them to the pig .
It be the first spiteful thing he have do in his life , and he felt a most immoral satisfaction in it .
In mid-afternoon he go out to the garden , find the new loneliness of the little house unbearable .
The old bench be warm in the sunshine .
Old Man Shaw sit down with a long sigh , and drop his white head wearily on his breast .
He have decide what he must do .
He would tell Blossom that she might go back to her aunt and never mind about him -- he would do very well by himself and he do not blame her in the least .
He be still sit broodingly there when a girl come up the lane .
She be tall and straight , and walk with a kind of uplift in her motion , a if it would be rather easy to fly than not .
She be dark , with a rich dusky sort of darkness , suggestive of the bloom on purple plum , or the glow of deep red apple among bronze leaf .
Her big brown eye linger on everything in sight , and little gurgle of sound now and again come through her parted lip , a if inarticulate joy be thus express itself .
At the garden gate she saw the bent figure on the old bench , and the next minute she be fly along the rise walk .
`` Daddy ! ''
she call , `` daddy ! ''
Old Man Shaw stand up in hasty bewilderment ; then a pair of girlish arm be about his neck , and a pair of warm red lip be on his ; girlish eye , full of love , be look up into his , and a never-forgotten voice , tingle with laughter and tear blend into one delicious chord , be cry , `` Oh , daddy , be it really you ?
Oh , I ca n't tell you how good it be to see you again ! ''
Old Man Shaw hold her tightly in a silence of amazement and joy too deep for wonder .
Why , this be his Blossom -- the very Blossom who have go away three year ago !
A little taller , a little more womanly , but his own dear Blossom , and no stranger .
There be a new heaven and a new earth for him in the realization .
`` Oh , Baby Blossom ! ''
he murmur , `` Little Baby Blossom ! ''
Sara rub her cheek against the faded coat sleeve .
`` Daddy darling , this moment make up for everything , do n't it ? ''
`` But -- but -- where do you come from ? ''
he ask , his sens begin to struggle out of their bewilderment of surprise .
`` I do n't expect you till to-morrow .
You do n't have to walk from the station , do you ?
And your old daddy not there to welcome you ! ''
Sara laugh , swing herself back by the tip of her finger and dance around him in the childish fashion of long ago .
`` I find I could make an early connection with the C.P.A . yesterday and get to the Island last night .
I be in such a fever to get home that I jump at the chance .
Of course I walk from the station -- it 's only two mile and every step be a benediction .
My trunk be over there .
We 'll go after them to-morrow , daddy , but just now I want to go straight to every one of the dear old nook and spot at once . ''
`` You must get something to eat first , '' he urge fondly .
`` And there ai n't much in the house , I 'm afraid .
I be go to bake to-morrow morning .
But I guess I can forage you out something , darling . ''
He be sorely repent have give Mrs. Blewett 's doughnut to the pig , but Sara brush all such consideration aside with a wave of her hand .
`` I do n't want anything to eat just now .
By and by we 'll have a snack ; just a we use to get up for ourselves whenever we felt hungry .
Do n't you remember how scandalized White Sands folk use to be at our irregular hour ?
I 'm hungry ; but it 's soul hunger , for a glimpse of all the dear old room and place .
Come -- there be four hour yet before sunset , and I want to cram into them all I 've miss out of these three year .
Let u begin right here with the garden .
Oh , daddy , by what witchcraft have you coax that sulky rose-bush into bloom ? ''
`` No witchcraft at all -- it just bloom because you be come home , baby , '' say her father .
They have a glorious afternoon of it , those two child .
They explore the garden and then the house .
Sara dance through every room , and then up to her own , hold fast to her father 's hand .
`` Oh , it 's lovely to see my little room again , daddy .
I 'm sure all my old hope and dream be wait here for me . ''
She run to the window and throw it open , lean out .
`` Daddy , there 's no view in the world so beautiful a that curve of sea between the headland .
I 've look at magnificent scenery -- and then I 'd shut my eye and conjure up that picture .
Oh , listen to the wind keening in the tree !
How I 've long for that music ! ''
He take her to the orchard and follow out his crafty plan of surprise perfectly .
She reward him by do exactly what he have dream of her do , clap her hand and cry out : `` Oh , daddy !
Why , daddy ! ''
They finish up with the shore , and then at sunset they come back and sit down on the old garden bench .
Before them a sea of splendour , burn like a great jewel , stretch to the gateway of the west .
The long headland on either side be darkly purple , and the sun leave behind him a vast , cloudless arc of fiery daffodil and elusive rise .
Back over the orchard in a cool , green sky glimmer a crystal planet , and the night pour over them a clear wine of dew from her airy chalice .
The spruce be rejoice in the wind , and even the batter fir be sing of the sea .
Old memory troop into their heart like shin spirit .
`` Baby Blossom , '' say Old Man Shaw falteringly , `` be you quite sure you 'll be content here ?
Out there '' -- with a vague sweep of his hand towards horizon that shut out a world far remove from White Sands -- `` there 's pleasure and excitement and all that .
Wo n't you miss it ?
Wo n't you get tire of your old father and White Sands ? ''
Sara pat his hand gently .
`` The world out there be a good place , '' she say thoughtfully , `` I 've have three splendid year and I hope they 'll enrich my whole life .
There be wonderful thing out there to see and learn , fine , noble people to meet , beautiful deed to admire ; but , '' she wind her arm about his neck and lay her cheek against his -- `` there be no daddy ! ''
And Old Man Shaw look silently at the sunset -- or , rather , through the sunset to still grander and more radiant splendour beyond , of which the thing see be only the pale reflection , not worthy of attention from those who have the gift of further sight .
VII .
Aunt Olivia 's Beau Aunt Olivia tell Peggy and me about him on the afternoon we go over to help her gather her late rose for pot-pourri .
We find her strangely quiet and preoccupied .
As a rule she be fond of mild fun , alert to hear East Grafton gossip , and give to sudden little trill of almost girlish laughter , which for the time be dispel the atmosphere of gentle old-maidishness which seem to hang about her a a garment .
At such moment we do not find it hard to believe -- a we do at other time -- that Aunt Olivia have once be a girl herself .
This day she pick the rose absently , and shake the fairy petal into her little sweet-grass basket with the air of a woman whose thought be far away .
We say nothing , know that Aunt Olivia 's secret always come our way in time .
When the rose-leaves be pick , we carry them in and upstairs in single file , Aunt Olivia bring up the rear to pick up any stray rose-leaf we might drop .
In the south-west room , where there be no carpet to fade , we spread them on newspaper on the floor .
Then we put our sweet-grass basket back in the proper place in the proper closet in the proper room .
What would have happen to u , or to the sweet-grass basket , if this have not be do I do not know .
Nothing be ever permit to remain an instant out of place in Aunt Olivia 's house .
When we go downstairs , Aunt Olivia ask u to go into the parlour .
She have something to tell u , she say , and a she open the door a delicate pink flush spread over her face .
I note it , with surprise , but no inkling of the truth come to me -- for nobody ever connect the idea of possible lover or marriage with this prim little old maid , Olivia Sterling .
Aunt Olivia 's parlour be much like herself -- painfully neat .
Every article of furniture stand in exactly the same place it have always stand .
Nothing be ever suffer to be disturb .
The tassel of the crazy cushion lay just so over the arm of the sofa , and the crochet antimacassar be always spread at precisely the same angel over the horsehair rock chair .
No speck of dust be ever visible ; no fly ever invade that sacred apartment .
Aunt Olivia pull up a blind , to let in what light could sift finely through the vine leave , and sit down in a high-backed old chair that have appertain to her great-grandmother .
She fold her hand in her lap , and look at u with shy appeal in her blue-gray eye .
Plainly she find it hard to tell u her secret , yet all the time there be an air of pride and exultation about her ; somewhat , also , of a new dignity .
Aunt Olivia could never be self-assertive , but if it have be possible that would have be her time for it .
`` Have you ever hear me speak of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ? ''
ask Aunt Olivia .
We have never hear her , or anybody else , speak of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ; but volume of explanation could not have tell u more about him than do Aunt Olivia 's voice when she pronounce his name .
We know , a if it have be proclaim to u in trumpet tone , that Mr. Malcolm MacPherson must be Aunt Olivia 's beau , and the knowledge take away our breath .
We even forget to be curious , so astonished be we .
And there sat Aunt Olivia , proud and shy and exulting and shamefaced , all at once !
`` He be a brother of Mrs. John Seaman 's across the bridge , '' explain Aunt Olivia with a little simper .
`` Of course you do n't remember him .
He go out to British Columbia twenty year ago .
But he be come home now -- and -- and -- tell your father , wo n't you -- I -- I -- do n't like to tell him -- Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and I be go to be marry . ''
`` Married ! ''
gasp Peggy .
And `` married ! ''
I echo stupidly .
Aunt Olivia bridle a little .
`` There be nothing unsuitable in that , be there ? ''
she ask , rather crisply .
`` Oh , no , no , '' I hasten to assure her , give Peggy a surreptitious kick to divert her thought from laughter .
`` Only you must realize , Aunt Olivia , that this be a very great surprise to u . ''
`` I think it would be so , '' say Aunt Olivia complacently .
`` But your father will know -- he will remember .
I do hope he wo n't think me foolish .
He do not think Mr. Malcolm MacPherson be a fit person for me to marry once .
But that be long ago , when Mr. Malcolm MacPherson be very poor .
He be in very comfortable circumstance now . ''
`` Tell u about it , Aunt Olivia , '' say Peggy .
She do not look at me , which be my salvation .
Had I catch Peggy 's eye when Aunt Olivia say `` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson '' in that tone I must have laugh , willy-nilly .
`` When I be a girl the MacPhersons use to live across the road from here .
Mr. Malcolm MacPherson be my beau then .
But my family -- and your father especially -- dear me , I do hope he wo n't be very cross -- be oppose to his attention and be very cool to him .
I think that be why he never say anything to me about get married then .
And after a time he go away , a I have say , and I never hear anything from him directly for many a year .
Of course , his sister sometimes give me news of him .
But last June I have a letter from him .
He say he be come home to settle down for good on the old Island , and he ask me if I would marry him .
I write back and say I would .
Perhaps I ought to have consult your father , but I be afraid he would think I ought to refuse Mr. Malcolm MacPherson . ''
`` Oh , I do n't think father will mind , '' say Peggy reassuringly .
`` I hope not , because , of course , I would consider it my duty in any case to fulfil the promise I have give to Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
He will be in Grafton next week , the guest of his sister , Mrs. John Seaman , across the bridge . ''
Aunt Olivia say that exactly a if she be read it from the personal column of the Daily Enterprise .
`` When be the wedding to be ? ''
I ask .
`` Oh ! ''
Aunt Olivia blush distressfully .
`` I do not know the exact date .
Nothing can be definitely settle until Mr. Malcolm MacPherson come .
But it will not be before September , at the early .
There will be so much to do .
You will tell your father , wo n't you ? ''
We promise that we would , and Aunt Olivia arise with an air of relief .
Peggy and I hurry over home , stop , when we be safely out of earshot , to laugh .
The romance of the middle-aged may be to them a tender and sweet a those of youth , but they be apt to possess a good deal of humour for onlooker .
Only youth can be sentimental without be mirth-provoking .
We love Aunt Olivia and be glad for her late , new-blossoming happiness ; but we felt amuse over it also .
The recollection of her `` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson '' be too much for u every time we think of it .
Father pooh-poohed incredulously at first , and , when we have convince him , guffaw with laughter .
Aunt Olivia need not have dread any more opposition from her cruel family .
`` MacPherson be a good fellow enough , but horribly poor , '' say father .
`` I hear he have do very well out west , and if he and Olivia have a notion of each other they be welcome to marry as far a I be concerned .
Tell Olivia she must n't take a spasm if he track some mud into her house once in a while . ''
Thus it be all arrange , and , before we realize it at all , Aunt Olivia be mid-deep in marriage preparation , in all of which Peggy and I be quite indispensable .
She consult u in regard to everything , and we almost live at her place in those day precede the arrival of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
Aunt Olivia plainly felt very happy and important .
She have always wish to be marry ; she be not in the least strong-minded and her old-maidenhood have always be a sore point with her .
I think she look upon it a somewhat of a disgrace .
And yet she be a born old maid ; look at her , and take all her primness and little set way into consideration , it be quite impossible to picture her a the wife of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson , or anybody else .
We soon discover that , to Aunt Olivia , Mr. Malcolm MacPherson represent a merely abstract proposition -- the man who be to confer on her the long-withheld dignity of matronhood .
Her romance begin and end there , although she be quite unconscious of this herself , and believe that she be deeply in love with him .
`` What will be the result , Mary , when he arrive in the flesh and she be compel to deal with ` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ' a a real , live man , instead of a nebulous ` party of the second part ' in the marriage ceremony ? ''
query Peggy , a she hem table-napkins for Aunt Olivia , sit on her well-scoured sandstone step , and carefully put all thread-clippings and ravelling into the little basket which Aunt Olivia have place there for that purpose .
`` It may transform her from a self-centered old maid into a woman for whom marriage do not seem such an incongruous thing , '' I say .
The day on which Mr. Malcolm MacPherson be expect Peggy and I go over .
We have plan to remain away , think that the lover would prefer their first meeting to be unwitnessed , but Aunt Olivia insist on our be present .
She be plainly nervous ; the abstract be become concrete .
Her little house be in spotless , speckless order from top to bottom .
Aunt Olivia have herself scrub the garret floor and sweep the cellar step that very morning with as much painstaking care a if she expect that Mr. Malcolm MacPherson would hasten to inspect each at once and she must stand or fall by his opinion of them .
Peggy and I help her to dress .
She insist on wear her best black silk , in which she look unnaturally fine .
Her soft muslin become her much better , but we could not induce her to wear it .
Anything more prim and bandboxy than Aunt Olivia when her toilet be finish it have never be my lot to see .
Peggy and I watch her a she go downstairs , her skirt held stiffly up all around her that it might not brush the floor . ''
` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ' will be inspire with such awe that he will only be able to sit back and gaze at her , '' whisper Peggy .
`` I wish he would come and have it over .
This be get on my nerve . ''
Aunt Olivia go into the parlour , settle herself in the old carved chair , and fold her hand .
Peggy and I sit down on the stair to await his come in a crisping suspense .
Aunt Olivia 's kitten , a fat , bewhiskered creature , look a if it be cut out of black velvet , share our vigil and purr in madden peace of mind .
We could see the garden path and gate through the hall window , and therefore suppose we should have full warning of the approach of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
It be no wonder , therefore , that we positively jump when a thunderous knock crash against the front door and re-echoed through the house .
Had Mr. Malcolm MacPherson drop from the sky ?
We afterwards discover that he have come across lot and around the house from the back , but just then his sudden advent be almost uncanny .
I run downstairs and open the door .
On the step stand a man about six foot two in height , and proportionately broad and sinewy .
He have splendid shoulder , a great crop of curly black hair , big , twinkle blue eye , and a tremendous crinkly black beard that fell over his breast in shin wave .
In brief , Mr. Malcolm MacPherson be what one would call instinctively , if somewhat tritely , `` a magnificent specimen of manhood . ''
In one hand he carry a bunch of early goldenrod and smoke-blue aster .
`` Good afternoon , '' he say in a resonant voice which seem to take possession of the drowsy summer afternoon .
`` Is Miss Olivia Sterling in ?
And will you please tell her that Malcolm MacPherson be here ? ''
I show him into the parlour .
Then Peggy and I peep through the crack of the door .
Anyone would have do it .
We would have scorn to excuse ourselves .
And , indeed , what we saw would have be worth several conscience spasm if we have felt any .
Aunt Olivia arise and advance primly , with outstretched hand .
`` Mr. MacPherson , I be very glad to see you , '' she say formally .
`` It 's yourself , Nillie ! ''
Mr. Malcolm MacPherson give two stride .
He drop his flower on the floor , knock over a small table , and send the ottoman spinning against the wall .
Then he catch Aunt Olivia in his arm and -- smack , smack , smack !
Peggy sink back upon the stair-step with her handkerchief stuffed in her mouth .
Aunt Olivia be be kiss !
Presently , Mr. Malcolm MacPherson hold her back at arm 's length in his big paw and look her over .
I saw Aunt Olivia 's eye roam over his arm to the invert table and the litter of aster and goldenrod .
Her sleek crimp be all ruffle up , and her lace fichu twist half around her neck .
She look distressed .
`` It 's not a bit change you be , Nillie , '' say Mr. Malcolm MacPherson admiringly .
`` And it 's good I 'm feel to see you again .
Are you glad to see me , Nillie ? ''
`` Oh , of course , '' say Aunt Olivia .
She twist herself free and go to set up the table .
Then she turn to the flower , but Mr. Malcolm MacPherson have already gather them up , leave a goodly sprinkling of leaf and stalk on the carpet .
`` I pick these for you in the river field , Nillie , '' he say .
`` Where will I be get something to stick them in ?
Here , this will do . ''
He grasp a frail , painted vase on the mantel , stuff the flower in it , and set it on the table .
The look on Aunt Olivia 's face be too much for me at last .
I turn , catch Peggy by the shoulder and drag her out of the house .
`` He will horrify the very soul out of Aunt Olivia 's body if he go on like this , '' I gasp .
`` But he 's splendid -- and he think the world of her -- and , oh , Peggy , do you EVER hear such kiss ?
Fancy Aunt Olivia ! ''
It do not take u long to get well acquaint with Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
He almost haunt Aunt Olivia 's house , and Aunt Olivia insist on our stay with her most of the time .
She seem to be very shy of find herself alone with him .
He horrify her a dozen time in an hour ; nevertheless , she be very proud of him , and like to be tease about him , too .
She be delighted that we admire him .
`` Though , to be sure , he be very different in his look from what he use to be , '' she say .
`` He be so dreadfully big !
And I do not like a beard , but I have not the courage to ask him to shave it off .
He might be offend .
He have buy the old Lynde place in Avonlea and want to be marry in a month .
But , dear me , that be too soon .
It -- it would be hardly proper . ''
Peggy and I like Mr. Malcolm MacPherson very much .
So do father .
We be glad that he seem to think Aunt Olivia perfection .
He be as happy a the day be long ; but poor Aunt Olivia , under all her surface pride and importance , be not .
Amid all the humour of the circumstance Peggy and I snuff tragedy compound with the humour .
Mr. Malcolm MacPherson could never be train to old-maidishness , and even Aunt Olivia seem to realize this .
He never stop to clear his boot when he come in , although she have an ostentatiously new scraper put at each door for his benefit .
He seldom move in the house without knock some of Aunt Olivia 's treasure over .
He smoke cigar in her parlour and scatter the ash over the floor .
He bring her flower every day and stick them into whatever receptacle come handy .
He sit on her cushion and roll her antimacassars up into ball .
He put his foot on her chair rung -- and all with the most distracting unconsciousness of do anything out of the way .
He never notice Aunt Olivia 's fluttering nervousness at all .
Peggy and I laugh more than be good for u those day .
It be so funny to see Aunt Olivia hover anxiously around , pick up flower stem , and smooth out tidy , and generally follow him about to straighten out thing .
Once she even get a wing and dustpan and sweep the cigar ash under his very eyes .
`` Now do n't be worry yourself over that , Nillie , '' he protest .
`` Why , I do n't mind a litter , bless you ! ''
How good and jolly he be , that Mr. Malcolm MacPherson !
Such song a he sing , such story a he tell , such a breezy , unconventional atmosphere a he bring into that prim little house , where stagnant dullness have reign for year !
He worship Aunt Olivia , and his worship take the concrete form of present galore .
He bring her a present almost every visit -- generally some article of jewelry .
Bracelets , ring , chain , ear-drops , locket , bangle , be shower upon our precise little aunt ; she accept them deprecatingly , but never wear them .
This hurt him a little , but she assure him she would wear them all sometimes .
`` I be not use to jewelry , Mr. MacPherson , '' she would tell him .
Her engagement ring she do wear -- it be a rather `` loud '' combination of engraved gold and opal .
Sometimes we catch her turn it on her finger with a very troubled face .
`` I would be sorry for Mr. Malcolm MacPherson if he be not so much in love with her , '' say Peggy .
`` But a he think that she be perfection he do n't need sympathy . ''
`` I be sorry for Aunt Olivia , '' I say .
`` Yes , Peggy , I be .
Mr. MacPherson be a splendid man , but Aunt Olivia be a born old maid , and it be outrage her very nature to be anything else .
Do n't you see how it 's hurt her ?
His big , splendid man-ways be harrow her very soul up -- she ca n't get out of her little , narrow groove , and it be kill her to be pull out . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
say Peggy .
Then she add with a laugh , `` Mary , do you ever see anything so funny a Aunt Olivia sit on ` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson 's ' knee ? ''
It WAS funny .
Aunt Olivia think it very unbecoming to sit there before u , but he make her do it .
He would say , with his big , jolly laugh , `` Do n't be mind the little girl , '' and pull her down on his knee and hold her there .
To my die day I shall never forget the expression on the poor little woman 's face .
But , a the day go by and Mr. Malcolm MacPherson begin to insist on a date be set for the wedding , Aunt Olivia grow to have a strangely disturbed look .
She become very quiet , and never laugh except under protest .
Also , she show sign of petulance when any of u , but especially father , tease her about her beau .
I pity her , for I think I understand good than the others what her feeling really be .
But even I be not prepare for what do happen .
I would not have believe that Aunt Olivia could do it .
I think that her desire for marriage in the abstract would outweigh the disadvantage of the concrete .
But one can never reckon with real , bred-in-the-bone old-maidism .
One morning Mr. Malcolm MacPherson tell u all that he be come up that even to make Aunt Olivia set the day .
Peggy and I laughingly approve , tell him that it be high time for him to assert his authority , and he go off in great good humour across the river field , whistle a Highland strathspey .
But Aunt Olivia look like a martyr .
She have a fierce attack of houseclean that day , and put everything in flawless order , even to the corner .
`` As if there be go to be a funeral in the house , '' sniff Peggy .
Peggy and I be up in the south-west room at dusk that evening , piece a quilt , when we hear Mr. Malcolm MacPherson shout out in the hall below to know if anyone be home .
I run out to the landing , but a I do so Aunt Olivia come out of her room , brush past me , and flit downstairs .
`` Mr. MacPherson , '' I hear her say with double-distilled primness , `` will you please come into the parlour ?
I have something to say to you . ''
They go in , and I return to the south-west room .
`` Peg , there 's trouble brewing , '' I say .
`` I 'm sure of it by Aunt Olivia 's face , it be GRAY .
And she have go down ALONE -- and shut the door . ''
`` I be go to hear what she say to him , '' say Peggy resolutely .
`` It be her own fault -- she have spoil u by always insist that we should be present at their interview .
That poor man have have to do his court under our very eyes .
Come on , Mary . ''
The south-west room be directly over the parlour and there be an open stovepipe-hole lead up therefrom .
Peggy remove the hat box that be on it , and we both deliberately and shamelessly crouch down and listen with all our might .
It be easy enough to hear what Mr. Malcolm MacPherson be say .
`` I 've come up to get the date settle , Nillie , a I tell you .
Come now , little woman , name the day . ''
SMACK !
`` Do n't , Mr. MacPherson , '' say Aunt Olivia .
She speak a a woman who have key herself up to the do of some very distasteful task and be anxious to have it over and do with as soon a possible .
`` There be something I must say to you .
I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson . ''
There be a pause .
I would have give much to have see the pair of them .
When Mr. Malcolm MacPherson speak his voice be that of blank , uncomprehending amazement .
`` Nillie , what be it you be mean ? ''
he say .
`` I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson , '' repeat Aunt Olivia .
`` Why not ? ''
Surprise be give way to dismay .
`` I do n't think you will understand , Mr. MacPherson , '' say Aunt Olivia , faintly .
`` You do n't realize what it mean for a woman to give up everything -- her own home and friend and all her past life , so to speak , and go far away with a stranger . ''
`` Why , I suppose it will be rather hard .
But , Nillie , Avonlea be n't very far away -- not more than twelve mile , if it will be that . ''
`` Twelve mile !
It might as well be at the other side of the world to all intent and purpose , '' say Aunt Olivia obstinately .
`` I do n't know a living soul there , except Rachel Lynde . ''
`` Why do n't you say so before I buy the place , then ?
But it 's not too late .
I can be sell it and buy right here in East Grafton if that will please you -- though there be n't half a nice a place to be have .
But I 'll fix it up somehow ! ''
`` No , Mr. MacPherson , '' say Aunt Olivia firmly , `` that do n't cover the difficulty .
I know you would not understand .
My way be not your way and I can not make them over .
For -- you track mud in -- and -- and -- you do n't care whether thing be tidy or not . ''
Poor Aunt Olivia have to be Aunt Olivia ; if she be be burn at the stake I verily believe she would have drag some grotesqueness into the tragedy of the moment .
`` The devil ! ''
say Mr. Malcolm MacPherson -- not profanely or angrily , but a in sheer bewilderment .
Then he add , `` Nillie , you must be joke .
It 's careless enough I be -- the west be n't a good place to learn finicky way -- but you can teach me .
You 're not go to throw me over because I track mud in ! ''
`` I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson , '' say Aunt Olivia again .
`` You ca n't be mean it ! ''
he exclaim , because he be begin to understand that she do mean it , although it be impossible for his man mind to understand anything else about the puzzle .
`` Nillie , it 's break my heart you be !
I 'll do anything -- go anywhere -- be anything you want -- only do n't be go back on me like this . ''
`` I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson , '' say Aunt Olivia for the fourth time .
`` Nillie ! ''
exclaim Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
There be such real agony in his tone that Peggy and I be suddenly stricken with contrition .
What be we do ?
We have no right to be listen to this pitiful interview .
The pain and protest in his voice have suddenly banish all the humour from it , and leave naught but the bare , stark tragedy .
We rise and tiptoe out of the room , wholesomely ashamed of ourselves .
When Mr. Malcolm MacPherson have go , after an hour of useless pleading , Aunt Olivia come up to u , pale and prim and determine , and tell u that there be to be no wedding .
We could not pretend surprise , but Peggy venture a faint protest .
`` Oh , Aunt Olivia , do you think you have do right ? ''
`` It be the only thing I could do , '' say Aunt Olivia stonily .
`` I could not marry Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and I tell him so .
Please tell your father -- and kindly say nothing more to me about the matter . ''
Then Aunt Olivia go downstairs , get a broom , and sweep up the mud Mr. Malcolm MacPherson have track over the step .
Peggy and I go home and tell father .
We felt very flat , but there be nothing to be do or say .
Father laugh at the whole thing , but I could not laugh .
I be sorry for Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and , though I be angry with her , I be sorry for Aunt Olivia , too .
Plainly she felt badly enough over her vanished hope and plan , but she have develop a strange and baffle reserve which nothing could pierce .
`` It 's nothing but a chronic case of old-maidism , '' say father impatiently .
Things be very dull for a week .
We saw no more of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and we miss him dreadfully .
Aunt Olivia be inscrutable , and work with fierceness at superfluous task .
One evening father come home with some news .
`` Malcolm MacPherson be leave on the 7:30 train for the west , '' he say .
`` He have rent the Avonlea place and he 's off .
They say he be mad a a hatter at the trick Olivia play on him . ''
After tea Peggy and I go over to see Aunt Olivia , who have ask our advice about a wrapper .
She be sew a for dear life , and her face be prim and colder than ever .
I wonder if she know of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson 's departure .
Delicacy forbid me to mention it but Peggy have no such scruple .
`` Well , Aunt Olivia , your beau be off , '' she announce cheerfully .
`` You wo n't be bother with him again .
He be leave on the mail train for the west . ''
Aunt Olivia drop her sewing and stand up .
I have never see anything like the transformation that come over her .
It be so thorough and sudden a to be almost uncanny .
The old maid vanish completely , and in her place be a woman , full to the lip with primitive emotion and pain .
`` What shall I do ? ''
she cry in a terrible voice .
`` Mary -- Peggy -- what shall I do ? ''
It be almost a shriek .
Peggy turn pale .
`` Do you care ? ''
she say stupidly .
`` Care !
Girls , I shall DIE if Malcolm MacPherson go away !
I have be mad -- I must have be mad .
I have almost die of loneliness since I send him away .
But I think he would come back !
I must see him -- there be time to reach the station before the train go if I go by the field . ''
She take a wild step towards the door , but I catch her back with a sudden mind-vision of Aunt Olivia fly bareheaded and distraught across the field .
`` Wait a moment , Aunt Olivia .
Peggy , run home and get father to harness Dick in the buggy as quickly a he can .
We 'll drive Aunt Olivia to the station .
We 'll get you there in time , Aunty . ''
Peggy fly , and Aunt Olivia dash upstairs .
I linger behind to pick up her sewing , and when I get to her room she have her hat and cape on .
Spread out on the bed be all the box of gift which Mr. Malcolm MacPherson have bring her , and Aunt Olivia be string their content feverishly about her person .
Rings , three brooch , a locket , three chain and a watch all go on -- anyway and anyhow .
A wonderful sight it be to see Aunt Olivia bedizen like that !
`` I would never wear them before -- but I 'll put them all on now to show him I 'm sorry , '' she gasp , with tremble lip .
When the three of u crowd into the buggy , Aunt Olivia grasp the whip before we could prevent her and , lean out , give poor Dick such a lash a he have never felt in his life before .
He go tear down the steep , stony , fast-darkening road in a fashion which make Peggy and me cry out in alarm .
Aunt Olivia be usually the most timid of woman , but now she do n't seem to know what fear be .
She keep whip and urge poor Dick the whole way to the station , quite oblivious to our assurance that there be plenty of time .
The people who meet u that night must have think we be quite mad .
I hold on the rein , Peggy grip the swaying side of the buggy , and Aunt Olivia bent forward , hat and hair blow back from her set face with it strangely crimson cheek , and ply the whip .
In such a guise do we whirl through the village and over the two-mile station road .
When we drive up to the station , where the train be shunt amid the shadow , Aunt Olivia make a fly leap from the buggy and ran along the platform , with her cape stream behind her and all her brooch and chain glitter in the light .
I toss the rein to a boy stand near and we follow .
Just under the glare of the station lamp we saw Mr. Malcolm MacPherson , grip in hand .
Fortunately no one else be very near , but it would have be all the same have they be the centre of a crowd .
Aunt Olivia fairly fling herself against him .
`` Malcolm , '' she cry , `` do n't go -- do n't go -- I 'll marry you -- I 'll go anywhere -- and I do n't care how much mud you bring in ! ''
That truly Aunt Olivia touch relieve the tension of the situation a little .
Mr. MacPherson put his arm about her and draw her back into the shadow .
`` There , there , '' he soothe .
`` Of course I wo n't be go .
Do n't cry , Nillie-girl . ''
`` And you 'll come right back with me now ? ''
implored Aunt Olivia , cling to him a if she fear he would be whisk away from her yet if she let go for a moment .
`` Of course , of course , '' he say .
Peggy get a chance home with a friend , and Aunt Olivia and Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and I drive back in the buggy .
Mr. MacPherson hold Aunt Olivia on his knee because there be no room , but she would have sit there , I think , have there be a dozen vacant seat .
She cling to him in the most barefaced fashion , and all her former primness and reserve be sweep away completely .
She kiss him a dozen time or more and tell him she love him -- and I do not even smile , nor do I want to .
Somehow , it do not seem in the least funny to me then , nor do it now , although it doubtless will to others .
There be too much real intensity of feeling in it all to leave any room for the ridiculous .
So wrap up in each other be they that I do not even feel superfluous .
I set them safely down in Aunt Olivia 's yard and turn homeward , completely forget by the pair .
But in the moonlight , which flood the front of the house , I saw something that testify eloquently to the transformation in Aunt Olivia .
It have rain that afternoon and the yard be muddy .
Nevertheless , she go in at her front door and take Mr. Malcolm MacPherson in with her without even a glance at the scraper !
VIII .
The Quarantine at Alexander Abraham 's I refuse to take that class in Sunday School the first time I be ask .
It be not that I object to teach in the Sunday School .
On the contrary I rather like the idea ; but it be the Rev . Mr. Allan who ask me , and it have always be a matter of principle with me never to do anything a man ask me to do if I could help it .
I be note for that .
It save a great deal of trouble and it simplify everything beautifully .
I have always dislike men .
It must have be bear in me , because , a far back a I can remember , an antipathy to men and dog be one of my strong characteristic .
I be note for that .
My experience through life only serve to deepen it .
The more I saw of men , the more I like cat .
So , of course , when the Rev . Allan ask me if I would consent to take a class in Sunday School , I say no in a fashion calculate to chasten him wholesomely .
If he have send his wife the first time , a he do the second , it would have be wise .
People generally do what Mrs. Allan ask them to do because they know it save time .
Mrs. Allan talk smoothly for half an hour before she mention the Sunday School , and pay me several compliment .
Mrs. Allan be famous for her tact .
Tact be a faculty for meander around to a give point instead of make a bee-line .
I have no tact .
I be note for that .
As soon a Mrs. Allan 's conversation come in sight of the Sunday School , I , who know all along whither it be tend , say , straight out , `` What class do you want me to teach ? ''
Mrs. Allan be so surprised that she forget to be tactful , and answer plainly for once in her life , `` There be two class -- one of boy and one of girl -- need a teacher .
I have be teach the girl ' class , but I shall have to give it up for a little time on account of the baby 's health .
You may have your choice , Miss MacPherson . ''
`` Then I shall take the boy , '' I say decidedly .
I be note for my decision .
`` Since they have to grow up to be men it 's well to train them properly betimes .
Nuisances they be bind to become under any circumstance ; but if they be take in hand young enough they may not grow up to be such nuisance a they otherwise would and that will be some unfortunate woman 's gain . ''
Mrs. Allan look dubious .
I know she have expect me to choose the girl .
`` They be a very wild set of boy , '' she say .
`` I never know boy who be n't , '' I retort .
`` I -- I -- think perhaps you would like the girl best , '' say Mrs. Allan hesitatingly .
If it have not be for one thing -- which I would never in this world have admit to Mrs. Allan -- I might have like the girl ' class best myself .
But the truth be , Anne Shirley be in that class ; and Anne Shirley be the one living human be that I be afraid of .
Not that I dislike her .
But she have such a habit of ask weird , unexpected question , which a Philadelphia lawyer could n't answer .
Miss Rogerson have that class once and Anne rout her , horse , foot and artillery .
I be n't go to undertake a class with a walk interrogation point in it like that .
Besides , I think Mrs. Allan require a slight snub .
Ministers ' wife be rather apt to think they can run everything and everybody , if they be not wholesomely correct now and again .
`` It be not what I like best that must be consider , Mrs. Allan , '' I say rebukingly .
`` It be what be best for those boy .
I feel that I shall be best for THEM . ''
`` Oh , I 've no doubt of that , Miss MacPherson , '' say Mrs. Allan amiably .
It be a fib for her , minister 's wife though she be .
She HAD doubt .
She think I would be a dismal failure a teacher of a boy ' class .
But I be not .
I be not often a dismal failure when I make up my mind to do a thing .
I be note for that .
`` It be wonderful what a reformation you have work in that class , Miss MacPherson -- wonderful , '' say the Rev . Mr. Allan some week later .
He do n't mean to show how amaze a thing he think it that an old maid note for be a man hater should have manage it , but his face betray him .
`` Where do Jimmy Spencer live ? ''
I ask him crisply .
`` He come one Sunday three week ago and have n't be back since .
I mean to find out why . ''
Mr. Allan cough .
`` I believe he be hire a handy boy with Alexander Abraham Bennett , out on the White Sands road , '' he say .
`` Then I be go out to Alexander Abraham Bennett 's on the White Sands road to see why Jimmy Spencer do n't come to Sunday school , '' I say firmly .
Mr. Allan 's eye twinkle ever so slightly .
I have always insist that if that man be not a minister he would have a sense of humour .
`` Possibly Mr. Bennett will not appreciate your kind interest !
He have -- ah -- a singular aversion to your sex , I understand .
No woman have ever be know to get inside of Mr. Bennett 's house since his sister die twenty year ago . ''
`` Oh , he be the one , be he ? ''
I say , remember .
`` He be the woman hater who threaten that if a woman come into his yard he 'll chase her out with a pitch-fork .
Well , he will not chase ME out ! ''
Mr. Allan give a chuckle -- a ministerial chuckle , but still a chuckle .
It irritate me slightly , because it seem to imply that he think Alexander Abraham Bennett would be one too many for me .
But I do not show Mr. Allan that he annoy me .
It be always a great mistake to let a man see that he can vex you .
The next afternoon I harness my sorrel pony to the buggy and drive down to Alexander Abraham Bennett 's .
As usual , I take William Adolphus with me for company .
William Adolphus be my favourite among my six cat .
He be black , with a white dicky and beautiful white paw .
He sit up on the seat beside me and look far more like a gentleman than many a man I 've see in a similar position .
Alexander Abraham 's place be about three mile along the White Sands road .
I know the house as soon a I come to it by it neglected appearance .
It need paint badly ; the blind be crook and tear ; weed grow up to the very door .
Plainly , there be no woman about THAT place .
Still , it be a nice house , and the barn be splendid .
My father always say that when a man 's barn be big than his house it be a sign that his income exceed his expenditure .
So it be all right that they should be big ; but it be all wrong that they should be trim and well paint .
Still , think I , what else could you expect of a woman hater ?
`` But Alexander Abraham evidently know how to run a farm , even it he be a woman hater , '' I remark to William Adolphus a I get out and tie the pony to the railing .
I have drive up to the house from the back way and now I be opposite a side door open on the veranda .
I think I might as well go to it , so I tuck William Adolphus under my arm and march up the path .
Just a I be half-way up , a dog swoop around the front corner and make straight for me .
He be the ugly dog I have ever see ; and he do n't even bark -- just come silently and speedily on , with a business-like eye .
I never stop to argue matter with a dog that do n't bark .
I know when discretion be the good part of valour .
Firmly clasp William Adolphus , I run -- not to the door , because the dog be between me and it , but to a big , low-branching cherry tree at the back corner of the house .
I reach it in time and no more .
First thrust William Adolphus on to a limb above my head , I scramble up into that bless tree without stop to think how it might look to Alexander Abraham if he happen to be watch .
My time for reflection come when I find myself perch half way up the tree with William Adolphus beside me .
William Adolphus be quite calm and unruffled .
I can hardly say with truthfulness what I be .
On the contrary , I admit that I felt considerably upset .
The dog be sit on his haunch on the ground below , watch u , and it be quite plain to be see , from his leisurely manner , that it be not his busy day .
He bar his teeth and growl when he catch my eye .
`` You LOOK like a woman hater 's dog , '' I tell him .
I mean it for an insult ; but the beast take it for a compliment .
Then I set myself to solve the question , `` How be I to get out of this predicament ? ''
It do not seem easy to solve it .
`` Shall I scream , William Adolphus ? ''
I demand of that intelligent animal .
William Adolphus shake his head .
This be a fact .
And I agree with him .
`` No , I shall not scream , William Adolphus , '' I say .
`` There be probably no one to hear me except Alexander Abraham , and I have my painful doubt about his tender mercy .
Now , it be impossible to go down .
Is it , then , William Adolphus , possible to go up ? ''
I look up .
Just above my head be an open window with a tolerably stout branch extend right across it .
`` Shall we try that way , William Adolphus ? ''
I ask .
William Adolphus , waste no word , begin to climb the tree .
I follow his example .
The dog run in circle about the tree and look thing not lawful to be utter .
It probably would have be a relief to him to bark if it have n't be so against his principle .
I get in by the window easily enough , and find myself in a bedroom the like of which for disorder and dust and general awfulness I have never see in all my life .
But I do not pause to take in detail .
With William Adolphus under my arm I march downstairs , fervently hop I should meet no one on the way .
I do not .
The hall below be empty and dusty .
I open the first door I come to and walk boldly in .
A man be sit by the window , look moodily out .
I should have know him for Alexander Abraham anywhere .
He have just the same uncared-for , ragged appearance that the house have ; and yet , like the house , it seem that he would not be bad look if he be trim up a little .
His hair look a if it have never be comb , and his whisker be wild in the extreme .
He look at me with blank amazement in his countenance .
`` Where be Jimmy Spencer ? ''
I demand .
`` I have come to see him . ''
`` How do he ever let you in ? ''
ask the man , star at me .
`` He do n't let me in , '' I retort .
`` He chase me all over the lawn , and I only save myself from be tear piecemeal by scramble up a tree .
You ought to be prosecute for keep such a dog !
Where be Jimmy ? ''
Instead of answer Alexander Abraham begin to laugh in a most unpleasant fashion .
`` Trust a woman for get into a man 's house if she have make up her mind to , '' he say disagreeably .
Seeing that it be his intention to vex me I remain cool and collect .
`` Oh , I be n't particular about get into your house , Mr. Bennett , '' I say calmly .
`` I have but little choice in the matter .
It be get in l a bad fate befall me .
It be not you or your house I want to see -- although I admit that it be worth see if a person be anxious to find out how dirty a place CAN be .
It be Jimmy .
For the third and last time -- where be Jimmy ? ''
`` Jimmy be not here , '' say Mr. Bennett gruffly -- but not quite so assuredly .
`` He leave last week and hire with a man over at Newbridge . ''
`` In that case , '' I say , pick up William Adolphus , who have be explore the room with a disdainful air , `` I wo n't disturb you any long .
I shall go . ''
`` Yes , I think it would be the wise thing , '' say Alexander Abraham -- not disagreeably this time , but reflectively , a if there be some doubt about the matter .
`` I 'll let you out by the back door .
Then the -- ahem !
-- the dog will not interfere with you .
Please go away quietly and quickly . ''
I wonder if Alexander Abraham think I would go away with a whoop .
But I say nothing , think this the most dignified course of conduct , and I follow him out to the kitchen a quickly and quietly a he could have wish .
Such a kitchen !
Alexander Abraham open the door -- which be lock -- just a a buggy contain two men drive into the yard .
`` Too late ! ''
he exclaim in a tragic tone .
I understand that something dreadful must have happen , but I do not care , since , a I fondly suppose , it do not concern me .
I push out past Alexander Abraham -- who be look as guilty a if he have be catch burglarize -- and come face to face with the man who have spring from the buggy .
It be old Dr. Blair , from Carmody , and he be look at me a if he have find me shoplift .
`` My dear Peter , '' he say gravely , `` I be VERY sorry to see you here -- very sorry indeed . ''
I admit that this exasperate me .
Besides , no man on earth , not even my own family doctor , have any right to `` My dear Peter '' me !
`` There be no loud call for sorrow , doctor , '' I say loftily .
`` If a woman , forty-eight year of age , a member of the Presbyterian church in good and regular standing , can not call upon one of her Sunday School scholar without wreck all the propriety , how old must she be before she can ? ''
The doctor do not answer my question .
Instead , he look reproachfully at Alexander Abraham .
`` Is this how you keep your word , Mr. Bennett ? ''
he say .
`` I think that you promise me that you would not let anyone into the house . ''
`` I do n't let her in , '' growl Mr. Bennett .
`` Good heaven , man , she climb in at an upstairs window , despite the presence on my ground of a policeman and a dog !
What be to be do with a woman like that ? ''
`` I do not understand what all this mean , '' I say address myself to the doctor and ignore Alexander Abraham entirely , `` but if my presence here be so extremely inconvenient to all concern , you can soon be relieve of it .
I be go at once . ''
`` I be very sorry , my dear Peter , '' say the doctor impressively , `` but that be just what I can not allow you to do .
This house be under quarantine for smallpox .
You will have to stay here . ''
Smallpox !
For the first and last time in my life , I openly lose my temper with a man .
I wheel furiously upon Alexander Abraham .
`` Why do n't you tell me ? ''
I cry .
`` Tell you ! ''
he say , glare at me .
`` When I first saw you it be too late to tell you .
I think the kind thing I could do be to hold my tongue and let you get away in happy ignorance .
This will teach you to take a man 's house by storm , madam ! ''
`` Now , now , do n't quarrel , my good people , '' interpose the doctor seriously -- but I saw a twinkle in his eye .
`` You 'll have to spend some time together under the same roof and you wo n't improve the situation by disagree .
You see , Peter , it be this way .
Mr. Bennett be in town yesterday -- where , a you be aware , there be a bad outbreak of smallpox -- and take dinner in a boarding-house where one of the maid be ill .
Last night she develop unmistakable symptom of smallpox .
The Board of Health at once get after all the people who be in the house yesterday , so far a they could locate them , and put them under quarantine .
I come down here this morning and explain the matter to Mr. Bennett .
I bring Jeremiah Jeffries to guard the front of the house and Mr. Bennett give me his word of honour that he would not let anyone in by the back way while I go to get another policeman and make all the necessary arrangement .
I have bring Thomas Wright and have secure the service of another man to attend to Mr. Bennett 's barn work and bring provision to the house .
Jacob Green and Cleophas Lee will watch at night .
I do n't think there be much danger of Mr. Bennett 's take the smallpox , but until we be sure you must remain here , Peter . ''
While listen to the doctor I have be think .
It be the most distressing predicament I have ever get into in my life , but there be no sense in make it bad .
`` Very well , doctor , '' I say calmly .
`` Yes , I be vaccinate a month ago , when the news of the smallpox first come .
When you go back through Avonlea kindly go to Sarah Pye and ask her to live in my house during my absence and look after thing , especially the cat .
Tell her to give them new milk twice a day and a square inch of butter apiece once a week .
Get her to put my two dark print wrapper , some apron , and some change of underclothing in my third best valise and have it send down to me .
My pony be tie out there to the fence .
Please take him home .
That be all , I think . ''
`` No , it be n't all , '' say Alexander Abraham grumpily .
`` Send that cat home , too .
I wo n't have a cat around the place -- I 'd rather have smallpox . ''
I look Alexander Abraham over gradually , in a way I have , begin at his foot and travel up to his head .
I take my time over it ; and then I say , very quietly .
`` You may have both .
Anyway , you 'll have to have William Adolphus .
He be under quarantine as well a you and I . Do you suppose I be go to have my cat range at large through Avonlea , scatter smallpox germ among innocent people ?
I 'll have to put up with that dog of yours .
You will have to endure William Adolphus . ''
Alexander Abraham groan , but I could see that the way I have look him over have chasten him considerably .
The doctor drive away , and I go into the house , not choose to linger outside and be grin at by Thomas Wright .
I hang my coat up in the hall and lay my bonnet carefully on the sitting-room table , have first dust a clean place for it with my handkerchief .
I long to fall upon that house at once and clean it up , but I have to wait until the doctor come back with my wrapper .
I could not clean house in my new suit and a silk shirtwaist .
Alexander Abraham be sit on a chair look at me .
Presently he say , `` I be NOT curious -- but will you kindly tell me why the doctor call you Peter ? ''
`` Because that be my name , I suppose , '' I answer , shake up a cushion for William Adolphus and thereby disturb the dust of year .
Alexander Abraham cough gently .
`` Is n't that -- ahem !
-- rather a peculiar name for a woman ? ''
`` It be , '' I say , wonder how much soap , if any , there be in the house .
`` I be NOT curious , '' say Alexander Abraham , `` but would you mind tell me how you come to be call Peter ? ''
`` If I have be a boy my parent intend to call me Peter in honour of a rich uncle .
When I -- fortunately -- turn out to be a girl my mother insist that I should be call Angelina .
They give me both name and call me Angelina , but as soon a I grow old enough I decide to be call Peter .
It be bad enough , but not so bad a Angelina . ''
`` I should say it be more appropriate , '' say Alexander Abraham , intend , a I perceive , to be disagreeable .
`` Precisely , '' I agree calmly .
`` My last name be MacPherson , and I live in Avonlea .
As you be NOT curious , that will be all the information you will need about me . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Alexander Abraham look a if a light have break in on him .
`` I 've hear of you .
You -- ah -- pretend to dislike men . ''
Pretend !
Goodness only know what would have happen to Alexander Abraham just then if a diversion have not take place .
But the door open and a dog come in -- THE dog .
I suppose he have get tired wait under the cherry tree for William Adolphus and me to come down .
He be even ugly indoors than out .
`` Oh , Mr. Riley , Mr. Riley , see what you have let me in for , '' say Alexander Abraham reproachfully .
But Mr. Riley -- since that be the brute 's name -- pay no attention to Alexander Abraham .
He have catch sight of William Adolphus curl up on the cushion , and he start across the room to investigate him .
William Adolphus sit up and begin to take notice .
`` Call off that dog , '' I say warningly to Alexander Abraham .
`` Call him off yourself , '' he retort .
`` Since you 've bring that cat here you can protect him . ''
`` Oh , it be n't for William Adolphus ' sake I speak , '' I say pleasantly .
`` William Adolphus can protect himself . ''
William Adolphus could and do .
He hump his back , flatten his ear , swore once , and then make a fly leap for Mr. Riley .
William Adolphus land squarely on Mr. Riley 's brindled back and promptly take fast hold , spit and claw and caterwaul .
You never saw a more astonished dog than Mr. Riley .
With a yell of terror he bolt out to the kitchen , out of the kitchen into the hall , through the hall into the room , and so into the kitchen and round again .
With each circuit he go faster and faster , until he look like a brindled streak with a dash of black and white on top .
Such a racket and commotion I never hear , and I laugh until the tear come into my eye .
Mr. Riley fly around and around , and William Adolphus hold on grimly and clawed .
Alexander Abraham turn purple with rage .
`` Woman , call off that infernal cat before he kill my dog , '' he shout above the din of yelp and yowl .
`` Oh , he wo n't kill min , '' I say reassuringly , `` and he 's go too fast to hear me if I do call him .
If you can stop the dog , Mr. Bennett , I 'll guarantee to make William Adolphus listen to reason , but there 's no use try to argue with a lightning flash . ''
Alexander Abraham make a frantic lunge at the brindled streak a it whirl past him , with the result that he overbalance himself and go sprawl on the floor with a crash .
I run to help him up , which only seem to enrage him far .
`` Woman , '' he splutter viciously , `` I wish you and your fiend of a cat be in -- in -- '' `` In Avonlea , '' I finish quickly , to save Alexander Abraham from commit profanity .
`` So do I , Mr. Bennett , with all my heart .
But since we be not , let u make the best of it like sensible people .
And in future you will kindly remember that my name be Miss MacPherson , NOT Woman ! ''
With this the end come and I be thankful , for the noise those two animal make be so terrific that I expect the policeman would be rush in , smallpox or no smallpox , to see if Alexander Abraham and I be try to murder each other .
Mr. Riley suddenly veer in his mad career and bolt into a dark corner between the stove and the wood-box , William Adolphus let go just in time .
There never be any more trouble with Mr. Riley after that .
A meeker , more thoroughly chasten dog you could not find .
William Adolphus have the best of it and he keep it .
Seeing that thing have calm down and that it be five o'clock I decide to get tea .
I tell Alexander Abraham that I would prepare it , if he would show me where the eatable be .
`` You need n't mind , '' say Alexander Abraham .
`` I 've be in the habit of get my own tea for twenty year . ''
`` I daresay .
But you have n't be in the habit of get mine , '' I say firmly .
`` I would n't eat anything you cook if I starve to death .
If you want some occupation , you 'd better get some salve and anoint the scratch on that poor dog 's back . ''
Alexander Abraham say something that I prudently do not hear .
Seeing that he have no information to hand out I go on an explore expedition into the pantry .
The place be awful beyond description , and for the first time a vague sentiment of pity for Alexander Abraham glimmer in my breast .
When a man have to live in such surroundings the wonder be , not that he hat woman , but that he do n't hate the whole human race .
But I get up a supper somehow .
I be note for get up supper .
The bread be from the Carmody bakery and I make good tea and excellent toast ; besides , I find a can of peach in the pantry which , a they be buy , I be n't afraid to eat .
That tea and toast mellow Alexander Abraham in spite of himself .
He eat the last crust , and do n't growl when I give William Adolphus all the cream that be leave .
Mr. Riley do not seem to want anything .
He have no appetite .
By this time the doctor 's boy have arrive with my valise .
Alexander Abraham give me quite civilly to understand that there be a spare room across the hall and that I might take possession of it .
I go to it and put on a wrapper .
There be a set of fine furniture in the room , and a comfortable bed .
But the dust !
William Adolphus have follow me in and his paw leave mark everywhere he walk .
`` Now , '' I say briskly , return to the kitchen , `` I 'm go to clean up and I shall begin with this kitchen .
You 'd better betake yourself to the sitting-room , Mr. Bennett , so a to be out of the way . ''
Alexander Abraham glare at me .
`` I 'm not go to have my house meddle with , '' he snap .
`` It suit me .
If you do n't like it you can leave it . ''
`` No , I ca n't .
That be just the trouble , '' I say pleasantly .
`` If I could leave it I should n't be here for a minute .
Since I ca n't , it simply have to be clean .
I can tolerate men and dog when I be compel to , but I can not and will not tolerate dirt and disorder .
Go into the sitting-room . ''
Alexander Abraham go .
As he close the door , I hear him say , in capital , `` WHAT AN AWFUL WOMAN ! ''
I clear that kitchen and the pantry adjoining .
It be ten o'clock when I get through , and Alexander Abraham have go to bed without deign further speech .
I lock Mr. Riley in one room and William Adolphus in another and go to bed , too .
I have never felt so dead tire in my life before .
It have be a hard day .
But I get up bright and early the next morning and get a tiptop breakfast , which Alexander Abraham condescend to eat .
When the provision man come into the yard I call to him from the window to bring me a box of soap in the afternoon , and then I tackle the sitting-room .
It take me the best part of a week to get that house in order , but I do it thoroughly .
I be note for do thing thoroughly .
At the end of the time it be clean from garret to cellar .
Alexander Abraham make no comment on my operation , though he groan loud and often , and say caustic thing to poor Mr. Riley , who have n't the spirit to answer back after his drubbing by William Adolphus .
I make allowance for Alexander Abraham because his vaccination have take and his arm be real sore ; and I cook elegant meal , not have much else to do , once I have get thing scour up .
The house be full of provision -- Alexander Abraham be n't mean about such thing , I will say that for him .
Altogether , I be more comfortable than I have expect to be .
When Alexander Abraham would n't talk I let him alone ; and when he would I just say a sarcastic thing a he do , only I say them smile and pleasant .
I could see he have a wholesome awe for me .
But now and then he seem to forget his disposition and talk like a human be .
We have one or two real interesting conversation .
Alexander Abraham be an intelligent man , though he have get terribly warp .
I tell him once I think he must have be nice when he be a boy .
One day he astonish me by appear at the dinner table with his hair brush and a white collar on .
We have a tiptop dinner that day , and I have make a pudding that be far too good for a woman hater .
When Alexander Abraham have dispose of two large plateful of it , he sigh and say , `` You can certainly cook .
It 's a pity you be such a detestable crank in other respect . ''
`` It 's kind of convenient be a crank , '' I say .
`` People be careful how they meddle with you .
Have n't you find that out in your own experience ? ''
`` I be NOT a crank , '' growl Alexander Abraham resentfully .
`` All I ask be to be let alone . ''
`` That 's the very cranky kind of crank , '' I say .
`` A person who want to be let alone fly in the face of Providence , who decree that folk for their own good be not to be let alone .
But cheer up , Mr. Bennett .
The quarantine will be up on Tuesday and then you 'll certainly be let alone for the rest of your natural life , as far a William Adolphus and I be concern .
You may then return to your wallow in the mire and be a dirty and comfortable a of yore . ''
Alexander Abraham growl again .
The prospect do n't seem to cheer him up as much a I should have expect .
Then he do an amazing thing .
He pour some cream into a saucer and set it down before William Adolphus .
William Adolphus lap it up , keep one eye on Alexander Abraham l the latter should change his mind .
Not to be outdone , I hand Mr. Riley a bone .
Neither Alexander Abraham nor I have worry much about the smallpox .
We do n't believe he would take it , for he have n't even see the girl who be sick .
But the very next morning I hear him call me from the upstairs landing .
`` Miss MacPherson , '' he say in a voice so uncommonly mild that it give me an uncanny feeling , `` what be the symptom of smallpox ? ''
`` Chills and flush , pain in the limb and back , nausea and vomiting , '' I answer promptly , for I have be read them up in a patent medicine almanac .
`` I 've get them all , '' say Alexander Abraham hollowly .
I do n't feel as much scar a I should have expect .
After endure a woman hater and a brindled dog and the early disorder of that house -- and come off best with all three -- smallpox seem rather insignificant .
I go to the window and call to Thomas Wright to send for the doctor .
The doctor come down from Alexander Abraham 's room look grave .
`` It 's impossible to pronounce on the disease yet , '' he say .
`` There be no certainty until the eruption appear .
But , of course , there be every likelihood that it be the smallpox .
It be very unfortunate .
I be afraid that it will be difficult to get a nurse .
All the nurse in town who will take smallpox case be overbusy now , for the epidemic be still rag there .
However , I 'll go into town to-night and do my best .
Meanwhile , at present , you must not go near him , Peter . ''
I be n't go to take order from any man , and as soon a the doctor have go I march straight up to Alexander Abraham 's room with some dinner for him on a tray .
There be a lemon cream I think he could eat even if he have the smallpox .
`` You should n't come near me , '' he growl .
`` You be risk your life . ''
`` I be not go to see a fellow creature starve to death , even if he be a man , '' I retort .
`` The bad of it all , '' groan Alexander Abraham , between mouthful of lemon cream , `` be that the doctor say I 've get to have a nurse .
I 've get so kind of use to you be in the house that I do n't mind you , but the thought of another woman come here be too much .
Did you give my poor dog anything to eat ? ''
`` He have have a good dinner than many a Christian , '' I say severely .
Alexander Abraham need not have worry about another woman come in .
The doctor come back that night with care on his brow .
`` I do n't know what be to be do , '' he say .
`` I ca n't get a soul to come here . '' ''
I shall nurse Mr. Bennett , '' I say with dignity .
`` It be my duty and I never shirk my duty .
I be note for that .
He be a man , and he have smallpox , and he keep a vile dog ; but I be not go to see him die for lack of care for all that . ''
`` You 're a good soul , Peter , '' say the doctor , look relieve , manlike , as soon a he find a woman to shoulder the responsibility .
I nurse Alexander Abraham through the smallpox , and I do n't mind it much .
He be much more amiable sick than well , and he have the disease in a very mild form .
Below stair I reign supreme and Mr. Riley and William Adolphus lay down together like the lion and the lamb .
I feed Mr. Riley regularly , and once , see him look lonesome , I pat him gingerly .
It be nicer than I think it would be .
Mr. Riley lift his head and look at me with an expression in his eye which cure me of wonder why on earth Alexander Abraham be so fond of the beast .
When Alexander Abraham be able to sit up , he begin to make up for the time he 'd lose be pleasant .
Anything more sarcastic than that man in his convalescence you could n't imagine .
I just laugh at him , have find out that that could be depend on to irritate him .
To irritate him still far I clean the house all over again .
But what vex him most of all be that Mr. Riley take to follow me about and wag what he have of a tail at me .
`` It be n't enough that you should come into my peaceful home and turn it upside down , but you have to alienate the affection of my dog , '' complain Alexander Abraham .
`` He 'll get fond of you again when I go home , '' I say comfortingly .
`` Dogs be n't very particular that way .
What they want be bone .
Cats now , they love disinterestedly .
William Adolphus have never swerve in his allegiance to me , although you do give him cream in the pantry on the sly . ''
Alexander Abraham look foolish .
He have n't think I know that .
I do n't take the smallpox and in another week the doctor come out and send the policeman home .
I be disinfect and William Adolphus be fumigate , and then we be free to go .
`` Good-bye , Mr. Bennett , '' I say , offer to shake hand in a forgiving spirit .
`` I 've no doubt that you be glad to be rid of me , but you be no gladder than I be to go .
I suppose this house will be dirty than ever in a month 's time , and Mr. Riley will have discard the little polish his manner have take on .
Reformation with men and dog never go very deep . ''
With this Parthian shaft I walk out of the house , suppose that I have see the last of it and Alexander Abraham .
I be glad to get back home , of course ; but it do seem queer and lonesome .
The cat hardly know me , and William Adolphus roam about forlornly and appear to feel like an exile .
I do n't take as much pleasure in cook a usual , for it seem kind of foolish to be fuss over oneself .
The sight of a bone make me think of poor Mr. Riley .
The neighbour avoid me pointedly , for they could n't get rid of the fear that I might erupt into smallpox at any moment .
My Sunday School class have be give to another woman , and altogether I felt a if I do n't belong anywhere .
I have exist like this for a fortnight when Alexander Abraham suddenly appear .
He walk in one evening at dusk , but at first sight I do n't know him he be so spruced and barber up .
But William Adolphus know him .
Will you believe it , William Adolphus , my own William Adolphus , rub up against that man 's trouser leg with an undisguised purr of satisfaction .
`` I have to come , Angelina , '' say Alexander Abraham .
`` I could n't stand it any longer . ''
`` My name be Peter , '' I say coldly , although I be feel ridiculously glad about something .
`` It be n't , '' say Alexander Abraham stubbornly .
`` It be Angelina for me , and always will be .
I shall never call you Peter .
Angelina just suit you exactly ; and Angelina Bennett would suit you still well .
You must come back , Angelina .
Mr. Riley be mop for you , and I ca n't get along without somebody to appreciate my sarcasm , now that you have accustom me to the luxury . ''
`` What about the other five cat ? ''
I demand .
Alexander Abraham sigh .
`` I suppose they 'll have to come too , '' he sigh , `` though no doubt they 'll chase poor Mr. Riley clean off the premise .
But I can live without him , and I ca n't without you .
How soon can you be ready to marry me ? ''
`` I have n't say that I be go to marry you at all , have I ? ''
I say tartly , just to be consistent .
For I be n't feeling tart .
`` No , but you will , wo n't you ? ''
say Alexander Abraham anxiously .
`` Because if you wo n't , I wish you 'd let me die of the smallpox .
Do , dear Angelina . ''
To think that a man should dare to call me his `` dear Angelina ! ''
And to think that I should n't mind !
`` Where I go , William Adolphus go , '' I say , `` but I shall give away the other five cat for -- for the sake of Mr. Riley . ''
IX .
Pa Sloane 's Purchase `` I guess the molasses be get low , ai n't it ? ''
say Pa Sloane insinuatingly .
`` S'pose I 'd well drive up to Carmody this afternoon and get some more . ''
`` There 's a good half-gallon of molasses in the jug yet , '' say ma Sloane ruthlessly .
`` That so ?
Well , I notice the kerosene demijohn be n't very hefty the last time I fill the can .
Reckon it need replenish . ''
`` We have kerosene enough to do for a fortnight yet . ''
Ma continue to eat her dinner with an impassive face , but a twinkle make itself apparent in her eye .
Lest Pa should see it , and feel encouraged thereby , she look immovably at her plate .
Pa Sloane sigh .
His invention be give out .
`` Did n't I hear you say day before yesterday that you be out of nutmeg ? ''
he query , after a few moment ' severe reflection .
`` I get a supply of them from the egg-pedlar yesterday , '' respond Ma , by a great effort prevent the twinkle from spread over her entire face .
She wonder if this third failure would squelch Pa. .
But Pa be not to be squelch .
`` Well , anyway , '' he say , brighten up under the influence of a sudden saving inspiration .
`` I 'll have to go up to get the sorrel mare shod .
So , if you 've any little errand you want do at the store , Ma , just make a memo of them while I hitch up . ''
The matter of shoe the sorrel mare be beyond Ma 's province , although she have her own suspicion about the sorrel mare 's need of shoe .
`` Why ca n't you give up beat about the bush , Pa ? ''
she demand , with contemptuous pity .
`` You might as well own up what 's take you to Carmody .
I can see through your design .
You want to get away to the Garland auction .
That be what be trouble you , Pa Sloane . ''
`` I dunno but what I might step over , see it 's so handy .
But the sorrel mare really do need shoe , Ma , '' protest Pa. .
`` There 's always something need to be do if it 's convenient , '' retort Ma .
`` Your mania for auction will be the ruin of you yet , Pa. .
A man of fifty-five ought to have grow out of such a hankering .
But the old you get the bad you get .
Anyway , if I want to go to auction , I 'd select them a be something like , and not waste my time on little one-horse affair like this of Garland 's . ''
`` One might pick up something real cheap at Garland 's , '' say Pa defensively .
`` Well , you be not go to pick up anything , cheap or otherwise , Pa Sloane , because I 'm go with you to see that you do n't .
I know I ca n't stop you from go .
I might as well try to stop the wind from blow .
But I shall go , too , out of self-defence .
This house be so full now of old clutter and truck that you 've bring home from auction that I feel a if I be make up out of piece and leave over . ''
Pa Sloane sigh again .
It be not exhilarate to attend an auction with Ma .
She would never let him bid on anything .
But he realize that Ma 's mind be make up beyond the power of mortal man 's persuasion to alter it , so he go out to hitch up .
Pa Sloane 's dissipation be go to auction and buy thing that nobody else would buy .
Ma Sloane 's patient endeavour of over thirty year have be able to effect only a partial reform .
Sometimes Pa heroically refrain from go to an auction for six month at a time ; then he would break out bad than ever , go to all that take place for mile around , and come home with a wagonful of misfit .
His last exploit have be to bid on an old dasher churn for five dollar -- the boys `` run thing up '' on Pa Sloane for the fun of it -- and bring it home to outrage Ma , who have make her butter for fifteen year in the very late , most up-to-date barrel churn .
To add insult to injury this be the second dasher churn Pa have buy at auction .
That settle it .
Ma decree that henceforth she would chaperon Pa when he go to auction .
But this be the day of Pa 's good angel .
When he drive up to the door where Ma be wait , a breathless , hatless imp of ten fly into the yard , and hurl himself between Ma and the wagon-step .
`` Oh , Mrs. Sloane , wo n't you come over to our house at once ? ''
he gasp .
`` The baby , he 's get colic , and ma 's just wild , and he 's all black in the face . ''
Ma go , feel that the star in their course fight against a woman who be try to do her duty by her husband .
But first she admonish Pa. .
`` I shall have to let you go alone .
But I charge you , Pa , not to bid on anything -- on ANYTHING , do you hear ? ''
Pa heard and promise to heed , with every intention of keep his promise .
Then he drive away joyfully .
On any other occasion Ma would have be a welcome companion .
But she certainly spoil the flavour of an auction .
When Pa arrive at the Carmody store , he saw that the little yard of the Garland place below the hill be already full of people .
The auction have evidently begin ; so , not to miss any more of it , Pa hurry down .
The sorrel mare could wait for her shoe until afterwards .
Ma have be within bound when she call the Garland auction a `` one-horse affair . ''
It certainly be very paltry , especially when compare to the big Donaldson auction of a month ago , which Pa still live over in happy dream .
Horace Garland and his wife have be poor .
When they die within six week of each other , one of consumption and one of pneumonia , they leave nothing but debt and a little furniture .
The house have be a rented one .
The bidding on the various poor article of household gear put up for sale be not brisk , but have an element of resigned determination .
Carmody people know that these thing have to be sell to pay the debt , and they could not be sell unless they be buy .
Still , it be a very tame affair .
A woman come out of the house carry a baby of about eighteen month in her arm , and sit down on the bench beneath the window .
`` There 's Marthy Blair with the Garland Baby , '' say Robert Lawson to Pa. .
`` I 'd like to know what 's to become of that poor young one ! ''
`` Ai n't there any of the father 's or mother 's folk to take him ? ''
ask Pa. .
`` No .
Horace have no relative that anybody ever heard of .
Mrs. Horace have a brother ; but he go to Mantioba year ago , and nobody know where he be now .
Somebody 'll have to take the baby and nobody seem anxious to .
I 've get eight myself , or I 'd think about it .
He 's a fine little chap . ''
Pa , with Ma 's part admonition ring in his ear , do not bid on anything , although it will never be know how great be the heroic self-restraint he put on himself , until just at the last , when he do bid on a collection of flower-pots , think he might indulge himself to that small extent .
But Josiah Sloane have be commission by his wife to bring those flower-pots home to her ; so Pa lose them .
`` There , that 's all , '' say the auctioneer , wipe his face , for the day be very warm for October .
`` There 's nothing more unless we sell the baby . ''
A laugh go through the crowd .
The sale have be a dull affair , and they be ready for some fun .
Someone call out , `` Put him up , Jacob . ''
The joke find favour and the call be repeat hilariously .
Jacob Blair take little Teddy Garland out of Martha 's arm and stand him up on the table by the door , steady the small chap with one big brown hand .
The baby have a mop of yellow curl , and a pink and white face , and big blue eye .
He laugh out at the men before him and wave his hand in delight .
Pa Sloane think he have never see so pretty a baby .
`` Here 's a baby for sale , '' shout the auctioneer .
`` A genuine article , pretty near as good a brand-new .
A real live baby , warrant to walk and talk a little .
Who bid ?
A dollar ?
Did I hear anyone mean enough to bid a dollar ?
No , sir , baby do n't come as cheap a that , especially the curly-headed brand . ''
The crowd laugh again .
Pa Sloane , by way of keep on the joke , cry , `` Four dollar ! ''
Everybody look at him .
The impression flash through the crowd that Pa be in earnest , and mean thus to signify his intention of give the baby a home .
He be well-to-do , and his only son be grow up and marry .
`` Six , '' cry out John Clarke from the other side of the yard .
John Clarke live at White Sands and he and his wife be childless .
That bid of John Clarke 's be Pa 's undoing .
Pa Sloane could not have an enemy ; but a rival he have , and that rival be John Clarke .
Everywhere at auction John Clarke be wont to bid against Pa. .
At the last auction he have outbid Pa in everything , not have the fear of his wife before his eye .
Pa 's fight blood be up in a moment ; he forget Ma Sloane ; he forget what he be bid for ; he forget everything except a determination that John Clarke should not be victor again .
`` Ten , '' he call shrilly .
`` Fifteen , '' shout Clarke .
`` Twenty , '' vociferate Pa. .
`` Twenty-five , '' bellow Clarke .
`` Thirty , '' shriek Pa. .
He nearly bust a blood-vessel in his shrieking , but he have win .
Clarke turn off with a laugh and a shrug , and the baby be knock down to Pa Sloane by the auctioneer , who have meanwhile be keep the crowd in roar of laughter by a quick fire of witticism .
There have not be such fun at an auction in Carmody for many a long day .
Pa Sloane come , or be push , forward .
The baby be put into his arm ; he realize that he be expect to keep it , and he be too daze to refuse ; besides , his heart go out to the child .
The auctioneer look doubtfully at the money which Pa lay mutely down .
`` I s ` pose that part be only a joke , '' he say .
`` Not a bit of it , '' say Robert Lawson .
`` All the money wo n't bee too much to pay the debt .
There 's a doctor 's bill , and this will just about pay it . ''
Pa Sloane drive back home , with the sorrel mare still unshod , the baby , and the baby 's meager bundle of clothes .
The baby do not trouble him much ; it have become well used to stranger in the past two month , and promptly fell asleep on his arm ; but Pa Sloane do not enjoy that drive ; at the end of it ; he mentally saw Ma Sloane .
Ma be there , too , wait for him on the back door-step a he drive into the yard at sunset .
Her face , when she saw the baby , express the last degree of amazement .
`` Pa Sloane , '' she demand , `` whose be that young one , and there do you get it ? ''
`` I -- I -- buy it at the auction , Ma , '' say Pa feebly .
Then he wait for the explosion .
None come .
This last exploit of Pa 's be too much for Ma .
With a gasp she snatch the baby from Pa 's arm , and order him to go out and put the mare in .
When Pa return to the kitchen Ma have set the baby on the sofa , fence him around with chair so that he could n't fall off and give him a molassed cooky .
`` Now , Pa Sloane , you can explain , '' she say .
Pa explain .
Ma listen in grim silence until he have finish .
Then she say sternly : `` Do you reckon we 're go to keep this baby ? ''
`` I -- I -- dunno , '' say Pa. .
And he do n't .
`` Well , we 're NOT .
I bring up one boy and that 's enough .
I do n't calculate to be pester with any more .
I never be much struck on child a child , anyhow .
You say that Mary Garland have a brother out in Mantioba ?
Well , we shall just write to him and tell him he 's get to look out for his nephew . ''
`` But how can you do that , Ma , when nobody know his address ? ''
object Pa , with a wistful look at that delicious , laugh baby .
`` I 'll find out his address if I have to advertise in the paper for him , '' retort Ma .
`` As for you , Pa Sloane , you 're not fit to be out of a lunatic asylum .
The next auction you 'll be buy a wife , I s ` pose ? ''
Pa , quite crush by Ma 's sarcasm , pull his chair in to supper .
Ma pick up the baby and sit down at the head of the table .
Little Teddy laugh and pinch her face -- Ma 's face !
Ma look very grim , but she feed him his supper as skilfully a if it have not be thirty year since she have do such a thing .
But then , the woman who once learn the mother knack never forget it .
After tea Ma despatch Pa over to William Alexander 's to borrow a high chair .
When Pa return in the twilight , the baby be fence in on the sofa again , and Ma be step briskly about the garret .
She be bring down the little cot bed her own boy have once occupy , and set it up in their room for Teddy .
Then she undress the baby and rock him to sleep , croon an old lullaby over him .
Pa Sloane sit quietly and listen , with very sweet memory of the long ago , when he and Ma have be young and proud , and the bewhiskered William Alexander have be a curly-headed little fellow like this one .
Ma be not drive to advertising for Mrs. Garland 's brother .
That personage saw the notice of his sister 's death in a home paper and write to the Carmody postmaster for full information .
The letter be refer to Ma and Ma answer it .
She write that they have take in the baby , pending further arrangement , but have no intention of keep it ; and she calmly demand of it uncle what be to be do with it .
Then she seal and address the letter with an unfaltering hand ; but , when it be do , she look across the table at Pa Sloane , who be sit in the armchair with the baby on his knee .
They be have a royal good time together .
Pa have always be dreadfully foolish about baby .
He look ten year younger .
Ma 's keen eye soften a little a she watch them .
A prompt answer come to her letter .
Teddy 's uncle write that he have six child of his own , but be nevertheless willing and glad to give his little nephew a home .
But he could not come after him .
Josiah Spencer , of White Sands , be go out to Manitoba in the spring .
If Mr. and Mrs. Sloane could only keep the baby till then he could be send out with the Spencers .
Perhaps they would see a chance sooner .
`` There 'll be no chance sooner , '' say Pa Sloane in a tone of satisfaction .
`` No , bad luck ! ''
retort Ma crisply .
The winter pass by .
Little Teddy grow and thrive , and Pa Sloane worship him .
Ma be very good to him , too , and Teddy be just a fond of her a of Pa. .
Nevertheless , a the spring draw near , Pa become depressed .
Sometimes he sigh heavily , especially when he hear casual reference to the Josiah Spencer emigration .
One warm afternoon in early May Josiah Spencer arrive .
He find Ma knit placidly in the kitchen , while Pa nod over his newspaper and the baby play with the cat on the floor .
`` Good afternoon , Mrs. Sloane , '' say Josiah with a flourish .
`` I just drop in to see about this young man here .
We be go to leave next Wednesday ; so you 'd better send him down to our place Monday or Tuesday , so that he can get use to u , and -- '' `` Oh , Ma , '' begin Pa , rise imploringly to his foot .
Ma transfix him with her eye .
`` Sit down , Pa , '' she command .
Unhappy Pa sat .
Then Ma glare at the smile Josiah , who instantly felt as guilty a if he have be catch steal sheep red-handed .
`` We be much oblige to you , Mr. Spencer , '' say Ma icily , `` but this baby be OURS .
We buy him , and we pay for him .
A bargain be a bargain .
When I pay cash down for baby , I propose to get my money 's worth .
We be go to keep this baby in spite of any number of uncle in Manitoba .
Have I make this sufficiently clear to your understanding , Mr. Spencer ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly , '' stammer the unfortunate man , feel guilty than ever , `` but I think you do n't want him -- I think you 'd write to his uncle -- I think -- '' `` I really would n't think quite so much if I be you , '' say Ma kindly .
`` It must be hard on you .
Wo n't you stay and have tea with u ? ''
But , no , Josiah would not stay .
He be thankful to make his escape with such rag of self-respect a remain to him .
Pa Sloane arise and come around to Ma 's chair .
He lay a trembling hand on her shoulder .
`` Ma , you 're a good woman , '' he say softly .
`` Go ` long , Pa , '' say Ma .
X .
The Courting of Prissy Strong I WAS N'T able to go to prayer meeting that evening because I have neuralgia in my face ; but Thomas go , and the minute he come home I know by the twinkle in his eye that he have some news .
`` Who do you s ` pose Stephen Clark go home with from meet to-night ? ''
he say , chuckle .
`` Jane Miranda Blair , '' I say promptly .
Stephen Clark 's wife have be dead for two year and he have n't take much notice of anybody , so far a be know .
But Carmody have Jane Miranda all ready for him , and really I do n't know why she do n't suit him , except for the reason that a man never do what he be expect to do when it come to marry .
Thomas chuckle again .
`` Wrong .
He step up to Prissy Strong and walk off with her .
Cold soup warm over . ''
`` Prissy Strong ! ''
I just hold up my hand .
Then I laugh .
`` He need n't try for Prissy , '' I say .
`` Emmeline nip that in the bud twenty year ago , and she 'll do it again . ''
`` Em ` line be an old crank , '' growl Thomas .
He detest Emmeline Strong , and always do .
`` She 's that , all right , '' I agree , `` and that be just the reason she can turn poor Prissy any way she like .
You mark my word , she 'll put her foot right down on this as soon a she find it out . ''
Thomas say that I be probably right .
I lay awake for a long time after I go to bed that night , thinking of Prissy and Stephen .
As a general rule , I do n't concern my head about other people 's affair , but Prissy be such a helpless creature I could n't get her off my mind .
Twenty year ago Stephen Clark have try to go with Prissy Strong .
That be pretty soon after Prissy 's father have die .
She and Emmeline be live alone together .
Emmeline be thirty , ten year old than Prissy , and if ever there be two sister totally different from each other in every way , those two be Emmeline and Prissy Strong .
Emmeline take after her father ; she be big and dark and homely , and she be the most domineering creature that ever step on shoe leather .
She simply rule poor Prissy with a rod of iron .
Prissy herself be a pretty girl -- at least most people think so .
I ca n't honestly say I ever admire her style much myself .
I like something with more vim and snap to it .
Prissy be slim and pink , with soft , appeal blue eye , and pale gold hair all clinging in baby ring around her face .
She be just a meek and timid a she look and there be n't a bit of harm in her .
I always like Prissy , even if I do n't admire her look as much a some people do .
Anyway , it be plain her style suit Stephen Clark .
He begin to drive her , and there be n't a speck of doubt that Prissy like him .
Then Emmeline just put a stopper on the affair .
It be pure cantankerousness in her .
Stephen be a good match and nothing could be say against him .
But Emmeline be just determine that Prissy should n't marry .
She could n't get married herself , and she be sore enough about it .
Of course , if Prissy have have a spark of spirit she would n't have give in .
But she have n't a mite ; I believe she would have cut off her nose if Emmeline have order her to do it .
She be just her mother over again .
If ever a girl belie her name , Prissy Strong do .
There be n't anything strong about her .
One night , when prayer meeting come out , Stephen step up to Prissy a usual and ask if he might see her home .
Thomas and I be just behind -- we be n't marry ourselves then -- and we hear it all .
Prissy give one scared , appeal look at Emmeline and then say , `` No , thank you , not to-night . ''
Stephen just turn on his heel and go .
He be a high-spirited fellow and I know he would never overlook a public slight like that .
If he have have a much sense a he ought to have have he would have know that Emmeline be at the bottom of it ; but he do n't , and he begin go to see Althea Gillis , and they be marry the next year .
Althea be a rather nice girl , though giddy , and I think she and Stephen be happy enough together .
In real life thing be often like that .
Nobody ever try to go with Prissy again .
I suppose they be afraid of Emmeline .
Prissy 's beauty soon fade .
She be always kind of sweet look , but her bloom go , and she get shyer and limper every year of her life .
She would n't have dare put on her second best dress without ask Emmeline 's permission .
She be real fond of cat and Emmeline would n't let her keep one .
Emmeline even cut the serial out of the religious weekly she take before she would give it to Prissy , because she do n't believe in read novel .
It use to make me furious to see it all .
They be my next door neighbour after I marry Thomas , and I be often in and out .
Sometimes I 'd feel real vexed at Prissy for give in the way she do ; but , after all , she could n't help it -- she be bear that way .
And now Stephen be go to try his luck again .
It certainly do seem funny .
Stephen walk home with Prissy from prayer meet four night before Emmeline find it out .
Emmeline have n't be go to prayer meet all that summer because she be mad at Mr. Leonard .
She have express her disapproval to him because he have bury old Naomi Clark at the harbour `` just a if she be a Christian , '' and Mr. Leonard have say something to her she could n't get over for a while .
I do n't know what it be , but I know that when Mr. Leonard WAS rouse to rebuke anyone the person so rebuke remember it for a spell .
All at once I know she must have discover about Stephen and Prissy , for Prissy stop go to prayer meeting .
I felt real worry about it , someway , and although Thomas say for goodness ' sake not to go poke my finger into other people 's pie , I felt a if I ought to do something .
Stephen Clark be a good man and Prissy would have a beautiful home ; and those two little boy of Althea 's need a mother if ever boys do .
Besides , I know quite well that Prissy , in her secret soul , be hanker to be marry .
So be Emmeline , too -- but nobody want to help HER to a husband .
The upshot of my meditation be that I ask Stephen down to dinner with u from church one day .
I have hear a rumour that he be go to see Lizzie Pye over at Avonlea , and I know it be time to be stir , if anything be to be do .
If it have be Jane Miranda I do n't know that I 'd have bother ; but Lizzie Pye would n't have do for a stepmother for Althea 's boy at all .
She be too bad-tempered , and as mean a second skimming besides .
Stephen come .
He seem dull and moody , and not much incline to talk .
After dinner I give Thomas a hint .
I say , `` You go to bed and have your nap .
I want to talk to Stephen . ''
Thomas shrug his shoulder and go .
He probably think I be brew up lot of trouble for myself , but he do n't say anything .
As soon a he be out of the way I casually remark to Stephen that I understand that he be go to take one of my neighbour away and that I could n't be sorry , though she be an excellent neighbour and I would miss her a great deal .
`` You wo n't have to miss her much , I reckon , '' say Stephen grimly .
`` I 've be tell I 'm not want there . ''
I be surprise to hear Stephen come out so plump and plain about it , for I have n't expect to get at the root of the matter so easily .
Stephen be n't the confidential kind .
But it really seem to be a relief to him to talk about it ; I never saw a man feel so sore about anything .
He tell me the whole story .
Prissy have write him a letter -- he fish it out of his pocket and give it to me to read .
It be in Prissy 's prim , pretty little writing , sure enough , and it just say that his attention be `` unwelcome , '' and would he be `` kind enough to refrain from offer them . ''
Not much wonder the poor man go to see Lizzie Pye !
`` Stephen , I 'm surprised at you for think that Prissy Strong write that letter , '' I say .
`` It 's in her handwriting , '' he say stubbornly .
`` Of course it be .
` The hand be the hand of Esau , but the voice be the voice of Jacob , ' '' I say , though I be n't sure whether the quotation be exactly appropriate .
`` Emmeline compose that letter and make Prissy copy it out .
I know that as well a if I 'd see her do it , and you ought to have know it , too . ''
`` If I think that I 'd show Emmeline I could get Prissy in spite of her , '' say Stephen savagely .
`` But if Prissy do n't want me I 'm not go to force my attention on her . ''
Well , we talk it over a bit , and in the end I agree to sound Prissy , and find out what she really think about it .
I do n't think it would be hard to do ; and it be n't .
I go over the very next day because I saw Emmeline drive off to the store .
I find Prissy alone , sew carpet rag .
Emmeline keep her constantly at that -- because Prissy hat it I suppose .
Prissy be cry when I go in , and in a few minute I have the whole story .
Prissy want to get marry -- and she want to get marry to Stephen -- and Emmeline would n't let her .
`` Prissy Strong , '' I say in exasperation , `` you have n't the spirit of a mouse !
Why on earth do you write him such a letter ? ''
`` Why , Emmeline make me , '' say Prissy , a if there could n't be any appeal from that ; and I know there could n't -- for Prissy .
I also know that if Stephen want to see Prissy again Emmeline must know nothing of it , and I tell him so when he come down the next evening -- to borrow a hoe , he say .
It be a long way to come for a hoe .
`` Then what be I to do ? ''
he say .
`` It would n't be any use to write , for it would likely fall into Emmeline 's hand .
She wo n't let Prissy go anywhere alone after this , and how be I to know when the old cat be away ? ''
`` Please do n't insult cat , '' I say .
`` I 'll tell you what we 'll do .
You can see the ventilator on our barn from your place , ca n't you ?
You 'd be able to make out a flag or something tie to it , would n't you , through that spy-glass of yours ? ''
Stephen think he could .
`` Well , you take a squint at it every now and then , '' I say .
`` Just as soon a Emmeline leave Prissy alone I 'll hoist the signal . ''
The chance do n't come for a whole fortnight .
Then , one evening , I saw Emmeline stride over the field below our house .
As soon a she be out of sight I run through the birch grove to Prissy .
`` Yes , Em ` line 's go to sit up with Jane Lawson to-night , '' say Prissy , all flutter and tremble .
`` Then you put on your muslin dress and fix your hair , '' I say .
`` I 'm go home to get Thomas to tie something to that ventilator . ''
But do you think Thomas would do it ?
Not he .
He say he owe something to his position a elder in the church .
In the end I have to do it myself , though I do n't like climb ladder .
I tie Thomas ' long red woollen scarf to the ventilator , and pray that Stephen would see it .
He do , for in less than an hour he drive down our lane and put his horse in our barn .
He be all spruce up , and a nervous and excite a a schoolboy .
He go right over to Prissy , and I begin to tuft my new comfort with a clear conscience .
I shall never know why it suddenly come into my head to go up to the garret and make sure that the moth have n't get into my box of blanket ; but I always believe that it be a special interposition of Providence .
I go up and happen to look out of the east window ; and there I saw Emmeline Strong come home across our pond field .
I just fly down those garret stair and out through the birch .
I burst into the Strong kitchen , where Stephen and Prissy be sit as cozy a you please .
`` Stephen , come quick !
Emmeline 's nearly here , '' I cry .
Prissy look out of the window and wring her hand .
`` Oh , she 's in the lane now , '' she gasp .
`` He ca n't get out of the house without her see him .
Oh , Rosanna , what shall we do ? ''
I really do n't know what would have become of those two people if I have n't be in existence to find idea for them .
`` Take Stephen up to the garret and hide him there , Prissy , '' I say firmly , `` and take him quick . ''
Prissy take him quick , but she have barely time to get back to the kitchen before Emmeline march in -- mad a a wet hen because somebody have be ahead of her offering to sit up with Jane Lawson , and so she lose the chance of poke and pry into thing while Jane be asleep .
The minute she clap eye on Prissy she suspect something .
It be n't any wonder , for there be Prissy , all dress up , with flushed cheek and shin eye .
She be all in a quiver of excitement , and look ten year younger .
`` Priscilla Strong , you 've be expect Stephen Clark here this evening ! ''
burst out Emmeline .
`` You wicked , deceitful , underhanded , ungrateful creature ! ''
And she go on storm at Prissy , who begin to cry , and look so weak and babyish that I be frighten she would betray the whole thing .
`` This be between you and Prissy , Emmeline , '' I strike in , `` and I 'm not go to interfere .
But I want to get you to come over and show me how to tuft my comfort that new pattern you learn in Avonlea , and a it have well be do before dark I wish you 'd come right away . ''
`` I s ` pose I 'll go , '' say Emmeline ungraciously , `` but Priscilla shall come , too , for I see that she be n't to be trust out of my sight after this . ''
I hop Stephen would see u from the garret window and make good his escape .
But I do n't dare trust to chance , so when I get Emmeline safely to work on my comfort I excuse myself and slip out .
Luckily my kitchen be on the off side of the house , but I be a nervous woman a I rush across to the Strong place and dash up Emmeline 's garret stair to Stephen .
It be fortunate I have come , for he do n't know we have go .
Prissy have hide him behind the loom and he do n't dare move for fear Emmeline would hear him on that creaky floor .
He be a sight with cobweb .
I get him down and smuggle him into our barn , and he stay there until it be dark and the Strong girl have go home .
Emmeline begin to rage at Prissy the moment they be outside my door .
Then Stephen come in and we talk thing over .
He and Prissy have make good use of their time , short a it have be .
Prissy have promise to marry him , and all that remain be to get the ceremony perform .
`` And that will be no easy matter , '' I warn him .
`` Now that Emmeline 's suspicion be arouse she 'll never let Prissy out of her sight until you 're marry to another woman , if it 's year .
I know Emmeline Strong .
And I know Prissy .
If it be any other girl in the world she 'd run away , or manage it somehow , but Prissy never will .
She 's too much in the habit of obey Emmeline .
You 'll have an obedient wife , Stephen -- if you ever get her . ''
Stephen look a if he think that would n't be any drawback .
Gossip say that Althea have be pretty bossy .
I do n't know .
Maybe it be so .
`` Ca n't you suggest something , Rosanna ? ''
he implore .
`` You 've help u so far , and I 'll never forget it . ''
`` The only thing I can think of be for you to have the license ready , and speak to Mr. Leonard , and keep an eye on our ventilator , '' I say .
`` I 'll watch here and signal whenever there 's an opening . ''
Well , I watch and Stephen watch , and Mr. Leonard be in the plot , too .
Prissy be always a favourite of his , and he would have be more than human , saint a he be , if he 'd have any love for Emmeline , after the way she be always try to brew up strife in the church .
But Emmeline be a match for u all .
She never let Prissy out of her sight .
Everywhere she go she tot Prissy , too .
When a month have go by , I be almost in despair .
Mr. Leonard have to leave for the Assembly in another week and Stephen 's neighbour be begin to talk about him .
They say that a man who spend all his time hang around the yard with a spyglass , and trust everything to a hired boy , could n't be altogether right in his mind .
I could hardly believe my eye when I saw Emmeline drive away one day alone .
As soon a she be out of sight I whisk over , and Anne Shirley and Diana Barry go with me .
They be visit me that afternoon .
Diana 's mother be my second cousin , and , a we visit back and forth frequently , I 'd often see Diana .
But I 'd never see her chum , Anne Shirley , although I 'd hear enough about her to drive anyone frantic with curiosity .
So when she come home from Redmond College that summer I ask Diana to take pity on me and bring her over some afternoon .
I be n't disappointed in her .
I consider her a beauty , though some people could n't see it .
She have the most magnificent red hair and the big , shining eye I ever saw in a girl 's head .
As for her laugh , it make me feel young again to hear it .
She and Diana both laugh enough that afternoon , for I tell them , under solemn promise of secrecy , all about poor Prissy 's love affair .
So nothing would do them but they must go over with me .
The appearance of the house amaze me .
All the shutter be close and the door lock .
I knock and knock , but there be no answer .
Then I walk around the house to the only window that have n't shutter -- a tiny one upstairs .
I know it be the window in the closet off the room where the girl sleep .
I stop under it and call Prissy .
Before long Prissy come and open it .
She be so pale and woe-begone look that I pity her with all my heart .
`` Prissy , where have Emmeline go ? ''
I ask .
`` Down to Avonlea to see the Roger Pyes .
They 're sick with measles , and Emmeline could n't take me because I 've never have measles . ''
Poor Prissy !
She have never have anything a body ought to have .
`` Then you just come and unfasten a shutter , and come right over to my house , '' I say exultantly .
`` We 'll have Stephen and the minister here in no time . ''
`` I ca n't -- Em ` line have lock me in here , '' say Prissy woefully .
I be pose .
No living mortal big than a baby could have get in or out of that closet window .
`` Well , '' I say finally , `` I 'll put the signal up for Stephen anyhow , and we 'll see what can be do when he get here . ''
I do n't know how I be ever to get the signal up on that ventilator , for it be one of the day I take dizzy spell ; and if I take one up on the ladder there 'd probably be a funeral instead of a wedding .
But Anne Shirley say she 'd put it up for me , and she do .
I have never see that girl before , and I 've never see her since , but it 's my opinion that there be n't much she could n't do if she make up her mind to do it .
Stephen be n't long in get there and he bring the minister with him .
Then we all , include Thomas -- who be begin to get interested in the affair in spite of himself -- go over and hold council of war beneath the closet window .
Thomas suggest break in door and carry Prissy off boldly , but I could see that Mr. Leonard look very dubious over that , and even Stephen say he think it could only be do a a last resort .
I agree with him .
I know Emmeline Strong would bring an action against him for housebreak as likely a not .
She 'd be so furious she 'd stick at nothing if we give her any excuse .
Then Anne Shirley , who could n't have be more excited if she be get marry herself , come to the rescue again .
`` Could n't you put a ladder up to the closet window , '' she say , `` And Mr. Clark can go up it and they can be marry there .
Ca n't they , Mr. Leonard ? ''
Mr. Leonard agree that they could .
He be always the most saintly look man , but I know I saw a twinkle in his eye .
`` Thomas , go over and bring our little ladder over here , '' I say .
Thomas forget he be an elder , and he bring the ladder as quick a it be possible for a fat man to do it .
After all it be too short to reach the window , but there be no time to go for another .
Stephen go up to the top of it , and he reach up and Prissy reach down , and they could just barely clasp hand so .
I shall never forget the look of Prissy .
The window be so small she could only get her head and one arm out of it .
Besides , she be almost frighten to death .
Mr. Leonard stand at the foot of the ladder and marry them .
As a rule , he make a very long and solemn thing of the marriage ceremony , but this time he cut out everything that be n't absolutely necessary ; and it be well that he do , for just a he pronounce them man and wife , Emmeline drive into the lane .
She know perfectly well what have happen when she saw the minister with his blue book in his hand .
Never a word say she .
She march to the front door , unlock it , and strode upstairs .
I 've always be convince it be a mercy that closet window be so small , or I believe that she would have throw Prissy out of it .
As it be , she walk her downstairs by the arm and actually fling her at Stephen .
`` There , take your wife , '' she say , `` and I 'll pack up every stitch she own and send it after her ; and I never want to see her or you again as long a I live . ''
Then she turn to me and Thomas .
`` As for you that have aid and abet that weakminded fool in this , take yourselves out of my yard and never darken my door again . ''
`` Goodness , who want to , you old spitfire ? ''
say Thomas .
It be n't just the thing for him to say , perhaps , but we be all human , even elder .
The girl do n't escape .
Emmeline look dagger at them .
`` This will be something for you to carry back to Avonlea , '' she say .
`` You gossip down there will have enough to talk about for a spell .
That 's all you ever go out of Avonlea for -- just to fetch and carry tale . ''
Finally she finish up with the minister .
`` I 'm go to the Baptist church in Spencervale after this , '' she say .
Her tone and look say a hundred other thing .
She whirl into the house and slam the door .
Mr. Leonard look around on u with a pity smile a Stephen put poor , half-fainting Prissy into the buggy .
`` I be very sorry , '' he say in that gently , saintly way of his , `` for the Baptists . ''
XI .
The Miracle at Carmody Salome look out of the kitchen window , and a pucker of distress appear on her smooth forehead .
`` Dear , dear , what have Lionel Hezekiah be do now ? ''
she murmur anxiously .
Involuntarily she reach out for her crutch ; but it be a little beyond her reach , have fall on the floor , and without it Salome could not move a step .
`` Well , anyway , Judith be bring him in as fast a she can , '' she reflect .
`` He must have be up to something terrible this time ; for she look very cross , and she never walk like that unless she be angry clear through .
Dear me , I be sometimes tempt to think that Judith and I make a mistake in adopt the child .
I suppose two old maid do n't know much about bring up a boy properly .
But he be NOT a bad child , and it really seem to me that there must be some way of make him behave good if we only know what it be . ''
Salome 's monologue be cut short by the entrance of her sister Judith , hold Lionel Hezekiah by his chubby wrist with a determined grip .
Judith Marsh be ten year old than Salome , and the two woman be a different in appearance a night and day .
Salome , in spite of her thirty-five year , look almost girlish .
She be small and pink and flower-like , with little ring of pale golden hair cluster all over her head in a most unspinster-like fashion , and her eye be big and blue , and mild a a dove 's .
Her face be perhaps a weak one , but it be very sweet and appeal .
Judith Marsh be tall and dark , with a plain , tragic face and iron-gray hair .
Her eye be black and sombre , and every feature bespeak unyielding will and determination .
Just now she look , a Salome have say , `` angry clear through , '' and the baleful glance she cast on the small mortal she hold would have wither a more hardened criminal than six happy-go-lucky year have make of Lionel Hezekiah .
Lionel Hezekiah , whatever his shortcoming , do not look bad .
Indeed , he be a engage an urchin a ever beam out on a jolly good world through a pair of big , velvet-brown eye .
He be chubby and firm-limbed , with a mop of beautiful golden curl , which be the despair of his heart and the pride and joy of Salome 's ; and his round face be usually a lurking-place for dimple and smile and sunshine .
But just now Lionel Hezekiah be under a blight ; he have be catch red-handed in guilt , and be feel much ashamed of himself .
He hang his head and squirm his toe under the mournful reproach in Salome 's eye .
When Salome look at him like that , Lionel Hezekiah always felt that he be pay more for his fun than it be worth .
`` What do you suppose I catch him do this time ? ''
demand Judith .
`` I -- I do n't know , '' falter Salome .
`` Firing -- at -- a -- mark -- on -- the -- henhouse -- door -- with -- new-laid -- egg , '' say Judith with measured distinctness .
`` He have break every egg that be lay to-day except three .
And a for the state of that henhouse door -- '' Judith pause , with an indignant gesture mean to convey that the state of the henhouse door must be leave to Salome 's imagination , since the English language be not capable of depict it .
`` O Lionel Hezekiah , why will you do such thing ? ''
say Salome miserably .
`` I -- do n't know it be wrong , '' say Lionel Hezekiah , burst into prompt tear .
`` I -- I think it would be bully fun .
Seems 's if everything what 's fun 's wrong . ''
Salome 's heart be not proof against tear , a Lionel Hezekiah very well know .
She put her arm about the sobbing culprit , and draw him to her side .
`` He do n't know it be wrong , '' she say defiantly to Judith .
`` He 's get to be teach , then , '' be Judith 's retort .
`` No , you need n't try to beg him off , Salome .
He shall go right to bed without supper , and stay there till to-morrow morning . ''
`` Oh !
not without his supper , '' entreat Salome .
`` You -- you wo n't improve the child 's moral by injure his stomach , Judith . ''
`` Without his supper , I say , '' repeat Judith inexorably .
`` Lionel Hezekiah , go up-stairs to the south room , and go to bed at once . ''
Lionel Hezekiah go up-stairs , and go to bed at once .
He be never sulky or disobedient .
Salome listen to him a he stump patiently up-stairs with a sob at every step , and her own eye fill with tear .
`` Now do n't for pity 's sake go cry , Salome , '' say Judith irritably .
`` I think I 've let him off very easily .
He be enough to try the patience of a saint , and I never be that , '' she add with entire truth .
`` But he be n't bad , '' plead Salome .
`` You know he never do anything the second time after he have be tell it be wrong , never . ''
`` What good do that do when he be certain to do something new and twice a bad ?
I never saw anything like him for originate idea of mischief .
Just look at what he have do in the past fortnight -- in one fortnight , Salome .
He bring in a live snake , and nearly frighten you into fit ; he drink up a bottle of liniment , and almost poison himself ; he take three toad to bed with him ; he climb into the henhouse loft , and fell through on a hen and kill her ; he paint his face all over with your water-colour ; and now come THIS exploit .
And egg at twenty-eight cent a dozen !
I tell you , Salome , Lionel Hezekiah be an expensive luxury . ''
`` But we could n't do without him , '' protest Salome . ''
I could .
But a you ca n't , or think you ca n't , we 'll have to keep him , I suppose .
But the only way to secure any peace of mind for ourselves , as far a I can see , be to tether him in the yard , and hire somebody to watch him . ''
`` There must be some way of manage him , '' say Salome desperately .
She think Judith be in earnest about the tethering .
Judith be generally so terribly in earnest in all she say .
`` Perhaps it be because he have no other employment that he invent so many unheard-of thing .
If he have anything to occupy himself with -- perhaps if we send him to school -- '' `` He 's too young to go to school .
Father always say that no child should go to school until it be seven , and I do n't mean Lionel Hezekiah shall .
Well , I 'm go to take a pail of hot water and a brush , and see what I can do to that henhouse door .
I 've get my afternoon 's work cut out for me . ''
Judith stand Salome 's crutch up beside her , and depart to purify the henhouse door .
As soon a she be safely out of the way , Salome take her crutch , and limp slowly and painfully to the foot of the stair .
She could not go up and comfort Lionel Hezekiah a she yearn to do , which be the reason Judith have send him up-stairs .
Salome have not be up-stairs for fifteen year .
Neither do she dare to call him out on the landing , l Judith return .
Besides , of course he must be punish ; he have be very naughty .
`` But I wish I could smuggle a bit of supper up to him , '' she muse , sit down on the low step and listening .
`` I do n't hear a sound .
I suppose he have cry himself to sleep , poor , dear baby .
He certainly be dreadfully mischievous ; but it seem to me that it show an investigate turn of mind , and if it could only be direct into the proper channel -- I wish Judith would let me have a talk with Mr. Leonard about Lionel Hezekiah .
I wish Judith do n't hate minister so .
I do n't mind so much her not let me go to church , because I 'm so lame that it would be painful anyhow ; but I 'd like to talk with Mr. Leonard now and then about some thing .
I can never believe that Judith and father be right ; I be sure they be not .
There be a God , and I 'm afraid it 's terribly wicked not to go to church .
But there , nothing short of a miracle would convince Judith ; so there be no use in think about it .
Yes , Lionel Hezekiah must have go to sleep . ''
Salome picture him so , with his long , curl lash brush his rosy , tear-stained cheek and his chubby fist clasp tightly over his breast a be his habit ; her heart grow warm and thrill with the maternity the picture provoke .
A year previously Lionel Hezekiah 's parent , Abner and Martha Smith , have die , leave a houseful of child and very little else .
The child be adopt into various Carmody family , and Salome Marsh have amaze Judith by ask to be allow to take the five-year-old `` baby . ''
At first Judith have laugh at the idea ; but , when she find that Salome be in earnest , she yield .
Judith always give Salome her own way except on one point .
`` If you want the child , I suppose you must have him , '' she say finally .
`` I wish he have a civilize name , though .
Hezekiah be bad , and Lionel be bad ; but the two in combination , and tack on to Smith at that , be something that only Martha Smith could have invent .
Her judgment be the same clear through , from select husband to name . ''
So Lionel Hezekiah come into Judith 's home and Salome 's heart .
The latter be permit to love him all she please , but Judith overlook his training with a critical eye .
Possibly it be just as well , for Salome might otherwise have ruin him with indulgence .
Salome , who always adopt Judith 's opinion , no matter how ill they fit her , defer to the former 's decree meekly , and suffer far more than Lionel Hezekiah when he be punish .
She sit on the stair until she fell asleep herself , her head pillowed on her arm .
Judith find her there when she come in , severe and triumphant , from her bout with the henhouse door .
Her face soften into marvelous tenderness a she look at Salome .
`` She 's nothing but a child herself in spite of her age , '' she think pityingly .
`` A child that 's have her whole life thwart and spoil through no fault of her own .
And yet folk say there be a God who be kind and good !
If there be a God , he be a cruel , jealous tyrant , and I hate Him ! ''
Judith 's eye be bitter and vindictive .
She think she have many grievance against the great Power that rule the universe , but the most intense be Salome 's helplessness -- Salome , who fifteen year before have be the bright , happy of maiden , light of heart and foot , bubble over with harmless , sparkle mirth and life .
If Salome could only walk like other woman , Judith tell herself that she would not hate the great tyrannical Power .
Lionel Hezekiah be subdue and angelic for four day after that affair of the henhouse door .
Then he break out in a new place .
One afternoon he come in sobbing , with his golden curl full of burr .
Judith be not in , but Salome drop her crochet-work and gaze at him in dismay .
`` Oh , Lionel Hezekiah , what have you go and do now ? ''
`` I -- I just stick the burr in 'cause I be play I be a heathen chief , '' sob Lionel Hezekiah .
`` It be great fun while it last ; but , when I try to take them out , it hurt awful . ''
Neither Salome nor Lionel Hezekiah ever forget the harrow hour that follow .
With the aid of comb and scissors , Salome eventually get the burr out of Lionel Hezekiah 's crop of curl .
It would be impossible to decide which of them suffer more in the process .
Salome cry as hard a Lionel Hezekiah do , and every snip of the scissors or tug at the silken floss cut into her heart .
She be almost exhaust when the performance be over ; but she take the tired Lionel Hezekiah on her knee , and lay her wet cheek against his shin head .
`` Oh , Lionel Hezekiah , what do make you get into mischief so constantly ? ''
she sigh .
Lionel Hezekiah frown reflectively .
`` I do n't know , '' he finally announce , `` unless it 's because you do n't send me to Sunday school . ''
Salome start a if an electric shock have pass through her frail body .
`` Why , Lionel Hezekiah , '' she stammer , `` what put such and idea into your head ? ''
`` Well , all the other boy go , '' say Lionel Hezekiah defiantly ; `` and they 're all good 'n me ; so I guess that must be the reason .
Teddy Markham say that all little boy should go to Sunday school , and that if they do n't they 're sure to go to the bad place .
I do n't see how you can ` spect me to behave well when you wo n't send me to Sunday school .
`` Would you like to go ? ''
ask Salome , almost in a whisper .
`` I 'd like it bully , '' say Lionel Hezekiah frankly and succinctly .
`` Oh , do n't use such dreadful word , '' sigh Salome helplessly .
`` I 'll see what can be do .
Perhaps you can go .
I 'll ask your Aunt Judith . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Judith wo n't let me go , '' say Lionel Hezekiah despondingly .
`` Aunt Judith do n't believe there be any God or any bad place .
Teddy Markham say she do n't .
He say she 's an awful wicked woman 'cause she never go to church .
So you must be wicked too , Aunt Salome , 'cause you never go .
Why do n't you ? ''
`` Your -- your Aunt Judith wo n't let me go , '' falter Salome , more perplexed than she have ever be before in her life .
`` Well , it do n't seem to me that you have much fun on Sundays , '' remark Lionel Hezekiah ponderingly .
`` I 'd have more if I be you .
But I s ` pose you ca n't 'cause you 're lady .
I 'm glad I 'm a man .
Look at Abel Blair , what splendid time he have on Sundays .
He never go to church , but he go fishing , and have cock-fights , and get drunk .
When I grow up , I 'm go to do that on Sundays too , since I wo n't be go to church .
I do n't want to go to church , but I 'd like to go to Sunday school . ''
Salome listen in agony .
Every word of Lionel Hezekiah 's stung her conscience unbearably .
So this be the result of her weak yielding to Judith ; this innocent child look upon her a a wicked woman , and , bad still , regard old , deprave Abel Blair a a model to be imitate .
Oh !
be it too late to undo the evil ?
When Judith return , Salome blurt out the whole story .
`` Lionel Hezekiah must go to Sunday school , '' she conclude appealingly .
Judith 's face harden until it be a if cut in stone .
`` No , he shall not , '' she say stubbornly .
`` No one living in my household shall ever go to church or Sunday school .
I give in to you when you want to teach him to say his prayer , though I know it be only foolish superstition , but I sha 'n ' t yield another inch .
You know exactly how I feel on this subject , Salome ; I believe just a father do .
You know he hat church and churchgoing .
And be there ever a good , kind , more lovable man ? ''
`` Mother believe in God ; mother always go to church , '' plead Salome .
`` Mother be weak and superstitious , just a you be , '' retort Judith inflexibly .
`` I tell you , Salome , I do n't believe there be a God .
But , if there be , He be cruel and unjust , and I hate Him . ''
`` Judith ! ''
gasp Salome , aghast at the impiety .
She half expect to see her sister strike dead at her foot .
`` Do n't ` Judith ' me ! ''
say Judith passionately , in the strange anger that any discussion of the subject always rouse in her .
`` I mean every word I say .
Before you get lame I do n't feel much about it one way or another ; I 'd just as soon have go with mother a with father .
But , when you be strike down like that , I know father be right . ''
For a moment Salome quail .
She felt that she could not , dare not , stand out against Judith .
For her own sake she could not have do so , but the thought of Lionel Hezekiah nerve her to desperation .
She strike her thin , bleach little hand wildly together .
`` Judith , I 'm go to church to-morrow , '' she cry .
`` I tell you I be , I wo n't set Lionel Hezekiah a bad example one day longer .
I 'll not take him ; I wo n't go against you in that , for it be your bounty feed and clothes him ; but I 'm go myself . ''
`` If you do , Salome Marsh , I 'll never forgive you , '' say Judith , her harsh face dark with anger ; and then , not trust herself to discuss the subject any long , she go out .
Salome dissolve into her ready tear , and cry most of the night .
But her resolution do not fail .
Go to church she would , for that dear baby 's sake .
Judith would not speak to her at breakfast , and this almost break Salome 's heart ; but she dare not yield .
After breakfast , she limp painfully into her room , and still more painfully dress herself .
When she be ready , she take a little old worn Bible out of her box .
It have be her mother 's , and Salome read a chapter in it every night , although she never dare to let Judith see her do it .
When she limp out into the kitchen , Judith look up with a hard face .
A flame of sullen anger glow in her dark eye , and she go into the sitting-room and shut the door , a if by that act she be shut her sister for evermore out of her heart and life .
Salome , string up to the last pitch of nervous tension , felt intuitively the significance of that close door .
For a moment she waver -- oh , she could not go against Judith !
She be all but turn back to her room when Lionel Hezekiah come run in , and pause to look at her admiringly .
`` You look just bully , Aunt Salome , '' he say .
`` Where be you go ? ''
`` Do n't use that word , Lionel Hezekiah , '' plead Salome .
`` I 'm go to church . ''
`` Take me with you , '' say Lionel Hezekiah promptly .
Salome shake her head .
`` I ca n't , dear .
Your Aunt Judith would n't like it .
Perhaps she will let you go after a while .
Now do be a good boy while I be away , wo n't you ?
Do n't do any naughty thing . ''
`` I wo n't do them if I know they 're naughty , '' concede Lionel Hezekiah .
`` But that 's just the trouble ; I do n't know what 's naughty and what ai n't .
Prob ` ly if I go to Sunday school I 'd find out . ''
Salome limp out of the yard and down the lane border by it aster and goldenrod .
Fortunately the church be just outside the lane , across the main road ; but Salome find it hard to cover even that short distance .
She felt almost exhaust when she reach the church and toil painfully up the aisle to her mother 's old pew .
She lay her crutch on the seat , and sink into the corner by the window with a sigh of relief .
She have elect to come early so that she might get there before the rest of the people .
The church be a yet empty , save for a class of Sunday school child and their teacher in a remote corner , who pause midway in their lesson to stare with amazement at the astonishing sigh of Salome Marsh limp into church .
The big building , shadowy from the great elm around it , be very still .
A faint murmur come from the closed room behind the pulpit where the rest of the Sunday school be assemble .
In front of the pulpit be a stand bear tall white geranium in luxuriant blossom .
The light fell through the stained-glass window in a soft tangle of hue upon the floor .
Salome felt a sense of peace and happiness fill her heart .
Even Judith 's anger lose it importance .
She lean her head against the window-sill , and give herself up to the flood of tender old recollection that sweep over her .
Memory go back to the year of her childhood when she have sit in this pew every Sunday with her mother .
Judith have come then , too , always seem grow up to Salome by reason of her ten year ' seniority .
Her tall , dark , reserve father never come .
Salome know that the Carmody people call him an infidel , and look upon him a a very wicked man .
But he have not be wicked ; he have be good and kind in his own odd way .
The gently little mother have die when Salome be ten year old , but so loving and tender be Judith 's care that the child do not miss anything out of her life .
Judith Marsh love her little sister with an intensity that be maternal .
She herself be a plain , repellent girl , like by few , seek after by no man ; but she be determine that Salome should have everything that she have miss -- admiration , friendship , love .
She would have a vicarious youth in Salome 's .
All go accord to Judith 's planning until Salome be eighteen , and then trouble after trouble come .
Their father , whom Judith have understand and passionately love , die ; Salome 's young lover be kill in a railroad accident ; and finally Salome herself develop symptom of the hip-disease which , spring from a trifling injury , eventually leave her a cripple .
Everything possible be do for her .
Judith , fall heir to a snug little fortune by the death of the old aunt for whom she be name , spar nothing to obtain the best medical skill , and in vain .
One and all , the great doctor fail .
Judith have bear her father 's death bravely enough in spite of her agony of grief ; she have watch her sister pining and fading with the pain of her broken heart without grow bitter ; but when she know at last that Salome would never walk again save a she hobble painfully about on her crutch , the smoulder revolt in her soul break it bound , and overflow her nature in a passionate rebellion against the Being who have send , or have fail to prevent , these calamity .
She do not rave or denounce wildly ; that be not Judith 's way ; but she never go to church again , and it soon become an accepted fact in Carmody that Judith Marsh be a rank an infidel a her father have be before her ; nay , bad , since she would not even allow Salome to go to church , and shut the door in the minister 's face when he go to see her .
`` I should have stand out against her for conscience ' sake , '' reflect Salome in her pew self-reproachfully .
`` But , O dear , I 'm afraid she 'll never forgive me , and how can I live if she do n't ?
But I must endure it for Lionel Hezekiah 's sake ; my weakness have perhaps do him great harm already .
They say that what a child learn in the first seven year never leave him ; so Lionel Hezekiah have only another year to get set right about these thing .
Oh , if I 've leave it till too late ! ''
When the people begin to come in , Salome felt painfully the curious glance direct at her .
Look where she would , she meet them , unless she look out of the window ; so out of the window she do look unswervingly , her delicate little face burn crimson with self-consciousness .
She could see her home and it back yard plainly , with Lionel Hezekiah make mud-pies joyfully in the corner .
Presently she saw Judith come out of the house and stride away to the pine wood behind it .
Judith always betook herself to the pine in time of mental stress and strain .
Salome could see the sunlight shin on Lionel Hezekiah 's bare head a he mix his pie .
In the pleasure of watch him she forget where she be and the curious eye turn on her .
Suddenly Lionel Hezekiah cease concoct pie , and betook himself to the corner of the summer kitchen , where he proceed to climb up to the top of the storm-fence and from there to mount the slop kitchen roof .
Salome clasp her hand in agony .
What if the child should fall ?
Oh !
why have Judith go away and leave him alone ?
What if -- what if -- and then , while her brain with lightning-like rapidity picture forth a dozen possible catastrophe , something really do happen .
Lionel Hezekiah slip , sprawl wildly , slide down , and fell off the roof , in a bewildering whirl of arm and leg , plump into the big rain-water hogshead under the spout , which be generally full to the brim with rain-water , a hogshead big and deep enough to swallow up half a dozen small boy who go climb kitchen roof on a Sunday .
Then something take place that be talk of in Carmody to this day , and even fiercely wrangle over , so many and conflict be the opinion on the subject .
Salome Marsh , who have not walk a step without assistance for fifteen year , suddenly spring to her foot with a shriek , run down the aisle , and out of the door !
Every man , woman , and child in the Carmody church follow her , even to the minister , who have just announce his text .
When they get out , Salome be already half-way up her lane , run wildly .
In her heart be room for but one agonized thought .
Would Lionel Hezekiah be drown before she reach him ?
She open the gate of the yard , and pant across it just a a tall , grim-faced woman come around the corner of the house and stand root to the ground in astonishment at the sight that meet her eye .
But Salome saw nobody .
She fling herself against the hogshead and look in , sick with terror at what she might see .
What she do see be Lionel Hezekiah sit on the bottom of the hogshead in water that come only to his waist .
He be look rather daze and bewilder , but be apparently quite uninjured .
The yard be full of people , but nobody have a yet say a word ; awe and wonder hold everybody in spellbound silence .
Judith be the first to speak .
She push through the crowd to Salome .
Her face be blanch to a deadly whiteness ; and her eye , a Mrs. William Blair afterwards declare , be enough to give a body the creep .
`` Salome , '' she say in a high , shrill , unnatural voice , `` where be your crutch ? ''
Salome come to herself at the question .
For the first time , she realize that she have walk , nay , run , all that distance from the church alone and unaided .
She turn pale , sway , and would have fall if Judith have not catch her .
Old Dr. Blair come forward briskly .
`` Carry her in , '' he say , `` and do n't all of you come crowd in , either .
She want quiet and rest for a spell . ''
Most of the people obediently return to the church , their sudden loosen tongue clatter in voluble excitement .
A few woman assist Judith to carry Salome in and lay her on the kitchen lounge , follow by the doctor and the dripping Lionel Hezekiah , whom the minister have lift out of the hogshead and to whom nobody now pay the slight attention .
Salome falter out her story , and her hearer listen with vary emotion .
`` It 's a miracle , '' say Sam Lawson in an awed voice .
Dr. Blair shrug his shoulder .
`` There be no miracle about it , '' he say bluntly .
`` It 's all perfectly natural .
The disease in the hip have evidently be quite well for a long time ; Nature do sometimes work cure like that when she be let alone .
The trouble be that the muscle be paralyze by long disuse .
That paralysis be overcome by the force of a strong and instinctive effort .
Salome , get up and walk across the kitchen . ''
Salome obeyed .
She walk across the kitchen and back , slowly , stiffly , falteringly , now that the stimulus of frantic fear be spend ; but still she walk .
The doctor nod his satisfaction .
`` Keep that up every day .
Walk as much a you can without tire yourself , and you 'll soon be as spry a ever .
No more need of crutch for you , but there 's no miracle in the case . ''
Judith Marsh turn to him .
She have not speak a word since her question concern Salome 's crutch .
Now she say passionately : `` It WAS a miracle .
God have work it to prove His existence for me , and I accept the proof . ''
The old doctor shrug his shoulder again .
Being a wise man , he know when to hold his tongue .
`` Well , put Salome to bed , and let her sleep the rest of the day .
She 's wear out .
And for pity 's sake let some one take that poor child and put some dry clothes on him before he catch his death of cold . ''
That evening , a Salome Marsh lay in her bed in a glory of sunset light , her heart fill with unutterable gratitude and happiness , Judith come into the room .
She wear her best hat and dress , and she hold Lionel Hezekiah by the hand .
Lionel Hezekiah 's beam face be scrub clean , and his curl fell in beautiful sleekness over the lace collar of his velvet suit .
`` How do you feel now , Salome ? ''
ask Judith gently .
`` Better .
I 've have a lovely sleep .
But where be you go , Judith ? ''
`` I be go to church , '' say Judith firmly , `` and I be go to take Lionel Hezekiah with me . ''
XII .
The End of a Quarrel Nancy Rogerson sit down on Louisa Shaw 's front doorstep and look about her , draw a long breath of delight that seem ting with pain .
Everything be very much the same ; the square garden be a charm bodge-podge of fruit and flower , and goose-berry bush and tiger lily , a gnarled old apple tree stick up here and there , and a thick cherry copse at the foot .
Behind be a row of pointed fir , come out darkly against the swimming pink sunset sky , not look a day old than they have look twenty year ago , when Nancy have be a young girl walking and dream in their shadow .
The old willow to the left be a big and sweeping and , Nancy think with a little shudder , probably a caterpillary , a ever .
Nancy have learn many thing in her twenty year of exile from Avonlea , but she have never learn to conquer her dread of caterpillar .
`` Nothing be much change , Louisa , '' she say , prop her chin on her plump white hand , and sniff at the delectable odour of the bruised mint upon which Louisa be trample .
`` I 'm glad ; I be afraid to come back for fear you would have improve the old garden out of existence , or else into some prim , orderly lawn , which would have be bad .
It 's as magnificently untidy a ever , and the fence still wobble .
It CA N'T be the same fence , but it look exactly like it .
No , nothing be much change .
Thank you , Louisa . ''
Louisa have not the faint idea what Nancy be thank her for , but then she have never be able to fathom Nancy , much a she have always like her in the old girlhood day that now seem much far away to Louisa than they do to Nancy .
Louisa be separate from them by the fulness of wifehood and motherhood , while Nancy look back only over the narrow gap that empty year make .
`` You have n't change much yourself , Nancy , '' she say , look admiringly at Nancy 's trim figure , in the nurse 's uniform she have don to show Louisa what it be like , her firm , pink-and-white face and the the glossy wave of her golden brown hair .
`` You 've hold your own wonderfully well . ''
`` Have n't I ? ''
say Nancy complacently .
`` Modern method of massage and cold cream have keep away the crowsfeet , and fortunately I have the Rogerson complexion to start with .
You would n't think I be really thirty-eight , would you ?
Thirty-eight !
Twenty year ago I think anybody who be thirty-eight be a perfect female Methuselah .
And now I feel so horribly , ridiculously young , Louisa .
Every morning when I get up I have to say solemnly to myself three time , ` You 're an old maid , Nancy Rogerson , ' to tone myself down to anything like a become attitude for the day . ''
`` I guess you do n't mind be an old maid much , '' say Louisa , shrug her shoulder .
She would not have be an old maid herself for anything ; yet she inconsistently envy Nancy her freedom , her wide life in the world , her unlined brow , and care-free lightness of spirit .
`` Oh , but I do mind , '' say Nancy frankly .
`` I hate be an old maid . ''
`` Why do n't you get marry , then ? ''
ask Louisa , pay an unconscious tribute to Nancy 's perennial chance by her use of the present tense .
Nancy shake her head .
`` No , that would n't suit me either .
I do n't want to be marry .
Do you remember that story Anne Shirley use to tell long ago of the pupil who want to be a widow because ` if you be marry your husband boss you and if you be n't marry people call you an old maid ? '
Well , that be precisely my opinion .
I 'd like to be a widow .
Then I 'd have the freedom of the unmarried , with the kudos of the marry .
I could eat my cake and have it , too .
Oh , to be a widow ! ''
`` Nancy ! ''
say Louisa in a shocked tone .
Nancy laugh , a mellow gurgle that ripple through the garden like a brook .
`` Oh , Louisa , I can shock you yet .
That be just how you use to say ` Nancy ' long ago , a if I 'd break all the commandment at once . ''
`` You do say such queer thing , '' protest Louisa , `` and half the time I do n't know what you mean . ''
`` Bless you , dear coz , half the time I do n't myself .
Perhaps the joy of come back to the old spot have slightly turn my brain , I 've find my lose girlhood here .
I 'm NOT thirty-eight in this garden -- it be a flat impossibility .
I 'm sweet eighteen , with a waist line two inch small .
Look , the sun be just set .
I see he have still his old trick of throw his last beam over the Wright farmhouse .
By the way , Louisa , be Peter Wright still live there ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Louisa throw a sudden interested glance at the apparently placid Nancy .
`` Married , I suppose , with half a dozen child ? ''
say Nancy indifferently , pull up some more sprig of mint and pin them on her breast .
Perhaps the exertion of lean over to do it flush her face .
There be more than the Rogerson colour in it , anyhow , and Louisa , slow though her mental process might be in some respect , think she understand the meaning of a blush as well a the next one .
All the instinct of the matchmaker flame up in her .
`` Indeed he be n't , '' she say promptly .
`` Peter Wright have never marry .
He have be faithful to your memory , Nancy . ''
`` Ugh !
You make me feel a if I be bury up there in the Avonlea cemetery and have a monument over me with a weep willow carve on it , '' shiver Nancy .
`` When it be say that a man have be faithful to a woman 's memory it generally mean that he could n't get anyone else to take him . ''
`` That be n't the case with Peter , '' protest Louisa .
`` He be a good match , and many a woman would have be glad to take him , and would yet .
He 's only forty-three .
But he 's never take the slight interest in anyone since you throw him over , Nancy . ''
`` But I do n't .
He throw me over , '' say Nancy , plaintively , look afar over the low-lying field and a feathery young spruce valley to the white building of the Wright farm , glow rosily in the sunset light when all the rest of Avonlea be scarf itself in shadow .
There be laughter in her eye .
Louisa could not pierce beneath that laughter to find if there be anything under it .
`` Fudge ! ''
say Louisa .
`` What on earth do you and Peter quarrel about ? ''
she add , curiously .
`` I 've often wonder , '' parry Nancy .
`` And you 've never see him since ? ''
reflect Louisa .
`` No .
Has he change much ? ''
`` Well , some .
He be gray and kind of tired-looking .
But it be n't to be wonder at -- live the life he do .
He have n't have a housekeeper for two year -- not since his old aunt die .
He just live there alone and cook his own meal .
I 've never be in the house , but folk say the disorder be something awful . ''
`` Yes , I should n't think Peter be cut out for a tidy housekeeper , '' say Nancy lightly , drag up more mint .
`` Just think , Louisa , if it have n't be for that old quarrel I might be Mrs. Peter Wright at this very moment , mother to the aforesaid suppose half dozen , and vex my soul over Peter 's meal and sock and cow . ''
`` I guess you be good off a you be , '' say Louisa .
`` Oh , I do n't know . ''
Nancy look up at the white house on the hill again .
`` I have an awfully good time out of life , but it do n't seem to satisfy , somehow .
To be candid -- and oh , Louisa , candour be a rare thing among woman when it come to talk of the men -- I believe I 'd rather be cook Peter 's meal and dust his house .
I would n't mind his bad grammar now .
I 've learn one or two valuable little thing out yonder , and one be that it do n't matter if a man 's grammar be askew , so long a he do n't swear at you .
By the way , be Peter as ungrammatical a ever ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , '' say Louisa helplessly .
`` I never know he WAS ungrammatical . ''
`` Does he still say , ' I see , ' and ` them thing ' ? ''
demanded Nancy .
`` I never notice , '' confess Louisa .
`` Enviable Louisa !
Would that I have be bear with that bless faculty of never notice !
It stand a woman in good stead than beauty or brain .
I use to notice Peter 's mistake .
When he say ' I see , ' it jar on me in my salad day .
I try , oh , so tactfully , to reform him in that respect .
Peter do n't like be reform -- the Wrights always have a fairly good opinion of themselves , you know .
It be really over a question of syntax we quarrel .
Peter tell me I 'd have to take him a he be , grammar and all , or go without him .
I go without him -- and ever since I 've be wonder if I be really sorry , or if it be merely a pleasantly sentimental regret I be hug to my heart .
I daresay it 's the latter .
Now , Louisa , I see the beginning of the plot far down in those placid eye of yours .
Strangle it at birth , dear Louisa .
There be no use in your try to make up a match between Peter and me now -- no , nor in slyly invite him up here to tea some evening , a you be even this moment thinking of do . ''
`` Well , I must go and milk the cow , '' gasp Louisa , rather glad to make her escape .
Nancy 's power of thought-reading struck her a uncanny .
She felt afraid to remain with her cousin any long , l Nancy should drag to light all the secret of her be .
Nancy sit long on the step after Louisa have go -- sit until the night come down , darkly and sweetly , over the garden , and the star twinkle out above the fir .
This have be her home in girlhood .
Here she have live and keep house for her father .
When he die , Curtis Shaw , newly marry to her cousin Louisa , buy the farm from her and move in .
Nancy stay on with them , expect soon to go to a home of her own .
She and Peter Wright be engage .
Then come their mysterious quarrel , concern the cause of which kith and kin on both side be leave in annoy ignorance .
Of the result they be not ignorant .
Nancy promptly pack up and leave Avonlea seven hundred mile behind her .
She go to a hospital in Montreal and study nursing .
In the twenty year that follow she have never even revisit Avonlea .
Her sudden descent on it this summer be a whim born of a moment 's homesick longing for this same old garden .
She have not think about Peter .
In very truth , she have think little about Peter for the last fifteen year .
She suppose that she have forget him .
But now , sit on the old doorstep , where she have often sit in her courting day , with Peter lounge on a broad stone at her foot , something tug at her heartstrings .
She look over the valley to the light in the kitchen of the Wright farmhouse , and picture Peter sit there , lonely and uncared for , with naught but the cold comfort of his own providing .
`` Well , he should have get marry , '' she say snappishly .
`` I be not go to worry because he be a lonely old bachelor when all these year I have suppose him a comfy Benedict .
Why do n't he hire him a housekeeper , at least ?
He can afford it ; the place look prosperous .
Ugh !
I 've a fat bank account , and I 've see almost everything in the world worth see ; but I 've get several carefully hidden gray hair and a horrible conviction that grammar be n't one of the essential thing in life after all .
Well , I 'm not go to moon out here in the dew any long .
I 'm go in to read the smart , frilliest , frothiest society novel in my trunk . ''
In the week that follow Nancy enjoy herself after her own fashion .
She read and swung in the garden , have a hammock hung under the fir .
She go far afield , in ramble to wood and lonely upland .
`` I like it much well than meet people , '' she say , when Louisa suggest go to see this one and that one , `` especially the Avonlea people .
All my old chum be go , or hopelessly married and change , and the young set who have come up know not Joseph , and make me feel uncomfortably middle-aged .
It 's far bad to feel middle-aged than old , you know .
Away there in the wood I feel a eternally young a Nature herself .
And oh , it 's so nice not have to fuss with thermometer and temperature and other people 's whim .
Let me indulge my own whim , Louisa dear , and punish me with a cold bite when I come in late for meal .
I 'm not even go to church again .
It be horrible there yesterday .
The church be so offensively spick-and-span brand new and modern . ''
`` It 's think to be the pretty church in these part , '' protest Louisa , a little sorely .
`` Churches should n't be pretty -- they should at least be fifty year old and mellow into beauty .
New church be an abomination . ''
`` Did you see Peter Wright in church ? ''
ask Louisa .
She have be burst to ask it .
Nancy nod .
`` Verily , yes .
He sit right across from me in the corner pew .
I do n't think him painfully change .
Iron-gray hair become him .
But I be horribly disappoint in myself .
I have expect to feel at least a romantic thrill , but all I felt be a comfortable interest , such a I might have take in any old friend .
Do my utmost , Louisa , I could n't compass a thrill . ''
`` Did he come to speak to you ? ''
ask Louisa , who have n't any idea what Nancy meant by her thrill .
`` Alas , no .
It be n't my fault .
I stand at the door outside with the most amiable expression I could assume , but Peter merely saunter away without a glance in my direction .
It would be some comfort to my vanity if I could believe it be on account of rankle spite or pride .
But the honest truth , dear Weezy , be that it look to me exactly a if he never think of it .
He be more interested in talk about the hay crop with Oliver Sloane -- who , by the way , be more Oliver Sloaneish than ever . ''
`` If you feel a you say you do the other night , why do n't you go and speak to him ? ''
Louisa want to know .
`` But I do n't feel that way now .
That be just a mood .
You do n't know anything about mood , dearie .
You do n't know what it be to yearn desperately one hour for something you would n't take if it be offer you the next . ''
`` But that be foolishness , '' protest Louisa .
`` To be sure it be -- rank foolishness .
But oh , it be so delightful to be foolish after be compel to be unbrokenly sensible for twenty year .
Well , I 'm go pick strawberry this afternoon , Lou .
Do n't wait tea for me .
I probably wo n't be back till dark .
I 've only four more day to stay and I want to make the most of them . ''
Nancy wander far and wide in her ramble that afternoon .
When she have fill her jug she still roam about with delicious aimlessness .
Once she find herself in a wood lane skirt a field wherein a man be mow hay .
The man be Peter Wright .
Nancy walk faster when she discover this , with never a roving glance , and presently the green , ferny depth of the maple wood swallow her up .
From old recollection , she know that she be on Peter Morrison 's land , and calculate that if she keep straight on she would come out where the old Morrison house use to be .
Her calculation prove correct , with a trifle variation .
She come out fifty yard south of the old deserted Morrison house , and find herself in the yard of the Wright farm !
Passing the house -- the house where she have once dream of reign a mistress -- Nancy 's curiosity overcome her .
The place be not in view of any other near house .
She deliberately go up to it intend -- low be it spoken -- to peep in at the kitchen window .
But , see the door wide open , she go to it instead and halt on the step , look about her keenly .
The kitchen be certainly pitiful in it disorder .
The floor have apparently not be sweep for a fortnight .
On the bare deal table be the remnant of Peter 's dinner , a meal that could not have be very tempt at it best .
`` What a miserable place for a human be to live in ! ''
groan Nancy .
`` Look at the ash on that stove !
And that table !
Is it any wonder that Peter have get gray ?
He 'll work hard haymaking all the afternoon -- and then come home to THIS ! ''
An idea suddenly dart into Nancy 's brain .
At first she look aghast .
Then she laugh and glance at her watch .
`` I 'll do it -- just for fun and a little pity .
It 's half-past two , and Peter wo n't be home till four at the early .
I 'll have a good hour to do it in , and still make my escape in good time .
Nobody will ever know ; nobody can see me here . ''
Nancy go in , throw off her hat , and seize a broom .
The first thing she do be to give the kitchen a thorough sweeping .
Then she kindle a fire , put a kettle full of water on to heat , and attack the dish .
From the number of them she rightly conclude that Peter have n't wash any for at least a week .
`` I suppose he just use the clean one as long a they hold out , and then have a grand wash-up , '' she laugh .
`` I wonder where he keep his dish-towels , if he have any . ''
Evidently Peter have n't any .
At least , Nancy could n't find any .
She march boldly into the dusty sitting-room and explore the drawer of an old-fashioned sideboard , confiscate a towel she find there .
As she work , she hum a song ; her step be light and her eye bright with excitement .
Nancy be enjoy herself thoroughly , there be no doubt of that .
The spice of mischief in the adventure please her mightily .
The dish wash , she hunt up a clean , but yellow and evidently long unused tablecloth out of the sideboard , and proceed to set the table and get Peter 's tea .
She find bread and butter in the pantry , a trip to the cellar furnish a pitcher of cream , and Nancy recklessly heap the content of her strawberry jug on Peter 's plate .
The tea be make and set back to keep warm .
And , a a finishing touch , Nancy ravage the old neglect garden and set a huge bowl of crimson rose in the centre of the table .
`` Now I must go , '' she say aloud .
`` Would n't it be fun to see Peter 's face when he come in , though ?
Ha-hum !
I 've enjoy do this -- but why ?
Nancy Rogerson , do n't be ask yourself conundrum .
Put on your hat and proceed homeward , construct on your way some reliable fib to account to Louisa for the absence of your strawberry . ''
Nancy pause a moment and look around wistfully .
She have make the place look cheery and neat and homelike .
She felt that queer tugging at her heart-strings again .
Suppose she belong here , and be wait for Peter to come home to tea .
Suppose -- Nancy whirl around with a sudden horrible prescience of what she be go to see !
Peter Wright be stand in the doorway .
Nancy 's face go crimson .
For the first time in her life she have not a word to say for herself .
Peter look at her and then at the table , with it fruit and flower .
`` Thank you , '' he say politely .
Nancy recover herself .
With a shame-faced laugh , she hold out her hand .
`` Do n't have me arrest for trespass , Peter .
I come and look in at your kitchen out of impertinent curiosity , and just for fun I think I 'd come in and get your tea .
I think you 'd be so surprised -- and I mean to go before you come home , of course . ''
`` I would n't have be surprise , '' say Peter , shake hand .
`` I saw you go past the field and I tie the horse and follow you down through the wood .
I 've be sit on the fence back yonder , watch your coming and going . ''
`` Why do n't you come and speak to me at church yesterday , Peter ? ''
demanded Nancy boldly .
`` I be afraid I would say something ungrammatical , '' answer Peter drily .
The crimson flame over Nancy 's face again .
She pull her hand away .
`` That 's cruel of you , Peter . ''
Peter suddenly laugh .
There be a note of boyishness in the laughter .
`` So it be , '' he say , `` but I have to get rid of the accumulated malice and spite of twenty year somehow .
It 's all go now , and I 'll be as amiable a I know how .
But since you have go to the trouble of get my supper for me , Nancy , you must stay and help me eat it .
Them strawberry look good .
I have n't have any this summer -- be too busy to pick them . ''
Nancy stay .
She sit at the head of Peter 's table and pour his tea for him .
She talk to him wittily of the Avonlea people and the change in their old set .
Peter follow her lead with an apparent absence of self-consciousness , eat his supper like a man whose heart and mind be alike on good term with him .
Nancy felt wretched -- and , at the same time , ridiculously happy .
It seem the most grotesque thing in the world that she should be preside there at Peter 's table , and yet the most natural .
There be moment when she felt like cry -- other moment when her laughter be a ready and spontaneous a a girl 's .
Sentiment and humour have always wag an equal contest in Nancy 's nature .
When Peter have finish his strawberry he fold his arm on the table and look admiringly at Nancy .
`` You look well at the head of a table , Nancy , '' he say critically .
`` How be it that you have n't be preside at one of your own long before this ?
I think you 'd meet a lot of men out in the world that you 'd like -- men who talk good grammar . ''
`` Peter , do n't ! ''
say Nancy , wince .
`` I be a goose . ''
`` No , you be quite right .
I be a tetchy fool .
If I 'd have any sense , I 'd have felt thankful you think enough of me to want to improve me , and I 'd have try to kerrect my mistake instead of get mad .
It 's too late now , I suppose . ''
`` Too late for what ? ''
say Nancy , pluck up heart of grace at something in Peter 's tone and look .
`` For -- kerrecting mistake . ''
`` Grammatical one ? ''
`` Not exactly .
I guess them mistake be past kerrecting in an old fellow like me .
Worse mistake , Nancy .
I wonder what you would say if I ask you to forgive me , and have me after all . ''
`` I 'd snap you up before you 'd have time to change your mind , '' say Nancy brazenly .
She try to look Peter in the face , but her blue eye , where tear and mirth be blend , falter down before his gray one .
Peter stand up , knock over his chair , and strode around the table to her .
`` Nancy , my girl ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Further_Chronicles_of_Avonlea.txt.out
INTRODUCTION It be no exaggeration to say that what Longfellow do for Acadia , Miss Montgomery have do for Prince Edward Island .
More than a million reader , young people as well a their parent and uncle and aunt , posse in the picture-galleries of their memory the exquisite landscape of Avonlea , limn with a poetic a pencil a Longfellow wield when he tell the ever-moving story of Grand Pre .
Only genius of the first water have the ability to conjure up such a character a Anne Shirley , the heroine of Miss Montgomery 's first novel , `` Anne of Green Gables , '' and to surround her with people so distinctive , so real , so true to psychology .
Anne be a lovable a child a life in all fiction .
Natasha in Count Tolstoi 's great novel , `` War and Peace , '' dance into our ken , with something of the same buoyancy and naturalness ; but into what a commonplace young woman she develop !
Anne , whether a the gay little orphan in her conquest of the master and mistress of Green Gables , or a the maturing and self-forgetful maiden of Avonlea , keep up to concert-pitch in her charm and her winsomeness .
There be nothing in her to disappoint hope or imagination .
Part of the power of Miss Montgomery -- and the large part -- be due to her skill in compound humor and pathos .
The humor be honest and golden ; it never weary the reader ; the pathos be never sentimentalize , never degenerate into bathos , be never morbid .
This combination hold throughout all her work , long or short , and be particularly manifest in the present collection of fifteen short story , which , together with those in the first volume of the Chronicles of Avonlea , present a series of piquant and fascinating picture of life in Prince Edward Island .
The humor be show not only in the presentation of quaint and unique character , but also in the word which fall from their mouth .
Aunt Cynthia `` always give you the impression of a full-rigged ship come gallantly on before a favorable wind ; '' no further description be need -- only one such personage could be find in Avonlea .
You would recognize her at sight .
Ismay Meade 's disposition be sum up when we be tell that she be `` good at have presentiment -- after thing happen . ''
What cleverer embodiment of innate obstinacy than in Isabella Spencer -- `` a wisp of a woman who look a if a breath would sway her but be so set in her way that a tornado would hardly have cause her to swerve an inch from her chosen path ; '' or than in Mrs. Eben Andrews -LRB- in `` Sara 's Way '' -RRB- who `` look like a woman whose opinion be always very decided and warrant to wear ! ''
This gift of characterization in a few word be lavish also on material object , a , for instance ; what more be need to describe the forlornness of the home from which Anne be rescue than the statement that even the tree around it `` look like orphan '' ?
The poetic touch , too , never fail in the right place and be never too frequently introduce in her description .
They throw a glamor over that Northern land which otherwise you might imagine a rather cold and barren .
What charm Springs they must have there !
One see all the fruit-trees clad in bridal garment of pink and white ; and what a translucent sky smile down on the pond and the reach of bay and cove !
`` The Eastern sky be a great arc of crystal , smite through with auroral crimsonings . ''
`` She be a slim and lithe a a young white-stemmed birch-tree ; her hair be like a soft dusky cloud , and her eye be as blue a Avonlea Harbor in a fair twilight , when all the sky be a-bloom over it . ''
Sentiment with a humorous touch to it prevail in the first two story of the present book .
The one relate to the disappearance of a valuable white Persian cat with a blue spot in it tail .
`` Fatima '' be like the apple of her eye to the rich old aunt who leave her with two niece , with a stern injunction not to let her out of the house .
Of course both Sue and Ismay detest cat ; Ismay hat them , Sue loathe them ; but Aunt Cynthia 's favor be worth preserve .
You become as much interested in Fatima 's fate a if she be your own pet , and the climax be no less unexpected than it be natural , especially when it be make also the last act of a pretty comedy of love .
Miss Montgomery delight in depict the romantic episode hide in the heart of elderly spinster a , for instance , in the case of Charlotte Holmes , whose maid Nancy would have send for the doctor and subject her to a porous plaster while wait for him , have she know that up stair there be a note-book full of original poem .
Rather than bear the stigma of never have have a love-affair , this sentimental lady invent one to tell her mocking young friend .
The dramatic and unexpected denouement be delightful fun .
Another note-book reveal a deep romance in the case of Miss Emily ; this be relate by Anne of Green Gables , who once or twice flash across the scene , though for the most part her friend and neighbor at White Sands or Newbridge or Grafton as well a at Avonlea be the person involve .
In one story , the last , `` Tannis of the Flats , '' the secret of Elinor Blair 's spinsterhood be reveal in an episode which carry the reader from Avonlea to Saskatchewan and show the unselfish devotion of a half-breed Indian girl .
The story be both poignant and dramatic .
Its one touch of humor be where Jerome Carey curse his fate in be compel to live in that desolate land in `` the picturesque language permissible in the far Northwest . ''
Self-sacrifice , a the real basis of happiness , be a favorite theme in Miss Montgomery 's fiction .
It be raise to the nth power in the story entitle , `` In Her Selfless Mood , '' where an ugly , misshapen girl devote her life and renounces marriage for the sake of look after her weak and selfish half-brother .
The same spirit be find in `` Only a Common Fellow , '' who be haloed with a certain splendor by renounce the girl he be to marry in favor of his old rival , suppose to have be kill in France , but happily deliver from that tragic fate .
Miss Montgomery love to introduce a little child or a baby a a solvent of old feud or domestic quarrel .
In `` The Dream Child , '' a foundling boy , drift in through a storm in a dory , save a heart-broken mother from insanity .
In `` Jane 's Baby , '' a baby-cousin brings reconciliation between the two sister , Rosetta and Carlotta , who have not speak for twenty year because `` the slack-twisted '' Jacob marry the younger of the two .
Happiness generally light up the end of her story , however tragic they may set out to be .
In `` The Son of His Mother , '' Thyra be a stern woman , a `` immovable a a stone image . ''
She have only one son , whom she worship ; `` she never want a daughter , but she pity and despise all sonless woman . ''
She demand absolute obedience from Chester -- not only obedience , but also utter affection , and she hat his dog because the boy love him : `` She could not share her love even with a dumb brute . ''
When Chester fall in love , she be relentless toward the beautiful young girl and force Chester to give her up .
But a terrible sorrow bring the old woman and the young girl into sympathy , and unspeakable joy be bear of the trial .
Happiness also come to `` The Brother who Failed . ''
The Monroes have all be successful in the eye of the world except Robert : one be a millionaire , another a college president , another a famous singer .
Robert overhear the old aunt , Isabel , call him a total failure , but , at the family dinner , one after another stand up and tell how Robert 's quiet influence and unselfish aid have start them in their brilliant career , and the old aunt , wipe the tear from her eye , exclaims : `` I guess there 's a kind of failure that 's the best success . ''
In one story there be an element of the supernatural , when Hester , the hard old sister , come between Margaret and her lover and , die , make her promise never to become Hugh Blair 's wife , but she come back and unite them .
In this , Margaret , just like the delightful Anne , live up to the dictum that `` nothing matter in all God 's universe except love . ''
The story of the revival at Avonlea have also a good moral .
There be something in these continued Chronicles of Avonlea , like the delicate art which have make `` Cranford '' a classic : the character be so homely and homelike and yet ting with beautiful romance !
You feel that you be make familiar with a real town and it real inhabitant ; you learn to love them and sympathize with them .
Further Chronicles of Avonlea be a book to read ; and to know .
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE .
CONTENTS I. Aunt Cynthia 's Persian Cat II .
The Materializing of Cecil III .
Her Father 's Daughter IV .
Jane 's Baby V .
The Dream-Child VI .
The Brother Who Failed VII .
The Return of Hester VIII .
The Little Brown Book of Miss Emily IX .
Sara 's Way X .
The Son of His Mother XI .
The Education of Betty XII .
In Her Selfless Mood XIII .
The Conscience Case of David Bell XIV .
Only a Common Fellow XV .
Tannis of the Flats FURTHER CHRONICLES OF AVONLEA I. AUNT CYNTHIA 'S PERSIAN CAT Max always bless the animal when it be refer to ; and I do n't deny that thing have work together for good after all .
But when I think of the anguish of mind which Ismay and I undergo on account of that abominable cat , it be not a blessing that arise uppermost in my thought .
I never be fond of cat , although I admit they be well enough in their place , and I can worry along comfortably with a nice , matronly old tabby who can take care of herself and be of some use in the world .
As for Ismay , she hat cat and always do .
But Aunt Cynthia , who adore them , never could bring herself to understand that any one could possibly dislike them .
She firmly believe that Ismay and I really like cat deep down in our heart , but that , owe to some perverse twist in our moral nature , we would not own up to it , but willfully persist in declare we do n't .
Of all cat I loathe that white Persian cat of Aunt Cynthia 's .
And , indeed , a we always suspect and finally prove , Aunt herself look upon the creature with more pride than affection .
She would have take ten time the comfort in a good , common pus that she do in that spoil beauty .
But a Persian cat with a recorded pedigree and a market value of one hundred dollar tickle Aunt Cynthia 's pride of possession to such an extent that she delude herself into believe that the animal be really the apple of her eye .
It have be present to her when a kitten by a missionary nephew who have bring it all the way home from Persia ; and for the next three year Aunt Cynthia 's household exist to wait on that cat , hand and foot .
It be snow-white , with a bluish-gray spot on the tip of it tail ; and it be blue-eyed and deaf and delicate .
Aunt Cynthia be always worry l it should take cold and die .
Ismay and I use to wish that it would -- we be so tired of hear about it and it whim .
But we do not say so to Aunt Cynthia .
She would probably never have speak to u again and there be no wisdom in offend Aunt Cynthia .
When you have an unencumbered aunt , with a fat bank account , it be just as well to keep on good term with her , if you can .
Besides , we really like Aunt Cynthia very much -- at time .
Aunt Cynthia be one of those rather exasperate people who nag at and find fault with you until you think you be justify in hat them , and who then turn round and do something so really nice and kind for you that you feel a if you be compel to love them dutifully instead .
So we listen meekly when she discourse on Fatima -- the cat 's name be Fatima -- and , if it be wicked of u to wish for the latter 's decease , we be well punish for it later on .
One day , in November , Aunt Cynthia come sail out to Spencervale .
She really come in a phaeton , draw by a fat gray pony , but somehow Aunt Cynthia always give you the impression of a full rigged ship come gallantly on before a favorable wind .
That be a Jonah day for u all through .
Everything have go wrong .
Ismay have spill grease on her velvet coat , and the fit of the new blouse I be make be hopelessly askew , and the kitchen stove smoke and the bread be sour .
Moreover , Huldah Jane Keyson , our tried and trusty old family nurse and cook and general `` bos , '' have what she call the `` realagy '' in her shoulder ; and , though Huldah Jane be as good an old creature a ever live , when she have the `` realagy '' other people who be in the house want to get out of it and , if they ca n't , feel about as comfortable a St. Lawrence on his gridiron .
And on top of this come Aunt Cynthia 's call and request .
`` Dear me , '' say Aunt Cynthia , sniffing , `` do n't I smell smoke ?
You girls must manage your range very badly .
Mine never smoke .
But it be no more than one might expect when two girl try to keep house without a man about the place . ''
`` We get along very well without a man about the place , '' I say loftily .
Max have n't be in for four whole day and , though nobody want to see him particularly , I could n't help wonder why .
`` Men be nuisance . ''
`` I dare say you would like to pretend you think so , '' say Aunt Cynthia , aggravatingly .
`` But no woman ever do really think so , you know .
I imagine that pretty Anne Shirley , who be visit Ella Kimball , do n't .
I saw her and Dr. Irving out walk this afternoon , look very well satisfied with themselves .
If you dilly-dally much longer , Sue , you will let Max slip through your finger yet . ''
That be a tactful thing to say to ME , who have refuse Max Irving so often that I have lose count .
I be furious , and so I smile most sweetly on my maddening aunt .
`` Dear Aunt , how amusing of you , '' I say , smoothly .
`` You talk a if I want Max . ''
`` So you do , '' say Aunt Cynthia .
`` If so , why should I have refuse him time and again ? ''
I ask , smilingly .
Right well Aunt Cynthia know I have .
Max always tell her .
`` Goodness alone know why , '' say Aunt Cynthia , `` but you may do it once too often and find yourself take at your word .
There be something very fascinate about this Anne Shirley . ''
`` Indeed there be , '' I assent .
`` She have the lovely eye I ever saw .
She would be just the wife for Max , and I hope he will marry her . ''
`` Humph , '' say Aunt Cynthia .
`` Well , I wo n't entice you into tell any more fib .
And I do n't drive out here to-day in all this wind to talk sense into you concern Max .
I 'm go to Halifax for two month and I want you to take charge of Fatima for me , while I be away . ''
`` Fatima ! ''
I exclaim .
`` Yes .
I do n't dare to trust her with the servant .
Mind you always warm her milk before you give it to her , and do n't on any account let her run out of door . ''
I look at Ismay and Ismay look at me .
We know we be in for it .
To refuse would mortally offend Aunt Cynthia .
Besides , if I betray any unwillingness , Aunt Cynthia would be sure to put it down to grumpiness over what she have say about Max , and rub it in for year .
But I venture to ask , `` What if anything happen to her while you be away ? ''
`` It be to prevent that , I 'm leave her with you , '' say Aunt Cynthia .
`` You simply must not let anything happen to her .
It will do you good to have a little responsibility .
And you will have a chance to find out what an adorable creature Fatima really be .
Well , that be all settle .
I 'll send Fatima out to-morrow . ''
`` You can take care of that horrid Fatima beast yourself , '' say Ismay , when the door close behind Aunt Cynthia .
`` I wo n't touch her with a yard-stick .
You have no business to say we 'd take her . ''
`` Did I say we would take her ? ''
I demand , crossly .
`` Aunt Cynthia take our consent for grant .
And you know , as well a I do , we could n't have refuse .
So what be the use of be grouchy ? ''
`` If anything happen to her Aunt Cynthia will hold u responsible , '' say Ismay darkly .
`` Do you think Anne Shirley be really engage to Gilbert Blythe ? ''
I ask curiously .
`` I 've hear that she be , '' say Ismay , absently .
`` Does she eat anything but milk ?
Will it do to give her mouse ? ''
`` Oh , I guess so .
But do you think Max have really fall in love with her ? ''
`` I dare say .
What a relief it will be for you if he have . ''
`` Oh , of course , '' I say , frostily .
`` Anne Shirley or Anne Anybody Else , be perfectly welcome to Max if she want him .
I certainly do not .
Ismay Meade , if that stove do n't stop smoking I shall fly into bit .
This be a detestable day .
I hate that creature ! ''
`` Oh , you should n't talk like that , when you do n't even know her , '' protest Ismay .
`` Every one say Anne Shirley be lovely -- '' `` I be talk about Fatima , '' I cry in a rage .
`` Oh ! ''
say Ismay .
Ismay be stupid at time .
I think the way she say `` Oh '' be inexcusably stupid .
Fatima arrive the next day .
Max bring her out in a covered basket , line with padded crimson satin .
Max like cat and Aunt Cynthia .
He explain how we be to treat Fatima and when Ismay have go out of the room -- Ismay always go out of the room when she know I particularly want her to remain -- he propose to me again .
Of course I say no , a usual , but I be rather pleased .
Max have be propose to me about every two month for two year .
Sometimes , a in this case , he go three month , and then I always wonder why .
I conclude that he could not be really interested in Anne Shirley , and I be relieve .
I do n't want to marry Max but it be pleasant and convenient to have him around , and we would miss him dreadfully if any other girl snap him up .
He be so useful and always willing to do anything for u -- nail a shingle on the roof , drive u to town , put down carpet -- in short , a very present help in all our trouble .
So I just beam on him when I say no .
Max begin count on his finger .
When he get as far a eight he shake his head and begin over again .
`` What be it ? ''
I ask .
`` I 'm try to count up how many time I have propose to you , '' he say .
`` But I ca n't remember whether I ask you to marry me that day we dig up the garden or not .
If I do it make -- '' `` No , you do n't , '' I interrupt .
`` Well , that make it eleven , '' say Max reflectively .
`` Pretty near the limit , be n't it ?
My manly pride will not allow me to propose to the same girl more than twelve time .
So the next time will be the last , Sue darling . ''
`` Oh , '' I say , a trifle flatly .
I forget to resent his call me darling .
I wonder if thing would n't be rather dull when Max give up proposing to me .
It be the only excitement I have .
But of course it would be best -- and he could n't go on at it forever , so , by the way of gracefully dismiss the subject , I ask him what Miss Shirley be like .
`` Very sweet girl , '' say Max .
`` You know I always admire those gray-eyed girl with that splendid Titian hair . ''
I be dark , with brown eye .
Just then I detest Max .
I get up and say I be go to get some milk for Fatima .
I find Ismay in a rage in the kitchen .
She have be up in the garret , and a mouse have run across her foot .
Mice always get on Ismay 's nerve .
`` We need a cat badly enough , '' she fume , `` but not a useless , pampered thing , like Fatima .
That garret be literally swarm with mouse .
You 'll not catch me go up there again . ''
Fatima do not prove such a nuisance a we have fear .
Huldah Jane like her , and Ismay , in spite of her declaration that she would have nothing to do with her , look after her comfort scrupulously .
She even use to get up in the middle of the night and go out to see if Fatima be warm .
Max come in every day and , be around , give u good advice .
Then one day , about three week after Aunt Cynthia 's departure , Fatima disappear -- just simply disappear a if she have be dissolve into thin air .
We leave her one afternoon , curl up asleep in her basket by the fire , under Huldah Jane 's eye , while we go out to make a call .
When we come home Fatima be go .
Huldah Jane weep and be a one whom the god have make mad .
She vow that she have never let Fatima out of her sight the whole time , save once for three minute when she run up to the garret for some summer savory .
When she come back the kitchen door have blow open and Fatima have vanish .
Ismay and I be frantic .
We run about the garden and through the out-houses , and the wood behind the house , like wild creature , call Fatima , but in vain .
Then Ismay sit down on the front doorstep and cry .
`` She have get out and she 'll catch her death of cold and Aunt Cynthia will never forgive u . ''
`` I 'm go for Max , '' I declare .
So I do , through the spruce wood and over the field as fast a my foot could carry me , thank my star that there be a Max to go to in such a predicament .
Max come over and we have another search , but without result .
Days pass , but we do not find Fatima .
I would certainly have go crazy have it not be for Max .
He be worth his weight in gold during the awful week that follow .
We do not dare advertise , l Aunt Cynthia should see it ; but we inquire far and wide for a white Persian cat with a blue spot on it tail , and offer a reward for it ; but nobody have see it , although people keep come to the house , night and day , with every kind of a cat in basket , want to know if it be the one we have lose .
`` We shall never see Fatima again , '' I say hopelessly to Max and Ismay one afternoon .
I have just turn away an old woman with a big , yellow tommy which she insist must be ours -- `` cause it kem to our place , mem , a-yowling fearful , mem , and it do n't belong to nobody not down Grafton way , mem . ''
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't , '' say Max .
`` She must have perish from exposure long ere this . ''
`` Aunt Cynthia will never forgive u , '' say Ismay , dismally .
`` I have a presentiment of trouble the moment that cat come to this house . ''
We have never hear of this presentiment before , but Ismay be good at have presentiment -- after thing happen .
`` What shall we do ? ''
I demand , helplessly .
`` Max , ca n't you find some way out of this scrape for u ? ''
`` Advertise in the Charlottetown paper for a white Persian cat , '' suggest Max .
`` Some one may have one for sale .
If so , you must buy it , and palm it off on your good Aunt a Fatima .
She 's very short-sighted , so it will be quite possible . ''
`` But Fatima have a blue spot on her tail , '' I say .
`` You must advertise for a cat with a blue spot on it tail , '' say Max .
`` It will cost a pretty penny , '' say Ismay dolefully .
`` Fatima be value at one hundred dollar . ''
`` We must take the money we have be save for our new fur , '' I say sorrowfully .
`` There be no other way out of it .
It will cost u a good deal more if we lose Aunt Cynthia 's favor .
She be quite capable of believe that we have make away with Fatima deliberately and with malice aforethought . ''
So we advertise .
Max go to town and have the notice insert in the most important daily .
We ask any one who have a white Persian cat , with a blue spot on the tip of it tail , to dispose of , to communicate with M. I. , care of the Enterprise .
We really do not have much hope that anything would come of it , so we be surprise and delight over the letter Max bring home from town four day later .
It be a type-written screed from Halifax state that the writer have for sale a white Persian cat answer to our description .
The price be a hundred and ten dollar , and , if M. I. care to go to Halifax and inspect the animal , it would be find at 110 Hollis Street , by inquire for `` Persian . ''
`` Temper your joy , my friend , '' say Ismay , gloomily .
`` The cat may not suit .
The blue spot may be too big or too small or not in the right place .
I consistently refuse to believe that any good thing can come out of this deplorable affair . ''
Just at this moment there be a knock at the door and I hurry out .
The postmaster 's boy be there with a telegram .
I tear it open , glance at it , and dash back into the room .
`` What be it now ? ''
cry Ismay , behold my face .
I hold out the telegram .
It be from Aunt Cynthia .
She have wire u to send Fatima to Halifax by express immediately .
For the first time Max do not seem ready to rush into the breach with a suggestion .
It be I who speak first .
`` Max , '' I say , imploringly , `` you 'll see u through this , wo n't you ?
Neither Ismay nor I can rush off to Halifax at once .
You must go to-morrow morning .
Go right to 110 Hollis Street and ask for ` Persian . '
If the cat look enough like Fatima , buy it and take it to Aunt Cynthia .
If it do n't -- but it must !
You 'll go , wo n't you ? ''
`` That depend , '' say Max .
I star at him .
This be so unlike Max .
`` You be send me on a nasty errand , '' he say , coolly .
`` How do I know that Aunt Cynthia will be deceive after all , even if she be short-sighted .
Buying a cat in a joke be a huge risk .
And if she should see through the scheme I shall be in a pretty mess . ''
`` Oh , Max , '' I say , on the verge of tear .
`` Of course , '' say Max , look meditatively into the fire , `` if I be really one of the family , or have any reasonable prospect of be so , I would not mind so much .
It would be all in the day 's work then .
But a it be -- '' Ismay get up and go out of the room .
`` Oh , Max , please , '' I say .
`` Will you marry me , Sue ? ''
demand Max sternly .
`` If you will agree , I 'll go to Halifax and beard the lion in his den unflinchingly .
If necessary , I will take a black street cat to Aunt Cynthia , and swear that it be Fatima .
I 'll get you out of the scrape , if I have to prove that you never have Fatima , that she be safe in your possession at the present time , and that there never be such an animal a Fatima anyhow .
I 'll do anything , say anything -- but it must be for my future wife . ''
`` Will nothing else content you ? ''
I say helplessly .
`` Nothing . ''
I think hard .
Of course Max be act abominably -- but -- but -- he be really a dear fellow -- and this be the twelfth time -- and there be Anne Shirley !
I know in my secret soul that life would be a dreadfully dismal thing if Max be not around somewhere .
Besides , I would have marry him long ago have not Aunt Cynthia throw u so pointedly at each other 's head ever since he come to Spencervale .
`` Very well , '' I say crossly .
Max leave for Halifax in the morning .
Next day we get a wire say it be all right .
The evening of the following day he be back in Spencervale .
Ismay and I put him in a chair and glare at him impatiently .
Max begin to laugh and laugh until he turn blue .
`` I be glad it be so amusing , '' say Ismay severely .
`` If Sue and I could see the joke it might be more so . ''
`` Dear little girl , have patience with me , '' implore Max .
`` If you know what it cost me to keep a straight face in Halifax you would forgive me for break out now . ''
`` We forgive you -- but for pity 's sake tell u all about it , '' I cry .
`` Well , as soon a I arrive in Halifax I hurry to 110 Hollis Street , but -- see here !
Did n't you tell me your Aunt 's address be 10 Pleasant Street ? ''
`` So it be . '' '' '
T be n't .
You look at the address on a telegram next time you get one .
She go a week ago to visit another friend who live at 110 Hollis . ''
`` Max ! ''
`` It 's a fact .
I ring the bell , and be just go to ask the maid for ` Persian ' when your Aunt Cynthia herself come through the hall and pounce on me . '' ''
` Max , ' she say , ` have you bring Fatima ? ' ''
` No , ' I answer , try to adjust my wit to this new development a she tow me into the library .
` No , I -- I -- just come to Halifax on a little matter of business . ' ''
` Dear me , ' say Aunt Cynthia , crossly , ' I do n't know what those girls mean .
I wire them to send Fatima at once .
And she have not come yet and I be expect a call every minute from some one who want to buy her . ' ''
` Oh ! '
I murmur , mine deep every minute . ''
` Yes , ' go on your aunt , ` there be an advertisement in the Charlottetown Enterprise for a Persian cat , and I answer it .
Fatima be really quite a charge , you know -- and so apt to die and be a dead loss , ' -- do your aunt mean a pun , girl ?
-- ` and so , although I be considerably attach to her , I have decide to part with her . '
`` By this time I have get my second wind , and I promptly decide that a judicious mixture of the truth be the thing require . ''
` Well , of all the curious coincidence , ' I exclaim .
` Why , Miss Ridley , it be I who advertise for a Persian cat -- on Sue 's behalf .
She and Ismay have decide that they want a cat like Fatima for themselves . '
`` You should have see how she beam .
She say she know you always really liked cat , only you would never own up to it .
We clinch the dicker then and there .
I pass her over your hundred and ten dollar -- she take the money without turn a hair -- and now you be the joint owner of Fatima .
Good luck to your bargain ! ''
`` Mean old thing , '' sniff Ismay .
She mean Aunt Cynthia , and , remember our shabby fur , I do n't disagree with her .
`` But there be no Fatima , '' I say , dubiously .
`` How shall we account for her when Aunt Cynthia come home ? ''
`` Well , your aunt be n't coming home for a month yet .
When she come you will have to tell her that the cat -- be lose -- but you need n't say WHEN it happen .
As for the rest , Fatima be your property now , so Aunt Cynthia ca n't grumble .
But she will have a poor opinion than ever of your fitness to run a house alone . ''
When Max leave I go to the window to watch him down the path .
He be really a handsome fellow , and I be proud of him .
At the gate he turn to wave me good-by , and , a he do , he glance upward .
Even at that distance I saw the look of amazement on his face .
Then he come bolt back .
`` Ismay , the house be on fire ! ''
I shriek , a I fly to the door .
`` Sue , '' cry Max , `` I saw Fatima , or her ghost , at the garret window a moment ago ! ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
I cry .
But Ismay be already half way up the stair and we follow .
Straight to the garret we rush .
There sat Fatima , sleek and complacent , sun herself in the window .
Max laugh until the rafter ring .
`` She ca n't have be up here all this time , '' I protest , half tearfully .
`` We would have hear her meowing . ''
`` But you do n't , '' say Max .
`` She would have die of the cold , '' declare Ismay .
`` But she have n't , '' say Max .
`` Or starve , '' I cry .
`` The place be alive with mouse , '' say Max .
`` No , girl , there be no doubt the cat have be here the whole fortnight .
She must have follow Huldah Jane up here , unobserved , that day .
It 's a wonder you do n't hear her cry -- if she do cry .
But perhaps she do n't , and , of course , you sleep downstairs .
To think you never think of look here for her ! ''
`` It have cost u over a hundred dollar , '' say Ismay , with a malevolent glance at the sleek Fatima .
`` It have cost me more than that , '' I say , a I turn to the stairway .
Max hold me back for an instant , while Ismay and Fatima patter down .
`` Do you think it have cost too much , Sue ? ''
he whisper .
I look at him sideways .
He be really a dear .
Niceness fairly exhale from him .
`` No-o-o , '' I say , `` but when we be marry you will have to take care of Fatima , I wo n't . ''
`` Dear Fatima , '' say Max gratefully .
II .
THE MATERALIZING OF CECIL It have never worry me in the least that I be n't marry , although everybody in Avonlea pity old maid ; but it DID worry me , and I frankly confess it , that I have never have a chance to be .
Even Nancy , my old nurse and servant , know that , and pity me for it .
Nancy be an old maid herself , but she have have two proposal .
She do not accept either of them because one be a widower with seven child , and the other a very shiftless , good-for-nothing fellow ; but , if anybody twit Nancy on her single condition , she could point triumphantly to those two a evidence that `` she could an she would . ''
If I have not live all my life in Avonlea I might have have the benefit of the doubt ; but I have , and everybody know everything about me -- or think they do .
I have really often wonder why nobody have ever fall in love with me .
I be not at all homely ; indeed , year ago , George Adoniram Maybrick have write a poem address to me , in which he praise my beauty quite extravagantly ; that do n't mean anything because George Adoniram write poetry to all the good-looking girl and never go with anybody but Flora King , who be cross-eyed and red-haired , but it prove that it be not my appearance that put me out of the running .
Neither be it the fact that I write poetry myself -- although not of George Adoniram 's kind -- because nobody ever know that .
When I felt it come on I shut myself up in my room and write it out in a little blank book I keep lock up .
It be nearly full now , because I have be write poetry all my life .
It be the only thing I have ever be able to keep a secret from Nancy .
Nancy , in any case , have not a very high opinion of my ability to take care of myself ; but I tremble to imagine what she would think if she ever find out about that little book .
I be convinced she would send for the doctor post-haste and insist on mustard plaster while wait for him .
Nevertheless , I keep on at it , and what with my flower and my cat and my magazine and my little book , I be really very happy and content .
But it DID sting that Adella Gilbert , across the road , who have a drunken husband , should pity `` poor Charlotte '' because nobody have ever want her .
Poor Charlotte indeed !
If I have throw myself at a man 's head the way Adella Gilbert do at -- but there , there , I must refrain from such thought .
I must not be uncharitable .
The Sewing Circle meet at Mary Gillespie 's on my fortieth birthday .
I have give up talk about my birthday , although that little scheme be not much good in Avonlea where everybody know your age -- or if they make a mistake it be never on the side of youth .
But Nancy , who grow accustom to celebrate my birthday when I be a little girl , never get over the habit , and I do n't try to cure her , because , after all , it 's nice to have some one make a fuss over you .
She bring me up my breakfast before I get up out of bed -- a concession to my laziness that Nancy would scorn to make on any other day of the year .
She have cook everything I like best , and have decorate the tray with rose from the garden and fern from the wood behind the house .
I enjoy every bit of that breakfast , and then I get up and dress , put on my second best muslin gown .
I would have put on my really best if I have not have the fear of Nancy before my eye ; but I know she would never condone THAT , even on a birthday .
I water my flower and feed my cat , and then I lock myself up and write a poem on June .
I have give up write birthday ode after I be thirty .
In the afternoon I go to the Sewing Circle .
When I be ready for it I look in my glass and wonder if I could really be forty .
I be quite sure I do n't look it .
My hair be brown and wavy , my cheek be pink , and the line could hardly be see at all , though possibly that be because of the dim light .
I always have my mirror hung in the dark corner of my room .
Nancy can not imagine why .
I know the line be there , of course ; but when they do n't show very plain I forget that they be there .
We have a large Sewing Circle , young and old alike attending .
I really can not say I ever enjoy the meeting -- at least not up to that time -- although I go religiously because I think it my duty to go .
The married woman talk so much of their husband and child , and of course I have to be quiet on those topic ; and the young girl talk in corner group about their beau , and stop it when I join them , a if they felt sure that an old maid who have never have a beau could n't understand at all .
As for the other old maid , they talk gossip about every one , and I do not like that either .
I know the minute my back be turn they would fasten into me and hint that I use hair-dye and declare it be perfectly ridiculous for a woman of FIFTY to wear a pink muslin dress with lace-trimmed frill .
There be a full attendance that day , for we be get ready for a sale of fancy work in aid of parsonage repair .
The young girl be merry and noisy than usual .
Wilhelmina Mercer be there , and she keep them go .
The Mercers be quite new to Avonlea , have come here only two month previously .
I be sit by the window and Wilhelmina Mercer , Maggie Henderson , Susette Cross and Georgie Hall be in a little group just before me .
I be n't listen to their chatter at all , but presently Georgie exclaim teasingly : `` Miss Charlotte be laugh at u .
I suppose she think we be awfully silly to be talk about beau . ''
The truth be that I be simply smile over some very pretty thought that have come to me about the rose which be climb over Mary Gillespie 's sill .
I mean to inscribe them in the little blank book when I go home .
Georgie 's speech bring me back to harsh reality with a jolt .
It hurt me , a such speech always do .
`` Did n't you ever have a beau , Miss Holmes ? ''
say Wilhelmina laughingly .
Just a it happen , a silence have fall over the room for a moment , and everybody in it hear Wilhelmina 's question .
I really do not know what get into me and possess me .
I have never be able to account for what I say and do , because I be naturally a truthful person and hate all deceit .
It seem to me that I simply could not say `` No '' to Wilhelmina before that whole roomful of woman .
It be TOO humiliate .
I suppose all the prickle and sting and slur I have endure for fifteen year on account of never have have a lover have what the new doctor call `` a cumulative effect '' and come to a head then and there .
`` Yes , I have one once , my dear , '' I say calmly .
For once in my life I make a sensation .
Every woman in that room stop sew and star at me .
Most of them , I saw , do n't believe me , but Wilhelmina do .
Her pretty face light up with interest .
`` Oh , wo n't you tell u about him , Miss Holmes ? ''
she coax , `` and why do n't you marry him ? ''
`` That be right , Miss Mercer , '' say Josephine Cameron , with a nasty little laugh .
`` Make her tell .
We 're all interested .
It 's news to u that Charlotte ever have a beau . ''
If Josephine have not say that , I might not have go on .
But she do say it , and , moreover , I catch Mary Gillespie and Adella Gilbert exchange significant smile .
That settle it , and make me quite reckless .
`` In for a penny , in for a pound , '' think I , and I say with a pensive smile : `` Nobody here know anything about him , and it be all long , long ago . ''
`` What be his name ? ''
ask Wilhelmina .
`` Cecil Fenwick , '' I answer promptly .
Cecil have always be my favorite name for a man ; it figure quite frequently in the blank book .
As for the Fenwick part of it , I have a bit of newspaper in my hand , measure a hem , with `` Try Fenwick 's Porous Plasters '' print across it , and I simply join the two in sudden and irrevocable matrimony .
`` Where do you meet him ? ''
ask Georgie .
I hastily review my past .
There be only one place to locate Cecil Fenwick .
The only time I have ever be far enough away from Avonlea in my life be when I be eighteen and have go to visit an aunt in New Brunswick .
`` In Blakely , New Brunswick , '' I say , almost believe that I have when I saw how they all take it in unsuspectingly .
`` I be just eighteen and he be twenty-three . ''
`` What do he look like ? ''
Susette want to know .
`` Oh , he be very handsome . ''
I proceed glibly to sketch my ideal .
To tell the dreadful truth , I be enjoy myself ; I could see respect dawn in those girl ' eye , and I know that I have forever throw off my reproach .
Henceforth I should be a woman with a romantic past , faithful to the one love of her life -- a very , very different thing from an old maid who have never have a lover .
`` He be tall and dark , with lovely , curly black hair and brilliant , pierce eye .
He have a splendid chin , and a fine nose , and the most fascinating smile ! ''
`` What be he ? ''
ask Maggie .
`` A young lawyer , '' I say , my choice of profession decide by an enlarged crayon portrait of Mary Gillespie 's deceased brother on an easel before me .
He have be a lawyer .
`` Why do n't you marry him ? ''
demand Susette .
`` We quarrel , '' I answer sadly .
`` A terribly bitter quarrel .
Oh , we be both so young and so foolish .
It be my fault .
I vex Cecil by flirt with another man '' -- be n't I come on !
-- `` and he be jealous and angry .
He go out West and never come back .
I have never see him since , and I do not even know if he be alive .
But -- but -- I could never care for any other man . ''
`` Oh , how interesting ! ''
sigh Wilhelmina .
`` I do so love sad love story .
But perhaps he will come back some day yet , Miss Holmes . ''
`` Oh , no , never now , '' I say , shake my head .
`` He have forget all about me , I dare say .
Or if he have n't , he have never forgive me . ''
Mary Gillespie 's Susan Jane announce tea at this moment , and I be thankful , for my imagination be give out , and I do n't know what question those girl would ask next .
But I felt already a change in the mental atmosphere surround me , and all through supper I be thrill with a secret exultation .
Repentant ?
Ashamed ?
Not a bit of it !
I 'd have do the same thing over again , and all I felt sorry for be that I have n't do it long ago .
When I get home that night Nancy look at me wonderingly , and say : `` You look like a girl to-night , Miss Charlotte . ''
`` I feel like one , '' I say laughing ; and I run to my room and do what I have never do before -- write a second poem in the same day .
I have to have some outlet for my feeling .
I call it `` In Summer Days of Long Ago , '' and I work Mary Gillespie 's rose and Cecil Fenwick 's eye into it , and make it so sad and reminiscent and minor-musicky that I felt perfectly happy .
For the next two month all go well and merrily .
Nobody ever say anything more to me about Cecil Fenwick , but the girl all chatter freely to me of their little love affair , and I become a sort of general confidant for them .
It just warm up the cockle of my heart , and I begin to enjoy the Sewing Circle famously .
I get a lot of pretty new dress and the dear hat , and I go everywhere I be ask and have a good time .
But there be one thing you can be perfectly sure of .
If you do wrong you be go to be punish for it sometime , somehow and somewhere .
My punishment be delay for two month , and then it descend on my head and I be crush to the very dust .
Another new family besides the Mercers have come to Avonlea in the spring -- the Maxwells .
There be just Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell ; they be a middle-aged couple and very well off .
Mr. Maxwell have buy the lumber mill , and they live up at the old Spencer place which have always be `` the '' place of Avonlea .
They live quietly , and Mrs. Maxwell hardly ever go anywhere because she be delicate .
She be out when I call and I be out when she return my call , so that I have never meet her .
It be the Sewing Circle day again -- at Sarah Gardiner 's this time .
I be late ; everybody else be there when I arrive , and the minute I enter the room I know something have happen , although I could n't imagine what .
Everybody look at me in the strange way .
Of course , Wilhelmina Mercer be the first to set her tongue go .
`` Oh , Miss Holmes , have you see him yet ? ''
she exclaim .
`` Seen whom ? ''
I say non-excitedly , get out my thimble and pattern .
`` Why , Cecil Fenwick .
He 's here -- in Avonlea -- visit his sister , Mrs. Maxwell . ''
I suppose I do what they expect me to do .
I drop everything I hold , and Josephine Cameron say afterwards that Charlotte Holmes would never be paler when she be in her coffin .
If they have just know why I turn so pale !
`` It 's impossible ! ''
I say blankly .
`` It 's really true , '' say Wilhelmina , delight at this development , a she suppose it , of my romance .
`` I be up to see Mrs. Maxwell last night , and I meet him . ''
`` It -- ca n't be -- the same -- Cecil Fenwick , '' I say faintly , because I have to say something .
`` Oh , yes , it be .
He belong in Blakely , New Brunswick , and he 's a lawyer , and he 's be out West twenty-two year .
He 's oh !
so handsome , and just a you describe him , except that his hair be quite gray .
He have never marry -- I ask Mrs. Maxwell -- so you see he have never forget you , Miss Holmes .
And , oh , I believe everything be go to come out all right . ''
I could n't exactly share her cheerful belief .
Everything seem to me to be come out most horribly wrong .
I be so mixed up I do n't know what to do or say .
I felt a if I be in a bad dream -- it MUST be a dream -- there could n't really be a Cecil Fenwick !
My feeling be simply indescribable .
Fortunately every one put my agitation down to quite a different cause , and they very kindly leave me alone to recover myself .
I shall never forget that awful afternoon .
Right after tea I excuse myself and go home as fast a I could go .
There I shut myself up in my room , but NOT to write poetry in my blank book .
No , indeed !
I felt in no poetical mood .
I try to look the fact squarely in the face .
There be a Cecil Fenwick , extraordinary a the coincidence be , and he be here in Avonlea .
All my friend -- and foe -- believe that he be the estranged lover of my youth .
If he stay long in Avonlea , one of two thing be bind to happen .
He would hear the story I have tell about him and deny it , and I would be hold up to shame and derision for the rest of my natural life ; or else he would simply go away in ignorance , and everybody would suppose he have forget me and would pity me maddeningly .
The latter possibility be bad enough , but it be n't to be compare to the former ; and oh , how I pray -- yes , I DID pray about it -- that he would go right away .
But Providence have other view for me .
Cecil Fenwick do n't go away .
He stay right on in Avonlea , and the Maxwells blossom out socially in his honor and try to give him a good time .
Mrs. Maxwell give a party for him .
I get a card -- but you may be very sure I do n't go , although Nancy think I be crazy not to .
Then every one else give party in honor of Mr. Fenwick and I be invite and never go .
Wilhelmina Mercer come and plead and scold and tell me if I avoid Mr. Fenwick like that he would think I still cherish bitterness against him , and he would n't make any advance towards a reconciliation .
Wilhelmina mean well , but she have n't a great deal of sense .
Cecil Fenwick seem to be a great favorite with everybody , young and old .
He be very rich , too , and Wilhelmina declare that half the girl be after him .
`` If it be n't for you , Miss Holmes , I believe I 'd have a try for him myself , in spite of his gray hair and quick temper -- for Mrs. Maxwell say he have a pretty quick temper , but it 's all over in a minute , '' say Wilhelmina , half in jest and wholly in earnest .
As for me , I give up go out at all , even to church .
I fret and pin and lose my appetite and never write a line in my blank book .
Nancy be half frantic and insist on dose me with her favorite patent pill .
I take them meekly , because it be a waste of time and energy to oppose Nancy , but , of course , they do n't do me any good .
My trouble be too deep-seated for pill to cure .
If ever a woman be punish for tell a lie I be that woman .
I stop my subscription to the Weekly Advocate because it still carry that wretched porous plaster advertisement , and I could n't bear to see it .
If it have n't be for that I would never have think of Fenwick for a name , and all this trouble would have be avert .
One evening , when I be mop in my room , Nancy come up .
`` There 's a gentleman in the parlor ask for you , Miss Charlotte . ''
My heart give just one horrible bounce .
`` What -- sort of a gentleman , Nancy ? ''
I falter .
`` I think it 's that Fenwick man that there 's be such a time about , '' say Nancy , who do n't know anything about my imaginary escapade , `` and he look to be mad clean through about something , for such a scowl I never see . ''
`` Tell him I 'll be down directly , Nancy , '' I say quite calmly .
As soon a Nancy have clump downstairs again I put on my lace fichu and put two hanky in my belt , for I think I 'd probably need more than one .
Then I hunt up an old Advocate for proof , and down I go to the parlor .
I know exactly how a criminal feel go to execution , and I 've be oppose to capital punishment ever since .
I open the parlor door and go in , carefully close it behind me , for Nancy have a deplorable habit of listen in the hall .
Then my leg give out completely , and I could n't have walk another step to save my life .
I just stand there , my hand on the knob , tremble like a leaf .
A man be stand by the south window look out ; he wheel around a I go in , and , a Nancy say , he have a scowl on and look angry clear through .
He be very handsome , and his gray hair give him such a distinguished look .
I recall this afterward , but just at the moment you may be quite sure I be n't think about it at all .
Then all at once a strange thing happen .
The scowl go right off his face and the anger out of his eye .
He look astonish , and then foolish .
I saw the color creep up into his cheek .
As for me , I still stand there star at him , not able to say a single word .
`` Miss Holmes , I presume , '' he say at last , in a deep , thrilling voice .
`` I -- I -- oh , confound it !
I have call -- I hear some foolish story and I come here in a rage .
I 've be a fool -- I know now they be n't true .
Just excuse me and I 'll go away and kick myself . ''
`` No , '' I say , find my voice with a gasp , `` you must n't go until you 've hear the truth .
It 's dreadful enough , but not as dreadful a you might otherwise think .
Those -- those story -- I have a confession to make .
I do tell them , but I do n't know there be such a person a Cecil Fenwick in existence . ''
He look puzzled , as well he might .
Then he smile , take my hand and lead me away from the door -- to the knob of which I be still hold with all my might -- to the sofa .
`` Let 's sit down and talk it over ` comfy , ' '' he say .
I just confess the whole shameful business .
It be terribly humiliate , but it serve me right .
I tell him how people be always twit me for never have have a beau , and how I have tell them I have ; and then I show him the porous plaster advertisement .
He hear me right through without a word , and then he throw back his big , curly , gray head and laugh .
`` This clear up a great many mysterious hint I 've be receive ever since I come to Avonlea , '' he say , `` and finally a Mrs. Gilbert come to my sister this afternoon with a long farrago of nonsense about the love affair I have once have with some Charlotte Holmes here .
She declare you have tell her about it yourself .
I confess I flame up .
I 'm a peppery chap , and I think -- I think -- oh , confound it , it might as well out : I think you be some lank old maid who be amuse herself tell ridiculous story about me .
When you come into the room I know that , whoever be to blame , you be not . ''
`` But I be , '' I say ruefully .
`` It be n't right of me to tell such a story -- and it be very silly , too .
But who would ever have suppose that there could be real Cecil Fenwick who have live in Blakely ?
I never heard of such a coincidence . ''
`` It 's more than a coincidence , '' say Mr. Fenwick decidedly .
`` It 's predestination ; that be what it be .
And now let 's forget it and talk of something else . ''
We talk of something else -- or at least Mr. Fenwick do , for I be too ashamed to say much -- so long that Nancy get restive and clump through the hall every five minute ; but Mr. Fenwick never take the hint .
When he finally go away he ask if he might come again .
`` It 's time we make up that old quarrel , you know , '' he say , laugh .
And I , an old maid of forty , catch myself blush like a girl .
But I felt like a girl , for it be such a relief to have that explanation all over .
I could n't even feel angry with Adella Gilbert .
She be always a mischief maker , and when a woman be bear that way she be more to be pity than blame .
I write a poem in the blank book before I go to sleep ; I have n't write anything for a month , and it be lovely to be at it once more .
Mr. Fenwick do come again -- the very next evening , but one .
And he come so often after that that even Nancy get resign to him .
One day I have to tell her something .
I shrink from do it , for I fear it would make her feel badly .
`` Oh , I 've be expect to hear it , '' she say grimly .
`` I felt the minute that man come into the house he bring trouble with him .
Well , Miss Charlotte , I wish you happiness .
I do n't know how the climate of California will agree with me , but I suppose I 'll have to put up with it . ''
`` But , Nancy , '' I say , `` I ca n't expect you to go away out there with me .
It 's too much to ask of you . ''
`` And where else would I be go ? ''
demanded Nancy in genuine astonishment .
`` How under the canopy could you keep house without me ?
I 'm not go to trust you to the mercy of a yellow Chinee with a pig-tail .
Where you go I go , Miss Charlotte , and there 's an end of it . ''
I be very glad , for I hat to think of part with Nancy even to go with Cecil .
As for the blank book , I have n't tell my husband about it yet , but I mean to some day .
And I 've subscribe for the Weekly Advocate again .
III .
HER FATHER 'S DAUGHTER `` We must invite your Aunt Jane , of course , '' say Mrs. Spencer .
Rachel make a protesting movement with her large , white , shapely hand -- hand which be so different from the thin , dark , twisted one fold on the table opposite her .
The difference be not cause by hard work or the lack of it ; Rachel have work hard all her life .
It be a difference inherent in temperament .
The Spencers , no matter what they do , or how hard they labor , all have plump , smooth , white hand , with firm , supple finger ; the Chiswicks , even those who toil not , neither do they spin , have hard , knot , twisted one .
Moreover , the contrast go deep than external , and twin itself with the innermost fiber of life , and think , and action .
`` I do n't see why we must invite Aunt Jane , '' say Rachel , with as much impatience a her soft , throaty voice could express .
`` Aunt Jane do n't like me , and I do n't like Aunt Jane . ''
`` I 'm sure I do n't see why you do n't like her , '' say Mrs. Spencer .
`` It 's ungrateful of you .
She have always be very kind to you . ''
`` She have always be very kind with one hand , '' smile Rachel .
`` I remember the first time I ever saw Aunt Jane .
I be six year old .
She hold out to me a small velvet pincushion with bead on it .
And then , because I do not , in my shyness , thank her quite as promptly a I should have do , she rap my head with her bethimbled finger to ` teach me good manner . '
It hurt horribly -- I 've always have a tender head .
And that have be Aunt Jane 's way ever since .
When I grow too big for the thimble treatment she use her tongue instead -- and that hurt bad .
And you know , mother , how she use to talk about my engagement .
She be able to spoil the whole atmosphere if she happen to come in a bad humor .
I do n't want her . ''
`` She must be invite .
People would talk so if she be n't . ''
`` I do n't see why they should .
She 's only my great-aunt by marriage .
I would n't mind in the least if people do talk .
They 'll talk anyway -- you know that , mother . ''
`` Oh , we must have her , '' say Mrs. Spencer , with the indifferent finality that mark all her word and decision -- a finality against which it be seldom of any avail to struggle .
People , who know , rarely attempt it ; stranger occasionally do , mislead by the deceit of appearance .
Isabella Spencer be a wisp of a woman , with a pale , pretty face , uncertainly-colored , long-lashed grayish eye , and great mass of dull , soft , silky brown hair .
She have delicate aquiline feature and a small , babyish red mouth .
She look a if a breath would sway her .
The truth be that a tornado would hardly have cause her to swerve an inch from her chosen path .
For a moment Rachel look rebellious ; then she yield , a she generally do in all difference of opinion with her mother .
It be not worth while to quarrel over the comparatively unimportant matter of Aunt Jane 's invitation .
A quarrel might be inevitable later on ; Rachel want to save all her resource for that .
She give her shoulder a shrug , and write Aunt Jane 's name down on the wedding list in her large , somewhat untidy handwriting -- a handwriting which always seem to irritate her mother .
Rachel never could understand this irritation .
She could never guess that it be because her writing look so much like that in a certain packet of faded letter which Mrs. Spencer keep at the bottom of an old horsehair trunk in her bedroom .
They be postmark from seaport all over the world .
Mrs. Spencer never read them or look at them ; but she remember every dash and curve of the handwriting .
Isabella Spencer have overcome many thing in her life by the sheer force and persistency of her will .
But she could not get the good of heredity .
Rachel be her father 's daughter at all point , and Isabella Spencer escape hat her for it only by love her the more fiercely because of it .
Even so , there be many time when she have to avert her eye from Rachel 's face because of the pang of the more subtle remembrance ; and never , since her child be bear , could Isabella Spencer bear to gaze on that child 's face in sleep .
Rachel be to be marry to Frank Bell in a fortnight 's time .
Mrs. Spencer be pleased with the match .
She be very fond of Frank , and his farm be so near to her own that she would not lose Rachel altogether .
Rachel fondly believe that her mother would not lose her at all ; but Isabella Spencer , wiser by olden experience , know what her daughter 's marriage must mean to her , and steel her heart to bear it with what fortitude she might .
They be in the sitting-room , decide on the wedding guest and other detail .
The September sunshine be come in through the wave bough of the apple tree that grow close up to the low window .
The glint waver over Rachel 's face , as white a a wood lily , with only a faint dream of rise in the cheek .
She wear her sleek , golden hair in a quaint arch around it .
Her forehead be very broad and white .
She be fresh and young and hopeful .
The mother 's heart contract in a spasm of pain a she look at her .
How like the girl be to -- to -- to the Spencers !
Those easy , curve outline , those large , mirthful blue eye , that finely mold chin !
Isabella Spencer shut her lip firmly and crush down some unbidden , unwelcome memory .
`` There will be about sixty guest , all tell , '' she say , a if she be think of nothing else .
`` We must move the furniture out of this room and set the supper-table here .
The dining-room be too small .
We must borrow Mrs. Bell 's fork and spoon .
She offer to lend them .
I 'd never have be willing to ask her .
The damask table cloth with the ribbon pattern must be bleach to-morrow .
Nobody else in Avonlea have such tablecloth .
And we 'll put the little dining-room table on the hall landing , upstairs , for the present . ''
Rachel be not think about the present , or the housewifely detail of the wedding .
Her breath be come quicker , and the faint blush on her smooth cheek have deepen to crimson .
She know that a critical moment be approach .
With a steady hand she write the last name on her list and draw a line under it .
`` Well , have you finish ? ''
ask her mother impatiently .
`` Hand it here and let me look over it to make sure that you have n't leave anybody out that should be in . ''
Rachel pass the paper across the table in silence .
The room seem to her to have grow very still .
She could hear the fly buzz on the pane , the soft purr of the wind about the low eaves and through the apple bough , the jerky beating of her own heart .
She felt frightened and nervous , but resolute .
Mrs. Spencer glance down the list , murmur the name aloud and nod approval at each .
But when she come to the last name , she do not utter it .
She cast a black glance at Rachel , and a spark leap up in the depth of the pale eye .
On her face be anger , amazement , incredulity , the last predominating .
The final name on the list of wed guest be the name of David Spencer .
David Spencer live alone in a little cottage down at the Cove .
He be a combination of sailor and fisherman .
He be also Isabella Spencer 's husband and Rachel 's father .
`` Rachel Spencer , have you take leave of your sens ?
What do you mean by such nonsense a this ? ''
`` I simply mean that I be go to invite my father to my wedding , '' answer Rachel quietly .
`` Not in my house , '' cry Mrs. Spencer , her lip as white a if her fiery tone have scathed them .
Rachel lean forward , fold her large , capable hand deliberately on the table , and gazed unflinchingly into her mother 's bitter face .
Her fright and nervousness be go .
Now that the conflict be actually on she find herself rather enjoy it .
She wonder a little at herself , and think that she must be wicked .
She be not give to self-analysis , or she might have conclude that it be the sudden assertion of her own personality , so long dominate by her mother 's , which she be find so agreeable .
`` Then there will be no wedding , mother , '' she say .
`` Frank and I will simply go to the manse , be marry , and go home .
If I can not invite my father to see me married , no one else shall be invite . ''
Her lip narrow tightly .
For the first time in her life Isabella Spencer saw a reflection of herself look back at her from her daughter 's face -- a strange , indefinable resemblance that be more of soul and spirit than of flesh and blood .
In spite of her anger her heart thrill to it .
As never before , she realize that this girl be her own and her husband 's child , a live bond between them wherein their conflicting nature mingle and be reconcile .
She realize too , that Rachel , so long sweetly meek and obedient , meant to have her own way in this case -- and would have it .
`` I must say that I ca n't see why you be so set on have your father see you marry , '' she say with a bitter sneer .
`` HE have never remember that he be your father .
He care nothing about you -- never do care . ''
Rachel take no notice of this taunt .
It have no power to hurt her , it venom be neutralize by a secret knowledge of her own in which her mother have no share .
`` Either I shall invite my father to my wedding , or I shall not have a wedding , '' she repeat steadily , adopt her mother 's own effective tactic of repetition undistracted by argument .
`` Invite him then , '' snap Mrs. Spencer , with the ungraceful anger of a woman , long accustom to have her own way , compel for once to yield .
`` It 'll be like chip in porridge anyhow -- neither good nor harm .
He wo n't come . ''
Rachel make no response .
Now that the battle be over , and the victory win , she find herself tremulously on the verge of tear .
She rise quickly and go upstairs to her own room , a dim little place shadow by the white birch grow thickly outside -- a virginal room , where everything bespeak the maiden .
She lay down on the blue and white patchwork quilt on her bed , and cry softly and bitterly .
Her heart , at this crisis in her life , yearn for her father , who be almost a stranger to her .
She know that her mother have probably speak the truth when she say that he would not come .
Rachel felt that her marriage vow would be lack in some indefinable sacredness if her father be not by to hear them speak .
Twenty-five year before this , David Spencer and Isabella Chiswick have be marry .
Spiteful people say there could be no doubt that Isabella have marry David for love , since he have neither land nor money to tempt her into a match of bargain and sale .
David be a handsome fellow , with the blood of a seafaring race in his vein .
He have be a sailor , like his father and grandfather before him ; but , when he marry Isabella , she induce him to give up the sea and settle down with her on a snug farm her father have leave her .
Isabella like farming , and love her fertile acre and opulent orchard .
She abhor the sea and all that pertain to it , less from any dread of it danger than from an inbred conviction that sailor be `` low '' in the social scale -- a specie of necessary vagabond .
In her eye there be a taint of disgrace in such a call .
David must be transform into a respectable , home-abiding tiller of broad land .
For five year all go well enough .
If , at time , David 's longing for the sea trouble him , he stifle it , and listen not to it luring voice .
He and Isabella be very happy ; the only drawback to their happiness lay in the regretted fact that they be childless .
Then , in the sixth year , come a crisis and a change .
Captain Barrett , an old crony of David 's , want him to go with him on a voyage a mate .
At the suggestion all David 's long-repressed craving for the wide blue waste of the ocean , and the wind whistle through the spar with the salt foam in it breath , break forth with a passion all the more intense for that very repression .
He must go on that voyage with James Barrett -- he MUST !
That over , he would be content again ; but go he must .
His soul struggle within him like a fettered thing .
Isabella oppose the scheme vehemently and unwisely , with mordant sarcasm and unjust reproach .
The latent obstinacy of David 's character come to the support of his longing -- a longing which Isabella , with five generation of land-loving ancestry behind her , could not understand at all .
He be determine to go , and he tell Isabella so .
`` I 'm sick of plow and milk cow , '' he say hotly .
`` You mean that you be sick of a respectable life , '' sneer Isabella .
`` Perhaps , '' say David , with a contemptuous shrug of his shoulder .
`` Anyway , I 'm go . ''
`` If you go on this voyage , David Spencer , you need never come back here , '' say Isabella resolutely .
David have go ; he do not believe that she mean it .
Isabella believe that he do not care whether she mean it or not .
David Spencer leave behind him a woman , calm outwardly , inwardly a seething volcano of anger , wound pride , and thwart will .
He find precisely the same woman when he come home , tan , joyous , tame for a while of his wanderlust , ready , with something of real affection , to go back to the farm field and the stock-yard .
Isabella meet him at the door , smileless , cold-eyed , set-lipped .
`` What do you want here ? ''
she say , in the tone she be accustom to use to tramp and Syrian peddler .
`` Want ! ''
David 's surprise leave him at a loss for word .
`` Want !
Why , I -- I -- want my wife .
I 've come home . ''
`` This be not your home .
I 'm no wife of yours .
You make your choice when you go away , '' Isabella have reply .
Then she have go in , shut the door , and lock it in his face .
David have stand there for a few minute like a man stun .
Then he have turn and walk away up the lane under the birch .
He say nothing -- then or at any other time .
From that day no reference to his wife or her concern ever cross his lip .
He go directly to the harbor , and ship with Captain Barrett for another voyage .
When he come back from that in a month 's time , he buy a small house and have it haul to the `` Cove , '' a lonely inlet from which no other human habitation be visible .
Between his sea voyage he live there the life of a recluse ; fishing and play his violin be his only employment .
He go nowhere and encourage no visitor .
Isabella Spencer also have adopt the tactic of silence .
When the scandalized Chiswicks , Aunt Jane at their head , try to patch up the matter with argument and entreaty , Isabella meet them stonily , seem not to hear what they say , and make no response .
She worst them totally .
As Aunt Jane say in disgust , `` What can you do with a woman who wo n't even TALK ? ''
Five month after David Spencer have be turn from his wife 's door , Rachel be bear .
Perhaps , if David have come to them then , with due penitence and humility , Isabella 's heart , soften by the pain and joy of her long and ardently desire motherhood might have cast out the rankle venom of resentment that have poison it and take him back into it .
But David have not come ; he give no sign of know or care that his once longed-for child have be bear .
When Isabella be able to be about again , her pale face be hard than ever ; and , have there be about her any one discerning enough to notice it , there be a subtle change in her bearing and manner .
A certain nervous expectancy , a fluttering restlessness be go .
Isabella have cease to hope secretly that her husband would yet come back .
She have in her secret soul think he would ; and she have mean to forgive him when she have humble him sufficiently , and when he have abase himself a she consider he should .
But now she know that he do not mean to sue for her forgiveness ; and the hate that spring out of her old love be a rank and speedy and persistent growth .
Rachel , from her early recollection , have be vaguely conscious of a difference between her own life and the life of her playmate .
For a long time it puzzle her childish brain .
Finally , she reason it out that the difference consist in the fact that they have father and she , Rachel Spencer , have none -- not even in the graveyard , a Carrie Bell and Lilian Boulter have .
Why be this ?
Rachel go straight to her mother , put one little dimpled hand on Isabella Spencer 's knee , look up with great search blue eye , and say gravely , `` Mother , why have n't I get a father like the other little girl ? ''
Isabella Spencer lay aside her work , take the seven year old child on her lap , and tell her the whole story in a few direct and bitter word that imprint themselves indelibly on Rachel 's remembrance .
She understand clearly and hopelessly that she could never have a father -- that , in this respect , she must always be unlike other people .
`` Your father care nothing for you , '' say Isabella Spencer in conclusion .
`` He never do care .
You must never speak of him to anybody again . ''
Rachel slip silently from her mother 's knee and run out to the Springtime garden with a full heart .
There she cry passionately over her mother 's last word .
It seem to her a terrible thing that her father should not love her , and a cruel thing that she must never talk of him .
Oddly enough , Rachel 's sympathy be all with her father , in as far a she could understand the old quarrel .
She do not dream of disobey her mother and she do not disobey her .
Never again do the child speak of her father ; but Isabella have not forbidden her to think of him , and thenceforth Rachel thought of him constantly -- so constantly that , in some strange way , he seem to become an unguessed-of part of her inner life -- the unseen , ever-present companion in all her experience .
She be an imaginative child , and in fancy she make the acquaintance of her father .
She have never see him , but he be more real to her than most of the people she have see .
He play and talk with her a her mother never do ; he walk with her in the orchard and field and garden ; he sit by her pillow in the twilight ; to him she whisper secret she tell to none other .
Once her mother ask her impatiently why she talk so much to herself .
`` I be not talk to myself .
I be talk to a very dear friend of mine , '' Rachel answer gravely .
`` Silly child , '' laugh her mother , half tolerantly , half disapprovingly .
Two year later something wonderful have happen to Rachel .
One summer afternoon she have go to the harbor with several of her little playmate .
Such a jaunt be a rare treat to the child , for Isabella Spencer seldom allow her to go from home with anybody but herself .
And Isabella be not an entertaining companion .
Rachel never particularly enjoy an out with her mother .
The child wander far along the shore ; at last they come to a place that Rachel have never see before .
It be a shallow cove where the water purr on the yellow sand .
Beyond it , the sea be laugh and flash and preen and allure , like a beautiful , coquettish woman .
Outside , the wind be boisterous and rollicking ; here , it be reverent and gentle .
A white boat be haul up on the skid , and there be a queer little house close down to the sand , like a big shell toss up by the wave .
Rachel look on it all with secret delight ; she , too , love the lonely place of sea and shore , a her father have do .
She want to linger awhile in this dear spot and revel in it .
`` I 'm tired , girl , '' she announce .
`` I 'm go to stay here and rest for a spell .
I do n't want to go to Gull Point .
You go on yourselves ; I 'll wait for you here . ''
`` All alone ? ''
ask Carrie Bell , wonderingly .
`` I 'm not so afraid of be alone a some people be , '' say Rachel , with dignity .
The other girl go on , leave Rachel sit on the skid , in the shadow of the big white boat .
She sit there for a time dream happily , with her blue eye on the far , pearly horizon , and her golden head lean against the boat .
Suddenly she hear a step behind her .
When she turn her head a man be stand beside her , look down at her with big , merry , blue eye .
Rachel be quite sure that she have never see him before ; yet those eye seem to her to have a strangely familiar look .
She like him .
She felt no shyness nor timidity , such a usually afflict her in the presence of stranger .
He be a tall , stout man , dress in a rough fishing suit , and wear an oilskin cap on his head .
His hair be very thick and curly and fair ; his cheek be tan and red ; his teeth , when he smile , be very even and white .
Rachel think he must be quite old , because there be a good deal of gray mixed with his fair hair .
`` Are you watch for the mermaid ? ''
he say .
Rachel nod gravely .
From any one else she would have scrupulously hide such a thought .
`` Yes , I be , '' she say .
`` Mother say there be no such thing a a mermaid , but I like to think there be .
Have you ever see one ? ''
The big man sit down on a bleached log of driftwood and smile at her .
`` No , I 'm sorry to say that I have n't .
But I have see many other very wonderful thing .
I might tell you about some of them , if you would come over here and sit by me . ''
Rachel go unhesitatingly .
When she reach him he pull her down on his knee , and she like it .
`` What a nice little craft you be , '' he say .
`` Do you suppose , now , that you could give me a kiss ? ''
As a rule , Rachel hat kissing .
She could seldom be prevail upon to kiss even her uncle -- who know it and like to tease her for kiss until they aggravate her so terribly that she tell them she could n't bear men .
But now she promptly put her arm about this strange man 's neck and give him a hearty smack .
`` I like you , '' she say frankly .
She felt his arm tighten suddenly about her .
The blue eye look into hers grow misty and very tender .
Then , all at once , Rachel know who he be .
He be her father .
She do not say anything , but she lay her curly head down on his shoulder and felt a great happiness , a of one who have come into some longed-for haven .
If David Spencer realize that she understand he say nothing .
Instead , he begin to tell her fascinate story of far land he have visit , and strange thing he have see .
Rachel listen entranced , a if she be hearken to a fairy tale .
Yes , he be just a she have dream him .
She have always be sure he could tell beautiful story .
`` Come up to the house and I 'll show you some pretty thing , '' he say finally .
Then follow a wonderful hour .
The little low-ceilinged room , with it square window , into which he take her , be fill with the flotsam and jetsam of his rove life -- thing beautiful and odd and strange beyond all telling .
The thing that please Rachel most be two huge shell on the chimney piece -- pale pink shell with big crimson and purple spot .
`` Oh , I do n't know there could be such pretty thing in the world , '' she exclaim .
`` If you would like , '' begin the big man ; then he pause for a moment .
`` I 'll show you something pretty still . ''
Rachel felt vaguely that he mean to say something else when he begin ; but she forget to wonder what it be when she saw what he bring out of a little corner cupboard .
It be a teapot of some fine , glisten purple ware , coil over by golden dragon with gilded claw and scale .
The lid look like a beautiful golden flower and the handle be a coil of a dragon 's tail .
Rachel sit and look at it rapt-eyed .
`` That 's the only thing of any value I have in the world -- now , '' he say .
Rachel know there be something very sad in his eye and voice .
She long to kiss him again and comfort him .
But suddenly he begin to laugh , and then he rummage out some goody for her to eat , sweetmeats more delicious than she have ever imagine .
While she nibble them he take down an old violin and play music that make her want to dance and sing .
Rachel be perfectly happy .
She wish she might stay forever in that low , dim room with all it treasure .
`` I see your little friend come around the point , '' he say , finally .
`` I suppose you must go .
Put the rest of the goody in your pocket . ''
He take her up in his arm and hold her tightly against his breast for a single moment .
She felt him kiss her hair .
`` There , run along , little girl .
Good-by , '' he say gently .
`` Why do n't you ask me to come and see you again ? ''
cry Rachel , half in tear .
`` I 'm come ANYHOW . ''
`` If you can come , COME , '' he say .
`` If you do n't come , I shall know it be because you ca n't -- and that be much to know .
I 'm very , very , VERY glad , little woman , that you have come once . ''
Rachel be sit demurely on the skid when her companion come back .
They have not see her leave the house , and she say not a word to them of her experience .
She only smile mysteriously when they ask her if she have be lonesome .
That night , for the first time , she mention her father 's name in her prayer .
She never forget to do so afterwards .
She always say , `` bless mother -- and father , '' with an instinctive pause between the two name -- a pause which indicate new realization of the tragedy which have sunder them .
And the tone in which she say `` father '' be soft and more tender than the one which voice `` mother . ''
Rachel never visit the Cove again .
Isabella Spencer discover that the child have be there , and , although she know nothing of Rachel 's interview with her father , she tell the child that she must never again go to that part of the shore .
Rachel shed many a bitter tear in secret over this command ; but she obey it .
Thenceforth there have be no communication between her and her father , save the unworded message of soul to soul across whatever may divide them .
David Spencer 's invitation to his daughter 's wedding be send with the others , and the remain day of Rachel 's maidenhood slip away in a whirl of preparation and excitement in which her mother revel , but which be distasteful to the girl .
The wedding day come at last , break softly and fairly over the great sea in a sheen of silver and pearl and rise , a September day , a mild and beautiful a June .
The ceremony be to be perform at eight o'clock in the evening .
At seven Rachel stand in her room , fully dress and alone .
She have no bridesmaid , and she have ask her cousin to leave her to herself in this last solemn hour of girlhood .
She look very fair and sweet in the sunset-light that shower through the birch .
Her wed gown be a fine , sheer organdie , simply and daintily make .
In the loose wave of her bright hair she wear her bridegroom 's flower , rose as white a a virgin 's dream .
She be very happy ; but her happiness be faintly thread with the sorrow inseparable from all change .
Presently her mother come in , carry a small basket .
`` Here be something for you , Rachel .
One of the boy from the harbor bring it up .
He be bind to give it into your own hand -- say that be his order .
I just take it and send him to the right-about -- tell him I 'd give it to you at once , and that that be all that be necessary . ''
She speak coldly .
She know quite well who have send the basket , and she resent it ; but her resentment be not quite strong enough to overcome her curiosity .
She stand silently by while Rachel unpack the basket .
Rachel 's hand tremble a she take off the cover .
Two huge pink-spotted shell come first .
How well she remember them !
Beneath them , carefully wrap up in a square of foreign-looking , strangely scent silk , be the dragon teapot .
She hold it in her hand and gaze at it with tear gather thickly in her eye .
`` Your father send that , '' say Isabella Spencer with an odd sound in her voice .
`` I remember it well .
It be among the thing I pack up and send after him .
His father have bring it home from China fifty year ago , and he prize it beyond anything .
They use to say it be worth a lot of money . ''
`` Mother , please leave me alone for a little while , '' say Rachel , imploringly .
She have catch sight of a little note at the bottom of the basket , and she felt that she could not read it under her mother 's eye .
Mrs. Spencer go out with unaccustomed acquiescence , and Rachel go quickly to the window , where she read her letter by the fading gleam of twilight .
It be very brief , and the writing be that of a man who hold a pen but seldom .
`` My dear little girl , '' it run , `` I 'm sorry I ca n't go to your wedding .
It be like you to ask me -- for I know it be your do .
I wish I could see you marry , but I ca n't go to the house I be turn out of .
I hope you will be very happy .
I be send you the shell and teapot you like so much .
Do you remember that day we have such a good time ?
I would like to have see you again before you be marry , but it ca n't be .
`` Your love father , `` DAVID SPENCER . ''
Rachel resolutely blink away the tear that fill her eye .
A fierce desire for her father sprang up in her heart -- an insistent hunger that would not be deny .
She MUST see her father ; she MUST have his blessing on her new life .
A sudden determination take possession of her whole be -- a determination to sweep aside all conventionality and objection a if they have not be .
It be now almost dark .
The guest would not be come for half an hour yet .
It be only fifteen minute ' walk over the hill to the Cove .
Hastily Rachel shroud herself in her new raincoat , and draw a dark , protect hood over her gay head .
She open the door and slip noiselessly downstairs .
Mrs. Spencer and her assistant be all busy in the back part of the house .
In a moment Rachel be out in the dewy garden .
She would go straight over the field .
Nobody would see her .
It be quite dark when she reach the Cove .
In the crystal cup of the sky over her the star be blink .
Flying flake of foam be scurry over the sand like elfin thing .
A soft little wind be croon about the eaves of the little gray house where David Spencer be sit , alone in the twilight , his violin on his knee .
He have be try to play , but could not .
His heart yearn after his daughter -- yes , and after a long-estranged bride of his youth .
His love of the sea be sate forever ; his love for wife and child still cry for it own under all his old anger and stubbornness .
The door open suddenly and the very Rachel of whom he be dream come suddenly in , fling off her wrap and stand forth in her young beauty and bridal adornment , a splendid creature , almost light up the gloom with her radiance .
`` Father , '' she cry , brokenly , and her father 's eager arm close around her .
Back in the house she have leave , the guest be come to the wedding .
There be jest and laughter and friendly greeting .
The bridegroom come , too , a slim , dark-eyed lad who tiptoe bashfully upstairs to the spare room , from which he presently emerge to confront Mrs. Spencer on the landing .
`` I want to see Rachel before we go down , '' he say , blush .
Mrs. Spencer deposit a wedding present of linen on the table which be already laden with gift , open the door of Rachel 's room , and call her .
There be no reply ; the room be dark and still .
In sudden alarm , Isabella Spencer snatch the lamp from the hall table and hold it up .
The little white room be empty .
No blushing , white-clad bride tenant it .
But David Spencer 's letter be lie on the stand .
She catch it up and read it .
`` Rachel be go , '' she gasp .
A flash of intuition have reveal to her where and why the girl have go .
`` Gone ! ''
echoed Frank , his face blanching .
His pallid dismay recall Mrs. Spencer to herself .
She give a bitter , ugly little laugh .
`` Oh , you need n't look so scared , Frank .
She have n't run away from you .
Hush ; come in here -- shut the door .
Nobody must know of this .
Nice gossip it would make !
That little fool have go to the Cove to see her -- her father .
I know she have .
It 's just like what she would do .
He send her those present -- look -- and this letter .
Read it .
She have go to coax him to come and see her married .
She be crazy about it .
And the minister be here and it be half-past seven .
She 'll ruin her dress and shoe in the dust and dew .
And what if some one have see her !
Was there ever such a little fool ? ''
Frank 's presence of mind have return to him .
He know all about Rachel and her father .
She have tell him everything .
`` I 'll go after her , '' he say gently .
`` Get me my hat and coat .
I 'll slip down the back stair and over to the Cove . ''
`` You must get out of the pantry window , then , '' say Mrs. Spencer firmly , mingle comedy and tragedy after her characteristic fashion .
`` The kitchen be full of woman .
I wo n't have this know and talk about if it can possibly be help . ''
The bridegroom , wise beyond his year in the knowledge that it be well to yield to woman in little thing , crawl obediently out of the pantry window and dart through the birch wood .
Mrs. Spencer have stand quakingly on guard until he have disappear .
So Rachel have go to her father !
Like have break the fetter of year and flee to like .
`` It be n't much use fight against nature , I guess , '' she think grimly .
`` I 'm beat .
He must have think something of her , after all , when he send her that teapot and letter .
And what do he mean about the ` day they have such a good time ' ?
Well , it just mean that she 's be to see him before , sometime , I suppose , and keep me in ignorance of it all . ''
Mrs. Spencer shut down the pantry window with a vicious thud .
`` If only she 'll come quietly back with Frank in time to prevent gossip I 'll forgive her , '' she say , a she turn to the kitchen .
Rachel be sit on her father 's knee , with both her white arm around his neck , when Frank come in .
She spring up , her face flush and appeal , her eye bright and dewy with tear .
Frank think he have never see her look so lovely .
`` Oh , Frank , be it very late ?
Oh , be you angry ? ''
she exclaim timidly .
`` No , no , dear .
Of course I 'm not angry .
But do n't you think you 'd better come back now ?
It 's nearly eight and everybody be wait . ''
`` I 've be try to coax father to come up and see me married , '' say Rachel .
`` Help me , Frank . ''
`` You 'd better come , sir , '' say Frank , heartily , `` I 'd like it as much a Rachel would . ''
David Spencer shake his head stubbornly .
`` No , I ca n't go to that house .
I be lock out of it .
Never mind me .
I 've have my happiness in this half hour with my little girl .
I 'd like to see her married , but it be n't to be . ''
`` Yes , it be to be -- it shall be , '' say Rachel resolutely .
`` You SHALL see me married .
Frank , I 'm go to be marry here in my father 's house !
That be the right place for a girl to be marry .
Go back and tell the guest so , and bring them all down . ''
Frank look rather dismay .
David Spencer say deprecatingly : `` Little girl , do n't you think it would be -- '' `` I 'm go to have my own way in this , '' say Rachel , with a sort of tender finality .
`` Go , Frank .
I 'll obey you all my life after , but you must do this for me .
Try to understand , '' she add beseechingly .
`` Oh , I understand , '' Frank reassure her .
`` Besides , I think you be right .
But I be think of your mother .
She wo n't come . ''
`` Then you tell her that if she do n't come I sha n't be marry at all , '' say Rachel .
She be betray unsuspected ability to manage people .
She know that ultimatum would urge Frank to his best endeavor .
Frank , much to Mrs. Spencer 's dismay , march boldly in at the front door upon his return .
She pounce on him and whisk him out of sight into the supper room .
`` Where 's Rachel ?
What make you come that way ?
Everybody saw you ! ''
`` It make no difference .
They will all have to know , anyway .
Rachel say she be go to be marry from her father 's house , or not at all .
I 've come back to tell you so . ''
Isabella 's face turn crimson .
`` Rachel have go crazy .
I wash my hand of this affair .
Do a you please .
Take the guest -- the supper , too , if you can carry it . ''
`` We 'll all come back here for supper , '' say Frank , ignore the sarcasm .
`` Come , Mrs. Spencer , let 's make the best of it . ''
`` Do you suppose that I be go to David Spencer 's house ? ''
say Isabella Spencer violently .
`` Oh you MUST come , Mrs. Spencer , '' cry poor Frank desperately .
He begin to fear that he would lose his bride past all finding in this maze of triple stubbornness .
`` Rachel say she wo n't be marry at all if you do n't go , too .
Think what a talk it will make .
You know she will keep her word . ''
Isabella Spencer know it .
Amid all the conflict of anger and revolt in her soul be a strong desire not to make a bad scandal than must of necessity be make .
The desire subdue and tame her , a nothing else could have do .
`` I will go , since I have to , '' she say icily .
`` What ca n't be cure must be endure .
Go and tell them . ''
Five minute later the sixty wedding guest be all walking over the field to the Cove , with the minister and the bridegroom in the front of the procession .
They be too amaze even to talk about the strange happening .
Isabella Spencer walk behind , fiercely alone .
They all crowd into the little room of the house at the Cove , and a solemn hush fell over it , break only by the purr of the sea-wind around it and the croon of the wave on the shore .
David Spencer give his daughter away ; but , when the ceremony be conclude , Isabella be the first to take the girl in her arm .
She clasp her and kiss her , with tear stream down her pale face , all her nature melt in a mother 's tenderness .
`` Rachel !
Rachel !
My child , I hope and pray that you may be happy , '' she say brokenly .
In the surge of the suddenly merry crowd of well-wisher around the bride and groom , Isabella be push back into a shadowy corner behind a heap of sail and rope .
Looking up , she find herself crush against David Spencer .
For the first time in twenty year the eye of husband and wife meet .
A strange thrill shot to Isabella 's heart ; she felt herself tremble .
`` Isabella . ''
It be David 's voice in her ear -- a voice full of tenderness and pleading -- the voice of the young wooer of her girlhood -- `` Is it too late to ask you to forgive me ?
I 've be a stubborn fool -- but there have n't be an hour in all these year that I have n't think about you and our baby and long for you . ''
Isabella Spencer have hat this man ; yet her hate have be but a parasite growth on a noble stem , with no abide root of it own .
It wither under his word , and lo , there be the old love , fair and strong and beautiful a ever .
`` Oh -- David -- I -- be -- all -- to -- blame , '' she murmur brokenly .
Further word be lose on her husband 's lip .
When the hubbub of handshaking and congratulating have subside , Isabella Spencer step out before the company .
She look almost girlish and bridal herself , with her flushed cheek and bright eye .
`` Let 's go back now and have supper , and be sensible , '' she say crisply .
`` Rachel , your father be come , too .
He be come to STAY , '' -- with a defiant glance around the circle .
`` Come , everybody . ''
They go back with laughter and raillery over the quiet autumn field , faintly silver now by the moon that be rise over the hill .
The young bride and groom lag behind ; they be very happy , but they be not so happy , after all , a the old bride and groom who walk swiftly in front .
Isabella 's hand be in her husband 's and sometimes she could not see the moonlit hill for a mist of glorified tear .
`` David , '' she whisper , a he help her over the fence , `` how can you ever forgive me ? ''
`` There 's nothing to forgive , '' he say .
`` We 're only just marry .
Who ever heard of a bridegroom talk of forgiveness ?
Everything be begin over new for u , my girl . ''
IV .
JANE 'S BABY Miss Rosetta Ellis , with her front hair in curl-papers , and her back hair bound with a checked apron , be out in her breezy side yard under the fir , shake her parlor rug , when Mr. Nathan Patterson drive in .
Miss Rosetta have see him come down the long red hill , but she have not suppose he would be call at that time of the morning .
So she have not run .
Miss Rosetta always run if anybody call and her front hair be in curl-papers ; and , though the errand of the say caller might be life or death , he or she have to wait until Miss Rosetta have take her hair out .
Everybody in Avonlea know this , because everybody in Avonlea know everything about everybody else .
But Mr. Patterson have wheel into the lane so quickly and unexpectedly that Miss Rosetta have have no time to run ; so , twitch off the checked apron , she stand her ground as calmly a might be under the disagreeable consciousness of curl-papers .
`` Good morning , Miss Ellis , '' say Mr. Patterson , so somberly that Miss Rosetta instantly felt that he be the bearer of bad news .
Usually Mr. Patterson 's face be a broad and beam a a harvest moon .
Now his expression be very melancholy and his voice positively sepulchral .
`` Good morning , '' return Miss Rosetta , crisply and cheerfully .
She , at any rate , would not go into eclipse until she know the reason therefor .
`` It be a fine day . ''
`` A very fine day , '' assent Mr. Patterson , solemnly .
`` I have just come from the Wheeler place , Miss Ellis , and I regret to say -- '' `` Charlotte be sick ! ''
cry Miss Rosetta , rapidly .
`` Charlotte have get another spell with her heart !
I know it !
I 've be expect to hear it !
Any woman that drive about the country as much a she do be liable to heart disease at any moment .
I never go outside of my gate but I meet her gad off somewhere .
Goodness know who look after her place .
I should n't like to trust as much to a hired man a she do .
Well , it be very kind of you , Mr. Patterson , to put yourself out to the extent of call to tell me that Charlotte be sick , but I do n't really see why you should take so much trouble -- I really do n't .
It do n't matter to me whether Charlotte be sick or whether she be n't .
YOU know that perfectly well , Mr. Patterson , if anybody do .
When Charlotte go and get marry , on the sly , to that good-for-nothing Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` Mrs. Wheeler be quite well , '' interrupt Mr. Patterson desperately .
`` Quite well .
Nothing at all the matter with her , in fact .
I only -- '' `` Then what do you mean by come here and tell me she be n't , and frighten me half to death ? ''
demand Miss Rosetta , indignantly .
`` My own heart be n't very strong -- it run in our family -- and my doctor warn me to avoid all shock and excitement .
I do n't want to be excite , Mr. Patterson .
I wo n't be excite , not even if Charlotte have another spell .
It 's perfectly useless for you to try to excite me , Mr. Patterson . ''
`` Bless the woman , I 'm not try to excite anybody ! ''
declare Mr. Patterson in exasperation .
`` I merely call to tell you -- '' `` To tell me WHAT ? ''
say Miss Rosetta .
`` How much long do you mean to keep me in suspense , Mr. Patterson .
No doubt you have abundance of spare time , but -- I -- have NOT . '' ''
-- that your sister , Mrs. Wheeler , have have a letter from a cousin of yours , and she 's in Charlottetown .
Mrs. Roberts , I think her name be -- '' `` Jane Roberts , '' break in Miss Rosetta .
`` Jane Ellis she be , before she be marry .
What be she write to Charlotte about ?
Not that I want to know , of course .
I 'm not interested in Charlotte 's correspondence , goodness know .
But if Jane have anything in particular to write about she should have write to ME .
I be the old .
Charlotte have no business to get a letter from Jane Roberts without consult me .
It 's just like her underhanded way .
She get marry the same way .
Never say a word to me about it , but just sneak off with that unprincipled Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` Mrs. Roberts be very ill .
I understand , '' persist Mr. Patterson , nobly resolve to do what he have come to do , `` dying , in fact , and -- '' `` Jane ill !
Jane die ! ''
exclaim Miss Rosetta .
`` Why , she be the healthy girl I ever know !
But then I 've never see her , nor heard from her , since she get married fifteen year ago .
I dare say her husband be a brute and neglect her , and she 's pin away by slow degree .
I 've no faith in husband .
Look at Charlotte !
Everybody know how Jacob Wheeler use her .
To be sure , she deserve it , but -- '' `` Mrs. Roberts ' husband be dead , '' say Mr. Patterson .
`` Died about two month ago , I understand , and she have a little baby six month old , and she think perhaps Mrs. Wheeler would take it for old time ' sake -- '' `` Did Charlotte ask you to call and tell me this ? ''
demand Miss Rosetta eagerly .
`` No ; she just tell me what be in the letter .
She do n't mention you ; but I think , perhaps , you ought to be tell -- '' `` I know it , '' say Miss Rosetta in a tone of bitter assurance .
`` I could have tell you so .
Charlotte would n't even let me know that Jane be ill .
Charlotte would be afraid I would want to get the baby , see that Jane and I be such intimate friend long ago .
And who have a good right to it than me , I should like to know ?
Ai n't I the old ?
And have n't I have experience in bring up baby ?
Charlotte need n't think she be go to run the affair of our family just because she happen to get marry .
Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` I must be go , '' say Mr. Patterson , gather up his rein thankfully .
`` I be much oblige to you for come to tell me about Jane , '' say Miss Rosetta , `` even though you have waste a lot of precious time get it out .
If it have n't be for you I suppose I should never have know it at all .
As it be , I shall start for town just as soon a I can get ready . ''
`` You 'll have to hurry if you want to get ahead of Mrs. Wheeler , '' advise Mr. Patterson .
`` She 's pack her trunk and go on the morning train . ''
`` I 'll pack a valise and go on the afternoon train , '' retort Miss Rosetta triumphantly .
`` I 'll show Charlotte she be n't run the Ellis affair .
She marry out of them into the Wheelers .
She can attend to them .
Jacob Wheeler be the most -- '' But Mr. Patterson have drive away .
He felt that he have do his duty in the face of fearful odds , and he do not want to hear anything more about Jacob Wheeler .
Rosetta Ellis and Charlotte Wheeler have not exchange a word for ten year .
Before that time they have be devote to each other , live together in the little Ellis cottage on the White Sands road , a they have do ever since their parent ' death .
The trouble begin when Jacob Wheeler have commence to pay attention to Charlotte , the young and pretty of two woman who have both cease to be either very young or very pretty .
Rosetta have be bitterly oppose to the match from the first .
She vow she have no use for Jacob Wheeler .
There be not lack malicious people to hint that this be because the aforesaid Jacob Wheeler have select the wrong sister upon whom to bestow his affection .
Be that a it might , Miss Rosetta certainly continue to render the course of Jacob Wheeler 's true love exceedingly rough and tumultuous .
The end of it be that Charlotte have go quietly away one morning and marry Jacob Wheeler without Miss Rosetta 's know anything about it .
Miss Rosetta have never forgive her for it , and Charlotte have never forgive the thing Rosetta have say to her when she and Jacob return to the Ellis cottage .
Since then the sister have be avow and open foe , the only difference be that Miss Rosetta air her grievance publicly , in season and out of season , while Charlotte be never hear to mention Rosetta 's name .
Even the death of Jacob Wheeler , five year after the marriage , have not heal the breach .
Miss Rosetta take out her curl-papers , pack her valise , and catch the late afternoon train for Charlottetown , a she have threaten .
All the way there she sit rigidly upright in her seat and hold imaginary dialogue with Charlotte in her mind , run something like this on her part : -- `` No , Charlotte Wheeler , you be not go to have Jane 's baby , and you 're very much mistake if you think so .
Oh , all right -- we 'll see !
You do n't know anything about baby , even if you be marry .
I do .
Did n't I take William Ellis 's baby , when his wife die ?
Tell me that , Charlotte Wheeler !
And do n't the little thing thrive with me , and grow strong and healthy ?
Yes , even you have to admit that it do , Charlotte Wheeler .
And yet you have the presumption to think that you ought to have Jane 's baby !
Yes , it be presumption , Charlotte Wheeler .
And when William Ellis get married again , and take the baby , do n't the child cling to me and cry a if I be it real mother ?
You know it do , Charlotte Wheeler .
I 'm go to get and keep Jane 's baby in spite of you , Charlotte Wheeler , and I 'd like to see you try to prevent me -- you that go and get marry and never so much a let your own sister know of it !
If I have get marry in such a fashion , Charlotte Wheeler , I 'd be ashamed to look anybody in the face for the rest of my natural life ! ''
Miss Rosetta be so interested in thus lay down the law to Charlotte , and in plan out the future life of Jane 's baby , that she do n't find the journey to Charlottetown so long or tedious a might have be expect , consider her haste .
She soon find her way to the house where her cousin live .
There , to her dismay and real sorrow , she learn that Mrs. Roberts have die at four o'clock that afternoon .
`` She seem dreadful anxious to live until she hear from some of her folk out in Avonlea , '' say the woman who give Miss Rosetta the information .
`` She have write to them about her little girl .
She be my sister-in-law , and she live with me ever since her husband die .
I 've do my best for her ; but I 've a big family of my own and I ca n't see how I 'm to keep the child .
Poor Jane look and long for some one to come from Avonlea , but she could n't hold out .
A patient , suffer creature she be ! ''
`` I 'm her cousin , '' say Miss Rosetta , wipe her eye , `` and I have come for the baby .
I 'll take it home with me after the funeral ; and , if you please , Mrs. Gordon , let me see it right away , so it can get accustom to me .
Poor Jane !
I wish I could have get here in time to see her , she and I be such friend long ago .
We be far more intimate and confidential than ever her and Charlotte be .
Charlotte know that , too ! ''
The vim with which Miss Rosetta snap this out rather amazed Mrs. Gordon , who could n't understand it at all .
But she take Miss Rosetta upstairs to the room where the baby be sleep .
`` Oh , the little darling , '' cry Miss Rosetta , all her old maidishness and oddity fall away from her like a garment , and all her innate and deny motherhood shin out in her face like a transforming illumination .
`` Oh , the sweet , dear , pretty little thing ! ''
The baby be a darling -- a six-months ' old beauty with little golden ringlet curl and glisten all over it tiny head .
As Miss Rosetta hung over it , it open it eye and then hold out it tiny hand to her with a gurgle of confidence .
`` Oh , you sweetest ! ''
say Miss Rosetta rapturously , gather it up in her arm .
`` You belong to me , darling -- never , never , to that under-handed Charlotte !
What be it name , Mrs. Gordon ? ''
`` It be n't name , '' say Mrs. Gordon .
`` Guess you 'll have to name it yourself , Miss Ellis . ''
`` Camilla Jane , '' say Miss Rosetta without a moment 's hesitation .
`` Jane after it mother , of course ; and I have always think Camilla the pretty name in the world .
Charlotte would be sure to give it some perfectly heathenish name .
I would n't put it past her call the poor innocent Mehitable . ''
Miss Rosetta decide to stay in Charlottetown until after the funeral .
That night she lay with the baby on her arm , listen with joy to it soft little breathing .
She do not sleep or wish to sleep .
Her wake fancy be more alluring than any vision of dreamland .
Moreover , she give a spice to them by occasionally snap some vicious sentence out loud at Charlotte .
Miss Rosetta fully expect Charlotte along on the following morning and gird herself for the fray ; but no Charlotte appear .
Night come ; no Charlotte .
Another morning and no Charlotte .
Miss Rosetta be hopelessly puzzle .
What have happen ?
Dear , dear , have Charlotte take a bad heart spell , on hearing that she , Rosetta , have steal a march on her to Charlottetown ?
It be quite likely .
You never know what to expect of a woman who have marry Jacob Wheeler !
The truth be , that the very evening Miss Rosetta have leave Avonlea Mrs. Jacob Wheeler 's hired man have break his leg and have have to be convey to his distant home on a feather bed in an express wagon .
Mrs. Wheeler could not leave home until she have obtain another hired man .
Consequently , it be the evening after the funeral when Mrs. Wheeler whisk up the step of the Gordon house and meet Miss Rosetta come out with a big white bundle in her arm .
The eye of the two woman meet defiantly .
Miss Rosetta 's face wear an air of triumph , chasten by a remembrance of the funeral that afternoon .
Mrs. Wheeler 's face , except for eye , be as expressionless a it usually be .
Unlike the tall , fair , fat Miss Rosetta , Mrs. Wheeler be small and dark and thin , with an eager , careworn face .
`` How be Jane ? ''
she say abruptly , break the silence of ten year in say it .
`` Jane be dead and bury , poor thing , '' say Miss Rosetta calmly .
`` I be take her baby , little Camilla Jane , home with me . ''
`` The baby belong to me , '' cry Mrs. Wheeler passionately .
`` Jane write to me about her .
Jane mean that I should have her .
I 've come for her . ''
`` You 'll go back without her then , '' say Miss Rosetta , serene in the possession that be nine point of the law .
`` The child be mine , and she be go to stay mine .
You can make up your mind to that , Charlotte Wheeler .
A woman who elope to get marry be n't fit to be trust with a baby , anyhow .
Jacob Wheeler -- '' But Mrs. Wheeler have rush past into the house .
Miss Rosetta composedly step into the cab and drove to the station .
She fairly bridle with triumph ; and underneath the triumph run a queer undercurrent of satisfaction over the fact that Charlotte have speak to her at last .
Miss Rosetta would not look at this satisfaction , or give it a name , but it be there .
Miss Rosetta arrive safely back in Avonlea with Camilla Jane and within ten hour everybody in the settlement know the whole story , and every woman who could stand on her foot have be up to the Ellis cottage to see the baby .
Mrs. Wheeler arrive home twenty-four hour later , and silently betook herself to her farm .
When her Avonlea neighbor sympathize with her in her disappointment , she say nothing , but look all the more darkly determine .
Also , a week later , Mr. William J. Blair , the Carmody storekeeper , have an odd tale to tell .
Mrs. Wheeler have come to the store and buy a lot of fine flannel and muslin and valenciennes .
Now , what in the name of time , do Mrs. Wheeler want with such stuff ?
Mr. William J. Blair could n't make head or tail of it , and it worry him .
Mr. Blair be so accustomed to know what everybody buy anything for that such a mystery quite upset him .
Miss Rosetta have exult in the possession of little Camilla Jane for a month , and have be so happy that she have almost give up inveigh against Charlotte .
Her conversation , instead of tend always to Jacob Wheeler , now run Camilla Janeward ; and this , folk think , be an improvement .
One afternoon , Miss Rosetta , leave Camilla Jane snugly sleep in her cradle in the kitchen , have slip down to the bottom of the garden to pick her currant .
The house be hide from her sight by the copse of cherry tree , but she have leave the kitchen window open , so that she could hear the baby if it awaken and cry .
Miss Rosetta sing happily a she pick her currant .
For the first time since Charlotte have marry Jacob Wheeler Miss Rosetta felt really happy -- so happy that at there be no room in her heart for bitterness .
In fancy she look forward to the come year , and saw Camilla Jane grow up into girlhood , fair and lovable .
`` She 'll be a beauty , '' reflect Miss Rosetta complacently .
`` Jane be a handsome girl .
She shall always be dress as nice a I can manage it , and I 'll get her an organ , and have her take painting and music lesson .
Parties , too !
I 'll give her a real coming-out party when she 's eighteen and the very pretty dress that 's to be have .
Dear me , I can hardly wait for her to grow up , though she 's sweet enough now to make one wish she could stay a baby forever . ''
When Miss Rosetta return to the kitchen , her eye fell on an empty cradle .
Camilla Jane be go !
Miss Rosetta promptly scream .
She understand at a glance what have happen .
Six month ' old baby do not get out of their cradle and disappear through closed door without any assistance .
`` Charlotte have be here , '' gasp Miss Rosetta .
`` Charlotte have steal Camilla Jane !
I might have expect it .
I might have know when I hear that story about her buying muslin and flannel .
It 's just like Charlotte to do such an underhand trick .
But I 'll go after her !
I 'll show her !
She 'll find out she have get Rosetta Ellis to deal with and no Wheeler ! ''
Like a frantic creature and wholly forget that her hair be in curl-papers , Miss Rosetta hurry up the hill and down the shore road to the Wheeler Farm -- a place she have never visit in her life before .
The wind be off-shore and only break the bay 's surface into long silvery ripple , and send sheeny shadow fly out across it from every point and headland , like transparent wing .
The little gray house , so close to the purr wave that in storm their spray splash over it very doorstep , seem desert .
Miss Rosetta pound lustily on the front door .
This produce no result , she march around to the back door and knock .
No answer .
Miss Rosetta try the door .
It be lock .
`` Guilty conscience , '' sniff Miss Rosetta .
`` Well , I shall stay here until I see that perfidious Charlotte , if I have to camp in the yard all night . ''
Miss Rosetta be quite capable of do this , but she be spar the necessity ; walk boldly up to the kitchen window , and peer through it , she felt her heart swell with anger a she behold Charlotte sit calmly by the table with Camilla Jane on her knee .
Beside her be a befrilled and bemuslined cradle , and on a chair lay the garment in which Miss Rosetta have dress the baby .
It be clothe in an entirely new outfit , and seem quite at home with it new possessor .
It be laugh and cooing , and make little dab at her with it dimpled hand .
`` Charlotte Wheeler , '' cry Miss Rosetta , rap sharply on the window-pane .
`` I 've come for that child !
Bring her out to me at once -- at once , I say !
How dare you come to my house and steal a baby ?
You 're no good than a common burglar .
Give me Camilla Jane , I say ! ''
Charlotte come over to the window with the baby in her arm and triumph glittering in her eye .
`` There be no such child a Camilla Jane here , '' she say .
`` This be Barbara Jane .
She belong to me . ''
With that Mrs. Wheeler pull down the shade .
Miss Rosetta have to go home .
There be nothing else for her to do .
On her way she meet Mr. Patterson and tell him in full the story of her wrong .
It be all over Avonlea by night , and create quite a sensation .
Avonlea have not have such a toothsome bit of gossip for a long time .
Mrs. Wheeler exult in the possession of Barbara Jane for six week , during which Miss Rosetta break her heart with loneliness and longing , and meditate futile plot for the recovery of the baby .
It be hopeless to think of steal it back or she would have try to .
The hired man at the Wheeler place report that Mrs. Wheeler never leave it night or day for a single moment .
She even carry it with her when she go to milk the cow .
`` But my turn will come , '' say Miss Rosetta grimly .
`` Camilla Jane be mine , and if she be call Barbara for a century it would n't alter that fact !
Barbara , indeed !
Why not have call her Methusaleh and have do with it ? ''
One afternoon in October , when Miss Rosetta be pick her apple and think drearily about lose Camilla Jane , a woman come run breathlessly down the hill and into the yard .
Miss Rosetta give an exclamation of amazement and drop her basket of apple .
Of all incredible thing !
The woman be Charlotte -- Charlotte who have never set foot on the ground of the Ellis cottage since her marriage ten year ago , Charlotte , bare-headed , wild-eyed , distraught , wring her hand and sobbing .
Miss Rosetta fly to meet her .
`` You 've scald Camilla Jane to death ! ''
she exclaim .
`` I always know you would -- always expect it ! ''
`` Oh , for heaven 's sake , come quick , Rosetta ! ''
gasp Charlotte .
`` Barbara Jane be in convulsion and I do n't know what to do .
The hired man have go for the doctor .
You be the near , so I come to you .
Jenny White be there when they come on , so I leave her and run .
Oh , Rosetta , come , come , if you have a spark of humanity in you !
You know what to do for convulsion -- you save the Ellis baby when it have them .
Oh , come and save Barbara Jane ! ''
`` You mean Camilla Jane , I presume ? ''
say Miss Rosetta firmly , in spite of her agitation .
For a second Charlotte Wheeler hesitate .
Then she say passionately : `` Yes , yes , Camilla Jane -- any name you like !
Only come . ''
Miss Rosetta go , and not a moment too soon , either .
The doctor live eight mile away and the baby be very bad .
The two woman and Jenny White work over her for hour .
It be not until dark , when the baby be sleep soundly and the doctor have go , after tell Miss Rosetta that she have save the child 's life , that a realization of the situation come home to them .
`` Well , '' say Miss Rosetta , drop into an armchair with a long sigh of weariness , `` I guess you 'll admit now , Charlotte Wheeler , that you be hardly a fit person to have charge of a baby , even if you have to go and steal it from me .
I should think your conscience would reproach you -- that be , if any woman who would marry Jacob Wheeler in such an underhanded fashion have a -- '' `` I -- I want the baby , '' sob Charlotte , tremulously .
`` I be so lonely here .
I do n't think it be any harm to take her , because Jane give her to me in her letter .
But you have save her life , Rosetta , and you -- you can have her back , although it will break my heart to give her up .
But , oh , Rosetta , wo n't you let me come and see her sometimes ?
I love her so I ca n't bear to give her up entirely . ''
`` Charlotte , '' say Miss Rosetta firmly , `` the most sensible thing for you to do be just to come back with the baby .
You be worried to death try to run this farm with the debt Jacob Wheeler leave on it for you .
Sell it , and come home with me .
And we 'll both have the baby then . ''
`` Oh , Rosetta , I 'd love to , '' falter Charlotte .
`` I 've -- I 've want to be good friend with you again so much .
But I think you be so hard and bitter you 'd never make up . ''
`` Maybe I 've talk too much , '' concede Miss Rosetta , `` but you ought to know me well enough to know I do n't mean a word of it .
It be your never say anything , no matter what I say , that rile me up so bad .
Let bygone be bygone , and come home , Charlotte . ''
`` I will , '' say Charlotte resolutely , wipe away her tear .
`` I 'm sick of living here and put up with hire men .
I 'll be real glad to go home , Rosetta , and that 's the truth .
I 've have a hard enough time .
I s ` pose you 'll say I deserve it ; but I be fond of Jacob , and -- '' `` Of course , of course .
Why should n't you be ? ''
say Miss Rosetta briskly .
`` I 'm sure Jacob Wheeler be a good enough soul , if he be a little slack-twisted .
I 'd like to hear anybody say a word against him in my presence .
Look at that bless child , Charlotte .
Is n't she the sweet thing ?
I 'm desperate glad you be come back home , Charlotte .
I 've never be able to put up a decent mess of mustard pickle since you go away , and you be always such a hand with them !
We 'll be real snug and cozy again -- you and me and little Camilla Barbara Jane . ''
V .
THE DREAM-CHILD A man 's heart -- aye , and a woman 's , too -- should be light in the spring .
The spirit of resurrection be abroad , call the life of the world out of it wintry grave , knock with radiant finger at the gate of it tomb .
It stir in human heart , and make them glad with the old primal gladness they felt in childhood .
It quicken human soul , and bring them , if so they will , so close to God that they may clasp hand with Him .
It be a time of wonder and renew life , and a great outward and inward rapture , a of a young angel softly clap his hand for creation 's joy .
At least , so it should be ; and so it always have be with me until the spring when the dream-child first come into our life .
That year I hat the spring -- I , who have always love it so .
As boy I have love it , and a man .
All the happiness that have ever be mine , and it be much , have come to blossom in the springtime .
It be in the spring that Josephine and I have first love each other , or , at least , have first come into the full knowledge that we love .
I think that we must have love each other all our life , and that each succeed spring be a word in the revelation of that love , not to be understood until , in the fullness of time , the whole sentence be write out in that most beautiful of all beautiful spring .
How beautiful it be !
And how beautiful she be !
I suppose every lover think that of his lass ; otherwise he be a poor sort of lover .
But it be not only my eye of love that make my dear lovely .
She be slim and lithe a a young , white-stemmed birch tree ; her hair be like a soft , dusky cloud ; and her eye be as blue a Avonlea harbor on a fair twilight , when all the sky be abloom over it .
She have dark lash , and a little red mouth that quiver when she be very sad or very happy , or when she love very much -- quiver like a crimson rise too rudely shake by the wind .
At such time what be a man to do save kiss it ?
The next spring we be marry , and I bring her home to my gray old homestead on the gray old harbor shore .
A lonely place for a young bride , say Avonlea people .
Nay , it be not so .
She be happy here , even in my absence .
She love the great , restless harbor and the vast , misty sea beyond ; she love the tide , keep their world-old tryst with the shore , and the gull , and the croon of the wave , and the call of the wind in the fir wood at noon and even ; she love the moonrises and the sunset , and the clear , calm night when the star seem to have fall into the water and to be a little dizzy from such a fall .
She love these thing , even a I do .
No , she be never lonely here then .
The third spring come , and our boy be bear .
We think we have be happy before ; now we know that we have only dream a pleasant dream of happiness , and have awaken to this exquisite reality .
We think we have love each other before ; now , a I look into my wife 's pale face , blanch with it baptism of pain , and meet the uplifted gaze of her blue eye , aglow with the holy passion of motherhood , I know we have only imagine what love might be .
The imagination have be sweet , a the thought of the rise be sweet before the bud be open ; but a the rise to the thought , so be love to the imagination of it .
`` All my thought be poetry since baby come , '' my wife say once , rapturously .
Our boy live for twenty month .
He be a sturdy , toddle rogue , so full of life and laughter and mischief that , when he die , one day , after the illness of an hour , it seem a most absurd thing that he should be dead -- a thing I could have laugh at , until belief force itself into my soul like a burning , sear iron .
I think I grieve over my little son 's death a deeply and sincerely a ever man do , or could .
But the heart of the father be not a the heart of the mother .
Time bring no healing to Josephine ; she fret and pin ; her cheek lose their pretty oval , and her red mouth grow pale and drooping .
I hop that spring might work it miracle upon her .
When the bud swell , and the old earth grow green in the sun , and the gull come back to the gray harbor , whose very grayness grow golden and mellow , I think I should see her smile again .
But , when the spring come , come the dream-child , and the fear that be to be my companion , at bed and board , from sunsetting to sunsetting .
One night I awaken from sleep , realize in the moment of awaken that I be alone .
I listen to hear whether my wife be move about the house .
I hear nothing but the little splash of wave on the shore below and the low moan of the distant ocean .
I rise and search the house .
She be not in it .
I do not know where to seek her ; but , at a venture , I start along the shore .
It be pale , fainting moonlight .
The harbor look like a phantom harbor , and the night be a still and cold and calm a the face of a dead man .
At last I saw my wife come to me along the shore .
When I saw her , I know what I have fear and how great my fear have be .
As she draw near , I saw that she have be cry ; her face be stain with tear , and her dark hair hang loose over her shoulder in little , glossy ringlet like a child 's .
She seem to be very tired , and at interval she wring her small hand together .
She show no surprise when she meet me , but only hold out her hand to me a if glad to see me .
`` I follow him -- but I could not overtake him , '' she say with a sob .
`` I do my best -- I hurry so ; but he be always a little way ahead .
And then I lose him -- and so I come back .
But I do my best -- indeed I do .
And oh , I be so tired ! ''
`` Josie , dear , what do you mean , and where have you be ? ''
I say , draw her close to me .
`` Why do you go out so -- alone in the night ? ''
She look at me wonderingly .
`` How could I help it , David ?
He call me .
I have to go . ''
`` WHO call you ? ''
`` The child , '' she answer in a whisper .
`` Our child , David -- our pretty boy .
I awaken in the darkness and hear him call to me down on the shore .
Such a sad , little wail cry , David , a if he be cold and lonely and want his mother .
I hurry out to him , but I could not find him .
I could only hear the call , and I follow it on and on , far down the shore .
Oh , I try so hard to overtake it , but I could not .
Once I saw a little white hand beckoning to me far ahead in the moonlight .
But still I could not go fast enough .
And then the cry cease , and I be there all alone on that terrible , cold , gray shore .
I be so tired and I come home .
But I wish I could have find him .
Perhaps he do not know that I try to .
Perhaps he think his mother never listen to his call .
Oh , I would not have him think that . ''
`` You have have a bad dream , dear , '' I say .
I try to say it naturally ; but it be hard for a man to speak naturally when he feel a mortal dread strike into his very vitals with it deadly chill .
`` It be no dream , '' she answer reproachfully .
`` I tell you I hear him call me -- me , his mother .
What could I do but go to him ?
You can not understand -- you be only his father .
It be not you who give him birth .
It be not you who pay the price of his dear life in pain .
He would not call to you -- he want his mother . ''
I get her back to the house and to her bed , whither she go obediently enough , and soon fell into the sleep of exhaustion .
But there be no more sleep for me that night .
I keep a grim vigil with dread .
When I have marry Josephine , one of those officious relative that be apt to buzz about a man 's marriage tell me that her grandmother have be insane all the latter part of her life .
She have grieve over the death of a favorite child until she lose her mind , and , a the first indication of it , she have seek by night a white dream-child which always call her , so she say , and lead her afar with a little , pale , beckoning hand .
I have smile at the story then .
What have that grim old bygone to do with springtime and love and Josephine ?
But it come back to me now , hand in hand with my fear .
Was this fate come on my dear wife ?
It be too horrible for belief .
She be so young , so fair , so sweet , this girl-wife of mine .
It have be only a bad dream , with a frightened , bewilder waking .
So I try to comfort myself .
When she awaken in the morning she do not speak of what have happen and I do not dare to .
She seem more cheerful that day than she have be , and go about her household duty briskly and skillfully .
My fear lift .
I be sure now that she have only dream .
And I be confirm in my hopeful belief when two night have pass away uneventfully .
Then , on the third night , he dream-child call to her again .
I waken from a troubled doze to find her dress herself with feverish haste .
`` He be call me , '' she cry .
`` Oh , do n't you hear him ?
Ca n't you hear him ?
Listen -- listen -- the little , lonely cry !
Yes , yes , my precious , mother be come .
Wait for me .
Mother be come to her pretty boy ! ''
I catch her hand and let her lead me where she would .
Hand in hand we follow the dream-child down the harbor shore in that ghostly , cloud moonlight .
Ever , she say , the little cry sound before her .
She entreat the dream-child to wait for her ; she cry and implored and uttered tender mother-talk .
But , at last , she cease to hear the cry ; and then , weep , weary , she let me lead her home again .
What a horror brood over that spring -- that so beautiful spring !
It be a time of wonder and marvel ; of the soft touch of silver rain on green field ; of the incredible delicacy of young leaf ; of blossom on the land and blossom in the sunset .
The whole world bloom in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the evasive , fleeting charm of spring and girlhood and young morning .
And almost every night of this wonderful time the dream-child call his mother , and we rove the gray shore in quest of him .
In the day she be herself ; but , when the night fell , she be restless and uneasy until she hear the call .
Then follow it she would , even through storm and darkness .
It be then , she say , that the cry sound loud and nearest , a if her pretty boy be frighten by the tempest .
What wild , terrible roving we have , she strain forward , eager to overtake the dream-child ; I , sick at heart , follow , guide , protect , a best I could ; then afterwards lead her gently home , heart-broken because she could not reach the child .
I bore my burden in secret , determine that gossip should not busy itself with my wife 's condition so long a I could keep it from become know .
We have no near relative -- none with any right to share any trouble -- and whoso accepteth human love must bind it to his soul with pain .
I think , however , that I should have medical advice , and I take our old doctor into my confidence .
He look grave when he hear my story .
I do not like his expression nor his few guarded remark .
He say he think human aid would avail little ; she might come all right in time ; humor her , as far a possible , watch over her , protect her .
He need not to tell me THAT .
The spring go out and summer come in -- and the horror deepen and darken .
I know that suspicion be be whisper from lip to lip .
We have be see on our nightly quest .
Men and woman begin to look at u pityingly when we go abroad .
One day , on a dull , drowsy afternoon , the dream-child call .
I know then that the end be near ; the end have be near in the old grandmother 's case sixty year before when the dream-child call in the day .
The doctor look graver than ever when I tell him , and say that the time have come when I must have help in my task .
I could not watch by day and night .
Unless I have assistance I would break down .
I do not think that I should .
Love be strong than that .
And on one thing I be determine -- they should never take my wife from me .
No restraint sterner than a husband 's loving hand should ever be put upon her , my pretty , piteous darling .
I never speak of the dream-child to her .
The doctor advise against it .
It would , he say , only serve to deepen the delusion .
When he hint at an asylum I give him a look that would have be a fierce word for another man .
He never speak of it again .
One night in August there be a dull , murky sunset after a dead , breathless day of heat , with not a wind stirring .
The sea be not blue a a sea should be , but pink -- all pink -- a ghastly , star , paint pink .
I linger on the harbor shore below the house until dark .
The evening bell be ring faintly and mournfully in a church across the harbor .
Behind me , in the kitchen , I hear my wife singing .
Sometimes now her spirit be fitfully high , and then she would sing the old song of her girlhood .
But even in her singing be something strange , a if a wailing , unearthly cry rang through it .
Nothing about her be sadder than that strange singing .
When I go back to the house the rain be begin to fall ; but there be no wind or sound in the air -- only that dismal stillness , a if the world be hold it breath in expectation of a calamity .
Josie be stand by the window , look out and listen .
I try to induce her to go to bed , but she only shake her head .
`` I might fall asleep and not hear him when he call , '' she say .
`` I be always afraid to sleep now , for fear he should call and his mother fail to hear him . ''
Knowing it be of no use to entreat , I sit down by the table and try to read .
Three hour pass on .
When the clock strike midnight she start up , with the wild light in her sunken blue eye .
`` He be call , '' she cry , `` call out there in the storm .
Yes , yes , sweet , I be come ! ''
She open the door and flee down the path to the shore .
I snatch a lantern from the wall , light it , and follow .
It be the black night I be ever out in , dark with the very darkness of death .
The rain fell thickly and heavily .
I overtake Josie , catch her hand , and stumble along in her wake , for she go with the speed and recklessness of a distraught woman .
We move in the little flitting circle of light shed by the lantern .
All around u and above u be a horrible , voiceless darkness , hold , a it be , at bay by the friendly light .
`` If I could only overtake him once , '' moan Josie .
`` If I could just kiss him once , and hold him close against my aching heart .
This pain , that never leave me , would leave me than .
Oh , my pretty boy , wait for mother !
I be come to you .
Listen , David ; he cry -- he cry so pitifully ; listen !
Ca n't you hear it ? ''
I DID hear it !
Clear and distinct , out of the deadly still darkness before u , come a faint , wail cry .
What be it ?
Was I , too , go mad , or WAS there something out there -- something that cry and moan -- long for human love , yet ever retreat from human footstep ?
I be not a superstitious man ; but my nerve have be shake by my long trial , and I be weak than I think .
Terror take possession of me -- terror unnameable .
I tremble in every limb ; clammy perspiration ooze from my forehead ; I be possess by a wild impulse to turn and flee -- anywhere , away from that unearthly cry .
But Josephine 's cold hand grip mine firmly , and lead me on .
That strange cry still ring in my ear .
But it do not recede ; it sound clearer and strong ; it be a wail ; but a loud , insistent wail ; it be nearer -- nearer ; it be in the darkness just beyond u .
Then we come to it ; a little dory have be beach on the pebble and leave there by the receding tide .
There be a child in it -- a boy , of perhaps two year old , who crouch in the bottom of the dory in water to his waist , his big , blue eye wild and wide with terror , his face white and tear-stained .
He wail again when he saw u , and hold out his little hand .
My horror fell away from me like a discarded garment .
THIS child be live .
How he have come there , whence and why , I do not know and , in my state of mind , do not question .
It be no cry of parted spirit I have hear -- that be enough for me .
`` Oh , the poor darling ! ''
cry my wife .
She stoop over the dory and lift the baby in her arm .
His long , fair curl fell on her shoulder ; she lay her face against his and wrap her shawl around him .
`` Let me carry him , dear , '' I say .
`` He be very wet , and too heavy for you . ''
`` No , no , I must carry him .
My arm have be so empty -- they be full now .
Oh , David , the pain at my heart have go .
He have come to me to take the place of my own .
God have send him to me out of the sea .
He be wet and cold and tired .
Hush , sweet one , we will go home . ''
Silently I follow her home .
The wind be rise , come in sudden , angry gust ; the storm be at hand , but we reach shelter before it break .
Just a I shut our door behind u it smite the house with the roar of a baffle beast .
I thank God that we be not out in it , follow the dream-child .
`` You be very wet , Josie , '' I say .
`` Go and put on dry clothes at once . ''
`` The child must be look to first , '' she say firmly .
`` See how chilled and exhaust he be , the pretty dear .
Light a fire quickly , David , while I get dry thing for him . ''
I let her have her way .
She bring out the clothes our own child have wear and dress the waif in them , rub his chilled limb , brush his wet hair , laugh over him , mother him .
She seem like her old self .
For my own part , I be bewilder .
All the question I have not ask before come crowd to my mind how .
Whose child be this ?
Whence have he come ?
What be the meaning of it all ?
He be a pretty baby , fair and plump and rosy .
When he be dry and feed , he fell asleep in Josie 's arm .
She hang over him in a passion of delight .
It be with difficulty I persuade her to leave him long enough to change her wet clothes .
She never ask whose he might be or from where he might have come .
He have be send to her from the sea ; the dream-child have lead her to him ; that be what she believe , and I dare not throw any doubt on that belief .
She sleep that night with the baby on her arm , and in her sleep her face be the face of a girl in her youth , untroubled and unworn .
I expect that the morrow would bring some one seek the baby .
I have come to the conclusion that he must belong to the `` Cove '' across the harbor , where the fishing hamlet be ; and all day , while Josie laugh and play with him , I wait and listen for the footstep of those who would come seek him .
But they do not come .
Day after day pass , and still they do not come .
I be in a maze of perplexity .
What should I do ?
I shrink from the thought of the boy be take away from u .
Since we have find him the dream-child have never call .
My wife seem to have turn back from the dark borderland , where her foot have stray to walk again with me in our own homely path .
Day and night she be her old , bright self , happy and serene in the new motherhood that have come to her .
The only thing strange in her be her calm acceptance of the event .
She never wonder who or whose the child might be -- never seem to fear that he would be take from her ; and she give him our dream-child 's name .
At last , when a full week have pass , I go , in my bewilderment , to our old doctor .
`` A most extraordinary thing , '' he say thoughtfully .
`` The child , a you say , must belong to the Spruce Cove people .
Yet it be an almost unbelievable thing that there have be no search or inquiry after him .
Probably there be some simple explanation of the mystery , however .
I advise you to go over to the Cove and inquire .
When you find the parent or guardian of the child , ask them to allow you to keep it for a time .
It may prove your wife 's salvation .
I have know such case .
Evidently on that night the crisis of her mental disorder be reach .
A little thing might have suffice to turn her foot either way -- back to reason and sanity , or into deep darkness .
It be my belief that the former have occur , and that , if she be leave in undisturbed possession of this child for a time , she will recover completely . ''
I drive around the harbor that day with a light heart than I have hop ever to possess again .
When I reach Spruce Cove the first person I meet be old Abel Blair .
I ask him if any child be miss from the Cove or along shore .
He look at me in surprise , shake his head , and say he have not hear of any .
I tell him a much of the tale a be necessary , leave him to think that my wife and I have find the dory and it small passenger during an ordinary walk along the shore .
`` A green dory ! ''
he exclaim .
`` Ben Forbes ' old green dory have be miss for a week , but it be so rotten and leaky he do n't bother look for it .
But this child , sir -- it beat me .
What might he be like ? ''
I describe the child as closely a possible .
`` That fit little Harry Martin to a hair , '' say old Abel , perplexedly , `` but , sir , it ca n't be .
Or , if it be , there 's be foul work somewhere .
James Martin 's wife die last winter , sir , and he die the next month .
They leave a baby and not much else .
There be n't nobody to take the child but Jim 's half-sister , Maggie Fleming .
She live here at the Cove , and , I 'm sorry to say , sir , she have n't too good a name .
She do n't want to be bother with the baby , and folk say she neglect him scandalous .
Well , last spring she begin talk of go away to the States .
She say a friend of hers have get her a good place in Boston , and she be go to go and take little Harry .
We suppose it be all right .
Last Saturday she go , sir .
She be go to walk to the station , and the last see of her she be trudge along the road , carry the baby .
It have n't be think of since .
But , sir , d 'ye suppose she set that innocent child adrift in that old leaky dory to send him to his death ?
I know Maggie be no good than she should be , but I ca n't believe she be as bad a that . ''
`` You must come over with me and see if you can identify the child , '' I say .
`` If he be Harry Martin I shall keep him .
My wife have be very lonely since our baby die , and she have take a fancy to this little chap . ''
When we reach my home old Abel recognize the child a Harry Martin .
He be with u still .
His baby hand lead my dear wife back to health and happiness .
Other child have come to u , she love them all dearly ; but the boy who bear her dead son 's name be to her -- aye , and to me -- as dear a if she have give him birth .
He come from the sea , and at his come the ghostly dream-child flee , nevermore to lure my wife away from me with it excite cry .
Therefore I look upon him and love him a my first-born .
VI .
THE BROTHER WHO FAILED The Monroe family be hold a Christmas reunion at the old Prince Edward Island homestead at White Sands .
It be the first time they have all be together under one roof since the death of their mother , thirty year before .
The idea of this Christmas reunion have originate with Edith Monroe the precede spring , during her tedious convalescence from a bad attack of pneumonia among stranger in an American city , where she have not be able to fill her concert engagement , and have more spare time in which to feel the tug of old tie and the homesick longing for her own people than she have have for year .
As a result , when she recover , she write to her second brother , James Monroe , who live on the homestead ; and the consequence be this gathering of the Monroes under the old roof-tree .
Ralph Monroe for once lay aside the care of his railroad , and the deceitfulness of his million , in Toronto and take the long-promised , long-deferred trip to the homeland .
Malcolm Monroe journeyed from the far western university of which he be president .
Edith come , flush with the triumph of her late and most successful concert tour .
Mrs. Woodburn , who have be Margaret Monroe , come from the Nova Scotia town where she live a busy , happy life a the wife of a rise young lawyer .
James , prosperous and hearty , greet them warmly at the old homestead whose fertile acre have well repay his skillful management .
They be a merry party , cast aside their care and year , and hark back to joyous boyhood and girlhood once more .
James have a family of rosy lad and lass ; Margaret bring her two blue-eyed little girl ; Ralph 's dark , clever-looking son accompany him , and Malcolm bring his , a young man with a resolute face , in which there be less of boyishness than in his father 's , and the eye of a keen , perhaps a hard bargainer .
The two cousin be the same age to a day , and it be a family joke among the Monroes that the stork must have mix the baby , since Ralph 's son be like Malcolm in face and brain , while Malcolm 's boy be a second edition of his uncle Ralph .
To crown all , Aunt Isabel come , too -- a talkative , clever , shrewd old lady , a young at eighty-five a she have be at thirty , think the Monroe stock the best in the world , and beamingly proud of her nephew and niece , who have go out from this humble , little farm to destiny of such brilliance and influence in the world beyond .
I have forget Robert .
Robert Monroe be apt to be forget .
Although he be the old of the family , White Sands people , in name over the various member of the Monroe family , would add , `` and Robert , '' in a tone of surprise over the remembrance of his existence .
He live on a poor , sandy little farm down by the shore , but he have come up to James ' place on the evening when the guest arrive ; they have all greet him warmly and joyously , and then do not think about him again in their laughter and conversation .
Robert sit back in a corner and listen with a smile , but he never speak .
Afterwards he have slip noiselessly away and go home , and nobody notice his go .
They be all gayly busy recall what have happen in the old time and tell what have happen in the new .
Edith recount the success of her concert tour ; Malcolm expatiate proudly on his plan for develop his beloved college ; Ralph describe the country through which his new railroad ran , and the difficulty he have have to overcome in connection with it .
James , aside , discuss his orchard and his crop with Margaret , who have not be long enough away from the farm to lose touch with it interest .
Aunt Isabel knit and smile complacently on all , talk now with one , now with the other , secretly quite proud of herself that she , an old woman of eighty-five , who have seldom be out of White Sands in her life , could discuss high finance with Ralph , and high education with Malcolm , and hold her own with James in an argument on drainage .
The White Sands school teacher , an arch-eyed , red-mouthed bit a girl -- a Bell from Avonlea -- who board with the James Monroes , amuse herself with the boy .
All be enjoy themselves hugely , so it be not to be wonder at that they do not miss Robert , who have go home early because his old housekeeper be nervous if leave alone at night .
He come again the next afternoon .
From James , in the barnyard , he learn that Malcolm and Ralph have drive to the harbor , that Margaret and Mrs. James have go to call on friend in Avonlea , and that Edith be walk somewhere in the wood on the hill .
There be nobody in the house except Aunt Isabel and the teacher .
`` You 'd better wait and stay the evening , '' say James , indifferently .
`` They 'll all be back soon . ''
Robert go across the yard and sit down on the rustic bench in the angle of the front porch .
It be a fine December evening , as mild a autumn ; there have be no snow , and the long field , slop down from the homestead , be brown and mellow .
A weird , dreamy stillness have fall upon the purple earth , the windless wood , the rain of the valley , the sere meadow .
Nature seem to have fold satisfied hand to rest , know that her long , wintry slumber be come upon her .
Out to sea , a dull , red sunset fade out into somber cloud , and the ceaseless voice of many water come up from the tawny shore .
Robert rest his chin on his hand and look across the vale and hill , where the feathery gray of leafless hardwood be mingle with the sturdy , unfailing green of the conebearers .
He be a tall , bent man , with thin , gray hair , a lined face , and deeply-set , gentle brown eye -- the eye of one who , look through pain , see rapture beyond .
He felt very happy .
He love his family clannishly , and he be rejoice that they be all again near to him .
He be proud of their success and fame .
He be glad that James have prosper so well of late year .
There be no canker of envy or discontent in his soul .
He hear absently indistinct voice at the open hall window above the porch , where Aunt Isabel be talk to Kathleen Bell .
Presently Aunt Isabel move nearer to the window , and her word come down to Robert with startle clearness .
`` Yes , I can assure you , Miss Bell , that I 'm real proud of my nephew and niece .
They 're a smart family .
They 've almost all do well , and they have n't any of them much to begin with .
Ralph have absolutely nothing and to-day he be a millionaire .
Their father meet with so many loss , what with his ill-health and the bank failing , that he could n't help them any .
But they 've all succeed , except poor Robert -- and I must admit that he 's a total failure . ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' say the little teacher deprecatingly .
`` A total failure ! ''
Aunt Isabel repeat her word emphatically .
She be not go to be contradict by anybody , least of all a Bell from Avonlea .
`` He have be a failure since the time he be bear .
He be the first Monroe to disgrace the old stock that way .
I 'm sure his brother and sister must be dreadfully ashamed of him .
He have live sixty year and he have n't do a thing worth while .
He ca n't even make his farm pay .
If he 's keep out of debt it 's as much a he 's ever manage to do . ''
`` Some men ca n't even do that , '' murmur the little school teacher .
She be really so much in awe of this imperious , clever old Aunt Isabel that it be positive heroism on her part to venture even this faint protest .
`` More be expect of a Monroe , '' say Aunt Isabel majestically .
`` Robert Monroe be a failure , and that be the only name for him . ''
Robert Monroe stand up below the window in a dizzy , uncertain fashion .
Aunt Isabel have be speak of him !
He , Robert , be a failure , a disgrace to his blood , of whom his near and dear be ashamed !
Yes , it be true ; he have never realize it before ; he have know that he could never win power or accumulate rich , but he have not think that matter much .
Now , through Aunt Isabel 's scornful eye , he saw himself a the world saw him -- a his brother and sister must see him .
THERE lay the sting .
What the world thought of him do not matter ; but that his own should think him a failure and disgrace be agony .
He moan a he start to walk across the yard , only anxious to hide his pain and shame away from all human sight , and in his eye be the look of a gentle animal which have be stricken by a cruel and unexpected blow .
Edith Monroe , who , unaware of Robert 's proximity , have be stand on the other side of the porch , saw that look , a he hurry past her , unseeing .
A moment before her dark eye have be flash with anger at Aunt Isabel 's word ; now the anger be drown in a sudden rush of tear .
She take a quick step after Robert , but check the impulse .
Not then -- and not by her alone -- could that deadly hurt be heal .
Nay , more , Robert must never suspect that she know of any hurt .
She stand and watch him through her tear a he go away across the low-lying shore field to hide his broken heart under his own humble roof .
She yearn to hurry after him and comfort him , but she know that comfort be not what Robert need now .
Justice , and justice only , could pluck out the sting , which otherwise must rankle to the death .
Ralph and Malcolm be drive into the yard .
Edith go over to them .
`` Boys , '' she say resolutely , `` I want to have a talk with you . ''
The Christmas dinner at the old homestead be a merry one .
Mrs. James spread a feast that be fit for the hall of Lucullus .
Laughter , jest , and repartee flew from lip to lip .
Nobody appear to notice that Robert eat little , say nothing , and sit with his form shrinking in his shabby `` best '' suit , his gray head bent even low than usual , a if desirous of avoid all observation .
When the others speak to him he answer deprecatingly , and shrank still far into himself .
Finally all have eat all they could , and the remainder of the plum pudding be carry out .
Robert give a low sigh of relief .
It be almost over .
Soon he would be able to escape and hide himself and his shame away from the mirthful eye of these men and woman who have earn the right to laugh at the world in which their success give them power and influence .
He -- he -- only -- be a failure .
He wonder impatiently why Mrs. James do not rise .
Mrs. James merely lean comfortably back in her chair , with the righteous expression of one who have do her duty by her fellow creature ' palate , and look at Malcolm .
Malcolm rise in his place .
Silence fell on the company ; everybody look suddenly alert and expectant , except Robert .
He still sit with bow head , wrap in his own bitterness .
`` I have be tell that I must lead off , '' say Malcolm , `` because I be suppose to possess the gift of gab .
But , if I do , I be not go to use it for any rhetorical effect to-day .
Simple , earnest word must express the deep feeling of the heart in do justice to it own .
Brothers and sister , we meet to-day under our own roof-tree , surround by the benediction of the past year .
Perhaps invisible guest be here -- the spirit of those who found this home and whose work on earth have long be finish .
It be not amiss to hope that this be so and our family circle make indeed complete .
To each one of u who be here in visible bodily presence some measure of success have fall ; but only one of u have be supremely successful in the only thing that really count -- the thing that count for eternity as well a time -- sympathy and unselfishness and self-sacrifice .
`` I shall tell you my own story for the benefit of those who have not hear it .
When I be a lad of sixteen I start to work out my own education .
Some of you will remember that old Mr. Blair of Avonlea offer me a place in his store for the summer , at wage which would go far towards pay my expense at the country academy the next winter .
I go to work , eager and hopeful .
All summer I try to do my faithful best for my employer .
In September the blow fell .
A sum of money be miss from Mr. Blair 's till .
I be suspect and discharge in disgrace .
All my neighbor believe me guilty ; even some of my own family look upon me with suspicion -- nor could I blame them , for the circumstantial evidence be strongly against me . ''
Ralph and James look ashamed ; Edith and Margaret , who have not be bear at the time refer to , lift their face innocently .
Robert do not move or glance up .
He hardly seem to be listen .
`` I be crush in an agony of shame and despair , '' continue Malcolm .
`` I believe my career be ruin .
I be bent on cast all my ambition behind me , and go west to some place where nobody know me or my disgrace .
But there be one person who believe in my innocence , who say to me , ` You shall not give up -- you shall not behave a if you be guilty .
You be innocent , and in time your innocence will be prove .
Meanwhile show yourself a man .
You have nearly enough to pay your way next winter at the Academy .
I have a little I can give to help you out .
Do n't give in -- never give in when you have do no wrong . '
`` I listen and take his advice .
I go to the Academy .
My story be there as soon a I be , and I find myself sneer at and shun .
Many a time I would have give up in despair , have it not be for the encouragement of my counselor .
He furnish the backbone for me .
I be determine that his belief in me should be justify .
I study hard and come out at the head of my class .
Then there seem to be no chance of my earn any more money that summer .
But a farmer at Newbridge , who care nothing about the character of his help , if he could get the work out of them , offer to hire me .
The prospect be distasteful but , urge by the man who believe in me , I take the place and endure the hardship .
Another winter of lonely work pass at the Academy .
I win the Farrell Scholarship the last year it be offer , and that mean an Arts course for me .
I go to Redmond College .
My story be not openly know there , but something of it get abroad , enough to taint my life there also with it suspicion .
But the year I graduate , Mr. Blair 's nephew , who , a you know , be the real culprit , confess his guilt , and I be clear before the world .
Since then my career have be what be call a brilliant one .
But '' -- Malcolm turn and lay his hand on Robert 's thin shoulder -- `` all of my success I owe to my brother Robert .
It be his success -- not mine -- and here to-day , since we have agree to say what be too often leave to be say over a coffin lid , I thank him for all he do for me , and tell him that there be nothing I be more proud of and thankful for than such a brother . ''
Robert have look up at last , amaze , bewilder , incredulous .
His face crimson a Malcolm sit down .
But now Ralph be get up .
`` I be no orator a Malcolm be , '' he quote gayly , `` but I 've get a story to tell , too , which only one of you know .
Forty year ago , when I start in life a a business man , money be n't so plentiful with me a it may be to-day .
And I need it badly .
A chance come my way to make a pile of it .
It be n't a clean chance .
It be a dirty chance .
It look square on the surface ; but , underneath , it mean trickery and roguery .
I have n't enough perception to see that , though -- I be fool enough to think it be all right .
I tell Robert what I mean to do .
And Robert saw clear through the outward sham to the real , hideous thing underneath .
He show me what it mean and he give me a preachment about a few Monroe Traditions of truth and honor .
I saw what I have be about to do a he saw it -- a all good men and true must see it .
And I vow then and there that I 'd never go into anything that I be n't sure be fair and square and clean through and through .
I 've keep that vow .
I be a rich man , and not a dollar of my money be ` tainted ' money .
But I do n't make it .
Robert really make every cent of my money .
If it have n't be for him I 'd have be a poor man to-day , or behind prison bar , a be the other men who go into that deal when I back out .
I 've get a son here .
I hope he 'll be as clever a his Uncle Malcolm ; but I hope , still more earnestly , that he 'll be as good and honorable a man a his Uncle Robert . ''
By this time Robert 's head be bent again , and his face bury in his hand .
`` My turn next , '' say James .
`` I have n't much to say -- only this .
After mother die I take typhoid fever .
Here I be with no one to wait on me .
Robert come and nurse me .
He be the most faithful , tender , gentle nurse ever a man have .
The doctor say Robert save my life .
I do n't suppose any of the rest of u here can say we have save a life . ''
Edith wipe away her tear and spring up impulsively .
`` Years ago , '' she say , `` there be a poor , ambitious girl who have a voice .
She want a musical education and her only apparent chance of obtain it be to get a teacher 's certificate and earn money enough to have her voice train .
She study hard , but her brain , in mathematics at least , be n't as good a her voice , and the time be short .
She fail .
She be lose in disappointment and despair , for that be the last year in which it be possible to obtain a teacher 's certificate without attend Queen 's Academy , and she could not afford that .
Then her old brother come to her and tell her he could spare enough money to send her to the conservatory of music in Halifax for a year .
He make her take it .
She never know till long afterwards that he have sell the beautiful horse which he love like a human creature , to get the money .
She go to the Halifax conservatory .
She win a musical scholarship .
She have have a happy life and a successful career .
And she owe it all to her brother Robert -- '' But Edith could go no far .
Her voice fail her and she sit down in tear .
Margaret do not try to stand up .
`` I be only five when my mother die , '' she sob .
`` Robert be both father and mother to me .
Never have child or girl so wise and love a guardian a he be to me .
I have never forget the lesson he teach me .
Whatever there be of good in my life or character I owe to him .
I be often headstrong and willful , but he never lose patience with me .
I owe everything to Robert . ''
Suddenly the little teacher rise with wet eye and crimson cheek .
`` I have something to say , too , '' she say resolutely .
`` You have speak for yourselves .
I speak for the people of White Sands .
There be a man in this settlement whom everybody love .
I shall tell you some of the thing he have do . ''
`` Last fall , in an October storm , the harbor lighthouse fly a flag of distress .
Only one man be brave enough to face the danger of sail to the lighthouse to find out what the trouble be .
That be Robert Monroe .
He find the keeper alone with a broken leg ; and he sail back and make -- yes , MADE the unwilling and terrified doctor go with him to the lighthouse .
I saw him when he tell the doctor he must go ; and I tell you that no man living could have set his will against Robert Monroe 's at that moment .
`` Four year ago old Sarah Cooper be to be take to the poorhouse .
She be broken-hearted .
One man take the poor , bed-ridden , fretful old creature into his home , pay for medical attendance , and wait on her himself , when his housekeeper could n't endure her tantrum and temper .
Sarah Cooper die two year afterwards , and her late breath be a benediction on Robert Monroe -- the best man God ever make .
`` Eight year ago Jack Blewitt want a place .
Nobody would hire him , because his father be in the penitentiary , and some people think Jack ought to be there , too .
Robert Monroe hire him -- and help him , and keep him straight , and get him start right -- and Jack Blewitt be a hard-working , respected young man to-day , with every prospect of a useful and honorable life .
There be hardly a man , woman , or child in White Sands who do n't owe something to Robert Monroe ! ''
As Kathleen Bell sit down , Malcolm spring up and hold out his hand .
`` Every one of u stand up and sing Auld Lang Syne , '' he cry .
Everybody stand up and join hand , but one do not sing .
Robert Monroe stand erect , with a great radiance on his face and in his eye .
His reproach have be take away ; he be crown among his kindred with the beauty and blessing of sacred yesterday .
When the singing cease Malcolm 's stern-faced son reach over and shake Robert 's hand .
`` Uncle Rob , '' he say heartily , `` I hope that when I 'm sixty I 'll be as successful a man a you . ''
`` I guess , '' say Aunt Isabel , aside to the little school teacher , a she wipe the tear from her keen old eye , `` that there 's a kind of failure that 's the best success . ''
VII .
THE RETURN OF HESTER Just at dusk , that even , I have go upstairs and put on my muslin gown .
I have be busy all day attend to the strawberry preserving -- for Mary Sloane could not be trust with that -- and I be a little tired , and think it be hardly worth while to change my dress , especially since there be nobody to see or care , since Hester be go .
Mary Sloane do not count .
But I do it because Hester would have care if she have be here .
She always like to see me neat and dainty .
So , although I be tire and sick at heart , I put on my pale blue muslin and dressed my hair .
At first I do my hair up in a way I have always like ; but have seldom worn , because Hester have disapprove of it .
It become me ; but I suddenly felt a if it be disloyal to her , so I take the puff down again and arrange my hair in the plain , old-fashioned way she have like .
My hair , though it have a good many gray thread in it , be thick and long and brown still ; but that do not matter -- nothing matter since Hester be dead and I have send Hugh Blair away for the second time .
The Newbridge people all wonder why I have not put on mourn for Hester .
I do not tell them it be because Hester have ask me not to .
Hester have never approve of mourn ; she say that if the heart do not mourn crape would not mend matter ; and if it do there be no need of the external trapping of woe .
She tell me calmly , the night before she die , to go on wear my pretty dress just a I have always wear them , and to make no difference in my outward life because of her go .
`` I know there will be a difference in your inward life , '' she say wistfully .
And oh , there be !
But sometimes I wonder uneasily , feel almost conscience-stricken , whether it be wholly because Hester have leave me -- whether it be no partly because , for a second time , I have shut the door of my heart in the face of love at her bidding .
When I have dress I go downstairs to the front door , and sit on the sandstone step under the arch of the Virginia creeper .
I be all alone , for Mary Sloane have go to Avonlea .
It be a beautiful night ; the full moon be just rise over the wooded hill , and her light fell through the poplar into the garden before me .
Through an open corner on the western side I saw the sky all silvery blue in the afterlight .
The garden be very beautiful just then , for it be the time of the rose , and ours be all out -- so many of them -- great pink , and red , and white , and yellow rose .
Hester have love rose and could never have enough of them .
Her favorite bush be grow by the step , all glory over with blossom -- white , with pale pink heart .
I gather a cluster and pin it loosely on my breast .
But my eye fill a I do so -- I felt so very , very desolate .
I be all alone , and it be bitter .
The rose , much a I love them , could not give me sufficient companionship .
I want the clasp of a human hand , and the love-light in human eye .
And then I fell to think of Hugh , though I try not to .
I have always live alone with Hester .
I do not remember our parent , who have die in my babyhood .
Hester be fifteen year old than I , and she have always seem more like a mother than a sister .
She have be very good to me and have never deny me anything I want , save the one thing that matter .
I be twenty-five before I ever have a lover .
This be not , I think , because I be more unattractive than other woman .
The Merediths have always be the `` big '' family of Newbridge .
The rest of the people look up to u , because we be the granddaughter of old Squire Meredith .
The Newbridge young men would have think it no use to try to woo a Meredith .
I have not a great deal of family pride , a perhaps I should be ashamed to confess .
I find our exalted position very lonely , and care more for the simple joy of friendship and companionship which other girl have .
But Hester possess it in a double measure ; she never allow me to associate on a level of equality with the young people of Newbridge .
We must be very nice and kind and affable to them -- noblesse oblige , a it be -- but we must never forget that we be Merediths .
When I be twenty-five , Hugh Blair come to Newbridge , have buy a farm near the village .
He be a stranger , from Lower Carmody , and so be not imbue with any preconception of Meredith superiority .
In his eye I be just a girl like others -- a girl to be woo and win by any man of clean life and honest heart .
I meet him at a little Sunday-School picnic over at Avonlea , which I attend because of my class .
I think him very handsome and manly .
He talk to me a great deal , and at last he drive me home .
The next Sunday evening he walk up from church with me .
Hester be away , or , of course , this would never have happen .
She have go for a month 's visit to distant friend .
In that month I live a lifetime .
Hugh Blair court me a the other girl in Newbridge be court .
He take me out drive and come to see me in the evening , which we spend for the most part in the garden .
I do not like the stately gloom and formality of our old Meredith parlor , and Hugh never seem to feel at ease there .
His broad shoulder and hearty laughter be oddly out of place among our fade , old-maidish furnishing .
Mary Sloane be very much please at Hugh 's visit .
She have always resent the fact that I have never have a `` beau , '' seem to think it reflect some slight or disparagement upon me .
She do all she could to encourage him .
But when Hester return and find out about Hugh she be very angry -- and grieve , which hurt me far more .
She tell me that I have forget myself and that Hugh 's visit must cease .
I have never be afraid of Hester before , but I be afraid of her then .
I yield .
Perhaps it be very weak of me , but then I be always weak .
I think that be why Hugh 's strength have appeal so to me .
I need love and protection .
Hester , strong and self-sufficient , have never felt such a need .
She could not understand .
Oh , how contemptuous she be .
I tell Hugh timidly that Hester do not approve of our friendship and that it must end .
He take it quietly enough , and go away .
I think he do not care much , and the thought selfishly make my own heartache worse .
I be very unhappy for a long time , but I try not to let Hester see it , and I do n't think she do .
She be not very discern in some thing .
After a time I get over it ; that be , the heartache cease to ache all the time .
But thing be never quite the same again .
Life always seem rather dreary and empty , in spite of Hester and my rose and my Sunday-School .
I suppose that Hugh Blair would find him a wife elsewhere , but he do not .
The year go by and we never meet , although I saw him often at church .
At such time Hester always watch me very closely , but there be no need of her to do so .
Hugh make no attempt to meet me , or speak with me , and I would not have permit it if he have .
But my heart always yearn after him .
I be selfishly glad he have not marry , because if he have I could not have think and dream of him -- it would have be wrong .
Perhaps , a it be , it be foolish ; but it seem to me that I must have something , if only foolish dream , to fill my life .
At first there be only pain in the thought of him , but afterwards a faint , misty little pleasure crept in , like a mirage from a land of lose delight .
Ten year slip away thus .
And then Hester die .
Her illness be sudden and short ; but , before she die , she ask me to promise that I would never marry Hugh Blair .
She have not mention his name for year .
I think she have forget all about him .
`` Oh , dear sister , be there any need of such a promise ? ''
I ask , weep .
`` Hugh Blair do not want to marry me now .
He never will again . ''
`` He have never marry -- he have not forget you , '' she say fiercely .
`` I could not rest in my grave if I think you would disgrace your family by marry beneath you .
Promise me , Margaret . ''
I promise .
I would have promise anything in my power to make her die pillow easier .
Besides , what do it matter ?
I be sure that Hugh would never think of me again .
She smile when she hear me , and press my hand .
`` Good little sister -- that be right .
You be always a good girl , Margaret -- good and obedient , though a little sentimental and foolish in some way .
You be like our mother -- she be always weak and loving .
I take after the Merediths . ''
She do , indeed .
Even in her coffin her dark , handsome feature preserve their expression of pride and determination .
Somehow , that last look of her dead face remain in my memory , blot out the real affection and gentleness which her living face have almost always show me .
This distress me , but I could not help it .
I wish to think of her a kind and loving , but I could remember only the pride and coldness with which she have crush out my new-born happiness .
Yet I felt no anger or resentment towards her for what she have do .
I know she have mean it for the best -- my best .
It be only that she be mistake .
And then , a month after she have die , Hugh Blair come to me and ask me to be his wife .
He say he have always love me , and could never love any other woman .
All my old love for him reawaken .
I want to say yes -- to feel his strong arm about me , and the warmth of his love enfolding and guard me .
In my weakness I yearn for his strength .
But there be my promise to Hester -- that promise give by her deathbed .
I could not break it , and I tell him so .
It be the hard thing I have ever do .
He do not go away quietly this time .
He plead and reason and reproach .
Every word of his hurt me like a knife-thrust .
But I could not break my promise to the dead .
If Hester have be live I would have brave her wrath and her estrangement and go to him .
But she be dead and I could not do it .
Finally he go away in grief and anger .
That be three week ago -- and now I sit alone in the moonlit rose-garden and wept for him .
But after a time my tear dry and a very strange feeling come over me .
I felt calm and happy , a if some wonderful love and tenderness be very near me .
And now come the strange part of my story -- the part which will not , I suppose , be believe .
If it be not for one thing I think I should hardly believe it myself .
I should feel tempt to think I have dream it .
But because of that one thing I know it be real .
The night be very calm and still .
Not a breath of wind stir .
The moonshine be the bright I have ever see .
In the middle of the garden , where the shadow of the poplar do not fall , it be almost as bright a day .
One could have read fine print .
There be still a little rise glow in the west , and over the airy bough of the tall poplars one or two large , bright star be shin .
The air be sweet with a hush of dream , and the world be so lovely that I hold my breath over it beauty .
Then , all at once , down at the far end of the garden , I saw a woman walking .
I think at first that it must be Mary Sloane ; but , a she cross a moonlit path , I saw it be not our old servant 's stout , homely figure .
This woman be tall and erect .
Although no suspicion of the truth come to me , something about her reminded me of Hester .
Even so have Hester like to wander about the garden in the twilight .
I have see her thus a thousand time .
I wonder who the woman could be .
Some neighbor , of course .
But what a strange way for her to come !
She walk up the garden slowly in the poplar shade .
Now and then she stoop , a if to caress a flower , but she pluck none .
Half way up she out in to the moonlight and walk across the plot of grass in the center of the garden .
My heart give a great throb and I stand up .
She be quite near to me now -- and I saw that it be Hester .
I can hardly say just what my feeling be at this moment .
I know that I be not surprise .
I be frighten and yet I be not frighten .
Something in me shrink back in a sickening terror ; but I , the real I , be not frighten .
I know that this be my sister , and that there could be no reason why I should be frighten of her , because she love me still , a she have always do .
Further than this I be not conscious of any coherent thought , either of wonder or attempt at reasoning .
Hester pause when she come to within a few step of me .
In the moonlight I saw her face quite plainly .
It wear an expression I have never before see on it -- a humble , wistful , tender look .
Often in life Hester have look lovingly , even tenderly , upon me ; but always , a it be , through a mask of pride and sternness .
This be go now , and I felt nearer to her than ever before .
I know suddenly that she understand me .
And then the half-conscious awe and terror some part of me have felt vanish , and I only realize that Hester be here , and that there be no terrible gulf of change between u .
Hester beckon to me and say , `` Come . ''
I stand up and follow her out of the garden .
We walk side by side down our lane , under the willow and out to the road , which lay long and still in that bright , calm moonshine .
I felt a if I be in a dream , move at the bidding of a will not my own , which I could not have dispute even if I have wish to do so .
But I do not wish it ; I have only the feeling of a strange , boundless content .
We go down the road between the growth of young fir that border it .
I smell their balsam a we pass , and notice how clearly and darkly their pointed top come out against the sky .
I hear the tread of my own foot on little twig and plant in our way , and the trail of my dress over the grass ; but Hester move noiselessly .
Then we go through the Avenue -- that stretch of road under the apple tree that Anne Shirley , over at Avonlea , call `` The White Way of Delight . ''
It be almost dark here ; and yet I could see Hester 's face just as plainly a if the moon be shin on it ; and whenever I look at her she be always look at me with that strangely gentle smile on her lip .
Just a we pass out of the Avenue , James Trent overtake u , drive .
It seem to me that our feeling at a give moment be seldom what we would expect them to be .
I simply felt annoy that James Trent , the most notorious gossip in Newbridge , should have see me walk with Hester .
In a flash I anticipate all the annoyance of it ; he would talk of the matter far and wide .
But James Trent merely nod and call out , `` Howdy , Miss Margaret .
Taking a moonlight stroll by yourself ?
Lovely night , ai n't it ? ''
Just then his horse suddenly swerve , a if startle , and break into a gallop .
They whirl around the curve of the road in an instant .
I felt relieve , but puzzle .
JAMES TRENT HAD NOT SEEN HESTER .
Down over the hill be Hugh Blair 's place .
When we come to it , Hester turn in at the gate .
Then , for the first time , I understand why she have come back , and a blinding flash of joy break over my soul .
I stop and look at her .
Her deep eye gaze into mine , but she do not speak .
We go on .
Hugh 's house lay before u in the moonlight , grow over by a tangle of vine .
His garden be on our right , a quaint spot , full of old-fashioned flower grow in a sort of disorderly sweetness .
I tread on a bed of mint , and the spice of it float up to me like the incense of some strange , sacred , solemn ceremonial .
I felt unspeakably happy and bless .
When we come to the door Hester say , `` Knock , Margaret . ''
I rap gently .
In a moment , Hugh open it .
Then that happen by which , in after day , I be to know that this strange thing be no dream or fancy of mine .
Hugh look not at me , but past me .
`` Hester ! ''
he exclaim , with human fear and horror in his voice .
He lean against the door-post , the big , strong fellow , tremble from head to foot .
`` I have learn , '' say Hester , `` that nothing matter in all God 's universe , except love .
There be no pride where I have be , and no false ideal . ''
Hugh and I look into each other 's eye , wondering , and then we know that we be alone .
VIII .
THE LITTLE BROWN BOOK OF MISS EMILY The first summer Mr. Irving and Miss Lavendar -- Diana and I could never call her anything else , even after she be marry -- be at Echo Lodge after their marriage , both Diana and I spend a great deal of time with them .
We become acquaint with many of the Grafton people whom we have not know before , and among others , the family of Mr. Mack Leith .
We often go up to the Leiths in the evening to play croquet .
Millie and Margaret Leith be very nice girl , and the boy be nice , too .
Indeed , we like every one in the family , except poor old Miss Emily Leith .
We try hard enough to like her , because she seem to like Diana and me very much , and always want to sit with u and talk to u , when we would much rather have be somewhere else .
We often felt a good deal of impatience at these time , but I be very glad to think now that we never show it .
In a way , we felt sorry for Miss Emily .
She be Mr. Leith 's old-maid sister and she be not of much importance in the household .
But , though we felt sorry for her , we could n't like her .
She really be fussy and meddlesome ; she like to poke a finger into every one 's pie , and she be not at all tactful .
Then , too , she have a sarcastic tongue , and seem to feel bitter towards all the young folk and their love affair .
Diana and I think this be because she have never have a lover of her own .
Somehow , it seem impossible to think of lover in connection with Miss Emily .
She be short and stout and pudgy , with a face so round and fat and red that it seem quite featureless ; and her hair be scanty and gray .
She walk with a waddle , just like Mrs. Rachel Lynde , and she be always rather short of breath .
It be hard to believe Miss Emily have ever be young ; yet old Mr. Murray , who live next door to the Leiths , not only expect u to believe it , but assure u that she have be very pretty .
`` THAT , at least , be impossible , '' say Diana to me .
And then , one day , Miss Emily die .
I 'm afraid no one be very sorry .
It seem to me a most dreadful thing to go out of the world and leave not one person behind to be sorry because you have go .
Miss Emily be dead and bury before Diana and I hear of it at all .
The first I know of it be when I come home from Orchard Slope one day and find a queer , shabby little black horsehair trunk , all stud with brass nail , on the floor of my room at Green Gables .
Marilla tell me that Jack Leith have bring it over , and say that it have belong to Miss Emily and that , when she be die , she ask them to send it to me .
`` But what be in it ?
And what be I to do with it ? ''
I ask in bewilderment .
`` There be nothing say about what you be to do with it .
Jack say they do n't know what be in it , and have n't look into it , see that it be your property .
It seem a rather queer proceeding -- but you 're always get mixed up in queer proceeding , Anne .
As for what be in it , the easy way to find out , I reckon , be to open it and see .
The key be tie to it .
Jack say Miss Emily say she want you to have it because she love you and saw her lost youth in you .
I guess she be a bit delirious at the last and wander a good deal .
She say she want you ` to understand her . ' ''
I run over to Orchard Slope and ask Diana to come over and examine the trunk with me .
I have n't receive any instruction about keep it content secret and I know Miss Emily would n't mind Diana know about them , whatever they be .
It be a cool , gray afternoon and we get back to Green Gables just a the rain be begin to fall .
When we go up to my room the wind be rise and whistle through the bough of the big old Snow Queen outside of my window .
Diana be excite , and , I really believe , a little bit frighten .
We open the old trunk .
It be very small , and there be nothing in it but a big cardboard box .
The box be tie up and the knot seal with wax .
We lift it out and untied it .
I touch Diana 's finger a we do it , and both of u exclaim at once , `` How cold your hand be ! ''
In the box be a quaint , pretty , old-fashioned gown , not at all fade , make of blue muslin , with a little darker blue flower in it .
Under it we find a sash , a yellowed feather fan , and an envelope full of withered flower .
At the bottom of the box be a little brown book .
It be small and thin , like a girl 's exercise book , with leaf that have once be blue and pink , but be now quite fade , and stain in place .
On the fly leaf be write , in a very delicate hand , `` Emily Margaret Leith , '' and the same writing cover the first few page of the book .
The rest be not write on at all .
We sit there on the floor , Diana and I , and read the little book together , while the rain thud against the window pane .
June 19 , 18 -- I come to-day to spend a while with Aunt Margaret in Charlottetown .
It be so pretty here , where she live -- and ever so much nice than on the farm at home .
I have no cow to milk here or pig to fee .
Aunt Margaret have give me such a lovely blue muslin dress , and I be to have it make to wear at a garden party out at Brighton next week .
I never have a muslin dress before -- nothing but ugly print and dark woolen .
I wish we be rich , like Aunt Margaret .
Aunt Margaret laugh when I say this , and declare she would give all her wealth for my youth and beauty and light-heartedness .
I be only eighteen and I know I be very merry but I wonder if I be really pretty .
It seem to me that I be when I look in Aunt Margaret 's beautiful mirror .
They make me look very different from the old crack one in my room at home which always twist my face and turn me green .
But Aunt Margaret spoil her compliment by tell me I look exactly a she do at my age .
If I think I 'd ever look a Aunt Margaret do now , I do n't know what I 'd do .
She be so fat and red .
June 29 .
Last week I go to the garden party and I meet a young man call Paul Osborne .
He be a young artist from Montreal who be board over at Heppoch .
He be the handsome man I have ever see -- very tall and slender , with dreamy , dark eye and a pale , clever face .
I have not be able to keep from think about him ever since , and to-day he come over here and ask if he could paint me .
I felt very much flatter and so pleased when Aunt Margaret give him permission .
He say he want to paint me a `` Spring , '' stand under the poplar where a fine rain of sunshine fall through .
I be to wear my blue muslin gown and a wreath of flower on my hair .
He say I have such beautiful hair .
He have never see any of such a real pale gold .
Somehow it seem even pretty than ever to me since he praise it .
I have a letter from home to-day .
Ma say the blue hen steal her nest and come off with fourteen chicken , and that pa have sell the little spotted calf .
Somehow those thing do n't interest me like they once do .
July 9 .
The picture be come on very well , Mr. Osborne say .
I know he be make me look far too pretty in it , although her persists in say he ca n't do me justice .
He be go to send it to some great exhibition when finish , but he say he will make a little water-color copy for me .
He come every day to paint and we talk a great deal and he read me lovely thing out of his book .
I do n't understand them all , but I try to , and he explain them so nicely and be so patient with my stupidity .
And he say any one with my eye and hair and coloring do not need to be clever .
He say I have the sweet , merry laugh in the world .
But I will not write down all the compliment he have pay me .
I dare say he do not mean them at all .
In the evening we stroll among the spruce or sit on the bench under the acacia tree .
Sometimes we do n't talk at all , but I never find the time long .
Indeed , the minute just seem to fly -- and then the moon will come up , round and red , over the harbor and Mr. Osborne will sigh and say he suppose it be time for him to go .
July 24 .
I be so happy .
I be frighten at my happiness .
Oh , I do n't think life could ever be so beautiful for me a it be !
Paul love me !
He tell me so to-night a we walk by the harbor and watch the sunset , and he ask me to be his wife .
I have care for him ever since I meet him , but I be afraid I be not clever and well-educated enough for a wife for Paul .
Because , of course , I 'm only an ignorant little country girl and have live all my life on a farm .
Why , my hand be quite rough yet from the work I 've do .
But Paul just laugh when I say so , and take my hand and kiss them .
Then he look into my eye and laugh again , because I could n't hide from him how much I love him .
We be to be marry next spring and Paul say he will take me to Europe .
That will be very nice , but nothing matter so long a I be with him .
Paul 's people be very wealthy and his mother and sister be very fashionable .
I be frighten of them , but I do not tell Paul so because I think it would hurt him and oh , I would n't do that for the world .
There be nothing I would n't suffer if it would do him any good .
I never think any one could feel so .
I use to think if I love anybody I would want him to do everything for me and wait on me a if I be a princess .
But that be not the way at all .
Love make you very humble and you want to do everything yourself for the one you love .
August 10 .
Paul go home to-day .
Oh , it be so terrible !
I do n't know how I can bear to live even for a little while without him .
But this be silly of me , because I know he have to go and he will write often and come to me often .
But , still , it be so lonesome .
I do n't cry when he leave me because I want him to remember me smile in the way he like best , but I have be cry ever since and I ca n't stop , no matter how hard I try .
We have have such a beautiful fortnight .
Every day seem dearer and happy than the last , and now it be end and I feel a if it could never be the same again .
Oh , I be very foolish -- but I love him so dearly and if I be to lose his love I know I would die .
August 17 .
I think my heart be dead .
But no , it ca n't be , for it ache too much .
Paul 's mother come here to see me to-day .
She be not angry or disagreeable .
I would n't have be so frightened of her if she have be .
As it be , I felt that I could n't say a word .
She be very beautiful and stately and wonderful , with a low , cold voice and proud , dark eye .
Her face be like Paul 's but without the loveableness of his .
She talk to me for a long time and she say terrible thing -- terrible , because I know they be all true .
I seem to see everything through her eye .
She say that Paul be infatuate with my youth and beauty but that it would not last and what else I to give him ?
She say Paul must marry a woman of his own class , who could do honor to his fame and position .
She say that he be very talented and have a great career before him , but that if he marry me it would ruin his life .
I saw it all , just a she explain it out , and I tell her at last that I would not marry Paul , and she might tell him so .
But she smile and say I must tell him myself , because he would not believe any one else .
I could have beg her to spare me that , but I know it would be of no use .
I do not think she have any pity or mercy for any one .
Besides , what she say be quite true .
When she thank me for be so REASONABLE I tell her I be not do it to please her , but for Paul 's sake , because I would not spoil his life , and that I would always hate her .
She smile again and go away .
Oh , how can I bear it ?
I do not know any one could suffer like this !
August 18 .
I have do it .
I write to Paul to-day .
I know I must tell him by letter , because I could never make him believe it face to face .
I be afraid I could not even do it by letter .
I suppose a clever woman easily could , but I be so stupid .
I write a great many letter and tear them up , because I felt sure they would n't convince Paul .
At last I get one that I think would do .
I know I must make it seem a if I be very frivolous and heartless , or he would never believe .
I spell some word wrong and put in some mistake of grammar on purpose .
I tell him I have just be flirt with him , and that I have another fellow at home I like well .
I say FELLOW because I know it would disgust him .
I say that it be only because he be rich that I be tempt to marry him .
I think would my heart would break while I be write those dreadful falsehood .
But it be for his sake , because I must not spoil his life .
His mother tell me I would be a millstone around his neck .
I love Paul so much that I would do anything rather than be that .
It would be easy to die for him , but I do n't see how I can go on living .
I think my letter will convince Paul .
I suppose it convince Paul , because there be no further entry in the little brown book .
When we have finish it the tear be run down both our face .
`` Oh , poor , dear Miss Emily , '' sob Diana .
`` I 'm so sorry I ever think her funny and meddlesome . ''
`` She be good and strong and brave , '' I say .
`` I could never have be as unselfish a she be . ''
I think of Whittier 's line , `` The outward , wayward life we see The hidden spring we may not know . ''
At the back of the little brown book we find a faded water-color sketch of a young girl -- such a slim , pretty little thing , with big blue eye and lovely , long , ripple golden hair .
Paul Osborne 's name be write in faded ink across the corner .
We put everything back in the box .
Then we sit for a long time by my window in silence and thought of many thing , until the rainy twilight come down and blot out the world .
IX .
SARA 'S WAY The warm June sunshine be come down through the tree , white with the virginal bloom of apple-blossoms , and through the shining pane , make a tremulous mosaic upon Mrs. Eben Andrews ' spotless kitchen floor .
Through the open door , a wind , fragrant from long wandering over orchard and clover meadow , drift in , and , from the window , Mrs. Eben and her guest could look down over a long , misty valley slop to a sparkle sea .
Mrs. Jonas Andrews be spend the afternoon with her sister-in-law .
She be a big , sonsy woman , with full-blown peony cheek and large , dreamy , brown eye .
When she have be a slim , pink-and-white girl those eye have be very romantic .
Now they be so out of keep with the rest of her appearance a to be ludicrous .
Mrs. Eben , sit at the other end of the small tea-table that be draw up against the window , be a thin little woman , with a very sharp nose and light , fade blue eye .
She look like a woman whose opinion be always very decided and warrant to wear .
`` How do Sara like teach at Newbridge ? ''
ask Mrs. Jonas , help herself a second time to Mrs. Eben 's matchless black fruit cake , and thereby bestow a subtle compliment which Mrs. Eben do not fail to appreciate .
`` Well , I guess she like it pretty well -- good than down at White Sands , anyway , '' answer Mrs. Eben .
`` Yes , I may say it suit her .
Of course it 's a long walk there and back .
I think it would have be wise for her to keep on boarding at Morrison 's , a she do all winter , but Sara be bind to be home all she can .
And I must say the walk seem to agree with her . ''
`` I be down to see Jonas ' aunt at Newbridge last night , '' say Mrs. Jonas , `` and she say she 'd hear that Sara have make up her mind to take Lige Baxter at last , and that they be to be marry in the fall .
She ask me if it be true .
I say I do n't know , but I hop to mercy it be .
Now , be it , Louisa ? ''
`` Not a word of it , '' say Mrs. Eben sorrowfully .
`` Sara have n't any more notion of take Lige than ever she have .
I 'm sure it 's not MY fault .
I 've talk and argue till I 'm tired .
I declare to you , Amelia , I be terribly disappointed .
I 'd set my heart on Sara 's marrying Lige -- and now to think she wo n't ! ''
`` She be a very foolish girl , '' say Mrs. Jonas , judicially .
`` If Lige Baxter be n't good enough for her , who be ? ''
`` And he 's so well off , '' say Mrs. Eben , `` and do such a good business , and be well speak of by every one .
And that lovely new house of his at Newbridge , with bay window and hardwood floor !
I 've dream and dream of see Sara there a mistress . ''
`` Maybe you 'll see her there yet , '' say Mrs. Jonas , who always take a hopeful view of everything , even of Sara 's contrariness .
But she felt discouraged , too .
Well , she have do her best .
If Lige Baxter 's broth be spoil it be not for lack of cook .
Every Andrews in Avonlea have be try for two year to bring about a match between him and Sara , and Mrs. Jonas have bear her part valiantly .
Mrs. Eben 's despondent reply be cut short by the appearance of Sara herself .
The girl stand for a moment in the doorway and look with a faintly amuse air at her aunt .
She know quite well that they have be discuss her , for Mrs. Jonas , who carry her conscience in her face , look guilty , and Mrs. Eben have not be able wholly to banish her aggrieved expression .
Sara put away her book , kiss Mrs. Jonas ' rosy cheek , and sit down at the table .
Mrs. Eben bring her some fresh tea , some hot roll , and a little jelly-pot of the apricot preserve Sara like , and she cut some more fruit cake for her in moist plummy slice .
She might be out of patience with Sara 's `` contrariness , '' but she spoil and pet her for all that , for the girl be the very core of her childless heart .
Sara Andrews be not , strictly speak , pretty ; but there be that about her which make people look at her twice .
She be very dark , with a rich , dusky sort of darkness , her deep eye be velvety brown , and her lip and cheek be crimson .
She eat her roll and preserve with a healthy appetite , sharpen by her long walk from Newbridge , and tell amuse little story of her day 's work that make the two old woman shake with laughter , and exchange shy glance of pride over her cleverness .
When tea be over she pour the remain content of the cream jug into a saucer .
`` I must fee my pussy , '' she say a she leave the room .
`` That girl beat me , '' say Mrs. Eben with a sigh of perplexity .
`` You know that black cat we 've have for two year ?
Eben and I have always make a lot of him , but Sara seem to have a dislike to him .
Never a peaceful nap under the stove could he have when Sara be home -- out he must go .
Well , a little spell ago he get his leg break accidentally and we think he 'd have to be kill .
But Sara would n't hear of it .
She get splint and set his leg just a knacky , and bandage it up , and she have tend him like a sick baby ever since .
He 's just about well now , and he live in clover , that cat do .
It 's just her way .
There 's them sick chickens she 's be doctor for a week , give them pill and thing !
`` And she think more of that wretched-looking calf that get poison with paris green than of all the other stock on the place . ''
As the summer wear away , Mrs. Eben try to reconcile herself to the destruction of her air castle .
But she scold Sara considerably .
`` Sara , why do n't you like Lige ?
I 'm sure he be a model young man . ''
`` I do n't like model young men , '' answer Sara impatiently .
`` And I really think I hate Lige Baxter .
He have always be hold up to me a such a paragon .
I 'm tired of hear about all his perfection .
I know them all off by heart .
He do n't drink , he do n't smoke , he do n't steal , he do n't tell fibs , he never lose his temper , he do n't swear , and he go to church regularly .
Such a faultless creature a that would certainly get on my nerve .
No , no , you 'll have to pick out another mistress for your new house at the Bridge , Aunt Louisa . ''
When the apple tree , that have be pink and white in June , be russet and bronze in October , Mrs. Eben have a quilting .
The quilt be of the `` Rising Star '' pattern , which be consider in Avonlea to be very handsome .
Mrs. Eben have intend it for part of Sara 's `` set out , '' and , while she sew the red-and-white diamond together , she have regale her fancy by imagine she saw it spread out on the spare-room bed of the house at Newbridge , with herself lay her bonnet and shawl on it when she go to see Sara .
Those bright vision have fade with the apple blossom , and Mrs. Eben hardly have the heart to finish the quilt at all .
The quilting come off on Saturday afternoon , when Sara could be home from school .
All Mrs. Eben 's particular friend be range around the quilt , and tongue and finger fly .
Sara flit about , help her aunt with the supper preparation .
She be in the room , get the custard dish out of the cupboard , when Mrs. George Pye arrive .
Mrs. George have a genius for be late .
She be later than usual to-day , and she look excited .
Every woman around the `` Rising Star '' felt that Mrs. George have some news worth listen to , and there be an expectant silence while she pull out her chair and settle herself at the quilt .
She be a tall , thin woman with a long pale face and liquid green eye .
As she look around the circle she have the air of a cat daintily lick it chop over some titbit .
`` I suppose , '' she say , `` that you have hear the news ? ''
She know perfectly well that they have not .
Every other woman at the frame stop quilt .
Mrs. Eben come to the door with a pan of puffy , smoking-hot soda biscuit in her hand .
Sara stop count the custard dish , and turn her ripely-colored face over her shoulder .
Even the black cat , at her foot , cease preen his fur .
Mrs. George felt that the undivided attention of her audience be hers .
`` Baxter Brothers have fail , '' she say , her green eye shoot out flash of light .
`` Failed DISGRACEFULLY ! ''
She pause for a moment ; but , since her hearer be a yet speechless from surprise , she go on .
`` George come home from Newbridge , just before I leave , with the news .
You could have knock me down with a feather .
I should have think that firm be as steady a the Rock of Gibraltar !
But they 're ruin -- absolutely ruin .
Louisa , dear , can you find me a good needle ? ''
`` Louisa , dear , '' have set her biscuit down with a sharp thud , reckless of result .
A sharp , metallic tinkle sound at the closet where Sara have strike the edge of her tray against a shelf .
The sound seem to loosen the paralyzed tongue , and everybody begin talk and exclaim at once .
Clear and shrill above the confusion rise Mrs. George Pye 's voice .
`` Yes , indeed , you may well say so .
It IS disgraceful .
And to think how everybody trust them !
George will lose considerable by the crash , and so will a good many folk .
Everything will have to go -- Peter Baxter 's farm and Lige 's grand new house .
Mrs. Peter wo n't carry her head so high after this , I 'll be bind .
George saw Lige at the Bridge , and he say he look dreadful cut up and ashamed . ''
`` Who , or what 's to blame for the failure ? ''
ask Mrs. Rachel Lynde sharply .
She do not like Mrs. George Pye .
`` There be a dozen different story on the go , '' be the reply .
`` As far a George could make out , Peter Baxter have be speculate with other folk ' money , and this be the result .
Everybody always suspect that Peter be crook ; but you 'd have think that Lige would have keep him straight .
HE have always such a reputation for saintliness . ''
`` I do n't suppose Lige know anything about it , '' say Mrs. Rachel indignantly .
`` Well , he 'd ought to , then .
If he be n't a knave he 's a fool , '' say Mrs. Harmon Andrews , who have formerly be among his warm partisan .
`` He should have keep watch on Peter and find out how the business be be run .
Well , Sara , you be the level-headest of u all -- I 'll admit that now .
A nice mess it would be if you be marry or engage to Lige , and him leave without a cent -- even if he can clear his character ! ''
`` There be a good deal of talk about Peter , and swindling , and a lawsuit , '' say Mrs. George Pye , quilt industriously .
`` Most of the Newbridge folk think it 's all Peter 's fault , and that Lige be n't to blame .
But you ca n't tell .
I dare say Lige be as deep in the mire a Peter .
He be always a little too good to be wholesome , I think . ''
There be a clink of glass at the cupboard , a Sara set the tray down .
She come forward and stand behind Mrs. Rachel Lynde 's chair , rest her shapely hand on that lady 's broad shoulder .
Her face be very pale , but her flashing eye seek and face defiantly Mrs. George Pye 's cat-like orb .
Her voice quiver with passion and contempt .
`` You 'll all have a fling at Lige Baxter , now that he 's down .
You could n't say enough in his praise , once .
I 'll not stand by and hear it hint that Lige Baxter be a swindler .
You all know perfectly well that Lige be as honest a the day , if he IS so unfortunate a to have an unprincipled brother .
You , Mrs. Pye , know it good than any one , yet you come here and run him down the minute he 's in trouble .
If there 's another word say here against Lige Baxter I 'll leave the room and the house till you 're go , every one of you . ''
She flash a glance around the quilt that cow the gossip .
Even Mrs. George Pye 's eye flicker and wan and quail .
Nothing more be say until Sara have pick up her glass and march from the room .
Even then they dare not speak above a whisper .
Mrs. Pye , alone , smart from snub , venture to ejaculate , `` Pity save u ! ''
a Sara slam the door .
For the next fortnight gossip and rumor hold high carnival in Avonlea and Newbridge , and Mrs. Eben grow to dread the sight of a visitor .
`` They 're bind to talk about the Baxter failure and criticize Lige , '' she deplore to Mrs. Jonas .
`` And it rile Sara up so terrible .
She use to declare that she hat Lige , and now she wo n't listen to a word against him .
Not that I say any , myself .
I 'm sorry for him , and I believe he 's do his best .
But I ca n't stop other people from talk . ''
One evening Harmon Andrews come in with a fresh budget of news .
`` The Baxter business be pretty near wind up at last , '' he say , a he light his pipe .
`` Peter have get his lawsuit settle and have hush up the talk about swindling , somehow .
Trust him for slip out of a scrape clean and clever .
He do n't seem to worry any , but Lige look like a walk skeleton .
Some folk pity him , but I say he should have keep the run of thing well and not have trust everything to Peter .
I hear he 's go out West in the Spring , to take up land in Alberta and try his hand at farming .
Best thing he can do , I guess .
Folks hereabouts have have enough of the Baxter breed .
Newbridge will be well rid of them . ''
Sara , who have be sit in the dark corner by the stove , suddenly stand up , let the black cat slip from her lap to the floor .
Mrs. Eben glance at her apprehensively , for she be afraid the girl be go to break out in a tirade against the complacent Harmon .
But Sara only walk fiercely out of the kitchen , with a sound a if she be struggle for breath .
In the hall she snatch a scarf from the wall , flung open the front door , and rush down the lane in the chill , pure air of the autumn twilight .
Her heart be throb with the pity she always felt for bruise and bait creature .
On and on she go heedlessly , intent only on walk away her pain , over gray , brood field and wind slope , and along the skirt of ruinous , dusky pine wood , curtain with fine spun purple gloom .
Her dress brush against the brittle grass and sere fern , and the moist night wind , loose from wild place far away , blow her hair about her face .
At last she come to a little rustic gate , lead into a shadowy wood-lane .
The gate be bind with willow withe , and , a Sara fumble vainly at them with her chill hand , a man 's firm step come up behind her , and Lige Baxter 's hand close over her 's .
`` Oh , Lige ! ''
she say , with something like a sob .
He open the gate and draw her through .
She leave her hand in his , a they walk through the lane where lissome bough of young sapling flick against their head , and the air be wildly sweet with the woodsy odor .
`` It 's a long while since I 've see you , Lige , '' Sara say at last .
Lige look wistfully down at her through the gloom .
`` Yes , it seem very long to me , Sara .
But I do n't think you 'd care to see me , after what you say last spring .
And you know thing have be go against me .
People have say hard thing .
I 've be unfortunate , Sara , and may be too easy-going , but I 've be honest .
Do n't believe folk if they tell you I be n't . ''
`` Indeed , I never do -- not for a minute ! ''
fire Sara .
`` I 'm glad of that .
I 'm go away , later on .
I felt bad enough when you refuse to marry me , Sara ; but it 's well that you do n't .
I 'm man enough to be thankful my trouble do n't fall on you . ''
Sara stop and turn to him .
Beyond them the lane open into a field and a clear lake of crocus sky cast a dim light into the shadow where they stand .
Above it be a new moon , like a gleaming silver scimitar .
Sara saw it be over her left shoulder , and she saw Lige 's face above her , tender and trouble .
`` Lige , '' she say softly , `` do you love me still ? ''
`` You know I do , '' say Lige sadly .
That be all Sara want .
With a quick movement she nestle into his arm , and lay her warm , tear-wet cheek against his cold one .
When the amazing rumor that Sara be go to marry Lige Baxter , and go out West with him , circulate through the Andrews clan , hand be lift and head be shake .
Mrs. Jonas puffed and pant up the hill to learn if it be true .
She find Mrs. Eben stitch for dear life on an `` Irish Chain '' quilt , while Sara be sew the diamond on another `` Rising Star '' with a martyr-like expression on her face .
Sara hat patchwork above everything else , but Mrs. Eben be mistress up to a certain point .
`` You 'll have to make that quilt , Sara Andrews .
If you 're go to live out on those prairie , you 'll need pile of quilt , and you shall have them if I sew my finger to the bone .
But you 'll have to help make them . ''
And Sara have to .
When Mrs. Jonas come , Mrs. Eben send Sara off to the post-office to get her out of the way .
`` I suppose it 's true , this time ? ''
say Mrs. Jonas .
`` Yes , indeed , '' say Mrs. Eben briskly .
`` Sara be set on it .
There be no use try to move her -- you know that -- so I 've just conclude to make the best of it .
I 'm no turn-coat .
Lige Baxter be Lige Baxter still , neither more nor less .
I 've always say he 's a fine young man , and I say so still .
After all , he and Sara wo n't be any poor than Eben and I be when we start out . ''
Mrs. Jonas heave a sigh of relief .
`` I 'm real glad you take that view of it , Louisa .
I 'm not displease , either , although Mrs. Harmon would take my head off if she hear me say so .
I always like Lige .
But I must say I 'm amazed , too , after the way Sara use to rail at him . ''
`` Well , we might have expect it , '' say Mrs. Eben sagely .
`` It be always Sara 's way .
When any creature get sick or unfortunate she seem to take it right into her heart .
So you may say Lige Baxter 's failure be a success after all . ''
X .
THE SON OF HIS MOTHER Thyra Carewe be wait for Chester to come home .
She sit by the west window of the kitchen , look out into the gathering of the shadow with the expectant immovability that characterize her .
She never twitch or fidget .
Into whatever she do she put the whole force of her nature .
If it be sit still , she sit still .
`` A stone image would be twitchedly beside Thyra , '' say Mrs. Cynthia White , her neighbor across the lane .
`` It get on my nerve , the way she sit at that window sometimes , with no more motion than a statue and her great eye burn down the lane .
When I read the commandment , ` Thou shalt have no other god before me , ' I declare I always think of Thyra .
She worship that son of hers far ahead of her Creator .
She 'll be punish for it yet . ''
Mrs. White be watch Thyra now , knit furiously , a she watch , in order to lose no time .
Thyra 's hand be fold idly in her lap .
She have not move a muscle since she sit down .
Mrs. White complain it give her the weeps .
`` It do n't seem natural to see a woman sit so still , '' she say .
`` Sometimes the thought come to me , ` what if she 's have a stroke , like her old Uncle Horatio , and be sit there stone dead ! ' ''
The evening be cold and autumnal .
There be a fiery red spot out at sea , where the sun have set , and , above it , over a chill , clear , saffron sky , be reef of purple-black cloud .
The river , below the Carewe homestead , be livid .
Beyond it , the sea be dark and brooding .
It be an evening to make most people shiver and forebode an early winter ; but Thyra love it , a she love all stern , harshly beautiful thing .
She would not light a lamp because it would blot out the savage grandeur of sea and sky .
It be well to wait in the darkness until Chester come home .
He be late to-night .
She think he have be detain over-time at the harbor , but she be not anxious .
He would come straight home to her as soon a his business be complete -- of that she felt sure .
Her thought go out along the bleak harbor road to meet him .
She could see him plainly , come with his free stride through the sandy hollow and over the windy hill , in the harsh , cold light of that forbid sunset , strong and handsome in his comely youth , with her own deeply cleft chin and his father 's dark gray , straightforward eye .
No other woman in Avonlea have a son like hers -- her only one .
In his brief absences she yearn after him with a maternal passion that have in it something of physical pain , so intense be it .
She think of Cynthia White , knit across the road , with contemptuous pity .
That woman have no son -- nothing but pale-faced girl .
Thyra have never want a daughter , but she pity and despise all sonless woman .
Chester 's dog whine suddenly and piercingly on the doorstep outside .
He be tire of the cold stone and want his warm corner behind the stove .
Thyra smile grimly when she hear him .
She have no intention of let him in .
She say she have always dislike dog , but the truth , although she would not glance at it , be that she hat the animal because Chester love him .
She could not share his love with even a dumb brute .
She love no living creature in the world but her son , and fiercely demand a like concentrated affection from him .
Hence it please her to hear his dog whine .
It be now quite dark ; the star have begin to shine out over the shorn harvest field , and Chester have not come .
Across the lane Cynthia White have pull down her blind , in despair of out-watching Thyra , and have light a lamp .
Lively shadow of little girl-shapes pass and repassed on the pale oblong of light .
They make Thyra conscious of her exceed loneliness .
She have just decide that she would walk down the lane and wait for Chester on the bridge , when a thunderous knock come at the east kitchen door .
She recognize August Vorst 's knock and light a lamp in no great haste , for she do not like him .
He be a gossip and Thyra hat gossip , in man or woman .
But August be privilege .
She carry the lamp in her hand , when she go to the door , and it upward-striking light give her face a ghastly appearance .
She do not mean to ask August in , but he push past her cheerfully , not wait to be invite .
He be a midget of a man , lame of foot and hunched of back , with a white , boyish face , despite his middle age and deep-set , malicious black eye .
He pull a crumpled newspaper from his pocket and hand it to Thyra .
He be the unofficial mail-carrier of Avonlea .
Most of the people give him a trifle for bring their letter and paper from the office .
He earn small sum in various other way , and so contrived to keep the life in his stunted body .
There be always venom in August 's gossip .
It be say that he make more mischief in Avonlea in a day than be make otherwise in a year , but people tolerate him by reason of his infirmity .
To be sure , it be the tolerance they give to inferior creature , and August felt this .
Perhaps it account for a good deal of his malignity .
He hat most those who be kindest to him , and , of these , Thyra Carewe above all .
He hat Chester , too , a he hat strong , shapely creature .
His time have come at last to wind them both , and his exultation shone through his crook body and pinched feature like an illuminating lamp .
Thyra perceive it and vaguely felt something antagonistic in it .
She point to the rocking-chair , a she might have point out a mat to a dog .
August crawl into it and smile .
He be go to make her writhe presently , this woman who look down upon him a some venomous creep thing she disdain to crush with her foot .
`` Did you see anything of Chester on the road ? ''
ask Thyra , give August the very opening he desire .
`` He go to the harbor after tea to see Joe Raymond about the loan of his boat , but it 's the time he should be back .
I ca n't think what keep the boy . ''
`` Just what keep most men -- leave out creature like me -- at some time or other in their life .
A girl -- a pretty girl , Thyra .
It please me to look at her .
Even a hunchback can use his eye , eh ?
Oh , she 's a rare one ! ''
`` What be the man talk about ? ''
say Thyra wonderingly .
`` Damaris Garland , to be sure .
Chester 's down at Tom Blair 's now , talk to her -- and look more than his tongue say , too , of that you may be sure .
Well , well , we be all young once , Thyra -- all young once , even crook little August Vorst .
Eh , now ? ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
say Thyra .
She have sit down in a chair before him , with her hand fold in her lap .
Her face , always pale , have not change ; but her lip be curiously white .
August Vorst saw this and it please him .
Also , her eye be worth look at , if you like to hurt people -- and that be the only pleasure August take in life .
He would drink this delightful cup of revenge for her long year of disdainful kindness -- ah , he would drink it slowly to prolong it sweetness .
Sip by sip -- he rub his long , thin , white hand together -- sip by sip , taste each mouthful .
`` Eh , now ?
You know well enough , Thyra . ''
`` I know nothing of what you would be at , August Vorst .
You speak of my son and Damaris -- be that the name ?
-- Damaris Garland a if they be something to each other .
I ask you what you mean by it ? ''
`` Tut , tut , Thyra , nothing very terrible .
There 's no need to look like that about it .
Young men will be young men to the end of time , and there 's no harm in Chester 's liking to look at a lass , eh , now ?
Or in talk to her either ?
The little baggage , with the red lip of her !
She and Chester will make a pretty pair .
He 's not so ill-looking for a man , Thyra . ''
`` I be not a very patient woman , August , '' say Thyra coldly .
`` I have ask you what you mean , and I want a straight answer .
Is Chester down at Tom Blair 's while I have be sit here , alone , wait for him ? ''
August nod .
He saw that it would not be wise to trifle long with Thyra .
`` That he be .
I be there before I come here .
He and Damaris be sit in a corner by themselves , and very well-satisfied they seem to be with each other .
Tut , tut , Thyra , do n't take the news so .
I think you know .
It 's no secret that Chester have be go after Damaris ever since she come here .
But what then ?
You ca n't tie him to your apron string forever , woman .
He 'll be find a mate for himself , a he should .
Seeing that he 's straight and well-shaped , no doubt Damaris will look with favor on him .
Old Martha Blair declare the girl love him good than her eye . ''
Thyra make a sound like a strangled moan in the middle of August 's speech .
She hear the rest of it immovably .
When it come to an end she stand and look down upon him in a way that silence him .
`` You 've tell the news you come to tell , and gloat over it , and now get you go , '' she say slowly .
`` Now , Thyra , '' he begin , but she interrupt him threateningly .
`` Get you go , I say !
And you need not bring my mail here any long .
I want no more of your misshapen body and lie tongue ! ''
August go , but at the door he turn for a parting stab .
`` My tongue be not a lie one , Mrs. Carewe .
I 've tell you the truth , a all Avonlea know it .
Chester be mad about Damaris Garland .
It 's no wonder I think you know what all the settlement can see .
But you 're such a jealous , odd body , I suppose the boy hide it from you for fear you 'd go into a tantrum .
As for me , I 'll not forget that you 've turn me from your door because I chance to bring you news you 'd no fancy for . ''
Thyra do not answer him .
When the door close behind him she lock it and blow out the light .
Then she throw herself face downward on the sofa and burst into wild tear .
Her very soul ache .
She weep a tempestuously and unreasoningly a youth weeps , although she be not young .
It seem a if she be afraid to stop weep l she should go mad thinking .
But , after a time , tear fail her , and she begin bitterly to go over , word by word , what August Vorst have say .
That her son should ever cast eye of love on any girl be something Thyra have never think about .
She would not believe it possible that he should love any one but herself , who love him so much .
And now the possibility invade her mind a subtly and coldly and remorselessly a a sea-fog steal landward .
Chester have be bear to her at an age when most woman be let their child slip from them into the world , with some natural tear and heartache , but content to let them go , after enjoy their sweet year .
Thyra 's late-come motherhood be all the more intense and passionate because of it very lateness .
She have be very ill when her son be bear , and have lain helpless for long week , during which other woman have tend her baby for her .
She have never be able to forgive them for this .
Her husband have die before Chester be a year old .
She have lay their son in his dying arm and receive him back again with a last benediction .
To Thyra that moment have something of a sacrament in it .
It be a if the child have be doubly give to her , with a right to him solely that nothing could take away or transcend .
Marrying !
She have never think of it in connection with him .
He do not come of a marrying race .
His father have be sixty when he have marry her , Thyra Lincoln , likewise well on in life .
Few of the Lincolns or Carewes have marry young , many not at all .
And , to her , Chester be her baby still .
He belong solely to her .
And now another woman have dare to look upon him with eye of love .
Damaris Garland !
Thyra now remembered see her .
She be a new-comer in Avonlea , have come to live with her uncle and aunt after the death of her mother .
Thyra have meet her on the bridge one day a month previously .
Yes , a man might think she be pretty -- a low-browed girl , with a wave of reddish-gold hair , and crimson lip blossom out against the strange , milk-whiteness of her skin .
Her eye , too -- Thyra recall them -- hazel in tint , deep , and laughter-brimmed .
The girl have go past her with a smile that bring out many dimple .
There be a certain insolent quality in her beauty , a if it flaunt itself somewhat too defiantly in the beholder 's eye .
Thyra have turn and look after the lithe , young creature , wonder who she might be .
And to-night , while she , his mother , wait for him in darkness and loneliness , he be down at Blair 's , talk to this girl !
He love her ; and it be past doubt that she love him .
The thought be more bitter than death to Thyra .
That she should dare !
Her anger be all against the girl .
She have lay a snare to get Chester and he , like a fool , be entangle in it , think , man-fashion , only of her great eye and red lip .
Thyra think savagely of Damaris ' beauty .
`` She shall not have him , '' she say , with slow emphasis .
`` I will never give him up to any other woman , and , least of all , to her .
She would leave me no place in his heart at all -- me , his mother , who almost die to give him life .
He belong to me !
Let her look for the son of some other woman -- some woman who have many son .
She shall not have my only one ! ''
She get up , wrap a shawl about her head , and go out into the darkly golden evening .
The cloud have clear away , and the moon be shin .
The air be chill , with a bell-like clearness .
The alder by the river rustle eerily a she walk by them and out upon the bridge .
Here she pace up and down , peer with troubled eye along the road beyond , or lean over the rail , look at the sparkle silver ribbon of moonlight that garland the water .
Late traveler pass her , and wonder at her presence and mien .
Carl White saw her , and tell his wife about her when he get home .
`` Striding to and fro over the bridge like mad !
At first I think it be old , crazy May Blair .
What do you suppose she be do down there at this hour of the night ? ''
`` Watching for Ches , no doubt , '' say Cynthia .
`` He ai n't home yet .
Likely he 's snug at Blairs ' .
I do wonder if Thyra suspicion that he go after Damaris .
I 've never dare to hint it to her .
She 'd be a liable to fly at me , tooth and claw , a not . ''
`` Well , she pick out a precious queer night for moon-gazing , '' say Carl , who be a jolly soul and take life a he find it .
`` It 's bitter cold -- there 'll be a hard frost .
It 's a pity she ca n't get it grain into her that the boy be grow up and must have his fling like the other lad .
She 'll go out of her mind yet , like her old grandmother Lincoln , if she do n't ease up .
I 've a notion to go down to the bridge and reason a bit with her . ''
`` Indeed , and you 'll do no such thing ! ''
cry Cynthia .
`` Thyra Carewe be best left alone , if she be in a tantrum .
She 's like no other woman in Avonlea -- or out of it .
I 'd as soon meddle with a tiger a her , if she 's rampage about Chester .
I do n't envy Damaris Garland her life if she go in there .
Thyra 'd sooner strangle her than not , I guess . ''
`` You woman be all terrible hard on Thyra , '' say Carl , good-naturedly .
He have be in love with Thyra , himself , long ago , and he still like her in a friendly fashion .
He always stand up for her when the Avonlea woman run her down .
He felt troubled about her all night , recall her a she pace the bridge .
He wish he have go back , in spite of Cynthia .
When Chester come home he meet his mother on the bridge .
In the faint , yet penetrate , moonlight they look curiously alike , but Chester have the milder face .
He be very handsome .
Even in the seething of her pain and jealousy Thyra yearn over his beauty .
She would have like to put up her hand and caress his face , but her voice be very hard when she ask him where he have be so late .
`` I call in at Tom Blair 's on my way home from the harbor , '' he answer , try to walk on .
But she hold him back by his arm .
`` Did you go there to see Damaris ? ''
she demand fiercely .
Chester be uncomfortable .
Much a he love his mother , he felt , and always have felt , an awe of her and an impatient dislike of her dramatic way of speaking and acting .
He reflect , resentfully , that no other young man in Avonlea , who have be pay a friendly call , would be meet by his mother at midnight and hold up in such tragic fashion to account for himself .
He try vainly to loosen her hold upon his arm , but he understand quite well that he must give her an answer .
Being strictly straight-forward by nature and upbringing , he tell the truth , albeit with more anger in his tone than he have ever show to his mother before .
`` Yes , '' he say shortly .
Thyra release his arm , and strike her hand together with a sharp cry .
There be a savage note in it .
She could have slay Damaris Garland at that moment .
`` Do n't go on so , mother , '' say Chester , impatiently .
`` Come in out of the cold .
It be n't fit for you to be here .
Who have be tamper with you ?
What if I do go to see Damaris ? ''
`` Oh -- oh -- oh ! ''
cry Thyra .
`` I be wait for you -- alone -- and you be think only of her !
Chester , answer me -- do you love her ? ''
The blood roll rapidly over the boy 's face .
He mutter something and try to pass on , but she catch him again .
He force himself to speak gently .
`` What if I do , mother ? ''
It would n't be such a dreadful thing , would it ? ''
`` And me ?
And me ? ''
cry Thyra .
`` What be I to you , then ? ''
`` You be my mother .
I would n't love you any the less because I care for another , too . ''
`` I wo n't have you love another , '' she cry .
`` I want all your love -- all !
What 's that baby-face to you , compare to your mother ?
I have the best right to you .
I wo n't give you up . ''
Chester realize that there be no argue with such a mood .
He walk on , resolve to set the matter aside until she might be more reasonable .
But Thyra would not have it so .
She follow on after him , under the alder that crowd over the lane .
`` Promise me that you 'll not go there again , '' she entreat .
`` Promise me that you 'll give her up . ''
`` I ca n't promise such a thing , '' he cry angrily .
His anger hurt her bad than a blow , but she do not flinch .
`` You 're not engage to her ? ''
she cry out .
`` Now , mother , be quiet .
All the settlement will hear you .
Why do you object to Damaris ?
You do n't know how sweet she be .
When you know her -- '' `` I will never know her ! ''
cry Thyra furiously .
`` And she shall not have you !
She shall not , Chester ! ''
He make no answer .
She suddenly break into tear and loud sob .
Touched with remorse , he stop and put his arm about her .
`` Mother , mother , do n't !
I ca n't bear to see you cry so .
But , indeed , you be unreasonable .
Did n't you ever think the time would come when I would want to marry , like other men ? ''
`` No , no !
And I will not have it -- I can not bear it , Chester .
You must promise not to go to see her again .
I wo n't go into the house this night until you do .
I 'll stay out here in the bitter cold until you promise to put her out of your thought . ''
`` That 's beyond my power , mother .
Oh , mother , you 're make it hard for me .
Come in , come in !
You 're shiver with cold now .
You 'll be sick . ''
`` Not a step will I stir till you promise .
Say you wo n't go to see that girl any more , and there 's nothing I wo n't do for you .
But if you put her before me , I 'll not go in -- I never will go in . ''
With most woman this would have be an empty threat ; but it be not so with Thyra , and Chester know it .
He know she would keep her word .
And he fear more than that .
In this frenzy of hers what might she not do ?
She come of a strange breed , a have be say disapprovingly when Luke Carewe marry her .
There be a strain of insanity in the Lincolns .
A Lincoln woman have drown herself once .
Chester thought of the river , and grow sick with fright .
For a moment even his passion for Damaris weaken before the old tie .
`` Mother , calm yourself .
Oh , surely there 's no need of all this !
Let u wait until to-morrow , and talk it over then .
I 'll hear all you have to say .
Come in , dear . ''
Thyra loosen her arm from about him , and step back into a moon-lit space .
Looking at him tragically , she extend her arm and speak slowly and solemnly .
`` Chester , choose between u .
If you choose her , I shall go from you to-night , and you will never see me again ! ''
`` Mother ! ''
`` Choose ! ''
she reiterate , fiercely .
He felt her long ascendancy .
Its influence be not to be shake off in a moment .
