You see , he know that he have find the place where Granny be in the habit of take a sun-nap .
`` So , '' say he , `` this be the place where you rest , Old Mrs. Fox , after run Bowser almost off his foot .
I think we will give you a surprise one of these day .
Yes , indeed , I think we will give you a surprise .
You have fool u many time , and now it be our turn . ''
The next day Farmer Brown 's boy shoulder his terrible gun and send Bowser the Hound to hunt for the trail of Old Granny Fox .
It be n't long before Bowser 's great voice tell all the Great World that he have find Granny 's track .
Farmer Brown 's boy grin just a he have the day before .
Then with his terrible gun he go over to the Green Forest and hid under some pine bough right on the edge of that sunny knoll .
He wait patiently a long , long time .
He hear Bowser 's great voice grow more and more excited a he follow Old Granny Fox .
By and by Bowser stop bay and begin to yelp impatiently .
Farmer Brown 's boy know exactly what that meant .
It mean that Granny have play one of her smart trick and Bowser have lose her trail .
A few minute later out of the Green Forest come Old Granny Fox , and she be grin , for once more she have fool Bowser the Hound and now could take a nap in peace .
Still grin , she turn around two or three time to make herself comfortable and then , with a sigh of contentment , curl up for a sun-nap , and in a few minute be asleep .
And just a little way off behind the pine boughs sat Farmer Brown 's boy hold his terrible gun and grinning .
At last he have catch Old Granny Fox napping .
CHAPTER VII : Granny Fox Has A Bad Dream Nothing ever simply happen ; Bear that point in mind .
If you look long and hard enough A cause you 'll always find .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox be dream .
Yes , Sir , she be dream .
There she lay , curl up on the sunny little knoll on the edge of the Green Forest , fast asleep and dreaming .
It be a very pleasant and very comfortable place indeed .
You see , jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun pour his warm ray right down there from the blue , blue sky .
When Old Granny Fox be tire , she often slip over there for a short nap and sun-bath even in winter .
She be quite sure that no one know anything about it .
It be one of her secret .
This morning Old Granny Fox be very tired , unusually so .
In the first place she have be out hunt all night .
Then , before she could reach home , Bowser the Hound have find her track and start to follow them .
Of course , it would n't have do to go home then .
It would n't have do at all .
Bowser would have follow her straight there and so find out where she live .
So she have lead Bowser far away across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest and finally play one of her smart trick which have so mixed her track that Bowser could no longer follow them .
While he have sniff and snuff and snuff and sniff with that wonderful nose of his , try to find out where she have go , Old Granny Fox have trot straight to the sunny knoll and there curl up to rest .
Right away she fell asleep .
Now Old Granny Fox , like most of the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , sleep with her ear wide open .
Her eye may be close , but not her ear .
Those be always on guard , even when she be asleep , and at the least sound open fly her eye , and she be ready to run .
If it be not for the way her sharp ears keep guard , she would n't dare take nap in the open right in broad daylight .
If you ever want to catch a Fox asleep , you must n't make the teeny , weeny noise .
Just remember that .
Now Old Granny Fox have no sooner close her eye than she begin to dream .
At first it be a very pleasant dream , the pleasantest dream a Fox can have .
It be of a chicken dinner , all the chicken she could eat .
Granny certainly enjoy that dream .
It make her smack her lip quite a if it be a real and not a dream dinner she be enjoy .
But presently the dream change and become a bad dream .
Yes , indeed , it become a bad dream .
It be as bad a at first it have be good .
It seem to Granny that Bowser the Hound have become very smart , smart than she have ever know him to be before .
Do what she would , she could n't fool him .
Not one of all the trick she know , and she know a great many , fool him at all .
They do n't puzzle him long enough for her to get her breath .
Bowser keep get nearer and nearer and nearer , all in the dream , you know , until it seem a if his great voice sound right at her very heels .
She be so tired that it seem to her that she could n't run another step .
It be a very , very real dream .
You know dream sometimes do seem very real indeed .
This be the way it be with the bad dream of Old Granny Fox .
It seem to her that she could feel the breath of Bowser the Hound and that his great jaw be just go to close on her and shake her to death .
`` Oh !
Oh ! ''
cry Granny and wake herself up .
Her eye fly open .
Then she give a great sigh of relief a she realize that her terrible fright be only a bad dream and that she be curl up right on the dear , familiar , old , sunny knoll and not run for her life at all .
Old Granny Fox smile to think what a fright she have have and then , -- well , she do n't know whether she be really awake or still dream !
No , Sir , she do n't .
For a full minute she could n't be sure whether what she saw be real or part of that dreadful dream .
You see , she be star into the face of Farmer Brown 's boy and the muzzle of his dreadful gun !
For just a few second she do n't move .
She could n't .
She be too frighten to move .
Then she know what she saw be real and not a dream at all .
There be n't the least bit of doubt about it .
That be Farmer Brown 's boy , and that be his dreadful gun !
All in a flash she know that Farmer Brown 's boy must have be hide behind those pine bough .
Poor Old Granny Fox !
For once in her life she have be catch nap .
She have n't the least hope in the world .
Farmer Brown 's boy have only to fire that dreadful gun , and that would be the end of her .
She know it .
CHAPTER VIII : What Farmer Brown 's Boy Did In time of danger heed this rule : Think hard and fast , but pray keep cool .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Poor Old Granny Fox !
She have think that she have be in tight place before , but never , never have she be in such a tight place a this .
There stand Farmer Brown 's boy look along the barrel of his dreadful gun straight at her , and only such a short distance , such a very short distance away !
It be n't the least bit of use to run .
Granny know that .
That dreadful gun would go `` bang ! ''
and that would be the end of her .
For a few second she star at Farmer Brown 's boy , too frighten to move or even think .
Then she begin to wonder why that dreadful gun do n't go off .
What be Farmer Brown 's boy wait for ?
She get to her foot .
She be sure that the first step would be her last , yet she could n't stay there .
How could Fanner Brown 's boy do such a dreadful thing ?
Somehow , his freckled face do n't look cruel .
He be even begin to grin .
That must be because he have catch her napping and know that this time she could n't possibly get away from him a she have so many time before .
`` Oh ! ''
sob Old Granny Fox under her breath .
And right at that very instant Farmer Brown 's boy do something .
What do you think it be ?
No , he do n't shoot her .
He do n't fire his dreadful gun .
What do you think he do do ?
Why , he throw a snowball at Old Granny Fox and shout `` Boo ! ''
That be what he do and all he do , except to laugh a Granny give a great leap and then make those black leg of hers fly a never before .
Every instant Granny expect to hear that dreadful gun , and it seem a if her heart would burst with fright a she run , think each jump would be the last one .
But the dreadful gun do n't bang , and after a little , when she felt she be safe , she turn to look back over her shoulder .
Farmer Brown 's boy be stand right where she have last see him , and he be laugh hard than ever .
Yes , Sir , he be laugh , and though Old Granny Fox do n't think so at the time , his laugh be good to hear , for it be good-natured and merry and all that an honest laugh should be .
`` Go it , Granny !
Go it ! ''
shout Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` And the next time you be tempt to steal my chicken , just remember that I catch you nap and let you off when I might have shoot you .
Just remember that and leave my chicken alone . ''
Now it happen that Tommy Tit the Chickadee have see all that have happen , and he fairly bubble over with joy .
`` Dee , dee , dee , Chickadee !
It be just a I have always say -- Farmer Brown 's boy be n't bad .
He 'd be friend with every one if every one would let him , '' he cry .
`` Maybe , maybe , '' grumble Sammy Jay , who also have see all that have happen .
`` But he 's altogether too smart for me to trust .
Oh , my !
oh , my !
What news this will be to tell !
Old Granny Fox will never hear the end of it .
If ever again she boast of how smart she be , all we will have to do will be to remind her of the time Farmer Brown 's boy catch her napping .
Ho !
ho !
ho !
I must hurry along and find my cousin , Blacky the Crow .
This will tickle him half to death . ''
As for Old Granny Fox , she fear Farmer Brown 's boy more than ever , not because of what he have do to her but because of what he have not do .
You see , nothing could make her believe that he want to be her friend .
She think he have let her get away just to show her that he be smart than she .
Instead of thankfulness , hate and fear fill Granny 's heart .
You know -- People who themselves do ill For others seldom have good will .
CHAPTER IX : Reddy Fox Hears About Granny Fox Though you may think another wrong And be quite positive you 're right , Do n't let your temper get away ; And try at least to be polite .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Sammy Jay hurry through the Green Forest , chuckle a he fly .
Sammy be brim over with the news he have to tell , -- how Old Granny Fox have be catch nap by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Sammy would n't have believe it if any one have tell him .
No , Sir , he would n't .
But he have see it with his own eye , and it tickle him almost to piece to think that Old Granny Fox , whom everybody think so sly and clever and smart , have be catch actually asleep by the very one of whom she be most afraid , but at whom she always have turn up her nose .
Presently Sammy spy Reddy Fox trot along the Lone Little Path .
Reddy be forever boast of how smart Granny Fox be .
He have boast of it so much that everybody be sick of hear him .
When he saw Reddy trot along the Lone Little Path , Sammy chuckle hard than ever .
He hide in a thick hemlock-tree and a Reddy pass he shout : `` Had I such a stupid old Granny As some folk who think they be smart , I never would boast of my Granny , But live by myself quite apart ! ''
Reddy look up angrily .
He could n't see Sammy Jay , but he know Sammy 's voice .
There be no mistaking that .
Everybody know the voice of Sammy Jay .
Of course it be foolish , very foolish of Reddy to be angry , and still more foolish to show that he be angry .
Had he stop a minute to think , he would have know that Sammy be say such a mean , provoke thing just to make him angry , and that the angrier he become the good pleased Sammy Jay would be .
But like a great many people , Reddy allow his temper to get the good of his common sense .
`` Who say Granny Fox be stupid ? ''
he snarl .
`` I do , '' reply Sammy Jay promptly .
`` I say she be stupid . ''
`` She be smart than anybody else in all the Green Forest and on all the Green Meadows .
She be smart than anybody else in all the Great World , '' boast Reddy , and he really believe it .
`` She be n't smart enough to fool Farmer Brown 's boy , '' taunt Sammy .
`` What 's that ?
Who say so ?
Has anything happen to Granny Fox ? ''
Reddy forget his anger in a sudden great fear .
Could Granny have be shoot by Farmer Brown 's boy ?
`` Nothing much , only Farmer Brown 's boy catch her napping in broad daylight , '' reply Sammy , and chuckle so that Reddy hear him .
`` I do n't believe it ! ''
snap Reddy .
`` I do n't believe a word of it !
Nobody ever yet catch Old Granny Fox napping , and nobody ever will . ''
`` I do n't care whether you believe it or not ; it 's so , for I saw him , '' retort Sammy Jay .
`` You -- you -- you -- '' begin Reddy Fox .
`` Go ask Tommy Tit the Chickadee if it be n't true .
He saw him too , '' interrupt Sammy Jay .
`` Dee , dee , dee , Chickadee !
It 's so , and Farmer Brown 's boy only throw a snowball at her and let her run away without shoot at her , '' declare a new voice .
There sat Tommy Tit himself .
Reddy do n't know what to think or say .
He just could n't believe it , yet he have never know Tommy Tit to tell an untruth .
Sammy Jay alone he would n't have believe .
Then Tommy Tit and Sammy Jay tell Reddy all about what they have see , how Farmer Brown 's boy have surprise Old Granny Fox and then allow her to go unharmed .
Reddy have to believe it .
If Tommy Tit say it be so , it must be so .
Reddy Fox start off to hunt up Old Granny Fox and ask her about it .
But a sudden thought pop into his red head , and he change his mind .
`` I wo n't say a thing about it until some time when Granny scold me for be careless , '' mutter Reddy , with a sly grin .
`` Then I 'll see what she have to say .
I guess she wo n't scold me so much after this . ''
Reddy grin more than ever , which be n't a bit nice of him .
Instead of be sorry that Old Granny Fox have have such a fright , he be plan how he would get even with her when she should scold him for his own carelessness .
CHAPTER X : Reddy Fox Is Impudent A saucy tongue be dangerous to possess ; Be sure some day ' t will get you in a mess .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Reddy Fox be headstrong and , like most headstrong people , be give to think that his way be the best way just because it be his way .
He be smart , be Reddy Fox .
Yes , indeed , Reddy Fox be very , very smart .
He have to be in order to live .
But a great deal of what he know he learn from Old Granny Fox .
The very best trick he know she teach him .
She begin teach him when he be so little that he tumble over his own foot .
It be she who teach him how to hunt , that it be well never to steal chicken near home but to go a long way off for them , and how to fool Bowser the Hound .
It be Granny who teach Reddy how to use his little black nose to follow the track of careless young Rabbits , and how to catch Meadow Mice under the snow .
In fact , there be little Reddy know which he do n't learn from wise , shrewd Old Granny Fox .
But a he grow big and big , until he be quite as big a Granny herself , he forget what he owe to her .
He grow to have a very good opinion of himself and to feel that he know just about all there be to know .
So sometimes when he have do foolish or careless thing and Granny have scold him , tell him he be big enough and old enough to know well , he would sulk and go off mutter to himself .
But he never quite dare to be openly disrespectful to Granny , and this , of course , be quite a it should have be .
`` If only I could catch Granny do something foolish or careless , '' he would say to himself .
But he never could , and he have begin to think that he never would .
But now at last Granny , clever Old Granny Fox , have be careless !
She have allow Farmer Brown 's boy to catch her napping !
Reddy do wish he have be there to see it himself .
But anyway , he have be tell about it , and he make up his mind that the next time Granny say anything sharp to him about his carelessness he would have something to say back .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox be deliberately plan to answer back , which , a you know , be always disrespectful to one 's elder .
At last the chance come .
Reddy do a thing no truly wise Fox ever will do .
He go two night in succession to the same henhouse , and the second time he barely escape be shot .
Old Granny Fox find out about it .
How she find out Reddy do n't know to this day , but find out she do , and she give him such a scolding a even her sharp tongue have seldom give him .
`` You be the stupid Fox I ever heard of , '' scold Granny .
`` I 'm no more stupid than you be ! ''
retort Reddy in the most impudent way .
`` What 's that ? ''
demand Granny .
`` What 's that you say ? ''
`` I say I 'm no more stupid than you be , and what be more , I hope I 'm not so stupid .
I know good than to take a nap in broad daylight right under the very nose of Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
Reddy grin in the most impudent way a he say this .
Granny 's eye snap .
Then thing happen .
Reddy be cuff this way and cuff that way and cuff the other way until it seem to him that the air be full of black paw , every one of which land on his head or face with a sting that make him whimper and put his tail between his leg , and finally howl .
`` There ! ''
cry Granny , when at last she have to stop because she be quite out of breath .
`` Perhaps that will teach you to be respectful to your elder .
I be careless and stupid , and I be perfectly ready to admit it , because it have teach me a lesson .
Wisdom often be gain through mistake , but never when one be not willing to admit the mistake .
No Fox live long who make the same mistake twice .
And those who be impudent to their elder come to no good end .
I 've get a fat goose hide away for dinner , but you will get none of it . ''
`` I -- I wish I 'd never hear of Granny 's mistake , '' whine Reddy to himself a he creep dinnerless to bed .
`` You ought to wish that you have n't be impudent , '' whisper a small voice down inside him .
CHAPTER XI : After The Storm The joy and the sunshine that make u glad ; The worry and trouble that make u sad Must come to an end ; so why complain Of too little sun or too much rain ?
-- Old Granny Fox .
The thing to do be to make the most of the sunshine while it last , and when it rain to look forward to the corning of the sun again , know that conic it surely will .
A dreadful storm be keep the little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Old Orchard prisoner in their own home or in such place of shelter a they have be able to find .
But it could n't last forever , and they know it .
Knowing this be all that keep some of them alive .
You see , they be starve .
Yes , Sir , they be starve .
You and I would be very hungry , very hungry indeed , if we have to go without food for two whole day , but if we be snug and warm it would n't do u any real harm .
With the little wild friend , especially the little feathered folk , it be a very different matter .
You see , they be naturally so active that they have to fill their stomachs very often in order to supply their little body with heat and energy .
So when their food supply be wholly cut off , they starve or else freeze to death in a very short time .
A great many little life be end this way in every long , hard winter storm .
It be late in the afternoon of the second day when rough Brother North Wind decide that he have show his strength and fierceness long enough , and rumble and grumble retire from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , blow the snow cloud away with him .
For just a little while before it be time for him to go to bed behind the Purple Hills , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun smile down on the white land , and never be his smile more welcome .
Out from their shelter hurry all the little prisoner , for they must make the most of the short time before the come of the cold night .
Little Tommy Tit the Chickadee be so weak that he could hardly fly , and he shake with chill .
He make straight for the apple-tree where Farmer Brown 's boy always keep a piece of suet tie to a branch for Tommy and his friend .
Drummer the Woodpecker be there before him .
Now it be one of the law of politeness among the feathered folk that when one be eat from a piece of suet a newcomer shall await his turn .
`` Dee , dee , dee ! ''
say Tommy Tit faintly but cheerfully , for he could n't be other than cheery if he try .
`` Dee , dee , dee !
That look good to me . ''
`` It be good , '' mumble Drummer , peck away at the suet greedily .
`` Come on , Tommy Tit .
Do n't wait for me , for I wo n't be through for a long time .
I 'm nearly starve , and I guess you must be . ''
`` I be , '' confess Tommy , a he fly over beside Drummer .
`` Thank you ever so much for not make me wait . ''
`` Do n't mention it , '' reply Drummer , with his mouth full .
`` This be no time for politeness .
Here come Yank Yank the Nuthatch .
I guess there be room for him too . ''
Yank Yank be promptly invite to join them and do so after apologize for seem so greedy .
`` If I could n't get my stomach full before night , I certainly should freeze to death before morning , '' say he .
`` What a blessing it be to have all this good food wait for u .
If I have to hunt for my usual food on the tree , I certainly should have to give up and die .
It take all my strength to get over here .
My , I feel like a new bird already !
Here come Sammy Jay .
I wonder if he will try to drive u away a he usually do . ''
Sammy do nothing of the kind .
He be very meek and most polite .
`` Can you make room for a starve fellow to get a bite ? ''
he ask .
`` I would n't ask it but that I could n't last another night without food . ''
`` Dee , dee , dee !
Always room for one more , '' reply Tommy Tit , crowd over to give Sammy room .
`` Was n't that a dreadful storm ? ''
`` Worst I ever know , '' mumble Sammy .
`` I wonder if I ever will be warm again . ''
Until their stomach be full , not another word be say .
Meanwhile Chatterer the Red Squirrel have discover that the storm be over .
As he flounder through the snow to another apple-tree he saw Tommy Tit and his friend , and in his heart he rejoice that they have find food wait for them .
His own trouble be at an end , for in the tree he be head for be a store of corn .
CHAPTER XII : Granny And Reddy Fox Hunt In Vain Old Mother Nature 's plan for good Quite often be not understood .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Tommy Tit and Drummer the Woodpecker and Yank Yank the Nuthatch and Sammy Jay and Chatterer the Red Squirrel be not the only one who be out and about as soon a the great storm end .
Oh , my , no !
No , indeed !
Everybody who be not sleep the winter away , or who have not a store of food right at hand , be out .
But not all be so fortunate a Tommy Tit and his friend in find a good meal .
Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Peter come out of the hole in the heart of the dear Old Briar-patch , where they have manage to keep comfortably warm , and at once begin to fill their stomach with bark from young tree and tender tip of twig .
It be very coarse food , but it would take away that empty feeling .
Mrs. Grouse burst out of the snow and hurry to get a meal before dark .
She have no time to be particular , and so she ate spruce bud .
They be very bitter and not much to her liking , but she be too hungry , and night be too near for her to be fussy .
She be thankful to have that much .
Granny Fox and Reddy be out too .
They do n't need to hurry because , a you know , they could hunt all night , but they be so hungry that they just have to be look for something to eat .
They know , of course , that everybody else would be out , and they hop that some of these little people would be so weak that they could easily be catch .
That seem like a dreadful hope , do n't it ?
But one of the first law of Old Mother Nature be self-preservation .
That mean to save your own life first .
So perhaps Granny and Reddy be not to be blame for hop that some of their neighbor might be catch easily because of the great storm .
They be very hungry indeed , and they could not eat bark like Peter Rabbit , or bud like Mrs. Grouse , or seed like Whitefoot the Woodmouse .
Their teeth and stomach be not make for such food .
It be hard go for Granny and Reddy Fox .
The snow be soft and deep in many place , and they have to keep pretty close to those place where rough Brother North Wind have blow away enough of the snow to make walk fairly easy .
They soon find that their hope that they would find some of their neighbor too weak to escape be quite in vain .
When jolly , round , red Mr. Sun drop clown behind the Purple Hills to go to bed , their stomach be quite as empty a when they have start out .
`` We 'll go down to the Old Briar-patch .
I do n't believe it will be of much use , but you never can tell until you try .
Peter Rabbit may take it into his silly head to come outside , '' say Granny , lead the way .
When they reach the dear Old Briar-patch they find that Peter be not outside .
In fact , peer between the bramble and bush , they could see his little brown form bob about a he hunt for tender bark .
He have already make little path along which he could hop easily .
Peter saw them almost as soon a they saw him .
`` Hard time these , '' say Peter pleasantly .
`` I hope your stomach be not as empty a mine . ''
He pull a strip of bark from a young tree and begin to chew it .
This be more than Reddy could stand .
To see Peter eat while his own stomach be just one great big ache from emptiness be too much .
`` I 'm go in there and catch him , or drive him out where you can catch him , if I tear my coat all to piece ! ''
snarl Reddy .
Peter stop chew and sit up .
`` Come right along , Reddy .
Come right along if you want to , but I would advise you to save your skin and your coat , '' say he .
Reddy 's only reply be a snarl a he push his way under the bramble .
He yelp a they tear his coat and scratch his face , but he keep on .
Now Peter 's path be very cunningly make .
He have cut them through the very thick of the briar just big enough for himself and Mrs. Peter to hop along comfortably .
But Reddy be so much big that he have to force his way through and in place crawl flat on his stomach , which be very slow work , to say nothing of the painful scratch from the briar .
It be no trouble at all for Peter to keep out of his way , and before long Reddy give up .
Without a word Granny Fox lead the way to the Green Forest .
They would try to find where Mrs. Grouse be sleep under the snow .
But though they hunt all night , they fail to find her , for she wisely have go to bed in a spruce-tree .
CHAPTER XIII : Granny Fox Admits Growing Old Who will not admit he be old each day fool no one but himself .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox be a spry old lady for her age .
If you do n't believe it just try to catch her .
But spry a she be , she be n't as spry a she use to be .
No , Sir , Granny Fox be n't as spry a she use to be .
The truth be , Granny be get old .
She never would admit it , and Reddy never have realize it until the day after the great storm .
All that night they have hunt in vain for something to eat and at daylight have creep into their house to rest awhile before start on another hunt .
They have neither the strength nor the courage to search any long then .
Wading through snow be very hard work at best and very tiresome , but when your stomach have be empty for so long that you almost begin to wonder what food taste like , it become hard work still .
You see , it be food that make strength , and lack of food take away strength .
This be why Granny and Reddy Fox just HAD to rest .
Hungry a they be , they HAD to give up for awhile .
Reddy flung himself down , and if ever there be a discouraged young Fox he be that one .
`` I wish I be dead , '' he moan .
`` Tut , tut , tut ! ''
say Granny Fox sharply .
`` That 's no way for a young Fox to talk !
I 'm ashamed of you .
I be indeed . ''
Then she add more kindly : `` I know just how you feel .
Just try to forget your empty stomach and rest awhile .
We have have a tiresome , disappointing , discourage night , but when you be rest thing will not look quite so bad .
You know the old saying : ` Never a road so long be there But it reach a turn at last ; Never a cloud that gather swift But disappear a fast . '
You think you could n't possibly feel any bad than you do right now , but you could .
Many a time I have have to go hungry long than this .
After we have rest awhile we will go over to the Old Pasture .
Perhaps we will have good luck there . ''
So Reddy try to forget the emptiness of his stomach and actually have a nap , for he be very , very tired .
When he awake he felt well .
`` Well , Granny , '' say he , `` let 's start for the Old Pasture .
The snow have crust over , and we wo n't find it such hard go a it be last night . ''
Granny arose and follow Reddy out to the doorstep .
She walk stiffly .
The truth be , she ache in every one of her old bone .
At least , that be the way it seem to her .
She look towards the Old Pasture .
It seem very far away .
She sigh wearily .
`` I do n't believe I 'll go , Reddy , '' say she .
`` You run along and luck go with you . ''
Reddy turn and star at Granny suspiciously .
You know his be a very suspicious nature .
Could it be that Granny have some secret plan of her own to get a meal and want to get rid of him ?
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
he demand roughly .
`` It be you who propose go over to the Old Pasture . ''
Granny smile .
It be a sad sort of smile .
She be wonderfully sharp and smart , be Granny Fox , and she know what be in Reddy 's mind as well a if he have tell her .
`` Old bone do n't rest and recover as quickly a young bone , and I just do n't feel equal to go over there now , '' say she .
`` The truth be , Reddy , I be grow old .
I be go to stay right here and rest .
Perhaps then I 'll feel able to go hunt to-night .
You trot along now , and if you get more than a stomachful , just remember old Granny and bring her a bite . ''
There be something in the way Granny speak that tell Reddy she be speak the truth .
It be the very first time she ever have admit that she be grow old and be no long the equal of any Fox .
Never before have he notice how gray she have grow .
Reddy felt a feeling of shame creep over him , -- shame that he have suspect Granny of play a sharp trick .
And this little feeling of shame be follow instantly by a splendid thought .
He would go out and find food of some kind , and he would bring it straight back to Granny .
He have be take care of by Granny when he be little , and now he would repay Granny for all she have do for him by take care of her in her old age .
`` Go back in the house and lie down , Granny , '' say he kindly .
`` I be go to get something , and whatever it may be you shall have your share . ''
With this he trot off towards the Old Pasture and somehow he do n't mind the ache in his stomach a he have before .
CHAPTER XIV : Three Vain And Foolish Wishes There 's nothing so foolishly silly and vain As to wish for a thing you can never attain .
-- Old Granny Fox .
We all know that , yet most of u be just foolish enough to make such a wish now and then .
I guess you have do it .
I know I have .
Peter Rabbit have do it often and then laugh at himself afterwards .
I suspect that even shrewd , clever old Granny Fox have be guilty of it more than once .
So it be not surprising that Reddy Fox , terribly hungry a he be , should do a little foolish wishing .
When he leave home to go to the Old Pasture , in the hope that he would be able to find something to eat there , he start off bravely .
It be cold , very cold indeed , but his fur coat keep him warm as long a he be move .
The Green Meadows be glisten white with snow .
All the world , at least all that part of it with which Reddy be acquaint , be white .
It be beautiful , very beautiful , a million of sparkle flash in the sun .
But Reddy have no thought for beauty ; the only thought he have room for be to get something to put in the empty stomach of himself and Granny Fox .
Jack Frost have harden the snow so that Reddy no longer have to wade through it .
He could run on the crust now without break through .
This make it much easier , so he trot along swiftly .
He have intend to go straight to the Old Pasture , but there suddenly pop into his head a memory of the shelter down in a far corner of the Old Orchard which Farmer Brown 's boy have build for Bob White .
Probably the Bob White family be there now , and he might surprise them .
He would go there first .
Reddy stop and look carefully to make sure that Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound be nowhere in sight .
Then he run swiftly towards the Old Orchard .
Just a he enter it he hear a merry voice just over his head : `` Dee , dee , dee , dee ! ''
Reddy stop and look up .
There be Tommy Tit the Chickadee cling tightly to a big piece of fresh suet tie fast to a branch of a tree , and Tommy be stuff himself .
Reddy sit down right underneath that suet and look up longingly .
The sight of it make his mouth water so that it be almost more than he could stand .
He jump once .
He jump twice .
He jump three time .
But all his jumping be in vain .
That suet be beyond his reach .
There be no possible way of reach it save by fly or climb .
Reddy 's tongue hang out of his mouth with longing .
`` I wish I could climb , '' say Reddy .
But he could n't climb , and all the wishing in the world would n't enable him to , a he very well know .
So after a little he start on .
As he draw near the far corner of the Old Orchard , he saw Bob White and Mrs. Bob and all the young Bobs pick up grain which Farmer Brown 's boy have scatter for them just in front of the shelter he have build for them .
Reddy crouch down and very slowly , an inch at a time , he creep forward , his eye shin with eagerness .
Just a he be almost within spring distance , Bob White give a signal , and away fly the Bob Whites to the safety of a hemlock-tree on the edge of the Green Forest .
Tears of rage and disappointment well up in Reddy 's eye .
`` I wish I could fly , '' he mutter , a he watch the brown bird disappear in the big hemlock-tree .
This be quite a foolish a wish a the other , so Reddy trot on and decide to go down past the Smiling Pool .
When he get there he find it , a he expect , freeze over .
But just where the Laughing Brook join it there be a little place where there be open water .
Billy Mink be on the ice at it edge , and just a Reddy get there Billy dive in .
A minute later he climb out with a fish in his mouth .
`` Give me a bite , '' beg Reddy .
`` Catch your own fish , '' retort Billy Mink .
`` I have to work hard enough for what I get a it be . ''
Reddy be afraid to go out on the ice where Billy be , and so he sit and watch him eat that fine fish .
Then Billy dive into the water again and disappear .
Reddy wait a long time , but Billy do not return .
`` I wish I could dive , '' gulp Reddy , thinking of the fine fish somewhere under the ice .
And this wish be quite as foolish a the other wish .
CHAPTER XV : Reddy Fights A Battle ' T be not the foe that be without But those that be within That give u battle that we find The hard be to win .
-- Old Granny Fox After the last of his three foolish wish , Reddy Fox leave the Smiling Pool and head straight for the Old Pasture for which he have start in the first place .
He wish now that he have go straight there .
Then he would n't have see the suet tie out of reach to the branch of a tree in the Old Orchard ; he would n't have see the Bob Whites fly away to safety just a he felt almost sure of catch one ; he would n't have see Billy Mink bring a fine fish out of the water and eat it right before him .
It be bad enough to be starve with no food in sight , but to be as hungry a Reddy Fox be and to see food just out of reach , to smell it , and not be able to get it be , -- well , it be more than most folk can stand patiently .
So Reddy Fox be grumble to himself a he hurry to the Old Pasture and his heart be very bitter .
It seem to him that everything be against him .
His neighbor have food , but he have none , not so much a a crumb .
It be unfair .
Old Mother Nature be unjust .
If he could climb he could get food .
If he could fly he could get food .
If he could dive he could get food .
But he could neither climb , fly , nor dive .
He do n't stop to think that Old Mother Nature have give him some of the sharp wit in all the Green Forest or on all the Green Meadows ; that she have give him a wonderful nose ; that she have give him the keenest of ear ; that she have give him speed excel by few .
He forget these thing and be so busy think bitterly of the thing he do n't have that he forget to use his wit and nose and ear when he reach the Old Pasture .
The result be that he trot right past Old Jed Thumper , the big gray Rabbit , who be sit behind a little bush hold his breath .
The minute Old Jed saw that Reddy be safely past , he start for his bull-briar castle a fast a he could .
It be not until then that Reddy discover him .
Of course , Reddy start after him , and this time he make good use of his speed .
But he be too late .
Old Jed Thumper reach his castle with Reddy two jump behind him .
Reddy know now that there be no chance to catch Old Jed that day , and for a few minute he felt more bitter than ever .
Then all in a flash Reddy Fox become the shrewd , clever fellow that he really be .
he grin .
`` It 's of no use to try to fill an empty stomach on wish , '' say he .
`` If I have come straight here and mind my own business , I 'd have catch old Jed Thumper .
Now I 'm go to get some food and I 'm not go home until I do . ''
Very wisely Reddy put all unpleasant thought out of his head and settle down to use his wit and his eye and his ear and his nose for all they be worth , a Old Mother Nature have intend he should .
All through the Old Pasture he hunt , take care not to miss a single place where there be the least chance of find food .
But it be all in vain .
Reddy gulp down his disappointment .
`` Now for the Big River , '' say he , and start off bravely .
When he reach the edge of the Big River , he hurry along the bank until he reach a place where the water seldom freeze .
As he have hop , he find that it be not frozen now .
It look so black and cold that it make him shiver just to see it .
Back and forth with his nose to the ground he run .
Suddenly he stop and sniff .
Then he sniff again .
Then he follow his nose straight to the very edge of the Big River .
There , float in the black water , be a dead fish !
By wad in he could get it .
Reddy shiver at the touch of the cold water , but what be wet foot compare with such an empty stomach a his ?
In a minute he have that fish and be back on the shore .
It be n't a very big fish , but it would stop the ache in his stomach until he could get something more .
With a sigh of pure happiness he sink his teeth into it and then -- well , then he remember poor Old Granny Fox .
Reddy swallow a mouthful and try to forget Granny .
But he could n't .
He swallow another mouthful .
Poor old Granny be back there at home as hungry a he be and too stiff and tire to hunt .
Reddy choke .
Then he begin a battle with himself .
His stomach demand that fish .
If he eat it , no one would be the wiser .
But Granny need it even more than he do .
For a long time Reddy fought with himself .
In the end he pick up the fish and start for home .
CHAPTER XVI : Reddy Is Made Truly Happy It 's what you do for others , Not what they do for you , That make you feel so happy All through and through and through .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Reddy Fox run all the way home from the Big River just as fast a he could go .
In his mouth he carry the fish he have find and from which he have take just two bite .
You remember he have have a battle with himself over that fish , and now he be run away from himself .
That sound funny , do n't it ?
But it be true .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox be run away from himself .
He be afraid that if he do n't get home to Old Granny Fox with that fish very soon , he would eat every last bit of it himself .
So he be run his very hard so a to get there before this could happen .
So really he be run away from himself , from his selfish self .
Old Granny Fox be on the doorstep watch for him , and he saw just how her hungry old eye brighten when she saw him and what he have .
`` I 've bring you something to eat , Granny , '' he pant , a he lay the fish at her foot .
He be quite out of breath with run .
`` It be n't much , but it be something .
It be all I could find for you . ''
Granny look at the fish and then she look sharply at Reddy , and into those keen yellow eye of hers creep a soft , tender look , such a look a you would never have believe they could have hold .
`` What have YOU have to eat ? ''
ask Granny softly .
Reddy turn his head that Granny might not see his face .
`` Oh , I 've have something , '' say he , try to speak lightly .
It be true ; he have have two bite from that fish .
Now you know just how shrewd and smart and wise Granny Fox be .
Reddy do n't fool her just the least little bit .
She take two small bite from the fish .
`` Now , '' say she , `` we 'll divide it , '' and she bit in two part what remain .
In a twinkling she have gulp down the small part , for you know she be very , very hungry .
`` That be your share , '' say she , a she push what remain over to Reddy .
Reddy try to refuse it .
`` I bring it all for you , '' say he .
`` I know you do , Reddy , '' reply Granny , and it seem to Reddy that he never have know her voice to sound so gentle .
`` You bring it to me when all you have have be the two little bite you have take from it .
You ca n't fool me , Reddy Fox .
There be n't one good meal for either of u in that fish , but there be enough to give u both a little hope and keep u from starve .
Now you mind what I say and eat your share . ''
Granny say this last very sternly .
Reddy look at Granny , and then he bolt down that little piece of fish without another word .
`` That 's good , '' say Granny .
`` We will feel well , both of u .
Now that I 've something in my stomach , I feel two year young .
Before you come , I do n't feel a if I should ever be able to go on another hunt .
If you have n't bring something , I -- I 'm afraid I could n't have last much longer .
By another day you probably would n't have have old Granny to think of .
You may not know it , but I know that you save my life , Reddy .
I have reach a point where I just have to have a little food .
You know there be time when a very little food be of more good than a lot of food could be later .
This be one of those time . ''
Never in all his life have Reddy Fox felt so truly happy .
He be still hungry , -- very , very hungry .
But he give it no thought .
He have save Granny Fox , good old Granny who have teach him all he know .
And he know that Granny know how he have have to fight with himself to do it .
Reddy be happy through and through with the great happiness that come from have do something for some one else .
`` It be nothing , '' he mutter .
`` It be a very great deal , '' reply Granny .
And then she change the subject .
`` How would you like to eat a dinner of Bowser the Hound 's ? ''
she ask .
CHAPTER XVII : Granny Fox Promises Reddy Bowser 's Dinner To give her child what each need To get the most from life he can , To work and play and live his best , Is wise Old Mother Nature 's plan .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox ask Reddy how he would like to eat a dinner of Bowser the Hound 's , Reddy look at her sharply to see if she be joke or really mean what she say .
Granny look so sober and so much in earnest that Reddy decide she could n't be joke , even though it do sound that way .
`` I certainly would like it , Granny .
Yes , indeed , I certainly would like it , '' say he .
`` You -- you do n't suppose he will give u one , do you ? ''
Granny chuckle .
`` No , Reddy , '' say she .
`` Bowser be n't so generous a all that , especially to Foxes .
He be n't go to give u that dinner ; we be go to take it away from him .
Yes , Sir , we just naturally be go to take it away from , him . ''
Reddy do n't for the life of him see how it could be possible to take a dinner away from Bowser the Hound .
That seem to him almost as impossible a it be for him to climb or fly or dive .
But he have great faith in Granny 's cleverness .
He remember how she have so nearly caught Quacker the Duck .
He know that all the time he have be away try to find something for them to eat , old Granny Fox have be do more than just rest her tired old bone .
He know that not for one single minute have her sharp wit be idle .
He know that all that time she have be study and study to find some way by which they could get something to eat .
So great be his faith in Granny just then that if she have tell him she would get him a slice of the moon he would have believe her .
`` If you say we can take a dinner away from Bowser the Hound , I suppose we can , '' say Reddy , `` though I do n't see how .
But if we can , let 's do it right away .
I 'm hungry enough to dare almost anything for the sake of something to put in my stomach .
It be so empty that little bit of fish we divide be shake around a if it be lose .
Gracious , I could eat a million fish the size of that one !
Have you think of Fanner Brown 's hen , Granny ? ''
`` Of course , Reddy !
Of course !
What a silly question ! ''
replied Granny .
`` We may have to come to them yet . ''
`` I wish I be at them right now , '' interrupt Reddy with a sigh .
`` But you know what I have tell you , '' go on Granny .
`` The sure way of get into trouble be to steal hen .
I 'm not feel quite up to be chase by Bowser the Hound just now , and if we come right home we would give away the secret of where we live and might be smoke out , and that would be the end of u .
Besides , those hen will be hard to get this weather , because they will stay in their house , and there be no way for u to get in there unless we walk right in , in broad daylight , and that would never do .
It will be a great deal well to take Bowser 's dinner away from him .
In the first place , if we be careful , no one but Bowser will know about it , and as long a he be chain up , we will have nothing to worry about from him .
Besides , we will enjoy get even with him for the time he have spoil our chance of catch a fat chicken and for the way he have hunt u .
Most decidedly it will be good and safe to try for Bowser 's dinner than to try for one of those hen . ''
`` Just a you say , Granny ; just a you say , '' return Reddy .
`` You know best .
But how under the sun we can do it beat me . ''
`` It be very simple , '' reply Granny , `` very simple indeed .
Most thing be simple enough when you find out how to do them .
Neither of u could do it alone , but together we can do it without the least bit of risk .
Listen . ''
Granny go close to Reddy and whisper to him , although there be n't a soul within hearing .
A slow grin spread over Reddy 's face a he listen .
When she have finish , he laugh right out .
`` Granny , you be a wonder ! ''
he exclaim admiringly .
`` I never should have think of that .
Of course we can do it .
My , wo n't Bowser be surprise !
And how mad he 'll be !
Come on , let 's be start ! ''
`` All right , '' say Granny , and the two start towards Farmer Brown 's .
CHAPTER XVIII : Why Bowser The Hound Did n't Eat His Dinner The thing you 've puzzle most about Is simple once you 've find it out .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Bowser The Hound dearly love to hunt just for the pleasure of the chase .
It be n't so much the desire to kill a it be the pleasure of use that wonderful nose of his and the excitement of try to catch some one , especially Granny or Reddy Fox .
Farmer Brown 's boy have put away his dreadful gun because he no longer want to kill the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , but rather to make them his friend .
Bowser have miss the exciting hunt he use to enjoy so much with Farmer Brown 's boy .
So Bowser have form the habit of slip away alone for a hunt every once in a while .
When Farmer Brown 's boy discover this , he get a chain and chain Bowser to his little house to keep him from run away and hunt on the sly .
Of course Bowser be n't keep chain all the time .
Oh , my , no !
When his master be about , where he could keep an eye on Bowser , he would let him go free .
But whenever he be go away and do n't want to take Bowser with him , he would chain Bowser up .
Now Bowser always have one good big meal a day .
To be sure , he have scrap or a bone now and then besides , but once a day he have one good big meal serve to him in a large tin pan .
If he happen to be chain , it be bring out to him .
If not , it be give to him just outside the kitchen door .
Granny Fox know all about this .
Sly old Granny make it her business to know the affair of other people around her because there be no tell when such knowledge may be of use to her .
So Granny have watch Bowser the Hound when he and his master have no idea at all that she be anywhere about , and she have find out his way , the usual hour for his dinner and just how far that chain would allow him to go .
It be such thing which she have store away in that shrewd old head of hers that make her so sure she and Reddy could take Bowser 's dinner away from him .
It be just about Bowser 's dinner-time when Granny and Reddy trot across the snow-covered field and crept behind the barn until they could peep around the corner .
No one be in sight , not even Bowser , who be inside his warm little house at the end of the long shed back of Farmer Brown 's house .
Granny saw that he be chain and a sly grin crept over her face .
`` You stay right here and watch until his dinner be bring out to him , '' say she to Reddy .
`` As soon a whoever bring it have go back to the house you walk right out where Bowser will see you .
At the sight of you , he 'll forget all about his dinner .
Sit right down where he can see you and stay there until you see that I have get that dinner , or until you hear somebody coming , for you know Bowser will make a great racket .
Then slip around back of the barn and join me back of that shed . ''
So Reddy sit down to watch , and Granny leave him .
By and by Mrs. Brown come out of the house with a pan full of good thing .
She put it down in front of Bowser 's little house and call to him .
Then she turn and hurry back , for it be very cold .
Bowser come out of his little house , yawn and stretch lazily .
It be time for Reddy to do his part .
Out he walk and sit down right in front of Bowser and grin at him .
Bowser star for a minute a if he doubt his own eye .
Such impudence !
Bowser growl .
Then with a yelp he spring towards Reddy .
Now the chain that hold him be long , but Reddy have take care not to get too near , and of course Bowser could n't reach him .
He tug with all his might and yelp and bark frantically , but Reddy just sit there and grin in the most provoking manner .
It be great fun to tease Bowser this way .
Meanwhile old Granny Fox have steal out from around the corner of the shed behind Bowser .
Getting hold of the edge of the pan with her teeth she pull it back with her around the corner and out of sight .
If she make any noise , Bowser do n't hear it .
He be make too much noise himself and be too excited .
Presently Reddy hear the sound of an opening door .
Mrs. Brown be come to see what all the fuss be about .
Like a flash Reddy dart behind the barn , and all Mrs. Brown saw be Bowser tug at his chain a he whine and yelp excitedly .
`` I guess he must have see a stray cat or something , '' say Mrs. Brown and go back in the house .
Bowser continue to whine and tug at his chain for a few minute .
Then he give it up and , growl deep in his throat , turn to eat his dinner .
But there be n't any dinner !
It have disappear , pan and all !
Bowser could n't understand it at all .
Back of the shed Granny and Reddy Fox lick that pan clean ; lick it until it be polish .
Then , with little sigh of satisfaction , and every once in a while a chuckle , they trot happily home .
CHAPTER XIX : Old Man Coyote Does A Little Thinking Investigate and for yourself find out Those thing which most you want to know about .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Never in all his life have Reddy Fox enjoy a dinner more than that one he and Granny have steal from Bowser the Hound .
Of course it would have taste delicious anyway , because they be so dreadfully hungry , but to Reddy it taste well still because it have be intend for Bowser .
Bowser have hunt Reddy so often that Reddy have no love for him at all , and it tickle him almost to death to think that they have take his dinner from almost under his nose .
With that good dinner in their stomach , Reddy and Granny Fox felt so much good that the Great World no longer seem such a cold and cruel place .
Funny how differently thing look when your stomach be full from the way those same thing look when it be empty .
Best of all they know they could play the same sharp trick again and steal another dinner from Bowser if need be .
It be a comfort feeling , a very comfort feeling , to know for a certainty where you can get another meal .
It be a feeling that Granny and Reddy Fox and many other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest seldom have in winter .
As a rule , when they have eat one meal , they have n't the least idea where the next one be come from .
How would you like to live that way ?
The very next day Granny and Reddy go up to Farmer Brown 's at Bowser 's dinner hour .
But this time Farmer Brown 's boy be at work near the barn , and Bowser be not chain .
Granny and Reddy steal away as silently a they have come .
On the day follow they find Bowser chain and stole another dinner from him ; then they go away laugh until their side ache a they hear Bowser 's whine of surprise and disappointment when he discover that his dinner have vanish .
They know by the sound of his voice that he have n't the least idea what have become of that dinner .
Now there be some one else roam over the snow-covered meadow and through the Green Forest and the Old Pasture these day with a stomach so lean and empty that he could n't think of anything else .
It be Old Man Coyote .
You know he be very clever , be Old Man Coyote , and he manage to find enough food of one kind and another to keep him alive , but never enough to give him that comfortable feeling of a full stomach .
While he be n't actually starve , he be always hungry .
So he spend all the time when he be n't sleep in hunt for something to eat .
Of course he often run across the track of Granny and Reddy Fox , and once in a while he would meet them .
It strike Old Man Coyote that they do n't seem as thin a he be .
That set him to think .
Neither of them be a smarter hunter than he .
In fact , he pride himself on be smart than either of them .
Yet when he meet them , they seem to be in the best of spirit and not at all worried because food be so scarce .
Why ?
There must be a reason .
They must be get food of which he know nothing .
`` I 'll just keep an eye on them , '' mutter Old Man Coyote .
So very slyly and cleverly Old Man Coyote follow Granny and Reddy Fox , take the great care that they should not suspect that he be do it .
All one night he follow them through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows , and when at last he saw them go home , appear not at all worry because they have catch nothing , he trot off to his own home to do some more thinking .
`` They be get food somewhere , that be sure , '' he mutter , a he scratch first one ear and then the other .
Somehow he could think good when he be scratch his ear .
`` If they do n't get it in the night , and they certainly do n't get anything this night , they must get it in the daytime .
I 've do considerable hunt myself in the daytime , and I have n't once meet them in the Green Forest or see them on the Green Meadows or up in the Old Pasture .
I wonder if they be steal Farmer Brown 's hen and have n't be find out yet .
I 've keep away from there myself , but if they can steal hen and not be catch , I certainly can .
There never be a Fox yet smart enough to do a thing that a Coyote can not do if he try .
I think I 'll slip up where I can watch Farmer Brown 's and see what be go on up there .
Yes , Sir , that 's what I 'll do . ''
With this , Old Man Coyote grin and then curl himself up for a short nap , for he be tire .
CHAPTER XX : A Twice Stolen Dinner No one ever be so smart that some one else may not prove to be smart still .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Listen and you shall hear all about three rogue .
Two be in red and be Granny and Reddy Fox .
And one be in gray and be Old Man Coyote .
They be the sly , smart rogue on all the Green Meadows or in all the Green Forest .
All three have start out to steal the same dinner , but the funny part be they do n't intend to steal it from the same person .
And still funny be it that one of them do n't even know where that dinner be or what kind of a dinner it would be .
True to his resolve to know what Granny and Reddy Fox be get to eat , and where they be get it , Old Man Coyote hid where he could see what be go on about Farmer Brown 's , for it be there he felt sure that Granny and Reddy be get food .
He have wait only a little while when along come Granny and Reddy Fox past the place where Old Man Coyote be hide .
They do n't see him .
Of course not .
He take care that they should have no chance .
But anyway , they be not think of him .
Their thought be all of that dinner they intend to have , and the smart trick by which they would get it .
So with their thought all on that dinner they slip up behind the barn and prepare to work the trick which have be so successful before .
Old Man Coyote crept after them .
He saw Reddy Fox lie down where he could peep around the corner of the barn to watch Bowser the Hound and to see that no one else be about .
He saw Granny leave Reddy there and hurry away .
Old Man Coyote 's wit work fast .
`` I ca n't be in two place at once , '' think he , `` so I ca n't watch both Granny and Reddy .
As I can watch but one , which one shall it be ?
Granny , of course .
Granny be the smartest of the two , and whatever they be up to , she be at the bottom of it .
Granny be the one to follow . ''
So , like a gray shadow , crafty Old Man Coyote stole after Granny Fox and saw her hide behind the corner of the shed at the end of which be the little house of Bowser the Hound .
He creep as near a he dare and then lay flat down behind a little bunch of dead grass close to the shed .
For some time nothing happen , and Old Man Coyote be puzzle .
Every once in a while Granny Fox would look behind and all about to be sure that no danger be near , but she do n't see Old Man Coyote .
After what seem to him a long time , he hear a door open on the other side of the shed .
It be Mrs. Brown carry Bowser 's dinner out to him .
Of course , Old Man Coyote do n't know this .
He know by the sound that some one have come out of the house , and it make him nervous .
He do n't like be so close to Farmer Brown 's house in broad daylight .
But he keep his eye on Granny Fox , and he saw her ear prick up in a way that he know meant that those sound be just what she have be wait for .
`` If she be n't afraid , I do n't need to be , '' think he craftily .
After a few minute he hear a door close and know that whoever have come out have go back into the house .
Almost at once Bowser the Hound begin to yelp and whine .
Swiftly Granny Fox disappear around the corner of the shed .
Just as swiftly Old Man Coyote run forward and peep around the corner .
There be Bowser the Hound tugging at his chain , and just beyond his reach be Reddy Fox , grin in the most provoking manner .
And there be Granny Fox , backing and dragging after her Bowser 's dinner .
In a flash Old Man Coyote understand the plan , and he almost chuckle aloud at the cleverness of it .
Then he hastily back behind the shed and wait .
In a minute Granny Fox appear , drag Bowser 's dinner .
She be so intent on get that dinner that she almost back into Old Man Coyote without suspect that he be anywhere about .
`` Thank you , Granny .
You need n't bother about it any longer ; I 'll take it now , '' growl Old Man Coyote in Granny 's ear .
Granny let go of that dinner a if it burn her tongue , and with a frightened little yelp leap to one side .
A minute later Reddy come race around from behind the barn eager for his share .
What he saw be Old Man Coyote bolt down that twice-stolen dinner while Granny Fox fairly dance with rage .
CHAPTER XXI : Granny And Reddy Talk Things Over .
You 'll find a on through life you go The thing you want may prove to be The very thing you should n't have .
Then seem loss be gain , you see .
-- Old Granny Fox .
If ever two folk be mad away through , those two be Granny and Reddy Fox a they watch Old Man Coyote gobble up the dinner they have so cleverly steal from Bowser the Hound .
It be bad enough to lose the dinner , but it be bad to see some one else eat it after they have work so hard to get it .
`` Robber ! ''
snarl Granny .
Old Man Coyote stop eat long enough to grin .
`` Thief !
Sneak !
Coward ! ''
snarl Reddy .
Once more Old Man Coyote grin .
When that dinner have disappear down his throat to the last and small crumb , he lick his chop and turn to Granny and Reddy .
`` I 'm very much oblige for that dinner , '' say he pleasantly , his eye twinkle with mischief .
`` It be the best dinner I have have for a long time .
Allow me to say that that trick of yours be a smart a trick a ever I have see .
It be quite worthy of a Coyote .
You be a very clever old lady , Granny Fox .
Now I hear some one coming , and I would suggest that it will be good for all concerned if we be not see about here . ''
He dart off behind the barn like a gray streak , and Granny and Reddy follow , for it be true that some one be come .
You see Bowser the Hound have discover that something be go on around the corner of the shed , and he make such a racket that Mrs. Brown have come out of the house to see what it be all about .
By the time she get around there , all she saw be the empty pan which have hold Bowser 's dinner .
She be puzzle .
How that pan could be where it be she could n't understand , and Bowser could n't tell her , although he try his very best .
She have be puzzle about that pan two or three time before .
Old Man Coyote lose no time in get back home , for he never felt easy near the home of man in broad daylight .
Granny and Reddy Fox go home too , and there be hate in their heart , -- hate for Old Man Coyote .
But once they reach home , Old Granny Fox stop growl , and presently she begin to chuckle .
`` What be you laugh at ? ''
demand Reddy .
`` At the way Old Man Coyote steal that dinner from u , '' reply Granny .
`` I hate him !
He 's a sneaking robber ! ''
snap Reddy .
`` Tut , tut , Reddy !
Tut , tut ! ''
retort Granny .
`` Be fair-minded .
We steal that dinner from Bowser the Hound , and Old Man Coyote steal it from u .
I guess he be no bad than we be , when you come to think it over .
Now be he ? ''
`` I -- I -- well , I do n't suppose he be , when you put it that way , '' Reddy admit grudgingly .
`` And he be smart , very smart , to outwit two such clever people a we be , '' continue Granny .
`` You will have to agree to that . ''
`` Y-e-s , '' say Reddy slowly .
`` He be smart enough , but -- '' `` There be n't any but , Reddy , '' interrupt Granny .
`` You know the law of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It be everybody for himself , and anything belongs to one who have the wit or the strength to take it .
We have the wit to take that dinner from Bowser the Hound , and Old Man Coyote have the wit to take it from u and the strength to keep it .
It be all fair enough , and you know there be n't the least use in cry over spilled milk , a the saying be .
We simply have get to be smart enough not to let him fool u again .
I guess we wo n't get any more of Bowser 's dinner for a while .
We 've get to think of some other way of fill our stomach when the hunting be poor .
I think if I could have just one of those fat hen of Farmer Brown 's , it would put new strength into my old bone .
All summer I warn you to keep away from that henyard , but the time have come now when I think we might try for a couple of those hen . ''
Reddy prick up his ear at the mention of fat hen .
`` I think so too , '' say he .
`` When shall we try for one ? ''
`` To-morrow morning , '' reply Granny .
`` Now do n't bother me while I think out a plan . ''
CHAPTER XXII : Granny Fox Plans To Get A Fat Hen Full half success for Fox or Man Is win by work out a plan .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Granny Fox know this .
No one know it good .
Whatever she do be first carefully plan in her wise old head .
So now after she have decide that she and Reddy would try for one of Farmer Brown 's fat hen , she lay down to think out a plan to get that fat hen .
No one know good than she how foolish it would be to go over to that henyard and just trust to luck for a chance to catch one of those biddy .
Of course , they might be lucky and get a hen that way , but then again they might be unlucky and get in a peck of trouble .
`` You see , '' say she to Reddy , `` we must not only plan how to get that fat hen , but we must also plan how to get away with it safely .
If only there be some way of get in that henhouse at night , there would be no trouble at all .
I do n't suppose there be the least chance of that . ''
`` Not the least chance in the world , '' reply Reddy .
`` There be n't a hole anywhere big enough for even Shadow the Weasel to get through , and Farmer Brown 's boy be very careful to lock the door every night . ''
`` There 's a little hole that the hen go in and out of during the day , which be big enough for one of u to slip through , I believe , '' say Granny thoughtfully .
`` Sure !
But it 's always close at night , '' snap Reddy .
`` Besides , to get to that or the door either , you have get to get inside the henyard , and there 's a gate to that which we ca n't open . ''
`` People be sometimes careless , -- even you , Reddy , '' say Granny .
Reddy squirm uneasily , for he have be in trouble many time through carelessness .
`` Well , what of it ? ''
he demand a wee bit crossly .
`` Nothing much , only if that hen-yard gate should happen to be leave open , and if Farmer Brown 's boy should happen to forget to close that little hole that the hen go through , and if we happen to be around at just that time -- '' `` Too many ifs to get a dinner with , '' interrupt Reddy .
`` Perhaps , '' reply Granny mildly , `` but I 've notice that it be the one who have an eye open for all the little ifs in life that fare the best .
Now I 've keep an eye on that henyard , and I 've notice that very often Farmer Brown 's boy do n't close the henyard gate at night .
I suppose he think that if the henhouse door be lock , the gate do n't matter .
Any one who be careless about one thing , be likely to be careless about another .
Sometime he may forget to close that hole .
I tell you that we would try for one of those hen to-morrow morning , but the more I think about it , the more I think it will be wise to visit that henhouse a few night before we run the risk of try to catch a hen in broad daylight .
In fact , I be pretty sure I can make Farmer Brown 's boy forget to close that gate . ''
`` How ? ''
demand Reddy eagerly .
Granny grin .
`` I 'll try it first and tell you afterwards , '' say she .
`` I believe Farmer Brown 's boy close the henhouse up just before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed behind the Purple Hills , do n't he ? ''
Reddy nod .
Many time from a safe hiding-place he have hungrily watch Farmer Brown 's boy shut the biddy up .
It be always just before the Black Shadows begin to creep out from their hiding-places .
`` I think so , '' say Granny .
The truth be , she KNEW so .
There be nothing about that henhouse and what go on there that Granny do n't know quite as well a Reddy .
`` You stay right here this afternoon until I return .
I 'll see what I can do . ''
`` Let me go along , '' beg Reddy .
`` No , '' reply Granny in such a decided tone that Reddy know it would be of no use to tease .
`` Sometimes two can do what one can not do alone , and sometimes one can do what two might spoil .
Now we may as well take a nap until it be time for Mr. Sun to go to bed .
Just you leave it to your old Granny to take care of the first of those ifs .
For the other one we 'll have to trust to luck , but you know we be lucky sometimes . ''
With this Granny curl up for a nap , and have nothing well to do , Reddy follow her example .
CHAPTER XXIII : Farmer Brown 's Boy Forgets To Close The Gate How easy ' t be to just forget Until , ala , it be too late .
The most methodical of folk Sometimes forget to shut the gate .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Farmer Brown 's Boy be not usually the forgetful kind .
He be pretty good about not forget .
But Farmer Brown 's boy be n't perfect by any mean .
He do forget sometimes , and he be careless sometimes .
He would be a funny kind of boy otherwise .
But take it day in and day out , he be pretty thoughtful and careful .
The care of the hen be one of Farmer Brown 's boy 's duty .
It be one of those duty which most of the time be a pleasure .
He like the biddy , and he like to take care of them .
Every morning one of the first thing he do be to fee them and open the henhouse so that they can run in the henyard if they want to .
Every night he go out just before dark , collect the egg and lock the henhouse so that no harm can come to the biddy while they be asleep on their roost .
After the big snowstorm he have shovel a place in the henyard where the hen could come out and exercise and get a sun-bath when they want to , and in the very warm part of the clay they would do this .
Always in the daytime he take the great care to see that the henyard gate be fasten , for no one know good than he how bold Granny and Reddy Fox can be when they be very hungry , and in winter they be very apt to be very hungry most of the time .
So he do n't intend to give them a chance to slip into that henyard while the biddy be out , or to give the biddy a chance to stray outside where they might be still more easily catch .
But at night he sometimes leave that gate open , a Granny Fox have find out .
You see , he think it do n't matter because the hen be lock in their warm house and so be safe , anyway .
It be just at dusk of the afternoon of the day when Granny and Reddy Fox have talk over a plan to get one of those fat hen that Farmer Brown 's boy collect the egg and saw to it that the biddy have go to roost for the night .
He have just start to close the little sliding door across the hole through which the hen go in and out in the daytime when Bowser the Hound begin to make a great racket , a if terribly excite about something .
Farmer Brown 's boy give the little sliding door a hasty push , pick up his basket of egg , lock the henhouse door and hurry out through the gate without stop to close it .
You see , he be in a hurry to find out what Bowser be make such a fuss about .
Bowser be yelp and whine and tug at his chain , and it be plain to see that he be terribly eager to be set free .
`` What be it , Bowser , old boy ?
Did you see something ? ''
ask Farmer Brown 's boy a he pat Bowser on the head .
`` I ca n't let you go , you know , because you probably would go off hunt all night and come home in the morning all tire out and with sore foot .
Whatever it be , I guess you 've scar it out of a year 's growth , old fellow , so we 'll let it go at that . ''
Bowser still tug at his chain and whine , but after a little he quiet down .
His master look around behind the barn to see if he could see what have so stir up Bowser , but nothing be to be see , and he return , pat Bowser once more , and go into the house , never once give that open henyard gate another thought .
Half an hour later old Granny Fox join Reddy Fox , who be wait on the doorstep of their home .
`` It be all right , Reddy ; that gate be open , '' say she .
`` How do you do it , Granny ? ''
ask Reddy eagerly .
`` Easily enough , '' reply Granny .
`` I let Bowser get a glimpse of me just a his master be lock up the henhouse .
Bowser make a great fuss , and of course , Farmer Brown 's boy hurry out to see what it be all about .
He be in too much of a hurry to close that gate , and afterwards he forget all about it or else he think it do n't matter .
Of course , I do n't let him get so much a a glimpse of me . ''
`` Of course , '' say Reddy .
CHAPTER XXIV : A Midnight Visit By those who win ' t be well agree He 'll try and try who would succeed .
-- Old Granny Fox .
It seem to Reddy Fox a if time never have drag so slowly a it do this particular night while he and Granny Fox wait until Granny think it safe to visit Farmer Brown 's henhouse and see if by any chance there be a way of get into it .
Reddy try not to hope too much .
Granny have find a way to get the gate to the henyard leave open , but this would do them no good unless there be some way of get into the house , and this he very much doubt .
But if there be a way he want to know it , and he be impatient to start .
But Granny be in no hurry .
Not that she be n't just a hungry for a fat hen a be Reddy , but she be too wise and clever and altogether too sly to run any risk .
`` There be nothing gain by be in too much of a hurry , Reddy , '' say she , `` and often a great deal be lose in that way .
A fat hen will taste just as good a little later a it would now , and it will be foolish to go up to Farmer Brown 's until we be sure that everybody up there be asleep .
But to ease your mind , I 'll tell you what we will do ; we 'll go where we can see Farmer Brown 's house and watch until the last light wink out . ''
So they trot to a point where they could see Farmer Brown 's house , and there they sit down to watch .
It seem to Reddy that those light never would wink out .
But at last they do .
`` Come on , Granny ! ''
he cry , jump to his foot .
`` Not yet , Reddy .
Not yet , '' reply Granny .
`` We 've get to give folk time to get sound asleep .
If we should get into that henhouse , those hen might make a racket , and if anything like that be go to happen , we want to be sure that Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy be asleep . ''
This be sound advice , and Reddy know it .
So with a groan he once more threw himself down on the snow to wait .
At last Granny arise , stretch , and look up at the twinkle star .
`` Come on , '' say she and lead the way .
Up back of the barn and around it they steal like two shadow and quite as noiselessly a shadow .
They hear Bowser the Hound sighing in his sleep in his snug little house , and grin at each other .
Silently they steal over to the henyard .
The gate be open , just a Granny have tell Reddy it would be .
Across the henyard they trot swiftly , straight to where more than once in the daytime they have see the hen come out of the house through a little hole .
It be close .
Reddy have expect it would be .
Still , he be dreadfully disappointed .
He give it merely a glance .
`` I know it would n't be any use , '' say he with a half whine .
But Granny pay no attention to him .
She go close to the hole and push gently against the little door that close it .
It do n't move .
Then she notice that at one edge there be a tiny crack .
She try to push her nose through , but the crack be too narrow .
Then she try a paw .
A claw caught on the edge of the door , and it move ever so little .
Then Granny know that the little door be n't fasten .
Granny stretch herself flat on the ground and go to work , first with one paw , then with the other .
By and by she catch her claw in it just right again , and it move a wee bit more .
No , most certainly that door be n't fasten , and that crack be a little wider .
`` What be you waste your time there for ? ''
demand Reddy crossly .
`` We 'd well be off hunt if we would have anything to eat this night . ''
Granny say nothing but keep on work .
She have discover that this be a sliding door .
Presently the crack be wide enough for her to get her nose in .
Then she push and twist her head this way and that .
The little door slowly slide back , and when Reddy turn to speak to her again , for he have have his back to her , she be nowhere to be see .
Reddy just gap and gap foolishly .
There be no Granny Fox , but there be a black hole where she have be work , and from it come the most delicious smell , -- the smell of fat hen !
It seem to Reddy that his stomach fairly flop over with longing .
He rub his eye to be sure that he be awake .
Then in a twinkling he be inside that hole himself .
`` Sh-h-h , be still ! ''
whisper Old Granny Fox .
CHAPTER XXV : A Dinner For Two Dark deed be do in the stilly night , And who shall say if they 're wrong or right ?
-- Old Granny Fox .
It all depend on how you look at thing .
Of course , Granny and Reddy Fox have no business to be in Farmer Brown 's henhouse in the middle of the night , or at any other time , for that matter .
That be , they have no business to be there , a Farmer Brown would look at the matter .
He would have call them two red thief .
Perhaps that be just what they be .
But look at the matter a they do , I be not so sure about it .
To Granny and Reddy Fox those hen be simply big , rather stupid bird , splendid eat if they could be catch , and bound to be eat by somebody .
The fact that they be in Farmer Brown 's henhouse do n't make them his any more than the fact that Mrs. Grouse be in a part of the Green Forest own by Farmer Brown make her his .
You see , among the little meadow and forest people there be no such thing a property right , except in the matter of storehouse , and because these hen be alive , it do n't occur to Granny and Reddy that the henhouse be a sort of storehouse .
It would have make no difference if it have .
Among the little people it be consider quite right to help yourself from another 's storehouse if you be smart enough to find it and really need the food .
Besides , Reddy and Granny know that Fanner Brown and his boy would eat some of those hen themselves , and they do n't begin to need them a Reddy and Granny do .
So a they look at the matter , there be nothing wrong in be in that henhouse in the middle of the night .
They be there simply because they need food very , very much , and food be there .
They star up at the roost where the biddy be huddle together , fast asleep .
They be too high up to be reach from the floor even when Reddy and Granny stand on their hind leg and stretch as far a they could .
`` We 've get to wake them up and scare them so that some of the silly thing will fly down where we can catch them , '' say Reddy , lick his lip hungrily .
`` That wo n't do at all ! ''
snap Granny .
`` They would make a great racket and waken Bowser the Hound , and he would waken his master , and that be just what we must n't do if we hope to ever get in here again .
I think you have more sense , Reddy . ''
Reddy look a little shamefaced .
`` Well , if we do n't do that , how be we go to get them ?
We ca n't fly , '' he grumble .
`` You stay right here where you be , '' snap Granny , `` and take care that you do n't make a sound . ''
Then Granny jump lightly to a little shelf that run along in front of the nesting box .
From this she could reach the low roost on which four fat hen be asleep .
Very gently she push her head in between two of these and crowd them apart .
Sleepily they protest and move along a little .
Granny continue to crowd them .
At last one of them stretch out her head to see who be crowd so .
Like a flash Granny seize that head , and biddy never know what have waken her , nor do she have a chance to waken the others .
Dropping this hen at Reddy 's foot , Granny crowd another until she do the same thing , and just the same thing happen once more .
Then Granny jump lightly down , pick up one of the hen by the neck , sling the body over her shoulder , and tell Reddy to do the same with the other and start for home .
`` Are n't you go to get any more while we have the chance ? ''
grumble Reddy .
`` Enough be enough , '' retort Granny .
`` We 've get a dinner for two , and so far no one be any the wiser .
Perhaps these two wo n't be miss , and we 'll have a chance to get some more another night .
Now come on . ''
This be plain common sense , and Reddy know it , so without another word he follow old Granny Fox out by the way they have enter , and then home to the best dinner he have have for a long long time .
CHAPTER XXVI : Farmer Brown 's Boy Sets A Trap The trouble be that trouble be , More frequently than not , Brought on by naught but carelessness ; By some one who forget .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Granny Fox have hop that those two hen she and Reddy have steal from Farmer Brown 's henhouse would not be miss , but they be .
They be miss the very first thing the next morning when Farmer Brown 's boy go to fee the biddy .
He discover right away that the little sliding door which should have close the opening through which the hen go in and out of the house be open , and then he remember that he have leave the henyard gate open the night before .
Carefully Farmer Brown 's boy examine the hole with the slide door .
`` Ha ! ''
say he presently , and hold up two red hair which he have find on the edge of the door .
`` Ha !
I think as much .
I be careless last night and do n't fasten this door , and I leave the gate open .
Reddy Fox have be here , and now I know what have become of those two hen .
I suppose it serve me right for my carelessness , and I suppose if the truth be know , those hen be of more real good to him than they ever could have be to me , because the poor fellow must be have pretty hard work to get a living these hard winter day .
Still , I ca n't have him steal any more .
That would never do at all .
If I shut them up every night and be not careless , he ca n't get them .
But accident will happen , and I might do just a I do last night -- think I have lock up when I have n't .
I do n't like to set a trap for Reddy , but I must teach the rascal a lesson .
If I do n't , he will get so bold that those chicken wo n't be safe even in broad daylight . ''
Now at just that very time over in their home , Granny and Reddy Fox be talk over plan for the future , and shrewd old Granny be point out to Reddy how necessary it be that they should keep away from that henyard for some time .
`` We 've have a good dinner , a splendid dinner , and if we be smart enough we may be able to get more good dinner where this one come from , '' say she .
`` But we certainly wo n't if we be too greedy . ''
`` But I do n't believe Farmer Brown 's boy have miss those two chicken , and I do n't see any reason at all why we should n't go back there to-night and get two more if he be stupid enough to leave that gate and little door open , '' whine Reddy .
`` Maybe he have n't miss those two , but if we should take two more he certainly would miss them , and he would guess what have become of them , and that might get u into no end of trouble , '' snap Granny .
`` We be not starve now , and the best thing for u to do be to keep away from that henhouse until we ca n't get anything to eat anywhere else , Now you mind what I tell you , Reddy , and do n't you dare go near there . ''
Reddy promise , and so it come about that Farmer Brown 's boy hunt up a trap all for nothing so far a Reddy and Granny be concern .
Very carefully he bind strip of cloth around the jaw of the trap , for he could n't bear to think of those cruel jaw cut into the leg of Reddy , should he happen to get caught .
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy do n't intend to kill Reddy if he should catch him , but to make him a prisoner for a while and so keep him out of mischief .
That night he hide the trap very cunningly just inside the henhouse where any one creeping through that little hole make for the hen to go in and out would be sure to step in it .
Then he purposely leave the little sliding door open part way a if it have be forget , and he also leave the henyard gate open just a he have do the night before .
`` There now , Master Reddy , '' say he , talk to himself , `` I rather think that you be go to get into trouble before morning . ''
And doubtless Reddy would have do just that thing but for the wisdom of sly old Granny .
CHAPTER XXVII : Prickly Porky Takes A Sun Bath Danger come when least expect ; ' T be often near when not expect .
-- Old Granny Fox .
The long hard winter have pass , and Spring have come .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine come down from a tall poplar-tree and slowly stretch himself .
He be tire of eating .
He be tire of swing in the tree-top .
`` I believe I 'll have a sun-bath , '' say Prickly Porky , and lazily walk toward the edge of the Green Forest in search of a place where the sun lay warm and bright .
Now Prickly Porky 's stomach be very , very full .
He be fat and naturally lazy , so when he come to the doorstep of an old house just on the edge of the Green Forest he sit down to rest .
It be sunny and warm there , and the longer he sit the less like move he felt .
He look about him with his dull eye and grunt to himself .
`` It 's a deserted house .
Nobody live here , and I guess nobody 'll care if I take a nap right here on the doorstep , '' say Prickly Porky to himself .
`` And I do n't care if they do , '' he add , for Prickly Porky the Porcupine be afraid of nobody and nothing .
So Prickly Porky make himself as comfortable a possible , yawned once or twice , try to wink at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who be wink and smile down at him and then fell fast asleep right on the doorstep of the old house .
Now the old house have be desert .
No one have live in it for a long , long time , a very long time indeed .
But it happen that , the night before , old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox have have to move out of their nice home on the edge of the Green Meadows because Farmer Brown 's boy have find it .
Reddy be very stiff and sore , for he have be shoot by a hunter .
He be so sore he could hardly walk , and could not go very far .
So old Granny Fox have lead him to the old desert house and put him to bed in that .
`` No one will think of look for u here , for every one know that no one live here , '' say old Granny Fox , a she make Reddy as comfortable a possible .
As soon a it be daylight , Granny Fox slip out to watch for Farmer Brown 's boy , for she felt sure that he would come back to the house they have leave , and sure enough he do .
He bring a spade and dig the house open , and all the time old Granny Fox be watch him from behind a fence corner and laugh to think that she have be smart enough to move in the night .
But Reddy Fox do n't know anything about this .
He be so tired that he sleep and sleep and sleep .
It be the middle of the morning when finally he awake .
He yawn and stretch , and when he stretch he groan because he be so stiff and sore .
Then he hobble up toward the doorway to see if old Granny Fox have leave any breakfast outside for him .
It be dark , very dark .
Reddy be puzzle .
Could it be that he have get up before daylight -- that he have n't sleep as long a he think ?
Perhaps he have sleep the whole day through , and it be night again .
My , how hungry he be !
`` I hope Granny have catch a fine , fat chicken for me , '' think Reddy , and his mouth water .
Just then he run bump into something .
`` Wow ! ''
scream Reddy Fox , and clap both hand to his nose .
Something be stick into it .
It be one of the sharp little spear that Prickly Porky hide in his coat .
Reddy Fox know then why the old house be so dark .
Prickly Porky be block up the doorway .
CHAPTER XXVIII : Prickly Porky Enjoys Himself A boasting tongue , as sure a fate , Will trip it owner soon or late .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine be enjoy himself .
There be no doubt about that .
He be stretch across the doorway of that old house , the very house in which old Granny Fox have be bear .
When he have lie down on the doorstep for a nap and sun-bath , he have think that the old house be still desert .
Then he have fall asleep , only to be waken by Reddy Fox , who bad be asleep in the old house and who could n't get out because Prickly Porky be in the way .
Now Prickly Porky do not love Reddy Fox , and the more Reddy beg and scold and call him names , the more Prickly Porky chuckle .
It be such a good joke to think that he have trap Reddy Fox , and he make up his mind that he would keep Reddy in there a long time just to tease him and make him uncomfortable .
You see Prickly Porky remember how often Reddy Fox play mean trick on little meadow and forest folk who be small and weak than himself .
`` It will do him good .
It certainly will do him good , '' say Prickly Porky , and rattle the thousand little spear hide in his long coat , for he know that the very sound of them would make Reddy Fox shiver with fright .
Suddenly Prickly Porky prick up his funny little short ear .
He hear the deep voice of Bowser the Hound , and it be come nearer and nearer .
Prickly Porky chuckle again .
`` I guess Mr. Bowser be go to have a surprise ; I certainly think he be , '' say Prickly Porky a he make all the thousand little spear stand out from his long coat till he look like a funny great chestnut burr .
Bowser the Hound do have a surprise .
He be hunt Reddy Fox , and he almost run into Prickly Porky before he saw him .
The very sight of those thousand little spear send little cold chill chase each other down Bowser 's backbone clear to the tip of his tail , for he remember how he have get some of them in his lip and mouth once upon a time , and how it have hurt to have them pull out .
Ever since then he have have the great respect for Prickly Porky .
`` Wow ! ''
yelp Bowser the Hound , stop short .
`` I beg your pardon , Prickly Porky , I beg your pardon , I do n't know you be take a nap here . ''
All the time Bowser the Hound be back away as fast a he could .
Then he turn around , put his tail between his leg and actually run away .
Slowly Prickly Porky unroll , and his little eye twinkle a he watch Bowser the Hound run away .
`` Bowser 's very big and strong ; His voice be deep ; his leg be long ; His bark scar some almost to death .
But a for me he waste his breath ; I just roll up and shake my spear And Bowser be the one who fear . ''
So say Prickly Porky , and laugh aloud .
Just then he hear a light footstep and turn to see who be come .
It be old Granny Fox .
She have see Bowser run away , and now she be anxious to find out if Reddy Fox be safe .
`` Good morning , '' say Granny Fox , take care not to come too near .
`` Good morning , '' reply Prickly Porky , hide a smile .
`` I 'm very tired and would like to go inside my house ; have you just a soon move ? ''
ask Granny Fox .
`` Oh ! ''
exclaim Prickly Porky , `` be this your house ?
I think you live over on the Green Meadows . ''
`` I do , but I 've move .
Please let me in , '' reply Granny Fox .
`` Certainly , certainly .
Do n't mind me , Granny Fox .
Step right over me , '' say Prickly Porky , and smile once more , and at the same time rattle his little spear .
Instead of step over him , Granny Fox back away .
CHAPTER XXIX : The New Home In The Old Pasture Who keep a watch upon his toe Need never fear he 'll bump his nose .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Now there be nothing like be shut in alone in the dark to make one think .
A voice inside of Reddy begin to whisper to him .
`` If you have n't try to be smart and show off you would n't have bring all this trouble on yourself and Old Granny Fox , '' say the voice .
`` I know it , '' reply Reddy right out loud , forget that it be only a small voice inside of him .
`` What do you know ? ''
ask Prickly Porky .
He be still keep Reddy in and Granny out and he have overheard what Reddy say .
`` It be none of your business ! ''
snap Reddy .
Reddy could hear Prickly Porky chuckle .
Then Prickly Porky repeat a if to himself in a queer crack voice the following : `` Rudeness never , never pay , Nor be there gain in saucy way .
It 's always best to be polite And ne'er give way to ugly spite .
If that 's the way you feel inside You 'd better all such feeling hide ; For he must smile who hop to win , And he who lose best will grin . ''
Reddy pretend that he have n't hear .
Prickly Porky continue to chuckle for a while and finally Reddy fell asleep .
When he awake it be to find that Prickly Porky have leave and old Granny Fox have bring him something to eat .
Just as soon a Reddy Fox be able to travel he and Granny have move to the Old Pasture .
The Old Pasture be very different from the Green Meadows or the Green Forest .
Yes , indeed , it be very , very different .
Reddy Fox think so .
And Reddy do n't like the change , -- not a bit .
All about be great rock , and around and over them grow bush and young tree and bull-briars with long ugly thorn , and blackberry and raspberry cane that seem to have a million little hooked hand , reach to catch in and tear his red coat and to scratch his face and hand .
There be little open place where wild-eyed young cattle feed on the short grass .
They have make many little path all crisscross among the bush , and when you try to follow one of these path you never could tell where you be come out .
No , Reddy Fox do not like the Old Pasture at all .
There be no long , soft green grass to lie down in .
And it be lonesome up there .
He miss the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
There be no one to bully and tease .
And it be such a long , long way from Farmer Brown 's henyard that old Granny Fox would n't even try to bring him a fat hen .
At least , that 's what she tell Reddy .
The truth be , wise old Granny Fox know that the very best thing she could do be to stay away from Farmer Brown 's for a long time .
She know that Reddy could n't go down there , because he be still too lame and sore to travel such a long way , and she hop that by the time Reddy be well enough to go , he would have learn good than to do such a foolish thing a to try to show off by steal a chicken in broad daylight , a he have when he bring all this trouble on them .
Down on the Green Meadows , the home of Granny and Reddy Fox have be on a little knoll , which you know be a little low hill , right where they could sit on their doorstep and look all over the Green Meadows .
It have be very , very beautiful down there .
They have make lovely little path through the tall green meadow grass , and the buttercup and daisy have grow close up to their very doorstep .
But up here in the Old Pasture Granny Fox have choose the thick clump of bush and young tree she could find , and in the middle be a great pile of rock .
Way in among these rock Granny Fox have dig their new house .
It be right down under the rock .
Even in the middle of the day jolly , round , red Mr. Sun could hardly find it with a few of his long , bright beam .
All the rest of the time it be dark and gloomy there .
No , Reddy Fox do n't like his new home at all , but when he say so old Granny Fox box his ear .
`` It 's your own fault that we 've get to live here now , '' say she .
`` It 's the only place where we be safe .
Farmer Brown 's boy never will find this home , and even if he do he could n't dig into it a he do into our old home on the Green Meadows .
Here we be , and here we 've get to stay , all because a foolish little Fox think himself smart than anybody else and try to show off . ''
Reddy hang his head .
`` I do n't care ! ''
he say , which be very , very foolish , because , you know , he do care a very great deal .
And here we will leave wise Old Granny Fox and Reddy , safe , even if they do not like their new home .
You see , Lightfoot the Deer be get jealous .
He think there should be some book about the people of the Green Forest , and that the first one should be about him .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Old_Mother_West_Wind.txt.out
CHAPTER I. MRS. REDWING 'S SPECKLED EGG Old Mother West Wind come down from the Purple Hills in the golden light of the early morning .
Over her shoulder be sling a bag -- a great big bag -- and in the bag be all of Old Mother West Wind 's child , the Merry Little Breezes .
Old Mother West Wind come down from the Purple Hills to the Green Meadows and a she walk she croon a song : `` Ships upon the ocean wait ; I must hurry , hurry on !
Mills be idle if I 'm late ; I must hurry , hurry on . ''
When she reach the Green Meadows Old Mother West Wind open her bag , turn it upside down and shake it .
Out tumble all the Merry Little Breezes and begin to spin round and round for very joy , for you see they be to lay in the Green Meadows all day long until Old Mother West Wind should come back at night and take them all to their home behind the Purple Hills .
First they race over to see Johnny Chuck .
They find Johnny Chuck sit just outside his door eat his breakfast .
One , for very mischief , snatch right out of Johnny Chuck 's mouth the green leaf of corn he be eat , and run away with it .
Another playfully pull his whisker , while a third rumple up his hair .
Johnny Chuck pretend to be very cross indeed , but really he do n't mind a bit , for Johnny Chuck love the Merry Little Breezes and play with them everyday .
And if they tease Johnny Chuck they be good to him , too .
When they saw Farmer Brown come across the Green Meadows with a gun one of them would dance over to Johnny Chuck and whisper to him that Farmer Brown be come , and then Johnny Chuck would hide away , deep down in his snug little house under ground , and Farmer Brown would wonder and wonder why it be that he never , never could get near enough to shoot Johnny Chuck .
But he never , never could .
When the Merry Little Breezes leave Johnny Chuck they race across the Green Meadows to the Smiling Pool to say good morning to Grandfather Frog who sit on a big lily pad watch for green fly for breakfast .
`` Chug-arum , '' say Grandfather Frog , which be his way of say good morning .
Just then along come a fat green fly and up jump Grandfather Frog .
When he sit down again on the lily pad the fat green fly be nowhere to be see , but Grandfather Frog look very well satisfied indeed a he contentedly rub his white waistcoat with one hand .
`` What be the news , Grandfather Frog ? ''
cry the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Mrs. Redwing have a new speckled egg in her nest in the bulrush , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` We must see it , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , and away they all run to the swamp where the bulrush grow .
Now someone else have hear of Mrs. Redwing 's dear little nest in the bulrush , and he have start out bright and early that morning to try and find it , for he want to steal the little speckled egg just because they be pretty .
It be Tommy Brown , the farmer 's boy .
When the Merry Little Breezes reach the swamp where the bulrush grow they find poor Mrs. Redwing in great distress .
She be afraid that Tommy Brown would find her dear little nest , for he be very , very near it , and his eye be very , very sharp .
`` Oh , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , `` we must help Mrs. Redwing save her pretty speckle egg from bad Tommy Brown ! ''
So one of the Merry Little Breezes whisk Tommy Brown 's old straw hat off his head over into the Green Meadows .
Of course Tommy ran after it .
Just a he stoop to pick it up another little Breeze run away with it .
Then they take turn , first one little Breeze , then another little Breeze run away with the old straw hat just a Tommy Brown would almost get his hand on it .
Down past the Smiling Pool and across the Laughing Brook they race and chase the old straw hat , Tommy Brown run after it , very cross , very red in the face , and breathe very hard .
Way across the Green Meadows they run to the edge of the wood , where they hang the old straw hat in the middle of a thorn tree .
By the time Tommy Brown have it once more on his head he have forget all about Mrs. Redwing and her dear little nest .
Besides , he hear the breakfast horn blowing just then , so off he start for home up the Lone Little Path through the wood .
And all the Merry Little Breezes dance away across the Green Meadows to the swamp where the bulrush grow to see the new speckled egg in the dear little nest where Mrs. Redwing be sing for joy .
And while she sing the Merry Little Breezes dance among the bulrush , for they know , and Mrs. Redwing know , that some day out of that pretty new speckle egg would come a wee baby Redwing .
CHAPTER II WHY GRANDFATHER FROG HAS NO TAIL Old Mother West Wind have go to her day 's work , leave all the Merry Little Breezes to play in the Green Meadows .
They have play tag and run race with the Bees and play hide and seek with the Sun Beams , and now they have gather around the Smiling Pool where on a green lily pad sat Grandfather Frog .
Grandfather Frog be old , very old , indeed , and very , very wise .
He wear a green coat and his voice be very deep .
When Grandfather Frog speak everybody listen very respectfully .
Even Billy Mink treat Grandfather Frog with respect , for Billy Mink 's father and his father 's father could not remember when Grandfather Frog have not sit on the lily pad watch for green fly .
Down in the Smiling Pool be some of Grandfather Frog 's great-great-great-great-great grandchild .
You would n't have know that they be his grandchild unless some one tell you .
They do n't look the least bit like Grandfather Frog .
They be round and fat and have long tail and perhaps this be why they be call Pollywogs .
`` Oh Grandfather Frog , tell u why you do n't have a tail a you do when you be young , '' beg one of the Merry Little Breezes .
Grandfather Frog snap up a foolish green fly and settle himself on his big lily pad , while all the Merry Little Breezes gather round to listen .
`` Once on a time , '' begin Grandfather Frog , `` the Frogs rule the world , which be mostly water .
There be very little dry land -- oh , very little indeed !
There be no boy to throw stone and no hungry Mink to gobble up foolish Frog-babies who be take a sun bath ! ''
Billy Mink , who have join the Merry Little Breezes and be listen , squirm uneasily and look away guiltily .
`` In those day all the Frogs have tail , long handsome tail of which they be very , very proud indeed , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
`` The King of all the Frogs be twice as big a any other Frog , and his tail be three time a long .
He be very proud , oh , very proud indeed of his long tail .
He use to sit and admire it until he think that there never have be and never could be another such tail .
He use to wave it back and forth in the water , and every time he wave it all the other Frogs would cry ` Ah ! '
and ` Oh ! '
Every day the King grow more vain .
He do nothing at all but eat and sleep and admire his tail .
`` Now all the other Frogs do just a the King do , so pretty soon none of the Frogs be do anything but sit about eating , sleep and admire their own tail and the King 's .
`` Now you all know that people who do nothing worth while in this world be of no use and there be little room for them .
So when Mother Nature saw how useless have become the Frog tribe she call the King Frog before her and she say : '' ` Because you can think of nothing but your beautiful tail it shall be take away from you .
Because you do nothing but eat and sleep your mouth shall become wide like a door , and your eye shall start forth from your head .
You shall become bow-legged and ugly to look at , and all the world shall laugh at you . '
`` The King Frog look at his beautiful tail and already it seem to have grow short .
He look again and it be short still .
Every time he look his tail have grow shorter and small .
By and by when he look there be nothing left but a little stub which he could n't even wriggle .
Then even that disappear , his eye pop out of his head and his mouth grow big and big . ''
Old Grandfather Frog stop and look sadly at a foolish green fly come his way .
`` Chug-arum , '' say Grandfather Frog , open his mouth very wide and hop up in the air .
When he sit down again on his big lily pad the green fly be nowhere to be see .
Grandfather Frog smack his lip and continue : `` And from that day to this every Frog have start life with a big tail , and a he have grow big and big his tail have grow small and small , until finally it disappear , and then he remember how foolish and useless it be to be vain of what nature have give u .
And that be how I come to lose my tail , '' finish Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you , '' shout all the Merry Little Breezes .
`` We wo n't forget . ''
Then they run a race to see who could reach Johnny Chuck 's home first and tell him that Farmer Brown be come down on the Green Meadows with a gun .
CHAPTER III HOW REDDY FOX WAS SURPRISED Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox live very near together on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck be fat and roly-poly .
Reddy Fox be slim and wear a bright red coat .
Reddy Fox use to like to frighten Johnny Chuck by suddenly pop out from behind a tree and make believe that he be go to eat Johnny Chuck all up .
One bright summer day Johnny Chuck be out look for a good breakfast of nice tender clover .
He have wander quite a long way from his snug little house in the long meadow grass , although his mother have tell him never to go out of sight of the door .
But Johnny be like some little boys I know , and forget all he have be tell .
He walk and walk and walk .
Every few minute Johnny Chuck saw something far on that look like a patch of nice fresh clover .
And every time when he reach it Johnny Chuck find that he have make a mistake .
So Johnny Chuck walk and walk and walk .
Old Mother West Wind , come across the Green Meadows , saw Johnny Chuck and ask him where he be go .
Johnny Chuck pretend not to hear and just walk faster .
One of the Merry Little Breezes dance along in front of him .
`` Look out , Johnny Chuck , you will get lose , '' cry the Merry Little Breeze then pull Johnny 's whisker and run away .
Higher and high up in the sky climb round , red Mr. Sun .
Every time Johnny Chuck look up at him Mr. Sun wink .
`` So long a I can see great round , red Mr. Sun and he wink at me I ca n't be lose , '' think Johnny Chuck , and trot on look for clover .
By and by Johnny Chuck really do find some clover -- just the sweet clover that grow in the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck ate and ate and ate and then what do you think he do ?
Why , he curl right up in the nice sweet clover and go fast asleep .
Great round , red Mr. Sun keep climb high and high up in the sky , then by and by he begin to go down on the other side , and long shadow begin to creep out across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck do n't know anything about them : he be fast asleep .
By and by one of the Merry Little Breezes find Johnny Chuck all curl up in a funny round ball .
`` Wake up Johnny Chuck !
Wake up ! ''
shout the Merry Little Breeze .
Johnny Chuck open his eye .
Then he sit up and rub them .
For just a few , few minute he could n't remember where he be at all .
By and by he sit up very straight to look over the grass and see where he be .
But he be so far from home that he do n't see a single thing that look at all like the thing he be use to .
The tree be all different .
The bush be all different .
Everything be different .
Johnny Chuck be lose .
Now , when Johnny sit up , Reddy Fox happen to be look over the Green Meadows and he saw Johnny 's head where it pop above the grass .
`` Aha ! ''
say Reddy Fox , `` I 'll scare Johnny Chuck so he 'll wish he 'd never put his nose out of his house . ''
Then Reddy drop down behind the long grass and crept softly , oh , ever so softly , through the path of his own , until he be right behind Johnny Chuck .
Johnny Chuck have be so intent look for home that he do n't see anything else .
Reddy Fox steal right up behind Johnny and pull Johnny 's little short tail hard .
How it do frighten Johnny Chuck !
He jump right straight up in the air and when he come down he be the mad little woodchuck that ever live in the Green Meadows .
Reddy Fox have think that Johnny would run , and then Reddy mean to run after him and pull his tail and tease him all the way home .
Now , Reddy Fox get as big a surprise a Johnny have have when Reddy pull his tail .
Johnny do n't stop to think that Reddy Fox be twice as big a he , but with his eye snap , and chatter a only a little Chuck can chatter , with every little hair on his little body stand right up on end , so that he seem twice as big a he really be , he start for Reddy Fox .
It surprise Reddy Fox so that he do n't know what to do , and he simply run .
Johnny Chuck run after him , nip Reddy 's heel every minute or two .
Peter Rabbit just happen to be down that way .
He be sit up very straight look to see what mischief he could get into when he catch sight of Reddy Fox run as hard a ever he could .
`` It must be that Bowser , the hound , be after Reddy Fox , '' say Peter Rabbit to himself .
`` I must watch out that he do n't find me . ''
Just then he catch sight of Johnny Chuck with every little hair stand up on end and running after Reddy Fox as fast a his short leg could go .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
shout Peter Rabbit .
`` Reddy Fox afraid of Johnny Chuck !
Ho !
ho !
Ho ! ''
Then Peter Rabbit scamper away to find Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Happy Jack Squirrel to tell them all about how Reddy Fox have run away from Johnny Chuck , for you see they be all a little afraid of Reddy Fox .
Straight home run Reddy Fox as fast a he could go , and go home he pass the house of Johnny Chuck .
Now Johnny could n't run so fast a Reddy Fox and he be puff and blow a only a fat little woodchuck can puff and blow when he have to run hard .
Moreover , he have lose his ill temper now and he think it be the best joke ever to think that he have actually frighten Reddy Fox .
When he come to his own house he stop and sit on his hind legs once more .
Then he shrill out after Reddy Fox : `` Reddy Fox be a ` fraid cat , ` fraid-cat !
Reddy Fox be a ` fraid-cat ! ''
And all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind , who be play on the Green Meadows shout : `` Reddy Fox be a ` fraid-cat , ` fraid-cat ! ''
And this be the way that Reddy Fox be surprise and that Johnny Chuck find his way home .
CHAPTER IV WHY JIMMY SKUNK WEARS STRIPES Jimmy Skunk , a everybody know , wear a striped suit , a suit of black and white .
There be a time , long , long ago , when all the Skunk family wear black .
Very handsome their coat be , too , a beautiful , glossy black .
They be very , very proud of them and take the great care of them , brush them carefully ever so many time a day .
There be a Jimmy Skunk then , just a there be now , and he be head of all the Skunk family .
Now this Jimmy Skunk be very proud and think himself very much of a gentleman .
He be very independent and care for no one .
Like a great many other independent people , he do not always consider the right of others .
Indeed , it be hint in the wood and on the Green Meadows that not all of Jimmy Skunk 's doings would bear the light of day .
It be openly say that he be altogether too fond of prowl about at night , but no one could prove that he be responsible for mischief do in the night , for no one saw him .
You see his coat be so black that in the darkness of the night it be not visible at all .
Now about this time of which I be tell you Mrs. Ruffed Grouse make a nest at the foot of the Great Pine and in it she lay fifteen beautiful buff egg .
Mrs. Grouse be very happy , very happy indeed , and all the little meadow folk who know of her happiness be happy too , for they all love shy , demure , little Mrs. Grouse .
Every morning when Peter Rabbit trot down the Lone Little Path through the wood past the Great Pine he would stop for a few minute to chat with Mrs. Grouse .
Happy Jack Squirrel would bring her the news every afternoon .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind would run up a dozen time a day to see how she be get along .
One morning Peter Rabbit , come down the Lone Little Path for his usual morning call , find a terrible state of affair .
Poor little Mrs. Grouse be heart-broken .
All about the foot of the Great Pine lay the empty shell of her beautiful egg .
They have be break and scatter this way and that .
`` How do it happen ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` I do n't know , '' sob poor little Mrs. Grouse .
`` In the night when I be fast asleep something pounce upon me .
I manage to get away and fly up in the top of the Great Pine .
In the morning I find all my egg break , just a you see them here . ''
Peter Rabbit look the ground over very carefully .
He hunt around behind the Great Pine , he look under the bush , he study the ground with a very wise air .
Then he hop off down the Lone Little Path to the Green Meadows .
He stop at the house of Johnny Chuck .
`` What make your eye so big and round ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
Peter Rabbit come very close so a to whisper in Johnny Chuck 's ear , and tell him all that he have see .
Together they go to Jimmy Skunk 's house .
Jimmy Skunk be in bed .
He be very sleepy and very cross when he come to the door .
Peter Rabbit tell him what he have see .
`` Too bad !
Too bad ! ''
say Jimmy Skunk , and yawn sleepily .
`` Wo n't you join u in try to find out who do it ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk say he would be delight to come but that he have some other business that morning and that he would join them in the afternoon .
Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck go on .
Pretty soon they meet the Merry Little Breezes and tell them the dreadful story .
`` What shall we do ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` We 'll hurry over and tell Old Dame Nature , '' cry the Merry Little Breezes , `` and ask her what to do . ''
So away fly the Merry Little Breezes to Old Dame Nature and tell her all the dreadful story .
Old Dame Nature listen very attentively .
Then she send the Merry Little Breezes to all the little meadow folk to tell every one to be at the Great Pine that afternoon .
Now whatever Old Dame Nature command all the meadow folk be oblige to do .
They do not dare to disobey her .
Promptly at four o'clock that afternoon all the meadow folk be gather around the foot of the Great Pine .
Broken-hearted little Mrs. Ruffed Grouse sit beside her empty nest , with all the broken shell about her .
Reddy Fox , Peter Rabbit , Johnny Chuck , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Hooty the Owl , Bobby Coon , Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , Grandfather Frog , Mr. Toad , Spotty the Turtle , the Merry Little Breezes , all be there .
Last of all come Jimmy Skunk .
Very handsome he look in his shin black coat and very sorry he appear that such a dreadful thing should have happen .
He tell Mrs. Grouse how badly he felt , and he loudly demand that the culprit should be find out and severely punish .
Old Dame Nature have the most smiling face in the world , but this time it be very , very grave indeed .
First she ask little Mrs. Grouse to tell her story all over again that all might hear .
Then each in turn be ask to tell where he have be the night before .
Johnny Chuck , Happy Jack Squirrel , Striped Chipmunk , Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow have go to bed when Mr. Sun go down behind the Purple Hills .
Jerry Muskrat , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle have not leave the Smiling Pool .
Bobby Coon have be down in Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
Hooty the Owl have be hunt in the low end of the Green Meadows .
Peter Rabbit have be down in the berry patch .
Mr. Toad have be under the piece of bark which he call a house .
Old Dame Nature call on Jimmy Skunk last of all .
Jimmy protest that he have be very , very tired and have go to bed very early indeed and have sleep the whole night through .
Then Old Dame Nature ask Peter Rabbit what he have find among the egg shell that morning .
Peter Rabbit hop out and lay three long black hair before Old Dame Nature .
`` These , '' say Peter Rabbit `` be what I find among the egg shell . ''
Then Old Dame Nature call Johnny Chuck .
`` Tell u , Johnny Chuck , '' say she , `` what you saw when you call at Jimmy Skunk 's house this morning . ''
`` I saw Jimmy Skunk , '' say Johnny Chuck , `` and Jimmy seem very , very sleepy .
It seem to me that his whisker be yellow . ''
`` That will do , '' say Old Dame Nature , and then she call Old Mother West Wind .
`` What time do you come down on the Green Meadows this morning ? ''
`` Just at the break of day , '' say Old Mother West Wind , `` a Mr. Sun be come up from behind the Purple Hills . ''
`` And whom do you see so early in the morning ? ''
ask Old Dame Nature .
`` I saw Bobby Coon go home from old Farmer Brown 's cornfield , '' say Old Mother West Wind .
`` I saw Hooty the Owl come back from the low end of the Green Meadows .
I saw Peter Rabbit down in the berry patch .
Last of all I saw something like a black shadow come down the Lone Little Path toward the house of Jimmy Skunk . ''
Every one be look very hard at Jimmy Skunk .
Jimmy begin to look very unhappy and very uneasy .
`` Who wear a black coat ? ''
ask Dame Nature .
`` Jimmy Skunk ! ''
shout all the little meadow folk .
`` What MIGHT make whisker yellow ? ''
ask Old Dame Nature .
No one seem to know at first .
Then Peter Rabbit speak up .
`` It MIGHT be the yolk of an egg , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Who be likely to be sleepy on a bright sunny morning ? ''
ask Old Dame Nature .
`` People who have be out all night , '' say Johnny Chuck , who himself always go to bed with the sun .
`` Jimmy Skunk , '' say Old Dame Nature , and her voice be very stern , very stern indeed , and her face be very grave .
`` Jimmy Skunk , I accuse you of have break and eat the egg of Mrs. Grouse .
What have you to say for yourself ? ''
Jimmy Skunk hang his head .
He have n't a word to say .
He just want to sneak away by himself .
`` Jimmy Skunk , '' say Old Dame Nature , `` because your handsome black coat of which you be so proud have make it possible for you to move about in the night without be see , and because we can no longer trust you upon your honor , henceforth you and your descendant shall wear a striped coat , which be the sign that you can not be trust .
Your coat hereafter shall be black and white , that when you move about in the night you will always be visible . ''
And this be why that to this day Jimmy Skunk wear a striped suit of black and white .
CHAPTER V THE WILFUL LITTLE BREEZE Old Mother West Wind be tire -- tired and just a wee bit cross -- cross because she be tire .
She have have a very busy day .
Ever since early morning she have be puff out the white sale of the ship on the big ocean so that they could go faster ; she have keep all the big and little wind mill whirl and whirl to pump water for thirsty folk and grind corn for hungry folk ; she have blow away all the smoke from tall chimney and engine and steamboat .
Yes , indeed , Old Mother West Wind have be very , very busy .
Now she be come across the Green Meadows on her way to her home behind the Purple Hills , and a she come she open the big bag she carry and call to her child , the Merry Little Breezes , who have be play hard on the Green Meadows all the long day .
One by one they creep into the big bag , for they be tire , too , and ready to go to their home behind the Purple Hills .
Pretty soon all be in the bag but one , a willful little Breeze , who be not quite ready to go home ; he want to play just a little long .
He dance ahead of Old Mother West Wind .
He kiss the sleepy daisy .
He shake the nodding buttercup .
He set all the little poplar leave a dancing , too , and he would n't come into the big bag .
So Old Mother West Wind close the big bag and slung it over her shoulder .
Then she start on towards her home behind the Purple Hills .
When she have go , the willful little Breeze leave behind suddenly felt very lonely -- very lonely indeed !
The sleepy daisy do n't want to play .
The nodding buttercup be cross .
Great round bright Mr. Sun , who have be shin and shin all day long , go to bed and put on his night cap of golden cloud .
Black shadow come creep , creep out into the Green Meadows .
The willful little Breeze begin to wish that he be safe in Old Mother West Wind 's big bag with all the other Merry Little Breezes .
So he start across the Green Meadows to find the Purple Hills .
But all the hill be black now and he could not tell which he should look behind to find his home with Old Mother West Wind and the Merry Little Breezes .
How he do wish that he have mind Old Mother West Wind .
By and by he curl up under a bayberry bush and try to go to sleep , but he be lonely , oh , so lonely !
And he could n't go to sleep .
Old Mother Moon come up and flood all the Green Meadows with light , but it be n't like the bright light of jolly round Mr. Sun , for it be cold and white and it make many black shadow .
Pretty soon the willful little Breeze heard Hooty the Owl out hunt for a meadow mouse for his dinner .
Then down the Lone Little Path which run close to the bayberry bush trot Reddy Fox .
He be trot very softly and every minute or so he turn his head and look behind him to see if he be follow .
It be plain to see that Reddy Fox be bend on mischief .
When he reach the bayberry bush Reddy Fox sit down and barked twice .
Hooty the Owl answer him at once and fly over to join him .
They do n't see the willful little Breeze curl up under the bayberry bush , so intent be these two rogue in plot mischief .
They be plan to steal down across the Green Meadows to the edge of the Brown Pasture where Mr. Bob White and pretty Mrs. Bob White and a dozen little Bob Whites have their home .
`` When they run along the ground I 'll catch 'em , and when they fly up in the air you 'll catch 'em , and we 'll gobble 'em all up , '' say Reddy Fox to Hooty the Owl .
Then he lick his chop and Hooty the Owl snap his bill , just a if they be taste tender little Bob Whites that very minute .
It make the willful little Breeze shiver to see them .
Pretty soon they start on towards the Brown Pasture .
When they be out of sight the willful little Breeze jump up and shake himself .
Then away he speed across the Green Meadows to the Brown Pasture .
And because he could go faster and because he go a shorter way he get there first .
He have to hunt and hunt to find Mrs. and Mr. Bob White and all the little Bob Whites , but finally he do find them , all with their head tuck under their wing fast asleep .
The willful little Breeze shake Mr. Bob White very gently .
In an instant he be wide awake .
`` Sh-h-h , '' say the willful little Breeze .
`` Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl be come to the Brown Pasture to gobble up you and Mrs. Bob White and all the little Bob Whites . ''
`` Thank you , little Breeze , '' say Mr. Bob White , `` I think I 'll move my family . ''
Then he wake Mrs. Bob White and all the little Bob Whites .
With Mr. Bob White in the lead away they all fly to the far side of the Brown Pasture where they be soon safely hide under a juniper tree .
The willful little Breeze saw them safely there , and when they be nicely hide hurry back to the place where the Bob Whites have be sleep .
Reddy Fox be steal up through the grass very , very softly .
Hooty the Owl be fly as silently a a shadow .
When Reddy Fox think he be near enough he draw himself together , make a quick spring and land right in Mr. Bob White 's empty bed .
Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl look so surprised and foolish when they find the Bob Whites be not there that the willful little Breeze nearly laugh out loud .
Then Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl hunt here and hunt there , all over the Brown Pasture , but they could n't find the Bob Whites .
And the willful little Breeze go back to the juniper tree and curl himself beside Mr. Bob White to sleep , for he be lonely no longer .
CHAPTER VI REDDY FOX GOES FISHING One morning when Mr. Sun be very , very bright and it be very , very warm , down on the Green Meadows Reddy Fox come hop and skip down the Lone Little Path that lead to the Laughing Brook .
Hoppity , skip , skippity hop !
Reddy felt very much please with himself that sunny morning .
Pretty soon he saw Johnny Chuck sit up very straight close by the little house where he live .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
call Reddy fox .
Johnny Chuck pretend not to hear .
His mother have tell him not to play with Reddy Fox , for Reddy Fox be a bad boy .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
call Reddy again .
This time Johnny turn and look .
He could see Reddy Fox turn somersault and chase his tail and rolling over and over in the little path .
`` Come on ! ''
say Reddy Fox .
`` Let 's go fishing ! ''
`` Ca n't , '' say Johnny Chuck , because you know , his mother have tell him not to play with Reddy Fox .
`` I 'll show you how to catch a fish , '' say Reddy Fox , and try to jump over his own shadow .
`` Ca n't , '' say good little Johnny Chuck again , and turn away so that he could n't see Reddy Fox chase Butterflies and play catch with Field Mice child .
So Reddy Fox go down to the Laughing Brook all alone .
The Brook be laugh and sing on it way to join the Big River .
The sky be blue and the sun be bright .
Reddy Fox jump on the Big Rock in the middle of the Laughing Brook and peep over the other side .
What do you think he saw ?
Why , right down below in a Dear Little Pool be Mr. And Mrs. Trout and all the little Trouts .
Reddy Fox want some of those little Trouts to take home for his dinner , but he do n't know how to catch them .
He lay flat down on the Big Rock and reach way down into the Dear Little Pool , but all the little Trouts laugh at Reddy Fox and not one come within reach .
Then Mr. Trout swim up so quickly that Reddy Fox do n't see him come and bit Reddy 's little black paw hard .
`` Ouch ! ''
cry Reddy Fox , pull his little black paw out of the water .
And all the little Trouts laugh at Reddy Fox .
Just then along come Billy Mink .
`` Hello , Reddy Fox ! ''
say Billy Mink .
`` What be you do here ? ''
`` I 'm try to catch a fish , '' say Reddy Fox .
`` Pooh !
That 's easy ! ''
say Billy Mink .
`` I 'll show you how . ''
So Billy Mink lay down on the Big Rock side of Reddy Fox and peep over into the Dear Little Pool where all the little Trouts be laugh at Reddy Fox and have such a good time .
But Billy Mink take care , such very great care , that Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout should not see him peep over into the Dear Little Pool .
When Billy Mink saw all those little Trouts playing in the Dear Little Pool he laugh .
`` You count three , Reddy Fox , '' say he , `` and I 'll show you how to catch a fish . ''
`` One ! ''
say Reddy Fox , `` Two !
Three ! ''
Splash !
Billy Mink have dive head first into the Dear Little Pool .
He spatter water way up onto Reddy Fox , and he frighten old Mr. Frog so that he fell over backwards off the lily pad where he be take a morning nap right into the water .
In a minute Billy Mink climb out on the other side of the Dear Little Pool and sure enough , he have catch one of the little Trouts .
`` Give it to me , '' cry Reddy Fox .
`` Catch one yourself , '' say Billy Mink .
`` Old Grandpa Mink want a fish for his dinner , so I be go to take this home .
You 're afraid , Reddy Fox !
` Fraid-cat !
Fraid-cat ! ''
Billy Mink shake the water off of his little brown coat , pick up the little Trout and run off home .
Reddy Fox lay down again on the Big Rock and peep into the Dear Little Pool .
Not a single Trout could he see .
They be all hide safely with Mr. and Mrs. Trout .
Reddy Fox watch and watch .
The sun be warm , the Laughing Brook be sing a lullaby and -- what do you think ?
Why , Reddy Fox go fast asleep on the edge of the great Big Rock .
By and by Reddy Fox begin to dream .
He dream that he have a nice little brown coat that be waterproof , just like the little brown coat that Billy Mink wore .
Yes , and he dream that he have learn to swim and to catch fish just a Billy Mink do .
He dream that the Dear Little Pool be full of little Trouts and that he be just go to catch one when -- splash !
Reddy Fox have roll right off of the Big Rock into the Dear Little Pool .
The water go into the eye of Reddy Fox , and it go up his nose and he swallow so much that he felt a if he never , never would want another drink of water .
And his beautiful red coat , which old Mother Fox have tell him to be very , very careful of because he could n't have another for a whole year , be oh so wet !
And his pant be wet and his beautiful bushy tail , of which he be so proud , be so full of water that he could n't hold it up , but have to drag it up the bank after him a he crawl out of the Dear Little Pool .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laugh Mr. Kingfisher , sit on a tree .
`` Ho !
Ho !
Ho ! ''
laugh old Mr. Frog , who have climb back on his lily pad .
`` He !
He !
He ! ''
laugh all the little Trouts and Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout , swim round and round in the Dear Little Pool .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Ho !
Ho !
Ho !
He !
He !
He ! ''
laugh Billy Mink , who have come back to the Big Rock just in time to see Reddy Fox tumble in .
Reddy Fox do n't say a word , he be so ashamed .
He just creep up the Lone Little Path to his home , drag his tail , all wet and muddy , behind him , and drip water all the way .
Johnny Chuck be still sit by his door a his mother have tell him to .
Reddy Fox try to go past without be see , but Johnny Chuck 's bright little eye saw him .
`` Where be your fish , Reddy Fox ? ''
call Johnny Chuck .
`` Why do n't you turn somersault , and jump over your shadow and chase Butterflies and play with the little Field Mice , Reddy Fox ? ''
call Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox just walk faster .
When he get almost home he saw old Mother Fox sit in the doorway with a great big switch across her lap , for Mother Fox have tell Reddy Fox not to go near the Laughing Brook .
And this be all I be go to tell you about how Reddy Fox go fishing .
CHAPTER VII JIMMY SKUNK LOOKS FOR BEETLES Jimmy Skunk open his eye very early one morning and peep out of his snug little house on the hill .
Big , round Mr. Sun , with a very red , smile face , have just begin to climb up into the sky .
Old Mother West Wind be just start down to the Green Meadows with her big bag over her shoulder .
In that bag Jimmy Skunk know she carry all her child , the Merry Little Breezes , whom she be take down to the Green Meadows to play and frolic all day .
`` Good morning , Mother West Wind , '' say Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` Did you see any beetle a you come down the hill ? ''
Old Mother West Wind say , no , she have n't see any beetle a she come down the hill .
`` Thank you , '' say Jimmy Skunk politely .
`` I guess I 'll have to go look myself , for I 'm very , very hungry . ''
So Jimmy Skunk brush his handsome black and white coat , and wash his face and hand , and start out to try to find some beetle for his breakfast .
First he go down to the Green Meadows and stop at Johnny Chuck 's house .
But Johnny Chuck be still in bed and fast asleep .
Then Jimmy Skunk go over to see if Reddy Fox would go with him to help find some beetle for his breakfast .
But Reddy Fox have be out very , very late the night before and be still in bed fast asleep , too .
So Jimmy Skunk set out all alone along the Crooked Little Path up the hill to find some beetle for his breakfast .
He walk very slowly , for Jimmy Skunk never hurry .
He stop and peep under every old log to see if there be any beetle .
By and by he come to a big piece of bark beside the Crooked Little Path .
Jimmy Skunk take hold of the piece of bark with his two little black paw and pull and pull .
All of a sudden , the big piece of bark turn over so quickly that Jimmy Skunk fell flat on his back .
When Jimmy Skunk have roll over onto his foot again , there sit old Mr. Toad right in the path , and old Mr. Toad be very , very cross indeed .
He swell and he puff and he puff and he swell , till he be twice as big a Jimmy Skunk have ever see him before .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Have you see any beetle ? ''
But Mr. Toad blink his great round goggly eye and he say : `` What do you mean , Jimmy Skunk , by pull the roof off my house ? ''
`` Is that the roof of your house ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk politely .
`` I wo n't do it again . ''
Then Jimmy Skunk step right over old Mr. Toad , and go on up the Crooked Little Path to look for some beetle .
By and by he come to an old stump of a tree which be hollow and have the nice little round hole in one side .
Jimmy Skunk take hold of one edge with his two little black paw and pull and pull .
All of a sudden the whole side of the old stump tore open and Jimmy Skunk fell flat on his back .
When Jimmy Skunk have roll over onto his foot again there be Striped Chipmunk hop up and down right in the middle of the path , he be so angry .
`` Good morning , Striped Chipmunk , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Have you see any beetle ? ''
But Striped Chipmunk hop faster than ever and he say : `` What do you mean , Jimmy Skunk , by pull the side off my house ? ''
`` Is that the side of your house ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` I wo n't do it again . ''
Then Jimmy Skunk step right over Striped Chipmunk , and go on up the Crooked Little Path to look for some beetle .
Pretty soon he meet Peter Rabbit hop along down the Crooked Little Path .
`` Good morning , Jimmy Skunk , where be you go so early in the morning ? ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` Good morning , Peter Rabbit .
Have you see any beetle ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` No , I have n't see any beetle , but I 'll help you find some , '' say Peter Rabbit .
So he turn about and hop ahead of Jimmy Skunk up the Crooked Little Path .
Now because Peter Rabbit 's leg be long and he be always in a hurry , he get to the top of the hill first .
When Jimmy Skunk reach the end of the Crooked Little Path on the top of the hill he find Peter Rabbit sit up very straight and look and look very hard at a great flat stone .
`` What be you look at , Peter Rabbit ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk .
`` Sh-h-h ! ''
say Peter Rabbit , `` I think there be some beetle under that great flat stone where that little black string be stick out .
Now when I count three you grab that string and pull hard perhaps you 'll find a beetle at the other end . ''
So Jimmy Skunk get ready and Peter Rabbit begin to count .
`` One ! ''
say Peter .
`` Two ! ''
say Peter .
`` Three ! ''
Jimmy Skunk grab the black string and pull as hard a ever he could and out come -- Mr. Black Snake !
The string Jimmy Skunk have pull be Mr. Black Snake 's tail , and Mr. Black Snake be very , very angry indeed .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laugh Peter Rabbit .
`` What do you mean , Jimmy Skunk , '' say Mr. Black Snake , `` by pull my tail ? ''
`` Was that your tail ? ''
say Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` I wo n't do it again .
Have you see any beetle ? ''
But Mr. Black Snake have n't see any beetle , and he be so cross that Jimmy Skunk go on over the hill to look for some beetle .
Peter Rabbit be still laugh and laugh and laugh .
And the more he laugh the angrier grow Mr. Black Snake , till finally he start after Peter Rabbit to teach him a lesson .
Then Peter Rabbit stop laugh , for Mr. Black Snake can run very fast .
Away go Peter Rabbit down the Crooked Little Path a fast a he could go , and away go Mr. Black Snake after him .
But Jimmy Skunk do n't even look once to see if Mr. Black Snake have catch Peter Rabbit to teach him a lesson , for Jimmy Skunk have find some beetle and be eat his breakfast .
CHAPTER VIII BILLY MINK 'S SWIMMING PARTY Billy Mink be come down the bank of the Laughing Brook .
Billy Mink be feel very good indeed .
He have have a good breakfast , the sun be warm , little white cloud ship be sail across the blue sky and their shadow be sail across the Green Meadows , the bird be sing and the bee be hum .
Billy Mink felt like sing too , but Billy Mink 's voice be not mean for singing .
By and by Billy Mink come to the Smiling Pool .
Here the Laughing Brook stop and rest on it way to join the Big River .
It stop it noisy laughing and singing and just lay smile and smile in the warm sunshine .
The little flower on the bank lean over and nod to it .
The beech tree , which be very old , sometimes drop a leaf into it .
The cat-tails keep their foot cool in the edge of it .
Billy Mink jump out on the Big Rock and look down into the Smiling Pool .
Over on a green lily pad he saw old Grandfather Frog .
`` Hello , Grandfather Frog , '' say Billy Mink .
`` Hello , Billy Mink , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` What mischief be you up to this fine sunny morning ? ''
Just then Billy Mink saw a little brown head swim along one edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
shout Billy Mink .
`` Hello your own self , Billy Mink , '' shout Jerry Muskrat , `` Come in and have a swim ; the water 's fine ! ''
`` Good , '' say Billy Mink .
`` We 'll have a swimming party . ''
So Billy Mink call all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind , who be play with the flower on the bank , and send them to find Little Joe Otter and invite him to come to the swim party .
Pretty soon back come the Little Breezes and with them come Little Joe Otter .
`` Hello , Billy Mink , '' say Little Joe Otter .
`` Here I be ! ''
`` Hello , Little Joe Otter , '' say Billy Mink .
`` Come up here on the Big Rock and see who can dive the deep into the Smiling Pool . ''
So Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat climb up on the Big Rock side of Billy Mink and they all stand side by side in their little brown bath suit look down into the Smiling Pool .
`` Now when I count three we 'll all dive into the Smiling Pool together and see who can dive the deep .
One ! ''
say Billy Mink .
`` Two ! ''
say Billy Mink .
`` Three ! ''
say Billy Mink .
And when he say `` Three ! ''
in they all go head first .
My such a splash a they do make !
They upset old Grandfather Frog so that he fell off his lily pad .
They frighten Mr. and Mrs. Trout so that they jump right out of the water .
Tiny Tadpole have such a scare that he hide way , way down in the mud with only the tip of his funny little nose stick out .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' say old Grandfather Frog , climb out of his lily pad .
`` If I be n't so old I would show you how to dive . ''
`` Come on , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cry Billy Mink .
`` Show u how to dive . ''
And what do you think ?
Why , old Grandfather Frog actually get so excited that he climb up on the Big Rock to show them how to dive .
Splash !
Went Grandfather Frog into the Smiling Pool .
Splash !
Went Billy Mink right behind him .
Splash !
Splash !
Went Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat , right at Billy Mink 's heel .
`` Hurrah ! ''
shout Mr. Kingfisher , sit on a branch of the old beech tree .
And then just to show them that he could dive , too , splash !
He go into the Smiling Pool .
Such a noise a they do make !
All the Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind dance for joy on the bank .
Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay fly over to see what be go on .
`` Now let 's see who can swim the farthest under water , '' cry Billy Mink .
So they all stand side by side on one edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Go ! ''
shout Mr. Kingfisher , and in they all plunge .
Little ripple run across the Smiling Pool and then the water become a smooth and smiling a if nothing have go into it with a plunge .
Now old Grandfather Frog begin to realize that he be n't as young a he use to be , and he could n't swim as fast a the others anyway .
He begin to get short of breath , so he swim up to the top and stuck just the tip of his nose out to get some more air .
Sammy Jay 's sharp eye saw him .
`` There 's Grandfather Frog ! ''
he shout .
So then Grandfather Frog pop his head out and swim over to his green lily pad to rest .
Way over beyond the Big Rock little bubble in three long row keep come up to the top of the Smiling Pool .
They show just where Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat be swim way down out of sight .
It be the air from their lung make the bubble .
Straight across the Smiling Pool go the line of little bubble and then way out on the farther side two little head bob out of water close together .
They be Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
A moment later Jerry Muskrat bob up beside them .
You see , they have swim clear across the Smiling Pool and of course they could swim no farther .
So Billy Mink 's swim party be a great success .
CHAPTER IX PETER RABBIT PLAYS A JOKE One morning when big round Mr. Sun be climb up in the sky and Old Mother West Wind have send all her Merry Little Breezes to play in the Green Meadows , Johnny Chuck start out for a walk .
First he sit up very straight and look and look all around to see if Reddy Fox be anywhere about , for you know Reddy Fox like to tease Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox be nowhere to be see , so Johnny Chuck trot down the Lone Little Path to the wood .
Mr. Sun be shin as brightly a ever he could and Johnny Chuck , who be very , very fat , grow very , very warm .
By and by he sit down on the end of a log under a big tree to rest .
Thump !
Something hit Johnny Chuck right on the top of his round little head .
It make Johnny Chuck jump .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
say a voice that seem to come right out of the sky .
Johnny Chuck tip his head way , way back and look up .
He be just in time to see Happy Jack Squirrel drop a nut .
Down it come and hit Johnny Chuck right on the tip of his funny , black , little nose .
`` Oh ! ''
say Johnny Chuck , and tumble right over back off the log .
But Johnny Chuck be so round and so fat and so roly-poly that it do n't hurt him a bit .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laugh Happy Jack up in the tree .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laugh Johnny Chuck , pick himself up .
Then they both laugh together .
It be such a good joke .
`` What be you laugh at ? ''
ask a voice so close to Johnny Chuck that he roll over three time he be so surprised .
It be Peter Rabbit .
`` What be you do in my wood ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm take a walk , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` Good , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` I 'll come along too . ''
So Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit set out along the Lone Little Path through the wood .
Peter Rabbit hop along with great big jump , for Peter 's leg be long and meant for jumping , but Johnny Chuck could n't keep up though he try very hard , for Johnny 's leg be short .
Pretty soon Peter Rabbit come back , walk very softly .
He whisper in Johnny Chuck 's ear .
`` I 've find something , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` I 'll show you , '' say Peter Rabbit , `` but you must be very , very still , and not make the least little bit of noise . ''
Johnny Chuck promise to be very , very still for he want very much to see what Peter Rabbit have find .
Peter Rabbit tip-toed down the Lone Little Path through the wood , his funny long ear point right up to the sky .
And behind him tip-toed Johnny Chuck , wonder and wonder what it could be that Peter Rabbit have find .
Pretty soon they come to a nice mossy green log right across the Lone Little Path .
Peter Rabbit stop and sit up very straight .
He look this way and look that way .
Johnny Chuck stop too and he sit up very straight and look this way and look that way , but all he could see be the mossy green log across the Lone Little Path .
`` What be it , Peter Rabbit ? ''
whisper Johnny Chuck .
`` You ca n't see it yet , '' whisper Peter Rabbit , `` for first we have to jump over that mossy green log .
Now I 'll jump first , and then you jump just the way I do , and then you 'll see what it be I 've find , '' say Peter Rabbit .
So Peter Rabbit jump first , and because his leg be long and meant for jumping , he jump way , way over the mossy green log .
Then he turn around and sit up to see Johnny Chuck jump over the mossy green log , too .
Johnny Chuck try to jump very high and very far , just a he have see Peter Rabbit jump , but Johnny Chuck 's leg be very short and not mean for jumping .
Besides , Johnny Chuck be very , very fat .
So though he try very hard indeed to jump just like Peter Rabbit , he stub his toe on the top of the mossy green log and over he tumble , head first , and land with a great big thump right on Reddy Fox , who be lie fast asleep on the other side of the mossy green log .
Peter Rabbit laugh and laugh until he have to hold his side .
My , how frightened Johnny Chuck be when he saw what he have do !
Before he could get on his foot he have roll right over behind a little bush , and there he lay very , very still .
Reddy Fox awake with a grunt when Johnny Chuck fell on him so hard , and the first thing he saw be Peter Rabbit laugh so that he have to hold his side .
Reddy Fox do n't stop to look around .
He think that Peter Rabbit have jump on him .
Up jump Reddy Fox and away run Peter Rabbit .
Away go Reddy Fox after Peter Rabbit .
Peter dodge behind the tree , and jump over the bush , and run this way and run that way , just as hard a ever he could , for Peter Rabbit be very much afraid of Reddy Fox .
And Reddy Fox follow Peter Rabbit behind the tree and over the bush this way and that way , but he could n't catch Peter Rabbit .
Pretty soon Peter Rabbit come to the house of Jimmy Skunk .
He know that Jimmy Skunk be over in the pasture , so he pop right in and then he be safe , for the door of Jimmy Skunk 's house be too small for Reddy Fox to squeeze in .
Reddy Fox sit down and waited , but Peter Rabbit do n't come out .
By and by Reddy Fox give it up and trot off home where old Mother Fox be wait for him .
All this time Johnny Chuck have sit very still , watch Reddy Fox try to catch Peter Rabbit .
And when he saw Peter Rabbit pop into the house of Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox trot away home , Johnny Chuck stand up and brush his little coat very clean and then he trot back up the Lone Little Path through the wood to his own dear little path through the Green Meadows where the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be still play , till he be safe in his own snug little house once more .
CHAPTER X HOW SAMMY JAY WAS FOUND OUT Sammy Jay be very busy , very busy indeed .
When anyone happen that way Sammy Jay pretend to be do nothing at all , for Sammy Jay think himself a very fine gentleman .
He be very proud of his handsome blue coat with white trimming and his high cap , and he would sit on a fence post and make fun of Johnny Chuck work at a new door for his snug little home in the Green Meadows , and of Striped Chipmunk store up heap of corn and nut for the winter , for most of the time Sammy Jay be an idle fellow .
And when Sammy Jay WAS busy , he be pretty sure to be do something that he ought not to do , for idle people almost always get into mischief .
Sammy Jay be in mischief now , and that be why he pretend to be do nothing when he think any one be look .
Old Mother West Wind have come down from her home behind the Purple Hills very early that morning .
Indeed , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have hardly get out of bed when she cross the Green Meadows on her way to help the big ship across the ocean .
Old Mother West Wind 's eye be sharp , and she saw Sammy Jay before Sammy Jay saw her .
`` Now what can Sammy Jay be so busy about , and why be he so very , very quiet ? ''
think Old Mother West Wind .
`` He must be up to some mischief . ''
So when she open her big bag and turn out all her Merry Little Breezes to play on the Green Meadows she send one of them to see what Sammy Jay be do in the old chestnut tree .
The Merry Little Breeze dance along over the tree top just a if he have n't a think in the world but to wake up all the little leaf and set them to dance too , and Sammy Jay , watch Old Mother West Wind and the other Merry Little Breezes , do n't see this Merry Little Breeze at all .
Pretty soon it dance back to Old Mother West Wind and whisper in her ear : `` Sammy Jay be steal the nut Happy Jack Squirrel have hide in the hollow of the old chestnut tree , and be hide them for himself in the tumble down nest that Blacky the Crow build in the Great Pine last year . ''
`` Aha ! ''
say Old Mother West Wind .
Then she go on across the Green Meadows .
`` Good morning , Old Mother West Wind , '' say Sammy Jay a she pass the fence post where he be sit .
`` Good morning , Sammy Jay , '' say Old Mother West Wind .
`` What bring you out so early in the morning ? ''
`` I 'm out for my health , Old Mother West Wind , '' say Sammy Jay politely .
`` The doctor have order me to take a bath in the dew at sunrise every morning . ''
Old Mother West Wind say nothing , but go on her way across the Green Meadows to blow the ship across the ocean .
When she have pass , Sammy Jay hurry to take the last of Happy Jack 's nut to the old nest in the Great Pine .
Poor Happy Jack !
Soon he come dance along with another nut to put in the hollow of the old chestnut tree .
When he peep in and saw that all his big store of nut have disappear , he could n't believe his own eye .
He put in one paw and felt all around but not a nut could he feel .
Then he climb in and sure enough , the hollow be empty .
Poor Happy Jack !
There be tear in his eye when he creep out again .
He look all around but no one be to be see but handsome Sammy Jay , very busy brush his beautiful blue coat .
`` Good morning , Sammy Jay , have you see any one pas this way ? ''
ask Happy Jack .
`` Some one have steal a store of nut from the hollow in the old chestnut tree . ''
Sammy Jay pretend to feel very badly indeed , and in his sweet voice , for his voice be very sweet in those day , he offer to help Happy Jack try to catch the thief who have steal the store of nut from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
Together they go down cross the Green Meadows ask every one whom they meet if they have see the thief who have steal Happy Jack 's store of nut from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
All the Merry Little Breezes join in the search , and soon every one who live in the Green Meadows or in the wood know that some one have steal all of Happy Jack Squirrel 's store of nut from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
And because every one like Happy Jack , every one felt very sorry indeed for him .
The next morning all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be turn out of the big bag into the Green Meadows very early indeed , for they have a lot of errand to do .
All over the Green Meadows they hurry , all through the wood , up and down the Laughing Brook and all around the Smiling Pool , invite everybody to meet at the Great Pine on the hill at nine o'clock to form a committee of the whole -- to try to find the thief who steal Happy Jack 's nut from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
And because every one like Happy Jack every one go to the Great Pine on the hill -- Reddy Fox , Bobby Coon , Jimmy Skunk Striped Chipmunk , who be Happy Jack 's cousin you know , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Hooty the Owl , who be almost too sleepy to keep his eye open , Blacky the Crow , Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , even old Grandfather Frog .
Of course Sammy Jay be there , look his handsomest .
When they have all gather around the Great Pine , Old Mother West Wind point to the old nest way up in the top of it .
`` Is that your nest ? ''
she ask Blacky the Crow .
`` It be , but I give it to my cousin , Sammy Jay , '' say Blacky the Crow .
`` Is that your nest , and may I have a stick out of it ? ''
ask Old Mother West Wind of Sammy Jay .
`` It be , '' say Sammy Jay , with his politest bow , `` And you be welcome to a stick out of it . ''
To himself he think , `` She will only take one from the top and that wo n't matter . ''
Old Mother West Wind suddenly puff out her cheek and blow so hard that she blow a big stick right out of the bottom of the old nest .
Down it fell bumpity-bump on the branch of the Great Pine .
After it fell -- what do you think ?
Why , hickory nut and chestnut and acorn and hazel nut , such a lot of them !
`` Why !
Why -- e -- e ! '' cry Happy Jack .
`` There be all my steal nut ! ''
Everybody turn to look at Sammy Jay , but he be fly off through the wood as fast a he could go .
`` Stop thief ! ''
cry Old Mother West Wind .
`` Stop thief ! ''
cry all the Merry Little Breezes and Johnny Chuck and Billy Mink and all the rest .
But Sammy Jay do n't stop .
Then all begin to pick up the nut that have fall from the old nest where Sammy Jay have hide them .
By and by , with Happy Jack lead the way , they all march back to the old chestnut tree and there Happy Jack store all the nut away in his snug little hollow once more .
And ever since that day , Sammy Jay , whenever he try to call , just scream : `` Thief ! ''
`` Thief ! ''
`` Thief ! ''
CHAPTER XI JERRY MUSKRAT 'S PARTY All the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind be hurry over the Green Meadows .
Some fly this way and some run that way and some dance the other way .
You see , Jerry Muskrat have ask them to carry his invitation to a party at the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool .
Of course every one say that they would be delight to go to Jerry Muskrat 's party .
Round Mr. Sun shine his very bright .
The sky be it blue and the little bird have promise to be there to sing for Jerry Muskrat , so of course all the little folk in the Green Meadows and in the wood want to go .
There be Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Grandfather Frog and old Mr. Toad and Mr. Blacksnake -- all go to Jerry Muskrat 's party .
When they reach the Smiling Pool they find Jerry Muskrat all ready .
His brother and his sister , his aunt and his uncle and his cousin be all there .
Such a merry , merry time a there be in the Smiling Pool !
How the water do splash !
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Grandfather Frog jump right in as soon a they get there .
They play tag in the water and hid behind the Big Rock .
They turn somersault down the slippery slide and they have such a good time !
But Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk and Happy Jack and Striped Chipmunk could n't swim , so of course they could n't play tag in the water or hide and seek or go down the slippery slide ; all they could do be sit around to look on and wish that they know how to swim , too .
So of course they do n't have a good time .
Soon they begin to wish that they have n't come to Jerry Muskrat 's party .
When he find that they be not have a good time , poor Jerry Muskrat felt very badly indeed .
You see he live in the water so much that he have quite forget that there be anyone who could n't swim , or he never , never would have invite all the little meadow folk who live on dry land .
`` Let 's go home , '' say Peter Rabbit to Johnny Chuck .
`` We can have more fun up on the hill , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
Just then Little Joe Otter come push a great big log across the Smiling Pool .
`` Here 's a ship , Bobby Coon .
You get on one end and I 'll give you a sail across the Smiling Pool , '' shout Little Joe Otter .
So Bobby Coon crawl out on the big log and hold on very tight , while little Joe Otter swam behind and push the big log .
Across the Smiling Pool they go and back again .
Bobby Coon have such a good ride that he want to go again , but Jimmy Skunk want a ride .
So Bobby Coon hop off of the big log and Jimmy Skunk hop on and away he go across the Smiling Pool with little Joe Otter push behind .
Then Jerry Muskrat find another log and give Peter Rabbit a ride .
Jerry Muskrat 's brother and sister and aunt and uncle and cousin find log and take Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck and even Mr. Toad back and forth across the Smiling Pool .
Happy Jack Squirrel sit up very straight on the end of his log and spread his great bushy tail for a sail .
All the little Breezes blew and blew and Happy Jack Squirrel sail round and round the Smiling Pool .
Sometimes someone would fall off into the water and get wet , but Jerry Muskrat or Billy Mink always pull them out again , and no one care the tiny bit for a wetting .
In the bush around the Smiling Pool the little bird sang and sang .
Reddy Fox bark his loud .
Happy Jack Squirrel chatter and chir -- r -- r -- ed .
All the muskrat squeal and squeak , for Jerry Muskrat 's party be such fun !
By and by when Mr. Sun go down behind the Purple Hills to his home and Old Mother West Wind with all her Merry Little Breezes go after him , and the little star come out to twinkle and twinkle , the Smiling Pool lay all quiet and still , but smile and smile to think what a good time every one have have at Jerry Muskrat 's party .
CHAPTER XII BOBBY COON AND REDDY FOX PLAY TRICKS It be night .
All the little star be look down and twinkle and twinkle .
Mother Moon be do her best to make the Green Meadows as light a Mr. Sun do in the daytime .
All the little bird except Hooty the Owl and Boomer the Night Hawk , and noisy Mr. Whip-poor-will be fast asleep in their little nest .
Old Mother West Wind 's Merry Little Breezes have all go to sleep , too .
It be oh so still !
Indeed it be so very still that Bobby Coon , come down the Lone Little Path through the wood , begin to talk to himself .
`` I do n't see what people want to play all day and sleep all night for , '' say Bobby Coon .
`` Night 's the best time to be about .
Now Reddy Fox -- '' `` Be careful what you say about Reddy Fox , '' say a voice right behind Bobby Coon .
Bobby Coon turn around very quickly indeed , for he have think he be all alone .
There be Reddy Fox himself , trot down the Lone Little Path through the wood .
`` I think you be home and fast asleep , Reddy Fox , '' say Bobby Coon .
`` You be mistake , '' say Reddy Fox .
`` For you see I 'm out to take a walk in the moonlight . ''
So Bobby Coon and Reddy Fox walk together down the Lone Little Path through the wood to the Green Meadows .
They meet Jimmy Skunk , who have dream that there be a lot of beetle up on the hill , and be just go to climb the Crooked Little Path to see .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
say Bobby Coon and Reddy Fox .
`` Come down to the Green Meadows with u . ''
Jimmy Skunk say he would , so they all go down on the Green Meadows together , Bobby Coon first , Reddy Fox next and Jimmy Skunk last of all , for Jimmy Skunk never hurry .
Pretty soon they come to the house of Johnny Chuck .
`` Listen , '' say Bobby Coon .
`` Johnny Chuck be fast asleep . ''
They all listen and they could hear Johnny Chuck snore away down in his snug little bed .
`` Let 's give Johnny Chuck a surprise , '' say Reddy Fox .
`` What shall it be ? ''
ask Bobby Coon .
`` I know , '' say Reddy Fox .
`` Let 's roll that big stone right over Johnny Chuck 's doorway ; then he 'll have to dig his way out in the morning . ''
So Bobby Coon and Reddy Fox pull and tug and tug and pull at the big stone till they have roll it over Johnny Chuck 's doorway .
Jimmy Skunk pretend not to see what they be do .
`` Now let 's go down to the Laughing Brook and wake up old Grandfather Frog and hear him say ` Chug-a-rum , ' '' say Bobby Coon .
`` Come on ! ''
cry Reddy Fox , `` I 'll get there first ! ''
Away race Reddy Fox down the Lone Little Path and after him run Bobby Coon , go to wake old Grandfather Frog from a nice comfortable sleep on his green lily pad .
But Jimmy Skunk do n't go .
He watch Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon until they be nearly to the Laughing Brook .
Then he begin to dig at one side of the big stone which fill the doorway of Johnny Chuck 's house .
My , how he make the dirt fly !
Pretty soon he have make a hole big enough to call through to Johnny Chuck , who be snore away , fast asleep in his snug little bed below .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
call Jimmy Skunk .
But Johnny Chuck just snore .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
call Jimmy Skunk once more .
But Johnny Chuck just snore .
Then Jimmy Skunk call again , this time loud than before .
`` Who be it ? ''
ask a very sleepy voice .
`` It 's Jimmy Skunk .
Put your coat on and come up here ! ''
call Jimmy Skunk .
`` Go away , Jimmy Skunk .
I want to sleep ! ''
say Johnny Chuck .
`` I 've get a surprise for you , Johnny Chuck .
You 'd better come ! ''
call Jimmy Skunk through the little hole he have make .
When Johnny Chuck hear that Jimmy Skunk have a surprise for him he want to know right away what it could be , so though he be very , very sleepy , he put on his coat and start up for his door to see what the surprise be that Jimmy Skunk have .
And there he find the big stone Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon have put there , and of course he be very much surprise indeed .
He think Jimmy Skunk have play him a mean trick and for a few minute he be very mad .
But Jimmy Skunk soon tell him who have fill up his doorway with the big stone .
`` Now you push from that side , Johnny Chuck , and I 'll pull from this side , and we 'll soon have this big stone out of your doorway , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
So Johnny Chuck push and Jimmy Skunk pull , and sure enough they soon have the big stone out of Johnny Chuck 's doorway .
`` Now , '' say Jimmy Skunk , `` we 'll roll this big stone down the Lone Little Path to Reddy Fox 's house and we 'll give Reddy Fox a surprise . ''
So Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk tug and pull and roll the big stone down to the house of Reddy Fox , and sure enough , it fill his doorway .
`` Good night , Jimmy Skunk , '' say Johnny Chuck , and trot down the Lone Little Path toward home , chuckle to himself all the way .
Jimmy Skunk walk slowly up the Lone Little Path to the wood , for Jimmy Skunk never hurry .
Pretty soon he come to the big hollow tree where Bobby Coon live , and there he meet Hooty the Owl .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , where have you be ? ''
ask Hooty the Owl .
`` Just for a walk , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Who live in this big hollow tree ? ''
Now of course Jimmy Skunk know all the time , but he pretend he do n't .
`` Oh , this be Bobby Coon 's house , '' say Hooty the Owl .
`` Let 's give Bobby Coon a surprise , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` How ? ''
ask Hooty the Owl .
`` We 'll fill his house full of stick and leaf , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
Hooty the Owl think that would be a good joke so while Jimmy Skunk gather all the old stick and leave he could find , Hooty the Owl stuff them into the old hollow tree which be Bobby Coon 's house , until he could n't get in another one .
`` Good night , '' say Jimmy Skunk a he begin to climb the Crooked Little Path up the hill to his own snug little home .
`` Good night , '' say Hooty the Owl , a he fly like a big soft shadow over to the Great Pine .
By and by when old Mother Moon be just go to bed and all the little star be too sleepy to twinkle any long , Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon , very tired and very wet from play in the Laughing Brook , come up the Lone Little Path , ready to tumble into their snug little bed .
They be chuckle over the trick they have play on Johnny Chuck , and the way they have wake up old Grandfather Frog , and all the other mischief they have do .
What do you suppose they say when they reach their home and find that someone else have be play joke , too ?
I 'm sure I do n't know , but round , red Mr. Sun be laugh very hard a he peep over the hill at Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon , and he wo n't tell why .
CHAPTER XIII JOHNNY CHUCK FINDS THE BEST THING IN THE WORLD Old Mother West Wind have stop to talk with the Slender Fir Tree .
`` I 've just come across the Green Meadows , '' say Old Mother West Wind , `` and there I saw the Best Thing in the World . ''
Striped Chipmunk be sit under the Slender Fir Tree and he could n't help hear what Old Mother West Wind say .
`` The Best Thing in the World -- now what can that be ? ''
thought Striped Chipmunk .
`` Why , it must be heap and heap of nut and acorn !
I 'll go and find it . ''
So Striped Chipmunk start down the Lone Little Path through the wood as fast a he could run .
Pretty soon he meet Peter Rabbit .
`` Where be you go in such a hurry , Striped Chipmunk ? ''
ask Peter Rabbit .
`` Down in the Green Meadows to find the Best Thing in the World , '' reply Striped Chipmunk , and run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Why , that must be great pile of carrot and cabbage !
I think I 'll go and find it . ''
So Peter Rabbit start down the Lone Little Path through the wood as fast a he could go after Striped Chipmunk .
As they pass the great hollow tree Bobby Coon put his head out .
`` Where be you go in such a hurry ? ''
ask Bobby Coon .
`` Down in the Green Meadows to find the Best Thing in the World ! ''
shout Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit , and both begin to run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' say Bobby Coon to himself .
`` Why , that must be a whole field of sweet milky corn .
I think I 'll go and find it . ''
So Bobby Coon climb down out of the great hollow tree and start down the Lone Little Path through the wood as fast a he could go after Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit , for there be nothing that Bobby Coon like to eat so well a sweet milky corn .
At the edge of the wood they meet Jimmy Skunk .
`` Where be you go in such a hurry ? ''
ask Jimmy Skunk .
`` Down in the Green Meadows to find the Best Thing in the World ! ''
shout Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon .
Then they all try to run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' say Jimmy Skunk .
`` Why , that must be pack and pack of beetle ! ''
And for once in his life Jimmy Skunk begin to hurry down the Lone Little Path after Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon .
They be all run so fast that they do n't see Reddy Fox until he jump out of the long grass and ask : `` Where be you go in such a hurry ? ''
`` To find the Best Thing in the World ! ''
shout Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk , and each do his best to run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' say Reddy Fox to himself .
`` Why , that must be a whole pen full of tender young chicken , and I must have them . ''
So away go Reddy Fox as fast a he could run down the Lone Little Path after Striped Chipmunk , Peter Rabbit , Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk .
By and by they all come to the house of Johnny Chuck .
`` Where be you go in such a hurry ? ''
ask Johnny Chuck .
`` To find the Best Thing in the World , '' shout Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' say Johnny Chuck .
`` Why , I do n't know of anything good than my own little home and the warm sunshine and the beautiful blue sky . ''
So Johnny Chuck stay at home and play all day among the flower with the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind and be as happy a could be .
But all day long Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox run this way and run that way over the Green Meadows try to find the Best Thing in the World .
The sun be very , very warm and they run so far and they run so fast that they be very , very hot and tired , and still they have n't find the Best Thing in the World .
When the long day be over they start up the Lone Little Path past Johnny Chuck 's house to their own home .
They do n't hurry now for they be so very , very tired !
And they be cross -- oh so cross !
Striped Chipmunk have n't find a single nut .
Peter Rabbit have n't find so much a the leaf of a cabbage .
Bobby Coon have n't find the tiny bit of sweet milky corn .
Jimmy Skunk have n't see a single beetle .
Reddy Fox have n't hear so much a the peep of a chicken .
And all be as hungry a hungry could be .
Half way up the Lone Little Path they meet Old Mother West Wind go to her home behind the hill .
`` Did you find the Best Thing in the World ? ''
ask Old Mother West Wind .
`` NO ! ''
shout Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox all together .
`` Johnny Chuck have it , '' say Old Mother West Wind .
`` It be be happy with the thing you have and not want thing which some one else have .
And it be call Con-tent-ment . ''
CHAPTER XIV LITTLE JOE OTTER 'S SLIPPERY SLIDE Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink have be play together around the Smiling Pool all one sunshiny morning .
They have be fish and have take home a fine dinner of Trout for old Grandfather Mink and blind old Granny Otter .
They have play tag with the Merry Little Breezes .
They have be in all kind of mischief and now they just do n't know what to do .
They be sit side by side on the Big Rock try to push each other off into the Smiling Pool .
Round , smile red Mr. Sun make the Green Meadows very warm indeed , and Reddy Fox , over in the tall grass , hear them splash and shout and have such a good time that he wish he like the nice cool water and could swim , too .
`` I 've think of something ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter .
`` What be it ? ''
ask Billy Mink .
Little Joe Otter just look wise and say nothing .
`` Something to eat ? ''
ask Billy Mink .
`` No , '' say Little Joe Otter .
`` I do n't believe you 've a thought of anything at all , '' say Billy Mink .
`` I have too ! ''
say Little Joe Otter .
`` It 's something to do . ''
`` What ? ''
demand Billy Mink .
Just then Little Joe Otter spy Jerry Muskrat .
`` Hi , Jerry Muskrat !
Come over here ! ''
he call .
Jerry Muskrat swim across to the Big Rock and climb up beside Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
`` What be you fellows do ? ''
ask Jerry Muskrat .
`` Having some fun , '' say Billy Mink .
`` Little Joe Otter have think of something to do , but I do n't know what it be . ''
`` Let 's make a slide , '' cry Little Joe Otter .
`` You show u how , '' say Billy Mink .
So Little Joe Otter find a nice smooth place on the bank , and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat bring mud and help him pat it down smooth until they have the lovely slippery slide in the world .
Then Little Joe Otter climb up the bank to the top of the slippery slide and lay down flat on his stomach .
Billy Mink give a push and away he go down , down the slippery slide , splash into the Smiling Pool .
Then Jerry Muskrat try it and after him Billy Mink .
Then all do it over again .
Sometimes they go down the slippery slide on their back , sometimes flat on their stomach , sometimes head first , sometimes foot first .
Oh such fun a they do have !
Even Grandfather Frog come over and try the slippery slide .
Johnny Chuck , over in the Green Meadows , hear the noise and steal down the Lone Little Path to see .
Jimmy Skunk , look for beetle up on the hill , hear the noise and forget that he have n't have his breakfast .
Reddy Fox , take a nap , wake up and hurry over to watch the fun .
Last of all come Peter Rabbit .
Little Joe Otter saw him come .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit ! ''
he shout .
`` Come and try the slippery slide . ''
Now Peter Rabbit could n't swim , but he pretend that he do n't want to .
`` I 've leave my bathing suit at home , '' say Peter Rabbit .
`` Never mind , '' say Billy Mink .
`` Mr. Sun will dry you off . ''
`` And we 'll help , '' say all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind .
But Peter Rabbit shake his head and say , `` No . ''
Faster and faster go Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and old Grandfather Frog down the slippery slide into the Smiling Pool .
Peter Rabbit keep come nearer and nearer until finally he stand right at the top of the slippery slide .
Billy Mink creep up behind him very softly and give him a push .
Peter Rabbit 's long leg fly out from under him and down he sit with a thump on the slippery slide .
`` Oh , '' cry Peter Rabbit , and try to stop himself .
But he could n't do it and so away he go down the slippery slide , splash into the Smiling Pool .
`` Ha !
ha !
ha ! ''
laugh Billy Mink .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
shout Little Joe Otter .
`` He !
he !
he ! ''
laugh Jerry Muskrat and old Grandfather Frog and Sammy Jay and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox and Blacky the Crow and Mr. Kingfisher , for you know Peter Rabbit be forever play joke on them .
Poor Peter Rabbit !
The water get in his eye and up his nose and into his mouth and make him choke and splutter , and then he could n't get back on the bank , for you know Peter Rabbit could n't swim .
When Little Joe Otter saw what a dreadful time Peter Rabbit be have he dive into the Smiling Pool and take hold of one of Peter Rabbit 's long ear .
Billy Mink swim out and take hold of the other long ear .
Jerry Muskrat swim right under Peter Rabbit and take him on his back .
Then with old Grandfather Frog swim ahead they take Peter Rabbit right across the Smiling Pool and pull him out on the grassy bank , where it be nice and warm .
All the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind come over and help Mr. Sun dry Peter Rabbit off .
Then they all sit down together and watch Little Joe Otter turn a somersault down the slippery slide .
CHAPTER XV THE TAIL OF TOMMY TROUT WHO DID NOT MIND In the Laughing Brook , which ripple and sings all day long , live Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout , and a whole lot of little Trouts .
There be so many little Trouts that Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout be keep very busy indeed get breakfast and dinner and supper for them , and watch out for them and teach them how to swim and how to catch foolish little fly that sometimes fell on the water and how to keep out of the way of big hungry fish and sharp eyed Mr. Kingfisher and big men and little boy who come fish with hook and line .
Now all the little Trouts be very , very good and mind just what Mrs. Trout tell them -- all but Tommy Trout , for Tommy Trout -- oh , dear , dear !
Tommy Trout never could mind right away .
He always have to wait a little instead of mind when he be speak to .
Tommy Trout do n't mean to be bad .
Oh dear , no !
He just want to have his own way , and because Tommy Trout have his own way and do n't mind Mrs. Trout there be n't any Tommy Trout now .
No sir , there be n't as much a one little blue spot of his beautiful little coat leave because -- why , just because Tommy Trout do n't mind .
One day when round , red Mr. Sun be shin and the Laughing Brook be sing on it way to join the Big River , Mrs. Trout start to get some nice plump fly for dinner .
All the little Trouts be play in their dear little pool , safe behind the Big Rock .
Before she start Mrs. Trout call all the little Trouts around her and tell them not to leave their little pool while she be go , `` For , '' say she , `` something dreadful might happen to you . ''
All the little Trouts , except Tommy Trout , promise that they would surely , surely stay inside their dear little pool .
Then they all begin to jump and chase each other and play as happy a could be , all but Tommy Trout .
As soon a Mrs. Trout have start , Tommy Trout swim off by himself to the edge of the pool .
`` I wonder what be on the other side of the Big Rock , '' say Tommy Trout .
`` The sun be shin and the brook be laugh and nothing could happen if I go just a little speck of a way . ''
So , when no one be look , Tommy Trout slip out of the safe little pool where all the other little Trouts be play .
He swim just a little speck of a way far still .
Now he could see almost around the Big Rock .
Then he swim just a little speck of a way far and -- oh dear , dear !
he look right into the mouth of a great big , big fish call Mr. Pickerel , who be very fond of little Trouts and would like to eat one for breakfast every day .
`` Ah ha ! ''
say Mr. Pickerel , open his big , big mouth very , very wide .
Tommy Trout turn to run back to the dear , dear safe little pool where all the other little Trouts be play so happily , but he be too late .
Into that great big , big mouth he go instead , and Mr. Pickerel swallow him whole .
`` Ah ha , '' say Mr. Pickerel , `` I like little Trouts . ''
And nothing more be ever hear of Tommy Trout , who do n't mind .
CHAPTER XVI SPOTTY THE TURTLE WINS A RACE All the little people who live on the Green Meadows and in the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook be to have a holiday .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind have be very busy , oh very busy indeed , in send word to all the little meadow folk .
You see , Peter Rabbit have be boast of how fast he could run .
Reddy Fox be quite sure that he could run fast than Peter Rabbit .
Billy Mink , who can move so quickly you hardly can see him , be quite sure that neither Peter Rabbit nor Reddy Fox could run as fast a he .
They all meet one day beside the Smiling Pool and agree that old Grandfather Frog should decide who be the swift .
Now Grandfather Frog be account very wise .
You see he have live a long time , oh , very much long than any of the others , and therefore , because of the wisdom of age , Grandfather Frog be always call on to decide all dispute .
He sit on his green lily-pad while Billy Mink sit on the Big Rock , and Peter Rabbit and Reddy Fox sit on the bank .
Each in turn tell why he think he be the fast .
Old Grandfather Frog listen and listen and say never a word until they be all through .
When they have finish , he stop to catch a foolish green fly and then he say : `` The best way to decide who be the swiftest be to have a race . ''
So it be agree that Peter Rabbit and Reddy Fox and Billy Mink should start together from the old butternut tree on one edge of the Green Meadows , race away across the Green Meadows to the little hill on the other side and each bring back a nut from the big hickory which grow there .
The one who first reach the old butternut tree with a hickory nut would be declare the winner .
The Merry Little Breezes fly about over the Green Meadows tell everyone about the race and everyone plan to be there .
It be a beautiful summer day .
Mr. Sun smile and smile , and the more he smile the warmer it grow .
Everyone be there to see the race -- Striped Chipmunk , Happy Jack Squirrel , Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , Hooty the Owl and Bobby Coon all sit up in the old butternut tree where it be cool and shady .
Johnny Chuck , Jerry Muskrat , Jimmy Skunk , Little Joe Otter , Grandfather Frog and even old Mr. Toad , be there .
Last of all come Spotty the Turtle .
Now Spotty the Turtle be a very slow walker , and he can not run at all .
When Peter Rabbit saw him come up towards the old butternut tree he shout : `` Come , Spotty , do n't you want to race with u ? ''
Everybody laugh because you know Spotty be so very , very slow but Spotty do n't laugh and he do n't get cross because everyone else laugh .
`` There be a wise old saying , Peter Rabbit , '' say Spotty the Turtle , `` which show that those who run fast do not always reach a place first .
I think I WILL enter this race . ''
Every one thought that that be the best joke they have hear for a long time , and all laugh hard than ever .
They all agree that Spotty the Turtle should start in the race too .
So they all stand in a row , Peter Rabbit first , the Billy Mink , then Reddy Fox , and right side of Reddy Fox Spotty the Turtle .
`` Are you ready ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
`` Go ! ''
Away go Peter Rabbit with great big jump .
After him go Billy Mink so fast that be just a little brown streak go through the tall grass , and side by side with him run Reddy Fox .
Now just a they start Spotty the Turtle reach up and grab the long hair on the end of Reddy 's big tail .
Of course Reddy could n't have stop to shake him off , because Peter Rabbit and Billy Mink be run so fast that he have to run his very best to keep up with them .
But he do n't even know that Spotty the Turtle be there .
You see Spotty be not very heavy and Reddy Fox be so excited that he do not notice that his big tail be heavy than usual .
The Merry Little Breezes fly along , too , to see that the race be fair .
Peter Rabbit go with great big jump .
Whenever he come to a little bush he jump right over it , for Peter Rabbit 's leg be long and meant for jumping .
Billy Mink be so slim that he slip between the bush and through the long grass like a little brown streak .
Reddy Fox , who be big than either Peter Rabbit or Billy Mink , have no trouble in keep up with them .
Not one of them notice that Spotty the Turtle be hang fast to the end of Reddy 's tail .
Now just at the foot of the little hill on which the big hickory tree grow be a little pond .
It be n't very wide but it be quite long .
Billy Mink remember this pond and he chuckle to himself a he race along , for he know that Peter Rabbit could n't swim and he know that Reddy Fox do not like the water , so therefore both would have to run around it .
He himself can swim even faster than he can run .
The more he think of this , the more foolish it seem that he should hurry so on such a warm day .
`` For , '' say Billy Mink to himself , `` even if they reach the pond first , they will have to run around it , while I can swim across it and cool off while I be swim .
I will surely get there first . ''
So Billy Mink run slow and slow , and pretty soon he have drop behind .
Mr. Sun , round and red , look down , smiled and smile to see the race .
The more he smile the warmer it grow .
Now , Peter Rabbit have a thick gray coat and Reddy Fox have a thick red coat , and they both begin to get very , very warm .
Peter Rabbit do not make such long jump a when he first start .
Reddy Fox begin to feel very thirsty , and his tongue hung out .
Now that Billy Mink be behind them they think they do not need to hurry so .
Peter Rabbit reach the little pond first .
He have not think of that pond when he agree to enter the race .
He stop right on the edge of it and sit up on his hind leg .
Right across he could see the big hickory tree , so near and yet so far , for he know that he must run around the pond then back again , and it be a long , long way .
In just a moment Reddy Fox run out of the bush and Reddy felt much a Peter Rabbit do .
Way , way behind them be Billy Mink , trot along comfortably and chuckle to himself .
Peter Rabbit look at Reddy Fox in dismay , and Reddy Fox look at Peter Rabbit in dismay .
Then they both look at Billy Mink and remember that Billy Mink could swim right across .
Then off Peter Rabbit start as fast a he could go around the pond one way , and Reddy Fox start around the pond the other way .
They be so excited that neither notice a little splash in the pond .
That be Spotty the Turtle who have let go of Reddy 's tail and now be swim across the pond , for you know that Spotty be a splendid swimmer .
Only once or twice he stick his little black nose up to get some air .
The rest of the time he swim under water and no one but the Merry Little Breezes saw him .
Right across he swim , and climb up the bank right under the big hickory tree .
Now there be just three nut leave under the hickory tree .
Two of these Spotty take down to the edge of the pond and bury in the mud .
The other he take in his mouth and start back across the pond .
Just a he reach the other shore up trot Billy Mink , but Billy Mink do n't see Spotty .
He be too intent watch Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit , who be now half way around the pond .
In he jump with a splash .
My !
How good that cool water do feel !
He do n't have to hurry now , because he felt sure that the race be his .
So he swim round and round and chase some fish and have a beautiful time in the water .
By and by he look up and saw that Peter Rabbit be almost around the pond one way and Reddy Fox be almost around the pond the other way .
They both look tired and hot and discourage .
Then Billy Mink swim slowly across and climb out on the bank under the big hickory tree .
But where be the nut ?
Look a he would , he could not see a nut anywhere , yet the Merry Little Breezes have say there be three nut lie under the hickory tree .
Billy Mink run this way and run that way .
He be still run around , poke over the leaf and look under the twig and piece of bark when Peter Rabbit and Reddy Fox come up .
Then they , too , begin to look under the leaf and under the bark .
They paw around in the grass , they hunt in every nook and cranny , but not a nut could they find .
They be tire and cross and hot and they accuse Billy Mink of have hide the nut .
Billy Mink stoutly insist that he have not hide the nut , that he have not find the nut , and when they saw how hard he be hunt they believe him .
All the afternoon they hunt and hunt and hunt , and all the afternoon Spotty the Turtle , with the nut in his mouth , be slowly , oh , so slowly , crawl straight back across the Green Meadows towards the old butternut tree .
Round , red Mr. Sun be get very close to the Purple Hills , where he go to bed every night , and all the little meadow folk be get ready to go to their home .
They be wonder and wonder what could have happen to the racer , when Sammy Jay spy the Merry Little Breezes dance across the Green Meadows .
`` Here come the Merry Little Breezes ; they 'll tell u who win the race , '' cry Sammy Jay .
When the Merry Little Breezes reach the old butternut tree , all the little meadow folk crowd around them , but the Merry Little Breezes just laugh and laugh and would n't say a word .
Then all of a sudden , out of the tall meadow grass crept Spotty the Turtle and lay the hickory nut at the foot of old Grandfather Frog .
Old Grandfather Frog be so surprised that he actually let a great green fly buzz right past his nose .
`` Where do you get that hickory nut ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
`` Under the big hickory tree on the hill on the other side of the Green Meadows , '' say Spotty .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes clap their hand and shout : `` He do !
He do !
Spotty win the race ! ''
Then they tell how Spotty reach the pond by cling to the tip of Reddy Fox 's tail , and have hide the other two nut , and then how he have patiently crawl home while Billy Mink and Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit be hunt and hunt and hunt for the nut they could not find .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Buster_Bear.txt.out
I BUSTER BEAR GOES FISHING Buster Bear yawn a he lay on his comfortable bed of leaf and watch the first early morning sunbeam creep through the Green Forest to chase out the Black Shadows .
Once more he yawn , and slowly get to his foot and shook himself .
Then he walk over to a big pine-tree , stand up on his hind leg , reach a high up on the trunk of the tree a he could , and scratch the bark with his great claw .
After that he yawn until it seem a if his jaw would crack , and then sit down to think what he want for breakfast .
While he sit there , try to make up his mind what would taste best , he be listen to the sound that tell of the waking of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .
He hear Sammy Jay way off in the distance screaming , `` Thief !
Thief ! ''
and grin .
`` I wonder , '' think Buster , `` if some one have steal Sammy 's breakfast , or if he have steal the breakfast of some one else .
Probably he be the thief himself . ''
He hear Chatterer the Red Squirrel scold as fast a he could make his tongue go and work himself into a terrible rage .
`` Must be that Chatterer get out of bed the wrong way this morning , '' think he .
He hear Blacky the Crow cawing at the top of his lung , and he know by the sound that Blacky be get into mischief of some kind .
He hear the sweet voice of happy little singer , and they be good to hear .
But most of all he listen to a merry , low , silvery laugh that never stop but go on and on , until he just felt a if he must laugh too .
It be the voice of the Laughing Brook .
And a Buster listen it suddenly come to him just what he want for breakfast .
`` I 'm go fishing , '' say he in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice to no one in particular .
`` Yes , Sir , I 'm go fishing .
I want some fat trout for my breakfast . ''
He shuffle along over to the Laughing Brook , and straight to a little pool of which he know , and a he draw near he take the great care not to make the teeny , weeny bit of noise .
Now it just happen that early a he be , some one be before Buster Bear .
When he come in sight of the little pool , who should he see but another fisherman there , who have already catch a fine fat trout .
Who be it ?
Why , Little Joe Otter to be sure .
He be just climb up the bank with the fat trout in his mouth .
Buster Bear 's own mouth water a he saw it .
Little Joe sit down on the bank and prepared to enjoy his breakfast .
He have n't see Buster Bear , and he do n't know that he or any one else be anywhere near .
Buster Bear tiptoe up very softly until he be right behind Little Joe Otter .
`` Woof , woof ! ''
say he in his deepest , most grumbly-rumbly voice .
`` That 's a very fine look trout .
I would n't mind if I have it myself . ''
Little Joe Otter give a frightened squeal and without even turn to see who be speak drop his fish and dive headfirst into the Laughing Brook .
Buster Bear sprang forward and with one of his big paw catch the fat trout just a it be slip back into the water .
`` Here 's your trout , Mr . Otter , '' say he , a Little Joe put his head out of water to see who have frighten him so .
`` Come and get it . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Here 's your trout , Mr . Otter , '' say he .
Page 5 .
-RSB- But Little Joe would n't .
The fact be , he be afraid to .
He snarl at Buster Bear and call him a thief and everything bad he could think of .
Buster do n't seem to mind .
He chuckle as if he think it all a great joke and repeat his invitation to Little Joe to come and get his fish .
But Little Joe just turn his back and go off down the Laughing Brook in a great rage .
`` It 's too bad to waste such a fine fish , '' say Buster thoughtfully .
`` I wonder what I 'd better do with it . ''
And while he be wonder , he eat it all up .
Then he start down the Laughing Brook to try to catch some for himself .
II LITTLE JOE OTTER GETS EVEN WITH BUSTER BEAR Little Joe Otter be in a terrible rage .
It be a bad beginning for a beautiful day and Little Joe know it .
But who would n't be in a rage if his breakfast be take from him just a he be about to eat it ?
Anyway , that be what Little Joe tell Billy Mink .
Perhaps he do n't tell it quite exactly a it be , but you know he be very badly frighten at the time .
`` I be sit on the bank of the Laughing Brook beside one of the little pool , '' he tell Billy Mink , `` and be just go to eat a fat trout I have catch , when who should come along but that great big bully , Buster Bear .
He take that fat trout away from me and eat it just a if it belong to him !
I hate him !
If I live long enough I 'm go to get even with him ! ''
Of course that be n't nice talk and anything but a nice spirit , but Little Joe Otter 's temper be sometimes pretty short , especially when he be hungry , and this time he have have no breakfast , you know .
Buster Bear have n't actually take the fish away from Little Joe .
But look at the matter a Little Joe do , it amount to the same thing .
You see , Buster know perfectly well when he invite Little Joe to come back and get it that Little Joe would n't dare do anything of the kind .
`` Where be he now ? ''
ask Billy Mink .
`` He 's somewhere up the Laughing Brook .
I wish he 'd fall in and get drown ! ''
snap Little Joe .
Billy Mink just have to laugh .
The idea of great big Buster Bear get drown in the Laughing Brook be too funny .
There be n't water enough in it anywhere except down in the Smiling Pool , and that be on the Green Meadows , where Buster have never be know to go .
`` Let 's go see what he be do , '' say Billy Mink .
At first Little Joe do n't want to , but at last his curiosity get the good of his fear , and he agree .
So the two little brown-coated scamp turn down the Laughing Brook , take the great care to keep out of sight themselves .
They have go only a little way when Billy Mink whisper : `` Sh-h !
There he be . ''
Sure enough , there be Buster Bear sit close beside a little pool and look into it very intently .
`` What 's he do ? ''
ask Little Joe Otter , a Buster Bear sit for the long time without move .
Just then one of Buster 's big paw go into the water as quick a a flash and scoop out a trout that have venture too near .
`` He 's fishing ! ''
exclaim Billy Mink .
And that be just what Buster Bear be do , and it be very plain to see that he be have great fun .
When he have eat the trout he have catch , he move along to the next little pool .
`` They be our fish ! ''
say Little Joe fiercely .
`` He have no business catch our fish ! ''
`` I do n't see how we be go to stop him , '' say Billy Mink .
`` I do ! ''
cry Little Joe , into whose head an idea have just pop .
`` I 'm go to drive all the fish out of the little pool and muddy the water all up .
Then we 'll see how many fish he will get !
Just you watch me get even with Buster Bear . ''
Little Joe slip swiftly into the water and swam straight to the little pool that Buster Bear would try next .
He frighten the fish so that they flee in every direction .
Then he stir up the mud until the water be so dirty that Buster could n't have see a fish right under his nose .
He do the same thing in the next pool and the next .
Buster Bear 's fishing be spoil for that day .
III BUSTER BEAR IS GREATLY PUZZLED Buster Bear have n't enjoy himself so much since he come to the Green Forest to live .
His fun begin when he surprise Little Joe Otter on the bank of a little pool in the Laughing Brook and Little Joe be so frightened that he drop a fat trout he have just catch .
It have seem like a great joke to Buster Bear , and he have chuckle over it all the time he be eat the fat trout .
When he have finish it , he start on to do some fishing himself .
Presently he come to another little pool .
He steal up to it very , very softly , so a not to frighten the fish .
Then he sit down close to the edge of it and do n't move .
Buster learn a long time ago that a fisherman must be patient unless , like Little Joe Otter , he be just as much at home in the water a the fish themselves , and can swim fast enough to catch them by chase them .
So he do n't move so much a an eye lash .
He be so still that he look almost like the stump of an old tree .
Perhaps that be what the fish thought he be , for pretty soon , two or three swam right in close to where he be sit .
Now Buster Bear may be big and clumsy look , but there be n't anything that can move much quick than one of those big paw of his when he want it to .
One of them move now , and quick than a wink have scoop one of those foolish fish out on to the bank .
Buster 's little eye twinkle , and he smack his lip a he move on to the next little pool , for he know that it be of no use to stay longer at the first one .
The fish be so frighten that they would n't come back for a long , long time .
At the next little pool the same thing happen .
By this time Buster Bear be in fine spirit .
It be fun to catch the fish , and it be still more fun to eat them .
What finer breakfast could any one have than fresh-caught trout ?
No wonder he felt good !
But it take more than three trout to fill Buster Bear 's stomach , so he keep on to the next little pool .
But this little pool , instead of be beautiful and clear so that Buster could see right to the bottom of it and so tell if there be any fish there , be so muddy that he could n't see into it at all .
It look a if some one have just stir up all the mud at the bottom .
`` Huh ! ''
say Buster Bear .
`` It 's of no use to try to fish here .
I would just waste my time .
I 'll try the next pool . ''
So he go on to the next little pool .
He find this just as muddy a the other .
Then he go on to another , and this be no good .
Buster sit down and scratch his head .
It be puzzle .
Yes , Sir , it be puzzle .
He look this way and he look that way suspiciously , but there be no one to be see .
Everything be still save for the laughter of the Laughing Brook .
Somehow , it seem to Buster a if the Brook be laugh at him .
`` It 's very curious , '' mutter Buster , `` very curious indeed .
It look a if my fishing be spoil for to-day .
I do n't understand it at all .
It 's lucky I catch what I do .
It look a if somebody be try to -- ha ! ''
A sudden thought have pop into his head .
Then he begin to chuckle and finally to laugh .
`` I do believe that scamp Joe Otter be try to get even with me for eat that fat trout ! ''
And then , because Buster Bear always enjoy a good joke even when it be on himself , he laugh until he have to hold his side , which be a whole lot good than go off in a rage a Little Joe Otter have do .
`` You 're pretty smart , Mr . Otter !
You 're pretty smart , but there be other people who be smart too , '' say Buster Bear , and still chuckle , he go off to think up a plan to get the best of Little Joe Otter .
IV LITTLE JOE OTTER SUPPLIES BUSTER BEAR WITH A BREAKFAST Getting even just for spite Does n't always pay .
Fact be , it be very apt To work the other way .
That be just how it come about that Little Joe Otter furnish Buster Bear with the best breakfast he have have for a long time .
He do n't mean to do it .
Oh , my , no !
The truth be , he think all the time that he be prevent Buster Bear from get a breakfast .
You see he be n't well enough acquaint with Buster to know that Buster be quite as smart a he be , and perhaps a little bit smarter .
Spite and selfishness be at the bottom of it .
You see Little Joe and Billy Mink have have all the fishing in the Laughing Brook to themselves so long that they think no one else have any right to fish there .
To be sure Bobby Coon catch a few little fish there , but they do n't mind Bobby .
Farmer Brown 's boy fish there too , sometimes , and this always make Little Joe and Billy Mink very angry , but they be so afraid of him that they do n't dare do anything about it .
But when they discover that Buster Bear be a fisherman , they make up their mind that something have get to be do .
At least , Little Joe do .
`` He 'll try it again to-morrow morning , '' say Little Joe .
`` I 'll keep watch , and as soon a I see him come , I 'll drive out all the fish , just a I do to-day .
I guess that 'll teach him to let our fish alone . ''
So the next morning Little Joe hid before daylight close by the little pool where Buster Bear have give him such a fright .
Sure enough , just a the Jolly Sunbeams begin to creep through the Green Forest , he saw Buster Bear come straight over to the little pool .
Little Joe slip into the water and chase all the fish out of the little pool , and stir up the mud on the bottom so that the water be so muddy that the bottom could n't be see at all .
Then he hurry down to the next little pool and do the same thing .
Now Buster Bear be very smart .
You know he have guess the day before who have spoil his fishing .
So this morning he only go far enough to make sure that if Little Joe be watch for him , a he be sure he would be , he would see him come .
Then , instead of keep on to the little pool , he hurry to a place way down the Laughing Brook , where the water be very shallow , hardly over his foot , and there he sit chuckle to himself .
Things happen just a he have expect .
The frightened fish Little Joe chase out of the little pool up above swam down the Laughing Brook , because , you know , Little Joe be behind them , and there be nowhere else for them to go .
When they come to the place where Buster be wait , all he have to do be to scoop them out on to the bank .
It be great fun .
It do n't take Buster long to catch all the fish he could eat .
Then he save a nice fat trout and wait .
By and by along come Little Joe Otter , chuckle to think how he have spoil Buster Bear 's fishing .
He be so intent on look behind him to see if Buster be come that he do n't see Buster wait there until he speak .
`` I 'm much oblige for the fine breakfast you have give me , '' say Buster in his deepest , most grumbly-rumbly voice .
`` I 've save a fat trout for you to make up for the one I eat yesterday .
I hope we 'll go fish together often . ''
Then he go off laugh fit to kill himself .
Little Joe could n't find a word to say .
He be so surprised and angry that he go off by himself and sulk .
And Billy Mink , who have be watch , eat the fat trout .
V GRANDFATHER FROG 'S COMMON-SENSE There be nothing quite like common sense to smooth out trouble .
People who have plenty of just plain common sense be often think to be very wise .
Their neighbor look up to them and be forever run to them for advice , and they be very much respect .
That be the way with Grandfather Frog .
He be very old and very wise .
Anyway , that be what his neighbor think .
The truth be , he simply have a lot of common sense , which after all be the very best kind of wisdom .
Now when Little Joe Otter find that Buster Bear have be too smart for him and that instead of spoil Buster 's fishing in the Laughing Brook he have really make it easy for Buster to catch all the fish he want , Little Joe go off down to the Smiling Pool in a great rage .
Billy Mink stop long enough to eat the fat fish Buster have leave on the bank and then he too go down to the Smiling Pool .
When Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink reach the Smiling Pool , they climb up on the Big Rock , and there Little Joe sulk and sulk , until finally Grandfather Frog ask what the matter be .
Little Joe would n't tell , but Billy Mink tell the whole story .
When he tell how Buster have be too smart for Little Joe , it tickle him so that Billy have to laugh in spite of himself .
So do Grandfather Frog .
So do Jerry Muskrat , who have be listen .
Of course this make Little Joe angrier than ever .
He say a lot of unkind thing about Buster Bear and about Billy Mink and Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat , because they have laugh at the smartness of Buster .
`` He 's nothing but a great big bully and thief ! ''
declare Little Joe .
`` Chug-a-rum !
He may be a bully , because great big people be very apt to be bully , and though I have n't see him , I guess Buster Bear be big enough from all I have hear , but I do n't see how he be a thief , '' say Grandfather Frog .
`` Did n't he catch my fish and eat them ? ''
snap Little Joe .
`` Does n't that make him a thief ? ''
`` They be no more your fish than mine , '' protest Billy Mink .
`` Well , our fish , then !
He steal our fish , if you like that any good .
That make him just as much a thief , do n't it ? ''
growl Little Joe .
Grandfather Frog look up at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun and slowly wink one of his great , goggly eye .
`` There come a foolish green fly , '' say he .
`` Who do he belong to ? ''
`` Nobody ! ''
snap Little Joe .
`` What have foolish green fly get to do with my -- I mean our fish ? ''
`` Nothing , nothing at all , '' reply Grandfather Frog mildly .
`` I be just hop that he would come near enough for me to snap him up ; then he would belong to me .
As long a he do n't , he do n't belong to any one .
I suppose that if Buster Bear should happen along and catch him , he would be steal from me , accord to Little Joe . ''
`` Of course not !
What a silly idea !
You 're get foolish in your old age , '' retort Little Joe .
`` Can you tell me the difference between the fish that you have n't catch and the foolish green fly that I have n't catch ? ''
ask Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe could n't find a word to say .
`` You take my advice , Little Joe Otter , '' continue Grandfather Frog , `` and always make friend with those who be big and strong and smart than you be .
You 'll find it pay . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` You take my advice , Little Joe Otter , '' continue Grandfather Frog .
Page 26 .
-RSB- VI LITTLE JOE OTTER TAKES GRANDFATHER FROG 'S ADVICE Who make an enemy a friend , To fear and worry put an end .
Little Joe Otter find that out when he take Grandfather Frog 's advice .
He would n't have admit that he be afraid of Buster Bear .
No one ever like to admit be afraid , least of all Little Joe Otter .
And really Little Joe have a great deal of courage .
Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe be a great fighter when he have to fight .
As for all those who live in or along the Laughing Brook or in the Smiling Pool , they let Little Joe have his own way in everything .
Now have one 's own way too much be a bad thing .
It be apt to make one selfish and thoughtless of other people and very hard to get along with .
Little Joe Otter have his way too much .
Grandfather Frog know it and shake his head very soberly when Little Joe have be disrespectful to him .
`` Too bad .
Too bad !
Too bad !
Chug-a-rum !
It be too bad that such a fine young fellow a Little Joe should spoil a good disposition by such selfish heedlessness .
Too bad , '' say he .
So , though he do n't let on that it be so , Grandfather Frog really be delighted when he hear how Buster Bear have be too smart for Little Joe Otter .
It tickle him so that he have hard work to keep a straight face .
But he do and be a grave and solemn a you please a he advise Little Joe always to make friend with any one who be big and strong and smarter than he .
That be good common sense advice , but Little Joe just sniff and go off declare that he would get even with Buster Bear yet .
Now Little Joe be good-natured and full of fun a a rule , and after he have reach home and his temper have cool off a little , he begin to see the joke on himself , -- how when he have work so hard to frighten the fish in the little pool of the Laughing Brook so that Buster Bear should not catch any , he have all the time be drive them right into Buster 's paw .
By and by he grin .
It be a little sheepish grin at first , but at last it grow into a laugh .
`` I believe , '' say Little Joe a he wipe tear of laughter from his eye , `` that Grandfather Frog be right , and that the best thing I can do be to make friend with Buster Bear .
I 'll try it to-morrow morning . ''
So very early the next morning Little Joe Otter go to the best fishing pool he know of in the Laughing Brook , and there he catch the big trout he could find .
It be so big and fat that it make Little Joe 's mouth water , for you know fat trout be his favorite food .
But he do n't take so much a one bite .
Instead he carefully lay it on an old log where Buster Bear would be sure to see it if he should come along that way .
Then he hide near by , where he could watch .
Buster be late that morning .
It seem to Little Joe that he never would come .
Once he nearly lose the fish .
He have turn his head for just a minute , and when he look back again , the trout be nowhere to be see .
Buster could n't have steal up and take it , because such a big fellow could n't possibly have get out of sight again .
Little Joe dart over to the log and look on the other side .
There be the fat trout , and there also be Little Joe 's small cousin , Shadow the Weasel , who be a great thief and altogether bad .
Little Joe sprang at him angrily , but Shadow be too quick and dart away .
Little Joe put the fish back on the log and wait .
This time he do n't take his eye off it .
At last , when he be almost ready to give up , he saw Buster Bear shuffle along towards the Laughing Brook .
Suddenly Buster stop and sniff .
One of the Merry Little Breezes have carry the scent of that fat trout over to him .
Then he come straight over to where the fish lay , his nose wrinkling , and his eye twinkle with pleasure .
`` Now I wonder who be so thoughtful a to leave this fine breakfast ready for me , '' say he out loud .
`` Me , '' say Little Joe in a rather faint voice .
`` I catch it especially for you . ''
`` Thank you , '' reply Buster , and his eye twinkle more than ever .
`` I think we be go to be friend . ''
`` I -- I hope so , '' reply Little Joe .
VII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY HAS NO LUCK AT ALL Farmer Brown 's boy tramp through the Green Forest , whistle merrily .
He always whistle when he feel light-hearted , and he always feel light-hearted when he go fishing .
You see , he be just a fond of fishing a be Little Joe Otter or Billy Mink or Buster Bear .
And now he be make his way through the Green Forest to the Laughing Brook , sure that by the time he have follow it down to the Smiling Pool he would have a fine lot of trout to take home .
He know every pool in the Laughing Brook where the trout love to hide , do Farmer Brown 's boy , and it be just the kind of a morning when the trout should be hungry .
So he whistle a he tramp along , and his whistle be good to hear .
When he reach the first little pool he bait his hook very carefully and then , take the great care to keep out of sight of any trout that might be in the little pool , he begin to fish .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy learn a long time ago that to be a successful fisherman one must have a great deal of patience , so though he do n't get a bite right away a he have expect to , he be n't the least bit discouraged .
He keep very quiet and fished and fish , patiently wait for a foolish trout to take his hook .
But he do n't get so much a a nibble .
`` Either the trout have lose their appetite or they have grow very wise , '' mutter Farmer Brown 's boy , a after a long time he move on to the next little pool .
There the same thing happen .
He be very patient , very , very patient , but his patience bring no reward , not so much a the faint kind of a nibble .
Farmer Brown 's boy trudge on to the next pool , and there be a puzzled frown on his freckled face .
Such a thing never have happen before .
He do n't know what to make of it .
All the night before he have dream about the delicious dinner of fry trout he would have the next day , and now -- well , if he do n't catch some trout pretty soon , that splendid dinner would never be anything but a dream .
`` If I do n't know that nobody else come fishing here , I should think that somebody have be here this very morning and caught all the fish or else frighten them so that they be all in hiding , '' say he , a he trudge on to the next little pool .
`` I never have such bad luck in all my life before .
Hello !
What 's this ? ''
There , on the bank beside the little pool , be the head of three trout .
Farmer Brown 's boy scowl down at them more puzzled than ever .
`` Somebody have be fish here , and they have have well luck than I have , '' think he .
He look up the Laughing Brook and down the Laughing Brook and this way and that way , but no one be to be see .
Then he pick up one of the little head and look at it sharply .
`` It be n't cut off with a knife ; it be bite off ! ''
he exclaim .
`` I wonder now if Billy Mink be the scamp who have spoil my fun . ''
Thereafter he keep a sharp lookout for sign of Billy Mink , but though he find two or three more trout head , he saw no other sign and he catch no fish .
This puzzle him more than ever .
It do n't seem possible that such a little fellow a Billy Mink could have catch or frighten all the fish or have eat so many .
Besides , he do n't remember ever have know Billy to leave head around that way .
Billy sometimes catch more fish than he can eat , but then he usually hide them .
The farther he go down the Laughing Brook , the more puzzled Farmer Brown 's boy grow .
It make him feel very queer .
He would have felt still more queer if he have know that all the time two other fisherman who have be before him be watch him and chuckle to themselves .
They be Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear .
VIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY FEELS HIS HAIR RISE 'T be just a sudden odd surprise Made Farmer Brown 's boy 's hair to rise .
That 's a funny thing for hair to do -- rise up all of a sudden -- be n't it ?
But that be just what the hair on Farmer Brown 's boy 's head do the day he go fish in the Laughing Brook and have no luck at all .
There be just two thing that make hair rise -- anger and fear .
Anger sometimes make the hair on the back and neck of Bowser the Hound and of some other little people bristle and stand up , and you know the hair on the tail of Black Pussy stand on end until her tail look twice as big a it really be .
Both anger and fear make it do that .
But there be only one thing that can make the hair on the head of Farmer Brown 's boy rise , and a it be n't anger , of course it must be fear .
It never have happen before .
You see , there be n't much of anything that Farmer Brown 's boy be really afraid of .
Perhaps he would n't have be afraid this time if it have n't be for the surprise of what he find .
You see when he have find the head of those trout on the bank he know right away that some one else have be fish , and that be why he could n't catch any ; but it do n't seem possible that little Billy Mink could have eat all those trout , and Farmer Brown 's boy do n't once think of Little Joe Otter , and so he be very , very much puzzle .
He be turn it all over in his mind and study what it could mean , when he come to a little muddy place on the bank of the Laughing Brook , and there he saw something that make his eye look a if they would pop right out of his head , and it be right then that he felt his hair rise .
Anyway , that be what he say when he tell about it afterward .
What be it he saw ?
What do you think ?
Why , it be a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , that 's what it be , and all it be .
But it be the big footprint Farmer Brown 's boy ever have see , and it look a if it have be make only a few minute before .
It be the footprint of Buster Bear .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy do n't know that Buster Bear have come down to the Green Forest to live .
He never have hear of a Bear be in the Green Forest .
And so he be so surprised that he have hard work to believe his own eye , and he have a queer feel all over , -- a little chilly feel , although it be a warm day .
Somehow , he do n't feel like meet Buster Bear .
If he have have his terrible gun with him , it might have be different .
But he do n't , and so he suddenly make up his mind that he do n't want to fish any more that day .
He have a funny feeling , too , that he be be watch , although he could n't see any one .
He be be watch .
Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear be watch him and take the great care to keep out of his sight .
All the way home through the Green Forest , Farmer Brown 's boy keep look behind him , and he do n't draw a long breath until he reach the edge of the Green Forest .
He have n't run , but he have want to .
`` Huh ! ''
say Buster Bear to Little Joe Otter , `` I believe he be afraid ! ''
And Buster Bear be just exactly right .
IX LITTLE JOE OTTER HAS GREAT NEWS TO TELL Little Joe Otter be fairly burst with excitement .
He could hardly contain himself .
He felt that he have the great news to tell since Peter Rabbit have first find the track of Buster Bear in the Green Forest .
He could n't keep it to himself a minute long than he have to .
So he hurry to the Smiling Pool , where he be sure he would find Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , and he hop that perhaps some of the little people who live in the Green Forest might be there too .
Sure enough , Peter Rabbit be there on one side of the Smiling Pool , make face at Reddy Fox , who be on the other side , which , of course , be not at all nice of Peter .
Mr. and Mrs. Redwing be there , and Blacky the Crow be sit in the Big Hickory-tree .
Little Joe Otter swim straight to the Big Rock and climb up to the very high part .
He look so excited , and his eye sparkle so , that every one knew right away that something have happen .
`` Hi ! ''
cry Billy Mink .
`` Look at Little Joe Otter !
It must be that for once he have be smart than Buster Bear . ''
Little Joe make a good-natured face at Billy Mink and shake his head .
`` No , Billy , '' say he , `` you be wrong , altogether wrong .
I do n't believe anybody can be smart than Buster Bear . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Reddy glare across the Smiling Pool at Peter .
Page 45 .
-RSB- Reddy Fox roll his lip back in an unpleasant grin .
`` Do n't be too sure of that ! ''
he snap .
`` I 'm not through with him yet . ''
`` Boaster !
Boaster ! ''
cry Peter Rabbit .
Reddy glare across the Smiling Pool at Peter .
`` I 'm not through with you either , Peter Rabbit ! ''
he snarl .
`` You 'll find it out one of these fine day ! ''
`` Reddy , Reddy , smart and sly , Could n't catch a buzzing fly ! ''
taunt Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
say Grandfather Frog in his deepest , gruff voice .
`` We know all about that .
What we want to know be what Little Joe Otter have get on his mind . ''
`` It 's news -- great news ! ''
cry Little Joe .
`` We can tell good how great it be when we hear what it be , '' reply Grandfather Frog testily .
`` What be it ? ''
Little Joe Otter look around at all the eager face watch him , and then in the slow , most provoking way , he drawl : `` Farmer Brown 's boy be afraid of Buster Bear . ''
For a minute no one say a word .
Then Blacky the Crow lean down from his perch in the Big Hickory-tree and look very hard at Little Joe a he say : `` I do n't believe it .
I do n't believe a word of it .
Farmer Brown 's boy be n't afraid of any one who live in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .
We be all afraid of him . ''
Little Joe glare back at Blacky .
`` I do n't care whether you believe it or not ; it 's true , '' he retort .
Then he tell how early that very morning he and Buster Bear have be fish together in the Laughing Brook , and how Farmer Brown 's boy have be fish there too , and have n't catch a single trout because they have all be catch or frighten before he get there .
Then he tell how Farmer Brown 's boy have find a footprint of Buster Bear in the soft mud , and how he have stop fish right away and start for home , look behind him with fear in his eye all the way .
`` Now tell me that he be n't afraid ! ''
conclude Little Joe .
`` For once he know just how we feel when he come prowl around where we be .
Is n't that great news ?
Now we 'll get even with him ! ''
`` I 'll believe it when I see it for myself ! ''
snap Blacky the Crow .
X BUSTER BEAR BECOMES A HERO The news that Little Joe Otter tell at the Smiling Pool , -- how Farmer Brown 's boy have run away from Buster Bear without even see him , -- soon spread all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , until every one who live there know about it .
Of course , Peter Rabbit help spread it .
Trust Peter for that !
But everybody else help too .
You see , they have all be afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy for so long that they be tickle almost to piece at the very thought of have some one in the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown 's boy feel fear a they have felt it .
And so it be that Buster Bear become a hero right away to most of them .
A few doubted Little Joe 's story .
One of them be Blacky the Crow .
Another be Reddy Fox .
Blacky doubt because he know Farmer Brown 's boy so well that he could n't imagine him afraid .
Reddy doubt because he do n't want to believe .
You see , he be jealous of Buster Bear , and at the same time he be afraid of him .
So Reddy pretend not to believe a word of what Little Joe Otter have say , and he agree with Blacky that only by see Farmer Brown 's boy afraid could he ever be make to believe it .
But nearly everybody else believe it , and there be great rejoicing .
Most of them be afraid of Buster , very much afraid of him , because he be so big and strong .
But they be still more afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , because they do n't know him or understand him , and because in the past he have try to catch some of them in trap and have hunt some of them with his terrible gun .
So now they be very proud to think that one of their own number actually have frighten him , and they begin to look on Buster Bear a a real hero .
They try in ever so many way to show him how friendly they felt and go quite out of their way to do him favor .
Whenever they meet one another , all they could talk about be the smartness and the greatness of Buster Bear .
`` Now I guess Farmer Brown 's boy will keep away from the Green Forest , and we wo n't have to be all the time watch out for him , '' say Bobby Coon , a he wash his dinner in the Laughing Brook , for you know he be very neat and particular .
`` And he wo n't dare set any more trap for me , '' gloat Billy Mink .
`` Ah wish Brer Bear would go up to Farmer Brown 's henhouse and scare Farmer Brown 's boy so that he would keep away from there .
It would be a favor to me which Ah cert ` nly would appreciate , '' say Unc ' Billy Possum when he hear the news .
`` Let 's all go together and tell Buster Bear how much obliged we be for what he have do , '' propose Jerry Muskrat .
`` That 's a splendid idea ! ''
cry Little Joe Otter .
`` We 'll do it right away . ''
`` Caw , caw caw ! ''
broke in Blacky the Crow .
`` I say , let 's wait and see for ourselves if it be all true . ''
`` Of course it 's true ! ''
snap Little Joe Otter .
`` Do n't you believe I 'm tell the truth ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly .
Of course no one doubt your word , '' reply Blacky , with the utmost politeness .
`` But you say yourself that Farmer Brown 's boy do n't see Buster Bear , but only his footprint .
Perhaps he do n't know whose it be , and if he have he would n't have be afraid .
Now I 've get a plan by which we can see for ourselves if he really be afraid of Buster Bear . ''
`` What be it ? ''
ask Sammy Jay eagerly .
Blacky the Crow shake his head and wink .
`` That 's telling , '' say he .
`` I want to think it over .
If you meet me at the Big Hickory-tree at sun-up to-morrow morning , and get everybody else to come that you can , perhaps I will tell you . ''
XI BLACKY THE CROW TELLS HIS PLAN Blacky be a dreamer !
Blacky be a schemer !
His voice be strong ; When thing go wrong Blacky be a screamer !
It 's a fact .
Blacky the Crow be forever dreaming and scheming and almost always it be of mischief .
He be one of the smart and clever of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and all the others know it .
Blacky like excitement .
He want something go on .
The more exciting it be , the good he like it .
Then he have a chance to use that harsh voice of his , and how he do use it !
So now , a he sit in the top of the Big Hickory-tree beside the Smiling Pool and look down on all the little people gather there , he be very happy .
In the first place he felt very important , and you know Blacky dearly love to feel important .
They have all come at his invitation to listen to a plan for see for themselves if it be really true that Farmer Brown 's boy be afraid of Buster Bear .
On the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool sit Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , and Jerry Muskrat .
On his big , green lily-pad sat Grandfather Frog .
On another lily-pad sat Spotty the Turtle .
On the bank on one side of the Smiling Pool be Peter Rabbit , Jumper the Hare , Danny Meadow Mouse , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , Striped Chipmunk and Old Mr. Toad .
On the other side of the Smiling Pool be Reddy Fox , Digger the Badger , and Bobby Coon .
In the Big Hickory-tree be Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Sammy Jay .
Blacky wait until he be sure that no one else be come .
Then he clear his throat very loudly and begin to speak .
`` Friends , '' say he .
Everybody grin , for Blacky have play so many sharp trick that no one be really his friend unless it be that other mischief-maker , Sammy Jay , who , you know , be Blacky 's cousin .
But no one say anything , and Blacky go on .
`` Little Joe Otter have tell u how he saw Farmer Brown 's boy hurry home when he find the footprint of Buster Bear on the edge of the Laughing Brook , and how all the way he keep look behind him , a if he be afraid .
Perhaps he be , and then again perhaps he be n't .
Perhaps he have something else on his mind .
You have make a hero of Buster Bear , because you believe Little Joe 's story .
Now I do n't say that I do n't believe it , but I do say that I will be a lot more sure that Farmer Brown 's boy be afraid of Buster when I see him run away myself .
Now here be my plan : `` To-morrow morning , very early , Sammy Jay and I will make a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest .
Farmer Brown 's boy have a lot of curiosity , and he will be sure to come over to see what it be all about .
Then we will lead him to where Buster Bear be .
If he run away , I will be the first to admit that Buster Bear be as great a hero a some of you seem to think he be .
It be a very simple plan , and if you will all hide where you can watch , you will be able to see for yourselves if Little Joe Otter be right .
Now what do you say ? ''
Right away everybody begin to talk at the same time .
It be such a simple plan that everybody agree to it .
And it promise to be so exciting that everybody promise to be there , that be , everybody but Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , who do n't care to go so far away from the Smiling Pool .
So it be agree that Blacky should try his plan the very next morning .
XII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR GROW CURIOUS Ever since it be light enough to see at all , Blacky the Crow have be sit in the top of the tall tree on the edge of the Green Forest near to Farmer Brown 's house , and never for an instant have he take his eye from Farmer Brown 's back door .
What be he watch for ?
Why , for Farmer Brown 's boy to come out on his way to milk the cow .
Meanwhile , Sammy Jay be slip silently through the Green Forest , look for Buster Bear , so that when the time come he could let his cousin , Blacky the Crow , know just where Buster be .
By and by the back door of Farmer Brown 's house open , and out step Farmer Brown 's boy .
In each hand he carry a milk pail .
Right away Blacky begin to scream at the top of his lung .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shout Blacky .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
And all the time he fly about among the tree near the edge of the Green Forest a if so excite that he could n't keep still .
Farmer Brown 's boy look over there a if he wonder what all that fuss be about , a indeed he do , but he do n't start to go over and see .
No , Sir , he start straight for the barn .
Blacky do n't know what to make of it .
You see , smart a he be and shrewd a he be , Blacky do n't know anything about the meaning of duty , for he never have to work except to get enough to eat .
So , when Farmer Brown 's boy start for the barn instead of for the Green Forest , Blacky do n't know what to make of it .
He scream hard and louder than ever , until his voice grow so hoarse he could n't scream any more , but Farmer Brown 's boy keep right on to the barn .
`` I 'd like to know what you 're make such a fuss about , Mr. Crow , but I 've get to fee the cow and milk them first , '' say he .
Now all this time the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows have be hide where they could see all that go on .
When Farmer Brown 's boy disappear in the barn , Chatterer the Red Squirrel snicker right out loud .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
This be a great plan of yours , Blacky !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
he shout .
Blacky could n't find a word to say .
He just hang his head , which be something Blacky seldom do .
`` Perhaps if we wait until he come out again , he will come over here , '' say Sammy Jay , who have join Blacky .
So it be decide to wait .
It seem a if Farmer Brown 's boy never would come out , but at last he do .
Blacky and Sammy Jay at once begin to scream and make all the fuss they could .
Farmer Brown 's boy take the two pail of milk into the house , then out he come and start straight for the Green Forest .
He be so curious to know what it all mean that he could n't wait another minute .
Now there be some one else with a great deal of curiosity also .
He have hear the screaming of Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , and he have listen until he could n't stand it another minute .
He just have to know what it be all about .
So at the same time Farmer Brown 's boy start for the Green Forest , this other listener start towards the place where Blacky and Sammy be make such a racket .
He walk very softly so a not to make a sound .
It be Buster Bear .
XIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR MEET If you should meet with Buster Bear While walk through the wood , What would you do ?
Now tell me true , I 'd run the best I could .
That be what Farmer Brown 's boy do when he meet Buster Bear , and a lot of the little people of the Green Forest and some from the Green Meadows saw him .
When Farmer Brown 's boy come hurry home from the Laughing Brook without any fish one day and tell about the great footprint he have see in a muddy place on the bank deep in the Green Forest , and have say his be sure that it be the footprint of a Bear , he have be laugh at .
Farmer Brown have laugh and laugh .
`` Why , '' say he , `` there have n't be a Bear in the Green Forest for year and year and year , not since my own grandfather be a little boy , and that , you know , be a long , long , long time ago .
If you want to find Mr. Bear , you will have to go to the Great Woods .
I do n't know who make that footprint , but it certainly could n't have be a Bear .
I think you must have imagine it . ''
Then he have laugh some more , all of which go to show how easy it be to be mistake , and how foolish it be to laugh at thing you really do n't know about .
Buster Bear have come to live in the Green Forest , and Farmer Brown 's boy have see his footprint .
But Farmer Brown laugh so much and make fun of him so much , that at last his boy begin to think that he must have be mistake after all .
So when he hear Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay make a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest , he never once think of Buster Bear , a he start over to see what be go on .
When Blacky and Sammy saw him come , they move a little farther in to the Green Forest , still scream in the most excited way .
They felt sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would follow them , and they mean to lead him to where Sammy have see Buster Bear that morning .
Then they would find out for sure if what Little Joe Otter have say be true , -- that Farmer Brown 's boy really be afraid of Buster Bear .
Now all around , behind tree and stump , and under thick branch , and even in tree top , be other little people watch with round , wide-open eye to see what would happen .
It be very exciting , the most exciting thing they could remember .
You see , they have come to believe that Farmer Brown 's boy be n't afraid of anybody or anything , and a most of them be very much afraid of him , they have hard work to believe that he would really be afraid of even such a great , big , strong fellow a Buster Bear .
Every one be so busy watch Farmer Brown 's boy that no one saw Buster come from the other direction .
You see , Buster walk very softly .
Big a he be , he can walk without make the teeny , weeny sound .
And that be how it happen that no one saw him or hear him until just a Farmer Brown 's boy step out from behind one side of a thick little hemlock-tree , Buster Bear step out from behind the other side of that same little tree , and there they be face to face !
Then everybody hold their breath , even Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay .
For just a little minute it be so still there in the Green Forest that not the least little sound could be hear .
What be go to happen ?
XIV A SURPRISING THING HAPPENS Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , look down from the top of a tall tree , hold their breath .
Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , look down from another tree , hold their breath .
Unc ' Billy Possum , stick his head out from a hollow tree , hold his breath .
Bobby Coon , look through a hole in a hollow stump in which he be hide , hold his breath .
Reddy Fox , lie flat down behind a heap of brush , hold his breath .
Peter Rabbit , sit bolt upright under a thick hemlock branch , with eye and ear wide open , hold his breath .
And all the other little people who happen to be where they could see do the same thing .
You see , it be the most exciting moment ever be in the Green Forest .
Farmer Brown 's boy have just step out from behind one side of a little hemlock-tree and Buster Bear have just step out from behind the opposite side of the little hemlock-tree and neither have know that the other be anywhere near .
For a whole minute they stand there face to face , gaze into each other 's eye , while everybody watch and wait , and it seem a if the whole Green Forest be hold it breath .
Then something happen .
Yes , Sir , something happen .
Farmer Brown 's boy open his mouth and yell !
It be such a sudden yell and such a loud yell that it startle Chatterer so that he nearly fell from his place in the tree , and it make Reddy Fox jump to his foot ready to run .
And that yell be a yell of fright .
There be no doubt about it , for with the yell Farmer Brown 's boy turn and run for home , a no one ever have see him run before .
He run just a Peter Rabbit run when he have get to reach the dear Old Briar-patch before Reddy Fox can catch him , which , you know , be as fast a he can run .
Once he stumble and fell , but he scramble to his foot in a twinkling , and away he go without once turn his head to see if Buster Bear be after him .
There be n't any doubt that he be afraid , very much afraid .
Everybody lean forward to watch him .
`` What do I tell you ?
Did n't I say that he be afraid of Buster Bear ? ''
cry Little Joe Otter , dance about with excitement .
`` You be right , Little Joe !
I 'm sorry that I doubt it .
See him go !
Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shriek Blacky the Crow .
For a minute or two everybody forget about Buster Bear .
Then there be a great crash which make everybody turn to look the other way .
What do you think they saw ?
Why , Buster Bear be run away too , and he be run twice as fast a Farmer Brown 's boy !
He bump into tree and crash through bush and jump over log , and in almost no time at all he be out of sight .
Altogether it be the most surprising thing that the little people of the Green Forest ever have see .
-LSB- Illustration : Buster Bear be run away , too .
Page 71 . -RSB-
Sammy Jay look at Blacky the Crow , and Blacky look at Chatterer , and Chatterer look at Happy Jack , and Happy Jack look at Peter Rabbit , and Peter look at Unc ' Billy Possum , and Unc ' Billy look at Bobby Coon , and Bobby look at Johnny Chuck , and Johnny look at Reddy Fox , and Reddy look at Jimmy Skunk , and Jimmy look at Billy Mink , and Billy look at Little Joe Otter , and for a minute nobody could say a word .
Then Little Joe give a funny little gasp .
`` Why , why-e-e ! ''
say he , `` I believe Buster Bear be afraid too ! ''
Unc ' Billy Possum chuckle .
`` Ah believe yo ' be right again , Brer Otter , '' say he .
`` It cert ` nly do look so .
If Brer Bear be n't scar , he must have remember something impo ` tant and have go to attend to it in a powerful hurry . ''
Then everybody begin to laugh .
XV BUSTER BEAR IS A FALLEN HERO A fallen hero be some one to whom every one have look up a very brave and then prove to be less brave than he be suppose to be .
That be the way with Buster Bear .
When Little Joe Otter have tell how Farmer Brown 's boy have be afraid at the mere sight of one of Buster Bear 's big footprint , they have at once make a hero of Buster .
At least some of them have .
As this be the first time , the very first time , that they have ever know any one who live in the Green Forest to make Farmer Brown 's boy run away , they look on Buster Bear with a great deal of respect and be very proud of him .
But now they have see Buster Bear and Farmer Brown 's boy meet face to face ; and while it be true that Farmer Brown 's boy have run away as fast a ever he could , it be also true that Buster Bear have do the same thing .
He have run even faster than Farmer Brown 's boy , and have hide in the most lonely place he could find in the very deep part of the Green Forest .
It be hard to believe , but it be true .
And right away everybody lose a great deal of the respect for Buster which they have felt .
It be always that way .
They begin to say unkind thing about him .
They say them among themselves , and some of them even say them to Buster when they meet him , or say them so that he would hear them .
Of course Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , who , because they can fly , have nothing to fear from Buster , and who always delight in make other people uncomfortable , never let a chance go by to tell Buster and everybody else within hear what they think of him .
They delight in fly about through the Green Forest until they have find Buster Bear and then from the safety of the tree top scream at him .
`` Buster Bear be big and strong ; His teeth be big ; his claw be long ; In spite of these he run away And hide himself the livelong day ! ''
A dozen time a day Buster would hear them scream this .
He would grind his teeth and glare up at them , but that be all he could do .
He could n't get at them .
He just have to stand it and do nothing .
But when impudent little Chatterer the Red Squirrel shout the same thing from a place just out of reach in a big pine-tree , Buster could stand it no longer .
He give a deep , angry growl that make little shiver run over Chatterer , and then suddenly he start up that tree after Chatterer .
With a frightened little shriek Chatterer scamper to the top of the tree .
He have n't know that Buster could climb .
But Buster be a splendid climber , especially when the tree be big and stout a this one be , and now he go up after Chatterer , growl angrily .
How Chatterer do wish that he have keep his tongue still !
He run to the very top of the tree , so frighten that his teeth chatter , and when he look down and saw Buster 's great mouth come near and nearer , he nearly tumble down with terror .
The bad of it be there be n't another tree near enough for him to jump to .
He be in trouble this time , be Chatterer , sure enough !
And there be no one to help him .
XVI CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL JUMPS FOR HIS LIFE It be n't very often that Chatterer the Red Squirrel know fear .
That be one reason that he be so often impudent and saucy .
But once in a while a great fear take possession of him , a when he know that Shadow the Weasel be look for him .
You see , he know that Shadow can go wherever he can go .
There be very few of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who do not know fear at some time or other , but it come to Chatterer as seldom a to any one , because he be very sure of himself and his ability to hide or run away from danger .
But now a he cling to a little branch near the top of a tall pine-tree in the Green Forest and look down at the big sharp teeth of Buster Bear draw nearer and nearer , and listen to the deep , angry growl that make his hair stand on end , Chatterer be too frightened to think .
If only he have keep his tongue still instead of say hateful thing to Buster Bear !
If only he have know that Buster could climb a tree !
If only he have choose a tree near enough to other tree for him to jump across !
But he have say hateful thing , he have choose to sit in a tree which stand quite by itself , and Buster Bear could climb !
Chatterer be in the bad kind of trouble , and there be no one to blame but himself .
That be usually the case with those who get into trouble .
Nearer and nearer come Buster Bear , and deep and angrier sound his voice .
Chatterer give a little frightened gasp and look this way and look that way .
What should he do ?
What could he do !
The ground seem a terrible distance below .
If only he have wing like Sammy Jay !
But he have n't .
`` Gr-r-r-r ! ''
growl Buster Bear .
`` I 'll teach you manner !
I 'll teach you to treat your better with respect !
I 'll swallow you whole , that 's what I 'll do .
Gr-r-r-r ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
cried Chatterer .
`` Gr-r-r-r !
I 'll eat you all up to the last hair on your tail ! ''
growl Buster , scramble a little nearer .
`` Oh !
Oh ! ''
cried Chatterer , and run out to the very tip of the little branch to which he have be cling .
Now if Chatterer have only know it , Buster Bear could n't reach him way up there , because the tree be too small at the top for such a big fellow a Buster .
But Chatterer do n't think of that .
He give one more frightened look down at those big teeth , then he shut his eye and jump -- jump straight out for the far-away ground .
It be a long , long , long way down to the ground , and it certainly look a if such a little fellow a Chatterer must be kill .
But Chatterer have learn from Old Mother Nature that she have give him certain thing to help him at just such time , and one of them be the power to spread himself very flat .
He do it now .
He spread his arm and legs out just as far a he could , and that keep him from fall a fast and as hard a he otherwise would have do , because be spread out so flat that way , the air hold him up a little .
And then there be his tail , that funny little tail he be so fond of jerk when he scold .
This help him too .
It help him keep his balance and keep from turn over and over .
Down , down , down he sail and land on his foot .
Of course , he hit the ground pretty hard , and for just a second he quite lose his breath .
But it be only for a second , and then he be scurry off as fast a a frightened Squirrel could .
Buster Bear watch him and grin .
`` I do n't catch him that time , '' he growl , `` but I guess I give him a good fright and teach him a lesson . ''
XVII BUSTER BEAR GOES BERRYING Buster Bear be a great hand to talk to himself when he think no one be around to overhear .
It 's a habit .
However , it be n't a bad habit unless it be carry too far .
Any habit become bad , if it be carry too far .
Suppose you have a secret , a real secret , something that nobody else know and that you do n't want anybody else to know .
And suppose you have the habit of talk to yourself .
You might , without thinking , you know , tell that secret out loud to yourself , and some one might , just might happen to overhear !
Then there would n't be any secret .
That be the way that a habit which be n't bad in itself can become bad when it be carry too far .
Now Buster Bear have live by himself in the Great Woods so long that this habit of talk to himself have grow and grow .
He do it just to keep from be lonesome .
Of course , when he come down to the Green Forest to live , he bring all his habit with him .
That be one thing about habit , -- you always take them with you wherever you go .
So Buster bring this habit of talk to himself down to the Green Forest , where he have many more neighbor than he have in the Great Woods .
`` Let me see , let me see , what be there to tempt my appetite ? ''
say Buster in his deep , grumbly-rumbly voice .
`` I find my appetite be n't what it ought to be .
I need a change .
Yes , Sir , I need a change .
There be something I ought to have at this time of year , and I have n't get it .
There be something that I use to have and do n't have now .
Ha !
I know !
I need some fresh fruit .
That 's it -- fresh fruit !
It must be about berry time now , and I 'd forget all about it .
My , my , my , how good some berry would taste !
Now if I be back up there in the Great Woods I could have all I could eat .
Um-m-m-m !
Makes my mouth water just to think of it .
There ought to be some up in the Old Pasture .
There ought to be a lot of 'em up there .
If I be n't afraid that some one would see me , I 'd go up there . ''
Buster sigh .
Then he sigh again .
The more he think about those berry he felt sure be grow in the Old Pasture , the more he want some .
It seem to him that never in all his life have he want berry a he do now .
He wander about uneasily .
He be hungry -- hungry for berry and nothing else .
By and by he begin talk to himself again .
`` If I be n't afraid of be see , I 'd go up to the Old Pasture this very minute .
Seems a if I could taste those berry . ''
He lick his lip hungrily a he speak .
Then his face brighten .
`` I know what I 'll do !
I 'll go up there at the very first peep of day to-morrow .
I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there be any danger that Farmer Brown 's boy or any one else I 'm afraid of will see me .
That 's just what I 'll do .
My , I wish to-morrow morning would hurry up and come . ''
Now though Buster do n't know it , some one have be listen , and that some one be none other than Sammy Jay .
When at last Buster lay down for a nap , Sammy fly away , chuckle to himself .
`` I believe I 'll visit the Old Pasture to-morrow morning myself , '' think he .
`` I have an idea that something interesting may happen if Buster do n't change his mind . ''
Sammy be on the lookout very early the next morning .
The first Jolly Little Sunbeams have only reach the Green Meadows and have not start to creep into the Green Forest , when he saw a big , dark form steal out of the Green Forest where it join the Old Pasture .
It move very swiftly and silently , a if in a great hurry .
Sammy know who it be : it be Buster Bear , and he be go berrying .
Sammy wait a little until he could see good .
Then he too start for the Old Pasture .
XVIII SOMEBODY ELSE GOES BERRYING Is n't it funny how two people will often think of the same thing at the same time , and neither one know that the other be think of it ?
That be just what happen the day that Buster Bear first think of go berrying .
While he be walk around in the Green Forest , talk to himself about how hungry he be for some berry and how sure he be that there must be some up in the Old Pasture , some one else be think about berry and about the Old Pasture too .
`` Will you make me a berry pie if I will get the berry to-morrow ? ''
ask Farmer Brown 's boy of his mother .
Of course Mrs. Brown promise that she would , and so that night Farmer Brown 's boy go to bed very early that he might get up early in the morning , and all night long he dream of berry and berry pie .
He be awake even before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun think it be time to get up , and he be all ready to start for the Old Pasture when the first Jolly Little Sunbeams come dance across the Green Meadows .
He carry a big tin pail , and in the bottom of it , wrap up in a piece of paper , be a lunch , for he mean to stay until he fill that pail , if it take all day .
Now the Old Pasture be very large .
It lie at the foot of the Big Mountain , and even extend a little way up on the Big Mountain .
There be room in it for many people to pick berry all day without even see each other , unless they roam about a great deal .
You see , the bush grow very thick there , and you can not see very far in any direction .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have climb a little way up in the sky by the time Farmer Brown 's boy reach the Old Pasture , and be smile down on all the Great World , and all the Great World seem to be smile back .
Farmer Brown 's boy start to whistle , and then he stop .
`` If I whistle , '' think he , `` everybody will know just where I be , and will keep out of sight , and I never can get acquaint with folk if they keep out of sight . ''
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy be just begin to understand something that Peter Rabbit and the other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest learn almost as soon a they learn to walk , -- that if you do n't want to be see , you must n't be hear .
So he do n't whistle a he felt like do , and he try not to make a bit of noise a he follow an old cow-path towards a place where he know the berry grow thick and oh , so big , and all the time he keep his eye wide open , and he keep his ear open too .
That be how he happen to hear a little cry , a very faint little cry .
If he have be whistle , he would n't have hear it at all .
He stop to listen .
He never have hear a cry just like it before .
At first he could n't make out just what it be or where it come from .
But one thing he be sure of , and that be that it be a cry of fright .
He stand perfectly still and listen with all his might .
There it be again -- `` Help !
Help !
Help '' -- and it be very faint and sound terribly frighten .
He wait a minute or two , but hear nothing more .
Then he put down his pail and begin a hurried look here , there , and everywhere .
He be sure that it have come from somewhere on the ground , so he peer behind bush and peep behind log and stone , and then just a he have about give up hope of find where it come from , he go around a little turn in the old cow-path , and there right in front of him be little Mr. Gartersnake , and what do you think he be do ?
Well , I do n't like to tell you , but he be try to swallow one of the child of Stickytoes the Tree Toad .
Of course Farmer Brown 's Boy do n't let him .
He make little Mr. Gartersnake set Master Stickytoes free and hold Mr. Gartersnake until Master Stickytoes be safely out of reach .
XIX BUSTER BEAR HAS A FINE TIME Buster Bear be have the fine time he have have since he come down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .
To be sure , he be n't in the Green Forest now , but he be n't far from it .
He be in the Old Pasture , one edge of which touch one edge of the Green Forest .
And where do you think he be , in the Old Pasture ?
Why , right in the middle of the big patch of the big blueberry he ever have see in all his life !
Now if there be any one thing that Buster Bear have rather have above another , it be all the berry he can eat , unless it be honey .
Nothing can quite equal honey in Buster 's mind .
But next to honey give him berry .
He be n't particular what kind of berry .
Raspberries , blackberry , or blueberry , either kind , will make him perfectly happy .
`` Um-m-m , my , my , but these be good ! ''
he mumble in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice , a he sit on his haunch strip off the berry greedily .
His little eye twinkle with enjoyment , and he do n't mind at all if now and then he get leaf , and some green berry in his mouth with the big ripe berry .
He do n't try to get them out .
Oh , my , no !
He just chomp them all up together and pat his stomach from sheer delight .
Now Buster have reach the Old Pasture just a jolly , round , red Mr. Sun have creep out of bed , and he have fully make up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr. Sun have climb very far up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , big a he be and strong a he be , Buster Bear be very shy and bashful , and he have no desire to meet Farmer Brown , or Farmer Brown 's boy , or any other of those two-legged creature call men .
It seem funny but he actually be afraid of them .
And he have a feeling that he be a great deal more likely to meet one of them in the Old Pasture than deep in the Green Forest .
So when he start to look for berry , he make up his mind that he would eat what he could in a great hurry and get back to the Green Forest before Farmer Brown 's boy be more than out of bed .
But when he find those berry he be so hungry that he forget his fear and everything else .
They taste so good that he just have to eat and eat and eat .
Now you know that Buster be a very big fellow , and it take a lot to fill him up .
He keep eat and eat and eating , and the more he eat the more he want .
You know how it be .
So he wander from one patch of berry to another in the Old Pasture , and never once think of the time .
Somehow , time be the hard thing in the world to remember , when you be have a good time .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climb high and higher in the blue , blue sky .
He look down on all the Great World and saw all that be go on .
He saw Buster Bear in the Old Pasture , and smile a he saw what a perfectly glorious time Buster be have .
And he saw something else in the Old Pasture that make his smile still broad .
He saw Farmer Brown 's boy fill a great tin pail with blueberry , and he know that Farmer Brown 's boy do n't know that Buster Bear be anywhere about , and he know that Buster Bear do n't know that Farmer Brown 's boy be anywhere about , and somehow he felt very sure that he would see something funny happen if they should chance to meet .
`` Um-m-m , um-m-m , '' mumble Buster Bear with his mouth full , a he move along to another patch of berry .
And then he give a little gasp of surprise and delight .
Right in front of him be a shiny thing just full of the fine , big , blue berry !
There be no leaf or green one there .
Buster blink his greedy little eye rapidly and look again .
No , he be n't dream .
They be real berry , and all he have get to do be to help himself .
Buster look sharply at the shiny thing that hold the berry .
It seem perfectly harmless .
He reach out a big paw and push it gently .
It tip over and spill out a lot of the berry .
Yes , it be perfectly harmless .
Buster give a little sigh of pure happiness .
He would eat those berry to the last one , and then he would go home to the Green Forest .
XX BUSTER BEAR CARRIES OFF THE PAIL OF FARMER BROWN 'S BOY The question be , do Buster Bear steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's pail ?
To steal be to take something which belong to some one else .
There be no doubt that he steal the berry that be in the pail when he find it , for he deliberately eat them .
He know well enough that some one must have pick them -- for whoever heard of blueberry grow in tin pail ?
So there be no doubt that when Buster take them , he steal them .
But with the pail it be different .
He take the pail , but he do n't mean to take it .
In fact , he do n't want that pail at all .
You see it be this way : When Buster find that big tin pail brim full of delicious berry in the shade of that big bush in the Old Pasture , he do n't stop to think whether or not he have a right to them .
Buster be so fond of berry that from the very second that his greedy little eye saw that pailful , he forget everything but the feast that be wait for him right under his very nose .
He do n't think anything about the right or wrong of help himself .
There before him be more berry than he have ever see together at one time in all his life , and all he have to do be to eat and eat and eat .
And that be just what he do do .
Of course he upset the pail , but he do n't mind a little thing like that .
When he have gobble up all the berry that roll out , he thrust his nose into the pail to get all that be leave in it .
Just then he hear a little noise , a if some one be come .
He throw up his head to listen , and somehow , he never do know just how , the handle of the pail slip back over his ear and caught there .
This be bad enough , but to make matter bad , just at that very minute he hear a shrill , angry voice shout , `` Hi , there !
Get out of there ! ''
He do n't need to be tell whose voice that be .
It be the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Right then and there Buster Bear nearly have a fit .
There be that awful pail fast over his head so that he could n't see a thing .
Of course , that mean that he could n't run away , which be the thing of all thing he most want to do , for big a he be and strong a he be , Buster be very shy and bashful when human being be around .
He growl and whine and squeal .
He try to back out of the pail and could n't .
He try to shake it off and could n't .
He try to pull it off , but somehow he could n't get hold of it .
Then there be another yell .
If Buster have n't be so frightened himself , he might have recognize that second yell a one of fright , for that be what it be .
You see Farmer Brown 's boy have just discover Buster Bear .
When he have yell the first time , he have suppose that it be one of the young cattle who live in the Old Pasture all summer , but when he saw Buster , he be just as badly frighten a Buster himself .
In fact , he be too surprised and frighten even to run .
After that second yell he just stand still and star .
Buster claw at that awful thing on his head more frantically than ever .
Suddenly it slip off , so that he could see .
He give one frightened look at Farmer Brown 's boy , and then with a mighty `` Woof ! ''
he start for the Green Forest as fast a his leg could take him , and this be very fast indeed , let me tell you .
He do n't stop to pick out a path , but just crash through the bush a if they be nothing at all , just nothing at all .
But the funny thing of all be this -- he take that pail with him !
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear run away with the big tin pail of Farmer Brown 's boy !
You see when it slip off his head , the handle be still around his neck , and there he be run away with a pail hang from his neck !
He do n't want it .
He would have give anything to get rid of it .
But he take it because he could n't help it .
And that bring u back to the question , do Buster steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's pail ?
What do you think ?
XXI SAMMY JAY MAKES THINGS WORSE FOR BUSTER BEAR `` Thief , thief , thief !
Thief , thief , thief ! ''
Sammy Jay be scream at the top of his lung , a he follow Buster Bear across the Old Pasture towards the Green Forest .
Never have he scream so loud , and never have his voice sound so excited .
The little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Smiling Pool be so used to hear Sammy cry thief that usually they think very little about it .
But every bless one who hear Sammy this morning stop whatever he be do and prick up his ear to listen .
Sammy 's cousin , Blacky the Crow , just happen to be fly along the edge of the Old Pasture , and the minute he hear Sammy 's voice , he turn and fly over to see what it be all about .
Just as soon a he catch sight of Buster Bear run for the Green Forest as hard a ever he could , he understand what have excite Sammy so .
He be so surprised that he almost forget to keep his wing move .
Buster Bear have what look to Blacky very much like a tin pail hang from his neck !
No wonder Sammy be excite .
Blacky beat his wing fiercely and start after Sammy .
And so they reach the edge of the Green Forest , Buster Bear run as hard a ever he could , Sammy Jay fly just behind him and screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
at the top of his lung , and behind him Blacky the Crow , try to catch up and yell as loud a he could , `` Caw , caw , caw !
Come on , everybody !
Come on !
Come on ! ''
Poor Buster !
It be bad enough to be frighten almost to death a he have be up in the Old Pasture when the pail have catch over his head just a Farmer Brown 's boy have yell at him .
Then to have the handle of the pail slip down around his neck so that he could n't get rid of the pail but have to take it with him a he run , be make a bad matter worse .
Now to have all his neighbor of the Green Forest see him in such a fix and make fun of him , be more than he could stand .
He felt humiliate .
That be just another way of say sham .
Yes , Sir , Buster felt that he be sham in the eye of his neighbor , and he want nothing so much a to get away by himself , where no one could see him , and try to get rid of that dreadful pail .
But Buster be so big that it be not easy for him to find a hiding place .
So , when he reach the Green Forest , he keep right on to the deepest , dark , most lonesome part and crept under the thick hemlock-tree he could find .
But it be of no use .
The sharp eye of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow saw him .
They actually fly into the very tree under which he be hide , and how they do scream !
Pretty soon Ol ' Mistah Buzzard come drop down out of the blue , blue sky and take a seat on a convenient dead tree , where he could see all that go on .
Ol ' Mistah Buzzard begin to grin as soon a he saw that tin pail on Buster 's neck .
Then come others , -- Redtail the Hawk , Scrapper the Kingbird , Redwing the Blackbird , Drummer the Woodpecker , Welcome Robin , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , Jenny Wren , Redeye the Vireo , and ever so many more .
They come from the Old Orchard , the Green Meadows , and even down by the Smiling Pool , for the voice of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow carry far , and at the sound of them everybody hurry over , sure that something exciting be go on .
Presently Buster hear light footstep , and peep out , he saw Billy Mink and Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare and Prickly Porky and Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk .
Even timid little Whitefoot the Wood Mouse be where he could peer out and see without be see .
Of course , Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel be there .
There they all sit in a great circle around him , each where he felt safe , but where he could see , and every one of them laugh and make fun of Buster .
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
scream Sammy until his throat be sore .
The bad of it be Buster know that everybody know that it be true .
That awful pail be proof of it .
`` I wish I never have think of berry , '' growl Buster to himself .
XXII BUSTER BEAR HAS A FIT OF TEMPER A temper be a bad , bad thing When once it get away .
There 's nothing quite at all like it To spoil a pleasant day .
Buster Bear be in a terrible temper .
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear be have the bad fit of temper ever see in the Green Forest .
And the bad part of it all be that all his neighbor of the Green Forest and a whole lot from the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool be also there to see it .
It be bad enough to give way to temper when you be all alone , and there be no one to watch you , but when you let temper get the best of you right where others see you , oh , dear , dear , it certainly be a sorry sight .
Now ordinarily Buster be one of the most good-natured person in the world .
It take a great deal to rouse his temper .
He be n't one tenth so quick temper a Chatterer the Red Squirrel , or Sammy Jay , or Reddy Fox .
But when his temper be arouse and get away from him , then watch out !
It seem to Buster that he have have all that he could stand that day and a little more .
First have come the fright back there in the Old Pasture .
Then the pail have slip down behind his ear and hold fast , so he have run all the way to the Green Forest with it hang about his neck .
This be bad enough , for he know just how funny he must look , and besides , it be very uncomfortable .
But to have Sammy Jay call everybody within hear to come and see him be more than he could stand .
It seem to Buster a if everybody who live in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , or around the Smiling Brook , be sit around his hiding place , laugh and make fun of him .
It be more than any self-respecting Bear could stand .
With a roar of anger Buster Bear charge out of his hide place .
He rush this way and that way !
He roar with all his might !
He be very terrible to see .
Those who could fly , flew .
Those who could climb , climb .
And those who be swift of foot , ran .
A few who could neither fly nor climb nor run fast , hid and lay shaking and tremble for fear that Buster would find them .
In less time than it take to tell about it , Buster be alone .
At least , he could n't see any one .
-LSB- Illustration : Those who could fly , flew .
Those who could climb , climb .
Page 112 .
-RSB- Then he vent his temper on the tin pail .
He cuff at it and pull at it , all the time growl angrily .
He lay down and claw at it with his hind foot .
At last the handle broke , and he be free !
He shake himself .
Then he jump on the helpless pail .
With a blow of a big paw he send it clatter against a tree .
He try to bite it .
Then he once more fell to knock it this way and that way , until it be pound flat , and no one would ever have guess that it have once be a pail .
Then , and not till then , do Buster recover his usual good nature .
Little by little , a he think it all over , a look of shame crept into his face .
`` I -- I guess it be n't the fault of that thing .
I ought to have know enough to keep my head out of it , '' he say slowly and thoughtfully .
`` You get no more than you deserve for steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's berry , '' say Sammy Jay , who have come back and be look on from the top of a tree .
`` You ought to know by this time that no good come of steal . ''
Buster Bear look up and grin , and there be a twinkle in his eye .
`` You ought to know , Sammy Jay , '' say he .
`` I hope you 'll always remember it . ''
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
scream Sammy , and fly away .
XXIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY LUNCHES ON BERRIES When thing go wrong in spite of you To smile 's the best thing you can do -- To smile and say , `` I 'm mighty glad They be no bad ; they 're not so bad ! ''
That be what Farmer Brown 's boy say when he find that Buster Bear have steal the berry he have work so hard to pick and then have run off with the pail .
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy be learn to be something of a philosopher , one of those people who accept bad thing cheerfully and right away see how they be good than they might have be .
When he have first heard some one in the bush where he have hide his pail of berry , he have be very sure that it be one of the cow or young cattle who live in the Old Pasture during the summer .
He have be afraid that they might stupidly kick over the pail and spill the berry , and he have hurry to drive whoever it be away .
It have n't enter his head that it could be anybody who would eat those berry .
When he have yell and Buster Bear have suddenly appear , struggle to get off the pail which have catch over his head , Farmer Brown 's boy have be too frighten to even move .
Then he have see Buster tear away through the brush even more frightened than he be , and right away his courage have begin to come back .
`` If he be so afraid of me , I guess I need n't be afraid of him , '' say he .
`` I 've lose my berry , but it be worth it to find out that he be afraid of me .
There be plenty more on the bush , and all I 've get to do be to pick them .
It might be bad . ''
He walk over to the place where the pail have be , and then he remember that when Buster run away he have carry the pail with him , hang about his neck .
He whistle .
It be a comical little whistle of chagrin a he realize that he have nothing in which to put more berry , even if he pick them .
`` It 's bad than I think , '' cry he .
`` That bear have cheat me out of that berry pie my mother promise me . ''
Then he begin to laugh , a he think of how funny Buster Bear have look with the pail about his neck , and then because , you know he be learn to be a philosopher , he once more repeated , `` It might have be bad .
Yes , indeed , it might have be bad .
That bear might have try to eat me instead of the berry .
I guess I 'll go eat that lunch I leave back by the spring , and then I 'll go home .
I can pick berry some other day . ''
Chuckling happily over Buster Bear 's great fright , Farmer Brown 's boy tramp back to the spring where he have leave two thick sandwich on a flat stone when he start to save his pail of berry .
`` My , but those sandwich will taste good , '' think he .
`` I 'm glad they be big and thick .
I never be hungrier in my life .
Hello ! ''
This he exclaim right out loud , for he have just come in sight of the flat stone where the sandwich should have be , and they be not there .
No , Sir , there be n't so much a a crumb left of those two thick sandwich .
You see , Old Man Coyote have find them and gobble them up while Farmer Brown 's boy be away .
But Farmer Brown 's boy do n't know anything about Old Man Coyote .
He rub his eye and star everywhere , even up in the tree , a if he think those sandwich might be hang up there .
They have disappear as completely a if they never have be , and Old Man Coyote have take care to leave no trace of his visit .
Farmer Brown 's boy gap foolishly this way and that way .
Then , instead of grow angry , a slow smile stole over his freckled face .
`` I guess some one else be hungry too , '' he mutter .
`` Wonder who it be ?
Guess this Old Pasture be no place for me to-day .
I 'll fill up on berry and then I 'll go home . ''
So Farmer Brown 's boy make his lunch on blueberry and then rather sheepishly he start for home to tell of all the strange thing that have happen to him in the Old Pasture .
Two or three time , a he trudge along , he stop to scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` I guess , '' say he at last , `` that I 'm not so smart a I think I be , and I 've get a lot to learn yet . ''
This be the end of the adventure of Buster Bear in this book because -- guess why .
Because Old Mr. Toad insist that I must write a book about his adventure , and Old Mr. Toad be such a good friend of all of u that I be go to do it .
THE END * * * * * THE ADVENTURES OF BUSTER BEAR BOOKS BY THORNTON W. BURGESS * * * * * THE BEDTIME STORY-BOOKS 1 .
THE ADVENTURES OF REDDY FOX 2 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY CHUCK 3 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PETER COTTONTAIL 4 .
THE ADVENTURES OF UNC ' BILLY POSSUM 5 .
THE ADVENTURES OF MR. MOCKER 6 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JERRY MUSKRAT 7 .
THE ADVENTURES OF DANNY MEADOW MOUSE 8 .
THE ADVENTURES OF GRANDFATHER FROG 9 .
THE ADVENTURES OF CHATTERER , THE RED SQUIRREL 10 .
THE ADVENTURES OF SAMMY JAY 11 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BUSTER BEAR 12 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MR. TOAD 13 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PRICKLY PORKY 14 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MAN COYOTE 15 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PADDY THE BEAVER 16 .
THE ADVENTURES OF POOR MRS. QUACK 17 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOBBY COON 18 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY SKUNK 19 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOB WHITE 20 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OL ' MISTAH BUZZARD * * * * * MOTHER WEST WIND SERIES 1 .
OLD MOTHER WEST WIND 2 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S CHILDREN 3 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S ANIMAL FRIENDS 4 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S NEIGHBORS 5 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHY '' STORIES 6 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` HOW '' STORIES 7 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHEN '' STORIES 8 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHERE '' STORIES * * * * * GREEN MEADOW SERIES 1 .
HAPPY JACK 2 .
MRS. PETER RABBIT 3 .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Chatterer_the_Red_Squirrel.txt.out
I CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL RUNS FOR HIS LIFE Chatterer the Red Squirrel have be scold because there be no excitement .
He have even try to make some excitement by wake Bobby Coon and make him so angry that Bobby have threaten to eat him alive .
It have be great fun to dance around and call Bobby name and make fun of him .
Oh , yes , it have be great fun .
You see , he know all the time that Bobby could n't catch him if he should try .
But now thing be different .
Chatterer have all the excitement that he want .
Indeed , he have more than he want .
The truth be , Chatterer be run for his life , and he know it .
It be a terrible thing , a very terrible thing to have to run for one 's life .
Peter Rabbit know all about it .
He have run for his life often .
Sometimes it have be Reddy Fox behind him , sometimes Bowser the Hound , and once or twice Old Man Coyote .
Peter have know that on his long legs his life have depend , and more than once a terrible fear have fill his heart .
But Peter have also know that if he could reach the old stone wall or the dear Old Briar-patch first , he would be safe , and he always have reach it .
So when he have be run with that terrible fear in his heart , there have always be hope there , too .
But Chatterer the Red Squirrel be run without hope .
Yes , Sir , there be nothing but fear , terrible fear , in his heart , for he know not where to go .
The hollow tree or the hole in the old stone wall where he would be safe from any one else , even Farmer Brown 's boy , offer him no safety now , for the one who be follow him with hunger in his anger-red eye could go anywhere that he could go -- could go into any hole big enough for him to squeeze into .
You see , it be Shadow the Weasel from whom Chatterer be run , and Shadow be so slim that he can slip in and out of place that even Chatterer can not get through .
Chatterer know all this , and so , because it be of no use to run to his usual safe hiding place , he run in just the other direction .
He do n't know where he be go .
He have just one thought : to run and run as long a he could and then , well , he would try to fight , though he know it would be of no use .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
he sob , a he run out on the branch of a tree and leap across to the next tree , `` I wish I have mind my own business !
I wish I have keep my tongue still .
Shadow the Weasel would n't have know where I be if he have n't hear my voice .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear me !
What can I do ?
What can I do ? ''
Now in his great fright Chatterer have run and jump so hard that he be begin to grow very tired .
Presently he find that he must make a very long jump to reach the next tree .
He have often make a long a jump a this and think nothing of it , but now he be so tired that the distance look twice as great a it really be .
He do n't dare stop to run down the tree and scamper across .
So he take a long breath , run swiftly along the branch , and leap .
His hand just touch the tip of the near branch of the other tree .
He try his very best to hold on , but he could n't .
Then down , down , down he fell .
He spread himself out as flat a he could , and that save him a little , but still it be a dreadful fall , and when he land , it seem for just a minute a if all the breath be go from his body .
But it be n't quite , and in another minute he be scramble up the tree .
II CHATTERER 'S LAST CHANCE Chatterer , still run for his life and without the least hope , suddenly saw a last chance to escape from Shadow the Weasel .
That be , he saw something that might offer him a chance .
He could n't be sure until he have try , and even then he might escape from one danger only to run right into another equally great .
What Chatterer saw be a big brown bunch near the top of a tall chestnut-tree , and he head for that tree as fast a ever he could go .
What be that big brown bunch ?
Why it be Redtail the Hawk , who be doze there with his head draw down between his shoulder dream .
Now old Redtail be one of Chatterer 's deadly enemy .
He be quite a fond of Red Squirrel a be Shadow the Weasel , though he do n't often try to catch one , because there be other thing to eat much easy to get .
Chatterer have have more than one narrow escape from old Redtail and be very much afraid of him , yet here he be run up the very tree in which Redtail be sit .
You see , a very daring idea have come into his head .
He have see at once that Redtail be doze and have n't see him at all .
He know that Redtail would just as soon have Shadow the Weasel for dinner a himself , and a very daring plan have pop into his head .
`` I may as well be catch by Redtail a Shadow , '' he think , a he run up the tree , `` but if my plan work out right , I wo n't be catch by either .
Anyway , it be my very last chance . ''
Up the tree he scramble , and after him go Shadow the Weasel .
Shadow have be so intent on catch Chatterer that he have not notice old Redtail , which be just a Chatterer have hop .
Up , up he scramble , straight past old Redtail , but a he pass , he pull one of Redtail 's long tail feather , and then run on to the top of the tree , and with the last bit of strength he have leave , leap to a neighboring spruce-tree where , hide by the thick branch , he stop to rest and see what would happen .
Of course , when he felt his tail pull , old Redtail be wide awake in a flash ; and of course he look down to see who have dare to pull his tail .
There just below him be Shadow the Weasel , who have just that minute discover who be sit there .
Old Redtail hiss sharply , and the feather on the top of his head stand up in a way they do when he be angry .
And he be angry -- very angry .
Shadow the Weasel stop short .
Then , like a flash , he dodge around to the other side of the tree .
He have no thought of Chatterer now .
Things be change all in an instant , quite change .
Instead of the hunter , he be now the hunt .
Old Redtail circle in the air just overhead , and every time he catch sight of Shadow , he swoop at him with great , cruel claw spread to clutch him .
Shadow dodge around the trunk of the tree .
He be more angry than frighten , for his sharp eye have spy a little hollow in a branch of the chestnut-tree , and he know that once inside of that , he would have nothing to fear .
But he be angry clear through to think that he should be cheat out of that dinner he have be so sure of only a few minute before .
So he screech angrily at old Redtail and then , watch his chance , scamper out to the hollow and whisk inside , just in the nick of time .
Chatterer , watch from the spruce-tree , give a great sigh of relief .
He saw Redtail the Hawk post himself on the top of a tall tree where he could keep watch of that hollow in which Shadow have disappear , and he know that it would be a long time before Shadow would dare poke even his nose outside .
Then , as soon a he be rest , Chatterer steal softly , oh , so softly , away through the tree-tops until he be sure that Redtail could not see him .
Then he hurry .
He want to get just a far away from Shadow the Weasel a he could .
III CHATTERER TELLS SAMMY JAY ABOUT SHADOW THE WEASEL Chatterer hurry through the Green Forest .
He do n't know just where he be go .
He have but one thought , and that be to get a far away from Shadow the Weasel a he could .
It make him have cold shiver all over every time he think of Shadow .
`` Seems to me you be in a great hurry , '' say a voice from a pine-tree he be pass .
Chatterer know that voice without look to see who be speak .
Everybody in the Green Forest know that voice .
It be the voice of Sammy Jay .
`` It look to me a if you be run away from some one , '' jeer Sammy .
Chatterer want to stop and pick a quarrel with Sammy , a he usually do when they meet , but the fear of Shadow the Weasel be still upon him .
`` I -- I -- be , '' he say in a very low voice .
Sammy look a if he think he have n't hear right .
Never before have he know Chatterer to admit that he be afraid , for you know Chatterer be a great boaster .
It must be something very serious to frighten Chatterer like that .
`` What 's that ? ''
Sammy ask sharply .
`` I always know you to be a coward , but this be the first time I have ever know you to admit it .
Who be you run away from ? ''
Illustration : `` What 's that ? ''
Sammy ask sharply .
`` Shadow the Weasel , '' reply Chatterer , still in a very low voice , a if he be afraid of be overheard .
`` Shadow the Weasel be back in the Green Forest , and I have just have such a narrow escape ! ''
`` Ho ! ''
cry Sammy , `` this be important .
I think Shadow be up in the Old Pasture .
If he have come back to the Green Forest , folk ought to know it .
Where be he now ? ''
Chatterer stop and tell Sammy all about his narrow escape and how he have leave Shadow the Weasel in a hollow of a chestnut-tree with Redtail the Hawk watching for him to come out .
Sammy 's eye sparkle when Chatterer tell how he have pull the tail of old Redtail .
`` And he do n't know now who do it ; he think it be Shadow , '' conclude Chatterer , with a weak little grin .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laugh Sammy Jay .
`` I wish I have be there to see it . ''
Then he suddenly grow grave .
`` Other folk certainly ought to know that Shadow be back in the Green Forest , '' say he , `` so that they may be on their guard .
Then if they get catch , it be their own fault .
I think I 'll go spread the news . ''
You see , for all his mean way , Sammy Jay do have some good in him , just a everybody do , and he dearly love to tell important news .
`` I -- I wish you would go first of all and tell my cousin , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , '' say Chatterer , speaking in a hesitating way .
Sammy Jay lean over and look at Chatterer sharply .
`` I think you and Happy Jack be not friend , '' say he .
`` You always seem to be quarrel . ''
Chatterer look a little confused , but he be very quick with his tongue , be Chatterer .
`` That 's just it , '' he reply quickly .
`` That 's just it !
If anything should happen to Happy Jack , I would n't have him to quarrel with , and it be such fun to see him get mad ! ''
Now of course the real reason why Chatterer want Happy Jack warn be because down inside he be ashamed of a dreadful thought that have come to him of lead Shadow the Weasel to Happy Jack 's house , so that he himself might escape .
It have be a dreadful thought , a cowardly think , and Chatterer have be really ashamed that he should have ever have such a thought .
He think now that if he could do something for Happy Jack , he would feel well about it .
Sammy Jay promise to go straight to Happy Jack and warn him that Shadow the Weasel be back in the Green Forest , and off he start , scream the news a he fly , so that all the little people in the Green Forest might know .
Chatterer listen a few minute and then start on .
`` Where shall I go ? ''
he mutter .
`` Where shall I go ?
I do n't dare stay in the Green Forest , for now Shadow will never rest until he catch me . ''
IV CHATTERER LEAVES THE GREEN FOREST Chatterer be in a peck of trouble .
Yes , Sir , he be in a peck of trouble .
There be no doubt about it .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
If only I have keep my tongue still !
If only I have keep my tongue still ! ''
he keep say over and over to himself , a he hurry through the Green Forest .
You see , Chatterer be just begin to realize what a lot of trouble an unruly tongue can get one into .
Here it be cold weather , the very edge of winter , and Chatterer do n't dare stay in the Green Forest where he have always make his home .
His storehouse be full of nut and seed and corn , enough and more than enough to keep him in comfort all winter , and now he must turn his back on them and go he do n't know where , and all because of his mean disposition and bad tongue .
If he have n't call Bobby Coon name that morning at the top of his voice , Shadow the Weasel might not have find him .
He know that Shadow have a long memory , and that he would never forget the trick by which Chatterer have escape , and so the only way Chatterer would ever be able to have a moment 's peace would be to leave the Green Forest for as long a Shadow the Weasel choose to stay there .
Chatterer shiver inside his warm , red fur coat a he think of the long , cold winter and how hard it would be to find enough to eat .
Was ever any one else in such a dreadful fix ?
Presently he come to the edge of the Green Forest .
He sit down to rest in the top of a tree where he could look off over the Green Meadows .
Far , far away he could see the Purple Hills , behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun go to bed every night .
He could see the old stone wall that separate Farmer Brown 's cornfield from the Green Meadows .
He could see Farmer Brown 's house and barn and near them the Old Orchard where Johnny Chuck have spend the summer with Polly Chuck and their baby Chucks .
He know every nook and corner in the old stone wall and many time he have be to the Old Orchard .
It be there that he have steal the egg of Drummer the Woodpecker .
He grin at the thought of those egg and how he have steal them , and then he shiver a he remember how he have finally be catch and how sharp the bill of Drummer and Mrs. Drummer be .
But all that be in the past , and think about it be n't go to help him now .
He have get to do something right away .
Perhaps he might find a place to live in the old stone wall , and there might , there just might , be enough grain of corn scatter over the ground of the cornfield for him to lay up a supply , if he work very hard and fast .
Anyway , he would have a look .
So he hurry down from the tree and out along the old stone wall .
His spirit begin to rise a he whisk along , peer into every hole and jumping from stone to stone .
It really seem a though he might find a snug home somewhere here .
Then he remember something that make his heart sink again .
He remember have see Shadow the Weasel more than once explore that very wall .
Just as likely a not he would do it again , for it be so very near the Green Forest .
No , the old stone wall would n't do .
Just then along come Peter Rabbit .
Peter saw right away that something be wrong with Chatterer , and he want to know what it be .
Chatterer tell him .
He felt that he have just get to tell some one .
Peter look thoughtful .
He scratch his long left ear with his long right hind foot .
`` You know there be another old stone wall up there by the Old Orchard , '' say he .
`` It be pretty near Farmer Brown 's house , and Black Pussy hunt there a great deal , but you ought to be smart enough to keep out of her clutch . ''
`` I should hope so ! ''
exclaim Chatterer scornfully .
`` I have never see a cat yet that I be afraid of !
believe I 'll go over and have a look at that old wall , Peter Rabbit . ''
`` I 'll go with you , '' say Peter , and off they start together .
V CHATTERER FINDS A HOME When your plan be upset and all scatter about Just make up your mind that you 'll find a way out .
Peter rabbit go straight over to the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , lipperty-lipperty-lip so fast that it do n't take him long to get there .
But Chatterer the Red Squirrel never feel really safe on the ground unless there be something to climb close at hand , so he go a long way round by way of the rail fence .
He always do like to run along a rail fence , and he would n't have mind it a bit this morning if he have n't be in such a hurry .
It seem to him that he never would get there .
But of course he do .
When he do get there , he find Peter Rabbit sit on Johnny Chuck 's doorstep , star down Johnny Chuck 's long hall .
`` They 're asleep , '' say he , a Chatterer come up all out of breath .
`` I 've thump and thump and thump , but it be n't the least bit of use .
They be asleep , and they 'll stay asleep until Mistress Spring arrive .
I ca n't understand it at all .
No , Sir , I ca n't understand how anybody can be willing to miss this splendid cold weather . ''
Peter shake his head in a puzzled way and continue to stare down the long empty hall .
Of course he be talk about Johnny and Polly Chuck , who have go to sleep for the winter .
That sleep business always puzzle Peter .
It seem to him like a terrible waste of time .
But Chatterer have too much on his mind to waste time wonder how other people could sleep all winter .
He could n't himself , and now that he have be drive away from his own home in the Green Forest by fear of Shadow the Weasel , he could n't waste a minute .
He must find a new home and then spend every minute of daytime lay up a new store of food for the day when everything would be cover with snow .
Up and down the length of the stone wall he scamper , look for a place to make a home , but nothing suit him .
You know he like best to make his home in a tree .
He be n't like Striped Chipmunk , who live in the ground .
Poor Chatterer !
He just could n't see how he be go to live in the old stone wall .
He sit on top of a big stone to rest and think it over .
He be discourage .
Life do n't seem worth the living just then .
He felt a if his heart have go way down to his toe .
Just then his eye saw something that make his heart come up again with a great bound right where it ought to be , and just then Peter Rabbit come hop along .
`` Have you find a new home yet ? ''
ask Peter .
`` Yes , '' reply Chatterer , `` I think I have .
`` That 's good , '' reply Peter .
`` I be sure you would find one over here .
Where be it ? ''
Illustration : `` Have you find a new home yet ? ''
ask Peter .
Chatterer open his mouth to tell Peter and then close it with a snap .
He remember just in time how hard it be for Peter to keep a secret .
If he should tell Peter , it would be just like Peter to tell some one else without mean to , and then it might get back to Shadow the Weasel .
`` I 'm not go to tell you now , Peter Rabbit , '' say he .
`` You see , I do n't want anybody to know where it be until I be sure that it will do .
But I 'll tell you this much , '' he add , a he saw how disappointed Peter look , `` I 'm go to live right here . ''
Peter brighten up right away .
You see , he think that of course Chatterer mean that he have find a hole in the old stone wall , and he felt very sure that he could find it by keep watch .
`` That 's good , '' he say again .
`` I 'll come see you often .
But watch out for Black Pussy ; her claw be very sharp .
Now I think I 'll be go back to the Old Briar-patch . ''
`` Do n't tell where I be , '' call Chatterer .
VI PETER RABBIT LISTENS TO THE WRONG VOICE Peter Rabbit do n't play fair .
No , Sir , Peter do n't play fair .
People who have too much curiosity about other people 's affair seldom do play fair .
He do n't mean to be unfair .
Oh , my , no !
Peter do n't mean to be unfair .
When he leave Chatterer the Red Squirrel sit on the old stone wall on the edge of Farmer Brown 's Old Orchard , he intend to go straight home to the dear Old Briar-patch .
He be a little disappointed , be Peter , that Chatterer have n't tell him just where his new house be .
Not that it really matter ; he just want to know , that be all .
With every jump away from the old stone wall , that desire to know just where Chatterer 's new house be seem to grow .
Peter stop and look back .
He could n't see Chatterer now , because the bush hide him .
And if he could n't see Chatterer , why of course Chatterer could n't see him .
Peter sit down and begin to pull his whisker in a way he have when he be try to decide something .
It seem a if two little voice be quarrel inside him .
`` Go along home like the good fellow you be and mind your own business , '' say one .
`` Steal back to the old wall and watch Chatterer and so find out just where his new house be ; he 'll never know anything about it , and there 'll be no harm do , '' say the other little voice .
It be louder than the first voice , and Peter like the sound of it .
`` I believe I will , '' say he , and without wait to hear what the first little voice would say to that , he turn about and very carefully and softly tiptoe back to the old stone wall .
Right near it be a thick little bush .
It seem to Peter that it must have grow there just to give him a hiding place .
He crawl under it and lay very flat .
He could see along the old stone wall in both direction .
Chatterer be sit just where he have leave him .
He be look in the direction that Peter have go when he have say good-by .
Peter chuckle to himself .
`` He 's wait to make sure I have go before he go to that new house of his , '' think Peter .
`` This be the time I 'll fool him . ''
`` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , Peter Rabbit ; this be none of your business , '' say that little small voice .
`` You 're not do a bit of harm .
Chatterer have no business to try to keep his new house a secret , anyway , '' say the other little voice inside .
And because of his dreadful curiosity , Peter like the sound of that voice best and listen to it , and after a while the first voice grow discourage and stop .
Chatterer sit where he be for what seem to Peter a very long time .
But by and by he give a sudden funny little flirt of his tail and ran along the old wall a little way .
Then with a hasty look around , he disappear in a hole .
A minute later he pop his head out for another look around and then disappear again .
He do this two or three time a if anxious .
Peter chuckle to himself .
`` That 's his new house right there , '' say he to himself , `` and now that I know where it be , I think I 'll hurry along home to the dear Old Briar-patch . ''
He be just get ready to start when Chatterer pop out of his hole and sit up on a big stone .
He be talk out loud , and Peter listen .
Then his long ear begin to burn , for this be what he hear : `` I 'm glad that Peter 's not a spy , For spy be hateful a can be ; It 's dreadful how some people try Affairs of other folk to see . ''
Chatterer whisk out of sight , and Peter hurry to get away .
His ear still burn , and somehow he do n't feel so tickle over the thought that he have discover Chatterer 's secret a he have think he would .
And over in the hole in the old stone wall Chatterer the Red Squirrel be laugh a if there be some great joke .
There be , and the joke be on Peter Rabbit .
You see he have n't discover Chatterer 's new house at all .
VII HOW CHATTERER HAD FOOLED PETER RABBIT Chatterer the Red Squirrel be a scamp himself and not to be trust .
Nobody in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows trust him .
And people who can not be trust themselves never trust any one else .
Chatterer never do .
He be always suspicious .
So when Peter Rabbit have say good-by and start for the dear Old Briar-patch without know where Chatterer 's new house be , Chatterer have make up his mind right away that Peter would never be satisfy until he know , or think he know , where that new house be .
You see , he know all about Peter 's dreadful curiosity .
He watch Peter out of sight , then he slip down out of sight himself between the stone of the old wall .
`` I know what Peter will do , '' say he to himself .
`` Peter will come sneak back , and hide where he can watch me , and so find out where my new house be .
I 'll just stay here long enough to give him a chance to hide , and then I 'll fool him . ''
You see , Chatterer know that if he have be in Peter 's place , he would have do just that thing .
So he wait a little while and then go back to the place where Peter have leave him .
There he sit and pretend to be look in the direction in which Peter have go , a if to make sure that Peter be really on his way home .
But all the time Chatterer be watch out of the corner of his eye to see if Peter be hide anywhere near .
He do n't see Peter , but he do n't have the least doubt that Peter be somewhere about .
After a while , he run over to a hole between the stone of the old wall and pretend to be very busy there , just a if it really be the new house he have find .
He keep pop in and out and look around a if afraid that some one be watch him .
He even get some dry leaf and take them inside , a if to make a bed .
All the time , although he have n't see a sign of Peter , he do n't have the least doubt in the world that Peter be watch him .
When he grow tired , a new idea pop into his shrewd little head .
He pop out of the hole and sit up on the wall .
Then he say aloud that verse which have make Peter 's ear burn so .
He have mean to make Peter 's ear burn .
He say that verse just a if he really do believe that Peter be not spy on him and be glad of it .
When he have finish , he whisk out of sight again to give Peter a chance to get away .
But this time Chatterer do some peeking himself .
He hide where Peter could n't see him , but where he himself could see both way along the old stone wall , and so it be that he saw Peter crawl out from under the little bush where he have be hide and sneak away in the direction of the Old Briar-patch .
And he know that this time Peter have go for good .
Then Chatterer laugh and laugh to think how he have fool Peter Rabbit , and wish that he could pat himself on the back for be so smart .
He do n't once think of how dishonest and mean it be of Peter to spy on him , because , you see , he would have do the same thing himself .
`` One have to have one 's wit very sharp these day to keep a secret , '' chuckle Chatterer .
But over in the old Briar-patch that afternoon Peter Rabbit sit very thoughtful and very much ashamed .
The thought that he have find out where Chatterer 's new house be do n't give him the pleasure that he have think it would .
His ear still burn , for he think that Chatterer suppose him honest when he be n't .
`` I believe I 'll go over to-morrow and tell Chatterer all about it and how mean I have be , '' say he at last .
And when he have make up his mind to do this , he felt well .
And all the time he have n't find Chatterer 's new house at all .
You see , it be the old home of Drummer the Woodpecker in an old apple-tree which Chatterer have decide to live in .
VIII CHATTERER GROWS CARELESS When you grow careless even though It be in matter small , Old Mr. Trouble you will find Is bind to make a call .
Some people never seem to learn that .
You would suppose that after all the trouble and worry Chatterer the Red Squirrel have have , he would have learn a lesson .
For a while it seem a if he have .
Morning after morning , before anybody be up in Farmer Brown 's house , he visit Farmer Brown 's corn-crib , take the great care not to be see and to get back to his home in the Old Orchard before it be time for Farmer Brown 's boy to come out and do his morning 's work .
And in the corn-crib he take the great care to steal only where what he take would not be miss .
The empty cob from which he have eat the corn he hide in the darkest corner behind the great pile of yellow corn , where they would not be find until nearly all the corn have be take from the crib .
Oh , he be very sly and crafty , be Chatterer the Red Squirrel -- at first .
But after a while , when nothing happen , Chatterer grow careless .
At first it have seem very dangerous to go over to the corn-crib , but after he have be there often , it do n't seem dangerous at all .
Once inside , he would just give himself up to have a good time .
He race about over the great pile of beautiful yellow corn and find the lovely hiding place in it .
Down in a dark corner he make a splendid bed from piece of husk which have n't be strip from some of the ear .
It be quite the nice place he have ever dream of , be Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
He get to feel that it be his own and not Farmer Brown 's at all .
The more that feeling grow , the more careless Chatterer become .
He drop a grain of corn now and then and be too lazy to go down and pick it up , or else do n't think anything about it .
Farmer Brown 's boy , come every morning for corn for the hen , notice these grain , but suppose they be some that have be rub from the ear during the handling of them .
Then one morning Chatterer drop a cob from which he have eat all the corn .
He mean to get it and hide it , a he have hide other cob , but he do n't want to do it just then .
And later -- well , then he forget all about it .
Yes , Sir , he forget all about it until he have reach his home in the Old Orchard .
`` Oh , well , '' think Chatterer , `` it do n't matter .
I can get it and hide it to-morrow morning . ''
Now a corn-cob be a very simple thing .
Farmer Brown 's boy know where there be a whole pile of them .
He add to that pile every day , after shell enough corn for the biddy .
So it would seem that there be nothing about a corn-cob to make him open his eye a he do that morning , when he saw the one leave by Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
But you see he know that a bare corn-cob have no business inside the corn-crib , and suddenly those scattered grain of corn have a new meaning for him .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
he exclaim , `` A thief have be here , after all !
I think we be safe from rat and mouse , and I do n't see now how they get in , for I do n't , I really do n't , see how they could climb the stone leg of the corn-crib .
But some one with sharp teeth certainly have be in here .
It must be that I have leave the door open some time , and a rat have slip in .
I 'll just have to get after you , Mr. Rat or Mr . Mouse .
We ca n't have you in our corn-crib . ''
With that he go into the house .
Presently he come back , and in one hand be a rat-trap and in the other a mouse-trap .
IX CHATTERER GROWS TOO CURIOUS Everybody know how curious Peter Rabbit be .
He be forever poke his wobbly little nose in where it have no business to be , and a a result Peter be forever get into trouble .
Whenever Chatterer the Red Squirrel have hear a new story about Peter and the scrape his curiosity have get him into , Chatterer have say that Peter get no more than he deserve .
As for himself , he might be curious about a thing he saw for the first time , but he have too much sense to meddle with it until he know all about it .
So Chatterer have come to be think very smart , quite too smart to be catch in a trap -- at least to be catch in an ordinary trap .
Now a great many people manage to make their neighbor think they be a great deal smart than they really be , and Chatterer be one of this kind .
If some of his neighbor could have peep into Farmer Brown 's corn-crib the morning after Farmer Brown 's boy find the telltale corn-cob so carelessly drop by Chatterer , they would have be surprise .
Yes , Sir , they would have be surprise .
They would have see Chatterer the Red Squirrel , the boaster , he of the sharp wit , show quite as much curiosity a ever possess Peter Rabbit .
Chatterer have come over to the corn-crib a usual to get his daily supply of corn .
As usual , he have race about over the great pile of yellow corn .
Quite suddenly his sharp eye spy something that they have n't see before .
It be down on the floor of the corn-crib quite near the door .
Chatterer be sure that it have n't be there the day before .
It be a very queer look thing , very queer indeed .
And then he spy another queer look thing near it , only this be very much small .
What could they be ?
He look at them suspiciously .
They look harmless enough .
They do n't move .
He run a few step towards them and scold , just a he scold at anything new he find out of door .
Still they do n't move .
He run around on a little ledge where he could look right down on the queer thing .
He be sure now that they be not alive .
The big one he could see all through .
Inside be something to eat .
The little thing be round and flat with funny bit of wire on top .
It look a if it be make of wood , and in the side be little round hole too small for him to put his head through .
`` Leave them alone , '' say a small voice inside of Chatterer .
`` But I want to see what they be and find out all about them , '' say Chatterer .
`` No good ever come of meddle with thing you do n't know about , '' say the small voice .
`` But they be such queer look thing , and they 're not alive .
They ca n't hurt me , '' say Chatterer .
Nevertheless he run back to the pile of corn and try to eat .
Somehow he have lose his appetite .
He could n't take his eye off those two queer thing down on the floor .
`` Better keep away , '' warn the small voice inside .
`` It wo n't do any harm to have a close look at them , '' say Chatterer .
So once more he scramble down from the pile of corn and little by little drew nearer to the two queer thing .
The nearer he get , the more harmless they look .
Finally he reach out and smell of the small .
Then he turn up his nose .
`` Smells of mouse , '' mutter Chatterer , `` just common barn mouse . ''
Then he reach out a paw and touch it .
`` Pooh ! ''
say he , `` it 's nothing to be afraid of . ''
Just then he touch one of the little wire , and there be a sudden snap .
It frighten Chatterer so that he scurry away .
But he could n't stay away .
That snap be such a funny thing , and it have n't do any harm .
You see , he have n't put his paw in at one of the little hole , or it might have do some harm .
Pretty soon he be back again , meddle with those little wire on top .
Every once in a while there would be a snap , and he would scamper away .
It be very scary and great fun .
By and by the thing would n't snap any more , and then Chatterer grow tire of his queer plaything and begin to wonder about the other queer thing .
No harm have come from the first one , and so he be sure no harm could come from the other .
X OLD MR. TROUBLE GETS CHATTERER AT LAST Of course you have guess what it be that Chatterer have be meddle with .
It be a mouse-trap , and he have sprung it without get hurt .
Chatterer do n't know that it be a trap .
He ought to have know , but he do n't .
You see , it be not at all like the trap Farmer Brown 's boy have sometimes set for him in the Green Forest .
He know all about those trap and never , never go near them .
Now that there be nothing more exciting about the mouse-trap , Chatterer turn his attention to the other queer thing .
He walk all around it and look at it from every side .
It certainly be queer .
Yes , Sir , it certainly be queer !
It look something like a little house only he could see all through it .
He put one paw out and touch it .
Nothing happen .
He try it again .
Then he jump right on top of it .
Still nothing happen .
He try his sharp teeth on it , but he could n't bite it .
You see , it be make of stout wire .
Inside be something that look good to eat .
It smell good , too .
Chatterer begin to wonder what it would taste like .
The more he wonder , the more he want to know .
There must be some way of get in , and if he could get in , of course he could get out again .
He jump down to the floor and run all around the queer little wire house .
At each end be a sort of little wire hallway .
Chatterer stick his head in one .
It seem perfectly safe .
He creep a little way in and then back out in a hurry .
Nothing happen .
He try it again .
Still nothing happen .
`` Better keep away , '' say a small voice down inside of him .
`` Pooh !
Who 's afraid ! ''
say Chatterer .
`` This thing ca n't hurt me . ''
Then he creep a little farther in .
Right in front of him be a little round doorway with a little wire door .
Chatterer push the little door with his nose , and it open a teeny , weeny bit .
He draw back suspiciously .
Then he try it again , and this time push the little door a little farther open .
He do this two or three time until finally he have his head quite inside , and there , right down below him , be that food he so want to taste .
`` I can hop right down and get it and then hop right up again , '' think Chatterer .
`` Do n't do it , '' say the small voice inside .
`` Corn be plenty good enough .
Besides , it be time you be get back to the Old Orchard . ''
`` It wo n't take but a minute , '' say Chatterer , `` and I really must know what that taste like . ''
With that he jump down .
Snap !
Chatterer look up .
The little wire door have close .
Old Mr. Trouble have get Chatterer at last .
Yes , Sir , he certainly have get Chatterer this time .
You see , he could n't open that little wire door from the inside .
He be in a trap -- the wire rat-trap set by Farmer Brown 's boy .
XI WHAT HAPPENED NEXT TO CHATTERER Were you ever terribly , terribly frighten ?
That be the way Chatterer felt .
He be catch ; there be no doubt about it !
His sharp teeth be of no use at all on those hard wire .
He could look out between them , but he could n't get out .
He be too frightened to think .
His heart pound against his side until it hurt .
He forget all about that queer food he have so want to taste , and which be right before him now .
Indeed , he felt a if he never , never would want to eat again .
What be go to happen to him now ?
What would Farmer Brown 's boy do to him when he find him there ?
Hark !
What be that ?
It be a step just outside the door of the corn-crib .
Farmer Brown 's boy be come !
Chatterer race around his little wire prison and bit savagely at the hard wire .
But it be of no use , no use at all .
It only hurt his mouth cruelly .
Then the door of the corn-crib swung open , a flood of light pour in , and with it come Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaim Farmer Brown 's boy , a he catch sight of Chatterer .
`` So you be the thief who have be steal our corn , and I think it be a rat or a mouse .
Well , well , you little red rascal , do n't you know that thieve come to no good end ?
You 're pretty smart , for I never once think of you , but you be not so smart a you think .
Now I wonder what we have well do with you . ''
He pick up the trap with Chatterer in it and step out into the beautiful great out-of-doors .
Chatterer could see across the dooryard to the Old Orchard and the familiar old stone wall along which he have scamper so often .
They look just the same a ever , and yet -- well , they do n't look just the same , for he could n't look at them without see those cruel wire which be keep him from them .
Farmer Brown 's boy put the trap down on the ground and then begin to call .
`` Puss , Puss , Puss , '' call Farmer Brown 's boy .
Chatterer 's heart , which have be thump so , almost stop beat with fright .
There be Black Pussy , whom he have so often teased and make fun of .
Her yellow eye have a hungry gleam a she walk around the trap and sniffed and sniffed .
Never have Chatterer hear such a terrible sound a those hungry sniff so close to him !
Black Pussy try to put a paw between the wire , and Chatterer saw the great , cruel claw .
But Black Pussy could n't get her paw between the wire .
`` How would you like him for breakfast ? ''
ask Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Meow , '' say Black Pussy , arch her back and rubbing against his leg .
`` I suppose that mean that you would like him very much , '' laugh Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Do you think you can catch him if I let him out ? ''
`` Meow , '' reply Black Pussy again , and to poor Chatterer it seem the awfullest sound he ever have hear .
`` Well , we 'll see about it by and by , '' say Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` There 's the breakfast bell , and I have n't feed the biddy yet . ''
XII CHATTERER IS SURE THAT THIS IS HIS LAST DAY There be no hope , not the teeny , weeny ray of hope in the heart of Chatterer , a Farmer Brown 's boy pick up the wire rat-trap and start for the house , Black Pussy , the cat , follow at his heel and look up at Chatterer with cruel , hungry eye .
Chatterer take a farewell look at the Old Orchard and way beyond it the Green Forest , from which he have be drive by fear of Shadow the Weasel .
Then the door of the farmhouse close and shut it all out .
If there have be any hope in Chatterer 's heart , the closing of that door would have shut the last bit out .
But there be n't any hope .
Chatterer be sure that he be to be give to Black Pussy for her breakfast .
Farmer Brown 's boy put the trap on a table .
`` What have you there ? ''
call a great voice .
It be the voice of Farmer Brown himself , who be eat his breakfast .
`` I 've get the thief who have be steal our corn in the crib , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy , `` and who do you think it be ? ''
`` One of those pesky rat , '' reply Farmer Brown .
`` I 'm afraid you 've be careless and leave the door open some time , and that be how the rat have get in there . ''
`` But it be n't a rat , and I do n't believe that there be a rat there , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy in triumph .
`` It 's that little scamp of a red squirrel we 've see race along the wall at the edge of the Old Orchard lately .
I ca n't imagine how he get in there , but there he be , and now here he be . ''
`` What be you go to do with him ? ''
ask Farmer Brown , come over to look at Chatterer .
`` I do n't know , '' reply Farmer Brown 's boy , `` unless I give him to Black Puss for her breakfast .
She have be tease me for him ever since I find him . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy look over to the other side of the table a he say this , and his eye twinkle with mischief .
`` Oh , you must n't do that !
That would be cruel ! ''
cry a soft voice .
`` You must take him down to the Green Forest and let him go . ''
A gentle face with pity eye be bent above the trap .
`` Just see how frighten the poor little thing be !
You must take him straight down to the Green Forest right after breakfast . ''
`` Is n't that just like Mother ? ''
cry Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` I believe it would be just the same with the ugly old rat that ever live .
She would try to think of some excuse for let it go . ''
`` God make all the little people who wear fur , and they must have some place in his great plan , '' say Mrs. Brown .
Farmer Brown laugh a big , hearty laugh .
`` True enough , Mother ! ''
say he .
`` The trouble be , they get out of place .
Now this little rascal 's place be down in the Green Forest and not up in our corn-crib . ''
`` Then put him back in his right place ! ''
be the prompt reply , and they all laugh .
Now all this time poor Chatterer be think that this surely be his last day .
You see , he know that he have be a thief , and he know that Farmer Brown 's boy know it .
He just crouch down in a little ball , too miserable to do anything but tremble every time any one come near .
He be sure that he have see for the last time the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and jolly Mr. Sun and all the other beautiful thing he love so , and it seem a if his heart would burst with despair .
XIII CHATTERER IS PUT IN PRISON Who ever do a deed that 's wrong Will surely find some day That for that naughty act of his He 'll surely have to pay .
That be the way with Chatterer .
Of course he have have no business to steal corn from Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
To be sure he have felt that he have just as much right to that corn a Farmer Brown have .
You see , the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest feel that everything that grow belongs to them , if they want it and be smart enough to get it before some one else do .
But it be just there that Chatterer go wrong .
Farmer Brown have harvest that corn and store it in his corn-crib , and so , of course , no one else have any right to it .
Right down deep in his heart Chatterer know this .
If he have n't know it , he would n't have be so sly in take what he want .
He know all the time that he be steal , but he try to make himself believe that it be all right .
So he have keep on steal and steal until at last he be catch in a trap , and now he have get to pay for his wrong-doing .
Chatterer be very miserable , so miserable and frighten that he could do nothing but sit huddle up in a little shivery ball .
He have n't the least doubt in the world that this be his very last day , and that Farmer Brown 's boy would turn him over to cruel Black Pussy for her breakfast .
Farmer Brown 's boy have leave him in the trap in the house and have go out .
For a long time Chatterer could hear pound out in the woodshed , and Farmer Brown 's boy be whistle a he pound .
Chatterer wonder how he could whistle and seem so happy when he mean to do such a dreadful thing a to give him to Black Pussy .
After what seem a very long time , age and age , Farmer Brown 's boy come back .
He have with him a queer look box .
`` There , '' say he , `` be a new home for you , you little red imp !
I guess it will keep you out of trouble for a while . ''
He slide back a little door in the top of the box , and then , put on a stout glove and open a little door in the trap , he put in his big hand and close it around Chatterer .
Poor little Chatterer !
He be sure now that this be the end , and that he be to be give to Black Pussy , who be look on with hungry , yellow eye .
He struggle and do his best to bite , but the thick glove give his sharp little teeth no chance to hurt the hand that hold him .
Even in his terror , he notice that that big hand try to be gentle and squeeze him no tight than be necessary .
Then he be lift out of the trap and drop through the little doorway in the top of the queer box , and the door be fasten .
Nothing terrible have happen , after all .
At first , Chatterer just sulk in one corner .
He still felt sure that something terrible be go to happen .
Farmer Brown 's boy take the box out into the shed and put it where the sun shone into it .
For a little while he stay watching , but Chatterer still sulk and sulk .
By and by he go away , take Black Pussy with him , and Chatterer be alone .
When he be quite sure that no one be about , Chatterer begin to wonder what sort of a place he be in , and if there be n't some way to get out .
He find that one side and the top be of fine , stout wire , through which he could look out , and that the other side and the bottom be of wood cover with wire , so that there be no chance for his sharp teeth to gnaw a way out .
In one corner be a stout piece of an apple-tree , with two little stubby branch to sit on , and half way up a little round hole .
Very cautiously Chatterer peep inside the hole .
Inside be a splendid hollow .
On the floor of the box be a little heap of shaving and bit of rag .
And there be a little pile of yellow corn .
How Chatterer do hate the sight of that corn !
You see , it be corn that have get him into all this trouble .
At least , that be the way Chatterer felt about it .
When he have examine everything , he know that there be no way out .
Chatterer be in a prison , though that be not what Farmer Brown 's boy call it .
He say it be a cage .
Illustration : Very cautiously Chatterer peep inside the hole .
XIV CHATTERER DECIDES TO LIVE At first Chatterer decide that he have rather die than live in a prison , no matter how nice that prison might be .
It be a very foolish thing to do , but he make up his mind that he just would n't eat .
He would n't touch that nice , yellow corn Farmer Brown 's boy have put in his prison for him .
He would starve himself to death .
Yes , Sir , he would starve himself to death .
So when he find that there be no way to get out of his prison , he curl up in the little hollow stump in his prison , where no one could see him , and make up his mind that he would stay there until he die .
Life be n't worth live if he have get to spend all the rest of his day in a prison .
He would n't even make himself comfortable .
There be that little heap of nice shaving and bit of rag for him to make a nice comfortable bed of , but he do n't touch them .
No , Sir , he just try to make himself miserable .
Not once that long day do he poke so much a the tip of his nose out of his little round doorway .
Ever so many time Farmer Brown 's boy come to see him , and whistle and call softly to him .
But Chatterer do n't make a sound .
At last night come , and the woodshed where his prison be grow dark and darker and very still .
Now it be about this time that Chatterer 's stomach begin to make itself felt .
Chatterer try not to notice it , but his stomach would be notice , and Chatterer could n't help himself .
His stomach be empty , and it keep tell him so .
`` I 'm go to starve to death , '' say Chatterer to himself over and over .
`` I 'm empty , and there be plenty of food to fill me up , if you 'll only stop be silly , '' whisper his stomach .
The more Chatterer try not to think of how good something to eat would taste , the more he do think of it .
It make him restless and uneasy .
He twist and squirm and turn .
At last he decide that he would have one more look to see if he could n't find some way to get out of his prison .
He poke his head out of the little round doorway .
All be still and dark .
He listen , but not a sound could he hear .
Then he softly creep out and hurriedly examine all the inside of his prison once more .
It be of no use !
There be n't a single place where he could use his sharp teeth .
`` There 's that little pile of corn wait for me , '' whisper his stomach .
`` I 'll never touch it ! ''
say Chatterer fiercely .
Just then he hit something with his foot , and it roll .
He pick it up and then put it down again .
It be a nut , a plump hickory nut .
Two or three time he pick it up and put it down , and each time it be hard than before to put it down .
`` I -- I -- I 'd like to taste one more nut before I starve to death , '' mutter Chatterer , and almost without know it , he begin to gnaw the hard shell .
When that nut be finish , he find another ; and when that be go , still another .
Then he just have to taste a grain of corn .
The first thing Chatterer know , the nut and the corn be all go , and his stomach be full .
Somehow he felt ever so much good .
He do n't feel like starve to death now .
`` I -- I believe I 'll wait a bit and see what happen , '' say he to himself , `` and while I 'm wait , I may as well be comfortable . ''
With that he begin to carry the shaving and rag into the hollow stump and soon have a comfortable a bed a ever he have sleep on .
Chatterer have decide to live .
XV FARMER BROWN 'S BOY TRIES TO MAKE FRIENDS Nobody live who 's wholly bad ; Some good you 'll find in every heart .
Your enemy will be your friend .
If only you will do your part .
All his life Chatterer the Red Squirrel have look on Farmer Brown 's boy a his enemy , just a do all the other little people of the Green Meadows , the Green Forest , and the Smiling Pool .
They fear him , and because they fear him , they hat him .
So whenever he come near , they run away .
Now at first , Farmer Brown 's boy use to run after them for just one thing -- because he want to make friend with them , and he could n't see how ever he be go to do it unless he catch them .
After a while , when he find that he could n't catch them by run after them , he make up his mind that they do n't want to be his friend , and so then he begin to hunt them , because he think it be fun to try to outwit them .
Of course , when he begin to do that , they hat him and fear him all the more .
You see , they do n't understand that really he have one of the kind heart in the world ; and he do n't understand that they hat him just because they do n't know him .
So when Chatterer have be catch in the trap in Farmer Brown 's corn-crib , he have n't doubt in the least that Farmer Brown 's boy would give him to Black Pussy or do something equally cruel ; and even when he find that he be only to be keep a prisoner in a very comfortable prison , with plenty to eat and drink , he be n't willing to believe any good of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Indeed , he hat him more than ever , if that be possible .
But Farmer Brown 's boy be very patient .
He come to Chatterer 's prison ever so many time a day and whistle and cluck and talk to Chatterer .
And he bring good thing to eat .
It seem a if he be all the time try to think of some new treat for Chatterer .
He never come without bring something .
At first , Chatterer would hide in his hollow stump as soon a he saw Farmer Brown 's boy coming and would n't so much a peek out until he have go away .
When he be sure that the way be clear , he would come out again , and always he find some delicious fat nut or some other dainty wait for him .
After a little , as soon a he saw Farmer Brown 's boy come , Chatterer would begin to wonder what good thing he have bring this time , and would grow terribly impatient for Farmer Brown 's boy to go away so that he could find out .
By and by it get so that he could n't wait , but would slyly peep out of his little , round doorway to see what have be bring for him .
Then one day Farmer Brown 's boy do n't come at all .
Chatterer try to make himself believe that he be glad .
He tell himself that he hat Farmer Brown 's boy , and he hop that he never , never would see him again .
But all the time he know that it be n't true .
It be the long day since Chatterer have be a prisoner .
Early the next morning , before Chatterer be out of bed , he hear a step in the woodshed , and before he think what he be do , he be out of his hollow stump to see if it really be Farmer Brown 's boy .
It be , and he have three great fat nut which he drop into Chatterer 's cage .
It seem to Chatterer that he just could n't wait for Farmer Brown 's boy to go away .
Finally he dart forward and seize one .
Then he scamper to the shelter of his hollow stump to eat it .
When it be finish , he just have to have another .
Farmer Brown 's boy be still watch , but somehow Chatterer do n't feel so much afraid .
This time he sit up on one of the little branch of the stump and eat it in plain sight .
Farmer Brown 's boy smile , and it be a pleasant smile .
`` I believe we shall be friend , after all , '' say he .
XVI CHATTERER HAS A PLEASANT SURPRISE Chatterer the Red Squirrel , the mischief maker of the Green Forest , have never be more comfortable in his life .
No matter how rough Brother North Wind roar across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , pile the snow in great drift , he could n't send so much a one tiny shiver through the little red coat of Chatterer .
And always right at hand be plenty to eat -- corn and nut and other good thing such a Chatterer love .
No , he never have be so comfortable in all his life .
But he be n't happy , not truly happy .
You see , he be in prison , and no matter how nice a prison may be , no one can be truly happy there .
Since he have be a prisoner , Chatterer have learn to think very differently of Farmer Brown 's boy from what he use to think .
In fact , he and Farmer Brown 's boy have become very good friend , for Farmer Brown 's boy be always very gentle , and always bring him something good to eat .
`` He be n't at all like what I have think , '' say Chatterer , `` and if I be free , I would n't be afraid of him at all .
I -- I 'd like to tell some of the other little Green Forest people about him .
If only -- '' Chatterer do n't finish .
Instead a great lump fill his throat .
You see , he be think of the Green Forest and the Old Orchard , and how he use to race through the tree-tops and along the stone wall .
Half the fun in life have be in run and jumping , and now there be n't room in this little prison to stretch his leg .
If only he could run -- run as hard a ever he know how -- once in a while , he felt that his prison would n't be quite so hard to put up with .
That very afternoon , while Chatterer be take a nap in his bed in the hollow stump , something be slip over his little round doorway , and Chatterer awake in a terrible fright to find himself a prisoner inside his hollow stump .
There be nothing he could do about it but just lie there in his bed , and shake with fright , and wonder what dreadful thing be go to happen next .
He could hear Farmer Brown 's boy very busy about something in his cage .
After a long , long time , his little round doorway let in the light once more .
The door have be open .
At first Chatterer do n't dare go out , but he hear the soft little whistle with which Farmer Brown 's boy always call him when he have something especially nice for him to eat , so at last he peep out .
There on the floor of the cage be some of the nice nut .
Chatterer come out at once .
Then his sharp eye discover something else .
It be a queer look thing make of wire at one end of his cage .
Chatterer look at it with great suspicion .
Could it be a new kind of trap ?
But what would a trap be do there , when he be already a prisoner ?
He eat all the nut , all the time watch this new , queer look thing .
It seem harmless enough .
He go a little nearer .
Finally he hop into it .
It move .
Of course that frighten him , and he start to run up .
But he do n't go up .
No , Sir , he do n't go up .
You see , he be in a wire wheel ; and a he run , the wheel go around .
Chatterer be terribly frighten , and the faster he try to run , the fast the wheel go around .
Finally he have to stop , because he be out of breath and too tired to run another step .
When he stop , the wheel stop .
Little by little , Chatterer begin to understand .
Farmer Brown 's boy have make that wheel to give him a chance to run all he want to and whenever he want to .
When he understand this , Chatterer be a nearly happy a he could be in a prison .
It be such a pleasant surprise !
He would race and race in it until he just have to stop for breath .
Farmer Brown 's boy look on and laugh to see how much happier he have make Chatterer .
XVII SAMMY JAY 'S SHARP EYES Everybody know that Sammy Jay have sharp eye .
In fact , there be very few of the little forest people whose eye be as sharp a Sammy 's .
That be because he use them so much .
A long time ago he find out that the more he use his eye , the sharper they become , and so there be very few minute when Sammy be awake that he be n't try to see something .
He be always look .
That be the reason he always know so much about what be go on in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows .
Now of course Chatterer the Red Squirrel could n't disappear without be miss , particularly by Sammy Jay .
And of course Sammy could n't miss Chatterer and not wonder what have become of him .
At first , Sammy think that Chatterer be hide , but after peek and peer and watch in the Old Orchard for a few day , he be force to think that either Chatterer have once more move or else that something have happen to him .
`` Perhaps Shadow the Weasel have catch him , after all , '' think Sammy , and straightway fly to a certain place in the Green Forest where he might find Shadow the Weasel .
Sure enough , Shadow be there .
Now of course it would n't do to ask right out if Shadow have catch Chatterer , and Sammy be smart enough to know it .
Illustration : `` You tell Chatterer that I 'll get him yet ! ''
snarl Shadow .
`` Chatterer the Red Squirrel send his respect and hope you be enjoy your hunt for him , '' call Sammy .
Shadow look up at Sammy , and anger blaze in his little , red eye .
`` You tell Chatterer that I 'll get him yet ! ''
snarl Shadow .
Sammy 's eye sparkle with mischief .
He have make Shadow angry , and he have find out what he want to know .
He be sure that Shadow have not catch Chatterer .
`` But what can have become of him ? ''
think Sammy .
`` I 've get no love for him , but just the same I miss him .
I really must find out .
Yes , Sir , I really must . ''
So every minute that he could spare , Sammy Jay spend try to find Chatterer .
He ask every one he meet if they have see Chatterer .
He peek and peer into every hollow and hide place he could think of .
But look a he would and ask a he would , he could find no trace of Chatterer .
At last he happen to think of Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
Could it be that Chatterer have move over there or have come to some dreadful end there ?
Very early the next morning , Sammy fly over to the corn-crib .
He look it all over with his sharp eye and listen for sound of Chatterer inside .
But not a sound could he hear .
Then he remember the hole under the edge of the roof through which Chatterer use to go in and out .
Sammy hurry to look at it .
It be close by a stout board nail across it .
Then Sammy know that Farmer Brown 's boy have find it .
`` He 's kill Chatterer , that 's what he 's do ! ''
cry Sammy , and fly over to the Old Orchard fill with sad thought .
He mean to wait until Farmer Brown 's boy come out and then tell him what he think of him .
After that , he would fly through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows to spread the sad news .
After a while , the door of the farmhouse open , and Farmer Brown 's boy step out .
Sammy have his mouth open to scream , when his sharp eye saw something queer .
Farmer Brown 's boy have a queer look box in his arm which he put on a shelf where the sun would shine on it .
It look to Sammy a if something move inside that box .
He forget to scream and say the bad thing he have plan to say .
He wait until Farmer Brown 's boy have go to the barn .
Then Sammy fly where he could look right into the queer box .
There be Chatterer the Red Squirrel !
XVIII CHATTERER IS MADE FUN OF `` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Smarty caught at last ! ''
Sammy Jay fairly shriek with glee , a he peer down from the top of an apple-tree at Chatterer , in the cage Farmer Brown 's boy have make for him .
Sammy be so relieved to think that Chatterer be not dead , and he be so tickled to think that Chatterer , who always think himself so smart , should have be catch , that he just have to torment Chatterer by laugh at him and say mean thing to him , until Chatterer lose his temper and say thing back quite in the old way .
This tickle Sammy more than ever , for it sound so exactly like Chatterer when he have be a free little imp of mischief in the Green Forest , that Sammy felt sure that Chatterer have nothing the matter with him .
But he could n't stop very long to make fun of poor Chatterer .
In the first place Farmer Brown 's boy have put his head out the barn door to see what all the fuss be about .
In the second place , Sammy fairly ache all over to spread the news through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows .
You know he be a great gossip .
And this be such unusual news .
Sammy know very well that no one would believe him .
He know that they just could n't believe that smart Mr. Chatterer have really be catch .
And no one do believe it .
`` All right , '' Sammy would reply .
`` It do n't make the least bit of difference in the world to me whether you believe it or not .
You can go up to Farmer Brown 's house and see him in prison yourself , just a I do . ''
So late that afternoon , when all be quiet around the farmyard , Chatterer saw something very familiar behind the old stone wall at the edge of the Old Orchard .
It bob up and then drop out of sight again .
Then it bob up again , only to drop out of sight just a quickly .
`` It look to me very much a if Peter Rabbit be over there and feel very nervous , '' say Chatterer to himself , and then he call sharply , just a when he be free in the Green Forest .
Right away Peter 's head bob up for all the world like a jack-in-the-box , and this time it stay up .
Peter 's eye be round with surprise , a he star across at Chatterer 's prison .
`` Oh , it 's true ! ''
gasp Peter , a if it be as hard work to believe his own eye a it be to believe Sammy Jay .
`` I must go right away and see what can be do to get Chatterer out of trouble . ''
And then , because it be broad daylight , and he really do n't dare stay another minute , Peter wave good-by to Chatterer and start for the Green Forest as fast a his long leg could take him .
A little later who should appear peep over the stone wall but Reddy Fox .
It seem very bold of Reddy , but really it be n't nearly as bold a it seem .
You see , Reddy know that Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound be over in the Old Pasture , and that he have nothing to fear .
He grin at Chatterer in the most provoking way .
It make Chatterer angry just to see him .
`` Smarty , Smarty , Mr. Smarty , Glad to see you look hearty !
Weather 's fine , a you can see ; Wo n't you take a walk with me ? ''
So say Reddy Fox , know all the time that Chatterer could n't take a walk with any one .
At first Chatterer scold and call Reddy all the bad name he could think of , but after a little he do n't feel so much like scold .
In fact , he do n't half hear the mean thing Reddy Fox say to him .
You see , it be come over him more and more that nothing could take the place of freedom .
He have a comfortable home , plenty to eat , and be safe from every harm , but he be a prisoner , and have these visitor make him realize it more than ever .
Something very like tear fill his eye , and he creep into his hollow stump where he could n't see or be see .
XIX PETER RABBIT TRIES TO HELP Peter Rabbit be one of the kind hearted little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows .
He be happy-go-lucky , and his dreadful curiosity be forever get him into all kind of trouble .
Perhaps it be because he have be in so many scrape himself that he always feel sorry for others who get into trouble .
Anyway , no sooner do Peter hear of some one in trouble , than he begin to wonder how he can help them .
So just as soon a he find out for himself that Sammy Jay have tell the truth about Chatterer the Red Squirrel , and that Chatterer really be in a prison at Farmer Brown 's house , he begin to think and think to find some way to help Chatterer .
Now of course Peter do n't know what kind of a prison Chatterer be in .
He remember right away how Prickly Porky the Porcupine have gnaw a great hole in the box in which Johnny Chuck 's lost baby be keep by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Why should n't Prickly Porky do as much for Chatterer ?
He would go see him at once .
The trouble with Peter be that he do n't think of all side of a question .
He be impulsive .
That be , he go right ahead and do the thing that come into his head first , and sometimes this be n't the wise or best thing to do .
So now he scamper down into the Green Forest as fast a his long leg would carry him , to hunt for Prickly Porky .
It be no trouble at all to find him , for he have only to follow the line of tree that have be strip of their bark .
`` Good afternoon , Prickly Porky .
Have you hear the news about Chatterer ? ''
say Peter , talk very fast , for he be quite out of breath .
`` Yes , '' reply Prickly Porky .
`` Serves him right .
I hope it will teach him a lesson . ''
Peter 's heart sank .
`` Do n't you think it be dreadful ? ''
he ask .
`` Just think , he will never , never be able to run and play in the Green Forest again , unless we can get him out . ''
`` So much the good , '' grunt Prickly Porky .
`` So much the good .
He always be a nuisance .
Never do see such a fellow for make trouble for other people .
No , Sir , I never do .
The rest of u can have some peace now .
Serves him right . ''
Prickly Porky go on chew bark a if Chatterer 's trouble be no concern of his .
Peter 's heart sink low still .
He scratch one long ear slowly with a long hind foot , which be a way he have when he be think very hard .
He be so busy think that he do n't see the twinkle in the dull little eye of Prickly Porky , who really be not so hard-hearted a his word sound .
After a long time , during which Peter think and think , and Prickly Porky ate and ate , the latter spoke again .
`` What have you get on your mind , Peter ? ''
he ask .
`` I -- I be just think how perfectly splendid it would be if you would go up there and gnaw a way out of his prison for Chatterer , '' reply Peter timidly .
`` Huh ! ''
grunt Prickly Porky .
`` Huh !
Some folk think my wit be pretty slow , but even I know good than that .
Put on your thinking cap again , Peter Rabbit . ''
`` Why ca n't you ?
You be not afraid of Bowser the Hound or Farmer Brown 's boy , and everybody else be , except Jimmy Skunk , '' persist Peter .
`` For the very good reason that if I could gnaw into his prison , Chatterer could gnaw out .
If he ca n't gnaw his way out with those sharp teeth of his , I certainly ca n't gnaw in .
Where 's your common sense , Peter Rabbit ? ''
`` That 's so .
I have n't think of that , '' reply Peter slowly and sorrowfully .
`` I must try to think of some other way to help Chatterer . ''
`` I 'd be willing to try if it be of any use .
But it be n't , '' say Prickly Porky , who do n't want Peter to think that he really be as hard-hearted a he have seem at first .
Illustration : `` I 'd be willing to try it if it be of any use .
But it be n't , '' say Prickly Porky .
So Peter bid Prickly Porky good-by and start for the dear old Briar-patch to try to think of some other way to help Chatterer .
On the way he wake up Unc ' Billy Possum and Bobby Coon , but they could n't give him any help .
`` There really do n't seem to be any way I can help , '' sigh Peter .
And there really be n't .
XX CHATTERER HAS ANOTHER GREAT SURPRISE Chatterer have never have so many surprise -- good surprise -- in all his life , a since the day he have be catch in a trap in Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
In the first place , it have be a great surprise to him that he have not be give to Black Pussy , a he have fully expect to be .
Then have come the even great surprise of find that Farmer Brown 's boy be ever and ever so much nicer than he have think .
A late surprise have be the wire wheel in his cage , so that he could run to his heart 's content .
It be such a pleasant and wholly unexpected surprise that it have quite change Chatterer 's feeling towards Farmer Brown 's boy .
The fact be , Chatterer could have be truly happy but for one thing -- he be a prisoner .
Yes , Sir , he be a prisoner , and he could n't forget it for one minute while he be awake .
He use to watch Farmer Brown 's boy and wish with all his might that he could make him understand how dreadful it be to be in a prison .
But Farmer Brown 's boy could n't understand what Chatterer say , no matter how hard Chatterer try to make him .
He seem to think that Chatterer be happy .
He just do n't understand that not all the good thing in the world could make up for loss of freedom -- that it be well to be free , though hungry and cold , than in a prison with every comfort .
Chatterer have stand it pretty well and make the best of thing until Sammy Jay have find him , and Reddy Fox have make fun of him , and Peter Rabbit have peep at him from behind the old stone wall .
The very sight of them go where they please and when they please have be too much for Chatterer , and such a great longing for the Green Forest and the Old Orchard fill his heart that he could think of nothing else .
He just sit in a corner of his cage and look as miserable a he felt .
He lose his appetite .
In vain Farmer Brown 's boy bring him the fat nut and other dainty .
He could n't eat for the great longing for freedom that fill his heart until it seem ready to burst .
He no longer care to run in the new wire wheel which have give him so much pleasure at first .
He be homesick , terribly homesick , and he just could n't help it .
Farmer Brown 's boy notice it , and his face grow sober and thoughtful .
He watch Chatterer when the latter do n't know that he be about , and if he could n't understand Chatterer 's talk , he could understand Chatterer 's action .
He know that he be unhappy and guessed why .
One morning Chatterer do not come out of his hollow stump a he usually do when his cage be place on the shelf outside the farmhouse door .
He just do n't feel like it .
He stay curl up in his bed for a long , long time , too sad and miserable to move .
At last he crawl up and peep out of his little round doorway .
Chatterer give a little gasp and rub his eye .
Was he dream ?
He scramble out in a hurry and peep through the wire of his cage .
Then he rub his eye again and rush over to the other side of the cage for another look .
His cage be n't on the usual shelf at all !
It be on the snow-covered stone wall at the edge of the Old Orchard .
Chatterer be so excited he do n't know what to do .
He race around the cage .
Then he jump into the wire wheel and make it spin round and round a never before .
When he be too tired to run any more , he jump out .
And right then he discover something he have n't notice before .
The little door in the top of his cage be open !
It must be that Farmer Brown 's boy have forget to close it when he put in Chatterer 's breakfast .
Chatterer forget that he be tire .
Like a little red flash he be outside and whisk along the snow-covered stone wall straight for his home in the Old Orchard .
`` Chickaree !
Chickaree !
Chickaree ! ''
he shout a he run .
XXI CHATTERER HEARS THE SMALL VOICE The very first of the little meadow and forest people to see Chatterer after he have safely reach the Old Orchard , be Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
It just happen that Tommy be very busy in the very apple-tree in which be the old home of Drummer the Woodpecker when Chatterer reach it .
You know Chatterer have move into it for the winter just a little while before he have be catch in the corn-crib by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Yes , Sir , Tommy be very busy , indeed .
He be so busy that , sharp a his bright little eye be , he have not see Chatterer race along the snow-covered old stone wall .
It be n't until he hear Chatterer 's claw on the trunk of the apple-tree that Tommy saw him at all .
Then he be so surprised that he lose his balance and almost turn a somersault in the air before he catch another twig .
You see , he know all about Chatterer and how he have be keep a prisoner by Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Why !
Whye-e !
Is this really you , Chatterer ? ''
he exclaim .
`` However do you get out of your prison ?
I 'm glad , ever and ever so glad , that you get away . ''
Chatterer flirt his tail in the saucy way he have , and his eye twinkle .
Here be just the best chance ever to boast and brag .
He could tell Tommy Tit how smart he have be -- smart enough to get away from Farmer Brown 's boy .
Tommy Tit would tell the other little people , and then everybody would think him just as smart a Unc ' Billy Possum ; and you know Unc ' Billy really be smart enough to get away from Farmer Brown 's boy after be catch .
Everybody know that he have be a prisoner , and now that he be free , everybody would believe whatever he tell them about how he get away .
Was there ever such a chance to make his friend and neighbor say : `` What a smart fellow he be ! ''
`` I -- I -- '' Chatterer stop .
Then he begin again .
`` You see , it be this way : I -- I -- '' Somehow , Chatterer could n't say what he have mean to say .
It seem a if Tommy Tit 's bright , merry eye be look right into his head and heart and could see his very thought .
Of course they could n't .
The truth be that little small voice inside , which Chatterer have so often refuse to listen to when he be tempt to do wrong , be talk again .
It be say : `` For shame , Chatterer !
For shame !
Tell the truth .
Tell the truth . ''
It be that little small voice that make Chatterer hesitate and stop .
`` You do n't mean to say that you be smart enough to fool Farmer Brown 's boy and get out of that stout little prison he make for you , do you ? ''
ask Tommy Tit .
`` No , '' reply Chatterer , almost before he think .
`` No , I do n't .
The fact be , Tommy Tit , he leave the door open purposely .
He let me go .
Farmer Brown 's boy be n't half so bad a some people think . ''
`` Dee , dee , dee , '' laugh Tommy Tit .
`` I 've be tell a lot of you fellows that for a long time , but none of you would believe me .
Now I guess you know it .
Why , I 'm not the least bit afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy -- not the least little bit in the world .
If all the little forest and meadow people would only trust him , instead of run away from him , he would be the very best friend we have . ''
`` Perhaps so , '' reply Chatterer doubtfully .
`` He be very good to me while I be in his prison , and -- and I 'm not so very much afraid of him now .
Just the same , I do n't mean to let him get hand on me again . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
say Tommy Tit .
`` Pooh !
I 'd just as soon eat out of his hand . ''
`` That 's all very well for you to say , when you be fly around free , but I do n't believe you dare go up to his house and prove it , '' retort Chatterer .
`` Ca n't now , '' reply Tommy .
`` I 've get too much to do for him right now , but some day I 'll show you .
Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
I 'm waste my time talk when there be such a lot to be do .
I be clear his apple-trees of insect egg . ''
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Go it , you little red scamp ! ''
shout a voice behind him .
Then Chatterer know that Farmer Brown 's boy have not leave the little door open by mistake , but have give him his freedom , and right then he know that they be go to be the best of friend .
XXII TOMMY TIT MAKES GOOD HIS BOAST `` Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
See me !
See me ! ''
Tommy Tit the Chickadee keep say this over and over , a he fly from the Green Forest up through the Old Orchard on his way to Farmer Brown 's dooryard , and his voice be merry .
In fact , his voice be the merry , cheery sound to be hear that bright , snapping , cold morning .
To be sure there be other voice , but they be not merry , nor be they cheery .
There be the voice of Sammy Jay , but it sound peevish and discontent .
And there be the voice of Blacky the Crow , but it sound harsh and unpleasant .
And there be the voice of Chatterer the Red Squirrel , but Chatterer be scold just from habit , and his voice be not pleasant to hear .
So every one who hear Tommy Tit 's cheery voice that cold winter morning just have to smile .
Yes , Sir , they just have to smile , even Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow .
They just could n't help themselves .
When Tommy reach the stone wall that separate the Old Orchard from Farmer Brown 's dooryard , his sharp eye be not long in find Peter Rabbit , and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Chatterer hiding in the old wall where they could peep out and see all that happen in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Looking back through the Old Orchard , he saw what look like a little bit of the blue , blue sky flit silently from tree to tree .
It be Sammy Jay .
Over in the very top of a tall maple-tree , a long way off , be a spot of black .
Tommy do n't need to be tell that it be Blacky the Crow , who do n't dare come any nearer .
Tommy fairly bubble over with joy .
He know what it all meant .
He know that Peter Rabbit and Happy Jack and Chatterer and Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow have come to see him make good his boast to Chatterer that he would eat from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , and that not one of them really believe that he would do it .
He tickle all over and cut up all sort of caper , just for pure joy .
Finally he fly over to the maple-tree that grow close by Farmer Brown 's house .
`` Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
See me !
See me ! ''
call Tommy Tit , and his voice sound cheery than ever and merry than ever .
Then the door of Farmer Brown 's house open , and out step Farmer Brown 's boy and look up at Tommy Tit , and the look in his eye be gentle and good to see .
He purse up his lip , and from them come the soft , sweet whistle , and it sound like `` Phoe-be . ''
Peter Rabbit pinch himself to be sure that he be awake , for it be Tommy Tit 's own love note , and if Peter have not be look straight at Farmer Brown 's boy , he would have be sure that it be Tommy himself who have whistle .
`` Phoe-be , '' whistle Farmer Brown 's boy again .
`` Phoe-be , '' reply Tommy Tit , and it be hard to say which whistle be the soft and sweet .
`` Phoe-be , '' whistle Farmer Brown 's boy once more and hold out his hand .
In it be a cracked hickory nut .
`` Dee , dee , dee !
See me !
See me ! ''
cry Tommy Tit and flit down from the maple-tree right on to the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , and his bright little eye twinkle merrily a he help himself to a bit of nut meat .
Peter Rabbit look at Happy Jack , and Happy Jack look at Chatterer , and all three act a if they could n't believe their own eye .
Then they look back at Farmer Brown 's boy , and there on his head sit Tommy Tit .
`` Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
See me !
See me ! ''
call Tommy Tit , and his voice be merry than ever , for he have make good his boast .
XXIII CHATTERER GROWS VERY , VERY BOLD `` I 'm not afraid .
I be afraid .
I 'm not afraid .
I be afraid .
I 'm not afraid . ''
Chatterer keep say these two thing over and over and over again to himself .
You see , he really be afraid , and he be try to make himself believe that he be n't afraid .
He think that perhaps if he say ever and ever so many time that he be n't afraid , he might actually make himself believe it .
The trouble be that every time he say it , a little voice , a little , truthful voice down inside , seem to speak right up and tell him that he be afraid .
Poor Chatterer !
It hurt his pride to have to own to himself that he be n't as brave a little Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
His common sense tell him that there be no reason in the world why he should n't be .
Tommy Tit go every day and take food from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy .
It seem to Chatterer , and to Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and to Peter Rabbit , and to Sammy Jay , and to Blacky the Crow , all of whom have see him do it , a if it be the very brave thing they ever have see , and their respect for Tommy Tit grow wonderfully .
But Tommy Tit himself do n't think it brave at all .
No , Sir , Tommy know well .
You see , he have a great deal of common sense under the little black cap he wear .
`` It may have be brave of me to do it the first time , '' think he to himself , when the others tell him how brave they think him , `` but it be n't brave of me now , because I know that no harm be go to come to me from Farmer Brown 's boy .
There be n't any bravery about it , and it might be just the same way with Chatterer and all the other little forest and meadow people , if only they would think so , and give Farmer Brown 's boy half a chance . ''
Chatterer be begin to have some such thought himself , a he try to make himself think that he be n't afraid .
He hear the door of Farmer Brown 's house slam and peep out from the old stone wall .
There be Farmer Brown 's boy with a big , fat hickory nut hold out in the most tempting way , and Farmer Brown 's boy be whistle the same gentle little whistle he have use when Chatterer be his prisoner , and he have bring good thing for Chatterer to eat .
Of course Chatterer know perfectly well that that whistle be a call for him , and that that big fat hickory nut be intend for him .
Almost before he think , he have leave the old stone wall and be half way over to Farmer Brown 's boy .
Then he stop short .
It seem a if that little voice inside have fairly shout in his ear : `` I be afraid . ''
It be true ; he be afraid .
He be right on the very point of turn to scurry back to the old stone wall , when he hear another voice .
This time it be n't a voice inside .
No , indeed !
It be a voice from the top of one of the apple-trees in the Old Orchard , and this be what it say : `` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
It be Sammy Jay speaking .
Now it be one thing to tell yourself that you be afraid , and it be quite another thing to be tell by some one else that you be afraid .
`` No such thing !
No such thing !
I 'm not afraid ! ''
scold Chatterer , and then to prove it , he suddenly race forward , snatch the fat hickory nut from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , and be back in the old stone wall .
It be hard to tell which be the most surprised -- Chatterer himself , Farmer Brown 's boy , or Sammy Jay .
`` I do it !
I do it !
I do it ! ''
boast Chatterer .
`` You do n't dare do it again , though ! ''
say Sammy Jay , in the most provoking and unpleasant way .
`` I do too ! ''
snapped Chatterer , and he do it .
And with the taking of that second fat nut from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , the very last bit of fear of him leave Chatterer , and he know that Tommy Tit the Chickadee have be right all the time when he insist that there be nothing to fear from Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Why , '' think Chatterer , `` if I would have let him , he would have be my friend long ago ! ''
And so he would have .
And this be all about Chatterer the Red Squirrel for now .
Sammy Jay insist that it be his turn now , and so the next book will be about his adventure .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Danny_Meadow_Mouse.txt.out
CHAPTER I Danny Meadow Mouse Is Worried Danny Meadow Mouse sit on his door-step with his chin in his hand , and it be very plain to see that Danny have something on his mind .
He have only a nod for Jimmy Skunk , and even Peter Rabbit could get no more than a grumpy `` Good morning . ''
It be n't that he have be catch nap the day before by Reddy Fox and nearly make an end of .
No , it be n't that .
Danny have learn his lesson , and Reddy would never catch him again .
It be n't that he be all alone with no one to play with .
Danny be rather glad that he be alone .
The fact be , Danny Meadow Mouse be worry .
Now worry be one of the bad thing in the world , and it do n't seem a if there be anything that Danny Meadow Mouse need worry about .
But you know it be the easy thing in the world to find something to worry over and make yourself uncomfortable about .
And when you make yourself uncomfortable , you be almost sure to make everyone around you equally uncomfortable .
It be so with Danny Meadow Mouse .
Striped Chipmunk have twice call him `` Cross Patch '' that morning , and Johnny Chuck , who have fight Reddy Fox for him the day before , have call him `` Grumpy . ''
And what do you think be the matter with Danny Meadow Mouse ?
Why , he be worry because his tail be short .
Yes , sir , that be all that ail Danny Meadow Mouse that bright morning .
You know some people let their look make them miserable .
They worry because they be homely or freckle , or short or tall , or thin or stout , all of which be very foolish .
And Danny Meadow Mouse be just a foolish in worry because his tail be short .
It be short !
It certainly be all of that !
Danny never have realize how short until he chance to meet his cousin Whitefoot , who live in the Green Forest .
He be very elegantly dress , but the most imposing thing about him be his long , slim , beautiful tail .
Danny have at once become conscious of his own stubby little tail , and he have hardly have pride enough to hold his head up a become an honest Meadow Mouse .
Ever since he have be think and thinking , and wonder how his family come to have such short tail .
Then he grow envious and begin to wish and wish and wish that he could have a long tail like his cousin Whitefoot .
He be so busy wish that he have a long tail that he quite forget to take care of the tail he do have , and he pretty nearly lose it and his life with it .
Old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk spy Danny sit there mop on his doorstep , and come sailing over the top of the meadow grass so softly that he all but catch Danny .
If it have n't be for one of the Merry Little Breezes , Danny would have be catch .
And all because he be envious .
It 's a bad , bad habit .
CHAPTER II Danny Meadow Mouse and His Short Tail All Danny Meadow Mouse could think about be his short tail .
He be so ashamed of it that whenever anyone pass , he crawl out of sight so that they should not see how short his tail be .
Instead of play in the sunshine a he use to do , he sit and sulk .
Pretty soon his friend begin to pass without stop .
Finally one day old Mr. Toad sit down in front of Danny and begin to ask question .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
ask old Mr. Toad .
`` Nothing , '' reply Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` I do n't suppose there really be anything the matter , but what do you think be the matter ? ''
say old Mr. Toad .
Danny fidget , and old Mr. Toad look up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and wink .
`` Sun be just as bright a ever , be n't it ? ''
he inquire .
`` Yes , '' say Danny .
`` Got plenty to eat and drink , have n't you ? ''
continued Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , '' say Danny .
`` Seems to me that that be a pretty good-looking suit of clothes you 're wear , '' say Mr. Toad , eye Danny critically .
`` Sunny weather , plenty to eat and drink , and good clothes -- must be you do n't know when you 're well off , Danny Meadow Mouse . ''
Danny hang his head .
Finally he look up and catch a kindly twinkle in old Mr. Toad 's eye .
`` Mr. Toad , how can I get a long tail like my cousin Whitefoot of the Green Forest ? ''
he ask .
`` So that 's what 's the matter !
Ha !
ha !
ha !
Danny Meadow Mouse , I 'm ashamed of you !
I certainly be ashamed of you ! ''
say Mr. Toad .
`` What good would a long tail do you ?
Tell me that . ''
For a minute Danny do n't know just what to say .
`` I -- I -- I 'd look so much good if I have a long tail , '' he venture .
Old Mr. Toad just laugh .
`` You never saw a Meadow Mouse with a long tail , do you ?
Of course not .
What a sight it would be !
Why , everybody on the Green Meadows would laugh themselves sick at the sight !
You see you need to be slim and trim and handsome to carry a long tail well .
And then what a nuisance it would be !
You would always have to be think of your tail and take care to keep it out of harm 's way .
Look at me .
I 'm homely .
Some folk call me ugly to look at .
But no one try to catch me a Farmer Brown 's boy do Billy Mink because of his fine coat ; and no one want to put me in a cage because of a fine voice .
I be satisfied to be just a I be , and if you 'll take my advice , Danny Meadow Mouse , you 'll be satisfy to be just a you be . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Old Mr. Toad give Danny some good advice . -RSB-
`` Perhaps you be right , '' say Danny Meadow Mouse after a little .
`` I 'll try . ''
CHAPTER III Danny Meadow Mouse Plays Hide and Seek Life be always a game of hide and seek to Danny Meadow Mouse .
You see , he be such a fat little fellow that there be a great many other furry-coated people , and almost a many who wear feather , who would gobble Danny up for breakfast or for dinner if they could .
Some of them pretend to be his friend , but Danny always keep his eye open when they be around and always begin to play hide and seek .
Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunk and Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel be all friend whom he can trust , but he always have a bright twinkle eye open for Reddy Fox and Billy Mink and Shadow the Weasel and old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , and several more , especially Hooty the Owl at night .
Now Danny Meadow Mouse be a stout-hearted little fellow , and when rough Brother North Wind come shout across the Green Meadows , tear to piece the snow cloud and shake out the snowflake until they cover the Green Meadows deep , deep , deep , Danny just snuggle down in his warm coat in his snug little house of grass and wait .
Danny like the snow .
Yes , sir , Danny Meadow Mouse like the snow .
He just love to dig in it and make tunnel .
Through those tunnel in every direction he could go where he please and when he please without be see by anybody .
It be great fun !
Every little way he make a little round doorway up beside a stiff stalk of grass .
Out of this he could peep at the white world , and he could get the fresh cold air .
Sometimes , when he be quite sure that no one be around , he would scamper across on top of the snow from one doorway to another , and when he do this , he make the pretty little footprint .
Now Reddy Fox know all about those doorway and who make them .
Reddy be have hard work to get enough to eat this cold weather , and he be hungry most of the time .
One morning , a he come tiptoe softly over the meadow , what should he see just ahead of him but the head of Danny Meadow Mouse pop out of one of those little round doorway .
Reddy 's mouth water , and he steal forward more softly than ever .
When he get within jump distance , he draw his stout hind legs under him and make ready to spring .
Presto !
Danny Meadow Mouse have disappear !
Reddy Fox jump just the same and begin to dig as fast a he could make his paw go .
He could smell Danny Meadow Mouse and that make him almost frantic .
All the time Danny Meadow Mouse be scurry along one of his little tunnel , and when finally Reddy Fox stop dig because he be quite out of breath , Danny pop his head out of another little doorway and laugh at Reddy .
Of course Reddy saw him , and of course Reddy try to catch him there , and dig frantically just a before .
And of course Danny Meadow Mouse be n't there .
After a while Reddy Fox grow tire of this kind of a game and try another plan .
The next time he saw Danny Meadow Mouse stick his head out , Reddy pretend not to see him .
He stretch himself out on the ground and make believe that he be very tired and sleepy .
He close his eye .
Then he open them just the tiny bit , so that he could see Danny Meadow Mouse and yet seem to be asleep .
Danny watch him for a long time .
Then he chuckle to himself and drop out of sight .
No sooner be he go than Reddy Fox stole over close to the little doorway and wait .
`` He 'll surely stick his head out again to see if I 'm asleep , and then I 'll have him , '' say Reddy to himself .
So he wait and wait and wait .
By and by he turn his head .
There be Danny Meadow Mouse at another little doorway laugh at him !
-LSB- Illustration : Danny Meadow Mouse be laugh from another little doorway . -RSB-
CHAPTER IV Old Granny Fox Tries for Danny Meadow Mouse Danny Meadow Mouse have not enjoy anything so much for a long time a he do that game of hide and seek .
He tickle and chuckle all the afternoon a he think about it .
Of course Reddy have be `` it . ''
He have be `` it '' all the time , for never once have he catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
If he have -- well , there would n't have be any more story about Danny Meadow Mouse , because there would n't have be any Danny Meadow Mouse any more .
But Danny never let himself think about this .
He have enjoy the game all the more because it have be such a dangerous game .
It have be such fun to dive into one of his little round doorways in the snow , run along one of his own little tunnel , and then peep out at another doorway and watch Reddy Fox dig as fast a ever he could at the doorway Danny have just leave .
Finally Reddy have give up in disgust and go off mutter angrily to try to find something else for dinner .
Danny have sit up on the snow and watch him go .
In his funny little squeaky voice Danny shout : `` Though Reddy Fox be smart and sly , Hi-hum-diddle-de-o !
I 'm just a smart and twice a spry .
Hi-hum-diddle-de-o ! ''
That night Reddy Fox tell old Granny Fox all about how he have try to catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
Granny listen with her head cock on one side .
When Reddy tell how fat Danny Meadow Mouse be , her mouth water .
You see now that snow cover the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , Granny and Reddy Fox have hard work to get enough to eat , and they be hungry most of the time .
`` I 'll go with you down on the meadow to-morrow morning , and then we 'll see if Danny Meadow Mouse be as smart a he think he be , '' say Granny Fox .
So , bright and early the next morning , old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox go down on the meadow where Danny Meadow Mouse live .
Danny have felt in his bone that Reddy would come back , so he be watch , and he saw them as soon a they come out of the Green Forest .
When he saw old Granny Fox , Danny 's heart beat a little fast than before , for he know that Granny Fox be very smart and very wise and have learn most of the trick of all the other little meadow and forest people .
`` This be go to be a more exciting game than the other , '' say Danny to himself , and scurry down out of sight to see that all his little tunnel be clear so that he could run fast through them if he have to .
Then he peep out of one of his little doorways hide in a clump of tall grass .
Old Granny Fox set Reddy to hunt for Danny 's little round doorway , and as fast a he find them , Granny come up and sniff at each .
She know that she could tell by the smell which one he have be at last .
Finally she come straight towards the tall bunch of grass .
Danny duck down and scurry along one of his little tunnel .
He hear Granny Fox sniff at the doorway he have just leave .
Suddenly something plunge down through the snow right at his very heel .
Danny do n't have to look to know that it be Granny Fox herself , and he squeak with fright .
CHAPTER V What Happened on the Green Meadows Thick and fast thing be happen to Danny Meadow Mouse down on the snow-covered Green Meadows .
Rather , they be almost happen .
He have n't mind when Reddy Fox all alone try to catch him .
Indeed , he have make a regular game of hide and seek of it and have enjoy it immensely .
But now it be different .
Granny Fox be n't so easily fool a Reddy Fox .
Just Granny alone would have make the game dangerous for Danny Meadow Mouse .
But Reddy be with her , and so Danny have two to look out for , and he get so many fright that it seem to him a if his heart have move right up into his mouth and be go to stay there .
Yes , sir , that be just how it seem .
Down in his little tunnel underneath the snow Danny Meadow Mouse felt perfectly safe from Reddy Fox , who would stop and dig frantically at the little round doorway where he have last see Danny .
But old Granny Fox know all about those little tunnel , and she do n't waste any time digging at the doorway .
Instead she cock her sharp little ear and listen with all her might .
Now Granny Fox have very keen ear , oh , very keen ear , and she hear just what she hop she would hear .
She hear Danny Meadow Mouse run along one of his little tunnel under the snow .
Plunge !
Old Granny Fox dive right into the snow and right through into the tunnel of Danny Meadow Mouse .
Her two black paw actually touch Danny 's tail .
He be glad then that it be no long .
`` Ha ! ''
cry Granny Fox , `` I almost get him that time ! ''
Then she run ahead a little way over the snow , listen a before .
Plunge !
Into the snow she go again .
It be lucky for him that Danny have just turn into another tunnel , for otherwise she would surely have catch him .
Granny Fox blow the snow out of her nose .
`` Next time I 'll get him ! ''
say she .
Now Reddy Fox be quick to learn , especially when it be a way to get something to eat .
He watch Granny Fox , and when he understand what she be do , he make up his mind to have a try himself , for he be afraid that if she catch Danny Meadow Mouse , she would think that he be not big enough to divide .
Perhaps that be because Reddy be very selfish himself .
So the next time Granny plunge into the snow and miss Danny Meadow Mouse just a before , Reddy rush in ahead of her , and the minute he hear Danny run down below , he plunge in just a he have see Granny do .
But he do n't take the pain to make sure of just where Danny be , and so of course he do n't come anywhere near him .
But he frighten Danny still more and make old Granny Fox lose her temper .
Poor Danny Meadow Mouse !
He have never be so frighten in all his life .
He do n't know which way to turn or where to run .
And so he sit still , which , although he do n't know it , be the very best thing he could do .
When he sit still he make no noise , and so of course Granny and Reddy Fox could not tell where he be .
Old Granny Fox sit and listen and listen and listen , and wonder where Danny Meadow Mouse be .
And down under the snow Danny Meadow Mouse sit and listen and listen and listen , and wonder where Granny and Reddy Fox be .
`` Pooh ! ''
say Granny Fox after a while , `` that Meadow Mouse think he can fool me by sit still .
I 'll give him a scare . ''
Then she begin to plunge into the snow this way and that way , and sure enough , pretty soon she land so close to Danny Meadow Mouse that one of her claw scratch him .
CHAPTER VI Danny Meadow Mouse Remembers and Reddy Fox Forgets `` There he go ! ''
cry old Granny Fox .
`` Do n't let him sit still again ! ''
`` I hear him ! ''
shout Reddy Fox , and plunge down into the snow just a Granny Fox have do a minute before .
But he do n't catch anything , and when he have blow the snow out of his nose and wipe it out of his eye , he saw Granny Fox dive into the snow with no good luck .
`` Never mind , '' say Granny Fox , `` as long a we keep him run , we can hear him , and some one of these time we 'll catch him .
Pretty soon he 'll get too tire to be so spry , and when he be -- '' Granny do n't finish , but lick her chop and smack her lip .
Reddy Fox grin , then lick his chop and smack his lip .
Then once more they take turns dive into the snow .
And down underneath in the little tunnel he have make , Danny Meadow Mouse be run for his life .
He be get tire , just a old Granny Fox have say he would .
He be almost out of breath .
He be sore and one leg smart , for in one of her jump old Granny Fox have so nearly catch him that her claw have tear his pant and scratch him .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
If only I have time to think ! ''
pant Danny Meadow Mouse , and then he squeal in still great fright a Reddy Fox crash down into his tunnel right at his very heel .
`` I 've get to get somewhere !
I 've get to get somewhere where they ca n't get at me ! ''
he sob .
And right that very instant he remember the old fence-post !
The old fence-post lay on the ground and be hollow .
Fastened to it be long wire with sharp cruel barb .
Danny have make a tunnel over to that old fence-post the very first day after the snow come , for in that hollow in the old post he have a secret store of seed .
Why have n't he think of it before ?
It must have be because he be too frightened to think .
But he remember now , and he dodge into the tunnel that lead to the old fence-post , run faster than ever , for though his heart be in his mouth from fear , in his heart be hope , and hope be a wonderful thing .
Now old Granny Fox know all about that old fence-post and she remember all about those barbed wire fasten to it .
Although they be cover with snow she know just about where they lay , and just before she reach them she stop plunge down into the snow .
Reddy Fox know about those wire ; too , but he be so excited that he forget all about them .
`` Stop ! ''
cry old Granny Fox sharply .
But Reddy Fox do n't hear , or if he hear he do n't heed .
His sharp ear could hear Danny Meadow Mouse run almost underneath him .
Granny Fox could stop if she want to , but he be go to have Danny Meadow Mouse for his breakfast !
Down into the snow he plunge as hard a ever he could .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Wow !
Wow !
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
That be n't the voice of Danny Meadow Mouse .
Oh , my , no !
It be the voice of Reddy Fox .
Yes , sir , it be the voice of Reddy Fox .
He have land with one of his black paw right on one of those sharp wire barb , and it do hurt dreadfully .
`` I never do know a young Fox who could get into as much trouble a you can ! ''
snap old Granny Fox , a Reddy hobble along on three leg behind her , across the snow-covered Green Meadows .
`` It serve you right for forget ! ''
`` Yes 'm , '' say Reddy meekly .
And safe in the hollow of the old fence-post , Danny Meadow Mouse be dress the scratch on his leg make by the claw of old Granny Fox .
CHAPTER VII Old Granny Fox Tries a New Plan Old Granny Fox keep think about Danny Meadow Mouse .
She know that he be fat , and it make her mouth water every time she think of him .
She make up her mind that she must and would have him .
She know that Danny have be very , very much frighten when she and Reddy Fox have try so hard to catch him by plunge down through the snow into his little tunnel after him , and she felt pretty sure that he would n't go far away from the old fence-post , in the hollow of which he be snug and safe .
Old Granny Fox be very smart .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse wo n't put his nose out of that old fence-post for a day or two .
Then he 'll get tire of stay inside all the time , and he 'll peep out of one of his little round doorways to see if the way be clear .
If he do n't see any danger , he 'll come out and run around on top of the snow to get some of the seed in the top of the tall grass that stick out through the snow .
If nothing frighten him , he 'll keep go , a little farther and a little farther from that old fence-post .
I must see to it that Danny Meadow Mouse be n't frighten for a few day . ''
So say old Granny Fox to herself , a she lay under a hemlock tree , study how she could best get the next meal .
Then she call Reddy Fox to her and forbid him to go down on the meadow until she should tell him he might .
Reddy grumble and mumble and do n't see why he should n't go where he please , but he do n't dare disobey .
You see he have a sore foot .
He have hurt it on a wire barb when he be plunge through the snow after Danny Meadow Mouse , and now he have to run on three leg .
That mean that he must depend upon Granny Fox to help him get enough to eat .
So Reddy do n't dare to disobey .
It all come out just a Granny Fox have think it would .
Danny Meadow Mouse do get tire of stay in the old fence-post .
He do peep out first , and then he do run a little way on the snow , and then a little farther and a little farther .
But all the time he take great care not to get more than a jump or two from one of his little round doorways lead down to his tunnel under the snow .
Hidden on the edge of the Green Forest , Granny Fox watch him .
She look up at the sky , and she know that it be go to snow again .
`` That 's good , '' say she .
`` Tomorrow morning I 'll have fat Meadow Mouse for breakfast , '' and she smile a hungry smile .
The next morning , before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun be out of bed , old Granny Fox trot down onto the meadow and straight over to where , down under the snow , lay the old fence-post .
It have snow again , and all the little doorway of Danny Meadow Mouse be cover up with soft , fleecy snow .
Behind Granny Fox limp Reddy Fox , grumble to himself .
When they reach the place where the old fence-post lay bury under the snow , old Granny Fox stretch out as flat a she could .
Then she tell Reddy to cover her up with the new soft snow .
Reddy do a he be tell , but all the time he grumble .
`` Now you go off to the Green Forest and keep out of sight , '' say Granny Fox .
`` By and by I 'll bring you some Meadow Mouse for your breakfast , '' and Granny Fox chuckle to think how smart she be and how she be go to catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
CHAPTER VIII Brother North Wind Proves a Friend Danny Meadow Mouse have see nothing of old Granny Fox or Reddy Fox for several day .
Every morning the first thing he do , even before he have breakfast , be to climb up to one of his little round doorway and peep out over the beautiful white meadow , to see if there be any danger near .
But every time he do this , Danny use a different doorway .
`` For , '' say Danny to himself , `` if any one should happen , just happen , to see me this morning , they might be wait just outside my doorway to catch me to-morrow morning . ''
You see there be a great deal of wisdom in the little head that Danny Meadow Mouse carry on his shoulder .
But the first day and the second day and the third day he saw nothing of old Granny Fox or of Reddy Fox , and he begin to enjoy run through his tunnel under the snow and scurry across from one doorway to another on top of the snow , just a he have before the Foxes have try so hard to catch him .
But he have n't forget , a Granny Fox have hop he would .
No , indeed , Danny Meadow Mouse have n't forget .
He be too wise for that .
One morning , when he start to climb up to one of his little doorway , he find that it be close .
Yes , sir , it be close .
In fact , there be n't any doorway .
More snow have fall from the cloud in the night and have cover up every one of the little round doorway of Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Ha ! ''
say Danny , `` I shall have a busy day , a very busy day , open all my doorway .
I 'll eat my breakfast , and then I 'll go to work . ''
So Danny Meadow Mouse eat a good breakfast of seed which he have store in the hollow in the old fence-post bury under the snow , and then he begin work on the near doorway .
It really be n't work at all , for you see the snow be soft and light , and Danny dearly love to dig in it .
In a few minute he have make a wee hole through which he could peep up at jolly , round Mr. Sun .
In a few minute more he have make it big enough to put his head out .
He look this way and he look that way .
Far , far off on the top of a tree he could see old Roughleg the Hawk , but he be so far away that Danny do n't fear him at all .
`` I do n't see anything or anybody to be afraid of , '' say Danny and poke his head out a little farther .
Then he sit and study everything around him a long , long time .
It be a beautiful white world , a very beautiful white world .
Everything be so white and pure and beautiful that it do n't seem possible that harm or danger for anyone could even be think of .
But Danny Meadow Mouse learn long ago that thing be not always what they seem , and so he sit with just his little head stick out of his doorway and study and study .
Just a little way off be a little heap of snow .
`` I do n't remember that , '' say Danny .
`` And I do n't remember anything that would make that .
There be n't any little bush or old log or anything underneath it .
Perhaps rough Brother North Wind heap it up , just for fun . ''
But all the time Danny Meadow Mouse keep study and study that little heap of snow .
Pretty soon he saw rough Brother North Wind come his way and toss the snow about a he come .
He catch a handful from the top of the little heap of snow that Danny be study , and when he have pass , Danny 's sharp eye saw something red there .
It be just the color of the cloak old Granny Fox wear .
`` Granny Fox , you ca n't fool me !
I see you plain a plain can be ! ''
shout Danny Meadow Mouse and drop down out of sight , while old Granny Fox shake the snow from her red cloak and , with a snarl of disappointment and anger , slowly start for the Green Forest , where Reddy Fox be wait for her .
CHAPTER IX Danny Meadow Mouse Is Caught at Last `` Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe , Play and frolic in the snow !
Now you see me !
Now you do n't !
Think you 'll catch me , but you wo n't !
Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe , Oh , such fun to play in snow ! ''
Danny Meadow Mouse sing this , or at least he try to sing it , a he skip about on the snow that cover the Green Meadows .
But Danny Meadow Mouse have such a little voice , such a funny little squeaky voice , that have you be there you probably would never have guess that he be sing .
He think he be , though , and be enjoy it just as much a if he have the most beautiful voice in the world .
You know sing be nothing in the world but happiness in the heart make itself heard .
Oh , yes , Danny Meadow Mouse be happy !
Why should n't he have be ?
Had n't he prove himself smart than old Granny Fox ?
That be something to make anyone happy .
Some folk may fool Granny Fox once ; some may fool her twice ; but there be very few who can keep right on fool her until she give up in disgust .
That be just what Danny Meadow Mouse have do , and he felt very smart and of course he felt very happy .
So Danny sing his little song and skip about in the moonlight , and dodge in and out of his little round doorway , and all the time keep his sharp little eye open for any sign of Granny Fox or Reddy Fox .
But with all his smartness , Danny forget .
Yes , sir , Danny forget one thing .
He forget to watch up in the sky .
He know that of course old Roughleg the Hawk be asleep , so he have nothing to fear from him .
But he never once think of Hooty the Owl .
Dear me , dear me !
Forgetting be a dreadful habit .
If nobody ever forget , there would n't be nearly so much trouble in the world .
No , indeed , there would n't be nearly so much trouble .
And Danny Meadow Mouse forget .
He skip and sing and be happy a could be , and never once think to watch up in the sky .
Over in the Green Forest Hooty the Owl have have poor hunting , and he be feel cross .
You see , Hooty be hungry , and hunger be apt to make one feel cross .
The longer he hunt , the hungrier and crosser he grow .
Suddenly he think of Danny Meadow Mouse .
-LSB- Illustration : Hooty the Owl be hungry and cross . -RSB-
`` I suppose he be asleep somewhere safe and snug under the snow , '' grumble Hooty , `` but he might be , he just might be out for a frolic in the moonlight .
I believe I 'll go down on the meadow and see . ''
Now Hooty the Owl can fly without make the teeny , weeny sound .
It seem a if he just drift along through the air like a great shadow .
Now he spread his great wing and float out over the meadow .
You know Hooty can see as well at night a most folk can by day , and it be not long before he saw Danny Meadow Mouse skip about on the snow and dodging in and out of his little round doorway .
Hooty 's great eye grow brighter and fiercer .
Without a sound he float through the moonlight until he be just over Danny Meadow Mouse .
Too late Danny look up .
His little song end in a tiny squeak of fear , and he start for his near little round doorway .
Hooty the Owl reach down with his long cruel claw and -- Danny Meadow Mouse be catch at last !
CHAPTER X A Strange Ride and How It Ended Danny Meadow Mouse often have sit watch Skimmer the Swallow sailing around up in the blue , blue sky .
He have watch Ol ' Mistah Buzzard go up , up , up , until he be nothing but a tiny speck , and Danny have wonder how it would seem to be way up above the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and look down .
It have seem to him that it must be very wonderful and beautiful .
Sometimes he have wish that he have wing and could go up in the air and look down .
And now here he be , he , Danny Meadow Mouse , actually do that very thing !
But Danny could see nothing wonderful or beautiful now .
No , indeed !
Everything be terrible , for you see Danny Meadow Mouse be n't fly himself .
He be be carry .
Yes , sir , Danny Meadow Mouse be be carry through the air in the cruel claw of Hooty the Owl !
And all because Danny have forget -- forgotten to watch up in the sky for danger .
Poor , poor Danny Meadow Mouse !
Hooty 's great cruel claw hurt him dreadfully !
But it be n't the pain that be the bad .
No , indeed !
It be n't the pain !
It be the thought of what would happen when Hooty reach his home in the Green Forest , for he know that there Hooty would gobble him up , bone and all .
As he fly , Hooty keep chuckling , and Danny Meadow Mouse know just what those chuckle mean .
They mean that Hooty be think of the good meal he be go to have .
Hanging there in Hooty 's great cruel claw , Danny look down on the snow-covered Green Meadows he love so well .
They seem a frightfully long way below him , though really they be not far at all , for Hooty be fly very low .
But Danny Meadow Mouse have never in all his life be so high up before , and so it seem to him that he be way , way up in the sky , and he shut his eye so a not to see .
But he could n't keep them shut .
No , sir , he could n't keep them shut !
He just have to keep open them .
There be the dear old Green Forest drawing nearer and nearer .
It always have look very beautiful to Danny Meadow Mouse , but now it look terrible , very terrible indeed , because over in it , hide away there in some dark place , be the home of Hooty the Owl .
Just ahead of him be the Old Briar-patch where Peter Rabbit live so safely .
Every old bramble in it be cover with snow and it be very , very beautiful .
Really everything be just as beautiful a ever -- the moonlight , the Green Forest , the snow-covered Green Meadows , the Old Briar-patch .
The only change be in Danny Meadow Mouse himself , and it be all because he have forget .
Suddenly Danny begin to wriggle and struggle .
`` Keep still ! ''
snap Hooty the Owl .
But Danny only struggle hard than ever .
It seem to him that Hooty be n't hold him as tightly a at first .
He felt one of Hooty 's claw slip .
It tear his coat and hurt dreadfully , but it slip !
The fact be , Hooty have only grab Danny Meadow Mouse by the loose part of his coat , and up in the air he could n't get hold of Danny any good .
Danny kick , squirm and twisted , and twist , squirm , and kick .
He felt his coat tear and of course the skin with it , but he keep right on , for now he be hang almost free .
Hooty have start down now , so a to get a good hold .
Danny give one more kick and then -- he felt himself fall !
Danny Meadow Mouse shut his eye and hold his breath .
Down , down , down he fell .
It seem to him that he never would strike the snow-covered meadow !
Really he fell only a very little distance .
But it seem a terrible distance to Danny .
He hit something that scratch him , and then plump !
he land in the soft snow right in the very middle of the Old Briar-patch , and the last thing he remember be hear the scream of disappointment and rage of Hooty the Owl .
CHAPTER XI Peter Rabbit Gets a Fright Peter Rabbit sit in his favorite place in the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch , try to decide which way he would go on his travel that night .
The night before he have have a narrow escape from old Granny Fox over in the Green Forest .
There be nothing to eat around the Smiling Pool and no one to talk to there any more , and you know that Peter must either eat or ask question in order to be perfectly happy .
No , the Smiling Pool be too dull a place to interest Peter on such a beautiful moonlight night , and Peter have no mind to try his leg against those of old Granny Fox again in the Green Forest .
Early that morning , just after Peter have settle down for his morning nap , Tommy Tit the Chickadee have drop into the dear Old Briar-patch just to be neighborly .
Peter be just doze off when he hear the cheery little voice in the world .
It be say : `` Dee-dee-chickadee !
I see you !
Can you see me ? ''
Peter begin to smile even before he could get his eye open and look up .
There , right over his head , be Tommy Tit hang head down from a nod old bramble .
In a twinkling he be down on the snow right in front of Peter , then up in the bramble again , right side up , upside down , here , there , everywhere , never still a minute , and all the time chatter away in the cheery little voice in the world .
`` Dee-dee-chickadee !
I 'm as happy a can be !
Find it much the good way To be happy all the day .
Dee-dee-chickadee !
Everybody 's good to me ! ''
`` Hello , Tommy ! ''
say Peter Rabbit .
`` Where 'd you come from ? ''
`` From Farmer Brown 's new orchard up on the hill .
It 's a fine orchard , Peter Rabbit , a fine orchard .
I go there every morning for my breakfast .
If the winter last long enough , I 'll have all the tree clean up for Farmer Brown . ''
Peter look puzzle .
`` What do you mean ? ''
he ask .
`` Just what I say , '' reply Tommy Tit , almost turn a somersault in the air .
`` There 's a million egg of insect on those young peach tree , but I 'm clear them all off as fast a I can .
They 're mighty fine eating , Peter Rabbit , mighty fine eating ! ''
And with that Tommy Tit have say good-by and flit away .
Peter be think of that young orchard now , a he sit in the moonlight try to make up his mind where to go .
The thought of those young peach tree make his mouth water .
It be a long way up to the orchard on the hill , a very long way , and Peter be wonder if it really be safe to go .
He have just about make up his mind to try it , for Peter be very , very fond of the bark of young peach tree , when thump !
something drop out of the sky at his very foot .
It startle Peter so that he nearly tumble over backward .
And right at the same instant come the fierce , angry scream of Hooty the Owl .
That almost make Peter 's heart stop beating , although he know that Hooty could n't get him down there in the Old Briar-patch .
When Peter get his wit together and his heart do n't go so jumpy , he look to see what have drop so close to him out of the sky .
His big eye grow big than ever , and he rub them to make quite sure that he really saw what he think he saw .
Yes , there be no doubt about it -- there at his foot lay Danny Meadow Mouse !
-LSB- Illustration : Peter Rabbit be surprise to see Danny . -RSB-
CHAPTER XII The Old Briar-patch Has a New Tenant Danny Meadow Mouse slowly open his eye and then close them again quickly , a if afraid to look around .
He could hear someone talk .
It be a pleasant voice , not at all like the terrible voice of Hooty the Owl , which be the very last thing that Danny Meadow Mouse could remember .
Danny lay still a minute and listen .
`` Why , Danny Meadow Mouse , where in the world do you drop from ? ''
ask the voice .
It sound like -- why , very much like Peter Rabbit speaking .
Danny open his eye again .
It be Peter Rabbit .
`` Where -- where be I ? ''
ask Danny Meadow Mouse in a very weak and small voice .
`` In the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch with me , '' reply Peter Rabbit .
`` But how do you get here ?
You seem to drop right out of the sky . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse shudder .
Suddenly he remember everything : how Hooty the Owl have catch him in great cruel claw and have carry him through the moonlight across the snow-covered Green Meadows ; how he have felt Hooty 's claw slip and then have struggle and kick and twist and turn until his coat have tear and he have drop down , down , down until he have land in the soft snow and knock all the breath out of his little body .
The very last thing he could remember be Hooty 's fierce scream of rage and disappointment .
Danny shudder again .
Then a new thought come to him .
He must get out of sight !
Hooty might catch him again !
Danny try to scramble to his foot .
`` Ouch !
Oh ! ''
groan Danny and lay still again .
`` There , there .
Keep still , Danny Meadow Mouse .
There 's nothing to be afraid of here , '' say Peter Rabbit gently .
His big eye fill with tear a he look at Danny Meadow Mouse , for Danny be all torn and hurt by the cruel claw of Hooty the Owl , and you know Peter have a very tender heart .
So Danny lay still , and while Peter Rabbit try to make him comfortable and dress his hurt , he tell Peter all about how he have forget to watch up in the sky and so have be catch by Hooty the Owl , and all about his terrible ride in Hooty 's cruel claw .
`` Oh , dear , whatever shall I do now ? ''
he end .
`` However shall I get back home to my warm house of grass , my safe little tunnel under the snow , and my little store of seed in the snug hollow in the old fence-post ? ''
Peter Rabbit look thoughtful .
`` You ca n't do it , '' say he .
`` You simply ca n't do it .
It be such a long way for a little fellow like you that it would n't be safe to try .
If you go at night , Hooty the Owl might catch you again .
If you try in daylight , old Roughleg the Hawk would be almost sure to see you .
And night or day old Granny Fox or Reddy Fox might come snoop around , and if they do , they would be sure to catch you .
I tell you what , you stay right here !
The dear Old Briar-patch be the safe place in the world .
Why , just think , here you can come out in broad daylight and laugh at Granny and Reddy Fox and at old Roughleg the Hawk , because the good old bramble will keep them out , if they try to get you .
You can make just as good tunnel under the snow here a you have there , and there be lot and lot of seed on the ground to eat .
You know I do n't care for them myself .
I 'm lonesome sometimes , live here all alone .
You stay here , and we 'll have the Old Briar-patch to ourselves . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse look at Peter gratefully .
`` I will , and thank you ever so much , Peter Rabbit , '' he say .
And this be how the dear Old Briar-patch happen to have another tenant .
CHAPTER XIII Peter Rabbit Visits the Peach Orchard `` Do n't go , Peter Rabbit !
Do n't go ! ''
beg Danny Meadow Mouse .
Peter hop to the edge of the Old Briar-patch and look over the moonlit , snow-covered meadow to the hill back of Farmer Brown 's house .
On that hill be the young peach orchard of which Tommy Tit the Chickadee have tell him , and ever since Peter 's mouth have water and water every time he think of those young peach tree and the tender bark on them .
`` I think I will , Danny , just this once , '' say Peter .
`` It 's a long way , and I 've never be there before ; but I guess it 's just as safe a the Meadows or the Green Forest .
`` Oh I 'm as bold a bold can be !
Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o !
I 'll hie me forth the world to see !
Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o !
My ear be long , My leg be strong , So now good day ; I 'll hie away !
Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o ! ''
And with that , Peter Rabbit leave the dear safe Old Briar-patch , and away he go lipperty-lipperty-lip , across the Green Meadows towards the hill and the young orchard back of Farmer Brown 's house .
Danny Meadow Mouse watch him go and shake his head in disapproval .
`` Foolish , foolish , foolish ! ''
he say over and over to himself .
`` Why ca n't Peter be content with the good thing that he have ? ''
Peter Rabbit hurry along through the moonlight , stop every few minute to sit up to look and listen .
He hear the fierce hunt call of Hooty the Owl way over in the Green Forest , so he felt sure that at present there be nothing to fear from him .
He know that since their return to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , Granny and Reddy Fox have keep away from Farmer Brown 's , so he do not worry about them .
All in good time Peter come to the young orchard .
It be just a Tommy Tit the Chickadee have tell him .
Peter hop up to the near peach tree and nibble the bark .
